DEBATES

TH E SE NATE
0F THE

DOMINION OF CANADA
1903
REPORTED AND EDITED BY

BROS.

HOLLAND

Official reporters of the Senate of Canada.

THRD SESSION-NINTH PARLIAMENT.

OTTAWA
PRINTED BY S. K DAWSON, PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST
EXCELLENT MAJESTY

1903

SENATORS 0F CAN-ADA
.ALPHABETICÂL
3IRD

SESSION,

9T.H

LdIST

PARLIAMENT, 3 EDWARD VII

1903
BENATORS.

POST OFFICE AI)DRESS.

The Honourable
AiHiNs, JAMES Co
... i.....
....
BAiRD, GEORGE T ..........................
BAKER, GEORGE B. .... ......
.............
BÉiQuE, F. L........ ......................

Toronto.
Perth Centre, N.B.
Sweetsburg, Que.
Montreal.
BERNiER, THOMAS ALFRED.................
....
St. Boniface, Manitoba
BOLDuc, JOSEPH.......... .....................
St. Victor de Tring, Que.
BOCCHER VILLE, BOUCHER DE C. E., C.M.G.
Boucherville, Que.
BowELL, SIR MAcKNzYE K.C.M.G ...........
Belleville, Ont.
CARLING, SIR JOHN, K.C.M.G. ...
..... ..... London ...........
London, Ont.
CAsGRtAiN, Jo.-EpH P. B .........
..........
De-Lanaudière.
Montreal.
CASGRAIN, CRAMLES EUSÈBE..... ...............
Windsor ....
Windsor. Ont.
CHuRcH, C. E .....................
........
Lunetiburg ....
Halifax, N.S.
CIORAN,ILJ . ...........................
Victoria ...........
Montreal.
COFFET, T.................
.... .........
London ...........
London, Ont,
CoX, GEORGE A ...........................
Toronto ............
Toro>nto, Ont.
DAND GRAND, RAOUL ........................
De Lorimier...
Montreal.
DA viD, L. O ..............................
Mille Ilie ...
Montreal.
DEcvtm, JAMES.............. ... .................
St. John ...........
St. John, N.B.
DOBSON, JoHNx..................................
Lindsay .............
Lindsay, Ont.
DOMVIîua,- .......
................
....... Rothesay ..... .....
Roth esay, N.B.
DRJMMOND, GEORGE A
..........
Kennebec..
Montreal.
EDWARDS, W. C ..............
.... ........
Russell. «......... Ottawa.
Euas1, J. V ...............................
St. John.......... St. John, N.B.
F&RGmuSN, DONALD ..............
...
..........
Queen's ...........
Charlottetown, P.E. L
Fisrr, J.EAN BAPnTIST RoimALD. ....... «........ Gulf .............
Rinouski, Que.
FoRGzT, Lois J ..................
........
Sorel ............
Montreal.
FROST, F. T.............
.....
.....
...
Leeds and Grenville. Smith's Falsa.
FULFORD, GEORGE TAYLOR............ ... .......
BrockviUe ........
Brockville, Ont.
GIBBON, W....................
....... ..... Lincoln..........
Beamoville, Ont.
GOnsoîrr, J .. ........
....................
La Salle ........
St. François, Beauce, Que.
GOWÀ.N, JAMES ROBERT, C.M.G...............
Barrie ...........
Barrie, Ont.
HINGSTON, SIR WILLIAM H., Kt ..............
Rougemont..... Montreal.
JONES, L. MELviN ......................
Toronto ........... Toronto, Ont.
l.......
KERR, WILLIAM........... ...........
....
....
Northumberland, O.. Cobourg, Ont.
KERR, J. K ...........................
Toronto ...... ... Toronto, Ont.
KiNG, GEORGE GERALD ............
...........
Queena ..
s.........
Chipinan, N.B.
KIREHROFFER, JOHN NESBITTI....................
Selkirk ...........
IBrandon, Manitoba.
LANDRY, A. C. P......... ....
.............
Stadacona .
. Notre Damne de Quebec, Que.
LEGR[S, J. H ...............
.............. Repentigny...
iLouiseville, Que.
LoUGREED, JAMES ALEXANDER ..................
Calgary ... ......
Calgary, N.W.T.
LoviTr, JOHN .................................
Yarmouth ....
Yarmiouth, N.S.
MACDONALD, ANDREW A ....................
Charlottetown
.. Charlottetown, P. E. I.
MACDONALD, WILLIAM JOHN ....................
Victoria ...... .... Victoria, B C.
MoKEEN, DAVID ................................
Cape Breton... Halifax, N.S.
Viet4oria ..........
Bedford..........
DeSalaberry ....
St. Boniface ...
Lauzon .........
Montarville ..
BastingsA...

SENATORS

SENATORS.

0F CANADA.

DESIGNATION.

POST OFFICE ADI)RESS.

The Honourable
Little Glace Bay, N.S.
New Glasgow, N.S.
Lindsay, Ont.
... Victoria, O...
MoHuon, G.
..............
Truro............ Truro, N. S.
MCKAT, THOMAS...... ...........
Montreal.
... .......
Almat ..........
MACKAY, R......... ...........
-...........
Perth .........
... Perth, Ont.
MOLAREN, PETER................
Alexandria, Ont.
Alexandria......
... ......
.....
MCMILLAN, DONALD .........
Mount Forest, Ont.
....... N. Wellington..
...........
MOMULLEN, J .........
MCSWEENEY, PEITER.............
........ ...... Northumberland ... Moncton, N. B.
....
.... ... Ntw Hamburg ..... Berlin, Ont.
MEENE, SAMUEL ..................
Arichat, N.S.
.. Richmond...........
MILLIES, WILLIAM.............................
Three Rivers, Que.
Shawinegan...
MONTPLAISIR, HIPPOLYTE... ...................
Montreal.
Inkernian ...........
.................
OWuENS WILLIAM ..............
Quebec.
Grandville ........
PELLETIER, SIR ALPHONSE. K.C.M.G ..........
Wolseley, N.W.T.
....
Wolseley .......
PERLEr, WILLIAMr DELL ..........................
Shediac, N.B.
POIRIER,. PASCAL ..... ....
.
1 .............. ..... cadie .............
Halifax, N.S.
POWER, LAtIRENCE GEOFFREY (Speaker). .. ... ... Raiflax.............
...... P. E. Island... Montagne, P.E.I.
ROBERTSON, J. F-E.. ý..............
Qucînelle, B.
REIn. JAMES...........
..........
.. ...........
Caribouo............
Ottawa.
Soorr7, RICHARD WILLIAM ........................
Ottawa .............
Laurentides ...
Quebec.
SHEHYN, JOSEPH..................................
Kingston, Ont.
SULLIVAN, MICHAEL ......................
....
Kingston...... .....
New Westminster ... Victoria, B.C.
TEMPLEXAN, WILLIAM............................
De la Durantaye...
TEýsiSIR, JULES ....................
............
Quebec.
THIBAUDEAU, ALFRED A...... ................
'De la Vallière ..
Montreal.
Montreal.
THISAuDEAu JOSEPH ROSAIRE ...............
...
Rigaud ...........
Fredericton, N.B.
TIIoIoeSoN, F. P....
.............
.........
Fredericton ...
VIDAL. ALExANDEER...................
Sarnia, Ont.
...........
!Sarnia ..
..
Fredericton, N.B.
WAEK, DA.kvD..............................
. .. Fredericton...
.Portage la Prairne. .. Portage la Prairie, Man.
WATSON, ROBERT...............................
Sackville, N.B.
WOOD, .JOS&H...................................
Westînoreland ...
Port Hill, P.E.I.
YEo, JOHN............. .........................
East Prince ...
Killarney...... .... Killarney, Man.
YOUNG. FINiDLAF M.........................
MCDONALD, WILLIAM .

.....

.......

........ ...........
..........................

MOGREGoR, J. D. .....

Cape Breton...

New Glasgow..

THE.DEBATES
0F THE

SENATE 0F CANADA
IN THE
FOR
TEIRD SESSION 0F TEE NINTH PARLIAMEN T OF CANADA, APPOINTED TO MEET
DAY 0F
THE DESPATCH 0F BUSINESS ON THURSDAY. THE TWELFTHMARCH, IN TEE THIRD YEÂR 0F THE REIGN 0F

HIS MAJESTY

KINGI EDWARD VIL.

I badl the pleasure of visiting London last
summer ln anticipation of the Caranation of
His Majesty. and ta meet on that occasion reOttawoa, Thur8day, Marolt 12, 1903.
presentatives tram all parts of the Empire
The Senate met nt 2.30 p.m.
bringing with them; assurances of the loyalty
and contentment that prevails throughout His
NEW SENATORS.
extended possessioas; and
Majesty's
The followlng newly-appointed. Senators; though, at widelytime, fears were entertained
ane
the KIng's lliness would have Involved a
were~~~ inrdcdthat
further pastponement of the ceremony, it was
Hon. J. M. LEGEIs, of Louiseville, Que.
i
a ore01uhjyadhpîest
Hon. P. T. FBROST, Of SMltb's Falls, Ont
,Majesty's subjects that bhis health was sa
speedily and perfectly restared.
THE SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.
Representatives of this gavernment particiThis day. at Three o'clack p.M., His Ex- pated in the Impartant Colonial Conterenze
cellency the Governor General proceeded lfl which was called by His Majesty's Gaverastate to the Senate Chamber, in the Par-: ment in connention with the Coronation. The
af the conference,
liament Buildings, and took hie seat Up- repart of the praceedings
Incl.ding the documents submitted by the
on the Throne. The members of the Senate Canadian representatives.
has already been
being assexnbled, Hie Excellency was pleas-, Sgiven ta the public, by His Majesty's Gavern-

TmE SIENATE.

ed to command the attendance of the.House; ment in London. I teel assured that much
0f

Cmmon,
ad tht

Huse

eln

preent

good will resuît from the bringing the leading

Hie Excellency was please to open the t'publie men af the great self-governing colonthird session of the Ninth Parliament of the les into direct cantact with each other and
Dominion of Canada, wlth the followlng wjth the statesmen of the motherland.
Speech
f th SealeNorth-western
Honorabe Gttil-jate
th 6'eaieadditional
llonerabeoGntleen
useof
Genteme oflimeIf Cornoaa
I amn glad ta be able to congratulate yOu
on the continued prosperity that prevails
Canada has rethroughout the Dominion.
ceived many blessings during the past year
which cail for the expression of our beartfelt gratitude to a kind Providence.

influx of population into aur
territaries and the very large
areas af fertile land which are haIng brought under cultivatian cambine ta further press upon us the need for Incrensed
transportation facilities for the forwarding Of
aur grain and ather products to the miarkets
1o the world, thraugh Canadian channels. The
whole question of transportation and termiual
jfacilities continues ta accupy much atteniti,.
The great

SENATE
and my governmelit will lmmediately appoint a
commission of expericnced men to report on
the subjeet.
A treaty has been entered into between I-ls
Majesty and the government of the United
States, under which the proper delimitation of
the boundaries between Canada. and Alaska Is;
to be Judicially determlned by a tribunal of
six impartial Juriste of repute.
As a resuit of the recent decennial census,
the representation of the different provinces
muet be re-adjiistud, as required by the British
North America Act, and a Bill will be introduced for that purpose.
Bille with respect to the creation of a Railway Commission, the amendinent cf the Patent
Laws, the Mlilitla Act, Chinese immigration,
the reorganization of the. Department of
Marine aal Fisherles, the settiement of Railway labour disputes, and varlous other subjeets wlll be submltted to you.
Gent lemen of thec Hùuw of Gommons
The publie accounts wlll be laid before you
and also the estimates for the comlng year,
whlch bave been prepared wlth due regard ta
rapid growth of the
the
economy and
Dominion.
Honout-able Gentlemen of thec Senate
Gentlemen of thec Houme of Gommons
I pray that ln the consideration o! these
matters and in the performance of all the
labours which will devolve on you, your deliberations. under Divine guidance, wlll tend
stili to Increase the prosperlty and happlnos
of our people.
His Excellency the Governor General
was pleased to retire, and the House of
Commons wlthdrew.
BILL INTRODUCED.

An Act relatlng to Rallways3.--Hofl. Mr.
Scott).
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, M1onday, March 16, 1903.
The SPEAKERt tenir the Chair at Three
o'clock'.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
NEW SENATOlIS.
The followîng newly-appointed
,nere introduced :

Hon. J. K. KERR, of the city of Toronto.
Hon. T. CoFrEY, of the city of London.

Hon. J. TESSIER, of the clty of Quebec.
THE ADDRESS.
MOTION.
The Order ef the Day being called:
Consideration of His Excellency the Governor
General's speech of the openlng of the 3rd
session of the 9tb parliament.
Hon. Mr. FROST said :-The duty assigued me to-day Is one that ought not te cause
any dismny ln the heart of one who, speaks
to you fer the first time. Stili I confess to
a certain degree of nervousness inseparable
from xny first effort before so important and
distingulshed a body as the Senate of Canada.
His Excellency hias been graciously pleased te congratulate parliament on the continued prosperlty that prevails throughout
the Dominion. Where la there anywhere ln
the whole world any country that eau show
se favourable a record to-day as the Deminion of Canada ? We read of unfaveuriable conditions in the varions countries of
the world. If we look to Germany, England and France we find depression existing. In many of the countries of the continent of Europe and throughout Asia we find
excessive taxation, we find famine. and we
find the prospect e! war. if we go across
the hune to the neigbbourlng repubîll, we
also see there many things which tend te
disturb the peaoe and happinees of the people. Gigantie trusts and menopolies bave
raised their heada. Immense fortunes have
been made by men who lu the short time
that they have acquired them have been
aided by perhaps laws which have been
wrongfully placed upon the statute-book.
We find also this great wealth and gaunt
poverty side by side. We find that many
men are abandening their farms, moving luto the clty, and are leaving the independent
life which they had for the more dependent
lite of the cities. We also flnd there a great
contemipt for the local ndniinistration of
justice. We find lynch law prevails ; we
tind a colour question and we also find mauy
evils, among them divorce laws that are
very loose and ln many ways we can apply
the hunes of Goldsmith.

Senators 111 fares the
Where

wealth

land to hast'ning
accumulates and

ilîs a prey
men decay.

MARCH 16, 1903
It le therefore a real pleasure for us to look ELfairs and the deliberations of that conferinwards at our own country to-day, and wee nec, Is a standing proof to tîb'ý whole emmay join wlth His Exceilency and feel pro- 1 ire, and for that matter to ail the counfoundly grateful ta Providence for the manyt ries outside of the empire, that this coundesIgblessings which we enjoy. Prosperity con-I try la flot, as a French king once
and ail n~ated It, a few ' ar-pentfs de neige,' or simtinues to vemain withlu our bordera
but
classes of our, people are the beneficiaries ýIy inhabîted by an aboriginal 'race,
naturaily arises, hasI that It ls a magnificeut herîtage wltlh every
thereof. The question
the government anythlng ta do with theE element wlthln ltself capable of making It
continuance of these good thinge, or eau a great and powerful nation. It only awaits
any part or portion of this general pros- the comlng of the people who shall here
perity be place to their administration ? find happy sud prosperous homes, and It
adminisDoes it not look almost Ilke Ingratitude for sagratifylng to see that under the
tration of the Prime Minister a procession
us to complacently ahut our eyes and uay
ls
to ourselves, 'Providence ts klnd to us,'J bas already commenced, and that It
amount broadening and widening from almost every
and ta refuse ta grant a reasonable
of praise ta the.goverumeut to-day for the country, and growing larger fram year to
a
able administration o! the affaira of this year. Those who wlU occupy our places
country. As I look at It, while Providence few years hence wlll see every empty space
bas been klnd to us, yet the remarkable re- between here and the Pacifie Ocean, and as
arrangement of the tariff lu 1897, combined far north as lufe can exlst, ail fiiled with
with an Intelligent and thoroughly pro- happy and prosperous homes, cities and
gressive administration of the various de- towns growlng up and a great country ta
partments of the goverument, and especlally the north under that flag which has braved
those o! Agriculture and the Interior, have the battle and the breeze for a thousand
changed the whole face of this country years. Under these circumstances, s0 diffrom. stagnation ta activlty and life-an ferent from the olden days, not s0 very long
activity such as bas neyer been witnessed ago, how desirable It ls that our rulers and
bef are iu this country. And right here let our parlament should have much wlsdom
me volce a word of praise ta the peerlesa and great courage; how careful should we
statesman. who stands at the head o! thia be to hold the scales of justice even, and
administration. When the histary of the to maintain an equilibrlum between ail the
present administration comes to be writteii classes that comprise our people. How
Impartiaily, it wiil be found that the pre- easy It Is to give undue advantage by law
sent leader wiIl loom up very promblently to some one class. over another class, but
indeed, and that history wlU -be not ouily If this country is stiil. ta continue to grow
plenslng, but profitable and Instructive and prosper, It can ouly be done on a basis
Siuce that recognizes the rights of every citizen
readlng ta every patrlotic citizen.
began Canada bas advanced wlthin Its borders. 1 believe there la a
is premlershlp
by leaps and bounds until to-day the eyes spirit of justice and forbearance among Our
of the whole 'world are centred upon us. people, and they will neyer support auy adWe are the observed o! ail observera, and ministration apart fromn these cardinal prinwhile not professiug ta be a prophet or the ciples to whlch I have referred, but they
son a! a prophet, 1 believe the comlng yeara wil support any administration that honwil wltuess a repetition a! what bas taken estiy endeavours to promote the prosperity
place In the United States duriug tbe past of ahl without doing Injustice to any oue
fif ty years lu the way of Immigration and particular class. We can therefore heartlly
progrese In rapid growth. Under Sir Wil- endorse His Excellency iu calling for
frid Laurier tis country has practlcaily heartfelt gratitude to a kind Providence
been rediscovered, because the country that for the many blessings that we enjoy and
can produce such a man as the premier, particularly durlng the past year, and If 1
who was capable of taklng a second place may be permitted I can go a littIe further
at the Jubilee ln 1897, with ense and grace, than the speech from the Throne and say
and who during the last summer at the during the past six years. We ail recollect
over tis
colonial conference practlcally directed the the Intense anxiety that spread

SENATE

4

country when tbe news came that the King
was sick and flot able to attend the coronaWhat fear and distress
tion oeremonies.
,%vas expressed on every countenance, how
eagerly were the bulletin boards scrutlnized
from day to day, and how eagerly were
they .read, and how every symptora of retnrnlng bealth was bailed with pleasure and
satisfaction. What greater evidence of the
loyalty of the people could bave been given
than this ? And with what pride we feel
our position as an Integral portion of the
Britishi Empire. It is Indeed gratIfying tbst
His Excelleacy, when In London last suninier, found a unanhmity of feeling ln regard to the empire, and that there was a
unanimity of loyalty and sentiment lu ail
portions of the great empire of which we
The colonial conference to
form a part
which the speech referred may be taken
ns an Instance of the growing Importance
and power of the self-governlng colonies.
The time was--and that not very long agowhen even seif-governIng colonies were not
consulted. We lost thirteen good colonies
on one occasion tbrough a failure to carry
ont this principle. Our statesmen, however,
are growing wiser and more Imperial iii tûe
true sense as time goes on. It ls now welI
recognized that loyalty and liberty are sy.nonymous ternis. Upon ail domestic Internal affairs the population most Interested
are the ones to work these things ont, and
that wlthout any 'interference. There are
stlil some discordant voices heard within
the empire, but there is every Indication
that those discordant voices will soon cease.
The King kuows well that If bis throne
is to be solid aud entrenched, It must he
lu these modemn days only lu the affections
of if free aud a liberty-lovlng people, aud
we are now told that lie Is making efforts
by wlmich not only a portion of the empire,
but that ail portions of the empire shaîl be
loyal and contented. We know that kindiness goes a long way. Tennyson tell us
that 'kind hearts are more than coronets
and simple faith than Norman blood.' We
ba ve good reason to believe that the time
is coming when all portions of the empire
wiil be thorougbiy loyal. And 1 feel sure
that this colonial conference will be prodlUcti%-e o! ranchi good. Many misconceptions of the Greater Britain wili be removed
and a better acquaintance will spring up
Hon. Mr. FROST.

fromi this meeting wbich will conduce to
the peace and happiness o! the whole empire.
Another question touched upon by His
Excellency was the question et transportation and terminal facilities. Tbià is a very
large question, one which can only lu this
address be very lightly touched upon. The
tume is comlng very rapidly when not ouly
one transcontinental raiiway will be required, but a baîf dozen transcontinental
r-nilways wtl be necessary froin one ocean
to the otber. The question of subsidies Is
one that 1 do not care to go into here at
the present moment, but It may be possible
that we bave been tono generous lu the past.
There are two sides, bowever, to the question, aud I am not going to dogmatically
say that we bave been too generons now,
but It Io just possible that we may go to the
other extreme and be so parsimonions when
wie come to take these matters into cousideration that we may administer a blow
to the Dominion of Canada that will take
mnany years to recover from.
1 ami very glad to see that the goverument are disposed to appoint a commission
wlio will go into this whole matter most
thoroughly, a commission of experieuced
men who will report upon this great subject,
aud with a report of tbat kind before us
I nm satisfled tbat parliament will be able
to carry ont sncb a policy as will promote
lu every way the best Interests of the
country.
It Is also, a matter of gratification to us
011 tbat a recent treaty bas been made between the United States aud Great Bnitain
for the purpose of setting the vexed question of the Âlaskan boundary. This question, of course, bas arisen more particularly
sInce the discovery of gold ln the Yukon.
The treaty made betweeu Russia and Great
Britain le vague, sud It is now considered
desirable that a correct Interpretation should
be given to It. For this purpose a treaty
bas been entered Into betweeu Great Britalu
and the United States, aud we are told
that six Impartial jurists of repute are to bc
appointed. This certainly is good news to
us ail, because If the six jurists are impatathe decision will be fair, aud Cannda, will get ber riglits. Some, however,
feel that the appointmeuts made by the
United States goverument will miot bear ont

MARCII 10, 1903
that construction, aud that the United States
commissioners wiil flot be willing to do us
justice. Now I have no very great sympatby with that view of the case. I beIleve that the United States commlssloners,
ne matter wbat tbey have sald lu the past,
will feel the responsibility resting upon
tbem as commissioners lu the eyes of the
world, and that the case, presented as it
will be by a dlstlnguished son of this
country, will be made so clear that tbeY
wli have to do conscientiously their duty,
aud lu that way I believe Canada will receive justice at the bauds of the commission. Even If the commisaleflers do net
agree, we wlll be ne worse off than we are
te-day, but I belleve that justice wlU be
doue aud there Is every prospect of tis
cause of dîsturbauce between twe friendly
nations being rernoved.
As the census of 1901 bas been taken,
there cernes the necessity of a redistributien of the representatien lu the House of
Commens. We are teld lu the speech that
a bil wlll be preseuted for that purpose.
1 bave every confidence that the preselit
governent will do their duty iu regard te

it was constructed originally for revenue
purposes, but whether that be true or flot,
1 know thîs, that it bas given rîse te an
Immense ameunt of litigation and loss te
inventors and manufacturera and ail who
have lied anything to do wvit1i it. Every
application for a patent should. be scrutinLzed- by some expert, or board of experts,
se as te knew that a patent Is a practical,
genuine Invention, flot hitherto antlcipnted
by any other inventer or applicant, and if
the goverumefit bring lu a law whlch embodies some Ideas aloug that Liarticular
lune, I belleve that It will be a protection,
and wlll save manufacturera and business
men rnany trnes frorn serions loss and litigatlon.
And now gentlemen of the Senate, It bas

Ieen a genuine pleasure te me te go ever
seriatim the rnany excellent clauses of Hlis
Excelleucy's speech. Lt would appear tbat
the usual character of meageruess which hbas
se often been chargeable te the governmeut
has been departed frem very conslderably
on the present occasion. There would seem
te be promise of enough leglîtien ln this
speech te keep a parlarnent occupled for
the redistribution of the cen- very many moutha-at least as long as. any
the bill for
I belleve it will be a 'fair tuembers of parliament will desîre te remaln
stituencles.
belleve that county bound- lu Ottawa. I amn sure. therefere. la cou1
one.
sentiments of thîs
aries, as far as it la possible te be dene, wlll cluding that I voice the

as honest and
be observed. It ls rather unreasouable te ex- House when I say thait we,
subjecta, will give ail these matters
pect that lu every case the county beund- dutîful
delîberatien.
aries can be recegaized. There are sorne our earnest consîderatien and
1 believe that thus Heuse will unlte with
conUes where the population wiii be under;
earnest effort
others where It will be over the unit but the House of Commons lu an
te help this great country on lu ber patb
this 1 do believe, that there wili be ne
prosperlty. Ne
wreucbing of certain sections of ene county and career of progress and
latereat, bowever, unimportafit it may be.
te attach te other sections of another
The wlll faîl te receive due consideratien and
ceunty purely fer partisan purposes.
have, therefore,
geverunent are streng enough, and I be- attention at our bande. I
are honeat enougil te do their very rnuch pleasure lu rnoving :
leve they
be presented te
That the fellowlng Address General ta offer
dnty te the whoie people of the country
Excellency the Governor
f
irrepectve îuthatandHis
humble thanks of this Hous te Hie Exadthe

atrespect,
fparty l
Iresetie
Speech whlch he has
tilat tbey will be willlug se te minimlze tbe cellency for the graclous
te both Houses of Par-of the connty boundarles as te been pleased te make
dislocation
To Hia Excellency the Rlght Honourable Sir
give the least possible dîsturbance te the
and VisGilbert John Elllott, Earl of Minto of Forfar.
these varions sections.
people Iuhabitlug
count Melgund of Melgund. County
of the Ujnited Kingdotu, Baron
1 now corne te the last clause of the in the Peerage
Miate, County et Roxburg, la the Peerage ot
speech. 1 fiud there are a number of bis
Nova Scetia, Knight
nbjcts eferedteailGreat Brîtaîn, Baronet efDlstlnguished Order ef
nuberof
and
Grand Cross of the Most
roorn for more or leas St. Michael and St. George, etc., etc., Governor
of wblch will glve
discussion. I arn very glad te see there la General of Canada.
PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY
te be an ameudment te the patent iaw. The MAT IT
dutiful and loyal
We, His Majesty's most Canada, la Parliapresent law la net a good eue. We have subjects. the Cemmefle of
1. belleve menut assembled, beg leave te offer our humble
oid patent law.
outgrown the

SENATE
thanks to Tour Excellency for the gractouE, of wvhich some have made gloomy predicSpeech whlch Tour Exceilency has addreused ta tions since the advent of the present gatbath Hause of Parliament.
ernment ta power, predictians made la gaad
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-Transiation-If I rise faithi by many, no doubt, but for political
to, second the motion made by the hon. gen- purposes by n greater number ; aur manutleman from Rideau (Mr. Frost) which bas facturing Industries, 1 sny, have also seen
for Its ohect the presentation of an a.ddress better days and have shawn a develapmient
in reply ta the speech from the Throne, It le which nobody could have fareseen. We have
flot because I feel very sure of myseif or reached a perlad at whlch aur local induswell acqualnted wlth the subject ; but 1 tries should lie, lncreased, for we have liewlsh to profit by the favourable occasion foare us to-day a greatly extended market,
which presents Itself to off er my most sin- a market which commands the activity and
cere thanks ta the government whlch lias demands the co-operatian of ail citizens of
done me the hanour ta cali me ta sit here as the country. We are called upon to develap
one of your colleagues. I aiea owe thanks the natural resources of Canada; ta follaw Up
ta you, bon. gentlemen, wha, In large num- tlîis pradigiaus development, we sce rising
bers, have already welcomed me ta thls every day new Industries ; we see capitalists aiding In developing the Immense water
Chamber.
1 have cheerfully accepted the task offered powers whlch we passess. Ail these comime by the han. Secretary of State (Han. Mr. bined efforts have praduced a wealth which
Scott) ta second this resolution, though re- nobady, a f ew years aga, cauld have forecognizlng my unfitness.ta pertormn It weil, seen.
because I feel the honour reflected upan the
I have reasan for saying tiiat aur local
county which honoured me wlth its con- manufactures have progressed rapidly, and
fidence In sendlng me as Its representative, lu proaf of It, lion. gentlemen, 1 cannot do
dùrlng several parliaments, ta, the iegisla- better than ta quote some figures as eviture of Quebec and also ta the Hanse of dence. In 1896 we exparted manufactured
Commane ; because I feel that this bonour praducts ta the value of $9,000,000 in round
refleets alsa on the senatorlal division of figures. and la 1902 aur exparts had luRepentlgny whlch I naw represent, and creased ta $18,000,000. Not oniy have aur
lastly, on the agricultural ciass from whlcli manufacturers supplied the uxeeds of the
I have carne, ta, which I amn proud stili ta, country, but the exportation of mnnfacbeiong, -and In the midst of wlîom I hiope ta, tured goods bas doubled la six years.
remain the balance of my days.
Casting a rapld glance now on the exporBeing invlted Iu this parliamentary circle tation of aur agriculturai products, agriculwith a view to wark together for the grent- ture being as we know the foundatian a! our
est advantage of the people, for the progress great national production, w-e see the samne
and advancement of aur country, by legis- surprising results. The failowing 1 find, iii
latian as wlse as It may bie passible for us the repart prepared by the Minister of Ag-rita pass ; and comlng from most distant culture, for the folaowlng products-wheat,
points of aur Immense terrltory, from the f'our, pease. Iiay, cattie. cheese, park. poulshares of thie Pacifie and the Atlantic con et, try, eggs and fruit. We exparted la 1890i
there may exist, and as a matter of fact I ta the value of $39,000,000 whilst iii 1902
know. there exist divergent apinions on the the figure reached $80,000,000. Nothing ma're
different palitical questions which arise from is needed, it seems ta me, ta support my conday ta day, but I believe there will be but tention when I say that aur domestic indusone sentiment ainangst us as ta, ail whicl tries and manufactures bave taken aii unrelates ta, the very great prasperity which heard of fliglit. And ta extend a littie furprevails to-day in the Dominion.
ther my dermanstratian I need anly-comipare
The past year bas been a happy one for the exportations of the praducts af Canada
Canada. Providence has biessed us withi during the iast six years under the late adan abundant harvest. Our commerce and ministration, tbat is ta say, fram 1891 ta
oui* industries have developed pradigiously 1896, wvith the years tlîat have elapsed beand are fulil of promise for the future. tween lS97 and 1902. For the first periad
qpeak-ing af aur manufacturing Industries, these exparts amounted ta $612,000.000 and
Hon. Mr. FROST.

MARCH 16, 1903

7

for the second period to $952,000,000, being cbiuery and lu consequence we have seen
an Increase in the six years of $341,000,000 towns doubling their population lu a very
ln our exports only. Our total foreigu trade short time with a view to having ut the
In 1896 was $239,000,000 ; lu 1902 it attuined place the necessary workmen to supply the
$M2,000,000, being an increase during that demand for labour. I suy further, we have
period of $184,000,000. In 1878 the total seen towns rise as If by enchantment sucb
commerce of the country was $172,000,000. as Grand'Mère, Shawenegan, Sault Ste.
In 1886 it amounted to $239,000,000, show- Marie and others, near these magnifIcent
Ing pn increase Iu the course of 18 years of water powcrs, near these naturai forces
$66,000,000. Now, during the years which whlch until late years have remained undeThis state of
elapsed form 1896 to 1902 we have an lu- veloped and unproductive.
creuse of $184,000,000. These last figures tbings could flot be otherwise than gratifyshow an lucrease tbree times us grent durlug ing to public men wbo are Interested lu the
these six lat yeurs as during tlîe eigbteen country.
A strlkig Incident, lion. gentlemen, was
precediug years.
We have cnjoyed an era of prosperity presented last year when the colonial conwithont precedent lu our history and possi- ference was convoked by the govenment of
bly ln that of any country iii tlîe world. His Majesty on the occasion of the crowning
This period of prosperity bas îîot I)een con- Of our Soverelgu, Edward VII., wbich
fined to Canada, but what Is extremely attracted the attention of all the great cologratifying to us is the fact that Canada is ut nies of the empire. Canada on that occathe head of ahl the nations ln the world lu sion was represented by Its Prime Minister,
the increase of its commerce. Statistics the Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, and
show us that lu the six years the increase some of bis colleagues. We caunot do
lu commerce hias been as follows ln tixe coun- otherwlse than rejoice ut the circ-umstances
tries named : the commerce of Canada has which arise from Urne to time lu wbicb the
been increased by 96 per ccitt; of Japan mcn cbarged with directing the destinies of
89 per cent; of Australia 62 per cent; of the the country know how to attract attention
United States 48 per cent ; of Holiand 43 to the exteut of our country and our natural
Per cent ; of Italy 89 per cent ; of America resources of ail sorts yet undeveloped, and
32 per cent; of Bclglum 32 per cent; of Ar- ln maklng them. known more and more lu
gentina 30 per cent ; of Great Britain 24 the different countries of Europe and of thc
whale world.
Per cent ; of France 18 per cent.
And, hion, gentlemen, could we ln trutb
Io at thec head of ail
As I have said, Canada
the countries of thec civilized world lu this have sent a bett er delegatIon to make ourWe cannot too selves known than that whiclh went ta reprogressive* movement.
greatly rejoice at this state of tbings ; but present us at London on that occasion ? The
I do not press the contention 'ta the point opinion exprcssed by Sir Wilfrid Laurier on
of attributing ta the goverument the ex- that occasion was certainly of Incalculable
clusive mernt of tbis extraordinury expan- mernt. The first minister, witb is well
sion of our affairs generaily, though iît wîîî known tact and the ability which be bias
be admitted that the goverument wblcbl displayed on more than one occasion, wus
conducts the affairs of a country witb wis- trnly tbe man we needed ta go to Europe
dom and abiiity counts for something lu to make known the advantages wbicb our
thxe confidence which the public repose in country possesses, and to Invite the populatbem wben tbey put forth freely tbelr capi- tion ta come and settie amongst us and t0
tal and their work lu the development of attract tbe bcst possible people.
1 believe that we ought also to congratuIndustries and commerce.
present goverument confidence late the hon. Prime Minister on the success
iUnder the
lias revived lu the country. Business men which bie acbievcd at the Intercolonial couhave not been afraid ta risk their capi- ference lu preventlng the adoption of a new
tai and to aid lu the immense progress policy, without dungerous or regrettable
WTe friction-lu preventiflg, I say, the colonies
which we have seen accomplished.
have also seen the manufacturers IncreasIng being forced to take part lu the funture iu
their establishments, perfecting their mu- the wurs of the empire. The time certainly

SENATE
bas nlot arrived when the people of Canada
would lie disposed ta enter upon that new
path. We are yet a yaung country. We
have enougli ta do ln developing our own
natural wealth which Is yet lu a latent
state, and It wouid nlot be prudent to tlirow
ourseives Into thls new pollcy. Let our counitry grow a littie. Let Canadians develop
that whlcli they possess and when circumistances present themselves later, as they
have presented themselves In the past, 1
have no doulit that the niother country will
find on the shores of the St. Lawrence, as
ln ail other parts of Canada, men ready to
defend ber ln case af need. 1 know that
amongst aur people there exists a sentiment
of liberty and of independence. Canada wll
&gain be ready, should the occasion present
itself la the future, ta make sacrifices for
the mother country and la reserving bier
liberty of aiction she wlll lie nlot less courageous or less disposed ta figlit and ta win
victories for the empire.
There remains but otie observation for me
ta make and it relates ta the question of
transportation. It Is evIdent that the time
is not distant-If it lias neot already arrlvedwlien It 'will be necess.gry for Canada ta
burden berseif aaew, ta suifer sacrifices ta
ieet the needs of the commerce of the country. and abave ail the needs af aur Immense
North-west. It Is clear that If the west continuies ta develop in a pradigious fashian,
'Canada must devise means ta open up flOw
«%ays o! communication. That question lieIng of a nature ta Impose very considerable
expense on the country, 1 consIder the action
of tbe gaveinment absolutely wise, before
arriving at any conclusion, ta appoint a commission the abject of whicli will be ta ascertain the best means ta take ta open outlets
for the Immense territaries o! the Narth-west.
A minister, tbaugh lie be endawed wlth
great qualities and possess good judgment,
is ilot a universai genlus ;lie may not be
borai a civil engineer, bie is a politiclan. A
ininister cannat judge of hlmself tlue advantages there mny lie between one way of
communication and another, iior tlie difficulties xvhich lie may have ta overcame ta
establisli it. The press af the country and
the paliticians have nat ceased ta speak for
7several years of tlue opening of a great
route for the ex,ýport of the praducts of the
west fram Geargian Bay ta the St. Lawrence
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS.

by canaling the Frenchi river and the
Ottawa. That syotem may lie the best, but
for my part I would. not venture an opinion
on the question, because I arn not competent
ta judge where the adrantages or the disPrudence, therefore,
advantages may be.
requlres that the ministers shall take ex:traordlnary precautions before we face an
expenditure of severai million dollars ta open
up necessary ways of communication for the
transportation of aur products. Now the
creatian of a commlttee of Inquiry on tis
question la notbing less than a wise decision
whlch merits the approbation of the country.
When the necessary investigations have
been made It Is ta lie presumed that parliament wlll not hesitate ta provide the amount
requisite ta open up the ways of communication of whlch we have the greatest need,
If we wish ta keep that whlch belongs ta us,
If we do nat wlsb aur powerful neiýglbours
ta seize aur Immense commerce o! the west.
The speech from the Throne aiso makes
mention af the arbitratian tribunal which
lias been appointed ta determine the boundary between Canada and Alaska. I bave but
ane word ta a&y on the subjeet. This question bas beau pendlng for a long enougli time.
Like ail Irrltatlng questions It may lie the
means o! brlnglng about a confiict between
nof the
Canada and the United States. 1 am
opinion that the greateat good for a country la
ta be at peaoe with Its neiglibaurs, and 1
believe that the determînatIon ta ken by our
government ta appoint a commission of judges la wlse. These gentlemen will net under
aath ; they are enlghtened. men and It is
not rensonable ta cast a doulit on themn in
advnnce or ta prejudge their decision. It la
therefore absolutely wlse ta approve the determination of the government ta appoint a
commission ta settle tbat l)aundary question.
Wbatever the result may lie, I l>elieve that
the country can only gain t>y seeing this
question settled once for ail with a view ta
removing aIl cause for confiict between the
twa countries.
We see further in the speech froin the
Tbrone that the government will be accupied during the present session wlth a Redistribution Bill. We see further thiat there
wlll be mensures conceringi. the creation of
n rnilway commission, for the amendment
of the militia laws and ta regulate Chinese
immigration. Thiere is aiso a question of re-

MARCH 16, 1903
orgaaizing the I)epartment of Marine and
Fisheries. and several other mensures which
wili demaid our attention during the present session. W"e have a large and important programme whicb will involve considerable work. If our lion. frlends of the apposition criticise the speech fram the Tlirone
and say that It contains uothing, as is ordlnarlly doue, 1 do not know what can be
given them. For my part I find this document excessively iieavy. I find it full of
measures of the highest Importance wbich
will require the constant work of the minIsters. the members of the Hanse of Gommons aud of us also, bon. gentlemen.
In closimg It only remains for me ta offer
my most sincere thanks for the kiad attention whicli you bave given me.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I must
confess that in rising ta, address the House
for a short time I feel a degree of depression that I cannot shake off. When we look
around at the bondies of the Sonate and
reflect on tie number of aur colloagues who
bave passed ovor ta the groat majarlty since
wve last met, It must carry ta the minds of
those who knew those gentlemen flot only
a feeling of doprossion, but one of regret
and sorrow. Lookling across the House, I
find that among tiose wbo have departed Is
one of the original appointees ta the Senate,
Those wbo kuow
tie Hou. Mr. Armand.
that gentleman knew that lie was the very
soul of bonour. Rather than bave bis name
tainted wlth anything that was dishonourable, lie rejectod ovortures that were nmade
and dled witb a staînleas na:me. Those who
knew hilm rospected hlm. I was not, of
course, as intîmate with hlm-alt',inugh I
hiad known hlm for many years-Rs tiiose
of bis countrymen wlth whom lie could
converse more freely, but no one who
had the pleasure of bis acquaintance wlll
disagree with amy estimateo0f bis chai-acter.
The mext I tind on the 11sf was my oid and
lutimate friend Mr. Clomow. Those of us
who remember the vigaur and en ergy witi
whIdh lie last addressed this lïanse ctiuld
scarcely have anticipated for hlm ;-o early
a doafli. Like nmany of us lie was plain and
outspokeu, and perhaps sometimes gave utteranco ta bis vlews and ta bis thougflits in
a mannor that some would not approve of;
but I can appoal ta the Socrotary of
Stato, who knew hlm lntlmateiy, that what-

9

ever bis faulte may bave been, a kiu<ler
hearted and more generous man neyer cecupled a seat on the floor of this House.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-W bile
bis dentb ls a matter of regret to mne, It was
a pleasure to me to see the Secretary of
State one of the chief mourners n~t the absequies of our late friend. [t shows that ln
human nature, no matter ho'w much we
inia disagree lu our political views, there.
je a kindly feeling existlng oetween geatlemien mho know each other lintiniately,
whlch sbould not only be cultivated but
whlch we sbould ail hope will grow as we
advanoe lii years. The third ln the number
-1 arn taking them in the order of sent>rlty
-was a representative of the Irish r.'ce,
Aitliough flot politically
Mfr. (YI>otuohop.
ln accord wlth bis vlews I had tfae pi. i iure,
at least, ta know I could clans hlmn among
my intiniate personal frlends and oite of
those wlth whom I was always an the very
best of terms, though on maüy occasions
we found It incumbent on ourselves ta differ and ta differ very strongly upon Important questions whlch came before the
Hanse.
The next follawlng Mr. O'Donahae was a
gentleman who sat very close ta hlm on
that side of the Hanse. It was my gaod
plensure ta know Senator McCallum fram
the time that lie first entered parliament ln
1807. We sat together for many years ln
the House of Gommons, and durlng the time
I had the honour of a seat ln this Senate, he
was, as he had been ln the lower Hanse, a
stauncli, ardent political as well as personal
frlend. But 1 wlsh It distlnctly understood
that ln any remarks that I naw make 1 do
flot refer ta the political complexion of aur
brother senators who have departed. 1 am
speaking more from my personal acquaintance with them, and If I relterate what I
have already said in reference ta Mr.
O'Donohoe kn speaking of others of the poltical party wlth wblcb I bave not been allied as persanal. frlends, It is one of the gratifications that 1 have when I reflect upon
tbe fact that thougli 1 may have differed
and differed materlally from those with
whom 1 bave corne in contact during the
the thlrty-slx years that I have been
lu pariament there lu not one among the

SENATE
number whom I cannot class as a personal
friend. Those who were acquainted with
Mr. McCallum knew hie was a man of more
than ordinary ablllty. He had that stern
Scottlsh nature which characterizes. his race.
He neyer hesltated, when speaking ln the
Senate or outside, to say precisely what hie
meant, and those who remember the last
speech that hie made ln this House last session wlll have a fair Indication of the man's
character. Hon. gentlemen will remember
that on that occasion hie called attention to
the removal from the House of the late
Minister of Justice, of whom hie spoke ln
the most friendly and kindly terme. H1e
said we liad found him to be a man of strict
honour, and while hie differed from hlm hie
wiuhed it dlstlnctly understood that in parting with his brother senators upon that occasion hie did so without the slightest feeling
of animosity against any of them, and, as
If It were premonition of what was to corne,
his lest words were that hie neyer expected to meet us again. Then we have
another gentleman, young as a senator, the
Hon. Â. T. Wood, a prince among the merchants of Ontario. Perhaps I ought to say
what I have said to Mr. Wood so very otten,
that upon the great principles which agitated the country and upon which discussions had taken place during elections and
ln the House, there was very little
differences between Mr. Wood and rnyself,
but when lt came to a question of voting
we were on opposite sides. He was one o!
those whom every one having an acquaintance with hlm admired as a business man,
personalty, and ln every vocation o! lf e ln
whlch hie mlght be found. Though hie was
called a Ilberal, 1 think I may safely say
that hie was one o! the strongest personal
frienda I had ln Ontario. Then we have lost
an ornament to the House, a gentleman of
culture and education, who, whenever hie
spoke, gave indications of a knowledge o!
the subjects which hie discussed and of the
business of the country. I would not have
supposed, when we parted a few montbs
ago, that Mr. Prirnrose would have been
numbered among those who was to join the
the great majority. I missed bis frIendly
face and tnat kindly band shake and smille
with which hie used to greet gentlemen of
both political parties. These facts bave
created not only a feeling of regret, but a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

depression on rny part while addressiug
the House. Next, and lastly, the seventh
gentleman to pass away wlthin a few
rnonths, was the lately appointed Mr.
I had not the privilege of
Déchene.
a personal acquaintance with that gentleman, but from what I dld know of
him hie was a gentleman ln every sense
of the word, and I have no doubt
would have been an ornament to the House
had hie lived to performa the duties which
every Senator ought to perform. Then we
have to consider for a moment that ln these
f ew rnonths seven gentlemen have passed
away. Look at the number remaining ln
this House who were appolnted at confederatIon, we flnd there are but four.
My hon frlend who sits, la front of
me, (Hon. Mr. Miller) is one of them, Senator Dickey, whorn every one respects as a
man of talent and abllity and everything
whicli pertains to that which is good is
another. H1e ls now upon a sick bed and the
probabilities are we shall never see hlm
again. Thien we have the venerable Senator
Wark, whom I hope to see here again, and
If I may be perrnltted ln this respect to
inake a suggestion to the Secretary of State,
I do so ln ail slncerlty. Mr. Wark la now in
his 1OOth year. I expect from what I have.
heard that hie will bie here ln a short time.
Thje suggestion that I desire to make is that
iny hon. friend should ask the Mînister of
Rallways to place one of the goverument
cars at bis disposal ln order that hie may
corne up ln comfort and at ease. I am sure
that no one ln this country wlll object to
that. Ail they have to do ls to caîl the
attention o! the Canadian Pacific Railway
to the fact, and I am confident that they
wlll grant transportation readily and with
pleasure. The next one, the only other one
ieft out of the original Senators, 15 my lntirnate and personai friend Mr. Aikens. H1e
bas been for a long time confined to bis
roorn, and at one time I scarcely thought
that we should ever see hlm here again. I
arn glad to know, however, that hie Is slowly
recovering and I hope before this session
ends that we may have the pleasure of seeIng hlm ln the House for a short tirne at
least. There is another vacancy, and one
that
well

I deeply regret for persoflal as
as for political reasons, and that

Is the vacancy wbich bas been created,

MARCH 16, 1903
and of which the House bas been Informed by report from the Clerk to
the Speaker of the Hon. '-%r. Masson.
1 hadl the pleasure of being in the cabinet
with Mr. Masson for a number of years. 1
mat In parliament witb hlm in the Commono and also In this House. I do floti
desire to say mach about hlm, but I must
uay this, that a more honest and conscientious man neyer mat In parliarnent, nor dld
ever a pubie man do lis duty to, bis coun-i
try more faithfully thon did the Hon. Mr.
Masson. That ls the reputation hie holds
amongst those witb wbom hie bas been
associated, thougb not poiticaliy allied.
When I look at the rapid changes which
are taking place we rnay expect soon to
make way for others. I felt It my duty, In
cornmencing the few rexnarks 1 bave to make
to the Senate, to refer to those frlends I
have rnentioned witb wborn I have been so
long associated persouaiiy and polltlcally,
and I cannot help repeating the nid adage,
'what sbadows we are and what shadows
we pursue.'
The address whicb we are called upon to
consider for a very short time ls flot, to rny
mimd, of that character wbich bas beeh so
ably and eloquentiy claimed for It by my
lion. friend from Rideau (Mr. Frost) If I
xnay so terrn hlm at present. Before proceeding lie will permit me to congratulate
lm on 'bis first effort lu tbis House. After
lienring bis speech I tbougbt tbere was littie
reason for his apology. No matter wbat bIs
expertence miay bave been lu the past, hie
certainiy exblbited none of that diffidence
whjc'h lie claimed for bimseif In the speech
wbicb lie nmade. If there was one tbing that
made an Impression upon my mind stronger
than any other, It was the assertion made
by hlm, that the present premier, Sir Wilfrid Laurier, bad rediscovered. Canada. I
was under the Impression that Canada hbad
been discovered long ago. I rernember tbe
late Mr. Mercier claiming, and bis party
claimed for him the discovery of Lake St.
John. That Is wben they were building a
rond there whicb we so liberaily subsidized.
Then we bave tbe premier of Canada who
aiso elainis to have discovered New Ontario.
Weil, tlîat is flot ail. Now we have the assertion and staternent made by my hon. friend
tbat thé Riglit Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier
-bas rediscovered Canada. I do flot know
whetber the bon. gentleman bas rend Park-

man's blstory. 1 know I rea "dit with a very
,reat deal of pleasure, and was under the
1mapression that Cabot and Cartier had
îoretbing to do wltb the dlscovery of Canala, and If bie will read the accounts of the
~uffering of the Jesuits wvben tbey were
travelling through the whole country,even as far westward as the Mississippi be will find that not only were
Ontario, the Lake St. John district and
the nortbern portion o! this continent discovered, but also the western *regions as
far west as the Mississippi and down that
river to New Orleans and to the very guif,
but 1 amn quite willing to give these gentlemen
uredit for ail they have done, and If anytbing bas been done by them wbieb bas
added to the proaperity of the country, I
sbould be the last to detract from the credit
wbicb is due to tbem. I must apologize to
the lion, gentleman wbo seconded the motion
for flot being able to criticise or paso an
opinion upon the manner in which bie
seconded the motion, for the simple reason
that I do flot understand his language sufficiently weli to appreclate the pointa wblch
evidentiy hie made, frorn the applause wbiclh
came from tbree or four gentlemen sitting
opposite me. I take It for grantedl at least,
tbougb I couid flot properly understand Rt,
that tbey not only understood. but appreciated ai that bie said. and rendered bim that appiause whicb a man who speaka in accordance with their own sentiment deserves. I
amn fully In accord with everytbing the bon.
gentleman who rnoved the address said Iii
reference to the prosperity of the country,
less that pralse whlch bie accorded the
I arn not aware that
present government.
the present government bad anytbing to do
wvith the sunsbine, wlth the genlal sbowers
with wbicb the country was blessed, particularly In the North-west. However, I suppose as the gentlemen have redlscoveriid
the country, probably tbey have the power
o>f bringing down main from the clouds and
Invoklngthe Divine aid In produclng the
If we bave
crops that we have reaped.
prosperity lu this country It is owlng to the
climate, and it is owing to the rains and
other causes to whicb 1 have very briefly

referred.

I rernember very ,vell when ou

our side of the bouse ne used to dlaim some
of the credit for the prosperîty of the coutitry that existed after xve carne into power
At thant time the whole policy of
ini 1878.

SENATE
the country was changed. The country bad do not know wiere, but it wvas beliiud me,
been lu a state of depression neyer equalled some lbon. gentleman said 'hear, hear.'
before or since, but by a change of polley Let him examine the record and point out
whicb give life and vigour to interests sucli onse single suggestion that was made by the
as that the bon. gentleman is engag-ed In leader of this goverament at that conference.
and otbers, prosperity was the resuit. I hlave Out of the whole of the propositions there
always beid this, and 1 had, as somebody is but one, and that is the proposition
said, the cooluess to state, at a banquet ini thanking Bir. Chamberlain and others for
London on one occasion ou wlsich Mr. the courteous manner ini wbicb tliey liad
Chiamberlain was the chairman, that gov- conducted the conference. It Is ail very
ernments could, under certain circumstances weil to maire assertions, but tbere 18 the
add to the prosperity of the country by document under bis hand and let bim point
This ivas a tlieory, out whist suggestions were made by the
judicious legisiation.
however, and a statemeut flot coiscurred premier. I differ ln toto from tbe hon.
The tariff, which I seconder of the motion, If I understood bis
in by xuany others.
will not occupy your time lu discussiug ut remarks, whicli were so loudly applauded
any great lengtli, I bave no doubt satisfled, by gentlemen opposite as to what tisis couînor ouglit to bave satisfied my hon. friend. try sliould do In the defenoe of the empire.
At tise time the late governmesît wns de- If we are to understand, from the position
feated, the tariff on tbe statute-book was de- the premier toolc at the conference, that
nounced by bon. gentlemen opposite as bleed- If we are to contribute to the navy it must be
iug the farmers white by the duties im- a separate Canadian navy, then I say we do
posed on agricultural implements, yet ou the not want It. We are an Integral part of the
maini portion of those articles-and no onse empire and I ivant no greater bonour, nor
knows it better than nsy two lion. frieuds woulîd I support nnly policy whicb would
opposite fros Manitoba-the duty remains be of a character which would separate us
preciseir as before, and thougli tliey were xis an independent power from the empire.
pledged to lie taken off, they were left as tbey Are %ve to understand that the gentlemen
were, and wby ? Because bon. ge ntie- wvlo applnuded that sentiment agree with
men kneîv tbat thiere Nvas a certain portion tise premier In îaying tbe basis of wbat
of tise mnnufacturisîg elenient that would his day and night dreaml Is, or what lie
lasi peaoefuî separation from
a
itaI
not stand to have the duty reduced, and
tliey gave the governument distinctly to iii- 1the empire and becoming a nation ourderstisnd that If they expected their ssp- selves ? I notice be declares tbat we are
port In the future they would have to se-xinto.W
araprtfanto,
t
a naton foat
tain those duties as tliey were. I know the a nation,W arI eva pat
d
late Mr. Bel-trams, member for Centre Toron- a nao,
andra neme wnte an gratI
toere Cnoataserfa sl Io ans
to, stated distinctly in is letters what they tenr,
sliould do. Whether or not the lion. gentie- ter ber Inlsugl gaofha the seepCanada
emplire. a
art of tuhea
mass front Smith's Falîs wvns one of those remaian intga
who took the anme view, I cannot say, but asdan Enls iust as much a Englihana
an e
f
judging from the business be la engaged In, andug Engliman s sb a Candan as
e
tbensone lf Eng hne
and tIse fact that tise tariff was *sot re- Stugl tor Ila n
Ireand
Wben onemleaves the
duced on some of the princîple aîrticles lie oldcontr or
dconrtooetobiDmnole
mansufactures, tîsougli it was on soine of
tlie an ontherawmatria usd ~h15offly removes from one part of tlie empire
themandon
he aw
ateialuse inbisto settie ln another, and whatever we may
manufactures, I can easily understand wby do ln the way of aiding la the defence of the
he le deiighted with the tariff and that he empire it sliould be as a part and parcel of
thinks it is just wvlat it ouglit to lie in tIse that empire, and not as a separate and
interests of the country.
neednpatoI.
hvsow
Tbe hon. gentleman referred to the inter- t tdeedn
art oft.
Weaa baeelini
s
colonial conference and said lie was de-totewrlwitCndanflng
lighted to kuow that the premier of this! wvien the empire's interests are ait stake ln
country was the leading spirit at tîsat con- foreigu countries, and I doubt not, should
fereuce and proposed the different suhjects unfortunately the occasion arise, tliousaflds
ivhich were brouglit before the meeting. I, of young Caunadians, no matter of what
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MARCH- 16, 1903
creed or nationality, would be just as ready
to fiy to the defence of the country as they
have proved themselves to be in the past.
Reference is made to preferential trade.
The onIy thing I have seen tliat enianated
froni the conference on that question was
a threat, a covert threat on the part of our
rulers that they hiad the power and probably would repeal that portion of the tariff
which gave preference to Great BrItain
unlesa they got a consideration therefor;
aîid the renson they give for that la that
times have changed-that there was no
duty upon wheat and agricuitural products
In England when they took the ground and
the position that they did flot want the preterence; but now that there la a duty they
demanid that Canada should be exempt
trom It We can very eastIy understand
how that was answered by Sir Michael
Hicks-Beach, 'But your premier bas aiready told us you do not want a preference ;
that Canada granted that preference purely
for love and In recognition of what we have
done for Canada.' We know very well the
preferential treatment of British products
In our markets has been the means of depriving this country of a large trade with
Germany. I have the figures under my
hiand but every one knows what bas taken
place. The premier says when the correspondence Is laid before the House of Comnions we will see what bas been done In
that respect. The corresporidence lias not
effected any change In the German tariff,
and the German tariff la especially framed
to injure the trade of Canada while It
grants concessions to the United States.
There Is a much heavier duty Imposed by
Germany upon our products than we Impose
upon the producta of Germany. But they
have an advantage under the preferentiai
trade that, in my opinion, and 1 think the
opinion of 'the country, Is unjustifiable. The
regulationa are so framed that ail the German manufacturera have to do Ia to brIng
-their manufactures luto Englnnd, alter
then a Ilttie, and then imiport themn into
this country uuder the preferential tariff
as British manufactures. That Is a broad
question on which figures may be produced
hereafter.
The next paragraphi is In reference to Immigration. I am flot one of those who believe that the great Influx of people froin
the United States into our North-we.-t ~ r

ritories is going to be of such a damaging
character, politicaliy, as many have indicated. I believe that most of those people-- at
Ieaat a very large proportion of thoae w ho
are coming from Dakota and Minnesota,
are either Canadîans -who left this country
some years ago durlng the drougtit in Manitoba and the fallure of the crops, or the
descendants of those men -%vho neyer . ecame United States subjects except by
birth. They are coming back to their own
country, and so long as that nrospcrity exIsts arlsing from, the magn;i(.cs;ît liarvecfs
which we have enjoyed la the North-west.
they wiII be better subjects than they ever
were, because they bave had the advantage
of knowing what United States Inatîtaf ions
really are. 1 go further than tliat. 1 say
In this country somne of our best citizens are
of United States birth, and I îpredict that
inauy of those intelligent men wbo are
coming from the United States today a nd
settling ln our North-west Territaries und
Manitoba, wlll, after they have lived there
a few years, appreciate the superiority of
British Institutions over those of the Republic and wili be glad to remnain here and
become as loyal subjecta as we are. Wlîille
It la a fact that large numbers of people
are coming Into the country, It is lamentable, and I speak f romn an Ontario point of
view, that the population of this pi'ovince
has not 1ncreased In the ratio that we tlink
it ought t0 have lncreased. Whether thîs
showiiig la the reanît of a defective census I
do not know, but this we' do know, that
under the constitution we are to lose about
live representatives. That arises from the
supposed increase of population in the province of Quebec. I have yet t0 learn that
there bas been any great immigration for
years past Into the province of Quebec except
into the St. John district, arising from the
fact of the railway having been constructed
there; but that that increa'se lias grownvi s0
rapidly as to deprive us of fixe representatives in parliament is inconiprehensible,
unleas if is expiained by the fact that while
they have increaaed in Quebec the Ontario
people have left the country. Now, if you
look at the last Trade and CJommuerce returns you wili find that the exodus bas been
growing for years paat-that k, .1
idgi-ig by
the trade returna and the entries for exportation of settIers' effects.
Tbat Is the
way hon. gentlemen opposite used f0 judge

SENATE
us, and I suppose they wii not; object to
the application of Vie same rule to tbcmnselves. If hion. gentlernen wiii turu to, the
laet.report of Sir Richard Cartwright they
wiIl [mnd that In 1898 Vie exodus as represented by the entries of exporte of settiers
effects amounted to $886,000 ; In 1899 Viey
in 1900 they
arnounted to, $963,000 ;
amounted to $1,0139,000; In 1901 they
amounted to $1,133,000, and iaet year to
$1,502,000. In giving these figures, I jiave
omltted the odd hundrede. It shows that in
Vhis country, as In others, the Anglo-Saxon
le a mlgratory race, and that we are losing
I
population If the figures are correct.
mereiy cali attention to these facts to show
Viat whlle Immigration le comlng into the
North-west Terrltorles-and I arn pieased to,
know it la-lt le flot the resuit of any fiscal
pollcy of this country-and no one knows it
better than Vie mover of this address-but
arises froni the fact of the superiority of the
crops whlch have been given to the yeomanry and labourera of that portion of our
country, and If It oniy continues for a year
or two more It wiii do a great deal towards
fillng up Vie North-west.
The reference to transportation I wlll iiot
discues at preeent. What'Vie government
mean by Viat ie hard to understand. It ia
a problin difficuit to eoive and one which
the country lias been considering for the
mest twenty or Viirty years. The great output of Vie farme In the North-west Territories and Manitoba bas go cornpleteiy exceeded Vie mont sanguine expectatione cf
the people Viat no railway couid keep Up
the required rolling stock necessary to
transport it to Vie seaboard. There la a
second railway now-what le called the
Mackenzie & Mann rallway-that le assleting, but still Vie transportation facilities are
flot sufficient. 1 arn of the opinion that we
cannot have too rnany raiiways In the
North-west Territories nnd Manitoba, and
any reasonabie aid tbat rnay be propoeed
towards the construction of more raiiways
to bring out Vie products of that country
should recelve the sanction o'f every lover
of this country, and every statesman and
every member of both Houses of parliament.
1 feel somewhat proud of the fact that I was
one of tiiose who stood ail the ignomy Viat
could be beaped upon us for granting
Jiberal ternis for the construction of the
Canadian Pacific Rallway. 1 care not who
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

mnade fortunes out of it-I arn giad that
sorne of those who ventured their ail in It
dlii. The construction of that road lias
been the inaklng of what Canada In to-day
and If the Grand Trunk Rallway in golng
to give us another route to the Pacifie vnd
an outiet to the east, let us have it hy ai
means, and the Mackenzie & Mann systern
aiso, but let us remember this, .tJîat we
shouid flot give our aid to the construction
of rallways which are going wo carry the
products of the great West acrocis the
United States frontier. I wiii flot discues
that question further, because probably it
might corne up at a more opportinie ti;iiia.
I have my own Ideas of what proloabiy
mlght be nccornplished, aIthoutgli j ste, flic
many and great difficulties which present
theniseives In a country like ours with a
lilmate like ours, and with the river St.
Lawrenoe closed for so many lnoachs ixr lhe
,ear, In accomplishlug that which we go much
desire, that Is the transportation rapidiy, of
ttil the products of our gre!ot North-west,
the magnitude of which la oaily to be reailzed, through our own country dowu the St.
Lawrence to, be carried by oui- own shpiThe question
p.ng to European markets.
ict
urines why that cannot be doue. 1 wiU n
dlseuss it now, but 1 coulid give satisfiqLtory reasons why United States shippers and
those engsged in that particular trade both
in British Columbia with 1-heir tradldg to
Vie Yukon, have had the adva<ita.e over
Canada and will continue to have the tidvantage until British capitaligs inveet Iu
shipping and ralways which wIii do, thaRt
for us which Yankee shipplng and Yankee
rallways have done In the past for the Unîted States.
The Alaska boundary, every one must
admit, ls a question which ought to, be
settied. Whether It wlll be settled under
the present commission 1 do not know. 1
have greater faith, however, in those who
will be appointed by Canada and by England than to suppose for a moment that they
would be actuated wholly and soiely froni
either a British or Canadian standpoint. 1
have sufilcient faith in our jurists and ini
our public men that in a question of this
kind they wili endeavour to arrive nt the
truth and so report.

Whether those who

have been appointed by the United States
are of the character Indicated by the
treaty itself ls a very vexed question,

31ARCH 16, 1903
I amn fully in accord with tiiose sentiments
because, seriously, any one who bas read the
carry it out.
speeches of the gentlemen who have been and 1 hope the goverument will
States cannauîed to represent the United
Hou. Mr. WATSON-Auother couvert.
liot by any possibility corne to the conclusHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-]
ion that they are impartial jurists of repute.
Whether they are jurists or not 1 do not notice that the premier made a statement
know, but 1 think. the United States would of a similar character. He said:
The objecte of the government in introducobject if three gentlemen sittlng here were
out the
shall
appointed and designated as Impartial ing legisiation abuses be, ftrst, ta wipe Llbqrals
from which the
inJustices and
jurias of eminent repute. We are citizens la Ontario have suffered for twenty-oney>ears,
sucli
to devise a measure
and civilians and capable, probably, of coni- and nextno faveur either ta thela party termas as
la power
to give
ing to as correct a conclusion as any laivyer or ta the party la the minority, but to devise
the men indi- a. measure. which, whatever may be the quesbut that la flot the character of
braught before the Canadian parliament
cated by the treaty, and it la deeply to be tionany time, shaîl make it certain that the
at
so far fargat views of the people shall upon every occasion
regretted that the United States
tbeir duty under the wording of that treaty prevail and the majority shail rule.
as to make the appoiutments they did. They
1 repeat, In reference to that estimate I
ùirst laid down the principle in the treaty arn fully In accord wlth the premier, but
that there is a desire to maintain peace and judglng from the pat and the pledges
harmony between those two grent coïintries, which were made upon the trade question
Britain aud the United States, and they lm- and varlous other subjects before they came
mediately appoint three men wbo have ex- Into power, and the subsequent gross violapressed decided and- positive views upon tion of ail of them, I have little faith in what
this question and cail tliem Impartial jurista. they have promised now. I hope lu the
One of tbese gentlemen made a violent Interests of the country 1 may be mistaken In
speech against tbe treaty itaelf. Âfter an that matter ; If I am, you will flnd no one Iu
interview, If the public press la correct, this House more ready ta acknowledge the
-with the President, lie went back to the fact than 1 shahl be. I have a distinct reSenate Cbaînber and allowed the treaty to collection, liowever, of the speech made by
pasa without nny opposition. Whether it a late member o! the cabinet, the ex-Minwas part of the condition of bis withdrawal Ister of Public Works, In Brantford when
-of opposition that lie should be one of the lie was discussing this subjeet o! redistribucommIssioners, of course I do nlot know, but tion, and lie told bis hearers thiere that lie
we can draw our own inferences from the would 1fix them when the ie came.' He
circumstances as tbey are presented to us. may not be able to fix theni now because
The census bas been referred ta and we lie ta out of the cabinet, but If lie spoke for
are told thiat w-e are to bave a Redistributionl the cabinet at that tume, we have n riglit
Bill. The lion. mover of the Address is very ta assume the goverument will carry out
sanguine as to the character of that Bill the threat lie made. Then another gentlewhich is to be Infroduoed. I must confes man said lie would se redistribute Ontario
I bave flot the saine confidence the hon. that there would not be a Tory elected. I
gentleman bas, but 1 hope be may be cor- *amn very mucli lncllned to think that no
rect. 1 notice that the Hon. Mr. Paterson. matter how the province la gerrymandered
Minister of Oustonis. ia bis speech at thE the hon. gentleman wlll not be able ta
late North Ontaria election, referred to thui accornplisb that
fact, nnd if lie will oniy carry out the pro.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-He was probably
mises lie mnade the>n I scarcely think au>
Tories
niember of tbe present parliament will ob- *thlnklng we wauld have ta hIve the
as our predeceasors did the Grîts.
ject to it. He said:
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-My
It would be the duty af the present gavern- .Hon.
ment ta redistribute the canstituencies durlng
aisa be iImpression la that it la impossible, for even
the present parliarnt, but lt would
their duty ta sec that is
and equitable mnanner.
latian ta keep ane party
in accordance wltb the
fair play.

donc la a fair, honest tbe Secretary of State, whatever bis inTa attempt by legis- cliiîations and desires mny be, ta sa hive
out of power was nlot
principles of nritlsh theni as ta accompliali that abject. They
tco sensible ; tbey L-now wbat the con,are

16

SENATE

stitution provides, and how in tbe iast six
years the counitry bas been governed, and
bon. gentlemen will Eind, whien the proper
tinie arrives, what the resuit will be no
matter how much tbey try to 'hive.'
Tbe other measures I shall fot discuss
at present, further than to say this, that
It seems a most extraordinary thing that
before the government could get a Frenchi
Canadian gentleman ta fill the vacancy
created by the resignation or dismissal of
Mr. Tarte, he must have Important patronage placed at his disposai. The government
of the country upon broad patriotie principles does flot seem to have actuated theni
ini any way. Mr. Préfontaine said: Unless
you add to my departnient the patronage
which I thlnk It should have, and which I
Insist upon having, or give me the Public
Works as It was under Tarte, I will flot
join you. We have the announcement In
the address that this principle Is to be
In wbat way? Only to give
recognized.

ference to the admission of that caiony ilnta
the canfedieration, and bis answer to that
-%as that tbe fine opportunity was iast
by the refusai of Sir Mackenzie Bowell's
government to accept the terms offered. I
may be excused if In referring to the officiai
report 1 place It fairly before the House In
order that there may be no mieunderatanding, so far as the governiment of which I
was at the bead at the Urne te concerned.
Sir Wiifrtd Laurier said:
My hon. frienfi bas desired ta have the correspondence witb the governments of Newfoujndiand or Great Britain with regard ta the
new treaty negotiated by Newfoundiand with
the United States. I shall be glad ta bring
down any correspondence In the possession af
this government, but wtth regard ta the attitude we have taken on the subJect, I may ray
that the question ls one that has long engage-1
aur attention and that we have obtained, as
the resuit of aur efforts, the assurance that If
Newto tndland be allowed by Great Britain ta
1
negotiate a treaty with the governinent of the

United States, there shall be na dtscrlmtnat-3ýn
in It against Canada and that the same treatnment given to the American repubiic shall be
given ta the Canadian contederation.

Thant Is a correct position for the CanaThe Sir John
matters connected witb marine. Why not dian government to take.
ta have the' Macdonald goverument was condemned very
allow the Minister of Customs
control and building of the customs bouses?; strongiy for interfering with Newfoundland
treaty
Why nat allow the Inland Revenue Depart- at the ie that Mr. Bond negotiated a
being
ment to bave the same rights, and If the witb Mr. Biaine, upon the ground that,
ta 1f independent, self-governed colony, we
change is ta be made It certainiy ought

In connection with harbours, docks and other

be made In connection with the Mllitia De-. had no rigbt ta Interfere with any arrangepartment, where tbey have the iargest inents wvhich it mlght make with a foreign
be luarmouries ta construct, and knaw more power, by wbich Its trade was ta
Im- creased and the islaud prafited thereby.
about it froni the fact that they are
mediately engaged in providing for the Our position was that the fisbery question

ias ideutically one for the British provinces, that It was Impossible ta separate
tliem and that it was the duty af the gaveramfenlt to stop anything tbat they might do
-%vhlch would interfere with aur trade; and
amn glad ta know that at that time the
rin
Bail(-Bilzinie treaty %vas prevented
position.
spolien inucb longer than 1 in- being ratified by the British goveriment.
I have
ta say
tenided, and 1 ask the pardon of the Hause. The bon. premier goes on
1 refer ta onie littie niatter iii whichi my' My hon. friend aiso urged that the Urne is
if
1 rportune ta re-apen negotiatians with Newaira naie was mentioned and braught iinto foiîndland wîth a vlew ta Its entrance into confederation.
the discussion in the Lawer Hanse. I be- c f the Hon. Let me say that the governm,ýat
Sir Mackenzie Bowell hast a fine
i
htqeto.A
istln
lieve thit it is flot permlissible ta discusiS oj)otni
w-bat takes place in the other chamber. 1 base, evenits thîcre were thon negotiations facrd
hittie more
that had
vanced.
iny rernarks, therefore, upon wliat 1 see il, generous and I believebeen showa aby Canada ta
disposition
the liewspapors, and 1 suppose thlat tha~t is a Newfoîurdiand, the question would have been
1 notice settled thre and then.
fair subject of the discussion.
Maýrký this contradictory statement immetiiot the question -was asked the premier,
or camplaint mode, wby lie did not enter dliatel3 following wbat I have rend. Theni
into negatiations with Newfoundland Ili re- be l)roceeds:
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

training of the farces, and tiien my lian.,
friend besîde me suggests, wby sbould not
the Postmaster General have contrai af ail
the post offices, and by that means you wiil
have the Minister of Public Works with
tadoan
hodin a îinarryI
ver iitl

MARCH 16, 1903
But if Sir Mackenzie Bowell could have settled the question and dld flot do so, I cannot
bI'ime him very much, because so long as the
Frenrh shore difficulty lB flot settled, It wilI
Plways bc a serlous bar ta the entrance of
Newfoundland it confederation. I thlnk that
Ne.wfoundland ought ta be a part of canfederation. I arn prepared at any time ta meçt the
represeutatives of Newfoundland ln order ta
facilitate that end. But I would hesitate very
rauch, 'even if it were in my power ta complete
the transaction, ta, do sa unless this mast
Irritating question af the French shore were
lemoved tram the prababiflty of creatlflg mischie! ln Canada.
It le a remarkable tact, and It will etrike
those wbo have read that speech as a remnarkzable position for the premier ta take,
to, tell the House that the golden opportunlty was ioet owing ta a llttle penurioueness
on the part of the governrnent of the dity,
and theni, before the sound of his vole had
ccased ringing in the ears of hie hearere,
could not
bie turns round and says :'I
blame Sir 'Mackenzie Bowell for not doing

settiement o! the French shore question,
which Newfoundland as a emaîl colony
couid flot do. But that was our position

at tht time. 1 will go further. I notice
that Mr. Bond, now Sir Robert Bond, stated
lu an Interview ln Ottawa a short trne ago

that he believed If Sir John Thompeon had
been at the bead of the government the
union would have taken place. It would
not be at ail. flattering to the -bon. premier
of Newfoundland If he knew tht opinion
of Sir John Thompeon, of the unpatriotic
course which he pnrsued wben we met hlm.
li Halifax upon a previous occasion. Sit
John Thompson, Mr. Chaplean, tht tben Secretary of State and myseîf had an interview

'with tht gentleman and some othiers fromi
Newfoundiand upon tht trade between
the two colonies anid tht probabiiities and
union of Newfouudo! a
feasibility
land with Canada, and we found that lie
that, because this French short difticulty bad no syrnpatby with tht latter feeling.
wvithi the
It le another evIdence of When he came to Ottawa
was unsettled.'
the inconslstency of tht bon. gentleman.
There le scarceiy a question within tht last
ten or fifteen years on wlch lie bas given
utterance to an opinion tbat lie bas flot
subsequently, flot so rapidly, 1 admît as ln

this case, expressed views of a contrary
character. Tht hon. Secretary of State will
rernember that when I made the explanation ln thîs House as to tht causes of the

falinre to bring about tht entrance of that
colony into Canada he approved highiy of
the position then taken by the goveranent.
We had offered tbern better terme than bad
been gîven to Britishi Columbia. We offered

thern better terme thnn had been given to
Prince Edward Island. We off ered them
hetter terme than had been given to Mant-

toba and the North-west, or any of the
other provinces, but after they got that far
they demanded we should assume the re-

sponsibilîty of a delit of theirs of some $5,0100,000 lu addition.

I amn speaking now for

nayself, 1 was willing to grant aIl that we
offered them, notwitbstandlng the dlfficulty
that presented Itsef on the French shore

question, providing we conld bring them
into confederation, and for tht reason that

I believe that the power and Influence of
the goverumeat of the Dominion would be
s0 nmucli greater, we could bring s0 much
greater pressure to bear upon the British
governmeflt, that we could bring about a
2

gentlemen

who

accompanled

hlm I

wvas

forewarned. I hiave neyer stated this
before, but as the prime minister bas called
attention to It I besitate not niow to, make
public what probably should have beta
made public before, I was forewarned froin
Newfoundland, that he had no sympa thy
wlth confederation and that his feelings
were againet It, and that he only came up
for a certain purpose, ln order to make
polltical capital la his own colony, and It
was wlth tht greatest difficulty possible

we could get hlm to propound any echerne
or theory or makeé any proposition, and after
discueelng for dnys and days we found It
was utterly Impossible to corne to any
arrangement wlth hlm, and I prophesy that
just as long as Sir Robert Bond le at tht
hiead o! affairs lu Newfoundland, whether
the French short question les ettled or not,
you wlll neyer have confédération If hie can
prevent It. It was only last June that the
leader of tht opposite party, Mr. Morlne,
was ln Montreal, and ln an Interview gave
utterance to tht conclusion whicb we
had corne to years and years ago. What
did lie eay ? Ht eaid 'Sir Robert ls not
credited wlth belng a federationlet,

tîther

with tht Dominion or tht empire. In Montreal quite recently the premier of Newfoundland made some rernarks which show

bie stili hopes that a fishery agreement by

18

SENATE

the colonies with the UnIted States will be charged that delicate duty witb a great
permitted. This, however, would postpone deal of tact and very much eloquence
union with Canada for' the next fifty years and I think the remarks were duly
The hou.
Sir Robert Bond seems wboliy out of ue appreciated by this Ohamber.
witb Mr. Chamberlain's policy, and unlesu gentlemen were flot novices In addressing
They graduated In
he can be converted and made a federation- public assemblies.
lut, confederation cannot soon become a anotber place where *both of them galied
They had for a long
vital question ini the colony.' That is the some distinction.
opinion I formed of that gentleman years time been members of the Bouse of Comago, and kt is confirmed by everything I mons and now that they -have beea transhave learned and everytbing I have read, ferred to this Chamber, tbough during their
both wben I was In Newfoundland a year stay in.the other Bouse no doubt tbey were
or two ago and what bas taken place since. very active politicians, the atmosphere, nonSir Robert Bond would much -ratber be a political as it sometlmes ia In this Cbanbig frog lu a very small pond than be a ber, will probably mollify the strong feeltadpole In a large lake like the Dominion. ings tbey used to exhibit on former ocAnd as long as he can reinain at the head casions.
of affairs In that country we need not ex*My bon. frIend took the hon. senator
pect to have confederation very soon fromn who rnoved the address very mucli to task
bis bands.
because lie thought he had eniarged too
There are rnany thlngs I would like to rnuch on the praise bhe gave the premier
discuss but 1 have spoken longer than I and necessariiy the praise be gave the policy
There la so mucb In con- of the goverument. Tbat is practically 1t,
Intended to.
nection with questions affecting the In- and my honourabie friend dlsputed the
terests of this Dominion that I offer that for rigbt of tbe government to any praise for
my apoiogy for occupying so mucli time. the changes that'have taken place In the
MWheu the various hbis corne before *us as last six years.
I cannot allow that chalindicateq. by the mover of the address, *we lenge to go wlthout pointing to some
wll be able to discuss tbem seriatirn and tacts which most conclusively prove tbat
consîder thern on their merits and dispose some extraordlnary -change did take place
of them as an independent non-political la 1896, when the change of government
body like tbis, should do.
occurred and tbat tt was scarcely possible
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn sure that I echo that the remsrkable prosperity that dawned
the sentiments of every bon. gentleman ln on Canada from tbat yesr up to'the prethis chamber wben 1 say we ahl share iii sent time conld be entirely due to sunshine
tbe deep expressions of regret at the rnany and shower. 'I think kt can be very clearly
changes that have tak-en place since our shown tînt during the whole period of the
last meeting. One gentleman particularly national policy, from the tirne it w-as fairly
to whorn the lion. gentleman referred, laundhed In 1882 down to 1896, the trade
wvas a very intimate friend of mine, a lite of this country was absolutely paralylong friend of upwards of hait a century, sed. No other word wili fill the bill. You
a gentleman of very great -public spirit. Blis have oniy to look at the -figures to see at
deatli was a beavy loss to the city of Ot- once that lt seemed as If sorne extraortawa and to many friends on both sides dinary calamity ibad befallen this country
of politîcs. A&nd 1 rnigbt say that outside between these particular ycars.
It is Blot
of this chamber and outside of tbe public that the people of Canada did not exhibit
duties whicb be had to discliarge as a the same Industry In that period as the
member of the Conservative party, the late year before or the year after, that tbey
Mr. Clemow lad quite as many warm and bad not good crops or that trade should
sincere frienda arnong his political oppon- flot bave prospered.
But the whole
enits as arnong those lie was associated policy o! the party during those years w-as
wlthbhere.
to trade among ourselves. and to avoid trade
I have great pleasure also in sharing with with outside countries, which I think was a
my hon. friend in the encomiums lie passed very great mistake. The only wealth that
upon the speeches made hy the mover and comes to the country ls by the external
Both dis- trade, whetber it ls buylng or selling. It is
seconder of the address.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MARCH 16, 1903
thiat wiiich made the wealth of England.
Up ta the time of the free trade pollcy lntroduced by Sir Robert Peel, we lcnow the
distresa that prevalled among ail classes.
Of ail the great wealth England possesses
to-day 90 per cent of It; la due to trade with
other- nations which evolved from the Introduction of free trade principles. Take the
trade with the United States; ln 1892 we exported ta the United States $47,000,000 worth
which was the highest ln any one year up
to 1897. 1 admit there was a tariff against
the United States but my contention la that
unless you buy from a country ta some extent yon cannot sell. There must be mutual
ex change ln order to establish any trade
whatever.
In the year 1894 the exporta
fell ta $35.000,000.
The importa from the
United States ranged fromn $48,000,000 up
ta $58,000,000.
The hlghest record was ln
189.
It wlll, therefore, be seen that durlnig thiat period no progresa whatever waa
made ln aur trade with the United States,
only' ten million dollars having been added
ta the exporta of that country.
Wlth
GIreat Britain the value of the exporta ln
1878 was $45,000,000, and ln the eighteen
years under the national policy they had
risen ta $66,000,000. The Importationa lu
1878 were $51,000,000 and lD 189G -liby had
fallen ta $32,000,000.
Tbere was aur outsîde trade.
Was it passible for Canada
ta prosper under those conditions?
There
was ne encouragement given.
The palicy
of the party was that it should be, Canada
for the Canadiana.
It was like the twa
men swapplng jack-knives and each auppoalng he -waa gettlng some advantage of
the other. In 1902 the exporta ta the United
States had risen ta $71,000,000 and the lImporta from the United Statea ta $120,000,000.
Somethlng must have accurred lu that tîme
ta maire that extraordinary change.
The
exporta ta Great Britain bad risen ta $117,000,000 and the Imports from Great Britain ta $49,000,000 and this year It wl!
be considerably over $50,000,000.
I maintain that the very beat test of the wealth
ef a country la ln the savings of the peopie.
I venture ta say that no gentleman
wIlI contest the statement 1 maire now,
that la the last six years Canadians have
invested more money ln industrial enterprises than ln the precediag ten and fifteeu
yeara.
Companles bave. been farmed for a
varie'ty of purposes, and 'large sums of

maney bave gone into steel and iron and
alsa Itt agriculture, and a variety of commercial Interests have been establlshed.
Hou, gentlemen can note tilla from the very
activity of the companlea that bave been
orgaulzed ahl over the country, *that large
auma of money have been lnvested ln the
lat six years, very much ln excess of former years. In 1878 there were ln ail the
savinga banka lu this country $76.000.000.
la elghteen years that $76,000,000 had grawn
to $104,000,000. That la practically the savtags of the people ta that time. In 1902 the
savinga had lncreased six yeara by the
aum of $185,000,000. That certataly speaks
volumes. No one can canteat the reliabilty of a statement of that klnd.
There was the money awalting lnvestment,
a large amount of It drawlng no interest,
and some of it drawing the intereat the
banka pny. The goverament puy three per
cent and that la the ordinary rate 1 suppose. I maintain that no greateri evidence
can be given of the wanderful prosperlty
whlch the country has enjoyed durlng the
last six years tban the evideuce I have
giveni, botb ini the wonderful development
of trade between Canada and outside
cauntries and the enarmous increase ln the
depasits of the people, unable ta find lnvestments ln whlch ta place their savîngs.
My hon. friend catechised the gavernxneut
in reference ta Germany. I presume, aithough he did not directly', say so, that the
effect of his observations wauld be to cenisure the gavernment because we had forced
the band of the imperial gavernment to
denounoe the treaties between Great BrItaîn
and Gerniany and Belglum, and that we
bad lnjured aur trade wlth Germany. That
would be the effect of It. My hon. friend
must recollect, If he bas nat fargatteu, that
the goverament of which lie was a member repeatedly endeavoured ta have those
treaties denaunced, that at the great convention held ln Ottawa at wbich hie s0 ably
presided, ln 1894, the question was braught
up and hie hlmself made reference ta former efforts of the gavera ment of 'which lie
was a -member ta have those two freaties
denaunced, and the unlted support '0f that
convention, contalning representative men
fromn all the colonies, was given ta the suggestion of a resalution asking the hxmperial
goverament to denounce lt. They were tald
by the representative of the imperlal gov-

SE.NATE

20

ernment who attended the conference, thie
Earl of Jersey, that it was hopeleas; the
British government ivould not do it.
Now, the contlusions I destre to draw are
that we bave flot suffered very largely by
the loas of that trade. I find ln 1896 that
the'exporta to Germany before the change
or goverament were $737,000. In only one
year had tbere been any considerable amount
above that. In 1902 our exporta had rIsen
to $2,692,000. Certainly Canada was not
suffering by that. The Germans wanted
our goods and I tbink tbe question wbo pald
the duty was pretty well lllustrated there.
The Germans bought because tbey wnnted
Canada's goods. The goods we sent to GernLany and found a ready nmarket, and tbey
were nearly $2,000,000 better than the last
year of my bon. frlend's administration.
The aggregate trade, that is both imports
and exports, amounted in 1896 to $6,698,000 ; and last year they were double-ý
$13,315,000. I do not think we have very
rancb to complain of ln that and I do not
tbink it la quite proper to condemn Germany.
We insiated upon Great Britain taking a
very declded and positive stand, much
against their Inclination. It was open -afterwards for us to unite with Great Britain ln
a new treaty. We declined to do 1t; we
tbought Canada ougbt to be absolutely free
ln regard to treaties with outaide countries.
Unfortunately, although we released the two
treaties that bore moat beavily against us,
that la the treaties with Belgium and Germany, we are tangled up still Nvith soine
eigbteen or twenty treaties witli other
countries, and if we were to-diy to give
Germany any benefit in our market it would
enure to tbose other countries under what
ta called the favoured-nations clause. That
la, -any advautage to any other foreiga
country would bave to be grauited te, those
elgbteen or twenty that enjoy the favourednattons clause. So I think we occupy a
very much better position than if we liad
now a second time uuited withi Great Britain in having a treaty and allowing the
British preference to stand. I bave no
doubt the Germans would have cousented
to that If we had allowed them any advantage in our market.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Germans have two
tariffa-the ordinary tariff and the conventional tariff, the latter applyiDg to countrieS
that have special tariffs wltb themn. Gerxnany wvould be ready to make a conventional tariff witb us to-morrow, I have no
doubt, If we wanted It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-Do I
understand the bon. gentleman to say that
the denunciation of those portions In the
treaty wbtcb bound us to give Germany the
same privileges that we give Englaud only
applied to Germany ? 1 understood hlm to
say there are elghteen or twenty other
countries.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-There are elghteen or~
t-wenty that have tbat favoured-nations
clause.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did
the deaunciation of those treaties for
wbich the hon. gentleman's governinent
dlaim credit, apply only to Germany and
Belgium 7
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Only to these two.
What I said was If we gave Germany now
some limited privilege, elther in the coastlng lawas or a lower tariff, or any advantage
whatever lu our ports, that we would have
to extend that privilege to etghteen or twenty
otber countries ihat now bave in their
treaties wlth Great Britain tijis favoured-nations clause to which Canada w-as a party.
Because my hon. friend will know from lus
long experience that it is only in recent
years Canada bas been consulted wben Britina nmade a treaty. In tbe early years the
British government muade treaties ivithout
conaulting us. I bave no doubt Canada was
not consulted wben the treaties wltb Germany and Belgluni were made.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hion, gentleman la quite rigbt.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la only after both aides
have protested againat being dragged into
treaties simply because we were a part of
the empire. tbat a change of policy has
occurred and Canada is now consulted before she becomes a party to any treaty.

Recently a treaty waa muade wtth Japan
and we were asked whether we would unite
i that treaty. We did not consider it ad-

lion. Mr. MILLER-Why flot retaliate in visable to do so iu consequence of our being
our tariff againat them ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

favoured-nations clause in their treaties la

MAiRCH 16, 1903

2

maklng treaties Witii aDY countries, as 1 made, that to be successful our country
explained before, those eighteen or twenty must trade with outoide countries-we must

otiier countries that already enjoy the
favoured-natlons clause in tiieir treaty in
wbilh Canada takes part with England,
'would gain the advantage we give Japan.
Wben my bon. frlend's governent made a
treaty witb France tbey speclally recognized
that provision because they put iu a paragraph stipulatlng tbat the advantages given
to France gave tbose otber nations equal
privileges. Tbey could flot avoid it. The
only escape would hi to denounce those
other freaties. The mother country objected
i-ery strong-ly, and It was only after a
stroug pressure that we succeeded in getting
the Gerniany and Belgium treaties denounced. If we think it ls ln our interests
te make auy proposition to Germany it
would probably be accepted, or of coursei
we cau take the higli hnanded way of proposing discriminatory duties against Germany hlgher than against the rest of the
world. We are quite f ree to do that.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Wby not treat tbem
as they treat us?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.-We could do tlbat no
doubt. I could eularge very much on ihat
point but I do not propose to do lt. 1 thlnk
It la perfectly evident to any candld gentleman wbo 100k-s at lt that a very extraordlnary change did take place after we
lntroduced our tariff lu 1897. I know at
tbe Urne it was stated that the industries
of Canada were to be seriously affected by
that change. That statement was made In
another place at the tinie the tariff was
lntroduced, and we bave been told since
tbat certain Industries in this country were
sufferlng-tbat they were losing money.
Arguments-of tbat kind have been adduced
from iUre to tîme In the public press, but
there la the fact tbat the large number,
certalfily 95 per cent of ail the Industrial
factorles lu thîs country bave been worklng
overtîme. There bas been no suspension or
lullIn the Industries ln any seuse, and wbl
we have been lmportlng largely, yet we
have been buylng largely froni our own
manufacturera. Many of theni could nlot
keep up witb tbe orders. It is well known
that -orders bad to be sent abroad because
they could not be filled ln Canada. That
is tbe result of opening up trade wlth otber
countries. It sustains fully the point I

botb buy and seli. It ls qulte evident unles
you buy frorn a country, the exporte sent
abroad mnust pay a very rnuch bigher
frelght, because a vessel would only get a
Now, we have enprofit going one way.
deavoured se to arrange tbe business of thie
country that there would be a trade both
ways, and the. figures In the Trade and
Navigation returne fully sustaîn that point
and sbow that we have been buying largely
and- selling largely. As a matter of fact,
tbe only tîrne that trade bas changed
largely la faveur of Canada bas been withlu tbe last year or two, wbere we bave
sold coîîslderably Ia excess of what we
bave bought. If the Trade nd Navigation
returus are consulted It will be found sluce
confederation the value of our Imports bas
been enormously lu cxcess of our experts.
A change bas occurred. during the regixue
of tbe present government, and we are xxow
selling very largely abroad. Tbe mark-ets
of the world bave'been found and our exports bave risen beyoud $400,000,000. I
arn glad to say tbey are stili rlsing. The
probabiflty ls that durlng tbe present year
tbe total trade of Canada wll bave rîsen
above $450,00,000. It ls up now, by the
last returns, conslderably over $400,00,0O0.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-Tbat
]s the imnports and experts ?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.-Yes, the general trade.
Some reference was made to the transportation commission. It Io within tbe kaowledge
of any bon. gentleman wbo lias taken note
of passlng evente, tbat considerable coniplaint exlsts at tbe delays lu sendlng forward to tldewater the products of this
country. I presume It arises froni a variety
of causes. Suddenly those products bave
arisen tô a very large volume, and there
ls considerable difference of opinion bow
best we eau bave transportation readily
tbrougb Canadian channels. There are the
vlews of some gentlemen wbo maintain tbey
j au be carrled more cbeaply by railway
'tbrough froni tbe great Nortb-west to Quebec and tbe Atlantic seaboard. There are
others wbo tak-e a diff erent view, that tbe
quickest way would be by rail and lake,
delivering tbe goods ut Port Arthur and
Fort William, and tbence by the grent lakes
and canais to the Atlantic. Wlth that view,

SENATE
we have been endeavouring to basten the measure will be found, when submltted to
construction to the entrance of the Welland the House, te adhere strlctly to county
The question of population
canal at Port Colborne. That 1 thlnk, Is boundaries.
point thnt neede. no doubt, wlll be commented upon, but even
perhaps the most Important
attention. There Is a constant complaint1 If you take the measure of 1882 and 1886,
that very large quantities of the products you wlll find that the population was nGat
of Manitoba and the North-west go to the standard that was followed, because
Buffalo and are shlpped via New York, the constituences range ail the way from
owlng to the fact that no large vessels 12 or 15,000 up te 25 and 80,000.
can enter our canaIs-no large vessels can
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-That
approach the canais, and it is wlth a view oaly applled to cities. I mlght give the hon.
to enabling steamers drawlng 20 and 21 feet gentleman another Instance which would
to reach the head of the Welland canal maire bis argument stronger. In Muskoka
that the large expenditure Is now belng there were only 8,000 but before the next
carrled on at the entrance to Port ColbTirne. election It had grown larger than the unit.
Wben that Is completed a marked change
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Our Redistribution Bill
will take place ln the volume of producta
wlU be governed entlrely by the county
of the North-west that will find this route
boundarles.
through the St. Lawrence and through
It belng six o'clock, the Speaker lef t the
British ports.
In referenoe to the Redistribution Bill, my Chair.
hon. frlend's comments, of course, were
good natured. It recals to mind the nocesAfter Recess.
sity for a readjustmnent of the electoral disHon. Mr. SCOTT-When the House rose
trlcts-necessaily I say, because 1 thlnk
I had not qulte finlshed the observations 1
the measure proposed by our political frlends
on the other aide was a most unfair and iîitended to have made. I feit It my duty
unjust one. It was notorlous that ln many to make some observations la connection
My hou.
points n successful effort was made to wlth the Imperial conferenoe.
gather ln from several constituenclei the friend rather twitted the mover of the
Grlts-hivlng the Grits. It was so apparent address because ho descrlhed Sir Wilfrid
It could not be denled, and If 1 were to lay Laurier as occupylng an Important position
on the table a map of the electoral districts ln the recent conference. The conference
to-day. distortedl as It fs, It would shock wvas called by Mr. Chamberlain, and Sir
hon. gentlemen who have flot taken, per- Wilfrid Laurier and hls colleagues were lahaps la the.past, any special lnterest in this vlted to take part ln ItL The principal subsubject. In the readjustment that we pro- .*ects that occupled the attention of the
pose to submlit to the House 1 thlnk it wll conferenoe were imperial defence, Interbo found we have gone back to the views imperial trade and one or two minor
So far as preferential trade
expressed so earnestly and deeply by Sir points.
he was lafluenced was conoerned Canada had done her part
John Macdonald before
by bis colleagues ia 1882 to brlng la the and Mr. Chamberlain quite recognized that
distorted mensure that was carried through ini view of the growing feeling for higli
parliament by the Conservative majority of tariffs in other important colonies, it seemed
that date. Sir John Macdonald had fre- lîopeless to draw together the various parts
prequently expressed the opinion that the only of the empire unless indeed they were
to entirely revolutionize the financiiil
fair way was to limit the electoral districts îared
to the municipal divisions. His argument institutions on which they stood. His view
was that the people of the municipal dis- wvas that If the empire were to be brouglit
tricts met la the village or town or township more closely together it cou]d only be doue
or county councls. They knew, and were by imperial free trade and that was too far
more ln sympathy wlth each other, and it lin advance. Mr. Chamberlain did not secal
seemed unfair to divide up a county and to appreciate aîtogether the value of the
tie It to an adjoining county with which the preference tariff that Canada liad adopteti.
people had no particular sympathy, and that 1 think myseif that Mr. Chamberlain ditl
were known to them only as Canadians. Our flot give Canada the full credit it deserved.
lio.

Mr. SCOTT.

MARCHI 16, 1903
of the empire dloser together, and the Only
solution be sees la ln free trade witbln the
That in my judgment, particuempire.
larly after the Australian Commonwealth
bave adopted practlcaily a bigli tariff, Is not
really withia sight. Se that that may be
brusbed aside as flot likeiy to be obtained
the near future. The other more ImU portant point that was discussed lu the couWeil now what la the cause of thîs
te 1885 British exports steadiiy lncreased te ferenoe was Ixnperlal defence. Hon. gentiethe Dominion of Canada. Then the gavera- men are quite aware that the Australian
ment of the day adopted a severe protective colonies and some other outlying parts of
tarIff which, by the nature of things perhaps,
speclally affectedl British goods. We are not the -empire do contribute a suma of money
Australia
the exporters as a rule of raw materlal or of towards the imperial defence.
food. We therefore do not expert the articles lias a consîderabie navy. Being an Island
imports. We expert manuwhich Canada
factured goods, and it was against manu- it la quite witbia their policy to have a navY
factured goada that the tariff was evidentiy, of their own. They are lying in the southern
I suppose directed. The resuit of that was
that there Iminedlately set in a continuous and ocean hiable to an attaek from outside
a rapid declîne in the Importation of British countries, and It was qulte wit-.il the
goods into Canada.
juatural policy to be adopted in Australia
Then lie goes on te say that the prefereace thllt the ilavy should lie sustaine *dand mlauxiwhicb was given ia 1897 bas cliecked thic taiiied. The sum tbat Canada~ wonld condecline. Hle, bowever, considers that the tribute towvards the maintenance of the arI'y
increase is not sucli as the sentiment of the and navy would lie iu tbe aggregate a coulpeople of this country foreshadowed' would paratively emali sum, whule it would create
be the resuit. As I said before, wben a cousiderable amount of friction lu tlxis
currents of trade are once establlsbed counitry.
We eujoy a speciai position, unexceiled,
It la very dîfficuit to divert them. .There
were mnany reasons why the trade 0f'the I ay say, by that of any other country on
United States would continue to grow. the face of the globe. On the north of us
First the proximity of the two countrics, we bave no neiglibours, between us and the
the very large number of articles in the northi pole and on the eat aad west we have
United States that we found lt convenient no nieiglibours. No army outside of the
to get at short notice; but as M~fr. Chamber- United States can ever thiak of assaillng
lmin says, we cbecked the dechine of lui- Canadai. There le but one country that we
portation of Britisb goods. We did more would bave to fear : tbat la the country
than that. From 1897, if any one chooses to lylng to the soutb, a country of eigbty mlfollow the figures ia the trade and navi- lion people, and considering the close nigation returna, it wlll be found thnt tiiere liance tlmt lu being drawn betweea Great
la a very mnrlied. and preceptible Increase Britain and the Un*Ited States, one miglit
eacb year. Up to 1892 lt had reached fr0311 brusb that aside as being too, distant for
somne tbirty odd million up to $49,000,000. contemplation. We therefore enjoy an exMr.
This year I tbilk i will go conslderably cePtionally advantageous position.
over $50,000,000. 1 observe from the officii Chamberlain tliougbt that Canada ouglit to,
returu puliisbed by order of the British give a substantial contribution to thermainparliament the increase of Britishx articles tenance Of the Britishi army and navy,
that have been purcbased by Canada la txeý Sir Wiifrid Laurier did not concur la that
last year. It shows a remarkabie increase vlew, nor do 1 think a vast majorlty of the
ln the exportation frorn Great Britain te people would abare ln that opinion. As 1
Canada. So that I think- after a year or twa said before, if we were paying a few millonger ýit will lie fouad that our trade with liona a year to the Britishi treasury, it wouid
Great Britain bas been manifestly and per- lie a mere mite coinpared with tîxe large
ceptibiy increased liy the lienefits flowing sum that it la necessary to ralse, and it
from the irnpýriaI preference. Hae goes on %vouldgive rise to a gaod deai of fricion.
to enfirge upon the advantage froin bis! 1 question wbetber it would be a wise or
He
point of view of drawing the varions parts prudent measure for us to adopt.
We ail know, it takes years to change the
cbannel of trade, and, as Mr. Chamberlain
himself observed, the trade between Great
Britain and Canada bad for a long trne
been faling. I will quote from bIs remarks.
In discussing the trade which was faling
off year by .jear between Canada and the
mother country, lie says :-ln

SENATE
thionglît, and a very large nunaber of peo- own views iu thiat conference Is mierited.
pie in this country think, and I myscîf think, My lion. frlend opposite did flot agree tIn
that Canada can render very mnucli more that view, but I think a very large masubstaîîtial aid to the mother country lu jorlty of our people will entirely sustain
a different way. We are now a growing and the attitude talcen by Sir Wilfrid. on tlhat
the part of
l)rosperous country. Long before the ter- occasion, and I believe It was
inination of the present century Canada wili a statesman to -do as he did. Had lie conprobably have a population of over 50,- sented to a money contribution, we would
as to
«00,000, f rom 50,000,000 to 75,000,000, an In- have a yearly subject of discussion
the policy pursued ut the War Office, as to
telligent, self-reliant population, sucli as
properly spent
will not be cxcelled on the face of the wlctlier the money had becu
and varions other questions which would
globe. It will at that time be the strength
eveutuailly
of the empire. The United Kingdom can- onilyý create Irritation, and would
lend to probably a mucli wlder divergence
not grow very much more in population.
any of
The area is limited, and the population uow of vlews tliau would be pleasing to
us. The nid tiiat can be given will be given
lr, somewhat crowded. It Is not withlu the
At
range of probability, therefore, that a very wheu the United Kingdom requires it.
all times you will find that Canada wiil
large ixîcrease wIll be made to tbe populabe
tionî of the islands. It is most important send forward a body of men that will
tbe army wlicl
tlîat there should be some outlylng colony not second to any part of
part of the
tlîat cani stand by the mother country and Is gathered lu from any other
sustain the intcgrity of the empire ln the empire.
The only other question to which 1 deyears *to corne, and that country will be
sire to call attentIon-aud possibly a few
Canada. I believe that feeling !waml
remarks may be expected fromn mc-was a
and sympathy with England Inlu er til
Important point
will be mucli more earnest, mucli more reference to the ouly other
to likely to create dispute bet'ween the counlivcly If England relies upon Canada
and
come to her aid wlieu she actually needs try to the soutli of us and ourselves,
that ls the question of the delimîtation of the
She lias liad an Illustration of wliat
it.
questions are
Canada can do lu' the recent strugglc in Aaskan boundary. The other
of comparatively minor Importance. If that
South Africa. In tbe Criînean w-ar, If my
recolle42tiou serves me weII, we gave a question can be fairly and satlsfactorily setcontribution. It was a bag-atelle. I think tled, a great deal of Irritation will be î'eit was not more than £10,000 sterling. It inoved in the feeling which prevails bedid not count for very mucli. But the meni tween ourselves and our uciglibours to tue
that we sent to South Africa did count for soutli of us. The other questions can be
a great deal. We know that it was the rcadily settled by royal commission.
Canaqdian volunteers at Paardeberg who
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Wliat about the Atwiped ont the stain of Majuba Hill, and ou lantic fisheries ?
oîîe or two other occasions the Canadian
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Atlantic fisheries is
contingents stood manfully together wlien
nt bay. It necd not one of those questions which can be settled
tic cnemy were kept
be supposed that wc are merely praising by conciliation and by arbitration bctween
our own, because it is universally conceded ourselves. There is no doubt about tbat.
tlîat no finer body 0f men sailed for Southî Under the peculiar Influences whicli govcrn
Africa than the contingents that we sent the Senate of the United States, it does npfrom Canada. They have left a namne for pear that a few men, a haîf dozea scuators
thenaselves that wiil long be remembered or less, can bold up the wliole body. The
nnd Canada will lu the future, sliould the unfortunate condition of things whiCli exists,
interests o! thec empire require it, be pre- refcrred to by mny honourable friend, that is
pared to do aIl that can be expected or ill trusts and combinations amoug the senatothat can be asked from lier, and In that rial body, ls like a chain, it ls unbrolcen and
way we can serve the empire infinitely bet- they all stand together. I rather think
ter than by a moniey payînexit. I therefore that even our trcaty in refereuce to this
think that the pi-aise given by iny lion. country would have been tlirown out h:i<1
friend to the premnier for st;indiiw to lils tlîey not by unîversal consent ratified it
Bon. Mr. SCOT'i'.

MAIICH 16, 1903
on condition that Senators Lodge and Turner tached to the great coiony that now Is
were to be members of the commission. How- looming up and occupying the position of a
ever, that Is aside from the question I was yo0ung nation on this side of the Atlantic,
about to discues. It will probably be coný- and which the British people themeelves are
ceded that that le the most Important ques- ibeginning to recognize as likely to be one
tion and It Is of the highest consequence we day a valuable adjunet to maintalning and
should get rld of ItL As years go on un- sustalning the British flag on this side of
leus the question la now settled It wili re- the Atiantic. Now, in reference to Alaka,
solve itacîf into this, that the UJnited States ns I said before It ia of the first Importance
will get ail tbey dlaim. 1 do flot desire to that the line be defined no mnatter where
say anythIng barsbi, but we know the un- that lune may be. As honourable gentlemen
fortunate policy wbich bas preva lied In the know, when the subject came before the
past. We, In Canada who are at ail fami- commission at Washington, one condition
Miar with the history of this country since was that at least Dyea and Skagway, even
1782, since the recognition of the 18 colonies, If fouad wlthin British territory, should be
know very weli tbat we would be a much Iretained as United States cities. It was a
stronger power and would have a very muchi good deal to yld, but even that we would
more territory on this continent to-day, liad have been prepared to concede had there
Great Brîtain consldered that this part of been a possibility of a finality belng reacbied.
the wcrld was really worth holding. The Hon,. gentlemen know that withiu the last
United States at that time had no few years, with very few exceptions in the
danim whatever on the Pacifie. It was United States the press and public men have
a remote region that they neyer thought been educating the people in the view that
about. We might just as well have had that Canada has ao cIlms-tbat tbere is no
coast, certalnly as far as the State of Wash- justification for our demand. The prevaillngton, bad any proper appreciation of its Ing notion has been that from the beads of
value been entertained by British states- ail the InIets for a distance of ten marine
men. There is a story, I do not know Its Meagues they were entitled to the territory.
truth, but it Is quite In line with the policy We did not concur In that view, because
adopted at the time. John Jacob Astor the treaty speaks of the territory on the
Now a
was hnstening Up to a point on the coast Pacifie as a fringe of country.
wvhere hie plantedl tbe United States fiag at fringe of country does flot contempiate any
Astoria, the znouth of the Columbia river, interior sovereignty. Russia recogaized that
which was then considered the extreme Great Britain beld the Interior of the coun-boundary, leavlng ail north of the Columbia try by the Hudson Bay Company and tbe
river to Britain. An officiai was sent ont Nortb-wnest Company. Tbey were rivais witb
b3l the W'ar Office to survey the land. 'He the Russian Company on the Pacifie coast,
went west and saw notbing in Oregon and and bY the treaty of 1825, the understanding
WVashington teritory but sage brusb. He ýwas that the Russian traders and fishermen
was a foiiower of Isaac Walton and cast shiould have the liberty of landing on the
bis lune in Columbia river and fanding the Icoast, in every way similar to wbiat tle
fish not biting that day be reported that Frencb bave on w-bat is called the Frenclu
tbe country was 'flot wortb a damn-even Ishore on tbe coast of Newfoundlaud.
After the treaty of 1825, very little attenthe fisb would flot rise to the fly.' I do not
vouch for the truth of the story but it Is tion was paid to that country. It was too
an illustration of the Indifference exbibited iremote, and Canada was In too primitive a
l)y British statesmen many years ago in condition to thinklh of nlnkiflg any settieregard to' the Importance of maintaining a ment in that direction. When In 1867 Rusco~untry favourable to the British crownl on sia for reasons sold tbe wboie territory of
this side of thue Atlantic. Lt Is within th., Alaska to tbe United States for $7,000,OOO,
mnemory of most of us that prime ministers the United States did not regard it as a
and leading statesmen of the empire ex- 1 very valuable acquisition. In 1872, 1 tbink
pressed the opinion that it would be very i w-as, niegotiations were firat commenced
nuuchi better to let the colonies go-that by tue goveriumient of the day. Sir Johni
they considered them ratiier a buu-den and Mafcdoiualdl's goverilment, to definle the
tax on the empire, so littie value w-as at- boundary betw-cen the niew acquisition of

SEINATE
the United States and Canada. Those propositions were brushed aside as not worthy
of consideration. Afterwards, wben a
change of government took place in 1873,
the governinent of which I had the honour
of being a member, feit that it was quite
Important that there'should bie a delimitation of that boundary. A prisoner was being taken througb that territory, a man
named Martin, and bringing lm down one
of the rivers, he refused to go with the officers In charge. Some resistance took place
and fInaiiy he made an application, after
being brought to our territory, to the United
States authorities. They insisted that lic
was in the United Stateis territory when lie
desired to escape, and so lie bad to be given
Up. Propositions were then made, and lt
was pointed out how Important lt was, te
define the boundary. Either In that year,
or a yeur or two before, Président Grant
was s0 Jmpréssed with the importance ef
delimlting that boundary that, at the instance of the then Secretary of Staté at
Washington, a paragrapli ivas p)ut hi the
nddress to Congress pointing out thé importance of appointing a commission to
defrne the boundary betwcen Alaska and
the British terrltory. Congress declinéd on
the ground they wouid liot pay their share
of the expense. Théy recognized that lt
ought to be doue, but would liot go to the
expense, se littié value was attacbed to the
niew domain acquired by tic United States.
1 make this observation to show hiow entirely wroug thé press of tic United States
lias been iu educating their people into the
belléf that Canada liad never set up any
dlaim to any other part of the country than
that which thiey thouglit Canada ivas entitied to-that Is, tén marine leagues from
the heads of thé inlets. Tbey éntircly ignoréd the range of mountains that was to
form. tic natural boundary. It was only
iii the absence of the mounltains that the
ten marine leagues was to bie considered.
It was under these conditions and thc absoluté necessity of settllng this question that
a commission was décided upon, because
if gold were fouud now lu what is known
as thé _provisioflal district, that is the district which both parties are clalining, we

théirs. We know thé mother country would
îîever disturb theni. It would nieyer be a
casu8 belli wlth them, and it ls our Interest, wherever the boundary may be found,
to settie It now. We o! course could not
cordlly approve of the inethod agreed upon. Our desire ail along was to adopt the
pollcy obsérved by ail nations of refer ring
a question of that kind to arbitration, with
an umpire who would decide lu thé event
of the two parties not agreeing. 'Ihat seéms
Impossible. The United States would not
consent to lt, and theréfore, whétber anything wlll couic of this commission, of
course it la Impossible to say. It ls, lîowever, possible that sucli evidence xnay bé
evoived lu thc examination as wiil induce
a better feeling elther on the part of the
United States or o! Canada, to recoglize
where thé weight of the évidence lies, and
In that way a finality may lie reached ; but
that is oniy one o! the possibillties. 1 nleed
not comment on the unfairnesa of Uic UnItéd States decllning to follow thc ordinary
nietlîod adoptéd by friendly nations. We
know wlth what perttnacity the Uniteil
States urged arbitration of thé Venezuela
question. No matter what the dispute was,
they njaintained there was one way between
friendiy nations to settie questions of that
kind; stili, when Canada was a clalmant,
they declinéd to apply thc prineiple wbidh
lias pîrévalied élsewhere and whidh would
be applled lu this case In the évenit of a
stronger nation than Canada being Uic contestant. I do not desiré now to make any
comménts on thé commissionérs named by

thc United States, Seniators Lodge andi
Turner. To 'Mr. ]Root, I conceive thére
'would bé îîo objection. He is a mnember 0f
thc goverument, It Is, truc ; stili 1 understand lié is about to rétirç. As 1 said before, wé had to take that or uothiing, and
I do itot hesitate to siy that uniess Senator Lodge and Senator Turner

lid been

îîamed, thc Senate would not have approved
the treaty. It may lie a hoid statement t0
inake, but any one who lias foliowed events

could couic to no other conclusion. When.
the British minister at Washington aninounccd thait hie had succeeded in enllsting
the friendly attention of thc United Sta tes
ail know irhat the resuit w'ould be. The to obtain a trcaty, we -were of course very
United States miners wouid flood the coun- îiiieh plensed. It then becaine known thero
try and take possession, and it would be i woul .d be, not an arbitration. but a judieial
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAROR 16, 1903

27

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. The Lord Chief
Inquiry by men wbose judgment would ho
rustice of England has been appointed.
accepted by botb parties. Tbe natural ln- J1
ferenoe would be tbat tbey would be judges.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Before offering any
Our assumption was that tbey 'wouid be
~omments on the Important subjects retbe Supreme Court. The time <
iudges of
erred to ln the Speech with whlch His
came wlien the public were advised that @Jxcellency bas opened the present session
The
the treaty was likely ta fali througb.
)f parliament, I desire to enter my protest
Senate were not disposed ta adopt It. What
igainst the lateness of the perlod at which
then occurred? Â week or ten days elap- we have been called together 1to 'Klseed and it was annouuced that tbe Senate
charge our legisiative duties. Not perwouid probabiy approve of the bill. Iu
baps during anly session since the presthat Interim on doubt negotiations passed,
eut government has corne Into power
and It ivas quite understood that two genhave the measures we will likely be asked
tlemen of unexceptIonal qualifications from
a more weighty charwould to consider been of
the staudpoint of tbe United States
acter, or more difficuit, to dispose of
ba. named, and therefore under those conthan tbey promise to be during this;
siderations tbe Senate approved of the
If the legisiation foresbadowed
session.
treaty. It ls possible-and I hope for the
from the Tbrone le al
evolve f romn It. ln the Speech
bet-that some good will
to be deait witb, lu addition ta the largely
Even if they do îîot agree, we shall at least
lncreased private legisiation, the session
observe the spirit tbat prompted the treaty,
mnust Inevitably iast six montbs, and bring
by appoiuting sucb members an the comaheat of Ottawa ln
the qual- us into the swelterlng
mission as wiIl at least savor of
midaummer, 'which unfIts most men for the
lications that were originally intended ta
and greatly Interferes
nipply to thein-thiat is, Ibigh judiclal au- work of legislation,
with the attendance of members of bath
tharities. Tbe Lord Chief Justice of EngBesides, late sessions are Injurious
land will bie one. We shall appoint two houses.
to the business Interests of tbe great maigentlemen, I presume, witbln a day or two,
kept ln attendait ail events-twa gentlemen ta whose ap- ority of members who are
ance on their parliamentary duties after
llaintinent no exception cau be taken, and
the
we cuit only trust that froin the evidence sprlng time with great difficulty, and
country thus loses the benefit 0f the knowwhich inay be evolved ln tbe iaquiry, the
better iiinds in tbe United States and ln ledge and experience of many of Its abiest
Canada will be able ta say where tbe representatives.
During the years of Conservative rule,
iwelgght of testimouy lies, and wvhere the
boundary Iine ougbit ta be. Hlavlag suc- myself and others frequently had occasion
ceeded that far, we sbould trust ta tbe good to make a similar protest to that I am now
seuse of oîie or bath countries ta yield ta presenting, and often witb good effeet, being
the arbitrament whicb seems fair and JuSt. generally met witb a promise from the thiei
'%i'th these observations, 1 will take my leaders of the Senate that cause of cornseat, expressing the belief thiat the measures plaint on this subject *ould cease to bie
tbe government bave ta present «ta parlia- given.
I bold that tbere is no justification for
ment 'will came down withîu a reasonable
period and tbat tbere will be no justification the lateness of the present session of parliain assumiug that parliament is going ta sit ment- It is true that tbe Prime Minister is
for any langer teri than usual. The finan-! said to be in feeble bealtb, wbicb 1 amn sure
(iai statement will be made witbin a rea- ail regret With, bowever, a majority of
sona hIe time, and the'important measures about fifty lu tbe House of Commons, could
will aIl be before parliament, and I think îiot bis colleagues afford to give the premier
ivithin the usual limit for the sitting of' .a long rest, wbicbi migbt prove of permal)arliament that tbey will ho satisfactorlly nent benefit ta is health ? The truth is,
that ministers bave been spending- too muech
dispased of.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I time in festivities and Idleness silice the
understand the hou. gentleman ta say that risîng of parliament last year, and have
Canada will have the right to appoint two consequently neglected the preparation of
tbe Important measures of legislation tiat
of the commissioners and Eîî,igliid one ?

SENATE
must dlaim our attention for some inontlis
to corne.
Some years ago, an agitation was started
iu both branches of the legislature with the
view of fixing a date for the annual meeting of pariarnent, but It was dropped on
the promise of the goverument of the day
that earller meetings would be the mile lu
the' future. It was said It would be contrary to British precedent to, fix by law the
date of the opeulng o! parliament. I arn a
stroug admirer of British precedents generally, but lu this Instance 1 think we cau
get a better ,precedeut lu the constitutional
rule that prevails ln the United States. The
time for the meeting of cougress is fIxed
for the first week. lu December. But even
lu Englaud, whiere no date is fixed by law,
parliament meets as a mule early in February-tbis year a littie later owing probably to the prolonged autumnal session of
1902. In Great Britain we never hear of
tiuci fIimsy excuses as are offered lu this
country for flot callIng parliament for the
dispatchi of business at the proper time. If
it were attempted lu tbat country-if the
public were told that owing to the unprepnredness o! ministerial measures parîlament could not be conveued at tbe rnost
suitable season of the year, the excuse
would not be considered satis!actory. Sucli
ait excuse would be looked upon as indicative of hicapiclty or want of lndustry on
the part of ministers, or wilful neglect o!
We are told
their depatmental duties.
boastingly that the departmeual *eports
are ail ready for submission to, the parliamuent, as if this were sometbing veiy cretlitable to the govemument, uearly nine
mnontbis after the closing of the fiscal year.
Writl the fiscal closing on the 3Oth o! June,
wvly should xîot the departmnental reports be
ready. by the lst of January ? WTe bave less
Lihan six millions of people to legisînte for.
England bas over forty millions iii the
British Isies alone, and the great republc
tiearly eighty millions, but yet parliament
-nd congress mneet )vitlî almost equal re41ularity ev ery year. More work, and less
iflay is a miotto that migbt be adopted wltb
-reat advantage to the public by tbe presenit governiment. Before leaving tlils subject, 1 wvould asic tbe friends of the admiisistration lu this House to use tlieir in'Inence to secure earlier meetings of parlion. Mr. MILLER.

huament, and thus avoid- the necessîty of
bringliig tlis subject to the notice of the
Senate.
The most gratifylng item in Ilis Excelleucy's speech is that which refers to the
genieral prosperity o! Canada ut which we
eau ail rejoice without distinction o! party.
The toil of the bushandman bas been rewvarded everywhere with ubundant crops ;
trade and commerce have been prosperous
ail over the Dominion ; the development o!
our mines and inierais bas added largely
to the national wealth, and our ifisheries
have been fairly remunerative durlng the
past year. But lu 'these respects we have
only been sharers lu the good times tbat
have prevailed ou this continent. Were
our fixed policy what it ouglit to be--a
thorough goîng pollcy of protection, our
prosperity and progress would be even far
iii advance of what they are to-day. Had
the opposition pledges of the Liberal pnrty
been consistently adhered to when tbcy
attaiined ýpower-had the national policy
which that party had for so many years
robberry been
denounced as Iegalized
abolished-hiad protection to our manufacturing industries been extirpated root
aud brauclb, as we were told would be
of Canada.
doue, the old provinces
of their proswvhicb owe so much
perlty to those industries, would uow
be ia a most deplorable conditiou-iaotwitlistanding the good times everywhere else
prevalling on this continent. But the goverunent did not venture to put their free
trade priaciples ia force--they did not venture to destmoy the protective policy of
the Conservative party, but contented
theieselves with making some ill-judged
alterations which only impaired the effectiveness of the National Policy o! their pi'edecessors. One o! these unwise alterations
was tbe British preference, because while
it has been o! very littie value to BritMin
it bans no doubt proved more or less injuri'Biii0115 to, some Canadiani interests.
niess is business,' and why sbould w-e give
a preference to the manufacturers of Great
Britain lu our markets, when England w'il
g-ie no preference to us la lier markets,
many Caniadians find it difficuit to uniderstand. 1 do not know. how-ever, thatw
sbould be too severe on the goveramient on
accounit of the inconsistency of their tarift

iMAlWII 16, 1903
to
leglation-in other words, for adopting S0 to adopt, but there le no other policy open

inucli of the National Policy as tbey did, Canada lu our intercourse witb that nation,
because tbey have tbereby averted the de- wlhose tariff policy towards us is avowedly
of the
struction of our manufacturing Industries, prohibltory since the denunciation
Germnan and Beigian treaties. This le one
and certain ruin and disaster to Canada.
Tbe motto, 'Canada for Canadians,' le a of the resuits of tbe Britishi preference,
many misgood one, and our fiscal policy si3ould be bungled through parliament, amid
on
framed as to make that motto a reality, conceptions and much shortsigbtedness
so
the part of mimesters. It le lnd-eed the oniy
and by the protection of labour give our
of these
people employment and keep tbem at resuit so far, of the abrogation
treaties. Gerrnany has mucb more to lose
borne. Our natural resources are unliited,
; we have aiand ouly by an adequate systern of pro- tban Canada by a tariff war
ways purchased mucli more of ber products
tection. sucli as they bave ln the United
even
States, can many of these resources lie fully than sbe has of ours, and do so now,
under the greateet provocation to close our
developed. The cry of unjust taxation under
such a protective systeni bas been pretty mnarkets againet ber. Besides, It le weli
wel exploded arnong ail the great nations known tbat large quantities of goode manuare sent to England to
of - tbe w-orld, England alone excepted, factured ln Germauy
be finulbed, and are then exported to Canada
because w-ban competition regulates prîces.
under the preferentiai
a higli tariff only keeps foreigners ont, and as Britislh goods
tariff. A paragrapli I came acrose ln one of
retaîne the borne nmarket for the home proago shows the
ducer. At tbe sanie time that the United our city papers a short tîme
animue. of Germany towards this country.
States le the most bigbly protected country
in the w-crld, that nation is yearly becoming it le as followe :
London,
free tirade England's most formidable coni- dent wires Feh. 7.-Reuter's Berlin corresponthat lt la denied hi' the Reichstag
ln foreign markets.
petitor
that contracts have been concluded with a 0aaGerBut If adequate protection to our borne adian firm for the suppli' of meat to thelegend
they regard as a
an'y
were not in iteel! a wise sud fsr- man report and navy and quantîties of Canadian
industries
that large
the
seeing ,policy for a youag country like Canl- wheat were beiag lmported into Germani'.
that Canadian wheat
Posadowsky
ada, it is necessary to our progrese and Countonly imported said the autonomous tariff
at
was
very existence at the present time, la view rate of fIve marks. Regarding foeur froni
It was Impossible ta
o! the bigb tarIff wales of the neigbbouring Canadian wheat lie said of its origin. Everi'determîne the country
republic. Our tarIff w-ails sbould be as thing, howevcr, was being done to prevent
as tbose of our neiglibours, if w-e desîre Illegai or unauthorized Importation from Canil
to deal with theni on termes of equality, and ada.
Every thing le belng doue to prevent Imwve sbouid not «dea with theni on any other
ternis. Tbere are not rnany things in whicb portation froni Canada. This ie the assur%vesbould desire to imitate that people, but ance a great dignatory was lu a position to
in this respect It would lie real. wlsdom un give the Gernian palarnent as late as iast
our part to flatter theni, and never tili w-e rnontb, and It ouglit surely to lie enough to
dIo so w-iil w-e occupy in regard to that move our goveirnincut to action-lu other
country our true level iu the race of progrese w-orde, to retaiiation-avowed retallation.
and national developrnent. It le said titane Thiere should be no inlncing of words witb
aire to lie tariff changes this session, sud It tiat selili and arrogant power, and w-e
shhten bave the satisfaction of knowing
le to lie hoped tbey w-i lie in the right
but it le biard to expeet any resuit that we cau inflict greater loss on its people
(direction,
beyond further mistakes and confusion froni than its iaw-makers can iaflict on us. Recia xnlnistry lu w-blch one wing le f or free l)i-ocitY of tariff witlh ail foreign nationus
trade,-auothar for protection.-and a third wbose tariffs are bigber than our own shoiild
for reciprocity-a trtivesty on cabinet gov- lie our watcbword, la justice to our people,
a nd lu the intereet of ail our producersgreat
le another direction lu which tbe wlbether the wbeat-growers o! our
Tbere
w-est,' or tbe manufacturers o! the older protariff ougbt assurediy to be arnended witbout
f urtiter deiay. I ailude to our commandiai vinces.
I do not feel disposed to censure the govrelations w-lth Garrnany. Retaliation is not
nice policy for any country to lie compeiled ernrnent on tbe treaty concluded between
a

SENATE
lu naturally and properly
Great Britain and the United States lu re- peril governinent
conoerned about imperlal inlation to the Mn skan boundary disputes, most deeply
lu room to hope that noue of
althougli lt would have been mucb more terests, there
of Canada will be sacrificed by
satisfactory to Canada bad these disputes the riglits
office, wbile Mr. Chamberlain,
been referred to a court of arbltratol,whose the colonial
colonial minister the empire
decision would be final, and blnding on ail the greatest
that
Brîtain and bas ever possessed, bolds the seals of
concerned. This lu wbat Great
office.
Canada wanted, but could not get, ln conWhle, bowever, I thbxk no surrender bas
sequence of the unwlllfgIess of tbe United
by tbe imperial government in
States to consent to arbitration. But to Bay, been made the terms of treaty, 1 must not
that the negotlatlng
as bas been said ln some quarters,
as saylng that I consider no
treaty Involves any surrender of Canadian be uudgrstood.
by surrender bas been made by the Canadian
riglits or dlaims ls simply not warranted
in agreeing to, the provîsional
ficts. If there bas been any surrender nt government
It blas Alaskan boundary, wblch aow regulates the
1111, s0 far as the treaty is concerned,
ihbat proviof bothi nations.
been on the part of the Republld, lu reced- lntercourse
sional boundary neyer should have been
ing frorn the untenable position assunied
to by Canada, for it gives the Uniby that country before the Joint lgh Con'- assented
ted ttes al1 they want until a permanent
SIag
miission, ln reference to sucb places as
is fixed, and therefore If the con'way and Dyea at the bead waters of Lyn bounidary
ruissioners do not give them aIl they dlaim,
canal. The obtainlig of a full investigation
jurists' wlll agree to no0
or our contentions before a commission of their ' Impartial provisional bouudary wxll
maY findlng, and tbe
able jurists, no matter bow biased theY
it 110W Is. and in time will bebe, lu a decîded gain to Canada. T amn wltb- renialin as
wlill corne the permanent boundary between tbe
ont hope, bowever, that the commission
This may turu out to be
corne to atiy conclusion, eveîî a compromise, two couatries.
the game our neigbbotirs are playiug, and
that wlll take tbe question froin tbe region
governuient of Canada have playof international controversy, where It tbreat- if so, the
our ed very unwlsely into their bauds.
eus to create trouble between us and
The Minister of Customis is reported as
iieighbours, and more serions stili, betweefl
1 declaring ou the stump ia North Ontario a
our nelgbbours and the mother country.
ago that Canada would Dlot have
don't belleve that the members of the coin- few days
Great found berseif lu ber present plight concerumission to be nanied by Canada and
had the Senate allowed the YuBritain n-i yield any riglits to whichi Cali- îng Alaska
with- kon Rallway Bill to go tbrougb. The minadn is justly enititied-aqt any rate, nlot
have calculated largely on the
out an equivaletit. One thing wve cau aIl ister must
tlue ignorance or credullty of bis hearers wben,
look forward to wltb confidence, that
the stnmp, he made that bold and
riglits and dlaims of both sides will be even on
evi- unwarranted statement. Will auy one tell
thorougbly investigated, and that the
those few bundred miles of tramndence toucblng the respective contentions us bow
way-bad tbey been built-would bave
will be placed before the clvllzed world,
dlaims on our territory 110w
wbicbi will pronounice a judgment that Dei- lessened the
Even biad
made by the United States ?
ther pnrty ongbt to disregard or despise. It
to
is very anxions tlîey been built, tbose most competeInt
is true, tbat Great Britain
assure us tbat tbey would be of no0
for a frieudly settlement of this question for speak,
in summer bime wheu tbe river
imperial reasons, and Canada should be value, even
and lakes of the Yukonl are not ice-iocked,
equally so for the same reasons, as the
of aldlug traffic or travel. to
prestige and power of the empire are in-. as a means
mtat country. But It lu well kuown that
volved. No cause of friction that can be re
did not reject that Bill on the
moved should bie allowed to disturb the 1the Senate
merits or demerits of tbe railhvay project,
present frieudly relations of the two great
different grounds. We rejected
English speaking nations of the world. But but on very
it partly because it created a monopoly and
it lu also very important to the Republice'
a gave away franchises wortb ten times as
110w assuming aIl the responsibilities of
But we
the tramway would cost.
great world-power, to be on good termis with much as
the
While the in- rejected it cbiefly for the reason that
the fiag that rules the sea.
Hon. Mr. MILLER.

MARCII 16, 1903
Bill was loaded witb the inost gigantic 1must necessarily be accompanied by a
scheme of public spoliation thnt ever star- measure for the redistribution of the contied a Canadian parliament. No iess than stituencies, and will no doubt prove tbe
3,750,000 acres of the picked gold fields of occasion of heated discussions In another
the Yukon were to be handed over to tbe place, unlees the government relegate the
trusted friends of tbe government, Messrs. latter subjeet to a really Impartial comMackenzie & Mann, flot for their sole mission of the higbest and ablest judges
benefit we may be sure, as one of the con- In the land, and thus set an example
siderations for that wortbless undertaklng. that muet be followed by their opponents
When we know that more than tbirty mil- ln the future wben they corne into power.
lions of dollars of the preclnus metal have It le regrettable that the lose of reprebeen exported f rom the Yukon ln some sentation whicb ahl the old provinces,
years since, we can form some Ides. of the except Quebec, are to sustain lu the combouanza the enterprisiàg Minieter of the lng readjustment cannot take place without
Interior wouid bave bad for distribution a bitter feeling in some quarters, that the
among bis friende, biad bis Bill fot been census bas been manipulated to the injury
When the action of the Englishi-speaking provinces for the
defeated in the Senate.
of this House became known to thie public, benefit of Quebec. I am not lu a position
many men who were neyer known to utter to say how far this feeling le justified, but
a good word concerning this Chamber, ex- It certainly does exist, nor le the province
of Nova Scotia exempt from it, where we
ciaimed, 'Thank God, we have a Senate.'
But, no matter bow the Alaskan treaty stand to lose two members.
It le amuslug, bowever, to read the exends, I amn decidedly of opinio0n that there
should be no furtber meeting of the Joint pedients euggested by some provincial legHigb Commission. Our Invaluable Atlantic lelators to mollify local feeling where losses
fisheries are of far greater national Import- are inevitable under the census of 1901. But
ance than the gold of the Yukon, and I, fear are flot these gentlemen laterfering witb a
they wouid not be safe ln tbe bande of the subJect tbat cornes constitutionally within
Joint High Commission. The fisliery treaty the scope of the duties that faîl on their rexiegotiated ln 1&838 by Mr. Chamberlain and presentatives in the federal parliament Y
Sir Charles Tupper was a very liberal ar- There le no reason to suppose that our fedrangement on the part of Canada, and was cral representatives are not alive to the exetrongly recommended as such by President Igencies of tbe situation, and wlll fail In
Clev-eland in hie message to the Senate at tbeir obligations to their constituents wben
the finie, but -it was rejected by that body the proper time arrives. It appears to me
witli little ceremony. Hence the recurrence tbere le oniy one course open to the govto the mzodus eivendi by whicb the United erament, and that le to be guided by the
States for a paltry tonnage fee gets ail the constitution, aîîd oniy tbe constitution, ln
privileges ber fIshermen want in connection readjusting the representation of tbe House
with our Atlantic fisheries. This arrange- of Commone. In nunîber of members lost,
nment, which was only inteuded to be tem- Ontario will be tbe largest sufferer, but not
porary, lias now existed rnnny years, and the largeet sufferer in proportion to populashould bc abrogated nt nny early day, and tion. No matter, bowever, where the lose
our fieberies adequately rirotected by the falîs, at the present time, tbls question
enforcement of the provisions of the treaty muet be settled by the plain construction of
of 1818. Indeed, reviewbîg our past ex- the British North America Act, whicb canperiences with the United States, It would not be every day Ignored or aniended to
eeem our grasping and not-over-scrupulous suit the local w-biais of any section of the
neigbbours consider tbey have a right to Dominion ;but then we muet bave an boncorne ont away on top every time, In their est Redistribution Act.
Althongh the speech is sulent on the subdisputes witb Engiand or Canada.
The readjustment of the representation ject, it is generally beiieved tbat parliain tbe House of Commons of ail the pro- ment will be called npon to increase the
vinces 0f the Dominion, as well as the ter- subsîdies now paid to the provinces toward
ritorles, rendered neceseary by the terme of the support of the local governmnents. These
the British North American Act of 1867, increases it le said will amount to over

SENATE
$2,000,000 whlîi must be raised either by1 successful, will iiot encourage their extravaincreasing the publie debt or by increased i gance, or check tbelr proclivity to Involve
Altbough the taxation of tie tbemselves ln debt beyond their mens or
ta xation.
people is far in excess, and the revenue rerciurces.
consequently much greater, than when
An able and moderate Conservative jourthe present government took office, yet nal, publishied ia Montreal, bas this f0 say
the public debt Is augznenting yearly by about thle contemplated raid :
millions, and there seems no deaire to keep
If te a distortion. of facts ta say that the emit down. The present revenues of the pro- barrassment of the provinces ls due ta Increases
of the public expendifures which tb,ý federal
vinces ougbt tn, be quite sufficient f0 carry subsidies were designed ta pravide for. The
on ail the necessary work for wbicb the provinces are bard up because those who had
aad guided
provincial goveruments bave an existence, contrai of their administration extravagant, their
and
Iegislation were ln every case
and they would. be amply sufficient, were 1t la some cases corrupt. The case of Quebec
not for the wild and reckiesa extravagance does not differ tram that of the other provinces, except in degree. Is troubles began when
of tbe local legislatures. In this respect, is legislators found ouf bow easy It was fo
Quebec and. Nova Scotia bave set the worst barraw money on fthe credif of the province,
was ta spend wbat was
examples, altbougb the latter especially bas and haw much easier ifwas started the system
thus barrowed. Then
been treated wltb great liberality by bof h of reckiess railway subsidizing.
Conservative and Liberal governments in:
In the ligbt af events, one la forced fa ftle
the past. Besides, tbat province bas now a conclusion that if ia to be regretted the Acf
great source of revenue in the royalty re- of Union, wblle givlng the local legislatures
ceived from ifs coal mines, and wbichA.s freedom of action ln regard ta direct taxacertain of great expansion ln the uear tion, dld flot deprIve tbemn of the power to
future. But the cry ail round is for more pledge the credif of the provinces for barnioney-more subsldy, and bence t be organ- rowed money, or to incur public debt of
ized raid of tbe provincial premiers on the any description, wlthout the consent and
federal treasury. A stafesmian of firmness approval of the federal authorifies.
WVe
or
at the belmi in Ottawa-a Macdonaldo aj sbould have a declarafion of the policy of
Tupper-a Brown or Biake-would meet tbis tbe goverument an flue important question
raid with an unqunllfled refusai. Better far at an early day.
If we bave this money f0 spare, tbat It
The leading Conservative journal in ftle
should be used ln tbe reduction of the public maritime provinces, the Halifax ' Herald,'
debt, or in the -promotion of some great bas f115 ta say about fhe raid :
enterprIse cf national Importance sucb as a
But even supposing the provincial premiers'
fast Atlantic freight and passenger steam

We know tbe opinions of tbe
service.
great Liberal leïders of other days, especially
snch men as the lafe Hon. George Brown
and the Ilon. Edward Blake ln regard to
fhls question of provincial subsidies.

Bofli

before and affer confederation Mr. Brown
repudiated the idea that the provinces
w-ould be allowed f0 make periodical raids

on the Dominion treasury for larger subsidies. Mr. Blake gave unmîstakable expression f0 bis views on the same subject
when tbe measure for 'beffer terms' to
Nova Scotia was under discussion ln the
Honse of Commons, and he recorded those
views in in amendment to the bill, declaring that if should be regarded by aUl concerned as a finality. A tendency fa extravagance and runniag into debt has been the
most obvious feature of administration in
ahl the provinces since the union, and tbis
last conspiracy of the local premiers If
Hon. Mr. MILLE~R.

excuses had been much better, their case would
sf111 be weak. Wbat are fhe cardinal tacts defermining this matter ? Manlfesfly these :fte
Dominion can jiave no public money which the
people muet flot pay, or pay for. The DominIon expenditures are now, year by year, greater
flan fhe revenue, notwithstandlng the flush
fîmes, and the Dominion public debt is Increasing by several millions every year. If twa millions extra is to be paid ta the provinces, the
expenditures muet be cut down, or an extra
twa million dollars of taxation muet be Imdemanda on
pased. Sucb pravincialist for provincialfhe fedextraeral treasury ta provide
vagance cannot be foierated. Sudh fhinga canflot be wortby of public approval.
If appear

as If tbe government, affer six

years of vacillation, had at last decided to
do eometbing, or appear at leasf desiraus of
dolag something, f0 provide a fast Atlantic
steam service. wbicb ail admit Canada so
Every one now sees the
muchi requires.
unforfunafe blunder the administration mnade
wbea fhey refused fa adopf ftle contra cf
by Sir Charles Tupper wif h
enfered itt
the Allen Company before going ouf of office

MARCII 16, 1903
A weekly service of twenty-one
in 1896.
knot boats at a cost of three-quarters of a
million of dollars to the Dominion annually
wouid be jumped at to-day, if it were ln
siglit. The service aimed at now la a dual
fortnightly service of aiteen and twentyone knots respectively, whieh would be lit-tie, If anything, botter than the existlng
service, but at largeiy increased coit. This
la invariably the resuit: of any piece of
constructive statesmanship that the present
government attempts, and strongly reminds
one of the antics of the Liberai party
thirty years ago ia conn6ettion with the
construction of the Canadian Pacifie Railway-their water stretches ln the one case,
and their bottle-necked ships ini the other.
If the men who governed this country from
1873 to 1878 hed flot been drivea from
office at the right Urne, It 18 highly improbable that we wouid bave a Pacifie railway
to-day, and 1 thlnk lt just as probable
that until the gentlemen who now govern
the Dominion meet a similar fate, and
men with the traditions, the policy, the
foresight and constructive genlus of the old
Conservative leaders taire their places, a
fast Atlantic steam service ls only one of
the many things necessary to its progress
that Canada wiil have to do without.
To my mind there is no more Important
subi ect referred to ln the Speech from the
Throao than that of home and Imperial
defenco, brought promlnently to our notice
last year by the confereace of colonial
premiers, of which the colonial secretary
was chairman. I do not thiak that the
attitude assumed by the prime minuster of
the Domiion-however, admirably he may
have borne himself otherwise as our represeatative-la refusing from the outset to
even discuss the question o! defence-was
creditable to Canada, or truly represented the patriotic feelings -of our people.
Ho threw his great Influence against the
accomplishment o! a grand echeme of i'uperial defence, of which the peopleo0f
Canada would have heartiiy approved, and
which must bo brouglit about la the near
future. Our position towards the empire
on this ail-Important question must be
clearly undorstood at no distant day. It is
so maaifestly unfair and unpatriotic that
Canada-now strong, wealthy aad prosperous-should recoive the protection or the
empire, and share in its prestige and glory,
3

at the solo expense of the taxpayer Of
Great Britain aad Ireland, who struggles
undor burtbens far greater than we are
called on to bear, that thîs state o! affairs
cannot and ought not to exist any longer.
We ought to bo ashamed o! trylng to perpetuate the immuaity we now enjoy from
participation in the burthens of the empire as well as of the meagre returna we
make for the prIcelesa blessing of absolute
self-government conceded to us by the
motherland.
Our duties ln connection with the question of defenco may be divided into two
classos--one miiitary, including fortifications; the other naval, including our
just obligation to contribute to the support
of the imporial navy. Witli reference to
the first, not many now think the scheme
of defeace outlined for old Canada In the
able letter of CoL Jarvis, addressed to the
Secretary for War ln 1865-especially ln
regard to fortiflcatioas-would meet the
approval of the people of thîs country today. Since 1865, we have expanded wonderfully and extended our southeru boundary to the Pacifie coast To !ortify even
strategie points of this enormous bounda.ry
would be a hopeless undertakiag, altogother
beyond the means of the Dominion, and
would ho comparatively useloas If accompllshed. An invading force could give our
fortifications a wide berth and still flad
plenty of points o! ingress to our country.
What Canada requires la a well trained
militia, an effective and formidable force,
flot on paper only, but existing in reality,
and at ail Urnes ready for home defence,
or volunteering for foreign service la the
defence o! the empire. This is the direction
in which Canada should ho prepared to expend more money than she doos at prosent,
in raising, drilllng and equipping an efficient
militia force, if we want to give proof of
the sincerity o! our professions on the question of defeace.
We are told that our militia ls to be reorganlzed, and placed on a more officient
besis, snd if this work be done under the
supervision o! the distinguished British
officer now ia this .country, It will no doubt
bo ably and efficlently donc. In this connection, 1 may remark, that the assistance
Canada should give the empire in %vars
outside the Dominion sbould be mutually
understood, wlthout being defined by any

SENATE
cessfully adopted in connection witb our
oldest colony, Newfoundland. We have the
fiuest sea-farlng population In the world on
our Atlantic and Pacifie coaste, as well as
on the waters of our great lakes. Here je
an object to whlcb the navy league mrnlt
uaefully devote ite Urne and attention, Instead of alrnlng at the creation of a Illiputian Canadian navy, wblch would coant
for notblng lu the affaire of the world.
There la only one way, in addition to a
strong naval reserve, In which Canada can
diecharge ber duty as an Integral portion
of the empire, I relation to naval defence,
aud tbat le by a yearly payment frors the
publie chest of a fixed eum of money in
proportion to our ability and resources, towards the support 0f the Imperial navy.
ed.
It must be admitted that the colonies of
Wltb regard to the question of naval defence, and the duty of Canada to, contribute Australasia, altbough not s0 populous or
to the support of the imperial navy, there prosperone as the provinces of the Dominsbould not be any difference of opinion ion, have to some extent at least recoguized
arnong the luhabitauts of this great depeud- their duty to the empire In regard to naval
ency of the empire. The navy of England defence, but eUhl their action has been more
le, and, always will be, the bulwark o! of a local character than on broad Imperial
Eugland's imperlal strength and greatuess, lines. The creation of amal colonial navies
and ber supremacy on the sea le Indispen- will not meet the requirements of this
sable to ber prestige and influence among epoch lu our bletory-nothing wiI do 80
the nations of the world. It la equally In- short of a fair snd reasonable yearly approdispensable to the protection of the im- priatIon by aîl the great seilf-governlug colmense commerce of the empire Iu every onies to the support of the imperial navy.
quarter 0f the globe, alike In Urnes of peace However, Australia bas madea very gond
as In times of war, wberever tbe rigbts o! beginnlug, which Canada bas not yet doue.
Britisb subjects require to be upbeld, sud As Wa back as 1865 an Act was passed by
tesult or injustice met wlth coudigu punisli- the Imperial parliament, entitled the Colmeut. Canada le to-day one of the great onial Naval Defence Act, empowerteg the
maritime powers of the world, ber tonuage legisiative authority o! any colony, witb the
ranking sixth or seventh in the list of na- approvai of Her Majesty in Conil, to maire
tious. Our ships traverse every sea, aud laws for providlng aud rnalntaiDing vessels
are fouud in very port, under the oegls of of war, and for raising and maintalnfg
the flag of Englsnd, whlcb we proudly float seamen for the naval defence of the colat our peaks and mastbeads, wlth the ern- ouy, and for enforcing order and discipline
blem o! Canada modestly emblazoned on it, among men and officers withIn the limite of
although we do not contribute a dollar to- the colony.
wsrds Its support. Our colonial vsnlty must
After several conferences betwe-en the liRppeur ludicrous to the rest of the empire, perial autborlhles and the goveruments o!
but It presents a very serious aspect to the the Australasian colonies, a provional. ageyes of the British tax-payers who have to reement was arrived at as to the contribufoot the bis. Is it any wonder tbat emi-_ tions to be made by the latter, which was
nent men In Great Britain taunt us with
embodied In an Act of the iniperial parlianiggardliness and want of patriotism under
ment in 1887, and afterwards ratified by
sucb circumstances ?
lu addition f0 an annual cash payment Acts of the colonial legislatures. 1 quote
towards the support of the Imperial navy, froni a work entltled the Anuotated Constitie Dominion should oeil into existence a tution of the Australlan Commonwealth,
powerful naval reserve, on the lines 80 suc- page 562.

cast-iron rule or enactrnent. Such assist-I
anoe must be voluntary-not compulsory-but wlth the approval 0f. the parliament of
Canada. _I would not give to any government the power to luvolve us In such wars
witbout parliamentary authority, unless as
In the case o! South Africa, the empire was
wrongfully attacked, and plaoed on the defensive, wheu It should be Incombent on any
Canadian governent to do its duty. 1
tbink the empire would gain by leaving this
subject to the voluutary action of the people
of Canada, whose loyalty and patriotisrn are
above suspicion, and who, I arn satlsfied,
would give their last man and their last
dollar in de! ence of the Integrity of the
empire, when unjustly assaiied or endanger-

Hon. Mr. MILLER.

MAROR 17, 1903
The Australien Naval Defence Act, 51 and
52 vie., c. 32. assented to 2Oth December 1887.
vas passed to give legal effect te the terme of
a provisional agreement between the lmportaI
goverament and the governments of the
.Australien colonies, subject to parliamentary
r atification. (Seo page U60, supra.) Under the
terme of this compact, the Âdmiralty undertook to construct and equip a fleet of five
fast cruisers, each of 2,575 tons dîsplacement

and 7,500 horse power, and tve torpedo gun-

boats, on the most approved modern build,
each 750 tons and 4,500 horse power, for the
protection of the floating trade ln Australian
waters, and ln order te secure the defence
of certain ports and coaling stations. Of these
vessels, threo cruisers and one gunboat were
te be kept continuaily ln commission, the remainder te be held ln reserve irrespective of
the uouai strength ef Her Majesty~s naval
force employed at the Austraiean station. The

Act stipuiated that these sea-going ships should

be furnished by the importil goyermient, the
colonies paying 5 per cent Interest annually
on the prime cost, such payment net te exceed
£ 35,000 a year ; the colonies lu addition bearing the actual charges ef their maintenance.
tncluding retlred, pay te oftcers and pensions
te men, provided that the annual ceet under
this head should net exceed £91,000. The shipi
vers te be under the sole control and orders
of the naval commander ln chief on the Australlan station, but te be retained wlthin the
limite of that station. and only otherwise empleyed by consent of the colonial gevernment.
The agreement vas te become blnding between the governments as seon as the colonial legisiatures passed special. appropriations for the tulfilment of is conditions. F or
the boundaries of the Australien station, as
deffned ln the Act.(ses page 116, supra.)
The agreement vas ratified in 1887 by aiinilar Acts passed by the varions Austraiean
Iegislatures. It wai made for a peried of '.en
years at least and It could only be termlnated
then or thereatter upon twe years' notice. The
ninth annual contribution of £126.000 for ceet
and maintainance et coastal detence vas alloted among the varlous Australisian colonies.
on the basis ef population, as follows :

lonDecmlvr

EstimatEd
Population

Amoijut
of
Allotinent.

1,175,490
Victoria ..... ...........
1,346,240
New South Wales ........
498.533
Queensland.... ...........
367,934
South Australia ...........
168150
Western Australia........
177,341
.... ...
Tasinania .........
New Zeeland...........743463

33,088
37.886
14,030
10,355
4,732
4,990
20,924

Colony.

£

Total ý..... .......

4,47,151

£126,000

that spirit la emulated by the Dominion,
whlch should flot any longer expect to receive the protection of the imperlal nay
wlthout paying a dollar towards its maintenance, and that the recent weighty utterances of the Colonial Secretary ln South
Africa on this subject vill be heeded by
the government, the parliament and the
people of Canada.
Before I resume my seat, I cannot help
referring to, the Inroads death la yearly
making in this body, and espediaily to the
large number of good and useful men who
bave dlsappeared from this stage of life
since we last met ln this Chamber, and to
whorn the hon. leader of the opposition,
I amn sorry
has s0 touchingly referred.
to say 1 arn the only senator present
here to-day of the seventy-two, original
senators, whose narnes were contained
lu the Queen's proclamation of union, and
who, witnessed. the Inauguration of the firet
parlia ment of the united provinces of
The reBritish North Âmerica ln 1M07.
trospection would have a saddening efrect
on my mmnd If it were not for the brlght
aide of the picture preaented ln the prosperity and inevItable future destiny of
Canada, as the resuit of confederation. It
la no emall satisfaction to-day to, those who,
were ln any degree responsible for the great
experiment of Canadian confederation, of
whom I arn one of the few remaining, that
our mont sanguine anticipations have been
more than reallied; that the Domonlon teday presents the happy picture of a loyal,
contented and prosperous people, from ocean
te ocean, and that the dies whlch bind Canada to the empire were neyer strônger or
more higbly valued than tbey are at the
present hour.
The motion was agreed. to.
The Seuate ndjourned.

THE SENATE.

jThe
o'clock.

Ottawa, TuesdaI, Mai-ch 17, 1903.
SPEAKER took the Chair at Three

Although it cannot be said that titis conPrayers and routine proceedlngs.
tribution is at ahl what It ought te be, or
sucb is should be expected from Canada, 't
NEW. SENATOR.
showed a patriotie spirit, and set a good
Hon. W. 0. EDWÂRDS, of Rockland, Onexample to the other dependencies of the
before tarlo, was introduced and took his seat.
empire. I hope It will flot be long

SENATE
Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-That is just the
EuIswer given last year by Hon. Mr. Scott,
none whiatever,' and I asked 'why' ~
Then Hon. Mr. Scott replied, 'becauseI
dlaim one for ourselves.' Then I asked*
Why strk3 out one from the province et
Quebec ?
Then Mr. Scott-well, the reporter omitted the word ' candldly '--sald :
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I neyer thought of It.
The province of Quebec is here represented by twenty-four members, so ls the
province of Ontario, and the thiree maritrne provinces together are represented by
t'wenty-four members, and the provinces
trom the west have the nine remaining meinbers. I think the province of Quebec is
entitled to have on that committee the saine
number as the province of Ontario or the
three maritime provinces put together. WbIy
give three members to Ontario and only one
to Quebec ? I suppose the Hon. Secretary
0f State will say again 'I1 neyer thought of
it.,
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, bear, exactly.
lion. Mr. LANDRY-He should think of
tliose thlngs. He ls the leader of the goverument ln this House and he ouglit to give
fair play to every province represented in
this chamber. I ask hum to-day If he will
serlously take up the matter and do justice
to the province of Quebec. 1 do nlot see why
our province is represented by only one
member on that select committee, while Ontario bas tbree members.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Wbat three bas Ontario ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The Hon. Secretary
of State, the Hon. Mr. Gibson and the Hon.
Sir Mackenzie Bowell.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-You do not want
gentlemen remember well, the -previous year
to strike bimi out ?
the Hon. Mr. Bolduc was on the commlttee,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, and I do not
and his naine was stricken ont last year,
and I asked the hon. minister about it. I want to strike anybody out, but 1 wvant the
province of Quebec to be fairly represented.
said :
Bolduc's name is strlcken. out as a matter of right, on that committee.
Hou. Mr.
'Why ? Could the hon. Secretary of State tell That is what 1 ask the hon, leader of the
us why ?
government in this House to do in fairness
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I really could iiot.
to our province. If the resolution passes
as it is now, I shall object to it and ask
'Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I said :
on a division, as
he any reason to strike that It be declared carried
He cannot say. Has
a protest against the manner in which the
Hou. Mr. Bolduc's naine ?
out

THE STRIKING COMMITTEE.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yesterday I gave notice
of a motion to move to-morrow the appointment of the Striking Committee. Strictly
speaklng, the notice could not be entertained
until to-morrow. I presume there will be
no objection to my presenttng it to the House
now on the understanding that the cominittee will not meet before to-morrow mornIng. I therefore move:
That, pursuant to rule 79, the following
Senators be appointed a Coimnttee of Selection to norninate the Senators te serve on the
several Standing Committees during the prenent
session, namely :-The lionourable Sir Mackenzie Bowel. 11onourable Messieurs Templeman, Ferguson, Dandurand. Miller, Watsonl,
Lougheed. Jones, snd the mover, and to report
wlth ail convenient speed the names of' the
Senators so nominated.
I arn informed that one of the members,
IMr. Jones, wlll be away and by arrangement I should like to substitute the naine
of Mfr. Gibson.
Hon. Mfr. DÂNDURAND-Could not the
Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier be placed on
the cornmittee In place of myseif ? He bas
had more experlence In the Senate and
knows more about the work.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then I will substitute
the naine of the Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier for that Mr. Dandurand.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the motion
is carried, I should like to enter my protest
against the suggested formation of this coinmittee. Last year, when a similar motion
was presented to this House, I called the
attention of the bon. minister to the fact
that the province of Quebec was not duly
represented on that Striking Cornrnttee, and
I think it is still now the inost striking
feature 0f the Strlking Committee. If hon.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-None whatever.

province of Quebec ls treated.

MAROH 18, 1903
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere ta a great deal
of force in what the hon. gentleman saye,
and It arises from inadvertence. I suppose
I arn responsible for it. I had flot given the
matter mucb thouglit. However, It is very
easiiy remedied. Mr. Dandurand is on the
committee, and my hon. friend Sir Alphonse
Pelletier can take niy place.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot ask the hon.
minister to withdraw, 1 only ask that justice
be done to our province.
HEon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is a simple way
of solving the objection. There hs already
a member of the government on, and I theref ore suggest that Senator Pelletier take my
place.
The changes were made and the motion
wias agreed to.
The Senate adjourned.

He bas resigned. It would be rather a constitutional question, whether be had to resign. He was elected to the local legiuiature, and tbe question wbetber be had to
resign le a matter for the courts.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not understand tbe hon. gentleman's question to bear the intrepretation tbe Secretary
of State bas placed upon lt. I do not know
wbat mny bon. frlend wants to know, but
the interpretation that 1 put upoII the question Is that it asks wliether be was requested by the government, or the head of the
departnxent, to resign before be contested
the elections. Tbe question is, badl he to
resign ? That 1 understand to mean, did
tbe goverarnent or any minister request
hlm to resign ? 1 tbink that ls wbat the
bon. gentleman wants to know.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Yes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn unable to say. 1
assumed the question was as to whether he
bad resigned.
THE SENÂTE.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Will the bon. gentle'WednoscZali, Marck 18, 1903.
man make Inquirles ?
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will.
o'clock.
The Inquiry was allowed to stand.
and routine proceedings.
Prayers
MINISTERIÂL CHANGES.
RESIGNATION 0F HARRY HARRISON.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
Hon.
INQUIRY.
tbe House adjourns I should like to ask the
Sccretary of State wbether it is bis Intention
Hon. Mr. PERLEY rose toto give us any explanation of the ministerial
Asic the goverument, If Harry Harrison, Ilsh
warden of Sunbury and border counties, In New changes wbicb bave taken place since we
Brunswick, bad ta resiga hie position as such last met. We know tbere bave been changes
officer of the federal government. prior to bis and It is usual when parliament meets that
being a candidate for a seat In the local legislature for the county of Sunbury In the recent tbey sbould be explained in both bouses. 1
election held in that county ?
would ask my bon. friend if be le prepared
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls not necessary to to give us an explanation now.
consider whether lie baed to resIgn or not.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will do so to-morrow
He did resign, as a inatter of fact, on the at the openxng of the House.
l6th February last, bis position, Inspector
of fIsheries in New Brunswick. He sent in
AN ADJOURNMENT.
bis resignation to the departuient.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG gave notice of motion
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
when the House adjourne on Friday
not think, that Is an answer to the inquiry. that
mest., it do stand adjourned until
The question is If he had to resigu. The the 2Otb
Wednesday, the l5th of April.
hon. minister says he dld resign.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That le a legal quesseems a long- adjournment. If there is any
tion which I could not answer. The Iton.
an)y
gentleman wanted to know whether lie was probability of the goverament presenting
of their inensures ini the Senate wili it flot
stili an offit-er or wliether lie had resigned,

SENATE
be necessary to meet sooner. So important
an adjournent as this, it seerna to me,
should flot be proposed by a private member. The 'governrnent ought to assume the
responsibllity of it. I do flot object ta my
hon. frlend acting for the government. I
think'he ls a very good substitute. In fact,
I should flot object to see hlm, wbilethe
present government rernains In power, one
of its members. Let us flot do In the future,
If we can avoid it, that which we bave done
In the past namely have most of the important measures thrown upon us ta be rushed
through the Senate In the last ten or twelve
days of the session when It Is Impossible to
give them proper consideration. I do not
say that the aid government were gultiiss
in that respect but as dtls ta a reform govern-ent you ought to reforrn the bad practice of the past, and In any such attempt I
shall be giad to assiat.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. friend's experience In the past will canvince him that
there bas always been a holiday for the t
ten days or fortnigbt after the debate on
the address. Âfly longer adjournment than
tha± must be by the wish of the majority
of this chamber.
The governrnent would
very rnuch prefer that the adjournment
should not be so long, but it la not to be a
rnontb. There are a number of holldays In
April that are aiways observed even If the
House happens to be In session at the time,
and these bolidays corne In the last week
of the proposed adjournment. Sa far as
the business of the country is concerned,
there will be fia serious loss. The address
bas passed the Huse of Gommons but they
have not really got down ta business, and
cannot for a few days. There wll be no
special Injury to the business of the country by the Senate adjournlng over, perhaps,
ta the tirne narned. I arn not prepared to
say but wbat it would bave been better
could we bave met earller. In that matter
I sbould like simply to be guided by the
feelings of hon. members, which we can
ascertain.
The Senate adjourned.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

TEE SEZIATE.
Ottawva, T1ursday, MarJ& 1903.
19,
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tliree
o'clock.
Frayera and routine proceedings.
DISALLOWANCE 0F
ACTS.

PROVINCIAL

MOTION.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved:
That an humble Âddress be presented to His
Excellency the Governor General, praylng that
iel Elzcellency will cause to be laid upon the
Table of the Senate, copies of ail Orders In
Clouncil disallowing Acte passedl by the different legisiatures from the year 1896 ta 1903 inclusive, together wlth copies of the reports to
Council of Ministers of Justice glving the reasons for such disallowance.
He said: Formerly a return of thls character was moved for and publlshed and 1
tliink kt Io well, In the Interest not only
of the two Houses of parliament but of the
different governrnents and the people of the
Dominion, that we should have thîs Information In order that we may be fully acquainted with the reasons, constitutionai
or otherwise, which induced the governent
to disallaw Acta passed by tbe provincial
leglalatures.
Hon. Mr. eCOTT-I understand the Information asked.for by my hon. friend bas aiready been printed down to 1901. 1 arn
flot aware of this personally, but my hon.
friend on the left says that Is a fact.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I have had iii
my possession copies of correspondence
printed down ta the session of 1900-1.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
kt include the Orders lu Council and the reports of the Minlster of Justice upon which
tbe orders were based ?
Han. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes. It includes
everything, as far as I understand it.
I was especially Interested in the dlsallowance of Britisb Columbia legislation la regard ta Chinese and Japanese, and I got the
blue-book and the bound book frorn the
department of the Minîster of Justice last
session, and I noticed that the legislation
of all tbe provinces which bas been disallowed la referred ta, and the Orders In Council, the reports of the Minister of Justice
and the correspondence whlch took place
between the Dominion nnd the provinces

MARCII 19, 1903
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know.
are given. If the hon. gentleman waiild
aniend bis motion and make it 'from the not asked. Was he defeated7
last day of publication dowu ta the preseut
Hon. Mr. PERLE Y-Yes.
time,' it wouid cover Ji.

I have

AN ÂDJOURNMENT.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved:
such be the tact, I have overlooked it and
That when the Senate adjourns on Friday,
I have no objection to change the motion,
stand adjourned uncil
because there la no necessity ta duplicate the 2Oth instant, it do April next.
W'ednesday. the 15th of
the retura.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-lt might be ail rlght flot make it eight o'clock on the eveuing of
to have It lu one return.
the l5th of April ? It Is very well knowu
la nathing
.Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWHLl,-I wll that If we meet at tbree there
doue the firat day, and lt will necessitate
look It up and If I find tbat the Information
a large number of the members coming
ta whlch the hon. gentleman bas called
here the day betore. The members tram
the attention of the Senate Is not contaiued
Montreal can get here, but those tram the
ln that report, I wlIl put another motion.
west must leave the day betore. The train
does not arrive lu the city untîl about six
The motion was agreed to.

RESIGNATION 0F HÂRRY HARRISON.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired:
If Harry Harrison, flsh warden of Sunburyi
and border counties, la New Brunswick, hadt ta

o'clock. There Is no business other than
routine business ta be doue when we meet
atter an adjourumeut, and It would be conveulent ta a great many ta meet at eight
o'clack.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The only reasan 1 suggested tbree o'clack was that I recagnized
that the adjournment was longer than desirable, but the House evideutly desires the
adjourument should be ta that date. The
week betore that la holy week and there are
quiry of the Department of Marine aud so many holidays lu that week that it would
Fisheries, that 'without any reterence ta that not be worth while coming here. If It le

resign his position as such officer of the federalgovernmeut, prior ta hie being a candidate for
a seat ln the local legisîsture for the county
of Sunbury lu the recent election held lu- that
county ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I uuderstand, from lu-

department and wlthout the department the sense of the House that we should meet
knowlng the reasons, Mr. Harrison reslgned ut eight o'clock, I raise no objection.
and they slmply, recelved the resignation.
Hon. MEMBERS-Eight o'clock.
They had no knowledge of the motive whlch
prompted it They dld not Invite bis resig- The motion was chauged, and agreed ta.
nation, nor dld they know why he sent It
WITII
WINTER COMMUNICATION
Ail that they know 1s they recelved a reslgPRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.
nation tram *hlm whlch was filed lu the
MOTION.
ordlnary way.
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.) moyed:
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Did he have ta legThat an humubla Âddress be preseuted ta Elis
ally resiga betore becoming a candidate ?
General, praying that

Excellency the Governor
Bis Excellency wil» cause ta be laid betore the
Senate, copies of ail orders, telegrams and communications which have passed betweeu this
goverument or any omicial or agent thereof, and
the provincial goverument of Prince Edward
Island. or the boards of trade or any representatives of the province lu parliameut, or other
persans, or the captains of the steamers 1Stanley ' and ' Minto,' during the present winter
twa
movemeuts
season respectipg thedetention or of those
the deiay of
steamers, or their
freight, passing or lnmalse, passengers and
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Does the lion. Secre- tended to pass by them between Prince fldward
tary of State know whether he has been Island and the mainland.
'T2he motion was agreed ta.
appolnted again or not ?

Hon. Mr. SCQTT-'I do not know.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Hise resignation
was accepted ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. He did not give
any reason for it nor did they asic for ai
reason. They were not aware of the motive which prompted hlm ln bis action.

SENATE
MINISTERIAL CHANGES.
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIÉ
understood we were to have explanations
of the ministerial changes to-day.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When I was requested
yesterday by thé hon. leader of thé opposition to explain the changes in the minlstry
since last session, I askéd himi to allow the
mattér to stand until to-day. Thé rulé laid
down lu 'Todd's Parliaméntary* GoveTmment in Canada' is that:
When a single member of the cabinet retires,
untîl lie has made hie own statement la thé
House to whlch hé, belongs, the government cannlot explaIn the ground of his wlthdrawal to the
other Housé.
There la a note to the effect that gréater
latitude le aliowéd la the House of Lords;
it does not say how far. Todd laye down
the principle that the Lords are allowéd
greater freédom la expressing théir opinions
titan the Housé of Commons. In consequence of the very full discussion whlcb
took place in the other chamber, and 1 may
add the full explanation giveu la October
last by the publication of Mr. Tarté's létter
and the reply of the premier, the duty o!
naklng an explanation seems pérfunctory
and informaI. However, 1 shall briefly réf er
to thé cause whlch led up to the resignation
of Mr. Tarte and to the changes whlch took
place. When a yéar ago, on the l7th of
Mardi, the Finance liinieter delivered hie
budget speech, he used thie language
We do flot propose to maké any chaniges la
the tariff thie session. I do not for a moment
dlaim that the tariff le perfect. 1 thlnk, that,
on thé whole, it lias provéd a very good tariff.
Indeed, when we recail the circumstances under

which our tariff revision took place, wlién we
remember thé very complicated and difficuit
problem with which we 'had to deal, wé may

,well congratulate ourselves upon our succese in

deviag a tariff so well adapted to thé requiremente of thé country, a tariff under which Canada lias prospered in a gréater dégrée than ini
any previous périod la ber hietory. I have
,occaslonally pointéd out thé desirability of a
réasonable measure of tariff stability. Nothing
~would be more likély to unsettié business tlian
a practice of introducing fréquent tariff changes.
Hence. we have resisted applications for maay
small changes and we think it well te do se
to-day. But I would net havé it undérstoad
that this vléw can always bé héld. As tîme
passées, conditions change la our own country
and it wli bé wéll for us to také noté of thîs,
so that wé may adjuet thé tariff accordingly.
Nor le that thé only réason that miglit require
some change. Conditions arisé in other countriés of whlch we are obligéd to také account.
We do nlot proposé thit wé shall stand stili
and that this tarif! shall rémnain unchangéd, but
Nvé think thé timé is not opportune for maklng
(hiangés at présent.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)

Hé gave many réasons why It was flot
contémplated to malte any changes thén.
lié spéake partlcularly about thé German
tariff, and about thé proposed visite of ministère to England. Hé saysFor tliése reasone we poetpone for thé présent thé question of tariff révision. Wlién thé
moment for révision arrivés, thé public of Canada may rest assuréd that the government will
undertake thé work In the epirit of modération
and caution that lias prevalled la thelr past

actions la tariff affaire, avoiding thé extrêmes
whicli amost always find advocatee, and hiaving

regard te wliat le bet, not for particular in-

dustries or particular sections of thé country,
but for thé Intereste of thé people of thé wholé
Dominion.

That was ln March. Parliamént was prorogued on thé 15th of May. Thé premier,
thé Financé Minuster, thé Mînistér o! Customs, and I thlnk one othér mémbér of thé
govérnmént lé!t shortly aftér for London.
As my hon. friende ahl know, they weré
away during thé summér, thé premier not
réturnlng until thé month of October. Thosé
who followéd thé discussions la thé préess
on this question will rémémber that bir.
Tarte was lnvitéd on sévéral occasions durlng hast summér to addréss public meetings.
We know that hé le véry frank, candld
and outapokén in making speeches to thé
public, and on sévéral occasions hé éxprésséd
thé opinion that thé tariff of Canada ouglit
to bé more satisfactory to thé péople of
Canada.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hé Indicated that from
hie viéw it would bénéfit thé industries of
this country and thé manufacturers, if a
higliér tariff wéré lmposed. That was Mr.
Tarté's !rnk expression of opinion. Aftér
thé premier réturnéd, hé and Mr. Tarte met
together by appointmnent for thé purposé
of mutual éxplanation. Thé premier had
bécomé awaré during ie absence la England that Mr. Tarte had epokén in thé manuer 1 havé méntioned, comlag out prétty
strongly In favour of a protectivé tariff, or
at least of protéctlng certain industries.
Af ter théir mutual éxplanations, as my hon.
friends know, Mr. Tarte sent In hie résignation. I wIll réad thé letter at length. Mr.
Tarte very frankly rétained thé viéws that
hé had préviouely expreseed. Hé enys :
My déar Sir Wilfrid,-I féel it is my duty te
placé my résignation la your hands, and to ask
you to hé good enougli to havé it accéptéd hv
fis Excélncy thé Govérnor Général.

MARCH 19, 1903
In the interview which I had with you, you
expressedl the opinion that I should flot have
spoken on the tariff as I have done, that the
goverament had not as yet corne to any defite
vaderstanding on their fiscal policy for the
future, &c.
I shIll not discuse with you at the presont
time. the question as to whether I was right
or wrong ln the course I have followed.
You are the leader or the government, and
your opinion, as far as my attitude la Involved,
muet prevail.
'You told me that my utterances are causing
you trouble. I have no right and no desire ta
be a so.lrce of embarrassment ta you or to the
party with which I have been connected since
1892.
My views on the tariff are weil known ta you.
1 have, on severai occasions, stated them publicly la your presence and discussed them often
privately with you.
Entertaining the opinion that the Intereats of
the Canadian people make It our duty ta revise,
without deiay, the tariff of 1897, with the view
of giving a more adequate protection to aur
Industries, ta our farming community, ta our
warkingmen, I cannat possibly remain silent.
I prefer my freedam of action and of speech,
nder the circumstances, even to the great
honour of being your caileague.
Before severing my officiaI relations with
yeu, allow me ta express my sincerest hope
that you will soon be restored ta your health
of foi mtr days.
You wouid greatly oblige me by conveying
to my coileagues my best wishes for their weltare and their happiness. My personai relations with most of them have been of a pleasant
and cordlial nature. I hope they will continue
Io be the same la the future.
Believe me, My dear Sir Wilfrid,
Yours very truly,
(Sgd..) J. ISRAEL TARTE.

important it might be, la subordinate to one
stili more Important.
1If you had reached the conclusion that the
interest of the country demanded wIthout delay,
au increase of the custom duties, the flrst thing
for you to do as a member of the government.
before addressing your views to the public,
would have been to place them before your
colleagues, with the objeet of obtaining that
unanijnoue action of the cabinet whlch le the
very foundation of responsibie government.
If you had not been able to obtain from
your colleagues their assent to the course which
yeu recommended you would have been obligod
then either to accept their own views or Io
sever your connection with them, and then for
the first time would you have been free ta
place your views before the public.
Such wae the very simple course whieh was
binding upon you ; but to remain a member of
the government, and, at the same time, to edvocate a policy which had not yet been adopteci
by the goveranment, was an Impediment, to the
rroper working of our constitutional system,
and Implies a digregard for that loyalty whi"h
ail those who are members of the same admin-.
istration owe to each other and have a right to
expect from each other.
I thank you for the good wishes which you
ùxpree for the Improvement of my healtb, r-nd
I will make It my duty to convey to your old
colleaguesý those that you formulate for their
w-elfare ana their happiness.
Believe me.
'Yours very siacerely,
WILFRID LAURIER.
The Hon. J. I. Tarte,
Ottawa.

That la a very simple explanation of the
principle under whIch members of the cabinet hold their seats. Whatever Individual

The letter 'was written from Toronto and views they may have ln council, It wouid
addressed to the premier on the 2Oth of Oc- be destructive of the whole principle of

tober, and received by the premier the fol- government If members outelde of councl
lowing morning. The premier's answer was were to give utterance to, their divergent
views on any- Important question. It la
as follows
not to be supposed when twelve or ftteen
Ottawa, October 21, 1902.
gentlemen meet together ln council that
My dear Tarte,-Atter having seen you on Sunday last and having expressed ta you my well there can be unanimlty; they must have
settled opinion upon the consequences of your individual vlews, no motter what the subrecent attitude. my first duty was ta wait upon
Ris Excellency the Gavernor General te Inform ject may bo. It la very rarely, on first dishlm that I was obliged ta demand the resignation of your portfolio.
Âfter having seen His Exceiency, I had ta
acquaint my colleagues of the Interview which
I had had with yau.
Ia accepting your resignation, It is well to
emphasize the points of difference between us.
During my absence la Europe, without any
communication with me, and without any pre vious understanding with your coileagues. yau
began an active campaiga la favaur of an lummediate revision of the tariff ln the direction of
high protection.
I regret having been obliged ta observe to
you that ihis attitude on your part constitutes
a seif-evident violation of your duty tawards
the govgrnment of which you were a member.
I repeat ta you here what I toid you on Suadey -I do nat wish ta diseuse, at this moment.
tise econamic theory of which you have made
yoursaif the champion. This question, however

cussing any Important question, that you
get harmony, but Individual members
of a cabinet must finally give their acquies-

Iwill

cenoe to, whatever view tihe cabinet may express through the premier. My hon. friend
and others ln this chamber have been members of cabinets, and whatever Independence they may have showa in the council
chamber, they certainly were flot ln a position to, differ from their colleagues before
thse public outside, or to announce the views
they may have expressed in council as boing divergent from those held by other members of the cabinet. I do flot think that requires any illustration. Mr. Tarte's explan-

SENATE
ations, which he bas made ln the other
chamber, wIii go before the public, and It
wlll be for the public ta judge whether that
gentleman was Justifled or flot In the course
that he pursued. I make no commente on
It. Mr. Tarte separated from his colleagues
Ln the best of good feeling. We were aware
of the circumstance leading ta his wlthdrawal from the cabinet and it seems te
Inevitable consequence of the new stand
he hian taken as the advocate of a higlier
tarlif, and more particuiarly at a time when
a number of members of the goverument
were on the other aide of the Atlantic. On
Mr. Tarte's resignation being accepted, te
Miniter of Marine and Fisheries was appolnted to the office of Public Works, and
the Hon. Raymond Préfontalne was named
liinister of Marine and Fisheries. He went
ta bis election and was returned by a large
majority.a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
the han. Secretary of State rose to address
the Bouse he rather surprlsed me when lie
called attention ta the practice as defined
ln Todd. Hawever, I think he'partially explained it afterwards. Todd daes not lay
down the principle that the Senate or the
House of Lords are flot ln the habit of discnsslng, nor had they the right, ta discuas
questions of that klnd.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The House of Gommons. I sald.
Hou. o5ir MACKENZIE BOWi±LI-On
furtber expianation I understood hlm ta
say that ministerlal expianatians lu the
House of Commons are not usuaily debatable. However, I find that, on reference
ta one of the notes, that Gladstone, on one
occasion asked for further expianations from
the then Mr. Disraeli, who wns premier at
the trne, and that he entered fully Into the
question; but Immediately afterwards, an
the other side of the page, Todd says :
In the House of Lords the practice on such
occasions is flot so restricted.
Now, as -weare goveruied in a great mnefsure
ln this country by the rules and practice
wbicb govern 'the House of Lords, I take
it for granted we bave miot only the right
ta diseuse these questions, but we are not
stepping beyond the parliamentary ruies
'whicli prevail ini England.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bon. gentleman bas given a very short and
concise explanation of the resignation of
Mr. Tarte, and the reasons whlcb led to
that resignation, but If the prIncipie whicb
the bon. gentleman bas laid down should
govern in ail cases, why was it not applied
ta Mr. Fielding, ta Mfr. Sifton and ta Mr.
Blair ? Mfr. Fielding stated dlstinctly, in
a number 0f speeches which lie made at
different election contesta and at other times,
that the tariff pollcy of the government, as
near as I could. understand hlm, was tawards
the turther extension of free trade. I find
aIma that 1fr. Sifton stated the palicy o! the
government very clcarly lu Winnipeg, lu an
Interview ln whlch lie dlscussed the tariff
as it stands on the statute-book to-daY. He
said the intention of the goverument ln the
future was ta lower the tariff and not ta
rmise it and ln referrlng ta, one particular
lndustry, the woollen lndustry, he said that
if It could not ive under the present tariff
then let it go down. That was a clear indication 0f what the pollcy 0f the goverument
wvas, and we know that Mr. Blair's speech,
as reported, nat anly in the aider provinces
of the Dominion, but aIma iu Victoria and
Vancouver, on two or tliree occasions, lntimated that the poiicy of the gaverument
was ta bulld a transcontinental railway,
Now, if Mr. Tarte violated the principle of
respansible gaverument ln advocating, under
the circumstances, a blgher protective tariff,
surely these three ministrs were equally
gullty, and why should he be punlshed unlesa for reasons ather than those whlch have
been explained by bath the Secretary o!
State and by the leader of the goverument ?
And more partlcularly when we rellect that
the ex-Mini ter of Public Works had uttered
these statementa and made the ame argumenta ln the presence of the leader of the
goverument at a banquet in Montreal, and
on other occasions, and was neither cbecked
nor reproved for It so far as we know ;
at leant lie says no objections were taken
ta bis aitterances.
He states ln bis explanatian also that he had many conferences witb the premier upon this
subject and that the premier neyer intirnated ta hlm, either directly or ludirectly,
that be was advocating a policy wbich was
either Inirmical ta the country or at variance
with the pollcy -of -the government. Now,

MAROH 19, 1903

43

It strikes me, and must strike every one else Miaister, yofl wlll find that there la a very
that there muet have been some other reason great divergence ta their views. It la true
for getting rld of the Minister of Public that when the attention of Mr. Tarte was
Works. I do flot wish to be understood. as called to the statements made by the prime
standing here and defending the action of minIster he courteously excused hlm on certhe Minister of Public Works or seektag to tain grounds. He Jntimated that, flot being
Justify the various speeches whicb ho bas well, ho scarcely knew what ho was doing.
made, but I am fully ln accord wif.h hlm You will find that Sir Wilfrid on the l9th
and so la the party wlth which I am con- of October, atter bis arrivai ln this counnected, on the trade question. It la for the try, visiting the dwelling of the ex-Mincountry to decide, as the bon. gentleman Juter of Public Worku, and having a constates, as to wbether there were not other versation with hlm upon the attitude wbich
reasons whicb led to hie expulsion, for such Mr. Tarte hadl asuumed, durlng bis absence,
it really was, and such you wil find It on the trade policy. 'You wlll also notice, ta
to ho If you read attentlveiy and Mr. Tarte's explanation, that ho states* discritically the letter of his leader, rather tlnctly that ho then -told the premier ho
than the trade' policy ho advocated. I wau dlsposod to tender bis resignationti-that
arn glad ho has taken a. position ln he had no desiro whatever to worry or annoy
favour of a protective policy. I only hope him whlle continuing to recognize him as
that ho will ho successful, and that bis bis leader-but would retire, and that the proposition wll ho sucb au to taduce the gov- mier had asked him to leave tbings ln abeyernxnent to foibow tbe course ho bas laid ance. On the 219t, the premier uays ta bis
.down. But if It be bereticai, and If It bo letter to Mr. Tarte, that after the couvertreason to the governinent of which ho was sation whlch ho ha'd had with hlm at bis own
a member, for hlm to give utterance to opta- bouse, a few dayu prevlously, ho bail waited
Ions of that kind, what are we tp say to the on the Governor General and told hlm that
present Minister of Marine and Fisheries 7 ho bad to insist on the resignation of Mr.
Ho went to bis constituency, a large manu- Tarte. Which of these gentlemen tolls the
facturing centre of the clty of Montreal, aud tiuth ? Mr. Tarte says dlstiuctly that ho
uttered sentiments as strongly favourable tendered his reuignation. The premier said,
to protection as any expressed by Mr. Tarte 1ùont. ho ln a hurry, I nover act procipita the speeches for wbich ho was expelled. tately In mattors of tlis kind.' The preAt the saine Urne ho was advocating Pro- ier says that ho went to the Governor
tection ta' Montreal-at the Urne ho wB5 General and s3aid that ho had to lnsist on
claim.Ing the votes of artisans and labourera the resignation of the Minister of Public
who obtain thoir living tbrough te Pro- Works on account of the position ho had
toctive policy, Mr. Fielding, ln a constitu- takon during bis (the premier's) absence In
ency ln Nova Scotin, and the Ministr of Iu- Europe. Now, I am lnclined to tbink Mr.
land -Revenue, Mr. Bernier, advocated the Tarte lu right ta the explanation that ho gave
principle of a stîli further reduction ln the for this divergence of statement. [t lu
tariff leading towards free trade. This was genornlly tatimated-I do not suppose the
in Two Mountains and Terrobonue. Here we Secretary of State wlll verify It or
bave three minîsters delivering speeches, give us any Information on the subjecton the most important question that can but it lu3distinctly stated that no leus than
divido parties in any country, diametrically fiveo0f the cabinet bad demanded the bead
opposed to*each oter, yet teese barmonious of tee Minister of Public Works or tbey
gentlemen ait in tee one cabinet, wbile an- would beave tee cabinet themselves. The
oteer gentleman 'who bail more courage bon. gentleman shakos bis head. Thon are
nnd bonesty than tee others and bail de- we to understand that tliere was no Intimalivered opinions and sentiments in accord tion of the resignation of any other member
witb tee gentleman wbo succeeded hlm, and of the cabinet If Mr. Tarte remained ln It ?
in opposition to the others, is expelled from Iu that tee inference 1 amn toi draw ?
the governinent. 1 do not thinlr teere ever
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I certainly am not
bas been sncb a picture presentod to tee
without mY
country beforo. If you read the resignation aware of It. If it is so it was
and the letter of the Prime kno7wledge.
of 'Mr. Tarte,

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Posslbly thc premier does not acquaint hlm colleagues wlth everythlng that takes place.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-The hou. leader
of thc opposition knows that by experience.
Ion. Sir MÂCKENZIED BOWELL-Those
who have had experlence know how to
drmw inferences frorn circumstances whlcli
occur In other camps, and If I arn to accept
the staternent made by Uic hon. gentleman,
I should corne to the conclusion that lie was
not made acqualnted wlth ail that took
place, or If lie wam IIt ls welI to have a conventent rnemory upon smre occasions, and
to conveniently forget. It is an exceedIngly Important point for Uieme two gentlemen to decîde between themmelves. It la
clear that Uic Liberal party, or wbat la generally known as Uic Rouge party of Lower
Canada, were determlned from thse tlme Uic
ex-Minister of Public Workm went luto tise
cabinet to have. hlm head sooner or later.
We know thse quarrels whlch took place
In Montreal. I have a little record of them
here, and I know that one or two mcmbers, particularly the hon. member from
Manitoba, would be delighted If lie could
have tbem ait. I have no leas than Uiirty
,or forty pnges of clippinge of Uic reports of
the different meetings In Uic clty of Montreal at the different clubs and upon other
occasions lu which the hon. Minister of
Public Workm was the subject of animadversion, and s0 far was tbat carrlcd that
the premier had to visit Uic city to molli1fy the excitement that wam arlming, and
is
-on one occasion lt well known tlîat the premier told the malcontents that nothlng was
too good for Tarte. I thinis he was riglit under the circumstances, from his tnndpolnt,
for there la every reason to believe, from
what we know, that Tarte did more to bring
hlm into power than ail those who had been
connected with lis party for the last twenty
years, and the premier was justifled lu saying nothlng was too good for Tarte. He
also said :'If
Tarte bas f0 go, 1 go,' aund
rather than let hlm go, of course, the party
acquiesced in bis demnnd, ns It was their

this question, we find f urther than that, Mr.
Tarte states distinctly, in a letter whlch lie
wrote, that one of the -cabinet ministers was
actually paylng for a room in the city of
Montreal lu whlch he was abused, and where
they demanded his dismissal from the cabinet. That la flot al. He made the statement that miicb of the Information that
%vas received by 'La Presse,' and the article which appeared In 'La Presse,' which
lie declared to be a Tory paper at the Urne,
and the Information on 'whlch the articles
were based, If flot the articles themselves,
wam furnished by members of the goverfimeut of whlch lie was a member. This la
I can easily una nice atate of affairs.
derstand, that the hon. gentleman was very
glad to get from arnong those who were conaplrlng agalnst hlm. I notice the premier
nmade a very lntereatlng atatement upon this
question In the Houme of Commons, If 1
may be permitted with thse consent of the
House to refer to It, because sme of Uhc
gentlemen opposite may say 'You are just
as bad. You had just the sme kind of supporters ln jour government.' Weil, if we
bad, or If there were conspirators, there Io
one thlng I can assure them, that durlng
the period white I was In the goverilment
no sucli scenes ever occurred as that which
la depicted by the premier. He says :
We have nlot the same standard of excellence.
That la flot the way we do in the ranks of
the Liberal party.
That is the restriction of opinion of ajiy
member of the party. The Secretary of
State laid down the correct constitutional
principle-there la no question about It-that
amonir tise members of a cabinet there wll
always be diverslty 0f opinion upon detail,
but not upon great questions of the day. I
thinis it wam Lord Melbourne who made the
statement once on leavlng the cabinet.
'Weil, no matter how muci we mi*gbt dîffer
,

ln cabinet we must tell the sme story
when we get out, evern if it is nilie.' Th2re
should lie no divergence of opinion when
te
et out of the aie.Te
eern
to the extract I wam reading, the premier

I aya
duty to do under thse circunistances, lie
Associated as we arebeing their leader and they bis followers.
Mr. COOHRANE-You can fight like blazes
But wvhen we bear tbe taunt, as my bon. amd it will be all riglit.
The PRIME MINISTER. Oh yes, we can fighLi
frieiid the minister witbout portfolio, intican peaccably settie
xnated a moment ago, tbat those who bad like blazes and then we we do nlot figbt as our
the
littie differences, but
*xperIence could speal: by thse book UPOn! hon, gentlemen used te flght when they wpre
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MARCIL 19, 1903
in the council chamber. They used to fight witb judice that existe ln the Pacifie province
their feet and the waiis of the couneil chamber agalnat the Mongolien race, more partioucould testify to sanie very vigorous fightlng
whlch took place therein when the hon. gentle- larly agninst their habits and their practices.
men could flot settie their differences of opJ'n- HIOW that Wli effeet the trade of the couDtry
la a matter for consideration. We shall be
ton ln any other way.
I ahould lihe to, know If my hon. friend enabled to judge of that after the law has
on iny rlght ever used hlm feet or faots ln the been ln force for smre Urne. There la one
cabinet. He la a very quiet man front the thing, however, quite certain that the carrygarden of the Dominion, Prince Edward la- ing trade between China and Canada wll
land, and was flot of that character, as be very materlally affected. I know one
faxr as I found hlm. I was lu that cabinet gnlmnwol
ueetdl
h rih
h
i thel ffeclt
meventeen years and unlesa that took place, gntlaen whotfla nerad
after I Ieft and under Sir Charles Tupperle them to, the extent of haif a million dollars
regime, 1 pronounce that atatement a fiction, a year, or ln other words wiUl turu a profita draft upon the premier'. vivid Imagina- albusiness into an unprofitable one. That
tion. No such scenes ever occurred. I do flot I frankly admit should not be a conaiderapretend to aay that differences of opinion dld tion If It la considered ln the Interesta of
flot exiat upon Important or minor matters, the Dominion that Chinese labour ahould
but I do say that they never led ta the use ibe kept out of the country. Wblle I admit
of the feet or the flat, or led to aaying any-i
thlug unbecomiug to each other ln the cabi- the truth of ail the reports that have been
net. It is something which neyer ocrn.rred made with reference to their habits and
ln my experience. What caballing took thue reaulta of their realdence lu this country,
place outside I do not know, but I aay that! I cannot banlali frors my mmnd this tact
tbat statement han not a scintilla of foun-. that it would have been extremely diffcult
hc
ok
dation for It I have some reading whieh tocn1uttelrepbi
might ho interesting to the Secretary of have been carried on In the Pacifie province,
State. I suppose not belng a newmpaper Iand also, ln smre of the states of the neighman lie would not have taken as mucli tîme bourlng country, If that labour had flot becii
to colleet ait these little tid-bits for the iobtainable. It la ahi very well to say, 1Get
future as I have done. But lt has been a wbite labour.' Get it by ail means. If it
hobby with me ahi 'my life, and with a dozen could be got there wouhd be no necesslty
or two scrap-booka of clippinga of this Ikind, for the other. But the wants of our people
I am generally prepared to, give a reason are such and the habits of the Mongolian
for what I may. aay, and not only give a race are such that we can acarcely approve
reason for it but to justlfy IL. If the of. having the country populated wlth them.
present cabinet are as harmonlous ln coun- I frankly admit that. and those who have
cil as they are out of doors, 1 eau easlly un- given the subject consideration will recogÂs I have said, there are free
derstand why the Prime Minister bas given nize it
such a description of the fighting of hie traders lu the cabinet. The premier says
predeceasors. We find them, ahl of differeut he ls a free trader, and there are protecopinions. Now, we are to, have a Chineso tioniats and free traders lu bis cabinet aud
Exclusion Bill. Every gentleman wbo has he aays his duty i. to harmonize these conbeen a member of thîs House for a number fIlcting opinions, aud to-day, Mr. Fielding,
of yeara knowa that the Secretary of State hie Finance Minister, Iuformed the deputala as strongly oppoaed to the principle of tion that waited upon hlm that they ahould
restriction, coutalued ln that new Bill whieh publlsh their demanda upon the goverumeut,
la coming up, as any man lu the whole Do- glvlng their reasous for these demanda, so
minion upon the broad principhe of equal that the public could judge, and they wouid
right, more partlcularly where lt extends ta, aet accordinghy-iu other words, admittiug
the Chinese of Hong Kong who are realhy that they as a government have n opinion
Britishi subjeets. Yet lie bas hadl ta aub- whatever on this great question of further
mit-lie lias liad ta surrender bis opin- protection to our Industries. Mr. Filding
Ion-and now lie bas ta propose a Bill aays-' give us the opinions of the public,
imposing a per capita tax of $500 on and whatever those opinions 'are we wilI
WMe know the pre- act in accordannce wlth them.' I do flot t.ike
every Chinaman.

SENATE
that to be the duty of stateemen. The dutY ment that came into power carried out free
ot statesmen le flot only to have opinions, trade principles to the very letter. They
but to Imprees those opinions on the public, imposed a tariff as they have It ln England,
if they believe them to be correct, and If and It was carried on ln that way until the
the publie mmnd is fot ln accord with them, federation of the colonies. But our minthe duty of a statesman would be to retire itera adopted a policy entirely opposite to
from the office he boldo and aiiow another that They pledged themselves to, free
to, take bis place who would carry out the trade as It la ln England, over and over
principles which were held by the people agala. They denounced the tarif as the
he represented. We had a frank admission Conservatives put it on the etktute-book, as
of that prInciple by the late Hon. Alexander a tariff bleeding the taxpayers and enrichMackenzie. He told the people, through. ing the manufacturera. But as soon as tbeY
bis speeches ln the Houge of Gommons, dia- came into power they raised the duty upon
tlnctly and positlvely what bis vlews were a large number of articles, and then ln
on trade inattera, and he went to the country 1order to give an appearance of a reduction
on those views, and the country decided! of the tariff, reduoed It by 124 per cent,
againat hlm, and following the constitu- tixen they granted 25 per cent, and afiertional principles upon which we are gov- wards 83J per cent of a preference to Great
erned, he retlred. But the present govern- Britain; but my bon. friend knowe that
ment are prepared to take any opinionsl before they attempted that they Increased
from the public and act upon them without the duties ln many cases from 25* to 85 per
reference to any of their own. If they are cent, so that ln tact for the firet year, the
boneatly ln tavour of a reduction of the duties were hlgher than they hnd been
tariff let them say so, and let the people under the protective tariff, and as higb, If
judge for themselves. If tbey desire a not a littie hlgher, lu many cases under
turtber Increase ln the tariff In order to the 25 per cent, and now they are only
protect the different Industries which are about 1* and li per cent ail round iower
affected by the present tariff on the statxte- thoan tlxey were under the protective tariff.
book to-day, let them aay go, and let tbose, The hon, gentleman gays, as he dld the
lke my hon. friend who site to my ieft, other day : «See how trade bas increased.'
and the new senator who bas just taken True It bas Incressed, and the Iower you
his seat ln the Senate (Mr. Edwards), say make the tariff the more it wl! Increase
f rankly they are ln favour of free trade, Importations, but It wlll close up our own
and go to the country and stand or tai! Industries and take from the labourer and
by their principles.
1 know I would the artisan that which enables them to carua
hear, if I were within reach my hon. sufficlent to live in this country. However,
frIend's volce raised against the bereay, iI am entering upon a subject which I will
as he calls It, of protection.
I do not Inot pursue,' but I am led to these statements
objeet to that.
I admire the frankness from the tact of divergence of opinion beof the man who has tbe courage to express tween the gentlemen who now advlse Hie
bis view, and I am glad to know he bas a Excellency the Governor General. I should
colleague ln this Hlouse. I am not aware'like, however, to sec an explanation of the
o! aony other lto gentee orcuthen >o contradictions between Mr. Tarte and the
enae o th Hoseprime mînîster as to the causes for bis
n te
sitonsciter
o! Gommons who outwardly or openly avow resignation. If we could ouly get nt the root
their free trade principles. They will modify[ o! the whole business we would find that it is
them to a certain exteiit, and say 'this mavy a culmination o! the fighting wlch bas
be true but we cannot have it.' If the pria- been golng on ever since Mr. Tarte went
ciple le right-if the theory le rlght it can Into the cabinet, by the advanced Liberals
he carrled out if hon, gentlemen have theý ln the province o! Quebec, wbo thought that
courage to do so. They had a high pro- jhe was usurpiW, a position to which they
tective tariff ln New South Wales when I were entitled. He himsel! gays that the
wae there. The government appealed to the ýpresent Minister of Inland Revenue bas flot
country, and the protectioniet government spoken to hire for several years. I do flot
was defeated and the free trade goveri-, knowtatwhveatigpricart
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAIRCH 19, 1903

47

STANDING ORDERS.
do wlth their private quarrels. It only
TEMPLEP4AN moved the folloWHon. Mfr.
shows the feeling that exlsted among the
ciass to which I have referred, and the lite îng as tue eommittee on Standing Orders:
minister. Bre long we shall know what the jThe Hon. Messrs. Beique, Carling, Sir John,
polcy of the government 19, If they have., K.C.M.G., Church. Macdonald (P.E.I.); Macdon-'
any. That 19, when the budget speech la aId (Victoria), M4cKay (Truro), Tessier, Yeo,
made, .and we shall then be able to judge 1Young-9
whetiier the sentiments preached by the IThe motion was agreed to.
Mlnister of Marine and FisherleB Ia MonBANKING AND COMMERCE.
treal and also ln Terrebonne are to prevail,
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN moved the followor those of bis colleagues. My own opinion
Is that so long as they can keep In power lng as the Oommittee on Banking and Comtbey will adopt any policy, free trade or any- merce :
thing else. Power alone I. what they desire
Th
o.Msr.AknBwl
Sr ac
kee atail azadBkenzie, K.C.M.G., Casgrain <Windsor).* Cax,
and hattheywIl
and If there are any i doubt of that, the Drummond, Edwards, Ferguson, Forget, FuiSir Wm., Kt., Jones, Kerr (Coford,
documents I hoid in my hand wlll prove bourg),ingston,Lougheed, Mackay (Aima), MacKing,
Keen, McDonald (C.B.), McMillan, McSweeney,
the truth of what I say.
Miller, Perley, Shehyn, Sullivan, Tessier, Thibaudeau (Rigaud), Thibaudeau (de la Vallière),
Thompson. Wark. Wood, Yeo.-30.
THE STANDING COMMITTEES.

MOTION.

The motion was agreed to.

The Order of the Day was called:

RAILWÂYS, TELEGRAPES AND HARBOURS.
Consideration of the First Report of the
Committee of Selection appointedl to nominate
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN rnoved the fallowthe Senators ta serve on the severai Standing
Committees.
Ing as the Committee on Railways, Tele-

graphe and Harbours:
THE

CMMI
IBRRY

ME.The
moved the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN
foilowlng as the Joint Oommlttee on the
Library of Parliament,
The Honourable the Speaker, and the Han.
Messrs. Baker, Béique, Boucherville, de, C.M.G.,
Drummond, Ferguson, Forget, Godbout, Gowan,
C.M.G., Hingston, Sir Wm., Kt, McHugh, Pelletier. Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Poirier, Scott,
Thibaudeau (Rigaud), Thibaudeau (de la Vallière), Wood, Young.-18.
He said : The changes ln ail the committees are practically those necessitated by
the removal of some Senators by death, and
.be
the appointment o! others.
ws ageedto.-the
The otin
ws ageedta.Some
The otin

Hon. Messrs. Baker, Béique, Bolduc,
Bowell, Sir Mackenzie- K.C.M.G., Casgrain (de
Lanaudière),, Cox, Dandurand. Dever, Drummond, Blles, Ferguson, Fiset, Forget, Prost,
Gibson, Godbout, Janes, Kerr (Cobourg),* King,
Kirchhoffer, Lauderkin, Lougheed, Lovitt, Mac-*
donald (Victoria), Mackay (Aima), McDonald
(C.B.), MeHugh, MeKay (Truro), .McLaren, McMillan, McMullen,« Miller, Owens, Pelletier, Sir

Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Poirier, Scott, Templeman,
Vidai, Watson, Young.-40.

Ilon. Mr. SIULLIVÂN-I arn glad to se
that there la sncb general satisfaction at
The
the constitution of thls committee.
Committee on Railways is well known to
the blue ribbon committee of the Senate
one tiiat ail bon. gentlemen aspire to.
gentlemen can came ta this Hanse
and take a seat on that cammittee at one
bound, but others have ta wait for years

THE PRINTING 0F PARLIAMENT.
Hon.Mr. EMPEMÂNmave th foîow-before they are perinitted ta enter its circle.
Thlor
mved he
Hon. r. TMPLEAN
motto ' Ici on
ing as the Committee on Standing Orders : Thr may be over it thc
parle Gaeil, there are so many Scotchmen
of Parliament:on It. I simply mention this ta show that
The Hon. Messrs. Bernier, Bawéll, Sir Mac- these gentlemen get a large shaie af the
x.C.M.G.,
kenzie, K.C.M.G., Carling, Sir John,
Church, Coffey, good things gaing. This cammittee takes
Casgrain ýde Lanaudière).
Cochrane, Deyer, Dobson, Edwards, Bulis, Fiset, Up more of the business af the Senate than
Prost, Gibson, Gilîmar, Legris, Macdonald
(P.E.I.), Mackay (AIma), MacKeen, Merner, any other, and ta prevent an oligarchy, a
clique belng establshed here, there should
Reid, Shehyn, Templeman, Watson.-24.
be some well deflned principle an which
The motion was agreed ta.

SENATE
the committee should be constructed. It is ditions there that siiauld flot exist amoiig
customary to say we foilow the precedents a body of hionourable gentlemen, and that
of the House o! Lords. I neyer was there being the case, I say the coxnmittee, instead
when they were passing such work as this, of belng an lrouclad one running year after
but I know the House o! Lords would not year wlth the same names and tbe same
be concerned with the very smail, petty description of men, should be freshened up
canvasslng which I see ln this Senate. I occaslonaiiy, and men should be taught that
!ancy I see the bonoured names of Stanley If there ls any straylng from the path of
and Howard and other old familles which rectitude they should be punlBhed.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLIGMÂN-I should 117e to
have sustainedl the British honour for generations, coming down ta the doings o! these state what I arn sure the hbon. gentleman
gentlemen ln Ottawa. I know that this must know very well, that the Striking Coincommittee ls sought a!ter with great zest mittee was confronted with very great diffi1 was only on It once and I have been a culty Indeed ln regard to the selection of
good many years in the Senate. There ought names for this committee. There were
to be some well-establisbed principle by maiy difficulties. The variaus provinces of
which a man may aspire ta thîs position. the Dominion required representation. Our
It is not given according to territory, at- friends ln Quebec, and our friends ln Ontendance or condnct Men who seldorn at- tario, required a certain amount of reprela that sentation on this committee. There were
tend are put on thMs comrnittee.
right ? Io It well that a person who la four removals-Senatars McCallum, O'Douopersona grata wtth the leader o! the goveru- hoe, Wood and Clemow-and these were
these,
o!
In place
ment or possibiy with the leader o! the op- 'ail by death.
position should be appointed, while one who we have hon. Senators Frost, Cox, Danshlrks f rom stoaping to canvassing lu men durand and Forget. We then discovered
ways, ls excluded frorn the committee ? that a number of Cther Senators desired ta
When I first came ta the Senate the firat be on the committee, wbo had dlaims ta be
man I bad ta consuit ln connection with a on the committee, and one particularly, wbo
commlttee was a Liberai, though the Con- had -made a complaint somewhat similar
ri
etea
ytehn
servatives at the time were largely In the t htmd
majority. Why shouid not that state Of Kingston now, and who felt aggrieved that
jaffaire continue ? I bave not been gulded he bad been dropped frorn the committee
And the Striking Committee
by any political. bias ln this Sennte, but I last year.
hate ta say I arn debarred from being on taking these things into consideration, has
this commlttce, I do not know for what recommended that five maames be added ta
reason. I have as much right ta be on It the cormittee. 1 may say for myself-and
as anybody else. I do not care for mysel!, I arn sure 1 arn speaklng the vlews o! thue
but the city and district whlch 1 represent bon members a! the comrnttee-that we
People may corne would be only too pleased ta bave the hon.
b as no rlght ta suifer.
here from, any other section and obtain fav- gentleman from Kingston on the committee.
ours tram the Senate, but it appears that There was no desire on the part of any
the representative from Kingston must be memnber o! the7 Strik-ing Committee* ta keep
excluded., 1 have no feeling agalnst any hlm off the Rallway <3ommittee. The hon.
I wish It ta be Dr. Sullivan's name will lue found on the
gentleman ln this matter.
understood that I arn not attacking aly- Banktn aid Commerce Comrnittee, but probody or any party. I simply say the prin- babîy heawould prefer ta be on the Railciples of truth, honour and justice should way Committee. Nevertheless, the Cornprevail-that there should be some system mittee on Banking and Commerce is one
by which a rnan could obtain a position on of the most important committees of this
-ouse. I slaIl lue deiighted ta know that
this commlttee on bis own merits. That Is H
ail that I care for. From what 1 have bis abilities wlll lue at the service of that
seen of the frarning of the committees here committee, and, so far as I amn concerned.
1 flnd that la not the rule and priniple. I I would be pleased indeed if he had been
have seen some work that I dld not like go- placed on the Rallway Committee. That
lng on ln that commlttee. I have seen con- was the view o! ail the members of this
lion. Mr. SULLIVAN.

MARCil 19, 1903

49

INTERNAL ECONOMY AND CONTINGconmdttee. There wasý no personal feeling
ENT ACCOUNTS.
whatever ia this matter; but If we cannot
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved thiat the
accommodate our good frlend this session, I
following Senators be the Conimittee on Intrust we -wlll be able to do so next session.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tell us the name of
the hon. gentleman wbo made complaint,
and was placed on the committee thîs
session.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Mr. Cochrane.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that the only one
w-ho made complaint ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-M-%r. Forget made ai
complaint.
Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-The bon. gentleman
whose tiame 1 have just mentloned made
a v-ery strong plen to be plnced on the
on the
comimittee, and spoke feeliugly
matter, and, being a very old member of this
House, these facts were taken Into consideration, and his iiame bas been ndded.
I understnnd the bon. gentleman trom Montreal, who is not now ln the House, also
complnins that bis naine was left off, and
is namne bas been added. 1 amn sorry, we
bave not carried ont thîs idea lu ahl cases,
but if the difficultles of the Striking Committee are taken into consideratlon-and 1
amn sure bon. gentlemen wlll recognize
them-tbey wlll see that It is impossible to
avold certain dhsappolntments.

Hon. Messrs Bernier, Bolduc, Casgraln (de
Lanaudière>. Fiset, Frost, Gibson, King, Landerkln. Landry, Lovltt, McDonald (C.B.), MeLaren. MeMullen, Miller, Montplaisir, Owens,
Pelletier. Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Perley,
Robertsonl, Templeman, Thompson, Vidai, Watson, Wood, Yeo.-25.
Hon.. Mr. LANDRY-I observe that there
ire four changes in that committee. Could
The
the bon. minister tell us wby ?
Speaker's name bas been strlcken from the
committee. Hon. Mr. Bis is also dropped
from the committee. 1 supposed that those
two gentlemen asked that their namfes
should be erased.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Very probably.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I want a certainty.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If not,.
-why flot
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I should lilce, as a
member of that committee, to say that we
endeavoured, as far as possible, to distribute the members equally amongst the coinmittees, and I tblnk last year Mr. EBills was
on four committees, and we endeavoured,
as far as we could, flot to have any member
on legs than two committees, and none on
more than three.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We will see if the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My name was strickcommlttee has accomplished that-if there
en lasit year.
is flot one member on more than tbree coInHon. Mr. TEMPLEINAN-The hon. gentlc- *iittees.
mail did not complain. He neyer kicks.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have the figures
*here, and I will tell the bon, gentleman.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will complain this
Miller tg On four commIttees,
Hon.
year so that I will have a chance nexi * Thealso le Mr.
Hon. Mr. Templeman, and Hon.
8o
yen r.
Mr. Bélque. Mr. Gillmor le named as a
inember of the Rallway Commlttee, and hie
Tbe motion was agreed to.
will be on four. Witb those exceptions,
three is the limit.
BILLS:
MISCELLANEOUS PRIVATE
LANDltY-Wb3' strike ont Ilon.
? Honi. M-Nr.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved that thf %IMr.
Ellis*s name ?
followilg be the Comimittee on Mseln
Hon. Mr. WATSOIN-He is ouly on three.
ous Private Bills:
Hon. Mr. LNRYlewajs on four beHon. Messrs, Baird, Boucherville, de, C.M.G.
Carmichael, Church, Dandurand, Dever, Dol, -fore.
son. Fulford, Gillmor, Godbout, Gowan, C.M.G.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
Hlngston. Sir Win., Kt., Kerr (Toronto), Lan
dry. Legris, McHugh, McSweeney, Merner, Mont
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-Tben thiere is no rule
plaisir, O'Brien, Reid, Robertson, Shehyn, Sul
Ilvan. Thibaudeau (Rigaud).-25.

4

about it ?

SEINATE
Hlon. 'Mr. WATSON-No, the four heavy
committees of the Senate are Private Bis,
Internai Economy, Raiiways, Banking and
Commerce. The Library, Printing, Standing
Orders, Debates, Divorce, and Restaurant
Committees are rather iight committees,
which we do flot look on as very Important.
Thne orner commîttees are tne active committees of the House, and we endeavoured,
as near as possible, to dIstribute the members.

THE RAILWAYS COMMITTEE.
SECOND REPORT ÂDOPTED.
The Order of the Day being called:
Considerat1on of the Second Report of the
Committee of Selection appointed to nominate
the Senators to serve on the several Standing
Committees.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN said: I move
the adoption of the second report of the
Oomxnittee of Selection. This report recommends that the number of tine Raiiways
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-I arn glad tlmat the Çommittee be increased to 45.
bon. gentleman places the Divorce nnd the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I would suggest that
Restaurant CommIttees on the same footing this motion be divlded into, two motions.
-that the Divorce Committee is a refresbing
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Tben 1 move
'committee.
the adoption of clause 1 of that report.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There was an ut- Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I tbink we are proceedtempt made to place the Hon. Mr. Landry lng uuwIseiy lu taking Immediate action on
ou the Divorce Committee, but it was said that proposai. I have a rlght to speak on
that be would not act.
a question of this kind, after a long expertence of thIrty years lu this House. The
Hon. Mr. LANL)RY-There was no
at- mile ndopted by the House is a valuabie
tempt iu that connection, but I am glad the
mile, and when any standing
acting president of that comxuitttee bas made and Important
ruIe of the House Ie to be afrected, notice
snch a full report.
is required to be gîven of sucli a motion,
and sucli notice should liot be waived, as
The motion was agreed to.
Is doue lu the ordiuary transaction of business of the Hlouse. I beieve that the proDEBATES AND REPORTING.
per way-and no lime wlll be iost-is to take
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved that the
up the consideration of this second report
following Se nators be the (Jommlttee on
to-morrow Instead of to-day. That would
Debates and Reporting:
nllow tbe proper time to pass, as required
Hon. Messrs. Béique, Bernier, Coffey, Ellis,
and another
Macdonald (P.E.I.), Poirier, Robertson, Tessier, by the ruies of the House;
thing ln connection wlth It ; It appears to me
Vidal.-9.
that the commlttee, inètead of asking the
The motion was agreed to.
adoption of the report as a whole, or even
lu clauses, should put it lu the form of two
DIVORCE.
distinct and separate proposais. The matHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved that the ters proposed are essentiaiiy distinct. The
following be the Committee on Divorce:
one Is to change a standing rule of the
Hon. Messrs. Baker, Gowan, C.M.G., Kerr buse, which bas been lu existence ever
(Cobourg), Kirchhoffer, Landerkin, Lougheed, silice the House was formed, and whicb bas
MeMullen, Templeman, Wood.-9.
been uecessary and useful, and which should
The motion was agreed to.
not be changed witbout a great deal of consideration. The other is a simple motion
RESTAURANT.
to add names to, a commIttee, which could
Hlon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved that tbe be done at any time. If it is desirable to
foliowing be tbe Committee on the Restaur- ndd five names nfter the addition bas been
sanctioned by the House, that motion would
ant:
just corne as a simple motion to add these
The Honourable the Speaker, and the Hon.
Messrs. Bolduc, McKay (Truro), McMiIIao, Mc- five names to the commlttee, but to proceed
Sweeney, Miller,
Pelletier, Sir
Alphonse, wlth a complex motion eucli as this, involvK.C. M.G.-7.
ing two distinct and separate thIngs. whicli
The motion was agreed to.
ougbt to bc kept sepamate, is ln my opinion
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

MARCI- 19, 1903
I tbink, therefore, iliat the con- committee should consider the question as
unwise.
aideration of the report recommending tbe to the proper number to be added, and the
Increase sbouid be deferred until to-morrow, matter couid be brotight up to-morrow.
to comply witb the Ruies, because 1 do not
Hon. Mdr. VIDÂL-I was flot objecting
think the suspension proposed ls nt ail suitto the increase, but to the mode of doing itable to a question of tbat kind.
flot proceeding correctiy.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-1 should like to say
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-Thie bon. gentleman
a word In connection with wbat tbe bon.
is not objecting to the number, but to the
gentleman from Sarnia bas said, with regard
change. Thue sbould
to the dlfficulty whlch the committee wbicb mode of making the
be given to that committee to bring lu a weii
'wns called upon to select standing committees met wlth. Complaints bave been num- prepared report on tbe matter.
erous for years as to the number of hon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
gentlemen who wislhed to be placed on com- flot tbiuk there Io any question as to the
inittees, the Railwey Committee especially. notice. The 13th ruie says an intermediate
It Is a moral, as well ns a pbyslcal, limpossi- day must Intervene between the day of the
bility to put eigbty members on a committee notice and the consideration. The motion
of only forty, and bere we bave simpiy now mnade by my hon. friend fromn Victoria
W0per cent of tbe members wbo are eligibie cau ouly be made wltb the unanimous confor tbe most Important committees of this sent of the House. The rule says :
House, a committee wbicb is popular, beOne intermediate day's notice, in writing.
cause every hou, gentleman inside and out- must be given of ail motions deemed speciai;
motion is deemed special which initiside of It likes to be ou tbat committee, and any subject od discussion.
ates a
nnd I am only surprised at the modernThis clearly intimates a subject of distion of tbe bon. gentleman wbo nsked that
cussion, and perhaps It'sbould stand tili tothe number be Increased to 45. In the
Morrow.
House of Commons, 176 niembers out
Hou. 'Mr. TEMPLEMAN-No objection.
of 213. or three-fourths of the members of the Hlouse of Commons are
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELII
lu would suggest that two additional senators
members of the Railway Committee.
this House we have not even tbat proportion. be added to that commlttee. I tbink SenaWitb this additional number only about f1ve- tor Wood (Westmoreland) shouid be apnintbs of tbe members would be eligible, pointed.
and I quite agree witb the remark wbich
Hon. Mr. WATSON-He is on four now.
tell fromn the bon, gentleman from KingHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Strike
eton that there are gentlemen In this House
who bave served for a number of years him off some other committee. My lion.
faitbfully, and it is quite impossible to put friend f rom Kingston, 1 tbink, sbould also
every one on that committee. If the House ho on that committee. Tbere Is also Mr.
ls going to increase the number of that comn- Landry.
mittee, a little tinie sbould be given to the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-No.
consideration of it, and the miatter sbould
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
be weil looked into, and 1, for one, will bo
prepared to vote for a greater increase of was rather a valuable member when be was
members than we bave now. The railway on the commrittee. I will not follow the exlegislation of this country is going to be ample of the bon. gentleman f rom Marquette
the muost Important legislation that comes by referring to wbat took place on tbat combefore tbls House. I thlnl t ls wise on the ittee. But to carry out the suggestion of
part of the House to carefully consider the the bion, gentleman f rom Lincoln, increase
nuluber of gentlemen that ougbt to ba on the number and take the men who underthat comniittee, and I am prepared from stand the questions, and who bave bad long
my place lu this House to advocate a much experience In the House and in raiiway matlarger increase than the numbar suggested. ters. There are tbree or four put on tbis
I therefore think, lu deference to the bon. year wbo took very great interest In tbese
gentleman who bas Just spoken, that the big enterprises and wbo understand tbe

52

SENAIF

Hlon. 'Mr. YOUNG-We bave always that
question. Let us carry it a little flurther.
of, difficulty of muembers desiring to serve on
If there are three-fourtbs of the House
Comrnittee and other commitCommons on the Rallway Committee, fifty 1the Ralwfy
our 1tees if you bave a lirnited number and tbat
would flot bie any too large a number for
0o 0 ofra
own House. I would Increase it and move 1nme sfo eata
Is concerned. I do flot know
tbat lt be lixed ut forty-seven ; or If it ls, this House
you wili be any further on If you
the wlsb of the Hlouse, make It fifty, and wbether
; bange the number to 50, in meeting the
suggest other names.
ail who wish to serve on that comHoi. 'r.
COT--jber isno easn wy ýwisbes of
wbo will
,1ldy mlttee, for you wilI find others off
i Houd n. sCtd.iberteti 11 n aso
to serve. 1 notice in the rules as
tand. 189 wtlion was cualled be glad
t shoue fat
and flot corrected that.at one time
an th
tha coinitte Bakin an Co-1,printed
senators composed that comrnlttee. The
-35
Now it
inerce Conîmittee. we did it lu the mode îîext change apparently wvas to 40.
atm
orietva
The coumittee can organize niybe reasonabl
suggested inow.
to say la
to-morrow and make n report, and the addi- and corne to 45. Wbat I rose
tliat this House ls proper]y warned to-day
tional senators be added any time.
proceed and take lnto
Honi. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-iIiC and may regularly
consideration tbe changing of the Standing
giveni.
iîecessary notice lias beeni
clArs and rvise the number to anytblng
e popelySUII
YOUNG.-MVdth 'referetice to-----------------bae-Hlou. M.%r4
opdersu
the question raised by iiiy bion. friend fî*olii th ioe, fo they bYavd eeei r uodr
h 1ikadw
yesterday this miatter was discussed nndb
Sarnia.
Hou. M1r. GLBSON-If that Is lu order, lalnformually as to the effect of the recomineilof the Strlklng Comrnlttee and it' asrnucb ais the notice bas been given to
dation
I rnlght
n'as decided that the effect of that recoin- ralse the number to 45 members,
was to change the standing order'! be permlitted to offer on amendment, and
mendation
the lengtb of
of this House and our Clerk followed the Nhlle 1 do not wlsh to go to
the ruies laid down and issued representation as tbey have it Iu the House
course xvichl
of the members
.a gpecial summons to every senator, I take of Commons--three-fourths give us 60 rnernreceived one ; und hie did that, of the House, whicb would
it, because 1
leader of
niot In accordance witb Rule number 13, but' bers--the suggestion made by the
opposition would be right-say 50. We
the
hlchread witbRule16,
to 61 inenbers If we bad
No motion for xnaking any Order a Standing, would lie entitled
fCm
os
ste
rooto
Order can be adopted unless the Senators intesm
oi
rprinasteHue0
m
attendauce on the session shall have been pre- t
,mons. If I arn In order I would move that
vicusly sunimoned to conzidtr the saine.
n
5 t
en
ubr
con- cresed tof 50.
Therefore, so fur as the procedure isorder cesdt
0
we are perfectly in
cerned, I fancy
mIle preID consldering tbe question to-day. Rule '16~ Hon. Mîr. SCOTT-I tbink the
that the recommendatioi rnust corne
does not say that two days' notice shall be vails
I made
given, or any other number of days. It jUSt from the comrnittee ltself. In 1899
4 bc
ays notice sball be given. Thut belng the a report recomimending tbat paragrapli
very prop-! ureuded to increase the Banking and Conicase, the gentleman frorn Victoria
regard to
erly divided bis motion so tbat tbe Houge 1merce Çomrnîttee, and airo witb
of senators 1,the Comrnittee on Rallways, Telegraphs and
would decide upon the nuniber
be Increased.
wbo sbould serve on the Standing Committeea Harbours, that tbe number
Harbours- %,yobject In asking tbat It ho postponed
of Railways, Telegrapbs and
make that
wbether it sbould bie f orty or forty-five. until to-morrow is ln order to
It ls simply fohlowilg
now ha-! recommandation.
Tbat Is really the question tbat is
made by the
fore the House, and very properiy so. The precedent. The changes are
In- House on tbe recommendatiofi of tbe cornbon. senator from Lincoln suggasts that
called
stead of forty-five we sbould bave fifty-at muittea. The House bas been proparly
no doubt and we can carry it as it is;
least somebody suggested that.
desire to Increase the numHon. 'Mr. SULLIVAN Thiat is riglit- but If it is the
her furtlier jet it go until to-morroW.
fifty.

Hon. S;r M.XCKENZ[EBXE

MARCIT 19, 19035
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The lncreased to 24 iu 1873, to, 28 menibers in
-cornrnttee bas been adopted by the Hlouse 1875, to 34 inembers lu 1877 and to 39
and an meet to-rnorrow, and If It be neces- members ia 1878. Then the Camrnlttee on
sary ta make that recommendation it eau be Rallways was separated tram the Banking
doue. A point was ralsed by the hon. Iand made a separate cormlittee of 25 meuisenatar frore Manitoba and we should have. bers Iu 1879. It grew to 83 members Iu
the ruling of the Speaker for our future 1884, ta, 39 members la 1890 ta 41 members
In
guidance. 1 must confess on readlng the Iu 1892 and ta 45 mnembers Iu 1893.
ruies 1 cannot take the vlew hie daes. The those days I tliink the practice was that the
13tb rule pravides dlstinctly aud pasltlvely leader of the House brought lu a motlou-1
that a day shall Intervene before we presurne after consultation with the leader
eaun consider a motion whlch Initiates of tbe opposition-and the members uamed
'a subject for discussion. Tbat le clear ln tbe motion tarmed the commlttee. No
and positive; but the 14th rule deals doubt pressure was broughit upon the govwith the question of ehanglag the stand- ernment ta sucb an extent that it was
ing order of the House, lays dawn the course tound better ta have a Striklng Cornrnttee
'whicb should be pursued betore we eau do, and tbrouglb it lu the year 1894 a railIt, aud It le this:- If we desire ta change %Nay conimittee of 35 inembers was
tlle standing orders of the Hanse, we mnust appainted. In 1899 the number was the
natlty aIl the members of the Senate that saie, and inlof190 it was increased. ta 40.
such Is ta be considered. Now, thiat bas: The lucrease nt the tume was five, and if
been doue ; but even thougb that naY I %ve adopt this report uow by another inbave been doue, daes that abrogate or nulllfy crease of five members the number wll be
the 13th mule whlch says au intermiediate braughit up ta 4.5. This is surely large
day shaîl intervene. It Is Just as weli that enouglu. We rnight as well dispose of it
the Speaker should mile on this Point iu uaw and bave done with the matter.
order that lu future we shall kuow wbat
Ho.M.GBO -ti
vdntelOn
1113 pinonou y
t s.
wn piionIsmember bas nat bEen a member of the
onite
that tbe lOth mule does nat nullify the other Srkn
te.
-that no matter what change we rnay wish tkigom
ELLLS-I wvas last yenr.
ailow the lnterrnediate~ Hoit..
ta miaLe we rnust
I theO lihon. gentieHon. '.%I.
day ta lutervenle.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I tliink it wauld be man was, bie must knaow haw difficuit It
better ta praceed wltb the report of the is ta please the. hon. gentlemen wba desire
cornmittee ta-day and dispose of It. If a ta, be ou that cammlttee, and they ought ta
report should corne tram the comrnlttee to- De on that committee. We are not casting
xnorrow another day must elapse befare we auy rellections ou the House of Commous
-cau deal with it and that will briag us ta la speaklug of the number on their Rallway
.Saturday. 1 arn not in syrnpathy wltb the Committee. The work of the Rallway Com,desîre ta be ou the Ralway Committee or' mlttee of this'House is as Important as It
ta enlarge the cornmittee. The hon. gentie- 15 lu the Hanse of CommQns committees.
mian tram Lincoln bas reterred to the Ral Our rallway legisiatian Is becoming very
w~ay Cormlittee of the Hause of Cammons. important and the number of applications
ýOîe does nat like ta refleet ou anather'ie constautly lncreaslng. Theretore every
braucbi of the legis!ature, but if thse ex- !section of the Dominion shauld be repreample ot that cornrittee is one that we are! seuted on that committee. For that purpose
asked ta follow, I sbould like ta spend the the Striklug Carnmittee have endeavaured, as
rernainder of Lent over it bef are decidiug that far as Is lu their power ta do wlth thse
it Is the best thing ta do. Thse nlumber of number of gentlemen ou the commlttee, ta
inembers Iu the Senate lias nat been greatly try lu every way passible to make the Railincmeased since the Senate was iustituted. but way Carnrittee as repi'esentative as we
wheu the Senate wns first farmed Bankiug'eau, but we must recoileet the tact. and
eind Commerce and Rallways, Telegraphs and legisiate accardlngly, that aur country Is
Harbaurs were under one eammittee, cou- grawing and the needs of railway legisia-sistiug of 18 inlembers.

The number was'tion are lncreuslug year Dr yeim s0 that we

SE NA TE
should be In a condition to have such a
number on thet commlttee as wlll give general satisfaction to, the House and make It
a representetive commlttee from every part
of Vie Dominion.
Hon. Mr .SULLIVAN-No hion. gentleman has referred to, the principal object
whlch afrIkes me, and, I suppose, other
members of Viet commlttee. It ls to keep
ln touch wlth legisiation going on. If one
ls flot on that commlttee he loses track of
11L À Bill la lntroduced and le read Vie
second Urne. No hon. gentleman expleins
11L I have seen Bill after Bill pess Virougli
Vis House without any explanetion.- I
eannot force an bon, gentleman to rend hie
Bull or allow me to study ILt. My sole ohet ln wlshing to, be on that committee le
to keep In touch with Vie legisiation.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tbere lo no objection to s.ny members of Vie Senate attendlng Vie meetings of Vie commlttee. If you
make Vie commlttee larger Vian It now le,
we muet of course have a larger quorum
Vian we now have, end muet have a larger
room and accommodation. If you enlarge
Vie committee by five that ehould be sutldient for Vis year. Any member can lie
present In the committee and address the
Chair.
Hou. '.%r. SULLIVAN-Aud lie caii be
put out
Hon. MIr. WATSON-No.
Hon. 31r. SULLIVAN-I know liow it is.
I have been there and I have been put out

the Railway Committee too large, to the
detriment of the other committees whici2
may sit at the same Urne.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We should bear
Vhis ln mmnd, that the rallway legisiation is
reaily threshed out ln committee, and I do
flot think we should restrlct the number of
this commIttee s0 as to, exclude any- hon.
gentleman who wishes to serve on lt, because we know that ail those railway Bis
are deait with there and are rarely discussedl
on the floor of the House at aIL The work
is very effectuaily done ln the committee. I
cannot see any objection to increasing hils
commlttee to 50. As for the quorum havlng
to be Increased, that would not necessarily
follow, and the attendance et these commlttees, I arn sorry to, say, notwithetandlng
the desire of members to be on the committee, le not always large. I have seen
occasions when It was dlfficult to get a
quorum. No doubt a good, deal of feeling
existe ln the Senate on his question. It dld
flot originate from any action of the Strlklng
Committee this year. It wae lest year.
Some of the old members of the Senate
who lied served for years on that comnmittee found themeelves struck off. They
naturally feit thet tbey lied been unfalrly
dealt with and Vie friction existe stili. The
best wey to get over It le to Increase the
number to 50. The names of gentlemen
have been suggested who ought to, be on
the commlttee. The hon. gentleman from
W'estmoreland (Mr. Wood). and otbers whe
have been most useful members of the
conimittee, who bave local knowfedge of
value to tbe comrnittee. should be on lt,
and by increaslng the number that could
The leader of the opposition
be doue.
lias asked for a ruling on that point. It
is desirable tbiat we should bave it. I
agree wlth my hon. frlend. I do not think
ulie 16 abrogates Rule 18.

Hon. '-%r. OWEN-I have no doubt the
suggestion to Increase the Railwey Committee to 50 or 60 would be very popular
wltb several Senators, but we muet bear ln
mind Viet elthQugh the Railway Committee
ls an Important one It le not the ouly one.
If we lncrease the Railway Committee to
Vie extent suggested, I fear other commlttee
work wlll suifer. The hon, gentleman saye
Thxe SPEAKER-I have not looked into
Vie quorum muet lie lncreased ; thet le not the matter, but 1 arn disposed to think
the whole of It ; you muet decreaee the tlîat, taking a strict view of the question,
quorums o! the other committees. The Rail- the lion, leader of the opposition is correct
way Commlttee site very frequentiy and we il, tbiuiuig tbiat Rule 13 should apply lu a
bave already experlenced the dlfficulty of case of tbis klud. At tbe saine tirne. tbis
obtaining a quorum o! the other committees lIonise lias bad a practice. and 1 do liot tbink
whlle the Railway Committee was ln ses- Ille practice bias been as indicated ln Itule
sion. 1 merely mention this so that Vie 13. 1 think the practice is as iuidicated by
House will not faîl into the error of making 1the hon.

gentleman

fromn Killaruley

RHon.

MAIRCII 19, 1903
Mir. Young). There is this further observation wbicb I wisb to make: under the circunistances, baving regard to the general prac-I
tice and to tbe apparent unanimity of feeling
ln tbe flouse, we migbt proceed to-day and
deal witb tbe ecommendation in tbe report
submitted yesterday ; but I do not tbink It
wouid be camrying ont the spirit of our
miles to aliow an amendment sucb as thiat
proposing a furtber Increase, to be put to
the flouse to-day witbout any notice.
Several bon. gentlemen bave ieft for bornemany of thein probably under the impresSion tbat tbere was not to be aay furtber
amendment proposed to tbis rule; and I do
not tblnk it wouid be carrying out tbe spirit
of our mules to slow witbout any notice wbatever the proposed change f rom forty-five to
fifty. If I migbt be aiiowed to add furthier,
I tbink it Is a good thing to bave the experlence of gentlemen of the flouse of Coinmons here, but our own experience is worth
something, and I do not tbink thiat the expemience of this House wouid dictate to us
that we should try to assimulate our committees and our mode of procedure with the
committees and the method of procedure of
any other chamber. 1 think thiat ln dealing
witb tis report, thle second paragraphi ls
the one which shouid be deait withi flrst.
You cannot increase tbe committee until
you bave altered the mIle whichi fixes tbe
number.

M4essieurs Baird, Sir John Carling, Cochrane,
Eilmor and Kerr (Toronto) be added to the
Oommittee on Railways, Telegraphe and Harbours.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I did flot nnderstand
the decision of the Speaker. Is that decision to be taken as a final one on tbe point,
or just an opinion to be revised ?
The SPEAKER-lt Is just my opinion,
given without any deliberation; but lnasmucb as it Is intended to expedite the business, and the Senate bas acted on the opinion, I do flot suppose I sbouid be expected
to give any otber opinion at a later period.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-If I understand tbe
decision of His Honour the Speaker, the
practice of this Hlouse prevails over the
former ruies. It Is a very Important precedent. 1 understand that tbere are two
miles, one of which is positive, and our hon.
Speaker says ln tbis instance practice should
prevail over ItL I do not say tbat it sbould
flot, but it is a precedent wbichbhas a certain
gravity, and that is wby I bave asked the
Speaker wbetber bie bas given a final deciSion.
The SPEAKER-lt Is perfectly understood
thiat the Speaker of this House bas flot the
saine authority ln dealing with questions
of order wiiicb the Speaker of tbe otber
flouse bas.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Hle sliould bave.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN nioved the adThe SPEAKER-That Is another matter.
option or paragraph two of the report :
Acadia (Hon. Mr.
2. In order that this recommendation, if ap- The hon. gentleman froni
pmoved by the Senate, may operate immediately, Poirier) misapprehended what 1 said. I
youm committee mecommend that rules 16 and stated that, looking at the question as a
17 of 'Ruies. Orders and Forms of Proceedinga
o! the Senate of Canada ' be suspended, and fresb question-sonIetbiug coming before
tbat pamagraph 5 of mule 80, as ameaded by me for the first time, 1 shouid hold tbat the
order o! the Senate, made on Marcb 23, 1889, tbirteenth rule did apply ; and 1 think tbat
be further amended so as to read as follows :
5 The Committee on Raiiways, Telegmaphs strictiy speakiug tbe thirteenth mule does
ond Harbours. composed of forty-five members. appiy to tbis case ; but 1 proceeded to say
The motion was agreed to.
that the practice of the Ilouse bad not been
in that direction, and as there seems to be
Hon. Mr. TEM.NPLEMýA«N moved the ada sort of barmony of opinion in the Senate
option of the first clause :
as to the desirability of the changes pro1. Your Committee recommend that the Cointhink it would be just the
mittee on Rallways, Telegraphs and Harbours posed, 1 did not
be increased ià number from forty (40) to thing to insist for the first tume upon a
fomty-five (45) members.
rather rigid interpretatioli of the muie. The
House wiii remember that it was suggested
The motion w-as agreed to.
yesterday that we should do this tbing bY
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMIAN mioved the ad- unanimous consent, witbout any notice wbatoption of the third clause :
ever. The notice bas been given, and I
3. In pursuance of the said amendaient, your thouglit it was a case where it was not
Honourable
committee

recommefld

that

the

SE-NATE
well to be too rigid ln the interpretation of corne under Rule 16, but as I said before I
the rules.
do flot thlnk this was an occasion for insiston
Hon. «-%r. POIRIER-If that ruie applies, lng& that rigld Interpretation of the rule.
It requires the unanimous consent of the
HnM.PIIRl
a
ue1
hc
Hous. Iundestad
myhon frind romI Med_ I dld not ralse any objection to the
Sarnia (Mr. Vidai) bas objected.
There- decision of the Speaker. It Is slmply to
+J.tAlJut.
fa
*e
-4
4.
+1.
1ý
jua
cail the attention of the House to tbe gravHouse.
But vei override that to follow ai lty of our departlng frorn the statutes and
certain practice of wbicb I arn not lnforrn- fixed ruies.
ed. This is my 2Oth session ln the House
Hou. Mr. YOUNG-To-day we were
and my experience lias heen that whenever
a formai rule was departed from it was chauging a standing order and the mule he
only witb the unanimous consent of the quotes la the ordinary suspension of the
House, whlch we have not to-day.
rules of the House just for an occasion,
and afterwards tbe rule la ln full force in
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe any other matter. Iu this we are cbanglng
rule does not say anythlng about unanirnity. the standing order of
the House.
Tbe Speaker is correct as to practice and
usage, if he liad gone a littie further and
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-And it Is stili worse.
sald-and I think you will find ln the Jour- We have no unanimlty.
nal it is said-with the unanirnous consent.
It la often desirable, 'o-len we wish to save
THE ALASKAN BOUNDARY COMUrne, to act with the unanirnous consent
MISSION.
of the House, and when no objection is takea
the practice is as stated by the Speaker.
Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-Before the House
But wben an objection bas been taken to adjourus I wlsh f0 cali the attention of the
the procedure and the senator persists in leader of the House to the followlng parabis objection, we are obliged f0 follow the grapli la to-day's 'Citizen':
rifle. I think 1 suggested myseif yesterday,
Lieutenant Governcr Sir Louis Jette arrived
that If sbould be witb the unanirnous con- here yesterday fron Quebec and la consulting
sent of the House and under those circum- witli the P-irne Minister in reference ta the
Alaskan boun.Iary commission, to which he has
stances we have otten proceeded as bas been been appointed. Sir Louis will not be suplndicated by thle Speaker, but not without planted in the lieutenant governorship of the'
province for the present, but wlll be given
that.
leave by the Govemnor General.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Following that unani-' 1 shw uld like to inquire if there is any
mity the notice wns given.
truth lu thaf information given ln the newsThe SPEAKER-I wish to cali the atten- paper.
tion of tîte lion, gentleman froni Acadia f0
Hon. Mr. SCOITr-Thc only trutb is the
Rule 17. A grcat number of hou. gentlemen think that this case we bave been tact that Lieutenant Governor Jette lias been
deallng wltb cornes under Rule 17 and not namied on the A1laskan boundary commission.
under Rule 16. My own opinion is that It
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there nothlng
cornes under Rule 16 and Rule 13 follows. about Mr. Langelier as acting Lieutenant
I m'ay be wrong and the other bon. gentle- Governor
during Sir Louis Jetté's absence ?
men riglit. Rule 17 reads:
No moticn ta suspend, rnodify or arnend rcny
ruie or part thereof, shahl be in order, except
on onie day's notice in writing, specifying lirecisely the ruls proposcd to be suspended, modified or amended, and the purpose of such suspension
Non-. the motion before the House was f0
xnodify a rule. Notice was given, and if
Rule 17 were to apply the proceedings would
be megular. My own impression is that Rule
13 does apply, and that this case would
Tbe SrEAKER.

Hon. '.%I. SCOTT-I do not
thing about that.

know

any-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose there are
sorne things that take place in the cabinet
that are not given to ail the memnbers.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The press usually gets
ahead of the members of the cabinet.
The Senate adjourned.

MARCII 20,190:3)
THE SENÂTE.
Oitaiva, Fridau, Marck 20, 1903.

Bill (27) An Act respecting the Canada
National Railway and Transport Company(lion. 3Ir. Landerkin<i.

The SPEAKER took the. Chair at Three RIWY
C'elok.
1MENT
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (A) An Act for the relief of W'illiam
Allen.--(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
Bill (B) An Act for the relief of William
Francis Schooley.-(Honi. Mr. Perley.)
Bill (C) An Act for the relief of Johin
Reid Steele.-(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
OF
DISALLOWANCE
ACTS.

PROVINCIAL

MOTION.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved:
That an humble Âddress be presented to Ris
Excellency the Governor General ;praying that
His Excellency will cause ta be laid upan the
Table of the Senate. copies of ai carrespondence betin een the goverament of the Domninion
and the governmentg of the dIfferent provinces,
and of the territorial government of the NorthWest Territory relating to the disallowance of
any Act passed by such governments tram the
date of the last return made ta parliament.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senateadjourned.

THE SENATE.

USDE

C

IED

BILL.
FIRST READING.

A blessage xvas recelved from the House
of Commons with Bill (12) An Act to amend
chnpter 8 of the statutes of 1900 autllorlzlng
the granting of rallway subsidles
The Bill wns rend the first time.
Hou. M~r. SCOTT moved thiat the Bill be
rend the second time on Frlday next.
Hou. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-MýNight
1 ask the hon. gentleman If the government
accept the principle of this Bill ? It was
Introduced by n private member in the other
House.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-I thouglit it was a
governuient Bill. I tbiought it reierred to
the proportion pald on the subsldles-the 60
per cent.
The SPEAKER-I suppose the bon. minlster moves in bis private capacity ns a
member of this House thiat the Bill be rend
the second tiine on Friday.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
well to bave n Speaker who can drnw the
distinction.
The motion wvas ngreed ta.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Elght
o'clock.

DELAYED RETURNS.

Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-Before the Orders
of the Day are called, and in the absence of
and routine proceedings.
Prayers
the hion. niember froin Queeu's, I should
BILLS INTRODUCED.
like ta inquire of the Secretnry of State
bring down the reBill (S> An Act ta amend the Expropria- whether hie is rendy ta
turns asked for iu n motion passed by this
'Seott).
HIon. M'.%r
tion -let-(
on the 19ti 'Mari-e lnst witb respect
Bill (49) An Act to amend the Civil Service Honse
ta the inovements of the winter steamers
Superainnatioil Aet-il-Hon. Mr. Seotti.
betweeni Prince Edward Island and the
Bill (9) An Act to amend the Yukon Terrinininland?
tory Aet-ffHon. Mýr. Teiînplenini.
SCOTT-I shahl take n note of It
Hon. M-Nr.
B ill (10) An Act to amend the Act relatlng
in the and make an inqniry, and try to bave lt
to the Custody of Juvenile Offenders
p)rov-iii(ee of New Brinnsviek-(H-oni. Mr. broîglit down prompthy.
.Scottý.
INCREASED SUBSIDIES TO THE
Bill (11) An Act to aînend the Act respectNORTHI-WEST TERRITORIES.
iiig tile plifcationi cf the Statxutes-îHoni.
INQUIRY.
Mr. Tgiinpleinanti).
Hion. Mr. PERLEY-Before the Orders of
Bill (12) An Act to amend the Criminal
the Day are proceeded with, I desire toansk
Scottl.
'S2(Hx.%Ir.
Cotie.

SENATE
the leader of the governuient If lie bas liad
eny communication from the premier of the
Nortb-west Territories wlth respect to an
incrense of the subsldy this year ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not that 1 arn aware of
recently. There bas been correspondence
passing, I know, between tbe premier of the
North-west Territories and the government
on that subject, but 1 amrn ot able to Inform
my lion. friend as to the decision arrived at.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I should like to say
that on Saturday last I met one of the mernbers of the North-west goverument, whe
ha;ppened te be a resideut ef the town ln
whlch I live, and I remarked to binm tbe
Nerth-west Assembiy were to meet to-morrow. He said they were, but that they were
going to adjourn lmmediately. I sald ' Wby
do you meet, then V' He said 'We bave to
meet within tbe year, and the year will be
up on Saturday. The reason we bave te adjoura [s we have flot enougb rnoney to carry
on the affaire of the country.' T noticed last
year the governrnt lncrensed the grants te
the Nerth-west TerrIteries by $18,00"1$,000
on Government House, $2,000 on registrars
and $15,000 for the Insane. The other
amount, wbicb was for roads and bridges
and expenses ef governrnent, bias not been
Increased any. It le well known that there
was a very large increase of population
ln the North-west Territories last year, and
this year the Influx promises te be stili
larger, and ronds and bridges and sehools
have to be provided for these people. The
territorial government cannot legIsiate now,
because they cannot do s0 intelligently.
Thiey expect haif a million dollars, but even
that wouid be too small a sumn te enaRblc
thern to construct the rends and briuges
whieh are necessary fer the people who
went lu there hast year and ire going ln
there this year. My* reason fer risiiig non'
is that the assernbiy meets te-niorrow and
it is a pity te have them adjourn, because
they meet at a great expense, and they wiIl
certainly have te adjourn, because the Ceinmissioner of Agriculture toid me it was
utteriy Impossible fer thein te go on and
legishate with the funds tbey have. Whiat I
desire ln calling attention te tlils matter now
is this -,If the governrnent iutend te give
them aiiy increase of subsidy over and abeve
what they had hast year, It wouid be bette!
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

te iiotify tiiem. They could be uiotified ternorrew, for instance, by tehegrapb, and
then they need net adjourn, and they miglit
go on and transact business without loas of
time. This ls the time et the year the
money le needed, because the governiment
kuow tbat very large numbers of people are
golng into that country. They bave te cross
the amali swollen streams at this tirne cf the
year, and It le almost impossible fer tbem te
get acress themn witbeut bridges. The geveruiment of the terrîtorles cannot build
bridges because they are wlthout the means.
It la evident tbe governiment bave bad the
matter under consîderation, because I see
tbey bave made the Increases I bave mentioned, but notblng la ad about the Increase
for ronde and bridges and acbools, evîdently
showing that tbey de net intend givlng any
more. If that le se, tbey sbould say so
plainly. If they de intend to give the territories any more, they sbould say 'in a few
daya we will prevîde the grant ;' etberwise
the legisiative assembly wiil have te ndjourn, and wli net meet until late ln Juiy or
August, because the supplementary estimates
corne down the last of the session nearly. and
the assembiy cannot adjourn wlth any definite knowledge as te wben they should
meet again. I mereiy cail the attention of the
gevernment to thîs condition 8f thlngs so
that they may rernedy it, and prevenlt Rn adjournrnent ef the assernbiy or give tiin
some Intimation as te hew long they sheuid
adjourn. Suppose they adjourn for six weeks
and the supplementary estimates are uet yet
voted, tbey weuid have to adjourn again untiI Auguat or September, and that weuid be
teo late to do anytbing tbis year tewards
building reads and bridges.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The gevernmnent are
fuliy alive to the situationi and fully appreciate the condition of affairs lu the Northlwest, and that the governinent there cani
not le rnaintnined on the narrow basis financiaily tînt bas existed during the past few
years. When I amn ln a position te give the
facts te the House It wili le seen, netwittbstanding the adjeurnments, thiat the geverniment of the Xorth-west have beea pretty
iiberally spending meney iast year. far ii-yond the ameunt veted by parhiiiaent.
1
cannet speal, defiinitely as te the amount
over and above, but it Is a very large sumovet' a hundred thonsand dollars-se the

AýPRIL 15, 1903
n iigbt be granted so that froni year to year
t]hey mîigbt be lu a position to Intelligently
il etermine what public works tbey could
arry out for tbe benefit of that part ef
c~
look
tiLie Dominion. If hon. gentlemen u'ill
t tbe estimates voted *by the federal gova
of
erament since 1896 for tbe construction
ublie works ln tbe territories, tbey will find
p
t he estimates to be alaiost nothiag. In fact,
to
s lace the advent of tbis governmeiit
iower, no attention bas been given to carryi ng on public works of tbe character I bave
aentioned la that country. The late goy~rament did expend considerable money ln
la unfortunate )uildlng bridges and la making roads, traits
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It
Into coasiderathat every session of parliament fands prac- nd se on, but wben you take
tlon that over 250,000 people are now in
tically a repetition of tbis complaint madet
the territorial
as to tbe inadequacy of tbe grant allowed the territorles, and you ask
goveramelit. That grant government to admiaister the affairs of
te tbe North-wvest
bridges, to
bas certainly not been Increased In propor- that vast country, to construct of educaincrease In tbe popula- mnake roads, to carry on a systemn
tion to tbe very rapid
requiremlentS of
tion of tbat country. W-hen one takes into tien commensalrate witb the
territorially there Is a Coni- the varied population in tbat territory, you
consideration tbat
Impossibllity
tinent practically to be opened up to meet can very readily Imagine the
inconiing population of meeting the public ivants. 1 cannot
the requiremfents of tbe
does
-streama to be brldged, roads to be built, conceive -vhy the federal govenielit auand malntained not grant to tbe territorial government
scbools to be erected,
for from
througb tbat vast territory. almost sevea tonoini sucb as bas been prayed
ln lengtb by four year to year. It seemis to mue that would
or eigbt buadred miles
question. It la
or five bundred miles ln breadtb-aad wben be a solution of the whoie
that every year in tbe Intereats of Canada that tbat country
one takes Into consideration
in tbe lnterest
tbere is settiement going nortbwards, and sbould make progresa. it is
three ap- of the entîre Dominion that everytbing
this session we bave practIcally
requireplications for three transcontinental systems shouid be done to mieet the publie if the
Canadian Pacifie mnents lu that vast terrltcry, and
of railway north of the
crlticising the
Raiiway systcm, one can appreciate the Secretary of State, Instend of
to tbis expeaditure w-bieb bas 'alrendy been made-reasons whiell present tbemselves
governmeflt why tbe territorial goverlimelit
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did net criticise It.
sbould lae generously deait witb ln tbe
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Aad saying tbey
niatter of public grants. 1 refer to tbree
bave oveispeut tbe estimate made at tbe
transcontinental systenis of railway. The
session o! parlianient, If be would with
Grand Trunc Pacifie la applying for power last
give
aind fifty tbe other members of the governmfelit
to build a rond somne one huudred
some consideration to the prayer wbicb
miles north of the Saskatchewanl river. We
bave offered up for years past, tbat
find the Trans-Canada niaking aipplication they
provincial autonomy be given tbem the
for pom-ers to bilild througbi the Vence river
sanie as to otber parts of Canada, it would
country, and the Canada Northern looking
be a bappy solution 0f the wbole question.
to the governmnit for nid to build along tbe
bas yearly
w-ho bave The premier of the territories
Saskatchewvan valley. Very feu'
corne down and play the part of a supto
not been over tb(It v'ast country can appliant at the feet 0f the Dominion goverliprecinte the wants of the territorial govern- ment, spendiag iuvariably froni two to tbree
The territorlil goverament have
ment.
montbs la Ottawa seeking tbe paltry pibeen, for seine tinle, suppliants before the
tance wbich is yearly voted. That applies
federal governiiwent, that provincial powers
and applies to the late
revenue to this government
might be given theiln, that a fIxed

question of money bas been some'wbat antlclpated before parliament met ; therefore,
my bon. friend's remarks do nlot apply practically to that feature of tbe question, as
tbe territorial governinent bave flot been
wlthout money, aithough It bas nlot been
voted by parliament. Probably witbin a
week, or less tban a week, we wiIl know
what la tbe amount of tbelr wants, or wbat
will satlsfy tbem, and 1 think it will. be
shown tbat tbe goverament of Canada are
treatlng the Nortb-west on as liberai a basis
an tbe circumstances wIll justify.

SENATE
goveranment. Wby shouid a goverument like friend has referred and that they have been
eur territorial government be placed in the treated on a very liberal basis.
humiiating position in which they have
been placed, say for the last decade at least THE BARR SETTLEMENT IN THE
NORTH-WEST TERRITORIES.
ln thus supplicating the goverument at Ottawa year after year that an adequate
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the Orclers
amount should be voted to carry ont whatofteDyaecld.m
Iirtthalof
thay puli
the Day arert aoef
direc theat
is n te iteretso! ublc ad wattention of my hon. friend opposite (Hon.
he
Is ia the interests of the entire Dominion ?'
1Mr. Scott) to an article whichi appeared in
1 hope niy lion. friend, instead of looling the Toronto press referring to thse Rev. Mr.
into the expenditure of the few paltry dol- Barr, thse founder of thse Barr settiement ln
lars wvhich have been given, will look intoth
oh-e
TriresanImgtsy
thse question of why this government sbould the oret-wt
Tritr,
an I irect heay
mot granst tise wisis of tise pe-pie of the ter- i
oncinwt
t htIdrc
h
t
tention o! the government to the fact for
ritorles, whicis bas been publicly pro- Itepurpose of eliciting soute information
ciaimed-beeause public sentiment is unaiii-!a t
hti
en
on
atewyo
ntewyo
sblgdn
owa
mous upon it-namely, that provincial au- a
givels to thse territories Imakiug preparation to receive the vast
touomy slbould be
and that a fixed arnouilt should be paid and, crowds of emtigrants going into thse country
'tisprettm.Tseaicle
to which
im.Teai
as I said before, tise problent would be thepsn
I refer appeared in to-day's ' Mail and Emsolved.
pire' and reads as follows:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie hon. genitleman
Mr. Barr said he will get thse usuai bonus of
quite misunderstood niy remarks when be! $5 a head. whjeh thse Canadian government pays
to
for
says tisat I spoke lit a criticisîng niaiiner at who immigrants out agents anywhere in Europe
accept#able men. He gets a
can send
ail. 1 simply said the wants had increased,
as everybody knows, witisin a year, and the
money isad been found and lt isad heen
spent, altisougs not voted by parliament. I
said they had obtained money and that the
o! corse beaadBarr,
d
money ocorewouldb
recouped an
I have flot criticised
voted by parlianient.
the isectio o!
orthwestland
the o th Noth-estgovernment in
ctin
anticipating tiseir wants, because 1 realized
thywere wants o! an imperative characthey
ter. As to thse provincial autonomny, I tisink
If

Ijur

UV

VVtVL

AU
2

LU

IU

ests of thse North-west, tisat they sisould remain as they are. It wouid be quite impossible, ln tise transition wiic ls passing now,
to tix the amount whicis would have to
stand under our constitution for a number
of years. You cannot tell what the conditions o! that country wilI be. If one hundYed tisousand go in this year and a hundred
tisousand next year, It would be idle to predicate the allowance on tise past You could
not do lt. because you could not tell what
would be necessary. I suppose any governmient that isappens to have the control ln
titis country fully appreciates the value and
importance o! supplying the North-west with
ail lts legitimate deniands, and when the
Tacts corne to be known, I think it will be
recognized tisat there bas not been that necessity for the appeais to whicis my hont.
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED.

!commission of about $7 a heafi fromn thse steamship company, and he reaps some profit from
thse sale of supplies. These 2,000 people should
turn him a profit of considerably over $10,000
after deducting thse expenses of organization.
'I have no doubt of thse success,' added Mr.
*'thista oniy thse beginning. 1 had many
more w ho wantecl to carne. They wii arrive
later. Thse movement is not confined to Engor the British Islee. 1 arn getting iaquiries and arn accepttng Engliss coloniats fromn
the United States, front Egypt, from South
Africa, frorn Australia, frorn New Zealand, from
India. frorn Ceyloii, fromt China, and f romt every
part of tise world where there are Englishmen
1U
tefU~

Thc !urther reason 1 direct thse attention o!
my licn. frierid to this itemi lies lit tise !act
tliat tîtere.eeenis te be a systeni ty wvih ait
tii,.iutliorized persor. rny bring large niunbeés of emigrahlts into the Dominion of Cannda apparently without tise knowledge or aitisority of tise D)ominion goverament. Thiis 1
think is a systern that should not be encouraged, if it obtains, as would appear froni
the article I have mest alluded to. I xnight
say, I arrived lu Ottawa yesterday froni
thse Nortis-west, and there Is a very serions
apprellension la the minds of thse people o!
that country that, owing to the unprepared
state in whicis tise lands o! this particular
cornpany lie, there will possibly be very great
destitution this next ensuiing winter. It is
a well known fact that the railway companies <11- not assuiming respoilsibiiity for tilose

APRIL 15. 1903
thousauds of English emigrants who are jHou. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wherelanding at present on our shores. It would'abouts are tliey to-be located ?
seern that the goverument is flot assuming
Mon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Near Bateford.
any responsiblity, but they are belng. It w-ll be almost Impossible for them to
brought here at the Instance of private iu- renich tbeir destination wlthout speciai prodividuals. Wbien you take luto consideration vilsion belng made. I understaud the Canthat there are in the neighbourhood of three adia. Pacfie Rallway have divested theraor four thousand English emilgrants being iselves of ail responsibility lu the. matter.
transported, or to be transported, a hundred IThey ar
hmt
h
n
fterds
and seventy-five miles beyoud the presenti tiain carr them to theeand dum the es
railway terminus to a colony ln the Sas- The greatest difficulty prevails at the prekatchewan, lu the viclnity of Battieford, s-nt time iu gettlng the necessary supplies
ohv
where no buildings have been erected and tol1 ,ntfrcrfotbtsml
no lands have been broken, and no preplirl- their ueoesslttes satisfied. It ls unfortunate
tion made for their reception, you can readi- that et the present Urne the Minister of the
ly appreciate the apprehiension whicb existe Interior is absent in Emiope.
If destilu the public mind as to w-bat will be thel tuti. n shouîd prevail lu that colony
outeome of practically dumping them at this twlse
bakteiert
o lh
time of the year or at any other trne.
Nrhws
ertre
o
ubro
eritoristiforiannumbef
iNorh-w-est
Cuiealedsicinmyb
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-is the timber cut ? er.
drawn between those particular emigrauts
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is no tim- to whicb I have alluded and the United
ber eut. 1 understand supplies are belug States emigrauts, w-ho are familiar witb the
floated down the river frorn Edmouton. If conditions of the country sud corne prepared
this be the case, considerable time wll be td. ineet ail the adverse circumstances which
occupied lu gettiug those supplies, In the, miiy arise lu a new country. Consequently
meantime, the condition of mind la whicu: our sympathies do flot naturally go out to
those men w-i find thernseives, not speakiflg people w-ho are thus prepared to accept and
of the condition of body, w-i be anytbing meet ail adverse conditions; but there are
but favourable to the promotion of immigra- few emigrauts so helplet.;s as the Englilb or
tion Interests ln Great Britain. This corn- Europeaii emigrants lauding on our shores.
iallr hls >qent cosieaie H1OUy il, 1).) He is not familier w-ith the conditions which
moting our immigraticn interests ln Eugland. obtalun in this country. He bas been living
The preseut goverument is to be commended, under faly cornfortable conditions and extupon the extraordinary efforts 'which tbey riects to have ail the cornforts of civilization,
bave made In that direction, and I might and wn-e very w-ell know that if tlicse are
it is belng .appreciated to a very large not aceorded him he is the very prince of
-say
w-e kuow what the conextent by the people of tue territories.
I have rnentioned
But I rnlgbt point out that it ls Dot suffi- sequeuce w-iil be.
cient to miereir advertise the ndvantages of aiready that very serious complainte are
Canada lu Great Britain and elsewhere, if being sent to the English press on acthe systema ls going to end at that particular count of the lack of preparation beiug made
point. It ls vastly more important that a for their reception. This settlement, unthorough system shouid be devised, s0 that fortuuately, is one of those movemeuts wblcb
w-heu emîgrants corne to our shores they May perlodically seize the people of Engiand ln
be properly looked atter, so that the reports the matter of emigration. Emigration ln
which they send to their bornes, wbether It Eugland usually, instead of belng coube on thls continent or lu Europe, rnay be ducted ou business basis, emanates from
and
0f suncb a favourable character as wll lu- benevolent or philanthropie movernuts
duce other emigrauts to corne to Canada. iargely deVOid of souind business rnetbods ;
1 understaud those three or four tbousaud consequently w-e fi'nd the present condition of
Barr emigrants wl have to be transported things obtaining lu the eolony to whicb 1
by borses frorn Saskatoon to the colony have ailuded. I underbtand that the govw-hich they have selected. I tbinki this Is ernmeut bas sent forNvard considerable eauvas, to accommodate those people, T underextrernely unfortunate.

Igrumblers-and

SE NAT E
stand tliat ail the tents available ln that
westerr country bave been procured. 1
cannot Impress on tbe govertiment too
strongly the necessity of taking Up this matter seriously. If Lt is flot taken up serlously
and placed in the bands of competent meni,
and particular attention given to, make prepartition for tbhe reception of tbese people,
incalculable Injury wlll be done to.our initerests. I arn satisfied the government do
r.ot wlsb to bave undone the work they have
so well begun, and therefore it would lie In
the interests of the wbole Dominion Ébat
this matter sbould lie taken Up seriously by
the cabinet.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn sorry snclb
statements sbould be made as tliose we bave
heard from the bion. gentleman frorn Calgary
Cn tbe basis of an Interview wltb Mr. Barr.
1 neyer met Mr. Barr until last nigbt, but 1
arn satisfied bie neyer autborized tbe Interview read by the bon& gentleman. He la a
shrewd business man, and I do flot tbinir lie
would give any newspaper reporter sucli an
Interview as bas been read. Tbis matter
bas been brouglit up ln anotber place, and
unnecessary alarai created as to the accominiodation furnislied to settlers. The bon.
gentleman opposite used to, find fault wltb
the government for bringlng Galiclans and
Doukbobors into tbe country : now lie objects to brIaging Englisbmnen into the
country.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mir. WATSON-Yes, tbe bon. gentleman says tbe moat belpless people cornag
ILto, this country are tbe Engliali. I bave
seen ia tbe press tbat bon, gentlemen ln the
otber cbamber bave visited the trains passIng tbrougb, and tbey report tbat tbey neyer
saw a fluer class of people cornlng into the
country tran those going to Mr. Barr's
settlenient. More than titat, I uaderstand
the'y are flot paupersHon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-I wiIl flot permit tbe lion. gentleman to absolutely falsify
and misrepresent wbat I said. I neyer said
anytbiag of the kind.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The boit. gentleman
si.id these men are belpless.
Hon. MNr. LOUGHEED-No, I said the
Englisli eigrant is belpiesa lit comparison
with the Americani.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Hon. Mr. LANDERICIN-Never.
Hon. ]Sr. LOUGHEED-If the bion, gentleman bad liî-ed on tbe plains as long as I
have, lie would not say so. I said aothlng
to, dîsparage tbe class of emîgrants brouglit
la. Qulte the contrary.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Tbe bon. gentleman
lias made a speecb wblch couid be used
by the enemies of tbls country to stop
settlement. Those coloalats bave transferred tipi and a baif million dollars to tbis
country. WItb money at tbeir back tbey
eau supply themselves In the w-est. 1 cati
tell the -bon. gentleman, from Information
received front the Immigration Department,
that there la noc lack cf accommodation for
I was told by tbe deputy
these settlers.
mninister tbat tbey bave accommodation la
Manît-uba and the Nortb-west Terrîtories
to-day for some 27,000 people, and tbey do
not, expeet to lie overcrowded. So far as
the Barr settiement lit concerlued, If the
lion, gentlemanm bad made inquiry hefore
lie spolie bie would leara tbat tbe goveriiment bad taken care to provide fer tbese
people. They bave erected tenta every 21)
tulles front thie train to the Barr colony
with floors placed ln tbem. and stoves to
beat tbem, and there can lie îîo suffering
or lack. of accommodation. I am told at
Win'nipeg tbere Is accommodation for 2.500ff
tbat bas never been occupied. 0f course.
a certain class of people go to the botela
and the botels bave been crowded, but for
the immigrant wbo Is willing to accept fair
accommodation, tbey bave la the drill baill
and otbier places sufficient accommodation
for sîl tbe-people arriving in tbe Northwest. At Saskatoon tbere are tenta -witb
stoves la tbem not occupied. ample accommodation for all tbe people coming liu,
sud I am ratber surprised at the lion, gentleman, who wisbes to, see tbe Nortb-west
settled and colonized, making sucb statenients as lie bas made to-niglit, blaiagn
the goverament for bringiag people bere,
aud blamlng tbem for not furaisbing accommodation. Tbere neyer bas been b-etter
accommodation furnisbed to immigrants in
the history of the goverament of Canada
titan tbere la to-day. The officiais employed
by the goveramnent are active men, as my
hon. friend kaiows well, and I undertake to
aay there xvill be no suffering on the -part

APRIL 15, 190'-J
à
of settlers going to the Nortlî-west. .So far 1 lritish Islands are nlot s0 experienced ln
as immigrants are concerned, large num- pioneer life as people from Eastern Canada
bers are coming i, but we ail know they or froni tbe United States, and on ail tbose
The Scandi- eonsiderations the bon, gentleman urged for
wl loo10k atter tbemselves.
otber toreigners coming to this t hese people the most earnest attention of
.navlans and
These immigrants may
country are well able to look atter them- t he goverument.
If any people require to be looked iave millions of money, but they cannot
selves.
Ive on that money ln the sense ef procuratter, I agree wlh the hon. gentleman that 1
emîgrants do. Tbey do not Ing dally bread If they are to be 170 miles
these EngliBli
understand our western lite, but the goveru- from a road and iu the heart of a country
ment are turnlshing tbem wlth ample ac- where it Is difficult to secure supplies.
Having seen tbese people, M4y hon. friend from Calgary calied the
commodation.
My hon. frlend agrees that they are a fine attention of the government te the great
strapplng lot ot Englishmen, and I ventureI importance of this question and pressed
to say they will take care et themselves-I them te make every possible provision
regret very mucli, after the efforts made to for the comfort of these people, and
Befere my lion.
temake them satisfied.
induce people to come to tbe Nortb-west,
ln
that any gentleman, particularly a represen- frlend had risen at ail, althougli I live
sbould rise anotlîer part of the country, I had been
tative f rom tbe North-wést,
serleusly
nnd make a speech ot wblch mucli could be thinking of this matter very
to attract our Im-i ln the very way the hion. gentleman has
made by people wlshing
This batch ot 8,000 immimigrants elsewbere, and used to a very great spoken.
be,
Is not a patriotic grants from the old country may
advantage. It certainly
and probably will be, the forerunners ot
speech comîng t rom a representative et the
hundreds et tbousands ef people-that Io,
North-west.
If the first Impressions tbey receive of this
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I shall feel very country are tavourable.
If, on the other
mucli surprlsed lndeed If the lion. Secretary hand, they find tbey are neglected-or Imof State wlll endorse the observations which agine they are neglected, and fled they are
have just been made by the bon. gentleman placed ln a position et dlfficulty with regard
Indeed I tully te obtainlng supplies and necessaries ot lite
trom Portage la Prairie.
expect that my hon. friend, the Secretary -If tbey find that attention la nlot glven
ot State, will express the thanka of the gev- tlîem whlcb Is their due, they will send
ernment for the very trIendly, the tîmely unfavourable accounts of thîs country to
and reasonable observations whicb were ad- the people at home, and prevent a great
dressed te the House and especlally to the many from corning to our shores. I bave
goverument by the bon. gentleman from feIt extremnely anious about thîs Britishi
Calgary. His observations were couched ln Immigration, because we have heard so much
the most friendly terms towards the goverfi- about United States citlzens coming Into
ment glvig them credit for what they have thîs country. I neyer regarded the United
done with regard to bringing people Into States Immigration Into our North-west in
the country, and very timely on the point any other lîght than a satisfactory one. 1 am
as to what sbould be done for tbem and glad to see tbem coming. I know tliey will
what Is due froni the government and peo- make good settlers, and when settled In the
ple ot Canada generally towards this very country, good Canadians ; but I sbould be
large and important lot ot emigrants coming sorry If those people should come Into the
I was surprised te country and settle It solidly. I should lîke
into the country.
hear tbe remarks of the hou. gentleman to see a good share ot the old British stock
from Portage la Prairie (Mr. Watson). I comîng la to be mîxed w1th tbem. Iu order
am sure he could not have heard any hon. that they may be welded Into one comThat bon.
friend trom Calgary ariglit.
munîty. I should be sorry te see the United
gentleman (Hon. Mr. Lougheed) was very States Immigration se solld that there
far trom speaklng dlsparagingly of these
should not be a fair balance maintaîned of
enîigrants, but lie voiced wit 1 am sure
comIng ln wltb them at
every hon. gentleman who understands the British subjects
knows, that emigrants from the the sanie time. ln order that tlîere may not
niatter

SENAIF
be danger of the country becoming Amencanlzed. Therefore, on this account I have
regarded with greater interest the flow of
British people into our Nortb-west at this
lime, than under otiier cireumistances. and 1
amn quite sure tbe hon. Secretary of State
wili flot disregnrd words which were flot
offered in a spirit of crltielsrn or fauit-findIng, but witb an earnest desire tbat the best
tbi.ng niay be done at tbis moment, not only
to settie the country, but to encourage others
to corne in and fI up our great North-west
In connection with this very
Territories.
question, we bave another rnatter ln connection witb the Inquiry rnade by rny bon.
friend frorn Wolseley (Hon. Mir. Perley) with
respect to the provision for tbe governent
of the North-west, and 1 rnust again
endorse wbat bas been said by the
bon. gentleman frorn Calgary wlth regard to granting provisionai autonomy to
the Nortb-west Ternitonies. They are seeking for It. It cannot be in the Interest of
the North-west, or of Canada as a whoie,
that the governent'and the people of the
territories sbould be put lu the position of
having to corne bere year after year as
suppliants to the governent to bave arnounts dôled out to tbern to rneet their growIng wants. The question sbould be taken
up ln a statesmanlike way, and steps taken
to grant tbern the full powers of a province,
and means of rnalntaining law and order
there, sirnilar to wbat bas been given to other
provinces, la order that the present unsatisfactory state of tbings rnay not continue.
Inl view of this Immense immigration frorn
tbe Ulnited States and Great Britain, as well
as frorn the older provinces of Canada, it is
very important the government should deal
immediately wltb the question of granting
provincial autonomy of the territories.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Wlhen the box>. gentleman from Calgary was aiddressing tle House,
I felt be bad not la view any of the Englisb
Immigrants who passed tbrougb bere tbe last
few days, or be would not have paid tbern
the questionabie compliment of supposing
tbey requIred any looking after. Tbey would
dlscIalm any intention of îeanîng upon any
body. Wben, about six months ago, appîlcation was made to the Department of tbe
Interior to set aside forty or fifty townsbips
ln the Saskatchewan vailey. west of Battieford, tbe deparîrnent discouraged it, because
Hon. INr. FERGUSON.

the policy of this governinent and of thie
past governaient, bas been to discourage
large bodies of congeniai people settiing ln
any one locality as strangers, because It 15
tbought an interrnlngling is very rnucb better wbere there Is a sprinkling of farmers
frorn Ontario and other parts of the Dorninion or from tbe United States. They understand the situation and conditions of the
country and are able to give pointers to
strangers. A large body corning la and being left to tbemselves, bave flot the sarne opportunity of gaining a knowiedge of the
country and tbe best rnetbods of carrying
on agriculture. However, tbe answer was
that tbey desired to bave a colony that
would be strictly an Engllsb colony, and
tbey were not prepared to take up the land
unleas it was reserved for tbern exclusively.
Under tbe circurnstances, they were allowed to take up a very large percentage,
seventy-five to niuety per cent of ail the land
lu those townships. From tbe interviews 1
bad read that have taken place betweell
members of the party and representatives
of the press that waited on them at
St. John, N.B., Montreal and other points,
tbey fully realize the conditions to be
Tbey
in the Nortb-west.
met witb
were quite familiar witb the fact that tbey
will be durnped et Saskatoon by the railway,
tbat tbey bave one bundred and fifty miles
to trek, and tbey bad sent ln advaiice to
obtain horses and wagons, alh that could be
Tbey bave
obtained, rnany montbs ago.
made arrangements for temporary fitting up
Tbey knew there were no
of buildings.
bouses ln that country. Tbey knew they aid
to live under canvas for six or seven montbs,
and were qulte prepared to accept tbe
Tbey liked tbe novelty Of
conditions.
11, and dld not as< for sympatby f rom
anybody. There were among themn men
with cousiderable arnounts of rneY, who
were prepared to lend rnoney on the land
taken up by poorer settlers to etiable tbem
to put up buildings. There were ail classes
among tbem, lawyers, doctors, clergymen,
famrlabourers, men with two and three
bundred pounds to start as Independent fanomk
lni
hi
n
mr
bad planned
They
perfect settlement.
it out before tbey left Eagland. They
had maps of the country and were familiar with every condition tbey were

APRIL 15, 1903
likeiy to encounter. Some of them bail made man is appolnted at Ottawa to go througb
arrangements to hire out with Canadian far- the trains and ask people wbether tbey have
mers for a year. Others bad abundance of any complainte, wbether the arrangements
money to live on for a year, without doing are satisfactory or whether tbey have ail
anything, before deciding whether to take the information or assistance they require,
Up farming or engage In smre other busi- so that at every point provision is made to
ness or occupation. No more Independent anticipate their wants If possible.
men ever came to this country than the :1,900
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I owe an explanodd men brought by Mr. Barr. It bas been ation to my hou. frlend from Marquette. In
found that flot only froin England, but from saying this, I did not inteud In any way to
other parts of the world, colonies of that disparage my bou. friend's lnterests ln the
irind are belng started. The government land company of whlch he is a director, adWe cannot joining the Barr settiement In the valley of
cannot Interfere with thein.
stipulate with tbem lu advance. It la very the Saskatcbewan. I fiud my hon. frieud
well known that lu the United States syn- is advertised as one of the dlrectors of the
dicates bave been formed -wbo have bought Ontario and Saskatchewan Land Corporaup land at varions points, and they bave tion, Limited, in which he states:
been our very best Immigration agents.
Our land immediately adjoins the Barr setThey have arranged witli forty, fifty or one tiement of British settiers and also Dr. Adams
buudred farmers to buy land for them and coiony of Nestoriaus, and the piaciug of over
organizations iu this
settie them. They purchase at three or four 20.000 settlers by theseyear practically assures
district within the next
dollars an acre and seni on time at seven or a rapld f ucrease in the value of our lands.
eight dollars an acre. Wc cannot interfere
I would suggest to my hon. frieud he
with that. We cannot stop them from com- should look after a proper reception being
ing into the country. The governmeut does given the 20,000 settlers .referred to.
ail that is possible to meet the emergency
Hou. Mr. WÂTSON-I sm evidently better
and to make provision for it. It s an exThirty or inforrned as to conditions ln the Saskatcheceedingly difficuit thing to do.
forty tbousand people coming Into a new wan country than my hon. frIend. The Oucountry, where there are no bouses exist- tario and Saskatchewan Company, like the
ing for miles and miles of prairie-a country Englishmen, are able to look after themwithout any habitation-people, recognizing selves.
that, coming eariy in the year make their
Hou. Mr. YOUNG-Had it not been for
arrangements to rougli It for a time, and the last remarks of the bou. gentleman from
tbey do not require the sympathy or the Calgary 1 would not have detained this
pity of anybody. Even those 'who have House ln this very Ivregailar debate, but
corne in under very much more adverse my hon. friend tbought he would have an
conditions-the Galiciaus and others, seem opportunity o! a filig ut the hon. gentleman
to have got on without auy marked suifer- fromn Portage la Prairie (Hon. Mr. Watson),
ing. They hired out on railways and other for he bas been digging among the papers
works in that country, and ln that way man- for the last bal! hour to find an advertiseaged to live a very much pleasanter and meut of tbe Ontario aud Saskatchewau Land
more successfnl life than they had Iu their Clompany. My hou. friend from Calgary
own country. 1 do iiot think my bon. friend feels sore because be made one o! those
need be at aIl alarmed that anythlng wilI breaks which possibly be -wlll bave in ufter
be neglected by the government. Ail thE life to face over aud over again, because
tents available here by the Militia Depart- we neyer can tell lu the western country
ment were sent to the North-west, and thE when we may bappen to mub up against those
departmeut bas to purchase a complete nevç *very men he crIticises as helpiess men, but
set of tents for the camps, wbich wlll bE who have settled other parts o! this worid
conaing in a few montbs from now. Witl and have made their mark with no reason
every train of immigrants leaving St. Johr to coudemn them. We bave no reason to
tbere is an agent ln charge, deputed by th( condemn them untried, and say that they
government to see that the people are pro -are useless. I do -not tluinic that is Britisb
perly iooked after nt the varions points. A fair play to any settier, or class o! settiers,
5

SENATE
and It does flot let my hon. frlend down
very much, when he tries to insinuate that
the patriotic statement and correct statement made by the hon. gentleman from
Portage la Prairie, le Influenced by the fact
that lie bas that mucli faith and confidence
ln the west that lie bai invested his money
ln It. That is no answer. 1 went Up to
that country years ago, and dld flot
have any government agent dancing attendance upon me, and I hadl to do as this Barr
coiony bai to do. I dld flot expeet that they
wouid be waiting for me wltb a feather
bed. I had to taire care of myseif, and I
have not the ieast doubt these people wll
be able to do the same, but I am informed
by the Immigration officers ln the west that
tbey have anticipated the arrivai of these
people and they have made aIl reasonabie
arrangements to make tbem comfortable.
Wbat more can we expect I am toid tbey
have tente pitcbed at every twenty miles
of the route, and stoves provided. When
they mardi twenty miles with their teame
they wiIi have a comfortable place to go
Into at niglit and the weather Up there la
summer weather, practicaliy mild. I do not
anticipate that they should have any suiferInge worth speaklng of any more than you
would naturaily expect in a new country,
as between here and there every attention
lo being shown them by officiais. At every
otage of the road they have some one to
advlae them, and 1 am lnformed that after
they get on their land men are provided
again to advise them what le best to do
under the circumstances, and give them that
knowledge that myhon. frlend from Calgary
depiores that tbey iack, and I have no
doubt they wouid take advantage of the
advlce and instruction whichi wouid be given
them by trained men who would have that
experience which they are supposed to have.
I understand that there are some two
thouaand five hundred who are going ln
untried in one settiement. I oniy hopeand my hon. friend from Calgary ahould
hope the same-that they will make a sueceas of it, and if they do not make a succeas and grumble-I understand that It la
the privilege of an Englishiman to grumbleit la not the fauît of the country.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG--One would think tîjat
our western portion of Canada would seem
to be every year on trial, but we have got
paat that stage, and we want no better evidence of It than the fact that our sbrewd
United States cousins are going ln there by
the hundreda and occupying the land, and
those who have been ln there for a couple of
years are better pleased than when they
firat went ln, and are writlng to their
frienda to thls eifect. So that If a portion
of the Barr colony are flot successful, we
cannot condemn the country, because we
are beyond the experimental stage. Confidence le established ln the fertility of the
soil and Its abllity to produce large crops
and repay the husbandman very weil for
his labours, and I think thiUs lrregnialr discussion which has occurred here to-niglit
would have been far better If brouglit up
on a regular motion when ail the information froma the department would have been
furnished by the hon. Secretary of State
and the hon. gentleman from Britishi Columbia (Hon. Mr. Tempieman). But It is
another exemple of our drifting manner of
doing business wben our Speaker bias flot
the same power as the Speaker of the
House of Gommons.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
seems to me this discussion la altogether
irrelevant, so far as the object that the
member foý Calgary had in view. I am
quite convinced the country wlll thank
hlm for havlng brouglit before the government this matter and obtained the Information that has been given by the hon. Secretary of State. I understood that lie sImply
wlshed to obtail Information for that portion of the bihabitanta of the country who
take au Intereat ln Immigration, and for
those people who dabbie In newspaper writIng, and to get an explanation from the
Secretary of State on behaif of the government as to what they were reaily
doing as a government to makte these peopie comfortabie as far as practicabie when
they arrived here. I neyer anticipated that
these emigrants were to suifer for want of
food, but I feared tint the accommodation
which migbt be provided for people coming
trom the old country, particulariy England,
Hlon. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWEL-It la Ireland and Scotiand, ln the way of being
housed would be Inadequate, and the obpart of their nature.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG

AFPRIL 15, 1903
jeet which the hon. gentleman f rom Calgary
bail ln view was to secure the Information
which has been given by the Secretary of
State, which must be satisfactory to every
one who listened to hlm, as to what the
government had done and were doing to
make fixe people comfortable and accommodate them when they arrived ln fixe
country. A play has been made upon the
word ' helpless,' used by the hon, gentleman
trom Calgary (Hon. Mr. Lougheed), which
was not aitogether irrelevant, but was altogether Improper and, worse than that, a
miarepresentation of what the hon, gentleman said. 1 venture the assertion that no
man ln this House who knows anything
about emigrants coming to this country
will dare to controvert the statement he
made, If they have any regard for the
truth. Hle said emigrants coming from the
old country, and particularly from England,
were, when placed alongside of Canadians
or United States people who corne Into this
country, knowing the habits and wants and
peculiarities of the country, and what ls
necessary ln ahl new settlements, would
be comparatively heipless. I repeat that
statement. 1 have seen scores of Immigrants coming from fixe old country into
our own section of Ontario, and 1 know exactly what they are. They are Intelligent.
I quite agree with the hon, gentleman opposite when he said Englishmen could take
care of themselves. I amn of the opinion
that*they can and have done so. That does
flot do away with the fact that an Englishman coming Io thxis country, withont knowlng its climate apd peculiarities, is not as
well fitted for the first year or two to accommodate himself to the peculiar circumstances as one of ourselves.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The hon, gentleman made a comparison of a man coming
from England and a citizen of the United
States.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
the bon, gentleman pretend to say, that a
man who 15 born ln the United States and
has been living la the North-west from his
childhood up, does not know as much about
the peculiarîties of the North-west as If he
had been born ln Canada ?
Hon. Mir. LANDERKIN-Does the hon.
gentleman wish me to answer his question ?

tii

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
may answer when I arn through.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I will answer the
hon, gentleman now.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Very
Weil.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The hon, gentleman from Calgary, when he made bis statement, spoke 0f the heiplessness of Engllshmen ln comparison with people from the
United 1ý0tates.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)--Qite
true.
Hon. Mr. LANDERK[N-Take the Engllshman and place hlm where you will, he
is equal to the immigrant from the Ualted
States and superior to the Immigrant f rom
any other nation ln the worid.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I agree with the
general etatement, but flot ln at once succeedlng ln fixe capacity of a settier on th~e
plains of thxe North-west.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-On every plain
they have shown their valour and they are
able to do it stili.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
superlative loyalty of the bon. gentleman le
somewhat unbounded and somewhat out of
keeplng with hie character, if I have any
recollection of the hon. gentieman'spast
hlstory in another part of this building
where I had the honour of sitting with him
a long time.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I have some recollection of sltting with the hon. gentleman
there.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I quite
agree as to the character of the two races
and I go further; notwithstailding the fact
of bis high opinion of the Englishman I pretend to say, though an Englishman myselfHon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I except you.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-An
Englshman in this country who has to
buffet for his livellhood, is not superior to
an American, nor le; he equal to him, when
you first set hlm down in the North-west to
get his living. I think the hon. gentleman
from Marquette (Hon. Mr. Watson) totally
misunderstood the remark of fixe hon. gen.

SENATE
tleman from Calgary and the object be bac! question that Enilshrnen are proverbial
grumblers. Tbey kick and grumble and
liu view.
pay, and if they do not do that they -%vould
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I accept bis apology. 'fot be Englishmen. But nothlng dld so much
to prevent Immigration from England, IreHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The land and Scotland as tbe letters sent some
hon. gentleman was long enougb in the years ago during the drouth and wben the
government in the Nor-tb-wlest to under- country was not so prosperous as lt is now,
stand the question, but be bas tact enough 'wben Englishmen wrlting homne depicted
to draw a berring across tlue trail to lead you tbe state la wbich they found themselves. [t
off In another direction, and consequently dld more to stop immigration than anything
bc made that speech ia favour of immigra- else possibly couIc!. We do not want that
tion. Every one agrees with hlm on that repeated. We want the government to do
point, but ln bis anxlous desire to defend jwhat tbe Secretary of State says tbey bave
the government be steps into the breach be- done, and that Is, to do everything possible
fore the hon. minister bad an opportunlty of lai order to, provide these people wlth bouses
maklng the explanation whichi the hon. gen- in whlch to live or wlth tents for the prestleman from Calgary desired to obtain, he ent, and If they do that, the country wll
ivent beyond the point and beyond the sub- be satlsfied.
ject whlch was brought under tbe notice of
Mr. SPEAKER-I tblak it is my duty to
the House. I repeat, not only will the bon.
caîl attention to the fact that there Is notbgentleman from Calgary be gratlfied, but I
thInlr tbe Secretary of Stxte will tbank him ing before the House.
for bringing up tbe matter, and wben bis
THE LATE SENÂTOR GILL'MOR
remarks are read by the public it wlll do
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before tbe Orders of
away with a great deal of tbat fear that I
know exists, created by the newspaper tbe Day are called It Is my sad duty to
storles tluat bave been sent about, and they caîl the attention of the Senate to the abwill corne to the conclusion that the govern- sence of one of our members wbo was here
ment bas done nIl that it couIc! under the 'wben the House rose. No one at tbat time
circumstances. My hon. friend congratu- in saying good-bye to Senator Gilimor
lated the government on wliat they bac! done couIc! bave lmagined. tbat he alone was not
He seemed to be in the very
towards increasing the Immigration into to, return.
tbls country, and 1, speaking for myseif best of healtb, cheerful, bright and happy,
and I think every member of this House. and we neyer thougbt that good-bye to hlm
amn more than gratified to know that the was to be a final adieu. The suddenness
tendency of immigration at tbe present of the deatb was rather a sboclg to, every one.
time is from tbe mother country rather than He died wben be was on his way to attend
from Russia or any other portion of the to bis duties bere, on the railway car, bavworld. I arn delighted to, see tbe English- ing a few moments before been ciscussing
man, Irisbman and Scotchman pursuing the tbe labour question la tbe smoking room.
course tiey are, and I hope it wili be con- He retired to, bis bed, and called for astinued and that ail the ald that can possibly sistance, but dled before any aid couic! be
He occupied a very important
be given to these people wlll be given and rendered.
tbat the government wili continue thelr pres- place In his own province. So long ago as
ent poiicy. If tbey do, no one will object 1854 he was a member of tue legislative
to tbe expenditure of a few tbousand dollars body, and occupied a position in the legisini order to accomplisbi the great object we lature for xnay years. In 1874 he repreliave in view, to, populate that section of the sented bis couinty in the parliament of Canacountry and! make it one of the briglitest da in the House of.Commons and continued
parts of the Dominion. I cure not wbetber to represent it until 1898. a period of 22
During that time be made nianv
the lion. gentleman from Marquette makes years.
money out of it or not, that is not tbe object friends. flot alone among tbose with whoun
we have in view. Let the system go on, be was politicaly associated. but by bis
and as long as it is continued it %vill benefit kindlv manner anc! bis sensé of humour
the country, but there is no burking the and 'bis other characteristies he attr.gcted
Hon. Sir MACKFI'-"'" 13WELL.

j

6

AIPRIL 16, 1903
meni fromi botli aides of tbe Ilouse. FIS
particular hobby, ns lion. gentlemen wno
know hlm wlll probably know, wns free
trade, and his speeches were always worth
Tbey were short and crlsp,
listeniug to.
FIe always hied somethlng good to say. 1
had hoped that ire would have bis presence
for same years to corne. Although lie had
Passed the allotted lirnit of three score and
ten by several years, lie -dld not show it,
and I bad no Idea bis age was as great as
It w-as. I think I may say to the wldow,
wlio was bis companion for 57 long years,
that w-e extend lier our deep sympathy In
the sad attliction sa suddenty fallen upon ber.
She was awalting hlm lu Montreal at the
residence of ber son, and could not have
been prepared for the terrible calamlty
whîcb befel lier. I inay say that the country w-lt recognize the bass they have sustainied. Hie was a public man wlio always
took a great and honeat intereat ia public
affa ir-,.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BONVELL-I do
flot know when I recelved a greater aliock
thail w-lin I read the notice of the sudden
deatli of our inte colleagne ou his journey
to the city. I can reciprocate, from my
knowtedge and acqualutance for some years
of one itî whom I bad the bonour of associating witli ln the Gommons as weil as
ln thîs Hlouse, every word that lias beeLn
uttered by the Secretary of State. A more
genial. tovable man In very many respects
than -'%r. Gillmor I do flot tblnk we had
arng us. He was a man of verY str.-î'g
and decided opinions. He was not wbat
bas been termed by somne an opportunist.
He liad strong convictions upon the trade
question to wlicb my hon. friend has referred, and lie neyer hesitated to express
them lu an open, earnest and vivid manner,
no niatter wlietlier lie wvas attacking the
goverlinient or lits owxî party. or attacking
those wlio lield different opinions. Personally niy retations with '.%r. Gilîmor were of
the inost friendly character. We often liad
our littie bouts upon the trade question and
politics generalty, but no matter liow mucli
we iglit differ-and I miglit say that our
opinions w-ere as diametrically opposed to
eacli other as they possibly could be upon
sorne questions tbat agitate parliamient, the
fiscal ani inanciai poliey of the country-

there was always a kindly feeling exhibited
by hlm to ail witb whom lie was acquainted. He w«a full of humour. Ris speeches
were terse thougli not fervent and were
what one muet admire, expressions of a
strang conviction of wbat lie conceived tu
be riglit. Hls position in bis own province,
as has beeu! mentioned by the hou. gentleman, was of saime Importance. Hie represented his county In the legisiature of New
Brunswick for a number of years. HIe was
provincial secretary. He represented the
sarne county frorn 1854 to 1896 and it was a
surprise to moat people, knowlng the strong
affection of the people for bim in the riding;
when he was defeated. But that is the fate
of many of us, thougli we rnay have been
ln public life for many years. Public opinion may be fickle, and perliaps we rnny have
doue somethlng of whicb public opinion does
flot approve, when one receives that reward
which the people usually extend to politiclans. I deeply sympathize with the widow.
and that sympathy should be extended by
the Senate to one la bier position, wbo had
been for over haîf a century bis companion,
I personally regret exceedingly his absence
from'this Chamber. I question whether lu
any apointment the-government rnay make
to fil the vacant position, you wlU find a
more bonest, straightforward and conscientious man than our late colleague, Mr. GUImor.
The Senate adJourned.

THE SENÂTE.
Ottawa, Thur8day, Âpri 16, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tliree
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
SCHOOLEY DIVORCE BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Last niglit the
tbree divoroe Blts which have been reported
upon were on thé Order Paper for second
readlng. At rny request the second reading
was deferred In order to introduce reports upon them, -and thie second readlng
was; fixed for Monday next. Since then we

70

SENATE

Trusting that this application on behaîf of
bave ascertained that some of the witnesses
useful a
and
and parties to theze suits are coming bere the famiy of so old John admittedly may meet
Bourinot
public servant as Sir
and will be bere this afternoon, and ln order wlth your favourable consideration.
We bave the bonour to be. Sir,
to facilltate the trial of these cases I wouid
Your ohedient servants.
ask the bon. gentleman wbo bas charge of
ISABELLE BOURINOT.
E. W. BOURINOT.
these Bills to move that the order made iast
Executors.
nigbt be rescinded, and tbat tbe Bille be now
BOWELL-I bave
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
read the second time.
mucli pleasure ln moving that the letter just
Tbe SPEAKER-Two motions will have
read be referred to the Joint Commlttee, and
to be made, one for the recision of the order
ln doing so I sbould be very mucb pieasedthe second reading, and
and tbe'other for
and I think every member who takes an lnthe first motion must'be passed by unani- terest ln matters of this kind would be
mous consent.
pieased-if upon a recommendation the govHon. Mr. PERLEY-Il move tbat the pro- crament would bring down ln their estimates
oeedings taken yesterday witb reference to a sum sufficient to buy tbe collection. I
Bill (B) 'An Act for the relief of William nmust confees that to my mmnd it wouid be
Francis Scbooley' be rescinded.
of exceeding value to the country.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I second the
motion.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY moved the second
The motion wns agreed to.
of the Bill.
reading
Tbe motion was agreed to, and the Bill
The Senate adjourned.
was read tbe second time.

LIBRARY 0F THE LATE SIR JOHN
BOURINOT.
The SPEAKER-I have received a letter
witli respect to the Ilbrary of tbe late Cierk
of the House of Commons, wbicb 1 wouid
ask to bave read and referred to, the Joint
Committee un the Library, wbicb is to meet
to-morrow.
The letter was then read by the Clerk of
the House, as foliows «
Ottawa, April 15, 1903.
Sir.-The late Sir John Bourinot had, ini the
course of many years, collected a very valuahie
llbrary of historical works. which his executors are desirous of disposing of for the benellt
of bis family.
The books ln questioa number severai thonsands and are of a specially valuable character
for the purposes of historicai research.

THRE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday, April 17, 1903.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tiiree
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedîngs.
DELAYED RETURNS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-WIiI the bon. leader
of the Senate aliow me to ask bum when it

would be convenient for hlm to iay on the
Table tbe answer to an Address that was
voted during the iast session relating to
tb2c appointment of honorary colonels ? In
the month of May iast I moved for a return
showing the names of ail the persoiis who
hiad been recoxnmended for tbe position of
honorary' colonel, or honorary lieutenantcolonel la the mulitia force. That motion
was adopted on the l3tb of May, 1902.

Appended hereto are copies of letters from
persons familiar with the collection and accustomed to appreciate the value of books.
The object of this letter is to ask your favourable attention as a member of the Library
Committee to the proposai of the executors that
Sir John Bourlnot's collection should be purHon. Mr. SCOTT-I miil have inquiries
chased for the public service.
The executors are aware that the Library miade at once.
Committee have no means at their own disposai
for the purchase of the collection. But they are
AM%,ENDM'\ENT
ACT
convinced that the recommendation of the com- EXPROPRIATION
mittee miade after due consideration wbuld have
BILL.
great weight with the administration la procuring lts consent to the purchase.
SECOND READING.
The executors would be pleased to exhibit the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved the second readbooks ln question to any sub-commlttee that
ing of Bill (S) ' An Act to ampnd the
might be appointed to examine them.
lion. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER.

APIRIL 17, 1903

I

After the leader of the opposition
ixpropriatiail Act!' He said : As tbe law lation.
desires to ln the House of Commons lad called attene.t preseut stands, if the Crowu
effect wbicb uiight f ollow
xpropriate an interest in property, for In- tion to the 111
a right of way the measure If It were passed as introduced,
tance ln order to obtain
would be removed frorn
Lcross property and to use It ternporarily that pending actions
any partîcular the courts, the Bill was ameîîded and pro'or public works, or to use
by this hast clause thatlescrîption of property, or a part of what vision is made
Nothlag herein contained shall affect any
ivas origiually Inteuded, the expropriation
nvolves tbe whole property and It le de- Pendlng suit or claimi.
sirable to authorize the Crown ta take land
This renders the Bill less objectionable
for a limited tlme, or to take an easemeut
Tecseawbc
Bill. Whenta»teohrne
n hand. That le the object of the
friend frorn British Columbia (Hon.
goes lnto committee we will have furtber iny bou.
Lt
Macdonald) bas just called the attenIfnecesm.Mr.
explnatin
of the Senate, and the question whicbi
f ncessrY.thon
expinatofi
State, was
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I sbould lie bas put to the Secretary of
ta wbat we bad ln view wben the Senate conlike to ask if tbe dispute with reference
and the fact
the Stewart quarry bas been settled yet ? sidered the former mensure,
Stewart bas obtained througlt the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink so. He got Vint Mr. the country a very large award
of
judgent.courts
Is a justification for the course %vhlcb the
Senate took ou the previous occasion. As I
BC.-egot
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
I tbink that sorne
judgrnent, but be could not get bis nioney. have already stated,
good deal of trouble-will arise
COT-1 hve nt hard ny-trouble--a
Hon.Mr.
1 bave
auy-ns lu tbe working out of this Act, and
not bearde
ly HCT-e
Mr.
tHn. fI
no doubt tînt flot only difficulties. but lnpagain
ately. Hegt badgrent
thin Cofn ant
juries rnay follow and be inflicted on proandI tink t bs ben pid.
tbe row
s0 mucli on tlue part of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Th!fi5 perty owners, flot
as by governmeuit officiais.
Bill does flot contain the clauses wbich the government
aski for thie expropriationi of
were Inserted in the Bill presented to Wbiel tbey
are uîot very particular. as
this House a year or two ago, whicb the properties, tbey
as ta reject a rule, as to bow long tbey keep the owners
Senate tbougbt s0 objectlonable
whicb should be paid
IL. Tbe.present Bill, althougb 1 must cal- out of tbe arnounts
tbe prin- ta thein, and I arn very inucb afraid that
fesàý that 1 amn not enamoured of
deinys in settling cases of the
ciple laid down lu It, still le of tbat cbnracter tbere wll be
or to k-lad provided for under tbis Bill wbicl
flot to do the darnage ta proprietors
ta take a mn's prolufllct that Injury on property awners that permits the government
bad it be- perty, bld it a certain lengtlî of trne and
tbe other Bill would have doue
saine other
It mnust bave been soinewlat tben go ta arbitratioui, or take
corne law.
of the Senate means of arriving at the damage wvbich bas
gratifying ta every member
owner. Tbere are many
who took very stroug objections to the otber beeu done ta tbe
Minister of arguments wlicl I migît advauce againet
Bill, ta find thiat the present
of tbe Bill, but it contains a
Justice, lu discussing tbis question and tbe principle
ta pase the fenture aiea which rnost people wbo have
asking the Hanse of Commons
ta watcl the proceedinge
Bill, adrnitted, by iueerting the last clause, taken any trouble
objection takzen ln cases of expropriation waul approve.
tbat there was force lu the
whiclî presents ltself ta
by the -Senate wbeu they rejected the Bill The great difficulty
more extended my mmnd le tbe want of thouglht and conbaving for its abject, but ta, a
part of nmany officials Who
degree, tbe prînciple whidhl le involved la sideratiail on tbe
le well k-nown asic the g<)veriment ta expropriiite propuirty.
the measure before us. It
littie-in fact 1 arn spea9klflg
that the other Bill, not onhy invaded the Tbey care very
took froin experience-they bave very little rerigîta of property holders, but actually
rigbts o! property 0wnlera.
paover ta take one's praperty and remove gard for thc
were tlen be- Sanie a! them tbin< tbe country behonge to,
from the courts rigbts wbidbi
talce wvbat action they please
ing cantested la the different provinces, tbem, and they
legis- and settle at tbeir leisure, miuch to the
thereby makiflg it ln effect retroactive

S ENA TE
dantage of the bolders of property.
The
tact that difficulties have arisen ln the case
to which the liou. Senator from Victoria bats
calied attention le evîdence of what I
have polnted out. Why should Mr. Stewart
who was to have been deprived of the property bie owned by the furmer Bill, be deprjved of the money wbich wvas awarded to
him by the courts of the country for the
lengti of time it bias been, until be lias beeri
almost ruiued ? These are some of the difficulties which arise. It certainly is a duty
whlcb sbould devolve on the Public Works
aud upon the Railway Department to settie
tbese questions and pay the Inoney the moment tlie award ]s made.
Parties from
whion contracte have been taken and who
have contracte and large bank accounts to
meet are flot lu a position to lie out of the
money the leugth of time they are kept out
of it.
The interest upon the m-oney tbey
owe the bank le accumulating and runniug up ail the time, -and to keep lt the way
Stewnrt's money bas been kept le tantamount to confiscation, because the banke aud
creditore are eatlng Up bie substance in laterest. These are general complainte. 1 do
neot say this applies to the present goverument exclusively. It le a complaint that exlsted for many years, and where you give
the etlll further power to take, keep and then
baud back, the property, I am afrald It le
only inteusifying tbe wrongs to whlch 1
have called the attention of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.)-Before
the motion le agreed to. I want to
direct the attention 0f the Secretary of
State to some objectionable features In
thls measure whlch the Bill introduced a
couple of years ago coutained.
Under
the second clause, the goveraiment expropriate a man's estate and find tbey do
not require the wbole of It, and witbout any
payment being made to hlm. the wortbless
part le thrown back ou hie bands. 1 ask
thie House, ie that a fair or a proîler thing
to do ? In the case of the Stewart quarry,
the governent expropriated and eaid:
' We wiil keep the beet part of it and throw
the other part on your bande. We do flot
want it.' Thiat figures l tlîis Bill, and we
thlnk it should xîot pase. The governrnent
did îîot know it the time wliat tbey wanted,
but they shionld oniy expropriate whiat they
want. The idea of doing so and perhaps
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

keeping a manl from making a sale, and
theil throwing back on is bande wbat they
do not require, le wrong.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe Crown pay aIl tie
damages. We can discuss It furtber when
we go ln commlttee.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I muet say I fully
ngree witb wliat bas been said by the bon.
gentleman from Victoria. As bas been said
by my lion. friend, the leader of the oppositien, tîjis Bill is certalnly liot s0 objectionable as the sîmilar Bill whicb was rejected
by tls House corne two years ago, inuemuch
ne it le expressly stated fl clause six that
it cannot affect any pendlng suit, and the
tiret clause of the Bill, I tblnk, le open to
very littie objection, tlîat le wben expropriation le made for a llmltted time or for a
limnited estate l tîte property, nnd wlhen
tlint ie clearly set forth and the owner
knows exactly bow bis property le taken,
but unider clause two of the Bill It la provIded that evenl wbere the governilent liave
golîe Ilu and have taken the property absolutely, made an absoînte expropriation. It
le ethîl open to them nt any perlod uip te the
time the actual compensation le paid, to
tbrow that property back on the owner's
bands. It le easy to understand bow very
great abuse and bardsbip may arise under
the operation of that clause of the Bill. A
mail bas is property abeolutely expropriated as be thînks. It may be a property that
le essential to hlm lu the condiict of blis
business. H1e bas to acquire other property.
H1e goee and acqulres other property, and
expende a large amount of money. Âfter
aIl that le done, althougb the govcrnment
bad It ln vlcw from tbe tiret, or even If not,
tbey may change their minde and tbrow It
back on bis bande, aud I question very mucb
wbethcr tbe owner could possibly coule
lu for compensation for the lujury and
for the lose be bas sustained in acquiring otlier property to go on itb bis businless.
I x.ay not understnd the second
clause, but If it le as 1 undcrstand it. thint
the government may abeolutely expropriate
the property and at any time before the
compensation le pald, perhupe years atterwards, after the mail believes lie bas lest
hie property and wben he bas been compelled to acquire other property to carry on
bie business, sud after lie lias acquired the
othier property, the governinent cati tbrow

APRIL 17, 1903
this property back on his bauds-if that is perty in the owner. There is no reason wiiy
the eff ect of this Bill, It must be stili a bad Mlis license sbouid be given to tbe governmeunt of thus permitting postponement of
measure for the House to pass.
iiaymnt utitl it is determined whether tbat
SOTTIfa prtof ueîaid
Hon Mr
lan rigbit will be 'exercised. One can readily
be
isn
rMtr.d SCOT-Itora taete
the difficuity wbicb arises in reisidetrineby the abitstor ho saettleso toue «)ive
sidraton
y he rbiratr ho ettes hecovering from the Crown money which may
damage. 0f course ail incidentai damages lie awarded by any systemn of arbitration,
must be paid, no matter of wlat charneter.unasteb.gnlmn
r
Blvie
comes ruy esnbe fortienftai (Sir Mackenzie Bowell) bas polnted out, as
lan ItbecmesresonsbleforIncdenalno interest Is aliowed by the Crown where
In case, for Instance, a man poet
a
eneporaeadwir
Is oligd oter popetyIf hean award for the payment of money is made,
t bu
Crown throws the property on is bauds lt seems to me there shouid be goule provithat ls a inatter for consideration, and slon by whlch the public would be guaranas far as my experlence goes, the (Jrown teed against postponement of payment,
pays. In nlnety-ninc cases out of a bundred, which applies, flot exceptionaiiy, but frefroru a hiaif more -to double the reai value quentîy, as against the Crown. 1 bave known
of the land. That bas been my experlence. cases where the Crown bas retained moneys
botii with expropriations by the Crown, of persons and corporations for years ; lu
and by rniiways, and I bave bad sorne ex- faet, there is a case before my mind at tbe
perience l those cases. I do iîot tbink there present where the Crown bas retained a
Ian t

damages.

ls ny eartha
anbod Isý-ong n ulfor large sum of money, the property of a corpoby this Bill. I quite :idinit bI that inot-ration, whichi they recelved Ia hard cash.
ptthprsthveo
aibck
nate case of Stewart's a degree of feelingan
hnippened to arise between soine of the Twenty years have gone by, yet that corfitrs
antrcvroecn
officiais and Mr. Stewart, aiid tiiey band a prto
onteecen f
oer onet
very warm contest over it. 'rbey <lrew I,> prorathe caont
ey was to have been placed in the estimates
sof
ent
da It
Irritatiop, eaudseute
bad nte beid furi tated. on tbree occasions, and ls admltted to lie
Stea
trriatin
due by the Crown. As the Exchequer Court
a ee ay Tt e
Thatewrt prod
Tha IsAct is belng amended. it seemes to me that
The ourt a rmedy
proide
sti It oniy inikua cas the public shouid bave the eame right agalnst
arise angaintcs.
ndva cam- the Crown wlth reference to, the payment
wasy
0f wer the
I hae nard.
I ]lve her thre ws ay cm- f lnterest and immediate payment of any
of
ear
plaint titat thé Crown dld not pay full cors- ludebteducas acknowiedged by the Crown as
between Individuals, aud wbich can be enpensation for the loss.
I point out forced iu a court of iaw. There Is no reason
Hon. Mir. LOtIGHEED-Mlgbt
to my bon. frlend the desirability of his wby this sbould not be done. There Is no
considerlug the proprlety of ameiidiug thus reason why the Crowa sbouid be entitled to,
Bil luI core way to meet tbis particular more sympatby or broader rigits than the
difficuity wbich bas arisen on otber occa- public, and yet this extraordinary fact obclans. nnmely an Imniedlate paymeiit by the talus, that the Crown May hoid money of
goverument of the award whicb may be iindividuais for yearc, and yet not be anmande by the arbitrators. Frequentiy cases swerable for a cent of lnterest. My hon.
have bappened In whicb lands have beeu friend would do a very irise act. one wblch
expropriated by tbe Crown 'wberc payment wouid meet with public approvai, if lie wouid
of the money bas been deiayed, not oniy for have thus Bihl ameuded ln sucb a way that
a year but for severai years. Now, It seems interest could lie awarded against the Crowfl,
to nie that provision Is beîug embodied Ini as against iudivid'iais.
thus Bill by whlch the Crown, in anticipation
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think wbere a judggay of an eariy abandoument of the part of
ment la obtaiued against the (Jrown lnterest 15
tue property, or tbe wbole of the property,
couniay possibiy postpone payment uutii tbey paid. There v-ery c-fteu arises a delay ln
ticir sequeuce of the Crowu not beiug satisfied
deterinine wvbetber they wili exercise
advice
riglit to abandon, aiff tiius revest the pro- with the titie. and acting iuder legai

SENATE
counted. This Bull provldes that it shail not
be counted. If, however, lie had been seven
months beyond the flfteen years, then lie
would be superannuated for sixteen years
and flot for fifteen. I notice that the latter
clause confirms the practice which bas been
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As a' tatter of lu operation since confederation. That seems
rigit you cannot recover against tlie Crown. to be about tlie wliole provision of the Bill.
It would be only in case of special contract,
of
Hon. 2%r. SCOTT-That le the wle
or statutory enactment, Intereat could be rethe Bill.
covered; but In the absence of any special
provision, you cannot recover Interest.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. MeLAREN-Does tluis Bill apply was read the second time.
to property of corporations ?
RAILWAY SUBSIDIES ACT Â-MENDHon. Mr. SCOTT-It applies to ail] cases
MENT BILL.
wliere the Crown expropriates the land for
SECOND READING.
public purposes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved thie second readHon. Mr. McLAREN-Raiiway charters ? ing of Bill (2) 'An Act to amend Cliapter 8
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
of the Statutes of 1900, authorizing the
granting of railway subsidies.' He said I
Tlie motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was under the Impression tliat this was a
was read the second time.
government Bill when it came down, but It
appears It was ln Mr. Cliarlton's charge.
CIVIL SERVICE SUPERANNUATION The existing Act authorizes the payment of
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
subsidies to be made when the road is completed, or when ten miles are completed, or
SECOND READING.
when a certain amount lias been expended
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- on tlie road, wlien, ln tlie opinion of the
Ing of Bill (49) 'An Act to amend the chief engineer, the work lias been so far
He carrled on tliat it may be safe to, advance
Superannuation Act.'
Civil "Service
said: In adjustlng the superannuation alhow- $60,000, liaving lu vlew the amount of work
ance usually pald to those lu tlie Civil Ser- done and the probability of Its being comvice, tlie Treasury Board have interpreted pieted. It le proposed by this -Bill to authothe law so as to shlow the civil servant, rize payment of a less sum, $30,000.
wbo is being superannuated, tlie full year
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-To
If more than six months of the current year
ineet tlie case of sliort raihways, wliere tlie
lias explred. If less than six months le up
at tlie time, then that year does not count. subsidy ls flot very large.
It bas neyer been enacted by statute, and It
Tlie motion was agreed to, and the Bill
ls thouglit well to confirai that practice and was read the second time.
provide tliat liereafter in ail cases wliere an
officiaI leaving tlie government service lias YUIKON TERRITORY ACT AMENDMENT
served in the durrent year for over six
BILL.
montlis, to give liai the benefit of the wliole
SECOND READING.
year, and If less than six montlis, the current
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the second
year does not count.
reading of Bill (9) 'An Act to amend the
I uiiderHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I look Yukon Territory Act.' 'lie said
upon this Bill as rnerely aiaking law what stand that in the Ynkon Territory soine difilias been the practice since confederation. cuity bas arisen is to the ai.tend:iuce of
The practice of the departaient lias been juiors. In soine districts of the Yukon,
that when an officer was superannuated, If where there are la9rge numbers of Uffited
lie liad been fifteen years and five months States ciiQlsiziM >vwhere they prehn thie service, the 'ie aionths wouid flot lie dominate--the iiunil>er of times British suliHon. Mr. SCOTT.
nould flot pay over the money until tlie
title le made perfect. It le only under sucli
circumstances tlie delay could occur. If
tlie bon. gentleman will give me the Instance
to whtch lie refers I wlll inquire about It.

75

APRIL 20, 1903

1. Bach postal matter which bas underg-ine
jects have to serve le very onerous-somechange In c.lassification or ln tariff.
tlmes five or six times consecutlvely, and a 2.- The class which It occu-pled ln 1896.
3. That which It occupies at present.
some of them probabiy get ont of servlng
4. The rate o! carniage whIch It paid lu 1896.
on juries. As oniy British subjects can
5. That which it pays at present.
serve, It bas become a somewhat oneroug
6. The date of each change.
7. The authority la virtue o! which each
duty on those who are compelled to serve.
change bh« taken place.
The object of this Bill le to give the Yukon
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere la no objection to
government power to pasa ordinances deallng wlth juries, lu order tbat ail British sub- the motion golng.
jects shahl be required to take their turn ln
The motion was agreed to.
serving their country on jurles.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Is It coufined to British subjects entlrely ?

THE LATE SIR OLIVER MOWAT.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before the Orders of
the Day are proceeded witb, I desire to
Hon. Mr. TE11PLEIMAN-Entirely. Only cali attention to an ev'ent wbich bas ocBritish subjects can serve ln the Yukon dis- curred very recently lu the city of Toronto.
trict.
Tbough It bas flot been the usual practise,
agreed to, and the Bill lii this Chamber, to make any reference to
The motion was
deaths of distingulsbed Canadians who were
wns read the second time.
iiot at the time of their deatb members of
tbis body, stili on the present occasion 1
BILL INTRODUCED.
thlnk a departure from that truie may be
Bill (D) 'An Act intituled an Act respect- amply justlfied by tbe fact that Sir Oliver
lng Union Labels.'--(Mr. Watson.)
Mowat was so Intimately connected I may
say wltb the bistory o! this country for
The Sonate adjourned.
It le only preper,
neariy hait a century.
tberefore, that parllament should, on tbe occasion of bis deatb, oeil attention to his past
lite as a deserved tribute to bis memory.
Mr. Mowat was elected to parliament lu
He was a member of that parlia185-7.
THE SENATE.
ment wbhicb was pregnant witb great events
Ottawa, Aprii 20, 1908.
lu %vliceh many dstinguisbed men figured.
for a period of ton yoars
The SPEAKER took the Chair ut Three I may observe that
before confederation the country seomed to
o'clock.
bave produced an unusual number o! disPrayers and routine proceedings.

tinguisbed

men.

No doubt the occasion

brought them forth; very many important
NEW SENATOR.
questions arose, more particuiarly represenkindred subjects,
Hon. JAmics DomviLi. , of the city of tation by population and
of
n'as introdnced and took bis which led aftorwards to the consolidation
St. John, N.B.,
the Canadian confederation. Among the disseat.
tingulshed men who figurod Iu the parlianment o! that day, Mnf. Mowat was eariy neCLASSIFICATION 0F POSTAL MATcognized as an able iawyen, a man thonTERS.
1oughly versed ln the constitution of the
MOTION.
country, and was notod for the able.manner
I May
ln whicb he shanod lu the debates.
Hon. M.LANDRY moved:
refer bniefly to the men who were lu that
That a humble Address he presented to Ris
Excellency the Governor General ; praying that parliament as sbowing tbe peers that met
There were Sir John Macdonald, Sir
Hie Excellency 'wiil be pleased to cause to lie hlmu.
laid before this House a statement showing ail George Cantier, Sir Alexander Gaît, Mr.
the changes brought about lu the classification
of postal matters, as weli as lu the tariff for Dunkiin, Sir Hector Langevin, Mr. Sicotte
the carrnage of these matters, to Canada and and a niumber of othens whose naines ire
fromn Canada abroad, sînce 1896, speclfylng ln wohl known to lion. gentlemen.
On t.he
so many distinit columns :

SE-NATE
other side-that is the Liberal side-tilere
were Geo. Brown, Mr. Dorlon, SandfIeld Macdonald, Thos. D'Arcy Magee, Wrn. Lyon
Mackenzie, the Hon. Win. MLacDougall and
It was
mauy other dlstinguilbed naines.
certainly a keen competition for auy man
to encounter and to corne forward where
there were sucli distingulhed men already
ln parliament. The government of the day
were defeated ln the montb of July, ln the
long parliament wblch sat from February
until August, on the question of the seat of
government, and a new administration was
forrned of which '-fr. M.%owat was a memnber. I need flot niake any reference to the
fate of that administration, which lasted but
a short time, as a vote of waut of confidence was passed, whlch led to, the 1double
Mr.
shuilie' whlch afterwards occurred.
Mowat was elected to parliament in 1861
and also tue parliament inter ln 1863. During tint year the government of Sir John
Macdonald was defeated and a new administration was formed kuown as the Sandfield -Macdonald administration, of wbicb
Sir Oliv'er Miowat was Postmaster General.
He remained ln that important position until
the mîeeting of those who drew up the preSir Oliver
limiixurles of confederation.
Mowat took part ln the conferences of that
Before tbings
time late ln the year 1864.
were linally completed the lnte Sir John
Macdonald offered Sir Oliver Mowat, wiio
was tbenl 3r. Mowat, the position of Vice
Chancellor of Ontario, wbichli e accepted,
aud for eiglit years bie discbiarged the duties
of the able judge of thiat court wlinlng the
approval of sultors and the applause of the
bar %vlio nppeared before hlm. He was a
mani, as we ail know from bis presence for
a tiine ln this Chamber, of very studious
habits and a very conscientious turn of mmnd
whio gave the best tbougbts of bis mmnd ào
every matter wbicb carne before imi. lu
1872 lie retired from tbe bencli and acceptel
tbe position of premier of Ontario, and it
is ail uncommon tbing in the history of
constitutional gov~erlment that for twentyfour years Sir Oliver 'Mowat, witb elections
happening every four years, maintained the
Rie
confidence originally placed in hlm.
retired from that position of lus owvn free
will, uxot as a defeated man, and during
tixat long time, a quarter of a century, lie
received the confidence of a m:tjority of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

people of Ontario.

No greater tribute could
be paid to nuy maxi than the evidence I
have given of bis popularity durilng that long
terni. It is to is credit that during that
îueriod very many coustitutional questions
arose as to the prerogative between the
Dominion nnd provincial power, and I need
nut add-it le a matter of bistory-that in
ninie-tenths of ail the cases that went to the
Prlvy Councl, Sir Oliver Mowat'a view
I have
of the constitution was sustnined.
iio doubt that endeared hlm to the province
of Ontario. The people were proud of their
premier and more especially In bis successfully sustaining his vlew ln reference to the
western and nortbern boundary of the province, by which a very large suice of land
was added to wbat was tbougbit to be the
I need
region of the province of Ontario.
flot refer to blis retirement from there and
is acceptance of the office of Minister of
Justice In the administration of Sir Wilfrid
Liaurier. During thnt peniod ha had a seat
lui thîs body, and bon, gentlemen who were
lu the Chamber at that time will recognize
the respect wblch. was always paid to bis
opinion, and we ail felt that be spoke not
so mucli as a politician as fromi tbe standpoint of a statesman who desired to express
au bonest and fair view wbolly lrrespec-tive
of the political consequencees of the opinion
lie might hold. Havlng myseit been assoclated wltb him on many occasions, having
been lu parliament wltb bim lu 1857 and
for some years lifter, and a member of bis
government la 1872, and neanly a quarter of
a century afterwards is colleague ln the
government of Sir Wllfrid Laurier, I had
ail opportunity of judgîng of bis characterlstics and I do say this, 1 know of nlo man
wbio was actuated by higlier princîples than
the late Sir Oliver Mowat wbose anious
desire wafý lu ail matters relating to, state
affairs to do justice to ail irrespective of
He was exceedingly
the consequences.
conscientious. As bon. gentlemen kuow, tbe
wvas apepithet of 'the Christian statesmn'
plied to bim, îiot in serlousiless, but irontcally, ou the tbeory that lu the turbid waters
0f political warfare no man could carry out
is own conscientious views lu conuection
witb the political party witb wbich he hapRis life bias beau
pened to be associated.
of value to tbis couutry. Ail classes unite
ln recognizing it as a valuable oue to, Canada,

APRIL 20, 1903
and lie lias left behind hlm a noble example.
His funeral wll lie on Wednesday, and in
view of the desire of same lion, gentlemen
to, attend, 1 shall propose that when the
House adjaurns to-marrow It stands adjourned until Thursday at 3 o'clock out of
respect to, the late statesman and that as
manyblon, gentlemen as can may attend the
The
funeral on Wednesday at 3 o'clock.
motion 1 presume will be seconded by my
bon. friend, Mr. Ferguson, In the absence of
Sir Mackenzie Bowell, I regret ta say who,
la absent; 1 amn sure he would bave been
present to-day had hie knawn of this event la
time. It bias come unexpectedly and therefore the matter cannot lie postpaned.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I regret very mucli
that the leader of the opposition is not lu bis
place. 1 am very sure bail lie known this
Importanît dnty was to lie perfarmed to-day
lie would have endeavaured to lie present.
He could spegîk, na. doulit, with very much
greater Information than 1 can witli regard
ta the if e and character of Sir Oliver
Mowat, as lie was very mucli more bis contemporary and lived in that part of the Dominion througli wblcli Sir Oliver maved during bis long politîcal career. Nevertheless, 1
bave very great pleasure Indeed Ia endorslng
and reiteratlng the sentiments wblcli bave
been sa feelinghy expressed by the bon.
Secretary of State with reference ta the departed statesman. He lias played a very
Important part la the hlstory of thîs country,
and bis memory is to-day part of aur public
heritage. As ta bis pre-confederation services,
I amn not very conversant witb them, nor
even wltb the part wbicb lie perfornied wltb
reference ta tbe framing of the constitution
of Canada, furtber than ta know that lie
was a member and, 1 blheve, acted as secretary of the canference at Quebec; but
fram that time forward I bave observed bis palitical career witli a great
deal of lnterest and, aithougli fram a
different standpaint, in many respects
The
with a great deal of admiration.
part whicb Sir Oliver Mowat perfarnied
witb regard ta great public questions lu Caliada is probably of mare importance ta the
country ln the end than the part whicli lie
perfarmed ln matters of administration.
I cari remem ber very well a periad
about a dazen years ago when tlie pubi-

lic mind was a great deal exercised
over the question of aur trade relations witb tlie United States, and wlien it
was feared by a gaad marir peaple tliat a
trend and tendency was being given ta,
political advocacy in this country that would
lead ultlmately ta a feeling ln favour of
annexation ta the United States, Sir Oliver
Mowat took the same stand as Alexander
Mackenzie did, and that bis valce and lnfluence were adverse ta the discussion of any
question In relation ta aur trade relations that
would endanger aur cannection witli tlie empire ta wbicli we belong. And I remember
also very well-my lion. friend tlie Secretary
of State wlll, I dare say, even remember it
better than I can-tliat Sir Oliver Maovat
exercised a great deal of influence witli lis
awni party at tliat time witli regard ta questions sucli as unrestrîcted reciprocity wvitb
the Unîited States, and tlint lis address at
the conîvention of bis awn party. wlicl '%vas
beld at Ottawa In tbe year 1893, wbicb
1 bave looked over carefully ziat very
long aince, was a very able, and wlse
effort on bis part, and I believe it Is
îlot too mucli ta say that lie kept
is party steadier an that question than tliey
would bave been lied lie nat been amangst
tbem. Later an, as we know, lie came Into
this body, and natwitlbstanding the rapid
strîdes tbat deatb bas mnade nmaagst us,
there are many in tbis. Chamber wha sat
bere and participated lu the deliberatiauîs
of this bonaurable Hanse wvbule Sir Oliver
Mawat led It tram tbe ather side. When
hie entered this Hause lion. gentlemen
may remember tliat lis position was one
of very grent delicacy. A large ilnajarlty of
the members of this Hanuse lad lieen rippotnted liy tlie previaus administration, and
lied sympatbized wilh the policy and views
of the party tliat had then gone ont of power, and It was a matter of very great pIeusure ta gentlemen sitting on this side of the
Hanse at that time that a gentleman %vas
calied an ta lead thie Senate in tîje interests
of tlie governaient wbo showed so uîuch wisdam, s0 machi moderatian. sa miueli kindness
and consideratian ta those wbo were palitically apposed ta hlm. My bon. friends lere
I amn sure bave nat f argatten It. On tlie occasion of a goad dea] of excitement, arising
over tîte action of tlis Hause lu the rejectian of the Drummand County Railway Bill,

SENATE
Sir Oliver showed a great deal of caution,
care and discretion ln the manner lni which
lie conducted the affairs of the House.
«In other bande, a very grave crisis might
have arIsen at that Urne. I do flot know
that there ever was a gentleman in publie
life that 1 was opposed to, for whom 1 had
s0 klndly a feeling as 1 had for Sir Oliver
Pdowat. His treatment of me in the Senate
Wben we met to
was very considerate.
diseuse public matters, sornetimes not
across the floor of the House, and lu our
social relations, his treatrnent of me was of
the very kindest nature, I have great pleasure ini endorsing the sentiments expressed
by the Secretary of State, and ln seconding
the motion that when this House adjourus
to-morrow it stand adjourued until the day
after Sir Oliver Mowat's funeral.
IMMIGRANTS FROM EUROPE.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Before proceeding to
the Orders of the Day, I ebould like to cali
the attention of the goverument to a somewhat startling paragrapli lu a Toronto
paper, the ' World.' It is as foilows
This is Pleasant.
From a Canadian resident ia Sweden, tho
Manufacturera' Association bas received the
foi-lowing clipplng from a Stockholm paper,
wlth the query as to whether Canada is to he,corne the dumping ground of the scum of European prisons. 1Released1 prisoners for Canada
-On Tuesday evenlng last, eight prisoners from
Horsen'a penitentiary left for Esbjerg, fromn
whence they are to be despatched, together wlth
somes more prisoners from Vrldslose, for Canada. where they have obtained work at railway building and on farms. It la lnteuded to
despatch other prisoners trom the Copenhagen
prison.'
We certainly desire ail the Immigrants we
eau get In this country, and Canada ls very
well advertised just now ln Europe as a
desirable borne for emigrants, but certainly
we do not wisb to bave our country, or auy
part of it, but more particularly the Northwest, settled by the scum of European
prisons, and If anytbing can bie done to stop
sucli an undesirable element from obtainlng
settiement in Canada, it Is as well that the
government should use every means in their
power to do so. I arn not aware that the
governent really bas any special rneans
of stopping such immigration as ls bere
iiidicated, but if they bave flot they sbould
devise some means to checkc it. I may remark, wbile 1 arn on rny feet, that I beard
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

somie montbs ago that a very extraordinary
decision bad been gîven ini one of tbe Ontario
courts, by a county court judge, 1 thiak it
was a county court judge of Brockille. I
do not want to say anytbing prejudicial to
that gentleman, witbout knowing whetber
the newspaper report was correct or not. I
tooli no means of ascertaining if it was, but
tbat judge havlng two culprits before Mim,
let tbem away on suspended sentence on
condition that they go to the United States.
I thinli that was a rnost unwise and improper thing for any judge to do.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hear. bear.

Hon. Mr. MILLER. It was llkely to have
a bad effect on the United States, where
they only want to have some pretext of that
kind to enable tbem to enforce even more
harsbly than they bave been doing beretofore, the allen labour laws o! that country.
I do flot know wbiether the government
thouglit it their duty to bring that judge
to account for his conduct or not, but it was
a bad precedent to set and It may be quoted
against us now. I should like to know
wbetber the governent have had their attention drawn to this last startling announcement, and if tbey bave any meaus of meeting It and if not, If tbey Intend to Introquce legislation with tbat object ia view ?
Hon. Mr. "SCOTT. 1 bave îîot seeii the
paragrapli
quoted
from
the Toronto
'World,' nor do I thlnk rny colleagues bave,
as our attention bas not been called to it.
The time bas corne, I think, wben the merits
of Canada as a country for settlers frorn Europe bas become known, and we can afford
to discriminate as to the class of people we
wIlI receive. Tbey are cornlng ln now lu
vast numbers-mucli larger than lu previous
years-and, therefore, we are ln a position
to admit only those wbo will rnake desirable settlers. Speaking entirely frorn memory, I thinli tbere is nlready on tbe statutebook, authority to stop at the port of entry
any undesirable Immigrants. If there ls not,
certainly the sooner a law o! the kind 15
adopted. rnucb on the lines of that lu force
nt the port of New York, the better. My
own impression ls, un examination is made
now at the ports of entry, Quebec, Halifax
and St. John, where the immigrants arrive.
Lt is made, I thiuk, jointly with the immigration agent o! the United States, because

APRIL 20, 1903
It le aileged many undestrabie immigrants
get into the United States through Canada,
or rather that was the tact two or three
years ago, and so the United States have
piaced agents at different ports In Canada
with a view of examining Immigrants as
That assiste the Canadian
they arrive.
agent ln order that lie niay fairly inquire
If the Immigrant je of an undesirable clase.
If so, lie can be returned to the country
from which lie came.
In regard to the Brockvilie Instance, the
attention of the government lbas beeu
calied to It, and I think the matter le under
the consideration of the Department of
Jugtice, and an inquiry te being made. ,It
was a lighiy !mproper tbing for a judge to
do. It muet have been
Iû
nadvertently,
without giving the matter thouglit, but It
le a very serions decision. because it jueti(les the action of the United States ln making reprisais by tlirowing lnto Canada very
undesirable Immigrants.
THIE BARR COLONY SETTLEMENT.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Before the Orders of
the Day are called, I wish to direct the
attention of the Senate to a very Important
mütter. A debate arose ln this House on
a question of privilege, laet Wednesday
evening, the 15tli Instant, re the Barr colony
settiement. Hon, gentlemen will remember
I took exception to the remark of the lbon.
gentleman from Calgary, because I thouglit
lie wae making an alarmiet speech which
could be used to prevent settiers going to
the Nortli-west. I have no fault to Elnd
witli the original report of these proceedinge,
but 1 flnd ln the revised 'Debates' a change
made which certainly alters the whole discuesion-In tact, the debate would not have
arleen if the speech as revised liad been
made by the lion. gentleman from Calgary
as it appeared ini the revised proofs. I flnd
ln the unrevised edition the lion. gentleman
went on to say :
The greatest difficulty prevails at the present time lni getting the necessary supplies
to live. not for comfort but simpiy to hav3
their necessities satisfied. Tt is unfortu*nae
that at the present time the Minister or th?
Interior ls absent in Europe. I wouid peit
out to the goverament thst this le really a
very mucli more Important question, not only
to the North-west Territories, but to thd
whole Dominion. than the Alaskan boundary
question.
If destitution e-hould 1prevati
in
that coiony it wili set back the Interests of

the North-weet Territories for a number of
years.
Considerable distinction may be
drawn betwien those particular emigrants
to which I have alluded and the United

States emigrants, who are familiar with the
conditions of the country and come prepared
to =eet ail the adverse circumatances which

may arise ln a new country. Consequentiy
our sympathies do not naturaiiy go out to
people who are thus prepared. to accept and
meet a-Il adverse conditions ; but there are
few emigrants so heiplese as the Englieli
emigrant landing on our shores.
He la flot
familiar with the conditions which obtain
ln this country. He lias been living under

fairly comfortable conditions and expects
to have ail the comforts of civilizatiqn, and
we very

well know that If those are

not

accorded hlm lie is the very prince of complainants-mn fact o! grumbiers-and

we knaw

what the consequence wiil be. I have mentioned siready that very serions complainte
are being sent to the Engiish press on ac-

coit of the lsck of Vreparation being made
for their reception. This settiement. unfortunateiy, is one o! those movements which

periodicaiiy seize the people of England ln
the matter o! emigration. Emigraition la
Engiand usuaily, Instead of being conducted
on a business basis, emanates from
nevolent or philanthropie movements

be-

; consequentiy we find the present condition of

things obtaining
have alluded.

la

the coiony

to

which I

Referring entirely to the colony w-hicli Mr.
Barr was settllng on the Saskatchewan. I
find Ia the revieed edition that a great deai
of the Importance of this matter bas been
dropped. The hon, gentleman, In bis speech,
saw fit to give an Illustration of the Importance of this matter, I suppose to call
attention to the tact that the Miaister of
the Interior was absent from Canada. I
mnade lt my business to Inquire at the department, as the hon, gentleman could have
done, nnd I was sntisfied the officiais were
attending to ail requirements, and la no
case was the attention which should be
given to Immigrants neglected. 1 find ln
the revised edition the following Important
paragraphle eft out of the speech altois
gether :
I would point out to the goveranent that
this ls reaiiy a very much more Important
question, not only to the North-west Territories, but to the whole Dominion, than the
Alaskan boundary question.

That was dropped out.

Hon, gentlemen

will remember wben I made reference to
the hon. member's use of the word 'heiplees,' referring to these Engiieli immigrants,
the lion. gentleman rose in bis place and
sald :
I must not permit the hon, gentlemen to
absolutely falsify and mierepresent what I said.
I neyer eaid anything. of the kind.

SENATE
The unrevised Debates, whicb I sec 15 for tbe purpose of making political capital
correct, la as follows :
out of remarks which I certalnly made mn
There are few emilgrants so beipless as the a patriotic spirit.
S1Hon. Mr. WATSON-Why did the lion.
That was the hon. gentlemnan's statement, 1gentleman correct bis speech and leave part
but I find lni the revised edition tlis change: 1 f It out ?
the Engiish or European ernigrant.
The European emigrant was flot discussed at ail. The Barr colony was the only
one that was referred to. I consider It an
unpatriotic statement, an alarmist speech,
one that might tend to counteract to sorne
extent the efforts of the government to Introduce emigrants into the Nortb-west. If
we are to have a ' Hansard'1 It Is Important
that It sbould be a reliable record of Vie
stateinents made here. It costs about $10,000 a year, and If It Is not a correct record
it would be better to abolisb It.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I beg to congratulate the bon. gentleman from Marquette
upon havlng made a declaration, so to speak,
of an office whicb be bas assumed for
some time-in tact since bis advent Into
this House-namely, the censor of the
House, and general psrty whipperin. I
bave bad occasion to know that my bon.
frlend was looking for political materlal by
reason of a speech or a few remarks I
made the other nigbt, flot ln a censorlous
spirit, but for the purpose of directing the
attention of tbe government to wbat bas
appeared tbroughout a large part of the
Canadian press, nameiy, of the iact that
too niucb attention could not be given to
make the advent of the Barr coiony lnto tbe
Nortb-west Territories as free from bardsbip as could possibly be done, with a vlew
to aileviating mucb of the difficulties tbey
would necessarily bave to face as newcorners into this country. I bad no sooner
made those remarks, as 1 said entirely devoid. of censoriousness, tban 1 congratulated
the government at the time on the excellent
work they had done in Immigration, particularly with¶n the last year or so. 1
voiced the opinions of the people of the
North-west with reference to that particular
action, but I had no sooner taken my seatand I appeal to bon, gentlemen in this House
as to the accuracy of my statement. than
tHe bon. gentleman from Marquette did entirely distort almost ei-ery statement I made,
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I contradicted
the remarks whlcb tbe hon. gentleman
attempted to ram down my tbroat wlth reference to this Barr coiony, yet he persisted
in repeatlng bis assertion notwltbstandlng
my denials. Now we Pnd hlm taking the
position that I altered the f ew remarks
Viat I made ln the Debatea. I did make
the remark that It was unfortunate that the
Minister of the Interior was ln Europe, entrusted witb the Alaskan question, and not
on hand to look after this Important duty,
and I said at Vie tîme that I regarded the
question which was then before Vie House,
and to whlcb a very great deal of attention
was given ln Vie public press, as very much
more Important that the Alaskan question,
and I say It yet. I say that no question is
more Important to the people 0f Canada
to-day than the very question to, which we
nmade allusion the other night, that every
step possible sbouid be taken to make the
reception of those Barr colonists-not only
those, but the tens of thousands of Immigrants wbo are coming Into the Northwest Territories, of sncb a character as to
leave a favourable impression on their
ininds, s0 that tbey might communicate with
their frlends in Europe and the United
States on the desirability of this country
as a place for settiement. Is it not mnch
more Important that that question should
recelve attention than that Mr. Sifton, at
sucb an Important time in our western iiitereats, sbould be dealing ln Europe witli
the question of the delimitation of the AIakan boundary ? I did strike ont, when 1
recelved a copy of the unrevised report, that
remark as to the Alaskan question. Wliy
did I do It ? I had a right to do it if 1
cho)se to do it, because the greatest latitude
is given to the revising of debates in Hansard, and I wIll say, altbougb the bon, gentlemnan may not know it, this is the first
time the House bas had attention directed to
snch a subjeet
Was it out of solicitude of the Minister of the Interior
the bon. gentleman drew attention to

APRILI 20, 1903

si

my remarks about the Alaskan ques- capital out of my remarks when he proceeds
I cousider the Minister of the to traverse the North-west by endeavouring
tion ?

Interfor was lu Europe at the instance of
this goverument, and proparly there. 'It
possibly may bave been unwlse or lmpoltlc
for me, at the time, to direct any blame
to, the minister for balng lIn London lustead
of here, but that Is a matter eutlrely for
the goverumant and not the Mînîstar of the
[uterlor; but certainly the Minister of tbe
Iuterior could ha performing much more
satlsfactory and substautial duties to tbe
people of Canada la exerclslng that knowledge whicb he bluasaif possesses, and wblch
I know tbe Postuaster General, now the
acting minIster, does not possesa, wltb refereuce to, the requirements of Immigrants
froua Europe and the United States Into
our Nortb-west. But, as I said, I considered
It advisable la viaw of tbe vary contentious
tentures of the Âlaskan question that that
phase of lt should be dropped. Does that In
any way warrant the position taken by the
bon. gentleman froua Marquette ? What
had that to, do witb tha dabate ? Iu what
wny was that a salient feature of It ? lu
wbat way dld that enter into or become lucorporated witb the question we were discusslng, and so far as the otber statement
Is coucerned, 1 say now that 1 was perfactly
justified lu puttlng lu Europeau Immigrants,
because that Is wbat 1 xnentloned.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I say yes.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I say no.
Hon. lr. LOUGHEED-My word is probably quite as good as that of the lion. genWVbat 1 was dealtieluata fromi Marquette.
ing with, and hon. gentlemen who beard
was
me will bear me out, was this :I
dealiaag witb the European imimigrants coniing into the North-west Territories baving
to bc confronted with conditions of wbicb
they knew notbing and wbicb were entlrely
foreign to those under whicb thay had llved
lu England or Europe, anad I was pointing
out to tbe Ilouse that that class of settiers
dennded ach dloser attention at the bands
of the governmeflt than settiers froua the
United States coming fromn conditions similaur to those whieb prevaiîed lu the Northwest Territories. If my 11on. friend-fancies
thant lie may be able to malze a littie politlc'uI

6

to arouse an Inimical feeling iu the mlnds
of Engllsh Immigrants by quoting rny remarks, he can do so. I tell tbe bon. gentlemain I amn perfectly content to limit the
statement, If he thinks ln bis poltical journeylaigs lt will be serviceable to bxi, to the
Eaaglisb immigrant by saylng bie is very
much more helpless than the Immigrant froua
the United States wben be first arrives ia
the Nortb-weEt. If tliat will give the hon.
gentleman the political capital he desires
and appease bis disappolntmeut îand make
for hlm political capital, he can take wbat
conifort hie ebooses from It. Permit me to,
say that 1 tblnk a perusal .of the unrevised
dcbates since 1 bave been in the House, wil
show tiant I bave made very muchl ess
changes in the reports of my speeches than
naaay other hon. members, including ttae bon.
meanber for Marquette, have made ln theirs.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-TbeÏe la
notblug before the House, aud I cannot see
wbat la to be galned by proceeding further
witb the discussion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I rise to speak to the
question of order. My bon. friend the niember for Marquette (Hon. Mr. Watson) rose
to a question of privilege, and called the
attention of the House to a inatter wblcb
Is of sufficient importance to warrant it beIng classified as a question of privilege,
thiat ls, wbetber or not It Is Important for
this honourabie body to bave a correct record of the words spoken by bon. inembers
lu this Honse or not My bon. friend froua
British Columbia apparently wlsbes to shut
off discussion, but 1 tbink it only fair that
furtber explanations sbould be given. so
that the House may be properly seized of
the wbole circumstances. However, as a
point of order bas been raised, 1 awalt tbe
decision of the Speaker, and If It sbould be
consldered, as I tbink It waili be, a matter
of privilege, we will bave a rigbt to discusa
the subject at greater lengtb, than it bas
beau so far.
Hon. Mr~. FERGUSON-The bon. geatieinnai is very kind to invite a ruling of the
Chiair after he has made bis speech. WbY
dld hae not await the ruling of the Chair hafore making bis speech ?

82

SENATE

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-When a point of order
Is raised we -have flot only a rlght to diseuss It, but we have a right te cite autherities.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The bon, gentleman! must kuew that under a strict rulluig
lie can discuss the point of order, but net
the matter whlch was betere the House,
which he has done. I may aay, however, for the benefit of the hon, gentleman that he Is net by any means
so great an authorlty on the rules and practice et tVils House as hie Imagines hie la.
The tact Is, the treest possible discussion
has been allowed ln the Senate, and it la the
pride of this House that such latitude la
given. The Senate la modelled on the practice et the House ot Lords, where great'
latitude ls ailowed, and flot on the
practice et the Heuse of Cemmons.
An
hon. gentleman emlng tromu a provincial
legisiature, where hae la acqualnted w1th the
rules ot that body, should net try te entorce
them, on every occasion lu this House. My
heu. triend rises very otten te Interpose
vlews which apply te the rules et a legIslature ot a province, but whlch are out ef
place ln this Heuse. I think It la lowering
the dlgnlty ot the Senate te Introduce here
a practice which Is net at &il uncommon Ili
the House et Commons, where members rIse
and make captions statements about the
masinner lni which the Hansard reports are
revIsed. 1 have been ln the Senate ten
years, and have neyer known until new, an
instance in wh.ich It was doue in this Chamber.
Great latitude hias been allowed te
members ef the Senate in revislug their
speeches.
1 remember eue occasion when
a very important question was befere thîs
House and I had corrected the report et my
speech and wanted te get a cerrected copy
te send te oue et our newspapers lu Prince
Edward Island, but I ceuld- net get
It fer nearly a week.
I made lniqufry et the Queen's Printer as te
the cause ef the delay and learned that a
gentleman on the other aside et the House
had made a speech preceding mine, aud had
received au unrevised copy and taken it
home with, him for the purpose et revising
IL
H1e sent back, I was told, almeat an
entirely differeut speech from the one wJuicl
hae bad delivered in the House, and the
Queen's Printer told me that on that eccaHon. Mr. PERGUSON.

sien lie had shewn the whole thing te the
Secretary et State. I had ne desîre te prevent this honeurable gentleman trom setting bis vlews before the Hlouse. as hie
1 was enly
desired they aheuld be.
anxleus te get My own speech fer the pur
pose ivhlch I have mentioned.
I djd net
ralse aîiy question about it lu the Seainte,
and, Ili tact, ne sncb question bias ever been
ralsed ln this Hense te my knowledge, before this present occasion. I cannot understand why the hop. member for Marquette
bias proceeded lu this matter as lie lins donc.
1
or wlîy hie presses It se persisteiitly.
tbluîk I wlll be snstained by reasenable
niembers et this bedy, sud>i as the Secretary
ef Stute, when I say that my lion. friend
trom Calgary (Hon. Mr. Lougheed) was net
tinreasenable li his statements, Hait lie ivas
triendly te the gevernment li his remarks and gave them credit for what
they had dene, and enly wanted te
peint out that great care sheuld ba
taken te guard agalnst these Important
settiers beluîg dlscouraged by uuînecessary
hardshîpa and difficalties.
Tlîat 'wns thec
substance et bis speech, but îny lion. friend
froml Marquette (Hen. Mr. Watson) wanted
to make pelitical capital. It is just possible
tlîat there may have been some other cause
for the hon. gentleman's adverse and unfair crlticismn et the remarks et my lien.
friand from Calgary. I remember whien I
was Ili Manitoba soe elght or len years
nge, I .heard a very goed story of a statenicuit
that had been made by a former member et parliament who lived eut there.
It was Up at Lake Manitoba, where
peopla make a living largely by fishing.
A stranger whe had come into
the country asked :
What do people
up here lîve on ? The reply was : Fiali
and strangers, prlnclpally on strangers. My
lien. triend on my right (Hon. Mr. Louglieed)
spolie werds et warning to settlers, tliat tliey
were net te lie imposed on by slîarks, wlio
are te lie fouud lu the North-west, anîd It
may posslbly lie that It was l tlîe interest
ef some such people that the lion. genitlemn
from Marquette (Hon. Mr. Watson) made
the speech ha delivered here sçverely criticeing iy hon. friend from Calgary, lest
sattiers mlght lie warned against these people wlio subsIst on strangers lu that part
ot the Dominion.

AIPRIL 20, 1903
the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If I had any diffidence to pass without notice, which le that
before the Alaskan boundary question le of minor Imln rising to make sorne remarks
of the
speech of the hon. gentleman froni Prince portance cornpared wlth the presence
now Minister of the Interior here to oversee the
Edward Island, 1 think I can prooeed
Canada ln
witli safety. The hon. gentleman critlcised settiernent of the Barr colony.
the past has had reason on more than one
me for speaklng on a point of order, and
whlch have
then immediately rose and made an oration occasion to complalu of declalons
a story been made w4th regard to boundary quesand aleo favoured the House witb
to lime.
wbicb no doubt wae very well reoeived. 1 tions that have arisen from time
a very We have bad reason to complain that we
therefore taire the liberty of making
justice done
few remarks 'wlth reference to the question have not altogether bad that
Mar- that we thought we were entitled to, and I
raieed by thie hon, gentleman from
doee not refiect
quette. I can do so now, followlng the exam- 1amn sure my bon. friend
feelings of the people of Canada when
pie of an old pariainentarian. My hon. friend the
question
from Calgary mlslnterpreted the Intention he says that this Alaskan boundary
le flot looked upon as an Important one, I
or my hon. frlend frorn Marquette and placed
we wlll have
hlm In a wrong position before thue House. amn sure every Canadian bopes
justice doue la the settlement of the Âlaskan
My hon. !riend from Marquette called atthat the beet possible
tention to the fact that the Debates had been boundary, and wiehes
out case rnay be made out, Bo that when the
altered to sucb an extent as to leave
Canada wll
certain portions of a speech made by the matter cornes up for decision,
add at least have ber case carefully and properly
bon. gentleman from Calgary, and to
understand the ciieornething else whlch he did not say In the prepared by rnen who
the cumstances, and I think he wUl admit
Rouse, wlth the resuit that It made
qualffed to prerest o! the discussion appear ridiculous. That that there le no one better
sent our case than the hon. Minister of the
wae the point my hon. friend wlsbed to ema keen intereet
phasize, and he deslred to call the attention Interior who has taken such
the In the question and has such a knowledge
of the House to this matter, because
standpolnt.
Hansard le iooked upon as being an accu- o! the dispute frorn the Canadian
Senate. And !urther, he muet admit, as a resident
rate record o! what le sald ln the
hon. the MWaster
My hon. friend frorn Calgary admltted that of the North-west, that the
not do o! the Interior has admlnistered hie departhe had altered' Hansard, he could
about this
otberwlse because the hon. member frorn ment la such a way as to briag
copy of the large Influx o! setilers that le now pourliig
Marquette had in hie band a
But
unrevlsed edilion whlch be read to the In !rom ail quarters lato the North-west.
be- while that is a fact, It does not alter the
House, showing sucli a vaet difference
f rom
tween the unrevlsed and the revlsed edi- point ralsed by the hon. gentleman
the whole Marquette, that the report of the hon. gentlelions as absolutely to change
man's speech la the Debates bas been changnature of the speech.
ed to such an extent that be was justlfied In
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will my hon. calling the atention of the House to it s0
friend point out lu wbat way the omission that lu future the record may be a f air and
of the remark about the Minister of the In- reasonable record o! the debates of the Senterior being ln London attending to the ste. 1 do not wish to detain the House any
Alaskan question wll change the character longer, but I desire to point out that the
of the debate ? Ie it pertinent or germane hon. gentleman from Calgary bias not been
to the government lookiing after Immigrants fair to my hon. friend from Marquette, and
on their arrivai in the North-'west ? If my therefore I arn juetifled in saying what I
hon. frlend will point out wherein any sub- have sald.
stantial difference arises I certainly, and I
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-There ie a discussion
tbiuk the House, will bave llght on tbe quesat the present prooeedlag ln the House wlth regard to a
lion which they do not enjoy
revision of an unrevised edition of the Detîme.
bates. 1 regret that the Çhairman of the
YOUNG-My hon. friend has Debates Committee le not here. I arn a
Hon. Mr.
but 1
emphasized a point which we cannot allow member o! the Debates Comrnittee,

SENATE
arn met aware that there is an unrevised
edition of the Senate Debates. I should like
te know just where the matter stands. As
I understand, members are furnlshed with
preofs of the reporta of their ewn observations, whlch they may correct, but there Is
not laid before the House ln any way an
unrevlsed Hansard.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Last February I was
wrltten te by the gentleman whe bas charge
of some of the settiers golng bIte the district referred te by the bon. gentleman who
bas just addressed us, inqulring as te the
best way of golng there. He had two routes
descrlbed, ene te go te Edmonton, and from
that point proceed down the river, the ether
to go by train te Saskatoon, and from that
point te go Inte the settlement. I wrote hlm
back by ail means te go by way of Saskatoon, and I added 'Befere you atternpt te
do se, see that you have preper prepa rations
made for these people comlng ite the
country. In the ELrst place yeu will ftnd
persons there wlth herses te selI, and they
wlll ask two prices fer them. Extertienate
prices wll be cbarged fer everythIng yen
require, and yen wlll id travelling a
hundred and fIfty miles ever the prairie in
the sprlng of the year wlll be a difficult
thing te accompllsb, and yen sheuld therefore make every preparation for the convenience and cemfert ef the settlers geing
in there.' That Is wbat I wrote te the gentleman. I was very rnuch pleased te bear
my bon. frlend bring te the attention o! the
geverument the fact that greater hardshlps
wlll be endured by these people under present conditions than If preper precautiens
had been taken. Last Sunday week I happened te be ln the bouse of a neighbour ln
Wolseley who teld me that be had received
a letter frem a frlend at Saskatoon, stating
that there was two feet of 5110w there yet,
and that Immigrants were sufferlng severely
because tbey had net proper accommodation,
and the people were heplng that the snew
would disappear. That was a surprise te
me, because where I was the snew had gene.
On my way te Ottawa, a Gerinan got on the
train at Regina and I learned from hlm that
he bad been up te Saskatoon and located
twenty miles west of that place, and he said
that on Friday ceming down until within
twenty miles o! Regina there was an Immense quantity e! snow on the ground. He
Hon2. Mr. ELLIS.

said there was very great bardshlp and privation suffered by settlers, and it was the
prayer of everybody that the snow would
disappear and end their difficulties.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Wbat class of setThere were no Barr
tiers were there ?
colony settlers.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Yes, seine of thenh
were Barr celony settiers, but it makes no
difference what class ef settlers they were.
Ail wbo corne into the counîtry te settle are
entitled to the same treatment. Wbatevei,
the hon. gentleman frem Calgary did, or
thougbt of doing, It was niy intention to
bing the matter to the notice et the government myself. When we hear anything that
they should knew about if we do net point
it out to the geverninent, who in the world
will do se ? I thlnk the government sbould
be grateful, and I belleve they are gratefui for the Information my hon. frlend furnlshed them, se that they may know the
difficulties they bave te contend 'with. Se
far as 1 amn concerned, I want te caîl attentien in the most friendly way to the necesslty of loeking after these settiers. Speaking
of the Debates, I understand that every
Senator bas a rlght to amend bis speeches
before they are publlshed. Wbeu I was In
the Heuse of Commens I made a speech on
one occasion, and when the preof of It was
sent te me next day for correction I f elt mertified when I read It. 1 went te a gentleman
wbo had more experience of the House than
I had and mentioned the fact te hum. He
sald 'Oh, that la nothlng ; I often receive
reports of speeches attributed te nie whicl'
1 arn sure I neyer made.' Any one may make
a slip In delivering a speech, or the reporter
may net bear hlm cerrectly, and it la but fair
that we should have the opportunity te give
our remarks te the world as we intended
them, even theugh we dld net speak exactly as we bad wlsbed te do.*
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-That would he a reasenable correction.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Âfter the remarks
te whlch we have llstened, I think 1 was
perfectly justified ln brlnglng up this matter.
The hon. gentleman from Calgary pleads
guilty te making the changes te which I
have called attention, but be bas nlot said
he la sorry fer It. 1 was rather amused at
the hon, gentleman frein Prince Edward

AIRIL 20, 1903
Hon. Mr. WATSON-On the point cf orIsland (Hon. Mr. Ferguson) saying that on
from Prince Edward
one occasion,when he wanted to send a copy der, the bon. gentleman
times
to a newspaper ln Prince Ed- -Island (Hon. Mr. Ferguson) says at ail
of bis speech
we can speak In this House on ail questions.
ward Island, lie found tliat It was deiayed
arn out cf
because an bon. gentleman on this aide of I arn aware o! the !act that 1
of a order, and If it is the wish of hou. gentlethe House had taken away the proof
speech preceding It, for correction. If lie men, I wiii take my seat.
liad altered it as the speech under discussion
now was changed, lie would flot have been CUSTODY 0F JUVENILE OFFENDERS
IN NEW BRUNSWICK ACT AMENDable to send bis own remarks if tbey were
MENT BILL.
upon the altered speech deiivered bd~based
fore his owa. Very often when a debatable
SECOND READING.
point Is eliminated from a speech, there is
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readvery littie sense ln the remarks which foilow
Ing of Bil (10) An Act to amend the Act
in the debate. I called attention te one parate the custody of Juvenile Offenders
graph which had been ellminated from the relating
In the Province of New Brunswick. He
speech ef the lion. gentleman from Calgary,
snid : As the law now stands, boys under
the paragrapli referring to the Alaskan
age of sixteen are sent to the Boys' Inboundary. The lion. gentleman to-day re- the
dustrial Home. The Attorney General lias
peats that lie considers this question o! the
with the Department of Justreatment of immigrants in the North-west communicated
Alaskan tice and calis attention te the tact that there
as being more Important than tlie
boys there wlie seem to lie incorboundary question, stili lie eliminated that are some
putting rigible, and are only a bad example te the
paragraph from bis speech. He was
that the Act lie amended
great stress and importance on the pessibil- others, and lie asks
1 do flot so as te, allow the government of the proIty of seme things happening whicli
te do se, te send a
think will happen at ail, and lie wanted to vince, If they think fit
this ques- boy to the Dorchester penitentiary from the
give an Illustration and mentioned
Home. It is preperly a
tion of the Alaskan boundary. Tbat para- Boys' Industriai
lie takes the matter for the Attorney General te, say If
grapi lie eliminated. Then
home, and
sentence wliere the word 'Engllsh' occurs, a boy Is only doing harm ln the
settlng a bad example, that lie may lie sent
and adds 'or European.'
te the Dorchester penitentlary.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Tliat Is a
Heu. Mr. FERGUSON-The lien. gentledreadful addition!
muan's explanatien. I presume, Is ail riglit.
Hon. Mr. WTATSON-I criticised the lion. but it seems rather a strange way of deing
gentleman for saying that tliere were fewv things that we are actually changing that
immigrants s0 helpless as the Englieli ; the sentence by Act of parliament. Punlihent
bon. gentleman adds ' or European.' Euro- in a penitentiary is very different from
pean immigrants were not in the question *punlshment ln a bouse o! correction.
I
at al; the only reference was to the En- do net know preclsely 'wlat the difference
glisli Immigrants. 1 think It ls unfortuant( isl, but I appreliend there Is a geed deal o!
that the lion. gentleman made that state- dîfference. I understand this case arese
ment. and I amn sure lie thinks se himself eut of the Doherty murder case.
to-day, because lie made an alarmist speech
knew.
one which would enable irresponsible news. * Hen. Mr. SCOTT-I do net
paper correspendents to send out alarming
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think it Is te
reports te the world.
meet that case this legislatiou lias been in!troduced. At ail events, the Intention is
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I rise to a point o!
remeve that boy frem the lieuse of cororder. The lion. gentleman lias no rigli tot
ln New Brunswick, wliere it la
to, speak on the question lie lias brougli t rection
a
thq feared bis Influence may have a contaminatbefere the Hlouse, 1 cali the attention of
youthful offenders. This
Speaker to tlie fact that there is nothinl Ing effect on other
rBill will enable some autherity te come ln
before the Chair, and that the matter unde
and change the sentence.
discussion is not a question o! privilege.

SENATE

86

Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-It appears a little
étrange that there ought to be special
attention drawn to the province of New
Brunswick, wlth regard ta so important a
matter as this. It shows the governmeflt
bave nlot really any fixed policy on the
question af reformatories. If they hadl, they
would have reformatarles as they orlglnally
lntended ln the différent provinces, or one
géneral reformatory, as the government af
Bir John Thompson had ln vlew. This really
brings the inatter before the country, and
shows they have falled ln that respect. It
looks ta me very queer and very much out
af place that the government would take
the power that the practie and the law of
the land bas already given ta the court and
jury. The Secretary af State should have
told us what power the government want
ln tbat respect Are they galng ta alter a
sentence, sharten or lengtben It, or what
do they lntend ta do, beyand the sentence
fixed by the juge 7 As the han, gentleman fram Prince Edward Island bas sald,
I think It Is assumlng a great deal ta lntertere with the practice af the court la tbat
respect. There may be Instances wbere an
inmate af such an institution as, that ln New
Brunswick may prove Incorrigible, but there
ought ta be special means ta keep snch a
boy tinder subordination where hae is, and
not send hlm ta the penitentiary. I thlnk it is
supplanting the liberty af the people ta give
sncb a pawer as that ta the government.
It Is daing away with the rights we bave
under the jury system ta give ta the gavernment power to send an incorrigible lnmate ta the penitentiary fram a reformatary
Institution. It Is galng it a little toa strong,
and for that reason I wish ta endarse the
statements made by the hon. gentleman
fram Prince Edward Island.

conseqnently we came ta the conclusion in
New Brunswick that this class af criminals
slould be put in restriction and ln confinement from whlch they could not escape,
whereas the present hanse in whlch the
offender referred to Is stopplng is nat af that
class. He cannat be kept there until bis
tern i lmDrlsonment Is completed. If any
fault Is ta be found at ail, It must be wltb
the punlshment Inflicted by the presiding
judge. I thlnk the judge was under the impression, when hie declded ta send this boy
ta that institution, that hie could be confined
and treated as a miner affender; but hae
iound there was na sncb provision made.
After ail, this Institution Is anly a bomeaIt Io not looked on as a prisan, or a bouse
oi correction, and we tbînk It Is but rlght
that criminels of this class should be put la
confinement until their terni af Imprisonment
expires. I do not see there is anything
wrong in that. In this case the people ai St.
John have came ta the conclusion that thxe
ciminal under consideration shauld not be
where hie could escape, and tbat hae shauld
be put Into a reformatory or penitentiary.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The Act that this seeks
ta amend was passed under the auspices af
the goverument af wblch the late Sir John
Thompsan was a member. It was in 1893.
It pravides that a judge, If hie thinks proper, may sand a boy ta the industrial borne If
ha tbinks hae can be reiarmed there.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-Is that optional ?

The Attorney
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes.
Général ai New Brunswick bas asked the
Department ai Justice ta make sucli a
change in the law as will enable them ta
take any Incorrigible boy, wbose marais cauiiot be improved, and send hlm ta the penitentiary wbere hae sbauld bave gone arigiMr. DE VER-I think I know a iittle nally. This Bill enables thein ta do sa on the
Hon.
about the history af this matter. The insti- advice ai the Attorney Général.
tution referred ta ln this case was neyer a
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
reformatary; It was simply a home for ju- was read the second time.
venule offenders not providing any punishment. It seems it occurred by accident-lt PUBLICATION 0F THE STATUTES ACT
was flot tbe fauit ai tbe jury-the jury
AMENDMENT BILL.
braught in the party referred ta as a criminal.
SECOND READING.
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-They are
Mr. TEMPLEMAN maved the second
Hon.
locked up, are they nat?
reaiding af Bill (11) An Act ta, amend the
Han. Mr. DEVER-Na, they are nat taken Act respectlng the Publication af the Statliat care af tbat a criminal should receive; tutas. Ha said :This is a very short Bil],
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON.

APRIL 21, 1903
and only refera to tlie charging of tees
whlch go lnto the public treasury.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tinie.
ALLEN DIVORCE BILL.
SECOND READING.
Bill (A) An Act for the relief of William
Alleu.-(Hou. Mr. Perley.)
I<AILWAY SUBSIDIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING.
Tlie House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole ou Bill (2) An Act
to ameud Cliapter S of the Statutes of 1900,
autlioriziug the granting of Railway Subsidies.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
(In the Committee.)
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-At present under the
law no subsidy can lie paid over to a rallway
company entitled to receive a subsidy unlesa,
out the report of the engîneer, the portion
they are eutitled to receive would lie $60,000.
It Is thouglit, ln the Interest of some o! tlie
smaller railways, that when $30,000 is due
thînt money miglit lie paid and not have tliem
wait until it Is $60,000.
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-That is to
reduce the amount to lie paid f rom Urne to
time.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, under tbe present
law it can be paid wlieu ten miles are completed, or on the certificate of the engineer
thtat a portion of the work bias been doue
anid that $60,000 can lie properly advanced
on tlie -work. This is to enable the parties
to receive $30,000 if tliey are not entitled to
receive $60,000.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliat is in a general
way ?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the committee, reported the Bill withoutameudment.
The Bill was then read the third time and
e$hssed.

BILL INTRODUCED.
(E)
EuBil An Act for the relief o! Florence
G;oughi.-(Mr. Watson.)
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Tue8day, Aprit 21, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Frayers and routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (F) an Act to Incorporate the Home
Savings Bank of Canada.-(Sir Mackenzie
BoweIl.)
Bill (G) an Act for the relief of Florence
Lee Gray-.-(Mr. Gibson.)
SALARIES 0F THE LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS AND JUDGES.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) rose to-Call the attention of the government to the
inadequacy of the salary of the Lieutenant
Governor of British Columbia and of the salaries of the Supreme Court judges of that province, and ask If the governmeut will take Into
considpration the question of an Increase In
these salaries tbis year.
He said : I may first stite tbat the Lieutenant Governor of Britishi Columbia neyer
meutioued the matter to me or gave the
smallest bint that lie would like to bave
lt brouglit up bere. My owu knowledge
of conditions prompts me to direct the atteution o! the government to the insufficieîicy of tlîe salary of the Lieutenant Governcr of Britishi CGlumbia. The naval and
military station being near the seat o!
government entails mucli entertaining, the
wages of servants are lîîgher tban in enstern
Canada, and food a trifle higlier priced.
Then for every cbarity, concert, and otlier
gatlierings for phulautlirophic and iîseful
purposes, tlie governer lîeads tlie subscrip-,
tion list and bas bis band in bis pocket
frequently. In addition to former expenses,
a very large government biouse lias been
erected at the capital and is just belng
tinislied. This whll entail extra cost in
servants, and lni many other ways. Twelve
thousand dollars is the smallest salary our
governor should have, and I beg to ask the
goverument to take this matter Into consideration. If you give us a gentleman for governor, lie should lie enabled to live in a manuer befitting bis station.
The question of increasing thie salaries
of the Supreme Court judges Is an older one
and lbas been considered on more tliaî one

SENATE
occasion by tbe government and was at one brought before me. There is no doubt wbatIn ever that since the salaries were fixed the
time on the verge' o! accomiplisbment.
1900, seventeen of the present judges o! v'aine of money bas cbanged materially, and
Quebec had their salaries Increased to that ln ail other ranks and positions ln life
$5,000. At that time we liad good reason salaries have bad to be Increased. The
to think tbat tbe British Columbia Judges. wealtb of the country bas grown, and It Is
would.not bie forgotten, but tbey were for- only proper that persons occupying bigb
gotten then, and stili are. I am sure the positions sbould be able to live nccording
Secretary o! State wiii cali the attention to the rank ln which we have placed tbem.
o! bis colleagues to this mnatter. Tbere Is no I shall caîl the attention of my coileagues
politics. In this question. Tbree of the to tbe subject, and the observations of the
Supreme Court judges out of five are two hon. senators who have spoken, with
a view to getting thelr opinions on the
Liberals.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (De Lanaudière)- subject.
I amn very glad Indeed that this matter Is
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I would ask, the lion.
being brougbit up ln tbe House by the bon. leader of the government to remember tliat
genîtleman !rom British Columbia. Just be- the samne argument appîles to Manitoba.
fore hie brougbt it up, my nieigbbour and Wbie some of tbe other provinces are
myseif were discussing the advisability of larger, there are circumstances In the west
increasing tbe salaries of ail tbe goverlors, whicb mahze the expense of holding these
and I tblnk bon. gentlemen at the bead of positions onerous at times, and we want
affairs now can testify tbat It is almost those gentlemen occnpying hlgb positions
impossible to find men wbo are wililng to placed financialiy in sucb a position that
undertake to do the bonours ln tbe way tbey can do honour to tbe appointments they
tbey sbould be done ln the provinces of iiold.
Ontario and Quebec. I know that ln the
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I sbould like to say
province of Quebec, for Instance, several
persons bave been spoken to lu regard to a word on behaîf 0f Nova Scotia. Tbe hon.
being appointed lieutenant governor o! tbe gentleman bas opened Up a pretty wide
province, but It required a mani witb very door. The expense of the governors in the
large mEans indeed to do bonour to tic province of Nova Scotia is relatively greater
position. Tbat bas been an old story. For ln proportion to population than perbaps in
inany years tbe same tblng bas been coin- otber provinces of Canada, for this reason,
plined of by several governors, and we It is the chief naval and military station of
know men wbo filled that position years the empire in Nortb America. Men coming
-ago incurred large debts with which tbey fromn the old country, officers and gentlemen
are stili burdened. Tbey accept the position in bigli standing, arrive at Halifax and the
thlnking $10,000 enough, but with the lu- governor Is obliged to entertain very iargely,
creased cost of living, and tbe necessary ex- probably as largely as the governors of the
penses whicli a lieutenant governor Is always provinces of Ontario and Quebec. I do not
compelied to tucur to maintain tbe dignity know tbat our governor in Nova Scotia
of tbe office, I tbink It would be advisable is complaining, but 1 say relatively bis
for the government to consider the ques- expenditure Is bigher than the expendition of increasiag the salaries o! the gov- ture of governors of provinces wbicb have
ernors o! ail the provinces. We ail know larger populations, from the fact that I
tbat ln consequence of tbe prosperlty of the bave mentioned. And then in regard to the
country even working men are gettIng judges, as I understand It, the judges of the
double pay. Wby sbouid not the officiais? provinces of Quebec and Ontario get larger
1 heartily agree wlth tbe lion, gentleman salaries than the judges of the other profrom British Columbia, and sincerely bope vinces. I do not tbink this Is fair. Tbe
the government will take this matter mbt judges of the province of Nova Scotia bave
serious consideration and actuaily give lb as mucb work to do as the judges o! tbe
eff ect.
other provinces, and If tbe salary of a judge
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shiah be glad to cali in the province of Ontario or the province
the attention of my colleagues to the matter of Quebec la fixed at a certain amounit, I
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD <8.01)

APRIL 21, 1903
cannot see any reason wby the salary of
bis brother judge lu Nova Scotia sbould not
be fixed nt tbe same rate. As to tbe relative coat of living lu Nova Scotia and the
otber provinces, I amn not prepared to, say,
but I sbould tblnk that lu that western
land, a country fiowing, flot Wltb ' milk and
boney,' but witb wheat and cereals, the coat
of living sbould be no greater than lu the
maritime provinces, wbere we bave to, buy
our breadstuffa almoat entirely. If the goverument taire this question seriously Into
account, 1 cannot see any reason wby tbe
salaries of tbe governors and judges lu al
the provinces sbouid not be Increased, and
flot confine the increase to the particular
province named by tbe bon. senator from
British Columbia.

tous consideration the question of Increasiu,the salaries of the lieutenant gvernoGrs of
the different provinces. I firmily believe also
that the question of salaries of judges sbould
be taken up a'nd considered seriously. Our
judiciary la flot iu my estimation sufficlently
paid. Our county judges wlth $2,4(0
a year ; our Supreme Court judges
wltb $4,000 a year, are flot adequately
pald. A second-class .lawyer earns as
mucb money, and be bas many advantages
that judges of our superior and county courts
do not have. These gentlemen are the foreinost personages la thxe land. Tbey are caîled upon to live lun ablgber and more costly
style, wltlxout any extravagance,. tban persons occupying no official position. Therefore, I tblnk the question presses itself tirgently upon thxe country and the government,
and especially, as bas been said, and properiy said, wlien we are swlmrnlng lu prosperity wltb millions of surplus. I beard n
mliîster ln the other House say that ln
twelve or fitteen yenra our revenue wouTd
be trebled. Conslderlng ail that. and wltb
the cost of living lncreaslng proportiofintely
anud wlth aIl other classes of the comrnunity,
worki ngmnen, labourera and employees askIne for bigbher wages, I thlnk It would ilot
be lu keeping wltb the dignlty of our counitry to walt untIl our Judges and lieutenant
governors combine and strike for bîgber
wages.

Hoa. 'Mr. POIRIER-I do not see wby Newv
Brunswick sbould not also come ln. We
have a lieutenant govex-nor tbere, as you
have lu tbe other provinces, a.nd fle Is no
better paid than the governor of Nova
Scotia. 'nhile the governors of Nova Scot1a
and other provinces are able to bold their
own, ours bas broken down of late under
the cost. There Is no more a goverument
bouse in Newv Brunswick. Whetber It was
too costîr, or for wbat reason I do not
know, but our lieutenant governors bave
broken up bouse and are like the Wanderlng
Jew, cbanging tbeir place of abode and retirlng ta Fredericton during tbe time of the
session. There la sometblng wrong lu tbis CRIMINAL CODE AMENDMENT BILLS.
state of tbings. Wben we see-lt is no secret
FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
I believe-the dlfficulty lu the way of findlng
* EHou. Mir. LOUGIIEED lntroduced Bill (11)
men wllling 10 accept the position of lieutthe CrIminal. Code.' H1e
enant governor lu tbe provinces, ut leasi t' An Act to arnend
- said :Tbe object of tixis Bill la to prevent
of Ontario and Quebec, the question of saiinto Canada and
ary inust fie tbe Inipediment, because the allen agîtators from comingtorganizing strIkes. On the second readlýng
bonour la bigh aud it la a position tbal
iargely Into the
wonld naturally be looked after by mnen ôl f f the Bill I shall enter more
subject. The government bave lntroduced
a certain age and especially men of bigi
Code, and perstanding. There are very serions difficultieu aa Bill to amend the Criminal
*halls this measure mlght be incorporated la
lu finding- occupants for tbose bigb positions
Tbe reason. is that the salary la 100 low *ItL
The keeping up of those bouses and th e The Bill vas read the firat tine.
bonours of that bigh position entail to<
moved tbe second readnmucb expense for the menus of men -wlu 0 lion. r.SCOTT
tlue Crinilled a political Hife and bave corne t o lng of Bill (12) - Au Act to amend
have
.ual Code of 1892.' H1e said :We bave ln
tbe end of it, not paupers perbapa exactl)
a part of the Crimnal Code
but witbout mucli money and wbo bave t o the statute-book
.punisbing offenders with two years' ilive entirely upon tbe salary of the position
and witbout lawTherefore, I conicur lu ail that bas been sal!d prisoument for knowingly
sel -f nI justification, publicly selling- or exposingand hope the governient ivill take luto

SENATE
for sale any obscene book, &c., but by a
st-range lnconslstency, If a bool. or play 18
dramatized and put on the stage, we bave
no provision for declaring that to be an liproper show. We know very well, froin our
proxlmlty to the United States, whvere v-ery
wide latitude la allowed in reference to
plays, t-bat many of tbem are scarcely of a
chai-acter for our wives or daugbters to
patronize. It Is considered that the present
Bill before t-be House Is in t-he righit direction. It reads t-bat.
179A. Every Person who. belng the owner,
lasser. lessee, or manager of a theatre, presenta
or gives or allows to be presented or gliven
therein 'any Indecent or immoral play, opera,
concert. acrobatie, varlety. or, vaudeville performance, or other entertalament or representation, la guilty of an IndictalMe offence and
Ilable, If convicted upon Indlctment, to one
year's imprisonmient with or without hard
labour, or to a fine of five hundred dollars, or
to both. and. on summary conviction, t-o six
monthe' Imprisonmient, or to a fine.o! fifty dollars, or to both.
This makes It impossible for lessees of
theatres to allow such pinys to be put upon
the boards.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Will thnt necessitate the appoint-nent of a, censor ?
]Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No, I presume t-be municipal aut-borities will take notice of It, or
the higb constable. It bas been suggested
t-bat the langunge sbould be altered In one
or two particulars wbichi I shiaîl do wbien
the Bill goes to commlttee.
BOWELL-I
lion. Sir MACKENZIE
should like to suggest t-o tlîe Secretary of
State, so that ble mny consider the question
when we go into commit-tee, whet-her there
should not be some provision to exempt t-be
owner o! t-be thentre, wbo mny have flot-ing wbntever to do witb t-le present-ation
o! an indecent or immoral picture. I bave
under my hand a let-ter, wbich 1 received
yesterdny, calling attention to the fnct t-bat
t-he widow o! the late John Ferguson of this
cit-y owns t-be Grand Opera bouse. Under
this Bull, if she beases it to any one and the
lessee shouid cause to be posted on t-be
walls o! the city the character of pictures
that this Bill is designed to prevent, thou.gl
shie might have nothing to do with lt, and
inight be a resident o! another city or
couuty, she would be beld responsible for
al] t-he penalties provided in this Bill. The
lessee, and perliaps the manager, should be
lield responsible, but iii t-he case to wbicli
Hion. Mr. SCOTT.

[have called t-he attention of the Senate
should the owner be beld responsible for
the acta of the lesaee or those who are using
t-be theatre ? It seems t-o me the Bill goes
a ltt-le t-oo far. If tbe owner of t-be property controls the opera hcuse, or theatre,
or place of amusement bicoseif, t-heu of
course bie sbould be held responsible ; but
ln the case to wbich I bave called attention It seems to me It mlgbt be a great
hardshlp t-o the owner. This perbapa la ai'
unusual case: a widow owns the property,
and o! course abe leases It to parties for
thbe production of plays and ot-her amusements. Some provision sbould be lnserted la t-be clause by whlcb an Innocent
owner of property would not be held rersponsible for t-be criminal. act or thle leasee.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere la a great deal
of force in whiat my bon. !rlend maya. I
had myseif given the mat-ter some attention,
and spoke to t-be Minister of JV;stlce who
drafted the Bill. The owner of the property mlgbt not be cognizant of the fact.
1 dld draw t-he attention o! the Minister of
Justice t-o that feature o! the Bill and wll
have a furtber conference wlth hilm on the
subject and hope hie wlll accept thbe suggestion whlch bias been made.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Does t-bat refer tu
picturea ?
bon. Mr, SCOTT-Only to pinys put on
tbe stage.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-You cannot determine Its character unleas the play ia read
before band. Who la going to rend it ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The parties will scarceiy offend, knowing the stringent provisions
of the law. If t-be play Is not n proper
one t-he manager wlll be warned in advance.
Sa long ns t-he lessee or manager is hiable,
lie will exercise some degree of caution iii
aliowlng improper pînys to be put on tbe
boards.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-Did I
understand the bon. gentleman t-o say t-bat
hoe bad drawn the attention o! the Minister
of Justice to tlîls mat-ter ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELI-And
that lie act-ed on the suggestion ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. Wge bad not much)
talk on t-be subject. 1 suggested tlînt the

APRIL 23, 1903
property might be owned by a corporation
and it would be preposterous to proceed
against them. The proper ones to proceed
against are the lessees and managers.

nlot tbink It would apply to the lessor of the
theatre at ail.
.The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second Urne.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Most of those
THIRD READING.
theatres are beld on long leases. In most
Bill (49) An Act to amend the Civil Sercases the lessor would bie the owner. He
vice Superannuation Act.-(Mr.- Scott.)
mlgbt bave entered Into a lease and would
nlot have the rigbt of entry, probably, under
SECOND READING.

thait leiise--would bave no rigbt or authorBill (C) An Act for the relief of James
lty wbatever to suppress lte exhibition of
any play. I think the lessee and manager Reid Steel.-(Mr. Landerkin.)
shîould. lie made liable, but not the owner or
The Senate adjourned.
lessor.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There ought to be
THE SEITÂTE.
soine one wbose duty It will bie to examine
those pinys beforeband. Tbere are some
Ottawa, Thutrsday, April 23, 1903.
-%v1io attend those indecent plays who are
nnd tbey sbould be
flot juvenile offenders,
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight
hiable to punlsbment as well as the lessee o'clück p.m.
and manager. If you want to know tbe
Prayers and routine proceedings.
character of a play, you must examine It
It la fit to be prebefore band and see If
DISSOLUTION 0F PARLIAMENT.
sented. As it Is you declare parties amnenINQUIRY.
ab)le to tbe law after the play Ia over, wben
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inqulred:
you cannot catch the mail Who is guilty,
outrage to make the
1. Whether the government bas ever made
and It wonld be an
known to any person whomsoever Its Intention
owner of the boeuse responsible.
to dissolve or not to dissolve 'parlIament atter
present session and betore a new session,
.Hon. Mr. M,%cSWEENEY-Ifl the city of the order to appeal to the electors.te ?
ln
2. Has it autlwrlzed any person whomsoever
Mr. Sparrow bas four or five
Montreal,
any declaration on this subjeot ? And
theatres-the Academy, Her Majesty's, and to make the declaration so authorlzed ?
what hs
He lenses as well the opera
two others.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I-n answer to lthe first
boeuse bere,- and I thlnk lie bas one some
In answer to the secornd
In the city of Montreal bie bas paragraph, No.
place else.
paragraph, No.
Say hie la in Montreal,
SM0 employees.
Honi. Mr. LANDRY-I amn pleased at the
and one of bis employees puts on a play
here that the nuthorities consider Indecent answer ; because the premier of Quebec in
or obscene, It would be liard on Mr. Spar- the local House, announced that there cerrowv that lie should be fined for a case of talnly would ntthat kind whea bie Is 100 miles away. I
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
tbiulz we sbonld examine this Bihl mlnutely.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That a general elecWbo Is to judge if a play ls Indecent or
That lion would not take place.
Immoral ? There should bie a censor.
is the only way you can get at it.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order. order.
do not think. the point
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And I want to know
taken by the leader of the opposition is as on what authority such a statement bas
strong- as lie thinks it Is. The law says:
been made.
Every person wbo, being the owner. lessor,
lessee or manager of a theatre, presents or GOVERNMENT CONTRACT WITH THIG'
gives or allows to be presented.
ROSS RIFLE COMPANY, LIMITED.
if a person is niot the actual owner at the
INQUIRY.
lime-that is to say if it Is ln the bands of
LAND'RY iniquired of the govHon. Mr.
another person. the law would niot apply
to him, he would flot bave control, se I do erxîinent:

SENATE
7. Is that service strictly and exclusively
Is there a cantract between the gaverumeat
and the Ross Rifle Campany, Limited, on the Iimited ta the objects mentioned ln reply ta
subject of the acquisition by the latter of the the preceding question ?
8. If flot, in what other service and for what
lan'ds which It at present occupies at Quebec,
other abjects are the vessels emplayed ?
and upon whtch It hs.s bulit its manufactoryT

lion. M1r. SCOTT-Yes.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In reply ta the first

question, one steamer, the 'Challenger.'
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-Wbat is the date of The second steamer is hired for the seasoli.

sucli contract ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The 27tb of May, 1902.
Flon. Mr. LANDRY-Who are the sIgneis
tîxereof ?
Hon. Mnr. SCOTT-The Minister of Militia
and Defence and Chas. D. Ross, Bart.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-At what pnice, aîid
-upoli whali conditions bas the company acqnired tbe land wbicb it bas at Quebec ?
Hon. Mn. SCOTT-One dollar per year, on
a long lease.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is it to the knowledge
of the government whether tbe conipaîiy
lias other lands, at or lu tbe vlclnity et
Quebec ?
HIou. Mn. SCOTT-No.

Han. Mr. LANDRY--Cauld I get the naine

of that steamer whlcb is hired for the scason ?

Lion. Mr. SCOTT-I will endeavour ta ascertain the name.
In reply to the second question, there is
only one captain, the captain of the government steamer.
lion. Mr. LANDRY-Could the hon. gentlemnan sny the name of the captain of the
second steamer ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will inquire. Captain Johnny Lavallée is the captain of the
goverument steamer. In reply to the third
question, Captain Lavallée recelved his certiýficate of qualification lst of May, 1901.
No. 3291.
La reply ta the fourth question, April 15,
1902, was the dateL Captain Lavallée was

lion. Mr. LANDRY-Have there been a-ny
protests against the grant ta tbe campany
put ln command.
ta the lands wbicb it occupies nt present nit

*Quebec ?
Hiou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-By wbaui and lui
whose name bave these protests been made ?
Hon. Mcl. SCOTT-A. Allerton, Jas. Arcber,

jr., and 117 othens, on behaîf of the citizens
of Quele.

Han. '-%r. LANDRY-Have tbey been made
liefore or ifter the date of the coiîtnact

SCOTT-After.
lion. M.%I.
QUARANTINE SERVICE AT GROSSE
ISLE.
INQUIRY.
Han. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the govenniment
1. I-ow many -steam vessels bas the gaverfiment for the quarantine service at Grasse Isle?
Their names ?
2. Wha are the captains of these vessels ?
3. At what date did eacb of them receive bis
.certificate of qualification ?
4. At what date was each of them put in commnand of his ship ?
5. What are their respective salaries ?
6. What especlally constitutes the service
,which these vessels penform?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

lIn reply ta the fifth question the salary is
$525, being $70 a month for the seven andl
a bal! months from the lSth of April, ta tixe
13th of November.
In reply to the sixth question, the 'Chailenîger' is especially the inspecting steamer.
Th'le other vessel carnies the disinfecting appliances for fumigating and disinfecting iufected vessels ln the offing, ncts as a mail
and supply boat bet'ween the station and
town, takes up convalescents discharged
from hospital, disembarks and re-embarks
passengers from vessels ln quarantine, and
replaces the 'Challenger' in inspecting service when necessary. Both vessels fulfil any
other minor dutles of the quarantine service.
In answer to the seventh question, yes,
he eighth question is answe.red hy the
replies ta questions six and seven.
TU'îE LIEUTENANT GOVERNORSHLîP 01'
THE PROVINCE 0F QUEBEC.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired o! the governînent
1. Has the term of office of the present
lieutenant governor of the province of Quebec
expired, and since whe-n ?

APRIL 24, 1903
2. Has the government granted the present
holder of the office an extension of time, and
until when, or has it given hlm a second termi
of office ?
3. ln the latter case, when was this second
terni granted, and at what date will it expire ?
After the tern
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No.
until a successor is appointed, be usually
remains in office, just as the bite Sir Oliver
Mowat reia ined lm office.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Under the present law the rate of ten cents per 100 words.
brings the cost of a certified copy much
higher than it wlll be under this reduced
charge of $2 per copy as provided by this
ll.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Providing
over twenty folios.

It Is

In ail
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Then no second termn
statutes of any length 'where certified copies
lins heen grauted ?
are requlred the cost would be considerably
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No second terni bias' less under this Bill. 0f course in the case
of a short Act it would nlot bei any less.
beei granted.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG, froni the committee,
THIRD READING.
reported the Bill without amendmeut.
Bill (B) An Act for the relief of Win.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the third
Francis Schooley.-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
reading of the Bill.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
PUBLICATION 0F THE STATUTES ACT
was rend the third tume and passed.
AMENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING.

HOME SAIVINGS BANK 0F CANADA'INCORPORATION BILL.
The House resolved itself into Commnittee
of the Whole on Bill (No. 11) An Act to
SECOND REA DING.
ameud the Act respecting the publication
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved
e! the statutes.
the second reading of IBill (F) An Act to in(In the Committee.)
corporate the Home Savings Bank of Canada.
On clause 1,
He sald: In moving the second reading
Hon. Mr. TE,%PLEMAN-I understand the of this Bill I may state that objection bas
alteration ls la the direction o! reduclng been taken to the use of the word 1savings,'
the ninounit 0f fees paid when certified and it: is proposed to strike out the word
copies are received froni the clerk of parsavings' when la Committee on Banking.
Under the present law ten cents
liament.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
per folio of 100 words is paid and in the
case o! a long Bill the fee is a considerable was read the second time and referred to.
Under this amendment the amount the Committee on Banklng and Commerce.
item.
paid would be $2 for the certified copy. Al
SECOND READING.
the fees collected under this Bill are transferred by the Clerk o! the House to the
Bill (No. 27) An Act respecting the Canada
Receiver General and go into the Consoli- National Railway and Transport Company.dated Revenue Fund.
(Hou. Mr. McMullen.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
The Senate adjourned.
is the rate paid under the present Act ?
Hon. Mr.
folio.

TEMPLEMAN-Ten

cents -a

THE SENÂTE.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
Ottawa, Fridav,, AprUl 24, 1903.
is no change ln the present charge Is there ?
for n man to The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Whnt would It be necessary
psy to obtain the information provided here? o'clock.
You provide now that he shall pay $2 and
Prayers and routine proceedings.
10 cents per folio.

94

SENATE

MR. YOUNG'S SALÂRY.
MOTION.
Hon. Bir. WATSON moved the adoption of
tbe second report 0f the Standing Commlttee
on Internal Economy and Contingent Accounts 0f the Senate.
The SPEÂKER-I would suggest to tbe
bon. member that It would be better to take
up the report clause by clause.
The firat tbree clauses of tbe report were
adopted.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the adoption
of the fourtb clause of the report, whicb
read as followa
Your committee recommend thaît, in consideration of bis length of service (forty-three
years) and falthful performance of duty. the
salary of Mr. J. C. Young, clerk of routine and
proceedingis and clerk of etationery, be Increased to $2,400 a year.

it is considered necessary to proceed in this
manner. We have had no explanation from
the sub-commlttee of the Internai Economy
Commlttee, under wbose supervision this
measure, I understand, la framed. Tbe bon.
gentleman wbo had charge of It rises ln bis
place and moves that the clause be adopted
wltbout any explanatlon wbatever. I amn
flot on that conmlittee, and I sbould like to
bave a f ull and extended explanation, firat,
why tliey came to tbe conclusion tbat that
Increase was necessary, and also an explanation from tbe bon. gentleman who moved
the aniendment wby be considers It necessary thîs flouse sbould pledge ltself to an
Increase of $200 a year eacb year for tbree
years.

Hon. Mr. MILLER-I bave no doubt Hon.
Mr. Vidai, wbo la cbairman of the sub-commlttee who made the report to the Internal
Economy Commlttee, wll give the bon.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I beg to roove, second- gentleman -the explanation *be desires.
ed bày the Hon. Mr. Young,
Hon. Mr. VIDÂL-I aal be very bappy
That the said clause be referred back to the
com-mlttee wit-h Instruction ta fix the salary lndeed to give as full an explanation as It
of the said Charles Young, $200 a year for la; possible to obtain, but I amrn ot very mucb
three yeare until the sum of 12,400 shall b.
reacbed. wbicb shall be the maximum salary ln advanoe, perbaps, of other bon. members
of said clerk.
of tbls cbamber witb respect to knowledge
tbe committee wben this
Hon. Mr. MeMITLLEN-I sbould lke to of the details. In
of matter was brougbt up, the request was not
know upon what prîncîpie these Increases
wbicb was named,
ealary are made. I really thlnk that In place for any ipeclfed amount
ont one but tbat the offioer sbould be promoted to
of increasing salaries by plcking
of officers, and
and another 0f the clerks belonglng to thîs the first rank of tbat ciass
year il seema tbat lin connection wlth that tbe
Chamber and addlng to tbelr salaries
usuallY impied.
after year, they sbould be fixed upon the larger amount of money la
effici- Now, the reasons wby the' sub-conflfIttee
amount 0f service rendered and the
these : In the
ency of tbat service, rather than by personal adopted this motion are
first place this gentleman bas been for
I bave beard no explanation of
choice.
the upper
why It bas been suggested that thîs Increase forty-three years a servant of
flouse, having been employed lin the
of $000 sbould be gîven to this mon In one
year, nor bave I bad from the bon. mover of Legisiative Council prior to confederation,
ail this
tbe amendment any explanation of why be and continuousiy sInce, and duringthe salary by $200 a period be bas discbarged bis duties -with the
proposes to Increase
most kind and
year for tbree years. If the clerk la en- utmost regularity and in the
la
actually renders ser- courteous manner possible In every respect
tltled to $2,400, and
his dealinga with senators tbemselves. Now,
vice to this House for that money, be Is enacquaintance witb hlm,
tltled to It now. If be la not entltled to tbat personally from my
even In the old parliament of Canada before
money, why sbould we pledge this flouse,
that time to the preand by statute pledge the country, to an confederation, and from
sent day, with the short interval I was flot
increase of salary 0f $200 a year for each
In the Chamber, I know how
ye ar of thbree .years. I cannot understand inyseif preseat
lie has discbarged bis duties; be bas perlegisiation of thîs kL-nd. I admit that I amn
witb the utniost regularlty,
a new member of tbîs flouse. I bave not formed tbem
kinduesa and efficiency, and I know that In
had extended experlence, but I should
the duties devolving upon hlm,
reaily Ilke to bave some explanation of wby addition to

APRIL 24, 1903
oung's worti and the careful manner In
partlcuiariy ln connection witli tbat branci Y
duties. I have
that v ,ich lie lias discliarged ies
of the service tn which lie la engaged,
1.0 kaowa him very many ycars, and arn
lie to bere ln bis office during thie wliole a wane that lie la a moat excellent officiai.
year, even when parliarnent la flot in sess- a
inoe 1896 we bave iacrcesed Mr. Youag's
ion, and durlng tliat perlod la able to rendier, 8
It
ren-s aiary from $1,400 to $1,800, and I thinli
and does render, and lias continuly
atartied the House wien an Increase
atier
dered very efficient service to any perloil
.t one jump of $600 was to be addcd to lis
connected witb this Chamber wlio lias de- a
alany, maklng It equni to that. of a judge
sired lis aid. I know that In lis personai
le 1in the county court la the province o! Oncharacter and tn bis personai feelings he
an office bighiy souglit after by tlie
a gentleman of tlie htgbest respeetabiiity,t nrto,
of 1trst mca at the bar. Lt did scem contrary
and deservlng of tlie kind consideratiofi
rule tiat wc bad adopted in the paît
the House. We have aiso been informedt .o the
la i bat any o! our officiais shouid be advned
tint otiers, for instance, tliree offioers
creating a jealousy and a disa similar position Ia the otlier Cliamber, had oe rapidiy,
t urbance In the feelings and zninds of otiier
some time ago reeived the Mame promotion
wio thinli tliey also are entitled to
wbcli lie was asking, from a lower Up to officiais
somne considenation. Lt cannot be denicd
We thouglit if it couid be
ii biglier class.
the officials o! the Seate are aIl very
,done tliere, the Mame principle wliich govern- that
highiy paid, very mucli biglier than lnaeny
ed tlie other brandi of tie legisiature sliould
of the civil service. As ion.
also guide us--tint as lie was a most effi- other branci
gentlemen know, we cennot increase tlie
cient officer, dcscrving ta cvery way, if It
of the most deaerving officer ta any
wvas proper to net upon tiat principie there snlary
dcpartment o! the goverameat bcyoad fifty
we sliould wlth propricty do so here. Lt
a year,. except when lie gets the
lias been done with another oflicer holding dollars
maximum o! lisa ciass and you advence
a somewliat similar position In this Chamber,
to anothen, and then lie commences at
and wliy It sbeuld be granted to one and hlm
the lowest salary la that dlais. You have
refused to another, I do not see. The reatic ame of the penson la the
sons wliich prevaiied with tlie Senate lu to mention
estimâtes and submit it to parliameat If you
*granting an lacrease to another gentleman
that rule. La tus Senate we
would have equal force, If not greater force, depart fnom
dlaim to be superior to tic iaw whici govlI the application whicli was lie!ore us.
officiais of tlie service. We are
The matter was pretty. fuiiy discusscd in en otlier
a lnw unto ourseives. We do to our offithe sub-committee, and tliere was no differwiet we thinli rigit,
ence of opinion tiere with reference to ciais, apparently,
whliy irnespective of tic opinions of the
makiag the recommendation whicli tlie comTliey, I presume, exznittcc lias made. I do not irnow tint the House of Gommons.
tlie Mame nutiority oven ticir officiais.
amouat exactiy came Into, our consideration ercise
to nefer tlie report bnck to the
ut the tlxnc, but quite apart from tint, I Thc proposai
meets witi xny approval. I tui
thinli Mr. Young ta entitied to the higliest coinmittee
be for thet committee to sey wliat
consideration of this; House, from lis long, it sliouid
incrense should be given to Mr. Young. Lt
faithful service, lis cfficiency at the present
did seem to me unwise to maie
day and diligent attention to lis work-tbnt ccrtniniy
The
eny proposai as to tlie future.
lie deserves evcrything tliat this Hlouse cau
care of
lis promotion, future sliouid be lef t to taie
propcrly do witi respect to,
I have no doubt at ail times we shall
and tbat promuDtion carnies witl i t the In- itaci!.
not oniy
I do not be ready"to do justice and fairness
creased amount I have mcntioed.
to Mn. Young, but to ail o! oun officiais,
know that I have any other particular renbecause I think to leave matters as proposed
son to advancc- Ticre are otier membens
wouid only crente a good deal o! dissatisof the committee Wlio can speali more fuiiy
faction amongst others wbo aise beiteve tliey
than myseif on *tliesubject.
are entiticd to some considenation.
Hon. Mn. SCOTT-I am very glad indeed
Hon. Mn. 'POIRIER-I do net risc to opto licar thc tribute pald to Mr. Young by tic
tii. motion la the original report. I
lion. gentleman opposite, and can condially pose
a propoto Mn. bave made it a point not to oppose
endorse ail he says with respect

.SENATE
sition to Increase the saiary or to advance
any empioyee, from this weakness, whicli I
will admit. I bave been myself for many
years an empioyee and would flot care to
takre any stand against the advancement or
Increase of salaries to civil servants ; but I
believe tbat tliere slionid. be some system ln
the Senate for regulating the advancement
of employees, and especlly lncreasing tbeir
salaries., As lias been said by the leader of
the goverament, those sudden advances disturb the equanimity of the service. It looks
as If some empioyees are getting a preference
to whlch, no doubt, tbey are entitled, but
whicb other empioyees do not view la that
ligit I concur absoiutely la wbat tbe lion.
gentleman from Sarnia (Hon. Mr. Vidai) bas
said concerning the qualifications and services ef Mr. 'Young. He ls ail that lias been
ciaimed for hlm. Âltbougb oniy fifty-one
years of age, lie bas been forty-tbree years
ln thie service -and bas worked tbrougbout
effectuaily ; but by singllng out Mr. Young
as a man who sliouid get this increase, It ls
a reflection on the other employees, and It ls
on bebaîf of the other employces tliat I rise
now. Posslbly ail the employees of the Senate bave qualifications equal to those of Mr.
Young. If a gentleman la to be advanced
on account of bis qualifications, I believe we
ouglit bere as a body to look witb equal
justice to ail the employees wlio have
equal qualifications, and grant eaçb of
them an increase, or at ieast, as I bave already said, have some fIxed, ruie on wbicli
their lncreases sbould be based. I would
favour the appointment of a commission
headed by the hon. Mr. Speaker and severai members to look into the condition of
the empioyees, many of wbom bave made
themselves very meritorious ln many respects. Some pueli tbeir own Interesta, wle
others are more meek and modest and shy
My
in that respect, and are forgotten.
opinion is tbat no deserving employee
here should ble forgotten and left behind,,
and in order to reacli themn I tblnk a commission, sucb as ls proposed. wonld be proper.
I know of empioyees wlio are very menitorious, worklng liard and liavIng tecbnical
knowledge, employces wbo, to occupy the
position they fill now, must have a coilege
education, know botb languages, lie able to
write weil and who have all the personal
Young, yet, whose services
qualities of M.%.ý
Hon. Mr. POIRPflR.

are flot so weii recognized. I wifl simply
leave these considerations to the hon. leader
cf the goverament and to M.r. Speaker to see
if the matter could flot be worked out. As I
said before, I do flnot oppose this motion. I
arn giad Mr. Young la receiving the Increase,
but 1 shlouid like to see more uniformity, and
1 abould like to see equal consideration extended to ail of our employees who are generally-I may say unlversally- deserving of
like treatment, and I do flot like to see one
singied out In preference to another. Of
course, ln our position here we do not feel it.
but I was once ln the position of a civil service employee, and I may say that wben an
employee thinka lie deserves promotion, and
actuaiiy deserves it, and sees others being
promoted and no promotion la bis case lie
feels very sore. None of us have any iIntention of allowing any of our employees to
be dissatIsfied from actions that may appear
discriminating.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I supposed wlien we bad a new Internai
Economy Committee appointed, that It
would practise economy and that we
would have a llttle more economy than
lni the past We know that tbe ex:penses of the Senate bave always been a
source of a good deai of discussion ln tbe
country. .It is considered tbat the expenses
counected with tbe Senate are mucli larger
tban necessary, and there ls no doubt we
arc paying very large and bandsome salaries
to the different individuals wbo are employed in performlng duties as officers of
the Senate. We know very well that when
a gentleman fuils these duties, as lias
been said by the *hon. sénator f rom Sarnia (Mr. Vidai) la the manner ln wbich
Mr. Young fulifis the duties of bis office,
that lie Is only doing tbat wbicb be ls required to do, and If lie did flot fuifli the
duties in tbat manner lie would not fuifil
tbem to the satisfaction of the people or of
tbe Senate wbose servant -lie ls. The increase that we are proposing to give tbis
gentleman ls one wlich I would not feel
justified ln supporting. I believe It ls advancing the salary more tban we shouid
do when we increased it at once by oneWe know very weii that people
third.
who are employed by tbe goverament under
the Civil Service Act cc'uid not'get advances
in this way, and we are taking upon

APRIL 24, 1903

97

o urseivçs to do that wbich the governmeflt the sub-commlttee, as weli as the remarks
,self bas flot the power of doing under the of the leader of the government, appear to
Service Act, and 1 have flot heard me in no way to justify this increase. The
il
uffIieent to justify me li voting for this reasons 'wbich were given 1 think couid be
appiied to every employee of the Senate
xcrease of salary.
Mr. CHURCH-Tbere appears to be at the present Urne. So far as I have met
Hon.
disposition on the part of some members the different employees of the Senate, tbey
Shave this question settled off band. I are aIl gentiemanly and courteous to the
gree with the hon. gentleman frorn Prince senators, and ail discharging their duties
idward Island (M~r. Macdonald) that this In a very proper and efficient manner. I
sa very important question. 1 arn glad know of no exception to this general rule,
lit my hon. friend opposite (Mr. McMullen) and If that le a justification for maklng an
tartedl the discussion. To my mmnd the iincrease to the employees of the Senate it
t ucrease appears to be a very large one. la a justification for lncreasing themn ail, and
do not know bow to approach this ques- 1 qulte agree witii the remarks which have
ion on Its merits. Like my hon. frlend op been made by several members here, that
have not been here long enough If this matter ls to be taken ni> it should
a osite, I
o know what the duties of this gentleman flot be taken up by slngling ont an IndiviLre, but certainly an increase of one-third dual and glving hlm a very large Increase
o his salary appears to be a large one. wlthout noticlng in any way other employees
['he remarks of the hon. leader of the gov- equaily deserving. I have heard no reason
ýrnment are opportune now, but do not con- whatever'given that la satisfactory to my
rince me of the slnoerlty of sncb a large lI- mind why tbis increase shonld be given.
crease li the salary of this officiai. If It be If my Information Is correct, the amount
the opinion of the Honse that this gentleman paid at present la the saine as pald for
s entltled to an Increase, li order to have sinullar services rendered by an officer in a
sufficient emolurnents according to the duties sln4,lar position li the Honse o! Commons.
o>fbis position as an officer o! this Senate, I have not haed Urne to look into the matter
Ishould favour the motion of the hon. gen- myseif, but that la my information at the
tleman f rom Ricbmond (Mr. Miller) and preseixt time, and if thiat information is
gîve the increase gradnally. It la not the correct, It wlll have the effect of creatlng
practice li the other branch o! the legis- a certain amount of feeling arnong the rnemlature to glve Increases at tbis rate. I know bers o! tbe service if one member la adthî, because friends of mine lI the civil vanced very much beyond another one
service lI thàe 1province fromn whicb I corne doing similar work. Besîdes that, my own
have told me so, and I do not see wby we imepression la that tbe amount pald, $1,8w0,
shonld increase It a third at one bonnd. On la a fair salary for a position sncb as Mr.
the merits I do not know that I sbonid vote Young fils. I ar n ot aware tbat it requires
for the increase at ail, but as it la presented any special technlcal knowledge to fit a perto the House I am li favour of the arnend- son for that position. It merely requires a
ment of the hon. gentleman fromn Rich- maxi wbo la bonest and, as my bon. friend
mond, as belng the beat solution of the mat- sinys, courteons, careful and attentive lIn tbe
ter under the circumatances as reported ni> discbarge of is duties. I therefore feel
that, as one member of the Senate, I shall
by the committee.
this matter was have to vote against the motion and tbe
Hon. Mr. WOOD-When
before the cornmittee of wblch I arn a amexidment.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I entirely agree with
member I was not.present, and my attention
was not called to the snbject until I found the remîrks wbicb bave been made by tbe
Il on the proceedLngs to-day. 1 have lis- bon. leader o! the government and I cannot
tened to the remarks wblch have been made, se-, In anythlng tbat bas been stated wby
and I agree wlth the remarks of the last the salary o! this official, however efficient
two speakers. So, as I am lnforrned upon IUJ may be, sbould be ralsed at a jump by
Ibis subject, I feel tbat 1 cannot support a sumn of $600. Il seern t0 me that lt would
tbis motion. The reasons wbicb were gîven be unfaîr t0 other employees wbo migbt be
by the bon. gentleman wbo is chairman of quite as deserving as bie Is; I arn not suffi7

SENATE
clentiy informed at present to say whether
lie la entitled to an Increase of salary or not
but It seems to me It would be a very badl
principie to raise a salary at that rate and
aloo to bind thia honourabie House for three
years to corne. If Mr. Young la entltled to
ia salary being raised, let us raise it for
this year without commltting thia honourable House, or the government, to any f uture action. I wlll therefore move an
ameudment to the amendment that the report lie simply referred back to the comnittee, aeconded by the Hon. Mr. Ellis.
Hon. Mfr. COFFEY-Â&s -a new member, I
feel somewhat delicate ln speaking on thia
subjeet but frc>m what I know of this case
I feel that I should heartily support the recommendation of the committee ln regard to
the Increase of salary to Mr. Young. We
muet remember that ln the commercial
worid Increases of salary are In the air.
Everybody la increased ln salary. We have
atrIkes ail over the country where tbey are
not lncreased voluntarMdy.
Salaries have
been increased from 25 to 50 per cent ln
almost every corner of the Dominion, and 1
believe ln applying the same princîple to
employees of this House as la applied ln the
commercial world.
Hlon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Hear,
hear.
Hon. Mr. COFFEY-We have very large
wholesale houses ln the country Who will
take on a new man this year and gîve hlm
$1,000 a year, and ut the end of five or ten
years his saiary May be two or three thonsand dollars, accordlng to the work that he
ls doimg. (3ertainly If a wortliy employee of
a commercial concern la deservlng of conslderation and of Balary, how mucli more is
Mr. Young worthy of a génerous Increase
after forty-three years of hie lite, hie whole
lifetime you miglit say, has been spent ln
the faithful dîscliarge of hie duties to the
Senate. I heartlly concur wlth the report of
the committee on general principles. 1 am
BorrY that I have to disagree with.my hou.
friend to -My riglit on this question. Not
onlY am I ln favour of an increase to Mr.
Young, but I am lu favour of giving a fair
salary to aIl our employees as the case may
require. In this case 1 should like to see the
Increase, because I think it ls richly deserved.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I desire reepectfully to eall the attention of the
hon. gentleman who has moved the amendment to the amendment that it la somewhat
of an Inconsequentiai cliaracter. It refera the
report back to the committee. For what purpose ? la It to strike out a paragrapli, or Io
It to fix the salary at a maximum rate, or
what are they to do ? It seems to me the
motion should lie for reconsIderation ln
some particular liue, lai order that the Senate miglit express an opinion as to the propriety of IncreasIng the salary or allowIng It
to remaîn as It la at present. If the servants
or employees of the House were under the
Civil Service Act, then we would be ln a
different position, and the probabulities are
that Mr. Young mîglit have attained to the
maximum of a chlef clerkship. Hon, gentlemen who have studied tlie Civil Service
Act will remember that there are three
classes, and If auy officiai is worthy of an
Increase, every year hies alary ls increased
to the extent of $50 a year until It readhes
the maximum of tlie clase, and when a civil
servant reaches the maximum of bis class,
then, If lie ls worthy of it, lie le promoted to
the next ciase. Mr. Young lias been receiving tlie maximum salary of a first class
clerk aines the period at whidli it was raised
to $1,800 per annum. The next step would
be that of a chlef clerk, and he would have
to serve a suffileent length of time under the
Civil -Service Act to reacli the sum of $2,400
at $50 a year, and after lie liad reached that
period of service which would entltie hlm to
$2,400, that would be the maximum and you
could. not increase that under the Civil Service Act, except as pointed ont by the
Secretary of State, by speca/l vote of parliament, and then you wonld have to add these
convenient words that you will find added
to some thirty or torty Items ln the estimates, 'notwltlistandlng anything ln the Civil
Service Act, &c.' That lias to be added If
yon desire to Increase the salaries. That is
done, -and If you look at tlie present estimates
before parliament, you will fInd a large number of Increases provided for lu the manner
that I have indioated, by adding the words
' notwIthstanding auythlng to the contrary
lu the Civil Service Act!' Then these words
are used also ln the appointment -of new
officiais. If you desire to appoint a clerk,
for special requirements or for doiug

.AIRIL 24, 1903
special work, instead of giving hlm $400
a year yau can make his sa;lary six or eight
bundred dollars or a thousand dollars If
parliament wiii sanction it. Then there la
another clause In the Civil Service Act
whlch makes a provision that you can appoint a man, no matter wbat bis age, and
you can give hlm the maxirnum salar>' of a
deputy bead If he bas technlcal and certain
other knowledge that is necessar>' for the
position In wblch he ls ta he piaced. I do
flot knaw that It is necessar>' for me ta
point ont dlstlnctly what the provisions of
the Civil Service Act are, but It would suggest Itself ta me that if our employees were
under the Civil Service Act, Mr. Young, hi
ail probabilit>', wouid some years ago, or
might now be pramoted ta the position of
chief cierk, and then he wouid be entitled ta
a raise every year, but I belleve aur employees do nat corne under the provisions of
that law, and therefore tbe commlttee has ln
the past adapted the principle that ls contained ln thîs motion. I thInk It la an unprecedented raise for any of the officiais. There
are other officiais wbo have been ln the service ever sInce I have been- ln pariament
and whose positions ln the Senate are of a
somewbiat responsible character, not oui>' a
respansible character, but the>' would be
consIdered as occupying a hlgher position,
wba do not receive the amount that is suggested li this report, nor Is there any recommendatIon ta raise their salaries.
There la a good deal of force li the abjection that has been taken ln selecting one
member of the staff. The suggestion has been
thrown out, that this question could be conaidered mare tharoughly b>' the Contingent
Hause Committee. -IfIt were adapted, I do flot
think the princIple sbouid guide them as ta
the length o! time an officiai bas been ln the
service. The wark the>' have performed and
thé respansibliies attached to the position
they hald shauld be considered in ralslng
the salar>'. À man ma>' be a long trne ln
the emplay of parliament; bis services ma>'
flot be a! a respansîble character, -and he la
not entItled under the circumstances ta receive more than he would be paid ln a sirnilar position If he were flot ln the goverfiment. There are other positions that are
very responsible, and employees should be

paid

attention of the House ta the salaries of
the county court judges ln the province of
Onîtario. 1 think anyf one wrho knows anYthlng about the responslbilltles attaching ta
a judge in some of aur counties whlch are
very large, wli scarcely put them on a par
wlth those of a stationery cierk. However,
I do flot abject ta our officiais belng well
pald. On the contrary, I thlnk. they ought
ta be well paid; at the same time let us
know wbat the respousibillty of their position are, and then let us corne ta a conclusion whether we should make the ralse suggested by the commlttee. My own opinion
la, $2,000 a year for the position held by
Mr. Young wauid be sufficlent, but If It la
ta be Increased, let it be done Ini the way
pravided lI the Civil Service Act. 1 shouid be
glad te support a motion ta that effect Whether the government thInk it proper ta adapt
the suggestion ta put aur ernpioyees under
the Civil Service Act is a question for the
government ta consider. It wauld avoid a
good deal of this trouble that la constantly
arislng. I hope my han. friend wlll change
bis motion so as ta let us knaw what bis
Idea la In referring the report back, and then
prabably It migit recelve the support of
the Senate.

Han. Mr. ELLIS-I think what was In the
mind of niy hon. frlend who rnoved the
amendinent ta the amendment and My awn
mind, was that the utmait Increase should
be $200 ; that the Senate should nat be bound
ta do anythlng neit year, nor shauld It, by
the acceptance of the amendment of the hon.
gentleman from Richmond (Hon. Mr. Miller),
bind ltseif ta declare that the office was actually worth the maximum sum whlch he
stated. Like my han. frlend, the mover, 1
arn not lmpressed by the tact that a man
bas been forty-three years In the service, and
therefore, and for that reasan slmpiy, bis
salary shouid be raised. The whole question
of the nature of the service, the deslrabillty
af the increase, and the surrounding circumnstances sbould be known. My> ban. frlend
who rnoved this repart dld flot give us any
reasan at ail for its adoption. The committee carnes forward and asks us ta increase
the salary b>' one-third the amount of that
salary. It cannat but have a disturbing Influence on ail the gentlemen connected with
as they are in the commercial the service ln every way. I arn quite satisThe Secretary of State calied the fled there is noa officer ln the othfr Hause

mast

world.

99

SENATE
doing the same work wbo gets the very large
amount proposed In the recommendation of
the committee, and that therefore there la
a rnistak-e in that regard. I wouid be perfectly ready to agree to an Increase of $200,
but nlot to binci the House for any future
time, iior to make the declaration which
the resointion cails for.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Witii regard to the
arnendment of the hon, gentleman on the
other aide, I do nlot think it Io properly worded. It la inconsequentl, but I have no
desire to prevent the Honse expressing lis
opinion any way It wishes ln regard to the
report and I amn perfectiy satisfied If the
hon, gentleman will arnend bis amendment
to my amendment, by saying after sucb and
such a word to strike out 'witb instructions
to do' so and so, or say ' for further consideration.' Then it would read properiy
and could go to the House and the sense
of the House couid be taken on tbe motion.
It wouid clearly show that those wbo vote
for It are -opposed to my motion. If bis
arnendment fails, I wiii .nsh- the House to
pasa on rny ameudment. With regard toi
this matter, I rnay say thbat It la jiot an unusual tbing to refer recommendations back
to the committee for recousideration. It la
done sometimes and under different circumstances. When a committee, for Instance,
bas made a recommendation to the House.
ln the absence of full Information, and desires to revise its judgxnent, a report la then
sent back very frequently for that purpose;
or when a snap vote bas been given in tbe
comrnlttee, not representing the fulil sense
of tbe committee--nnmeiicaIly speaking a
smali committee--it is not an unusual
tbing to refer a report back for further
consideration, or wben information bas been
received, which the committee, when making its report had not before it, it la a
very usual tbing to send a report back
for reconsideration ; but otherwise it is more
or less a rellection on a committee, If witbont any of these grounds, a report is sent
back. How does this question come before
the Senate ? It was first dlscussed, not Ini
the Internai Economy Committee, but in a
sub-committee of that committee, known asi
the Stationery Committee, of whieh Mr.
Young la the cierk. It was discussed, I am
toid, very fuily in that committee, whicb l I
a very Intelligent committee, and a unaniHon. Mr. ELLIS.

mous recommendation was made to the Contingent Committee for an Increase of Mr.
Yonng's saiary. It was moved in the Contingent CommIttee, 'by the chairman, Hon.
Mr. Vidai, and aeconded and passed unanirnoualy.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I nnderatood Mr. Vidai
to say the arnount was nlot expressed.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-The amount was
cIearly understood. I said a word or two
when the motion was before the comrnittee,
and I understood fnliy and distinctiy tbat the
amount waa $2,400. There was no division
on IL. It passed unanirnousiy. Under sncb
circurnatances, I tbink It would he more or
lesa a reflection on botb committees If this
report shouid be sent back now without
specife -Instructions.
However, I waive
everythlng as a member of tbe committee, and I .arn wlling to let It go back
on the amendrnent I bave off ered. I need
nlot say to bon. gentlemen tbat Mr. Young
la a very old servant of tbe House-in fact,
lie was bere before I came bere, and I arn
here a good wbile. He was ln the service
of the old legisiative council of Canada. He
bas been ln our service as page, messenger,
Speaker's messenger, and as a clerk silice
confederation. Every one wbo bas corne
ln contact wltb hlm bears testimony
to efficiency, courtesy, and wiilingness
on ail occasions, not only to do bis
duty, but more than bis duty if it
ia required of hlm.
Mr. 'Young is one
of the few empioyees of the bouse wbo
stay here aimost continuonsly during the
whole year. In many instances, wben a
member at a distance wants anything
attended to ln connection witb the Senate,
in ail probabiiity Mr. Young la the man
lie writes to, and Mr. Young is the person
who attends to any business for hlm in
connection with the Senate. He us aiways
r'eady to do work of any kind, which is
reaiiy not witbîn tbe scope of bis officiai
duties, and I tbink that should not pass
without consideration, -and It should riot
be forgotten that lie stays bere continunisly the whoie year. when other empioyees are takIng holldays or giving very
Ittie attention to the Senate--are nlot requIred here in fact. In addition to that,
Wfr. Young is entrusted with tbe very oner)us and very Important duties of cierk of

APRIL 24, 1903

101

ne Intention of that kind. There
Imittee hadintention te dîscrinhinate against

stationerv. He le entrusted with the purchase of a very large amount of property.
Ho le entrusted witli the care and custody
ef that property, and aiso ln connection
with the newsroom, ho has ail the duties
of ordering papors for the neweroom, paying
for theme papers and koeping acceunts la
connection witli tixem, which i. really outaide the duties of clent of routine and proceedings, which la technically the office lie
Under ail these circumstances, when
fill.
the vote came before us, and I saw ne oee
objecting te it, I thought it would net be
an unreasonable thing te allew Mr. Yeung
te get an increase. I hadl nothing te de
with flixing the increase. It was doue by
the Committee on Statienery, as I understood, and was se, generaily accepted by the
committoe, that it did net even cause a
division. It went througli with a good
rnany complimentary remarks ln faveur
ef Mr. Young, and wltliout anybody expressing au opinion against it. Under the
circumastances, I hope the amendmeut
te niy amendment will ho dot eated,
and that my amendment to the motion et
the Chairman et the Oommittee wlil be
allowed te pass, that la, instructing the cernmittee te spread the Increase over threo
yoars, and ftlng the maximum ef Mr.
Young's saiary as oue ef the clerks -of the
Sonate at $2,400.

was ne
any other empleyee. Sinco I have beon in
this Sonate, it han been the practice te take
oach case on Its own mrnilts. There has
boon ne Bstem. I fer oe wonxld be giad
te have smre mystem adeptod which wouId
removo from us .ail this naploasant busainess.; but as there la no Bsmtem, it has
been the Practice te taRe oach case on its
merits, and vo knew the empioyees goneraiiy take good careofe thoir owa interests.
TFhe commlttee la wlling to taire any case
which may be presontod tu It, but 1 disclaim
the ldea that because we think an eniployee
ia werthY et a certain recogition that it 18
a, refloction on ethel' Orpleyeem. At any
rate, thore bas been ne much Idea ln the
mids Of the mombers of the committee.
Am* te the mattor itself, I arn qulto willnug
te bo guided by the feeling cf the Heuse.
Ilou. Bir, SULLIVANI rime jximL tor the
purpose et stnongiY onder.ing the remarks
made hy the hou. gentleman frem Mantobal.
It la absoluteiy necemsany that smre system
sheuld ho adopted for dealiug wltli the malaries et ail thome employoes. If such wvere
ln force in tbis Houmo new, thono weuld
Dot be any et thîs dlfficuity. How eau an,
ordinary momber, such as 1 amn, vote intellgently on this quemtion ? Is it oniy
because $2_000 l. less than $2,400 that wo
the arnendment te the amendHon. Mr. BEIQUE-WItli the permission are te adopt
ment?7 Mr. 'Yeung did net roquent $2,400. Ho
et the Heuse, 1 wlll make my amendment
asked fer an increftle ;the committee named
read as foliows *
Ho said
Hew ÉLd&they name lIt
the $40.
That ail the words ln the amendment after they uaiued It on the principie et the Civil
of t be stricken eut and the followilng
the firstet
They lnvemtigated what ho
Service Act
words uubstituted thereter;
*Ths.t the fourth clause or the report ha sald, and it vas on that basie. Now, If it
$2,40V.
amended by substituting $,000 for.
le proposed te reduce $40 te $200 and meneHon. Mr. MILLER-Very weil, wo wll iy vote for the reduction hecause it la lower.
take the menue cf the Houso on that
lt j3erms te obeuuwrtby of a House Iike
huxterng way te treat thîs
oct et the thiis. It le a
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The off
Thore mhould be smre nule by
question.
;amendrnont wiIl ho to commit this hou.
whichi the salaries ef the emploees ef thîs
Houne merely te an Increase of $200 fer House sheuld lie governed. Mr. Yeung lias
this year, and not committing ourseives at an appointrnent whlch carnies with It a geed
ail fer the two follewing years.
deal et responmibUlity, and lie performs lis
do not want te duties weii. Ho aime lias vorli te de by whieh
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I
dîscuss the monita or demerits of the ques- ho couid by carelesse domtrey a great deal
tien itsolf, but I wish te remove, as far as more than three times or five times hiq
1 can, an Idea whicli seems te ho in the saiary If ho vere met tmuiated by bis
minds of some bion. gentlemen. It has beon houent conviction and an oquitabie reward
stated that this report was a discrimination fer the wonk deue. The cemmlttoe have
agant othor emPlOYes. I thlnk the com- Investigatod lt, and have gene on a fixecl

SENATE
principle and really It la tbe duty cf tbia
Heuse te, suppert their recommendatiefi. If
net, tbey sbould lay down a mile, and be
governed by that ruIe.

for increases. We cannot tell wihere It will
1 hope
stop if we keep on ln that way.
before the question i. put that whoever bas
charge of this Increase, wlll give an explanaion to the House why tbey considered it
necessary to recommend an lincrease of $600.
I want it dlstlnctly understood that I amrn ot
challenging the emfciency of the man, but
an explanation sheuld be glven wby thia.
large. increase ie made.

Heon. Mr. McMULLEN''I destre te add a
word te wbftt I have already said on~ thls
My reasen fer taking exception
question.
ln tbe firit Place was nef at ail with any
idea that Bir. 'Young was Ineffictant. I hieIteve be ta one of the most efficient servants
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I went on the basis
empieyed bY thi. House. I 'have every resI
that, but MY reasen fer takiig that It was enly $40 of au increase.
son te believe
find that it la $60.
exception was tbat when the report was presented to tbe House, tbe onlY answer we
HEon. Mr. DE VER-I -have ne objection
get te demanda fer explauiStiofls wby the te have a syatem adopted for the future ln
raise was made or $600 ln one year -was tht. House, but that la net tbe question be4Oarrted ! carired t'1 Now wheii the cern- fore us to-day. The committee has brought
Mittee undertakea te brIng a Matter of tbts Ia a report and an amendment ta proposed to
ktnd befere the House, increasing the salntry It that we send back the report to the coino! any efficer se largely at eue Urne, it weuld mittee. 1 bave been a member cf this House
be but courteay te tbe Obamber tbat wbe- a long ttme, and have always round that due
ever t. chairman of that cemmittee, wbe- courtesy was pald te a committee who hiever bas been a party te tbat act, sbenid vestigated any matter thorougbly.
It ta a
give a full, eztended and, if possible, a satin- most unusual thing te reject tbe report of
factory stiltement of wby tbts ta being deue. a commflittee. I cannot agree wlth the reThat ts a couirtefiy te membera cf tbe Honse marks ef the bon. gentleman who said tlhat
wbo are net MeMlbera o! tbat comlmittee. this report would be a reflection on otht~r
When ebanges cf thts kind are mnade tbRt employeel of the House.
On the contrary,
full, lucid and clear explanatiens sbould be tt would be a stimulus te the Cther emgiven. If Mr. Yeung la *onecf tbese whoesc ployees that tbey sbould act as Mr. Young
saluary bas net been Increased ln pnst years bas acted, gIving general sattsfaction te the
wben otbera wbe came into the service tbe House. As an bon. gentlemen very preperly
tucrease.of salary,
'lame time be did got an that, and tbe tact said, Mr. Young occuptes a position ln wbicb
I sbeuld like to know
a great waste of preperty xuigbt take place
might be a juat ground wby be sbeuld ,gat If be were not a very caref ni and relinble
spactal cenatderatien now. If tbat ta tbe etrioer. ;For my part I have watcbed 31r.
tact, wby ls tt net presented te this Cham- Young «wtb a great deal ef care, ami 1
ber ? Wby are net members cf tbts House may say I knew other bon, gentlemen wlio
teld of It ? Tbei'e certainly ta seme good beld that office betere him. Tbe office bas
reasea 'wby the members of that commtttee been cenducted under Mr. 'Young better thnu
decided te raise Mr. Young's aalary $600 at it ever was befere and I bave been bere
one jump, wbich la oertalnly unusual in thia thirty-four or tbtrty-five years. Under tbe
Chamber, and I know It la unusual luthie ctrcumstances I think It to but rtgbt and
other Chamber. I belleve that It would ba Proper tbat wben a recommendation ls
better that the civil service in tbis Cham- made te tbis Heuse witb a due knowledge
ber should be placed under some fixed rula cf the character and conduct of Mr. Young,
whereby salaries would be regulated and lu- the report sbeuld ba suatainad, and I shall
craased If Increases are deserved. I do net vote for the original motion.
challenge tbe efficlancy of any servant of
Hon. Mr. WATSONý-Às chairman o! the
thîs House. I believa tbey are all efficieut,
ani we sbeuld andeaveur te deal with tbem committee wbo presented tha report, o!
en a basis that weuld de justice te ail, but course, tbere was nething for me te do but
taking up ene only and granting an lai- present the report. The lion. gentlemian
crease of $000 In oea year, is only an en- frorn Sarnia, wbo ja chairman ef the Stacouragement te the othars te make demande tionery Commîttae, made bis report te the
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

APIRIL 24, 1903
years of service, and the committee do not
report to the House the reasons for this.
The reasons bave been given bere. The
coxnmittee are flot supposeti to take Up time
reporting reasons. Tbey do flot report rea'sous as a rule ; tbey report findings. The
flndlngs In this Instance are unanimous.
And notwithstanding wbat bas been saiti
bere, as far as I amn concerned, I arn prepareti to deal witb any Increase that might
be asked by auy member of the civil service and deai with these matters on their
merits. Lt may be a sudden Increase, to ask
a rise of $600, but wvbile 1 madie this MoHon. Mir. McMULLEN-I tiid not know IL. tion, after the expression of opinion ln tlis
I-on. M~r. SULLIVAIN-Wliy don't you put House 1 ratber favour the. amendment of
the bion. gentleman from Richimondi, anti
the right mnu on that committee.
ami prepareti to accept 1t.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tlie lion, gentleman
Hc Mr. MclMUlLEN-I desire the privile a inember of the committee andi lie shoulti
have known tliat tliat committee was ait- lege of one word of personal explanation.
ting, because nztice was sent out ln sufi I n-as not lu the city of Ottawa at tue turne
dient time for calling the meznbers togetber. the committee meeting was called, noir yet
It bas been saiti there wvas no division la the meeting of the sub-committee. 1 -lm
thei cornmittee on the question ; there was sorry I bappeneti to be absent upon the
flot even a dissentient voice ; ln fact, every occasion, because If I bad been bere I cermember of the committee who spoke to tninly shoulti have attentiet the meeting.
the motion of thei hon, gentleman frotu I was away andi consequently coulti not atSarnia supportei it anti saiti it was but tend.
BOWEL-I
flou. Sur MACKENZIE
justice anti right to Mr. Young wbo bai
been some forty-three years lu the service think the House Is entitieti to anme expianaof the Senate, tliat lie shioulti receive tbe tion witb regard to the remark, of the bon.
maximum salary of the place lie occupleti. Secretary of State, that the sub-coUimittee
I ngree witb the remarks made liere as to matie no recommentiation as to the amount.
the Importance of Mir. Young's position. He
Hn
r
ASN-OYs
hydd
ii
ete
i.WTO-h
Hn
lias cbarge of the stntlonery of tbe House,
lon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I conanti by carelessuess coulti luse very much
more tlîan bis whole salary. Not only that suiteti tbe chairman of thiit coiniiittee a
but hie perforais other services which oc- few moments ago anti If 1 untierstood blm
cupy bis tinie not onily for the session but correctly, hae saiti tbe recommentiation was
for the wliole year. 1 uiîterstauti that 1,r. that Mr. Young be promoteti to tbe next
Young is iu bis office every office day lu the class. That would be presuming that lie
year. There is'no question ab-)ut bis being was acting uponi the principle of promotioni
a particularly efficient anti obliging officer, Lii tbe civil service, anti that woulti be raisanti it Is tbougbit by the Internai Ecouomy lit- Mir. Young froin a first class clerkshlp
Committee that they n-are justlfied lu atiopt- t0 tbe position of a cbief clerk, wlthout
ing the recommendations matie by the sub- ,nentioing any surn, andi If they diti thst
comrnittee whb knew of tbe services of IMr. it wonld entitie hlm to $2.000 per annuin
Young. The hon, gentleman fromn Sarnia and if you act ixpon the p)imnciple of the
bas explaineti tbiat tg is pers3nal kuon-- Civil Service Act, as I bave pointeti out. ha
letige lie bas knowu this gentleman for wvouiti go up to tbe $2,400, but it would take
eiglit years to do that. That la the
some forty-tbree years ln the public service, li
anti that bie bas aiways been efficient anti position if I untierstani the quiestion. What
obliglng, anti it appears to nue that if at any I shouiti like to know is, if the sub-committea
tinia lu a man's lifehle is goinig to reach the diti not recommanti the increase of $600 per
maximum bie shoulti reach It after forty-threa annur n-ho diti ? Was It the acbon of the

committee recommendlng the Increase. That
report whicb was, 1 understand, carried, unanimously by tbe sub-committee, was piresented by the chairman of tnat sub-comnmittee la the same flatterlng manner In
which lie spolie of Mr. Young here to-day,
and thè committee In turn atiopted the report witlîout a dissentlng voice, and I tbink
it would be 'weII tbat al! nembers of finit
committee shoulti attend its sittings andi
save the lme of the Honse. The bon. gentleman fromn Wellington la a member of
that committee.

SENATE
comimittee itself or did somebody else take Young couid waste blis saiary every year,
and instead o! tliat lie liusbands, as I bave
the responsibiflty ?
reamon to know as a member of the subHon. Mr. GIBSON-As one of the members comrnlttee, the supplies of the Senate, and
and as one who seconded the report of the lie carried over lis stock fromn one year to
sub-commlttee brought lni by Mr. Vidal, the another, whlch a leas efficient officer wlio
expianatign that hie gave to the cornmittee was dereiicet ln the discliarge of bis duty
meemed e satisfactory that, with the ex- would not do, because lie wouid distribute
ception of the lion. member from Welling- perliaps the wbole o! tlie purcha ses eacli
ton, wio, wa8 absent, five and twenty rner- year and procure new supplies. But apart
bers of that comrnittee unanlrnously accept- fromn that consideration altogether, the office
ed and adopted the recommendations ln the that lie occupies la wortli the money, and If
report of the sub-committee witbout a criti- hie bad begun, as the lion. gentleman from
em; ln fact, aimost every' gentleman on Hlastinga said, under tlie Civil Service Act,
the committee stood up one after the other hlm statutory increame would bave brouglit
and said a kind word on behlf o! Mr. hlm to the maximum of bis class rny
Young, who liad risen !rom a page boy to years ago, and aimost beglnnlng at nothlngthe position lie occuples ln this House.
beginning at $500, the maximum o! Increase
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Weall wouid give hlm smre $2,200 alone. But layagree to that
lng that to one side aitogether, wliat la the
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The Idea that the hon. sub-cormlittee for ? A sub-committee was
gentleman from Sarnia had ln vlew was appolnted by this House witli regard to the
that Inasmucli as Mr. Young had reached Internai econorny of the House. Tlie coinairnost the extreme iength of service, ai- mittee met and they declded upon this rethougli lie le qulte an active man eUhl, hie port. I arn sorry that thie Houme does not
thouglit it waa only fair lie sbou.ld be placed see fit to Increase Mr. Young~s salary $600 a
in the maine position and la the marne condi- year, but If tbe words $2,400 bad not been
tion as was done by the House of Commons used, and the report liad beeni brouglit, as I
with respect to tlie office keid by Mr. Bot- understood, and as 1 belleve every hon. gentereil to that of a chief clerkship. That was tleman o! the commIttee understood, that
the whoie idea of the cornrittee, and If Mr. Mr. Young was to be raised to a chie! clerkYoung bas been unfairly freated ln the past, slip, thie question of salary wouid be settled
and If bis saiary lias been raised within the by the rank that lie ladl been raised to.
last two or tbree years, I think it Is ail tbe Hlow can this arnendment to the amendrnent
more to the credit of the lion, gentlemen be sent back to the comrnittee witbout any
wlio occupy positions ln this Hlouse to do recommendation wbatever ? It is an Insult
justice even at the eleventb hour. To put to the committee. It is wltlin the power o!
Mr. Young ln the position of a chie! cierk- thîs House to say now wbetlier Mr. Young's
ehip upon bis retirement wlll aiiow hlm a salary shall rernain at $1,800 or bie raised to
deceut arnount of rnoney to retire upon, and $2,000 or $2,400 without referring it back to
that was the unanimous opinion of every the cornrittee at ail. Tbe comrnittee sirnpinernber o! the sub-cornrnttee. So far as 1 ly brouglit ln the report under the baud o!
arn personally concerned, 1 agree with every their chairman, and we are bound te euhword that was said In that cornmittee. I mit to the rnajoovity o! thîs House, and If
agreed witli tlie lion. gentleman from Sarnia, it la the judgment o! this House that lie
because lie could speak from forty-three sliouid only be paid $2,000 a year, as a rneryears' knowiedge of Mr. Young, and 1 ber of -that cornmittee I arn willing to accept
lieartily coneur ln every word that lias been the decision of this House. But why send
sald this afternoon with respect to Mr. it back to the cornxittee ?
Young. Tliere Is one particular matter'o!
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-That is not tbe
whicb we sbouid take speciai notice, and motion.
that is the 'Yesponsible position that Mr.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It was the motion. It
Young occupies with regard to buying and
purchasing articles required by bon, gentle- Is quite within the province o! the House to
men and by the staff of this House. Mr. nmend the clause and say wbether Mr.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOVELL.

ÂPRIL 24, 1903

Young shahl recoive -an Increase of saiary or
a chief clerkship. My understandlng of it
was that It was Intendod to raIse Mr. Young
to a position similar ta Mfr. Bottereli's position, so that on rotirlng ho wouid have a
decent allowance.

105

me ont of the chairmanship of that commlttee, but took good care I shouid be off
it altogether. I do flot care for that. He
seemed to have sorne rjeason for getting rid

of me, but I find no fanît. WhUle we ail
agree that this House should 'have every
opportunity of crltlclsing and dlscussing the
Hon. Mr. GOWAN-I agree,,with every reports of committees, I have always had
word that 1 hourd ln praise of Mfr. Young. a very declded Idea that the reports made
Speaking from an exporience of twenty by the committees themselves should bo
yrears. and with very full opportunities of supported unless there was a very strong
knowing the dattes he performed, and ob- reason to the contrary. We appoint comserving the manner in which lie performed mittees to look into these matters. In this
them, I caunot too hîghly praiso hlui case they appolnted a sub-commlttee, who no
I boliove that the doubt, took the necessary steus to satlsfy
iu this particular.
work ho performs Is worth ail the money themselves as to what should be done In
that the committee recommended to be pald the matter, and as I understand, made a
hlm, and It Is a very serions thing for the unanimous report recommending this InHouse to Interfere wlth the deliborate and crease to Mr. Young. When that report is
nnanirnous action of Its own nppolnted made, I do not see wbat else the combody on a matter of this kind unloss there mittee can do than recommend it, and then
is very serions objection to it. My hion. when they corne here and put It before
frlend from Ottawa made sorne reference to the House, I do flot see why s0 rnuch obthe salaries paid to the county court judges jection should. be -offered to it. However,
ln Ontario, stating that this was a hlgher it seems to me a simple matter now. The
salary than pald to them. Thot was an hon. gentleman frorn Montreal (Hon. Mr.
argument for lncreaslng the salaries of these Beiqxie) moves to refer this paragraph of the
officiais rather than wlthholding jnstice f rom report back, that the amount should be
the applicant now before the Honse, strong- made $2,000. That Is the amount proposed
ly backed up by the recommendatIon of the by the hon. gentleman from Richmond
commlttee, but In comparing the salary (Hon. Mr. Miller), and If the hon. gentlewith the Incarne of a county court judge, It man frorn Montreal were to withdraw his'
must be remombered that lu addition to the motion, the same thing would be reached
salary of the county court judge there la by aliowing the motion of the hon, gentlea very liberal retirlng allowance paid by man from Richmond to go before the House.
statute to that officer. I hope the flouse w!Ul The'hon. chairman of that committee has
adopt the unanirnous report of this important expressed bis consent ta accept such a Mocormlittee, and as far as in me lies, with al tion as that. and I suppose lu doing so ho
the responslbillty that I thlnk should attacb speake for the cormlittee, and we mlght
to every member of this Hanse, I eau bear end the matter by allowing that motion to
testimony to Mr. Young's diligence and be put.
efficiency. I do not bellove there le a more
Hon. Mr. OWENS-The motion of the hon.
capable officer In the Houso, or lu parliaand I agaîn say that gentleman from Richmnond Is to increaso
ment, than Mr. Young,
I earnestiy hope that the unanirnous report the salary $200 a year tilI it roachos the
sum of $2,400.
of the commlttee wlll be adopted.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I uudorstood
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHIOFFER-I thIlnk I arn
entitied to say a few words on this subject. the hon. member from Richmond to move
I have been a member of the Contingent that It should be ralsed to $2,000.
Accounts Oornrnttee ever since I came Into
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Two hundred a yoar
thîs House, eleven years aga, and for six tili It roachod $2,400.
years I was chairman of that comrnlttee
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Well, whichLast year my hon. frlend from M~anitoba
(Hon. Mr. Watson), when the goverument ovor motion Is put, let it go for the $200
got sufficlently strong to do lt, flot oniy put Incroase, I tbink the House would bo satis-

SENATE
fied

with that and in future years tbey

could raise It If they desired.

The committee divided on the amendment
ta the amendment, which was declared iost
on the following vote :

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I rise ta speak on
a point of procedure. The motion before
us Is to refier titis report back to the comBaird,
mlttee to be arnended.
Bdique.
Hon. MEMBERS-No, noa.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I understood sa from
the mover. I submIt tbat under the strict
ruies of procedure It Is not necessary lu
this case. It wouid not be necessary wlth
a report of the Commlttee of Supply, and
this ls a similar matter. If the motion was
ta Increase the amount. then It would have
ta be referred back te the cormlittee, or
If It was anything equivalent ta that, It
would be necessary ta refer It back ta the
committee. But when the question is wltb
reference ta dlminishing the amount recoinmended In the Committee of Supply, II; la
not necessary ta refer It back ta the committee, and I subinit In this case it Is not
necessary ta refer It bacit. The amendment la that the salary be a less amount. In
this Instance It la not necessary ta send
it back ta the commlattee, whlch would
meet the objections ralsed by my hon.
friend front the west and my bon. friend
from LIncoin (Hon. Mr. GibBon): it wouid
save all that trouble. I rend front page
562 of Bourinot's Pariamentary Practice,
2nd edition, ta substantiate what I ami
saying, as follows :
Âny resolution from Cammittee of Supply
xnay be reducedHon. Mr. MILLER-That
Gommons practice.

Is

Hanse

of

Han. Mr. POIRIER-I have explained
that, but aur committee is equivalent or
nnalogaus to that of Supply. and I submit
titis would npply. It would simplify the
whole matter by passing the motion at once,
because, as 1 saîd before, I arn nat opposed
to tbe resolution. Sir John Bourinat &tates:

Any resolutian from Committee of Supply
may be reduced after repart without going back
ta the Cammittee. though It Is sometimes conventent ta do so for the purpose.
Without insisting upon it, I subinit tii
is an analogaus case and that we could
safeiy pass that resolution witbout referring
it bacl, ta the committee.
Hon. Mr. KIROHHOFFER.

Contente
The Hon. Messieurs
McSweeney.
Merner,
Bouchervilleje (C.M.G.),Owens,
(Sir Mackenzie),Power (Speaker),
BoweIl
Scott,
Church,
Shebyn,
Bulis,
Templeman,
Legris,
Wark,
Macdonald (P.E.I.),
Wood.-19.
MeKay (Truro),
McMullen,
Non-Contents
The Hon. Messieurs
McDonald (Cape Breton)
Bernier,
McHugh,
Casgrain (Windsor),
Coffey,
Miller' (Sir Alphonse),
Pelletier
Dever,
Perley,
DaiTfon,
Poirier,
Ferguson,
Reid,
Fyost,
Robertson,
Gibson,
Sullivan,
Gowar.
Tessier,
Kerr (Cobourg),
Vidal,
Krchloffer,
Watson,
Landerkin,
Yeo,
*
Lcugheed,
Macdonald (Victoria), Young.-29.
MacKeen,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tbe bon.
tron ]Rimouski bas nlot voted.

gentleman

Hon. Mr. FISET-I amn paired wltb the
Hon. Mr. Bolduc. If entItled to vote I would
vote for the main motion.
The amendrnent was agreed to on the same
division, and the paragrapit as amended
was adapted.
On the fifth paragraph,
5. Yaur Committee recommend that, If a dissolution of parliament occur before another
session, the stationery clerk be empowered ta
make arrangements during reeess for supplyIng large Iesth'ýr trunks ta senatore, at the
beginning of the ensuing session.
Ion. Mr. YOUNG moved that the 5th paraH
grapit be struck out.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is nlot
titis an unusuai recommendatIon ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
Hau. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-For
what reason was it inserted in titis report?
WVas it frani any intimation received that
there was to be an election ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIL-Or
sanie presumption there was to be an election ?

APRIL 24, 1903
Han. Sir
Neither.

ALPHONSE

PELEETIER-

Hou. Mr. WÂTSON-It was not considered
by the committee at all.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
did it corne In here ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Itcarne lni ln error.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It Is
very extraordinary. The cliairnian tells
neHon. Mr. SCOTT-The cblrman of the
cornrittee says It was Inserted la error, and
it should be struck out.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
han. member for Killarney (Hon. Mr. Young)
maves that It be struck out I was asking
how It carne lnto this repart.
We have
the extraordinary statement made by the
chalrmau of the cornrittee that It neyer was
adopted by the comrnIttee, and that It gat
there withaut bis knawledge. What I should
iike ta knaw, and wliat this Hanse shonid
know, la how a report of thus cliaracter,
containlng such an extraordinary recommendation as this, was inserted la the repart
without the knawiedge a! the cornrittee
and without the knawledge of the chairman.
We have already ascertained this tact, ln
the motion just passed, that the subcommittee made a certain report, withaut
mentioning any suni, and that the suni crept
Inta the report by sanie means or ather, no
one knows how.
Han. Mr.- WATSON-I uaderstand now
how It got lto this repart. It was in the
sub-cammittee's report, and was not adapted
by the generai cornmlttee, and I suppose by
error It got Into this repart.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
sub-cornrittee's report was adoptcdHon. Mr. WATSON-Tliat paragrapli
was
îîot adopted. The sub-cornrittee's repart
ivas not adopted ln fuli.p
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlien
It was the clerk's fault. I would suggest
ta the chairinan, and I do It respectfully,
that when lie sigas a repart ln future, making any recommendations ta this Senate, he
should know wliat lie Is daing, and not permit a paragrapli ta be placed la a report
that neyer passed the cornmittee. The whaie

107

thing, to use a very mild expression, seerns
to have been a bungie from end to end.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I quite appreciate the
hon. gentleman's gaod advlce, but that report was presented ta me just wben the
House was meeting. I haît no ides. that
paragrapli was ln Il, and I suggested ta Hon.
Mr. Young ta -move that it be struck. out.
Han. Mr. BERNIER-I amn a member ofthe committee and I amn sorry ta disagree
with the bon, gentleman tram Portage la
Prairie. .It must have escaped bis mmnd
or attention, but as a mnember of the comrnittee, I quite remember this part af the
report came before the committee.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The report of the
sub-cormIttee was reguiarly before aur camrnittee and adopted, so I think my hon.
triend was mistaken.
Hon. Ur. VIDAL-I have ta differ from
the han. chairman of the cornxittee with
respect to. this.
As chairman of the subcornrittee, I certainly read this clause as
part af aur report, and read It dIstinctly,
and consldered it was thus brauglit before
the notice af the large cornrittee. 1 supposed it was carried.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The chairman of the
sub-committee ls perfectly riglit. He did
bring In this recommendation, and did nat
go any further than to lay It before the general cornrittee, and It was neyer adopted
or recomrnended by the committee.
Hon. '.%r. VIDAL-That~ ray be riglit. I
ouly mention niy own part af It.
The ui;tIon ivas agreed to.
TI-E UNION LABEL BILL.
lon. 31r. SCOTT-A letter lbns been
hianded me. by an lion. senator, who lias
liad ta leave on the four o'ciock train, re(luestinlg as many senators as possible would
nieet the Canadian Manufacturers' Association on Monday at 2.30 p.m., in the roolu
usually occupied by the. Banking and Commerce Comrnittee, iii connection witli an
Important Bill wlich la cornîng up for consideration next week.
The senators are
invited ta lie present alid hear the views a!
those gentlemen -with reference to the provisions of that Bill.

SENATE
liou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLI-Tba.t look Up any correspondence there may be
ouly gives theni baîf an hour to discuss et and bring it before the House.
very Important question.
1

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If there Is nothing,

Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Ealf past two was the do flot know what: I could move for.
hour that the hon. senator named to me
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot think there Is
at which they were to meet.

anythlng.

Anytbing tieat bas occurred was

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I miglit ask the hon. informai-simple conversation.
leader of tbe opposition If If would be lni
order for me to Invite the gentlemen who
THE PACIFIO GABLE.
are promotlng the BihI ?
Hon. Sir MACKÇENZIE BOWELL-The
lion. gentleman lias a good deal of assumpNo one would suppose for a moment
tion.
lils delicacy would permit blm to do a thiug
Thiere ls very Ilttle on1 theof tient kind.
Order paper-scarcely anythlng-for Mouday. lf tbey meet at two thirty they .could

MOTION.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL, noved:
That an humble Addresa ha presented to Hia

Excellency the Governor General ; praying that
His Excellency will cause to ba laid upon the
Table of the Senate copies of &Ulcorrespondance
between the government of Canada, Great Britain. Âustraiia and New Zealand, during the
past twolve months, having reference to an
discussion, and then agreement, or proposed agreement betweefl
Eastern Extension Cable
House adjourns, Australla and the

have a prellmlnary
meet again as soon as the
Company, and aIl documents ln conflection
therewith.
and they could have the whole afternoon.
wl] give mv
Hou. Mr. WVATSON-That
Hle said : 1 should Ilke to niake an addlmien time too.
tion to this motion wlth the consent of the
House, althougli I fear It would delay the
Thie Senate adjourned.
returns asked for for some time. If the
House unanimously consent to tbe addition
which 1 propose, I will ask the han. Secretary of State to bring down the Information
THE SENATE.
asked for ln the first portion of the motion,
Ottawa, Mondag, Apr<l 27, 1903.
and the additional information whlch I proThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three pose to ask for ln a subsequeit return, unIess they have the information 110W before
o'clock.
theni. With the consent of tbe House, I
Prayers and routine proceedings.

will add the following to the motion :
Alan a return showing the business done by
THE TRÂNS-CANÂDA RÂILWAY.
the cable each month since it was laid, namnely,
the number of words transmitted of, first, the
INQUIRY.
ordinary messages ;secondly, goyernment mesHon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the govern- sages ;and third, press messages.
ment :
As I have already stated, perhaps the bon.
1. Whether the Trans-Canada Rallway Com- Secretary of State could inforni me, before
pany bas made overturee to the governement to
obtain a subsidy ta aid ln the construction of a I proceed further, Nvbether they .have tbat
railway froni Quebec to Port Simpson ?
information ?
2. What is the nature of the subsidy aked ?
3. What is the amount par mile and for how
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. I niay say, lu anmany miles ?
4. Has this recjuest for subsidies been recom- ticipation of some motion of the kind, I
mended by any one, and by whom ?
cabled to Lord Strathcona to send that f or5. Doee the government intend to grant the
ward.
?
aid asked for
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No formai application
bas come before the goverunment froui the
IndlviTrans-Canada Rallway Company.
dual menibers have been spoken to as to
what they probably would expect. Beyond
that nothlng has happened. My hon. friend
may move for papers, and 1 will then
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
I will add what 1 have just read to the motion. The information asked for iii the first
parngraph miglit be brouglht down, and the
other miglit be embodied ln the subsequent
return. I have been induced to make this
motion froin what has appenred ln the

APRIL 27, 1903

10£

relating to the establiishment of offices and
varlous other advantages whicli could flot
be obtained by any other company. Qucensland and Victoria refused to grant these concessions. The rlghts which were granted to
the Eastern Extension are in perpetuity.
Sir Edmund Barton, premier of the Commnonwealthi, takep this position, if lie cauldsecure a concession from the Eastern Extension releasing these four dîfferent colouies froxu this binding contract w-hicli they
liad made, and restricting it to teix years lu
consideration. of granting tbiem the saintriglits and privileges in Victoria and lu
Queensland, tbat lie would be doing a good
thing for the Australiani Commonwealth.
Looking at it fromn that standpoiut, most
people would agree witli Sir Edmund Barton,
but what I think we, as Canadians. wlio
have an interest ia this enterprise, have to
find fanit with, is the want of business
character that is operating the Pacifie cable
at the present time. The Eastern Extensioxi Company-I want ta place the matter
as fairly before thie House as possibleclaim,- la consideration of surrendering tlieir
riglits in these four colonies, tliey should
have for twenty-tive years tlie absolute
privilege that they enjoy in the four colonies, ln Victoria and Queensland. This the
The obýect and intention of those who ad- premier of tixe Commonwealth refused to
vocated the pollcy of an all-Brltisli cable grant, but the Commonwealth lias entered
between the British colonies on this con- Into an agreement for a ten years concession.
tinent and the Austraian colonies, and con- This la, I tlink, the contention of the preliection witli other portions of the enupire, mier of the Commonwealth of Australia.
by whicli communication could be lied hy The Melbourne 'Argus' ln particular, whicb
the direct Pacifie cabie line wltb ahl portions 1 may state is a very Influential paper,
o! the empire, lad tliree objecta ln %-iew. adds :
Otie was the patriotie object of havling in
The Canadian premier protests that Ausnîl-Britili 'Pacifie cable. The second wns traia should not grant the eompany the priviof ente&prlBe ; lu
that Canada slionld have communication legs of making such a display
that the Commonwealth gov-

Australian newspapers and from other Infoi,
mation which bas come under my notice.
From the articles whicli have appsared ln
the Australian press o! late it would appear that the Australian Commonwealth
have proposed to enter Into an agreement
witli the Eastern Extension, by which certain rights and privileges are to be given to
that company, which, as 1 learn from the
documents which have been placed before
me, the government; o! Canada object to,
and when the House and the country are
made acqualnted wltli the facts, I am inciined to the opinion that this Senate and
the country wll approve of the course
which bas been adopted ln thls connection
by the goveruiment of Canada. I wili read
a short extract from the Melbourne 'Argus'
of the l3tli Mardi last, ln which It la stated:.
Sir Wllfrld Laurier is taking up an altogether
unreasonable position, on the cable agreement
question. Vlrtually his contention le -that the
stats owned Pacifie cable shall be favoured by
Its owners as against the prlvately owned Eastern Extension line, to an extent that would ia
tie securs for It a monopoly o! the business.
Ho desires Australia as ons of the parties to
the Pacifie cable contraet to do everything,
possible to, direct business over that Une. So
long se thus 'everythlng possible' dld not iavolve unjust treatment of the prIvats lins no
objection could be taken.

off ont hie demande
as to ernment should reserve to ltself as a partaer
privileges in
enable it to carry on Its trade %vith those in the Pacifie cable ail rlghts and of lnereasing
the shape of adopting methods
colonies to greater advantage to those wlii) business, 'do everything possidble to direct
engaged lu commercial pursuits. The third business ' over his own line, and thus per contza
possible to prevenit its opponsTit
was'to place the Eastern Extension. Coin- do everythlng
obtaiaing any.
paniy ln sucli a position as to prevent it frore
I do not know that the Canadian govmonopoljzing the wliole of tlie cable trade of
witlx

tlie

Australastan

colonies,

so

tlie world, and prevefit Its enor'mous charges. erriment goes that lengti. However, we
Now, the agreement Into whicli tbey have wiii be better able to judge when we
entered appears to be of this cliaracter :pre- get the papers ; but that the premier
-to
v'ious to the constructioni o! the Britishi of this country sliould endeavour
Pacifie cible an agreement had been entered
Into by New South Wales, Western Australiq, Tasmnania and South Anstralia. gr.enting,
the comrpany certain riglîts and priNileges

secure to the fullest possible extent
business of Australia witli Canada
the rest of the world. !i~ a policy
From the
every one will coîicnr.

the cable
and with
ln whicli
informa-

SENATE

110

tion %%hieh we have received we find there
bas been a very large deficit, and s proportlbn of that deficit wlll bave to be pald by
The London
the Canadiani government.
Chronicle' of the 28tb of March, says:
The 'Pacifie Cable Board estimates that there
wlli be a losa on the workumg of the cable If
£92.000 for the year ending Sth March, 1904.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Four bundred sud
fifty tbousand dollars.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
losa wll bave to be made up by Great
Britain and the diflferemt colonies that are
partners ln the concern, our proportion
of that wIll amount to about $125,000 or
$130,000. Wben we consider that tact, w
will flot be surprlsed tbat the goverament
of this country sbould take a stromg position
agaimet the makhng of a concession to the
Estern Extension Company, *wblchb las
thrown every obstacle possible Luithe way of
tbe construction of this cable ever since It
was proposed, some ten or fifteen years ago.
I tbink, fromn wbat we can glean, that thîs
losa Is due to the tact that there bas not
been that business capaclty tbrown Into the
management of It that there sbould be ln
The
any enterprise of sncb magnitude.
Estern Extension Company bas to-day, iln
every section of Australla, agents drummhng up business, If I may use that expressive terni. The management of tbe Canadian Pacifie cable bas no person in Anstralia or anywhere else, s0 far as we cam learn,
attending to that particular business. Tbey
slmply ait down and If business is brought
to tbem tbey send it over the wires wlthout
lookhng after it. It bas suggested ltself to
me-I do not know wbetber tbe governmemt
bave tbougbt of It-that If our commissioner, wbo la a very active snd energetic man,
bavîng an office in Sydney, Mr. Larke, were
Instructed to appoint agents la different
cities ln Australia for the purpose of obtaining business over our- Une, iln the saine
manner that the Eastern Extension does,
the deficits wonld not be as large as tbey
are.
Hlon. Mr. ELLIS-Wbo owns the land
limes now ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The government of
Australia.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
comimg to tbat ln a moment The Australian
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

go'verniments, as I understand, own the Unes.
It is true the Eastern Extension Company,
wben tbey secure business, have to send lt
over a portion of tbe land Unes, and bave
to pay tbeir proportion, but they are seeklng the concession of laylng down or ereeting a copper wlre cable of their own, and
If they get that permission, It will be an lnterference wlth the receipts of the land
Unme, for the reason tbat tbey will have an
Independent line «of their own and that ail
cable communications between the outslde
world will go over their own private Ilne instead of over the land lUne. From Information that I bave received, I find this state
of things. The Eastern Extension register
addresses and code for the sender and receiver witbout charging the customer. This
may or may miot apply to tbe Reuter Company, wblch sends the news of the country.
I have not Information iposltlvely about
that If one uses the Pacific cable, the
name of the correspondent bas to 'be registered ln tbe London post office and a tee
pald, and tbe sender bas aloo to register and
psy a tee In Australia. That Is the regulation affectImg the Canadian Pacific line, but
It does not apply to the Eastern Extension.
In addition to that, under the i-egulatioms
governing our lune, you bave not only to
pay a registration tee, but to, pay for two
words where the Eastern Extension requfres but one. That may not appear muchi
to us, who have perbaps to pay but a cent
or two cents for eacb additlonal word, but
ln Australla tbree and sirpence per word is
the tee charged ; so tbat for this addltlonal
word, If you want to communicate over tbe
Pacific Ilne, the Britisb lime, you have to
psy this tbree and sixpence addltlonal. In
addition to that, youi bave to pay the registration tee ln Australia as well as ln
London, England. Wbat does tbat mean ?
Wben I was in Australia a number of years
ago, Sir Siindford Fleming, then Mr. Sandford Fleming, desired to telegrapb to Ottawa
a couple of words. It was then nine and
sixpence per word, but bie had to'pay ten
shillings for registerlng.bis naine and the
place where bie was to receive bis answer.
Wbat the charge Is for the British cable registration I arn not in a position to say, but
If that ten shillings was added, and the
three and sixpence besides, you would bave
thirteen and sixpence extra to pay to send

APRIL 27, 1903
Africa and India, slbould not have been
p]aced on that commission. I refer to Sir
Sandford Fleming. 1 refer to hlmi for this
renson: kniowing the great interest lie bas
taken. ln this question-knowing as ail wlio
have studied the question know, tliat lie was
the first to moot au all-British cable In 1887;
that hie bas steadily advocated and pursued
the subject f rom that time to this-that he
went ta Âustralia at his own expense and
laid the'inatter before the Australian people
in four or five of the colonies at meetings
nt whicb 1 was present-in view of these
facts, I think lie deserved greater consideraApart
tion than w-as extended to hlm.
altogether from that, lis Intirnate knowledge of the working of cables and the manuier lu wbicbi the business could be made
profitable, would have justified the goverument in insisting on his belng placed on the
commission.
There is another point to which I sboUid
I
like to cauh my bon. friend's attention.
have learned tbat there lias not been a
single press message sent over the Pacific
cable. If a regulation were made by which
news could be sent from the Dominion to
Australia and from Australia to Canada
over fliat cable free for a year or two, it
would be of great advantage to the coni,merdiai world and to this country in partiThe different offices are open at
cular.
both ends of the Ue. The staff is at both
euidý of the Une aud it wouid cost not une
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-The manager of the cent mnore to transmit a certain inumber of
,Bank af Montreal.
words for the press ln this country and
Europe than It costs to-day, and there is no
Hon. Sir MACKfENZIE BOWELL-Wben
only
i-e refiect on the business which the man- .reasan, to, my mmnd, why, If it wvere
ta trans- as an experiment, they shiould insist on free
ager of the Bank ef Moutreal bas
for the reasons
act, and tlie time which Is occupied by him press messages over that lune
Once we get communithe bank. I bave indicated.
ln the performance af bis duty in
two countries
ta the bank itself, and tbe looking after the cation establshed between the
corne ta the depend upon It the business would continue
business of cuistomers, we must
good revenue
conclusion at oneff tliat he lias very littie for ail fuine to corne, and a
of a-purely ultimiately could be obtaîned froin that
turne ta give to the management
anycommercial business like. the Pacific cable. source alone. If It wvere goîng to add
personal, but I think tbing ta the expenditure lu connection with
1 do not desire to be
not 'have made
it la a very great mistake on tbe part of the management, 1 would
that a gentleman this suggestion; but having the staff, having
Britain and the colonies
complete
wbo took fromn its inception sucb a great the offices upon the Une and n
cable and who bas working -staff, free messages for the press
interest iii the Pacific
wvould create
spent so mnucli mouey of bis owu in the for- over it for saine trne to corne
wbich bas a trade betweeu the two countries. Such
w'arding of this great enterprise
conveying Informaunited uearly ail the British possessions iu a convenient means of
and aiso tion of the wants of ench country to the,
the Pacifie, and certain lu America

the message over our liue above the charge
for transmission over the Ensterui Extension. That Is not only a grievance, but a
grievous wrong to tliose who communicate
by our Une and to the country Itself. I do
not know that it is necessary for me ta enter
at any greater length - nto this question. I
bave pointed out these disadvantages under
wbich the management of our cable labour.
I do mot know whose fault 4t is. I do not lay
the cliarge ta the Canadian government any
more than any other person, but what 1 do
think is-and the Secretary of State on reflection will agree with me-that thie parties
wlio have tlie management and control of
thia cable shouhd have practical men at the
liead ani particularly ln the -management of
the concern. Now, no one doubts the desire
of Lord Strathcona, who is one of our commissioners, to do ail hie possIbiy can ln the
Interests of Canada, but wlien we reflect
for a moment upon the magnitude of tlie
business whidh that gentleman lias to transact ln bis office ln London, we must come to
the conclusion that It is utterly Impossible
for hlm ta give that attention to this particular branch of the business connectêd
with this cable that It deserves. Whio the
other gentleman i. ln Landau I amn not positive, but I arn under the Impression that the
other commissioner representing Canada Is
some gentleman connected witli the Bank of
Montreal.

SENATE
otiier would be of great acivantage to us
conîmercially and wvould add nothing to the
present cost of maintenance. To Illustrate :
a year cr so ago the potato crop wvas a total
fallure lu Australia. Hundreds of thousaud
of tous 0f.potatoes were sbipped fromn British Columbia and Washington Territory to
the Australlan colonies. Now, if we hiad
thîs press communication and tbe requirements of Uic Australlan rnarkets were
cabled acrGss just before, or a short time
before, a vessel would leave British Columbia for Australia, it niit
be the means of
building vp a market that doca not ziotw
exist. I have to apologize for baviug takein
uji so mnch time, but biaving taken a decp
luterest iu this cablc enterprise for soie
tinie, I thouglit It My duty to brlug the
subject before the House.

letter wbicb accompanied it to Sir Wilfrid
Laurier, Premier. I thouglit it was the best
course to pursue under the circumstances,
flot knowing what their policy was on tbid
cable question, and believlng they wouid
rather bave one of their own political friends
acting for thern, I thought It niy duty as a
public man to place my resignation ln the
hands of Lord Selborne and lnformed Sir
Wilfrid Laurier of that fact.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Any one who bas foilowed the hlstory of the Pacifie câble and
studied the divers efforts that bave been
mnade from time ta time to strangle or paralyze it, will feel bis patrlotism for lmperkil
connection somewhat cbilled. Unfortunately
for Canada, at the tirne my hon. frlends
opposite and those wbo were associated
witb tbem toolt up this question of the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Wii ti-c
Pacific cable and lu this Chamber carhion. gentleman give us Uhc volume of trade? rled a resolution lu a very earnest and sinHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have cere way ta have a cable laid across the
flot the figures. That ls why I nsk for the Pacific ocean, there was a gentleman at
Information lu this motion. The number of the head of the Eastern Extension Cornwords sent, the ordlnary business, govern- pany, the late Sir John Pender, who bad
ment business and press messages. When a ,great knowledge of men, and who, seeing
we get that we wilIleIaru what the volume what was leiy to corne, fortlfied. hirnself
of business bas been. There ls one other so that lie became absoiutely impregnable.
matter of a personal character to which I The firat stock of the company was pretty
should like to refer brlefiy. I notlced ln a judlclously distributed, and brought ta the
paper some tIrne ago- and this la to relleve support and frlendshlp of the Eastern Extenthe goverunent o! an Imputation whlch bas sion Company a very powerful clientele. I
been cast on thcm-I always desire ta do îieed not go Iuta the bistory of that. It is
known to those who have had to do with
tha ttlîis question, but 1 think If Canada six
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
years ago had known the difficuities she bad
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That to encounter, the obstacles that would have
ls only their niglit. In referring ta this cable been thrown lu ur way by those who ouglit
to have cordiaiiy corne to our support and
question Uic journal says :
The first act of the Laurier government in assistance lu view of the patriotic policy
this connection was ta remove Sir Mackenzie we were advocating-had we anticipated the
Bowell froni a position the work of which lie position we wouId have to face, 1 doubt
understood and replace hlm by one of its own
Politicni friends, Mr. A. G. Jones. The chie! wbether Canada wouid have entered on the
part b! the task had, however, been accom- project. I do not thîuk she would. My hon.
plished.
friend knows very well that ini 1894, at the
The journal whichi published that is not Urne tbe project .was flrst submitted to Uic
strictly correct. The government did not delegates frorn the Australian colonies, they
remove mea froin that position. After I ne- wcrc very earucst, sincere aud anxious to
turned from England, I sent ln my nesigna- carry out the project. Wheu in 1897, 1 thlnk
tion ta Lord Seiborne, baving been appointed it was, we came to a formai agreement with
by Mr. Chamberlain, the Colonial Secretary, New South Wales and Victoria, the two Mnost
on the recommendation o! tbe late goveru- important parts of Australia, wc uaturally
ment. That nesignation I sent ta Lord Sel- considercd that tbcy, together with the goyborne, the chaîrinan 0of the commission, and ernmeut of Great Britain, would be loyal
also sent a copy of the resignation and the and truc to the contract that had been enHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

.ÂPRIT, 27, 1903
tered into. I arn sorry to say that faith
was breken. After the commonwealth bad
been formed--some two months after-New
South Wales deliberately broke ber share
of the contract. In Australia tbe gevernment control ail the telegraph offices
wlthln the continent, and tbey gave te
the Eastern Extension Company the privilege of using the government offIces-practicaily glving them the control of ail the
internal messages o! the colony. We remonstrated, of course, but remonstrances were
of no avail. It was after the commonwealth
had been formed, and therefere the opinion
was expressed by some lawyers that it
ought net to have been ratified by the
commonwealth. However, under the terms
by which each part of Australia came Into
confederation, there was this singular provision, that until the post office and telegrapb and telephene systems were banded
over to the commonwealth, the contre] and
sovereignty of tbem remained witb the Individual state and that was the only grtind
on wbicb New South Wales-I wiil not say
could Justify, but could explala Iz was te
their advantage te make the arrangement
with the Eastern Extension. Ttiat iturally reduced the profits very lar.geiy tbat one
would expeet te reoeive from the Pacifie
cable. Witbin the last three or four montbs
-my -hon. friend bas aliuded te It incidentaily-tbe premier o! the commonwealth citbled
te us that the commonwealth proposed te
make, for Victoria and ail the colonies, a
binding arrangement witb the Eastern Extension for ten years te give them the bene-.
fit of ail the Internai government offices belonging te their system witbin the continent.
The effect of that would be necessarily te
give the centrol practically of ail messitges
emanating from Australia to outside countries te the Eastern Extension Company,
because tbey occupied with the gevernmeut
the offices that did the interior business.
We naturally protested. A very strong protest was sent te the governuient of Australia, stating it was a direct violation of the
agreement, that we were sbocked at It and
we . could net, understand bow they could
have perpetrated an act of that kind. However, there it rcsts in that state at the present time. Attention was cailed some two
njontbs ago te the fact that the Pýacifie
cable was net being used te anything like

ia

its capacity, and it was suggested that If
press messages were sent free for a lUmited
tiine, allowing a limited number of words
each day botb east and west, it would briug
the attention of the people of Canada to the
existence of the Pacifie cable and would
1 amn
be the best possible advertisement.
sorry to say even that 'proposition, reasonable thougb it was, was rejected by the
government of Australia, and the absurd
reasons given was that they did net see
that any object would be gained by it, as the
Eastern Extension would do the same. That
We
was no reason to justify the refusai.
also instructed our representative on the
cable board in London to agitate In that
direction, to endeavour to bring Influence to
bear on other members of the board to open
the cable for a period of three months for
free press messages as an advertisement.
As I say, that bas been rejected Up to the
present time at ail events by Sir Edmund
Barton, wbo practically refused to acquiesce
in IL. The paper from wbich my hon.
friend read, I think, is hostile to the Pacifie
cable, the Eastern Extension Company being a very powerful company flnancialiy and
fighting, for a monopoly, baving subsidized
papers, flot alene In Australia, but in Great
Britain. I do not propose to make any comments at the present time as to my views of
I
the action of the Imperil government.
do flot tbink it has been as cordial as It
ougbt to have been. I do not tbink tbey
have supported Canada to the extent they
should. Canada entered into this arrangement with no desire on Canada's part to
merely lay a cable across the Pacific, but
wlth a view to connecting ail parts of the
empire by cable for patriotic reasons. There
are a few men in Great Britain who appredlate tbat. Sir Edward Sassoon appreciates
it. 1 bad some correspondence with hlm,
and he since that time bas been a very
warm friend of the Pacifie cable, and I
notice, from speeches he bas made recently,
he regards the existence of tbe cabie as
due entirely to the earnest efforts made bY
Canada-that bad It not been for Canada
1 amn
there would bave been no cable.
sorry to say we bave not been seconded as
-we should bave been by our friends In Great
Britain- or the Australasian colonies. The
papers wIil be brougbt down that are new
existing. The Information my bon. frieral

SENATE
desires as to the business done over the
I
cable cannot be obtained imrnediately.
amn endeavouring- to get it f rom the office lu
London, and as soon as we receive it that
information shall be brouglit down also.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
gratifled wlth the remarks made by the
With reference to the
hon. gentleman.
Eastern Extension, 1 arn fully lu accord wlth
hlm, as most hon. members know who were
here when I spoke on this question before.
Perhaps it ls not good policy, but 1 theu
gave my opinion very freely of the action
of that company, and also of the action of
the home authorities on the question. And
ail I can say ls that I hope that some good
may rescilt from this little discussion. It
wli brlng the matter before the people of
England and Australia. 1 dld intend to read
a short extract, and I will take the liberty
of doing so now, upon the question of the
Eastern Extension, ln order that It may be
upon record. I bave just had an advance
copy of the 'Annals and aima of the Pacific
Cable,' by Mfr. Johnson, placed In my liauds,
and I find he deala with thîs partîcular point
In one paragraph whlch shows concluslvely
the position occupled by the Eastern Extension Company. It la a very wealthy
company. It controls the cable Unes to
Egypt, to India, and to Africa. My hon.
frlend behlnd me asks If the Eastern Extension Company could not performi the service which we expected to be performed by
the Pacific cable itaelf. They have no connection whatever between Australia and
Canada, except telegraphlng from Australia
by way of England, and then out this way.
We dealred this cable Une, as Canadians, as
the hon. Secretary of State has very properly explained it, for patriotic, rather than for
any commercial advantages we expect to
derive from it. The extract from Johnson
reads as follows:,
As already etated the dlfficulty la directly
traceable to the Ea.stern Extension and sasociated telegrapb companles. These companies
have combined ta thwart the efforts of the
governments concerned In estabaishlng a Pacific
cable. It cannot be said that those ln the combination are insplred by lofty ideals or patrîotlc sentiments. They are governed entireliy
by considerations of private Interest, and in
Drder to accomplish their ends tbey are bent
on controlling ail the over sea lines of telegraýph to Australia and New Zeaiand. There

a crusade which may so seriousiy affect the

financial succeas o! that undertaking as to develop- a feeling against the policy of working
It by the state. in arder that ite contrai may
fait Into their own hands. As the danger apprehended

Is imminent, the public lnterests

wiil best be served by recalllng and considerIng the facts. Poasibly a knowiedge of thora
may open up an -honourable way ont o! the
diliculty acceptable to the Commonwealth

of

Australia. and ta which each o! the other partners ln the Pacific cable contract may yleld a
ready assent.
There ls embodied the wbole of the policy
of the Eastern Extension Company, and
those who have large private Interests ln
that enterprise, and It wlll suggest itself
to any reflecting mind that the course they
are pursulng now ln Australla is for the
purpose of rendering the Pacifie cable a nonpaying enterprise, s0 that it May ultlmately
faîl luto their own bauds, and thereby give
them a total monoply of the cable round the
whoie world.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The hon. gentleman
spoke of £92,000 as the deficlt for 1904.
That losa wlll have to be borne by the proprietors. Will we have to pay that sum ln
addition to the subsldy we are giving ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
we wlil have to pay $125,000 or $130,000 to
make up -the ]oa s ustalned ln the working of
the cable, from the fact that they are doing
no business, snd doing no business on account of the laxity of enterprise that characterizes those who are in the management
of IL.

The motion was agreed to.
THE BARR COLONISTS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. WATSON inqulred:

1. What lande have been reserved for the
British colonY organized by the Rev. I. IL
Barr ?
2. What were the conditions under which such
lands were reserved ?
3. To what extent up ta the present have the
conditions been compiied with ?
4. Was Rev. Mfr. Barr appointed an agent for
the Department of the Interior, or were bis
statements or promises to prospective settiers
authorlzed or controlled by the De.partment o!
the Interior ?
5. What remuneration (if any>, either by way
of salary, allowances or commissions, has the
are good grounds for the bellef that they atm department agreed to pay the saldt Rev. 1. M.
t0 control even the Pacifie cable itself. As will Barr ln connection wlth the organization of the
âereafter he pointed out, they ha~ve entered on1 colony ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

APRIL 27, 1903
.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
hon. gentleman's questions are as follow
1. The land reserved for the British coloists under the Rev. I. M. Barr, is as folIows :
A. First reservation made 25th November,
1902, townships 48 and 49, ranges 25, 26,
27 and fractional 28, west of the Srd merldian; township 50, ranges 27 and fractional
28, west of the Brd meridian; townships 49,
50 and 51, in ranges 1 and 2, west of the
4th merldian.
B. The second reservation, was made on
21st February, 1903, as follows
Three-quarters of the availabie bomnesteads In township 50, ranges 25 and 26,
west of the Srd meridian; township 51 In
range 25, west of the 3rd and soutb of the
river, and ranges 26, 27 and fractional 28,
west of the 3rd meridian; township 52, ln
range 25, south of the river, and ranges
26, 27 and fractional 28, west of the 3rd,
and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, west of the
4th meridian; township 53, In ranges 25, 26,
27 and fractional 28, west of the Srd, and
range 1, west of the 4th, soutb of the river,
and ranges 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 west of
the 4th meridian; township 54, In ranges 1,
2 and 3, south of the river, and ranges 4,
5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, west of the 4th meridian;
township 55, in ranges 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9,
west of the 4th meridian and south of the
river; township 56, In ranges 4, 5, 6 and 7,
south of the river, west of the 4th merldian.
2. Under the terms of the first reservation
It was agreed to reserve ail the even-numbered sections In these townships exoepting
8 and 26, and any other quarter sections
whichi might have been entered for up to
the time of the reservation, or before notice
was received by the agent, or whicb may
have been settled upon by persons previously
and entry flot granted. The conditions of
tbis reservation were that it should be In
force untIl the 15th February, at wblch date
lists of the names of persons who bail definitely declded to join the party were to be
forwarded to the department, and tliey
would be entitled to receive homestead entry
for one quarter section eacb. And furtber,
that Mr. Barr was flot under any consideration to levy any charge on persons jolning
bis party. If the number of names forwarded was less than would be required

115

to take Up ail the available bomestead lands
within the tract only a sufficient area should.
be retained to enable those wbo bail decided
to join the colony to obtain homesteads.
The conditions as to the second reservation were that the British settiers sbould be
entitled to obtain homestead entry for tbreefourtbs of the bomesteade In each of the
townships witbin the tract-the balance to
be available> for American and Canadian
settiers. The portion of the land to be assigned for Britishx settiers to be held until
the lst January, 1904
3. Mr. Barr has complied with the conditions as to reporting thxe entries for lands,
and tie department bas been advised of the
xiames of 1,541 settiers who are to take Up
homesteads, and Mr. Barr bas furtber deposited wltb tie department the sum. of
$21,119.65 whicb represents In ail the fees
for 2,132 entries, practically coverlng ail the
bomesteads to which bis party wouid be
entitled under the ternis of the reservation.
4. Mr. Barr bas neyer been appointed an
agent to represent Vie Department of Vie
Interlor in connection witb this colony, nor
have any statements or promises made by
bim to prospective settiers been authorlzed
or controlled in any way by the department.
5. No remuneration bas been paid or
agreed to be pald to Vie Rev. I. M. Barr
eitber by way of salary, allowance, or commission la connection witb Vie organization
of bis colony, or for any other purpose.
STOVEL DIVORCE PETITION.
NOTICE 0F MOTION.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Before Vie House adjourns, I wisb ta make a motion with reference to Vie petition of James Stovel, wbo
applied two years ago for a divorce. He
pald the fee of $200, but was unable to go
on witb Vie divorce proceedings, and bas
not been able since to do anything in tbe
matter. Hle bas now made up bis mind to
abandon Vie petition, and I move that Vie
$200 fee be refunded to bis solicitors, Messrs.
Murphy & i loer, who put up the money
for hlm. The usual charges would be deducted, of course.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It wiii require notice
oE motion.
TVhe SPEAKER-I tblnk it would be wiser
to give notice of the motion, because Vie
money has gone Into the treasury.

116

SENATE

'Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Then I give notice of thbm they would be In Ottawa durlng the session of parlisment and at a Crne when Immithe motion now.
grants are coming to se4te largeiy on lande
under hi. administration ?
DELAYED RETURNS.
4. How many assistants and others bas lie
with hlm, who are they, what particular duties
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wish to Inquire have they to perform, and what remuneration
from the bon. minister If any progress bas dq they receive for such services?
been made ln the rnarch of that returu 1 Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The partlcular mînîster
under whose jurlsdictlon the Yukon Terrimoyed for smre Urne ago 7
tory ls, Mr. Sîfton, la charged with seelng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wbat return ?
the Canadian case ls properly prepared.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wlth reference to
Under tbe first arrangement the commisthe appolntrnent of honorary colonels, from
sloners were to have met Ia London and.
the Department of Mflltia.
The
there exchanged their documents.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey told me they papers have to be flled on Saturday nextwere at work at It.
that Is the last day-slxty days from the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-They are golng very tîme the notice was first given, and Mfr.
ulowly.
Si!toa's object ln golng to London was to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no way of forc- ascertaîn whether any additional '^vIdence
couid be obtained. I arn very glad to Bay
ing tbem.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-In the menu- he bas succeeded la that-confirmlng our
views lu reference to the Alaskan boundary.
Urne the country le not i danger.
The papers--wbat la called the case-on
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I do not know.
eacb elde are to be exchanged on Saturday
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I desire next. The Canadian case wili be depositedl
to ask If any progress bas been made wltb wlth the Unlted States Embassy at London
the retura which I asked for on the l9tb on Satiirday, and the other will be deposited
March last respecting communication wltb wlth the British Embassy nt Washington.
Price Edward Island by steamer ?
I understand It consists of about three bunHon. 1Mr. SCOTT-I made inqulry, and dred pages. Mr. Slfton's mobjectinl golng to
the last I heard was that It was a very long London was to confer with Edward Blake
returu and would take sme tirne to copy. and Sir John Anderson, who was engaged
on the case wben It was before the commisTbe Senate adjourned..
sioners lu Washington, and It was Important Mr. Sitton sbouid see hlm and the other
parties wbo were conversant wltb the facts.
THE SENATE.
The commission wlll meet la September
Ottawoa, 2'ue8adaj, AprUl 28, 1903.
next Mr. Slfton's duties i London were
very rnucb more important Vian bis duties
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
remaiig bere. His duties In bis departo'clock.
ment bave been very well attended to by
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
tbe officers of Vie department, as my
bon. frlend kxiows, probabiy, from the
BILL INTRODUCED.
reporte he bas beard of the way in which
Bill (I) An Act respecting thle Rocky ernigrants coming Into Canada have been
Mountain Rallway an(j Goal Company.- treated. The officiais wlth 1fr. Sifton lu
Loadon are W. F. King, the Dominion as(Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)
tronomer, and an officer la the departuient.
ALÂSKAN BOUNDARY COMMISSION. He ls a chie! clerk, salary $2,300 ; F. C.
Wade, one of the counsèl. I amn unable to
INQUIRY.
say wbat bis fees wlll be. It wli depend
Hon. Mr. PERLEY Inqulred:
1. Wbat are the special duties to be per- on the time be le employed. A. P. Collier,
formed by the Hon. Mr. Sifton, Minister of the bis private secretary. He is a first class
Interior. In connection with the Âlaskan Bonn- clerk, and bis salary as first class clerk and
dary Commission ?
2. When does the commission meet for the private secretary la $2,000 a year. J. J. Mespeclal purpose of Its appointment ?
Arthur le a topographer lu the department
3. What are the Hon. Mr. Sifton's duties ln
this connection, of more importance to Canada of the Interior, and bis salary is $2,OOO.
The SPEAKER.

APRIL 28, 1903
Joseph Pope, Under Secretary, aalary $3,200. Samuel Maber la a stenographer, salary
$100 a month. E. E. Turton la a clerk at
$660 a year. Then James White la a geographer who has aince joined the party.
His salary la $1,900. 1 think that answers
zny hon. friend's question.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I should
Ilke to ask If the government of Canada lnisisted on having an umpire on this commission?- As It; etands now, there are tbree
commissioners against three commissioners,
and many people, like myself, think It will
be entlrely abortive, tbat nothing will corne
out of It. Bach aide wiIl stand out strongly
for their own contention and their own
opinion, and It wIil siniply be a waate of
money, and I cannot understand bow any
government can go into a thing of that
kind and leave it tn that way. 0f course,
they wili get the legal opinion on eacb aide.
But It is flot a question of legal opinion at
ail. It is a question of geograpby entirely,
and eacb nation bas lits own opinion on the
,wording of the treaty, and 'who la to decIde
wbicb government la rigbt ? I did hope,
,when the question was mooted fIrst of ail,
that this government would Insist and
would mlot go Into the matter at ail unles
there was some evldenoe that the question
would corne to a satisfactory conclusion.
We in British Columbia are very anxious,
and the whole Dominion le very anxious, to
have thia question aettled, so that we can
know how to get into our own country.
But as the thing looks now, I believe that
nothing can be done. It ts just where It
was fty years ago.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hion. gentleman
knows v-ery well that the cause of the
break ing up of the commission 'which met
at Washington two years ago, was the refusai of the United States to submit what
ls called the Alaka boundary question
to arbitration. Whnat was sought then was
an arbitration, and since then every effort
has been made to Induce the United States
government to settie the question on the
basis usuniiy ndopted by friendiy nations,
that is by an arbitration wltli an umpire,
or by a reference to the Hague tribunal, or
in any other way that would make a finality o! the case. They have steadiiy refused. The lion, gentleman knows sortething of the history of this country and of

117

the terrltory ndjoining British Columbia,
and knows that where there ls any doubt
the United States have takea possession of
our territory. They have, even aince the
Âiaskan question bias beea mooted, taken
possession o! Wales Island and anotbet
Island that is clearly within our territory.
That acquisition of territory bas been goIng on. I make no comment on hiow tbe
mother nation on the other aide bas stood
by and bas seen tbe United States government ln the past appropriate Canadian territory. The probabiiity ls that bad some
reference flot been made, a great deal of the
Yukon, or a considerable part of it, wouid
have been absorbed ln Alaska. Under those
circumstancos, tbe better opinion waa, when
the United States government refused to
arbîtrate, that the next best tbing to do to
arrive'at; some judicial decision on the sub3ect was to accept the proposaI made by the
United States government, that is, to leave
the whole question to six judicial experts,
tbree on each aide. I need not bere make
any commenta on what I consîder to be a departure from, the agreement, after It had
been entered into, by the appointaient of
gentiemen representing the United States
who did not, ln my judgment at ail eventa,
corne witbln the category provided ln the
terme of the agreement as drawn up, Inasrnucb as two of the gentlemen liad previously expressed tbemselves very atrongiy
upon the point that necessariiy will arise.
However, It was the best course to adopt
Tbe Imperl government tbought so, as
weil as the Cgnadian government, under the
circuratances. I do not at ail agree with
my hion. friend, nltbougb It is a question
on whicb we may all diifer, that the commission will be abortive. I tbink, on the
contrary, If the evidence is at ail conclusive
eitber one way or the other, that both countes muet fail into line and accept the
opinions that may be expressed by this
judicial comrnittee. They may not agree.
We have chosen the hlghest judicial Iigbts
witbln our reach. The Lord Chief Justice
of England is one of the members of that
commission. He certainly wiii act as ail
other British jurists bave acted under simi-lar conditions, giving bis view wboliy irrespective of the national sentiment. I think
I can speak positively on this subject:
therefore I believe nnd I think that public
opinion ln the United States, although at one

SENATE

118

Urne one might have doubted, wIll acquiese
ln the ruling If it la at ail ln our favour.
and It Io
The points are flot very rny
probable new elements of evidence adduced
ou fixe present occasion wlll Influence the.
public nxind. Altbougb thxe press of fixe
United States bas spoken very positively
ou Its views of it, stili tlxey have done go
witbout that accurate knowledge of thue
facts tixat wouid justify fihe staternts
which have been made. If, however, a formal judgment or precis la drawn Up by
those jurista, It must bave Its Influence on
thue-people of botb countries, even If tiiere
happened to be In tbe end, as I tbink there
rnay flot be, tbree on eacb side. Under
these clrcumstances, I tbink my bon. friend
was scarceiy justtfied ln saying ut was an
unwise tbing for the Canadian gove-?uluaeutt
to acquiesce. It was Hobson's lixoice-it
was that or notbing-that or le-ive tl'Js subjeet of contention open for years, witb the
probabllity of the United States peoplebecause we know a large number of United
States people are ln that country aireadygraduaiiy claiming more and more o! the
disputed territory.

frieud, from Moutarvilie (Hou. Mr. DeBonchervilie) pointing to the fact tbat the
matter brought to the notice o! the House
was flot brougbt up ln due time; that It
sbouid bave been brougbt up after the routine proceediugs, after tbe cal for tbe Orders of the Day, and the Speaker decided
that as It was a matter o! privilege it nxigbt
If -It was
be brougbt Up Inxmediately.
brougbt up Imrnediateiy before the prestintation of petitious aud reading of petitiouis
and presentatiox o! reports, I do not see
wby ln tbe minutes it bas not the place
wbIcb It sbould bave. Lt ougbt to be lni the
minutes lmmediateiy a!ter prayers and
sbould read atter prayers, tbe iast paragrapb, ' witb the leave o! tbe Senate the
Hom. Sir -~ackenzle BoweIi moved,' sbould
corne just at the opeuing o! the proceedings
immediateiy after tbe word 'prayers.'. I
cali atteution to these facts because we want
to be accurate lu our minutes aud get everytblng Iu its owu place.

Hou. Mr. MILLER-Tbe matter was not
brougbt up ais a matter o! priviiege. Lt
was brougbt up witb tbe cousent of tbe
House before takiug the Orders of the Day.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Would the hou. min- I tbiuk It la wbere It ougbt to be.
ister Inforin us wby the Minister of JusHon. Mr. LANDRY-As a matter of fact
tice, wbose function seexns to point to bis
1 tbink It was brougbt up immediately after
nomination for the preparation of ail these
papers, bas been ieft aside or replaced, and pr ayers.
the Minister o! the Interlor appolnted luHon. Mr. MILLER-Tbe hon. gentleman
stead ?
was mistaken. It was not a matter of priHon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn not aware that ixe vilege.
bas been cast aside or repiaced. Tbe MinisHon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn not saying that
ter of the Interior was firat selected to re- It was or tbat it was not a questiou o! privipresent Canada for the reason tbat the lege. I say, as a matter of fact It was
territory la 'witbin bis jurisdiction, and bis brought Up before the opeulug o! the House.
officers are more familiar witb the points at
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I brought It up beIssue.
fore the Orders were proceeded with, not
THE MINUTES 0F THE SENÂTE.
as a matter of priviiege, but with the unanirnous consent o! the House. 1 stated ut
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Be!ore the Orders of
the time it côuid ouly be doue witb the unthe Day are calied, I sbouid iike to direct
anixnous consent o! the House.
the attention of the Senate to the minutes
of proceedings, now lu our bauds, of yesHon. Mr.-LAINDRY-If rny hou. frieud wiii
terday's sitting. We are ail aware tbat pardon me, I think he is wrong. Lt was
yesterday, before the doors were opeued, a brougbt up lmmediateiy before the doors.
matter was brougbt Up ln tbis House res- were opeued.
pecting an aiteration to be made ln tbe
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Of course.
minutes o! the preceding sitting. Tbis was
doue immediateiy after prayers. An obHou. Mr. LANDRY-And immediately
jection was taken, I believe, by my lion. after prayers and before tbe petitions.
lion. Mr. SCOTT.

APRIL 2,8, 190s
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Yes, it was brought the bon. gentleman's action. As I say, we
up befere the doors were opened, but it was discussed this for two heurs yesterday and
nlot brougbt up as a matter of privilege. lie wants te have It Up to-day, when, as
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I did net say It was a matter ef tact, it bas been closed, and the
brought Up as a matter of privilege, but I conclusion ef this House~ arrived at is cormay this, an objection was taken to the turne rectiy stated lni the minutes.
at which that question was brought up. The
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That lu evading the
answer given was this, that it was a matter question. I admit a decision bas been arof privilege.
rived at, but I want that decisien te be put
Hon. Mr. MILLER-By whom waa that ln the proper place. Arn I right or wrong ?
If I arn rlght, why net comply wlth my deanswer given ?
xnand ? If I arn wrong, let the hon. gentleHon. Mr. LANDRY-It was given by the mani prove I arn wrong.
hon. Speaker.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The quesHon. Mr. MILLER-I did net heur It.
tien la net whether this sheuld pass or net
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I do net cemplain ef pass. The question is, bas it been put
it et ail. What I say is when It was brought where It sheuld be on our record. That la
up, whether as a matter of privllege or net, thxe enly question raised by the hon. nierIt must be put In our minutes lu the erder ber, and certainly everybedy will admit
tn which It was brought up, that la, Imme- thîs question was decided Immediately atter
dlately after prayers, and I should lke the prayers, whlle ln the minutes It ls put after
the petitiens and reports et cemmittees.
record ef our proceedings te be rigbt.
net lu la proper place, and the bon.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yesterday this Senate It la
wasted frein one.te two heurs In discuss- gentleman la asking the Speaker te decide
ing a techaical matter. They arrived nt a If it la Iu It proper place.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If I understand
conclusion unanimeusly. There la ne doubt
as te the desire ef the Senate and as te the the question raised, it [s that a matter deresuit ef the vote, and I think the dlgnity cided by this Heuse dees net appear lu lts
of this House ought te be observed by oe preper place. I wonder If it lu et sufficlent
of lis members, who interrupts very fre- Importance whether It la or net.
quently respecting the officais of the SenHon. Mr. MILLER-Befors the doors were
ate, and net make this Hous a laughing
opened I made a metion ln reterence te thîs
stock te people outoide.
matter and my hon. triend submittsd another
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do net see whsre motion, which, altheugli I de net think it
the hon. minister finds that argument I met the case as well as mine, I assented te.
do net understand what he means te say. I wlthdrew my own and accepted the moI arn stating facts. Is he able te centradict tion et my hon. triend the leader ef the opone ef therm7 If se let hlm say se. I de position. It was net, hewever, breught up
net want te be catechlsed when we speak as a matter et privllege. It was net ef that
te hlm. 1 arn stating facts and I have a nature. The motion et my hon. trisnd passright bere, as a member of the Senate, te ed the House with unaulmeus consent and
esk that what is doue ln the Senate be put was atterwards put In the minutes, lu my
ln our records ln the proper place, and the opinion, ln the riglit place-that is, ln the
bon. minister sheuld net say I have net order et preceedlngs et the Senate. I tbink
It ls new ln the rIght place.
that right.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Next order.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want te knew If
that la te be put ln the proper place ? Arn
I right or arn I wrong ?

The SPEAKER-Dees the hon, gentleman
noir for my opinion ln the matter ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certalnly.

The SPEAKER-I thilk the hon. SecreHon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentleman la tary ef State bas misappreheuded the peint
intervening ln a meat unnecessary and un- taken by the bon. gentleman frein Stadadignlfied way. The whele House ls against cona. As I understand it, the point taken

SENATE
by that hon, gentleman is that our minutes
shouid be a fair record of the proceedings of
the sitting of the House ln the order lni which
they take place. In my humble opinion, the
bon. gentleman le perfect-ly right, and this
resolutlon wae adopted atter prayers and
before the routine proceedings were gone
Into, and I thlnk that the minutes ought to
show that.
Hlon. Mr. VIDAL-I fal to see that any
Importance attaehes to lt. le It flot a dally
occurrence that things here are done at a
different time from that ln which they are
mentioned ln the records ? Are flot petitions presented often out of order, and yet
they appear ln the record ln their proper
place ? I tbink the position ln which this
ia placed le correct. There le nothing misieading ln it, and It le not of the eiightest
consequence ln what part of the minutes
the entry appears. It le there on record.

la to be read a second tIme to-morrow the
hon, gentleman had better explain it, and It
wIll do away wlth the necessity of any discussion to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-1 arn at a disadvantage, flot having the Bill before me
and not havlng read It
I am i the
position of a great many other members of
the House who have suddenly thrust Into
titeir bands measures which they are requested to take charge of wltbout being apprised of the nature of them. I presume
hon, gentlemen have found themeselves ln
this position before. This charter is aiready ln existence, as I understand It. It le
a raiiway from a point on the Crow'e Nest
rallway In Eastern Kootenay, down the
valiey of the Columbia, running northeriy
to the town o! Golden on the main line of
the Canadian Paclii Railway. This Bill, If
I apprehend It right ls for an extension of
the time for construction, as the charter
already exIsts. If 1 am misstatlng the facts
I wll have to correct myseif to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.

OTTAWA, NORTHERN AND WESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message was received from the Hlouse
of Commons with Bill (37) An Act respecting
the Ottawa, Northern and Western Railway
BILL INTRODUCED.
Company.
Bill (57) An Act reepecting the Niagara
The Bill was read the first tinie.
Grand Island Bridge Company.--.(Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I beg to move, Gibson.)
.with the consent of the Hlouse, that the Bill H{URON AND ONTARIO RAILWAY COMbe read a second time to-morrow, ln order
PANY BILL.
that it niay go to committee on Friday.
FIRST READING.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudiêre)-I
A niessage was reoeived fromn the House
muet object to that. There le some objection
of Commons wlth Bill (75) An Act respectiug
made to the Bill.
t be Huron and Ontario Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. DANDIJRAND-Then I move
The Bill was read the first time.
tijat the Bill be read a second time on Thursdiy.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Thie measure le
or an extension of time for the completion
The motion was agreed to.
f this road. It goes tbrough Newmarket
KOOTENAY CENTRAL RAILWAY COM- aLnd Up through the county of Grey, passing
hrough Walkerton, Southampton, KincarPANY BILL.
!ne and those places.
FIRST READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-How many miles.
A message was received from the Hlouse
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Perhaps sixty.
of Gommons wlth Bill (41) An Act respectlng
could expiain the railway system o! that
the 'Kootenay Central Railway Conmpany.
country but it
would take some time, and I
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I beg to move, d
.o flot think lt wili be necessary. This
with the consent of the House, that this il
ne crosses the raiiway system whlch rune
Bill be read a second time to-morrow.
up to Georgian Bay and Lake Huron. It
The SPEAKER.

APRIL 28, 1903

121

la a cross line and la a great convenience
to that coantry. I think I carried this measure through the other House three years
ago. Some progress has been made and the
company want an extension of time and
other things which I tbink the House wilI
readlly grant. I therefore move that the
Bil be read the second time to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
CANÂDIAN

PACIFIC RAILWAY
PANY BILL.

Company.
The Bill was read the first time.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved that the
Bill be rend the second time to-morrow. He
sald : Lt le part of the -Canadian Pacifie Railwny system and la slmply for an extension
of time for the building of the Une from
Fort Steele to the town of Golden. I hope
to its belng rend a
COM1- the House wll consent
second time to-morrow.

The motion was agreed to.
FIRST READING.
A message was received from the House
WESTERN
of Commons with Bill (5) Ân Âct respectlng OTTAWA, NORTHERN AND
RAILWAY BILL.
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
The Bill was read the first Urne.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudièr)-I
should like to wlthdraw the objection I
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This BUI affects
the Issue of stock. Lt is simply an Internai made to thîs Bill and allow it to be read
arrangement and does flot change the powers the second time to-morrow.
the company already has. Lt la simply a
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It simply proquestion of cbanglng the form of the stock,
vides for an extension of time and can be
and I would move, with the consent of the
at the second reading to-morrow.
House, that the Bill be rend a second time explained
Lt affects the CJanadien Pacile Railway.
to-morrow.
They bave already two Bils which will go
.Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Thurs- before the committee on Friday, and I would
day.
ask that it bo read a second time to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.L.)-L beg to
objeet, Mr. Speaker. We will be here a
QUEBEC AND NEW BRUNSWICK: RAILlong time and there la no0 use erowding into
WAY COMPANY BILL.
one day more than we can do. We have
fixed several Bills for.to-morrow, and It la
FIRST READING.
others to
A message was received from the House quite time enough to allow the
go over tili Thursday.
of Commons with Bill (84) An Act respecting
the Quebec and Ne-w Brunswick Railway
Company.
The Bill was read the flrst time.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I beg to' move that
raie 30 of the House be suspended and that
the Bill be read a second time to-morrow.
Lt la an important Bill asking for an extension.
The motion was agreed to.
BRITISH- COLUMBIA SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.

Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-I regret very much
that this has happened. The bon. gentleman from de Lorimier (Hon. Mfr. Dandurand) la to introduce a Bill ln this Honse
to which sorne one lias asked me to object,
and that Is the only reason why 1 objected.
Otherwlse his motion for the second rending of the Bill to-morrow would have been
carried unanimously. I mistook thîs Bill
for another one. I was the only one to ohject, and If the House Will allow me to withdraw my objection I shahl be glad.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-L ohFIRST READING.
Jected to that Bill and several others, but
A message was recelved from the House unfortunately the Chair did not catch the
of Commous with Bill (50) An Act respecting objection.

SE1NATE
THE PRINTING 0F PARLIAMENT.
Hn. ,Mr. MACDONALD (B..)-Hear,
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved that the report jear.
of the Joint Committee on the Prlntlng of,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOIN-And I do flot thlnk
Parliament be concurred ln.
It ls lu the publie Interest that any such
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is power ns tbat sbould be given to the govflot usual to adopt tbese reports until they erniment. I daresay I wlll be told that clause
bave 'been concurred ln by the Gommons. 3 provIdes that sucb abandonment or reCould the hon, gentleman Iuf orm, us If it vestlng will be taken Into account lu assessIng compensation to the person for the land
bas been concurred ln by the Gommons ?
Bon. Mr. GIBSON-The samte report la taken, and there la a further e'iuse whlch
presented ln tbe Gommons to-day. It la elucidates tbe same point, but il.elieve that
oniy referring to a few matters to be It will bie Impossible for the ovner of property fully to show to a court, or for the
printed.
l
court to act upon ail the circumastances of a
The SPEAKER-The point made by the case, and give hlm such consequential damhon, leader of the opposition is quite cor- ages as he might be eutitled to under sucb
rect.
It bas been the uniform practice of an act as this on the part of the governtitis Bouse not to concur lu tbe reports of ment. The owner of the property bas rethe Committee on PrintIng until they have ceived notice. Be knows that ail the legal
passed the Gommons, for the reason that steps have been taken which it la necessary
the reports provide for the expenditure of for the goverumeut to take to expropriate
money, wbicb la a motter for tbe Gommons. lits property, and It passes virtually out of
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I move that It be con- lits hands. It may be the most essential
sidered on Thursday.
property to hlmt for tbe conduet of is busiiiess. It may be a wharf on whlch bie conThe motion was agreed to.
duets a coal or lumber business, by wbilb
EXPROPRIATION ACT AM1ENDMIENT
lie makes bis living. Having this property
BILL.
taken from hlm by tbe government, bie may
proceed to bulld a wharf somewbere else.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
He may proceed to buy a property on wblcb
The House resolved Itself Into a Commit- hie can carry on this business.
tee of the Wbole on Bill (8) An Act to
I think It is doubttul wbether any court
aniend the Expropriation Act.
awardlug damages in such cases could go
hîîto the intricacies of the damages and.
(In the Gommittee.)
the lnjury to the man for having to take
On clause 2,
steps to move bis business from that proHou. Mr. FERGUSON-I entertain very perty, whlch hie was legally deprlved
strong doubts as to the propriety or the jus- of, and which property rnay subsequently
I tbink
tice of our passlng that clause or making It be thrown back on bis banda.
the law of the country. The first clause, 1 we are golng qulte far enough when
think, is perfectly reasonable. If the gov- we ailow, as we do now, the government
ernment require a limlted estate ln any pro- of the country to absolutely take a man's
perty for public purposes, they can make private property for public Tpurposes, and
their expropriation that way and define it- wben we go furtber, as we are proposing
set It forth ln their expropriation of the to do ln the Bill before us, and allow the
property. If they want the property for 'a goverument of tbe country.to take bis prolimited. time, they can also do that. I do perty for a limlted ;tinte, or take a linîited,
ziot sec any objection to cither of tbese interest in the property. It is going too far
courses-tlbat la, the goverument taking the when we shlow the goverument of the counproperty for a limited time, or a limited try to corne ln and take a man's property
interest in the property, but I do tbink when absolutely and, at any time before comthe government steps in and absolutely ex- pensation la paid, throw that property
propriates property, they sbould flot have back on bis bands after be may bave been
the right afterwards to throw it back on put to a great dent of touble and loss. To
Say thc courts shall award the damages
the owners' hands.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.1.)

APRIL 28, 1903
which shall accrue to hirn ls rather a doubtful protection. I ar n ft a lawyer, but I have
very grave doubts wbether it wouid be possible for any court to adjust the damages, or
hear evidence bearlng on it whlch would
be neoessary to pay the clalmant the reai
damages that might be done to hlm. I arn
puttlng these reasons before the House. of
course If the governrnent are deterrnlned to
Proceed with the measure I shali bave to
accept It, wlth othera, but 1 have very strong
opinions on tbe question that this le a power
wbicb shouid nlot be glven to the government.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The clause to wbicb
rny bon. friend refera la not stralning the
law to any greater extent than It existe today. We know in ail countries the rlght of
expropriation exiate. It Ia a very arbltrary
power no doubt. It la done In the intereat
of the wbole cornmunlty and it la to be presumed, and 1 tbink In ail cases-at all
eventa all that have corne wlthln my observation and they have been pretty numerous-that the party whose property la exproprlntedl la ampiy paid. I cannot conceive a case wbere full compensation for
every Injury Io not made tr. Certalnly,
lu ail cases lu which I have liad experlence,
flie courts and arbîtrators have leaned to the
aide of tbe party who bas been deprived
of bis rlgbts, and properly se. I cannot concelve why a governent expropriating property shouid nlot be wllling to pay the owner
ail that la absolutely due. I have always
regarded It ln that light. and as a ruie thnt
bas been the standard by wbich courts and
arbitrators bave' judged ; therefore, 1 cannlot concelve any case wbere a party wiil
be wronged by the governrnent I expropriatlng, If tbey find that hIstead of ten acres
tbey oniy want seven, and tbey leave the
tbree acres In the banda of the owner-I
see no reason why tbey sbould not be allowed to do It, providing they pay for the lnconvenience and icas arlsing from keeping
seven Instead of ten acres. It la an arbitra-ry act at best, and I can conceive no
difference between the act of taklng the
whole or taking part. One or two of my
frienda called attention to the wlthboiding
of compensation. I know of no case wbere
compensation bas been withheld, exceptIng where the tîtie la affected. The law la

on our statute-book, and bas been for years,
that untll the title la made out the Crown
cannot pay the money. It may be paid Inte
a trust cornpany or court to be heid until
a decision la arrIved at, but no government
would be justified I witbboldlng the compensation, and I do not know of any case
wbere It bas been done.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bon, gentleman bas faled to grasp the
point clearly raised by the bon. gentleman
frorn Mershfield. The difficulty that he
bas polnted out la the taking- of property,
the holding of lt by the governrnent
for a certain length of time and tben
returning portions of It back to the
owner, thua causig incidentai lnury to the
owner of the property I the meantime. Tbat
la the poit most forcibly put by the
hion, gentleman. By reading the clause, it
will be seen tbat no -action can be taken
to retura to the owner a portQn of the.
property, or reinvest, I should say, lu the
owner of the property any portion of It
until after the arnount to be pald can lie
determined. Now, the question la not as te
the arnount whicb bas been paid whien Property bias been expropria-ted la the past.
Tbere It waa a clear case. The moment the
expropriation took place, then the value of
the property was ascertalned and the owner
paid. In tuls case, the property rnay be taken
frorn the owner and held by the government
for a year or two untîl the work-auch
as the construction of a canal-la completed,
and just so long as tbey do not pay the
proprietor the value of the property, it remains lu the position of poslbly being returned to hlm. It la only when the compensation xnoney hia. been paid thnt the
property becomea vested ln the Crown de
facto. Tbere ls wbere I see the dliflceulty
arises:' We k-now for years owaers of property bave been kept out 0f their money
even under the old law, and tlis ls going to
make It a great deai worse. What I fear
la tuis, that the officiaIs who generally make
the report for the expropriation, knowlng
tint a portion of It can be banded back te
the owner, will not lie very particular as to
the arnount they take. They may expropriate two-tblrds or haîf more than they want,
and tbey wlill do It without thought or care
as to how It affects the interest of the owner.

124

SENATE

The hon, gentleman says lie lias a good deal
of erperience lu that. I have been long
enough inl a government to see how this
power tean lie abused by officiais, not by the
ministers. I do not blame them, because
they act, as a ruie, on the reports of officiais
who, 1 know, are flot as particular In dealing with matters of this kind affecting private property as they ought to be. As to
the incidentai or consequential damage that
might arise under this clause, it la dealt with
very fuiiy In England. A measure bas recentiy been introduced for the compensation
of publicans wbo hav'e sustained damage lu
their business under recent legisiation. Tbey
propose te compensate tbem for tbe cousequential damages that may arise. We know
aiso la raiiway expropriations In England
that If a railway passes by a public-bouse,
which affects tbe entrance to the property,
and thereby Injures the landiord, they muet
compensate hlm. Tbey are obliged to give
hlm consequential 'compensation. How far
this Bill wIil militate against the owners of
property is a question that wIil lie decided
Iu the future. I am strongiy of the opinion
of the hon. gentleman wbo has spoken, that
it wIii lie found to work arbitrnriiy and
witb a great deai of Injustice to property
owners. The state can afford to take a
man's property and pay for it at once, and
the government should flot lie given tis
power, nor sbouId the property owners, ln
my opinion, lie piaced at the mercy of any
government officiais whenever they want
his property. However, as iny bon. friend
gays, if the government are determined te
take this power we cannet prevenit them.
It ls not a politicai question, it ls a question
aff ecting the riglits of property owners, and
It ls for the Senate te say how far tbey
shouid interfere In a matter ef the kInd. 1
frankiy admit the Bill before us ls net as
objectionalile in many respects as the one
presented some years ago, and whlcbh we reJected on the ground that It was ex post
facto legisiation, and that It iaterfered dlrectly witb cases then before the court.
This is not se objectionabie lu that respect,
because it providee lt shahl not affect any
pending cases or any action In the taking of
preperty by the govemament la the past, and
oaly applies to the future. The third clause
provides for consequential damages, and la
my opinion ail the difficuities which have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

been pointed out by the hon, gentleman from
Marshfieid that wiii necessariiy arise. 1 am
very mucli afraid that mucli Injustice wli
be doue under the working out of this messure.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-I do flot see how
the prîvilege asked by the government wlill
lie exercised often, nor In what direction it
can arise. I suppose ln the building up of
large works occasions will arise where, If
the plece of land taken is in excess of what
le needed, and during the negotiations for
the expropriation it will lie seen that teo
large au amount of land has been taken, the
portion flot needed shouid be restored to the
owner. 1 sbould somewhat besîtate lu
granting the government that further exceptional power of returning land which It
has already taken possessIon of If clause
three were flot as wide as It Io. It covers
ail possible damages9 which may lie Incumred
by owneru who are deprived of their property and whose property may lie returned
to tbem. Whether the damage ls smail or
great, ail the circumstances of the case wll
lie lavestigated. It ls a question of catimated damages, aud, as 1 have stated, I do
not exactly see how often this priviiege
whicb the government asks will lie exercised ; but so long as the damages are pald,
1 suppose It lielongs te the sovereign power
to decide as to the proper exercIse of this
power given liy clause two. As a matter of
tact, the owner wIii lie deprived for some
time of his property. We now aliow the
goverument to expropriate compheteiy ; the
expropriation whicb will takre place under
thîs Bill wIll lie a partial expropriation. If
It ls takiug rock from a property, the gevemnment wiil have to compeusate the ownem.
if we aliow the superior domain to lie expropriated, can we not allow the gevemument to exprepriate temporarily the contingent one, whicb is the usage of the land
for some time, liy paying ahl due compensation to the. owner ?
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (BC)M bon.
frieud wiii see wbere the hardship corses In.
The land la expropriated aud only a part of
It Is required. It may be kept for years and
years, aud the owner cannot get its value or
a settiement That is where the hardsbip
comes In. Tbere are expropriation cases lIn
this country whicb have been unsettled for

AIPRIL 28, 1903

IZ

exercise tyranny over tbe subject-tbat tbe
tbirty or forty years. I know. of one case ludividual would get sufficient for tbe land
wbieb bas been tbree or four years un- necessary to be expropriatedl under the adsettled, and the manl could flot get bis %,«ice of the engineers of the departmeflt.
money.
Wbat does the clause say ? It says tbat
bas~ the abandonmeInt sball be takefi into acHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-H1e
count. It appears to me that clause tbree
flot got It yet.
goes a long way to reimburs e the owner
flot for the fact that a part of bis property
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I do
and bas been found not
Wben the governifent want land lins been taken
know.
to be used and returned to bini.
tbey send their engineer wbo reports on niecessary
to be allowed value for It
Wby sbould tbey take ten acres If tbey and be bas got
it
Tbere can be
be satisfactory.
only want five ? Surely an engineer of ex- that sbould.
can
Instead of very few cases wbere tbe governmeiit
perlence knows wbat bie wants.
even If tbey wish to, ln the exexpropriatiflg ten acres and tbrowiiig five do wrong,
of this power. I take it for grantacres back on the bands of the owner, would ercise
no governmeiit would willingly
it flot be better to take only the five at ed that
If tbey redo wrong ln sncb a matter.
?i
once and close the transaction
land of aur kInd. tbe owners thereof
quiIred
and coinHon. Mr. CHURCH-Tbhis seems to be a would ln tbe end get fulil value
In my judgment tbe governquestion for legal gentlemen. In the otber pensatioli.
this power, and I bave no
Chamber I think it was very fully dis- ment sbould have
governmeft would use it to the
cussed wben the measure was introduced doîîbt any
tbe country and of private
by tbe Minister of Railways, and a great b.est interests of
deal of argument and discussion was haît individuals as well.
I was ln tbe gallery at the time,
thereon.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It sýeema to me
bad the benefit of bearIng tbat discusand
the consideratiofi dealt witb by my bon.
sion. No doubt, as tbe Secretary of State that
frlend. fromn Nova Scotla is not the one wbich
bas said, It is an arbitrary power, and one
be considered by this House, namely,
wbicb every government possessiilg the sbould
a governmeflt will deal equitably
functions of goverament like ours, musit wbetber
public, but
public Interests. or otberwise witb tbe general
bave lu order to proteet the
wbat really sbould be considered la the exOuteOme Of the
It is the legitimate
powers whicb ar 'e being given
old precept tbat 'public interests muist traordinary
to the goveranelt and wbicb may be excorne before private interests,' and D0
eltbher arbitrarlly or otberwise. Gorgovernment will unduly exercîse the POw- ercised
ernments are only made Up of aggregatiol'5
ers of expropriation, In my opinion. It
of indîviduals, and different aggregatlofls
rnay be tbat In tbe past more land bas
tbat. A board of. arbitration may take
been taken for public purposes than was nt
an extreme view of tbe law and exercise
afterwards found necessary, and the goveriitheir powers very arbitrarlly, wbereas on
ment want to take power to return sucb porthe other band we may bave a board of
tions of the land to Its original owners. Havarbitratioi 'wblcb wlll exercise tliese powers
ing bad sometbîing to do witb tbese matconsldering a staWorks in the pro- very reasonably. But la
ters as Mlnister o! Public
tute, we sbould consider wbetber it Is advince o! Nova Scotia-having bad to deal
visable to give any person, even the govwlIth railway contracts for seine years, I
could
mat- erament, extraordinary powers wbieb
have had some llttle experience la sucb
be arbitrarily exany circuratalCeS
My experiexice bas been wberever under
ters.
It seems to me tbe wenkness or
departmeilt could flot make a fair bar- erclsed.
the
unreasouableliess of tbis clause lies in its
gain witb tbe owner and it was left to arbiWben a contract ls en-i
the lnconclusIveliess.
tration--afld thie arbitratioli la'ws of
two in dividuals, It is not
as tered into betweefl
Dominion rnust be of the same cbaracter
desirable, but it is necessary, that eacx
of Nova Scotla-tbe owner got full only
tbose
lndividual sbould kuow where bie stands wlth
velue-more tban the full value o! the land, If
partio! reference to that contriict ;but in this
It bad been sold by public auction. I amn
the governifleft is exerci.1.sing an
to [cular case
opinion tbat no party ini power 'would strive

SENATE
extrnordlnary power la the rlght of -expropriation, and we are lntroduclng bIta the
Bill an extraordlnary prîncipie wblcb, s0
far as 1 cau learn, bas neyer been recognlzed
la any ather state. 1 do not tbink you wIil
find under any of the expropriation laws ln
Great Britaîn or ln any of the United States
of Aniorîca nnytblng comparable or parailel
to titis. Those laws were fuiiy considered
some two or throo sessions ago lit
dlscussing ameudments ta the Expropriation Act,. and it was tbon shfowli
that the expropriation
powers
glvon
to the govornment of Canada were certatnly
very mach broader than those obtaining lni
Gi eat Britain or la the United States of
.&morlca. We propose Importlng into the
priaExpropriation Act an extraordinar
ciple, namoiy that the governmont, after
exprapriating land, may, before compensation ls made, tbrow back upoa the owner
of the land eltbor a part of lt or the whoio
of It witbout the owaor baving expected. anything of the kind. It seems ta me that it la
oit this point that injustice is done. Let
us assume for a moment that the expropriation powor la exercisod and the opinion
obtains betweon botb parties, the Crown
and the Individuel, that tbey are to take
that land absolutely.
That may bo the
intention at the Urne and it certaily wll
bc the intention at the time, otberwiso tbey
wouid exercise the power montionod ln
clause two, paragrapb one, namoly thoy
would only take a limited ostate. But this
is flot doaling witb a liiitod ostato. This
is dealing wltb a case wboro the Crown expropriates the property absoluteiy, and thon
tihrough somo subsoquont condition of facts
arising, they tbrow back on the owner the
land which they originally had intonded to
toke absalutoly, and which the owner himself dld believo was taken absolutely. Let
us tako the case of an owner deprived of his
lands under that existlng condition of tacts,
naniely that it is ta be an absolute expropriation a! the land. Compensation ls deiayed.
The owner in the meantime assumes other
responsibiiity under the assumptian tbat the
land le to be taken absoluteiy. He contracts
Ilablitios. He says ' the goverament bave
taken my land; the arbitration has fixed a
certain compensation, and now I wii buy
another piece af land and I wiii enter into
anotlior business. Lot us assume hoe is a
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED.

quarryman.
He purchases anothor quarry,
ail on the strength o! wbat has been dono
lit good faith-all on tbe-strengtb of represontattons made by the govorament that
they are going to take his land absoiutely.
Now, hon, gentleman, keep that ln mmnd.
Say tweive montbs afterwards payment has
flot been made. The govornmoent comes ln
aftorwards and says 'we have considered our
position ln this matter and we are going to
throw tbis land back on you. We do not
lnitend to pay you for the land wbich we
have taken.' In the meantime he bas been
depending on the payment o! that monoy.
Ho bas been Incurring new liabilities on the
slrengtb of the contract wbich has been entered mbt. It migbt prove the financial ruin
of tbat partlcuiar Individual. Ho is not ln
a position to receive the money fromn the
Crown. In tbe meantime, ho considers bis
business bas been taken over by the Crown,
wben in tact it bas only been for a limited.
period, and thon It is tbrown back on bis
bands. Whiat wlll be tbe position o! that
man ?~ Disastor muet stare hlm ln tbe face
unleas ho le ln a ftnanciai position t0 meet
tbe new condition of things wbich bas
arison. It seems to me tbe Crown ls nat
ln a position to ask to grant them a power
by whicb they may diveat themseives
of the rosponslbility wbicb tboy assume. It
la the lndîvidual wbo sbould have the sympatby o! tbe public or of the statuto. I
think fia individuaI sbould be piacod la that
position. Henoe I tbink the provision wblcb
la proposed ta o ie
nsorted la paragrapb two
1s a most extraordtnary one and shauld not
be grantod to the Crown.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The principlo is not
a new one. I find l ln the Excboquor Court
Act passod i 1889. Here le tbis provision
made ln section three :
If the injury to any land or property ailogod
ta bo lnjuricuely affected by the construotlon of
any public work may be remnovied wholly or la
part. &c., tbe damages shaU be assessed, &o.
Now, that ls wbore the land ls interfored
witb. It provides the damages shall be fixed
Immediateiy.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is the saine
as section four o! tbis Bill.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-It ls widor.
that and re-enacts it.

It ropeais

APRIL 28, 1903
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That la a matter fore, this la a new power he is asking whicli
exists In ito government that we know of.
of damages.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn quite aware of
that. It la allowing the government to reconsider a matter that has been decided.
The extreme case my hon. friend refera to
may flot arlse once in a hundred years. I
do flot know of any case except that quarry
we have hadt go much discussion about. We
kaow very weil that before exproprlating,
plans are first made and those are plans approved by the minister, and it la unlikely
that such a contingency should arise as my
hon. friend opposite anticipates. However,
I think clause 3 la so absolntely general
one cannot conceive language wider to cover
every case of the abandonment or revesting
of property after expropriation. Every circumstance and incident of the case can be
considered in estimating the amount to be
paid to any person for compensation.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOU(JHERVILLE-The hon.
gentleman admits there la no precedent for
this legislation.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, this ls going further
than we have ever gone, before. I admit
that, but 1 say the principle has been recognized by the clause of the Exchequer
court Act which I have quoted-it gives the
power to do something else instead of paying damages. For Instance If a canal cuta
away a frontage from a man's house he Io
gettlng damages for that. The Crown says
1your dlalm for that la extreme; we will
make a road for you on the aide here.' Very
weli, then. The court has to consider
whether the Crown wlll not be perznitted to,
make that offer and to put a road there and
have the damagea reduced, Inasmuch as that
ia placed there la lieu of the road that has
been taken. That la a case la point.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUOHERVILLE-That la
not the point. The point la that this provision la something for which there is no precedent-the power to give back the property
after havlng taken it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELLThat is the point.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before the money is
pald.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The hon.
gentleman says he has no precedent, there-

Hon. Mfr. F'ERGUSON-My hon. friend ls
uot quite correct when lie says that the
sedion which he quotes from the Expropriation Act la similar to the one to which I
bave objected. If my hon. friend will look
Into It lie will find that clause 4 of this Bill
embodies the principle of the sesrtion of the
Expropriation Act.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I so stated, except that
it is enlarged to meet the conditions of this
Bill.
Hou. Mfr. FERGUSON-Ciause 4 embodies
the principle of the section wMech he bas
read from the Expropriation Act, but that
lias nothing whatever to do with the point
to wbich we object, In clause 2 of this Bill.
I understood my hon. frlend from Montreal
(Hon. Mfr. Dandurand) to refer to myself as
objecting to the taking temporarily of an
Intereat la the prôperty. I did not make
any objection to that. That is contalaed la
section one; nor have I any objection to the
government: dolag what tbey have always
bail power to do--that la, to nmake an absolute expropriation and be bound by 1t; I have
no objection to their making an expropriation of a limited interest In a property,
which this Bill allows them te do, or an
expropriation for a limited time, but I want
that the expropriation should have that definiteneas to which the hon, gentleman trom
Calgary (Hon. Mfr. Lougheed) has referred,
whatever It la, whether It ls the whole or a
limited intereat, or whether It ls the property
for a limited time, that there should be deflniteness about It What 1 object to Io that
the property may be absolutely exproprlated,
the government may delay the payment of
the money for a considerable tIme, and any
time before they pay the money they may
change their minds and throw It back
on the owner's banda. My hon. frlend from
Montreal considera there would be somethIng
serlous In the objection If clause three was
not so general, which lie appears to thlnk
would afford a remedy and would give ample damages to any person under the circunmstanoes. With due deference, I have a
serious doubt whether clause three, notwlthstanding that It may 'be somewhat general
In Its nature, would reacli ail the cases that
mlght arise under the operation of clause

128

SENATE

two. Take the case of a man conducting wbose property may bave been taken, are
a business depending upon public patronage. concerned, Is absolute and we allow tbe
He bas a notice served upon bim of an ab- government wben other transactions bave
sointe expropriation of the property on taken place lni good faith, and wben
which bis place of business stands. F.eel- complications bave arisen ln the man's busiIng tbat that property le gone from hlm, lie ness, wben bis fimandiaI position may be
acquires another property, and proceeds to rained-when we allow the government to
remove bis business to tbat property. After corne ln and throw the property on bis bands,
ail this has been done, tbe other property I tbink we are really giving the Crown an
Is tbrowu back on bis hands and be lias two extraordinary power, and my bon. frIend the
properties, ail of wbicb I suppose could bc Secretary of State when cballenged to do
brougbt before court, but there mlht arise so, bas faiied to sbow where either In the
the question of the loss of business. We goverument of this country or ln the legisknow tbat trade Is somewbat wbimsical lu lation of tbis country, any sucb power bas
Its nature, and wiii not follow a man froni ever been given to tbe Crown.
one locality to another. I know of an Inla no
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-There
stance, wbefi lu consequence of a fire, a question that the Illustration given by tbe
grocer was obliged. to move froni one part bon. gentleman wbo bas just sat down as
of a block to another, and be found bis trade to a case where damages would arise, la net
would not follow. We know tbat wben a applicable, because clause 3 covers those difcase Is brougbt before the courts they are ficulties. 1 know there would be some diffidisposed to, look wlth leniency on tbe -case culty In the judge drawIng the Ue exactly
of the subject as against the Orown, but as to wbere he would stop ln granting damthe court muet be governed by evidenoe, and ages, lu cousequenoe of the destruction of
-would be be alIowed to show that wbere a business, but I see that the clause No. 3
be was doing business, trade did not was mot s0 wide wben It was presented to
corne to bum? That would be beid to the House of Comomons and was widened
be too remote ; the court would not lis- ln consequence of the discussion which took
ten to hlm, and however much a court place, ln order to cover such a case as the
may be disposed to do justice, I believe one just mentioned by my bon. friend.
there would be Instances where tbey would«
-Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
flot be allowed'to entertain sucb evidence.
Tbey would be restricted, and I doubt very wili scarcely say, as a lawyer, tbat the court
much wbetber justice could be doue ln *very could conelder damages that would arise lu
many cases that may arise under the pro- ail the ramifcations wbich would be previsions of this clause. 1 tblnk If we were sented througb a condition of tacts such as
to adbere to tbe sound and safe ground ou those.
which we have bitherto stood, that wbeu
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I bave limited
a definite expropriation is made, absolute lu my answcr to the Illustration given by the
Its ternis, and ail the requirements of the bon. gentleman froni Marsbfield.
law are complied with, that that expropriaHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Biit damages of
tion sbould be final. When we go further that character would be considered s0 reand allow the Crown to make a limited ex- mote as not to, be admissable lu evidence
propriation of private property, onIy a part before the court.
of tbe property, or wben we allow theni
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It Is bard to
only to take a llmited interest, I think probably we are ailowing sometblng to whlch make a general enactment which will cover
the public interest requires they shouid be ail possible cases whIch may arise, although
eatitled, ail of whicb wouid be consider- I think clause 3 bas been made very, very
ed lni the damages, but when we go fur- wide, and we were Just asking ourselves If
ther thon that and a 110w the Crown to corne there was a possibility of xnaking. It wider,
In and inake an absolute expropriation which I doubt very mucb.
wbich, so far as the terms of the expropriaHoni. Mr. 'MACKEEN-In listening to this
tion and the Intention'«f tbe government, discussion, 1 arn impressed by the tact tliat
and so for as the knowledge of the man tbi 1sle a Bill that opens the door, if the gov'Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

APRIL 28, 1903

129

ernrnent la so disposed, to the exerdise of a there have been bundreds of Bis tlirowu
great Geai of arbitrary power, and also a out ot this Chamber, sent bere by the popugreat deal of power that miglit lead to dis- lar brandi supporting the government, and
tress to the holders of property. 1 have had 1 tbink the Senate obtained the confidence
some littie experience ln the expropriation of tbe people by so doing. 1 amn quite satfeof property down ln Cape Breton and else- lied tlint If we deai witb it Ilu that way,
wbere, and I bave seen cases In whlch If simply In the .interests of the citizens of Cantile power whicb la given to the governrnent ada, we will have their approval too. It ls
ln thie Bill were fully exerclsed, It wouid niot necesry for us lu a rnntter of tbis kind
lead to a great Geai of Injustice. For ln- to support every mensure tint cornes bere
stance, we bave badl property expropriated simply because it cornes frorn the GoveruIli connection witb private interests, and ex- ment. I do not tbink there is an lion. genproprinted iu connection with raiiways, tleman In this Chamber who cares two
wbere people's houses were taken away aud. straws about what its political aspect may
where tbelr places of business have beeu ex- be, because tliere is no political interest lu
propriated. Supposing a goverunent cees fit if, but auytliing that encroaches on the
to expropriate rny place of business, con- riglits and liberties of the people ln this
tiguous to a public work whicb, tbey are country sbould be deait witli very carefully
puttlng up, canais or barbours, or something by the Senate.
of that kind, wbere they rnay need mny proo.
r.OESTehugntma
ongntma
WE -be
r.
Ho.
perty for three or four or five or six montis,
who bans Just spoken bas showu very clearor perbaps a year, for offceprosora
tbat may bie
a machine sbop, or sometblng of tliat sort; iy the very grave injustice
to carry on rny busi- done to private Individuals under this Bill.
1 ain, obliged, lu order
la wbether
nese, to go elsewhere, provide another store The next thing to bie consldered
place of business, and It IS necessary-is it lu the public interests.
If you like, another
to the
to my surprise I find tbant after tiese works tlhat sncbi power sbould bie gîven
e
e btI
alt
governent fiuds that goverameut .
are completed and the
that the public lutereet demands,
it ls not nece ssary for thern to retain Lie pro- fail to see
engineer, or
perty any longer, I arn Lold I rnay Lake it it lu any case. CertaIuly tbe
charge of the works tbat necessils
back, iL- no longer needed. 1 say that thaIt those lu
know tbe
opens Lhe door to grievous Imposition. Take tate any expropriation, sbould
that ls required, and tbey sbould
It to ourselves. Say I want to buy property property
lsarefroi any bon. gentleman liera. I go to hli iot expropriate more property.than
that particular work, and If tbey
and say, II want an option on you.r pro- quired for
stand
perty for a year or Lwo years, Liii I know do, the goverameut sbouid certainly
that prowhiether I need It. If I do not need It I wil tbe ioss.. If tbey pay more for
IL inter,
gîve It back and give you a littie sometbing. ' party. than they can realize upon
country'
WhLa would you do ?~ You would laugi lu IL la a mare bagatelle as far ne the
IL would ba absurd to dispose of la concerned. But as bas just been stated
nmy face ;
a priproperty lu that way. Every man wants to b)y the lion. gentleman, you may ruin
aud conditions on wblcb bie vate Individual. You may dectroy bic busiknow the terme
IL le
le deprIved of hie estate, and otierwiee nie iieec. You may ruin hlm entlrely, and
to no proposition Lo dispose 'lot necessari' ln ani' case lu the public
wouid lsen
be exprGof proparty that lie bas built up witb biard Intereet tint tbe property sbould
for parbaps fifty yaare. priated If it la not required perrnanently.
labour and industry
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I bave no doubt
It is contended, perbaps, very naturally and
very wisely, that It le not likeli' any gov- that the.governent or the Minister of Railo
fPbi
eranent wll exercice that power. If it le aysadLeMnse
do. tbey have .giveu this wboie question a 1very
not thelr wisb to exercice IL, wby
-wnnt to clothe tbamselvee 'wlLb the power ? great deal of coneideration before Lhey -de
This le not a political question. Thera are cided to introduce thie Bill, and I bave n(
no politice lu IL, and I sai' thie le a court doubt Lbey bave corne to the concluelot
wliere legielation of fliat sort ouglit Lo be honestiy that corne sucb mensure le Daces.
Independantly and justiy coneîdered. I know sary, or else the -Senate would, not beaake<
9

SENATE
to give their consideration to this mensure
and pass It. For instance, I know of a case
myself where a wharf .was erected where
there was very great difficulty ln gettIng
accommodation for the purpose of laying
down the material necessary to construct It.
If the government had been compelled to
cipropriate the necessary ground to enable
them to go on with the construction of the
wharf, ln the portion of the city ln which
lit was located it would have cost them as
much as the wharf itself.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-They wouid rent it
or pay damages for It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Dces
the hon. gentleman mean to pass over a person's land to deposit the materini ?
Hon. Mr. McIMULLEN-No. That.was to
lay down the material that w-as required ln
the construction of the w-harf, the ground
to work upon, a place w-ler.
down material and utilize the ground for
the purpose of building the wharf. I say la
sncb a case as that a government should
certainly have power to expropriate for the
Urne being the property ln crder to use It
for that purpose. It might take six months
or a year to complete a public work of that
kind. If the governmeat are forced to psy
for very expensive grounds under ail the
circumstances, It iargely increases the cost
of any public undertaking, because the
,ground tbey have taken bas either to remain the property of the Crown,or else they
have to seil it at a very great sacrifice, perbapa If tbey have to tura It over to the
psrty from wbcm they get It. I admit
abuses may possibiy arise under this Bill,
but those abuses may arise under any pow-er
vested iii a goverumeat. A government
cen abuse lis power lu any w-ay, but ln the
application of this Bill ln the cases ln
wbich the governmeut may find it their
duty to use it, if there is any grievance or
Injustice doue I have flot the slightest doubt
that a very strong agitation w-ould be got
up la that constituency against a government
for doing- a grossis unjust act to some of
the resuit
His Mafijesty's subjects ;and
w-ouid be that possibiy the gentleman w-ho
represented'the constituency, If he w-as.a
go'v;ernxnent supporter, niiglît lose bis sent.
Public sympthy is on tbe side of tbe iiiHon. 1Mr. MCIULLEN.

dividual against the Crown, and it la quite
right that it should be so. But w-lUi reference to a power vested la a respoasible
goverument whichi is seeking the suffrages
of the constituency and trying to please the
publie, it is not Ilkely to be absurd lu the
way polnted out by my bon. frieud from
Cape Breton. The governmeat w-ili ln ail
probabiiity utilize this Bill by its applicatLu to cases w-bere they find It wll be an
advantage to the country to use It, and at
the saine time do no Injustice to those that
are seeking for thc time being to ailow
their property to be expropriated for the
purpose of cnrrying on public works and to
be returaed possibiy ln the ame condition
that it was, and if It is iujured. tbey no
doubt %vill get damages for the Injuries
doue to It. I do flot tbiak there Is much
risk ln putting iuto the bands of the goverament of tis country a pow-er of that kind.
I have no doubt it will be used witb very
great caution ln the interests of the country and at the same time ample justice wili
be îaeted out to any person on w-bom the
13111 Is brought to beur.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-The remarks of the
hou, gentleman wbo bas Just resumed bis
seat appear to me to be entireiy lu support
of the first clause o! this Bill, to which there
is no one, as I understand It, ln the Chamber on either side that takes any exception.
There can be no objection to the government
takiug texnporary charge o! tbe whoie or
any portion o! a piece o! property belongIf w-e are
in.- to any private individuai.
to -have nny expropriation at ail, I do not
see why that right sbouid not be exercised
lit that way. Therefore, so far as the first
clause goes we aîake no objection to ItL I
have, however, listelied to this debate, and
the rensons or the arguments tbnt have been
adduced appear to lue unansw-erabie against
the passage o! the second clause of this
Bill. The difficulty, ns bas been pointed
out very clearly by the hion, gentleman fromi
Marshfield, is the lack of dcfimiteiiess In
the clause itself. Under that clause, mwhen
the goveruiment .expropriate a piece of
property beionging to a private individual
tbey leave hixu in this position until the
money is actually pid: bie does flot lznow
w'hether that property is to be finaiiy taken
aw'ay fromx hlm, w-bether il is aIl to be returned to hlim, or wlmether sonie portion of

AFRIL 28, 1903

.131

They wouid be entitled to seil it nt the
mnarket price, and I do not see why they
should. be entitled to ny more than the
market price for It. They can place It on
the fnarket. The man wbo orj$iually owned It la at liberty to buy lt-and If lie does
not, any other person can. I do flot see
why this man sbould be compeiled to take
bis property back after lt bas once been
expropriated. Let me cail attention to the
fact that thîs clause draws the Une at the
time when the compensation money ls pald.
There is no definiteneas about tbat. That
inay be a long or a short Une, and 1 sbould
like If the Secretary of State, or any other
boa, gentleman, wouid say wby that partiIf yen
cular trne sbould bie meationed.
can make a person take back private
property after the governiuent are done wltb
it, or whle tbey bave no furtber use for It,
wby sbould tbey draw the line at the time
the compensation ls paid ? You mîgbt
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. The court may cou- make tbem take It back two or tbree years
afterwards, as f ar as any prînciple ln the
sider ail the circumstauces.
leglalation la lnvolved. In my opinion. thls
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I muet differ from M'y la going a stop furtber than the legisiature
bon. friend. I tbink it would be impossible should go ia interfering wlth private rlghts,
for them to get at the real exteut of the and I beartlly agree witb the argument
damages which an IndIvIdual mlbt suifer wbich bas been presented to this House,
whio was placed in a position of uncertainty that after private property bas been exprowltb regard to his future sncb as 1 have priated and takea possession of by tbe govdescrlbed. It seems to me that wben tbe ernment tbey sbo.uld be responsible for it,
goverument exercises the power of expro- and If tbey wisb to dispose of the wbole or
priation of private property It la golng a any part of it they sbould put It upon the
very long way. It is ouly a power wbicb open market and dispose of it as any other
tbey Sbould exercise under extraordinary person would have to do.
It ls only to bie exercised
clrcumstauces.
when there 1s no other way of carryiug on1 The Commlttee divided on the motion to
may adopt the clause, wblch was agreed to on the
or completing some public work %vieh
be of great public benefit and great public foij-owlng vote :-Contents, 23 ; Non-Conutility, to place lu their bauds sncb extra- tents, 21.
ordiuary power to be used lu those cases;
On the fourth clause,
but this clause to my mInd goes tlîis exHon. Mr. SCOTT--Clause four is new,
traordinury lengtb further, that it tirst exa mnan's property and then com- cbaaglng tbe law to brîng it Into harmony
propriates
pels the man to take it back and appoints witb the change la clause tbree.
a board of arbitration to Say ut what price
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I
My view ts that If
lie ls to take It back.
understand by. tbe words ' or before Judgthe governmeut expropriate private property
ment' If judgment bas been given lu favour
t*bey sliou]d be responsible for It. They
clairnant, thea does the power of the
sbouid take It and the mnan sliould kno-%v of tbe
'Crown cease ?
from that moment just lu what position bie
If the goverunient decide ufterstands.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
wards that tbey do flot need this property
Hon. Sir, MACKENZIE BOWEILL-TÉhis
or do not ineed any Portion of it,' there la a
s'ery simple way for thiiel to get rid of it. clause la oônly aniended 'Io comply wltb

He is Ieft in tbat[1
it is to be returued.
condition of suspense, for how long no one
can' say. It is said It may flot be a long
If It la one uiontb or two or three
Unme.
montbis, or six nîontbis, It may affect that
gentleman's Interests and business to a very
serlous extent. It la Impossible to say bow
or to what extent It may affect them in
different cases, and, as bias been pointed out
by the hou. gentleman from Calgary, there
would be a class of damages arising In a
case of that kind wbich cannot be assessed
It appears to
by a board of arbItrators.
me that for this reason clause 3 Iu this
Bil, whlch bas been referred to, does not
meet the difficulty because whiie It provides
for compensation for ail damages sustaineti,
a case may arise, and I believe If this power
ls ever exercised casesý wili arise, where It
will be Impossible to get at the consequentlai
damages.

132.

SEINATE

LABOUR UNIONS LABELS BILL.
the clause which lias just been adopted. 0f
course, I have the saine objection to this
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
that I had to the other. This clause is necesThe Order of the Day being caled:
sary If the other Is to become iaw. I shouid
Second Reading Bill (D) An Act respecting
like to point out to the hon, gentleman froin
Wellington (Mr. McMulien) that under Labour Union Labels.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved that the Order
the power whici lie advocated should
be placed Iu the bauds of the goverumeut of tbe Day be discbarged, aud that the
already exista, and consequently bis whole second reading of the Bill be fixed for
argument did not apply to the objection we Thursday, the 7th of May.
have to thîs Bill. You can cross a man's
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE~ BOWELL-WIII
property now under the law and maire your the hon. gentleman give tbe reason for that?
deposit of lumber or stone In order to carry
Hou. Mr. WATSON-Some hion. gentleon your work, but you pay the man for the
rIglit to pass over bis property. That iaw men wbo are ln favour of the Bill want te
exista now, and tbat power la possessed by have It deiayed for a week, andi seine who
railways and tbe goverument. It bas been are opposed to It want to bave It postponed
asserted over and over agala In this discus- for a week.
sion that no goverament would exercîse this
The motion was agreed to.
power tyrannlcally.
We have experienceý
wbere tliey bave attempted to do ItL We, CUSTODY 0F JUVENILE OFFENDERS
bave bad the experlence wliere a quarryl
IN N.B. BILL.
was expropriatedthe atone condemned by
REPORT FROM COMMITTEE.
the officiais of. the goverumeut and afterwards taken and used ln the constructioný The House resoived ltseif Jnte a Commitof the work after the governmeut bad ex- tee of the Whoie on Bill (10) An Act te
proprIated, and then, being desîrous of get- amenti the Act relating to the Custody of
tlng rid of the property afterwards, tliey lu- Juvenile Offenders ln tbe province of New
troduced a apeclal Bill bavlng the same pro-1 Brunswick.
visions as this BIB, to enable tbem, after the
(lu tlie Coumlttee.)
expropriation bad taken place, to give the
property back- to the man after the goveruOn clause one,
ment had, to a very great extent, depleted it
Hon. Mr-. FERGUSON-Although there
of Its value. The argument advanced by the
umay be strong reasons arising, froîn a
hon. Senator from Calgary Is unanswerable.
case that lias' recentiy occurred lu New
It' is not wliat a governinent mnay faîl to do, Brunswick, for some ameudmeut lu the law
but wbat they have dolbe, and we liad to
to provide for a difficulty which occurred
prevent Injustice being done to pritiiere, it seeius to mue that a general nieavate individuals by our votes lu this Senate;
sure of this kind, that gives the Goveritor
what bas been doue ln tbe past may be doue
Generai by varraut the power ut his disagain. It may be done by tis governinent
cretion, on the applicatiou of the Attorney
or by an Incoming goverument. Powers of
General of the province, to remove a boy
that kind, as bas been forcIbiy pointed, out
that muay be seutenced to detention in au
by gentlemen who bave spoken on this sîde
ludustrial home, to a peuitentiary, umniedof the*House, should nlot be eutrusted to any ing as it were and cliaugiug the sentence of
goverumeut. I tbink the arguments ada court-a provision whicli gives that power
vanced by the bon, gentleman froin West- ib somecuiiîî4 extraordluary.
Au error muay
moreland (Hou. Mr. Wood) are so conclu- have been comrnltted by the judge, but
sIve tbat any one who would consider the I think nt least the Goveruor General
matter for a moment, apart froin auy othier being given this power ou the recommendacousiderations, would acquiesce lu thein tion of the Attorney General the sanction
and vote accordingly.
of the judge w-ho tried the case ouglit to be
The clause was adopted.
Otberwise we would have the
obtained.
%ùt
H11on. Mr. ,ELLI-S, froin the Coninittee, re- adeninistration of justice practicalîr
ported the-BIil 'witliout ameudmeut.
aside by some such sumniary action as is
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 28, 1903

133

I like to direct the attention of the House
pr posed to bc taken under this Bill.
amrn ot denylng, knowing as I do a littie for a moment to the case whici lias called
about the case that lias arlsen In for this legisiation. On a siummer afterNew Brunswick, that tliere Is a dlfficultY noon tliree boys, fifteeu or sixteen years
A old, went out for a walk ln the woods near
there and some remedy is necessary.
The thIrd
Two came back.
boy who wns tried for cornplIcIty ln a St. John.
0f course there
the judge to this iaever came back alîve.
murder, was sentenced by
He was found gullty, I was a hue and cry and inquiry, and the boy's
Industrial homne.
think, of mansiaugliter. The feeling of the body was dlscovered, and It was flnally ascommunlty was that lie was as guhlty as lits certalned that lie was murdered by these
companlon who was sent to the Dorcliester two boys. The Crown, of course, was In
penltieutiary, and that it was wrong that a some difficulty la fanding out ail the cîrboy of that character should be brouglit lu cumstances of tlie case, and the legal authoricontact wlth the boys ln this industrial hiome ties ln some way or other allowed one of
wliich Is regarded as a reformatory. How- the boys to give evideace agalast the other.
ever, lie was sentenced to the Industrial The boys,' lu the opinion of a great many
home. I amn uot aware of the nature of the &f the community, were equally guilty, but
Imprlsonment there. It 18 to sorne extent the lad whio told the story lirst and put the
That is about al case on the other boy was put on trial aftera place of detention.
The firat boy was tried and senyou can say about lt; but under this Bill wards.
teuced to penltentiary for life. It was a
the Governor General, by warrant, on the
recommendation of the. Attorney General of great surprise to the communlty that sucli
New Brunswick, Is abie to send thls boy a crime Ïvas committed by those lads. The
to the peu itentinry. I think public opinion other boy who told thie story wus put upon
amongst those who knew tlie circurnstances trial as an accessory after the fact, and lie
of the case would say sorne suchi rernedy managed, by his; lagenlous and falr-minded
as that Is necessary, but when we go fur- style la the court-thougli a great many
ther and make a general law, that thec considered hlm the worse of tbe two-to
Goveruor General by warrant can at amy impress the judge and s0 won upon tlie comtime override the judgrnent of a judge of mnunity and a great many people that the
the province, and on the recommendation judge, on the advice of the Crown lu New
of the Attorney General practlcally change Brunswick, sentenced hlm f0 the reformathe sentence and rernove boys that have tory. The reformatory is a benievolent Inbeen sent by the judge, who hieard the evi- stitution estnblished by persons whio desired
douce, to the reforrnatory or Industrial home to roform boys, and the class 0f boys sent
to the peiiltentiary, It Is a vory serions there were what you iglt call fnlrly good
power t0 give, and If we do pass sncb a boys wlio occasioally make a mistake, but
general euactment as this giving sucli there was no crime marked against theni.
power, there ouglit to be some provision in- The sending of thîs boy thiere created a groat
serted that the recomniendation of the judge deal of excitemient la the coaimunlty, and
wiio tried the case and imposed the sen- the managers of the home resisted. There
tenice sbould be ellcited in connection witli is aun Act iutlioriziiig the judge f0 sond
That, I thiuk, Is the case when the boys fa this place. The niayor of St. John
It.
Crown is asked to extend clemency ta a and. the colmittee ln charge of the instituprisoner. Tliey Invarlably got a report froin tion refused to take the bay, but tbey were
tbe judge wbo tried the case, and is' more compelled by process of law to admit hlmu.
conversant wilh the facts and the nature of The general fear was that lie would not:
It is submuit ta the regulations of the place, and
fthe charge than any other uerson.
bis re- that hoe would corrupt the boys that were
ou bis recomniendation, and only on
The
comumendation, that clemoncy Is extonded, there. Tliat very thlng- bas bappened.
lu anticipation of the coaîmunity bas beema
and that provision ought to lie inserted
realized. The papers of St. Johni publislied
the Bill now before us.
that wbeu lie w-eut there flrst
Hon. 'Mr. ELLIS-I ar n ot prepared f0 the statemient
lie w-as kept by bimself for a t1ime. RIS
dispute the proposition made by tlc lion.
gentleman froi Marslifield, but 1 should advent ln the home excited tue feeling.s et

SENATE

134

tbe boys. They considered thiat a hero was
brouglit to tbiem. .e.
flot oniy tried the
othei- night to niake an escape, _but -wa
found londed up wvith Impiements to break
jail. That Is the exact position of the case.
He bas now had to be put ln soltary confinement, until this Bill is passed, and tihe
tissent of the Crown given to It. The Institution and the boys ln lt are lu the wvorst
possible state you can Imagine sucli nu ilustitution to be. The Attorney General of
New Brunswick bas asked for titis legisiation, or some legisiation whilh wiil enabie
the Crown to remove a boy of this character froni the Institution and send hlm to
the penitentiary whiere hie should have gnne,
ln the lirst place. I fear lt ls a hopeles
case for hlm, and whlle the obetoin.
be very well taken that sucb a power should
not De given to the Crown, 1 Imagine it
la ant autliority whilh would not be generaliy exercised. The tendency of the Croiva
ls to show rnercy, aud ia this case -the passage of titis Bill wouid mot produce the resuit whichi my hion. frlend imagines it would,
for sucll a case mnay not arise agîtin.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbat
la the age o! the boy ?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Thirteen
years of age.

or fourteen

Hon. Mr. DEVER-Sixteen.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
the New Brunswick Act define at what age
a boy ceases to De a boy ?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I cannot say.
BOWELL-L
Hon. , Sir M-NACKENZIE
understand that the provision of the New
Brunswick Aet is that nobody over sixteen
cau be sent to this indu'strial home.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, 'to ail appearances
must be under siteen years of tige.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If this
is a good iaw, why should it nmot be made
general ? Wbv niot introduce a general Bill ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Because there was n
special Act for -New Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-What would you do ln
thec meantime wlth the boy ?
Hon. Sir -NACKE-.NZIE BOWEL-If yon
make the Act general. you wili accomplishl
the obJect hn view. I recognize the necesslty
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

of removing a vicious boy from an industril
home, but' the Bill gives this power to the
goverfiment,. on the advice of the Attorney
General, and applles to New Brunswick
alone. In Ontario they do flot eall themn
Industrial homes, but reformatories. If you
had a boy of this character sent to the reformatory where they are supposed to send
that ciass of cildren who are sent to this
home, why should flot the Attorney General
of Ontario have the saine right that ls given
to the Attorney General of New Brunswick ?
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The facts related by
the bon. gentleman from St. John are very
sad lndeed, but there Is somethlng superior
to that It Io the independeneeo0f the judges
and of justice lni the land. By this Bill you
propose simply to Interfere with the admlnIstration of justice and with the sentences
passed by the judges. I quite understand
the prerogative of the Crown to pardon a
criminal, but I do not think that there is
any legisiation glving a government the
power to increase a sentence Imposed upon
a criminal by a court of law. If you fol10w Up the principle which is laid «down
in this Bill, It could very weil go to that
extreme extent, that If a man under trial
lB found 'flot guhlty,' the Attorney GeneraI of the province might ask the government
that that man be hauged-that is the priicipie which ls introduced la this Bill. Of
course I put a very stroag case by way of
Illustration, but if you follow Up the principle to Its last consequences, you reaci
that resuit. You should respect the judges
who are charged with the administration of
justice in each province. It is a mistake also
to leglalate under the Influence of an exclted feeling which may have been raised
la the province of New Brunswick in consequence of a certain local fact. It is a
very serious mistake. We must look higlier
than that and leg-isiate generally aud for the
maintenance of the idependence of our
judges.
Hon. Mr. DAN DURAND-I do not atta cli
mucli importance to the speciai case referred
to. The hon, gentleman fromn Manitoba is
right wben bie says that we must flot leg-isiate
for special cases-that there must De a generai priaciple attacbed to and underlying our
legîsiation ; but in the present case the Bill
whlch is offered us ls a good one. The present powers of the Governor General author-

APRIL 28, 1903
Ize hlm to tako a party condemued lu_ the 1îome to a jail. Thero is a great difference
Dorchiester penitentiary and send hilm to an ' rhe penltentlary and the reformatory are
Industrial home. *But hoe has no right to take a îot the samo Institutions at al,~ They are
child from the lndustrlgl honme and sezid hlm îot reguiated on the samne principle. There
to the Dorchester penltentiary. There wiil Is a vaut difference between the two.
be Do change,- If we pas this Bill, lu the
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-This iaw provides that
sentence passed on the party. It wlii be the iboy may be sent to the penitentiary. It
government whlch furiiishes the prisons for rniy applies to such a case.
the reception of crlmînals who wiil declare
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-If the government
that the condomned party shahl go into one .s given the power to transfer the boy from
Jail lnstead of another. It la slmply a ques- the home to the penitentlary, then It mi.ght
tion of where hoe shall serve hMu sentence. as weli be given the power to Inflet upon
The hon. gentleman%from M4arshfield sald hilm an imprisonmient for ten years. There
he thought thiu iaw was perhaps lu the rlht
ls no difference ID principle.
direction, but hoe thought the judge who couHou. Mr. WOOD-There la no doubt this
demned the prisoner uiiould have a word
to say as to the power of transferring him. legislation should be passed to meet the parI beg to dlffer wîth the bon. gentleman, ticular case which the lion. gentleman from
because the judge decided ou the reeord be- St. John has reforred to ln New Brunswick,
fore hlm with or without the jury, after and I do flot rise to object to It, though I
the case was put before hoe court and thlnk thero lu a good deal of force lu one
sentence was prouounced, the judge doeu point ralsed by my hon. friend from Marahflot know very much about the Inclina- fieid-that the transfer of the prisoner from
tions and paut career of the offender. the Industrial home to the penitentiary
The youug man belng conflded to the care shouid bo upon the recommendatIon of the
of the governor of the jaîl, or a home, wll judge who tried the case. I thiuk that lu
be under the speclal supervision of that customary. I am flot a iawyer, but I undersuperîntendent, and the superintendent of stand that that Is the practîce lu asking for
the Industrial home of New Brunswick, for a reprieve.
Instance, eau wîthln a few moutiis, diseeru
Hon. M4r. DÂNDURAND-How wili the
the qualities or defects or the vices of tlue judge know as to the Ihlutory of that; boy lni
young man. 'The judge, finding the boy to the industriai home atter lie lias been there
be behow sixteen, consîders It bout to sep- two or threo monthu ?
arate hlm from criminals and sends him
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The institution ltseif lu
to the IndustrIal homie. The superliitondent under the management of a board ln which
may find that the judge was Ignorant of the the provincial goveriîment have a certain
character of the young man and of bis moral coutrol and Influence, just as tbè mayor of
utatus and vicions habits, and ho may make the clty has, but the judge cn only know
a report to the M4fnîster cf Justice and the the character of the boy from the report
Governor Generai wîi act upon It. I made by the officers of the goverumont It
thlnk It Is a power whileh should be ex- mlght be ut us woll made to the governtended. The goverumouit aiready have the ment hore as to the judge In New Brunspower to transfor a erîminal f rom Dor- wick.
Wlîy
chester peuitentiary to thiat home.
Hon. M4r. WOOD-I do not object to the
not bave the power to proteet the boys Ili
transfer belug made by Issuiug the warrant
that home f roui sucb a contamination If the
the Goveruor Geueral, but lt uliould be
superîntendent of the home thînks It ls lxi of
on the recommendation of the judge.
the Interosts of the boys tiiere that a vîclous
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-How will the
iuimuto shouhd be sent to the penitentlary ?
On the whole, I think it la a good law. judge know as to the behavlour of the boy
The sentence la not lnereasod. It la the snie lii the Institution ?
sentence.
Hon. M4r. WOOD-Hlow does the Governor
Goueral know ?
Hon. M4r. BERNIER-The lion. gentleman
Hon. M4r. DÂNDURAND-By the report of
gays thore lu no importance in the guiity
party bolng trausferred froni an Industrial the superiutendeut of the houme.

136

SENATE

'Hon. Mr. WOOD-Wouid not the judge
'have acceas to the ame report ? I amrn ot
backlng the judge as agaluat the Governor
General. I amn only argulng for the principle
that the action of the Governor General
sbould be on the recominendation of the
judge. Now, If 1 understand the prInciple
or the practice which la adopted with regard to remitting or mitlgating the sentence
-of prIsoners lu the penItentiary or elsewliere,
that has generally been adopted, It la doue
,on the Governor General'a warrant, upon the
a'ecommendatlon of the judge.

very many cases for reasons that are obvious.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Overruled ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Overruled lu this
respect, that prisoners are frequently changed f rom one penitentiary to another. The
Crown does that. For Instance, It is considered the discipline may be stricter In one
ponlteniary than ln others.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
often occura when a penltentlary la crowded.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-On the recommeudation Tlat ls only sending from ouf, prison to aucDf the Mister of Justice aitogether. Re other of the same character.
may or may not consuit the judge.
lon. 1fr. SCOTT-The judge is neyer
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Are not the judges ai- consulted In cases of that kind.
ways consulted ?
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The cases to whlch
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Oh, no, particularly the hon. gentleman refera are simply changes
where It ls a reformatory. It lo the head of prison, whille lu the case provided for lu
of the reformatory wlth whom the Mlnister this Bill it la a change of sentence.
of Justice conimunicates. He uiay ask the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before the proclamajudge, but there la no absolute mile.
tion bringing the Act Into force, this boy
Hon. Mr. WOOD-It does appear to me would bave been sent lu New Brunswick. to
It would be desîrable that ln these cases, the common JuiL In 1893 there was an Act
particularly, lt should. be on the recommen- passed relating to the custody of juvenile
dation of the judge. The objection that the offenders lu the province of New Brunswick,
bon. gentleman seenis to take to thîs posi- which provides that when an industrial
tion la that the judge would niot have the home lias been established lu the province,
It appears lu case any boy, who at the triai appears
mens of getting Information.
to me the judge wlio tried the case would to the court to be under the age of sixteen,
certaluly know more of the wbole history I.; convicted of nny offence for which senof it than any other person.
tence may be Inflicted, the judge may, if
Hon. Mfr. DANDURÂND-Of the case, yes. lie thiiks proper, send hlm to this industrial
home, so that If the home did not exist the
Hon. Mfr. WOOD-And he would certalnly boy would necessarlly have gone to jail or
bave access to the report of the governor to pe4ltentiary. It does seem to me that
cf the Institution nfter the lad was In the the opposition whichi bas been manîfested
Industrial home. I cau really see no person to thîs Bill for the reason the judge ouglit
who would be lu a better position to form to be consulted, is not really any substantial
an opinion as to Whether It was desîrable ground for opposition, because it rests entIrethat thiat particular person should be re- iy wlth the authorities of this home to say
moved fromi the home to the penlteutlary whether the boy ls a dangerous character
thnn the judge who tried the case. 1 should and should be kept within the precincts of
like to see that provision Incorporited.
thie institution. It la perfectly clear, from
-Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The principle of trans- the statements made by an hon. gentleman
Trerriug prisoners froni one place to another who spoke a few moments ago, flot oniy is
lias been long recognized, and the changes It not safe to keep hlim there, but it is a bad
are constantly being- made. Prisoners are example to the other boys, and therefore
:seit from St. Vincent de Paul to Kingston, this change ought to take place. It does not
and from Kingston to St. Vincent de Paul. seem to me there should be any opposition
The judge sentences a prisoner to a par- to the proposition as to givIug the authority,
licular penltentiary. That is overruled ln aîthougli it is only to meet this particular
,Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

AFRIL 28, 1903
to a reforrnatory, lie is
case and 110 similar case rnay arise for a peniteiitiary to go
worse place ta go to a better one,
nuimber of years. We do flot legislate for leaving a
are asked to, force hlm
a single case and that is wby It is made but 1ln this case we
a comparatively good place to go ta
generai. Wltli regard ta the reformatorles ln to leave
ini that way we are golng
thie other provinces, I amrn ot ln a position a worse place, and
principle we bave been acting
to speak, but I think thiere Is sorne mile, be- agalnst the
this case 1 say we should
cause 1 know tliey are clianged sometirnes upon till to-day. In
judge. as tlie lion.
the different prisons ln Ontarla ta tlie have tlie repocrt of the
fromi
speak posi- gentleman f rom Marslifield suggests, aîîd it
'reformatories there, but 1 cannat
get the report of tlie judge.
tively. -I do not know whetlier It Is by con- is very easy ta
If tliat youîîg lad ln tlie reforrnatory does
sulting- witli tlie judge or wlth the warden.
lie is arnenable ta punil1 know that tlie power of pardon is exer- liat beliave well,
bef are tlie judge. If lie ls infrlugling
clsed frequently by the governor on tlie ment
tlie institution, lie rnay be pro'report of the warden-nat on tlie report of the rules of
and If lie cornes agalu before the
tlie judge. Tlie Judge nxny bie asked, but secuted,
the judge xnay niake
tliere Is no law or practice compelllng the judge On that repart,
ta the goverunent and have the
Department of Justice, wlicli Is the avenue luis report
f roin the reforrnatory ta
througli whlcli these things are doue, ta ask boy transferred
and that would lie doue
the Judge. Tliere Is reforrnatary at Pene- the penltentiary,
ofteii cornes because lie wauld flot be belîaving wvell, lietanguishene where the question
cornritting otlier offences,
up, wliere boys have been reforrned and aI- cause lie would lie
sliortened and thiat Is the only way lef t open If we
lowed to go. The sentence Is
the principles laid dawn as
by tlie governor on the report of the M~inister want ta respect
on Informationi ta Interferýnce witb tlie judges.
-of Justice, and it ls generally
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Mly lion. frleiid
given by the warden of tlie reformatory.
Is no0 doulit riglît, tiiot
Han. M~r. LANDILY-Could the lion. gen- wlia lias mest spoken
ime hand the option ta
sentence was tlie judge nt the
tlemnan let us knaw when tbat
Iie
seiid the boy ta the Industilil home or, t<>
passed upon the yaung lad ?
as sncepenltentiary. He sent hlm ta the lndustrial
hinkIt
Hon.Mr.ELLI-I
The hon. gentleman fromn St. Jlinî
hniitwssnelome.
EhIChonistma. Cliritmas.explalned
tliat a istake was made. I have
haw whicli the no doulit whîatever thiat tlîe judge wouhd lie
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thuit
admit Unit a1 miislion. gentleman quoted was passed lu 1893. tlie flrst iîii ta-day ta
mnade. We do iiot caîl tliot in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Nvas ta lie brouglit take wavs
nt ail, and framn wlmnt 1 kuiow of
!nite operation wlienever the industrial haine quîestiohn recently andl of tue xvbale circumnwas etablibed.the-case
stanîces of thîls atroclous nîurder iii wlîicl
was esablmsled.
If the Bill
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-But It was passed lu, the two boys wvere lmpllcated,
direct one to remedy a juistalce muid
1893. Wlieu tlie judge passed the sentence %vas a
the remov.1l of
on the youiîg lad lie L-uew that the punilel- ta simply give power for
persan fram the luidistri.îl home ta the
mient lie was Inflicting was oue that lie could tlîls
the sligflitcst
choose. He couhd choase between the jail lienitentiary, 1 would nat have
are nmakzinîg n misand the reformatory. He chose the latter objection, but I thîink we
If take wlien xve enact a general law and give
end sent hlmi ta the refarnatary.
slinply
interferes iu the punishimeîit, lt this power ta, the Governar Geîîeral,
thuls Flanse
the on the recomniendatian of the Attorle Interferiug lu the way of increaslug
ney General of New Brunswick, ta revise ll
punishmeiit and not of diminishiug IL.
sentences of this chiarncter tiot are pnssed
Hon.Mr.SCOT-Ys, roprlyso.
by the judges lu the province of New BrunsHan.Mr.
COTTYCE proerhy50.
f
Oik course, we kuaw tlînt it is still
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-AlI the exaiples thiat
thie liiand ail thc refereuces witliu sorne lîmits. The ternis of
luîve beeu quoted,
ln tlîe Industrial liume intist lie
nmade liy the lion, gentleman ta the refor- prisouniiemit
ta bring- tlîe pîlsouier under
niataries anîd ta tlîe peiiitentiaries aire aIl stnflieuitly, long
power of Uic judge ta send hiiim te thie
ln the wvay of lesseniug tlîe punislimucit thîe
It is only an limprisonint
passed upon crimimflîs. If anc leaves the lienitefltiflry.

138

SENATE

of two years or over wbere the penitenitiary punisbiment can be hifilted, but wlien
the period of detention ln the Industrial
home is sufficiently long then this Bill
would operate aud permit tbem to act ln ail
cases within tbe provisions of tlîls Bil1l. I
think If It Is rilbt to, do that we slîould
mak-e It applicable to ail the provinces. Why
restrict It to New Brunswick ? 1 thlnk the
proper course would be to deaI witli this
special case and pass a Bill whlch would
have got over the difficulty wbilb is flot
likely to occur again, and not to place this
niensure ou the statute-book.
Honi. M1r. ELLIS-It seems to me the ohjections whicbl are raised are flot exactly
fancifiil but arise somewhat out of the ftuagIiatiail.
Iu this case the judge cou]d
have sent the boy to the penitentlaîry

for

thr-ee anid a liaif years, but tbe boyý so linpressed the judge witb bis ingeuuiousuless
thit the judge merclfuiiy and by nistalzeaIthougli perbaps I sbould flot crIticise bis
actions-sent hlmi to the reformatory Instead.
That being tbe case, whant are the facts
The clrcumnstances are tinit within a few
montbis that boy bas demoralized the institution.
It Is really uot a prison.
It is
unlilze the reformatories ln the west. Tliere
Is notlîing to prevent a boy going outside
and getting away except that lie wouid be
caughit and broughit back.
Lt is a simple
biouse with a field around it aud a i)icktt
fence.
Tîtere were no guairds formerly.
but sitîce tltis boy bas been tiiere guards
bave been put ou. Tbiere Is nothing, liowever, to prevent the government asking the
jn(lge for a report if tbey want it, and tbat
could be doue. I tbiuk that the very ilioment the application ivent from the Attornîey
Geneimi to the Governor General, be would
tiot oct witbout inquiry. I presume tbe
Clo4uvetttor General would be satisfied w'ith
the reasons given, and whetbier tbey corne
froin the Attorney General or the judge, as
long as they are good reasons tbey slîouid be
su iticieuit.
Hon. '.\r. LANDRY-We cati attain that
object by n special law.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-Passing special laws
:o deal witb individual cases is objectioniable:
and i 11rn
more disposed to agree with the
hiou, leader of tbe opp9sition, wbio tbinks
titis meîasuire oughit to be made applicable
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

to ail parts of Canada.
Iu France and
other countries they are more logical and
nia9ke their laws upon some broad g-eneral
principle. We generally give relief where
the shoe pluches, and do flot bother
about other places.
As 1 understand,
the only objection made by the bon, gentleman from Sackville, or any other bou.
gentleman, to, this measure Is tbat sucb a
step sbiould flot be taken witbout a report
from the jndge. Some reference bas been
made to judges' reports belng taken ln
other cases; but the cases where the goverfinient acts upon tbe reports of the judges
are cases whicb arise just after tbe trial.
The question Is wbether a sentence shahl lie
commuted ; for instance If a crininai bas
been seatenced to capital punisbment, wbether his sentence shahl be commuted to Imprisonment or not. In cases of tbant kind,
of course the report of the judge wbo trled
the case is Important. But this Is not a case
of that kind at ail. This lad bas been sent
to a reformatory where tbe judge knows
nothing whatever about bis conduct. The
judge does flot visit the reformatory. Tbe
president or governor of tbe reformatory
finds after a littIe while that thils boy is a
most objectionable lnmate and is contaminating tbe other lads who are under bis care.
The governor reports to the attorney general
of tbe province. I tbinl. you migbt stop
there, that the Attorney General might Issue
a fiat for the transfer of tbat boy to tbe
penitentiary, but that is not doue.

Tbe gov-

ernor and the Attorney General cannot do
the tbing tbemselves. Tbe Attorney General
bas ta report to the Governor in Council,

and will report ail the circumistances that
it is important tbe Governor in Council sbouid be made aware of, and then
the Governor lu Council decide wbat ?
Tbey do not decide that any serions miscbief
or injury shah bhappen ta this lad, but tbey
decîde that bie shiah be sent from a
place wbere lie is not a fitting lnuate ta a
place W'bete be is a fitting lumate. and oîî]y
for tbe renainder o! bis termu. 1 cannot see
that anybody is biurt. I think, it a Weil Colisidered and desirable measure.
Hon. 31r. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I dlesire
to draw the attention of the Seutate ta the
law o! Quebec on the subject, wbicb reads
as follows :

A-PRIL 29, 1903
Reformatory Schois for Boys..
The Lieutenant Goyernor may at any time. on
the report of one of the inspectors of the provine of Quebec, order any of the offenders u.ndergoing sentence in any certified reformatory
school on a conviction for felony, toi be removed
as Incorrigible, and ln any such case the offender
shall be imprisoned ln the penitentîary for the
remainder of the terni of bis sentence.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, from the committee, reported the Bill without amendment.
The Bill was then read the third time and
passed.
YUKON TERRITORY ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself lnto a Cernmittee of the Whole on Bill (9), 'An Act to
amend the Yukon Territory Act.'
(In the Committee.)
Hnn. Mr. SCOTT-I have an amendment
to, move to this measure. The judges, ln
the Supreme Court of Canada have expressed the opinion that an Act which was passed
hast session, which referred to the Yukon
Court, should be aniended by adding the
words 'The Yukon Court en banc, that
means that a single Judge should flot be authorized to send cases to the Supreme Court
here.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wýýhat is the application of it ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Supreme Court
judges have thrown a doubt on the point
as to whether the expression 'court'
was
dlefinite enougli. The word court miglht
mean a single judge, and It is simply adding
the words en banc.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG, from th-e committee,
reported the Bill witb an amendment which
was concurred ln.
The Senate adjouriied.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Wednesday, April 29, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

FAST TRANSATLANTIC STEÂMSHIP
SERVICE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
1. Are there at present, or have there been
since last session, any negoliations going on on
the subject of the establishment of a fast line
of transatlantie stcamers 7
2. Wlth whom have these negotiations taken
place ?
3. On what~ hasis ?
4. What Canadian port bas been designated
as the terminus of ocean and river navigation
ln summer. ln connection with the establishment cf the fast Uine ?
5. Whlch la the winter port ?
6. What speed sre the ships. of the fast lune
te have ? What draugbt of water ?
7. At what date approximately, or at least ln
what yf-ar, will the first vessel of this lne make
its first voyage ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No formai negotiations
have been entered Into by* tUe government
or entertained by them lu reference te a
steamship service between Great Britain
and Canada, but what lias been done lias
been the Issue of a notice te varions stenmship companies calling for proposais froni
theni for n perlod of ten years froni the'
lst May, 1905, for a fortaightly service of
steamships of nioti. less than .twenty-onei
knots, and a fortnigbtly service by steamers
of net less than sixteen knots. The points
of cal! are Liverpool via an Irnsl port to
Quebec, calling at Sydney, and in winter
te, Haifax.
These are the suggested
routes, the government leaving It open
to the parties who make the propositions te, suggest any othier route they niay
think proper. What hias been suggested Is
froni Liverpool, via an Irish port te Quebec,
calling at Sydney, C.B., returnlng by the
samne route ; and lu winter froni Liverpool,
via an Irish port te Halifax, returnlng by
tUe saine route, the essential condition being
that it is te be an ail-Canadian Britsh service. That is tUe elenient of it. TUe tenders are te state the annual subsidy required fer that service, and are te be recelved
up tili Monday, the lst day of June next.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is thiere anythlng concerning tUe draught of tUe vessels ?
Hon. M%1.
SCOTT-No ; they are te be first
clnss ships.
CARTRIDGE FACTORY AT QUEBEC.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquined:
1. Has the goverament appointed a doctor
fer the cartridge factory at Quebec ?

SENATE
2. Wham ?
3. Upon whose recommeudation ?
4. What la his salary ?
5. Wbat are bis duties ?
6. Wbom bas thia doctor replaceti ?
7. Wbat was the saiary attached ta this employment before tbe appointmeut of the actuai
oc'cupant?
8. If na salary was attacheti to this employmeut in tbe past, bow much did the goverument
pay, on the average, for the la.st ten years, for
anedical services rendereti ta tbe employeea 09
tbe cartridge factory ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The unswers ta, the bou.
-gentleman's questions are as follows

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I heard last year it
was only forty.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There iras oniy one
doctor at Kingston some years aga, and
now there are five daing the work, and
there bias been na increase lu the patients.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Kingston is a very unbealthy place.
ROSS RIFLE COMPANY CONTRACT.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqulred:
1. Yes.
1. 111there a contract between the government
2. Major J. L. Brousseau, Army Medical
and the Ross Rifle Company (Limited) on the
Service.
subject of the manufacture of rifles, carbines,
3. Copies a! the correspondeuice sliould be ammunition, artiiiery, swords, &c., miiitary
cquipment, machines, utensilà, &c.
xuoved for.
2. What la the date of such contract?
4. Fire buudred and fifty dollars per au3. Does such contract embrace aiso the conversion of the arma at preseut ln use into other
num.
arms of a -more perfect pattern ?
5. The perforiance o! nmedical attendance
4. Wbat ls the number o! arms the compauy
lu connection witli ail accidents sustained, has to turnIsh yearly ?
5. Of what type ?
'fromn tiuîe ta thune, by employees a! the
6. Up ta wbat number ot arma la the cempauy
Dominion arsenal, and to inspect the arsenal bouud ta aupply ?
7. What are the conditions of paymeut?
,once a week to euîsure Its being kept iii a
8. Has the company begun operations, andi If
isauitary state.
sa. bas .Jt madie any delivery or arma ta the
6. There was lia previons permanent np- government ?
9. In the opposite case, wbeu sbould i begin
polutment. Doctars were exnpioyed as, oc- to execute Its contract. andi when should It
make Its firet delivery ?
-casion required.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie answers ta the lion.
7. There was no saiary. The dactors ernployed rendered accaunts for service per- gentleman's questions are us follows:
1. There la a coutruet for the manufacture
formed.
S. An arder o! the Senate for copies a! tlie of rifles.
2. Twenty-serentli Mardi, 1902.
,correspondence siionît lie mored for.
3. No.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-H-ow many opera4. Twelve thousand to be delivered betires are tiiere ?
tweeu Ist January. 1903, and lst January.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I cannat tell. The dac- 1904.
tor employed ut tlie Milltary Coliege gets
Thie garerunieut is bound and entîtled to
$6W a year, and the doctors employed at the purchase ail rifles required for its use during
miiitary depot ut Quebec, Montreal, Toronto the continuance af the contract.
aud Loundon and the various military depats
5. The Ross rifle.
get $1,200 a year.
6. Answered by No. 4.
7. Price payable on delirery, but contracHon. Mr. LANDRY-I thilk the lion, minIster did flot quite seize the last question. I tors are entitled lu adrance of dellrerY ta
arn asking If fia salary iras attached, and rnoneys actually'expended upon thie rifles or
the hon. Secretary a! State says tliere iras parts thereof or fixtures therefor, uot exceedno salary attached, because there was noa ing 75 per cent of tlie price of tlie said rifles.
8. Tlie company bas beg-un operations. No
emplayee of the kind before. If na salary
was attached ta this employment, hair mucli delirery o! arms lias as yet been made.
9. It is expected that the first instalment
did tlie garernment pay for the last ten
of rifles will soon lie delivered.
years for this office ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It raried rery mucli luMANITOBA SOHOOL QUESTION.
deed. Tlie average I stated iras lietween
INQUIRY.
tliree and four hundred dollars in dactors'
Hon. 'Mr. PERLEY inquired
bis rendered, but siiîce that timie the îîumIf there bas been any settiement of the Maiber of operatives lias increased.
toba school quýýstion silice this governrneat
Han. Mr. LANDRY.

AIPRIL 29, 1903
came into Power la 1896. And if there has been, t o look juto thue subject. Negotiations bave
what were the ternis and conditions embodied Jeen eatered upon by the Catholic scbool
la the s(ttlement, and was the settiement satendeavour to get the public

lafactory to the paries cancerned ?
Hon. Mr-. SCOTT-I amn sorry my, bon.
frlend's memory Is so defective, but I have
had this question propounded very manyi
tumes in tbe last five or six years. Tbere
was a settiement made in 1897. That settiement was ratified by tbe Act of tbe Manitoba législature. In the main, the ternis wer
tbat religious Instruction might be imparted
between certain bours o! the day, froni baîfpast tbree tili four o'clock, and tbat la
schools wbere tbe average attendance of
Roman Catbolics was twenty-five and Upwards, the trustees, If required, should eniploy a Catbollc teacber, and la cities where
tbe average atteadance of Roman Catbolic
children was forty or upwards, and la villages or. in rural districts wbere the average
attendance was twenty-five or upwards, the
trustees shahl, If* required by tbe petition
of tixe parents, employ at least onie duly
certified Catbolic teacber, and wbhere ten
pupils ln any of tbe scbools speak the Frencb
langpage, or any language othier -than the
Englisb, tbe teachlng of sncb pupils sbfll
be conducted in French or sucb otber language upon tbe bi-lingual systeni. I may
say tbe géneral ternis set forth have beeii
generally accepted outside of Winnipeg. lu
Winnipeg, the majority there, not followlng
the tolerant spirit tbat mnanifests itself in
other parts of the Dominion, bave refused,
at ahi events up to a recent period, to give
the ordinary facilities to the mînority for
keeping up thieir scbools. Tbe xninority
bave therefore now, for thirteen yeurs I
think, been supportlng their own scbools
and paying the taxes towards the niajority.

t rustees to
s cbool trustees, as I understaud It, to recognize their buildings. Tbey have their bulldngs there, of course, for their own separate
schools, and I amn not sufficiently famillar
wiltb the details of tbe difilculties between
the parties to state theni to the House.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-All I can say is that
1 that answer was ever given before, my
.f
rnerory Is at fanît.
Hon. bir. BERNIER-I do inot want to
say anytbing but tbis : that the bon. gentleaman who bias given tlils answer bias been
inislnformed as to tbe acceptance of wbat
lie calis a settiement. It lias neyer been aecepted by anyHon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tlie bon. gentleman
mnust flot mlsstate my langunge. 1 said It
hiad been acquiesced in pretty generally la
Manitoba outslde of t le city of MWinnipeg.
Tbat, I belleve, la wbnt I said. I fully i-ecognize tbat tbey are not the ternis tbat tbe
minority werc entitled to under the British
North America Act, wbielh brought Manitoba Into tbe Dominion.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Tlîey were flot acqulesced iii or accepted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey made tbe best of
tbe situation, wblcb tbey were very rigb't
to do--the best of an unfortunate position.
THE[ JAMES STOVEL DIVORCE BILL.
MOTION.
Mr. PERLEY moved:
Hon.
That the fee of two hundred dollars, pald the
Clerk of the Senate by the solicitors, Messrs.
Murphy & Fisher, ln connection wlth the petition of James Stoveil for a BiII of divorce. bis
refunded. less the cost for printlng and translation.
Tbe motion was agreed to.

Varlous proposis bave from tiale to time
been mnade, and I arn not advised wbetber
anly satisfactory proposal lias been acqulesced in up to tbe last f ew montbs. It may
be that sorne arrangeament bas been made. THE LIEUTENANT GOVERNORSHP 0F
I know%, froini time to time there bave been
0F QUEBEC.

negotiations, but unfortunately tlxey bave
fallea tbrougli.

Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I
understand the bon. minister to say that the

achlool trustees of the clty of- Winnipeg bave
refused tto comply wl4vtb tbe ýterms of the
law ?
Honi. Mr. -SCOTT-I really could flot -say
that. It is a long time sixîce I bad occasion

THE PROVINCE
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to draw the attention of the-Senate to tbe followlng facts :
1. on Ju-ly 12, 1895, in the House of ComMons.
The Order of the Day being read. for the
House again lu Commlttee of Supp'ly;
Mx-. F'oster inoved,, seconded by -Sir Charles
Hlbbert Tupper,..and the Queetion being Proposed, that' Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair;

SENATE
Mr. Mills (Blothwell) moved, -in amendment,
seconded by Mr. Laurier, that ail the words
after 'tht ' ta the end of the quetion be left
out, and the .words 'tu the opinion of this
House, section 59 of the British North America
Act. 1867, which prevents the removal of the
lieutenant governor of a province for five years
frQm the date of is appointment, except for
cause assigned and communicated to the Senate
and House of Commoas by message, was intended ta prevent the undue Influence of federal
ministers In provincial affairs, and the practice
which bas become prevalent o! permitting lieutenant governors to continue In office, for long
perlods of Urne aftcr the expiry of their commissions. by which they become removable at
any time without assignment of cause, la an
abuse of autbority calculated to Impair responsible government In the provinces of this
Dominion.' be Inserted instead thereof.
This amendment, having been put ta the
vote, rallied In favoùr o! its adoption sixty-six
members of the Houe of Conimons.
Âmongst these members, the journals of the
House of Commons mention the names o!
Messrs. Bernier, Borden, Carroll, Cartwright
(Sir Richard), Laurier. Mulock and Sutherland,
who to-day are ail members o! the preseni
administration.
2. The Honourable Sir Louis Amable Jetté,
the presenýt lieutenant governor of the province
of Quebec, was appointed to that office in the
ârst days of the year 1898, as appears by the
following extract from 'The Canada Gazette'
of Saturday, January 22, 1898, containing, un,der the beading * Appointments,' the tollowing
paragrapb 'Department of the Secretary of State of Canada.
'Hia Excellency the Governor General has
been .pleased ta make the folowIng appointments, viz.:
2Oth January, 1898.
Louis Amable Jetté, of the city of Montreal,
la the province of Québec. Esquire :ta be the
lieutenant governor of the province o! Quebe.
3. On the 23rd day of the present month
the Honourable the Sccretary of State, answcring a question put ta the government, gave
this House the assurance that the Honouratyle
Sir Louis A. Jetté, aitbaugh bis termi o! office
hadl expired, was continulng, and would continue ta fill the po.sition of lieutenant governor
of the province of Quebec until thc appointment of bis successor.
And lie will Inquire of the:government:Do the members o! the present administration. at least those of them who took part in
and, on July l2th, 1895, voted In favour o! the
Milîs-Laurier proposition, intend to appoint
without delay a new lieultenant governor for
the province of Quebec, or are they going ta
expose themseives ta the accusation of having
recourse to that 'uindue influence of federal!
ministers in provincial affairs ' which they
themselves denounced and fortibly charaoterized
as ' an abuse of authority calculated to Impair
responsible governmnent In the provinces of this
Dominion '?

Wbcn does the government propose ta put
an end te a state of things which t members
bave solemnlý, denounced and publicly branded?
Hon. M-Nr.
SCOTT-When the public interest requires it, we m,111 make a change in
the position o! tlie Lieutenant Governor of
Q~uébec. At present we are under the unHon. -Mr. LANDRY.

fortunate Influences of the example that lias
been set us by aur predecessors, and we are
following ln their footsteps.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is not the only conversion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tlie saine thlng as
the tariff.
TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY
EXTENSION.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
1. Did the Postmaster General, the Honourable S.lr William Mulock, or any other member
o! the present cabinet, declare, at Toronto or
elsewbere, that ln face of the rivalry which
existed between the Pacific, the Grand 'rrunk
Pacific. the Canadian Northern, represeated by
Messrs. Mackenzie & Mann, and the TransCanada, ta build a transcontinental railway,
the Laurier government hadl immediately set ta
work ta study the project of Iteel! building a
railway ronnecting Quéec with Winnipeg by
way of Lake St. John and James Bay T
2. If thia. declaration was made, where, when,
and to wbom was It made ?
3. Was it In the name of the governmcnt?
4. Has the governmeat authorized it ?
5. Ie it reilly the Intention of the gaverament ta build, Iteîf and ,at its own cost
another railway, crossing the continent and
coneoting Québec with Wdnaipeg by way o!
Lake St. John And James Bay ?
6. When will these Important works be begun ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn not aware that
the Postmaster General made any such declaration, and If lie did it was not In the
uanie of the government, nor was it authorized, and I arn unable ta foreshadow wliat
the policy of the government may be In reference ta a railway from Quebec to Winnipeg.
Hon., Mr. LANDRY-Does thie bon, minIster mean when hie says lie is not awareHon. Mr. SCOTT-I tell tlie truth generally wlien I answer questions.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I know the lion, gentleman always telIs the trutli.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I try ta.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want ta know
ý%vlen the hon. gentleman says lie is not
aware, If lie means lie does xîot know tlie
fact took place or not ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn unable to Inforxm
1my lion. frienci. 1 asked Sir William Mulock, and lie said 'If you look up the Toronto
files you will see wliether I amn reported as
snying so or niot.' At ail events, if lie did,

AIPRIL 29, 1903
1 have stated lie was flot authorized by the
government to make any sucli statement.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That part I accept.
Some bon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I arn qulte lit order.
I just wanted to know If tbe Secretary of
State inqulred'of the Postmaster General.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I dld Inqiire. Tbe hon.
gentleman referred me to the Toronto files.
He said, 'if you look Up the Toronto files
you will see what I said.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
would be very interestIng, If lie made that
statement without the authority of the goverument, to know If bis colleagues will treat
hlm ln the samne way as they did Bir. Tarte.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not believe Sir
William Mulock made any such statement
as that whicb bas been mentioned. He may
have foresbadowed the policy of building at
railway there, but no more tban that. Sir
William Mulock speaks very carefully and
cautiously, and 1 do not tblnk hie was likely
to make a mîstake of that kind.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (28) An Act respecting the Atlantic,
Quebec and Western Railways Company.(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (41) An Act respecting the Kootenay
Mr.
Central Railway Company.-(Hon.
Templeman.)
Bll (75) An Act respecting the Canadian
Pacifie Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (84) Au Act respecting tbe Quebec and
New Brunswick Itallway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Poirier.)
Bit] (50) An Act respecting the Britisi
Columbia Soutbern Raiiway Company.(Hon. Mr. Lougbeed.)
CRI'MINAL CODE AMENUMENT

BILL.

SECOND READING..
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of Bill (IE) An Act to amend the
Crinainal Code respectiug offences connected
with Trade and Breachies of Contract.-

143

He said: In moving the second readlng
of this Bill, I miglit say that wbat bias given
rise to this proposed amendment of the
Criminal Code Is the existence of certain
abuses wbich have obtruded themselves
upon tbe lndustrlal life of Canada, more
particularly In tbe western portion of tbe
Dominion, witbin reoent years, namely the
continued presence of allen and Irresponsible labour agitators ln inclting strikes,
and thus very largely paralyzing tbe industrial life of tbe Dominion. 1 raiglit say tbat
this Bill is not Ia any sense directed against
organized labour. There are certain well
recognized labour organizations enjoylng an
International status wbich for many years
bave coatrlbuted to tbe promo tion of the Intereats of labour and have largely contributed to the maintalaing of the equllibrium
between labour and capital. But within more
recent 'years there bas risea Up tbe presence
of the labour agitator, coming front across
the International bouadary Uine particularly
ln the western parts of Canada adjacent
to the United States and Incalculable Injury bas been done to the industries and
enterprises of that western country by reasonl of this tact. Now, there is a -%ve1l recognized maxim wbich we very often quote
in our jurisprudence, that where there ls a
wrong tbere exista a remedy. The parliament of Canada some years ago passed an
Allen Labour Act to probibit the Importation of foreign labour into tbe Dominion of
Canada and it seems but logical to suppose
tbat this would be carried out to Its legitimate conclusion. I do not think I am makIng an exaggerated statement wben 1 say
titat the adveat Into Canada of tbe classa of
allen agitator to wbom I bave referred ls
certainly a greater menace to labour and to
capital ln the Dominion tban the Importation of foreign labour, and It would be oaly
consistent tbat tbe parliament of Canada
should carry out tbe principle embodied in
tbe Act to whicb I bave alluded. Now,
the conditions between labour lu tbe Domin!oit of Canada and the United States are
vastly different. We know very well that
certain classes of labour lu the United
States are becoming very largely 'tainted
tlirough the Importation of those anarcblstic
classes from soutbiern Europe tat have s0
largely entered into tbe labour world in the
UTnited States and tbe introduction of which

SENATE
lias contributed very lurgcly to the vcry
niany upheav-als of industrial life in titat
country. We fiud this class of labour very
largely tainting the Inresponsible agitator
upon bis corning into Canada seeklng to
establlsh unions and strIkes ln Canada ivhichi
would. not be recoguized by the Amenican
FederatIon of Labour and the more responsIble classes of labour organizations of an
International character. 1 amn not prepared
t.b say that titis Bill which I propose is ns
complete as it should be. In drawlng up the
Bill JIt was dlrected against that particular
class of individual to which I have referred
and I think as far as It stands the Bill before
us It would probably meet that particular
class. It may posslbly do an injustice to a
more responsible class of labour, that class
to whlch 1 have refenred as possessing a
well recognized and worthy status, but in
drafting a statute of this kind endeavouring
to remedy an abuse, iu ail pnobability it is
bound to do an Injustice to some particular
classes that may not corne within its purvlew but whom It may possibly affect. If
is therefore my desire instead of referring
thîs to the Commlttee of the Whole House
that it should be referred to -a select coinmittee, the Committee of Banklng and Commerce, and It would permit ail parties luterested iu this clasa of legisîntion to appear
befone the committee and make any
suggestions which tbey might think fit to nemedy any infirmity on the face of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-This Bill Is In the
rlght direction, but lu rny judgment It
does flot go far enough, because it ouly
treats wlth indivIduals, whereas sometimes
strikes are- dlrected by corponate unions. I
have a case lu my owu mind at the present
moment wbere a compauy operating In the
county of Hastings, lu the village of Crookston, has practlcally been stopped worklng by order of a union which bas Its
headquanters ln the city 0f Washington. Nearly every union lu the Dominion Is directed froni the city of
Washington, and many of the troubles
that Canada is now sufferlng under are
flot dlrected by our own people, non started
by our own people, but by men wbo are sent
from -Washington - 0 organize -unions in order that the different trades ofthe country
right be held In check by their orders and
Instructions. limIer the measure -whlch is
Mon. M4r. LOUGHEFTP.

before the House now, a case of this kind
sbould be deait with, and It could flot; be
dealt with by indicting oue person only, because 1 have under my band a notification
of my own
but leaving My own case
for a moment, I wish to bring another case
t0 the attention of the country and of tbis
House, wvhose duty It Is to grapple withi th!%
question, because iu this Chaniber w-e should
flot be afrald to deal wlth a subject wlth
which the success and prosperity of this
country is connected. There is no man in
this House or out of it who is opposed.
to labour unions but If w-e have such
organizations they should be at ail eveuts of
a national chiaracter, purely Canadial so that
wvhatever fuuds may be takien froui the men
would be husbanded at least in this country
and in case of strikes tle mnoney would be
available to recompeuse thec meni for the
tume they were out. The case I have before
my mmnd is one I should say of extreule
number of men emPloYed
hardship .A
by a firn called Phippan & Co.. at Crookston, in the county of Hastings, had a contract given to theni about a year ugo iu connection wlth a water power developineut
at Niagara Falls, Outarlo. Prior to that the
most of the work in conuection with these
companies had been doue at Queenston quarries. The Queenston quarry operators and
the men made such a deinaud upon the contractors, who were aw-arded their last contract, that they were not able to buy tlae
stone prepured for this -%ork froiti the quarries surround[ng the neighbourhood of Niagara Falls, neither ut Queenston quarry non
at Thorold, and as a resuit these gentlemien
went down to Crookstou and entered into
a contract witl Phippan Sn Co. there and
thcy were able to supply aniL did supply
them and have supplied up f0 ftic present
most of the stone required. for the coinpletion of these works lu counection wlth
the power development ut Niagar-a Falls ou
the Canadian sie, and there was 110 way of
stopplug this except by the outrageons couduct of these men living ut -Niagara Falls,
w-hosc charter remains in the 'United States,
who corne over here under un international
charter and .deliberately tell these nien ut
Crookston that they must not ship another
stone into the 'district of Niagara. Falis or
1nto*the vlcIity -where their organization la
in existence, and these men are to-day standing idle and- naýblc to"-vork simply because

APRIL 29, 1903
of the dictum of tliose people at Niagara that kind cail Le eliarged witli obstructiug
Falls who bold a foreigii charter and wlio warc, interfcring with the continuation Of
are able, by the termas of their union, to work or interfcring with mnatters of trade.
prevent Canadian contractors frorn sbipping I have a case of my own and I migbt as
atone from one point iii Canada ta another. well discuas it bere so that the han. gentieI think that is a subject that miglit be well rnen who may have the pleasure of having
tak-en Up and, instead of indicting tbe hidi- this Bill befare theni, will understand hiow
'ridual, we should go as far as the British trade mat-ters arc being conducted at thc
governrnent bas gone lu the inatter of regu- present time. As matters stand to-day, an
lations of tbat klnd and lndict the trade un- employer ls lgnored entirely. 1 bave a letIon, and I tbink we sbould go still furtber ter wblcb 1 shahl take the liberty ta read
and prevent any International union wliat- ta the House sa that every one may Lie seizever from being recognized in the Dominion cd of the facts as tbey are at present, of the
of Canada. 1 amrn ot opposed to trade un- danger wc arc lu fromn the position these men
Ions. I bave been dealing with -union nien have taken by the encouragement that bas
ail my life, but I prefer ln a matter of this been given to tbcrn by people on the other
kind, wbien I have a settiernent ta niake aide of the line. It will show clearly that
wlth, my own nmen, ta niake it with i ny own sa far as *thc labour intereat ls concerned,
men wbo recelve rny money and whasc ser- the employer is cntirely a cypher so far as
vices tbcy give me for the rnoney I pay these men recognize their rigbts, under their
theni. Any employer af labour wlll find Jt formn of goveranent, by International trades
far casier ta settle witli bis own men thani unions. On April 17 I received a note
wben they are obligcd ta send ta Washing- f ram the Stanecutters' Association, Beamuton for a gentleman to corne over bere and ville brandi, whicb reada as foliows:
settie a matter whilh lie knows notbing
Dear SIr.-At aregular meeting ai the Beamaabout, because I hold tbere is nio anc more ville branch of Journeymen Stonecutters Asof North America, we, the undercompetent ta deal 'witb a subject of ts kind sociation
aigned cammittee have beeu lastructed ta coutbe employer and ernployees, wbo are vey their requst regardlng wages and houri.
than
la $3.50 per
that this
directly lntcreated in the matter. So fâr as The scalenine houre branch proposes day's wark.
ta constitute a
day and
the Bill la concerned, It bias my bearty sup- We have been notlfied by the Niagara Falls
their imrisport, and 1 quite agree witb the hon, gentle- braach flot ta ship eut stone Inta quit cutting
diction and we are compelled ta
man wbo bas ititroduced it, but I think It atone for that jurisdictian pending a set.tlemeat,
abould go further and we should abollsli and we are trying ta adjust matters with thema
the atone eut at your quarries. The
countenanclng international labour unions of and have
ouly branch we anticipate trouble with la Niaany klnd. Tbe Dorninion of Canada is big gara Falls. There are several points ta adhave no doubt couýld be settled
enough, and the people of Canada are strong Juat whlch wecommunication. An early reply
ontside this
enougb, ta regulate the trade question wlth- would oblige this branch.
Respectfully yaurs,
In thernacîves without being obliged ta go
(Signed by .the Committee.)
over ta the United States, or any other country, ta settle questions of this klnd. We
Here la a notification sent ta me that I
ougbt ta be In a position ta settle disputes
arn not anly to pay these men sa mucb a
between labour and capital amongst ourta me that s0
selves, and 1 bouestly believe, after an ex- day, but they are to declare
many haurs shaîl constitute a day'a wark,
perience of thirty years on public works,
must nat allaw thern
that If we bad purely Canadian trade unions, and that my foreman
to cut any atone that la gaing into another
1 care flot wbat brancb of labour thcy rnay
strcngtb of that
be organlzcd under, we wauld bave far fewer jurlsdiction, and on the
the men an receiving the notification frani
strikes. Our men, I arn bound ta say, are
far more reasanable and rnore amenable to the Niagara Falls brandi, stapped wark,
these men
law in tbe Dominion tban they arc iu any and even the very atones that
Under the circuni- werc cuttlng, that they bad been working
ather part of the world.
stances, I trust that the commnitee ta wbicb on up ta the nigbt before, bad ta be put to
the Bill is ta be referred wlll sec that the anc aide, for fear these men wouid be called
or non-union men andi run the risk of
suggestions I have nmade will Lic acted upan iscaba
anly the individual, but bcing fincd froni $S0 ta $120. As a resuit
and will caver not
the unions also. I believe to-day a bady af of that, 1 bad no other atone ta eut except
10

SENATE
that which was going into the construction
of my works betweeu Niagara Falls and
Beamsville. Conseqnently, as they would
flot eut that stone, they would cut any
other, but as 1 bad no0 other place for my
stone at the time, I was obliged to ask my
men to go luto the office and get their
money. If they were not free men, I had
no use for tbeir services any longer as far
as I was concerned. I felt, as every gentleman would feel ia my position, that the
management of the works at least shonld be
left lu my own bands. That is the state
of matters to-day, and it ls a subject thiat
this House can well grapple with, because
I liold that whatever may be done ln the
other Chamber, ut least lu tbis Ijouse there
ouglit to be enougli gentlemen to do what Is
rlght and proper in as far as this Bill is
concerned. I do not want any man to stand
by me. I eau talce care of myseIf wltli my
men, and I conld settie wltli thern were it
not for the outside influence that my bon.
frleud's Bill wishies to take cogunizance of,
and I hope wheu this Bill cornes betore the
comrnlttee, that flot onily w-ill It cover the
lndividual but the whole body Itself, and
make It amenable to the law. If a brandi
of a trades union decides upon a certain
course, then if you Indict one of the members of that branch, ahI that lie bas to do
Is to quit work and go Into another localty
and you cannot pursue hlm any further,
but If the Bill goes so far as to make the
brauch amenable to the law as well as the
Individuel, tien I .think we wll get at the
root of the whole matter.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (BOY.-I fully
agree wlth wliat the lion. gentleman lias
sald, that sornething ought to be doue,
If parlierneut can do it, to prevent the affiliation of Canadien labour unions witi organizations outside of the Dominion. That Is
wiere the whohe mischief cornes in.
It
seems a perfect outrage tiat a strike can
be called in tbis country from Washington
or Chicago or any United States city, and
that foreigu emissaries can corne lu and
stir up our people and tins do harm. Wiý1en
this Bihl goes before the special cormuittee,
I hope tliey will look into that point, and
If they can possibly pass in Act in this parliameut that w-ill prevent sucb affiliations it
wll be a very great benefit to this couutr-y.
Another thîug the Bill provides for is the
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

prevention of agitato-s coining into this
country and stirring up our people. We
have under our very noses at this moment a
strike of railway labourers, and we have
a United States agitator workiug up those
people and corning to the employers and
trying to make termis for thern. Tiat is an
outrage and I cannot characterize i lu
strong enougli language. The Crimuinal Code
is quite stringent enougîx on the score of lutiînidation and anything doue lu restraint
of commerce, but wliat are the authorities,
who should carr-y ont the law, doiug ? Here
we have tliree classes of autiority, and tliey
ahl seem to be asheep; they are tie provincial, the municipal and the federal goverumeut, and they allow those thlugs to go
on before their eyes and do not take the
steps tbey onglit to take for the protection
of tbe public interests. I arn v-ery glad to
see that lu 1Montreal at tie last moment the
military bave been called ont to preserve
peace and order, and If tiat were doue more
qnîckly than lt lias been doue hiitherto, it
would be a ve-y good ting and a very salutar- lesson te those agitators. I hope every
hon, gentleman lu this Honse, and in the
otiier Honse,- w-ho Is lu favour of peace, order
aud good goverumeut, Irrespective of votes
or any other influence. will do everythingý
if
possible to pass au Act of this kind.
that ls not Goue, tiere aie very serions
if
thlngs ini store for the country.
these forelgn agitators are not uipped
iu the bud and put down they will
cause serions trouble. Here we bave assaults and uothing Is doue. In Vancouver a
maxi called Eastcott stirred up nIl the meni
on board the steamers carrying His Majesty's mail, the stokers and deck bauds and
ail of thern. A prosecution was Iustituted
lu Victoria againat that man, but lie %vorked.
cuuningly, and the wituesses for the prosecution could remember nothlng. They told
lies riglit tbrougli. A tiug that liappened
three days before tliey could not remuember,
so that the man got off wltiout being punlsied. At the Naniaimo coal mines
the
stirriug Up
there was a nian
people to formn an affiliation wlth the
United States miners organizetion, and Mr.
Dunsmuir said : 'If you john aui association outside the Dominion, I will close
iny mines, but if you w-ant to forin a home
federation, 1 wihh give y-ou $25.000 to stax-t
it. Formn your own association and do0 not

APRIL 29, 1903

bave outsiders stirring Up the men to
join ail ouitside federation.' I do hope the
governmiient and parhiament will talce Élis
inatter in a serious way and do something
to stop this cvii. Our own men ny orga-

nize and do wvhat they like. We have nen
of good common sense. Why should they
ask namy one to coule iu and hielp them and
malze theinselves appoar likze feols %vheeauflot manage their own iffairs. Surely thoy
can organize for theinsolvos witbeut calling.
in outsiders to lielp them, and I hiope the
strongest possible measure that parlarnent
cai pn~ss wilI ]le enactod.
Hon. 'Mr. McULNInierely rise to
say that I enderse every word that lias
heen said -vith regard to the Bill, and I
beartlly concur iu the remarks of the hion.
gentleman wbe ifltroduced the measure. It
is quite Urne thiat sonie logislation should be
placedi upoi01 the statute-books of this couintry to put a stop to the nover ending agitation
and worry whlch employers are subjected to
by organizations that have their headquartors on the other aide of the lino, sending
their agitators across for the purpose of
lecturing, coercing and conxinig erganizatiens on this side te go inte strikes and
ma-e unreasonable demanda.
The condition of Uhe United States at this moment la
becoming a matter of very serious concern
te every manufacturer on that side of the
Elle. 1 know of cases where men have been
torrerized into submltting te conditions that
would net ho theughit of years ago. Labour
organizations there net only dlaim the rlght
to dictate the wages but they dlaim the
riglit te dictato the ternis on wbielh a man's
services may ho engaged or diapensed with.
Thoy claim the rîght to dictate hew many
hours a man shial werk In a dayý. If a man
Is disposed to îverk ton lueurs they %vili declare that hoe shial flot werk more than
elgbt, aînd ferce lm to jein tlue union and
live up te its rules. These organizationus
are, cf course, nffiliated with the organizafions in thia country lu order te lend
strengtb, and the resuit is that these men
come over bore and lecture te the different
unions%. I holiove the chief of that organization whese beadquarters la at Washington is !l Ottawa at present. -nid is to address a large gaqtherinig to-niight on the questien of labeur. I entirely agree with the
sentiment that the labour elemient ef Cana-

loi

da. is cemipetent te manage its own
business. They are au intelligent people and should 1>0 able te make rides fer
their own guidance. Thoy ought te be hible
te deai tvith the emuployera ef labeur on
ternis thiat would be favourable te themnselves as well as juat te their empleyers.
They ought te ho able te enter into negotiatiens aînd peaceably sottIe ail questions that
mnay arise betwoen employer and empleyeea
without reference te, or assistance ftem, organizations across tho line. When 1 was
ailouig.the hune of the Canadian Pacific Railîvay saieno nths age, I mot a nmanant Fort
William and got jute conversatien with hlm
1 learned whiero hoe was
euie înornling.
frem, and, -casally, what hoe was doing.
Le teld mie that lio was from St. Paul, thait
lio bad travelled the Canadian Pacific Railwav lle from North Bay -ail the way te
Pert Arthur, and that hoe bad interviewed
overy trackmnan eu the lino fremi that peint
te the peint where bie was and that hoe waa
geiug tu koop on to the Pacific coast fer the
purpese of ascertaining their viows wltb
regard te tlieir wagos, the hours ef labour,
the inannor la wbicb tboy were treated, and
te find eut if thoy had any griovanco tbat
they ýwishod te lay befoe the erganizatioil
on the other side. That was bis business.
Ho wns pald by the menitb fer deing tbat
kind of work. I contend tbat it is wreng.
These agitatora sbould net bc toerated or
permittod te come boere for any sucb purLabour condiIt la deiag barmu.
pose.
tiens will get to a piteh in Canada that mon
will be forced te refuse contracts in many
linos becauso tboy w-i neot kiow wben the
mua risos to-day, or porbapa bof ore it sets,
whother a strike will ho on thoir banda or
Soe agitater frein the othor aide
neot.
may ceme and urge that the mon abould ho
botter paid, er work shertor heurs, er sbeuld
Insist upon certain individual rigbts tbat
they are net onjeying. They de that. Thon,
ag-ain, thiero la another phase of tbis questien that I think bias net beon teuched upem.
Suppesing seme very largo, pewerful institution on the other aide is deaireus ef crippling some Canadian Institution wbicb is a
cempotiter, say la Africa er some portion
Our Caniadian manuef South Amierica.
facturera sond thoir products ail over the
world and we boe thoeir trade will continue te inicroaso. If that United States institution ia dosirous of crippling a Canadian

SENA TE
I am prepired to stand bY
institution, ai! tlint it bas to do is to ap- sideration.
proach the labour organization, give a wink the bon. gentleman wlio bas introduced It,
to the chief of that organization and tell and dIo everything I can to secure its passIt Is
him hie ean render tbem very admirable age bere and in the other Obamber.
if he will send over to Canada sone la the riglit direction. It is a Bill lu tbe inservice
agitator 4hat will bring about a strike lu terests of Canada and lu aid of the labouring
By sucb means classes tbemselves. It Is a Bill that will
the competiug industry.
dethey can tie up that industry ln Canada. protect them against being inisled and
institution on the other side can ceived and tend to give some stabllity to
and the
thenm
afford to send over money for the strikers the employers of labour and protect
The United against the outrages thiat may be perpetrated
tbe strîke.
to live on duringopen to aniy
States Institution, of course, reaps ail the by allowing our ports to be
1 say these conditions man that cornes from tbe other side to
advantage of that.
strike, wîvtli
and such acts of bostility sbould not be create an agitation and cause a
that wben tbis Bill the destruction of property whichi always
tolerated, and I do hope
I have
goes before the committee it -wili be cry- accompanies such dîsturbances.
we wli at least been amazed at the arguments that are verv
stalllzed into law, and that
strike.
show, as bas beea suggested by the hon. often used by these people wbo
1 endorse al Tluey do not appear to regard tbe law. They
gentleman from Lincoln-and
that bie said-tbat at least w-e, ln this House, back up their position, ln many cases-for
can afford to deal with a question of this Instance the street car strike in Toronto-kind in the country's Interest. I mligbt re- wlth the use of brîckbats, stoue, bludgeons,
mark tliat I have beeni quite surprised at and even firearms. Many wbo claimed
the attitude of the press upon this whole the riglit to seil their labour and perfori
question. Lt appears to me that there Is duty for wages, were badly trented, and
of
flot a paper to-day ini this country, elther on some were nearly killed. 1 say the law
Reform sîde, whicli our country should not toierate that kiind of
the Conservative or the
bas independence enough to protioLince openi- thîng. I belleve If our law were properly
Tbey enforced there laqlegisiation on our statutely and plainly upon this question.
are ail trying to trucide to the labour classes book to prevent that, and 1 cannot under1 stand, when these strikes take place, wby
because tbey are the miost numerous.
presume tbey expect that they will get sub- the law la flot rlgidly enforced and sucb
scrlptions and circulation for tbeir papers. I dlsgracef ul exhibitions put a stop to. 1 amn
was amazed, wben the strike of the Street glad the mîlitia lias been called ont lu QueRailwny empioyees took place in the city bec, as bas been stated by my lion. friend
of Toronto, because there was not a paper en the otber side of the House, and 1I hope
tbat did not vie witb the other papers ln that the strike that bias been atteuipted vvill
sympathy, apparently, witb tbe strikiag cou- be put a stop to, and tbat the shippiing luductors. And wlien the mayor of thiat city, terests of the country will uîot be crippled
ln the discbarge of bis duties, called out the by a lot of men wbo have determined xîot
inilitia for the purpose of pntting dowiî the only iiot to work themiseives except on cerstrike,, there was niot a single paper in the tain conditions, but wvili not permit others
city of Toronto that stood nobly by bini. i to work.
have some reason to believe that lie lost
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Tlils discussion lias
bis sent iii the city concil by that act, been bigbly interesting and very beneficiai,
simply because the wlioie labour unions of andl I arn sure that every Senator wiil euuthe city turned in to support biis opponent. I dorse tbe sentiments tbat have been s0 embelieve tbat was the cause of Mr. Howland's phatically expressed here. I only wisli to
It is greatly to be regretted that say tluat Kingston bas bad a bitter experidefeat.
the press of Canada is so disposed to truckle ence in that respect, durîng the strike at the
to the influences tbat are exertéd by these locomotive works tbere. But the point I
labour unions, simpîr becanse they want to want to direct attention f0 l5 the fact that
secure increased circulation. 1 arn glad that what is desired bere cannot be effected. If
I arn pie- the legal talent of this House-and it is
this Bill bas been introduced.
pared to -ive it my serions and best con- great indeed, and I bave thc miost profonnd
Hon. Mr. McMIJLLEN.

APRIL 30, 1903
respect for it-can enact sucli an ordinance
as will cover these difficulties, it ivill lie entitled to a higlier position thail that of any
other country. These tings show that ' the
generality of manklind iu general is disposed to tah-e advantage of the generality of
mankind ini general,' and so long as we can
malie laws which will keep down these evils,
it will be ail riglit, but I see that no hon.
memaber has alluded to the fact that the
Postmaster General. in an interview 1
thiak, yesterday, scouted the Idea of sucli a
thing as this Bill daims to effect. He sald
it would be downright coeclon, and ou no
account could we entertain IL Thiat was
the answer lie gave to an influential deputation of manufacturera. I only wishi to say
that if the legal talent wlll direct attention
to it and will evolve some measure which
will be able to accomplish the result desired, there is no0 one wbo wlll be more gratified than inyseif, but I arn afraid they wll
flot be able to do It.
Hon. Mr. MýcHUGH-W'hilst the discussion bas proceeded along the Uines that the
employers of labour should be protected
against strikes, perbiaps those labourers who
desire to formi labour unions should have an
opportunity of being heard. There miglit
be sonfething to be sald on the other aide.
It would lie only fair that some notice of the
meeting of that commlttee should be gîven,'
and if there was any one to represent the
union at that committee, lie should be given
a hearing, so that the trades union side of
the case miglit lie put before us. I know
that It would lie a very nice tbing to have
our labour unions confined to the Canadian
people alone, but you must understand that
verv often there Is trouble golng on between
capital and labour, and capitalists do flot
liesitate to go outside of Canada to get capIil to run thieir enterprises, and so long as
they go outside, perhaps the labourer would
have somne justification for going out and
amalgamating wîth unions outside of Canada. All I would ask is that there should
lie some representative of the labour unions
before the committee to put the case of the
unions before them, so that the committee
lit lie better iaformed.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second timie.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottaica, TlhirsdaV, 1prit 80, 1903.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved:
That the namne of the Honourable Mr. Domville be added te the following Standing Committees:-The Joint Committee on Printlng, the
Standing Commlttee on Rallways, Telegraphs
and Harbours. and Miscellaneous Private Bills.
He said:

The late Senator Gilimor was

on three committees In this House, and 1
suppose that his successor will take bis place
committees.

on those particular

It

wll

create less disturbance. I presume the selection was orlginally made having due regard
to the representation of tbe provinces, and
therefore It wll lie In accordance wltb the
by

opinion expressed
mlttee.
The motion was

the

Striking

Com.

agreed .to.

STRIKES AND THREATENED STRIKES.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved:
That an humble address be presented to His
Excellency the Governor General ;praying that
His Excellency wll be pleased to cause to lie
laid before the Senate, copies of aIl correspondence and communications between the varlous
labour organizations, or from any one on their
behalf, and the Departmeat of Labour, relatlng
to the strikes that have occurred durlng the
past year, or relatiag to any threataned strikes
durlng the past year la Canada.

Hie said : 1 ask that the government expedite matters in laying this correspondence
before the House se that we may lie in a
position to discuss lntelligently the Bill (H.)
whidh received its second reading yesterday.
Tbe motion was ngreed to.
EUROPEAN EMIGRATION.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being called
By the

Hon. Mr. Lougheed:

1. That he - will ask the governinent, what
amount, If any, is paid by the goverament to
steamship companles for carrying emigrants

from European ports to Canada ?

SENATE
the prorogation of Parliamaent
2. Also,- what system. If any, of Inspection bours before
to the numbers of emigrants carried and with hardly aniy discussion extending
obtains as
and the accommodation afforded by steamship beyond haif an hour or an hour. As 1 bave
companies aboard their boats when so engaged ?
said, there are two months of the session
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This return la not quite taken by the House of Commons to pass the
ready, and I would ask that this motion be Suppiy Bill and to discuss the budget speech.
allowed to stand.
We couid, of course, discuss the budget here,
but those who feel like putting themselves
Hon. Mr. LOTGfEED-There ls no ob- on record as to, the general policy of the
jection.
governiment have occasion to do so ln this
Chamber on the Address, so that the passiflg
The motion was allowed to stand.
of the Supply Bill and the discussion on the
AN ADJOURNMTiENT.
budget speech In the other flouse consume
an average of two months of the four
MOTION.
nionths, which la the average length of a
moved:
session of thls parliament. 1 find that dur.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND
on Friday, ing this present session the Supply Bill,
That when the Senate adjourns
the lst May next, It do stand adjourned until whIch has been laid before the House of
Tuesday, the 26th May next.
Gommons, contains 242 resolutions, commotion, 1 posed of varions Items. Ten days have been
presenting this
fie sald :In
should like to say a f ew words concerning given to the Supply Bill and thirty-tbree reThere -il
the duties of this flouse and the way ln solutions only have been voted.
the work has been done, and to state be, besides those 242 resolutions, two supwhlch
my views as to the way in which we should plementary estimates, one for the current
conexpedite business. I know that the pro- year and one for the following year,
; so
priety of adjourning the Senate from time taining an average o! 100 resolutions
session bas been ques- that ln this session, as in the preceding
to time during each
tioned by some hon. members of this Flouse, sessions, the flouse of Gommons will devote
and I should like to dIscuss the reasons ad- about two months to passing the Supply
It Bill and discussIng the general fiscal policy
vanced against taklng such a course.
bave now an average of the government on the budget speech. As
is admitted that we
the flouse
session of about four months each year. If I have said, this work Is speciai to
that we have been of Commons. Besîdes, we mnust not lose
we look Into the work
members
doing and the days that we have been oc- sight of the fact that there are 214
appear con- ln the Flouse o! Commons and but 81 in this
cupled in this Chamber, it will
bave to disclusively to every hon. member here that we Chamber. Those 214 members
work in about cuss questions appertainirig to their electorai
have lu the past completed our
themseives
two months' time. whieh means that if this divisions and feel like putting
half 0on record in order to reacb their electors
Hlouse doeq not adjourn we are idle for
of each parliaof the session. The question which arises la, during one session or other
in a four ment, -which ail consumes time, while here
why are wne thus idie two months
directly
Months' session ',The answer is very sim- we know that we address ourselves
la the to the question which is before us, and very
ple. It is that work ia being done
tweive members
other Chamber wbich cannot be done lu this seidom do more than ten or
of this Chamber discuss any measure, on an
For instance, the Supply Bill,
flouse.
before us. This exwhich la the main part 0f the work average, when it comes
plains -why perforce the -work of the flouse
devolving upon parliament, takes on an
least occupy double
average six or eigbt weeks ln the of Gommons must at
the time we will take In discussing the same
flouse of Gommons, and is passed bere genwvill come before us.
erally ini between three and five minutes. public business -%hich
1 have heard two objections from some of
This work miust be done by the flouse of
colleagues to adjourning this CbaniCommons, and it is understood that we can- my hon.
One is thiat we
ber from time to time.
not amend the Supply Bill-wý%e must accept
leknow-at should initiate more publie and private
it lu toto or reject it. and we ail
gislation. I have no objection to that and I
ail events it bas been my experience in tbis
to initiate some of
Flouse, thit it has been passed just a fe-w invite the government

AFRIL 30, 1903
Its publie Bils in this House, and I amn desirous of belping to divide more judlclously
the private Bill legisiatlon -wbicb cornes before parliament ; but my contention Is that
even If we have more legisiation lnilated in
this House, It will nlot contribute to ftlling
up the gap which I have mentloned, represeutlng the work which devolves exclusively on the House of Gommons, and that
we will have on an average two months out
of a session of four months to attend to ail
the work coming from the House of Commous or lnitiated here. Public Bis Initiated here or In the House of Gommons must
pass through the divers stages of this House
and wlll take as much of our time wben
Inltiated In the other Chamber as If lnltiated
here and no more, and it Is the same with
private Bis. But, If we bad half of the legislation which passes In the House of Gommons lnltiated bere, It would not tend to
shorten the session a single day, for 1 arn
Inforined that private legisiation does flot
Hardly a
delay the session the least.
couple of hours a week are given to private
legisistion In the other House, as the whole
work of examlnlng, siftlng snd passlng that
legisiation Is done by the Standing Cornmittees and they are simply rsilroaded
tbrough the House of Commons after the
So,
committees bave passed upon thern.
even If we did initiate more Bis here, public or prIvate, I do not see that It would Increase the time that we sbould give to our
-work In this Obamber, for I arn convinced
that even during two months of the session
In this Chamber, out of the four months
that tbe session wili last, we wil nlot sit
more than two or three hours a day, and flot
sit one sing-le evening during these two

151

tellIgence of the people of this country, for
It implies an accusation of ignorance as to
the workiug of our constitu tion. The maxim
that every one is supposed to know the law
should be good lu a matter of a knowledge
of our own constitution, and the people I
arn sure know, or should know,, and It devolves on the organs o! public opinion to, inform themn If they do not, that we are a revlsing body, created expressly,' (according
to wbat I find In the report of the Confederation Debates), to check.hasty or !Ilconsldered legisiation, and that -we have
nothlng te, do wlth discussing in detail the
Supply Bill, which takes uearly two inonths
I know that the
In the other Chamber.
source of our existence is not to be found in
a similar condition -which saw the creation
of the House of, Lords, and that greater
duties have devolved on the House of Lords,
but lu the work that we are doing now, the
epbere in whlch we are moving-, I have nio
hesitation in ssying that we are practica]Iy,
as a legisiative body, doiug the same work
as the House of Lords snd I find In iXodd
Iris judgrnent upon the work of the Hanse
of Lords stated as follows
In the fuilliment of their legisiative functians,

the Lords, from the commencement of the present century, bave been becomlng less and lesu
a Honse for the initiation of great publie measures..The province of the flouse of Lords
appears more properly ta be that of controllng,
revlsing, and amendlng the prodincts n! legisla-

tion whlch emanate from the Hanse of CamMons. To balance and regulate the political
movement of the nation ,. . . . ta test, by temporary resistance, the slncerity and strength
of the will which demands a change ;ta make
legisiation take its stand on the good sense and
ultimate judgment Instead of the mornentary
desire of the country ;and ta give contlnulty
and stablity ta the general policy of the nation.

The work that we have been doiug bas
been the work which the House.of Lords,
Hon. 'Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.).-How according ta Todd, bas been doiug in the
does the bon. gentleman know ?
nineteenth century. We bave been acting
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.-Tlie second Ob- as- a revising body, or a moderating body,
seems examining with something o! a quasi judijection -which 1 have beard, and %which
to be the most potent -with some of my'hon. cial position, the work of the House of Gomncolleagues is that it would look very bail mons, altbough we have the right to initiate
with the people if we adjourned too often legIslation here. I contend that it is sheer
and for too long a time when we do adjourn. hypocrisy to remain bere for appearance
The bon. gentlemen -who imagine that the sake only. When %ve have nothing ta do
people wil tbink it queer that -we do ad- it is opportune that we should return ta Our
jouru at times, feel that it would be better own work, axid that when we are cailed bere,
we should stretch our work, or mark time we should corne here ta do actual, effective,
here, instemd of adjourning periodically. I work and not mark tirne, as we have verythink that this fear is a s]ight upon the In- often been obliged to do. Our presence hiere
months.

152

SENATE

attend to
when there is no work for us from, the June wiii be more than ample to,
before us.
House of Commons or f romi the goverunent, the legisiation which wiii corne
Bon. Mr. SCOTT-I should hope that there
seems to me useiess. and 1 fin quite sure
Is unjust to many members of this Bouse were flot a majorîty of members of this
who are ready to give their aittention to the Cliamber in favour of the proposai of my
legisiation presented to them, but wbo feed hon. friend. I think we ail fullyappreciatethat It is a hardship to corne liere and sit and so does the public outside-that the
for ten minutes, as we have been obliged to Bouse of Commons bas ln the consideratiofi
do, and adjourni. WÇNhen I cfime iiito tii 0f the estimates, donc very much more work,
Bouse 1 found a majority of gentlemen cnf at times, than this Chamhber has, but cvcry
icisure -%vlo wcre as wveii here fis at homle, one who lins noted the proceedings of the
havlng stoppcd working, havîng dropped Bouse of Comînons to-dfiy wili have observtheir dally avocations during the whole ses- cd thit there is a vcry large amount of
sion. I think now that a rnajority of us are private Bill legislation. Tlhere is a great
men ln business. There were a certain num- deal of activlty outsidc, industriai corporaber of men under the harness five or six tions have been formed. raiiway charters
years ago. There Is, 1 arn sure, to-day a big are being asked for and the most important
rnajorlty of men who are ia active life and work in the session is performed in the comnwho are not disposed to corne here and mark mittees, flot alone the comniittees of this
time when they have nothing to, do. I have Chamber, but the committees of the Bouse
noticed that the attendance of this Chamber of Commons- Tlîcy were sitting for two
Is quite high.. 1 find that there is an average 1mars in the comrnittec in the Bouse of
attendance of fifty or sixty menibers of Commons this mornlng, discussing importthis House, often more, to attend to tlicir anît raiiway Bis In the naturai order of
duties when the House is in session. It wli things, those Bis wlill be before us la the
be said and argued tlîat tiiose who feel like course of another monti. There wll be beabsenting thcmiseives because of the scar- fore tlue committees to-morrow mornîng, six
clty o! work, can do so, but I know that th !,,portant Bis, and probably niext week at
rnajority of the menîbers of this Bouse like îcast eîgbt or ten Important Bis. and I
to be present wvhen there is work to be donc, thlnk this Senate wouid be negfligent of its
and do flot like to feel that tlue Bouse is sit- duties to, the country, if at the present mioting and that a Bill may coine fromn the ment it adjourned, after we have had such
other side and be passed in their absence. a very long adjourfimefit. Parliament was
They want to be here, and yet they feci It called on the l2th March. This Bouse sat
is a hardship to spî-ead along the work for nine days and simply organized tlic cointhroughi a four months' session whcn It can mîttees, and then adjouriicd. It did not maeet
he donc in a couple of months wlthout un- tLi April l5th, so that we have oniy sat onedue crowding. The attendance in this haif of the time since parliament openied,
Chamber, I arn lnformed on good authority, and 1 think thiat wouid scarcely be consistof
is uuciî iargcr thn the attendance of the ent with the duties we owc to the people
country ia again proposing an adjourfiBouse of Lords, whichi is a mucli more this
nurnerous body. 1 am toid it is quite diifi- ment practlcally during the wbile Of the
that
cuit somnetimes to gather teui or fifteen-mern- month of May. I do not take the view
of Lords to pass iegisia- some hou. gentlemen do, that this is goiflg
bers of the Bouse
that is
tion frorn tirne to tirne. The average attenid- to be a long session. I see nothing
higluer, aind I arn quite coming to create a controversy necessarily
ance here is muuc
sure wiii be unaintaiîied higber if we dis- to prolong the session. The important mcatribute oui worlc during tlic session and be sure is flic Redistribution Bill. and I do not
here when tliere is a good diy's work to, be think, this measure havinig beenl referred to
donc and to be dlone effectivciy. 1 have a committee, that it will occupy anythinig
put this motion before the Bouse to adjourn like the time hon, gentlemen assume, and
to the 26th May, becatnse 1 arn informed 0o1 that therefore this session~ is not going to be
very good authority tiîat we wiii be here s.) long a session as anticipated. It may he
taltrsae
until the lst of Juiy, if iiot the 15th, and fireasonable adpoe
I know from experience tiiot the month of say in ten days or a1 fortnighit. to adjourn
Hon. Mr. DANDUR.AND.

APRIL 30, 1903
over the birtbday of tbe sovereign. wblcb
wll be observed on tbe 25th of May, it
may be convenlent to take a reeess of a fortnight or perbaps longer, if we find the business will warrant it, If we are well up wltb
the work wbicb we bave to do. I tbink It
would be inconsistent. witb their duties to
the country for the Senate to adjoura now.
There are, as bon. gentlemen know, occasions
when during tbe session His Excellency
cornes down to give bis assent to important
Bis that have passed botb Houses. There
may be occasion to, assent to some BUis during the montb of May, and it would look
rather unseernly If the Sonate bas to be called
togetber in order that His Excellency may
give nssent to these Bills. I sirnply subrnlt
these few suggestions to rny bon. friend in
tbe hope that he wlll, for the present at ahl
ovents, defer considering nuy proposai to
adjourn tbe House. In the course of ten
days or a fortnlgbt, If the condition o! business Is sucbl as to warrant it, there would bo
no objection to take a recess wbicb would
extend ovor the birtbday of the sovereign.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
made by the bon. Secretary of State
h ave relieved me of the necessity of putting
si ome questions to hlm across the floor of the
E ouse as to whetber lie bad abdicted bis
1 eadership and control of the Senate and
elegated it to the bon, gentleman who lias
dl
iade ibis motion.

ri ~marks

Hion. Mr. MILLER-Hear, bear.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-In the
>ast, more particularly with reference to
ong adjournments, the responsibility bas
*eêsted upon the governuient and flot upon
udividuals. The motion before us is cerýainly a very extraordinary one. The speech
made by the bon. gentleman is lnterestiflg
. md gives us information which tiiose who
hiave not taken the trouble to study the
relative dutles of the House of Lords and
of this House have to thank hlma for, but
Ithinlc we ail bave learned long ere thîis
what our duties are, and tbe very fact that
be bas made the statement that private Buis,
whicbi are very often o! an important cbaracter, are rallroaded tbrough the other House
Hon. -'%r. GIBSON-I arn very glad the is a most potent reason why we in this
leader of the governrnent bas taken the posi- Chamber should have plenty o! time to contion be doos, because if bion. gentlemen refer sider them. In the past we bave complalned
to the minutes tbey will see that we have frequently tbat at the end of the session we
work for ovory day next week. My friend bave twenty or th-irty Bills o! a most imn(Hon. Mr. Dandurand) bas given this matter portant cbaracter, sometimes more, tbrowfl
a great deal of attention and bas delivered on this Chamber, and they are rusbed
an essay on what thoy do iR tbe House o! througb without that consideration wbich
Lords, and wbat we sbould do biere. What is due to ail mensures tbat are proposed to
we have to do bere is our duty to, our coun- be placed on the statute-book. It lias been
try, and we bave to wait bere for business tbreatened-I tbink 1 use that expression
from the House of Commons. and we should eorrectly-at the end of tbe session by ail
be in our places ready to receivo that work parties that unless those BUis were sent to
wben it comes to us. As tbe bon. leader us at an enrlier period, giving us more time
bias stated, there are several Bis on their to consider their merits and their importal',e
way, and if we adjoura now, ail tbis logis- ,and the effect wbicb tbey would bave on
lation will have to remain in abeyance until private interests. we would reinain here a
I consider that It is our week or a fortnigbt and keep parliamelit
we reassemblo.
duty to be hore. The country pays us to be sitting. For my part I arn prepared to do
bore.
that if it is necessary. There is no reason
why members who have private busi'MACD)ONALD- (B.C.)-That is It. ness to transact. should not go home and
Hon. M-Nr.
it. If tbeir business is of
Hou. 'Mr. GIBSON-We aIl bave to make look after
more importance than that o! the publie
ig.crifices. or we would have -nu rigbt to
have taken a solerln obligation
occupy positions in this House. 1 beartily whicb tbey
to perfori %Ylleni they becomue members of
endurse the position taken by the leader o!
they had better absent
the House. I trust bon, gentlemen will see this Senate. then
theniselves froui the House so long as tbe(Y
that we sbould fulfil our whole duty to our
leave a quorum. ecr give place to others
country and remain bore and do the work.

SENKATE
b~rought before the committee, flot giving
t he members of the House proper Urne to
consider their merits, or even to, look at and
r ead them before they went t0 the comnittee. 1 made Up my mind that in future,
u iess in a case of absolute necesslty, I will
()
ippose thc setting aside of the ruie iu order
t o rush Bis In the manner lu -whlch the
ion. gentleman did rush them the other day.
hope the Senate will flot place itself iu a
josition f0 be the laughing -stock to tbe
country as comlng here and sitting, as the
Secretary of State says, nine days, and then
Why, it is only
adjourning for a month.
fourteen days now since the last adjournmient, and we are asked f0 adjourn again
for a whole month, and then corne
back and bave the whole leglslation off the
lower House tbrown on our hands to be
rushed through without proper consideration, unless bon. gentlemen are prepared to
come back every evening and sit until midnight during the latter part of the session.
That Is not necessary. The Blills should be
considered lu this House in a calm, deliberate manner.
Hlon. '.%r. 'MILLER-I only wish to en'Lphasize one point made by the leader of thue
opposition, and It is this :A new practice
lias prevailed lu this House with regard to
adjouriiments siuce the change off goverument. The practice, when the Conservative
party was in power, was linvariably to, get
the consent off the leader off the House beffore
any private member Nvould rnake such a
The leader off the
miotion lu the Senate.
House is supposed f0 know best what claini]
may be made on the time off memberswliat duties they may be calied upon to perfron at any moment, and the volume off
business that is likely fronu flue f0 fluie to
corne bef ore us, and theref ore should be held
responsible for ail adjouruiments. Unider the
Conservative regime no adjourniuflt -,vas
iy knowledge-alId 1
ý%ve should deal eýver asiked foi-, to
iii its character ;and
these questions when they corne up tlink 1i have had an opportuaity off kuow-with
here on their merits affer a full, due and ing the practice whlch prevailed-withouf
deliberafe consideration. A few days ad- firsf consulting the leader off the House and
jourmnmenf wouid do no parfIcular harm. If ascertalning from hlm whether the stafe off
was only yesterday, or the day before, the public business would permit an ad%
Whether it was an adjouriihon. gentleman himseff was raliroading busi- jonunmnient.
ness through this House. Iu pressing the tuent for a wveek or a fortuiight or for a less
second reading off every Bill he had charge tline, that Nvas the invariable uie, and I
off, hie asked f0 have the mile off the House thînik thiat thaf mile was a very good une
set aside lu order to have bis measures and oughf to prevail now. 1 hope my hon.

who can attend f0 the public business. 1
speak as 1 feel, as I usually do, and that, too,
plalnly. If there is any force lu the argument tbat we only sit half the time the
House off Commons does, I would suggestr
to the bon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Dandurand)
the propriefy o! lntroducing a measure meduclng the indemnity jusf one-haif. If we
give haîf our finie to our private business1
away f rom thîs House, -we should flot chargeI
the country for if. If we sit, as we do generally, only a few hours a day, it Is because
most off us who are advanced lu years like
myseif, do flot care f0 corne out at night,
but the duty off the members off this House
ls plain, and that is, if we have a dufy to
perforni let us perform it in accordance
with the practice of the House o! Loros,
givlng full time, as we have plenty off time,I
f0 the consideration off ail matters that corne
before us. I was very glad to hear the reimarks made by the hon. Secretary off State,
and I hope in future he will fak-e matters of
this kind, as leader of the House, and deai
witb them as they should be dealt with by
a gentleman occupying the important position he holds lu this House. We should flot
do fliat whlch, to my mmnd, is leading the
people f0 believe that this House is nof neWe know lu certain provincial
cessary.
legisiafures, where theme is only one House,
that Bills have been passed-railroaded
througb, f0 use my hon. friend's expressionand judges on the bench have expressed the
opinion that they were off such a character
they could not really interpret them accurafely, and give the decision that they should
have rendered under the clrcunmstances. I
amn speaklng of my own province. I know
the judges have made sucb- remarks, and
the benefit off the second House, if there is
any benefit ln a second House af ail, is f0
properly revise the legisiation off the lower
bouse which is, f0 a greafer extent, politicai

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE DOwELL.

APIRIL 30, 1903

1.55

journiment. 1 think that would be but
honest and right to the country. If we are
honest and are not doing the business of
the country, we should deduct the amount
we are drawing for the services we ,are
supposed t0 render. Now, in the first place,
in my opinion the first adjouriment
Wie should îiot
%vas altogether too long.
have adjourned for a inonth at the beginnIng of the session. We completely frustrated the posslbillty or probability of private
legisiation being initiated in this Chamber
that could have well corne before this House
and been discussed and that mniglit possibly
bave proved t0 be of, great service to the
For a xnoitb we
people of tbis country.
were away when that private legislation
should have been lntroduced-such Bis, for
Instance, as that lntroduced. by the hon. member for Calgary. That ls an exceedingly
important Bill. That lias been lntroduced
:ît a stage of the session when It la ver.Y
questionable if it ean become law unless
the governinent wilI place it i a position
where it can pass the otiier Ohamber. evea
supposiiig il pisses Ibis Chamber. by the
time it reaclies there, the goverument will
have taken ail the days of the weeic. There
will be only auf hour left etacb day for private
business and the result will be any one who
90.
chooses to block it ceii do so. The reason
lion. Mr~. 3[lcMULLEN-Tbere la a general of that Is the session bas got so far on before
feelinîg, tbroughout Ontario at lenst-I do It is ntroduced. Then we have two divorce
not know liow lt is In tlie other provinces~- Buis coniing before the Divorce Conirittee
that the Senate does flot render t0 tbe peo- this neit week. During the former adjournple <if this couantry services in return for ment some cases were In shape to corne
Some of the witThat sentiment is before the committee.
the amoinit it coats.
growing, aîîd by talzing the course sug- nesses wvere on their way, I understand,
gested to-day, we are likely to strengthen coming bere for the purpose of giving- eviMy lion. friend dence before that commrittee. and had to go
tbiat feeling very miucb.
wbo lias made this motion bas referred to back nt considerable expense and then corne
the long adjouruments wbich 100k place lu again wheii the Senate was la session. I anm
the House of Lords in Eng-land. But the not et ail incliined to encourage the work
House of Lords does not coat the taxpayera of that cornnfttee ;stili, wben we undertake
of England anything. They receive no pay. to listen 10 those disputes and grant relief,
The members of this House receive a cer- when the Chamber tbinks it la proper. it
W'e should not put
tain indemnity for their services 10 cover should be granted.
the expenses they are suppoaed 10 be put to people to extraordinary inconveaience in
in attending here and doing the country's having thena corne here before the tîme aud
work. If we were costing the country no- then have to turn back and wait until
I ama tld by the
thing, il would be a different thing. If My the House reassenables.
bon. friend were sincere and strictly honeat clerk of the committee that there are two
in the motion hie bas made, be should have cases coming up next week. Thenl. as the
coupled witb lt that when we adjourn here Secretary of State says, there are thirteen
ten dollars a day should be takea from the or fifteen Bis 10 go before the commnittees
of
Indemnity of each melaber during the ad- & Ibis House, and a niumber of Buis that

frieîîd ivilI sec that thiat good old Conservative practice is followed in the future. It
woffld preveiît motions like thils, wbere perhiaps n few meaibers, desirous of getting
homie 10 attenîd to their business, log roi]
and find a certain number desirous also of
gettlng home for some similar reason and
who wlsh to adjourn the Senate, slmply to
meet their personal convenience and for no
other cause. The practice that has got Into
vogue since the change of government has
liot beeîî a good oxie, aiîd the old practice
oug-ht 10 be resorted to, aîîd noiffldiouviiment of the Senate ought to be allowed
unless with the consent of the leader of the
House, who la responsible for the managenment and conduct of the business of 1h15
Chamber.
Hou. 'fr. McM-NULLEN-I anm very glad
lndeed 10 hîcar the sentiments wbicihbav'e
been expressed on both aides of tbe House
with regard 10 the motion that ls îîow beI entirely endorse the
fore tbis-Chianber.
views expressed by the Secretary of State
and also the views expressed by the leader
of the opposition. We are here for the purpose cf doiîîg tlie country's business and we
siionîc remain bere and do lt.
Hon. Mr. «MACDONALD (B.C.)-That la

SEN-\ATE
will no doubt corne down, perbaps more thanl
that, during the xîext week. The question
Is whether we are going to deliberate on
tbose Bils and give thern ou -careful anil
serions coasideration. discuss them intelligently clause by clause and render our country some service for the privileges and for
the duties we assume, or, as bas already
been said, are w-e goiag to rallrcad tbese
Bils througb the committees and tbrougbi
this House la the nianner luinic
Bis
have been passed ia puevious sessions ',I
think we oughit flot to do that. Any gentleman w-ho is flot prepared to give blis tirne
and services tD bis country and faithfully
fi the position that he is called upon to
ifiI -in this House, there is a road open for
birn, and that is to resiga. I bave no doubt
some one else could be got to corne bere and
discharge bis duty. For rny part, ns long
as I arn a member of this Chamiber I shahl
endeavour to serve rny country to the best
of my ability in my humble way, and I shali
oppose an adjourrnent w-len, in my humble
opinion, it should flot be graated. 1 qulte
agree w-itb the rernark dropped by the last
speaker that any adjournment of this kind
sbould unquestionably have the sanction of
the goverfiment whêD a motion of tbis kind
Is introduced. The goverinent is in the best
position to know a-bat business -is likely tu
corne before the House, and it w-onld be
notbing but courtesy, to say the least. for
ojie w-ho is a follower of the governrnent to
secure their sanction to a resolution of this
kiud before bringiag it before the House and
pressing -its consideration.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I do flot wish to
give a sulent vote on this question, for several reasons. One is, I arn a young member
and 1 want to kiow wbat ou duties are.
When 1 came bere, I uaderstood it was a
deliberative body, to puevent basty and iiiconsidered legisiation by the popular buanchi
of pauliament. I can understand a state
of affairs by whicb the government, very
strongly sustained ia the popular Chamber,
bave alrnost peuforce to subrnit legislntion
there wvhich rnay not be as well coasidereil
as it should be. This body cornes in to revise that and to make it more acceptable
to the people of this country. I arn very
glad tbat the debate bas turaed the wav
it bas. Otherwise I m'as prepared to make
quite a lengthy speech. I propose, bowever,
Hca. Mr. McMULLEN.

to inflict only a short speech now. I was very
lunch pleased with the stand takea by the
hon. leader of the goverament. I hold if
this resolution was to corne at ail it should
corne front hlm as the leader of this House
and the leader of the government lin this
House. Since I bave been here I have been
undeceived about many matteus l the Senate-the powers of the Speaker aad otheus.
Tîtere are two representatives of tbe government bere, and I thlnk It Is their duty,
aad probably they wlll see it is their duty
In the future, If necessary, to Initiate legislation la the Senate If not gaverneat Bills,
nt ail events, Bills of a public character.
1 listened with a great deal of inteuest to
the rernarks of the bon. member from de
Lorirnier. If there was any logical sequence
to be drawil from bis rernarks, it wvas an
argument in fav-our of the abolition of this
body. I do flot believe the people of this
country are prepared for that. and I do
not believe that the sound, sober intelligence
of the people nt large ls la favour of sncb
a movemeat. He said the House of Coinmous were very slow in their work. Al
tbe worse for the House of Commoas, aad
that perfouce we should wait here untîl they

sent up the Supply Bill. We are here for
the purpose 0f passiag other measures besides the Supply Bill, sncb measures as that
lntroduced by the bon. gentleman frorn Calgary. Sncbl public measures are witbin the
purview of this House, and wbile we canaot toucb the Supply Bill to arnend it, stilI
we have a large power -wbich I hope wili
not be exeucised, a power that bas been atternpted la the I-ouse of Lords and a power
wbicb made Wiliam Ewart Gladstone tbueaten to create a sufficient number of additioual
peers if necessary to carry bis mensure.
Wve bave flot had au example of that kind
here, and I hope we shail not. Under other
circumstances I should be la the position
of 'grandfatber's old dlock.' That storY
inigbt be told to enliven proceediiags. It
was a very old and a very large dlock and
w-as placed in oae of the best roirns of the
hionse. It bad great, beavy ponderofis
weigbts, and it took a boy %vithsorne
strength to wind it up, but wbhca it w-as
vround up it did not rua dowa for ciglit
dlays. 1 arn gettiag la the p)ositionl of ilie
grandfather's dlock, I arn wound up and 1 do
not intend to rua dowa for a wbile. I shahl

APRIL 30, 1903
not follow the analogy, however. and inflict
a long speech on you; I shall speak briefly. 1
bave heard some great constitutional doctrines round the corridors and committee
rooms of this House within the last few
days. 1 began to think a new position had
been created. I do not know who signed the
warrant. I might eaIl it a position of Promoter of .&djouruments. I bear it sald that
this House wus merely a revising body, and
it would be infra dignitatem for it to be more
than that, that if we dld anything more than
that we would degenerate into a debating
club. These views are uew to me. I hold in
my band a document entltled Debates of the
Senate, and nother document the Debates
of the House of Commons of Canada. Undoubtedly we are a debatlng club of the
first order, the highest in the Dominion. Certalnly I do not thluk there is auything disparagîug lu saylng of this body that we are
a debating society, for we are that in a very
marked degree. But I have been told tint
the fathers of confederation said, when they
frnmed the Act which united the provinces
Into the Dominion of Canada, that It was
their mmnd and Intention that we should
mnerely do revising work here. I do not
know about that. I have the British North
America Act under my band, and lu it 1
fiud It Is provided that the Senate has coordinate powers, to a large degree, wlth the
House of Commous; that no Bill whlch oniginates there can become law unless It gets
the assent of this House and of His Majesty's representative ; aud a Bill origlnating
here must receive the assent of the House
of Gommons and'His Majesty's representative. The province of Quebec had twentyfour members asslgned to it, Ontario twentyfour, sud the maritime provinces as a group
twenty-four. That was fair at the time.
When the great west gets filled up they may
have more than twenty-four from there lu
the lifetime of the younger members of this
Chamber; but the people of Quebec bad a
very special privilege given them which we
have not. 1 see under Cap. 1, Consolidated
Acts of Canada, their twenty-four members
were to be assigned to twenty-four separate
districts, corresponding with districts in old
Canada. and I believe a gentleman appointed
to the Senate to represent a particular district must have a property qualification lu
that district. That was a special privilege

157

given to the province of Quebec. I bave no
fouit to find with it. Let me cite the case
of Nova Scotia, for example. Nova Scotia
is entitled to ten members, New Brunswick
to ten, and Prince Edward Island originally
had four. What happened ? Every single
member of this Senate, a few yenrs ago,
that represented Nova Scotia, was from
Halifax and the north-east counties of the
province, not a single man from the south-'
west of the province. Until my hou. frlend
from Yarmouth was appointed there was
not a single representative west of Halifax,
îlot one. I stand here for the county of
Lunenburg, aithough I now live iu Halifax.
Now, I am going to say this, I belleve the
fathers of confederation, In s0 far as the
province of Quebec is coucerned, acted wisely lu ail they dld iu this respect. It would
bave been very difficuit Indeed to have
grouped Nova Scotia. as the bon. gentleman
from Colchester would admit, wheu they
wvere dividlng it luto ten districts.
We
wvould have to put counties together which
bad no afftity, and we were satisfied wlth
ulatters as they were.
We believe that
any governiment wll give fair represeutation to every part of the province as far as
possible. There are other things that mlght
come la as relevant as the remarks of the
lion. gentleman wbo made the motion. The
first time I had the privilege of going to
Quebec 1 uaturally went out to the Plains
of Âbrahan, and I saw wbere Wolfe fell and
where an iron tablet was erected to bis
memory.
I went down Mountain street,
and saw the monument erected to Wolfe
and Montcalm.
What *bappeued? We ail
know tînt at the battle of Quebec, as it
is called, fortune weut iu favour of the EngIish. but tbey were generous victors and they
gave the people of the province of Quebec,
a people of another race, foreigu language
and religion, ail their due and just rigits
lu that province, sud a privilege which no
other province bas, makiug both languages
officiaI, sud the same thing Is doue In the
Dominion panhiament.
I do not object to
thiat, because I believe in dealing llberally
wlth these people. Nobody can dispute the
bravery of Montcalm or Wolfe.
Nobody
eau deny that the bravery of Montcalm's
army was equal to the bravery of those babind Wolfe, but fortune weut with the BritIsh, sud the province lias been well treated.
I trust that an absence of racial feeling

SEN\AT E
who
obtains iargely iii this Senate. and 1 think it might be ail riglit. Those inembers
fairit is one of the functions of the Senate want long adjournments might do that
as that,: iy and honourabiy, and no0 harm wouid be
nlot to be anirnated by sucli feelings
interests of
as the hon. gentleman said a minute ago. done. It would be for the best
we should act. the country, in my opinion, to bave no long
'When legisiation cornes up,
I agree adjouraimeat of this Chamber.
lu the best interests of the country.
the hon. leader of thel
with the rernarks of
Hon. 31Lr. FERGUSON-I may say for mygoverament lu regard to this adjournment.
every self that for the ten or twelve sessions tbat
If you are going to have adjourumeuts
House, 1 have neyer
*two or three weeks, and adjouriurnents of 1 have been la this
a tirne, the people agitated for an adjournrnt, and I think
three or four weeks at
have not missed
whio live at a* rernote distance from the 1 may say further that"I
a do-nothing many sittings of this House during the
Capital -w!ll beileve that tis is
also dlaimi for Mybody, a body whichi is flot required, and whole of that time. I
well devoted iself that I read attentiveiy everything thiat
the expense of whilh could be
and try to do my
to other purposes la promoting the interests cornes before the House
bold that, duty here as well as I can, but I must gay,
But I do niot
of the country.
many things occur
view. 1 think this ls a body that can do at the sarne time, thiat
inen, ia these discussions that It -. ould be, perWle are party
a great deal of good.
had we been
and I would not give a fig for a man that haps, better for the House
instead of these discussions gonot stand
w-as not a party rnan aiid would
been advanced
up for the interests of bis part! and coun- ing on. A great deal bas
are ziot 'n this discussion which w-i do more to distry, but mensures corne up which
reasonable adparty mensures, and w-e should consider credît the Senate than any
-Inurnment. I have noticed during the time
those on their merits and flot on party lunes.
some hon. gen1 have voted with the leader of the opposi- I have been in this House,
1 arn tiemen favour the idea of having a break
tion on questions of that kind, and
We do flot hear much
We are during the w-eehz.
going to vote w-ith hlm to-day.
f romn the of it now. Two or three yenrs ago there
I think
going to vote tog-ether.
the House rise
trend of this discussion that this motioni was an effort made to have
it wl o Thursday and meet again on Tuesday,
w-i flot carry, or that, if carried,
The gentlemen In th iea being that three sittinga each week
be iargeiy modified.
do the w-ork of
the other branch of parliarnent iutroduce w-ould be quite ample to
about
w-hlch go through ail the commit- this parliament. There is no question
mensures
through that, and il would have suited gentleman
tees of that body, and subsequentiy
journey of Ottawa,
the comrnittees here, and finally receive the who 1live w-ithin a day's
of the but It did nt at ail suit gentlemen living
royal assent and become the iaw
It w-ould seem
land. The general statutes passed, are re- at a considerable distance.
me that that it wouid be more just to tell hon. memvised every ten yeaýs. Will you tell
is trikeli
the w-ork of revision is an easy work ? 1 bers that w-hen an adjourament
of it should be for 'a reasonable time, instead
tell you, vou have to obtain the services
tie in short adjourtithe most astute and accornplislied lawyers of breaking up our
inents, w-hlch, as 1 have said, suit gentieof the w-hole Dominion to do your revision.
but whîch do
We had two or three revisions in Nova 1men w-ho reside near Ottawa,
not at ail suit gentlemen living at a conScotia, and w-e found it w-as no light matter
Notthe capital.
ta revise the law-s, and I say the w-ork of siderable distance from
withstanding ail that bas been said, I arn
this body la no slighit matter, to revise those
I have
measures w-hich corne Up frorn the other fuiiy convlnced, fromn the experience
had in thîls House, that aitbough w-e have
House, w-eh and fairly, and we cannot reas well as
vise themi weh and fairly if w-e have anl had under the late goverament
under this goveramfeat during every session,
adjournment of three w-eeks Ia the eariy
long adpart of the session, andl then an adjoura- one or two, generaily two, pretty
to journments la each session, the -ork of
ment of four weeks later. 1 should like
perforrned.
uphioid the honour and integrity of this this House bas been faithfuiiy
a that there has heen no sloveniy work w-ith
Senate. If I lad occasion to go away for
corne hetime and take the responsibility of it myseif, regard to the mensures that have

Iadjourned

Hon.

M.Nr.CHURCH.

APIRIL 30, 1903

:159

fore tbis House during ail thiat period of leader of the goverlrnent always pays atUie, whether under the one goverurnent or tention to the views of bon. gentlemen
under the other, and the only case in wbich with regard to this and other matters, and
the publie lnterest may bave suffered in con- I arn quite sure if the bon. gentleman does
sequence of proper attention flot having been not see hie w-ay clear to permit the passing
given to legisiation in this House is when 0f the motion of the lion. gentleman from
we have been treated badly by the other de Lorimier (Hon. Mr. Dandurand) on this
branch of parîlament, or by whoever je re- occasion, bie will look carefully into the
hie
at wbat time
sponsible for it, in baving very Important matter, and eay
measures, and many of theni, dumped before thinke a reasonable adjoururnent migbt
us a very few bours before the close of the be taken. I never dîd care mucb, and I
session, when it le absolutely impossible for care juet as little now as I ever did, for a
us to give fair and reasonable attention to, great deal of the criticieni that bas been
thern. The question of adjourumients gen- levelled at tis House on the bustinge and
erally bas been discussed, and upon that sub- throughout the country. I arn satisfied that
ject I rnay say that I have no desire to slilrk the Senate stands to-day as bigh in the estimy duty here ; when the House le lu session mation of the peopile of this country as any
I make It my business to be hiere, but I amn legisiative body does lu the estimation of
stîli convinced tbat the work of this House the people of any country, aud I have 11o
Is juet as well advanced wltb these reason- fears that wbat w-e do carefully and reasonlably long adjournrnents during the progres ably iu this natter will bring upon us auY
of the session as it le by remalning bere al severe censure or any lack of confidence,
the Urne, and day after day merely for I arn quite certain, whether we adjouril
marklng tume. We had an occasion thie to-morrow or whietber we adjouru next
present -weel. when w-e spent many hours ini week, or whether that adjourumient is taken
discussing a very emaîl question relating to for two or three weeks, or whiatever is done,
the salary of one of our officere, a matter the bon. gentlemen on botb sides of this
that ehould have been eettled iu committee, House, who are responsible to their friende
and need flot have been threshed out and to the country, %-lll see that hon. nirso very fully as It was on the floor bers of this House will have every opporof this House. If we had quietly sent tunity of discussing ail the questions and
and carefully exarning every measure wblch
that report back to commlttee
have been juet may corne before theni, and that the work of
stood adjourned It would
as well for the credit of thie bonourable thiis House will be doue this year, as it aIHouse. I arn not wedded absolutely to the ways bas been doue, in anefficient marner.
proposition of the hon. gentleman from de
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It appears to be 'a
Lorimier (Hon. Mr. Daudurand) with regard
faIrly unanumous decision that if there le to
to, the ie wben thie adjournmeut ehould
it should bie a long one.
beg-in or end, or how long it should continue. be an adjournrnt
As one coming froni a distance, I arn OPI agree -with what bas been sald by hon.
because I
gentlemen that the government are reepon- posed to short adjournmeflts,
think, after the House bas been ln session
sible for the business of tbe House, and
froffi a1distance might
sliould be consulted and their views should six weeks, members
wlsh to visit their homes. and I feel satiebe reepected with regard to sucb a matter as
who rnoved for this
tbat, and as my hou. friend the Secretary of fied the hou. gentleman
long adjourument had In bis mind conState does not seem to agree witb the view
corne fromi a
of the bon. gentleman who bas proposed the elderation for members who
an op- long distance, but on account 0f the short time
resolution that to-morrow -would be
session silice the luet adportune tume to adjourn, the bon. minister we bave been ln
jourumeat, and the explanation of the leader
migbt look over the public business and
it appeare to me it would be
corne to the conclusion that ut a. later of thè House.
wçell to drop it. and if the work le well addate, perhaps next week, the adjouruilext week. we miglit
ment should take place. As a member of vanced ut the end of
consider adjourniug over the 124th of May.
this Holise, I do flot like to set up my
well. and suit all
view againet the view of the government, That would suit me very
The the members f roml the West. We would be
who are responsible for the business.

SEINATE

160

the others, there are umany tbings ln the
Hlouse wbielb might possibly be reformed.
1 wvill not say inucbi more, exeept upon one
point. The bion. gentleman bas spolien on
Buis that may come !rom the other House.
I bave beard that the Senate eau initiate
legislation. There are mensures cf great
importance to this country comig up. Wby
do we not take tbem up ? The hon. assistant leader of the House is lu good bealth. no
appenrance of fatigue about hlm, and under
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I risc for the pur- bis guidance we would be very happy to dispose of expressing my sympatby 'with the cnss mensures of vast importance to this
bon. gentleman who moved this motion. Hou. country. Tbe Immigration arrangements are
members have threatened the hon. gentle- lnan deplorable condition. The hon, leader of
man, and no douht they will defeat bis reso- the House will remember the last debate we
Tbey have peppered hlm on ail had on that question, and that It was sbown
lution.
sides and kept on pepperlng hlm tiil I could that the arrangements for immigrants were
flot stand It any longer. Even the seconder la a state altogether unfitted for this Doof the resolution bas deserted bim-tbat hion. miniion and that a great many impra)vements
gentleman of such burnane disposition bas should be mnade. Why do they not put tbeir
allowed the m'wver to be left in tbis deplora. vast intellect Into the labour question ?
ble position witbout anybody to stand by Then the diffieulties would vanlsh and a
hlm, and it bas roused the cblvalry lu my sebeme would be put forth from this bouse
nature, and as an Irisbman I could not see whichi would astonish tbe world. There are
Wby Dot
hlm run down that way, althougli I amn other matters--transportation.
loaded up the other w-ny. I sympathize wlth take up that question ? I will not go any
him. As to tbe practice of the Flouse of further. I simpîS say that 1 hope this
Lords, It Is wonderful bow people air them- Hlouse will not be so discredited. If there
selves with the House of Lords. 'How we is anytbing la the world which would show
apples swlm,' and wben you waat to ex- .the uselessness of tbis House it is tbe propress sometblng wvhen you don't know posed adjourament. If It Is inteaded that
generally what you talk about and your this bouse sbould record only the will of
bouse does not know very w-eh, just say it the governmeat of this couatry, it should
is tbe practice of the House of Lords and sit here for that purpose ; if the only other
people will uaderstand. There is another purpose is to go borne and do nothiag, what
point about this debate, and it is that I hope under heaven Is the use of the Seaate ', It
these gentlemen cf the Liberal persuasion, is here to protect not minorities but majorithe orthodox gentlemen of that faith, will ties. and I say no one could give any possitalce thîs lesson to their bearts, that the Con- ble raison d'être for tbe existence o! tbe
servatives ln this House bave voluntarily Senate if these adjournments went on and
and of their own free will. witbout any tliea there was nothiag else done but that
persuasion or indu'ernent, corne to tbelr res- -%e should examine and pass measures of
cue, and sustained the government's posi- the other House provided tbey were suption. If the Conservatives wanted to put ported by tbe goverumeat. 1 trust that bon.
the Liberals ini an awkwnvrd position, they gentlemen will rise superior to that-tbat
would vote for this motion and carry it. 1 they will throw aside those robes of bondhope tbe goverament will bear that ia mind age and vassalage to parties, and whetber
la future. I know they came in to reform they tbought it or not, would try to feel tbey
this House. A very able paper of the Lib- are not here for the purpose of backing up
eral faitb down our way says that you bave a party-that tbey bave pnrtinlly divested
not been lu office long enougb to effect your themselves of tbat strong partisan feeling,
promised reforms. Tbe only tbîng you bave (because no one ean divest hirnself of it enreformed, so far, is myseif. You have re- tirely) and that questions will be judged and
formed me to sucb an extent tbat I want men nppointed on comnmittees on their merits
to forget it to the end of my life, but as to and uxot according to their political faith.

glad to go borne and corne back after the
24th of May, and I arn lncllned to think there
is sufficient work on the order paper to keep
the House fairly busy next week, and with
the other measures whicb bave passed the
House of Gommons to-day, some of which
they wish to have put tbrough the Senate,
we mlght well try to dlean up the work next
week, and at tbe end of the week adjouru
until after tbe 24th.

Ilon. lîr. WATSCN.

APRIL 30, 1903
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I bave no doult
many hon, gentlemen feel th-at there bas beeil
too much discussion already upon this question, but since we are at It, it la mast as
well to deiver ourselves of the rexnarks we
may have to make. I will turu my attention
first to some of the remarks of the hon.
gentleman frorn Nova Scotia (Mr. Church).
1 do flot see the relevancy of much of his
speech to the question before the House,
but I want to refer to one of his rernarks.
He called Canadians of French origîn ' forelgu people.! Really It sounds very strange
to me that we, the discoverers and pioneers
of this country, are to be called a fore*gn
people ln our own land. We have stood
out for over a century, and probably wll
stand out again for ail tîrne to corne, loyal
subjeets of the British Crown, and I hope
tlhat those who are incllned to speak that
way wlll flnally see the ridIculous position
they assume. Now, as to the question itself,
the suggestion bas been made that this
House should Initiate more mensures than
it does. I find two important reasons why
it does not. First, as to public mensures,
we must take into consideration the fact
thiat ail the ministers except two (sornetimes
on1e) are la the other Hous, and lt ts but
naturai that the ministera at the heada of
the departments from whlch these measures
emanate ahould take charge of them Ia the
Hous wbere they ait. As to the prIvate
legisiation, we must also take Into conalderation that parties promoting private Bis
are more In touch wlth their niembers la
the lower House than they are with senators.
Thea they go to the members of the
House o! Commona dnstead of eoming to
senatora, who are flot really their representatives. The senators are more the representativea of the country at large than are the
members of the lower House. These are
two Important reasons why there la not
more legisiation lnltiated la the Seaate. It
hins been so since I have been a member
of thia House, and I think It wlll always
be so. As to the question of adjournient. it
seerns that tue public business of this country aot to suifer if at the beginlag of the
session we were to adjourn for four or five
weeks. and so,the members who wish to avail
themaelves o! that adjournmeat should be
able to do so. 1, living in a distant part of
il

the country, do flot care much for a long or
short adjournrnent, but absolutely rernain
hiere all the time, but 1 bave felt, up to the
liresent, as a matter of courtesy, I should
flot oppose any adjourninents which would
suit those w-ho desire them. If we were to
take four of five weeks' adjouraimeat at the
beginuning of the session, I amn sure everybody
wIll admit that the public business woffld
flot suifer from, it, and I do not ses why we
should not make that arrangement and thieu
corne biers and stay until the end of the
session and talk no more ab ýut adjouruments. It would be a great improvement.
It bas been said thst certain mensures have
been rallroaded tbrough this Hanse. If lt
la truc, lt la weli we should be warned
that there are certain membera here who
are dIaposed to lnsiat upon the ruls o! the
Hous being observed and will object, towarda the end of the session, to advancIng
measures by suspending the mile. As to
this adjournment, I feel lncllned, for the
same reason I biave already meatioaed, to
support it, aimply tbrough courtssy towards
members who can avail themselves o! the
adjoumament, but realiy I think we could
solve the question In the way 1 have auggested, namely, to have four or five weeks
adjourameat at the beginnlng o! the session,
and when we retura here after the adjourament, remain until the close o! the session.
Hon. '.%r. CHUROH-Allow me to make a
brie! explanationHon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. CHURCHI-It is a personal explanation.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I tbînk I arn ln
order ln rising nomr. I did not use the
word 'foreign'
as relating to matters
as they now stand, but as tbey stood
at the tirne of the capture of Quebec,
and 1 said 1 approved o! the generous treatment extended at that tume to the French
people of Canada. I have no unkind feeling to the French Canadians. 'I1ney are
arnongat the beat people we have, and I hope
rny rmrarks will flot be rnisintempreted. If
any one considers them offensive I wish to
withdraw them.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If it bad not been
for.the remnark which feIl froni the hon. gen-

SENATE
tieman from Kingston I should not feel disposed to make any remarks on the motion of
the hon. gentleman from Montreal. Sutiice it
to say I arn heartily in favour of the motion,
and as seconder of it have no liesitation
In endorsing wliat has been said by my lion.
frlend. Permit me to observe that those of
us who have been lu the Senate some years
recognize this debate as very old and familiar. My recollection goes back twelve or
thirteen years and I can recall eacli year the
presentation of the same arguments whlch
have fallen from the lips of hon. gentlemen
year after year, and yet the Senate exlsts.
I have heard hon. gentlemen in opposing
long adjouruments point out the very tlireatening attitude of the public with regard
to the Senate, the expectations of tlie public
with reference to the Senate, and the prohable dissolution of this honourable body In
the event o! our flot sitting every day consecutively, and a certain number o! hours at
that, and yet during that period of time
I cannot recall liaving seen ln the public press or otlierwise any adverse criticism of the Senate with reference to
these adjouraments which regularly take
place session after session. Let me
make an observation with regard to
the work whicli is before thîs Cliamber. My
lion. friend the Secretary o! State referred
to as many as I think haîf a dozen Bills being before us for our consideration, and
the promise of possibly another haîf a dozen
more within the course o! a few days. My
lion. frlend has been long enougli a member
of this body to know that a dozen Buis have
neyer proved formidable to any committee
In a morning's session, and have neyer
proved formidable to this Chamber in the
afternoon of a sitting. I wll undertake to
say niy hon. friend does not see enough work
ahead of hlm during the next iour weeks
that this Senate cannot successfully and intelligently and with the greatest amount of
consideration dispose o! in at least oue or two
sittings. There is certainly not enougli
leglsiation before us to-day to occupy the
time of any of the select committees during the whole forenoon in committee. There
is flot before us to-day !oreshadowed for the
next three or four weeks enougli Buis to absorb the wliole of the time of this Chamber
during- a couple of a! ternoon and evening
Now my lion. frieiîd lias referred
sessions.
to the probability o! the goveroment bringing
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

down Bis. We know perfectly well what
important measures have been foreshadowed
in the address and what others have been
brouglit down to the present time, and yet
none of those measures can probably rencb
this Chamber wlthin the next five or six
Take this Bill on transportation
weeks.
which lias been distrlbuted. It has not yet
received any consideration in the House of
Gommons. This probably with the Redistribution Bill will prove the most Important
and contentious Bill of this session. Wlth
reference to the Redistribution Bill, the committee did iiot organize until thîs mornîug,
and nothing even then was done exoepting
simply to meet and again adjourn. We
know very well that none of those measures
can posslbly reacli us within the next four
weeks. So far as private legisiation Is concerned, the only legisiation whicli can reach
us in the next four weeks are the ordinary
private Bills, and If we can judge by wliat
lins taken place In the Bouse of Gommons
since the session began, not enoughi Bills
have so far renched us to have kept us more
than a week. If we hiad been sitting regularly.
1 feel safe [n saying private Bill legislatlon
will not suifer [n the least degree by tlie
proposed adjournment. I should certainly
be one of tlie last to advocate an adjourument if I thouglit legisiation would suifer. 1
do not think It is egotistical for those who
support the adjournment to state that they
are not the least active In attending to tlie
business of this body. While I appreclate the
services rendered by lion. gentlemen who
opposed the motion, yet*tliey have no monopoly o! attending to the business of the
Those who support the adjournHouse.
ment can take the satisfaction to themselves
that they have been equally attentive to
the public business and are equally desirous
to see that thie publie business does ilot
suifer. I have mucli pleasure lu seconding
the motion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Withdraw.
The SPEAKER-I think, the motion is lost.
the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Before
Speaker decides that the motion is lost I
wlsh to speao.GNLIE
-Yaannys
TWA Senate divided on the motion whlch
was carried on the following division.

APIRIL 30, 1903
Contents:
Hon. Messieurs.
MacKay (Aima),
Baird,
MeDonaid (Cape Breton)
Béique,
McHugh,
Bolduc,
McSweeney,
Casgrain,
Moniplaisir,
(de Lanaudière),
Owens,
Danduraud,
Pelletier (Sir Alphonse),
Dever,

Dobson.

Perley,

Godbout,

Thlbaudeau (Rigaud),

Ferguson,
Fiset,

Reid,
Shehyn,

Kerr (Cobourg),
Landerkin,
Landry,
Lougheed,

Thibaudeau
(de la Vallière),
Yeo.-27.

Non-Contents.
Han. Messieurs.
McMulien,
Baker,
Boucherviiie,de (C.M.G.),Mlller,
Bowell (Sir Mackenzie), Power (Speaker),
Robertson,
Casgrain (Windsor),
Scott,
Church,
Sullivan,
Caf ey.
Tempiernan,
Gibson,
Vidai.
Gowan <C.M.G.),
Wark.
Macdonald (P.E.I.),
Watson,
Macdonald (Victoria).
Wood.-23.
McKay (Truro>,

McMillan,

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (25) An Act respecting the Easterp
Townships Bank.-(Mir. Baker.)
.Bill (31) An Act respectlng the Canadian
Order of the Woodrnen of the World.-(Mr.
Watson.)
Bill (68) An Act to incorporate the Lumbermeu's Fire Insurance Cornpany.-(Mr. MeHugli, lu the absence of Mr. Frost.)
Bill (72) An Act respecting the Bank of
Montreal.-(Mr. McKay, Aima.)
Bill (79) An Act to lucorporate the Bank
of Winnilpeg.-(Mr. Watson.)
KING EDWARD'S VISIT TO THE POPE.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the Orders of
the Day, I should lîke to eall the attention
of the leader of this House to something
which was publlsbed this morning la the
Ottawa 'Citizen,' relatlng to the visit of His
Majesty the King to the Pope. It relates
an Interview between them, and concludes
in this wsy
Somae particulars o! the interview betweeu

the King and the Pope have become known.
The Pope greeted the King, saying lu Frenchi
'I arn happy to see Tour Majesty '.
King Edward replied : I arn hap~py to be
here and ta add niy congratulations ta those of
Ili

l1ý

athers upon your having outlived the days of
St. Peter.
The rani of the conversation waa on the. part
of the Brltleh Soverelgn concerning the attitude
taken by the Pope on the principal social questions of the day a.nd on the part of Pope Lea
about the situation of the church ln the British
empire.
CÂTHOLIC SCHOOLS IN CANADA.
It han leaked out that the Pontiff lnformed
King EDdward that In view et the meeting he had
personally exa.mined Into aU questIons regardlng Catholia Intereats uow pendlng ln various
paria af the BrJ.tlsh empire and had preparerl
a memorandum to whIch lie hnkped the King
would pay his benevolent attention. It la understood that one part of this memorandum
concerna the school question lu Canada and
containa the sme points as does the memorandum given by the Pope to Sir Wilfrid Laurier,
the Canadien premier, when the latter was lest
lu Rame.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wben did the Interview take place ?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Yesterday, 1 think. I
just eaU the attention ot the hon. Secretary of State to thls announcement, sud
I wouid ask hlm If lie la aware 0f anythiug
Because there
of the kind takIng place?
Is one thing certain : If the memorandum
was given to Sir Wllfrid Laurier, ht wns
flot as an Indivîdual, but as the prime min-

isier of Canada, and I thinli the House
sbould get a copy of it, or the hon. minister
should be prepared to state its contents.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The account is, I thiuk,
purely One Of Imagination, coaceived by the
reporter, who i. quite equal to the occasion.
I neyer heard of the letter having been deI should
Ilvered to, Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
have, heard If It had been, I thinli. In the
officiai report, when the Interview tooli place,
it was announced pogitively that no one was
to be present at the Interview. Hon. gentlemen wIll probably have notlced that when
the King was ushered Into the room where
the Pope was, every one ieft hlm, ahl the
retinue that accompanied hlm up to, that
trne le! t hlm, and what occurred betweeu
the Pope and the King ls known solely to
themmselves, and I amn quite sure neither o!
themi ever gave an Interview to the reporter.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-But it says that a
memorandum wns handed over to the King.
If a memorandum was handed over to the
King, It must have been copied, *0 that aithougli the King and Pope might have beeu
alone, perhaps It mlght have leaked out
[through some of the officiais after it was
prepared for the King. It may be true.

16~4

SEN ATE

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon. gentleman
might find out birnself what took place aI
that Interview.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That is quite possible.
1 have already found out thal the stalements
as 10 hetters of Mr. Russell and others 10
the Vatican were true, and I migbt perhaps
find tbis* out also.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbere la one
10
thing .tbe bon. gentleman baé neglectedspeinform the House upon. He made a
cial trip 10 Rorne upon Ibis question, nnd
xiever took us lmb bis confidence.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I was nol a prime

teated on any Important measure,
for lime for consideration.

10

asic

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-l lbink the last vote
is a very regrettable one indeed, and 1 do
not propose bereafter to place myseif lu a
position to be burnlilated ln that wny ln
I shall leave every vote of
the future.
that klnd hereafter to the House.

BOWEL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
regret to bear such an expression froni the
hon. leader altbough I ar n ot surprlsed Ibat
he should feel bumiliated at lthe position ln
wblcb be la phaced. As one of lthe opposition-altboiigh 1 do flot lîke the expresministen.
sion opposition exaclly, 'necause we are supposed 10 corne bere apart from poltics ai*THIRD READINGS.
togetber-I ivouhd suggest 10 hlm If he -would
Bill (8) An Act 10 amend lthe Expropria- permit me, to forget it to-morrow, and niot
tion Act.-(HEOfl. Mr. Scott.)
allow It 10 prey eltber upon bis feelings or
Bill (9) An Act 10 amend tbe Yukon Terri- conscience, and wben questions of Ibis h-ind
tory Act-{HIEon. Mr. Templeman.)
corne up If he will take a miore firm and
decided stand and tell bis fohlowers wltat
SECOND READINGS.
their duties are, it may not occur again.
-Ianermcl
Hon. Mr. DADUA
tain Railivay Cornpany.--(Hofl. Mr. Lougamused at tbe remanks made by tbe lion.
Lieed.)
of the opposition over tbe appaient
Bill (37) An Act nespecting the Ottawa, leader
defeat of tbe governmeilt on the question
Northern and Western Raiiway Company.1 know a time, flot far
of adjournrnent.
(Hon. Mr. Dandunand.)
'wben tbe only discretion 'wbicbi
(5) A
BilAc repecIngtheNiaaradistant, 10 tbe government In Ibis Cbamber,
57)An
Bih ct rspetin IbeNlaaruwas left
adjourfiGrand Isiand Bridge Company.-(Hot. Mr. was praclically on a question of
Tbere was a lime not very long
ment.
Gibson.)
of tbe opposition.
Bill (60) An Act respecting tbe Huron and ago wben the hon. leader
Lau- with a veny firm band, led a large rnnjonity
Onlanlo Railway Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr.
agaînst ail, or nearly ail, government meaderkin.)
the
sures, and Infllcted dalhy defeats on
TIEADJOURNMENT.
0f course, be thougit
bere.
THEgovernmenl
sufficient of the public senHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before he represented
In tact, for four years,
like 10 eau lte timent 10 do so.
the House adjourns, I sbould
the first parliameill titis goverfiattention of the bon. Secretary of State 10 durIng
conduct of affairs, we Litethe Important fact that wilbin Ibis week ment bad the
treated as If we were lu power
be bas been defeated twice, on one occasion rais wene
and on sufferalice, and that witef
wilb neference 10 the expenditure of money, percbance
go again to the people we wculd
and on the olber occasion with reference to we wonId
ask hlm be swept frorn power. The bon. gentlemen
the adjournment of tbe Hlouse, and
otiter side fuhly behieved tat we
wbether be deems tbese two defeats of sufi- on the
10 consider could nol govern Ibis country, but I tbink il
dient Importance 10 ask for lime
lime before tbey see the goverlwbal course the government wll taire ili tbe wihl be some
wbicli ment defeated even ln Ibis Chamber on matfulu *re as 10 retalning tbe position
wIll be brought down by the
be now bohds. I behieve Ibat la tbe usuah ters wbich
on the goverument, and 'wbich 1 think whi te
We bave biad a lecture
practice.
wltb wisdom and careful study.
subject of what is done in the House of stamped
prac- As to tbe Incident of Ibis hast vote in tItis
Lords, 1 wouhd add that il Is the
Hoit. Mr. LANDRY.

165

MAY 1, 1903
Chamber, I may say now wbat I Intended
saying whien the hon. Speaker deciared that
I was out of order. I know that there are
two currents of opinion la tbis Chamber,
as to the propriety of adjourning the Chamber from tIme te time. There are those
who think we sbouid remain here four
mnths, even If there were nothing to do.
There are others 'who think that If we have
but tro montha' honest work to do ln attending to the discharge of our duties falthfuily and conscientiousiy, we should. fot
rob the members of this Chamber who are
stilliili active life, of two months of their
Urne himply for the pleasure of putting a
hypocriticai face before the public and leading them to think we are 'working four
months. W7e are flot workiag four months and,
as the hiou, gentleman from Prince Edward
Island said, we have been sitting at times
for three days lu the week when we were
stretching on our work from week to week
ln order to appease the bon. gentlemen who
think the country i. very much concerned
If we do our werk ln two montlis lnstead
of four months. I arn somewhat amused
nt the remarks of the neephytes of mature
age who have 3ust come from the other
Chamber, who bave been iosing thelr tnie
for four or five montbs la the year iisteuing
te extraordlnary rehashes on questions wbere
a few speeches on each side would bave
absolutely exhausted the questieu-iistened
for weeks and weeks te gentlemen speakiug
to the Hansard reporters lu order to reach
their electors. We bave uo sueh iscussions
here. We cau do our work sud do It falthfully
aud consclentiously lu two mouths. I know
there ls a majorlty of members who feel,
lîke me, that It Is an Injustice te men who
are stili ln the prime of life and activeiy
eugaged lu business to be kept here
markiug time and doing nothlng. I know
that the bon. Secretary of State tbougbt
that we shouid, perhaps, wait for flve or
six days, until the end of uext week, before
I was somewhat
taking an adjourumeut.
dlsposed to agree with the hon. gentleman,
but ln the face of the fierce assaulte of the
neephytes I have meutloned, who think their
standard cf thiugs sbould pre.vail ln this
Chamber, I do not regret se very muchi
having gone te a vote on this question.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW7ELL,-I hope
the Secretary (if State will accept with due

tire castigation he bas recev*?d
trom a new minister outside of the Cabinet. We migbt designate hlm Minister of
Adjourumeut. Se far as we on this side
of the House are coucerned, It does net make
rnuch difference. The hou. gentleman shouid
be a littie more accurate 'Wheu he refers te
the opposition. He made the statemeut that
durlug the first parliament here, every
uieasure of the goverument was opposed by
those who were la opposition : lu this bie
was not strictly accurate. There were few
measures wivhlh were opposed at the time.
iiumility

Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-Nearly ail.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
there were only two or tbree. I do not
desire te have a statemeut *of that kind go
forth te the worid as beiug accurate.
The SPEAKER-Let me caîl the attention
of tbe Heuse te the fact that there le notbing
before 4It.
The Senate adJourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Priday, May 1, 1903.
The SPEAKER teok the Chair at Three
o'ciock.
Prayers aud routine preceediugs.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (J) Au Act te incorporate the Missionary Society Of the Church of England in
Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Elis.)

SUBSIDIES TO PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS.

INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The Order ef the Day being caiied:
By the Hou. Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) :
That he wli calA attention to the financli arrangements entered into iu the union ef the
North American colonies ia 1867 lnto a centrai

federal authority under the name of the Dominion of Canada. Including the colonies joinIng the Dominion after that date, that the provinces have outgrown, and no longer consider
satisfactory the financial arrangements made
and cousidered satlsfactory thlrty-slx years ago,
and will ask is it the intention of the goverument te give effeet this year to the request o!
the provincial governments for an Increase la
their present annual subsidies 7

SENATE

166

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-This Is
a far reaching question golng back thirtysix ycars, and nlot being at ail a party question, embraclng ail the provinces of Canada
as It does, I do nlot propose to go on with It,
to-day, as the House is more or less disorganIzcd on account of the adjourniment.
I, therefore, move that the Order of the Day
may be discharged and that It be taken lnto
consideratlan on the 27th day of May next

Han. Mr. SCOTT-I amn nat aware that
there la rcaiiy any of the carrespondence of
the kind that is usuaily brougbt down. Letters have becu addressed ta members of the
gavernment, and I suppose ta members of
parliament aise, sending tic statements made
by engineers and surveyors, and a great deai

of Information ln connection wlth the pro-

pascd line. I know I had thein myscif repeatediy durlng the iast six montbs, and probably other members of the governinent and
to.
The motion was agreed
other members of parliament have «Iise
MAIL CONTRACTS IN THE COUNTY OF received them. If my hon. fricnd refera te
tiiose, I suppose he Is ln possession of letters
BEAUCE.
of a sîmilar character. There arc none that
INQUIRY.
1 amn aware of that involve a direct appliHon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquircd of the gov- cation by the company ta the governinent.

ernment :
1. Was the contract for the carniage of the
mail from St. Samuel de Beauce station ta
St. Ludgcr de Risborough given after tenders were asked for ?
2. Who were the tenderers
3. What was the amount asked by each of
thein ?
4. Did the iowest tenderer obtain the contract ?t
5. If the aniwer ta the iast question ia ln the
negative, who obtained the contract, and wby
was the lowest tenderer passed over ?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want tbose that are
official.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wll sec if there are
any, and will brlng them down.

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The hon.
gentleman ouglit ta knaw if there arc any,
and shauid say se and be prcpared ta bring
thein dawn If there are.

Hau. 1fr. SCOTT-I arn aware of anyHan. Mr. SCOTT-The answer ta the first
question is yes. The naines of the parties thing that usually cames ta the gavernment

who tendered are, Cleopbas Dellaire, $800;
Ephrcm Beaudoin, $898; Gedeon BeauMfter
doin, $875; Isidore Duquette, $475.
tenders were received, the prices being
considered high, an effort was made ta get
better affers. Each tenderer was Invited ta
reduce his tender. Thereupon the former

contractor, Eplirein Beaudoin, offered ta perform thc service for $875, and as lie bad
rendered satisfactory service ta the depart-

as a govcrnment. I arn nat aware of individual letters wrltten to members of the
governrnent-printed letters that arc a kind
of circular letters. I dare say my ban. friend
la awarc that a number of letters of that
kind appear ln thc public press and a copy
af the newspaper Is sent. The, railway coinpany hias been circuiating a great deai of!
useful information ln that way. What I
said was I was nlot awarc that any formai

m~ent It was consldcred in the public in- application liad been made ta the gaveruterest ta award the contract ta hlm, and this ment for assistance, beyond this particular
Hawcver, I will inquire of
information.
wvas accardingiy donc.
THE TRANS-CANADA RAILWAY
PANY.
MOTION.

COM-

individuai members, whethcr there la anyMhing of the kind. What la addreased te
[lie governinent usually goca ta the rrivy
Councîl for cansideration by the governînent
itscif. What 1 said was : No official letter
invalvlng that bas been receivcd, but I wi]i
inake furtber inquiry.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY mavcd:
That an humble Address bie presented ta Hill
Exceliency the Governor Generai
praying that
His Exceliency wiii bie pleased ta cause ta be
The mation n'as agreed ta.
laid before this House a copy of ail carrespondence exchanged between the secretary of the
THE CORONATION OATH-.
Trans-Canada Railway Company, or any one of
its members. or any one of the ministers of the
INQUIRY.
province of Quebec, and the governnlent of Canada. or any of the inembers thereof, or of any
Hou. Mfr. LANDRY inquired of the govcommunication whatsoever received or sent on
erninent :
the subject of the enterprise.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)

MAY 26, 1903
1. During his lest Journey ta Engiand, undertaken with the view of being present at the
caranatian af His Majesty King Edward VII.,
did the prime ininister seize the occasion ta
protest,.-in his turn. in the name af all Canada,
and mare particularly In the name of ail those
who signed the numeraus petitians sent with
that abject, against the affront offered ta the
Catholirs af the Dominian by the statutary deciaratian impased an the Manarcb, tendiag ta
denaunce their rites and their religian as superstitiaus and idolatrous ?
2. What answer ta his pratest did the first
minister receive ?
3. Is it his intention ta communicate lt ta the
cauntry ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Any Interview the preiniler hail with the government was entfrely
of a private character. I know nothing of
what occurred, nor bas he ind.icated ta anyoiae outside.
COMM%-NUTÂTION 0F DEATH SENTENCE
AGAINST JOSEPH A. MATHURIN.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That an humble Address be presented ta Hie
Excellency the Governor General ; praying that
His Exceiiency wiii be pleased ta cause ta be
laid befare this Hanse a copy of ail documents
wbatsoever relating ta the commutation af the
sentence af deatb pronaunced against Joseph A .
31athurin, incinding therein the repart af the
judge wba presided at the trial, the permission
af the judge for the production of snch repart
having been previously abtained.
The motion was agreed ta.

tariff ia the British South African colonies in
favonr af Great Britain ? If a, wiii the government endeavour ta bave the Dominion af Canada
ineiuded In sncb preferentiai treatment ?
He sald : The question af which I bave
given notice le one that attaches ta the
commerce and trade of Canada. I observed
some time ago that tbere were negatiatians
praceeding between the South African government and the government af Great
Britain on the question of preferentiai trade.
The Hanse wili agree with me that where.ver any openIng presents itself for aur

taing

advantage

af

preferentiai

within the empire, the

gavernment aught ta, do

country

It.

trade

and the

We

have

the articles In this country that are
We have the
required in South Africa.
timber, which they have not. We have the

grain, Ilour, and many other articles, and
It; wouid be highiy advantageous

ta this

country If they could Introduce those products into the South African colonies free,
or with a small duty, and that would not
be quite sefish on aur part, because If the
people lu that country should procure those

products they require at leas than under the
ordi.nary duty, they would benefit by It as
weii as this country. I need xîot ask the
first part af my question, because I am» perfectly sure that the gavernment is aware
thitt something oaithis kind le going on beSECOND READING.
tween the South African colonies aud Great
Bill (28) An Act respecting the Atlantic, Britain. I simply ask for an answer ta the
Quebec and Western Railway Company.- latter part af my question.
(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The -government ls not;
The Senate adjaurned.
aware that proposais are now being made
by South Africa ta grant preferential trade
witb Great Brîtain, other than what may
have appeared la tue newspapers. We have
THE SENATE.
liad .no officiai Information. At ail events,
Ottawva, Tue8day, May 26, 1908.
Canada le at any tîme ini a position ta reThe SPEAKER taok the Chair et Three ciprocate lu preferential trade with Souith
Africa. We have the standing clause ln the
o'clock.
Act, of whlch the lion. gentleman is awvare,
Prayers and routine proceedings.
which sets forth that if any British colany
bas a tariff as 10w as that of Canada, we
NEW SENATOR.
Hon. JAMEs D. MCGIiEGOR, Of NeW Glas- are qulte prepared ta niake terms witli thlem
1on a preferentiai basis.
gow, .. ,was introduced.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (K) An Act ta, amend the Companies
SOUTH AFRICAN COLONIES.
Act, 1902.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
INQUIRY.
Bill (L) An Act to amend the Act reHon. ',%r. MACDONALD (B.C.) inquired:
lating ta Naturalization and Aiiens.-(Hon.
ls the government aware of proposaIs being

PREFERENTIAL

TARIFF IN BRITISH

made for preferential treatment in tbe customs

Mr. Scott.)

SENATE

16S
THE PACIFIC CABLE.

BOWELL-Be-ý

CRIMIXAL

CODE Â

ED

NTBILL.

ORDER 0F THE DAY POSTPONED.

Hon.
The Order of the Day being called:
fore the Orders of the Day are proceeded
Commlttee of the Whole flouse on Bill (12)
with, i desire to set mnyseif riglit In the
niuswer I gave to the bon. gentleman from An Act to amend the Criminal Code, 1892.'
Hou. lir. SCOTT-I move that tue Order
St. John (MNr. Ellis). Wlien we were discussiug the question of the Pacifie cable, of the Day be dlschiarged, and placed on the
the bon. senator from St. John asked If the An Act to amend the Criminal Code, 1892.
Sir

INACKENZIE

to $130,000, would have to be paid by Canrida ln addition to any subsidy whilh It
ngreed to pay, and my reply was, y es. I find
1 was ln error hn making tbat statement.
There Is no subsidy paid directly" by Caîînda towards the construction of the Pacifie
cable. The agreement into whleb the colonies wltlu Great Britain entered was that
Eugland sliould furnîsb ail the money upon
Itg own credit, and that the colonies should
pay a certain proportion, ours being fi-eeighteenths, of whatever loss tiiere wras lu,
tbe working of the cable, and the meeting
of the lnterest upon the amount expended
la the construction of the cable ; so that
wblle there is reahly no direct subsidy, our
proportion would bie the $125,0OO or $130,0O0,
belng five-eîgliteenths of the deticit in the
working of the cable and the lnterest on the
money expended ln the construction thereof.
1 tblnk lt well, after maklng inqulry and
lookln.g into the question, for f ear a reference
mlght possibly be made ln the future to my
statement, that 1 sbould take the very first
opportunlty to set myseif right and place the
House ia possession of the facts as they
ezIst.
THIRD READINGS.

Hou.. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL.-kMîghlt
i ask whether the hon. Secretary of State
lias consi-dered the objections which wcre
taken to tbls Bill ln respect of Its character
ais to the penalties, and so on ? The h-rn.
gentleman wll remember that .there was a
good deal of discussion, when the Bill was
up for second meailing, upon the clause
which Imposes a penalty upon the owners
of the theatre, wbo mlght bave Ieased the
property ; and, If I remember correct3y,
he promlsed to consider the objections
whlc b adl been taken to it as being
rather onerous,

lmposing

heavy

penaltifs

upon owners who nilght posslbly be innocent parties, wbîle there was no objection
taken to the prînciple of the Bill lu regard
to punlshing those who wilfully put upon
the stage Immoral pictures, or presented a
play of an Immoral ebaracter.
Hon. Mr,. SCOTT-I commuuicated with
the Solicîtor General, and expressed to 1dm
niy views lii reference to the objections
which were urged by the bon. gentleman
opposite, and I tblnk some other bon. memibers, as to holding owners or lessors responsible, as they.really dld uîot exercise
any control after parting witb the temporary control of the theatre, It miglit be for a

respecting the Koo- period of one or five years. I have not
General, and that
Coin pa ny.-(Hon. Mr. lieard from the Solicîtor
is tbe reason wby I wisb the measure postuioued. lii regard to the penalty, I did not
respecting the Canibad been taken.
Counpany.-(Hon. Mr. know that objection
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tiere
Dandurand.)
to tbe principle, but the
Bill (84) An Act respecting the Quebec was no objection
objection was to lImposing the penalty on
and New Brunswick Railway Company.the owner, w-ho mlgbt flot bave iad any(Hon. Mr. Poirier.)
thlng to do with- the presentation of plays of
Bill (50) An Act respecting the British an immoral character.
Columbia Southiern Rai lway Compa ny.lon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave brouglit that
(Hon. Mr~. Baker, in the-absence of Hon. Mr.
unlatter to bis attention, and until 1 get an
Loughieed.)
hlm I wilI not proceed with the
Bill (27> Ant Act 1esî>ectilg the Canada answer fromi
Bill.
National Railway and Transport CoinThe motion w-as agreed to.
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (41) An Act
tenay Central flallway
Templeman.)
Bill (M5 An Act
adian Pacifie Itailway

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 26, 1903

1019

(Hon. Mr. Young, in the absence of Hon. Mr.
SECOND READING.
Kerr, of Toronto.)
Bill1 (J) An Act to Incorporate the MisBill (65> An Act respecting the Mutual
siouary Society o! the Churchi o! England ln
Lîfe Assurance Company of Canada.-<Hon.
Cait.ida.-(Hon. Mr. Ellis.)
Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (69) An Act to incorporate the NorthBILLS INTRODUCED.
west Coal and Coke Railway Company.Bill1 (13) An Act further to amend the (Hon. Mr. Owens, In the absence of Hon.
Dominion Controverted Elections Act.- M.r. Perley.)
(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (78> An Act to amend the Militia
Bill1 (24) An Act to extend the power of Pension Act, 1901.-{Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Loan Companles.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (80) An Act respecting- the Canada
1Bill (29) An Act respectlng tbe Grand
North-west Land Company, Limited.--(H-on.
Trunk Railway Company of Canada.--(Hon. Mr. Young, In the absence of Hon. Mir. Kerr,
Sir Mackenzie Bowell.).
of Toronto.)
Bill (33) An Act to incorporate the KooBill (93) An Act to Incorpora te the ShIl!n
tenay, Caribou and Pacific Rallway Com- Federation of Canada.--(Hon. Mr. Dandup.,ty.-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
rand.)
Bill (35) An Act to Incorporate the Coast
Bill (100) An Act to Incorporate the
Mr.
Company.--(Hon.
Raîlway
Yukon
Colonial Bank of Canada.-(Hon. Mr. LauYoung.)
derkin.)
Bill (30) Au Act to Incorporate the Federal
Bill (103) An Act respecting the Royal
011 Company.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Trust Conipany.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill1 (38) An Act respectlng the Great
Bill (103) An Act to confer on the CoinNorth-west Central Railway Company.issioner of Patents certain powers for
(Hon. Mr. Kirchboffer.)
the relief of the Standard Car Truck CoinBill (40) An Act to confer on the Coin- pany.-(Hon. Mr. Owens.)
inIssîoner of Patents certain powers for the
Bill (109) An Act to correct a clerîcal
relief of the International Railway Ap- error la the Act to Incorporate the Edmonpliance Company.-(Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
ton aud Slave Lake Railway Company.1Bil1 (51) An Âct to Incorporate the North- ýHon. Mfr. Poirier.)
ern Bank.-(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Bill (129) An Act respecting tbe Crown
Bill1(52) An Act to, incorporate the Joliette Bank of Canada.-(Hou. Mr. M.%cMillan, lu
and Lake Manuan Colonization Railway the absence of Hon. Mr. MeMuiien.)
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Casgrain, de LananCHINESE IMMIGRATION BILL.
dière.)
FIRST READING.
Bill (54) An Act respecting the Canada
Mortgage
Permanent and Western Canada
A message was received froin the Hlouse
Corporation, and to-cbange Its naine to the of Conimons with Bill (82) An Act respecting
Canada Permanent Mortgage Corporation.- a nd Restricting Chinese Immigration.
(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell, In the absence 1The Bill was read the first tume.
of Hon. Mr. Kerr, of Toronto.)
Hon. Mr. TE«.%PLEMNAN moved that the
Bill (56) An Act to incorporate the QueGulf of St. Lawrence Bill be read a second turne on .Thursday
bec, Sagueney and
Rallway Company.-(Hon. Sir Alphonse Pel- iîext.
letier, In the absence of Hon. Mdr. Béique.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Bettcr
Bill (61) An Act respectlng the Winnipeg explaîn the Bill.
Western Land Corporation, Lliaited.-(Hon.
li-on. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It is practicallY
Mr. 'Young, ln the absence of Hon. Mir. Kerr, increasing the poil-tax en1 Chinese coniing
of Toronto.)
into the country, lncreasing the suin to tiv e
the Ontario hiîundred dollars.. Tbere are no luateriai
Bill (62) An Act resPecting
ana Qu'Appelle Land Company, Limited.- changes lu the present Act other than that.

SENATE

170

Hou. Sir '%ACKENZIEc BOWIELL-There
must be
a re tliree or four pages. There
some chauges. Is it a consolidation of the
law as lt stands at present on the statutebook ?
Hon. ',%r. TEMPLEIMAN-I think se.
The motion was agreed to.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hou. '.%r. LANDRY-Before the House adjourus, 1 sbould like to inquire, of the bon.
leader of this House wbether any progress
lias been made lu the preparation of that
return to an address asked for last year,
to wblcli i called the attention of my hon.
friend some two nionths ago, and again before the last recess, lu reference to the
nominations of bonorary colonels in the
Canadian militia. If he bas It In bis desk,
wlll lie be kind enougb to put it on bis table
so tiait we may see It. We have no key
to that desh.
lion. 31r. TEMPLEMAN-Tbe bon. gentleuînu suggests wbat be would do If he
liad.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I anm afrald I bave not
It liere. 1 will make Inquiries. I tbought
It bad been brought down. However, my
memory may be nt fault.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I learned wlth
pleasure, during the recess, that the hou.
gentleman from. Belleville had been made
an lionorary colonel. I thougbt the country
was safe at that moment.
Hou. Sir INACKENZIE BOWEL-Just
ene degree lower.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottiwa, 'Wediiesday, May 27, 1903.

in the province of British Columbia, praying that the Bill now before parliament,
provlding for an increase of the head tax
on Chinese froni one hundred to five hundred dollars, be not passed. As the Bill wll
be considered -iu a very short time, wlth
the permission of the Senate I wlll read one
of the petitions. They are signed by about
three hundred persons of the c.ity of Victoria, and read as followsTo the Honourable the Senate of the Dominion
of Canada.
The humble petition of the undersigned residents of the province of British Columbia
showeth as follows :
Whereas by the Chineee Immigration Act,
1900. a tax o! $100 le lmposed upon persona of
Chinese origin, upon their entering Canada and

other conditions are thereby pirovlded suffidient guarding the country from any Influx of
Chinese ;
And whereas the -proportion of Chiasse to Ibe
white population of this province le Inconsiderable. and there is no menace of such propartion belng upeet by any unusual influx;
AndI whereas there Is a demand In this province for labour of a legitimate and beneficial
nature to the state which cannot be aupplied
except from Chinese;
And whereas the Chinese by their steady, orderly an4l capable behaviour have provecl themselves to make rellable eervants and employes;
And whereas rthe pre-sence of the Chine-se ln
tbis country enables -the great majorlty o! the
population, Irrespective of class, to live la
grea-ter ease and comfort, and by reduciag the
cost of living within reasonable bounde tends
te Induce white people to settie In thie country;
And whereas at the present time the cannerles whlch are one of our greatest Industries
are almost entirsly dependent on this class o!
labour for car.rylag on their business, and aIsa
without such labour lt would be Impossible to
clear many fanms, and there are many other
works. such as ditchiag andi dyking uniniîjroved lands. for which cheap labour le absolutely esseatial;
And whereas the proposed increase of the
Chinese head tax to $500 would exclude al
Chinsse froni entering the province, and the
cost of living would 1mmediately Increase anfi
the development of land and property be
greatly retarded to the detriment o! the white
population generally, and the prejudice of the
country.
Therefore your petitiocers pray that yoiîr
honourable body wlll be pleased to reject anY
legislation which wili place tur-ther restrictions than tbese already existing upon the imnmigration of Chinese mbt tbis country.

The SPEAKER toolk the Chair at Three ATLANTIC, QUEBEC AND WESTERN
o'clock.
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

REPORT FROM COMMITTEE.
Hou. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, froin
CHINESE IMM'%IGRATION BILL.
the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
PETITION.
Harbours, reported Bill (28) An Act resHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I beg pecting the Atlantic, Quebec nnd Western
to present-thirteen petitions froni Victoria, Batilway Compay, witl i niendmnents.
??on. Mr. TEMPLFM AN.

MAY 27» 1903
Hon. Mr. DANDUIUND moved that the
amendments be concurred ln.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-I wonld like the hon.
gentleman to postpone that motion tMI tomorrow, so that we can look Into the
amendments.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-Perbaps rny
hon. friend would accept my explanation of
the amendmnents. The eleventh clause was
a repetition of a clause lnserted ln the body
of the Bill fixing a limitation for the building of the road. The body of the Bill anys
If ten miles are flot bulit next year and another ten miles the foliowing year, that
then the franchise wlll lapse. The Clerk of
the House, flot notlclng this amendment,
added the ordinary clause, giving theni two
years to begin, which contradicted the more
strIngent provision lu the body of tîme Bill.
Then of course, we struck out that clause.
The other amendment ls to allow the shareholders to meet ln London, England,' for
the purposes of the compaqy, If they s0
desire, théir head office belng ln the province of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I reiterate nmy request to have kt stand tili to-morrow.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-I have mio objection. I move that the amendments be
ta ken into consideration to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
GOVERNMENT PROPERTY AT QUE,BEO.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY lnqulred:
1. Is the government, ln virtue 0f any titis

whatsoever. and If so, what, or even wlthout

titie. proprietor, possessor, or occupant of a
certain lot of land situate at Quebec and comprised ln the square formed by the four utreets,
des Carrières. Mont Carmed, Haldimand and
Saint Louis ?
2. What Is the extent of such lot ?
3. le the land upon it leased ? To whomn ?
For how many yea*rs ? At wha-t price, and on
what conditions ?

THE VALLEYF[ELD STRIKE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY lnquired:
1. Have judicial proceedinga been taken for
the recovery from the town of Valleyfield of
the amounts paid by the Militia Departm3nt
for the employaient of the volunteer militis.
force. called out tu &id of the civil authorities at the time of the strike st year. ln
the above mentloaed locality ?
2. What wau the amount that the Militia Departmea.t diabursed ?
8. Wbat was the a&mount o1lmed ?
4. What amouat ha. been reimbursed ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer to the first
question In, yes. The amount disbursed was
$441O.The govemument ls now clalmlng
$4,481.01. The case la still pending.
THE MANITOBA SCHOOL QUESTION.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY moved:
That an humble Âddress be presented to Hie
Excellency the Governer Generai ; praying that
Hi. Excelleacy wiAl be pleessed to cause ta
be laid before tht. House a copy of the memorandum sent by Hie Holinees Leo XIII to the
Prime Minister of Canada, at the time of the
latter'. visit to the IEternal City.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I nm flot aware that
there le any memorandum ; certainly the
government have never received one. The
hon, gentleman does not define the memorandum to which he refers. Hè gîves no Information on the subject, and, therefore, I
amn qulte unable to say whether he would
be entitled to a copy of the communication,
If there la one. It la flot ln the pDesession
of the govemnment, If there la such a one. I
doubt very much If there la such a one ln
existence, but If there ls, It: Is of such a
confidential character It would not be
brought down.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-If It is of such a
confidential character that lt cannot be produced, I suppose we must take the answer
given by the bon. minîster.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My statement la that
ln my opinion there la no such memorandum.
but If there la, It would be a confidential
one.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-In answer to the first
part of the inquiry, the governiment have
ncqulred a titie to the land In question. The
area is 2 acres, 2 roods and 2 perches. The
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon, gentlegreater portion la used for milîtia purposes. man opposite must have received a duplicate
The balance is leased for 99 years to Roger of that memorandum as an Important repreLamue at an aniual rentai of $150. The sentative o! the lay church lu thîs country,
lease eau be termlnated nt any time, If He should describe the memorandum better
required for militia purposes.
than he does. He speaks of -the memo-

SENATE
Hoii. Mr. LANDILY-If the lion. gentlenman will wait until to-morrow I wlli givti
bhlm the namne. Lt Is not at present on the
tip of my tongue.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I will give the
hou. gentleman tili the end cf the session.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hns the lion. SpeaîkHon. Mr. LANDRY-I ami sorry the bon. er declared it lost ?
gentleman is always. ln the dark like that,
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Lost, lost.
but lie mlght be enlightened I thought, as
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wlmiat ? The motion
lu the past ln other memorandums ln whicb
bils namne was concerned wlien the last elec- or the memorandum ?
tions took place. But I would say for the
The Hon. SPEAKER-I declare the iiioinformation of the lion, gentleman, it Is a tien lest.
memorandum on the school question.
THE DRILL HALL AT QUEBEC.
H-oni. Mr. DANDURAND-Why does not
notice ?
the bon. gentleman Fay so i l Ils
MOTION.
randum sent by His Uollness Leo XIII to
the Prime Minister of Canada.' As hie apparently knows something about the memorandum sent, lie sbould enhIghten us a
littie more on the subjeet and describe the
document before asklng the production of
It.

Hon. 1%1r. LANDRY iuoved:
The.t an humble Address be presented to His
Excellency the Governor General ;praylng that
i-e Exceiiency w114 be pleased to cauee to be
laid before this House a copy of aïl the correspondence exchanged between the Militia Departaient. or the gover'nment of Canada, and the
government of the province of Quebec, andi the
council of the clty of Quebec, on the subject of
the Improvements to be made ln the drill hall
at Quebec. and its projected enlargement.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I sbould like
Tite motion was agreed to.
the hon, gentleman to be a littIe more precize as to the otber memorandumn to wblcb
DELAYED RETURNS.
hie referred la whlch hie says my naine apHon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Before
pe:îrs. I never remember a memorandum
brougbt before tbis House ln wbicli îny the Orders of the Day are called, I slîould
like to Inquire of the leader of the goveriinaine appears.
ment If the papers are prepared yet lii
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not ln the House- answer to a question whlcb I proposed resln the courts.
pecting communication w-ltb Prince Edward
memo- Island, on the 9th Marcb lnst.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Wlînt

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliaf is what I nam
saYlng Dnow. I give thiat for the bon. gentlemnan's own sake, and not for the bionourable
minister wbo knows ail about It. He knows
It Is ou the school question, but as the bou.
member tboughit bie was not well informed,
I amn glvlng hilm this supplementary Information excluslvely for bis own use.

randum does the hon, gentleman refer to ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-I have made severtil
Inquirles iii the Department of Marine aud
isheries, and tlîey Informed nie that they
were busy at the work and expected to have
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I should like it ready to-morrow.
the lion. gentlemanî to repeat the mention of
SECOND READING.
it. I defy blm to mention any memnorandum
or any report that ever came up, or apBill (25) an Act respecting the Easteri
peared ln a court of justice wltlî miy naine Townships Bank.-(Hon. Mr. Baker.)
mentloned ln It. My bon. friend bas made
a broad allusion to a memorandumi tîmt îny
STEELE REIEFr BirL.
naine was mentioned in, that w as brouglbt
to the notice of this House, but now lie says CONSIDERATION OF' REPORT POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN, ln tlîe absence ot
it was brought before the courts of justice.
1 defy hlm to naine suchi a memnorandumu Honi. Mr. Gowain, moved that the elevemîti
except documents ini whicli my naine al)- report of the Standing Coîninittee on Divorce
re the Steele relief Bill, be concurred lu.
pears as attorney.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-It bas been already
mieniioned la tbis Cliamber.

MIAY 28, 1903
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I tink the Ho0uàc
is searcely ready to vote on this Bill. The
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I amn not infornmed
evidence only carne into niy hands as I enHouse, and inembers have flot of that nt ail.
tered the
had an opportunity of iooking lnto ItL 1
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-The hon. gentleman
wonld ask that It be laid over tili to-rnorrow s not Inforrned of any opposition ?
ln order that we niay look Into tlue evidence.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn not Informed of
Hon. Mfr. LANDERNIN-It camne before any opposition. 1 know nothing of It.
the House yesterday, and was postponed
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ufltil It would
until to-day ln order to ahlow members to reach the comnrittee stage tbe prornoter
peruse tbe evidence. The printed report wSls would not know wbetber it were being opdistrlbuted yesterdoy, and tbere Is no doubt posed or flot.
about the case.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I wanted to know
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wlief wns the beforehand, because I sball take the liberty
evIdence distributed ?
of caihing the attention of the comnilttee to
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The evidence ln that point, not to prejudice theni ln any way,
but simpiy to express the view that public
this case was distributed before the recess.
beaî'fl. is not
far as I arn opinion, from wbat I bave
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As
favourable to the granting of that Bill.
concerned, auytbing that was sent to me In
However, I wili not prejudge the case.
the post office, was forwarded to lny home,
It Is a matter of evidence, and I simply
but I onhy received tluis report when I camne politely warn thern to move slo'wly iii the
arn not prepared
to the House to-day. I
matter. As far as 1 arn concerned, I wil
to vote without an opportunity of looking
see whether It Is opposed or not, and then
Into the evidenoe, and I thuuk rnany other I rnay take sorne position ln reference to the
gentlernen are In the sme position. I do matter.
not see why matters like this should be
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-1 rnlgbt as well tell
pressed nndnly. We shouhd know what we
cases.
my hon. friend that 1 arn not Inforrned and
are doing lu voting on tbese
bave no personal knowhedge of these matHon. Mfr. LANDERKIN-I bave no objec- ters.
tion, but ln this case the report wvas nmade
The motion was agreed to.
about a week before the recess, and the evitliat tirne.
dence came down at
The Senate adjourned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
think the evideuce was distributed on Mouday. 1 know I had the evideuce and read
TEE SERATE.
the two cases together, but rny hou. friend
ouly arrived here to-day, aud consequefltly
Ottawa, 2'lwr8day, May 28, 1908.
Is not lu a position to judge of this case. 1
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thre?
think it had better stand.
o'clock.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDERKIN-I move that the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Order of the Day be discbarged aud placed
Paper for to-rnorrow.
on the Order
MANITOBA SOHOOL QUESTION.
INQUIRY.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY inquired of tbe govGOUGH DIVORCE BILL.
erurnent
1. On the lSth of December, 1896, did the
SECOND READING.
Solicitor
Honourable Charles Fitzpatrick. then utter the
Hou. Mfr. WATSON moved the second General. to-day Minister of Justice, newspapers
reported by the
reading of Bill (E) An Act for .the relief of followlng words, as
of that tirne:
Florence Gougb.
of the Liberal Party (on thE
1The programme
Manitoba achool question) has this advantage,
Hou. Mr. POI]RIER-Before the Bill Is that If the frst trial of the modus vivendi (that
the Laurier-Greenway comprorend I should like to Inquire of thie bon. is to say. of

ITHE

SENATE
mise) does not give satisfaction, it may bie corrected and improved by new amicable arrangements between the two governments. At the
saine tinte. the way of federal legisiation remains always open ta the Manitoban minority
la the case where conciliation might flot sueceed lu creating an acceptable situation. Finaliy. If Ail that fails, there will stili and aiways bie time ta have recourue ta a federal law
suited ta -the circumstances. If that doea flot
give satisfaction, we will do more.'
2. If thtis account doe fot faithfully report
the sense of the words attributed ta the
lionourabie minister. In what respect dose it
depart front the truth. and what are the de-

this Act, and a certifled copy or duplicate of
auch report to the Dominion Immigration agent
at the port of landing. nor until such report
has been certified ta be correot and a certitIcate of such correctness and a permission ta
allow his passengers ta leave the vesse], and a
receipt for the duties payable by hlm under the
provisions of this Act, have been given ta hlm
by 'the Collector o! Customs ;and every master
of a vessel who viola-tes the provisions o! this
section. shall Incur a penalty flot exceeding one
hundred dollars and flot less than twenty dollars for every passenger ieaving the saute, contrary ta the provisions of ihis Act.

ipudiate ?

Collector af

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This question shiould be
put to the Mînister of Justice hliuself, wlho
alone can give the Information asked for.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-There ls no gobetween ?

master of the ship is set forth ln the
.schedule ta the Act, and shows the naines
and description of passengers, the total
number of superficil feet lat tue severail
compartments set apart for the passengers
other than cabin passengers, aiso the total
niumber af aduit passengers exclusive of
master, crew and cablin passengers, wliicli
the vessel cain legally carry.

OVERCROWDING 0F STE4AMSHIPS.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED InquIred:
1. What amount. if any, la paid by the goyernmient ta steamship companies for carrylng
emigrants fromt European ports ta Canada ?
2. Âlso. what system, If any, of Inspection obtains as ta the numbers of emligrants carried
and the accommodation afforded by steamship
campanies aboard their boats when so engaged?
Hoii. Mr. SCOTT-Tite answer is ns follows
1. Nothing is paid by the goveruiment ta
steamiship companles for carrying emigrants fromt European ports to Canada.
2. The 'Mercha uts' Slhlpping Act, 1894
(British) regulates the clearance of passenger steamers and emigrant ships when carrying passengers from the United Kinigdomu,
vide part III, sections 2637 ta 300 inclusive.
Also sechedule tenth :'An Act respecting
Immigration and Immigrants,' chapter (35,
Revlsed Statutes o! Canada, contains provisions regarding the number of immigrants
.earried and accommodation afforded on
passenger steamers and immigrant ships
arriving. lit Canada front any part or place
on the continent o! Europe or froni any
other port or place out of His

M'%ajesty's

dominions.
Section 10, of the latter Act iso contains the foliowlng prvsin iii regaird ta
vesscis arriving lat Canada with immigrants,
No master of any vessel arriviag
the vessel until hie has delivered
-Iector o! customs at such a port, a
correct report la the forai of the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

at any port

lat Canada shall permit any passenger ta leave

to the coicertified and
schedule to

The form of report ta be made ta the
Custouis

la Canada

by the

Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I might ask my
bon. friend for further Information along
tue lîne of my question. What I desire ta
kno'W le wbat stepu were taken by the Dominion gaverament ta lnspect the convenlences on shlps arrivlng at a Canadian
port wlth Immigrants.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume there Is the
immigration agent, and of course there is
the Inspecting officer. If any complaînts
arc made ta them they are reported, no
doubt.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My abject la
asking thîs information was owinig ta an
article which appeared in the Winnipeg
' Voice,' in the Issue o! Aprîl 24, 1903-a
paper publisbed by the member for Winnipeg who Is a supporter a! the present goveraiment, or a quasi supporter at least-containing a very trenchant criticism with reference ta the overcrowding of Immigrant
ships arrlilng at Canadian ports. In fact,
the article is headed as foliows : 'Disgraceful overcrowding on board slipcommon decency iinpossible-wili the Bnitisli Board a! Trade take action.' Now, this
is a miatter very largely ln the bauds of the
Canadian goverament, If the powers are
exercised by the govertiment given lin the
Act referred ta by my hion. fniend, I would
direct attention ta the facts given lit that
article, which lias not been written la a

MAY 28, 1903

7

spirit hostile to the government, but more if there is anYthing wrong it must be doue
'witb the Intention of attractiug their at- contrary to, the Instructions and without the
tentioii to an abuse whicb prevails On sbips knowiedge of the~ officers of the British Board
of this character. My bon. friend wIii take of Trade, who are very tborough ln the exntote of the article. It may possibly be of amlnation of the ship and the Immigrants.
advantage to the Immigration Department as one could well understand. for fear of
lit promoting the interests of Immigration, contagious disease being allowed to be carand certainly it would be ln the lnterests ried on board. When the Immigrants go on
board shlp, they pass through a cordon of
of Canada If these abuses were remedied.
government officers who examine every man,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I saw myseif a refer- woman and child. That portion of lt is
eîace to a similar article, and a good deai of also looked atter by the gentleman whio recontroversy ln the newspnpers on the sub- presents the Dominion of Canada at Glasjeet in connection with the Barr colonists. gow. So far as the goverament is con'lbey complained tbey bail not sufficlent cerned, every precaution is taken by the
space on shipboard. Under the Act, if my representatîves of the Department of the
memory ts correct, eacb passenger ls en- [uterior nt Glasgow. Of that I cau speak
tltled to fourteen feet cublc space. I will fromt personal observation.
draw the attention of the departmnent to the
subject.
Hon. Mr. LOTUGHIEED-I would direct
attention to the article to whichi I have reHou. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me a
system of rigid inspection should be en- ferred-a paper conducted by the meinher
forced against steamship companies to pre- from Winnipeg, ln whichi he says :
vent sucb thlngs arisIng. -It is evident that
Duriag the past week representatives of the
members of
Inspection does not obtain at present,- ai- 'Voice' have been lnterviewing overcrowding the
on
party, and shocking stories of
lias been given to the goveru- the voyage, and the greedy, grasping of this
tbough power
up-to-date 'disciple'* of thé humble Nazarene
meut for that purpose.
soins of the Party tell. Whether the 'sky-Hou. Mr. GIBSON-Last year I toolr the p.llot» or the Elder-Dempster Comipany are ta
biame for the overcrowding on the boat, we
trouble of golng down witb the Dominion cannot say, but the Ieast any one could expect
to Gree- was that wlth a parson ln charge of the party,
immigration agent front Glasgow
would have permitted of ordinary
nock. Before the passengers were ailowed conditions The 'Lake Manitoba' la reglstered ta
decency.
a medical carry about 970 oIersons. Over twice that numto embark tbey were examined by
and their
ber were on
officer. The berthe, accommodation and be imagined. board, of the mencondition can wel
lnterviewed sa*d
One
eýverythlng la connection witb the emigra- that he had gone through the S-.uth Mfrican
tiou were fully inspected by employees of war. and he badl 'neyer seen a troopship overnear so much. The cargo holds were
the British government, wlio represented crowdedup in elmilar fashion ta a trooPshiP.
rigged
The story of the voyage here as told by one
-the board of trade, whose duty is to see that
by several others, la briefly
.accommodation is provided for every pass- or two. and: verified were notified ta be on the
We
as follows
The list is banded tbem, and every landing stage at Liverpool at 8 a.m., on March
-enger.
and were kept
passenger is examinedl and the sbip ex- 31. ready ta1 embark, ln the atternoon waiting
before
o'clock
there untîl
stem to stern, and site cannot the boat came alongslde. Expecting to have
-amined from
dinner on board. we had made no provision, and
sal until ail the conditions are complied when we got on board no food was served until
witb; and as a precautionary measure, in about four ln the afternoon. The majority of
.addition to the supervision given by the the party had no food for eight or ten hours.
Wrhen food was at last served, arrangements
Blritish government, the Canadian agent at had been no weli made that some of the party
ýGIasgo~W, to niy knowledge, examined, witb got a plece of bread. others any amount of jam,
somte cheese. and we managed a tUn of soup.
the British officers, every nook and corner Some were lucky to get a supply of cheese and
.0! the sbip and handed ta every one of theni jam, and spread the jam on the cheese. Tea
and cottes were made with sait water. Barr
letters of introduction to the Canadian.agent hail gîven every one ta understand that for tU s
.on their arrivai at Quebec or Montreal, and party the third-class passengers would receive
so far as the Canadian governiment ls con- as good food, &c., as second-class passengers
generally received. On the first day, a deputacerned, I can voucli for the care exercised tion went ta Barr and denianded better food,
day
'by the Department of immigration as to the and on the third or.fourthplaced there was an
on the tables,
improvement. The butter
comfort and accommodation given to Immi- however. was sa 'flerce' that even the Most
molest lt
grants who are coming to Canada, so that daring of the party feared ta

SF NATE
The sleeping accommodation was frightful.
Aithough a notice is posted in the ship that
passengers may only sleep on two deeks, we
were on the thîrd deck down. and, added to the
discomfort of the voyage, we hail to lilten ta
the foui ianguage of the stewards, language
worse than would ever be heard In a barrack
room. Other members of the party said that
dogs were lu the sleeping berths, and after
tolerating the stench of the flUth from the
animais for on. night they had siept on decli
for two or three nlghts. Marrled couples had
been promised privacy, but tbey got none.
There was no prlvacv for the sexes even. One
gentleman, whose family accompanied him, hadl
made an Indignant protest because the beds
alloitted tc' his two daughters, about eighteen
and twenty years old, had been piaced between
married couples. To undress for sleeping was
out of the question. The majority of the party
neyer bad their ciothing off from the time they
left their homes until they arrived In Winnipeg,
and the ones who went forward with Barr wili
be lucky If they have been able to take them
off since leavlng this city. As to generai conditions. one lady who had a baby In arma was
unable for some days to get a drop o! warm
water to wash the baby, and when she dld
manage, it was oniy by ' tipping ' the stewardess well.
I simply direct attention to tluis tact, 90
thnt If it la possible for the Dominion of
Canada, apart from the action taken under
the Imperial Act by the board of trade, to
so improve the system o! Inspection as wIll
conduce to the best interest of Immigrants
from Great Brîtalu, they may do so.
Hon. 31r. GIBSON-This state of affaira
complained o!. does not exist lii Glasgow.
If there la any fault nt ail it ccrtainly must
be with the British authorles in the city
of Liverpool.
BILL SINTRODUCED.
Bill (71) An Act to incorporate the Imperli Company.-(Hon. Mfr. Owens.)
Bill (107) An Act to lncorporate the Empire Accident and Surety Company.-(Hon.
3fr. Coffey.)
Bill (115) An Act to incorporate the ilchmoud and Drummond Fire Insurance Company.--(Hon. Mfr. McHugh.)
Bill (Mf) An Act for the relief of Harford
Asbley.-(Hon. Mfr. Dobson.)

SECOND ILEADINGS.
Bill (31) An Act respecting the Canadianl Order of the Woodmen of the World.(Hon. %Ir.W'atson.)
Bill (72) An Act respectlng the Bank of
Montreal.--<Hon. Mr. Mackay, Alma.)
CRIMINAL CODE AMENDMENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved ltself lnto a Committue
of the Whole on Bill (12) An Act to amend
the Crimînal Code 1892.
(In Commlttee.)
On the first clause,
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-When this Bill was before the House for the second reading, exception was taken by niy lion. friend opposite, and I tblnk by sonie other bon. genitlemen, that it dld not secm quite reasonable
or proper thnt the owner, or lessor of a
thentre should be charged with placing luimoral or indecent plays on tlhe boards, muasniuch as tbey hiad not Individual control over
the engaging of the company; that it rested
either wlth the Iessee, or manager, or agent
1 have,
to engage the different troupes.
therefore, adopted the suggestion thrown ont,
and propose lu the first lina to strike out the
words 'owner or lessor.' The clause would
then read :
Every person, who being the lessee, agent
or person lu charge or manager of a theatre.
etc.
Then 1 have added, at the suggestion of
a member of the other House, the words
Immoral. lndecent,' before thxe word 'obscene.' It Is qulte evident some legisiation
of this kind is necessnry. Those of us wbo
attend theatres, must bave noticed of late
years a tendency to nudity of costume, and
otber objectionable features In the entertainments presented.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
words 'nny one ln charge' wouid incluuie,
I suppose, the proprietor of the building iii
Bill (60) An Act respecting the Huron
case be was runnlng the theatre limlselt ?
THIRD READINGS.

and Ontarlo Railway Company.-(Hon. Mfr.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Certaily.
Landerkin.)
Bill (57) An Act respecting the Niagara
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEI-Thali:t
Grand Island Bridge Company.-(Hon. Mr. is the Intention ?
Gibson3.).
Thtis la to cover
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.
Bill (37) An Act respecting the Ottawa,
the owner in a case of that kind.
Northern nnd Western, Raflway Company.The ameadment was adopted.
(Hon. Mfr. Dandurand.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MAY 28, 1903
Hon. Sir M1ACKENZIE BOWELL,-This
does not apply to btinks ?
Hon. Mr. -MeSWEENEY-What i. Rn lnHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
decent costume ?
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The absence of nuy.
was read the second time.
The clause was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill le
Hon. Mr. YOUNG, fr.om the committee, referred te a Committee of the Whole House
reported the Bill witb amendments, which on Wednesday next.
-were coucurred lu.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--SupSECOND REÂDINGS.
pose a company, under the provision, decide
Bill <G) Au Act for the relief of Florence to Increase the value of the shares, will
there be any provision for those who proLee Grey.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (29) An Act respectlng the Grand bably hold oniy a share of say fifty dollars 7
Trunk Rallway Company of Canada.-(Hon. What would be the position of the shareholder Ini that case? Would lie be compelled
Sir 'Mackenzie Bowell.)
to forfeit bis share or purchase an additional
THE COMPANIES ACT, 1902, AMEND- fifty dollars. I know companles In amalgamation where the shares of one company
M1ENT BILL.
were fifty dollars eacli and the shares of the
*
SECOND READING.
other company were one hundred dollars
Hou. «Mr. SCOTT moved the second rend- eacli, and ln the terms for amalgamating the
lng of Bill iK An Act te aniend the Coin- two comapanies, speclal provision bad te be
paffies Act, 19(12. He said: The Bill passed made ln that case. How would It bc under
by tbis House last year bas been subject to this Bill ?
a good deal of criticism. One of the criHon. Mr. SCOTT-No provision IR made
ticisuis by some lawyers lias been that It Is
for the condition of things suggested by ,ny
flot very clear that bills of exehange and
prornissory notes drnwm by the officers of bon. friend, and I ean qulte see where a
the compaur under the direction of the person holding only one sbare of, say, fifty
directors of the company were mlot exempt dollars, some provision should be made that
from clause 57, whilh made provision that that person's share sbould îîot be wiped ont,
wbere the company borrowed it liad to lie and It miglit be necessary te maire an anienddoue by a by-law, and that the sharehiolders ment te provide that lie should be allowed
hiad to approve of the by-law.
I do mot to retain such share as a half or a third
think thiat tbere 15 very much In it, and It of a share or whatever Its proportion miglit
bas only been urged by a few, stili It Is well be.
to make It perfectly clear that ln drawing,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
endorsing, and making bis of excliange aud the hon, gentleman propose te provide for
promissory uotes, tbey are mot subject to that ln this Bill?
clause 57 of the Act. Then under the Act
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will add a proviso te
wbere a couipauy IR Incorporated wlth
sbires below one huudred dollars, aud they that effect-provlding thiat the liolder of one
M-ish to niake their shares one hiundred dol- share of tweuty-five or fifty dollars sh.ould
Jars, there was no provision uuder the Act not lie tiîereby deprived of bis riglit te the
by which they could do so.
That clause proportion wblch lie holds o! the shiare of
a hundred dollars.
reads la this way.
Or. wheaever the par value of the existing
Hon. Mfr. CÂSGRAIN <De Lanaudière)-I
shares ls less than one hundred dollars each.
make a by-law consolidating thern into shares amn afraid tiat ivould lie uîîworkzable.
On the tliird clause,

of a larger amount ;but no such consolidated
share shaîl exceed the par value of one huadred dollars.
It cornes ln under section 40, whicbi provides that the directors of a coumpany may

at any trne mak-e a by-law te mlakze the
sbires a smiller ainount.
12

Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-It Is not likely sucli a
case will arise, but the application is mnade
on belialf of a company particuiariy that
desires to increase its shares te oue liuudred dollars. It 15 a doiestie nuatter, but
we wiil endeavour te ineet the difllcultY

SENATE
wbich my bion. frlend bas suggested by a ask the Secretary of State to postpone goproviso at the next stage of the Bill.
tng tt committee on tbe Bill until Weduesday, because It seems to me we ehoubd have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
a clause embodytng the principle contalned
reason I call attention ta that la, 1 have ln
ta section 27 of the old Âct. I k-now conimy mInd nt the present -moment the amal-.
panies organized sInce this new Act bas
gamation of two loan companies.
came Itt force have been granted powers
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This does not npply to which my bon. frtend and myself, and very
loan campantes at all. Tbey are nbsolutely many other lawyers, tbtnk are beyond the
scope of the Act, because of section 27 nat
excluded.
being any more ta the Act. I w-ould sugHon. Sir MACKEINZIE BOWELL-The gest that tbe Secretary of State sboubd, beane principle would apply-tbe same diffi- fore Wednesday next, cansider the advtsaculty would arise. 1 have in niy iemory btlity of re-euacttng the 27th section.
just 110W- a cas~e ivhere two complînes axualHon. Mr. SCOTT-Section 27 bas been tbe
gamated, the shares of one compa.ny belng
fifty dollars and the shares of the other one subject of a great deal of contraversy ta
It bas practically
hundred dollars, and the difficulty was Engband and Canada.
Iu the agreement whicb w-as entered Itt. neyer been observed. On inqutry la the deWhen the companles w-cnt befare the regis- partaient, they scarcely remember a case
trar of Ontarlo-It w-as under the Ontario w-bere appltcation w-ns made for auy agreeMy own pro cttce bias been,
law-tbe suggestion w-as made that ns one ment flled.
company Issued ten dollar shares under an- wbere applications come befare me and It Is
other provision, the fifty dollar shares znight apparent they are taking aver going conbe made five shares. 1 tblnk the suggestion cerns, wbich bas practically forined twomade by the Secretary of State w-ould meet thîrds of al] the cases, I advtsed theai ta set
forth ta the letters patent the termas nid
the case.
conditions, so tbat persons w-ho came Ia
like to cmi]l afterwards shahl know exactly the condiHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I should
the attention of the bon. Secretary of State tions ou whicb tbe going conceru bas been
to thxe advisability of i)loviding for caseý taken tato the compnuy.
suchi as are referred to In tbe note ta schedHon. Mr. DANDURÂND-Tbe questton ts,
nie A 0f tue Act of last year. That note ls:
cau It be doue under tbe Act as tt is to-day.
If any cash has been paid Ia on stock or tf
aay Property is intended to be accepted on
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ts doue ahl the tume.
Rccount of stock, It should be here utated.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Is It: donc legSome nincbinery sbauld be provided ta ahly ?
deal w-ith sucb cases. The w-ant of it bas
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the Secretary of
given rise, ta my k-nowledge, to a great
deal of trouble in organiziug conipanies, and State bas the power of parbiament tn so far
It w-as specially an accaunt of the old section as It cames under bis contrai. Section 27
27, whicb was left out of this new Act In was objected ta, not anly tn this country,
England tbey have Prnctically section 27 lu but ln England. It bas been superseded by
the Act of 1900, and It seems ta me, ta make another clause ia the same direction. Wbien
the Bibl cames up agatn 1 shiaîl be able ta
It barmonious witb tbe note I bave
rend,'
that the old section 27 sbould be intro- point ont tbat there Is no necessity for linduced. 1 know of very important cam- porttng section 27 agatu tuto tbe Act. If
panles that bave been organized under the you look nt clause 34, you will find tbat
assumption that tbe principle governtng un- every prospectus of a company and every
der section 27 of the old Ackt still prevahled notice ln w-riting shahl specify the date and
and that stock could be tssued payable other- tiames of the parties entering Into the conw-ise tban in cash. It seenis ta mue that tubs tract before tbe tssuing of sncb prospectus
or notice, &c. Naw, I miglit say tbat the
note ta whtcb I refer cantemplates that.
very fact of niy rnhiag tbint nder the terras
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe dlfficubty o! this Act tbey mnust expose the conditions
meutianed by the lion. gentleman (Hon. Mr. under w-bicb the company lias beexi floated.
Belque) w-as the one wbicb prompted me ta bas prevented parties coming ta Ottawa foi'
Hon. MINr.
SCOTT.

MAY 28, 1903
a charter. I might mention a very Important
Marconi Company-which
eompany-the
raised that objection. They said, 1you force
us to disclose the conditions under wbich
the company la being formed, and we object
to that.' 1 find the Âct to work very weli
Indeed, and I sbould strongiy deprecate the
Importing of section 27 Into the Act agalu.
I tbink It 'would Injure It very seriousiy.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would see more objection to the principle being embodied ln
some other form. The question came up ln
Engiand on severai occasions as to whether
stock, in the absence of speciai provisions iu
the Companies Act, should be paid otherwise than In cash, and I know it was held
by the House of Lords, aud lu fact by ail
the courts iu England, that it bad to be
paid in cash, and therefore a very serious
question arises when we have nierely section
:31, ivhich says :
Every shareholder. until the whole amount of
bis shares bas been paid up, shali bo Imdividualiy hiable to the creditors of the compwziY
to au amount equal to that flot paid up thereon.
This provision and that principle which
obtained lu England and would obtain before our courts, seems to be ln conflict with
that note to schedule A, to which I have referred. Now, If the hon. Secretary of
State tblnks, and I dare say he la rlght ln
that respect that section 27 of the oid Âct
does flot afford sufficient knowledge and
protection to the publié, other means migbLt
be turnished. It migbt be inserted lu the
letters patent, If It be deemed adylsabie,
but anyway that le merehy a question of
means. For my part, on severai occasions
1 have ascertaiued from the Department of
the Secretary of State as to whether there
was any agreement as contemplated under
section 27 of the old Act, and I baveobtained copies of agreemeuts that were lost ; but
I am quite sure the Secretary of State ls
correct lu saying that, as a general rule, the
public were flot sufficlently Informed.
Hou. Bir. SCOTT-The conditions la Canada and lu England are' entireiy different.
Ours is a broad country, 8,000 miles across,
and people 3,000 miles away do not
make application to the office of the Secretary of State to ascertain what documents
are filed. The invariable practice, ln Issuing letters patent, If It ls intended to take
over a going concern, for whicli stock ls
124

179

paid, ls to set forth the particulars of that
transaction ln the letters patent. They are
ail set forth lu full for the Information of
those who may. come ln afterwards.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-This la the kernel of the question. Would the embodying
of this lu the letters patent maire the agreement vaiid or legai ? Even If it were
Inciuded lu the letters patent, It would
be beyoud the Act as its stands, and 1
have seen letters patent lesued by the department granting those powers to some
compaules, and I woudered at those exteuded powers being granted lu the absence of
section 27, and that i. wby I tbiuk If those
powers are to be assumed by the Secretary
of State they should be embodied lu the
present Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They are embodled ln
the letters patent for the purpose of glving
the parties who propose to take stock lu the
company proper notice. Lt is supposed that
no one would take stock lu the conceru until
Lt does flot
he looked at the constitution.
make it legal placing It there ; it ls inserted
for the purpose of giving Information. I
have been discussing this question wlth
many emineut lawyers, more pnrticularly
lu Ontario, and they thought it was better
that the whole subject of the value of shares
should be ieft entirely to the common haw
practice. As to the value of shares, lu the
eveut of the Company golng Into liquidation, the court would have to pass on
whether reai value had been given. That
value might be lu personal property or lu
real property, and it would tben be for the
court to say whether persons who had obtained shares below their value, whether
that value was represeuted by cash or personai property-that they might be calied
upon as contrIbutors towards payiug creditors. Lt reste on the conditions afterwards
which happen to arise. It does flot make it
legal Its being there, but It slmply gives
notice to the public.
Hou. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-We
are discussing this question as If we were
1 fiud lu a' Bill we have
lu committee.
just read the second time and referred to
the Bankiug Committee, the Bill relatiug to
the Bank of Montreal, there is a simîlar provision for chauging the value of the shares,
the sixth clause Of which provides for the

SENATE
manner ln whicb fractional portdons of
shares are to be disposed of. It seerns to
'be a very arbitrary one, because It wouid
be iegislating away rights .o property. I
merely eall the attention of the Secretary of
State to it as It rnay possibly assist him ln
frarning a clause to meet the objection that
bas been taken.
The motion was agreed to.
NATURALIZATION AND ALIENS ACT
ÂMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (L) An Act to arnend tbe Act
reiating to Naturalization and Aliens. He
sald : Since tbe Naturalization Act was
passed sorne years ago, Important territories
bave been added to Canada. It did nlot provide for aliens In the North-west Territorles
or, of course, for aliens iln the Yukon Territor-y, wbo becorne naturallzed, and this Bill
has speclfied tbe court ln the North-west
Territories, the Supreme Court, that Is to be
the court to wbicb the alleu bas to apply ;
and ln the Yukon Territory It Is the Territorial Court. In addition to the Act, as It
has exIsted for many years, it bas been suggested by an eminent authority In either
Manitoba or tbe North-west, that In order
to prevent frauds, parties desirIng to becorne naturalized sbould, three weeks ln advance of the proceeding of the court, hand
ln their narnes to the cierk of the court ln
order that be rnay post thexn up ln bis office,
sO that tbe public rnay have an opportunity
of knowIng and possibly ascertaining that
the person making application was not entitled to naturalization, because bis terrn In
Canada had nlot been sufficlently long.
Macbinery bas been prepared to carry out
that Idea.
1 The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

Bill (54). An Act respecting the Canada
Permanent and Western Canada Mortgage
Corporation, and to change Its narne to the
Canada Permanent M-%ortgage Corporation.
-(Hon. Sir Mack-enzie Bowell.)
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY
0F CANADA BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved the second
reading of Bill (65) An Act respecting the
Mutual Life Assurance Company of Canada.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The Bill bas not
been distrIbuted.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It is marked printed
in Englisb and French, and bas withoUt
doubt been distrlbuted.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second Urne.
ATLANTIC, QUEBEC AND WESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
ÀMENDMENTS ADOPTED.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moyed concurrence ln the amendments made by the Standing Committee on Railways, Telegraplis
and Harbours to Bill (28) An Act respectIng the Atlantic, Quebec and Western Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-1 would ask tlue
mover to do me another favour in poStponing bis motion for another day. 1 received to-day a number of documents and
papers respecting this Bill. 'They carne to
me too late to take cognizance of tbern before tbe Bill was considered ln committee,
and I, therefore, ask the bon, gentleman
to postpone bis motion for another day.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I cannot consent to postpone this motion, but I amn
SECOND READINGS.
willing that the third reading shahl be deBil (351 Anl Act to incorporate the ferred until Monday next.
CoaQt Yukon Rai]way Coliipaii.-(Hon. Mr.
The motion was agreed to.
Young.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I give notice that
Bill (52) An Act to incorporate the Joliette
Railway on the- third reading of tbe Bill, I shall
and Lake MaNfnuani Colonization
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Casgrain, de Lanau- move that the Bill be xecomrnitted for the
purpose of rnaking certain arnendments.
dière).
Hon. Sir

BAKNI
OWELL.

MAY 28, 1903
EDMONTON AND SLAVE LAKE RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A Bill came from the
H-ouse o! Gommons a few days ago, the
object of which was to correct a cierica '
error lu a Bill whicb we passed lncorporating the Edmonton aud Slave Lake Railway
Company. It appears that the word «Company' was ieft out lu the statute. It was
correct lu the French translation, but not
iu the Engish version. My attention flot
havlng been called to It at tbe time, I did
not take charge of the Bill, but I find that
the error occurred elther lu the prluting
at the Bureau, or by the. officer of the
House who prepared the BIII. I now move
that the Bill be read the first time.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOIVELL-Is It
a governmeut Bill?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-'-Mr. Fitzpatrick: lind
charge of It fu the other House. The Act
was passed lat session o! parliament, and
properly passed, but lu the printlng of the
Bill the error occurred.
The SPEAKER-The Bill was read-the
first time, but no one took charge o! IL.
The motion now shouhd be to place It on the
Order paper.
Hon. Mfr. SéOTT moved that the ]Bill be
placed on the Order paper for second reading to-morrow.
HU. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Th7]e
gentlemen who aend us Bills from the House
o! Gommons, often send them wîthout askiug any one to take charge of them here.
The best way to teacli them a lesson le to
let Bis lu sucli cases drop. If the mnenbers of the House o! Gommons have not the
courtesy to ask Senators ta take charge of
thieir Bis here, let them drop.
Hon. GENTLEM_%EN-Hear. hiear.
The motion was agreed to.
MTTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY
0F CANADA BILL.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moyed that the House
do now adjourn.
BOWEL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
should like to refer, before adjouruing, to
the point raised by my hon. friend from
Charlottetown lu connection with Bill No.
(65. respecting- the Nlutilail Life Assurance

181

Comipany of Canada. I ftnd Bill (65), Which
was moved by the hon. gentleman from
Lincoln (Mfr. Gibson), bas flot been distrlbuted. I do flot objeet to the Bill,
but I think it l. unfortunate to move the
second readlng of a Bill witbout bavIng it
before ns. I have Inqulred of the pages and
they have flot seen IL. Wbile It appears on
the Notice paper as printed la English and
French, tbere Is no notice that I eau flnd
that It has been distributed ta members.
I tluk it is about time that we got Into a
more regular way of dolng business. I wisb
It to be distinctly understood that I arn not
finding any fault with the hou, gentleman
who moved the motion, because it was the
duty of some officiai of the House or of the
distrlbuting office to see that the Bill was
distributed. It la an Important matter, and
I thlnk lu future we shouid insjst on this
rule belng carried out.
Hou. Bir. GIBSON-I do uot thiuk there
should be any reflectioli on the motion I
made.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
stated tbat I did not find fault wlth the
hion. gentleman..
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-I quite agree with the
leader of the opposition; I think none of
those Bis should be placed on the Orders
of the Day unless aIl the miles of the Senate
are complied with, but I cannot be held
responsibie for the Orders of the Day. Perhaps I have flot the time ta go and
search for the Bill which stands lu my naine,
but 1 take It for grauted the Orders of the
Day are correct and when the order In my
namne is reached, that I should make the
motion lu the ordinary way. It Is very misleadiug to hon. members who aliow their
nines to be piaced to Bills, to find that the
want o! the Bill Is the fauit of those who are
empioyed by the Senate and who ought to
see that ail those Bis are distributed before
they are pliced on the Order Paper.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-We should Insist
that whoever ls charged with the duty should
see not oniy that the Bis are printed lu
Engish and French and distributed, but we
should go further, and no Bill should be
proceeded with that bas not been distrlbuted.
'['here could be no greater reflection on this
House tÉan the fact that we pass Bis whicb
aire not before the House.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I go furtber
and say that when ail the ruIes are complied
with no hon, gentleman should ask for a
l)o.stpoiieiiieiit of ail Order. 1 have Bill (65)
ln my hand now.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It ougbt to be ln the
possession of every member of this House
before It Is discussed. Suppose a question
had been, asked me about this Bill, as any
lion. gentleman bas a rlgbt to ask It, how
could I answer ? We ougbt to be inx possession of .Bils whicb stand in our name
and they should be before us on our desku
and before the Clerk of the House.
The motion was agreed to.

liave it heard before
Tbursday next.

tRie

committee on

Hoii. Mr. SCOTT-It could ouly go to a
speclal committee by arrangement. ln the
ordinamy course It would corne before a committee of thie whole House.
-Hon. Mr. MILLER-Thls being a publie
Bill, If It is mead tRie second time it wl
be tak-en as an endorsatin of thie principle
o! tRie measure. It sbould go before thie
cornmittee o! tRie wboie House In tRie regular way, but whatever cornmittee it goes
to, It sbould lie witb tRie understanding- tbat
no one le committed to thie prIncIple of thie
measure.

The Senate adjourned.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, that ls tRie position I take lu regard to it. Tbere will be
a lot of Information eliclted before tRie comnniittee that w-il] not bie brouglit out liefore
THE SENATE.
the House, and I understaud. tbat it Is ln
Ottaiwa, Friday, May 29, 1903.
exactly thie saine position as thie Bill introduced by tRie bon. gentleman from Calgary
Thie SPEAKER took tRie Chair nt Three (lon. 31r. Loughieed) and I should hike tO
ociock.
have It go before thie commlttee on Thursday, wlxere tRie parties initemested cau bc,
Pmayers and routine proceedings.
heard.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hon. members are f ree
Bill (F) An Act to incorporate tRie Home to discuss tRie Bill on thie second readlng,
Bank of Canada.-<Hon. Mr. McMiiian, in even if it goes to commlttee witb that underabsence of Sir Mackenzie Boweli.)
standing. It would niot lie weh to let it
UNION LABELS BILL.

go by defauht in that w-ny.

H-on. sir M-\ACKENZIE BOWELL-TRie
SECON.D READING POSTPONED.
lion. gentleman's motion is to discliarge tRie
Thie Order of the Day being called.
order and set it down for second reading
Second Reading Bill (D) An Act respecting Tuesday xxext. TRiat ivili enable niany O!
Labour Union Labels.
those w-ho desire to take part ixî thie discusHon. Mr. WATSON xnoved tbat the Order sion to be present.
of thie Day lie discbarged and piaced on tRie
Order Paper for Tuesday next.
Hou. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-Would
it not lie better to put it off tii] after- tie
deputation is beard fromn ? 1 understood
that a numiber of gentlemen who favour thie
Bill were to be present.
Hon. 3fr. WATSON-I would like if thie
Bill could go before thie Commiittee on Banking and Commerce at the saine time as thie
other Bil. Thie sanie parties are interested
in thie matter. and it w-il] bie a saving to thie
people who m-ish to appear before that coinmîttee. I tbought if it w-as agreeable I cou]d
move thie seeond reading on Tuesday and
Hon. Mr. FERGtSON.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-And it is at thie 17equest o! mauly of those wlio canuot Rie present to-day.
Thie motion w-as igreed to.
SECOND READINGS.

Bill (38) An Act

respecting

thie Great

North-w-est Central Raihway Company.(Hon. Mfr. Lougbeed, l thie absence o! HIon.
Mfr. Kirchhloffer.)
Bill (56) Anl Act to incorporate thie Quebec, Saguenay and Gui! o! St. Lawrence
Alphonlse
Sir
Rniilway Companiy.-(Holi.
Pelletier.)

MALY 29, 190318
Blill (61) An Act respecting the Winnipeg
Western Land Corporation, limlted.-Honi.
Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
Bill (62) An Act respecting the Ontario
and Qu'Appelle Land Company, Limited.(Hon. '-%r. Kerr, Toronto.)
Bill (80) An Act respectlng the Canada
North-west Land Company, Llmited.--(Hoii
Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)

j the preamble, so that anybody who reads

the preamble wlll see the circuxastances
nuder wbicb the patent lapsed. I arn not
acquainted with the cîrcuxastances beyond
what appears bere, but this ls a case Ia
wÉiich the Bill mlght reasonably be allowed
to go witbout further explanation.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

STANDARD CAR TRUCK< CO'MPANY
BILL.

EDIIONTON AND SLAVE LAKE RAILWAY CO'MPANY BILL

SECOND READING.
The Order of the Day belng called.Second readlng Bill (105) An Act to conter on
the commissioner of patenta certain powers for
the relief of the Standard Car Truck Company.
-(Hon. Mr. Owens.)
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) moved
that the Bill be read the second time.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I think thia Bill
la out 0f the ordlnary routine of legisiation,
and I sbould like to have some explanatioli
of why we are asked to pass it. If it were
an ordinary Bill connected wltb rallways
or other projecta, I would not consider lt
necessary to ask any queatioifs, but bere la
a Bill for the purpose of conferrlng certain
pcwers on the commisaloner of patents. If
It la for the purpose of revivlng a patent
whlch bas explred, or a matter of that klnd,
I think on the second reading we ahould
have sonie explanation of why It is asked to
confer this power, rather than delay tbe explanation tili It goes before the cornmlttee,
I sbould like to knoNw wbat the explanatloa
le.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-I know
notbing at ail about this Bill. We could
]et it pass this stage and go to commlttee.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved the second readlng of Bill (109) An Act to correct a clerical
error In the Act to lncorporate the Edmonton and Slave Lake Rallway Company. He
sald: In the year 189 an Act was passed
lucorporatlng the Edmonton and Slave
Lake Rallway Company. In the clause
declaring that tbe persons naxned were to
forrn a company under the name of the
Edmonton and Slave Lake Company, the
Act no doubt paased correctîr botb Houses,
but la the printlng of It, froni sonie cause
or other the word 'railway' was dropped
ont, and It is slmply to replace that word
and declare that lt forma part of the Act
of 1899 tbat this Bill ls lntroduced. The
Act ltselt is bended 'An Act to Incorporate
the Edmonton and Slave Lake Ralwiay
Company,' and ail through it ls talked of
as a rallway company, except ia that one
clause, where the word ' rallway ' Is oxnltted.
ln the Frenchi e4ltion the word 'rallway'
a ppears.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is not
this a prlvate Bilh ? The original mensure
was a private Bill, was It not ?

Hon. «Mr. FERGUSON-We have got into
a bad practice la this House of permlttlng
Important Bis to pasa the second reading
ivltbont explanation. We bad yesterday a
very important measure with regard to the
Bank of lilontreal, and maay others that
1 think shou]d be explained at the second
reading. It niakes a record and it opens
the way for bion. members to, make further
inquiries before a Bill reaches the coniinittee stage.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, but it had passed
through its regular stages i both Houses
and was enacted properly. It la not promoted ln the interest of the parties, but
simply to correct an error which lias
occurred.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As I
understand, it ls a Bill lntroduced by the
g-overnient ?
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

Hon. Mr. NERR (Toronto)-I have no- 1Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-For
thiug to do with this Bill, but I observe the 1the purpose of correcting an error in a
whole reason for the measure is set forth iii private Bill ?

SENATE
Hon. Mir. SCO.UT-Yes, the
Justice introduced it.

M-%inister of

THE SENÂTE.

Ottawa, Holiday, June 1, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second timie.
1o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I -presume the proper
way 110W wouid be to rend the Bill-lt bas
FISHING IN TIDAL WATERS.
eniy one clause-at the Table, and pass it.
be sent to a committee.
It is flot a Bill to
INQUIRY.
There ls nothing to be presented to a coinHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) inquired:
mittee. I, therefore, mnove that the Bill
Has any arrangement been arrlved at by the
be rend at length at the Table.
Dominion and provincial goveraments with respect ta conflicting authorlty overThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill
1. Flahing ln rivers ln tidal waters and above
tidal waters.
w-as rend nt length nt the Table.
2. Foreshore rights between high and 10w
water.
THE STANDING COMMITTEES
3. Inland sea, between 10w water and the
three-mile himit ?
emHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I wisli ta
He sald : My object ln asklng these quesphinsize a fact which I pointed out liere at
tions lis ln regard to the fisheries lu British
the beginning of the session, tlhat genitleon
men aire excluded trom the committees hiere Columbia. The season ls just coming
now, and a number of leases bave been apwlho attend strictly to tbe business of the
for
Senate. Here Is a whole page of legisia- plied for to the provincial government
fishing rights on the shores within the threethon gone through lni what may be calIcd
true railroad style, and flot a single gen- mile lmit, and I do not knaw wbat bas
tleman who is not oa those committees will been doue about it. In the rivers, of course,
know anything about the details of the Buis. the question la dispute Is between the DoI have been excluded from committees ln a minion. and provincial goveruments, in which
most unreasonable manner. There may be a hait decision was given by the Prlvy
others ln the samie position who are more Council ln 189, and I beleve that decision
modest than I amn, and do not caré to be ap- gives the provinces certain rights ta Issue
polnted, but I wisb to say here that those licenses whlle it leaves the regulation in the
Senators who attend faithfully .to their bands of the Dominion goverament, and I
duties should not be excluded from an oppor- think It would be convenient If some artunity of being acquainted with the legisia- rangement could be arrived at. It resoives
tion of this House. and %that opportunity itself Into a provincial financial question.
given to others who rarely, if ever, attend to The province of British Columbia think
the work of the committees. There are gen- they should be entltled ta a portion of the
tlexnei appointed to the most important money received for licenses, and I suppose
committees and chairman of them for no0 under the decision of the Prlvy Councl,
renson that I can thiak of, and it is deg-rad- they are entltled ta somethlng of thant kind,
lnýg to this Senate if sncb a spirit gets into and It would be most convenlent If the matIt, a spirit of an oiigarchy ruling by force ter were settled as soon as possible. With
hiere. I, therefore, bope tlint the Senate regard ta the waters above tidal influence,
will take that into consideration, and that it was decided in 1882 in the case of Crown
those gentlemen w-bo are supposed ta repre- vs. Robertson that the rights in those rivers
sent the feelings of the House, and who belonged ta the proprietor on each side. and
are appointed ta strike the committees, -will a proprietor owning bath sides of the river,
see that simple justice is doue to those who owned the bed of the river, and the fishing
are deserving.
rights as well. The hon. Secretary of State
will inform us if anything has been done
The Senate adjourned.
with regard ta the settiement of the niatter
between the provinces and the Dominion
in regard ta tidal waters, especlly la British
Columbia, where fishing is carried on.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVL*I.

1S5

JUNE 1, 1903
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No arrangement bas
yet been arrived at between the Dominion
government and the provinces as to the
ultimate authority of the respective governments over property rlghts ln the fisheries,
as involved ln those tbree inquiries, whlch
must depend upon thse adjustment of pending questions. Theý Privy Council judgment,
like many other of their judgments, Is by
no means clear and satistactory, and bas led
to confusion, and the matter bas been difficuit to arrange. Not mucli progress bas
been made in thse settIement.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I think
It is a very easy matter for the two governments to arrange the whole question. If a
certain amount of thse revenue were given to,
the provinces, then thse government could
carry It on as they are now doing, and it
could be easlly settled ln that way.
CATTLE QUARÂNTINE AT QUEBEC.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY iuquired:
1. Was the contract for the works of repair
made at the cattie quarantine at Lévis in 1901

MAIL

AND LEVIS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY inquired:
la there a distinct service for the carniage

of mail baga. tram the ferry boats between Que-

bec and Lévis and-

(a.) The Intercolonial Railway station.
(b.) The Lévis post office.
If soa, wba carrnes the mail baga from the
boats to the station, and at what price per
year ?

Who carrnes the mail bags from the boats tÔ

the post offce and at what price per year ?
Were these two cantracts givea after tenders hadt been aeked for?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to, the
questions are :
(a.) There Is no distinct service for the carrnge of mails elmply between the ferry
boats at Lévis iandlng and the Intercolonial
IRailway station. Tbe mails are dellvered
trom the ferry boate by means of trucks
ln charge of the mal cierks.
(b.) Tbere le; no distinct service for the carniage of the mails slmply between Lévis
ferry and Lévis post office. There la a contract for carniage of the mails between Quebec and Lévis wlth one Xavier Guay at
$29G per year, obtained after tender.

and 1902 let atter tenders bad been prevlously
called for ?
2. Who were the tenderers for these works ? PIREWOOD
3. What was the amount of each of the ten-

ders ?

4. Who obtalned the contract and for what
sum ?
5. In the case of the repaire in quqstion havlag been made by the day, who was proposed
to take charge of the works ?
6. What amount did these repalrs cost. distinguishing the cost of the labour from that of
the materials used ?
7. How much a day did the government pay
the superintendent of these works and the
workmen and labourers ?
8. How ;aany dubic feet of cedar Wood bas
been charge« ta the government, and at what
price ?
9. From whom did the government buy this
Wood?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie answers ta questions 1. 2. 3 and 4, are No.
5. (a) work done by day labour ; (b) D.
Carrier.
6. Labour cost, $1,971.80; material cost,
$3,534.61 ;
painting of Mfr. Walsh's residence done by job nt a total cost of $220.
7. Superintendent or foreman, 25 cents
per hour; carter, 25 cents per isour; masons, 20 cents per bour ; carpenters, 17j
cents per hour ; labourers, 12J cents per
bour.
8. Two tbousand one bundred anid twentyeight feet at 14 cents per foot.
9. From J. N. Blouin.

QUEBEC

BETWEEN

SERVICE

FOR M1ILITIA FORTS
LE VIS.

AT

fl4QUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY Inquired:
1. Was the contract for furnishing firewood
for the military forts Nos. 1, 2 and 3 at Lévis,
for the years 1900, 1901 and 1902, let after tenders had been previously asked for ?
2. Who were the tenderers for eaab of the
three years abane mentioned ?

3. What was the amaune of the tenders ln
each of these years ?
4. Who obtaiaed the contract for each of these
years 'f
5. Io it at the price asked by hlm , If not.
or what prie?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe answers are as foiiows :

1. Yes for 1900-1 and 1901-2.

It was con-

tinued for 1902-3 nt ame pnice as for 1901-2.
2. Tenders were as follows : 1900-1-J.
A. Bloulu, $6.75 per cord ; A. Filion, $6.75
per cord ; M. Dorval, $S.24 per cord. 1901-2
-J. A. Blouin. $6.99 . A. Flion. $7;- M.
Dorval, $7.25. 1962-3-Previous contract was
continued with J1. A. Blouin nt $6.99.
EXPORTS 0F WOOD.
MOTIO'N.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY moved:
That an humble address be presented to His
Excellency, praylng that Hîs Excellency will

SENATE
date ;such stateinent to -show the name of
each exporter, as well as the' quantity and
value of the wood exported by each one. also
Ïear by year ;and in the case of exporters flot
having declared the quîntities to the customs
officer, the statement to show the value b.Y
the cord upon which the total value bas been
reai.
3. A ainilar statement for the port of Three based, as declared by the exportera.
Rivera.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT- I amn informed by the
4. A similar istatement for the port of QueDepartment of Customs, that It is not usual
bec.
ta dîsclose the names of the Importers
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I notice the hon. genle
and exportera. The article 15 given, and
man wants this Information for each kind
tlie quantlty Ia given, but they do flot
of wood. I do not know whether It la kept

*be graciously pleased to cause to be laid before
this House a statement showing, year by year.
the quantities of each kind of wood entered at
the port of Ottawa for exportation, since 1892
up ta date.
2. A similar statement for the port of Mont-

rule brlng down the names of
In that form or in what form the goverfi- as a
the Individuals because It Is regarded
ment returna are kept. Whatever shape
affairs
with the
as an Interference
they are In, I shahl be glad to brhng them
of private persona, and, therefore, If the
down.
bon. gentleman will atrike out In the sIxth
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Whatever can be oh- Une the worda
the name of each Imtalned from the department ?
porter as well as,' and in the second line
tiiereatter, 'and by each one,' the motion
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
niigbt pass. Wlll the -bon, gentleman acThe motion was agreed to.
cept that ?
Wouid
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainiy.
THE ST. MAURICE TIMBER SLIDES.
there be any objection, In place of the
MOTION.
iiames to putting In the letter af the alphaHon. Mfr. LANDRY moved:
bet ?
That an humble address be presented ta His
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh yes, tbere would be.
Excellency, praying that Hie Excellency will be
graciously pleased ta cause to be laid before Hon. 3fr. LANDRY-Not the Initiais of the
this House a statement showing, year by year,
from 1896 up ta date, the nuniber of saw-lags exporter but any letter whatsoever ?
and of other pieces of wood which have passed
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-Any definite informathrough the St. Maurice alides, dlst.ingulshing
the number of pieces stopped respectively at tion 1 wouid be glad to give.
Grandes Piles, Grand'Mère, and at the Shawenegan Falls (ta be used at each of these localities
BILLS INTRODUCED.
or forwarded from each of these localities).
from the number o! pleces taken down as far
3111 (15) An Act to amend the Dominion
as Three Rivers.
Ferguson.)
Elections Act of 10.(n.Mr.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Aimost the same obserBill (17) An Act to aid In the settiement
vations miglit apphy to this ; I do not know

of Railway

Labour

Disputes.-(Hoii.

',%r.

how the accounts are k-ept in reference ta Scott.)
these varions woods. Whatever they have
Bill1 (43) An Act to incorporate the Regina
in the department 1 shall be glad to bring

and Hudson Bay Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Young.)
Hon. M1r. LANDRY-I think. the accounts
Bill (88) An Act respecting the M-\utuai
are very well kept, and it will be very easy Lire Insurance Company of the city of
to get the statements asked for.
Montreal, and to change its name to the
Montreal-Quebec Fire Insurance Company.The motion was ag-reed to.

down.

(Hon. Mr. Beique.)

EXPORT

0F PULP WOOD
THREE RIVERS.

FR031

Bill (90) An Act respecting the Niagara

Welland Power Company, Limited, and to
change its name to the Niagara Welland
Power Company.-<Hon. Mr. McMullen.)
Bill (92) An Act respecting the Dominion

MOTION.
Hon. 3fr. LANDRY moved:
That an humble address be presented ta His
Limited, and
Excellency, praying that His Excellency will Burglary Guarantee Company',
be graciously pleased ta cause ta be laid before to change its name to the Dominion Guaranithis House a statement showing, year by year. tee Company, Limited.-(Hon. Mr. Casgrain,
the quantity and value of pulpwood exported
tram the port o! Three Rivers, froni 1896 up ta de Lanaudière.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

JUNE 1, 1903

Bill (108) An Act respecting the Ottawa
Electric Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Edwards.)
Bill (113) An Act to incorporate the Sault
St. Louis Lighit and Power Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (118) An Act respecting the Canada
Atlantic Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Bdwards.)
Bill (140) An Act respecting the Lindsay,
Bobeaygeon and Pontypool Railway Compniny.-(Hon. Mr. Dobson.)

181

of the various societies and schools of hearn-

Ing. Hia death, I arn sure, by tbose who
know hlm, will be very deeplyý regretted.
I arn sorr tbe leader of the opposition is
not bere, as I know the Iste Senator O'Brien
was a particular friend of bis and I arn
quite sure, If Sir Mackenzie Bowelh bad
been bere, lie wouhd bave added to the observations I make expressing tbe regret
with wbicb be sud bis friends bave beard
of the deatb of Mr. O'Brien.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn sure on this

Bill (42) An Act respecting the Alberta aide of tbe House we ail regret exoeediugly
Mr. that Sir Mackenzie Boweii la flot ln the
Company.-(Hon.
Central
Ralway

Young.)
Bill (83) An Act to incorporate the New
Canadian Company, Limited.-(Hon. Mr.
Dandurand.)
Bill (126) An Act respecting the Mexican
Lîglit and Power Company, Llmited.-<(Hon.
Mr. Casgrain, de Lanaudière.) THE LATE SENATOR O'BRIEN.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before the Orders of
the Day are called, It la my sad duty to
make a few observations on the deatb of a
gentleman wlio recently occupied a seat
ln this cbamber. Death bas been very busy
wltli our colleagues ln the last two or three
years, and on FrIday last, after this House
rose, we learned wlth very great regret tbat
Senator O'Brien had been called away. His
deatli, however, was not altogether. unexpected. If my memory serves me rigbt,
lie wss flot wlth us hast year. I thin< be
went abrosd, travelling in Egypt and parts
of Europe. On bis returu to Montreai he
was taken 111
sud did not leave his room for
the last six or elgbt montbs, so that deatb
probably was a relief to hlm under the circurnstances. The late Senator O'Brien was
a warm hearted, genial and generous Irishman, a man bighiy esteemed by gentlemen
on both sIdes of politics. There was uothlng
aggressive about blm, and lie was equally
popuhair witb those wbo opposed sud those
wlio were with hlm ln polities. He bad
beeii fortunate in ]Ife, accumulated a good
des! of money, sud with the generous Impulse of bis own lieart was spending It ln
a way that those of us who lisppen to
have money would do well to imîtate. He
was a generous giver to all the charitable
associations of Montres], and a libers! patron

Senate to-nIglit to bave an opportunlty of
psylng a tribute of respect to the memory
of a gentleman wbo, as we kuow, wss not
only closehy politicalhy associated with hlm,
but was one of bis closest and best personal
frlends. I amn sure, however, that ail the
gentlemen sittlng ln this House fully
endorse the expreslons -which havie just
fa lien from the leader of the goverament.
Our depsrted colleagué was, as he 'very
justly remarked, an important man la the
commercial world of Montreai. He lisd
accumulsted a fortune, sud was known to
be a man of the very highest lntegity ln
lis private business. In this House be was
unassumIng and waa loyal to bis frlends
sud principles, and we ail deeply regret tbe
death of so good a man as Senator O'Brien.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudlère)-I
was personally very well acqualnted for a
good many years with the late Senator
O'Brien sud I wlsb to addl my quota and to
say I feel bis deatb. Altbough expected
for many months, It strikes home to a great
many people lni Montreai. Mr. O'Brien was
a lire-long mercliant ln the city of Montreal. He came to our clty from Ireland a
very poor man Indeed, snd It shows what
openings this country can afford to men of
gcod sterling qualities, who are wihlng to
work. Mr. O'Brien came, and was very
proud to say it himself, a very poor boy to
the city of Montres!, and hy bis industry
and his attention to -business achieved a
position lu our mercantile community second
to noue lu the great commercial metropolis
of Canada. I may say that under tbe circumstances I do not believe there is one
single person lu this House or lu the clty
of Montres! wliere lie wss so well known,

SEN-,ýATE
wichi came out the other day wbiei a deputation from the Typographical Union of
Ottawa waited upon the Secretary of State
a.nd the Premier wlb regard to a Bill
whlichi, I thiak, stands ix> the naine of tbe
Minister of Justice lu the otlier brunchi of
thils parliament. In tbe Interview wbicbi
occurred wîtb regard to that Bill-if the
newspapers have reported It correctly-tbe
Premier gave the deputation to understand
that it was possible that the goverument
migbit at an eariy day, or mlight at any rate
resoive upoa ciosiug the Printlng Bureau.
In view of that Intimation, as given by tbe
THE GOVERN'MENT PRINTING
Premier to that deputation the other day,
BUREAU.
and this unpieasantness tbat bas occurred
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I destre to ask my ln the Prîntiug Department aud further-in
hon. frlend, the leader of the House, wbe- vlew of tbe fact that very Important
ther lie Intends to take the Senate Into bis tbiugs may occur lu counection witb this
confidence with regard to the difficulties dîfflcuity before many days, I tblnk It wouid
exlstlng nt the Printlng Bureau, a depart- flot be unreasouabie that parliament sbiouid
ment under bis own control. It appears that l)e taken huto tbe confidence of the govsometime lu Marcli last a demand was for- erumeut lu tbe matter, aud tbat aIl tho
muiated upon the government, as weli as correspoudence that bas taken place beupon«the private estAbllshments ln this clty, tweeil tbe Ottawa Typographîcal Union and
by the Ottawa Typogruphicai Union for an the goverument sbould be laid beforo tbe
Increase of pay to the printers, and that a House, especlally tlis document %vliicl is
correspondence bas taken place and somne called the ultimatum wbicbi bas not beeni
Interviews have niso been beid ; and thant f uliy published lu the newspapers and
ou Saturdny last wbat Is calied ix>the press wbicb was read to the empioyees 0f the
an ultimatum was sent to the exnpioyees Priutiug Bureau on Saturday last. 1 can
of the Printing Bureau, refuslng to grant scarceiy tbluk It possible that this govthe demands they bad made for an in- crament Is serious witb regard to doing
crense of pay to take effect to-day, and away wltb the Prlntiug Bureau and returuaiso, wbich is even more Important, ln- ing to the practice 0f biaving ail their prînttîmating to tbemn tbat ln tbe future the lng doue lu the private printing offices of
Priniting Bureau would be conducted as an the country. I cau bardly, tbiuk tinit sncbi
open Institution-open la this sense, that It a tbiug as that could be doue whiie tbe
would be free to tbe department of iny Mînister of Trade and Commerce Is a mcmlion. friend the Secretary of State to cml- ber of the goverument. Wce remember very
pioy non-union men as weli as union nci weil that tbe MNinister of Trude and Comniii that departmeut. The difficuity is rather mlerce uscd to regard tbe bcstowmcent of the
an Important one, as It bas occurred under patronage of prlutiug ou tbe newspaper
a governmeut that bas a Departînent of priutiug offices tbrougbout the country as
Labour as a part 0f its macbînery, and It a pollution of the wells ou wbîcb the
seems thxat, notwithstanding ail the cost of public were depeudent for their informathat Department of Labour to the country, tion. Nevertbeless, it seems, If the Preand the power that bas been given by this mier bas beeu reported correctly, tbe
departmeut to the Miuister of Labour goverumeut Is serlousiy cousidering the
witb regard to difficulties of this kind. this question of doing away entirely witbi the
very serlous difflcuIty bas corne homne to tue Printiug Bureau and bcstowing ail the
goi-ernment ln a brancb of business that ls public patronage in conuection witb the
conducted by tbem wbere tbey bave em- printing of tbe country on the private printployees directiy deauing withi themseives ing offices. I hope my bon. friend wili see bis
as a gov-erilment. This question is also jwav clear to make a statemeut to the I{ouse
very important indeed iii view of sometiîing and tell ns exactiy how this question stands
H-on. Mr. CASGRAIN (De Lanaudière).

who wlll flot deepiy regret bis death and
sympathize wlth the bereaved famliy at this
moment The Immense concourse of mnourners, composed of the leadiug citizeas from
ail over Canada, whlch foilowed this Moralng, bis mortal remains, from bis princely
residence on Sherbrooke street to St. Patrick's church, where hie bas worsbipped for
more than forty years:, bears a publie testimony to the higb esteem wbicb surrounded
hlm ln thîs, bis adopted country. I heartlly
concur ln the kiud wiords that bave been
said about the late Senator O'Brien.

inbetween the employees of the P1rinting on1e. lIn 1893, in1 order to prevent an
and the departmnent, and that lie wifl crease in the wages unduiy at tlie Bureau
Bureau
ia Counnise submlt ta the House at biis earliest fromn politicai pressure, an Order
copies of ail the correspondenCe cil laid down the standard that thereatter
convenience
wages
that lias taken place witb regard to this the wages should be based on the
pald In otber parts of Canada, persumably
dIfficulty,
Toronto-Toronto belng the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn afraid I cannot at Montreal and
hlghest. It seerned to be a very fair stanenlighten the Hanse very mucli on tbe diffipressure some two or three
cuities whlcli bave recentiy arisen and ta dard. Under
years ago an agitation was got up for au Iuwhich the attention of iembers bas been
head of the International Priacailed. My lion. friend bas given very crease. The
have ters' Association came on froni, I think it
briefly the tacts huiseif, and we ail
to Ottawa and was liere
read them In the newspapers. I do not see was Indianapolis,
for a week or ten days. Wltb a view ta
tliat I can add to theni at ail. On the 7tb
trouble, and ta deal llberaily
Mardi iast the Typographicai Union of Ot- preventing any
with the men, we gave them an Increase.
tawa, composed of'82 per cent of the enitliem above tie wages
pioyees of the Printing Bureau, met togetbier That increase placed
paid In Toronto and consideraby above the
and passed a resolution settlng fortb tiat
Montreal. At Ottawa tie men
on and after tbe lat of June the rate of rate paid in
that wiork 48 hours a week. Ia ail otier parts
wages wouid be accordlng ta a table
they worl. 54 hours a week, so
tlxey tlien prepared. Previous ta tbiat there of Canada
were there was an adrantage of six liaurs In
had been no0 Intimation tiat tlie men
tbe Ottawa Bureau. In addition
dlssatlsfied wlth tlie condition of things nt faveur of
of ta tiat, tbe mien In Ottawa are allowed, I
the Bureau. The attention of the head
elgit hlidays la tie year, for
tie departmeat lad not been cailed ta any think, about
whilb the government pays, and whici Is
dlssatlsfaction tiat miglit have prevalled,
as I amn advised, la otier estabnor liad any representation been made as to not tbe rule,
and lishments. Tbere may be some few excepwages. Tliey slmply met Ia conclave
of some few extra goad men
decided their wages should be s0 and se, tions ln faveur
wliere, by courtesy, a man ls nat docked for a
,wltiout consultlng with those wbo par the
as tlie Kiag's Birthday or Lawages. Tirce copies of It were served on holiday sucb
days bour Day. Under tiose clrcumstances, I did
tbe management of the bureau a few
tiat tbe men lad a fair grievaf ter witi a request tliat one copy would be net conceive
was ap- ance, and tierefore 1 deciined ta entertain
banded ta me. As thie lat of June
whici were made ta me.
proacliag, the rnen called upon me witb the the representations
Type- Af ter seebxg me, I believe they saw the
representative of tlie International
I was nat present and do net
graphicai Union-on thls occasion lt was the Premier.
Ty- know wiat took place ut. tiat Interview,
deputy. The liead of the International
sure the Premier neyer Intlpographical Union resides lu the United but I arn quite
from mated It w-as tie Intention of the governStates. His deputy was a gentleman
up tic Bureau. Hle may have
Toronto wlio professed to corne ta Ottawa ment to break
tie con- stated, and it Is quite likely lie said ta thern
and dîctate to the goverument
nlot altogether favourable ta the
at
ditions on whidi lie thouglit labour as tie tiat bie was of it, as we were tronbled sa
erymaintenance
I
arrid
Bureu souldbe o.
gvex
short witi tliat gentleman. Wbiie I was neibtecosatpsurt
and this conto the mn,
quite open ta lîsten .to any representations tended privileges increase, disturblng very
for
tiat miglit be mnade by the mien tiiemselves, stant demand
printing industries, flot oniy In
1 certainiy did not care about benrlng of much tie
because
Ottawa, but la other places, institution, the
la
their complaint tirough a man wbo shouid
eprsen
net tbm asbeteenthemenBureau, being a governenta sort of stane necessariîy lookea upan ns
tic
nt epreesean then as etwen
for wages, ta be taken ns the standard
ad th goernmnt.dard
thenselvs
and guide for tie payment of printers. It
ion. GENTLEINAN-Hear, heur.
An
on
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I tiink 1 piainiy proved couid not be carried out conerciaiiy
basis-it wouid be impossible. Wbien
to the men that tixe seule. as laid down by that
appeared that
the late governuient, was a very reasonnble the tîime ipprouched and it

190

SENATE

the nmen were really serious and -iere going
to apply the scale, I prepared a inemorandum which 1 Instractedi the King's Printer
to rend to the men. I weut over the situation, and ln addition to tbat reiterated to
the nmen tlîat parlianient was in session and
tbe printing had to be carried ou in the
public interest, that If the prlnting of pariament was flot done at the Bureau, it nmust
lie done somewhere else, and I wlsbed to
know the meîî wbo were wiliing to remain
loyal to tbe Bureau and were prepared to go
,Dn witb the work on Monday as usual. That
was practically the ultimatuma. A declagratien was not made that bereatter the office
would he open. Wbat 1 said was the goverument were under no obligation to recognIze
the office as a union office. It was of course
tantamount to saying, I presunle, that the
,office was no longer a closed office. because I
ana oue of those wbo always feit it was net
proper to boycott free labour ln Canada.
Unions bave done thenîselves Irreparable
hiarm by boycottiîîg free labour. 1 have
,ilways been lu faveur of giving the widest
.opportuuity for combinations of iabourlng
men. Tbey are under mny disadvantages
in their confiict w-ltb capital and it is desirable they sbould be protected ln nny union
thywisb to forai, but 1 auj sorry to say
that lu recent years the tendency bas been
for the unions to go far beyond the rlghts
they are entitled to as free men ln a free
country. They are becomiîîg aggressive. 1
Lave iearned many Incidents connected with
the ruies of unions and have been perfectly
-astonished. I do xîot propose to ventilate
them bere, because I tliink It would create
sncb a strong feeling against the unions
tlaat It maight have a serlous effect. 1 thlink
tbe exhibition we liad ln 'Montreal the other
day will bave the effect of calllng public
a.ttention to tbe necessity of protectlng free
labour. It Is nlot a question of protecting
unions ;it is a question of protecting free
men, because witbi the aggressive spirit
fihowIi by many union nmen it seenis necessary to protect now tbe man wlîo declines
to be forced into a union. As a matter of
fact, whien a man joins a union lie Is no
longer a free agent. Tîe- majority rules,
anud rules witb a tyrnnny tbat lbas
-very littie parallel outside of uiioius.
As 1 found tbe Bureau seven years ago it
was practically a union office. The former
government had not recognized it as a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

union office, but it had drifted iii that direction without any one interfering to prevent It, and so wben I appointed some men
wbo were not union men, I found they were
rejected at the Bureau. They declined to
accept my nominees because tbey were Dot
niembers of the union. Instead of baving
a quarrel 1 said 'go under your apprentîcesblp and do wbatever Is neoessary, acquire
n standing iu the union and work witb the
rest.' At that time 1 was not aware iîow
far the tyranny of the union could extend,
and It Is cnly since my attention bas been
cailed to It that I became aware of the
nggressive character the unions assuffid,
and bow absolutely dependent a man is
under the majorlty once be becones a menaber of the union. I arn Dot now desiring
I
to swa- one word against the union.
thlnk it bas been a .necessity. I think tlae
inen were justifled lu banding together to
protect theliseives. That la quite proper.
But the tendency bas been to yo far beyond
that and to become aggressive, and to p)ut
down f ree labour, on aIl occasions.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Hear,
lieftr.
Hn
r CT-oduuc
e
h
odnt M SCteT
n
enoue
ent meo
wouldin floth the union, toe preendt men
udmn wth then ulasio tbe
uenion
tI
thdgment to
te majorlt 0ft tbernon I
ihproa
nItreec
tlkI
libaerty' that sbould nlot be allowed in a
country like Canada. I tlaink it bas doue
a great deal of harm in.Australla and other
countries I could Dame. 1 arn glad to say
there are some very excellent men lu tlae
Bureau, men who worked on the goverument work, under tbe contractors, nnd
who came over some elght or nine yearS
ago ivben the Bureau was establisbied.
Tbey are excellent men and experts at
the woric. But unfortunately the quiet good
men are those wbo do Dot assert thenaselves and tbey allow tbe demagogues to
rule the union. It Is tbe loud voiced naan,
tbe ruan wbo la assumlng, Impudent and
bold wbio gets control of those unions and
who drags lu other well meaning men behind hlm and they are ail beld respoiisible
for the consequeuces of the iil-advised aud
ill-judged conduct of a few~ individlials. I
ami very glad to say tbat tbe meiî returned
to tbeir work this morning, and are working barmoniousiy, and I have no doulit tbey

J UNL-E 1, 19 03

191

followlng
wlll continue to do sa. I do nat tbink it Is t lie statement to me within the
an
1 am ot againiSt
He said
desirable to publish the correspondence, ast ive minutes.
'ou this session.'
no good will be served by making it public.
Hion. Mr. LANDRY-If the lion. promoter
ATLANTIC, QUEBEC AND WESTERN >f the Bill In this Chamber would consent
BILL.
RAILWAY COMPANY
t o once more postpone this Order of the Day,
Ethink lie wouid render a service to the Bill
THIRD READING.
DANDURAND moved the third itselt, and to the members of this House,
Han. Mr.
gentlemen
reading of Bill (28) An Act respecting theI because at this late hour hon.
Western Railway Com- present wauid prefer having the discussion
Atlantic, Quebec and
postponed. I know that the hon. leader of
pany, as amended.
the opposition lias something to say on this
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The lion.,leader Bill also, because hie received certain papers
of the opposition has received some coin- which lie handed over to me. I have made
munications with regard ta that Bill, and as a study of thema together, and I think that
lie Is not ln lis place, I wouhd ask that it be there are some new facts whicli, having.
ailowed ta stand tili to-marraw.
come ta our notice, wiii compel hlm ta taire
Hon. Mir. DANDURAND-I should like ta a position In regard to this Bill whicli lie
know If the lion, gentleman lias been asked did nat take in committee, not knowing the
by the bon. leader of the opposition to make tacts that have been brouglit forward sInce.
tlils request, because the lion. gentleman
Han. Mr. LANDERKIN-Wili the lion.
fram Belleville was present ln the committee
gentleman use the papers now ?
room and seemed to be quite satisfied witli
ahl the representations that were made
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly I wili. I
witlî regard ta the Bill. That n'as not later was addressing myseif to the lion. promoter
than Tliursday or Friday hast, and the. Bill of the Bill If the lion. gentleman wishes to
ptssed unanimoushy in the conmlttee. That answer me I wili take his answer, but when
is the renson I ask if the lion, gentleman I am addressing my questions to ane lion.
lias been specialhy reqnested ta ask for a member I do not see wliy another hion. senapostponement of tis order.
tor should answer me, If the first lion. Senatar is able ta answer himself. I desire ta ask
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, my hon. friend
has any objection
did not ask me to make this request, but I the lion, gentleman if lie
to the amendment I proposed ? If lie deknaw lie reeeived some papers since the comnwill end the dismittee met witli reference ta the subject, cides to accept Itý that
cussion, and I think will settle tlie matter
and I have been indirectly asked ta make
this request, not by himself, but on lis be- aitogether.
hiait.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Do I understand
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I think I am a tlie lion. gentleman's objections ta the Bill
littie better posted upon tlie Intentions of are coýiprised la the nmendments hie now
the lion. gentleman tram Belleville than the offers to the House ?
lion. gentleman fromi Prince Edward Island,
Hon. Mr. LAND2Y-I snid nathing of
because I was told as we came out tram
the kind. I asked the hou. gentleman one
cammittee, that lie had spoken ta the memthîing. I asked him If lie was wiihing ta
ber tram Gaspé in the Hanse of Commons,
of whicbl I gave
very moment, gccept the amendmient
wlio repeated It ta me at the
notice ? if so that wll settie the question.
'I 1bave received documents and demands
that I should oppose this -Bill1, but I am nat
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Settie the quesapposhng it this year.' This was, I think, tion as to the ameadment or as to any furnay ther objection the hion, gentleman wonld
inter than whiatever communication
have passed betw'een the lion, gentleman have to make to the Bill7
tram Belleville and the lion. gentleman tram
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would have no furPrince Edward Island. As a matter of tact,
the
deciared ther objection to the Bihl If lie accepts
the lion, leader of the opposition
amendment, and the matt2r will end thiere.
that hie bad recelved thiose documents
If not, I wili go on
ta the member tram Gaspé, who repeated

SENATE
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAIND-The objections niai Railway near Causapseal and the other
road to continue froin Gaspé to the Atlantic
is satisfied to pass the ineasure with the and Lake Superior Railway at Paspebiac.
smalI unimportant amendment which he la We ail know what occurred when thls House
made an Investigation into what was known
proposing to this Housei
Everyas the Baiel des Chaleurs scandai.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That Is a comprobody knows bow the subsidies of the Baie
mise 1 am making wlth tbe hon, gentleman, des Chaleurs had been used. That cornand if he does not accept that I will have
pany Is now ln the courts, or Is now repremore to say.
sented by a syndicate, at the head of which
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-I would not like is oiie of the bon. members of this Senate,
to enter Into such an Immoral compromise. or was at the time, and worked by a conThe
1 would sooner let the matter proceed.
tracter by the name of Gallindez.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-Then' we wlll see Bill whlch lis before the House purports to
-what the objections are as well as the moral construct two Unes. These two Unes are
parallel, one runnlng on the sea-shore, and
aspect of the Bill.,
1 suppose that'
the other iii the Interlor.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I understand ail the iiew company will asic a double subsidy,
the objections would faîl If I accepted that one for the sea-shore rallway, and one for
amendment ?
the interior. lne. Let me tel] bon. gentieHon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon, gen- meni that there ls not a single soul on the
uine whilh Is prol)osed to bceconstructed ln
tleman accept the amendments ?
It Is a real wilderness ..Il
Hon. 31Ir. DÂNDURAND-They are so tri- the lnterior.
But wbo are the promoters of
tlirougli.
fling that 1 would have no special objection
this Bill ? We see their names If w-e couto accept them If the promoters of tbis Bill,
suit the Act of the local legisiature whilh
some of ivbom are ln England and some In
is refererd to by the promoters of tbis Bill.
Canada, were present to be consulted, but as
lu the local House ln the province of Quetbey have bad to accept the demands of
ln 1901 a Bill was passed intituled : An
gentlemen from the counties of Bonaven- bec
Act te Incorporate the Atlantic, Quebec and
ture and Gaspé, whlch are ln subsection 2,
Western Rallway Company,' wbich reads as
of clause 4, and as they bave relready acefollows
cepted tbem 1 tbink It -would be breaklng
Wbereas Henry Hlggtfls, gentleman ;Alfred
faltb with them to force them to accePt a wm. Carpenter, banker ; Chas. Ernest Richard
thai. tbey have already Preston Hillary. solicltor-at-law, ail three -of
barsher amendment
London.
the city
accepted. 1 think I wlll satlsfy this House Xenaphon ofLavole. of lni England. and Joseph
Percé, in the county of
sbould net be asked GaSpé, adVOca.te. have presented a petition
that the amendments
praylng that a company be lncorporated for the
by tbe hon, gentleman.
purpo.se Of lcscatlng, building and operating a
Hon. '.%r. LÂNDRY-That amounts to a ralway as herein below descrlbed, and repreeuch railway wlll cross the InrefusaI. The Bill that is now before us Is an sentingof that
Gaspé throughout its length and open
terior
Act respecting the Atlantic, Quebec and up to colonlzatlon, for a distance of one hunwestern Railway Company, and tbe pre- dred miles, a region hitherto uninhabited; such
w'hereas. without the construction o!
amuble reads as folows :
railways, that vast reglon will continue to be
Whereas the Atlantic, Quebec and Western inaccessible, and uts immense resources will
cannot be very grave if the bon. member

Railway Company bas, by Its petition, repreeented that it was lncorporated by an Act of
the legisiature of the province of Quebec, belng
chapter 63 of the statutes o! 1901, and bas
prayed that it be enacted as hereiaafter set
forth. and i.t ls expedient to grant the prayer
of the salé petition :Therefore His Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent o! the
Senate and House of Commons of Canada, declares and enacts as follows :
Who are tbe promoters of tbis Bill ? This
is a Bil isking- for the incorporationl of in
issociation te build a rond, to build two
ronds, to build one road from the interior of
the peninsuln of Gaspé, to tnp the IntercoloHon. 'Mr. LANDRY.

remain improductive;
That the construction o! such rallway will
be a great advantage to the section o! the province through which it wlll run;
That the powers a.sked by the salé company
are n#ýcessary for worklng, utiziog and derii-ing benefit from the forest, mining and other
resources of the region through which it will
run;
And wbereas it is expedient to grant such
prayer;
Therefore, His M.Najesty, 'oy and with the ad-

vice and consent of the Legisiature of Quebec,
enacts as follows :
Vien the company is incorporated. The
names that 1 bave g-iven formed the pro-

JUNE 1, 1903
visional directors and w-e have this fact,
that ln thle peninsula of Gaspé the railwvay
company formed by strangers have oilly one
nman, Mr. Lavoie, of Gaspé, to represent ail
the Canadlan lnterests lu tbat ent-erprise. Is
that single man 0f the province of Quebec,
we sbould ask ourselves. a very Important
man ?~ Is he à rich capltalist ? He is not
He lives lu
even a proprietor of lands.
Percé and bas no property lni bis naine except tbat vast enterprise. Wba.t was the
objeet ln view Nvlieu thiat cornpauy addres'sed itself to the Quebec legislature to
have that Act of incorporation ? Tbe only
objeet lin view was to have the meaus of
going on with the working of tbe petroleumn
deposits iu the coulity of Gaspé. If Nve Jook
furdiier we w-il! bave clear proof of what I
amn saying. Lt is forty-tbree years uow since
parties commenced to work the oil w-els
w-bicb w-ere fouud lu the county of Gaspé,
and wbich w-ere sunk by a company, called
the Petroleuni 011 Trust. At a certain period
the Petroleumi 011 Trust sold part of lts luterests to different otber companies whose
directors w-e find bere to-day ln tbe compauy
incorporated by the legislature of tbe province of Quebec. Lt is this sanie last conipany that addresses itself to-day Vo the Dominion parliament. Wbat is the Petroleum
.011 Trust ? Lt is very easy to find out. If
you consult the stock excbange officiai lutelligence of the year 1899 you w-ll find the
~vhoie bistory of that company. Here is
w-bat w-as stated :

malning preference shares were offered to the
public at par, in J une, 1892. The preference
ehares are entitled to a non-cumulative dlvidend of 7 per cent payable on January 1 and
July 1. They do nlot carry priorlty for capital.
The 3,000 preference shares allotted to the yendors were converted into ordinary shares in
July, 1892, and aIl the preference shares (except
49)allotted to the public, were aise c.onverted
early in 1894. Accounts made up annually to
November 30, but those for 1897-98 had nlot been
submltted at February 9, 1899.
Dlvidends on ordinary shares-1892-3 to 1894-5
of
nil ;1895-6, 40 per cent ln fully paid shares%
the Société Belge des Pétroles du Canada. Credit balance of profit and loss accnunt at November 30, 1896, £13,907.
The borrowlng powers are llmited to £100,000.
The 22nd September, 1897, was appointed a
speclal settllng day ln 13,212 registered ordinary shares (Nos. 111,099 to 111,100, 315.001 to
315,498, 325,499 to 330,000. and 360,001 to 368.210).
and la 169,688 vendors' regiztered ordlnary
shares (Nos. 24,130 to 26,813, 28,819 to 29.318.
3e,319 to 30.818, 32,319 to 33,318, 33,310 to 34,318,
14.819 to 35.318. 35,819 to 37,818, 37,899 to
47,226, 47,252 to 101,034, 103,035 to 104,034, 110.593
to 110,892, 111,055 to 111,098, 111,101 to 191,102,
262,101 to 262,150, 262,201 to 262,299, 262,601 to
263,100, 269,101 to 271,600, 290,601 to 300,000,
310,001 to 314,998).
Directors-A. W. Carpeuter, James FoleY.
Emile Duter, C. Preston Hillary.
in ordinary
Directors' qualfication-£500
shares.
Sohicitors. Messre. Preston ;Âuditor, Tansley Witt ;bankers, commercial Bank of Scotland, Limlted ;Secretary, Edward S. Peach.
(The Stock Exchange Officiai Intelligence for
1899-l8th year. By authority of the Committee
o! the Stock Exchange, page 1413).
The Société Belge des Pétroles du Canada
bouglit a certain nunîber of shiares, and
those shares. pald with capital moîîey, found
their way as dlvidends at 40 per cent on the
capital of VIhe Petroleum 011 Trust. Tîxat
ls the onîr divldend they ever liad.

PETROLEUM OIL TRUST, LIMITEI).
Registered 2Oth August, 1891.

Hou. Mr~. DEVER-It w-as a good one.

Office, 22 Henrietta St., Covent Garden, W.C.
Telegraphic Address :Anticlinal, London.
V-1 vote for every share. The preference

shares

have

no voting rlghts.

T.-Conimoin

form 2-6 per deed. Both classes of shares may
be transferred on same deed witbout extra fee.
Separate deed required for each account. Wlfe's
witness of husband's signature not accepted .
Of the
Married wvonen allowed on register.
367,730 ordinary shares, 182,910 were registered
and 184,820 were to bearer at 15th February,
1S9S. S.-, days before general meeting.
Capital authorized, £430,000.
Shares or bonds, 429,510 ordy. at £1.
Capital called up, £367,730.
Formed to acquire the petroleum oul deposite
The proiu the Peninsula of Gaspé, Quebec.
perty consists of 40,137 acres freehold, anc
perpetual rnining riglits over 10,220 acrýs, together with wharf property and 'warehouses
Purchase money f314.998 paid in ordinary share!
(Nos. 1 to 111,098 and 111,101 to 315,000).
,,000 preference shares (Nos. 1 P. to 3,000 P.
wpre ahso allotted to the Vendors, credited at
fully paid up in February, 1892. The 7,OZA Te

lIon. 31r. LANDRY-This first coînpany
w-as Vo work te oil w-eus of Gaspé W-itIî
tbe capital of £430.000 sterling, but Il: sold a
part of tbat capital Vo another SOCletY cadled
the Société Belge, and that Belgian society
paid 7,7450,000 francs for a certain number of
acres in tlue peninsula of GaspC.
IcSWEENEY-Did
Hon. Mi.
Sund any 011 ?
Hon.
grea se.
Hon.
-gentlemain

M.Nr.LAN DRY-No.

tbey ever
Tbey found

Mr. DANDUI{AND-Was the lion.
ever there ?

'.\r. LANDRtY-Cel-ttily I was
1 know the place. MNy ancestors
carne from that country.
flou.

-there.

194

SENATE

Ishares

were offered to the publie at par in
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD) (B.C.)-Biit they
be wound up
May, 1899. If the company shall ;ts incorpcradld flot strike oil.
wlthin two years from the date of
tion, 100,000 of the vendors' shares, shall fot
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Only lu tbeir taise participate In the distribution of assets until
reports. But that: was not the ouly company the other shares shall have boen paid in full,
to be decelved by the Petroleum 011 Trust. unless In the meantime the com»'a-iy shall bave
pald a dlvldend ait the rate of 5 per cent per
Ânother compnny was established, registered annum. Af ter the expiration nf the two years
on the 17tb Jauuary, 1898, called the 011 or the payment of the sald dlvidend, the above
distinction shall cease. The MOh December,
lields of Gaspé', Canada, Llmited.
1899, was appointed a special settling day In
shares Nos. 1 to 75,692 and 100,693 to 100,712.
Offices. 120 Bishopsgate, St., E.C.
Directors-Sir W. H. Balley, chairman ;MalTransfer arrangements--Commoil form.-29.
6d. per deed. Separate deed required for each colm Guthrle, J. S. Dewhurst.G. Abraham Lord.
Bagnali, manamount. Wlfe's wltness of husband's signature. G. C. Glyn, James Foley, W.
or vice versa, accepted. Married women aîîow- ager. (Qualification. £200).
Solicitors-Vaudrey & Willet ;Auditors, Edèd on register. Fee for registration of probate, win Guthrle & Co..
proof of death In joint holdings, proof of marBankers-Union Bank
riae, r ofattrny, s. d.Voting- Manchester and Liverpool of London, Llmited
pwe
District Banking Co.,
f
1naoe for poersatrnesd
chairman ;C. B. Llmited :Mercantile Bank of Lancashire, LiDIrectors-John A. Walker.
mited ,Parr's Bank, Limited.
K. Carpenter.
Secretary-E. Booth Edwards. A. C. A.
Director's qualification-100 sharea.
Vol.
(Stock Exchange for 1900-l19th year
Solicltors-William Deveril, A. W. Osmond.
Auditors, Curtis Thomson, Lucey, Hicks & Co. XVIII., page 1,144).
James Foley the agent of the Petroleili Oit
Bankers-National Bank, Ltd. ;Secretary,
Edward S. Elver.
Formed to acquire, carry on, and develop oil Trust, appears in ail those couPaies. Wbiat
fields, comprislng 1,500 acres, in the province iecime of that cosnpany is very easy to
of Quebec. Purchaae money, $66,000, palfi 61,-asean.u191efndtttenubro
ubro
h
91w idta
acrai.I
500 In shsres at $4,600 In cash.
Aiccounts and dividends-Accaunts macle Uip directors biad fallen to three of thiose 1 have
annualiy to July 30. and submitted In December. just aîentioned. The otbers had disappefitcd
Cail in arrear. £214. No dividends have yet and i 1902 the Canadian Petroleulil Conilbeen paid.e
Capital authorized-£100,000 In shares of il pany, Limited, was wownd up. That is not
htatr
each. Issued, £71.629 In fully paid up shares. ail.~ W fn oda
htatraltewr htewr
idt-a
In January, 1898, 66,667 ahares were offered for
tlint lias beein doue to try and get 011 Li'
subscription at par.
florrowlng powers-The directors' borrowing thnt region nothlng has beeu accomplished.
powers are limited to one-haîf o! the amountLu893tepsntPieMntr0fts
of the capital.Il185tepeetPieMnsrofhs
Vol. Dominion-at that: tume the leader of the
(Stock Exchange for 1902-21st year.
XX., page 933).
In 1900--Vol. XVII., page 1,435-we find as ad- opposition in the House of CornUMouS-1iittde
ditional directora. R. J. Lee, M.D., F.R.C.P. ,a trip to Gaspé and down to tiiose petroleuil
vice-chairman ;George Carr Glynn, James 011 wells. He wauted to see some of the oil
tlîat flowed so genercmîsly tlîere. 1 auji told
Foley.
The 0O1 Filds Comnpany succeeded iii get- that lie never saw a drop of it. If tiiere is
he oil aîîvwlere Irolu it, there is noue 0o1 the
ting part of the iuionît of lanîds tlit
011 Trust Company liad secured itself. biit muarket, and !i ail the reports that have been
xvis inade. received year by yeac' lu the stock excliange
that was lot the 0u13- sale tlit
1900 a report reAniother company stepped la iu 1899 called we fiud this remark :In
tlîe Canada Petroleuni Company, Limited. ceived but not verifled iii the stock excliangc
011i obtaiiied ini payiîig qcîaîîtities.'
sayiilw
Lt was registered the '2Qtlî April, 1899:
Ili 1901l. 'Oit tanhed for shîippîug.' Ili 1902.
Offices :Prudential Buldings, 78 King St..
Ili 1903. '011
,Oit taiiked for shipping.'
Manchester.
V.-1 vote for every share. T.-Conimon
That cil 15; tanked
deed for each ac- taîîked fur siipping.'
form. Fee, 2-6. Separate
count. Wife's witness of husband*s signature for shlipiiig, but noune lias beein solti yet.
not accepted. Married women allowed on regruD(.C)Te
r.MC)N
]loi,.
ister.
Capital authorized-£300,000 in £]. Called.
ports are ail lies?
£200,712.
Wi
ul.
.NU-et
Formned to acquire certain rights sud privil--r ht
li
-etiiy
lo.M.LNR
the diseges froni owaers of petroleum fields in
the eoxulpaýiiy done that it is seekintt
trict of Gsspé, province o! Quebec, Canada, sucli lias
owners possessing about 38.000 acres of free- Iîow for thiS uuew charter '?The first step it
bold land sud perpetual miniug rights over a
lias takeni with the Quebec charter lias beeni
furtber 5,000 acres,
Purchase money,£150,000 ;paid, £125.000 inl to sell thiat charter. Thîey solti the Quebec
fully paid shares (Nos. 75,693 to 100,692, snd
200,001 to 300,000). sud £25,000 in cash ;200,000 chartr in England.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY.

JUNE 1, 1903
Hon. Mr. DANDUItAND-Before the lion.
gentleman goca ta the uext point, I should
likze ta hear, since hie seenis ta be well posted
e
on the operations of those companies, If ho
knows bow nsuch money those coinpanies
have spent la thse Gaspé penlusula ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I know the Société
Belge pald 7,750,000 francs. That ia about
That nioney waa paid over ta
$1,500,000.
the oil trust. The 011 trust that year
declared a dividend of 40 per cent. That

la the only dividend that was paid.

Has

the bon, gentlemen other diviclenda ta show ?

Hon. Mr,. DÂNDURAND-What

la

tise

ninount thiat bas been spent by those varlous

compaulea ln the Gaspé peninsula ?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I cannot give thse
figures for their expenses. I know they
expended, money. I knaw they buiît a reflnery.

I know tlîey bought some valuable

plant. Thant 1 do not deny, but I say thls
charter to-day is being obtalned, not to
bulld a roatd, but ta try ta float those other
companies that are sinking faster than thse
ail of their wells.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does tîxe lion.
gentleman know If thase ail coaspanies owe
aaything ta the people in Gaspé ?
Hon. Mr. LANDILY-1 do flot knowv If they
owe anythîag. What I kaow la they have
been borrowing Englishi money by hundreda
of thousanda of pouada sterling. Capitallats buy the charters ; the moaey goes ta
the veadors, and what becomes of that
iiioney I do not know. I know that the hast
Quebec charter passed ln 1901, bas been
sold ta a niew company called the New Oaiiadiaa Comnpaay, Limited, incorporated under
Act, 1862 ta 1900, capital,
the Compiiv&ii
£100,000 sterling, divided iiita 100,000 shares
o! £1 each, 50,207 of which have been applied fur aid allatteil at par at 5 shillings per
aliare paid up thereon. Who tire the directara of thait Company ? Mr. Wm. Griffiths
(of 'Wnî. Griffithas & Ca., Limited>, Hamilton
House. London, chairmani ; Joseph MelCa., Sheffield), 28 Viclowes (Mellowea
Lýee, 120
taria St., London., S.W. ,Sydney
Bishiopagate St. Withiixî, .oaidûn, E. C., C.
13. K. Carpeater, the Manor Hanse, Gaspé,
Canada. The coaaulting enginieers are Sir
Douglas Fox nnd Partiiers, 28 Victoria St.,
«%Westminslter. S.W. Bankers, the Bink af

VUE'

MIontréal, Abchurch Lane, London, E.C.
Solicitors, Le Brasseur & Oakley, 1-2 New
Court, Liucoln'a Inn, London, W.C., and
Gouin, Lemieux & Brassard, 1592 rue Notre
Dame, Montreal. Mr. Gouin is the MinIater
of Public Works ln Québec. Mr. Lemnieux
is the member for the county of Gaspé in
the House of Common,, and we will see
what this partnership bas done ln helplng
the Incorporation of the compapy In Quebec
nd wlhat lt la doing now to try and have
thia company incorporated here ln Ottawa.
Thle principal objecta of this new coinpany,
as set forth in the prospectus, are theBe
To acquire the benefit of an Act of Parliament of the Government of the province of Quebec, dated the 28th March, 1901, for the incorporation of a conipany entitled the Atlantic,
Quebec and Western Railway Company, fur the
construction and workiag cf a U~ne et re~ilway
and ta cause ta bie perforniec ail trie obligations
set forth ln the said Act.
To undertake the issue of the capital and
debeature- stock of the said railway conipany
under the ternis of the said Act.
To procure the necessary surveys for the railway to bie niade under the supervision of eminent engineers.
To enter Into contract for the construction of
the line of railway and ta arrange for the paynment for such construction ta be made, wholly
or partially in cash or bonds of the railway
company and from government subsidies, &c.
To enter loto contracta for the acquisition of
steamers and other vessels and ships for bringing mails and traffic ta the railway in accordance with the power of the said Act, &c.
To proniote and encourage colonization for
the development of the vast region through
'which the railway will rua, and ta acqufre, operate, deal in, develop and dispose of sections
of territory granted as subsidies by the gaveranient, valitable for colonization, mining, lunibering and pulp works.
The purchase price payable for the beneflt of
the royal charter-that la the charter <if the
province of Quebec-is the sum if £50,0i>0 PaYable wholly or la part, at the option o! th~e directors, ln cash or ln fully paid up) shares cf
the conipany.
Here are partîculars of thse new fast route.
The New Canadian Company, Llmited, gives
those particulars la their prospectus Of tise
new fast route by Royal charter wlîich il;
simply the charter of the Atlantic, Quebec
and Western. Here la the first page of the
Royal prospectus:
Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, G.C.M.G.,
Premier of Canada, on the occasion of his public address ta the members of the legislature
and political associations in Gaspé, Quebec, last
year, expressed bis cordial approval of the haniédiate construction of this iew railway ta the
great barbour at the niouth of the St. Lawrence,
and prornised th-, support -)t bis gov rai-nent to
the schenie.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Hlear, hear.

SEN -JE
The immense natural harbour of Gaspé, situM.Nr.LANDRY-Yes, It is reallv a
at the soutbern entrance to tile inoutb of
knd.ated
oe
o thewort
'sebnie' ne
River St. Lawrence, la some 18 miles in
o th
sehce,' wort ki(l.the
and four miles la breadthi with a linge
The new Canadian route. By Royal charter, length basin at Uts further extremlty formed
and! natural
dated 28tli Mardi. 1901. Qulcker Passeng ,rYorkc by the confilence of two large rivera. The depth
Goods service ta Montreal, Toronto, New En- 0 f water la botb harbour and basin la sufficlent
and Chicago. A great Canadian Rallway
to accomniodate vessels of the largeat tonnage
terprise. It la absolutely necesaary ln case of' in great nunibers, the harbour and basin belng
war to have a fast service of this kind to a used by the largest war vessels of HI.M. fleet
great, easlly accessiblle and defensibie barbour.1 ion the North Americail Station. There are
as
and Uts establishment must lie looked upon
miles of available frentage abutting on deep
a sateguard for Canada and the Empire.
water, suitabie for the erection of docks, wharfs
pr'that and piers. Tlie liarbour la Mnost pertfectly
Hou. '.%r. FERGUSON-Wbo made
storins of thie Guif, and la
tected againat.the of ail the eastern Canadian
speech ?
wlthout question.
of acceas to large slips.
by
is the prospec- ports.this far the easiest demonatrated by the
Hon. 'Mr. LANDUY-Tbat
fact is clearly
and
Hon.

tus of tbe new Canadian Company.
It charta.
ten
helarbour o! Gaspé can lie navlgated unlT
rends like a speech
tle year (that la entireiy open
ewmonth sn
an
aud colonization, te
"Commerce
teýe true), and at no great expense, the year
barbolir conld lie obtaifled ail
Canadifin Company, Limited.'
Wliereaa the ports of Montreal ani
hauit figures gîven, but round. are closedl to navigation for nearly five
do not see the
Queliec
in the year. The authorities despateli
they try
wbat is more serions la the way coun try's monthsthe winter o! 1889. the smail power goved. In
of the
to obtain at the expense
erament vessel 'Stanley ' to the port, whLýli
keepilig the
demonstrated the practlcabullty of cf the basin.
u iiglt0i
repuidtioli alidt of 0111- I1l il
and out
they want for their port open, by steamlng in
that extrnordinary fame
The estimated
thus opening it to navigation . wîtfless, belng
Hee i theway
brbou.
magnficet
speed o! the vessel liy an eye
Hee i tUeway
hrbou.
magnficet
eiglit to nine knots after strlklng the ice.
to con- ifroin
A royal charter was granted îast year miles In anld the tume taken ln and out about two hours.
about 140
strnct andi work a rallway o! harbouir o! Gaspé In the spring of 1900 an ordinary iron steamer.
the
iength, commenclflg at the
'Aberdeen,' steamed through the ice to ilgbt
(whicb la sltuated in the Gui! c7f SL LarnOthe
basin and ont again at the rate o! about
th-ice
scuth o! the riveras moutb) and Gaspé to tbrough knots.
a point
the interlor o! the peninanla o!
where junction would lie
north of Causapscai,
As a unatter of t act, on the 92Ttli of April
government Interco lonial
effected with the
steainer Aduudîal, or the steamier that
and the shortest route thus obtalued. last the the Admirai, ivent to the Gaspé
Railway,
to the western isystema of Canada and the United îrepîîuced
unload ail thcy
States via the Canadian Paciflc and Grand basin, anti wis obliged to
Trunk railways.
Tbey could
on the ice.
discliarge
reThe leglalature In grantlng the charterslip- liad to
cognized that the continuance o! tlie vastnearly flot go lu the basin, and these returns are
ping trade via the St. Lawrence, carryingexporta gb-eln l a
or the iiaiws ill Quebec. 1Le
50 per cent cf the wbole Importe and
the
tlireatefled b>' Soleil,' the organ of the Liberal party !i
of the Dominion, was serlously navigationi, but
the extreme dangers of the river
Then the prospectus
province o! Quebec.
the existence o! one of the largeat and safest continues as foiiows
at
natural lsnd-locked larbours ln the world thie
the rlver's mouth, solved the problein o!
DIFFICULTIES 0F NAVIGATING THE ST.
future shipping trade o! the Dominion.
LAWRENCE.
Then toiloxws a description o! the liarbour1.
that the two chief
Lt
with the harI- ports laof cominon knowledge and Quebec, bave of
Canada, Montreal
Every person who la fainillir
laboured under severe difficuities
years
bour of Gaspé knows that lt ls divided lui recentthe standooiuit o! the transit trade, firstly.
two. Tbere is the barbolir and the basin frein
the ports are closed for nearly five
gvenbecause lath tbe year, and secondly, owing t0
ba an
of Gspé Th thebasn ae
i
the dangerous navigation for large ships. Notunder the name of 1harbouir.' Tbe reai barand tbe
wjth tandiuig the river impr0vemnls
channel lavlng been deepened at a linge erîgibour is about tîrce miles.
coat, and tle enormolis annual expenditure
THIBAUDEAU (Rigaud)-Il- nai maintenanýce. the trouble and difficulties o!
Hon. Mr.iaud..o
navigatlflg the St. Lawrence have not
land.sa!eiy
that a
result
decreased tin proportion. The western latrade le
Hou. 31r. LANDRY-Iiiaud.
large portiýo f the Immense
States
comeled to seek the route of tle United
Lion. Mr. THIBAUDEAU (Rigaud)-Voul' te reaclhcean navigation, and wbat remailiS
for the St. Lawrence route la aerlously discrior five feet et !ce lu winter.
tle nnderwriters with higli
they supphy ice mi nated againat liv
rates of preminin.
lion. Mr. LAN.'\DRY-Yes,
The officiai announce!ni'flt by the liresident
to Eulrope ill tUat way. 1 thiink tue liarbourI
Associaof tbe Marine inaurance Underwriters' tbe witiîThis tion at M.%ontre-al on July 26, 1901. of
is frozen about five mnoutbs in the year.
compaflies
drawal o! important Engitali shipping
prospectus furtber states
MPr. LANDRY.
H-on.

,IlUNE 1, 1903
from the St. Lawrence route, on the ground that
notwithstanding the high rates prevaling, the
risks of the route are unprofitable, lias created
a great sensation, .and the Gaspé route Is recelving the seriolis consideration of the government, as providing at once the solution to a
uueation of vital Importance affecting the whole
trade of the Dominion.
Ail this !S contrary to well establlshed
tacts, but it Is wrltten to decelve and ohtain shareholders ln England.
This comPaniy
will go into colonization work,
pulp and timber Industries, fisheries and
so on, railways, telegraphs.
telephone
and otlier matters.
Ail that will be theirs
and the ivells also-the petroleuni wells of
Gaspé~. Do0 lion, gentlemen knoiv liow tlis
charter lias been obtained in Quebec ?
It
Is quite a bit of history.
It was presented
lu the leg-islature of Quebec in 1901.
Ail
the people of GaspC aud the miembers iii
the local House placed thernselves on record
a.-ainst: the Atlantic, Quebec and W'estern
Iiilway Compîany.
Mr. Keiiînedy voted,
.nd 'Mr. Flint spoke agaîust the incorporation.
Petitions containiug 2,M39 naimes wvere
sent to tbe Lieutenant Gov-ernor lu Council
angainst that incorporation, and only S00 for
the incorporation. The Bill nevertheless was
passed but witlî a provîso. It Is enacted ln
clause 27, 1 tbink, as follows :
This Act shall corne into force by proclamation
of His Honour the Lieutenant- Governor, after
the company shall biave gîven positive and c1ear
proof to the Executive Council that it possesses
the necessary resources to cons truct the said
railway.

The Act incorporating the Company could
coine inito force only on thiat proof.
How
ivas the jiroof given ? This Bill w-as assented to on the 28th March, 1901, and on
the 24th November, 1902, Mr. Lemieux wrote
a letter to the Hon. M1r. Parent askiiig hlm to
Issue tue piroclamnation and giviîîg bhlm wbat
lie called the real proof of tlîe company's
capacity to build the road, aiîd what %-as
the proof ?, It was furnished by thîs New
Canadian Company, of wliich 1 have just
presented the prospectus. The proof ls as
follows :

pany have been applied for and duly allotted, at
par, and that the sum of £7,500 (seven thousand
five hundred pounds) bas been paid on account
of calîs made la respect of such applications.
and that the said sum bas been duly iodged to
the credit of the banking account of the coinpany at the Bank of Montreal, London, to be
used for the purposes of the Atlantic, Quebec
and Western Railway Company.
(Signed)
SYDNEY LEE,
JAMES LINDSAY,
Directors.
E. S. ELVEY, Secretary.
[Seal.]
At the saine time the certificate Of the
manager of the bank was given.
Lt reads
as follows :
L.R., 1954, '02.
Bank of Montreal,
22 Âbchurch Lane,
London, E.C., Nov. 8, 1902.
The Secretary.
The New Canadian Company, Limited,
120 Blshopsgate St. Within, E.C.
Dear Sir,-Wý%e hereby certity that the amount
standing to the credit of your company la our
books at the close of business of the 7th Instant was £7,500 (say seven thousand five huadred pounds).
Yours falthfully,
(Signed) HAYLOCK.
Asst.-Manager.
I do îîot think. tat
mauy persons will be
H-ere 1s
pleased witlî that kind of proof.
a Company incorporated by the Act of the
legisînture, aîîd a section of the Act states
that when the coxnpany are able to construct
the rnilway and have given sufliclent Proof
of tlieir capacity to construct, the Proclamnation will issue, anîd what do theY do ?
Tliey go before the Lieutenant Governor lu
Couucil, and produce a certîficate 0f anotber
Company, stating that that other Company
lins lu the batik £7,500 sterling, and that is
the whole proof that the Company lu Quebec
is able to construct the rond ! At that time,
had they sold their charters ? Had they
pocketed the moneY ? One thing iras certain.
and that is, tliat lu Quebec that proclamation bas been issued by the Lieutenant Governor lu Council at the demand of Mr. Lonier1 Gouln. anîd Mr. 1. mlieux. 1wlîo i .1il
ln-law of the Lieutenîant Goi-ernor of the
lprovince of Quebec.

The New Canadian Company, Limnited.
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts, 1862
Hon. 'Mr. DAN\DURANI)-TIlit is no crime.
to 1900.)
Tlon. Mr. LANDRY-Wlien somle Of tliose
Capital, £100,000 in shares of £1 each.
ineasures are announced la the officiai
120 Bishopsgate Street Within,
Gazette, ire see tliat the notices gliven arle
London, Nov. 3, 1902.
signed by '.%r. Goulu and Brassard. That is
This is to certify, that 50,000 (fifty thousand)
shares of £1 each in the capital of this coin- for the federal government. But when we

SENATE
LANDRY-Why does the hon.
Hon. M.Nr.
go to Quebec, the naine of Mr. Goulu disand gentleman object ?
appears, the namnes of Mr. Lemieux
Mr. Brassard appear. Always one of themn Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The lion. gengets away, so tbat the people 'wili not be tleinan mentioned it as a crime lu respect
scandalized by seeing bis Dame on those to, the persons mentioned.
officiai documents wbere simple convenleuce
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If it la not a crime,
forblds such an interference but the influence
:why should the bon. gentleman be so mucb
la the saine. The Influence of Mr. Goulu lu
scaudalized. I think the hon. gentleman
Quebec la weil known. He la one of the mainshouid keep cool.
Isters. It ls presumably easler to, obtain the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Wbat is the liof the Lieutenant Governor to, aigu
consent
a charter whea It la asked for by a man putation the bon. gentleman la making ?
called Mr. Lemnieux, wlio is bis aoa-in-law,
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It Is more than an
than If 1 were to go myself aad ask hlmi to Imputation. It la an accusation I ain makaigu. That la well kuowu.
lug. I say that that charter bas been obHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe bon, gentle- talued lu Quebec witbout sufficieut proof
man belleves that ?
and contrary to law. That Is wbat 1 say.
It Is flot an Imputation. It Is an accusation,
LÂNDRY-I do belleve that.
Hou. Mr.
and 1 stand by It.
flou. Mr. DANDUIiÂND-It ail depends
Hou. Mr. DÂNDURAND-We wil] discus
ou the attorney wlho furthiers the iuterests
tiaat later.
of the party ?
MIon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I say no material
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-So mucb so thiat iu
the province of Quebec If you want to have proof bas been furnished to, the Lieutenant
a«Bill passed in the local legisiature you muat Governor in Council to show that the
have those influences, and you must go to Atlantic, Quebec andi W'estern Company
the firin of Fitzpatrick, Parent & Taschereau Itaeif had the means to construct the
or Mr. Lemieux and others. Thea you have railway. That charter was given la Quebec
a chance to get your Bill through. But If to those parties, but they went on the Engyou do not go to thein you cannot aucceed. lisli market sold the charter for £50,00
I am not the only one w-ho believes that. sterling, and now they are coming here to
Ottawa to procure another charter for the
The bon. gentleman believes it bimseif.
that charter they wiii seli
are the saine road, and
Hou. 'Mr. DANDURAND-Who
again la London. They are unable to do
attorneys retaiined for the leg-Ialative counithe -work thenaselves, but they are able to
cil ? The hon. gentleman speaks *of atpocket 40 per cent of dividends at a given
torneys heing retained t0 promote Bis bedividend the capital stock
that moment, takiug as
fore the House. 1 could underataud
of the compa-ny. Mr. Gouin, who la a minattorneys lu aym.pathy with the majority ister and the partuer of Mr. Lemieux, miade
there would, at limes. be selected, and quite a report to the Lieutenant Governor ia Counnaturally so, but I ana surprised that my cilinl Quebec, and gave the Lieutenant Gorhou. f riead only sees through one kind of ernor bis opinion. He said : 'Thiat company
spectacles. He does not notice that many of is ali right. 1 think you shouid aigi,; and
the-se Bis that are thius promoted by attor- Mr. L.emieux asked the saine thiîîg fron bis
neya in the Lower House have been promioted
father-in-law and the Lieutenant Governor
by othtr attorneys lu the Upper House signed it. The proclamation çvas issued on
which, until iately, had a Conservative the lOth December, 1902, mast a f ew weeks
majority. 1 could mention Mr. Taillon and before thae forfeiture of the Act itself, lieMNr. Angers, the ex-Lieutenant Governor, cause in the 26th clause of that Act we fiund
appearing at tumes iii tbe Upper Honse anîd the foliowing conditions:
not ini the low-er bî-ancbi.
Mr. LANDRY-Is that ill he bas
to aay for the defence of bis triends?
Hon.

Hon. '.Ir. DANDURAND-It
to 1etain an attorney.
Hou. Mr. LANRDY.

is no crime

The present Act of incorporation is granted
under the following express conditions:
That the works authorized by this Act shill
be commenced in good faitb within the delas- of
two years from the sanctioning of this Act,
such commencement to be evidenced bv the
construction at least of +en mile~s.

JUNE 1, 1903

There is flot a single inch of the road coustructed. Subsectian 2 of the clause rends
as foilows:
That the whole of the rosd ehall be con structed within the delay of flve years tramn the
sancbioning af -this Act:
That in default of the accompllshment of
either of these two conditions, such* default
saal pleno-Jure occasion the forfeiture of ail
the rightis. powers and privilegea granted by
this Act.
Weil, they obtained their charter and It Io
the campany incorporated lu vIrtue of this
charter that cornes here ta-day and ashe us
ta grant a charter ta build the saine road,
and ta that praject they add what ? they
add a second Une tram Paspebiac ta Dalhausie. That la the part of the road which
will coniplete the Baie des Chaleurs Railway,
and thiat part of the rond will enable theni
ta get the subsidies. There Is one thlnwe must nat forget. Befare the legîslature
af the province of Quebec Mfr. Lemieux and
the other parties interested lu that charter
told the menibers that the rond would be constructed wlth their own private- mens, and
that they did flot want any subsidy, and it la
for that reason tliey pressed s0 niuch on the
legislature ta grant: them.thie charter. They
said : ' We are able ta construct the road ;
we require it for the purpose af working
the ail wells of the peninsula.' That was
the interior rond. That was the road for
whichi they obtained a charter from the
legislature of the pravince of Quebec, and In
tact niost of the people thiat are now in this
Atlantic, Quebec and Western Railwvay are
the sanie people that were or that stili are
la the Petraleuni 011 Trusts or in the othier
companies bora of the P-etraleum 011 Trust.

bult, communicated with the government,
and I have here a memorandum that was
sent ta the right han. the premier of this
Dominion statlag the tacts that I have Just
made known ta this hanaurable House and
urging the right hou. gentleman ta have hls
eyes opened and. If hie was not toa busy,
ta prevent a repetitian of the Bale des
Chaleurs scandai. 1 miust tell the Hause,
ta explain the first part of this letter, that
another letter was sent ta the premier tram
an engineer named J. D. Clercy.
Hon. Mfr. THIBAUDEÂU (Rlgaud)-What
ls the date of it?
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-January 31, 1903. I
anm translatîng the letter. Mr. Clercy w-rites
ta Mfr. Bodard wha la living at Part Daniel
ln Bonaventure. The letter reads as fol-

Han. Mr. BEIQUE-WaVuld the haon. gentleman give nme the Information as ta whiether Lyonnais was ln this Petroleuin Oî]
Compa ny?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He mighit have been,
but 1 do nat see his naime in any list a1

m
Iowa
Sir,-Mr. Dupant has led me ta believe that

you were living now lu the peninsula of Gaspé.
If that le so you niight be able perhaps ta give
me sarDe Information that la asked tram me lu
France and whlch I was unable ta give. They
want ta know what has become of twa societies
formerly established for the working a! the
petroleum ail lu Gaspé. Oue ls au Euglish anc.
the Petroleum 011 Trust and the other the Belglum Society of the Petroleum 0119 of Canada.
The unfartunate sharehalders have neller
heard of thase companies since they have patd
their shares. I would be very much abliged Ir
you cauld give me any Information on the subject.

Believe me. yours truly,
J. D. CLERCY,
Engineer.

Thiat letter wus sent by Revd. M. Duret
ta Sir Wilfrid Laurier. and Sir Wilfrid
lu thils way :
Laurier answcred hiu
have the honour ta ackuowledge receipt of
I
your letter transmitting ta me a copy of a
letter addressed ta Mr. Clercy by Mr. Badard
askîng information with retference ta the companles who have worked the petrollum ail lu
the peninsula of Gaspé. one English one and
the other ane French. I know absolutely nothing af thase companies and I do flot ses the
relations that might exlst between those companies and the campanies ta whjch you make
allusians-that is the Atlaiàtic, Quebec and
Western Campany.
I remain yours mast devotedly,
WILFRID LAURIER.
(Signed)

directors published lu the Stock Exchange.
He mighit have been a sharehalder ; hie
Here is the memorandum sent ta the Rigbt
was never a director. I have looked ovex
Hon. Sir lWilfridl Laier-ji at tlîat oe~o
the old list of directars year by year an
STo the Rigbt Honourable
the naimes I have do not include the nnm*
Sir Wilfrid Laurier,
ques
givea by the hon. gentleman. This
Prime Minister of Canada.
tion was s0 important lu ill points of vieý%
Right Honourable Sir Wýilfrid
that the interested parties in the locnlity
Answering ta your letter of the 3lst ult., let
mho le innat the shanrelholders but the îleople fuo mne tell you that it is not 'M. Bodard
oil companies. M.
ta bi Squiring about the Gaspesian
whose 1)e-nefit the road was supposed

SE-NATE

200

Bodard knows ail about them. Those demands through the county of Gaspé at the last genfor Informations corne from France, and as the eral election, contain the followlng:
'The power t0 construct a Une of raiiway
Petroleum 011 Trust has organi zed tour other
subsidlary companies, other demande will ln through the peninsula from Causapscal to Gasail probability be heard from. That is why pé Basin 'was asked in the interest of the comI say that such a situation can not lat very pany of o11 wells of Gaspé (tiret lines of page
5).'
long.
The ' Star ' of February 27, 1900, ln its notes
'I1 know absolutely nothing of those companof the session, says, ' M. Lemieux read a petiles ' la your declaration.
A moment. The works visited by you, at tien from MM. Lavole. Joncas, Carpenter, HigGaspé, two years ago, have been, for the greatest gins and Hanbury, asking for the incorporation
part, done by an English company, formed ln of the Gaspé short line company.'
Take notice that the two last naines were nlot
London, la 1890, under the name of the Petroon the petition, but they were s0 infiuefltial
leum 011 Trust, Limited.
them.
That company. together with the four subsidi- that It was thought proper to mention bill.
diary ones organized by Its agent, M. Foley. They were nevertheless embodied ln theHiggins
equaliy notice that M. Henry
Take
have digged about fifty wells, which they finally
soid to the Canada Petroieum Company, Limi- was the president and M. Carpenter the manager of the PetroleumOIl Trust.
on August 14, 1900.
ted, of Manchester,
M. J. X. Lavole, prothonotary at Percé, if lnAt the tiret meeting of the sharehoiders of
I
this last mentioned company, ln the fali of the terrogated, would answer in hie turn :'Rev.once
M.
samie year, it was stated that it was sîmpîy denied ln a letter addressed to the 011 Trust
empty wells that the Petroleumn 011 Trust had Duret, any Interest of the Petroleum presidexlt
sold te the Canada Petroleum Company, and ln ln the Gaspé short Uine, although the 011 Trust
consequence the Petroleum 011 Trust was asked and the manager of the Petroleum
bete take back Its wells and to refund the money. were directors of the short Une company, that
Af ter the recail of their manager from Gaspé cause I could prevail myseif of the fact and
Basin, the Canada Petroieuma Company finally the names of MM. Ross, McKrae, BarwickRailthe
decided to wind up, as proves an act to that o thers had been added, lnofOttawa, by directors.
the other
effect, dated February 25, 1901. The Manches- way' Committee t0 those could not avail myseit
I
The following year
ter City 'News' of August 31, 1901. gives the
under
whole story of that liquidation, and makes evi- of such names, and I obtained at Quebec.
Canada Petroleumn the name of Atlantic, Quebec and Western, a
dent 1ha1 thse Interests of the
Higgins and PresCompany compelled the directors to talte buch c harter for MM. Carpenter, construction of the
beton Hilary. authoriziflg the
a rdertha thir reutaionmaybeshort Une. 1 declared before the Railway Coina corsein
curstat
lnordrhei eputtio ma
saved and their credit maintained.,mitefQeectatInddtsIchrr
rtile ac2ctsrCil ' ews to continue lise working of the cil wells, and
The tse
f
la foilowed by an article of the ' Flixanciai that moreover 1 haed tise means to construct the
road without government subsidies.
News,' of which isere are the last iues :
On January 8, last, at a meeting held-at Gas' The moral is plain. 011 does flot niways
spout up to prospectus .stliuatcs, a. d It la pé, M. Carpenter, senior, vas elected president
isighiy deairabie te make sure of Ithe worth of of thse Atlantic, Quebec and Western Railway
the property (c11 welis) and of the qualification Company, and M. Preston Hillary, vice-presiand bona, fides of the people who, are ideritified dent (See ' Soleil.' January 16. 1903.>
Are those gentlemen realiy interested ln the
'with its introduction, before plitting mncuey
Petroleum 011 Trust ?
into the industry.'
You will lcnow It from the saine M. Lavole.
Sucis is the opinion entertainefi of those peoprothonotary, tise secretary of the Atlantic,
pie by the flnanciai paper.
we Quebec and Western, who will tell you that at
Wouid you now like to know what opinion
hsave of tisat petroieum trust the firme of Robin tise record office 0f the prothonotary, on August
et Le Bouthillier, who are in constant relations 14, 1900, was duly registered the deed of sale
of oi1 wells, &c., of tise Petroleum 011 Trust, t0
with the Englisis merchanîs ?
This deed
Five or six years ago an agent ol the itubin the Canada Petroleum Company.
witis a iaw suit in couse- w~as signed in thse naine of the Petroleum 011
has heen threateneil
quence of informations sent over tu Englan(], Trust by MM. Charles W. Carpenter and C.
Preston Hillary, directors, and by M. E. S.
but the law suit is yet to corne.

Hon. M. Turner, legislative councilior. lise Peach, secretary of the company.
As you may see, Sir Wilfrid, the promoters of
heafi of tise LeBouthillier irm ah Paspebiat.
has toid the Hon. M. Gouin, in jny preseilce, the Atlantic, Quebec and Western Raiiway
Company, ail the bills relative to the Gaspé
that Ihose people were swiudlers.
Since his last trip tu England, Hon. M. DuffY short Une, as well as the deeds aforesaid. leave
could give you upon tisose people an opinion no doubt as to the relations between thse q2il
wisici dues not differ from thse une expressed Fcumpanies and the Atlantic, Quebec and WVest1 ern Company.
by M. Turner.
Now, this last company, not having the mresns
me they were adventurers.
M. Mardil tld
You add ln your letter :* I don't see the re- te construct its road, M. Carpenter, junior, thse
lations which exiat betweeu those comnpanies manager of the Petruleum Oul Trust, has or(o11 trusts) and the railway company te which ganized a uewv compauy, thse New Cafladian ComimItled, which is asking lis incorporapany,
yuu allude (Atlantic, Quebec and Western.')
tien at Ottawa, as wvell as the Atlantic, Quebec
Ask M. Lemieux, and hie %vill answer.
I have always believed that thse charter of the and W'estern.
This New Canadlan Company has amongst Its
Gaspesian short Une througli the interior has
been primitiveiy asked by the people of tise directors MI. Carpenter, junior, the manager of
011 Trust. An electoral pamphlet in- the Pehroleumi Oul Trust.
Petroleum
Thse prospectus of this New Canadian Corntituled: 'Gaspé Railway, Sir Wilfrid Laurier a",1
of fleRodolphe Lemieux cornpared ivith Arnmstro'lg pany, that you niay find in the 'Star
Noand lits clique,' and which was distriljuted aIl c emiber 3. 1.902, or in thse 1 Di 112Mail 'of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

JUNE 1, 1903
vember 20, 1902, does not mention the title of
M. Carpeater, who la really the manager of the
Petroieum 0O1 Trust.
Why ?
Is it because the Petroieum 011 Trust is dead
and buried since two years, with M. Foley, its
late agent ? Are those promoters of the short
line sincere In their extreme laudations of that
Petroleum,. 011 Trust Company ?
We muas. conclude that the New Canadian
Company is no more entitled te the government
confidence than the Atlantic, Quebec and Western Company.
Five companies have heen organized for the
workiug of the Gaspesian cil and you know
what has been their fate. We are now arrived
at the third company for the construction of
the short Une, aud If the goverument backs
those companies. we shahl have to depiore still
more regrettable results.
Please, Sir Wllfrid. read over the petitions
addressed to the Governor General in Counicil.
I have read and commented upon themn before
the Raihway Committee In Quebec, In presence
of MM. Gouiu and Lemieux, the solicitors of
the New Canadien Company, and of MM. Carpeuter and Carter, of Gaspé.
Nobody found a word of reply.
The Hon. M. Parent, whom 1 saw the day
after the meeting of the commlttee, told me
that M. Carpenter had departed for England.
If the fact ls true, hie would then prefer ieavIng M. Lavole doing the work alone, tuiough the
current rumour was that M. Carpenter would
spend the winter at Percé.
At aIl events, these are the final words whlch
ended a communication for which I have been
sued by M. Lavoie, and which could be found
lu 'The Journal' o f April 12, 1901. As You
may notice, this gentleman does flot seem verY
anxious to furnish me the occasion to prove
le prefers being
h
the truth of my sayings
.turaed out of court by defauli., as the thing
happened in a suit 0f bis agaluat the cure of
Percé.
Here are my final words
If the honourabie prime juinister of Quebec,
sald 1, 'las not so busy as was the Honourable
M. Mercier, at the time of the preparation of
the Bale des Chaleurs scandai, we respectfully
ask him to have bis eye opened on ail these
doings.'
That is aiso the demand I am making you.
1 remain,
Rigl' Honi. Sir Wilfrid,
Your most honourable sprvint.
T. C. DURET, Priest.
April, 1903.

that might be sold the day after to-mnorrow
lu England-at leat let the people on the
sea-shore benefit by the road that Is to, be
The charter mentions two
constructed.
roads, one froin the interior of Gaspé, strik-ing the Intercolonlal Railway near Causapscal, the other fromi Gaspé, tapping the Atlantic and Lake Superlor, the old Baie des
Chaleurs Raflway at Paspebiac.
lion. Mr. MACDONALD) (B.C.)-Wier-e
will it strike the petroleuin
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-It wii11 not strilze
petroleum. They will have to buy the Mterial to o11 their wheels. The BihI says:
The company may lay out, construct and
operate lunes of raiiway of the standard gauge
of four feet eight and one-haif Inches, as follows :
(a) From a point at or near Gaspé Basin, in
the county of Gaspé, In the province of Quebe,
following the vailey of the York or St. John
rivera for a distance of thirty miles or more,
thence westerly through the interior of the
peninsula of Gaspé, te aome point on the Intercolonial Railway uorth of Causapseal, iu the
couuty of Rimouski, ln the province ef QuebecAs a matter of fact, we might say it is
Iu the county of Matane. That la what la
declared lu the local charter.
-- thence In a south-westerly direction to a
point at or near Edmuudston, on the St. John
river, In the province ef New Brunswi,Iz.

The construction of the first line wviil create n rival line to the Baie des Chaleurs
Railway and to a road tliat crosses the Tobique river. The second railway is to beFromn a point on the Atlantic and Lake Superior Railway. at or near its terminus at Paspebiac, lu the county cf Bonaventure. irn the
province of Quebec. thence through the townships of Cox. Hope and Port Daniel, In the said
couaty. and the aeigniories of Pabos and Grand
River aud the townships ef Newport, Percé,
Malbaie and Douglas, In the county of Gaspé,
to a point on the company's railway in the preat or near (a.p
This communication was sent to the Riglit ceding paragraph mneationol. located, as far as
Basin. This Une shall be
Ho u. Pr-ime Miniqter of Canacda. 1 I Ppt'e lie practicabie. within tLe limits of the parishos
us 100 Ibuisy 110w la trylig to settle aIl Ha("e on the shores of the Baie des Chaleurs and the
Gulf of St. Lawrence.
The amendmaent 1 propose is to strike onit
teation to -%ha-t is going on in the country.
Perhglps bis state of health does not permit these words:
This line shall be located as far as practlclm. either. to go into ail those details. but
the public is warned-the Seonate is Nvaîa)ed able, within the limits Of l3he parishes on the
shores cf the Baie -les Chi.!ý,urs nnd the GuI]f
-and we know what we have .to do. The 1Of st. Lawrence.
amendmnelt I propose Is to secure to the population 0f that part 0f the country the benefîtý As a mialter of fact. la thiat part of tht'
of the road. If the Senate tbinký this Billicoiintry the parishes are located on tHe seaAs the BIII stands. the comupinY
sliould beconie iaw and that this charter shore.
sliould be giveui to those parties- a charter ni-ay locate thîeir line as far as practicable

SENATE
w'itliiu the limits of the parishes, but there
are parishies whicb extend twe]ve miles froîn
the sea-shore, and If you construet a road
twelve miles from the const, lt will lie valueless ta the people reslding on the sea-shore.
1 propose to strike out the words 1 have
quoted and substîtute a paragrapb requirlng
the company to, locate Its fine witbln the
limita of the parishes on the sea-shore,
and as near as-practicable to the shores of
the Baie des Chaleurs on the Guif of St.'
Lawrence. I propose further to strike out
of clause 4, subsection 2, after the words:
The line described ln paragrapli (b) af subsection 1 of this section shall be constructed
ta Port Daniel within two years ten miles of
the ulne.
The followlng words 'descrlbed In paragraph (b)' and ta, substitute 'fromn Paspediac
towards Port Daniel.' I therefore move:

iei ta Gaspé wili lie deprived of the benefit

lowlng :
This Une shail be located within the limite
of the Parishes on the shores, and as near as
practicable ta the seea-sh res of the BaiA des
Chaleurs and the Guig of St. Lawrence.
2. By strlking out af section 4, subsection
2, the words ' described ln paragraph (b) ' and
substituting therefor ' froni Paspebiac towards
Port Daniel.,

papers.

of that lîne. In the public interest, if this
Hlouse deem it opportune ta pass this Billwhichi I tbiink should be tlirown out-at
leat this amendment should be made ta
safeguard the rights o! the people ln the
lacaIlty interested.

Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-I thouglit that
the lion. gentleman's wliole speech would
iend ta a vote on the thîrd readiBg ta throw
out the Bill completely. 1 tind on the contrary tlîat my bion. friend, after abusini.i
every aole connected with the Gaspé peninisula and with thîs charter, concludes by
moving an amendment to the Bill ta change
one phrase and replace It by another. Of
course he was ready-he stated It plainly-to
accept the Bill without questioning the prnciple of It If I would accept the amendnients
fot, lie wns the
That the said Bill hée fot now read a third lie suggested. If, I dlid
Urne but that It hoe referred baçk ta the Coin- cliannel through whicli the bile o! others
rnittee on Railways, Telegraphe and Harbous, wvns ta lie poured out upon the proinotérs of
for reconsideration, and ta bie amendeci as foltlîls Bi111. I have seen that bile ln tbe newslows
1. By striking out ln section 4, subsection papers, and especilly lu the letters af the
1. paragraph (b), ai the words ln the sald
paragraph (b) from ' Basin ' to the end or the 11ev. Mr. Durét, whicb lie lins rend. I bave
Paragraph and substituting therefor the fol- seeti bis literature ln a good maiy niews'l'lie reverenid gentlemaisii1

î di,,-

credited local professional polîtician and a
generaI nuisance at large. 1 undérstand that
he bias bouglit at a large discount sanie
dlaims of the aid Atlantic and Lake Superlor Railway Company, and la bound that
the aId company shahl have the rlbt ta
Hou. Mr. BOLDUC-Eitber amend It or coustruot thé railway.
rejeCt It completely.
Hon. Bir. LANDRY-I deny thiat. It was
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliere are two ways not thé Rex'. Mr. Duret wbo bought tbose
open.

In asking that the Bill be referred

dlaims.

It was the Chanoine Thivierg e, the

back ta the cominlttee for reconsideratlan, Québec Prime Minister's Colonization Coniit is open for the CaMMrittee to take wlîat missioner.
But I say If the
stand lt deems proper.
Hanise, notwithstandiag the exposure I have

Han. Mr. DANDURAND-I

may be allow-

jusi made, wants to, pass the Bill, at least do ed ta give mny awn opinion as ta wlio bouglit
Bot let the people of that part of the provincè ba injured. In leaving it as It is liow,
the Iine
one thing will probabiy occur
iIIay hé constructed twelre miles from the
sea-shore. and If that shauld be done. then
:a Short route will ha construicted froin
Port Daniel ln a year or two, leavlng completeiy aside ail the parishies on thé seathat purpose the coaipany will
shore ;for
<orne from ani amendmlent ta its charto canstruct that
ter to autharize thcmii
rond to Gaspé basin anti the parishies on
the sea-shore, and the coast froili Part DanHon. '-%r. LANDRY.

thèse dlaims. I hanve been infornied that the
11ev. Mi. I)uret lins very inany dlains aif
the old Atlantic and Lake Superiar Itailway
which muus up ta Paspebine, and bie thinks
that tuat caînpauy shouhd bave the right
to couîstruet a hune ta Gaspé basin, wvliex
another subsidy would lie available and
the caînpany wouîd be able ta pay 100
cents on the dallair for the cIainis lie bouglit
hion.
M1%y
for a few cents on the dollar.
friend lias uuoved an ameadiment ta thiis
Bill. I do nat lziiaw if ail the inenbeî's of
this Ilouse uifferstand the beaîing af the

JUNE 1, 1903
governinent wvlll see that in fohlowinig tue
proposed anndment. The charter froifi
mandate of parliament their line shahl pass
the local House simply provided for the
best serve the populu the interlor. When lu sucli a place as will
construction of a Une
latIon along the shore. My lion. frîend lins
flic compnny decided to corne to Ottawa,
go.pe througli the lilstory of the Petroleum
they iuterviewed the members for the courtCompanies tbat have trled to strike ol
ties of Bonaventure and Gaspé, who are lnlu the Gaspé peninsula. 1 know nothlug
terested ln a rallway belng bult. Those genof those companlos. Ail 1 know is that contlemen declared they would nlot support the
spent ln the last
the governmeult to siderable rnoney bas been
Bill, nor would they ask
thirteen years by them, money that came
vote subsidies for a Une wblch wouid mun exfrom abroad rnost llkely, and 1 arn told by
clusively tliroiigh the Interlor. They wanted
the member for the county,who should know,
to serve the ploneers and the descendants
tluat to-day not a cent 1s due by those coutof the ploneers of those two counties who
parties. Wlio are the prornoters o! thîls railreside along the shore of the Baie des Chareputation
would way ? A set of gentlemen whose
leurs, and they sald If the cornpany
lias nlot bfen assnlled. My hou. friend lias
consent to bulld, concurrently wltli the lino
not mentioued who are the promoters of tliis
ln the interlor, a road frorn Gaspé basin
compaay, whose names appoar. lu the local
up to Paspebiac to jolu the old Atlantic
petroleuin
lins Act, who are members of those
and Lake Superior Rallway, which
counpaniOs, so 1 do not reaily know wliose
100 miles lu operation from the Intercolonial
cliaracter lie ivaîts te nttnck except, perRailway to Paspebiac, tbey would belpi the
haus, tlînt o! Mr. Carpenter, whose naine
Bill througli and ask the federal gover»- bat;2 been rnentioned frequently. Ail I know
ment for a subsldy lu aid 0f the project.
Is that the Ecnal l{ouse took the groatest
The company consented to that and bore
pains to protoct that part o! the country
is the obligation this cornpany lbas asmumed.
ugainst Impecunlous rallway prornoters, and
After dcclaring that tlioy %villbuhld the lDue
that thcy nddod-a tlîing wvîiclu la flot vory
tlîoy go ou and say :
ofteu doue even ii ntitis pnrlinment-n proThis line shaîl be located, as far as practic- vise that tlîLs Act shall only corne Into force
on the
able. wlthlu the limits of the parîshesthe Gulf
by proclamation of -ls Honour the Lieushores of -the Baie des Chaleurs and
o! St. Lawrence.
tenant Governor, ufter clear proof lias been
tlîe resources to
My lion. frlend is not satisflod wlth tbat: furiiilied that thoy bave
tliat
to biug the shore stilI more. He construct the rnilway. 1 understnd
lie wants
ob- thi-y have deposlted wilthi tle Baahk o! Montdoes nlot care If tliere are Insuperable
prelimtinary exstacles lu the way of constructuug a rond by real $50,000 for surveys and
not wanit penses, nnd tliat somte $30,000 lias beeii
that route. My opinion is lie does
to hug the sliore hal! so mucli as lie walits spent already.
to liug the electors. The corupany binds
Hon. Mr. LAND1tY-Was tijat previous
itself to bulld:
to tlîe proclamation of the Lieutenanit GovAs far as practicable withln the limits of the ernor 9
parishes on the shore of the Baie des Chaleurs
and the Guif of St. Lawrence.
Hon. Mr. DANDUItAND-CettiUly. The
wauts to aniexid titis noîiey n'as deposited lii the batik prier to
The hon. gentleman
Goverby statlng that tie line shiah be located 'with- tlic proclamnationi of the Lieutennaht
oit the shores norn
in the lnits of the parislies
lo.MrlADuc-rl
ioutdps
as near ns possible to tlie seashuore oin the
DI-TOanntdpo.M.L
Gulf of St. Lawrence. Wlîen the surveY ls
maide and the best route is found, from that ited n'as -$-3,000Haon. Mr. DANDURAND-I arn told the
mioment thiey. are Ijounci to buiid their Ue
as near as possible withlin thie Umniits of auounit wvas $50,000. If the liou. genitleman
the parishes ont the bay aiud the gulf, anid it lias no botter authority for lbis staterneiit
to tako
uvili be tlîeir lnterest to tou tho sottle- thuau the Rev. Mr. Duret, I prefer
tlueuu. the Information I recoived myself.
meats there and flot huild beliiiud
M'hen they cone to tlîe governuiit for a
lion. Mr. LANDRY-1 have it f roi tlue
subsîdly tliey will have to shio% their hplanis
the bank lillmself. I have bis
and the route tluey propose to take, and the mnanager of

SENATE
certificate stating that
£7,500.

thre

axrrourrt

was

My lion. frierrd
lIon. Mr. DANDURAND.
lias read the prospectus whicbi speaks of the
rpendid harbour of Gaspé and dilates on
tire difficulties and danger whichi attend the
navigation of the St. Lawrenrce. We ail
krrow the St. Lawrence route. Not a word
appears ln that prospectus about Gaspé
basin tîrat is not absoluteiy true. It la a
splendid harbour, aud I arn surprised that
rny hon. friead should try to disparage it iii
tis House. The company lias deposited a
r-iuï of uruuey : my li i. l'rierd says i lintle
Ntrw Canadirn Company. The New Canadliau Company bias been formed on letters
patent lu London. 1 have seen Its articles
of agreemnent. They have, apparently. satislied the home authorities as to the fuifilrment of the conditions urider tire Coarpanies
Act. They declare thant tirey lutend to ac<luire the benefit of the Act of pariarent
for the incorporation of the cornpany ; tbe
purchase price payable la £50,000 lu cash or
fuliy paid up shares of the company. 1 wouid
take this New Canadian Conmpany to be
a construction company whlch, as Is custoruary, would tak-e a block of shares, If not dil
the sirares, 0f the present cornpany under
discussion, and talce their debentures witli
tire riglit to, bond the railway for a certain
number of thousands of dollars per mile, and
ln return for taking practlcaflly everythlng
froru tire promoters of this cornpany, blnd
tlinselves to give up pald up shares ini tire
New Canadian Company to tire extent of
£50,OOO. Wirat is tirere ln sucir a gif t ? M1y
hon. frlend speaks of sellirrg tlie charter for
£50,000 to be paid wlrolly or la part la cash
or iii fully paid up sbares in the comparry.

people corne to be lncorporated for tire purprose of undertaking the construction. W~e
al] know that no money will be paid until
tire engineer's report is presented, showing
that they are entitled to the subsidy, which
nieans tat the road wouid be built. Ail
that that part of the country wants Is to
bave a railway. But lu answer to tire libel
'which bas been read by my bon. friend- a
illbel lntroduced bere, I wouid say, by an
abuse of the privileges of the House-I
wlll lay on tbe table tbe petîtion of the
The
county council of Gaspé county.
coundil ls coarposed of tbe mayors of ail the
parisbes la the county, as tbe reeve and
deputy reeve of encli townsbip forms tbe
county council ln Ontario. The county
counil and tihe board of trade of Gaspé
ask tbat this charter sbould be granted.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-To whom is it addressed ?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is addressed
to the Governor General la Councl, and is
as foiiows :
To His Excelleflcy
The Governor General of Canada

ln Couacil.
The Petition of the Council of the County of
Gaspé. la the province of Quebea.
Respectfully slrowetb
That the population of the county of Gaspé
Is about 30.000 ; that this country was one of

the first setbled after the discovery of Canada;
that Its soul is very fertile ; that the rivers
flowlng through its Immense terrltory are full
the ses. flshex-es
of salmon and trout ;that
along Its shores are of the best ; and that Uts
;and that notwlthother resources are great
standing ail these advantages the progress of
this region bas been delayed and hampered because the whole o! this county la yet without
any railway. and that it is connected only by
water wlth the commercial centres, and because it remains isolated and without any communication during six months eacb year
Tirose pai up shares would corne after tire
That the 'Atlantic, Quebec and Western Railpreferential stock or debentures, and would iway Company ' bas obtalned from the legisiature of the province of Quebec a charter te
not be wortli very niucli. and ii tirese genrtle- constrsqct a raiiway whlch. starting from the
mûenmrnale arranugemnents a momrg themselves Intercolonial Railway near Causapscal, wili. rua
of Gaspesia to Gaspé basin:
satlsfactory te tirei. we have ilothiug to do through the interiercompany is appiying te the
and that the said
withl t. If any subsidies are voted-and 1 parliamont ot Canada for the right te prolong
uifflerstancd parlianment lias expressed its de- its road to Edmuadston, N.B., whl'h ext-nsion
will give the sald rallway connections wlth ail
sire to see suci a rond bu.ilt by voting in the main roads of Canada and of the United
1899 a subsidy of $3,200 per mile for aimyý States:
That the siff company la aise applylng te the
coinpany whichi would undertake tihe work- narliament of Canada fer the permission to
hrave to sec thrat tire proionz and extend 'Its railway from Gaspé Batire goverliment w-ll
connect,
Aithougli parliainent sin te Paspébiac Bay where it wiil this sald with
sbjnsare earined.
exthe 'Bale the Chaleurs Railwsy ',
lias aiready ex,çpressed its desire to have the tension te be built as much as possible along
ef the Cuit of St. Lawrence, thus
the shore
uine built by voting tirat t.ubsidy, nobody la
1 giving to the population of the cotinty o! Gaspé
corne forward to, earn it until now, wlrem and te that of a netable portion of the county
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

JIINE 1, 1903

of Bonaventure the means of communication of
which they ara so much in need;
That Gaspé Basin and Gaspé Bay formn a very
large harbaur about twenty miles deep, on the
route of vessels gaing up or returnlng fram the
River St. Lawrence and that thls harbaur Is.
via the Straits of Belle Isle, 200 miles nearer
ta Liverpool, England, than Sydney, C.B., or
Halifax. N.S.:
That thfs railway wlll be the sbortest route
between the ports of Great Britain and the
commercial centres of Canada and of the Unitedi
States
That the said 'Atlantic. Quebec and Western
Railway Company' bas proved ta the gavernment of the Province of Quebec, that It bas the
means ta go on with Its undertaUng. and that
this fact bas been proved by proclamation of
the Lieutenant Governor in Council. published
la the Quebec Officiai Gazette of the 1Sth December last (1902):
That the said campany Is now proceeding with
the survey of lte railway. and that the Important sunis devoted ta this woric are a new
Droof of the good faith of the sald comPanY.
and of Its honest endeavaur ta go on with ",
undertakings:
That this railway wIll be of the greatest utility ta the Public and ta the trade of Canada;
that it will render accessible and wiili open ta
colonization a large region of good lands, and
that it deserves the encouragement and aid of
your government necessary ta assure its succes
Wherefore. your petitianer humbly prays
Your Excellency ta grant ta the sald ' Atlantic. Quebec and Western Railway Company',
the subsidies which it gives ta every serions
railway. in order ta assure the construction cf
the sald raiiway tram .Edmundstan, N. B.. ta
Gaspé Basin. and of Its extension nlang the
shore of the Gui! of St. Lawrence, tram Gaspé
ta Pasp6biac. the campletion a! the said railway and of its sald extension being very important for the progress and future of Gaspeaia.
And your petitianer. as in duty baund, will
ever pray.
Percé, llth March. 1903.
On behaif of the Gaspé County Cauncil,
JOHN 1. Le GROS,
County Warden.
WILLIAM FLYNN,
Secretary Treasurer.
It seemus to me that wîth the authorized
voice of sncbi anl Important body, representlng the iwhole counity of Gaspé, I mighit well
sit downvi and'nsk that the proposed amnendment be rejected.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC mnoved the adjouriiment of the debate.
The motion was lost.

Goveriior can be set aside. 1 do flot suppose
the lion. proimoter of this Bill iDtellds to
abrogate a measure .passed by the local'
government, and I do nlot tblnk it can bie
legahly done. He is too 'well versed lu the
constitution of OUr country to bave sucb
-in !den, but lie must admit that If bie does
uot mean to disallow hie means to amend.
If we bave tbe riglit to amend, altbougb we
have flot the rigbit to destroy a local law, we
iay by amenduient destroy tbe measute.
Thils would, therefore, be coutrary to the
constitution. I bope then bion. members will
give their opinion, but 1 think I bave a rigbt
to ask the bon. Speaker ta give lils own
opinion on tbis point. Have we the righîit
to amend a law passed by the local goveraiTbis Bill is merely an amendmient
ment ?
to the lawv. It does not create a new corporation. It recites in the preamible:
Whereas the Atlantic, Quebec and Western
Rallway Company bas. by its petition, represented that it was lncorporated by an Act of
the leglelature of the province of Quebec. beiug
chapter 63 of the statutes or 1901, and bas
prayed that It bie enacted as hereinatter set
forth. and it is expedient ta grant the prayer
t'Viie.7ett-r.i, Hi Majesty.
of the said petition
by and with the alvize an] er.cuient of the
of Commons of Canada. deSenate and Hanse
clares and enacts as follows :
1. In thisà Act the expresuoua 'the CJompan2y
means the body carparate and politic heretcotare created by the Act mentioned la the preamble under the iame 'if ne ititintic. Quil~ec
and Western Rallway Company, and the railway works which the company by Its said Act
of Incorporation bas been empowered ta undertake and operate are declared ta be for the
general adva ntage of Canada.
It does not follow, because in the British
Northi Ainerîca Act It is said that tue local
govcwiimenit shail bave sncb rights on different points except wben a work bans been
declnred for tbe general advantage of Canada tbat this parliament bias tbe right to
amend the local law.
Hiou. Mr. SCOTT-Thiat is ln thîls Bill.
Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-WlIere do
you tlad the incorporation of a new coinpanly ?

DeBOUCHERVILLE-Before
Hon. Mr.
flou. Mr. SCOTT-Ini thîe second paravoting ou this question, there is quatber
We
inatter whichi ought ta be decided.
is
DeBOUOI{ERVILLE-It
Mr.
lion.
certainly bave not tlîe riglht ta abrogate a
bon. gentleman
Bil1 passed by the local legisiature of Que- Izcnowvn I daresay by every
It le oiily by disallowvance ly the of this House that if wc decide sncb a
bec.
thilig Is for the benefit of Canada. then it
Governor General durmmg a spccified turn
thant a 13il1 sanctioned by the Lieutenant i i faîl under the jurisdiction of the federa]

SENATE
selves, anda place their money lu good speculations, 1 suy tlie members of tlia House
should lie very careful to sec tlîat no wiid
cat achlemes are promoted by thls House
ot smnirchiand that Canada's fair îîame ci
ed by tliese men. Before paaaing tis mcasure it wonld lie prudent to study .thie question more carefully and to liave soine one
endeavour to réfute the remarks off the lion.
gentleman froni Stadacona. If lie has said
anythînig which was îlot perfectly truc,
somebody sliould risc in thjis House and
tell lim that lie lias advanced atatements
vliicli cannot lic substantiated, and the
Hlou. Mr. BOLDUC-Before a vote la vote shiould lie lu favour off sending the Bill
taken, I desire to express my views on liack to the Rallwny Committee and then
the nierits off the B3ill now'bcfore us. I bot aides would have every ffaciiity to exslîould have prcferred that my lion. friend, plain their views on the question.
wlio mnoved the second reading, after the
The SPEAKER-I do utot knlow whethier
very aile speech of the lion. gentleman
froin Stadacona, would have declded to re- I arn expected to anawer the question of the
jet-t the Bill. However, If the Bill la sent lion, gentleman from Montarvilie.
bacek to the Railway Conimittee, the coniSome hion. MEMBERS-Wýlir ?
lttee wili tlhen lie able to dispose of it lu
the inanner they wisli. The lion, gentleman
The SPEAKER-Some lion. gentlemen
stnted-boldly that lie dld not cure to, inake fseeni to thlnk it la not my duty, but If 1 am
any comjpromise witli the lion, gentleman to answer it, I shahl try to do so to the beat
front Stadacona, that lie was sure he could off zy abulty. The company incorporatcd by
answer ail the arguments advanced by chapter W3 the statutes off Canada for the
ofthe hon, gentleman, and 1 tiought lie 3-car 1901, was tliereby constituted a person,
wvould in fact destroy the atrong speech and that person preacnted a petition to tlia
mîade by 13 hion. friend. To uny great parliament and asked thiat certain thinga
surprise, hiowevcr, there was not a word should lie donc by this parliament. Lt seema
snid to refute wliat was stated plainly and to Ile that it was competent for the person
lioldir by the hion. gcntleman fromn Stada- created by the legisiature off Quéec to do
couna, that the men who hiad been- the au- that. Lt is uiot the usual course, I admit.
thora off ail those swindles lu Gaspé were Thé usual course la that a1 couîpany existpracticalir the anme mca wlio were nsklng ing in a province asica to be incorporatcd
for' the passing of this mnensure toldny. by the Dominion parhiament. In thia case
It seenis to nie that. Gaspé is the cemetery the coliipany, instead of asking to lie iaoff the Dominion, whiere many off the funds corporated lir the Dominion lins nsked that
off the Belg'ans andi Enghisi have been buried. certain powers shahl le conferred by the
Ilon, gentlemen will remember the Baie des D)ominion pi)riialnent on the provincial coinChaleurs scandai, whiere a large amnount was pany. I think that the provincial company
sunk and it seemis to me the hon. promoter bas n riglit to asic that, juat as an individual
off titis Bill is trying, to enlarge the ceine- would have the righit, and I think that titis
parliament.' When it falis under the jurisdiction or the federal parliament, the pow-',r
utf the local goverument is nbrogated and
destroyed. This company does xîot exlst
any more. It exlsted by the Iaw of the province off Québec. You destroy the law off
the province off Quebec, thierefore you must
brIng lu a Bill incorporating a new company.
You recite the words to, show you are
inmiending a Bill of the local gov-ernment,
and I think we have itot tiîat righit. I should
Ilie to have the opinion off the Speaker on
titat question.

tery anîd

iniake it

a place to

sink

mnore

parliainent

lias

the

righit to

confer

the

fuinds froin the other side off the Atlantic. powers ask-cd for by the corporation created
It is true the gentlemen asking for the lir the local legisiature. Tbat is, as 1 underpassing off titis measure have stated that stand the question aslied liy the hon. gentleBut
tuey did niot seek for aur subsidies.
we lznow very weli w-bat is the meaning
of this ;and for the good name off Canada,
wheuî Canada is booîned to-day on the other
side off the Atlantic, when large nuinbers
to estab1ishî tiintalaada
aire conto
Hon. Mr. îjeI3OUCHERV1lLLE.

mian from Montarvilie.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Have we the pomwer ta
appir tlie Railway Act off this Dominion to
the Act off Incorporation off the province off
Qiiebec, liecause that is involved ?

JLTNE 1, 1903
The SPEAKER-I think so. It la stated
here that the company incorporated by the
province of Quebec bas prayed that it be enacted as hereinafter set forth, -and the question is then wbetber this parliament can do
what that legisiative person asked to have
lone ; and lu my humble judgment it cau.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Our statutes are f ull
of Bis of this kind. I could cite a Bill
whIchi was passed ln 189M of the very saine
nature. It was the, Montreai Park and Island Raiiway Company, organized under a
Quebec charter. Thîey petItioned to have
a Bill exactly like this, to bave the woîrks
declared for the general advantage of Canada. In fact, it is Invariably done wbenever railway works of a local nature cross
other railway wvorks extending beyond the
province, and ever since confederation, and
especinily of late 'years, the practice bas
been estabiisbed of deciariug sucb works for
tbe general advantage of Canada, aud therefore we assume jurisdiction over the local
company, and as a niatter of fact, ail our
raîiiwnys lu the province of Quebec have
become railways under the Jurisdiction of
the federal parliament.
Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I suppose
I mnay be aliowed to ask a question of tbe
bion. member. Uas tbe hou. gentleman a
perfect memory of wbat passed wben tbe
question of giving that power to the railways was discussed ?i And does bie remember wbietber any question was raised
on the coustitutionai part of lt ? These
are two questions. Has the question of
the constitutioîiality been raised, and does
the bion. miember perfectly, and can he assure us, that the Bill thiat was passed for the
Park and Island Railway was equivalent
to this ore, or resenibled lt In any way?
For iny part, I do not rernember ever lavIng seeni a Bill like ibis. I miay be mistaken and my memiory miy be at fault.

House to be able to say whetber the question was raised or flot, but I arn able to
sny tkat lu a very important case ln wbicb
1I nm eagaged tbe question was argued and
the Hon. Sir Christopher Robinson was
my adversary ln the case, and tbe Hon.
Minister of Justice and I took communication of n able argument preseuted on the
question by tbe Hon. Mr. Blake wbere it
wvas sbown beyond doubt that tbis procedure
was accordiug t0 the constitution : lu other
words, 'that It was lu the power of the
federal parliameut, by declaring a work
to be for the general advantage of Canada,
t0 assume juriadiction over that work.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the hon, gentleman did flot catch tbe nature of tbe objection made by my hou. frieud from Montarville. The objection is not tbat a n'easure
previously of a local nature becomes a federai one by the statutory deciaration that
the work to be doue ls lu the interests of
Canada. That is not tbe objection that the
hou. member bas raised. The objection Is
that ln the Bill before us now the preamble
reads as foliows:
An hou. MEMBER-Order.
The SPEAKER-I sbiouid like to ask, the
bon, gentleman If bie is appeallng fromn the
decision of the chair ?

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-No, not at ail.
The SPEAKER-Then the question of
order bas been settled.
Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I <id not
appeai to the chair. I mereiy asked for au
opinion, aud I think we cau find it la May,
that it la reguiar eveni to ask anotber bon.
iii.nber if bie wiil have the kindness to
aniver a question, nnd that if that practice
prevails lu reference to hion. members it
iiiust prevail for the Speaker also, and knowing that the Speaker bas studied the constitution a great deal, I shouid like to bave bis
opinion. But it is not an appeal froni bis
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I wili answer the two
decision. I did not asli bis decision.
questions ;first I will undertake to show
a dozea Bis of the saine nature.
The SPEAKER-I wish to put my view
of before the House. I uuderstood the hou.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Hlundreds

tiemi.

gentleman

f romn Montai-ville, whien I was

about putting the question on the amend-

Hon. M.Nr.BEIQUE-Passed under the ment, to have raised what w-as substantipresent governmeint as w-cil as uncler the aily a question of order. Hle heid that ibis
late governimelt. Now. as to the other ques- was a matier wbich we could not deal
tion :I have been too short a timie in this witli, and therefore this question couid not

SE NATE
THIIID READING.
be p)ut. M-\ydecision ivas adverse to the lune
taken by the bon. gentleman from 'MontaiBill (109) An Act to correct a clerical error
ville. Now the hon. gentleman from Stada- iii the Act to incorporate the Edmonton and
cona proposes to discuss that same question. Slave Lake ia ilway Comipany.-(Hoii. -Mr.
I do not tbink that is regular.
'Scot.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-If w-e want to keep
DOMINION CONTROVERTED ELECregular no one should have risen. If the
TIONS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
to speak, I do flot see
Speaker allows one
SECOND READING.
wlîy lie should forbid another.
ioa. -Mr. SCOTT moved tîxe second readHou. M.\EM-BEIIS.-Order, order.
illg of Bill (13) An Act further to aînend the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want equal justice. Domîinionî Controverted Elections Act. H-e
The House divided ou the aujieidmenit -,aid :This Bui gives to thie judge wlio tries
tîle case %videri)owe*s tlîaunat presexît. At
wbich was Jost on the following division
present lie lias a riglît to adjourn the triaîl
Contents:
fronii timie to tinie froml one place to anotxcu
Hon. Messieurs
lu tîxe saîie electoral district. Thera Is a
Macdonald (Viecria).
Bernier.
McDonald (Cape Breton d1ause added to tuai as follows:
Bolduc.
Merner.
Casgrain (Windsor),
or upon cause shown and supported by affi'Miller.
Dol>son.
dlavit wvhere special rircumstances exist shahl
'Montplaisir.
Ferguson,
in his opinion render it desirable to do so
Sullivan.
Landry.
frein one elace to another outslde the electoThibaudeau
Macdonald (P.E.I.).
raI district.
(Rigaud).-14.
He ean. take avidence outaida t11e elceNon-Contents
toiai district, whille at the praseuit time lie
Hon. Messieurs
is liniiited to taking evîdenca only within the
Kerr (Cobourg),
Béique.
Landerkin.
Boucherville. de
district. Thien in tue second clause the judge
Lovitt.
Casgrain,
at presajît has simply the riglit to order thiat
McMullen.
(de Lanaudière).
Power (Speaker).
Church.
a mail be in conteipt of court, if lie fails
Robertson.
Coffey.
to answer a subpoeiia to appear ah the trial.
Scott.
flandurand.
Shehyn.
Uuîder this Bui n judge mnay, Ilîrougli bis
Domville.
Templeman.
Edwards.
warraîît, arrest a maxn aîîd bring luini befora
Tessier.
Ellis.
lhnm and deal wltl ihl.
Yeo.
Fiset.
Young.-23.
Frost.
Hon. '%I. FERGUSON-I see no objection
The motion for the third readiing of the whlatever to these proposed anendments.
B.ill ivas cauried on the following division
1 thînk tUat the second section is required.
Contents
I have understood tbat judges have fait
Hon. Messieurs
souxe doulit about thair poiver to conîpel the
Landerkin.
Béique.
attendance of witnesses for alection trials,
Lovitt.
Casgramn
amnd tlîe provision in the Éirst section of tha
McMullen.
(de Lanaudière).
Power (Speaker),
Church.
Act wvlicli gives tUa judgo a power to adRobertson.
Coffey.
journ from one place to anoîliar. aithoug-li it
Scott.
Dandurand.
Shehyn.
xîîay or inay not be witluiii tUe electoral disDomiville.
Termpleman.
Edwards,
trict, is quite proper. TUe law as it st.'nds
Tessier,
Ellis.
g i vs tua riglit to tua judge ho chîange the
Yeo.
Fîset.
Young.-22.
Frost.
venue from the elechoral district to a place
Kerr (Cobourg).
tUaI shahl be lUeld 10 be more couvenient outNon-Contents
side if it shall ba made to appear to thha'
Hon. Messieurs
thînt circunistances w arrant it, but they do
McDonald
Bolduc.
îlot appeau ho have the power 10 adjourn
Breton).
(Cape
M.Nerner.
Boucherville. de
froni timie 10 hune or from a place in the disMiller.
Casgrain (Windsor).
trict to a llce outside tUe district. I tliinkz
Montplaisir.
Dobson.
Sullivan.
Ferguson.
thîre is 11o objectioni wliatever ho tiiese
Thibaudeau
Landry.
anîîenduîieîts.
(Rigaud).l ..
Macdonald (P.E. .),
Tua motion was agreed 10. and tUe Bil 1 Tha motion 'vas agreed ho. and the Bill
w-as uaad tUe second time.
was rend the thxîrd timae and passed.
The SPEAKER.

JUX'LE 1, 1903

LOAN COM-%PANIES BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readIng of Bill (24) An Act to extend the power
of Loan Companies. He said: Loan coinpanies, as they exist to-day. owe their existence to two different Acts on our statutebook. One is known as chapter 119 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada, and two years
ago w-e passed w-bat w-as called a Loan
Companies Act, appiying only and soiely
to loan companies. The object of this Bill
Is to Incorporate ln the iacorporating Acta
of Loan Companies that dlaim their charters
under chapter 119 o! the Revised Statutea,
the provisions that are ln this Bill and whlch
are now only to be found in w-bat la calied
the Loan Companles Act of 1901. That le,
that they may invest their money on the
security of, or purchase, for investint la
mortgages or hypotbecs or leasehold, reai
estates, &c. I compared It and It Is word for
word w-ith the Loan Companles Act of 1901.
It is nlot a government Bill. I thought at
first it w-as. It w-as introduced by Mr.
Thompson of Haldimaad, I think; bow-ever,
Joan companies that owe their existence
to chapter 119 of the statutes, those particuJar provisions that are at present oniy to be
fouad la the Loan Companies Act proper of
1901.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It la nlot insertlng
anything new ln the law ?
Hon. '-\r. SCOTT-No, it is giving to Joan
companies lncorporated under chapter 119,
the saine powers -with regard to those two
sections that are given to boan companies
Incorporated under the Act passed in 1899.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Does that apply
to ahl the provisions of the Bill ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those particular clauses
are incorporated ln the charters that owe
their existence to the Act as it exists irn the
Revised Statutes. There are two classes
of boan companies, those origiaaliy lacorporated under the Loan Companies Act, chapter 119 of the Revîsed Statutes, and then
two or tbree years ago we passed an Act
specially appiying to boan companies, cailed
'The Loan Comnpanies Act,' and tiiese
clauses are to be found la the Loan Coinpanies Act. They are not, however, la the
charters of companies that owe their exist-

-209

ence to chapter 119 of the Revised Statutes,
and it la to apply them to those companies.
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
MILITIA PENSION ACT A3IENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bili (78) An Act to amend the Militia
Pension Act. He said: Ia 1901 we passed
an Act authorizing pensions to officers for
20, 25 and 30 years' service. The object
of this la that if they have bad spent any
turne ln the Civil Service of Canada, the
turne served thiere shaJi appiy la the 1juiber o! years w-hidi they may Iam ln thieir
pensions.
The motion w-as agreed to and the Bill w-as
read the second time.
SHIPPING FEDERATION OF CANADA
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved the second
reading of Bill (93) An Act to incorporate
the Shipping Federation o! Canada.
lie
said: This is a Bill asked for by all the
principal shîppers of Montreal whose nines
appear la the Bill, w-ho are forming an association la the general shipping Interests.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-A combinatian ?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAXD-The object and
pow-ers of the federation are stated lu the
sixth clause, w-hhch reads as follows-s
To ainalgamate and federate as members
thereot. shlp owners aad shipping agenits, and
such other versans, firms and corporations as
are froin Urne ta time iaterested in the shippinz trade of Canada.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It w-li be considered la commlttee.
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
w-as read the second time.
ROYAL TRUST COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. DA'NDURAND moved the second
reading of Bill (103) An Act respecting the
Royal Trust Company. He said: This co'ipaay la incorporated lu divers provinces and
now asks for a federai char-ter to cover tive
whole Dominion.
The motion was agreed to. and the Bill

w-as read the second time.
The Senate adjourned.

SENATE
THE SENATE.
Ottawva, Tuucsday, Jonc 2, 1903.

and 1 mention t1ils for the information of
lion. members.

Hon. Mr. MALýCDONALD (B.C.)-Tbie quesThe SPEAKER tcok the Chair aI Tbree tdon was raised lu the committee that the
o'clock.
coirnittee should not take cognizance (if
ruie '36, tliat if the petition w-as irreguiariy
Prayers and routine proceedings.
signeci, it Nvas a question for the Hue,
THE PETITION 0F L. EARNEST AND that it once baving corne to the House it
was in the p)ossession of the blouse, and
OTHERS.
ive hiad flot to report on thiat*part at ailHon. Mr-. YOUNG-I bave been iinstructed that w-e bad to report on the notices, w-hether
by the Stnnding Orders Comimittee 10 drnw they were complete. My oiv-n opinion is
attention to the petition of L. Earnest and that a petition comlng to us is not scrutinized
others froin Nelson. Lt transpired before by the bouse at ail, that auy defects in tbis
tbe committee that Ibis petition liad no petition belong to the committee 10 r-eport
signatures on the sheet contning t1he pray- on. If there is any lrreguiarity lu the siger, and vour committee were somewhuxt at a nature, or any other part of it, it is for the
loss to decide on a course of action, but bouse to say. Here is a petition signed ou
inasmuch as tbe promoters assured us that a loose sheet, and the main petition is not
the Bill w-as going pnst the Standing'Orders signied. Lt does liot chaiige the bouia fides
Committee la the House of Commons, and of the niatter at ail, and I sbouid be in
It would oniy be a malter of fi shor-t turne favour of suspending the rule and passing
before they wouid be able 10 present the the petition. How-ever, that is tbe positiou
Bill 10 tbe House, and the Standing Orders of the matter, and tbe question is wbetber
Committee would have 10 puss on tbe Bill, we should take cog-nizance of it under
I w-as directed by the Comunittee on Stand- rule 36.
ing Orders 10 cali attention to the fact that
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I many add that the
Ibis document was niot a petition at ail, comunittee, of course, desires to somie exteut
because mile 36 cf the Senate says:
instructions from the House as to what
Every petition le ta be faly wrItten or
prlnted ami sIgned on the sheet containlng the
Vrayer of the petition, and if there be more
than ithree petitioners, the addltlonal signatures may be affixed ta the sheets attached ta
the petition.
It emplasizes the necesslîy of some revision of our miles, givlng our Speaker adi,ditionai power and additionnl responsibhlity
in examinlng suclu matters, s0 that a petition of Ibis character, If I may cail It a
petition, wouid flot reach the conimittee untii the attention of the House had been
ealled 10 It. But the commitîee feit tbat
il w-as oniy fair 10 the bouse for me, as
cbairman of the conmittee, 10 give the
blouse the particulaus of tbe inatter, andi
as n choice of elîber delaying lime legislation
by waiting until the Bill came hefore the
bouse or accepting that as a petition-upon
whicbi theme w-ns grave doubt in the minds
ýo? many of time committee as 10 w-bether
w-e w-eme justifled in going. tbat far iu exanining time petition- the comimittee dJecided
t0 uecommrnd, iniasuud as lime i-nies il,
other respects luad been coirnplied witiu. that
-the report ho presented to time H-ouse to-da'Y,

we shall do lu a matter of thuat kind-wbietber we will recoguize uie 36 or iiot.
Hon. '.%r. SÇOTT-Tibat is tbe only irregularity ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It is.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is evidently doue iii
Ignorance of the ruiles, and il just so bnappens that the hast line terminates aI the
bottom, and the naines are mentioned lu the
petition. Lt says ' tbe undersigned Ernest
J. Stanford '-bis signature is. the flrst, and
then follomw tbe other naines. 1 tancy ut us
one of those ecrical eu-mors tbat w-e could
overcomie.
bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELI,-It
seems t0 me a very good reason for suspending the mule, but it canuot be a reason
for acting indimectly iii opposition 10 the
rule, whicbi is s-euy clear and distinct. It
says tbat a petition iust be signed lu snch
and sncb a mlanner. If it be flot properi!
signied, tben it stuikes nie to bc the diity of
the committee to Cali attenution to Iluat omnission, and for- the flouse thon to deal with

JUNER 2, 1903

11, but flot before. Il bas been referred
10 the committee, because, as the hon. Senator from Victoria very properly said, the
petition bas beeiî rend. No one investigated
that petition ln the House. No lion. member
looked aI il. We simply bear tbe pumport
of the petition, and Ihen It ha referred to
the committee. For wbat purpose ? To
ascertaîn wbetber it coutains anytbin, ob,2etionable. If you ask for money, Ibat Is
an objection. If it Ia disrespectful 10 any
person, or particularly to the legisiature, or
10 tbe Crown, or anyone else, then il la ruhed
out. If il be not properly signed, il is the
duty 0f the committee eitber 10 reject Il or
report the fact 10 the House. At least, Ihat Is
the view 1 lake of il. As bas been pointed
out by my lion. friend who called tbe attention of tbe House 10 lt, there bas been an
omission 10 comply with the requirements
o! the ruie. 0f course, I do liot know wbo
100k tbe otber objection, but tbe ruie says :
Every petltAon le ito be fairly wrlttea or
iumla.ted. and signed on the sheét containlng the
prayer of the petitlon.

If tbe petithon extenda over two or Ihree
rages, Iben Il should follow immediately
It la chear and
after the last paragrapb.

distinct In Itself, and I do not see bow any
one could hake any other meaning from IL.
Hon. AIr. YOUNG-Tbnl is no petîtion at
ah.
-Hon. Sir M1ACKENZIE BOWELL-No
petition at ail.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-There Is no doubt
Ibat the petition Is not In accordance wltb
the requirements of raie 36. Tbe question
arose before the committee as 10 whetber
It was w-itbln tbe province of the Çommlttee on Standing Orders 10 iniquire as
10 that and Il seemus 10 me that under
ruie 53 tbe Committee on Standing Ordera
bas nothing 10 do as to the euforcement
of raie 36. It Is at the lime the pelition
ls received before the Senale tbat the
lnquiry sbould be made, and il shouhd be
made either under the responshbility o!
the bon. Speaker o! tbe House or under
the responsibility of tbe Cherk of the
House. Tbe same question arose last year
iu conneclion witb the pelition of the Bisbop
of the Greek Çhurcb, and thie attention of
Ibis bonoumable House was called to tbe
malter, and altbougbh the petition bad been
received and the Bill introduced, Ibis House.
14ý

211

100k cognizance ef the irreg-ularity--of tbe
fact tbat the petitioners were aliens, and
rejected the Bill. The coinmittee deemed
it advisable to call the attention of this
honourable House to the malter, so that in
the future closer attention should be pald
when tbese petitions are recelved by this
honourable House.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is It
a petition unless il is properly signed when
presented?
Hon. 31r. BEIQUE-It bas been received
by the Senate. Il Is for the Senate 10 say
whether it la a proper petition or not. Il
seems to me It is not for the Committee on
Standing Orders, wben they receive a petition for a speclal purpose, to inquire as to
ivbetber proper notices bave been given or
flot, to say this petition wbhicb was sent 10
us by the Senate is a petition whiclh bas
bpen lrregularly sent.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-It seems to me tbe
question raised by tbe bon. gentleman who
bas just taken bis seat was settled last year
in tbe case 10 which he bas referred. The
petition of the Greek Cburcb was presented
was received afterwards, and the opportunity 10 object came only when the Bill was
before the House. Tben the attention o!
the Speaker was called 10 that petition by
myself, and the bon. Speaker gave bis decision agalnst the petition, althougb it had
been recelved. Tlien tbe House took action
t-) a certain extent in coufirmlng the decision of the Speaker. It seema 10 me the
question ralsed by tbe bon, gentleman Is
quite settled. Tbe commlttee bas full power
10 look int the defecta of a petition, and
more partlcular]y wben il can be contended
tbat the petition is no petition at ail. Tbere
la another question whicb le raised bere,
il seems 10 me, wbielb Ia more important
than tbe tecbnical question before tbe House.
It Is tbis -It seems to me that year by year
we are more and more disregarding tbe
muieg of this House. The question should
be looked lo wlxether we sbould go on
always disregardiug the rules, or go back
to the practice o! -enforcing our mules.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-From my recolleclion,
the incident wbicb oco&rred lat year and
whicb led ho the throwing out of the Bill
to whicbà my bon. friend referred, was not
at ail paraliel to the question before us

SEN'ATE
to-day. Tbe real question tîîen was a petition f rom a foreigner living in San Francisco, signed to a petition to establisb a
community Up in the North-west. That
was tbe reai ground on wbicb the petition
was ruled out. The ground of where tbe
signature was. wrîtten was flot at ail an Important element in it. In this case this petition was presented. As a rule petitions
cannot be reoeived until they are examined,
two days after or one day atter, whatever
the time happens to be. The question ls,
shail this petition be received. 0f recent
years it bas not been usuai to ask in each
particular case, shall tbls petition be received. If the House says yes, that ouglit
to be the end of any clerical objection to a
petition. The House bas recel-ed it. I quite
agree wlth tbe bon. gentleman it would be
better If a dloser examination were made of
al! those petitions. In this case there is no
question of fraud; It is a question of ignorance. The parties are mentloaed In the
body of tbe petition and Il bappens tbe iast
lune was at the bottom of the page and tbey
put the names at the top of the next page.
Are we for tbat reason to throw out tbe
petition ? I tbink it wou]d not be fair.
through a clericai mistal-e, to Imperil interests which may be of considerable Importance.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not tbink the bon. Secre±ary of State bas put
the question fàirly, if be will permit me tu
say so. Tbe question is not now wbether
w-e sbould suspend the mile and receive tbe
petition. Tbe question is, wbetber it is a
petition under tbe circumstances.

natures were simply on a separate sbeet of
paper, any names miglit be substituted for
those niakîng the petition.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat would be a fraud.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-This House shou]d tiot
throw the responslbility on auy of its committees of deciding on the validity of a pet!tien. Tbis House and its officers are perfectly competent 10 see that a petition is Ia
regular order before It is banded ini by the
inember presenting the petition, and 1 hold
tUaI every petition sbould corne befere the
cierk of this House to see that il Is of a mespectfui character and can be presented by
the bon, gentleman wvbo bas tUe petition In
cbaTge, and If tbe House would insist upon
that, there wouid be no need of lt going before the commlttee untîl It Is ascemtalned 10
be la order.
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It is quite
clear tbis was an unintentional irreg-ularity,
and I Iberefore move that mule 36 be suspended ini so far as it relates to this petition.
Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL-That,
1 -would take it, is the mecomniendation of
the committee.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-No ; tbe comumittee,
under the circuaistances, as I mientioned a
w~hile ago, accepted the petition as teing a
proper petition, inasumuch as the House Uad
received 11, and they also decided that mule
36 did flot appir 10 tbe Standing Orders Committee-tliat the Flouse -itself deait with rule
3G altogether, and tUat was lUe point tUat
In calling- your attention we wished to bave
cleared up, as to -hether the House Nvould
direct tUat the Speaker or lUe comaniittee
w'ould take cognizance ef mule 36; and seale
ail 1)etitions by tUaI as well as by rule 53,
which relates te notice. The petitien is meperted on without objection froi the Stand-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thinik that tbe House
decided that. The question was, shall luis
petition be received. Silence gives consent,
and the House received that as n petition.
Ainy defect of that kind ouglit niot now te be
ing Orders Cotmmittee, and we accepted it
brought up.
Hbu. Mr. GIBSO-N-This petition wvas eîîdorsed in the usuai way by the oficer of the
House and baaded to the mueilber who iresented il. A petition should not be received
before the officers 0f this House see that it
is lin order. Now, with ail due respect te the

wvith tUe understanding I was 10 caîl the attention of tUe House te the fact.

Hon.

Sir

31ACKENZIE

BOWELL-It

miust lie obvions to every hon. gentlemnan
that the suggestion made by the clîiniaîî ef
the commrittee is iml)racticable. If the sugleader of the governient, lu this particular gestion is te he carried eut as applied te
instance the naies of the parties are lu the ever.v petition tUaIt is presented-if it niust
petition fortunately, but supposing those either lie explained by tUe gentlenadn m-U
nines were xiot in the petition, and the sig- presents it tUat tUe sigrnatures are In the
Hon. 'M. SCOTT.

JUNE 2, 1903
riglit place and that it contains no objection- tion and verify the corectness o! the view
able matter, or when lie presents the peti- of the member wbo presented it.
tion It must be handed to the Speaker to be
Hon. Mr. VIDAI-The trouble I see is that
,examined and reported on immediatelyneither the Speaker nor the clerk bas
Hon. Mr. SOUNO-No, reported next day. power at present to make any sucli decision.
The rule of the House Is perfectiy clear and
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-It distinct and I think the committee has acted
seems to me. when a petition is presented wlsely ln not taking action on the petition.
you cannot say it bas been received by the Tbcy simply refer the matter back to the
Senate. for the reason that the Senators do House and explain tbe difficuity. It appears
flot know wbat the petition. contains unless to me tbat It Is actixally necessary, before
It Is read to them, and It is merely presented that petition ean lic received and examined
and banded to the clerk. Then It Is referred by the committee, that the House shall say
to the committee to see wbether it Is In ac- that tbey wiil accept it with this deficiency.
cordance with the rule, or wbetlier it cou- [t is a very simple question and miglit easily
tains nny objectiomable matter. To depart lie dccided, and If the House, guided by
from that practice would lie to entail on tbe the Secretary of State, considers It 1. a mere
cierk and the Speaker a duty which tbey accidentai mistake, the rule might lie suscould flot welI perforrn, and It would lie bet- pended and It would go to thxe commIttee to
ter to adopt the other principle wbkch I have be examined as to Its contents.
suggested, requiring the miember presenting
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-.Before suspending the
the petition to state that there is nothlng
objectionable ln it. Then lie Is flot to be the rule will the bon. gentleman sny if the petijudge. The Senate must lie the judge. I tion waý signed on the sanie sheet or on
tbink It would lie a mistake to depart from another page ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-No, no signature apthe usual practice in these matters. You
would eitber bave to throw a great deal of pears on the original sheet. It is on another
work on the Speaker and tbe clerk, or raise sheet pinned to it.
a discussion on every petition presented.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-A petition is flot receivBILL INTRODUCED.
ed the sanie day it is presented. Durlng
this discussion somebody suggested the
Bill (N) An Act for the relief of Stephen
clerk shouid have supervision of petitions.
Wilsoii.-(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before THE CANADIAN E1%IGRATION AGENT
presentation '
AT LIVERPOOL.
Hon. Mr. YOUN-'G-No ; the elerk bias no
INQUIRY.
-authority ln the matter at ail.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL lnHon. '-%r. LANDERKIN-I thinlc the diffi- quired:
cuity might lie obviated if the nibers who
Whether
present the petitions would look into it to emnigration Mr. Dyke, for many years Canadian
agent at Liverpool, England, nesee If the rule Is observed ; otlierwise de- ceived on his retirement a superannuation or
allowance
cline to present theni. No trouble need arise. retiringgovennment ? if not. Is lt the intention
ta, recognize his services by
of the
It is easy to understand the mile and placing hlm under the provisions of the Supernny difficulty like this miglt lie obviated. I annuaition Act, or by granting him a retirinig
tbinic in this case it would be a bardship. &liowance ?
Hc said :My reason for ask.inlg this quesThe petition contained so many words it extended to the end of the page, and it was tion ls that I understand tîxat no action lias
Impossible for the signers to do otierwise been taken in refenence to tbis gentleman,
tliau they did. As the House lias received who. as every one who bas visited England
the petition it cannot go back on it now. during bis occupancy of the office knows.
After a menaber lias examined the petition was one of the most attentive and faithand bas seen it la in conformity with thue fui servants that Canada ever bail ln Engrule, it would lie no harm if the Speaker was land or iii Europe. 1 understand also that
invested with power to look over the peti- Mr. Sîfton. 'Minister of the Interior, under

SENATE
whose direction Mr. Dyke would act,
promised on May 7, 1897, certain cousideration either by the way of superannuation
allowance, or some retiring aliowance, and
that the premier, Sir Wilfrid Laurier, ln October last, referred ta a retiring aliowance
being granted. In fact, both these gentlemen, I understand, made Indirect or direct
promises that this shouid be done, and If I
were to express au opinion, I wauid simply
relterate what I bave said from my own
knowledge of Mr. Dyke and the services lie
rendered this country from what I saw when
ln England, that he bas been a very faithfui and deserving servant, and ln bus old
days, as we recognize the prInciple of superannuation which may be called pension, or
some aliowance, It ought to be given to him,
and that too, particuiarly as he is, I understand, la pecuniary difficulties.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I entirely agree fl the
hon. gentleman's suggestion ns ta 3 1r.
Dyke's services.
The memorandum sent
me from the Department of the Interlar, Is
not very clear. It reads ns folows:
Mr. Dyke recelved on bie retIrement, a retirlag aiiowance of one firll year's salary, $3.200,
provision therefor having been made by parliament ln tbe supplementary estirnates for
1898-9. As Mr. Dyke did flot coutribute ta the
Superannuation Fund, there Is no provision of
the law under which he can be given a retlring
aliowance and It was ln view of this that the
vote was made for hlm.
This memorandum la not very clear as to
wheni this $3,290 was paid to 1dm, aithougli
It says it was voted in 1898-9. 1 therefore will he very glad ta make further luquiries.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-It is
very likely that the granting of tiuis alIowance mighit have been what they considered
a compliauce with promises whichi had been
made. As '. Sifton«s promise was made ln
1897 It w-ouid fend aose ta suppose tîsat that
wns the fact.
The hou. minister knows
Mi. Dyke«s services as welI ns I do, and If

ayin
ean be doue for hlm I trust that
it w-i be done.
SUBSIDIES TO PROVINCIAL GOVERNME NTS.

minlion after that date, that the provinces bave
outgrown. and no longer consîder saýtisfactory
the financl arrangements made and consldered
satîsfactory thirty-six years ago, and will ask
ls it the Intention of the goverament ta gîve
effect this year ta the request of the provincial
governments for an Increase ln their presefit
annual subsîdies ?
He said : Having made that statement,
I thinkt it Is lncumbent on me.to show tbat
financial readjustment la absolutely necessary between the federal authonities and
the provinces.
I waîît ta tell the House,
first of ail, that this Is nat a party question
la any way, nor la there any Intention to
refleet on any body of men. Hon. gentle-

men will understand that my remarks apply
ta the whole Dominion, and not ta my own,
or ta any apeclal province, and I hope they
wiil help ta elucidate, If flot ta salve, the
problem of a reasonabie readjustment of
financl affaira between the federal and
provincial goveraments.
I fuliy recoguize
that the aubject ta wluicl I am about ta,
dIrect, attention la a far-reachlng one, as
affecting what should be the relative fluaiscia] positions of the federai and provincial
gaverluments.
This discussion is but the
very thin end of the wedge w-hidi must be
driven homle with greater force before long.
The provincial governuients have talien up
tihe question of readjustment, and have

made certain recommendntiaus ta wliich I
shall ahlude hereafter.
Sa soon as the
electors get their understanding sharpened,

and fuliy realize what they contribute, and
haw littie they receive back, the question
will be pressed on their representatives lu
pariament for an adequate pravincial contrai of the public revenue.
I knaw perfectîr weii tint a readjustment canuot be
arnived nt in a day-tint time, and finanicial
skill are necessary ta its aecomplishment.
Atîhougs tbis is the case, my cemacits nmust
necessarily refer iargely ta finance. and having- ta look into some of the provisions of
tise Britisi Norths America Act, one cannat
îise from its perusal without admiration at
tise construction of the coustitutionai portions of it. which have gained stcength wîti
usage, as well as from its being an Imperial
Act.
The constructors of this Act wece
tise best and brighitest intellects of Canada.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mc. 'MACDONALD (B.C.) rose ta
Their patient skiff, ingenuity, and astuteîîess
Cail attention ta the financiai arrangements wiIl aiw:iys commnand anc admiration. Tîjeir
entered into in the union of the North Amprn- ditiiculties ln recnnciiing confiicting opinions,
enu Colonies in 1867 into a central federal autbority under the Dame of the Dominion of adjusting and moulding into a cone(rete
Canada, including the colonies joining the Do- workabie antliority tise
sel)arate North
Hon. Sir Nf.'CTENZIE BOWELL.

JUN-\E 2, 1903
Anierican colonies, was no easy task. We
know to-day how difficuit it is to agree on
small affairs. It is pleasing to think that
many of the noble men lived. and stili live,
to witiess and enjoy the harmninous workIng of the system they lnaugurated and coulpleted.
By tbem the separate Nol-tb Amnencean colonies were bound Into one DominIon, and remain bound by a band of Bnltlsh loyalty, mak-lng for stable government,
peace and progress. Astute as those grand
old nhen were, tbey could not have foreseen,
and could flot bave provlded for the great
expansion of commerce, the advance ln
wealthi and the increase ln population,
wbicb bas taken place lu thlrty-six years.
Whllst on the subject of progress, I wll
allude briefly to another master stroke, and
the finishing link by the father of confederation ln bindlng the 'colonies, viz., the constructi3n of tbe Canadian Pacific Rallway,
whicb bas added enormously to the expansion of commerce, brought the vast unpeopied plains of the Nortb-wesf Into civilization to be producers of wealtb and food,
not only for this counfry, but for Great
Britaii, and othen countries.
The managers of this greaf railway have
not only done this, but witb their magnificent steaniships have brouglit Canada Into
close commercial contact wlf h China, Japan,
Australia and varions Islands of the South
Seas ; and witb Its recent acquisition of a
steani fleet on the Atlantic, its avenues of
commerce encircle the largest part of tlie
globe. To keep abreast witb this general
progress, the provinces feel that thein ineans
are limited, wbicb bas caused a strong growing opinion that the finie for a fluancial neadjustment between the Dominion and the
provinces bas arrived. At flic tiie the colonies federated. it w-as settled tliat the Dominion was to receive the wbole revenue
froni custonîs. linland revenue, post offie,
canais and governmenf railways, and other
minor revenues, and in returni had f0 pay
ail the officiais necessary f0 perforni its
own service. froni governor down f0 messenger, and to returni to the provinces oighty
cents per bead of their population, and iii
addition for government purposes-Ontaro,
$80.000; Quebec, $70.000 ; Nova Scotia,
$00.000
New Brunswick. $50.0(x)
M-Nanitoba, 1-30,000 ; British Colunbi, $35,000, and
I'nince Edward Island. 1,30,000. lIn tle flrst
year of confederation, lS67-S, thle ieeu

w-as $13,6S7,928. wbicb no doubt would lie
a good neason for the smaîl annual allowance to the provinces. Ia the sixtb year of
the Dominion the revenue came up to, $24,205,092, wben a readjustment was made,
giving an augmentation of subsidies based
ou the balances of provincial public debt
at the time of federation, amountlng ln ail
for the seven provinces to $,358,012. The
public accounts sbow that for varions causes
additions wene made f0 the subsîdies of some
of the provinces. Nova Scotia recelved an
extra per capifa grant. I cannot state aecunateiy how mucli. New Brunswick Is ailowed $150,000 per annuni ln lieu of an export duty It had prevlousiy lmposed. Manitoba Is allowed an Increase of $20,000 for
maintenance of government, and $100,0W0
ln lieu of land. British Columbia la allowed $100,000 in lieu of about flffeen million
acres of land given to the Dominion as
a contribution for building the Canadian
Pacific Rallway. Prince Edward Island received more additions in proportion than
any other province, sncb as lu lieu of land,
$45,000, addifional subsidy $50,000.
The revenue. confribufed by the provinces for 1902 was $11.60 per bead of the
population, equal to $58,052,333, out of
wbicb 821 cents were returned to the provinces-or ln ail, for the seven provinces,
$4,421,657. The expenditure from consolidated fund was $50,759,391, exclusive of the
expenditure on capital account, slxowing a
sur-plus of revenue over expendifure of $7,292,9412, which could properiy and jusfly lie
returned f0 the provinces with wbicb they
could carry ont their own public wonk-s.
on the othler band, wby was If necessary
to borrow on capital accolait $10,078,038,
whien this surplus w-as la slgbt? This is a
question for the Minîster of Finance to answ er. Whilst on the subject of surplus, and
as tliere is a good deal of boasting froni tinie
to finie on this head, It may interest the
Hlouse f0 know that froni 1867 up fo 1902,
there were periodical surpînses amounting
f0 $67,772,97G.
0f tbis large amount the
Cojiservafive administration is f0 be credifed wiih $3S.048,681, and the Liberal administration wifh $29,379,275. Two years surplus, 1881 and 1882, under Conservative rule,
-,as $13,3S0.S43, and the two years, 1900
and 1002, the surplus under Liberal rule wvas
$15.346.112. This shows tlint the race is not
cl on one side. Two vears affer the adop-

SENATE

216

tion of the national polîcy, in 1880, the sur- adjustment. It will, however, be well, for
plus was $4,132,743, and the year after it rose a clearer undjerstanding of this question, to
to $6,316,351, as against a deficit In 'the state what the provincial premiers bave
five years prevlous, 1876 to 1880, of $7,970,- asked for. Their request is exceediugly
184. If tbese figures prove anything, It Is moderate ; the chief demand belng an Intbiat the national poiicy was the greatest crease la the amounts allowed at present for
blesslng commercially ever bestowed on maintenance of governmeat and legisiation,
this country, and tbese figures show also graded according to the population of the
the wisdom of the Liberai administration In provinces, ranging from $150,000 to $230,flot disturbing that policy. To make tbe 000 per annum. The seven provinces refinanclal position quite clear It stands thus : ceived last year, under this bead, $3-15,000,
The Dominion receives ail the revenue from and the sum asked for would add to tbis
ail the prosources l)efore mentioned and pays ail $705,000. They also ask tit
officiais in the dlifferent provinces necessary vinces should receive tbe per capita ailowfor Its own purposes. The amounit Is lnclud- ance of 80 cents, according to the decennial
ed In the expenditure already mentloned of census, until the population of a province
$50,759,391. Hon. gentlemen cixi formi their reaclies 2,500,000, when the 80 cents should
own conclusions when they consider-and I drop to, 60 cents. Ontario and Quebec are
hope tbey wlll consîder caref ully-tbat out ofI now paid on the census taicen 42 years ago.
$11.60 per liead contrlbuted by the pro- This Is tbe strangest condition of the BrItvinces, tbey recelved back 821 cents, or in lb North Âmerica Act. Flow the provinother words, out of $5S,032,333, the pro- cial commlssioners could have agreed to
vinces recelved In ail $4,421,657, for the this, as If they had never iooked for an Inyenr 1902. I may mention by way of comn- crense of population, and expansion of comThe Increase
parison whnt bias been done In the Com- merce, I cannot Imagine.
It was agreed, and expansion came, bowever, and then
mionwealth 0f Australia.
whien the six colonies became confederated, came necessary demands for the administrathat the revenue collected In each should be tion of law, prisons, education, hospitals,
returned less n per capita contribution for and kîndred institutions. The more our
the maintenance of the federil central gov- population increases, the more the federal
erninent. The figures for the yeir 190'2 revenue Increases, but the greater becomes
were, revenue, $56,000,000 ; required for the outlay and expense of the provinces
jurposes of central government, $20,000,- for the administration of justice, public
000 ; returned to tbe six states, $36,000,000. schools, and othier purposes. This reasoningThxis is a splendid slaowixig for the early cannot be conti'overted, and in the face of
days 0f the Commonwealth, and is a force- It I think lion. g-entlemen williagree that
able example of the wlsdom 0f the leading the demand of the provinces tbrongh their
men in those states by placing themselves premiers is a fair and just one. It is verv
lu an independent position, free from the certain that this matter cannot stand as it
necessity of begging and praying for money now Is. WiIl any one say, or tbilik, that the
grnnts for public purposes, als the prov~inces conditions which prevaîled at the time of
In this Dominion bave to do. This sbould confederation are applicable 36 years afterbe an object lesson to the central aiithority wards ? 1 niow ask, the quiestion ou the
to returui to thé provinces anuually, as a Order paper.
matter of righit witliont the present grindHon. Mr. SCOTT--Tbe fallacy of the hion.
lng process. ail over and above that neces- gentleman's observations must be appa renît
snry to carry ont the central goveriuenit. when you corne to recollect that hie assuinPs
At this early stage in this discussion, I have that the expenditure made by the Dominion
avoided any statement of the proportion of Is not for the benefit of the provinces. Lt
revenue wbichi should be retained by the simply becornes a question who should
lederal goverinient, and laow nuchi siaould spend the moiiey-who can meet the requirebe returned to the provinces. Nor have 1 ruients of the varions sections of the Do-illuded to tue public -works w-hieh coiild minlion. the federal or provincial authiorities.
be placed under the control of the provinces It mnatters niot what you give the prov-incial
hn the case of increased snbsidies bY a Pe- 1governmeaîs. as experience lins shoçvn. They
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD

(B.C.)

JUNE 2, 190M2
are always wanting more, and the more
tbey get the more they spend. Tbey undertake to subsidize railways and bonus varions
Industries and give bounties for iron and
steel, some of tbem, and in a variety of
wnys tbey are expending sums on items
neyer contexnplated at the time of confederation. Tbey assume to take the place practically of the federal power. The general
opinion bas been that the federal goverilmient can expend the money mucli more judiciously and prudently. It is welI known
Uiat at the tIme of confederation ail this
was considered, and it was stated that If
additional amounts were required by way
of preserving the proper economy that should
preval, the provinces were given the right
of taxation, but many provinces bad large
sources of wealth wliicb, if economized, ennbled theai to spend a very large suai,
larger la some cases than were contemplated
a t confederation. They gbared In tbe general
prosperity that arose. Take the bon. gentleman's own province. Is not bis own province to-dayvery mucb richer than It was
at the time it came Into confederation In
1871 ? It bas mines of gold, silver and coaleuormous areas of land that are of Immense
value. They bave been given away most
generonsly. We bad a crisis the Cther day
owing to tbe evidence of its extreme generosity and the scramble there w-as for those
lands whicb were thougbit to be partlcularly
valuable. The bon. gentleman must recollect that witbin a few years after confederation tbere w-as a cry for better termas,
and that bias been kept Up from time to
time ever since. 1h matters flot bow mucli
you give to the provinces, tbey seem to want
more. In 1884, seventeen years after confederation, an arrangement w-as made under
whicbi a very large increase w-as given to
tbe provincial legislatures. That w-as understood to be a finality. The provinces accepted it as sucb, but it was no finality.
The governaient bave had to corne to the
relief of the provinces siace then, aithougu
the arrangeament tben was understood by
ail parties to be final. The province of Ontarlo is now building a railway towards
the nortli. a very proper enterprise. They
bave the wealth and enormous areas of
public lind whicb are to-day yielding imainense revenues in consequence of the incrensed value of the tîmber. The saine

remnrk appiies to Quebec. The government
went into debt rasbiy, for w-bat reason ?
F'or the purpose of building great railway
Unes. Tbey built a 'trunk Une from, Quebec
to Ottawa. To assist tbem, afterwards it
w-as taken over by tbe federal power. 1
iaerely mention this to sbow the tendeucy
of the provinces to spend ail tbey get and
a good deal more. Thie only province reaily
tlîat is entitled to mucb consideration In that
respect Is tbe province wbicb bas no areas
of public lands, that is Prince Edward Island. The otber provinces bail more or less
resources w-hidi developed la value and
wealtb as this country prospered, and are
developing to-dlay by leaps and boundi.
Take the spruce lands and water powers
of tbe province o! Quebec to-day. They are
wortiî millions and millions more than w-ns
calculated at the time of confederation. and
lh only requires economy and proper management to make the most of tbose resources.
Tbe fact of the federal government Inereasing tbe subsidies w-ould bave no influence
whatever on the expenditures of those provinces. 1h w-ould simply enable them to
spend more. Tbere ought not ho be two
spending channels, provincial and federal,
on the same uine. Take tbat element of
expendihure, a serious one. subsidies to railw-ays. Why should not that be left tho the
federal autbority ? It w-ns neyer originally
contemplnted that the provinces w-ere to
bave menas to go Jnta huge expenditures of
tbat kiad. If tlhey go Into, sucb a Policy you
cannot check tbem, and If tbey rua beyond
their mneans they appeal to the federal goverament. It makes no differenoe If w-e
double or treble tbe revenues of a province,
it Is easy corne easy go. TÉey get the money
ont o! the public treasury and wl say there
is more to be got there if they w-ant IL.
The bion. gentleman said tbe *electors of tbis
country biad a voice In 1h. Do tbey not
get the henefit of tbe expenditure through
thîe federal channels ? 0f course they do.
I doubt very mucli if the electors w-ould
join in the conclusion the bon. gentleman
reaches, that the expeaditures should be
tbrougb provincial cbannels. I do not think
tue management of somne of tbe local goveruiments of the Dominion w-ould justify
the conclusion tbat it w-as safe or proper
toe atrust to tiîem the çxpenditure of large
1 sums of money. Wle need not go further

218

SENATE

thax the bon. gentleman's own province.
Since confederation Britisb Columbia bas
ltad at varlous times an Increase of subsidy.
The province entered tble union wlth a population of 60,000, and Il: got 80 cents per capita. That tncreased until the subsldy amounts
to 80 cents on 142,000l. Then there was lte
compensation, wbich was a very queer way
of expresslng it, for lands given to the Canadian Pacifie Railway. Tbe lands were not
taken out of Brtisb Columbia. Tbe Canadian Pacifie Railway Company were supposed to, get bte benefit of the land grant
througb Britisht Columbia ln order to belp
to, bulld the Une. After bhe province had
given the land, a stipulation was made that
thte federal goverument sitould aliow them
$100,000 extra, because lte Canadian Pacifie
Btailway passed through these lands, and
then at that time everybody supposed
the minerais went witb the land. Thiey
knew It was not agricultural land, that its
value was purely as minerai iand, but the
government of British Columbia tbougbt
tbey would make a good titing-thought they
w-vould get a judgment giving thein back
any value ln te land, and so bhey wtent bo
the I'rivy Counceil and the Privy Counceil decided tbey were entitied to everything under
bte surface, so titey got the vaAlue of ltat
land and $100,000 ln addition.
Hon. '.%r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-But the
governmient bave tbe land.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They bn-ve the rock.
Hon. MINr.
MACDONALD-Fifteen million
acres of land.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the rocks on the
sur-face. They are worth very little. Nobody would purchase thern as agricultural
lands.
Hou. 2Mr. LOUGHIEED-AII the Privy
Ccuncii beld was that the precious minerais
were vested in lte Crown, and the other
minerais lu lte railway company.

tlieie bas been no such reservation in a
patent issued by a provincial government.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bion. gentleman referred bo that portion of
British Columbia lying to, the nortb-wesb of
the province east of the Rocky «Mountains,
ln addition to the bwenty miles to which
the bon. gentleman referred-referrlng to
the railway belt exclusively.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, tbat is ail. Tbhat
is the railway beit, as it is ca]led to-day. 1
do not tbink It: would be a wise pollcy for
the federal autbority to re-arrange at this
day the basis of the confederation unless la
the case of Prince Edward Island, wbicb
really lias so uittle to come and go on. Last
year, on the pretext of bte wInter service
that liad itot been as %velI carried out as it
migbt hiave been, we did make an allowance.
it was a fair dlaim, and 1 tliink on that
basis an additional amount of $30,OO0 was
donated, but that Is really the only province
that w-ould be entltled to ainy consîderatlon.
Take te province of 'Manitoba. Under tbe
arrangement made some fitteen or twenty
years ago, thiat tbiey shiould be handed over
the swanip lands, from that time to Ibis,
millions and millions of acres are beinghianded over to them as swamp lands, and
they are maklng linge sums of mouley out of
tbein, because when tbey are draiiued they
are wortb from fifteen to twenty dollars an
acre, and the arrangement was nmade wben
the lands w-e-e considered to be valueless.
So that, I think, my hop. frlend wouid scarcely be uplield in the opinion that the federal
government ougbt to increase tbeir subsidies.
Take the wealthy province of Ontario. Tbey
receive fromi the Dominion a smiall part ot
tliei- revenue. Tbey are idependent withonit tîxat, witbout resorting to dir-ect taxatbon. Tax.ationi was the basis on whvicbl tbe
provinces w-e-e to be supported outside of
contributions fromn te federal goveruiment.
Noue of tlxein, 1 believe, have beef obliged
to tax tlxemselves for provincial purposes.
Lt is stili openi la tbem to do so. and whea
they are in a ueedy condition it is better ta
adopt tixat pi-inciple, aud then economy wvili
corne iu, but unît! the people really feel that

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the precinns metals
were reserved. That was not the orig-inal
idea wben tbe ]and was donated. The original idea was that the grant carried everything with it. That bad prevailed in ail they are 1)mayiing samletbîug into the treasury
the otiier provinces. and the question luffl th)e3 would- be wholly indiffereut as to the
neyer been raised. Iu the early patents of mode iii w-hicli an expenditure was made.
Geor-ge III., they did reserve tbe gold and Lt would be a case of gi-ab, encli section of
silver, but lu the last forty or fifty yezars thé' country wvantiiig aui expenditure in its
Hon.

Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 2, 1903
own, quarter. That certalinly would be the
eff ect of it. Some of the provinces are undertah-ing large enterprises. Take, for instance, the province of Manitoba, whichl s
givlng subsidies to rallways. Hon. gentlemen saw the announcement the other day
that ln thec event of the Grand Trunk going
through the country the premier volunteered
the%
statement that hie was prepared to recommend to tbe legîslature assistance to tbe
amounit of about $8,000 a mile.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That is
to guarantee the lnterest.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-To guarnntee the interest-some statement of that klnd. We know
very well that they guara.nteed laterest and
alded a United States road, the Northern
Pacific, nnd alded a number of local Uines,
a very proper expendîture, so long as they
bave the money, but It is going too far to
say the provinces should be autborized to
spend their money la that way, and caîl on
the federal treasury to make Up any deficit
frora time to time. They have not the responsibility of It ail. Tbere Is no responsibility attaches where the money la lianded
over la suas of $100,000 or $200,000 to a
province, whereas the expenditure by the
federal goverament Is a subject of very
keen crltîcisrn. It Is derlved frora our fiscal
policy and parliament discusses the mode of
gatberlng la the Incorne, and the mode of expenditure. It cannot be maintalned that the
representatives ln the Hlouse of Commons
are flot as closely connccted wlth the people
of tbe several provinces as the representatives la the provincial legisiatures. The lutter are elected for different purposes altogether. Their mission ls n liraîted one as
coxnpared withi that of the representatives
in the parliarnent of Canada. Under these
circurnstances, 1 think It wîll be concedcd
by those who give the matter mucli attention
tlnit it will hie a wise decision on the part of
tic federal government to say that they do
not propose to add to the provincial subsidy.
H-on. Mir. CHURCH-I should like to say a
few words on thc matter, particularly as the
hon. meraber wbo made the inquiry referred
to somue of thc provinces which received better termus thian the original arrangement, especialiy the province to whicb 1 belong. I
will speak froni memory la regard to financial ternis of the British North Anierica Act

iii relation to Nova Scotia.

I arn not going
to argue as to Nova Scotia la a party sense
one way or the other. The hon. member bas
introduced thc subject ln a non-partisan
spirit and 1 wlll deal with it ln that way. In
1861, our population was 337,000, ln round
figures, on wbich wc recelved 80 cents a
bead. A few years after that our great
leader, the Hon. Joseph Howe, a man whose
naine we ail respect on botb Bides of polltics,
made an arrangement wlth the government
of tbat day, sornewherc about the seventies,
to get better termis for Nova Scotia, and the
increase of 80 cents a head was then gîven
on a population Ul) to 400,000 people. Rouglily speaking, the diff erence between tbe population on wfilch we went ln and wbat was
given us was about say 50,000-whicb was
receivcd as a measure of better ternis.
This was a substantial increase of the
amount granted under the ternis of confederation. The bon. gentlemani frora Britishi Columbia bas alluded to the debts, aîîd
when Uhe debt arrangement was made -Nova
Scotia biad to Its credit about a million and
a quarter. On that she recelved five per
cent laterest. Those two sunis gave lier
about $115,000, la addition to the originll
That %vas quite
terms of confederation.
a booii to our province at the tirne, considering our small revenue of about $â75,000 per annura, and under that Uic province
worked along tolerably well for a few years.
lu 1874 1 had the honour of being sent
witb rny late colleague, then ln Uic government, Hon. Thomas F. Mornison, to Ottawa,
on another better ternis application, and on
tbat we succeeded in gctting something a]lowed to us on the question of navigation
securities, because it w-as contended the
provinces had no right under the terra of
confederation to devote such large sunis of
mne-v to the iraprovements of harbours
and matters of that kind. And w-c received
a substantial ref und in regard to that, which
the Dominion goverament of the day, led
by Sir John 'Macdonald, with Sir Leonard
Tilley as Finance M.%inister, granted to us,
and thiat helped us along. But I want to
say here, that there was a trne in thie bistory of the province of Nova Scotia since
confederation when w-e were liard pressed
for f unds. We had not f unds enough to carry
on the uîecessary works aiid to satisfy the
legitimiate wants of the couatr-Y whicl, tic
people demanded of us, and whiclî we had

SKNATE
to fight out at the polis. We said : "If
they do nlot belong to the Dominion, we canflot help you, because we bave nlot the
The
funds ln the provincial treasury."
great boon of taxation, we are told
by the hon. Secretary of State, was given to us, and we could get funds by taxation, but I appeal to every hon. gentleman
ln this House whether any local government
ln this Dominion will want to resort to sucli
means as that except for the sole purpose of
education, which, under our Education Act
of years before we entered Into confederatien, was made a direct tax on the people to
supplement what the province could give.
Beyond that no goverument ln Nova Scotia
and no government ln any other province,
as far as I know, would like to apply the
principle of direct taxation. There Is one
thlng In which we were fortun-ate ln Nova
Scotia, and only one thing. We had not the
same condition of affairs ln regard to minerais that obtalned ln the territories,
because the gold and sIlver and ail the
metais under the surface belonged to the
province, but then the mlning lnterests of
Nova Scotia were nlot conducted on the present great scale. The mining lnterests ID
-the Dominion were not ln a ftourlshlng conditIon as they are now. There was not the
demand for coal. and the revenue was not as
great as at present. Fortunately for 'us in the
province of Nova Scotia,we adjusted matters
to the requirements of the trade, and we now
get n far larger amount of revenue from
that g-reat branch of our Industry, 1 amn
proud to say, than we did formerly, anid we
thus w-are enabled to kaep our heads above
water and our local goveramaents of Nova
Scta both Liberal and Conservative, for
a number of years-the Liberal party has
been in the ascendancey the greater part of
the time since confedaration-have been enablcd to carry on our public works fairày
well and suýccessfuly. We have been able
to keep up our educationai institutions wîth
ns fair success as in other provinces w-heu
our population and means are considered.
The hon. Secretnry of State says that w-e
should denounce the local authorities for
subsidizing railw-ays, but if ha had beau a
member of the goverumant of Nova Scotia
as long as I have, and a maember of our hon).
legisiature as my hon. friend from Pictou,
w-hom I arn glad te see here to succead that
good mani, the late Senator Carmichael. he
Hon. 'Mr. CHURCH.

would know that the local goverument of
Nova Scotia and the members of parliamant
were basieged year after year for subsidies
to rallways, and when bonia fide men makze
a bona fide offer, we felt ln duty bound to
fielp them as far as possible. True. we bave
no land grants to give now. We begaR
with that operation. We found that It would
not do, because 75 or 80 per cent of the entire Crown lands of the province of Nova
Scotia have been granted, and ur custom
bns been different f rom, others, because w-e
grant ln fee simple there. But fortunately
for us, our mines and minerais have been
deveoped &nd we bave been able to keep
up our credit. We do nlot want te draw our
deht. One govarnment, obllged by stress of
circumstances, came here and w-ithidrew a
portion of the debt to our credit, but other
governmrents took a diffarent course. We
tixouglit as long as we could borrow money
at 3ý par cent or 4 per cent at a premium,
and we were getting 5 par cent f rom the Dominion government, it w-as far better for us
to borrow money at a lesser rate of interest
and leave the debt 'to our credit. In that
way we have been able to keep our public
works tin a pretty good state. I am not preparedl to go into the inerits of this proposaI
made by the conference of local premiers but
lb looks w-ail on the surface, and I thiik if it
were crystallized into law, as it w-ould have
to ha to make It effectual, there would have
to ha a redistribution of the pow-ers as between the local governments and the federal
authorities. There Is no doubt about that.
This Is a byroad, intrica-te question. As a
Nova Scotian, I should lika to see the Nova
Scotia government get more funds from the
government if they could do It properly and
honestly, and only do it if the appeals of the
other provinces ware responded to as w-ell.
on the whole. I w-i say that there does appear to me to be good grounds w-hy the terms
of confederation. lu that respect, should be
changed so as to meet, iu a reasonable degree, bte demauds made by the prov-incial
premiers lately in confarence, iproviding- it
can ha se arranged and the powers relatively
betw-een the local and Dominion governments can be adjusted to the best interests
of the country at large.
lion. MI DAN-\DUIZAND-I hope the lion.
leader of the gzovarnment does not refiott
the ideas and satPý¶ments of bis colleagules

JUINE -9,19()3
iu the coaclusiosi

lie arrived at in closlng

lus reauarks.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did uot really consuit
my colleagues la the matter, because I
thouglit they had sound sense enough to
concur in my judgment.
Hon. Mr. DANDUItAND-I lhope the hon.
gentleman may find that there is quite a
differeace of opinion as to the propriety of
complying with the demands of the vnrious
provinces. I arn sorry I have not lhad more
time to go fully into the question. I will
state my vlews In a cursory way before this
Chamber, as they came to me while the
hou. gentleman from British Columbla was
on is feet. Before coafedeintion we had
the customs and exeise under the coatrol of
the provinces as the main revenues of the
union.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Not the excise.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We hiad no direct taxation. Whatever moaeys wvere gathered together-I arn speaking of thie older provinces-were obtalned by the saine menus
ns the federal power now employs to gather
moacys Into Its chest. The parties who dld
gatiier together a-t Confederation were the
leaders of the various provinces who left
the provinces as soon as they had made the
agreemeat, and came over to Ottawa to
direct federal affairs. The provinces were
bound by them in the agreement they made,
but were left to administer their affairs with
another set of men altogether. Nearly ail
came to Ottawa to man the federal shlp.
We were bound by these gentlemen and we
mnust find what their ideas were and what
declarations they made, and the liopes they
hield out to these various provinces in leaving them a few bones to live upon in ye-ars
to corne. Tley declared-aad I xvill sîmply
sîlealc of the province of Quebec, leaving
other hion, gentlemen to speak of their
own provinces-they declared, and it was s0
attlrmied by somie of the most prominent
mien who liad something to do with directing the affairs of Old Canada, that one
million tliree hundred thousiand dollars was
ail tlîat we would need ia Quebec to adniniister presviiil affairs. Tliat was the
outside figure. We are to-day speading In
Quebec ln à very economical way, oiitside
of the interest on the delit, the suai of $3,090,000, quite an incerease over the $1,300,000

that was mentioaed as being tfle outside
figure needed for the carrying on of the
affairs of the province of Quebec. M17e are
to-day attending to the various wants of
the services under the control of Quebec
and spending over three million dollars outside of the Interest on the délit. It bas been
sa id that we can have direct taxation, that we
can cope wlth our expenditure by knocklng at
every door and collecting- direct taxation.
I contend that direct taxation was flot our
habit and was flot the idea prevallng before 1S6-4, during the union, nor are they the
Ideas that have been held by the people
througlhout the land. The federal goverfiment lias not resorted to that menus. The
people have not been educated to that idea
and to-day in Quebee, as well ns in other
provinces, the people are strongly opposed
to direct taxation. We are in favour, as we
were -before confederation, of collectlag
revenue by indirect menas.
The words
'direct taxation' were put there, 1 do not
know why. They mlght as well be struck
out, because, as has been said by the lion.
gentleman from Nova Scotia, the people
will flot tolerate direct taxation, and I thlnk
It neyer entered the minds of the framers
of the Act-at ail events those comlng from
Quebec-that we would ever resort to direct
taxation to even up the revenue and the
expenditure. -We have been accused by
inany people throughout the land, and by
the hion. Secretary of State, of belng extravag-ant. it is true the province of Quebec bas spent considerable sums of money
I wonder If the
iii railway develo-pment.
framers of the Confederation Act ever expected that the d-ivers provinces would put
their bauds la the provincial chest and help
railway deveiopment ? At ail events. the
provincial leaders thouglt that they owed
it to the people of their own province
to hurry up the developrnent of their
province and to make the necessary exI regret very mucli that
penditure.
Quebec did not do as Ontario did. and
vote simple annuities to the divers rnilway
enterprises, iastead of borrowing large surns
of money to lielp them by a direct subsidy
whicli reinains as a permanent delit on the
shouldeis of the province, but the goverament can show where the money-at al
eveiits SO or S5 per cent of it-went to. There
were yeairs of doticits, wliere money bad to
be taei fi-oui the cap)ital accouat to nieet

222

SEN-ýATE

those deticits. but ov er 80 per cent of the of 80 cents Per capita; we are receiviig
money w-as duly spent in the province of îîow 54 cents per caî)ita.
Our necessities
Quebec to hielp railway developinent. It is for education, for colonization, for philantrue miost of those railways, throughi the thîropic institutions go on îîîcreasiug year
working of confederation, have passed under by year, ye.t w-e reunain witlî the saine sui
federal control. I amn only sorry that the tliat w-e w-ere voted in 1867 by the Confederfederal power bias the rlht to declare that atioli Act, 80 cenîts per capita based on the
ail enterprise buit withi provincial money ceusus of 1861.
The more our population
can be taken away from provincial control iereases, the more thue charges increase and
wlthout recouping the province for the mil- to ineet thei w-e have to rely on the stable
lions w-hich it lias spent for such enter- suini that w-as fixed in 1867.
Tue greater
prises.
eff~orts we make to develop oui- province.
Hon. '.\r. SCOTT-Dldni't they pay for it ? the greater the population comlng Into
thiet province and the heavier the responHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tlîey did pay
sibilities, the heavier the charges tbat
a certain suai which was not hiaif the
faîl on the province, but at the samne
amounit expended for the construction of
turne, for every boend of population that we
the North Shore road.
add to the province of Quebec w-e increase
Hon. MNr. SCOTT-Tbey paid the value.
the income of the federal pow-er.
Ail our
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tliey pid $6,- efforts tending to develop oui- provinice and
000.000.
Nearly $10.000,000
have been fncrease tue pop)ulationi go to the increasling
spent on that road-niearer ten millions than of our charges and to the increasiîîg of tlue
thue six millions that w-as paid to the pro- incorne and reventue of the federal power
vince of Quebec. but the difference be- tliroug-h the customis and excise. whlle w-e
tween that suin aiid w-bat w-as reailîr spent remain wltlî the tlxed contract of 1867, givon rallway construction lias neyer been re- lng uis 80 cenîts per-head based on thle census
Imbursed to the province, and the province of 1861. If seems ns If w-e wvere prevented
does not ask for relînhursement.
1 con- from malziig any effort-tlîat we are nt a
tend that the settiement of 180,7 Is unfaîr disadvantage by the Act of 1867 ln makîng
and uiijust.
he provices got a per capita any increase to tlîe population lu our propayaient of SO cents, based on tue census vince s0 ns to prevent increased charges.
of 1861.
The population 1increased year Yet every province w-ants f0 develop Its
by year, and w-Ith the Increase of popula- resources and increase its population, wille
tion tue charges lncreased, but the income of course it benefits the federal chiest directremains the saine.
ly and wve, on the contrary. tlîcreby diminilh
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You got a large addi- our incorne by lncreasing our yearly
charges.
tion in 1SS4.ý
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I anm speaking
Hon i-.
SCOTT-Tlîe saie applies to
of the aniount we received froni Ottawa. Ontario.
We remlained wîth a per capita allowance
Hon. Mr-. DANDIJRAND-The sanie apsilice IS61 and w-e are simply nowv asking
plies t0 ail the provinces.
that thiat amounit be mnade payable upon the
Hou. L\r. SCOTT-No, it is limiited to Onpopulation as it appears at every decennial
censuls.
1 was speaking of the increased tario ùnd Quebec.
expenditure iii the province of Quebec. W7e Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tlîe dernand
imust speuld for tlue carrying ou of civil gov- tlîat is made by the provinces, it seems to
eranment a yearly suai. We spent in 2867, rue, is a very reasonable one. If will be the
$213.000.
W'e are spending to-day, even survival of the fitfest. As the population inw-ithi severe pruuiing. a suill of $513.000. Wýe creases l oîîe paît of the c-ounîtry or the
speuît ini 1867 for education, $225.000.
We otliei, it sliould carrîy with it an increased
are spending nom- $475.000. and w-e are not subsidy per- hied according to the djecelu
spendîng haîf enloughi.
We wvere spending niai census. ut seerned to be fair iin ISG7
tor asyluinîs and liospitals ln 1S67, $175.000. Ilhat w-e should get 80 cents per- lead of pop'We are now su)endiiig $397.00.
WVe w-ere illation. why sliould it not be liermnaientlv
receîving uiffer the censuls of lS61 the suinj fair 'Tiis' w-as the baisi- that w-sagreed
Hon. -.
Nr. DANDURAND.

JUNE 2, 1003

2-23

upon, SO cents per head of population. Wby Alexander Galt and Sir Hector Langevin,
shouid we flot recelve that 80 cents per leaders of the government for Quebec at the
time. We are now spending over three milliead of the population as it is to-day ?
lions 0f dollars for the different services, and
lion. Mfr. SCOTT-The other provinces re- we corne back to the heirs of those who
celve it until they reach a certain limit, made the declaration that $1,300,000 was
400,000.
enough to carry on the goverament of the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I amn speaking province of Quebec and ask tbem to modi!y
especially of the agreement with Ontario that contract, make it more just and
and Quebec. In 18<38 we receiveti back 20 more fair, ln order tbat we inay bav-e a
per cent of our contribution to the federal sufficient ainount to cnrry on the provincial
chest. That sum bas grndualiy gone down. governinent. We all w-ant to maintain the
It went to fourteen, nine, seven and It is provincial governments. We do not want a
in
xiow five and a baîf per cent of our yearly federal union. I arn not, at ail events,
favour of a federal union. I want to nmaincontribution to the federal chest.
tain tbe' system as we have it to-day, but
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-How does the bion. It seexns to me those who made tbe federgentleman make out this contribution to tbe atlon contract. who tbought $1,300,000 was
federai cbest ? On what basis is tliat quite sufficient to carry on the affaii-s of the
province of Quebec, wben it is shown to-day
ascertaiaed for each of the provinces ?
that w-e have tbree tirnes that expenditure,
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is ascertained wli admit that the demand which ls made
by the customs and excise.
now by the province is oniy fair and night.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. friend Whea we see how the sources of Inmust know that the custoxas collections ln corne wbicb we passed over to the
Montreal are for goods consunied la ail the feïderaïl power have produced an increased incorne It: seems to me the proprovinces.
vinces should flot be left: under the
Hou. -Mr. DANDURÂND-Tbat I know, old arrangement when Important services,
but the figures 1 cite take into consideration Ilke education and colonization, daily suifer,
the fair a mount whicb should go to the other more especially la the province of Quebec
provinces. I know that on that basis a and Ontarlo. I flrnpiy speak for my own
calculation made for Ontario shows -a worse province. The leader of the goverameat bas
loss than the one 1 mentioned for, the pro- stated It; to be a grab game. We are not
vince of Quebec. As I have stated, 1 do not hiere for a grab game. We are here for fair
iutend t0 cover the large question which la play and justice, and we say that when
before the Senate, but I want to say that we confederation fixed the census o! 1801 as a
are face to face with this difficulty: that we permanent basis for the paymeat of subhave a yearly increased expenditure which sidies to the provinces of Ontario and Quefollows logicaliy the Increase in population, bec, it was an unfair settiement and the
that we are confronted with the alternative, causes which actuated the lion. gentlemen
either to secure a more elastic arrangement who made that bargain appear ln black and
with the federal power which wIii allow us white. It was based on a taise conception
an Increased revenue to meet our increased of the cost of carrying on the goveranent
expenditure, or resort to direct taxation. We of 'the provinces. 'When we have to face
are entitied to corne back to the parties who tbose facts, it sa but jusit thbat the provinces
have to-day ail the sources of revenue on sbould be allowed a littie more uf what they
whicb we depended before 18j7 and ask gave so lavishly awny to the federal extheni for better ternis in view o! the tact chequer.
that they obtained the consent of the people
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The faiiacy wbich uno! Qlwebec to confederate and to accept the
financial arrangements by teilng thein that derlies the bon. gentleman's argument is the
$1,300.000 was ail that was necessary for the assumption that this money ls got from sorne
carrying on of the provincial government la other sources than the people tbemselves.
the province of Quebec. This was the senti- That seems to rua through the observations
ment of Sir George Etienne Cartier, Sir the lion. gentleman bas addressed to us. The

9'M

SENATE

2524

SENATE

Ieast consideration wili show that that is
an error. Wben the federal authority was
created and the revenues of the country
passed to them, there were also passed to
them the duties and obligations that the
members of tils parliament and of the government of Canada are discharglng, and that
ts ail part of the *work wbich cornes to us.
which ls incidentai to oonfedera-tlon, and
the odolng of which the provinces gave up
to the federal pawer thus requiring that
power to discbarge what had tili then been
done ln another way. It is very difficuit
to get at what would be exact facts, and
1 would flot attempt to make any observation concernlng 'them here, but I observe >that
the hon, gentleman who presented this matter to the House, sald that in 1867 the federal revenue was such a sum of money,
;113,000,000, and now we have $58,000,000.
That on the face of It appears to be a very
nice statement, but if you examine the relative positions to-day as compared wlith
1867, you would find this, that tbe sources
of federal revenue have enlarged, that la to
say, there are other services which go to
swell up the federal revenue, and thait a
proper comparison would be based on -the
revenue from excise and customs, what you
w-ould cali the direct taxation of the people
in 1867, and the direct taxation based on tbe
revenue of the past year, or any year whlch
you take, and that the revenues derived
from public workîs and from the post office
ougbt not to enter into the consideraition
of the matter at ail, because the people of
Canada get back service for that particular
tlng-. Then another tblng ln getting at
your basis, 1 should thinl, you ought to take
into account the difference betrween the public debt in 1867 and to-day. The iiitereat on
that deb't shiould -be subtracted fromn the
principal ýsua inl order to arrive ait the basis
of your calcul-ation, because «Il that public
debt bas been created for the purpose and
for the beniefit of the people of Canada-ait
least 1 presume lit bas been-aad ^we are
paying interest upon that debit now. It bas
beenl money spent for the use of the people
aud it oughit xîot, it seemis to mie, to enter
into the calculaitions snch es thie hon. gentleman bas submitted. As I remember, the
ilea wns 1iait the SO cents a head based
on the population of 1S61, for the older
provinces. Quiebec and Ontario, and for
the snialler prtovinces up to the maximum
Hon. '-\r. ELLIS.

of 400,000, -was supposed to be a sufficient
suai o! money to enable the provinces
to carry on the goverilment of the province and to, discharge such reasonable
duities as were lefit wlthln the scope o! the
provincial governments. The larger duties
passed over to the federal government, and
therefore there was not needed such a sum
of money as wouid be covered by the conttnued increase o! the population. Lt mlust
be remember-ed that if a ttax were levied
upon the contlnued iacreuse o! the population lit would not be contrlbuted by the
gentlemen round these benches, but by
ithe people themeives. They would have
to be taxed for lit. My hon. friend showed
there were surpluses of $67,000,000 since
confederation, but everybody knows that is,
raiher a faliacy. The debt of the country
bas iacreased very largely, and whiie yoit
may make a comparison between revenue
and expendîture, yet when you corne ito take
ithe whole revenue of the country and contract wlth the amounit whlch we have spent,
greater than the revenue, you will find there
la no such surplus ait ahl. 0f course lt Is according to a system of book-keeplng, 'whicb
may be proper iu ltself, but for purposes o!
this argument it should not be taken inito,
accouit because the hon, gentleman seeks
ito convey the idea, or If hie does nbt hie does
convey the Idea, thait this money bas been
kepit by somebody, and that lt migbt as well
be distributed among the people. Tbat Is
flot ithe facit ait ail.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-I took
the public accounts. The Finance 'Minister
sald there was tbat surplus.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I presume that surplus
bas been spenit for the heniefit of the coonitry, for the uses and purposes whicb this
parliament coutrois. The bon. gentleman
who bas jusit spokien. rather reflects on the
faitbers of confederation. I do flot pretend
to praise them, or say anything concerning
that, because 1 was an anti-confederate. 1
an not quite sure, looking fronii the standpoint In my own province, wbetber the province to whieh I belong bas benefited by
confederaition ait ail. 1 will not enter into
that bere. They assumned that 80 cents a
head on the population of 1861 would be
ample for the purposes of the provinces.
My hon. friend froin the district of de Lorimier (Hon )Ir.

Dindurand) says that the

JUNE 2, 1903
lie bas net consulted them-to, maintain the
view hie has expreseed, and let It bie known
to the people of the country everywhere
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND--$3,100,000 out- tha t there wiil bie no re-arrangement of the
side of the Interest on the debt.
exIstIng system, that the people must look
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Where does that moiley where they can raise the money for tbemcorne !rom ? The lion. gentleman says there selves-that If they spend more for proIe no direct taxation ln hie province, and vincial purposes they must maise it by the
bie seems to tbink direct taxation would be d1fferent modes of taxation allowed them by
a dreedful thing. Has that money corneI the Act o! Confederation, and that It shall
tbrough the development o! the province flot be necessary for the federal goverriment
or fromn the federel government ? Ha. the to Increase the taxation of the country for
creation of the federal govemnment s0 de- the purpose of raising more money to hand
veloped the province of Quebec that this over to the provinces, because that le what
$3,100,000 la now raieed througb that de- it corne. to ln the end. It Is a pecuilar
velopment twithout any tex on the peo- tliing that whiie the province of Ontario
ple, and iargely through the administra- and the province of Quebec are aliowed
tion of federal affaie ? That would seem 80 cents per head, based on the population
to be a question whlch miglit fairly of 1861, that la the emaller provinces that
enter Into, the consideration of this problem. allowance stops at 400,000 o! a population,
1 think one of the great mistiakes the fathers It would seem to be, perhaps, fair that until
of confederation made was ln aliowing eny- the population reaches an amouat equal tg
The evil the population o! Ontario or Québec, or the
thing to the provinces et ail.
effecte of it remai n and wiil remain, and average o! these provinces, that that allowthere wil be constant raids on the federal ance should be made. However, there i.
treeeury. One muet often regret tbat the an argument the other way. I will not enter
gentlemen who administer the affaire of the upon that, because 1 have spoken longer
provinces are not able to admInieter themn than I Intended. I looked up some figures.
wlth the revenue at hand. I believe If -the The first amount paid to the provinces ln
syetem, ln the United States had been ndopt- 1872, after the census of 1871, as I make
ed ln early day. of the federation, and direct it out, was $2,930,112. After the lest census
taxation lied been adopted by the provinces, that amount lied Increased to $4,400,000, s0
there would bave been a more economical thet there has been quite an increase by
system of govenment-thet the people reason of these varlous arrangements, and
would themeselves have looked more sharply it Io rather rernerkable thet when you corne
after the accounts, and the affaire left to to examine by provinces the percentage to
the administration of the provinces would each province you wiil Eind very great disbe carried on with more economy and more crepancy. For Instance, the province of
eatisfaction than now ; but the temptation Ontario gets only about 61 cents a head
was ieft to the local goveruments to corne from -the federel source, teking into account
here and look for more money. They en- the money which It bas at Interest with the
tered upon railway bulding and echemes federal government. The Interest on that I
whicb ivere not presumed to be withln their think le 5 per cent, and ht is a larger Inpower at ail. The late premier, Hlon. Alex. terest than It would be If otherwIse InMackenzie, thought hie saw a means o! vested. Quebec gets 65 cents ; Nova Sctia,
assisting the provinces la their development 94 cents; New Brunswick, $1.48. There
by giving tbem. old rails, and It was 'a fatal was an allowance to the province of New
gift In a sense. These rails were good and Brunswick of $100,000, because that prouse! ul, but the glft carried the provinces~ vince lied an excise duty ln operation and
Into a syetem of extravagance which, ln lied surrendered it to the federal governle entirely unneces- ment. It was coliecting excise duty. Prince
corne respects et iet,
sary and one effeot of whi-ch ls &hat -the gov- Edward Island gets about $2; Manitoba,
$1.72, as 1 make
ernuients are constantly coming to Ot'tawa $2, and British Columbia,
seeking to re-errange the finenclal basis of out the figures. But My main Idea was
confederation. I hope the Secretary of State that we ouglit realiy, as public meni, having
of the
will be able to Induce bis colleagues-hbe says a patriotic lnterest ln the progrese
15
province of Quebec now requires $3,300,000
-that wes bis figure, I thlnk.

226

SENATE

country, as far as possible to exercise the
Influence of our judgment and position
againat these contlnued raids on the federal
treasury.
At ail! events, we ougbt to tell
the people of the country that ln the givlng
of money they musit themselves be taxed te
raise IL
Hon. Mr. DE'VEIL-I think It; I a dangerou. thing for any one to rise here and speak
on tht, question ln a elipshed manner. It Is
toc, serions a question for the people of this
Dominion to be dIscussed without a knewledge of the facts. Conjecture after ail does
not amount to much. I shall endeavour to
place thé matter from my standpeint, as a
ropresentative from that province, and ospecIally from the principal city ef that province, before this House. When we entered confederation we were paying aI our
public expenses on a' tariff of 15 per cent.
We bulit a railway from St. John te
Shediac wvith money -we borrowed, on which
we had to pay Int&rest, and tbereby added
te our tariff 2J *per cent to provide funds
that: constructed that rallroa'd. We met ail
our public engagements out of our revenue
on a 15 per cent tariff. We hail no excise
In those days. Thait we knew nothing about.
We were permitted te, Import: from ail the
markets of the world, where ire could select
,most judiclously. We irere prosperous ln
our commerce and the fact Is ire dId net
bave to Increase as they have noir. Our
obligations to enable us te carry on our local
and municipal gevernments. For Instance,
liquor licenses then were only twenty dollars for retail, and thirty for wbolesale.
Whereas non-, and for some years, retall
lcenses have been advanced te $300, and
irbolesale to $500, whicbi shows the difficulty ire have te meet our public expenses. We received back, It is true.
according te tbat arrangement 80 cents
a head. That would be fair If our tariff had
not been advanced s0 enormously. More than
thait, a national policy bas been -introduced
tlat excîndes us from purchasing goods te
advantage, and the consequence is we cernplain bitterly that our population is net lacreasing, that our wealth Is flot incrensing.
that in tact we are rather at a standstili,
and the other provinces by some meaxis or
other are advancing -more rapidly. If this
be the case, as I believe it la. I think
It beheeves the gentlemen who bave.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

speken on this question to ascertain if
possible what is the cause. That las the
position I taire, and I do trust that,
Instead of talking ln a very off-band
manner about it, It wili be discussed very
carefuly, se that there will be no feeling
lu the public* mmnd that there Is something
wrong witb tbds féderation of ours. I amn
a confedorate, and was a'lways a confederate. 1 amn anxious that our country shall
remain a confederation and be prosperous,
and one we are ail able to be proud of. In
order to accemplish that we mnust see If we
can give more satisfaction te the people.
Uon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have no desire te go
at length into the question, but it is too
Important to let the occasion pass without
expressIng one's opinion.
The questfon
qeems to be this, as to whether when this
bargain was made ln 1807, the Confederatien Act, any error was made, or wblwther the Intention of the parties to
the agreement was given effect tn.
It:
bas been shown by the remarks that
have been made by my hon. friend.
the member for de Lorimier (Flou. 'Mr.
Dandurand> on what assumption this
cenfederation
agreement
was
carried
through. It was on the assumption that the
amount of expenses In the province of Quebec-and the argument applies equally to
the other provinces-necessary for the maintenance of the provincial government would
not exceed $l,30,000. It hais been ascertained since ln Quebec, as irelI as la Ontario,
and ln every other province, that It iras a
complote errer, that the amount thus assnmed, or thus ftxed, iras altegether Insufficient, and that the affairs of the provinces
cannot be carrled on at ail with snch sums.
Thero Is another censideration wbich should
guide us ln consIdering the question. It is
as te irbether It Io preper that the revenues
necessary for the carrying on of the
affairs ln the provinces, as ireil as the
Dominion, sbould be raised by direct
or indirect taxation.
It seems te be
recognlzed that our people are in reality
antipathetic te direct taxation, that they
are anxious that the revenue shai be
raîsed by indirect taxation, and if this
applies te the revenue necessary for the carrying on of the affairs ef the Dominion, It
seems te me that it applies equallY te the
carrying on ef the affairs ef the provinces.

JUNE 2, 190322
Exception has been taken by the hon. member for St. John (Hon. Mr. Bisl) to the baais
on whlcb the hon, gentleman from de Lorimier founded hlm argument. He bases lis
argument on the total revenue wblch
amounted t o mre $58,000,000, and exception
la taken to that. Let us take the revenue
and deduct from dt the customm and excise,
and see what tbey were ln 1867 and 1868,
and what tbey are now. In 1867 and 1868
they were $11,570,000, and the sul>sidies to
the provinces amounted to a total of $2,758,.
000, or twenty-four per cent was paid to the
provinces. In 1900 and 1901, the sme revenues from customs and excise amounted
to $âo,743,000, and the mubsidies paid to the
provinces were $4,400,00.
At any rate, It
wam reduced to eleven per cent of the
&Mount.

amounts expended for education la smrn of
the provinces. It Ir, known that the amount
expended in 1867 and 1808 bas been more
thian, doubled, and It is acknowledged that,
doubled as It is, the amount actually expended uhould again be doubied. Now there
ls not only the educational question, but the
question of colonizatlon. Iu it a fair system
which doem neot asslst eacb of the provinces
ln trylng to Increase the population ? It is
kuown that every Inhabitant, or every new
parlsb or settlement whicb ls added te any
province, is a source of expense to the province. The subuldy ls surely altogether Insufficlent to provide for uchools, roads and
general expenues, and It ueems, therefore,
that we should devise a scheme whereby ail
the provInces would have at benrt the lncreasing of the population, wbich is la itself
a source of revenue for the Dominion of
Canada. In 1807 the revenue per capita
for the Dominion was $4.05. It bau now
increamed to $9.75.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Will the hon. Sentleanan allow me to point eut that the buildIng of the Intercolonlal Railway and tbe
facilities for trade opened up by confederation, and the removai of aIl tariffs between
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (1.C.)-Eleven
the provinces accounted for this advance i dollars and sixty' cents was the iast.
Queljec and the other provinces where the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, but I have the
lncreased trade occurred.
figures oaly for 1900 and 1901.
I have
Hion. MNr. BEIQUE-The customns and referred to thxe matter of education, and
duties that w'ere collected ln the province or there are otber very important questions
Quebec, were for goods that were dlstrlbuted wblcb are exclusively within the control of
and consumed ln ail the provinces, and the the provinces, sucb as agriculture, colon!obje~ction w-ould be a good objection if OUI. zation and philanthropic work. It is known
figures were based on the amount collected that ail over the world a new departure
ln one province alone, but I amn taklng the lu belng made : It la to create pensions for
custoins and exclue coilected in the wbole old age. The system bas been applied on a
Dominion. Now to answer the laut objec- very extensive ucale ln Germany and bas
tion made, as to the building of the Inter- succeeded. Tbey have obtalaed very concolonial Railway, there lu no doubt that the siderable results. The uystem lu belng aprailway bas been bult It was part of the con- piied ln France, and the system -lu apparentfederation scbeme, and It was, built mainiy ly now to be applled ln England. It lu
for the purpome of joining the oid provinces found necessary that a labourer who bas
with the maritime provinces, and it bas no attalned slxty or sixty-five years o! age,
doubt helped the trade of the country, as ail when he becomes incapacltated, should not
rallways that were bult both ln the be tbrown on tbe utreet.
How are the
province of Quebec and the province of provinces to provide for sucb requireOntarlo, and In the other provinces by ments If tbey are to do it by direct
means o! taxes or contribution of the pro- taxation ? It seemu to me the convinces, aise have gone to help the general ditions change from day to day. The changtrade of the country. But the question seemu Ing of conditions should be taken into conto be this: as to wbetber It Is fair to expect sideration, and wlthout being prepared, for
that the several provlnces--and the argument my part, to say on wbat basis or to wbat
applies to one province as well as to another extent the change should be made, I amn
-shall levy tbe amouat necessary for the satlsfied that there should be a change, and
government o! the province by way o! direct tbat the principle upon which the subsIdy
taxation. It bas been stated wbat were the was adopted nt the time of confederation,
15;

228

SEINATE

being found to be Insufficient, and uot to ing to their population of 1901. Then Manihave answered proper expectation at the toba bas a population of 254,947, and they
à
turne, sbould be rnodified ln order to satisfy draw $532.904. That is about two dollars
It bas bead of the population, wbile Ontario and
the requirements of the provinces.
of the
been stated by the Secretary of State that Quebec only draw one dollar a head
it population of 1861. Then Prince Edward
the provinlces sbould be made to feel tbat
la necessary to be econornical, and that there Island drew $211,981 altogether on a populaof
Is a danger ln the fact that a subsidy la tion of 109,978, or two dollars per head
ln a lump sum, instead of being levied the population. That Io from ail sources.
paid
Colunmbia la
by votes of the representatives by way The amount drawn by British
Well, ln the provinces as well $307,076.64 on a population ln 1901 of 168,of taxation.
Edwardý
as ln tbe Dominion, the affaira are adminis- 957, or about $1.80 per head. Prince
by the representatives of the people. Island draws two dollars per bead; British
tered
Those representatives are electad In the sme Columbia, $1.80; Manitoba, $2; New Brunsway ln the provinces as they are for the wick, $1-50 ; Nova Scotia about $1.08, and
Dominion parlinment, and tbey are supposed Quebec and Ontario about a dollar, each
to see that ail sources o! revenue are based on the census of 1861. It does appear
properly applîed, and it seenis to, me that somewhatt aingular that the allowance per
are
tbere la no occasion whetber we taire the capita, so far as Ontario and Qnebec
other o! the concerned, la based on tbe census o! 18631,
province o! Quebec or any
provinces, to fear that, because the sub- and bas not been changed. The other prosidy would be increased ln a fair measure, vinces receive their subsidy based on the
on a proper basis, that there would be anY per capita of the census of 1891. It does
danger of the kmnd that bas been rnentioned. appear aomnewhat singular that Quebec and
For these reasons I hope that the govern- Ontario shouid be piaced upon the list actbey
ment wIll consider the question seriousiy, cording to the censua of 18431, and that
and devise a scbeme wbereby the errors were flot to receive subsidies ln proportion
wbich were evidently committed at the time to their Increased population. I thinir ryo! confederatlon will be rectified ln a pro- self it la a pity that the basis of confederation was ever disturbed. It would bave
per manner.
.Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-In looking over been very rnucb better If ail .the govern1867, down to the
the publisbed statement of the amounts ments that existed since
for al] present time, bad adbered strictly to the
granted to, eacb of the provinces
When It ls once
purposes eacb year, 1 notice that lu the terma o! confederation.
on the broken througb, you cannot *tell wbere It la
case of Ontario, the subsidy la based
will everlaatlngiy
population of 1861, just the saine as Que- to stop. Thre provinces
altogether, be niaklng increaaed demanda on the federal
bec, that the entire suni drawn
It comarnounts to $1,339,287.28. That Ia as near treasury for furtirer allowances.
menced with Nova Scotia, New Brunswick,
as can be a dollar a bead o! the population,
gone on. I do not
on thre census of 1861. Then ln the province Manitoba and It bas
o! know where lt la going to end. If our conof Quebec, based on tbe saine census
same as ln the
1861, tbe amount drawn Is $1,086,718, alto- federacy bad been thre
United States, every state would bave to
getirer for ahl purposes, wbile the popula.
la no allowanCe
tion la one million odd, wbicb la very nearly provide for itself. Tbere
of made to thre states froin tire federal treasa dollar per capita of the population
been a very mucir
1861. So tbat thre province o! Ontario and ury, and it would have
better thing if we bad made an arrangetire province of Quebec, stand ln relation
tirat people do
to tire subsidies granted tiren ln tire very ment o! tbat kind. I know
not like direct taxation. Tirey appear to
same position. Tben we taire Nova Scotia
as to its reand we find tirat the population was 400,000 bave a serious apprebension
o!, suits. Tbat feeling exista ln tbe province
In 1891, and tbey draw 80 cents a bead
tirere may be tbe
their population. Tbey draw altogetirer o! Quebec, and ln Ontario
same feeling, but I do not see bow direct
$422,806, or about a dollar and eigirt cents
unless you lna bead on thre census of 1901, and tbey taxation ls to ire avoided,
crease thre subaidy to each province and
draw altogetirer $491,377, whieb maires $1.50
other waya. In my
a beid o! tire wbole amount drawn accord. colleet tbe taxes in
Hon. Mr. BEIQITE.

229

JUNE 2, 1903
opinion, It would be better and people would
sooner realize the resuits of taxation by
having to providé the rnoney ln each province for their own internai expenses. They
would corne to understand what taxation
means far better, and until they corne to
that, there will be Increaséd demanda on the
Dominion treasury and it will becorne burdI realize that the government
ensome.
stands ln a peculiar position. The provinces have ail joined bande In maklng demands for increased allowanees. My humble
opinion ls that the governrnent should strictIy adhere to thxe prInciple It has laid down,
although I frankly admit that If any pro
vinces have ground to complain they are
Ontnrio and Quebec. These two provinces
are tied to a subsidy based on the population of 1861, and, as bas been truly said'
by rny hon. friend from Montreal, no mat-'
ter how the population may Increase, and,
as a result of that increase, the expenditure
necessary for schools and other services may
be lncreased, they still are confined to a per
capita allowance based upon the census of
1861.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-That i. tue saute rule as
appîles to Nova Scotia. I think according
to the last census Nova Scotia badl a population of 431,000, but the subsIdy la only
ailowed on 400,000.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-But It received
that rigbt along ever mince confederation.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--No.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Nova Scotia's ailowance ln 1901 was based on 4W0,000.
Hon. Mr'. ELLIS-The hou. gentleman la
overlooking the fact that the amalier provinces were allowed an Increase up to 400,000 of a population. When that is exceeded,
as It bas been exceeded ln Nova Scotia, they
wili get no more. The sme principle precisely governs ail.

made to the governent, ln view of our
national debt, and In view of the enormous
developments that have to taire place, and
the necessity of expending public money ln
ail directions for Improvements of every
kind necessary to contribute to the development of thîs.Dominion, I think the provinces should be asked to provide for their
local demnands from. their own treasuries.
I am very rnuch afraid that if. the government give way to this agitation, every goverurnent that cornes Into power wIll have
the sarne difficulty to deal w'ith, and from
year to year, and frorn decade to decade
there wili be Increased demnands from tirne
to time upon the federal treasury, and the
government that ie in power at Ottawa will
have a difficuity on hand whicb will arnount
to a very serlous one before the matter la
ended.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (111) An Act respecting the Edmonton,
Yukon and Pacific Railway Comnpany.(Hon. Mr. Young.)
BIRl (114) An Act respecting the Nipissing
and James' Bay Railway Cornpafly.-(HOn.
Mr. McMullen.)
Bill (117) An Act to incorporate the Hudson's Bay and Western Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (120) An Act respecting the Lake Erie
and Detroit River Raiiway Cornpany.-(Hon.
Mr. Casgrain, Windsor.)
Bill (124) An Act respecting the Hudson
Bay and Pacifie Railwny Cornpany.-(Hofl.
Mr. Young.)
Bill (132) An Act to incorporate the Père
Marquette International Bridge Comnpany.(non. Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (162) An Act respectlng the Hamilton
and Lake Erie Power Comnpany, and te,
change its narne to the Jordan Light, Heat
and Power Company.-(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (164) An Act to Incorporate the Pacific Bank of Catnada.-(Hon. Mr. Temple-

Manitoba are recelving It on the hast cenSUS.
THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. McMUILLEN-That rnny be truc.
I ()A
AcfothreiffJa
s
That ls a phase of the question* I was not
Beid (C) A.(n. cfr.
thne rlifcfJa
r adri.
tee-Hn
made aware of before, and I have no doubt Ri
Bill (A) An Act for the relief of William
mv hon. frlend la correct. However. notwithstanding the appeala that bave been Allen.-(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)

SENATE

230

circular standard station seats, oak $18 and
eli $15 eacb.
Bill (71) An Act to incorporate the Imi4. L. P. Ferland obtained the contract.
perlai Agency.-(Hon. Mr. Belque, In the- His tender for oak at $5 per foot for the
absence of Hon. Mr. Owens.)
seating, and $18 each for the oak seats,
was accepted.
The Senate adjourned.
SECOND READING.

TEE RULES 0F THE SENATE.
MOTION.
-

THE SEKÂTE.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE xnoved:
For the appointaient of a speclal commlttee
ut this honourable House. to confer with a lîke
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three committee of the House of Commons with the
vlew of respectlveiy revIslog ruies 49a of this
o'ciock.
honourable House and rle 51 -of the House of
Commone. and make them harmninze ;with lnPrayers and routine proceedings.
structions to report.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I want
BILLS INTRODUCED.
some information as to this motion.
Bill (45) Aa Act respectlng the Calgary
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The niatter w-as gone
and Edmonton Rallway Company.-(Hon.
The lion, gentlemen
through iast year.
Mr. Lougheed.)
suggested la the motion, witbi the exccption
Bill (47) An Act to Incorporate thc Nlils- of the lion. Senator Young, were appointed
lng and Pontiac Railway Compauy.-(Hou. a commlttee to confer with a like cormlittee
Mr. Kerr, Toron to.)
ot the House of Commoons for the saine purBill (70) An Act ta Incorporate the Mac- pose.
leod and Montana Railway Company.-(Hoii.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-WbNlat is
Mr. Young.)
tce purpose ?
Bill (110) An Act respectlng the Canadlan
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-To tnake Rule 49a
Mr.
Nortbcrn Railway Company.-(Hon.
of this House, and Rule 51 of the House of
McMullen.)
Coxumons harnionize la connection with the
Bill (119) An Act respecting the Alberta
publication of notices for Bis. In both
Rallway and Coal Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Honses a notice of two montlhs is required,
Lougheed.)
and lu this House the notice must be pubBill (148) An Act rcspecting certain trust lshed lu the local papers iii every province,
funds o! the Diocese of Moosonee.-(Hon. If thc company intends to operitte in every
Mr. Loughecd.)
province, whereas, ln the House o! Coinmus, Rule 51 does not requi-e any sucli
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY TENDERS. notice. It bas been found desirable tliat the
mules should be mnade to harmonize ind that
INQUIRY.
Is the wboie abject of the motion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnqulred:
1
.
'.%1 DeBOUCHIERVILLE-If
Hon.
1. -Has the government asked for tenders for
making the new benches for uae at the Inter- utxderstand aright, the ruie of the Senate
colonial Rallway station &t Lévis ?
requires a notice ta be given ini ail the
2. What are the names of the tendemers ?
3. What la the amaouat o! each tender ?
provinces. If w-e pass a Bill lu this Chaxu4. Who obtained the oontmact, and what la the ber ipplying to ail the provinces, there
?
prîce given for each bench
shouid be a notice in eaci of ttose piraHon. Mr. SCOTT-The answcrs are as vinces, ind the House of Couinons d'-es not
foiiows
advertise except iii the ofliciil Gazette.'
1. Yes.
P.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Last yeat whlen a con2. Only one tender received, viz :L.
ference taak place the Hanse of Comnitoits
Ferland.
3. The amoutît of Mr. Fieriand's tender is Committee agî-eed to makze tlteir rule lbar185 feet standard station inonize with the mile of this Hanse iii that
as folaows :For
seating, oak $5 and ehm $4 a foot. Seven respect, but the conmittee also caine ta t1ie

Ottawa, 'Wedptesday, June 3, 1903.

JUNE 3, 1903
conclusion that instead o! requiring notice
to be pub]ished for two months, one monthI
would be sufficient. However, the committee
wiil bave to report, and It wll be a matter
for discussion wben the report o! the committee is before this House.
Hon. Mr. LAN'DRY-Notice o! motion wam
given for the nomination of a special commlttee but we bad no notice o! the names
o! those wbo are to form that commlttee.
That Is quite a new procedure aitogether,
and I sbould like ta know If a notice of
motion should not be given before the sense
o! the House is taken on the new motion my
bon. !riend bas just read. I know wben the
Striklng Commlttee la formed to -name tbe
members o! the diffement committees, their
report la brougbt before tbe Houme, and tbe
House takes cognizance o! the names ln that
report, and at a subsequent date those names
are accepted or changed by the House when
the regular motion ls put; but ln thia case
we are offered a new motion containing
nanues which we dld nlot hear of before,
and I ask If that Io a regular way o! proceeding.
Hon. lr. BEIQUE-It aeems to me tbat
ail that la equired la to give a notice o!
motion statlng the subject o! the motion.
The notice wbicb was. given was that a
motion would be made for the appointment
o! a special committee for the purpose mentioned ln the notice. As far as the names
o! Vint committee are concerned, It la a
mntter for the House, If the House decides
to act upon the motion, nnd it seema to me
there la no mile wbicb requîmes tbat tbe
naines of the persons to be appointedl shall
be mentioned ln the notice itself.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We have a special
and welI determined mode of procedure
with tbe stmiking o! a special committee.
If tbe bon. gentleman chooses to set amide
tbat mode and mention the names biresel!,
be sbould give notice of the names beforeband.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The practice adopted
by the lion. gentleman la the usual one in
this Chnmber. It ls quite within the privilege of the House to namne the coxnmittee.
If tbey do nlot accept the names suggested,
they can mention other names.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-BUt tiiere was no
notice of those names.

231

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I would suggest that
the xîame of Sir Alphonse Pelletier be substituted for mine. He was a former speaker
of this House and bas a knowledge of the
rules and practice, and would be a more
useful member of that commlttee.
BOWELL-I
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE
ulaouid like to ask whetber the Intention of
the. mover, and those wbo are acting ln this
matter, is to make our rules conform to
that of the House o! Commons or vice versa.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Or strike an average.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If It
be necessary to have the rules alike, ail that
would be necessary for the Senate to do
would be to change their rules and make
them conform to the rules.o! the House o!
Commons, unlesa It Is advisable to ask the
House o! Commons to change their rules. If
that be tbe object, ail that would be necesmary would be ta give notice o! a motion
ta change our rule in accordance wvith that
There la no
of the House of Commons.
need of the conference.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Last year apecial cornmittees were appointed by botb Houses.
They met and agreed to modl!y the two rulea
ln auch a way as to limit the time of givlng
notice to one month Instead of two montbs.
The commlttee o! the House of Commons
agreed practically to adopt our rules in every
respect. The matter could mot be put
through last year in the House of Commus. because It was nt tbe end o! the
session, and I thought it was my duty to
brbng It Up n0w, as I bad brought tbe matter
Up last year, early enougb so that It could
be put through tbis year and we could avail
ourselves oit the new rule for next session.
Hon. Sir M4ACKENZIE BOWELL-Just as
soon as that committee reports that it
changes our mile Iu any particular, you
would bave to summon the whole House to
approve o! It ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-We find in the Standing Orders Committee that applicants for
private blill legisiation wbo have complied
witb the mules o! the House of Commons,
[mnd, wben they comne to deal with the Senate, that an aaditionai requimement la exacted fmoma them, and themefore tbey plead
ignorance on this point and ask for a sus-

SENATE
pension of the rule, and It bas been thought
over and over again that there should be
some -arrangement to harmonize the rules
of the two Houses. After this committee
has reported, of course It wiIi be competent for this honourable body to accept or
reject the report so that we can have time
to decide whetber the action taken is wlse
or reasonable.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I thlnk the rule
of the Senate Is too stringent, and I hope
we wlll give way to a certain extent to
the House of Commons and try to strike
a happy medium.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
think that Is the general opinion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I proceed furthem
wlth the point I malsed a moment ago, call

Hon. Mr. LÂNDEFLKIN-What objection
lng the attention of the Speaker to BouriIs there to the miles we have, and what
flot, second edition, on page 497, lu whilh
amenament Is proposed by the commlttee ?
he says :
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-It would be desirable
By the 31st ruie it la ordemed that twa days
given of
for the bon. gentleman from de Salaberry notice shaill be committeea a motion for the appolatuient of a
but none la nocesto read to us the rule of the House or Coin- sary la the case of matitera affeotlng the primon. so that we may know what we are viieges of -the Hanse. It la the regular course
the naines of
committee
deallng wlth. Our own mile requires that ta Rive motion uniess the la !ntended la the notice of
lt
to bave Wt
notices shall he publlshed in every province. appointedl dlrectiy by the Hanse.
Wherein lo that found Inconvenient ? Why
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-That Is the case.
la there a demand for the change ? We
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-No, that ls nat the
would lîke to know what the House of
Commons rule requires to enable us to de-ý case. Bourînot says :
Once appoiated by the Hlouse, ha calls lu the
cide whether there Is any necesslty for a
regular alphabetical order the names from a
change In our rule.
printed lst-Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.O.)-The cause
le we are asked contlnualiy In this House
to suspend our miles and we are opposed
to Ilt We want to maire our miles confom
to those of the House of Commons.
Strangers mistake the one order for the
other.
They see the order of the House
of Commons and go by that. They corne
before our House and find there bas not
been sufficlent notice.
I for one would
lke to see the miles of the two Houses madc
to conforin. The number of days' notice
given by the House of Commons ls qulte
long enough.

Hon. Mr. MILLER-The hon. gentleman
la readlng the practice of the House of
Commons. That ls not applicable to the
Senate.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I see nothlng for the
Senate except what I have rend. Fumther
on, Baumînot says :
Membere are trequently added or substltuted

In place of ot'hers w1thout a notice being givea;
but objectian may ha properly taken ta this

course. and the regular

procedure ln bath

Houses la ta gI-va prevlouis notice lu the votes

and minutes of praceedîngs.
'In bath houses,ý says Bourluot.

Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-I
think It ls
scarcely regnIar, after glving notice for the
appointuient of the committee, to embrace
ln that motion, not only the principle of appolntlng the cammittee, but to Include the
tiames of the members. The latter course
is ta submait a resolution In the ternis of
the notice, and then the Hanse afterwards
could deal with it.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is another reason. If you desire to, incorporate a bank, under the rules of the Senate
you have to advertlse the npplication ln every
province and territory where you propose
to do business. That is not necessary by the
ruies of the House of Couimons. That la one
case in whichi thiere is a difference ini the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Let It stand as a.
raies. Notice of Bill may be legaily pubnotice of motion.
lished under the Hanse of Commons' mule,
The SPEAKER-If the mules are ta be lnbut when lt cornes ta us it may be that
It bas not been advertised iii the North-w'est sisted upon stmictiy, I think the lion. gentleTerritories or British Columbia. and the man from Stadacona is right.
mule bas to be suspcnided ta aliow the Bill
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Then I drap the
to pass the Seniate.
Da mes.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

233

JUNE 3, 1903

Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tlie hou. gentleman
The SPEAKER-Then I suppose the hou.
gentleman wl! give notice before the House
rnay give the names as a notice of motion.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.

rises.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It will stand as a no-

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Whereln lo the tice for to-morrow.
difference between paragraph A of raie 49
and the Commons' mule?7 This la flot the EXPORT DUTY ON UNMANUFACTURED WOOD.
rule which deals with the ndvertlsing lu
ail the provinces.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-We bave section C
ln our rule, which says :
Where the Bill ls inteadeci to operate In
more than one province, terri-tory or district,
such notice ahall be pubUushed In the 'OCanada
Gazette' and ln a eding ncwspaper ln eo.ch
province. terrltory or dîstriot la whlch the Bill
la to operate.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon, gentleman only proposes to deal witb 49a. Thnt
la flot what we want. to reacli. It is 49c.
The SPEAKER-Better say mule 49 without speclfylng the subclanse.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I drafted the notice
on the proceeding of last session, and the
It sbould have
mistake happened then.
been 49, instead of 49a.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I move that a committee be appointed, composed of the Hon.
S r John Carling, Senator Macdonald
(Prince Edward Island), Sir Alphonse Pelletier and myseif.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
lias the governmen.t recelved from. the prime
moinister of the province of QuLebec, from the
goverament of the sald province, or from the
co}onizatlon commission which replaces il, any
requces whatsoever itcndlng towards the Impoelng of an export duty upoa tic exportation
of unmanufacturcd wood from this country?7
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
APPOINTMENT 0F E. C. FRY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
i. ls it the case that Mr. Harold Kennedy, of
thc clty of Quebec. lias refuscd to be appointed
a unember of the comm.lssion on means of transportation ?
2. Is It truc that Mr. B. C. Fry, of the clty
of Qucbec. was appoin-tcd. upon the refusai of
Mr. Kennedy. or lias thec position been offered
to hlm?
3. ias lic acoepted lt?
4. lias the Chamber of Commerce or the Barbopr Commission of Qucbec been consmzlted on
the subjeet of the appoint-ment of a member of
the commission on means of trancport>tlon ?
5. Was Mr. Kennedy recommcnded by clther
of these corporations ?
6. Who rccommcnded the appointment of Mr.
B. C. Fry ?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object to thîs klnd
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer to the fimet
of procedure. Thiere was no notice given.
question la, ycs. To the second, yes. To
The SPEAKER-It le unusual to take au thc thîrd, yes. To the fourtb question, No.
objection to a purely formai motion like To thc fifth. question. No. To the sixth
There la a rule of the Senate whicb

question the answer la, the government.

the bon. gentleman from Stadacona overlooked. At page 496 of Bourinot, 1 find :
Notice should properiy be given of ail motions

ÂPPOINTMENT 0F P. VILDEBON
SÂVÂRD.

thîs.

for select co-mittees; but it la net the Invariable practice ln the Senate to lnciude la
the motion the names of -the members, which
may be gîven by consent of the House whcn a
motion la diy propoced. But no doubt it la
the more convenient and regular course to, Innomes ln a notice of mot-Ion.
clude thec

INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
1. Io there at vresent ln ithe governmcnt service. more especlally la the Department ef
Marine and Fîshertes. a person aawerlng to
the name ef P. Vildebon Savard. of Chicoutimi.
I may say that I think the general Inter- advocate ?
2. What position dose he occupy, and what
pretation of the expression ' consent of the
are his duties and gthe nature of his employHouse,' la that it menus the unanimous ment ?
3. Siace when bas lic occupied this position?
consent. and if the hon. gentleman from
4. At what salary ?
Stadacona objecta, then the motion cannot
5. Is bis salary by the day. the month, the
be put.
vsar, or by the Job ?
6. Who was the employec that lic bas meHon. Mr. LANDRY--Certaiily 1 do object Placed ?

234

SENATE

7. How mach pay had bis predecessor ?
8. If he had no predeceasor, la lt the inten-

IMPERIAL AGENCY BILL.

MOTION.
tion of the government that he shouid ha the
first of bis klnd. and that the place crea-ted
Hlon. Mr. BERNIER-Before the Orders of
for hlm shall continue after hlm ?
9. Has he passed the examlnations requIred the l)ay are cailed, I wouid direct attention
by iaw ?
to the motion adopted at our iast sitting.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The person to whom When the House was about to adjourn, this
the bon, gentleman refers Is a gentleman Bill (No. 71) was referred to the Committee
beionging t0 the legal profession ln Canada, on Miscellaneous Private Bis. The Bill lu
and ls usually designated ln more courteous question deais with financial matters enterms than the bon. gentleman's query. tirely, and it seems to me it should be re The answers t0 the hon. gentleman's ques- ferred to the Committee on Banking anc
Commerce, and with the consent of the
tions are as follows :
1. Mr. P. V. Savard, as a member of the House 1 move that the motion referring the
bar of the province of Quebec, bas been Bill to Commlttee on Misceilaneous Bis be
retained by the Departaient of Marine and rescinded and that the Bill be referred to
Fisherles t0 luquire into certain legai points the Coininittee on Banking and Commerce.
and facts connected with conflicted dlaims
Hon. Mr. YOUiNG-Tbe gentleman who
of flue federal and provincial goveruments bnd charge of the Bill tdesired it to be reand the Labrador Company to tbe right of ferred to the Coimittee on M.Niscelliineons
fishery witbin the limita of that portion of Bis.
the north shore of the GuIf of St. Lawlion. Sir 3NIACKENZIE BOWELL-Wluat
rence, known as the Mingan Seigniory.
ls, the titie of the coinpany
2. Answered above.
3. Fourteenth of May, 1903.
Ilon. Mr. BERNIER-An Act to incoriuJr4. No regular salary.
It dents wlti
ate the Imiperial Agener.
5. Five dollars per day.
mortgages, debentures, Ion n securities' vifl
O. No predecessor.
5o0 on.
7. .Answered above.

1Mr. SPEAKER-Thnt is a motion wii
8. Empioyment merely temporary and of
short durafion ; full Information being re- can ouly be made by uraninious consent.
qulred without deiay.
Hlon. Mr. BERNIER-The Hon. 'Mr. Owens
9. No examînafion demanded for profes- is lni charge of tbe Bill. In bis absence
sional services.
it ivas talien charge of by anotber ineniber.
I understand lie bas no objection té this
GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
course being taken.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have îuo objection.
INQUIRY.
1 think the Bill shouid have been sent to,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
the Banking and Commerce Coiumittee.
1. Has any comPany. ln the past, asked for
The motion was agreed to.
governmentai aid ln the construction of the
Georgian Bay Canal, at a depth of fourteen
feet ? What waa the aid asked for ?
CHINESE IMMIGRATION RESTRICTION
2. Stace that. bas the aame company, or any
BILL.
other company. offered to construct the same
canal nt a deptb of twenty-one feet, and what
SECOND READING.

was the aid asked for ?

Hon. '.%r. TE3MPLEMAN moyeU the second
Hou. Mr. SCOTT--The answers are as reading of Bill (No. 82) An Act respecting
follows
and restricting Chinese Immigration. He
1. Yes, the New Dominion Syndicate of said :Thuis Bill is I)racticaliy the iaw as it
London, England, asked for goverument aid is at present on the statute-book. The onIy
ut a deptlî of fourteen feet. Tbe aid asked dîifference is the increase of the bieaU tax
for was thiat the governmnent guarantee thue on Clinieso froîn $100. as it exists at the
intereat at the rate of 24 per cent on $25,- inesent tiune, to $500.
Thiere miay be,; and
000,000 of the coinpany's bonds for a terni
of tweîîty-five years.

To flue second question the answer is, No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

there is, a smaii change ini respe1et
1 tiik
to the tlues irnposed for violation of thie
iaw, lait lit otlier respects. except thlese two,

JUNE 3, 1903
migrants coming into Natal are required to
the Bill is the saine ns the law on, the sta1lu soine language
Acta. answer certain questions
tute-book. It consolidates the present
of Europe, which, of course, is impossible
lu submlttlng a Bill of this character to tue for Chinese or Japanese to compiy witiî.
Hlouse, it wlll be expected 1 shouid give some In the United States, as we ail know, after
reasons wby this parlament sbould be asked long years of agitation and numerous iaws
to increase the head tax on the Chinese to and treaties, there le to-day In existence ia
This is not a party question. I ain
$5W0.
that country an absolute prohibition of the
very glad to lrnow that botb poltical parties Chinese labouring clase.
That iaw is toln the province of British Columbia are coni- day in full force and effect. I think that
mitted to this prInciple, whule both iaw also applies to the United States coiony
polîticai parties lu Canada have committed of the Hawaiian Islands. So mucli for the
themeelves to the principle of restrict- laws lu force against the orientais throughing Chînese Immigration. The firat law out the Engiish speaking world.
placed on the statute-book of Canada
was la 1884, when the present leader of the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has
opposition ln this House was a inember of that law been appiied to the Hawaiian Isthe Conservative governint. In answer lands since the acquisition of those Islands
to a long continued agitation on the Pacifie by the United States ?
Coast province they paSsed a law linposing
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, and I bea head tax of $50 on Obtuese coming to
Canada. That law, passed as 1 say, lut coin- Ileve an effort is being made to apply the
pliance wlth public opinion la the west, ame law to the Philippine Islands, nowv
remained oit the statute-book until two years a possession of the United States, and wiil,
ago, wben this governineut increased the 1 tblnk, before long, be enforced lu those
bead tax to $100. The restriction of $50 Islands. As I have said, public opinion iii
It was found had not any materlal effect lu the west is unmlstakabiy lu faveur of furdecreasiug the arrivais of these immigrants ther restriction of the Influx of orientais.
I believe the increase froint The bon. the leader of the opposition the
lu Canada.
$100 bas mot had a very material o ther day presented to this House a petition
$50 to
the
.effect eitber lu decreasing the Immigration signed by about three bundred people of
Into this couutry, and so thiE 1cities of Vancouver and Victoria, and I think
of orientais
governint, again lu response to the public the petition of the president and secretary
opinion of the west, lias determined to rais( of tlue Presbyterian Synod lut the city of
the head tax ont Chinese froin $100 to $500 *Montreal was submitted to tlils House the
This ls no new legisiation. As the Housi other day, whlch, to my kuowledge, are the
wlll know, almost every Englisb speakIni only petitions wbich have been preseuted
country ln the world, other than the UnlteÉ to the Senate against the proposed legisiaKingdoma Iteelf, bas a iaw similar to this *tion. I hold lu my baud the petition rend
opposition. I bave
In Australia the severai states had restrlctiv, Sby the leader of the
When thi Bscanned it carefully, and I muet Say it is
legisîstîon as againet orientais.
that lias
commonwealth was formed, It paesed a iaw the most Inconsequeiltial petition
imposing a ver: ~ever been presented to parliarnent liu the
If flot prohibitive, at ieast
offinlarge head taid un the Chinese. New Zen face of the almost unanîmious public
£100 tax on Chinese ion lu the cities lu wblch the parties w'lo
land bad a iaw lmposing
The petition as
1 thiuk that iaw was repeaied aud a law o: Ssigned this petition live.
whlch Imposes a: Spresented does not contain the naine of oit(
the lines of the Natal Act,
to start with. It does not
education test, was passed by tlie parlus Lworking man,
contain. more than two or three naines of
ment of New Zealand.
? the business men of the cities of that Prolon. Mr. 1McMILLAN-With w-bat effect
vince. 0f the three blundred naines, fully
the effec one hundred and flftv are those of young
Hon. '-%r. TEMPLEMAL'N-With
ngirls.
o! excludiug almost entirely Cîjinese fr01
African colony (
tliat colony. The South
Hion. Sir 3-IACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbflt
Natal lias bad for many years a iaw, know n
by youug
law, whicii, as I sai d does the hon. gentleman mean
generally as the Natal
Li- girls ?
before, bas ant educational test-t1bat is, la

236

SENATE

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Ladies
and
Young women.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Surely the lion.
gentleman does not say it is an inconsequential petition for that renson.
Hon. Mr. TEIMPLEMAN-I say it is ail
Inconsequential petition, because lt does nlot
contain the naines of that class of peoffle
who are affected materially by the presence
of the orientais ln British Columbia. On
one page alone, more than haif the naines
are those of young women. At the samne Urne,
there are a number of Damnes of very prominent citizens, such as architects and civil
engineers and retired gentlemen living on
their means, and among the whioie list 1 sce
the naine of only one clergyman, the 11ev.
Arthur Beanlands, of Victoria. So much
for the public opinion of tlie province of
British Columbia as against the proposed
legisiation. Now, as my lion. friend fron
the city of Victoria wll k-now, because lie
Is an older resident 0f that city than I amn,
for many years there lias been a long continued agitation against Chinese corning
into, the province. I arn sure lie wiil agree
with me that there Is but one opinion ln the
west on this question. It is true that for
every bundred people there may be eight,
or ten, or flfteen who hold very strong views
In the opposite direction Iu regard to the
inatter, but I an~quite sure, frorn my experience of the country for twenty yen rs,
that ninety per cent of the people of Britloli Columbia are Ia faveur of the absolute
prohibition of the Immigration of Chinese
Into the country. As against the few petitiens that bave been presented on tbis question, I caîl the attention of the House
to this fact, that ln the year 1891 there were
over seventy petitions presented to the Dominion parliarnent, representing every trade
and calling, praying for restrictive legisiatien. In 1892 there was a stili larger nurnber of petitions presented for the saine purpose. In 1897 a petition signed by 1,934
electors of the Island of Vancouver, another
by 600 citizens of Nanairno, another by 2.700
residents of Britishi Columbia, and others
from rnany of the rural districts, declaring
that the $50 head tax was Inadequate and
praying for additionai restriction. Sitice that
tume there bave been very many petitions
presented, not only to this House, but to
the provincial legislature. Now, the provrincial legisiature lias one long consistent
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

record against Cinese immigration into the
province. .There is nlot one member of the
thirty-eight ln the local legisiature to-day
that is in sympathy with Chinese Immigration Into that province.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will the lion. gentleman be good enougli to let us know If ail
those petitions corne solely from the west ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-No. As a matter of fact there have been very many
petitions presented fromn every province of
the Dominion, coming almost exclusiveiy
fromn the labour unions of the eastern provinces. I did not mention that, because It
goes without saying that the labouring men
of the country, whether la British Columbia
or ln tlie east, are opposed to the Immigration of the Chinese, and naturally would
petition parliament for restrictive legisiatien ; but the particular petitions I have
been referring to, which I have quoted as
an offset to the petitions presented against
this Bill, have been presented by people reIt
siding in the Pacllc coast province.
le needless for me to cali the attention
of the House as further indicating public
opinion la the west to the course of the
British Columbia legislature, durdng the
last ten or twenty years, la enacting antiOhinese leglslation. Scarcely a session of
the legisiature lias been held that lias not
witnessed the passing of some iaw prohibitory of Chinamen and Japanese. I mention
this simply, as I sald before, to indicate that
public opinion in the west is emphaticaily
ln faveur of the adoption of the law which
the goverament now proposes, ln answer to
that public demand. I have thouglit, notwfthstanding that both political parties have
comrnitted themeves to the prtacipie, that
possibly this Hlouse miglit flot be quite
unanirnous la accepting this Bill, and that
it Is tacumbent on me to present soine additionai reason why tbis law should pass. In
doing that-I shaîl have to quote sornewhat
largely frorn evidence taken recently by the
commnission appoluted by the governrnent
which proceeded to British Columbia and
made a very valuabie and, I think, a very
authentic report on, the whole question. I
would be pleased to know that that report
bas been read by members of tbis House.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Has
been distributed ?

it

JUNE 3, 1903
HEon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Yes, printedl and
distributed. 1 arn quite sure any bon. gentleman in this Hause wbo bas carefully perused the evIdence addu"ced before this comnmission, would have only one opinion in re-.
gard to this Bill. The commission as I have
said, visited every portion of tbe west,
visited Washington, visited San Francisco,
visited the Sound cities, took the evidence
of ail classes of people, and a great many
of every elass, and after a year's work,
compiled this very valuable report Their
fanding at the end of the report is as follows
Your commissiofls are of opinion that the
further Immigration of Chiasse labourera Inta
Canada ought ta be prohibited ;
l'hat the inoat desirable and effective meas
of atttaining ibis end la by trsaty suppor'ted by
suitabls legislartion ;
That in the meantime and until this can be
obtained the capitationi tax shouid be raised ta

237

bave not seen it either. Âs tirne la nat very
pressing, 1 sbouid hike to have the report
ta rend.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was dlstributed last,
year.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I do nat
remember baving seen It.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I got this copy
out of the library.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILL-I think
we bave plenty of tIme. Give us a day or
twa ta rend the report. I sbould Ilik ta
rend it.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEININ-We bave no desire particuiarly ta press this ta a second
readlng to-day If any one wishes to refer ta
the report.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-We
$500.
can go on witb the discussion.
The only nolnt upon which your commissioners could flot agree la the date when the capiHan. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I should like ta
tation tax af $500 o'xght to corne Into affect.
The chairman and Commissioner Foiey are of give tie hou. gentleman some Information
opinion t>hat the capitation tax should be raised from this report wbicb will whet is appetu $500 aet once. while Cammisaioner Muna la of tîte s0 that be will procure the volume for
opinion that $300 shouid be Impoaed for two
7ears. and If a prohibitive trewty be not ob- himself, sud rend it.
ýninei wlthin thsjt. period, that it be then
Hou. Mfr. FERGUSON-The evidence la
ralssd to $500.
not printed.
Sa that the commissioners were unanimHon. Mfr. SCOTT-Oli, yes.
Oas In their finding, and in pursuance af that
report the goverument have brought lu this Hou. '51r. TEMPLEMAN-Much of the eviBill raising the head tax from $100 to $500. dence la given bere, althouglb tis la a couThe House wiil pardon me If I have to re- densatian.
A great deal o! the opposition
fer considerably ta this report and rend ta Chinese restriction cornes fram the
somewhat copiously from It.
churches, from clergymen la tbe east who
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Plenty of tbink that this ls un-Britisb and cantrary
ta Chrîstian sentiment.
time, rend it ail.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-If the hon. geniHan. Mfr. McMILLAN-Tfriey are right.
tlemen wauld assure me tbat tbey have
Hon. Mfr. TE«.NPLEMNAN-I chah quate the
read the report, I wouid glad]y flot do so, vlews of the members of the cloth in Bribut it is a valuable document, as It covers tish Colurnbia who were called and gave
every business interest and every Industry their evidence. They are ail oppased ta the
In tbe province.
admission of Chinese, wvitli the exception o!
Hon. Mr. McMILLÂN-Wouid the bon. Rer. Arthur Beanlands, w-base name apgentleman tell us the names of the com- pears an tbe opposing petitian. Tbroughout
bis entire evldence-rnucb of wbich at al
miscioners ?
events la here-be argued tbat It n'as In the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Mr. R. C. Clute,
interests of the country that a servile ciass
of Toronto, cbairman ; Mr. D. J. Munu, of -shouid
exist here.
New Westminster, representing the cm
ployers' Interests, and Mr. Chrictophel *Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-Does
Foley, representing the labour ciass.
the bon. gentleman know whether any or
bavE those gentlemen cxpressed stronger opinions
Han. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I
of the Bill thnn ics
not seen that report, and 1 understand tha't against the principle
Scolheag-ue, tbe bou. Secretary o! State ?
corne of the otber members af the HousE

SENATE
lion. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I do liot kîîow
wbvat iuy colleague said, ijor do I k-uow
exactly the i-iews of the 11on. leader of the
opposition on1 this question.
He ivas ut one
Urne a ineniber of the governnment wvlflch
passed a Iaw iimposing n liend tnx on the'
Chinese, and I amn quite sure tlhat wbatever
zuy hon. friend the leader of the House may
lhav-e doue years ago, rny lion. friend the
leader of the opposition will be true to lus
principles of twenty years ago and wlll support this Bill very beartily.
lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWIELLT-Thils
Is the tige of reformation.
Hon. '.%r. TEMPLEMAN-I %villrend froin
the evidence of the Rev. W. Leslie Clay,
minister of the Presbyterian churcli ut Victoria, one of our most prominent divines and
an excellent Christian in eveî-y respect.
I
trust the House will listen carefully to this
ev-idence, because I arn foutidlng xny entire
argument on the opinions of these many
The Rev. Leslie Clay said:
witnesses.
I have resided here sevefi Years. We have
been carryJng on mission work for ten years.
There are three white and two Chinese missianaries in the province.
The Rev. Mr. Winchester. the superlntendent
of Chinese mnissions reported ln 1899 thirty-six
Chinese as members of the churoli. They are
rather averse ta ChrlstlanIty. This arises from
their satisfaction wlth their own social lite and
a contempt of everything of western social lite.
The converte are -principally of the labourIng
classes. daniestics and laundrymon. .. . I
don',t knaw of any of the educated classes of
Chinese accepting Christianity. The presonce
of any large number ls flot desirablo. I abject
ta more Chinese.
MNybon. friend from Victoria, 1 hope will
puy due regard to the views o! the representatives of the churcb ln bis city. The evi-dexuce continues:
I thiùik that Canada should have a strong robust nation. The vast resources aught to afford
iscope for aur own people. They show no signe
of assimilation with us. They cao neyer be
itssjimilated. and If they could it wauld not ho
desirable .. .....
I would flot exclude the
Chinese or any ather nationality on any other
grouad than of seif--preservation. . . .
Their presence here has a tendency ta retard
the Inco«ning of aur own people. 1 have had
people te-1l me their places were taken by
Chinese or Japanese. 1 arn inclined ta put
them la the same categary. Their campetitIon
Is more Intense and mare general. There would
be the tendency of forming a servile clans.
Marally they have a different standard. Tho)y
-are addkcted ta certain vices whIch they do flot
regard as vices. Of their virtues, tbey are pladding, patient, sober, thriety people. Gambling
and opium seeim their great vices as we seo
It here. I don't know la regard to the social
evil that thev are any more immoral than
whites. 1 arn told they are not.
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL.

This is the evidenee Of the Rev. Leslie
Clay, the minister, with whon my lion.
friend is probably well acquainted. He continues
We should keep Canada for ourselves and
such as wIll assimilate w1th ourselves ln making Canada a great country. So far as I know
the Christian couverts are sincere. Thero are
thirteen couverts ln Victoria. Lant year fortyseven attended the week schaoi. Thora are
several missions in Victoria. I wauld flot consider even Chinese Chrisitians la large numbers
desirable. The ground I take is that they ocam
Impossible of assimilation with us.
Hon. Mr. McMIILLAN-I
good thing they do not.

think lt is a

Hon. lir. TEMPLEMAN-The evidence
o! the reverend gentleman is continued as
follows
Q. Would flot the whole race be much botter
off If the Chineso were Jeft alone and kopt
within their own walls ln China ?-A. I do flot
see how we could k.eep them within their walls
and seek ta enter within those w&lls ourseives.
I say their presence bore in any large numbers
is detrimental ta the existence of aur own people, snd as a mattor of soîf-preservation some
steps aught ta be taken Immodiately ta limit
their coming or ta prohibit them altogether. but
It is a question involving some other mattors.
but I see no reason why we should flot ha able
ta prevent any more coming here.
Q. Taking ail theso things into account, what
do you think the Founder of the Christian religion wauld advise under the clrcumstances ?A. I do not know lest what Christ wauld advise,
ln the matter, but ln what I have said hore 1
have endeavoured ta give an Interpretation of
Christ's mmnd in the matter. I do nat say I
amn correct in this at ail, but I have given You
my conviction after careful study of the whale
question. I have no doubt Christ would aPprove of self-protection.
Tben the Ret. Elliot S. Rowe, Methodist
minister of the city of Victoria, formerly
a prominent clergyman 0f the city of Toronta, and very weli known, no doubt ta the
people of Toronto, one of our ablest clergymen, testified. as follows :
1 think their presence here has a detrimental
effect. Perhaps the botter way wauld be ta say
that the Chinese have an injuriaus effect upon
white labour bere and, of course. the Chinese
have an injurious effect upon the markets here.
because ihey are not purchasers ta a large extent of manufactures, and they affect different
linos of business ln which they becomo actual
competitors with the white pople. Their prosence bore Is a declded injury ta oconomic conditions; and a largo number of them comiog
here would be a decided disadvantage ta the
community ; it wlll ho far botter for the community and for the province that employment
ln the difforent trados and callinga sbould be
given ta white men who 'nIll came bore and
settie and raise familles bere than ta give it
to the Oriental, whe by bis competition, by bis
being able to work for, 10w wages because of bis
mode of living, le gradually driving white mon
out af the country.

23U

JUNE 3, 1903

Q. In regard to the question of citizeflship ?- schools, and they have Methodist preachers
A. 0f course any Importation Into a province or to instruct them.
Itt a country ahoutid have reference to citizenHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Tbey have trled
ship; we want people bere who will take an laterest la our lava and Institutions and ulti- to do a great deal.
The Methodist church
Integral part o! our
rnately become citizens, an
comrnunity; such people as thase who are la. has bad a mission ln the Chinese quarter In
mot taking any interest lu our lava and in- Victoria for many years, and had Chinese
stitutions become a menace to the commrunity. mainisters at work.
Notwithstamding their
Q. Do you think the Chinese as a class take
any interest la aur Institutions one way or an- efforts, here are the vlews expressed by the
other ?-A. I do not think so.
leadlng Methodlst clergymen.
sald further :

He
Hon. Mr. MÂCDONÂLD-There
Q. The strength of a people 1 suppose must aides to that ns to, every question.
le ln the class of people 'who occupy

are two

largey
the varions calliaga of life ?-A. Yes, to have a

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-There are two
progressive nation there must he an Intelligent
lower ciass, those who do what might be aides, and they are expressed ln this report.
moral
calledl manual or mentl worlc; a class who. You wll fInd this tact, however, that fuiiy
frugal la their habits and pure la their lives
will build up a community rapidly and who will 80 per cent of the evidence that ls given ln
reside with us permnanently, Irnprovlng them- this book la ln favour of the absolute pro...
..
selves as opportuaity offers....
events of the restriction
1 think It le very injurious to the country to hibition, or ut ail
have aur class of the people lu the communlty of Chinese immigration.
who wIll not assimilate. who have no aspiraThe Reverend Edwin Scott; Methodist Minis:
tions, who are not fit ta live la social and poiltwo
tical relations wlth our people; it la certainiy ter at Vancouver, says : I have resided here conyears. We have about eighty Chinese ln
a dîsadvantage to the country at large to have nection with our night schooi. It la their ohsuch a class of people filling up every avenue
of labour as they are dalaz to-day. Their pre- Ject to acquire Eagiish, and with many their
dissence here bas been very detrimental lu the whole object. If they corne they should bethink
the whole province.
past, and I have no donbt will continue 1.0 be tributed overto have the= corne. I don'tdo flot
They
It desirable
-detrirnental as long as we have Chinese here.
assimilate. It would not be desirable If they
here.
Then there la a page or two more from did. I have no ill-wili to those who are
the same witness to the same effect. Then
1 wlll rend from the evidence of Bishop
-Perrin, of the Anglican church of the city
of Victoria. My hon. f rlend from the clty
of Victoria was sometirnes accused of beIng pro-Chinese-I arn not quite sure about
that, but be wll, 1 arn sure, attach great
weight and Importance to au expression of

opinion from Blshop Perrin, the head of
the Anglican churcli as to the effec't of the
,church on the Chinese :
We have had a missionary framn China. We
try to show them that Christianity ls a higher
truth. We have not adrnitted one single mern. My opinion is that
.
.
ber to baptisrn.
when the Chinese awakeu they wiil be found

but I wouid see that no more came.
Rev. Roderick George Macbethi, Presbyterian minister of Vancouver, Rev. John
Reid, jr., mînister of the Independent cburch,
gave similar testimony. 1 -%ould extend mY
quotations to too great length If I gave them
ail. The 11ev. Dr. Roland D. Granut, Baptist
miiuister said:
ln 1880 Portland haît a population of 20.000,

of which 6,000 were Chinese.

Now there la a

population of 100,000. and 5,000 Chinese. The
Exclusion Act did flot interfere with the frieudship of China. I think a people have that moral
right (L.e. to exciade). If they coutl Intermarry
that would be the settiement and the only settiement. I neyer could find but two Chinese
women la Boston. The spirit or excînaiveness
conversion as before.
-aIl over the worid. I don't think things ought remains the same after
I do not think an Exclusion Act here wouid
to be allawed 1.0 go on as lu the past....
It would be quiet sud unI thInk the present immigration la not a de- produce any shock. be beneficial to the Chinese
It would
-sirable one for the country, because they are observed.
-not the beat representatives of the race. The here...................
of the matter il.
If
presence of a transieut population is Inirnical must you go down to the root
centre Itself ln the question of the f arnto the best Interests of the country. The en- ily. The Chinese coming here as they are comcroachmeut of these people on the ordinarY Ing, wlthnut familles, must have a deteriorating
occupations of the people of the country la
and the conditions under which the
aiso a dangerous and objectionable condition. tendency,live hers do not favour the introduction
Chinese
of their familles.
That is the evidence o! Bishop Perrin:
John Parry Boweli, Methodist minister ut
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Cafl the
to the
us what the Methodist New Westminster, gave long evidence
'bon, gentleman tell
saine effeet. Rev. Alex. Brownl, Wqincliester,
church that he belongs to, has done la
They a prominent Presbyteriatl clergyman and
Victoria witb Chinese couverts ?
years to the Cliinese ln
bave built a big- churcll theinseîves, and niissionary for many

SENATE
Victoria, who bas resided some years in
China, and Is now In Toronto, and wbo by
the way le pro-Chlnese--dimtinctly mo-gave
In It he
evidence befare tise commission.
Baya :
The presence of Chinese in British Columbia
la smre cames affects thse white wage-earners
tavourably, In others, prejudiciaily. If Chinese
were coming into thse country In large numbers
I would tavour restriction. I would nol. favaur
restriction of Chinese alone, but wouid restrict
a large influx of foreigners trom any quarter.
I wouid baise terms of restriction upon cbaracter and educatian. A foreign eniigrant should
be able ta read smre European language; shouid
corne into thse country for smre stated purpose.
and should show sme reasonable prospect of
becaming a perrnanent citizen.

feel persuaded it wouid be Imrnensely In thse
interest of the country ta offer this desisable
dlams Inducements ta carne, either tram Eastern
Canada or tram thse aid country. There la an
immense amount af rnoney ment out for agriculturai products. A person going on sme of aur
lands cannot make a living, and they flnd the
outside calliugs filed witb Oriental labour. and
tbey cannot get work to iseip themn out tili
they get started. Market gardening wauld be
the first tbing to be taken up. and the Chinese
practically contrai tisat business.
The Chinese preveat people caming in. We
want these 'mettiers' for social live-far churcises and scboals, and nat have ta tramp several

miles for one of aur own kind.

He was trlctly in favour of prohibition.
WVm. H. Brandrlth, represeuting thse views
o! the Fruit Growers' Association, sald :
That le tise vlew of probabiy the strongest
The association are in favaur of total prohibe allawed..
pro-Obinese clergyman who bas been In the bition-na furtber immigration to association ls
Thse membersbip of our
province of British Columbia, and be Ie a about elghty. There are 250 on the roll. EiCisty
These are have paid their annual teemd and are in gooci
friend of thse Chinese to-day.
twenty-three or four at
«tbe only witnesses wisa appeared to give evi- standing. There wereI tbink every ane bas exthe annual meeting.
dence from the tandpaint of the church, pressed bis views ta me.
mo far as I know, In thse province of British
ÂIex. Cruikshankm. a promineut farmer,
A an
Columbia except Canon Beaniands.
gave imilar temtlmany. N. C. Schow, asIuteresting plece of evidence, 1 would recommend bon. gentlemen ta read what he saym. sistant clty editor o! thse Vancouver 'Newssimilar
He favoured thse Introduction of Chinese In Advertiser,' gave long evideuce to a
Smiths, a farmer revery large numbers fer thse purpose et creat- effect. James Thsomas
six miles trra Vancouver ; Michael
lug an absoiutely servile cass wbo wouid slding
a farmer weIl known by my hon.
neyer rime any higiser thosu the servile status, Finnerty,
friend opposite, one of the best fariners
aud he argued It wouid be Iu thse luterest
near the city a! Victoria, also gave material
o! tise country that that should be donue.
evidence to tise sme effect. Na one exceptIt will be argued probably that tise exclusion
Iug pooslbly Mr. Edward Musgrave, a genof Chinamen ta any large extent wouid intertleman retired and warklug a farmn near
fere with very many af the Industries of
Cawicban, living probably an bis Incame,
No doubt tisat wiUl be
British Columbia.
gave evidence lu the opposite direction, as
oue of thse arguments-lt is one of thse argu- eIma did Capt. Edward Barclay, a retired
1
ments on thse coast by a smali number.
miiitary man Iu the Cowichan district.
have iseard myseif 'we want Cisinamen bere These are tIse ouly two wltuesses who tesThe com- tified iii favoUr of Chinese immigration.
to clear and wark thse farms.'
mission wveut very fuily inte that question. Samuel N. Robins, of Nanaimo, superintendI will give you only a few quotations, but ent of the New Vancouver Coal Company,
they wiii be represeutative ones. Thse Richs- one o! thse leading citizeus of the province
mond Farmers' Institute, at a meeting on o! British Columbia, a man who Is as well
May 14, 1901, passed a resolution contaîn- informed on thse Chinese question, and trade
lng this clause
and Immigration, and the effect of oriental
We believe that there sbauld be a tax a! not Immigration an wite labour, as any mans
less than $500 on each persan af sither race on Iu British Columbia, gays :
entry ta the country, and also a rigid educaxional test.

Henry Thomas Shrift, a farmer residing
at Hazelmare, said:
At many of aur meetings resolutions have
been addressed ta the Dominion and provincial
goveruments asking ta restrict this and Promate the class Nwhich we most desire. Many
of our members are aid country people and
from eastern Canada-not of a 10w class. We
Han. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

1 think the Immigration of Obinese inta thîs
Province should be entirely stapped, eitber by
prohibition or a prohibitive bead tax. . .
Owing ta thse apparent superabundance af
Chinese labourers, my opinion Ia tbat noue of
thse existing Industries ln the province would
suifer by prohbiting Chinese Immigration. I
don't tbink it would be wise ta put off the time
for excluding tbem. In tact. I think if It be
an evil the sooner It is cbeclced before it grows
ta unmanageable dimensions the better.

JUINE 3, 1903
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Where
does he live ?
Hon. _Mr. TEMPLEMAN-11r. Robins bas
been for twenty years ln British Columbia.
He is superintendent of the New Vancouver
Coal Company, a large company at Naniamo.
He Is retlring now and returning to England. His evidence la here quoted in connection with the agricultural interest. He
goea on to speak about farming, and his
evldence la another place is given la connection with coal mines. Mr. John Armstrong,
a fariner, residing ia Surrey, several years
a councillor and five years reeve, says :
The general view la that heretofore they have
flot been a great detriment ta the farmer. but ln
the future almost absolute restriction la advisable.
Harry 'Nelson Rich gave a similar opinion. Almost ail 'the wltnesses who were
examined ln respect to tbe effect of Chinese
Immigration ln regard to the agricultirftl
industry, testified that it was ln zthe lnterest of the province that no0 further Immigration should be allowed. In respect to
the eniployment of Chinamen ln the coal
mines of the proviace-probiibly that la our
largest industry-it will be interestifig to
know what the men representing the coal
mines have to say. I quote Mr. Samuel M.
Robins-

the Dunsmuir mines. Mr. Ândrew Bryden,
manager under Mr. Little, says:
There is fia difficulty ln getting the number
of Chinese we require. If no more Chinese came
la It would flot affect us. There are sufficlent
here now for any purpose we require. I do flot
care ta express an opinion upon restriction further thsa I have gone.
Mr. John Matthews, local manager of one
of the Dun-smuir mines, the Union mine,
manager under Mr. Little, saya:.
Speaking as a citizen, If there were more
whites ta take their place it mlght be better.
It would nat affect us much If the Chinese were
shut aut. It might Indîrectly affect us througb
the minera. It wouid be sure ta raise the price
of wages. I think there are enough here at
present for my purpose. I do nat thiak restriction would have any disastrous effect.
These are the views of the managers Of
ail the coal mines on the PacifIC coast Of
Britishi Columbia. In the Fernie mine, and
Crow's Nest Pnss coal mine, fia Chinese
whatever are employed.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Have
you tlie evidence of Mr. Dunsmuir ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-In their report
the commissioners say :
The commission were not favoured with the
views of Mr. Dunsmuir, although requested. In
an official utterance, dated October 9, 1900, as
premier of the province, he favours «an lacrease of the per capita tax in such measure
as ta sureiy limait the number of immigrants,
and by enactinent o! legisiatian similar ta the
ta regulate their empioyment
Hlon. Mr. MACDONALD <B.C.)-1 can IlNatal Act,"'country.'
while in the
Mr. Robins, to
quote the contrary from
That is what Mr. Dunsmuir, as premier,
shwhow useful the Chinese have been.
assented to, but in his private capacity hie
We ail know
Hon. '-%r. TEMNPLE,%AN-That must be did not express bis opinion.
Mr. Dunsmuuir bas ail these years been emuover twenty years ago.
ploying Chinainen, and la to-day.
Mon. Mr. M-\ACDONALD-It does not matHon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-A4nd
ter how long ago.
having plenty of trouble wvith theni.
Hon. '-\r. TEMPLEMAN-I challenge the
lion. Mr. TEMNPLEMAN-There are no
bon. gentleman to show one -%ord froin Mr.
bis
fifteen years ln doubt a good many employed around
Robins la the last ten or
mines, aithougli, generally speaking, not unfavour of the admission of Chinese.
derground. I think lie emuploya wbite labour
Another very large industry
will quote principaliy.
Hon. 'Mr. "IACDONALD-I
in British Columbia is that of lumber. The
presently.
suminry of the evidence gî'ven by people
Hon. '-\r. TEM\PLEMAN-In respect to the who are concerned iu the lumber indsutry
cniploymient of Chinamen iii the coal mines, is as follows
Mr. Robins. who has been for twenty years
The export of lumber Iast year froin British
general superintendent of the Vancouver Columbia to foreiga couatries wae over 84,000.favours exclusion lit once. OGOfeet ;o! this. three mills--4he Ohemainus,
Coal Couipany.
Mr. rrancis Little, the general manager of Hýas-tings and Port Moody-exported about b7
per cent.
the Wellington colliery. thinks there sbould
3S,000,000
The Che-mainus, whi-ch exported
of feet, employ 186 w~bites, 74 Chinamen and 86
bc nîo restriction whatever. This is4 one

S EN AT E
Japanerse. The Obinese have oaly been employed. except.a.s cooks, within the iast eighteen mnontbs. The manager says :We have
doubied the capacity of our miii. I wouid prefer to pay double the price for whbite men. We
use no Chinese or Japanese in the woods, except for gradlog and carrying wood and water.
If I had my way 1 wouid have Norwegians and
Swedes witb big farnilles. 1 ar nl favour of
Act. WVebave enough of them
an exclusio
bere.
Tiiot is fr011 the manager of tic largest
exporting lumber miii in the province of
B3ritish Columbia.
The Hastings miii exported 24,000,000 f eet.
Tbey emnsaoy 512 men, of whom 93 are Japanese
and 10 Chinese. The Chine.se are employed ex<lusively as cooki. The generai manager of
this large concern tbougbt harasslng enactteenta a mistake. ani as to the Ja-panese the
arrangernent sbould be by treaty, and added:
i don't appyove of tbem aa citizens. There is
This
no chance of their becoming citizens.
appies to both Japaneg'e and Chinese. If tbey
-xers excluded. wages ivouid not increase iînediateiy. It might have that effect.
The Moodyille meil! export about 20,00,000
feet and empioy 110 men, of whom oniy 10 are
Chinese and 40 Japanese. 0f the Chinese, five
are employed as cooks and five on contra.ot

work at so much a thousand, running a machine
for pickets hndl staves. So that none at this
mli are e«vployed in the expert trade.
The North Paciir Lumber Company ernpioy
91 mnn of wbom 4.3 are whltes and 46 Japanese.
No Chinese are ernployel.
The shingle business is a ver large litTue report says:
dustry.
Ti2 -oncluaion reiched la that neither ChInese
nor Japane-se are essentiai to the succeas of
this business, but being availabie and, coovenientiy ernpioyed by contract, they have become
a part of the macbinery

of production which

reatriction and o0e exclusion, and ail agreed
that the Chinese labourer did not make a deairable citizen and ought not to have the franchise.
Tihe commissioners, ins sunming up the
effect on the canning iîsdustry, *coaîclude as
foilows :
The exclusion of further Chiasse la not llkeiy
Lo seriousiy affect this industry, for:
(a.) There are sufficient Chinese already in
the province to meet the demaod for years to
corne, havlog regard to the views generaily expreased by witnesses as to a maximum dev eiopment having been reached, and the possible depietion of suppiy and the number of Chinese
now la the province.
(b.) The change will be so graduai as to, be
ail but Imperceptible, and may be met by the
ernpioymeot of whitea and lodians.
<c) On the Sound wbere the Exclusion Act
lias heen in force for maoy years and the auraber of Chînese decreased in the last decade.
il has not retarded the developînent of this
lnduatry. but on the contrary

lis chief expansion during thia

iL bas received

period, many

millions havlng been inv-sted therein witbin
flie asat lbree or four years. and tiîis aithough
Clîleese are ernployed botb on Lue S7ulid and
iii Alaska. as they are la British Columbia.

There ls nothing disciosed le the evidence
as It affects tbis industry wbicb renders It le-

e'pedient, If otberwiae deslrn'ie, to e'<ciude
the furtber Immigration of Chinese loto the

Dominion.
lIi

ieai)ect

<o doîiestc eri.

tiiere is

111lat
verv extenîsive evideîîce. tue finîdinglu
regard bcing as tollows

Wbiie opinions differ. it may at once be conceded tbat under preseet conditions IL la exceedingly difficuit to obtain white servants, and

a large proportion of tbose wbo ernpioy domeatic servants are dependent

upoîî tihe Chinese

wouid for a time be thrown out of gear if they for a supply.
The cause of <bis aboormal scarcity of whbite
were discbarged. Tbey are at present more
convenient. but not essentiai. There la a
pir for muny years to corne, anad if no
carne in no permanent injury wouid resuit.
siabiiity of the business does flot depend
i hei.

supmore
The
upon

lIn respect to the eanning illdnstry', the
ca niing *of saînion on tue Fraser river iq
uniquestionni)iy a very large iudnstry and a
larze nuinber of Clîjuarnn are eniffioyed lu
Tue resuit of the evidence
tiiose caniteries.
boiled dowiî is
by the cannery mci.
g iv e
ais follows
IV. There la a sufiaient nurnber of Chinese
in the province n0w to meet present require-

The
donmestic servants la not far to seelk.
callinga requiring unskiiled labour are largeiv
filied by Chinese and Japanese, wvbo bave thua
taken the places of fatbers of familles froin
under normal conditions, ili)neiC serwblcb-,
vants would be drawn.
lu Victoria for instance there are 3,000 Chinesc engaged le various caliings, or unemployed:
198 market gardcners, 48 saw-mili banda, S36
canneryrnen, 197 iaundrymen. and over 800 la-

bourera employed and uneînployed. Cao it b.
doubted that if these positions svere fihled witb
white men, a large proportio *n of wbom rnight
bc expected <o bave familles. the difficulty of

ohtaining white servants would he greatly minirnized ? If callinga usually filled by white men,
wlth familles froin wbom domestic servants are
uaually supplied, are occupied by Chinese, la it
nients and supply thé dernand for years to surprislng tbat there la a great scarcity of i,corne. althoîigh in ao ernergency occasioned by mestic servants, and bow can It ho cxpected to
are
conditions
these
until
otherwise
une unusîially beavy run difficulty la sometîmea lie
cbanged ? This applie-s wilh greeter or les
found in getting an irmpdiate supply.
force throughout thre province.
V. Opinion is divided among the canneryrnen
At present there seerna to be a surplus of
as to the expediency of probibiting furtber imamigration. Tîvo were in favour of no restric- irutb Chinese and Japanese, anmoe o f w hom
louibtiess wili take to done s tic' service. and
l ion wvhateî or and thorîght that sornething ln
the nature of ccolle labour, or at ail events aboulai no more Chinese corne mbi the country,
iiieap labour, neceasary. One declined to ex- c-iii the present suppir already there. thia
i ress an opinion. and one thougbt the presrnnF cîreaLtion. like others mwill adjuat Itself to the

Two favoured
restîriction aufficient.
lion. M.r. TEMPLEM XX.

further

new conditions.

JIJNE 3, 1903

Similar evidence w-as given !in regard to
the Iaundry business wliich there, as hiere,
15 pretty well mouopolized by Chiniamen.
The question of Chinamen workriug ou railAli important
ways was also deait with.
wltness from the Esquimiait and Nanaimo
Rallway, Mr. Marpole, of the Canadian Pacifie Railway, and others gave evideace, and
the summary ls as follows There are 4,693 men employed on the Pacifie
division of the Canadian Pacifie Railway, of
whom only 99 are Chinese, 70 Japanese, andi
4,524 wbites, lncluding 341 inland steamer employees. The superintendeat of this division
stated that the Chinese have been gradually
eliminated. It wlll thus be seen that on the
Canadian Pacifie Rallway the Chiassge rpresent
only about two per cent of the total number of
men smployed.
F'rom 150 to 200 white men are emplnyed on
the Nanaimo and Esquimaît Railway. and f rom
40 to 60 Chinese. The general manager of tbis
road stated that there was no scarcity of Chiaese.
Your commissioners think it clear that having regard to the small aumber of Chinese emnployefi on the rallwaYs. it cannot be said that
they are to any considerable extent dependent
upon this class of labour for their succesaful
operation, but la any case the supply is ample.
lii respect to uuskilled labour it !S unneces1 presumel there
stîry t0 .-ive the evidence.
is îlot a single labourer lu Britislh Columbia
The conwlîO dloes not favour restriction.
clusion !S as followS
.ThA resuit of tbe evideace bearlng upon this
subject is beyafld question. The conditions
wbicb resuit tram the e.mployment of Chinese
and .Iananese ia every avenue of unskilled
labour prevent many white imm-igrants tram
comiag to the province. and induce many wha
bave c-oms to leave. The occupations which
usually afford work for boys, girls and women
are ail occupled to a great extent by Chinese
and Japanese, wvlth the resuit that steady empînymneat la largelY .closed ta the yotith of tbe
country and to wo-men who have to seek empinymnent o! anme kiad to earn tbe4r living.,
and apprehension Is expressefi, whlch we thlnk
well founded. by many prominent witnesses
end heads o! familles of ail classes as ta tpe
cutlook for the youth of the country, and Tsar
is expressed that as they grow up, they will
have ta seek a livslibood beyand the limits Of
the province.
Thaut 1 knlow la a very serlous questionl,
vrbat is tai become of the boys Of the country % I amn quite sure most of themn will
have ta lie salît abroad ta learui traldes and
get lîlto business, becauSe there i5 Do field
It miglit lie
for themi lu British Columbia.
iiaterial. and i arn quite sure i would be
iaterial ta this question to cnowv w-bat lias
Ieejj the efiect of the total exclusion in the
uitedi States. Lt seenis ta me it wouild
have a very strong bearing ou this case. The

commissioners very wisely tool, considerable
evidence fromn prominexît people iu Seattle,
San Francisco, Portland and othier places inî
the United States, on tlîis point. Mr. Stetsou
of the firm of Stetson axîd Post, oxue of the
large milliîîg companies of Seattle, says:
The question is settled. No lndustry has
ceased because of it that I know af. The law
bas been enforced and Its action bas passed
cut of recollection.
Stetson aud Post eînploy 123 men, none of
whoua are either Chinese or Japanese.
W. H1. Perry, assistant general manager of
Moraxi Bros. Lumber Company, Seattle, w-ho
employ 100 men, but no Chiasse or Japanese,
states there are no Chinese or Japanese
employed fl the lumlber milîs fl the city of
J. W. Clise,
Seattle or its nielilourliood.
Presideîît of tîle Chanîber of Comumerce,
Seattle, says
The Exclusion Act is ln force and the question la oas which la regarded by moat of the
people as settled and dons wlth. There are
seine of the large institutions I thlak would
bave llked ta bave ha<l the law a littie modified at tbe time of its passlag, but I think It
bas given genleral satisfaction.
A. El. Grout, Labour
Seattle, testified:

Commissioner

of

I think a large majorlty of our citizeas would
be la faveur of conti-nulng the law as lt ls ln
force at present. 1 think the majorlty of employers are la favour of eontlnuiag the law as
at Present. I do nat thlnk there la any lndustry
la our state or la this clty tbat sufferefi by
reason of tbe Exclusion Act.
Theodore Ludgate. forrnerly of Peterborougli, Ontario, a lunîber niercîlant wlîo
emiploys 150 nien, wvleun asked as to the prevailing opinion as ta the Ciniese aud Japanese, answered : *Tuey are flot desired liera
W. T. Harris. of the Wbatcouî
at nl.'
Falls Mill Coumpanîy, employiîîg 75 men, says:
We experlsaced no diffieulty la getting coinmon or skllled labour. The principal lndustry
at Wb'atcnqi is lumberlag. The coal mines are
several mlles from town. They emplay ail
white labour.
W~. Sherman, manager of tue Bellinghiai
'Tuera is une
Bay Luniber Company, sy
difficulty lu gettiug labour.'
'.%r. S. E.. Masten. of Portland, Secretary
of the Board of Trade sud Commerce of
that city, states ' the number of Chinese had
diminisbed very cauch inl the last ten yeurs,'
and wlîen asked whether the Introduction of
the Exclusion Act had any effect ou business,
said:
I do flot think so. I do flot thialc that any
action that bas ever beenl taken against the

SENATE

244

Chinese here bas ever affected aur trade Iu any
,way. I amn only speaking froni my own personal observation. I know it lias neyer Interfered wlth our business.
Mr. J. M. Lawrence, city editor of the
'Oregonlan,' aud Mr. H-. S. Rowe, mayor of
the clty of Portland, gave evidence to the
saine effect. F. V. Myers, Commissioner of
Labour Statistics, San Francisco, said:

isli Columbia ean afford, and does afford
a %ield for the yo'ung men of the east,
there are great opportunities there, but so
long as the Chinamnen are perrnltted to occupy ail the avenues of labour, even invading soute of the trades and some of the occupations of tbe clty, necessarily It does flot
afford t-bat invitlng field to the young men
from. the east that It otherwise woulcl.

The Chinese Question bas been cons-4dered a
dead i ssue. It les a closed Issue noNy under the
ExclusIon Act.
James D. Phelan, mayor of Sain F'rancisco,
says
I do not belleve there was any appreciable
jar or that there was any ioss appreclable by
the Introduction of the Exclusion Act. I be11eve the compmu-ies are lu favour of the reenactrnent of the iaw, or the enactrnent of a
more exclusive law. Tbey look upon It ln this
way-I arn pret-ty famîliar wlth the sentiment
of the people on the subject ;I have made a
study of the subJect, and have corne ta the conclusion that we whll be far better without the
Chinese or Japanese ;and that without tbern
we will etlll have a great developnmeut ln our
state. and the Industrial conditions wlll be improved aIl along the lune.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It bas
been suggested to me that, nfter the speech
miade by the bon. gentleman, the debate
should be adjourned ln order ta, go on with
any of the other business, and to enable
those who, have not yet looked ut the reFor my
port to devote a littie turne to it.
part, I amn quite prepared to, go on with the
debate and give my views for %%hateverthey
are wortlb. I niay say, bowever, that the
lion. gentleman lias pointed to myseif a
number of tintes as hein,- a member of the
goverument tbat lntroduced the first Bill.
I would say tbat I arn ln favour of restriction yet. If the suggestion I have made is
acceptable to the hon. gentleman, 1 will molle
the adjourument of the debate.
Hon. '.%r. TEMPIEM-AN-Thiei*e is lio objection.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Lt
niight be as well to niake it the flrst order.
The SPEAKER-Af ter tbird readings.

Mr. J. H. Barber, connected wlth the limigration office, San Francisco, said:
It bas acted so satIsfactorily that I do flot
think tbere can be said ta be any greater nurnber lu the city or -the state who wauld favour
the abrogation of the Act.
It ls unnecessary, I tbink, for me ta quote
any furtber. I would be only repeating- tbe
views already quoted.

Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
The SPEAKER-Tbefi it is understood
tat the second reading of this Bill is to
Day after
Hon. '.%r. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, I sbould be placed on the Orders of the
have explaied, and I think I did explain the tuiird readîngs.
ln reference to aIl those industries, I was
The motion was agreed to.

Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Is tbert,
evidence tlhere fron any of tbe canners on
the United States side ?

quoied the finding of tbe commission, flot
expressions of opinion of the witniesses.
If I quoted ail the evidence it would be
interminable, but tbiere is the evidence of
the cannery men bere and tbe employers
aIl round the Sound. Chinamen are only
empioyed lin a fe-% mills there. M'bite men
aire employed lat a great many of the canimeries of the Sound. 1 have qnoted this
evidence with a view of setting boit. members thinking, and I ask theni to investiPublic
gajte titis matter for tbeniselves.
opinion lit British Columnbia is overwhelming ln support of thtis Bill. I think it will
be a go-od 'thing for the province, a good
thing for the white people of the province
wvhen it becomes law. 1 an sure that BrisHona. 'Mr. TEINPLEMAN.

SECOND READINGS.
Bill (40) An Act to confer on the Comicissioner o! Patents certain powers for tbe
relief of the International Railway Appliance Company.-(Hon. Mr. Lougheed. lit
absence of Hou. ',%r. Kircbhoffer.)
Bill (107) Ain Act to incorporate the Empire Accident and Surety Cornpan3-.-'Hon.
Mr. Coffey.)
Bill (129) An Act respecting the Crown
MMle.
Bank of Canada.-<Hon. M.Nr.
Bill (43ý Ani Act to incorporate the Regina and Hudson's Bay Railway Company.
-(Hon. Mr. Young.)

JUNE 3, 1903

245

Bill (88) An Act respecting the Mutual
(In the Committee.)
Fire Insurance Company of the City of
On clause 2,
Montreal, and to change its naine to 'The>
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-At present a subpoenia
Montreal-Quebec Fire Insurance Companiy.'
can issue, and If a party does flot obey the
-(Hon. Mr. Béique.)
subpioena, lie is lhable for contempt of court.
Bill (113) An Act to incorporate the Saulît This clause gives the judge the power to
St. Louis Light and Power Companyv.--(Hou. Issue a warrant, and compel his attendance.
Mdr. Dandurand.)
In these controverted election cases, there
Bill (118) An Act respecting- the Canada ls a good deal of effort to shirk tbe giving
Atlantic Rallway Compaiiy.-(4Hon. '.%r. Kerr, of testhmony.
Toronto, in absence of Hon. Mr. Edwards.)
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWErL-It la a
Bill (146) An Act respecting the Lindsay, pity the Bill does not go a littie furthier and
Bobeaygeon and Pontypool Railway Coin- punisb parties who leave the country and returni onîr after the trial. We know whit
pany.--(Hon. Mr. Dobson.)
the practice has been lu the past. A conBill (90) An Act respecting the NiagaraWelland Power Company, Lirn!ted, and to tested election trial cornes on, and there are
change its naine to 'The Niagara-Welland important witnesses who, If tlîey could be
secureol, wouid gîve evidence whîchi would
Power Company.'-(H-on. 'Ur. MMle.
probably dlsqualify the candidate. They go
Bill (92) An Act respecting the Dominion to the United States and reniain there until
Burglary Guarantee Company. Limited, and the trial Is concluded, and then return.
It
toc change Uts naine to 'The Dominion. Is a great pity tlint no provision is made to
Guarantee Company.'-(H-oni. Mr. Ellis, i nîeet sucbi cases.
absence of Hon. Mr. Casgraln, de LanauHon. Mr. SCOTT-We are moving onward
dière.)
and upward.
Bill (108) An Act respecting the Ottawa
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BO ELIquite
Mr.
Electric Railway Company.-(Hon.
agree that the government are advancing
Kerr, In absence of Hon. Mr. Edwards.)
lu thls respect, but the progress Is of the
snail character.
DISTRIBUTION 0F BILLS.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-I wish to cail attenThe clause was adopted.
tion to a grave irregularity ini several of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, from the conithese BUis. We have uot the French edition mittee, reported the Bill without igmendThe French edition ment.
of three of thein.
has not been distributed and wlien we coinLOAN COMPANIES EXTENSION 0F
plain, a inessenger ls sent ont and brings us
POWER BILL.
a copy. Thiat is liot the way to treat us.
We shiould hnve them on our files.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The flouse resolved ilseif into a CommitHon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is on my file.
tee of the Whoie on Bill (No. 24) An Act to
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do niot object to the extend the power of Loan Companies.
Bis, but 1 cail the attention of the proluoter
(lu1 the Committee.)
to the fact thiat some of the Bis wblch
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-The clauses in tlîis Bill
have been passed bave not beeni distributed.
are taken froni the Loan Companies Act that
Hon. Sir M.%ACKENZIE BOWELL-It nmust was passed lu 1899. That Act applied solebe the fault of the distribution office.
ly and entireîy to loan companies. In the
DO'MINION CONTROVERTEI) ELEC- Revised Statutes of 1886, Cbap. 119, provision was made for Incorporating loan coinTIONS ACT AM-%ENi'MENT BILL.
A portion of that Act applied to
panies.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
loan companies. Those clauses do not apThe flouse resolved itself into a Coni- pear iii thiat Act. Tbey were introduced la
rnittee of the Whole on Bill (No. 13) An Act recent years. The object of this Bibi is te
further to anîiend the Dominion Contro- Incorporate those clauses in charters granted
under chapter 119, to put loan compantes
verted Elections Act!'

SENATE
which are incorporated under chapter 119, parliament of Canada, and hy the Jegislaor incorporated under the more recent ]egis- tures, I think that it Is vers doubtfuh poiicy
to allow Joan companies to lend money on
lation of 1899, on the same basis.
the stocks of those companies. I dare say
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hon. gentlethere are a great many hon. gentlemen here
man's expianation Is qulte correct.
1 have
wlio are unfortunate enougli, for instance,
looked Jnto the Act of 1899, and I find, as my
to own stock ia the Dominion Iron and Steel
hion. friend has'explained to the House, the
Company. As I understand It, a Joan comIntention Is to give companies that were Inpans wouid be authorized to, lend on the
corporated under the old iaw the same
stock of that company, and they are allowed
powers as are possessed by companies lnto iend at the market rate.
The market
corporate(l under the Act of 1S899, but I
rate a few months ago w-as -77 and the
If
think that the title is entirely incorrect,
miarket rate 'to-day is, I think, 13. 1 siui'ply
that is the object of the Bill.
use that as anl illustration, but I doubt, very
LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Hon. M-Nr.
mnch the wisdom of alhowing Joan companies
to Joan money on Industrial stocks.
is entitled: 'An
Hon. ".%r. FERGUSON-It
The clause was adopted.
Act to extend the power of Joan companies.'
The Bill does not extend the power of
Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved that the title of
but extends
Joan companies generall,
the Bill be 'An Act respecting certain Joan
A
the power of certain loan companies.
comp)anies.'
further objection is that the Bill Is not ail
The amendmeut was adopted.
In the direction of increasing the power of
loan companles, because clause 3 limits
Hon. M-\r. YOU-NG, from the committee,
their power, and therefore I thlnk my
reported the Bill with an ameadmeuit vrhicli
bon. friend wi]i see la the first place it
,vas concurred in.
should flot be entitled 'An Act to increase
The Senate adjourned.
the power of Joan companles,' but of certain
Joan companies, and 1 think, the better titie
would be : 'An Act regarding Joan companles,' because section 3 says:
No loan company incorporated under chapter
119 of the revised statutes shall Invest ln, or
THE SENATE.
lend money upon the security of the stocks of
any other loan company.
Otta ira, Thursday, Jitne 4, 1903.
I hope my hon. friend will look into it, and
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
see that the title is changed.
o'ciock.
Hon. '-\r. POWER-The title should be
Prayers and routine proceeding-s.
'An Act respecting Loan Companies.'
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to direct attenI arn nôt
tion to one feature of the Bili.
questioning the pohicy of the Bill at aIl,
but cahl the attention of the minister
ln charge of It to this fact, and ask hlm
wliether lie thinks it desirabie this change
Looking at lines 11 and
shouid be maade.
12, wve find that a loan company will be
aliowed to lend money on the security of
the stocks or bonds of ans incorporated compans, if incorporated by the parliament of
Canada, or by the hegisiature of any former
or present

or future province of Canada.

THE RULES 0F THE SENATE.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved:
That a speclal committee be appointed to,
confer wlth a like commlttee of the House of
Commons with a vlew of revising Rule 49 of the
Senate and Rule 51 of the House of Commons.
to be composed of the Honourable Sir John
Carling, the Honourable Sir Alphonse Pelletier.
the Honourable Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) and the
mover.
Hon. INMr.LANDRY-I rise to a p)oint of
order. That motion isý not in order.
The SPEAKER-Wh'v ?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Becautse thiere is not
Looking at the number of industial undertakings which have been incorporated lis the a clear di-y's notice givea.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JU-NE 4, 1903

24 7

The SPEAKER-This is not a motion eall- Works Departrnent that w-e bave received in
ed special, and does flot require an inter- the past, that the large roni crectcd and
fitted up for -the H-ouse of Gommons Railveaing day.
va y Cornmiittee la now at our disposui.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I da not question the We have, during this session learnied thi's
ruling of the Speaker, bujt if it d(oes flot re- tact, Ithat at the time w-e miglit require
quire an intervening day, 1 (Io not see wbY it, even if it were suitable for our purpose,
a notice of the kind, which 1 gave at the a Gommons committee is using it. It
same time, has flot been put on the Order la used for tbe purpose of their Railway
paper for to-day.
Comrnittee, -wblcb Is a very large one,
and also for their Conmmittee on AgHon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
riculture, wbich is also a very largo oxie,
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-I amn calling the at- and they occupy it nearly every tlny ini the
tention of the House to anotiier fact.
week. 1 eall tle attention of those w-ho
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-I rise to a point of wvere flot present to-day-lt is ixot necessary
order. Tbe bon. gentleman is reflecting on to remind those w'ho wvere present-at the
a previous decîsion of the Speaker, and 1 mxeeting of the Commkttee on Banking and
Commerce lit room No. 8, whilh la tue largsubmit be is flot lm order.
it was crainned
Hon. '-\r. SÇOTT-Appeal to the House. est we bave at our disposai,
to suffocation by meni Intercsted on both
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have a right to aides of the question w-e were discussing,
answer on the point of order that lias been and the atmosphere w-as stifiing. It w-as
brought up by the hon. member. I ar n ot dangerous, with the beat lu the room at the
reflecting on the decision of the Speaker, turne, to open the windows, on aecount of
1 send my notices to the Clerk of the House the draugbt. Now, I arn quite sure that
bere, and a day always Intervenes before by a iittle management and arrangement,
tbey appear on the Order paper. That lias by the fitting up of the upper atonles of tixis
been the general rule, and 1 arn very glad part of the building ia the w-ny tbey have
to bear tbat the decision of the Speaker la been fitted up ln the House of Gommons,
now given that sucli notices do flot require it would furnish ample room for aIl Uic
t-wo'days.
members of the Senate in wblchl to do their
The SPEAKER-For the Information of ordinary work, either of a public or a prithe bon. gentleman from Stadacona, 1 wish vate character, and arrangements could be
to say that our rules declare that a motion made on this floor by which we could bave
Is deemed special whicb orîginates a sub- a room -sufficienit]y comrnodious for tbe purject for discussion. This Is flot a special poses of tbe comnmittee and the accommodamotion, because the subject bas already tion of those -wbo att*end. Now, 1 need
been discussed; this is merely a matter scarcely caîl the attention of those *Wbo
of routine and does flot require an Inter- were tbere, to the tact that the room was
so full that one could not tell who were
mediate day's notice.
the committee, and wbo were present to
The motion wvas agreed to.
advocate and oppose tbe Bill.
CROWDED COM1MITTEE ROOM1S.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-And part of the corHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOUELL-Be- ridor was crowded also.
fore the Orders of the Day are procee(led
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Afld
with, I should like to eall the attention of
the members of the governent to the ah)- *the corridors also w-ere full. 1 bave no
solute necessity tbat exists for more rooni *doubt this suggestion will meet tbe approval
eau bning
being provided for the committees-partieu- of tbe Secretary 0f State, who
the matten under the notice of bis colleagues,
larly the Railway and Banking Comimittees
and perbaps it can be doue by hinW and by
of this House.
tbe chairmen of the diffenent committees
Hon. GENTLEMNEN-Hear, bear.
presenting the case to tbe M.\inister of Public
Hon. SIr MACKENZIE BOWELL-WE' Works, witb a plan -w-bil miglit be carrnay receive the answer from the Board oi ried out aud wbicb would coest very little,

SENATE

248

and would meet the requirements of tbe
Senate and tbe memnbers of tbe different
I know no one who objecta
coîmittees.
to a foetid atiosphere such as we had this
mrnrlng moire than the Secretary of State.
1 eau stand a good deal of that sort of
This
tbing, but hie always objecta to It.
mornlng I felt It waa the duty of some
member of the Senate to briug tlis question under the notice ot the ministers la this
bouse to as1z tbeir aid In accoîplisbing the
Improî-enent w-blcb I bave suggested.

accommodation being provided. and I believe I voice the sentiment of this aide of
the House, to some extent at least, bY sayIng -we ail feel the necessity of something
of this kind bein.- done, and doue imnediateiy.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I entirely concur lu the
observations tbat have been made by the
leader of the opposition and my boa. frlead
from Wellington in recogniziug the absolute
neeessity there is for baving better accomiThe
modation for the large committees.
Hon. 'Mr. McULNIrîse to endorse question w-as brought up last year, and I
every word thlat bas been said by tbe leader saw the Speaker of the House of Cornions
of the opposition -witb regard to .the accom- and soine members 4bere. They auggested
modation for coîîlttee work la this House. that anl arrangement cou'ld be made by
It w-as long felt la the bouse o.f Coin- wbicb we could use the large room recently
nions tliat tbe Railway Committee roomn tltted up by the ex-'Minister of Public Works
tbere was altogether inladequate for the con- for the large «committees of the House of
A Cornions; but the experience of the past
venience and business of the House.
ryear or tw~o ago tbey .adopted the sugges- year and of the present session bas shown
tion whlch bas been made by the leader 0f tijat It la absolutely Impossible for members
tbe opposition, and utllîzed the upper por- o'f this -House to utilize that rooin, as It Is
tion of thiat part 0f tbe bouse for tbe pur- alwaye occupled by the Rallway Commlttee
pose of ealarging- their accommodation and or some other large committee of the bouse
provlding r-espectable and commodious Rail- of Gommons. 1 fully acquiesce ia the reway Committee rooma. To-ay It wvas ex- marks wbich have been made as to the
ceedlngly uncoîfo-table, to say tbe ]east total lnadequacy of room No. S, or any
of It, l î-oom -No. 8 la w-hicb we were other room we have bere, to meet au eniAs
huddled and -were packed lire berrlngs lu ergency sncb as oceurred this morini.
a -barrel. Lt was exceedlngly unpleasant nîy hon. friend bas jstated, I ai one of
1 tbinik t
and uncomfortable, and, as tbe leader of the tho.se v-ho object to foui air.
opposition says, oue could not really dis- gi-eat deal -of evil legisiation originates from
tingnlsh tbe membera of the commlttee froni men being oooped up, as we were this mornthose w-ho were thiere as spectators either inig, In an unventllated over-crowded room.
for or againist tbe important Bihl before the Reîuarks are made wbicb w-ould not be
I eaî-aèstly hope lbe remarks mnade If meni's brains were ia a normal concommittee.
I agîree witb tbe bon. gentleman
wbich bave been dropped by the leader of dition.
tbe opposition will resuit la somêtbing be- on the bronder ground, of giving men an
iag done to provide tbe necessary accommo- opportuaity for- fair open judgmnent, and an
i
Some men came to this House oppor-tunit-y to bear wbat la passing.
dation.
from distant parts for tbe purpose of ap- shall press 0ii tbe Minister of Public Works
pearing before tbe coîmittee and. saying to fit up, w-itb as littie delay as possible,
somiething on the subject under discussion. tbe room to wbich reference bas beeni made.
but they could not g-et into the room. They The architect. I ami told, bas already been
bad. to stand outside la the ball, and some here and bas been preparing a r-eport on the
meuibers of tbe Senate bad to stand outaide subject. 1 was niot aware of that until tlîis
I shall ceîtainly dýo aIl I cau to
also. It is flot pleasant to us or'creditable moment.
to Canada to tbink w-e bave niot got a rooni expedite the improvemient and remnove wh-t
in wlýicb1 we can coîfortabîr receive those 1 thlnk is a very unfortuna-te inconveflience
w-ho 'conme before the commnittees of tbis %vhichougbt to bave been remnedied long ago.
blouse for the put-pose of pi-esenting the4r
-Ido îîot sup1pose
ViEw«ýs on implor-tant questions. I earnlestly
lion1. Mr-. DIM O
hope th-at the î-eiarks of the leader of the o-p- it la necessary to add anytbing to wbat bas
position on titis question m-111 resuit In better l)een said aI-eady on th!-, subject. but ceHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWZ%-LL.

249

JUNE 4, 1903
tainly this bas been au exceptiolial day ia
the Comniittee on Banking and omimerce
and the room was filled to suffocation, as has
been described. At one time It looked as
If the union representative were to be silut
out from soine malevolent motive on the
part of the managers of the Senate, and at
one Urne the âwful proposition was nmade
whlch, of course, we recognize as being
notbing short of sacrilege, that we should adForjourn to the Seniate Obamber itself.
tunately for our dignity, that proposition
was negatived, but tlhere is no saying wbint
len«t.bs an exasperated crowd may go to at
They may tear down
some future day.
soie of the archives of this honourable body
and do misehief of an Incalculable cbaracter
if we do flot provide better accommodation.
Hon. '.%r. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Would it
ïîot be better to naine a comnhittee of two
or tbree to Inquire w-bat change could bo
made in the rooni ? It ivili flot tak.e a long
time. Two or tbree migbht visî-t the minîister
on Saturday. It would be better for us to
decide tie bes't change that could be made
than to leave it to the, architect without is
knowing exactly what w-e require.

THIRD READINGS.
Bill (56) An Act to incorporate the Quebec,
Saguenay and Gulf of St. Lawrence Railway Company.-(H-oii. 3fr. Lougheed.)
Bill (35) An Act to incorporate the Coast
Mr.
Company.-(Hon.
Railway
Yukon
Young.)
.Bill (33) An Act to incorporate the Kootenay, Carlboo and Pacifie Rallway Company.
-(Hea. Mr. Templeman.i
Bill (52) An Act to lncorporate the Joliette
and Lake M-Nanuau Colonization Rlailway
Company.--<Hon. Mr. Casgra lu, Windsor.)
Bill (38) An Act respecting the Great
North-west

Central

Railw-ay

Company.-

<Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)
Bill (29) An Act respecting the Grand
Trunk Rallw-ay Company of Canada.-(Hofl.

Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
Bill I) An Act respecting the gocky Mountain Rallw-ay and Coal Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.)
Bill (13) An Act further to amend the Dominion Controverted Elections Act.-(Hon.
Mr. Scott.)
Bill (78) An Act to amend the IMilltla Pension Act, 1901.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOW'ELL-TIbe
Bill (24) An Act te extend the po wer of
sug-gestion 1 made w-as that the chairman
Loan Companies.-(H11. 'Mr. Scott.)
of eacbi colînniittee should constititc «t coinmittee to Witt upon the 'Minister of Public
CHINESE I)MIIGRATION BILL.
WorIcs, ti) carry out lien. -eiitleiiielis ieis.

Thiat is the proposition.
Holl. 3Mr. YOUXG-Whilù I 8gree wîtbi
everything that bas been said aqs to the
necessity for a larger rooni for people w-be

wishi to attend w-hile these important mneetîngs are beld, if changes ire to be mhde,
the architect would bave to be consulted,
ini order tbat the cbanges lest suited for the
building w-ould lac adopted. 1 tbinlc. as bas

DEBATE ADJOURNED.
The Order of the Day being called
Resumlng the adJourned debate on the motion
for second reading (Bill 82) An Act respecting
and restrictlng Cblnese Irmigra tlon.-(Hloz. Sir
Mackenzie Boweli.)
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbere are sonie amendments w-hlclh I w-I propose aîîd w-bicli my
hon. friend, no doubt. w-ould hikle te l)e in
possession of. Tbey are flot very important. but perbaps the debate uiigbt be ad*jourîîed until Tuesday next.

been pointed ont by soine inenibers of this
body. that the utifinislied rooni upstairs
would lie very suitable for the înxrposes
Hon. Sir '.MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
w-e require. and that as w-e bave an elevatoi 1 move that the Order of tbe flay be disnow. It w-euld be a very convenient rooni *charged aîîd placed on the Orders of the
The chairmen of the varions commnitteeE
should fori a delegation to press the luattei
thlrough. Steps slîould be takeîî nt the earli
est possible mnoment. so that w-len w-e ince
bere next session w-e will find thie acconrno
dation all-eady provided.

Day for Tuesday next.
Hon. 3fr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-I biope the
amndments w-I lie ini tbe direction of lessening the tax.
The motion was agreed to.

SENATE
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (111) An Act respecting the Edmonton,
Yukon and Pacific Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Bill (114) An Act respectlng the Nlplssing
and James Bay Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. McM-Nullen.)
Bill (124) An Act respectlng the Hudson's
Bay and Pacific Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Dandurand.)
Ii (132) An Act ta Incorporate the Père
'Marquette International Bridge Comnpany.(Hon. Mr. Young ln absence of Han. Mr.
Landerkin.)
Bill (162) An Act respecting the Hamilton
.and Lake Erie Power Comnpany, and to
change fts namne ta the 'Jordan Light, Heat
and Power Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand ln absence 0f Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (100) An Act to lncorporate the Colonial Bank of Canada.-(H-on. Mr. Coffey.)
Bill (110'i An Act respecting the Canadian
Northern Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. McMNuhien.)

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I hope whoever bas
charge of the distribution will pay due regard to that matter, so that hon. members
wilI have an opportunity of reading the
Bis.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tirne.
LAKE ERIE AND DETROIT RIVER
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (Windsor) naoved
the second reading of Bill (120) An Act respecting tbe Lake Erie and Detroit River
Railway Cornpany.
Hon. Mr. LA.NDRY-I cail the attention of
the flouse to this Bill. It is not rnarh-ed
priiited in English and Frenchi, but we bave
it before us, which shows that something- is1
Incorrect.
The SPEAKER-The strike at the Bureau
mas be responsible for that.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill

HUDSON

BAY AND WESTERN
WAY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.

RAIL- was read the second time.

DOMINION ELECTIONS ACT
MENT BILL.

A'MEND-

Hon. Mr. YOUNG rnoved the second readSECOND READING.
lng of Bill (117) An Act to incorporate the
Hudson Bay and Western Railway ComHon. Mr. FERGUSON rnoved the second
pany.
reading of Bill (15) An Act to ainenld
Hon. MNr. LANDRY-Is that Bill printed in the Dominion Elections Act, 1900. He said:
I may explain that -when the message arrived
French and distributed ?
frorn the House of Gomimons
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-L ar n ot farniliar with ln this Hanse
with regard ta this .Bill, I did not know
it, but the Order paper would indicate that
anything about It. I tbougbt it was a govit is.
erninelt Bill. Lt was afterwards observed
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We have no confi- thiat no action had been takeni upion lt. I
dence'in the Order paper ; I want ta have then called tbe attention of the House to the
the French version of it. I have consulted Bill, and my namne becarne coninected with
two files and lt is tiot here.
It. Iii looking at the Bill, I flnd it an exLt sirnply provides that
Hon. Sir %IACKEN-IZIE BOW%ýELL-I do cellent provision.
a declaration by nny person du.ring an elecnot think it is the fauit of the Order paper
secret shahl be a
I have no doubt in the world it bas heen tion that the ballot is not
It was int.roduced i
punishable offence.
printed in French. Lt is not the fauît of onr
a private
ofliciais bere, but the fanît of the Distri- the other House, 1 believe, by
The Minister of Justice took an
mnember.
bution Office.
interest la it. and the depnrtment drafted
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-L wilh not abject to this Bill ia the forrn ha ýwbicb it now apit. but in future I shall object ta ail Bis pears and fi9cilitated its progress through
whiiel are rni-ked printed ia French, but the Hanse of Commons. It cornes to this
flot distributed.
House, though not a governrnent rneasllre,
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)

&aWo ;sod aq;l o1 lues JIU a-lu .Sa1i
:1 'lot aau s.iaîulO PUBi satu .1110 nO au, sllia
lui;aa 4uqtl lauj aq; .Ioj ;l003au uuniat;ua:3
a
tiotq at1 SgOP MOH-111HaKýVrI Ji- *UOH
-aq pîuorrs a.xarr; Iot
-Su a.iojaq Strila arr uOtiV& Ino4nSv siq; paamo.d
o; sllig jo uol;ttqi.t!5p aill,
il *suaqmamt
p1uont5 aà& l;iq sa-ulasauo o; alquilpa1) ;on si
alu118 ai[l ;0 J8a>W0 atOs
II *2ttop au aui 41't.im m1Ottit Ltu am Iuq; os jj[m pe5flJ;iu
*U1
to aq plu1otI Çaq4l '2uipuai puoZas 8 ;alaq4 £ra.1s-uaSHD)lOrl'in
'saluj ino
S.q apeum
toi du 2ulmoa au stla uaqm1lqa!i
-sarg arr; uo pazouîd a.xs Sarr; lut; aaS
aq p1notis a2uuiit autoS *usn2u2 ni loti In
pînom orrm 'a.1aq jadaal.xoop arp o; Pa.TaAUjap
qauai& uti pa4utiud si 414untl pioui -Ia-eq 5sttlJqi a.1aAL saqI JI 0SJOUti8s JO az)auitaÂtioa atil jing
Soq aiq4 pux 'loti mo pa;titmd si il il ;uo pi ,£Iqixqoadl lq2[î I! 'pau.iaouOa aau Sirra su3
o; eaEwo tioflqlilslp atg o; lueas 1 -ttauaib îuj sy *xoq s[tt joIuo sztadixd alu4i o; pasod
pu qslu2ua ut pa;uî.xd paivuum st Il q2no,.tî .Sip jaaJ WU £Bu[[ .1oWuars V *uxacr plias o;
aq; ei o loti si 'amuit tio Smi UT nxop las eauld alq; Ion si aaUwo ;sod arrj, *aaglo Isod
si rtDtnm 'nila ;Xau flaà etrl *sarn elq4 uo eaq b; silla arr; spuas aq s.£us lja ;;loa *2wl
loni si l;iaotf sitil lu uot;u.tapisuo;) .xapun -;no paitsu.iiql ;3afqs 4 e.iui o; Ilaiel4fO
aAitt au rita .sleA aqil *aru aq4 uo loti a16 *.xZ a.iojaq asnon siqI ;o iaaTo at14 :ýrq2noq
£aql ptiu 'Seup-o; passud atuq au riDtti 1 «41 JO; affliq o; 91 Ianianim 'uatxa73
jo oaos 'uadxd .iapat( aq, tio siii aq; jo -tutti an; o; alqulpa.D5tlp X.îaÂ si sa*xwu jo
-Sali
uoj;jpti0D £î;~JIi5In;asa.îd arr,
imaàas .10; patizmuas 8ixt I -peixtuItoa Ion si
4 JO aâ.ixrrD *siaqranu no I;ad aq o; sa2ed aq4 o; tuat;
ixfllU eas ti
41avIuzatç l
suq oqà& esuol slpp jo iaiMo arr; 4lunr ado!! puixq o4 aq prnomi Il SInp asoqmi 'aadaalm.oop
.9145aui 1 puix 'ua4luu ;tupodmi 112upaa axil o; 911L aql 8aa[ o; arr pjflOMN ÇCum iad
'in tiOH aqj. *aaiald îrr2 1. arr;Iou si aD!Uo Iod
-old
-Xa U 1 s tLNTIlÇ
é-augo ;sod att; o; il lues am ,
*;xrr; nuxqî uoiîuuuîdxa atrlo autos aq 4sflu aip 'hiONý
eH *sjaqmula o; paia-,rtap naaq loti
sz<5
a~~ill su~ SEtam su
aJtU siaqruanti2u
1 *aiUgo uoflnqTjlst.p
saldoz)alq mieâ I oti pîuors, siaqutau qauau,>i sirq il Xqm aujt jsl3
-l-3tEt oi LIT
luqIt
O3 UB ;oiiiC « qzejq PUB nî81î2 aql rn si ilit
£ut.e a.&Iaati)
in
sjla4 iaalo aqj,
£q4 JI *ONilisaiu4-un qloq 'ealgo 48od aîi 0 oIO eta
o; ODWO uoi;nqt.x;sla ail; o;
*;ou op siaqutai tuai±l eq; ;nq saido3 Jatiq; -inu aillim
puas I *e.ojaq s1Cup tia;à .1 iaam v seauv;sti
lez s.1aqtUOt qs!12ta-liaAaaj *jlN 'uoH
aunos ni 'pe;ulid uaaq auq uîaE.aql gldaiz laq4
*eaUgo ;sod arr; pull fuaifla 2ali1u!.id atil du paluz 'stuotsua
w1 sîrta aq; sla2 zadaalJoop attL *Iaui att; -30 tj*'1aýý uo 'aAuq I rrrla art; pau4taa
ion suri att suçutdno ia4muam ux priu U.adud
si ;uq; ;uq 'aamZu aîîub I-tia3IYaasS aqj,
*azuo ;13u tofnqil .iapao ail; uo a, PUB , , pa-jt.u aie silia
arur; ialju anur; wtt; sauaddu II *slll£ jo
-sIt[; 41u 8lJix i0oo o; ;T 4up esottim Jazuro
uoî;unqi.i4sTp arr; jo 4Dafqns axil uo, sxLIumTa
autos aq jsum a.tett, -4ixtf &qpaz>u81ti8Ati0
autos a-Iua b; au aoj 'sduq.iad latun 4uuat
-ti aq lot ;snS t M-Lloos -in~ tioH
-. iç uofl
-no;) u aq Sein stj-2.LODS
,.adaal.oop arr; paui
lpu4dmod
Sumlul apu0 PU 2uisi(IK
uxa;sumî4sod eq; tiaaml;eq saslau alqno-x; aqj,
.si iea4siua4sod aqI pitu Siip aq;l jo arorrut
lav ly (.Li) rua JO ýupua.1 puoDas
arr; 2urmnp ajat loti se' aadaaloop anra, -joo)Ti o;
*az)O oSd a q4 lu ruatt; s4a2 iadaal.ioop aq;
puV aalgo ;sod arr; o; aaUgo uoflunqt.;sip
*ONal(vcKu CENOD21S
aq; uoai lties slîria ext; 8Â11 o; uaeq osili strq
*toljosali; arr;
aallz3vxud eq4 ;uq !uautar;ua
)ISIXŽ.Y KO
*'DIIaIOC
T..liii
uo srrl£l arr; 2uxîo1xrd .1J alqisuodsai aaalgo
att; si ieadaal.ioop au[; ;uiq; taaq sS£umiiu
-aintI puooas att; pua.t seu%
I-HIVSdS aqj,
surr azotpu-id axil Iutiql
ia arr; PiB' 'o4 paa.t2u S'il Uoi;out et[J
«aUwo ;sod aq;l o; lueas ueaq
*;Iuamuuiaào2 aql jo ;uod
picr Sari; ;uq 'asoddns 1 'ipixi oo1pa.laeAllap
-dus aq4 PUBx sapis rMoq jo [uso.ldd air; tu4im
.2UO.m 2U111;
S uoM;pa itu.Ia114
*a
-auOS si jat
jo sa[d03 jo aiçt u' 'eLi Ila 40o2 PUB aDi4J
;sod at; o; ;uaux I-1LO9S **'r1i *tlOH

TÇ7,

£061 Ip a->Z.Lif

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
it flot be well to give positive instructions
to the doorkeeper to go every morning and
ascertain what Bis have been sent from the
distribution office and see thiat the pages
put tbem on our files. Thiat would get over
the difficulty.

shjould authorize a company to build railways and telegrapbs ia Mexico. It Is certainly an unusual Bill and should at least
be sent to the committee that bas usually
deait with this class of legisiation.

The SPEAKER-Would it not be better
to send tbis Bill to the Raiiway Committee ?
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-As the 'Bill
is out of the usual order I thought it better
to send it to the Comrnittee on Miscellaneous
Bis, where it couid be carefully considered.

sion, lîcease or consent as may be aecessary,
The Mexican Light, Heat and Power Company,
Limited, may, within the Republie of Mexico,
survey, lay out, construct, complete. maintain
and operate, and tramn time to tirne extend, remove and change as required.

.Hon.
Sir 'MACKENZIE' BOWELL-Is
this a Bill giving the compauy power to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Bills are corning at ail spenil their money In Mexico ?
hours of the day.
Hon. MIEMNBERS-That is ail.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
Hon. Sir 2NACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
should bave sorne systern. A messenger
could go every bour to, the distribution office. at a loss to know why they should ask this
The Speaker says the doorkeeper is flot here î'arliament to give them power to spend
ail the time. 1 think, in view of the amount their money ia a foreiga country. They can
of work and the attention be bas to give to do0 It wltbout our permission.
bis business at tbe Senate, he ougbt at least
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It arises la connection
to be bere durlng the session of parliament.
Ail the balance of the time hie bas notblng with an Important company 'with a capital of eighteeu or twenty million dollars,
to do.
and they are investing thieir money ln MexiThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill co. Canada gets tbe benefit of the investwas read the second time.
ment, because the profits corne to Canada.
THE MEXICAX LIGHIT AND POWER The promoters are from dIfferent parts of
Canada, both Ontarlo and the maritime proCOMPANY'S BILL.
vinces, and they are now operating under
SECOND READING.
this charter. Tbey press very strongiy for
Hon. 3fr. KERR (Toronto) moved the power to build tramways. I told them 1
second reading of Bill (126) An Act respect- i.hought tbey couid build tramways without
ing the M-%exican Lighit and Power Company, the authorlty of this parliament on their
own land, If they acquired the land, but
Lirnited.
tbey thought, under tbe circumstances, it
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill would be necessary to bave the power set
was read the second Urne.
forth la the charter. Clause one, of the
Hon. 'Mr. KERR (Toronto) moved that Bill1 reads
the Bill be referred to the Committee on
Subject ta the IawB In force la the Republic
of Mexico, and wlth such legisiative, gaveraMiscellaneous Bis.
mental, municipal or other authority, conces-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Bill is simply to
give this comipany a charter, practically to
build raiiways in Mexico. It appears in
Mexico tbey have great respect for Canadian
charters, so I advised the parties to take
the powers granted under the Act, and if
they wanted further powers to corne to parliainent for them.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGH-EED-It is a railway
and telegraph Bill. It seerns to me a very
uncommon proposition that this parliament
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-For the Information o! the bon. gentleman who has charge
of this Blill, I mlght mention that the Railiway Comrnittee bereafter require rnaps to
show the position of the raulwvay, and 1
hope the prornoters of the Bill will have
elaborate rnaps of the repubiic of Mexico.
so that the committee may understand the
geogral)hy of that country and know exactîr what they are doing, in regard to the
location of the railway in Mexico.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned.

JIJNE 5, 1903
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday, June 5, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.'
*Prayers and routine proceedings.
FAST ATLANTIC STEAMý%SHIP SERVICE.
RETURN.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I beg ta lay on the
Table copies of tenders received by the goverument for a fat steaniship service between Great Bi4dtaln and Canada. The first
return is eigned by the British and North
American Steam Navagation Company, per
J. G. WlldingI *Chairman. The next la by
the Allan Line Steamship Company, and ls
slgned by James and Alexander Allan and
H. and A. Allaîî.
Honi. «MNr.
DANDURAND-These are ail
the tenders that have been received
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That is ail.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Could
the bon. gentleman tell us what the British
American Steamshlp Company ls ? la It a
new lune ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thouglit It was the
Dominion Line; I thought they ivere actlng for the Dominion Linie; It only came to
me as I was coming to council.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It Is
called the Britiish and -North Atlantic Steam
Navigation Company, Limited. That must
be a new comipany.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is a new charter,
probably, taken out ln England. I think
that letter is dated ini England.
Hon. Sir IMACKENZIE BO'WELL-No
date ta it except 'lOth M-%ay, to W. G.
Parmeiee.' It does no say where they are.
The other onie is dated lu M1ontreal.
The SPEAKER-I assume the document,
iiot being long wll be printed iii the minutes.
Honi. 3fNr. SCOTT-Yes, that is the intention. It need not be prinited inl the Debates.
THE SENATE DEBATES.
BOW%%EL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
should like to call attenltion to the tact that
the mast liniber of the Debates we have on
the Seiiate file is dated the lst of June.

I was desirons of looking over the remarks
made by my hon. frlend (Hon. Mr. Temple.
mani) upon the Chinese question ; I have a
recoilection of what lie said, but I should
like ta quote the exact words, and hiere we
are four or fixe days behind wvitbout being
able to refer to the proceedings that bave
taken place, whule in the Commons, thougli
they sit till twelve and oie o*clock, we rerecelee the 1Hansard ' report next day-the
unrevlsed edition. Hlere iii the Senate we
are seven or eighlt days behind.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I xvilI maire inquiry
and flnd out where the fanit is.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-There is a little difference in the practice liu this Honse and the
House of Commons. Iii the Hanse of Commons . the type is set up tram the original
report of the speech, without being revised,
and whiat is called an unrevised edition is
put upon the Table of ban, gentlemen next
lnorning. Ili the Senate, meinhers are furnishied wlth proofs of their speeches for
revîsion before the report is lssued. I,
qulte concur -%vith the lion. gentleman that
the delay Is eiitirely tao long, even with the
reisîon. The fanît niay bic with members
themnselves w-li do niot returii their proofs.
It ls qulte too long for important debates to
be held back-.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I would
maire the suggestion that an order be given
ta the reporters, that uniess the proofs sent
to members are returned withln a certain
time, the speeches ha pubiished as reported.
The SPEAKER-There is sucli a mile.
Hon. 31r. TEMPllLEMýAN-7-Ini this case, I
thouglit the reporters and the Printing
Bureau did their work surprisingly fast. I
tbînir my remauris were made Wedniesday,
and on Thnrsday I received the proofs.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has
the hon, gentleman returiied them yet ?
Hon. -Mr. TE«.NPLEMAN-I mead them
wlthin au hour after receiving them and
handed them back on Thursday. As my memarks were somiewliat leingthy, I w-as surprised that I received thiem so soon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
la quite satistactory, but theme is nio excuse
why. liaving the proof s on Thursday, w-e
shonld not have.the copy of the Debates
to-day.

-254

SEN-\,ATE

lion. Mr. SCOTT-I ain told the rule is, tion of a share would not exist to the saine
you are raising the vaiue of
after proofs are sent to a Senator lie is extetit as %vhere
allowecl twenty-four Itours to niake correc- a sitare. The shares oftheli Bank of Montions. That is wliere the trouble cornes iu. treal are, according t0 this Bili, £50 Halifax
There is that long delay if any oxie Senator cu-rrency-thaf would be $200. They proshould tati to returu bis proof s prornptly.
pose to reduce the shares f0 $100, and yet
i
Hon. 'Mr. TEMP11LEM,\AN-That Is not the tube Bill refers f0 fractional shares.
elhould like to know 'what that means,
trouble in my case.
because we shouid not gi-e power to one
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE LL-The batik t0 do w-bat we refuse to iiother, and
memibers of the' couirittee Nviii look atter if tiis question of fractional siîares is iiot
titat.
in the saine p)osition ta this batikl ais ia the
Eastern Townships Bank, w-e sduould t7reat
THIRD READINGS.
botb aiike. Periiaîs thie liou. genîtleman Mviii
Bill (12) Au Act to amend the Criniial exl)laini.
Code, 1&592.-(Hon. Mi'. Scott.)
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I do flot
Bill (61) An Act respecting the WViinipeg know atîything at ail ab)out the Blill, but w-as
Western Land Corporation, liinited.-(Hon. asked to take charge of It.
Per]iaps soime
'%r. Gibsoît, ia the absence of Hon. Mr. iitenîber of thec Bankiiig and Commerce Cointniittee will exi)latn It.
Biéiq e.)
Hon. Mr. DE VER-I tbink the meatuitg of
Biil (62) Au Act respecting the Ontarlo
and Qu'Appelle Land Comxpany, Lirnited.- It us simpir this :the present shares 0f the
(Hon. Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
Batnk of M-ontreal are $250.
Bill (65> An Act respecting tbe Mutual
Life Assurance Company of Caiiad;t.-(Hon.
Mr. .McM-Nulleii.)

Hon. Sir

ICI.NZIE

BOWELL-$200.

Hotu. Mr. DEVER-£50 and $50 premium.

Hou. Sir 'MACKENZLE BOIWELI-M'e
Bill (93iý An Act to inceorporate tue ShipFederation of Cana.dat.-(Hlon.
Mr. oniy deal with the par value.
Dandurand.)
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The Bill sets forth
Bill (103) An Act respecting the Royal fliat the stock of the bank is flot ail paid
'Trust Compaîîy.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
np. Some shares were nevri fuliy paid, atîd
the bank is taklng power by this Bill to pay
BANK OF MONTREAL, BILL.
these gentlemen off who have neyer fully
THIRD READING.
paid Up their shares, so tiat the change can
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) rnoved the be miade w'lfbout any fractionni share. If
third reading of Biii (72) An Act respecting says : ' Whereas some 10,000 shares are
not yet fully paid up, &e.'
The bank is tak-.the Bank of Montreai.
Ing power f0 repay these gentlemen for the
Hon.
Sur MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
proportion they would be enfitied to under
should like to ask the mover wbat is meant the
division. W hile they wili not be eutby fractional parts of a share or shtares in
ttled f0 a whoie share, the portloti ther
this Biii. A discussion arose upon another wouid
be entif]ed to w'iii be given iii cash
Bili as to how far we sbouid be justitied,'
In lieu of a portion of a share.
whenl dealiing- withi the fractionai shares, In
The motion was agreed to, and tue Bill
authorizing the bank to pay the hiolders of
wvas read the third time atnd passed.
,%vhat is termied 1fractional shares.' In that
plu.g

case, the shiares were to be raised froin $100
to $200. If a man had only a fractionai part
of a nexv share of $200, pom-er w-as asked, on
bebaif of the bank, to buy It froin lhi'n. 0f
course, Mally will take the objection thiat that
is tilkinlz away a portion of a rnanis invoýstmueut w'tthOt.t bis authOrity. I no0tice the
provisions of tlhe Bank of Montreal Bill are
sornewhat different, becanse a fractional porBAKNI
ONVELL.
Hoii. Sir

SECOND READINGS.
Bili 45) An Acf respecting the Calgary aîîd
Edmonton RalIway Compaury.-(H-on.
MNr.
Lougheed.)
Bill (70) An Act f0 itîcorporate the Macleod, Cardston and Montana Raiway Coipany.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson, lu the absence of
Hon. Mr. Young.)

JUN-lE 5, 190ô25
vantage about it, that it is an effort in the
direction of conciliation, and some very bad
strikes have been averted by conciliation,
by liaving men to talk to bofli sides afld
bring about a nintual agreement. The
largest stike in modern tumes was the strike
of the London lockmen, and that, If I rewas settled by the late Cardinal
SETTLEMENT 0F LIAILWAY LABOURi collect,
Manning, wlio went among the people, seDISPUTES BILL.
cured their confidence and, procured a
SECOND READING.
settlement. The sanie good niight resuit
Hon. «Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- Ifrein this. There 18 no charge on the parties
lng of Bill (17) An Act to aid in the settie- wlio resort to it. It le not compulsory la
ment of railway 'labour disputes. He said: any sense, aithougli witnesses Mnay be called
The object of this Bill le to endeavour to and forced to attend and give evidence, but
adjust and settle, by a court of conciliation If an nu-ard 4e made, lt cannot lie enforced
and mediation, any disputes that mny ariseý il, any court iii the land. Compulsory arbiln connection witli the railivay service of tration, as far ns the experience of 'New
thE 'country. It is llmited to railways, be-, Zealand and Austrahia goes, bas not been
cause in raîl'ways the whole public are in-1 j success, and 1 do not think if would be
terested. Railways carry our mails. freiglit' acceptable in this country to force eitlier
and passengers. The Bill, of course, is anl p.irty into an arbitration. 0f course it
experinlent, the object beiag, at the enrleet vvould lie contrary to the freedoni that expossible moment, to bring the parties te- ists under our la*ws and governrnent.
gether, and to endeavour to effect a conHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understood my
ciliation through the mediumi of suecb friends;
by the ibon. frlend to say a moment ago that there
or persons as may be selected, one
employees and one by the railwvay company' 1 wNas no comipulsory arbitration îrovided la
and a third by eltlier the mnister, wlioever the Bill ?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-So I understand it.
le at the head of the Rallway Department,
or tlie Lieutenant Governor of the partîcular,
province in whlch the threatened strike or! Hon. Mlr. FERGUSON-I have only liad
dispute liappens to arise. If the Concilia-I a liasty glance at it, but I observe tliat
tien Committee faîl to bring about a settie-1i clauses three and four provide for the work
mient, the next more is to induoe the parties' of the conciliation commit tee, and flien
to submit the matter to arbitration, select- clause five provides that should the conlng eltber the mediators first named, or cillation comniittee be unable to effect an
nny other person they agree upon. No legal! amicable settienkent, by conciliation or mechaunels are involved la tlis Bill. It le diation, the minister may refer thetinxatter
to arbîtration under the provisions of thue
pureîy a-voluntary matter.

Bill (119) Ain Act respecting the Alberta
Railway and Coal Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.)
Bill (148) An Act respecting certain Trust
Funds of the Diocese of Moosonee.-(Hon.
Mr. Lougheed.)

At
Hon. :Nr. MACDONALD (k.C.)-The arbiHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It le oîîly
tration is tiot comnpulsory ?
Hon. -Mr. GIBSON-Have the railways j nay.,

1Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No award mnade by the
been consulted with regard f0 it ?
Hon.Mr.SCOT-Ido nt lnowtha conimitfee is bindlng on either party, and if
they have been partcumarly.
It is qulite
lik-ely correspondence lias beeii bad with i
the riilway people, but I amn not familiar
with the purport of if, or their views. It
lias gone thirougli the House of Comnonus,ý
and lbas not been challenged. If if cani ac-ý
Becomplish lie g-ood, it Cali do noe har,
cause it is al purely voluntary nîovement oýn
flc part of Liotli sides. Thiere is this ad-!

dortcse
to
esr f
rbfato
le cannotfoctem
Hon. Mr. FEIfGUSON-I %visli f ulîdertle

stand wletlier we are creating ain arl)itration
that Is not to be binding. 1 think that le
rot likely to do much good. I know that
"'Ihetioln
ail arbtration is pirovlç(ed.
A provide- that if if is a9cceptable to hoth
parties fhe conciliationi coiîîmfittee rnav

SENATE
act as a board of arbitrators. Subsection B
reads as follows
(b) In case of objection by either party ta
its representative on the conciliation committe.e acting as a member of the board of arbitrators. or to the chairman of said conciliation committee beinz a mnember -of the board
of arbitrators, new representatives on the
bard of arbitrators sha;ll be appoinited, 4naplace
of the member or meetbers of the concilliation
cornzntttee objected te. In like manner as the
original members of the conciliation committee
were appointed.
TDhe board of arbItrators se chosen shall be
establisbed by the minister funder hi s hand and
seal of offce.
The conciliation comrnittee cannot act
as arbitrators unless tbey are selected by
both parties, and then there is the means of
providiug arbitrations ln subsectien B 0f section live, but It certainly originates a systein ef arbitration. And xny bon. friend says,
the award is flot to be cornpulsary. 1 caninot see the utility ef an arbitration if it is

the second readîng te go, it w-i be distinctly understood that we do net affirm the
principle involved in the Bill. M.%y
own
view is that tinkerîng of this kind-excuse
the expression, because I look upon it as
notbing else-ls of very lîttle use. As the
hon. Secretary of State rnentioned a while
ago, there is not a more democratlc legislature ln the world than that of New Zealand. They have bad an Act upon the
statute-book for compulsory arbitrat5n in ail

disputes arising between capital and labour.
It bias ln tbe past, If w-e believe new-spaper
reports, proved te be a failure. Compulsory arbitration Is effective wben bath parties agree te tbe findlng, but in alrnost everv
case If the arbîtration decides ln faveur
of capital, tbe labour men objeet te it, and
it bas very little effect. I say frankly that

I thInk there is tee niucb tarnpering w%,itli
this great quesion tbat is agitating tbe
one that either party cati refuse to accept.
world at the present moment, and rthat the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I tbink my hon. only way te stop It will be for ail coutitrif-s
friend ornitted to state that the abject of the te adopt the same principle and r) iran' tlie
Bill really is to ernpower the governrnent ta same course that tbey dîd ni tie Australian
set ln motion a board of conciliation or colony of Victoria, and If the decisions ot
arbitration for the adjustnient of those dit- our Judges and magistrates in future should
ferences. Lt is evident frorn the Bill that be, as they have been lately in Mentreal, in
that board niay be called Inta existence, en- the case of -violent attacks upon these 'wbe
tireIy irrespective ot the w-ishi ef the rail- refuse te jein the strikers, that is the best
way cornpany.
0f course, the finding kind of legislation we can have te put a
of the conciliation
committee, or of stop te It. What 1 have said may net be
the board of arbitration, Is flot oh11- popular, but after a great deal of theuglit
gatory. I would point out to, ry hon. on this question, I have arrived at the confriend
the Secretary
of State that clusion that ivhat I have indicated is the
clause 3 is very îuucb braader, lni tbe shape enly way te put a stop te, these troubles.
of being canlpulsory, than lie lias Indicated. It is becerning an idea, and it is growing,
My lion. friend will observe in clause 3 I arn serry te say, that te possess capital
that the minister. iii the event of eitber is a crime, unless you are prepared ta divide
party ta the dispute nat appeinting a rnem- up w-bat you bave got, and give your
ber ef the board, bas the pawer ta appaint earnings te these wbo de netbing but
that member. and ta proceed ta make the corne and go wben tbey please, and dPi'ta1te
inquiry. Then It Is rnanifest that the gav- the terms on w-bicb they shall do you - vol-k.
ernrnent bas full autborlty ta set du motion 1 wlsh dt distinctly understood 'that I do
this particular board, by way et inquiry not objeet te erganization foir self prote-or otherivise, entirely irrespective of the tion upon the part of any. Titat is good,
rilway compauy. Lt seems te me that there but wlien they go beyend the legititnate
is a qluestion of pollcy involved in tbe Bill, ôob.ect for w-hicbi tbe organization is forined,
as fi) wbether the gavernrnent should be then it becornes a menace te the peace of tbe
country. Hew fatr this Bill is going ta effect
vested xvith that power.
that, either by conciliation ar compulsai-y
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWý%ELL-P'er- arbiti-ation, I arn ttot pî-epared
just nom- te
sonally 1 arn like the lian. Secretary of State. say, but, I fear it is utterly useless.
aîîd T
I bave net given that attention ta the Bill arn sot-iy te Say tbat
I bave corne ta the ConifInit a mueasure of tlils character and imi- clnsimn thiat the ministe- w-ho is dabbling
portance merits. and, therefore, iii allowing w-ith this question is pandering ta an eleHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JUNE 5, 1903
ment ln the country ln a way that is 'lot e rievance against the railway, and unknawn
commendabie, nor wili It prove beneficial to t o the railway compnny, may ask: the mInis:er t0 appoint a board of conciliation to do
the public.
yhat ? To adjust some differences between
Hon. Mir. SCOTT-No one wlll be com:he men and the raiiway company, tint the
Bill.
mitted to the principle of the
mallway company know nothiug about." That
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Clause 16 s practlcally what it means. Tis lo a very
reads :
Important matter, and If if does not go
A41 books. papere. and other documenta, pro- any further than the Secretary ef State
ducel before the board. whether voluatarffy or says It is Intended to do, tben- if Is o! nlo
Ia pursuance te summons. may te inspected by
the board and &iso by such of the parties as use wbatever, but there is a strong feeling
the board allows :but the Inf.ormation ah- ln the country, and we might as wefl be
tained therefrom shall fot be made public,
and such parts of the books, papers, and do- frank about it ln tiie House, that tiiere
cuments as. in the opinion of the board, do la toc much ffnkerlng of thus kind
not relate to the matter at Issue, may b. going on,
and there 48 a feeling
saied up.
among the labauring classes that the govSo tint it hs a close arrangement. The crament of this country Is standing bebind
public are to be debarred from obtainlnng theni. It should not go abroad that tuis
Information as to wbat ls going an. Then government Is ta beconie a paternal gavernclause 20 reads :
ment ta settle strikes wlien they occur. If
No court o! the Dominion of Cansda or of the governmeat would set their faces agalnst
or terri-tory shai have or possese
any province
any power or Jnrisdiction to TecogniZe or en- strikes and not countenance them, it would
force or ta receive ln evidence any report of be far better than to assume the respansithe said board of anbitratoris or any report o!
the said committee of conciliation, or any testi- bllty of belping ta arbitrate dîfferences of
mony or proceedings before either the raid opinion between rallway companles and their
board or committee es againat any party or employees.
I hope some time wlll ela-pse
person or for any purpose whataoever, except
ln case of prosecution for perjury.
before fis Bill i. taken up, because I know,
There Ie a clause In the Bill which gives tram communications I have with several
tihe board power to arrest any persan who parties, tiat fier. is a strong feeling about
refuses to give evîdence or ln any way tii. Bill, and a aumber of gentlemen would
offeads any member of the. board. That lo ilke to, b. heard on the matter. They sny
about the best clause ln the. Bill. The pub- fraakly te me tint tiey feel sorry the Bill
lic press called attention nome Urne Égo ta was allowed ta pass the Hause of Commons,
an amendment made by the. labour candi- witheut taklng fhe opporfunlty ef polnflng
date in the other Houge, Mr. Puttee, to this out ta the Hause sanie of its objectionable
Bill. I do not know tbe amendmeat, but features. I musf candidly admît, so far as
they condemned it as beiag useleas and vir- I am persanally coacerned, this le the first
Whether It fime tiaf I have seen the Bill, but I do knaw
tunlly spolling the mensure.
forme part of the Bill befere us or not, I do that these gentlemen wio are opposed f0 it
say that tiey do nof like the Idea ef comlng
flot know.
to the Senate te objecf ta the Bill whea they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, fia.
feel tint they should have taken objection
Hon. Mr'. GIBSON-If we are te accept the. ta it In the other House wien tie Bill 'was
statement, whichi we have no reason ta lntroduced. At the sanie tîme, they feed
doubt, of the representative of the govera- tiaf if les a duty whlch devolves on them
ment la thus House, that this arbîtration and they came ln a mare apalogetlc way
committee cau Inftict ne punisiment or make than If It iad orlginated la tie Senafe,
no award with regard to tbose having lab> but as if is a Bill of Importance, I trust
our disputes, 'what le the use of thus legis- a day wlll b. set aparf for discussion and
lation at aIl ? The firat tbing that strikes ail parties Interesfed ln the maffer wlll have
me le thnt thus is entlrely a oue-slded affair, an opportunify of discussing aIl tie clauses
because the legislation points out that the of fie Bill on the merIts.
minister may, on application of any party
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Any day wic wilI
to the. difference, and go on. Now there may
Any
be only one party to the difference. The afford sufficient Urne will be fixed.
feel that tbey have some one oppased ta the Bill bas absolufe freeemployees may
17

SENATE
elections that when It cornes to a Dominion
eiectlon the same statement Is made to those
who kuow no better, and It influences their
votes one way or another. If we have the
ballot at ail, It should be absolutely secret.
Perhaps I'arn an old fogey. I voted agaluet
the introduction of the ballot when lu the
House of Communs, and I would vote
agalust It to-morrow If It came up, but It is
on the statute-book, and if votiug is to be
secret let It be as secret as possible, and let
us provide a punishment for the man who
induces another to vote contrary to, bis convictions by represeutlng that the ballot Is
not secret. That ls the reason this Bill was
introduced by an Ontario representatîve lu
the Hlouse of Commous, and accepted by
DOMINION ELECTIONS ACT AMEND- the governrnent after a good deal of conMENT BILL.
sideration. The Bill le much wlder than the
oue lutroduced by Mr. Clancy. It was reTHIRD READING.
to a corniittee, of whlch the ',%inisThe House resolved ltself Into a Commit- ferred
the
An Act to ter of Justice approved, and this was
tee of the Whole ou Bi <15)
resuit of the consultation and agreemeut of
amend Vie Dominion Elections Act, 1900.
ail parties la that House. It would be a
(In Vie Cormlittee.)
great plty to strikze out that clause, arbltrary
though lt may appeur to be ln Its character.
On the second clause:2. It shah be deemed a false pretence wit.hln
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO.N-My hon. frieud
a
the meanlng of this seotton to represent to to
wlll observe that la the case of a targe numthat the ballot
vot.er. ddrect-ly or ln<lirectly,
be uned. or the mode of votlng at the aiLection, ber of voters employed by a rnanufacturiug
Is not secret.
concern, If an adroit canvasser were to
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I ask corne to, the n d. teil them the ballot was
that this clause be striken out. A man may not secret sud their employers could find
be lu perfect good falthansd say that the out how they votied, It would be a menace.
ballot la not seret, sud yet he would be
Hon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-Would It be posslable to thîs penalty. I belleve the ballot
Ible to represent the ballot as secret wben
is not secret. I hope the promoter of Vie
the hon. gentlemnan says lt Is not secret ?
Bill wll strîke out that clause.
Would It not -be a charge at variauce wlth
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do the truth ? Would the bon. gentleman have
not know how It works lu other provinces, a clause la bis Bill that sets truth at defibut I kuow that It le. really a menace to ance as this Bill would ? If the ballot le not
the electors of Vie province of Ontario. The secret where is the crime of speaking the
Dominion ballot le tis secret as, I think, It truth ?
can be made, but the Ontario law Is of sucb
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-The Dominion
a character that scarcely any officiai ln the ballot le secret.
employment of the government dare vote
Hou. Mr. LANDEILKIN-If the Dominion
againet the goverument, knowiug that It
ascertained how he has voted. I ballot le secret, where Is the crime of saymay be,
know cases lu my own neighbourhood where lng It le secret ?
la Dominion elections muen vote ConservaHon. Mr. FERGUSON-The crime is In
tive, sud the only reason they do not vote saying It Is flot secret.
with the Conservatives-they say so themHon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Ilu my opinion,
selves-in local elections, is from the kuowthe Dominion Act,
flot secret. It eau be the local is preferable to
Iedge that the ballot is
from the fact that the local Act requires the
ascertalned how a mau votes, sud that
to be numbered, and when It comes
menace Is held out so frequentiy lu local ballot

dom sud rlght to maire sucb representation
as hempleases to the members of this body,
quite as much as to the -members of the
House of Commons. It le of as much importance that It pass tais House as to pass
the House of Commons, and it Is open to
any one to raise objection to It. I was a
little lu error in my flrst explanation of Vie
Bill. It Is somewhat of an anomaly, fromn
my standpoint, that if the parties refuse,
the commissioner can bimself name a board,
but If Viey do not desire to take part ln it
I thlnk lt le raVier futile.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tIme.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 9, 1903
to a scrutlny you can find out how the elector voted. That la a proper thdng. Why,
lu my own election seven ballot boxes were
opened and ballots stolen, and othèrs were
forged*and put in, but as there were no numbers on the ballots, we were unable ta trace
them.- Sa tbat I bave been very much in
favaur of xiumbering the ballots ever silice,
In 1891 four ballots marked for myseif
were taken out of the envelope and four
ballots were substituted, marked for my
opponent. This was done In six divisions,
and from that time an I have been verY
much in favour of the numbered ballots. If
the ballots are numbered, and If they are
governed by the Ontario Act-I have for-*
gotten whether it is the Ontario Act that ls
Dminon
usedat he ectinS.you
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, no.

259

tifraid ta vote in accordance wlth wbat they
consider best for the country. I know the
people of this country. The purport of this
clause is, that the Dominion ballot is secret
and you must not tell an elector that it
Is flot secret.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You must flot deceive
a man.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
makes îît punishable for a man-to, tell a lie.
Hon. Mr. LANDEEKIN-There is a higlier commandment that teaches-'-Thou allait
flot lie.' That is engraved on the heart of
every Liberal In this country. They would
not do thiat.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Dafl't
commit tbe affence this clause is deslgned ta meet.
Han. Mr. LANDERKIN-If the hon. genHon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I prefer the numta prevent his
bered ballots. I would flot like ta tblnk, BO tleman thinks it necessary
as my han. frlend the friends from daing that, we will allow hIn
littie of the electors
bis way. But there
leader af tbe apposition does. He says iu on this occasion ta have
are afraid ta vote for fear ls fia necesslty for the clause, because it la
bis district men
a reflection on the people of this country
samebady would know bow they vote,
I believe they are more courageous than th(
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Âll I hon. ex-minister thlnks they are, and are
h
can say is, they say so0 themselves, and s0 peared ta do wa argtadtk
gntlmans dstrct ndconsequences of their acts. I do not like t
a
It ho. I th
think so badly of the people of Canada. I
everybady else's.
then
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I do flot think would not think much of representlng
the~I
people o! this country. I be- Ini this august chamber if I thought
that of the
were of that class that the bon. gentlemai
leve the people of Canada are as British
they are.
and solld and courageous as the people any- would lead us ta belleve
was adoptedThe clause
where else, and I do. flot like ta hear a cone
linMr LIfothcmite
trary theory promulgated lu the Senate. If
on.e tre BillS frtom thme ommtter
we have here a function at ail, It la ta create
a national sentiment in this country, and .otdteBhwtotaedet
The Senate adjourned.
give the people o! tbe Dominion to understand that we believe in our country and______
bave faith in our people. I do not like the
TE SENATE.
Ides. that Brîtons are afrald ta say how
Ottawa, Titesday, June 9, 1903.
they vote. I like ta see a BrIton stand up
e
and vote. I prefer open voting, and neyer
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thre
was afrald ta say how I voted, and I can
say for the people in my riding also that o'clock.
Prayers and routine praceedings.
they are not afrald ta say how they vote.
Many o! tbem told me : 'I neyer voted for
VERSION 0F MILITIA REGt
,you, doctor.' 1 admire those men. 1 nevier FRENCH
LATIONS.
knew a man ta shirk fram vating against
INQUIRY.
I would be vindicme because he thought
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose ta caîl the attel
blm. They know I wauld not
tive towards
be. I like members of this Hause ta say tion of the House on the follawiflg facts:
On the 9th of ÂPril, 1902, H-onourable Mr. La!
tbey believe the people af this conry are
they cau vote and are not dry made the followiflg Inquiry
not slaves-that
17J

260

SENATE

Honourable Mr. Landry inquired of the goyerament1. In what year were published the last regulations and orders for the militia of Canada ?
2. Ha. the French version of these regulatiens ever been publshed. and la what year ?
3. If such version has never been published,
why ?
.4. Dees the goverament intend to put at the
disposai ef the French officers of the Canadian
militia the French version ef the aforesaid regulations, and when will It b. distributed ?
Honourable Mr. Scott-The answer sent me
by the department is as fellows
1. 1898.
2. No.
3. Because the Issue was a provisional one.
4. Yes, shortly.
And ask the goveramentWben will the French offcers of the Canadiafl
militia be expected te be put on -a foot et
equality with the other officers ef the Canadian
militia, in getting the French edition ef the
regulations and orders for the militia of Canada ?

and French, will be publisbed and issued to
ail concerned wlth the least possible delay.

He said : These answers were giveii last
year and sinoe that trne, as it may be ascertained, ne French version o! the militia orders ha. been distributed to the French
officers ef the Canadian militia. At the Urne
It was said that they were provisional orders. But, au may be eeen frorn the answer
et the hon. Secretary ef State, in the name
of the department, those provisional regulations and erders were printed la 1898. Five
years have elapsed and those regulations are
stili the regulations of the militia, and a
French element ef the Canadian militia lu
still deprhved ef these regulations. The hon.
minister must know that ln our rural districts there are Many officers that are net
very well acquainted with the Engllsh ianguage, and it lu a netessity for tbern te, have
these reguiatiens ln French. At ail events,
It lo their rIght, and it Is the rigbt I arn
clairning bere te-day.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And tbey say ln the answers that they will now give attention to
the revising of the regulations ln French
and la Englisb.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbat wlll corne ln before the new Bill ls passed ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I fancy not It Is because the Bill bas flot gone through that
they have Issued new orders te revise the
present ones.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Then the government
bas withdrawn Its Bill from the House of
Commons ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink that la se. I
think It is nlot the Intention to go on wlth
the Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
answer states that.

BOWELL-Tbe

CENSUS 0F FORESTS 0F QUEBEC.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That a humble address be presented to Hi.
Excellency, praying that Hi. Excellency will be
pleased to cause to be laid before this House a
cepy of the total., county by county, of the
census asuto the forestu of the province of Quebec, shewing the kinds ef woed and the quantities of each kind.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am advised that the
tabulatlng of the Information wili not be
cornpleted before two or tbree months at
least, and therefore it is quite impossible
to bring it down. The hon, gentleman had.
better drop tbe motion and brlng il; up next
year.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If I could go to the
department I could get it ln two or tbree
bours. I shall net drop the motion. I want
the return.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon, gentleman will
not get the Information this session.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On the 9th April, 1902,
orders had been given for the immediate
revisien ef the regulations and orders and It
was the Intention te bave copies ln tbe
French issued as soon as possible tbereatter.
The revision was practically complete ln
the early autumn, when the work was suspended la view ef the Intention te revise the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will if I can.
Militla Act, durlng the now current session.
As the new Militia Bill wlll net be preceedHon. Mr. SCOTT-I thougbt it better to
ed with during this session, instructions state frankly that the information will net
bave been given te complete the revisien of be tabulated and cannet be had before twe
the Regulations and Orders comrnenced haut or three months.
year and te bring it up te date, and new
The motion was ngreed te.
Regulatiens and Orders, botb in Eniglish
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

JUNE 9, 1903
.LANDS, MINES ANZD FISHERIES 0F
THE PROVINCE 0F QUEBEC.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That a humble address be presented to Hie
Excellency, praying that Hie Excellency will be
pleaBed to cause to be laid before this Hanse
a copy of ail the correspondence exchanged lietween Mr. Thomas Côté, one of the superior afiBcers of the census, and the einpioyees of the
I)epartment of Lands, Mines and Fîsheries of
the province of Quebec, on the subject of the
census as te the foreste of that province.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advlsed by the
depa rtment, ln reference to this motion, that
the department la prohbiited from producing
Individuai returus by tbe 23rd section of the
officiai bo0ok of instruction-s, whlch reada as
follows
23. -Every offier or other peran employed ln
any capacity on census work lu required to keep
Inviolate the eecrecy cf the information gathered by the enumeratore and entered on the achedules or forme. An enumerator la flot permitted to show hie echeduies to any persan, nar
ta make or keep a copy of tbem, nar ta anewer
any question respecting their contents, directly
or indirectiy ;and the same obligation cf
secrecy te Imposed urpon commissioners and
other officers or employes of the outeide service, s well as upon every officer, clerk or
other employee of the censue omlce at Ottawa.
The facts and etatistics of the censue may not
lie used for statietîcai ecompilations, and positive assurance shouid lie given on thie point If
a fear ls entertained by any person that they
may be used for taxation or any other object.
LANDRY-I think there la no
Hon. M.Nr.
fear of taxation, but-for the othber pursuits
there mig-ht lie. At ail eventa, If I understand the hon. minister, lie cannot give me
the naines.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But lie couid give me
the resuits without the naines. That la the
o ns-wer the hon. gentleman gave me a few
days ago on a motion of a similar character:
he sald lie weuid give the Information withit giving the namea. 1 tblnk I could have
the recuit without the names. 1 do net cee
anything ln the clause the hbon, gentleman
hbas rend te prevent the department frein
giving the correspondence Itself, and if there
are any na-mes mentioned i-n the cerrespondence lie mîglit leave blanka, keeping those
xîames secret.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn adviced that It
would take at least a couple ef months te
prepare the correspondence te which the
lion, gentleman refers. If he would state

what Information he wants I should be very
glad to try and get It, but 1 ain informed by
the departinent that te copy ail that correspondence would take at least a couple ef
menthe and there le ne .object ln going te
that expense unless some purpose could be
served by It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon, gentleman say lt would take two months, te copy
that correspondence ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. If there la any
particular industry the bon. gentleman
wants Information of, I should be glad te
get It for hlm.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I wlll accept the suggestion of the hon. gentleman, and brlng my
motion ln a torr that wlll net require a
couple of months te get the Information.
The motion was wlthdrawn.
THE NFIW CÂNÂDIÂN

COMPANY.

Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG, frein tbe Committee on
Standing Orders, presented their sixteenth
report, recommendlng the suspension 0ftbe
rules se far as tbey rela-te te the petîtion of
the New Canadian Company.
Hon. Mr. «DÂNDURAND meved that rule
49e be suspended. ln accordance wlth the mecommendation ef the Committee on Standing Ordera and Private Bis, ln their sixteenth report.
, Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I thlnk I sliould ehject to the motion, because we have ne particulars of the Bill ac no-w introduced. I
see by the report which bias just been rend
at the Table, it was necessary te, have notice
given ln other places than lu the province
of Quebec. And now I say that the promo*
ters of the Bill, If the report echees their
sentiments, intend te npply their charter
only to the province of Quebec. I should
like te see a littie more Into the question.
It miglit become a local charter If It la enly
applled te the province ef Quebec, and I
do net see why we sheuld heme in the federal
House, deai wlth the Incorporation ef companles which are Interested only lu local
buainess. I ahould like te bave more details,
If the hon. premoter et the Bll would be
kind enougli te give tbem, I should lie very
glad te cee whether 1 sheuld maintaîn or
withdraw my objection.

262

SENATE

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-In reply to the remarks of rny hon. friend opposite, I rnay
say that the Committee on Standing Orders,
having the consideration of the petition,
were assured that the Bill would only operate In the province of Quebec, and the
notices have been given for that province,
and -therefore the committee tekx It thelr duty
to make the report they are making to-day,
because, practically, If the Bill would only
operate in the province of Quebec the notices
bave ail been given, and the mile has
been compIled wltb, but to warn the
House and the Railway Comrnittee, they
make thbis report, so that the Commlftee on
Railways wlll take cognizance of the ' fact
and see to It tbat, when the Bill cornes before thern, the provisions whlch we are here
assured are In the Bill, will be rnnintalned
before the Cornrittee on Railways, so that
I tnncy the Committee on Standing Orders
took the only reasonable course they could
have taken lu passlng the petition and presenting the facts to the House, no that the
House could be selzed ot the matter.

gate steamers on the A&tlantic. If the only
port of cal] la Quebec, there Is no special
need that notices should go outslde the province, and as a matter of tact, objection was
taken te thîs Bill, the notices havlng gene
throughout the Dominion, mast because it
contains a clause which states that they
may caîl at ail ports. WeII, as they do not
intend to cal at other ports than those of
the province ef Quebec, they will strike out
tat
clause, which would force them, If
they flad adhered to lt, to advertise ln aIl
the other provinces, and that la wny it is
lmited te Quebec.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-What la the object
of the company ?
Hon. Mm. DÂNDURÂND-I amn trylng to
find the BillIn order to rend It to the hon.
gentleman, but trom what occurred la another instance lu the matter of the Atlantic,
Quebec and Western Railway Company Bill,
I would think the hon. gentleman knows
much more about the Bill than I do myself.
Hon. Mm. L&NDRY-It looks like that.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-I have rend It.
My hon. friend la recognizing an old enerny.
He may have aIl the chance he wants to
gîve vent te his ardour when the Bill cornes

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
ls only repeating what la In the report, but
that does flot give me any cognizance of
the facts. I dld flot ask hlm to repent: themn.
1 heard them. He repeats these statements Up.
Hon. Mm. LANDRY-I think my hon.
In gracions tone, and that la aIl mlght, but it
fmiend is denylng his own children.
does net enllghten me.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. genHon. Mr. YOUNG-The House ls seized
tleman muet know that Buis corne trom the
of the facts, and If the Bill dld flot observe
House of Commons, and senators are asked
the conditions upon which tbe petitlon was
to see to their passing tarough tais House.
recelved, the House would immediately
Once I have a, Bill coniftned to my care, 1
take action, no doubt.
do my tnithful duty by the promoters of
Hon. Mm. LANDRY-Thls is elther a the Bill, and by the Bill ltself, and shahl
fedemal charter or a local charter. If it is always do se, because we are here holding
a federnI Bill, the conditions have flot been tais disinterested position, always ready to,
complied wlth, and If It la a local measure, accept goed advlce concerning any modification ef a Bill. If my hon. friend has any
why bring it here ?
lght te threw upon the subject, or any
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-There may be modification to
suggest, he rnay do so in
very many companles whlch xnay only opecommittee.
rate ln one province whlch are under the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The only modificajurisdiction of the federal power.
tion la that I maintain rny objection. The
Hon. M,%r.
LANDRY-Then give a general '"easons given are none at ahi.
notice.
Thec SPEAKER-The motion bas been
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tliat notice agreed te.
needà net be giveni outside the province
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is net the unanimous
where the charter will operate. For ini- consent ef the House required for the susstance, this charter asks for a right to flav- pension of the mules ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

263

JUNE 9, 1903

Tbe SPEAKER-I bave neyer known anyl Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Not unless the
mules to binder tbe adoption of the report of bon. gentleman Insista upon It.
any of our Standing Committees.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-To prevent any obHon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-This ls a jection I would ask the bon. gentleman to
do so.
suspension of the mules.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I thln< the motion
the bon. gentleman made was flot for the
adoption of the report, but for the suspension of tbe mule, and If unanimous consent
la given tbat may be done, but I object to
the suspension of tbe mule asked by tbe hon.
gentleman from de Lorimier (Hon. Mr.
Dandurand).

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I wIli not do it
unleas my bon. frlend maires bimselt the
custodian of thxe rules of the Senate. If be
objects, I will give It as a notice.

The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman, hon.
Mr. Dandumand moved that thbe rule be suspended as recommended In the report of the
commlttee. Tbe universal practice bas been
to, let these motions go as a matter of
course. Strictly speaking, If the hon. gentleman Insists on bis objection, I assume
the bon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Dandurand)
will bave to give notice for to-momrow.

Bill (0) An Act respecting the Citizens'
Bank of Canada.-<Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (P) An Act respecting the Western
Mr.
Alberta Rallway Company.-(Hion.
Lougheed.)
Bill (91). An Act to incorporate the Dominion Gas improvement Company.--Mon.
Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
Bill (121) An Act to Incorporate the Consolldated Trust Corporation.-(Hon. Mr.
Kerr, Toronto.)
Bill (134) An Act to Incorporate the ErieOntario Power Company.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (143). An Act respecting the Canada
North-west Irrigation Company.-{HIon. Mr.
Lougheed.>
Bill (163) An Act mespecting the United
Empire Life Insurance Company.-(on.
Mr. Coffey.)
Bill (172) An Act to Incorporate the City
and County Bank of Canada.-(IHon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell.)
Bill (187>. An Act to amend the Electric
Ligbt Inspectiob Act-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (Q) An Act respecting the Nipissing
and Ottawa Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Kerr, Toronto.)

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbat la just tbe point
I taire.
The SPEAKER-I undemstood tbe bon.
gentleman to go Into tbe merits of tbe Bill
somewba't.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I bave not
looked at tbe value of tbe objection of my
bon. frlend.
The SPEAKER-I bave ruled tbe bon.
gentleman must give notice of bis motion.
Hon. Mr.
mormow.

DANDURAND-Tben

to-

The SPEAKER-It wll stand as a notice.
FEDERAL OIL COMPANY.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainiy I wlll obJect. There ls too much oil in that.
BILLS INTRODUCED.

NOTICE 0F MOTION.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG presented the seventeentb report of the Commlttee on Standing
Orders, relating to the petition of the Fed- FRENCH EDITION 0F THE DEBATES.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before tbe Orders
eral 011 Company, and recommendlng a susof the Day are called, I sbould like to inpension of -tbe mies.
quire b om, the bon. gentleman who .bas
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved tbe sus- cbarge of tbe question, Wby lt is the French
pension of tbe mules Ia so far as tbey me- members of this House have not received
lated to tbe petition of tbe Fedemal Oul Com- tbe Frencb version of our debates for some
pany.
days. I inquired of the translatera, and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe bon. gentleman ascertained from them that the translation
is made up to date, and that ail the manugives that as a notice ?

SENATE

264

script la in the hands of the printers. 1 do
not know whether there la a jam of work
at the Bureau, or not, but we bave recelved
none of the French translation of the debates ln thls House for some days.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is no abject ln
suggesting a general lnquiry. The proper
course would be to indicate some spécific
Instance so that one coulil follow it Up and
ascertain why there was a delay on tbat
-date.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-They are delayed
every day of the session.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Would the bon. gentleman name some speech or give some
particulars ? We cannot get a satisfactory
The reanswer. to a general question.
sponslbility would. be thrown from one party
to anotber.
H3on. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tben I will ask the
bon. gentleman wby ts it the debate of Monday of last week 15 not yet printed and distrlbuted to the House ln French ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shall make Inqulry.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I will join my
volce to that of the hou. gentleman opposite,
because I have been lookiiîg out for the
translation hi French ln bis own paper and
It has flot appeared.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-' L'Eveneiet' wIli
lie quicker ln reproducing my speech than
'Le Canada' wlll be in producing the
speech of the bon. gentleman.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-My coniplaint
was an echo of the bon. gentleman's.
.ÂTURALIZATION

0F

ALIEN3 BILL.

IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved Itself into Conimittee
of the Wbole on Bill (L) An Act to aniend
the Act relatlng to the Naturalization of
Aliens.
(In the Coinmittee.)
Mr. SCOTT-The prlmary object of
Hon.
introducing this Bll was to niake provision
for the practice to be observed in the Northwest Territorles and in the Yukon. It is
some tume since an amendment was made
in that direction, and It became necessary,
(onsldering the large number of aliens going
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

lnto the Territories and the Yukon, to make
provision for the channel through which
they couid taire the oatb of allegiance and
tbe oath as to the Urne of residence. While
that w*as ln progreas the Chief Justice of
Manitoba auggested an amenilment to the
Act He pointeil out that when the names
were returned to the clerk of the peace,
and brouglit before a court, they were often
put through wlthout the public being cognizant 0f thé persons who were being naturallzed, and he, therefore, suggested the
names shoulil le posted l n the office of the
clerk of the peace, six weeks qbefore the
court sat. I took the li'berty of sliortenlng
the Veriod suggested, and made It ttiree
weeks. That, 1 thouglit, was sufficient notice to parties -who migbt object to the
naturalization of the allen wbo -made application. I presume the Juilge made those
suggestions after the experience lie bail
biniself In uimilar cases. An bon. member
of this Senate, w(ho has taken a great deal
of lnterest In this subject, and 'wbo was
somewhat familiar with the naturalization
of aliens, was desirous of making a very
great change in the Bill, tbat Is, doing
nway altogether -wlth the posting of the
name before the application to the quarter
session and the court, dolng away wlth tfhe
necesslty of golng to the court, allowlng the
party to bie naturalizeil simply by registerlng his name andl taking the oatb before the
elerk of the peace. My hon. frlend froni
Grey (Hon. Mr. Landerkin) thought that
would be an Improvement. At this stage I
do not Liée my way to accept that suggestion, because In the North-west especialhy
a very large number of foreigners are going
ln, and I should fear, on Important occasions, such as election times, the names mlght
be rushed through Improperiy. There would
be no security as to the ascertalning whether the parties bail lived tbere the requisite
tbree years, or were bona fide maklng application wlth a vlew of becomlng permancnt resîdents, or wlth a view only of votlng
at an election, and, therefore, 1 dld not see
my way to accept the suggestion. Perhaps
the lion, gentleman would give bis viewe on
the subject. He bas had a large experience
and be thought bis view would be an lmprovement, but 1 do flot feel like incorPorating it in this Bill. Tbe question will
camne up on clause two. In the first clause

JUNE 9, 1903
it less cumbersaine, leus experTsive aud
the ouly change is the addition of the six
These are
more simple In its operation.
last liues
I suggest. 0f course, if
the changes that
In the Narth-west Territories, ta the Supreme
ta maire au affidavit and had
its
Court of the North-west Territories. during the a man came
nat reslded long en ough, the magistrate
alttlugs In the judiclal district wlthln whlch
The
allen resides;
would not grant hlm, a certificate.
Ia the Yukofn Territory. to the Territorial
withifl fact that lie takes an alffidavit and thec
Court durlng its slttlngs in the circuit
the jurlsdictlon of whlch the alien resides.
magistrate kuaws that 'e bas lived lu the
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The 'operation counitry for the time requlred by the Actand
of the Içaturallzatiofl Act -bas been one that the very fact a! his belug a resident
bas been forced upon me ever since 1 en- taklug the oath shauid naturalize hlm, lugets
tered public ife. As It Is I have found it stead of bis havlng ta. walt until lie
cumbersome and somewbat expensive, and naturalized, as at present, by the aperatiaus
same.
dîfficuit ta carry out. In the rlding 1 have of the court. The effect wlll be the
would, I
bad the bonour to represent, we have had It will be simpler. The change
and
a goad many foreigners, and It became ne- thlnk, commend ltself for Its slmpiity
These are the tblngs 1
cessary that they sbould be naturallzed. In for Its safety.
be reorder to naturalize them, an affidavit of reui- had lu my mind. If a copy should
Dedencel4had ta be taken, and an affidavit of quired for the registration lu the Lands
alffidavits mlgbt be taken partmeut, why It could be had f rom. the
alleglance. These
the Secretiiry
before a magistrate and bad ta be referred ,clerk of the pence, or from
and the court had ta of State, or f rom the township cierk or the
ta the quarter session,
are
determine whether the party sbould be na- village clerk. Then, If the magistrates
followed the mat- not satisfied wlth the affidavit, It ls nat necturalized or not. 1 have
ter a gaad deal, and I thougbt the law could essary that they shouid give the certificate.
as the
be slmpllfied and rendered safer, and that Let them be iu the same position
ls nat
that -were qualified, and those alone, court lu reference ta that. If the court
thase
If a foreiguer satisfied, it wlll nat issue the certificate,
should become naturallzed.
of the
setties lu a township, he Is apt ta be kuown but if satisfied with the bona, fides
or if It Is lu application made by the maxi ta become a
ta the clerk af that township,
a village, by the village clerk, or If lu, a citizen, then it can grant hlm a certificate,
to the rights
town, by the tawn cierk, and so an, and and this certificate entities hlm
This is a simple and, 1
the fact of hbis residence would be kuown a! citizensbip.
It îvould not be
by any of those afficers better than It'woultI thlnk, a saf e method.
every
be by the judge at the quarter sessions, whc as exýpensive as lt bas been, because
some fifty miles, oz -one -wbo bas been Iu public life kuows
perbaps heid the court
soinetimes furtiier, fram the residence ai that there bas been a gaod deal of expense
this man seeking ta become naturalized and difficulty lu canuection witb the workThe administration of
Thlnking aver this for years, I bave cam( ing of this Act.
If the affidavit couic Sthis Act -bas been ane af tbe difficulties that
ta the canclusion that
be taken as It lu now before a magistrate I have often felt ln connection witb public
r
and flled lu the- township clerk's office, ou life, and I bave thought It mlght be simplitown clerk's office, or village or city cIerk'i fied and made more stfe aud quite as eff ecoffice, as the case may be, and a duplicati >3 tuai, and It would be less cumbersome aud
af tint affidavit sent ta the clerk af th, expeusive, and better for public men. I tbink
pence, It would simplif y the matter ' ver, ~It would be better than the present system.
much and preveut fraudulent naturalzatieu *I made these suggestions ta the bon. minisI understand thnt -iu Manitoba sud ln thý ter, and we bad'a conference an the subJect.
It Is necessary to file an affidavil I am sorry he bas not been able ta adapt
-Yukon
Well, this afildavit could be sent ta «tbe lani them Iu bis Bill, because I believe I bave
office, or a copy of It could be obtalned trou Ssuggested a system of naturalizato!i wbich
the cierk of the peace. I thought further, ths -twill come into effect lu this country before
another copy miglit be seut ta the Secretar: t ymany years.
of State and thnt ail the safeg-uards tha
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tirriere
e
-were necessary would be tbrown around tii
r is a good de-il of force lu the rexnarks miade
carrying ont of thus Act, and -would renide

266

SENÂTE

1 know it frotu
by the lion, gentleman.
experience like his own, particularly at election times. Take the courts in which it Is
necessary to file this application, it la sometixnes more than fifty miles to the nearest
court. In my own county It extends over
a .hundred, and difficulties of that kind have
arisen, 'but I amrn ot so sure as to whether
the adoption of the suggestion nmade by the
Ïhon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Landerkln) would
make the Bill as gafe as the present law.
Difficulties bave arisen, 1 think from neglect on the part of the alien wlio desired
to lie naturallzed to make the application.
Hie attention lis only called to It w-hen hié
wants to exercise the riglits of a Britishi
subject. Dld I understand the 'bon. Secretary of State to say that the time for residence, lu the different provinces of the
Dominion was. reduced from six week-s to
three weeks ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That le not In thîs
section.

that great numbers of aliens are naturalized
in the Territories witbout baving any knowledge as to the step which they are taking and without any proper inquiry being made as to, their possessing the
qualifications for naturalization. I should
have been better pleased -had authority been
given to. the judges of the Supremne Court,
particularly o! the North-west Territories,
to examine these people on oath, or otherwise. As it Is now, ail that je requlred
o! the alien is the rnakIng of an affidavit
or declaration as to residence. I amn very
sorry that there le not an educationai qualification required of allens of that particular
character. There are thousande of aliens
in the North-west Territories, who have
not the sllghtest Idea of the institutions under whlch they lve, of our political conditions or of how they are calied upon to vote,
or in fact, of -the requisltes of citizenship.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My reference was to
the posting o! the notice In the clerk's office, and not to the other matter. The only
difference between the systern suggested by
my hon. frlend and this, le that he would
dispense with the court altogether, because
the magistrate has just the saine duties tc
perforin that hie would bave If the plan of
my hon. friend were adopted. That certificate le glven to the clerk of the pence, and
lie bas to post It In his office three weeks
before the court meets, in order thiat the
public may have an opportunity of ascertaining whether there Is any. objection to
It and when the matter cornes up in court
the judge caîls attention to It, and hie does
not grant the final certificate tili the end of
the court
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The only thing I
regret is that the Bill is not more elaborate
in the requirements whicli should lie eufoi-ced in reference to ahaene becoming
naturalized. Take tbe case of the Northwest Territories to-day, where 1 suppose.
nearly fifty per cent o! the population are, or
will In the near future, lie aliens, and a
very large percentage of these made Up of
aliene who do not understand the English

Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-It seenis to me
an unfortunate thing that while the government Ie arnending tbis Bill and adding restrictions to It, that more salutary restrictions are not thrown about sucli cases as
that to which I have referred. As the Act
stands at the present timie, while the judge
may grant a certificate, yet, hie knows nothing about the applicant. The applicant
goes -before the justice of the peace, or
corne one autborized to take an oath. The
justice o! the peace will flot make an adequate inquiry. The applicant slmply signs
the declaration.

Hon. Mr. BERNIER.

Hear, bear.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He is bound to under
the law.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is simply a perThe declaration is
functory proceeding.
signed at the instance of the agent of the
particular political party that brings the
alien Into the fold. These declarations are
placed before a justice of the peace. So far
as the statement In the declaration le concerned, the justice of the peace is naturaily
satisfied that a declaration has been properly made, but the duty is not cast upon
the justice of the peace o! making a personal inquiry as to whether those facts are
language. Many of these can lie induced to
hrue. and so on.
mnahe a declaration when called upon by designing parties, flot being aware o! the con1 say 'without besitatioli,
tente thereof.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hou. Mr. POWER-Does the hon. gentlcman flot tbink that the ditficnlty is met to a

JUNE 9Y1903

267

certain extent by thc new clause Wbicb is will flot grant naturalization to this applicant' ? Supposlng lie were a erininal,
proposed to be added ?
wliat then ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Well, to this exHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, I tbink so. Sometent : iic allen sbould, appear in court bethe notice of
flot; find any autbor- body must have brought It to
fore a judge, but 1 do
the judge, and If anybody brouglit It to bis
lty given to the judgc of tIle Supreme Court
to Inquire Into It clearly.
once tbe requirements are complied witb, notice, hie Is bound
as provlded by Uic old Act and ln accordHon. Mr. LOUGEED-Supposing lie
suce wlth thc amended Act, to refuse a satisfies bimmelf this man Is a criminal ?
certificate. Supposlng Uic judge bas doubts
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then 1 tlink lic Is quite
upon 11, I do not find any authority gîven justlfied ln refuslng the application.
to the judge, to say that lie does not conHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under clauses 8,
sider the applicant a fit person.
9 and 10 the qualifications are enumerated,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If any party attended
and If bie complies witb tht se, 1 understand
and opposed Uic application It would be for be is entltled to bis naturalizatioxi paper.
the judge to consider Uic merIts uf ItL
Hon. Mr. SoeTT-ÀII you cau do Ir, to let
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbcre arc specific the public have notice of ItL
grounds mentioned in thec Act ut present.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The aliens that
If the applicant satlsfies those grounds there
is no discretion ini the judgc, and it seems I have *hnd to deal wlth were principally
to me to be ldle to say that any person from Germany, and tUicre were scnrccly any
opposing the application may state bis of them that I could find that werc unable
ground, unless autborlty or jurisdiction Is to read and -write.
given to the judge to entertain those grounds
Hon. MNr. LOUGHEED-I can spcalk lu thie
as belng good grounds for refuslng the ap- bigbest terms of the Scandinavian setticrs
plication. Thus thc language of the statute of the Nortb-west Territories, but take for
les Idle.
Instance the Doukhobors and the Galiclans
I tblnk it Is not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Subsection 3 of section and thnt class of allens.
It Is an addition te the desirable at ail that slmply three ycnrs re11, le ail new.
riglit to
law as It stands. It is some advancc lu sidence sbouid give eucb men a
vote, except tbey ldentlfy theniglves lu
bon. friend proposes.
the direction my
some way with the institutions of the counHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I accept It as an
try by being able to read and write EngImprovemeut. Hitherto there was no way Ilsh or sncb other desirable qualification.
o f identifylng hlm and no way of the court
,Hou. Mr. LANDERKIN-I would vcry
satisfying ltself that sucli an individuel exwns to look gladly welcomne others of the same class
isted. Ail the judge had to do
came
at the declarations placed before hlm. But we bave scttled ln our district w'hio
hon. friend's at- from Germany. Tbey have turiied ont to
wbat I wish to direct my
tention to is, that If sections 8, 9 and 10 be good citizens, industrious, progressive,
I
are complied with, namely, Uic terni of resi- active, cnergctic, law-nbiding people, and
dence-in fact it is no more than residence- do not think that any barrier sliould be
then the judge, even though grounds miglit raised to prevent sucli citizeus settling ln
be advanced whicb on general principles this country.
might be rcgarded as of sucli a cliaracter
Hon. Mr.. BERNIER-You cannot say as
as would not induce thc judgc to naturalize .uec of some of the settiers in the west.
sucli an iindîvidual, would have no authorHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlint
ity to, refuse bis application.
Hon.Mr.SCOT-I hiu
cisc bis discretion surely.

li woud eer-the statute-book'to provide, not agalist
those who are, good and honcst, but to meet

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would ask rny cases -wherc they -would iiot lie desirable
Hence those who are desirable
hon. friend, by way of discussion along these citizens.
ground whicli settlers have to suifer perlmnps .a little inies. 'can hie conceive of a
would authorize tlie judge to say, 'I couveuieuce in order to protect the counîtry

268

SENATE

Hon. Mr. POWER-There is a great deal
agulnst the other class, and that is the
point to wbicb the lion. gentleman from Cal- of force in the objection of the bon. gengary bas called attention. I do iiot pretend tleman from Calgary, and 1 would suggest
to interpret the law, but bow far does Ibis wben we corne to the next clau§e of the
give to the judge the power lu the third Bill tbat we should take time to consider
that point. It would be a great belp to
clause where It says:
filed or objection the judge to have some guide In the matIf such opposition bas been
offered the court sahal hear andi determine the ter. The J.udge may f eei as the bon. gensaine In a snmmary way and shall make such tleman froin Calgary does, that be bas no
direction or order In the premnises as the jusrigbt to exclude a man wbo bas complied
tice o! the case requires.
That Is where an objection bas been made, 'with the terms of the Act. I wouid sugbut the case 10 wbicb our attention bias gest one objection whlch migbt be urged.
been cnlled ls wbere the judge migbt L-noW Suppose a man ha an anarchist, for inthe undesirabiiity of naturalizing a person stance, that would be iround for not
of tbis
whlo applies, againat wbom no objection bas making hlm a naturalized citizen
been made. If I understand tbe argument country. There wou.ld be very lutIle diffio! th~e bon, gentleman froin Calgary, there culty la framing a sub-clause 10 the next
le Do provision givlng the judge power to clause whbicb would Indicate In what way
reject the application or refuse to give tbe the judge's discretion was to, be exercised,
certîficate, tbough be may personally knona even wbere the requirements of the statute have been complied -wltb. The Secrethe applicant la not a desîrable citizen.
Iary of State seems 10 thlnk it la rather
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I go furtiier and amusing, but 1 think lt a serions matter.
eay Ibat wbere an objection bas been nmade, The people wbo are going 10 be naîuralized
excepting you detine the jurisdlction o! the wlthin the next few years wll'have a great
court, then tbe court may very properly sny deal to do with the future governing of Ibis
the applicant -bas met ail the requirements country, and we ought 10 see Ihat they aire
of the Act, tbe posting of tbe name, &c., people In wbose bands the rlgbt to, vote
and altbough Ibere may be moral ground couid safely be entrusted.
for refusing the application, yet tbere being
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Act does net
no power by whlcb the judge is periuitted
say the judge shall refuse. Ail that the
10 exercise bis discretion lie Is compelled to
judge can do Is to, take the malter into bis
That la the point.
grant a certificate.
consideration.
Hon. Mr. DANDURANi)-- Il s very bard
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He would not grant it.
to clothe tribunals wIth discretionary 1,owers
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But he must
lit aIl matters. Tbey must be lied down
10 the written Ian', and if you want to0 grant ItL
give them a certain discretien, you must
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no. H1e would not
linflt that discretIon ln some wny. If the
be fit for bis position if be did.
bon. gentleman would indicate whiat would
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Then let us add
be tbe objection whIch could be taken to the
naturalization of an applicant, well and 10 the Bill that the judge may refuse the
good, but I would take It to be 't very dan- alien's application In bis discretion.
gerous malter granting te judges aI their
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbat would be objecown discretions tbe right te refuse -natura- lionable. There Is geaerally, I understand,
lizalion papers 10 any one.
a rush for naturalization on the eve of an
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Sup- election. Now, suppose n judge to, wbom
pose the judge i-new that a nîna was a thls malter is referred Is more or less a
crImInal and no 4Ùjection had I een Inken partisan-sometimes it bappens that judges
bave feelings e! that kind. If you gave a
against hlm.
judge ahssolute discretion, be might abut out
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Sure]y the judge would men who were likely t0 vote against bis
exercise bis discretion In that case.
feelings. I think the better way is Ibat the
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED)-He bas noe power Act itself shall indicate on what ground the
under Ibis Bill.
alien can be excluded.
Hon. Sir MAC'KENZIE BOMWELL.

JU-NE 9, 1903
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In ail probablHon. Mr. LANDERKIN-If the settiere of
neyer have
North-west are to be compelled ta go lty they neyer dld. They may
the
There ie no way of ldentifying
[seen tliei.
six or sevea hundred miles before a Court,
to secure naturalization papers, would not them.
this be a difficult thing lu itself ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that clause one
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do flot think of the Bill be adopted.
that could arise. The Territories are divided
Hon. Mr. POWER-I suppose our abject
into judicial districts. Courts are held at le to try and make this Bill as perfect as
nlmost ail points of settlement of any im- we can. I sbould like to ask the lion. Secpartance, and surely If the allen can have retary of State witli respect to the firet parathe riglit ta exercise his franchise and 'be- graph. Such certificate shall be presentedcorne a British citizen, it wouid flot entali
In Ontario, ta the court of generai sessions of
upon hlm toc much travel to go ta the near- the peace of the county wlthin the jurlsdictlon
of which the alien resides, or ta the court of
est sitting court, which Is usually held at a assize and 'niai prius ' during its sitting ln
convenient place.
such coUnty.
Now, In Ontaria are these courts of assize
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-HoW far would
and nisi prius held by the county judges ?
hie have ta go lu some cases ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do nat thinli
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-No.
in any case hie would have ta go more than
Hon. Mr. POWER-If not, as n matter of
tbirty or forty miles.
convenlence la tlie province of Ontario these
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Wolild there be applications might be made ta the county
more security than If lie obtalned a certift- judge.
cate from a maglstrate ?
Hon. Mfr. LANDERKIN-They bath meet
The ln -the saine court-liouse.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Certnly.
question of Identity Is a very Important matHon. Mr. POWER-Tlien the -court of
ter. Âlmost fIfty per cent of the people Ia general sessions 1s presided over by the
tbat country are foreigners.
county judge.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Flfty per cent ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think nearly
Hon. Mr. POWER-With respect ta Nova
flfty per cent of the.m will be aliens.
Scotia, I wlsh ta suggest one ar two slight
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-In the west 7
ameudments. Our county courts ln Nova
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, or will lie lie- Scatia are not strlictly county courts. The
fore long. It le possible for this condition one county court judge lias juriadiction over
of things to happen. That is ta say a people two or three counties, and we want ta make
not understandlflg the Engiish language, It clear that it Is the county court judge
and 1 suppose It is not an exaggeratioa ta having jurlsdlctian In the court. 1 move
sny that there are 60,000 ta 75,000 people ta inake the change.
there who do not understnnd the Enghiali
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-This bas been the law
language-Doukhobors, Galiclans, Scandîna- for farty yeare, and I do not thlnk It should
vins and others, they might be easily ap- be clianged without some good cause for It.
pronched with a view ta signing a declaraclause, amended
tion as ta qualification. They know aothing1 Han. Mr. POWER-The
:
about It, and they sign. 1 have seen Im- as I propose, wll then rend
a great number
Scotia, ta the Supreme Court during
Ia Nova
uaediately before an electian
la the county wlthin whlch the alleu
af declaratians being forwarded ta the clerk Its sittings ta the county court having Jurlaresides, or
points signed by diction lu sucli county.
of the court from distant
ail kinds of persans. 1 arn rensonably atisThe amendipent %vas ngreed ta, and the
fied that In rnany cases thase people were clause as amended was adopted.
not aware in the slightest degree of what
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I have heard the
tbey signed.
samne objection ta fareigners In ail my pubHan. Mr. LANDERKIN-They neyer sent
lic career. I reniember when the Mennonites

270

SENATE

were brouglit from Russia to settie in Manitoba, tliey were described as a very mucli
worse class of people than I heard the hon.
member from Calgary describe those who
are settied there now. Every attribute of a
bad character was heaped up against tliem.
I have heard that with regard to both the
Mennonites and Icelanders. 1 have heard
lt time and again. The hon. gentleman Io
mild to-day compared to the diatribes I have
heard used against others In my past career.
1 hnd an opportunity of going tlirougli the
Mennonite district seven years ago. These
settiers did flot talk English when tliey
came to -the country, but they could talk
Englisli as well as anybody In the settiement wlien I eaw them. They had assimilated witli our people rapidly, had become
good citizens, and I would not be surprised
If those whom the lion, gentleman is now
decrying would become Just as good and
useful as other citizens from Russia have
become In Manitoba. The Mennonites have
been an example to the people of that district, so fer as farming Is coucerned. I
understand they have been most successful.
1 saw their farms and I do not believe that
any gentleman In Manitoba or the Northwest would desire to see these people sent
out of that country. There is not a doubt
about that. The same cry that Is raised
now agalnst Doukhobors and Galicians will
probably fade away, as it did against the
Mennonites. Why, 1 remember Ini the other
Chamber it being suggested that tliey be
ehipped back-that tliey were unfit to live
in éJanada-tbat tliey were very undesirable
citizens-aimost everythlng that could be
said .against them was sald, and notwithstanding that, they have conv'inced the
people of Canada and of the North-west
that tliey are good citizens. -The kcelanders niso met with the same reception
I should like to know, if we desire settiers,
.what foreigners must think of the reception
that Is given them by public mien who try
to destroy them and to create a false in,pression without n lcnowledge of those people as to wliether they are industrious or
otlierwise, and try to hurl chlarges against
theni because sorne of them may be bad.
Tbere are bad people in almost every conimunity. In the Senate particularly we
should be very careful, because the Senate
slould be a national body, and sliould enHon. Mr. LANDERKIN.

deavour to build up a national cliaracter
and welcome every citizen that is law abiding and lndustrious, instead of trying to
make hlm feel that lie is not welcome, as
we sometimes hear it stated.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hou. friend
froni Grey has a vlvid imagination, and it
runs riot with hlm at times. No one has
made any attack upon foreigners in the
No hon, gentleman in this
North-west.
House la better pleased to see tliem there
than I, and I think I probably would prove
their friend quite as Ioyally as niy bon.
friend from Grey.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Tie lion, gentlema-n did not like the English Immigrants
the other day.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What I predicted
In regard to the difficulty awaiting the hon.
gentleman's Engiish friends lias corne true.
Let me point tbis out : we are amendlng tbe
Naturalization Act. Tliat Act provides that
an alien, upon three years' residlence In Caniada, no matter what lis qualifications may
be, no matter If lie has not the remotest
Idea of British Institutions or the politicai
institutions of the country In whici lie lives,
may become naturalized as a British subject, exercise his franchise and enjoy ail the
privileges of a British subject.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Not lu three years.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In three years.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Not In Manitoba.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I wouid point out
to my lion. friend that the Naturalization
Act is a Dominion Act, and that the alien
lias the saine rights la thie province of Manitoba as he has in any other part of the
Dominion of Canada.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-In provincial matters,
under certain circurnstances lie cannot exercise his franchise in three years. It requ ires
seven.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That may be as
to your provincial franchise, but we are
talking now of Dominion status of aliens
and under this Act an allen, after tbree
years residence in Canada, no matter what
bis character mnay be, whether 'moral or
immoral, criminal or otherwise, may make
application for a certificate as a naturalized
British subject.

JUNE 9, 1903
H on. Mr. SCOTT-Not unless lie is certi- another point, and that is, what provisions
are there for the settler who bas obtalned
fied to lie of good cliaracter.
bis naturalization papers and who bas deÉon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That ts a very posited tbem elsewhere-for instance wben
lei applylng for bis patent lie muet send
easy thlng to get. The particuler party to
to the land office
wbich lie attachies bis alleglance, I fancy, bis naturalization papers
otber furnish ihm witb ln the Departrnent of the Interlor-and who
wll l n soine way or
bis naturala certificate of good character. If you are afterwards may destre to have
court discretion as to the ization papers to use in court, or somewhere
going to give the
machinery provlded
issuance of naturalization, let the court exer- else, Is there any cbeap
tbe principles on by -%hich we can get a duplicate certificate
cise discretion and define
find now that wben
wbich the court lias to act. 1 arn satisfied for sucli occasions ? We
should be given a man applies under our local franchise, the
the broadest discretion
be placed on the list,
judges as to whom they should naturalize, Act of Manitoba, to
to work at ail salle- the registration clerk may require frorn hlm
but if the Act Is going
naturalization papers,
factorily, it seems to me the ground shouid the production of his
court should act ln and tliey may he hiere in Ottawa, or anybe deftned upon wblch tbe
be well to look at
refusing an application. 1 was under a mis- wvbere. I think It would
I read the Bill first, tbat the Act and see whetber some reasonably
apprebension, when
migbt be adopttbe applicant bad to appear before the court. safe and convenient method
the case. The language ed by which a man, under sncb circumI find that le not
a duplicate certificate
of the Bill wlll not warrant the applicafit stances could obtain
a court. The court may at a minimum cost. I do flot know wheappearing before
1 amn asicing for
exercise Its discretion without the apphi- ther that ls provlded for.
Information.
cant belng present.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-In our province
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tbftt la riglit.
every court muet supply copies of docuHon. Mr. LANDERRIN-The court wll ments when requlred. 1 suppose it ls the
not know whether lie signed tbe applica. same ln Manitoba.
tion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Our court records are
Mr. LOUGHEED-No, the court wl few and far between.
Hon.
bave to accept the application. At the samE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Last session we passed
Urne the only izaproveffent on the old Ael San Act requîring the clerks to send docula tbat tbree weeks' notice of the intentioi r ments to Ottawa, wbere they are, registerto apply muet be posted up, and no othe red.
provision, so far as I can observe, iii an,
The clause was adopted.
way alters the old Act.
On the clause relating to New Brunswick:
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I know very little
In New Brunswick, to the Supreme Court or
about this matter that Is under consideraprius ' durlng lis
discussing It here to-day the court of assize and 1nisi the jurlsdiction:0f
tion, but we are
,ntsittingsthe allencounty wjthinto the county court
wch ln the resides, or
sad
snditpolitical
apparently only from a
wbile naturalization *papers are necessary or such county.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause was subfor otber thinga, ,and mast as irnportanlt as
ýmay enjoy after mitted to the law clerk, and as lt had been
the franchise, that an allen
1 rfer artiula la l operation without challenge for the last
citzen
becoing
1
are taking liomesteads in the forty years' I did flot care to change it.
to those who
mot sufficiently familiar wltb It myseif
Nortb--west. They have to be niaturalized arn
should be
tbey get their patents, and if you to know whether this clause
before
niake it cumbersome and expensive to that

cagd

class of people, yon are doing an injury
Hon. Mr. WOOD-The provisions are the
to the settler. whlcb 1 do not thinic this
as those in the clause relating to
House would contemplate for a mioment. samne
that phase Nova Scotia, and 1 think the amendment
So 1 would ash- you to consider
at the suggestion of the bon. the
of the question as one worthy of consider:i- made
on Speaker. la very good one, making the
obtain information
tion.

1 sliould hike to

272

SENATE

clause clearer. The conditions are just the
same ln our province-a county court judge
bas jurladiction ln more than one county.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It gives jurlaiction to
the Supreme Court also.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Tbere la a judge for
every county ln New Brunswick. The j.udge
may have three counties, but lie hblds court
ln each county, and tbls clause meets the
case..
Hon. *Mr. SCOTT-I will have the law
clerk look Into It before the committee sits
again.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If one
county court judge holds court ln two or
three counties, I think the clause ineets
tbe case.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-The amendment suggested by the Speaker makres the matter
perfectly clear. It seema to me there can
be no mîstake if that wordlng la adopted.
It does, not seern clear as lt stands ln the
Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I t*hink myseif It la
cavllling at the Engllsh langunage.
I think
It clear te any one who wlsbes to understand It. However, I bave no objection to
make tbe change.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In case the Secretary of State bolds over this clause for f urther consideration, 1 notice that provision
la made that w*ben the matter ls to be determined by the Supreme C'ourt, àt must be
durlng the slttlng of the court, but wben
It cornes to the county court It does not
provlde that It shall be during the sittlng-.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe court la only there
whlle the judge la sitting. Howeyer, I wlll
let the Bill stand and refer It to the law
clerk. I thougbt, as none of these clauses
had ever been cbailenged before, and as
they had 'been revised over and over again
by different lawyers, there would be xuo necessity to change tbem.
Hon. Mr. FEUGUSOIN-Because this bas
been the law before, it may not necessarily
be right.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-In the province of New
Brunswick, 1 think it la perfectly right. An
allen can male application to tbe.clerk of
the court at any tirne. He can only get
before the court wben It la sitting ln the
county.
If I remember rlgbt, there la a
county court la every county of New Bruns'wick. There are only four or five judges,
but each county bas lts own court.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We wll let it stand untii to-morrow and make f-urther lnquiry
about It.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On clause 2,.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause bas been
prepared by the cefe justice of the court
of Manitoba wbo has had experience, and
I presurne Is qualified to give advice on tbe
subject. I bave reduced tbe Urne, as I said
before, from six weeks to three weeks, wlthln wbicb tbe certificates must be posted. I
tblnk rny bon. friends are expectlng difficulties tat are not likeiy to arise. Iu the
firat place the officiai wbo records the oath
must be satisfied that the applicant la a
person of good character, and must be satisfied he la telling the trutb. You canuo't get
any better rnethod of doing it unlesa yen
bloc], the whole thlng. You cannot throw
difficulties in the way. My bon friend
from Grey wanted te shorten the metbod
by which a mnan could be naturalized.
In Uhe Nortb-west Territories we reuure
to surround lt hy safeguards more carefully:
that la contained in the proposai requiring
the certificate to be fihed and posted as discussed.
And those safeguards were contalned ln the proposai to require tic certificate to be flled ln the office of the clerk
of the peace and be exhiblted in court in the
way we bave discussed.
That ls a move
la tbe rigbt direction.
The law Is much
simpler tban it was before, and, notwithstanding my hbon. friend's opinion if an improper character were brought before the
Judge, and if be were aware or tbe fact
tbat he was a person wbo ouglit not to be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It bas been put la the adnuitted, lt -would be perfectly proper for
hlm, under this, to urge bis own objection.
Revised Statutes.
He need nlot get that objection fromn anyHon. Mr'. FERGUSON-The 'world ls body else. I do net tbink a judge would be
growing wiser and new light niay be tbrown so slavis-hly bound by tbe law, if lie found
on it.
that an anarchiat was coming before hlm,
Hon. Mr. WOOD.

JUNE 9, 1903
i n the newv clause you give the judge the
the party
s ame discretion which you give to
vbo grants the certificate, that would cover
bie ground. I would suggest to the hon.
,entleman from Calgary eome provision of
bat klnd.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I think. we are surr *ounding It wltb sufficient checks and
,uards. I move the adoption of the clause
as It stands.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I mnust say that
1n niy judgmont, with the exception of the
three weeks' notice, It Is no improvement
wbatover on the old Act, because the saine
provision exlsts under the old Act, practically, as under tbe new. That Is the clause
ln section 11 of the old Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It givos opportunities
to the public to discover If thoro is auy objection offorod. I do not think It is wise to
put in too maniy checks.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me,
wbile wo are passing an Act of this cbaracter, whicb is for the purpose of protectlng
thue exorcise of the franchise, that we should
malte it us coinpleto as possible.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I undorstood the hon.
Socretary of State proposed to add a clause,
giviug a discretion to the judgo.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot thlnk we can
Improve It ln that respect. 1 do not tblnk
We
we should have too many checks.
ought to encourage naturalizatioui. The objection of the "hou. gentleman from Grey
(Hou. ',%r. Landerltin) was that this Act
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbat is not clear was too cumborsome, that it dofeatod is
to my mind.
objoct, and now bon. gentlemen want more
difficulties. I tbink there are sufficlent difSCOTT-The clause reads:
Hon. McNl.
bas
If such opposition has been filed or objection ficultios ln the way. The application
offered the court shall hear and deteraine the to pass tbrough two tribunals, first the
samie in a sumrnary way and shall malte sucb magistrato or judge. and then the court. I
direction or order in the premises as the justbink wo had better let it go as it is.
tice of the case requires.
is hie
The clause was adopted.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbat ordor
', Tbe certificates are pregoing to nuake
Hon. Mr. MacKEEN, from the committee,
pared in the meantime.
reported tbat they biad made some progross
Honi. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe judge bas the dis- with the Bill. and asked leave to sit again
cretion thore. clonrly. If bie is aware o! any to-morrow.

as to authorize hlm to be naturalizod. If
lie did, bie certainly would not ho fit for
the position of juage.
Hou. 31r. DANDURAND-The question
that Nvas put, to wbich the bon, gentleman
made answor, ivas 'How would the judge,
if bie iras aware, of biis own knowledge,
tlhat the nian was a criminal, ho able to take
cognizance of tbatV He would requiro
somo ovidence of record as to tbat. Ris
own knowlodge does flot malte evldence. It
lias to go iinto tbe record. Tbe fact must
be establisbed by some potition against tbhe
man. If tlue clork of the court bas the reeords of the facts, then the judge might be
mnade officially awareo0f It, but It Is not bis
own knowlodge of the facts, because hoe
would thon be acting upon sucb a wlde
range o! discretiqnary power tbat I thlnk
it would be propor for parliamenit to limit
tlîe discretion. That is why I was answoriug the bon. gentleuman's lnquiry, that if
discretioîî was givon to the judge, It must
be withîn limitations.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The judgo sees an offonce committed lu open court; does hoe not
talte cognizauceo0f it '?
Hon. Mr~. DANDURAND-Yes, bocause ho
lias tbere the rigbt to discipline as proscribod by law.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-I mlgbt point out
tlîat the certificato is not made by tbe judge.
It is simpîr prosented to tbe judgo.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-He makes the order.

t'en son wby tbe mnan should not get the cortificate. lie orders tlue doerk not to issue It.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If flue sanie tbing occnrred lu this proposed clause whlicb occurs
ln section 10 of the -lct,I would bo disposed
to tlîink nothing more was necessary. If

is

FEDERAL 01IL CO'MPANY BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Tho0 Order of the Daý,y being called
Second reading (Bill 30) an Act to incorporate
the Federai 011 Coimpany.-(Hofl. Mr. Dandurand.)

274 ,

274
SENATE

Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-The hon, gentlemran front Sttldacona (Hon. Mr. Landry)
having prompted me to adjoura the adoption
of the report of the Standing Orders Committee, I wI have to ask that this order be discharged. but before doing so, I should like to
draw the attent ton of the Senate to the maiiner of proceedings of the Senate under rules
43 and 44. Wlien the question was raised by
the lion. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Landry), the
Spenker declnred tîtat the procedure had
bee-n constant in the Senate as to, moving,
without one day's notice, the acceptance of
the report and the suspension of thte rules.
The hon. Speaker ln declaring that thîs was
the c-on-stant . )ractice. should have added
at the same time that it was according to
the ruies of titis Chamber. Ln fact clause
43 rends as follows :
If a report recommends the suspension
tain rules with respect to a Bill, the
In charge thereof moves that those miles
pensed with la so far as they relate to
Bill.

of cersenator
be dissuch a

raison d'etme, inasmucbi as the senator is
given the rîght to, moi-e that the rules be,
suspended.
Hon. Mr.
gentleman ls
discussing a
He bas only
the Order of

LANDIIY-I think the lion.
entlrely out of order. He is
decision that bats been given.
one thlng to do, to moi-e tbat
the Day be dischisrged.

Hon. Mr. DANDULIAND-I was coming
to thiat motion, whicb I now make-that titis
Order of the Day lie discharged, and placed
on the Orders of the Day for Friday.
The motion was agreed to.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (79) An Act to Incorporate tbe Bank
0f Wininipeg.-tHoni. -.
%I. Young, in absence
of Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bll (69) An Act to incorporate the Northwest Coal and Coke Itailway Company.(Hon. Mr. W%ýond, lu absence of Hon. Mr.
Owen s.)

Then rule 44 says
Bill (42) An Act
espectlng the Alberta
Should the senator In charge thereof not move
Railway
Company.--(Hon.
Mm.
during the sitting that the rule or miles he dis- Central
pensed with, he wlll have to give notice that Young.)
on a future day he will move that the rule or
mIles be dispensed with In so far as they relate
to the Bill intituled, and so on.
CHINESE IMMIGRATION BILL.
1So 1 think that the point taken by the
lion, gentleman was a bad one, according
to these î-ules thnt I have rend, and
aithougli I do not ask hlm to wlthidraw btis
objection against the New Canadian Comnpany Bill, I wonder whether he would not
allow the Senate to reconsider its decision
on the Federal Oil Company Bill. to wbicli
lie bias no objection.

DEBATE ON SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The Order of tbe Day being called:
Resuming the adjourned dehate on the motion
for second readiag (Bill 82) an Act mespecting
and restmlcting Ohinese Immigration.-(Hou.
Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL,-I understood the lion. Secretary of State to say.
îvhen lie asked for the adjoumninent of this
The lion. debate, that lie had some amnelidments to
The SPEAKER-Aliow me.
suggest. M-lit I ask lmi if lie is pmepared
gentleman lias undertaken to reflect 011 My
to lay those amiendments before the Senate
If lie will rend a little beyond
decision.
before we t-estime the debate ?
whiere he read just now lie will see the distinction. Paragrapli 46, page 90, reads :
They are
Hion. M.Nr.
TEMýPLE«MAN-Yes.
Although the suspension of the rules recom- itot of a very important character. I hiave
mended to be dispensed with by a committee la .tltem bei-e. Thiere is aut ammurdmnent to clause
generalîr moved at the same sitting that the
S, defining w-ba.t 'landing ' mneans under te
report is presented, it Is only by sufferance.
Act, and perimitting the Chiinese crew 0f a
LANDRY-The lion. gentleman
Hon. -r.
steanie-, for instance, to land and disembark
(lid itot î-ead enougb.
cargoes. Lt also providcs for the transferHon. Mr. DANDURAND-ltules 43 and 44 ence of a Ciniese cî-ew front one î-essei to
sem to be veî-y clear as to the procedure aniother, and 1)eri-mts thienitVo land for that
1 observe put-pose. Under the la-w as it stood, handing
ilpoit thie r-eport of a comma-ittee.
The
thaqt clause 46 seeins to amend or modify for snchi pur-poses -woild he ihiegal.
clauises 43 z nrd 44, wichl then have no more aukicnmexit proposes to admit te Ilnding

JUNE 9, 1903

275

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-What despatchi?
of crews of Chinese vessels for the purpose
of loading and unloading that vessel, and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-A despatch sent by
for the purpose of transferring the crew of the hon. member himself to a man called
one vessel to another vessel, whlch was im- Parent.
possible before. Thcse are the only a mendHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Where did the
ments.
hon. gentleman see or liear of sucli a desHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Very lm- Patch ?
portant ameadmients.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If I am n ot mistaken,
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-They are of a 1 thinkl the hon. gentlemani hiaiseif toid us
triffing character, and do not affect the Bill that.
ln nny way.
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-So the lion. genThe SPEAKER-The hou. leader of the
tleman refers to a debaite that took place in
opposition would like to postpone this dis- this House.
cussion tili to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LA NDRY-To a debate that took
Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL--uuless
place iii tijis House, yes.
lion. gentlemen wish to sit to-night.
Hon.

Mr.

SCOTT-Say

Thursday,

first

Orcler.
Hon. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-Yes.
1 would suggest that the ûmeudments which
he proposes to make to the Bill should be
placed on the Order paper, se that we wll
know bow they affect the Bill. To my mimd,
it ls n great concession to those who em-

ploy Chinese in the work or the employment
te whichi he bas referred, and I should like to
see how it reads. I move that the debate
be postponed tili Thursday.
The motion was eagreed to.

MEM,%ORANDUM% RE WILLIAM HENRY
PARENT.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is very
vague, because my hon. friend could have
turined Up that debate, and told us whiat
hie wanted, or mentioned what hoe wanted
about tlmt debate. He lias spokeil about
a memorandum iii which my ijame appeared,
and iîow It is a telegram I inight have sent
to, some one. If my hon. friend would
particularize a littie more 1 miglit help
hlm lu procuring the telegram, but If 'it is
something ln the debates, 1 suppose I arn
as well informed as lie is with reference
to what the hon. g-entleman means.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot understand
what the hion. gentleman means.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is not a questien of a man. Lt is aî question of a memorandumn.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The lion. gentleman spolie of a memiorandumi that hoe could
easily get, ln which my name appenred. He
did not say what kind of a memorandum,
but it wvns an allusion to a mnemorandum
whicli lio conld lay before tie House concerniug nie. and whicli would reflect upon
me to a certain extent, to what extent 1 did
not kniow, because I did not kniow the memI amn interested to be informed
orandum.
as to what tliat memorandum is, or
if lie lias made iquiry. If hoe will particularize a littie. 1 will trY and lielp) 1dm to
obtalu tliat miemorandumn. I gii surprîsed
tie lion. genîtlemann Nvould speak ill n MYSterions wvay of a document concerniing me,
and corne before the leuse and say: 'Well,

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tlie memnoranduni
wvas the dlespatch sent by the hon. niemben
to that party, to which I wns alluding at the
time.

I referred to soilletiliig wliicli took pince iii
this Chnmber iii a speech, n document which
the lien, gentleman iliseif referred to.' If
thajt is ail1 tue Ilin. genitlimnul liad ini lus

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I should like te
nasl the bon. gentleman from Stadaconai
hie bas laid his band on the memorandum
which wvas te be placed before the House,
to which nîy namne appears ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I pnomised to give
the hou. gentlemanî the name of the party
lu n memorandum in whiich bis nme appeared. It is n man called William Henry
Parent. I men thiat mouii whio wns ongaged by the hon. member-

SENATE

276

of one Parent-that la flot the mysterious
document hie spoke of. I will give the bon.
gentleman until to-morrow to find it. He
is a very lndustrious member of the Senate,
and If hie can tind the document hie spoke Gf
or telegrams or memiorandums, let him proHon. Mr. LANDRY-Did the lion, gentle- duce them, but I want 1dm tied down to a
man reaIly forget that telegram ?
document.
Hon. Mr. DANDURANI)-My hon. friend
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WilI the lion. gentleof 'course Is 0f the age 0f discretion. He maîî take it upoîî hlimself to say that bie did
shiould bave -a sense of responsibility about not sign the telegram to which 1 have alhilm, and display It at times. He speaks of luded ?
telegrams lu coniiection witx bis reflection
Hou. M1r. DANDUIIAND-Certalnly flot.
about a memorandum concerning mie. I
should like to have hlmi bring the document
The Senate adjourned.
to wbicb bie referred. WIIl the bon. gentieIman take a week and bring before the Chamber tbis telegram of wbicb bie speaks ?
mind, ivell and good, but 1 un borind thiere
sbould bie no retiection upon my ixame, xvitbout giving tbe bon. gentleman a chance to
substantiate tbat very flimsy and fraîl accusation.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wilI bring It If
THE SENATE.
the hon, gentleman wlll hand It to me, bieottaiwa, IVedit".Iduy, Jue 10, 1903.
ýcause 1 suppose lie bas It ln bis possession.
Hie framed the telegrnm. I want tixe hon.
The SPEAKER took, the Chair at Three
ýgentIeman to understand tbe matter. Can
o'clock.
'we not call a telegram a memnorandum ?
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes, I will allow
the lion. gentleman to cixîl the document lie
BILL INTRODUCED.
,peaiks of by -whlatever naie lie pleases,
Bill (112) An Act to Incorporate the Canprovided that bie Is manly enough to put it
adian Industrial Corporation, Limited.on the Table of this House.
(Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)
Hou. '. LANLiUY-1 'ili produce what
the li.iji. gentleman said bimiself ; hie will DEPARTMENT 0F PUBLIC PRINTING
AND STATIONERY ACT AMENDfind it in the Senate Dehates lxi 1900. It
MENT BILL.
,was blmnself thiat came Ixere Ixefore this
House and stated that a maxi called Paient
FIRST READING.
was a canvasser that bie employed in the
A message was recelved from the House
elections. The lion, gentleman telegrapbed
of Commons wlth Bill (182) An Act to amend
hlm and sent hlm precisely that document I
Chapter 27 of the Revised Statutes respecthave alluded to. He was ln communication
ing, the Department of Public Printing and
witb Parent and sent foir hlm to come to
Stationery.
his office in Montreal and found that Parent
The Bill was read the first time.
was a drunkard.
Hou. '-\r. DANDURAND-Tlie hou. gentleunan need not repent a speech wvhichi I made
lIn tixis House and which appears ln the
L)ehates. I want lhlm to produce the documnt ýwici lie said w'as a mysterions one.
I arn soi'ry to take u-p the time of this House
discussixig suchi a flimsy accusation, but I
wavs boind to liave the lion, gentleman
tied dowui to that mysterious document, and
I give Iilmi the wixole session to find it. I-e
r7efers to a speech of mine lu whichi 1 spolze
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill ho
read a second time on Friday.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-T1his
is a. somewhat important Bill and 1 would
ask the bion. minister to explain its purport.
Hon. M.Nr.SCOTT-Tlîe primary object of
the Bil] 15 to legalize ail Ortler in Colîili
50(1e lin 1893. ini whicl tlio'
whiech vvas
standard for fixing thxe wages at the bureau
wVaS decided on. Thiat order lu connil set

277

JUNE 10, 1903

BOWELL-forth that ici order to prevent undue accre- 1Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
the wages: Could the hon, gentleman lay the order lu
tious of wages at the bureau.
payable at tbe other cities of the Dominion couacil to whlch hie refers on the Table ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is la the Bill, copied
should be taken as the standard, but particularly fixing the wages paid in the varions wvord for word.
prlnting offices ln Moutreal and Toronto as, Hou. Mr. POIRIER-Is there any truthi
tiiose payable 'at the bureau. That is onae lu a report I hiave heard that the goveruclause. Theai auother clause is to authorize mneut lntends to, abolish the Printing Bureau
the payment of accouuts that have beexa In- :altogetlaer
curred for Intercolonial printing la the
lIon. Mr. SCOTT-I think not. I ar n ot
maritime provinces aud Priuce* Edward Is- aware of the report. Occasionally persons
land ou wbat may be a fair aud reasonable havse ndvocated that the priaitiug ought to
basis. Up to receutly the Auditor Geucral be done elsewhiere. It would probably bc
lîaid no liesitation in allowliig the King's soine advautage to printiug offices lu other
Printer to certify, but recently, on a decision p~arts of the Dominion to bave It distributed,
lie obtained froin the Departmeut of Justice, lent 1 do not tbluk at the present there is
hie took exception to tie forni of certificate. auy policy on the part of the goverument
The foirm of certificate origiually was that te abollsh it.
the work should be doue at rates imot higlier
The motion was agreed to.
than the rates prevailiug at the bureau, lu
DESJARDINS CANAL BILL.
Ottawa. Iu inany of the smiller offices ia !
the maritime provinces it is quite impossible

FIS

EAIG

A
that thiey could do the %vorkas claply as
House
at the bureau, and cousequeutly thé certîfi- 1,Amessage was received from the
wlth Bill (183). An Act respectcate provided tiant it shonld be at tlie fair of Commous
average rate paid for commercial worlc i ing thle Desjardinus Canal.
Th e Bill was read the first time.
the viciuiity, and It is to authorize a change!
Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved tbat the Bill be
the priailu the formi of certticate. Those are
reand the second time ou lriday next. He
cipal provisions.
Bill is to confirm
Houi. Sir .MACKENZIE BOWELL-And said :The object of the
there bas been
I suppose to give authiority to have the ivork soule deeds about whlch
somne doubt at Hamilton.
the bureau ?
doue elsewhere thanl at
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I suplaue 5reds
Hoi. M.
COT-Ye.
Caus 5 rnds pose it is some oîd matter counected with
lion Mr SCOT-Ys.
Provided that nothiug lu tbis Act shahl re- the Desjardins Caual ?

cauire that stationery and priuting for the pur
ofrigsm
lo.M.SOTYs
poses of the Intercoloulal Railway or the Prince.
Edward Island Railway shall be obtalned or
case old tîties at Hamilton.
doue lu the said establishment lu auy
where such statiouery and priutlug may be more IHon. Sir MACKEiNZIE BOWEL-If mny
convenieu'tly Procured elsewhere at a cost nt
a suit arose ont of
exceedlng custoruary aud fair commercial rates recollectioli serves me, in Hamilton n short
for similar work or supplies iu similar quanti- I 1 titie to somüe property
time ugo, In whica a very large amount was
ties.
arislng out of the Desjardins canIu this way :-involved,
The old law rend
ht
rbbydaswt
At rates uot lu excess of the rates that might ail. I tpoaldeswilth.
be charged lu the Priuting Bureau at Ottawa.
I see it has to do
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes,
That was passed in 1893, and the statute
some properties lu Hamilauthorized the priutiug conuected with tbe wvith the titles of
ltercolonial Railway and Prince Edward toi].
Island Railway to be performed lu the pro- 1 The motion wvas agreed to.
vince where the service was being rendered, iPUBLIC WORKS ACT AMENDMENT
BIL
anîd it attacbed thereto a form of certificate
Kîuig's Printer to sigii. The AuditorBIL
for the
A message was raceived from the House
Genieral liad made no objection to that for
mn
uAtt
13
i
scrupuîous o'Cmoswt
about ten yen rs, but he becamne
Works Act.
oaa tue subject receutly, aud it becomes ne- thie Public
The Bill was rend tie tirst time.
cessary to change the forîn of certificate.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved tbat the Bill
bc read the second time on Friday next.
Hie said : Thîis aiso is to overcome some
scrupies of the Auditor General. For many
ye:trs lu the public works they have been
IDi the habit of letting contracts without
tender where the amount was $5,000 and
under. That bas been the practice for a
great many years. Recently the Auditor
Gênerai bas stuck at tbat too. lie does ilot
consIder the Publie Workg Act authorizes
It, so this Is to enable the minister to give
out smail contracts by day labour and witbout tender.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
reason 1 asked the question was I thought
It mighit be a Bill to, carry out the promises
wbicb were made by the Minister of Marine and Fisheries at Montreai during the
elections, that a oertain portion of the dufies devolvlng on the Minister of Public
Works sbould be transferred tn the De~partment of Marine and Fisheries.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.

Hon. MiNr.
DANDURAND-No. The hon.
gentleman refers to the New Canadian
Company.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The objection Is that the notices werc flot publslied ln ail the provinces.
lion. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbat is the objection that was taken ln the committee
two or tbree weeks ago. Notice had been
given ln the province of Quebec only, and
in the official 'Gazette.' As there was a
clause of the Bill that allowed the company to do business in the other provinces.,
the consideration of the petition was suspended in order to give the proinoter an
opportunity of advertising throughout the
wvhoie Dominion.
The advertising was
started throughout the provinces, and upon
the committee being satisfied that this notice
had appeared ln ail the provinces, tbey recommend that the mile be suspended as to
the delay durlng wlche these notices had
to run.

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It bis
Hon. Sir MACIENZIE BOWELL-It has liot been published ln ail! the provinces.
nothing to do with thnt ?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It bias been
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nothing.
slInce tben, but te number of weeks durinig
wvicbl the notice had to run bas xîot yet been
The motion was agreed to.
completed, and it Is because of that fact
FEDERAL OIL COMNPANY'S BILL.
they ask tlîat the mule be suspenided.
SUSPENSION 0F RULES 49C AND 50.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved :
That Rule 49e and 50 be suspended ln so far
as they relate to the petition of the Féderal
Oil Company, as recommended in the svn
teenth report of the Standing Commlttee on
Standing Orders.

lion. '.%I. LANDRY-Is this a mrothn)i that
could initiate a debate ?
The SPEAKER-No. It does not Initiate
a new subject for discussion, so it is not a
sîlecial motion.

NEW CANADIAN COMPANY'S BI LL.
RULE 49C SUSPENDED.

Hon. Mml.DANDURAND moved:
That Rule 49e be suspended In so far as it
relates to the pétition of the New Canalian

Company, as recommended ln the sixteenth report of the Standing Commlttee on Stand:ng
Orders.

Hon. '.%I. DeBOUCHERVILLE-What

is

the objection to this ?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-So we cannot have
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The objection
any debate on that question ?
Is still less than 10 the other one.
Theme
The SPEAKER-Yon can have a debate is a clause of the Bill-clause 1lwhici provides tint the company mnay carry
if you want to. The motion is carried.
and transfer passengers and mails, goods,
Hon. MNr.LANDRY-On a division !
inerchandise and freight to and from Gaspé
Hon. _Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Is tbis basin and Gaspé bay. and any other ports
a motion to allow a petition 10 be received iii Canada or lu Great Britain, or any fomeign
ithough it lias not followed the mules of couintries. The promioters have bound themIlle House ? It is a petition to incorporate ,elves 10 strilie ont the words 'and any
a coiny
to operate in Gaspé.
other ports in Canada,' whielh leaves tie Bill

JUNE 10, 1903
ln perfect order, the notice
the province of Quebec.

being

for

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-I do not
thlnk It puts the Bill ln perfect order.

diction to the federal power; but the second.
clause, iii which it is declared that the
company ls to be a work for the general
advantage of Canada, brings it witbin the
scope of this parliament.

Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I amn simply
quoting the words of tbe report of the cornrnittee, to whicb I do flot belong.

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-it must
be according to the 92nd section of the
British North America Act :
DeBOUCHERVILLE-This
M1r.
Hon.
Snch works as. although whoily sltuated wlthconipany ls authorized to work in the la the province are before or atter their execution declared by the parliament of Canada ta
county of Gaspé.
bp for the generai advantage of Canada or for
the advantage of two or more of the provinces.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-And on the
But they are not yet declared.
111gl seas.
Hon. Mhr. SCOTT-Yes, they are ln the
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If It I.
to work on the bigb seas, the notice ought Bill.
to have been given ln ail the provinces.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-We bave
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Not necessarlly. not the Bill before us. We have only the
petition.

DeBOUCHERVILLE-The
Mr.
Hon.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The Bill is becompany intend to strike out the clause by
fore this Chamber, inasrnuch as It bas had
whicb they bave the rigbit to operate on the
its :first reading. It bas paSSed the House
111gb seas ?
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-No, they slrnpiy
intend to strike ont tbe words which autborized tbem to call at any port ln Canada,
lmiting the power to eall to one port ln the
pirovince of Quebec.

of Commons.
0

Tbe motion was agreed to on a division.
THE VOLUNTEER MILITIA.
INQUIRY,

Hon. Mr. LAND±tY inqulred:.

DeBOUCHERVILLE-This
M~r.
Hon.
company will have business only ln the
Do the milltary authorities Intend, during the
next trainlaz ot the volunteer miIitia, to grant
province of Quebec ?
companies of the different reglments

the French
Instructors knowlng the two officiai languages
p! the country and able to give la French ail
the necesary explanations ?
Hlon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Then I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, where they are
submlt the Bill oughit not to be brougbt
for the 92nd clause of the British avallable.
here,

Hon. Mr. DA.NDURAND-Yes.

North America Act provides thiat ainongst
the exclusive powers of provincial legisiature are local works and undertakings
otber than sucb as are of the following
classes, 'ues of steaim or other ships, railways, canais, telegraphs aîîd otiier works
and undertakings connecting the province
with any other or others of the provinces,
or extending beyond the limits of the provin ce!'
Works wboily situated in the province
corne under the purview of the local legislature. This incorporation ought to takE
place in the province of Quebec and not
here. This is a very important point. We
are trespassing upon provincial rigbts.

DISTRIBUTION 0F. ACCOUTREMENTS
TO REGIMENTS AT THREE
RIVER S.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
1. Among the troops called ont for camp at
Three Rivers on the SOth of the present month,
are there any regiments which are flot yet provided with-.the required accoutrements ?
2. And Is It the intention of the government to
*cause these accoutrements to lie dlstributed to
them forthwith. before these men leave for
camp ?
3. What regiments have been s0 cailed out
which are not provided wlth the regulation acc:outrements ?
4. Why have they flot yet been so provided ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-AIl necessary equipment wili be issued to corps to encamup at
Hon. '-%r. DANDUItAND-Tlere are very
-of
many clauses of this Bill which give juris. *Tbree Rivers, UPOn the reconirnendation

280

SENATE

the district officer commanding As regards
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Of course, the
the Oliver equipment, it le issued only up'on creations of parliament are always of moral
the certificate of the district officer coin- beings.
mandlng that the corps lbas proper accomHon. Mr. POILI[ER-May I ask the lion.
modation ln which to store ItL
mover if thîs is to incorporate a company
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wlll point out to that Is already ln existence, or le it altothe bon. gentlemnan that lie lias omitted the gether a new Act ? The reaeon wliy 1
answer to one question, as to wbat regi- ask the question Is, on accourit of the
ments have been so caUled out which are vagueness of -the Bill-An Act to Incorporate
flot provided witb the regulation accoutre- the New Canadian Company, Limited.
Lt
ments.
bas no special significance in onie sense,
If it
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk the answer and ln othier senees It is sweeping.
cor ers ItL
'Ahi necessary equlpment will Is a new Act altogether, I would calI the
be issued to corps to encamp at Three attention of the bon. gentleman to the neRivers upoa the recommendatIon of the dis- cesslty of havlng somethlng more specille
trict officer commandlng.' No regimeat wll added to It when It goes hefore the coinbe lef t out If they secure the recommenda- mittee. As It is now, It means îxothing or
everythlng.
tion of the district officer commaudia.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-From w'hat I
NEW CANADIAN COM.%PANY BILL.
see of the Bill, I observe that they hiave nio
letters patent, eltlier provincial or federal,
SECOND READING.
Lt
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND moved the' sec- ln Canada glvlng tbemn legal riglits.
ond retidlng of Bill (83) An Act to incorpor- only affirmns tlxat lIt bas a legal existence
ate the New Canadian Company, Liînited. ln Great Britain, a legal existence runder
the ame of the New Canadian Company,
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-Will the hon. gentle- Llrnited.
If there are any good anxendman give ils an explanation of the Bill ?
mente suggested lu committee, very IlkIely
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The compnny tlxey wlll be well consldered.
aeke among other thinga, the right of enterHon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the lion. gentlelng Into contracte for the construction of maxi aware tbat the promoter
or manager
tramways, basins, docks, wharfs, elevators, of tixat company le
one of tie managers of
etc., and to, purchase, acquire, lease, and
the Oil Trust Company ?
dispose of lande, water-lots, etc., to conHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I only know
struct steamers, ligliters and other v-essels,
and to carry -and transport passengers, wliat the bon, gentleman stated to the Senate in a previous debate.
mails, goods, etc.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It le- more the facts
which are not contalned in the Bill that I
want to laquire into than those whicm are
there.
I have rend the Blill myscîf. Whio
are the promoters of the Bill, and who
the directors ? That le not la the Bill.
Hon. '.%r. DANDURAND-Tbe New Canadian corporation bas apparently a corporate
hife, and it seems to have been inêorporated
under the Conipanies' Act of Great Brîtaiîi,
for the purposes mentioned ln the preamble,
and I caiinot go beyond the preamiuie. I
have not before me the letters patent, whicli
contain the powers of this cornpany la Great
Britain.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That corporate hife
seemes to be very incorporeal.
Honu. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If it is only up) to
that point it le quite sufficient.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-AlI that 1 heard
sonnded
at that time was a naine tiih
simillar to a name mentioned in thils matter, but now I -have corne to the conclusion
that it le niot the saine party tixat the lion.
gentleman referred to.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the lion, genitleman enys the ame sounide the saine, lie
k no w s
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I knio%% l>ecause
there was a name mentioned iii the P'rovincil Act and a ianme niientioned la thc
Prospectus of the New Canai.dian Conîpin3.
I lad those two documents before nie. and
the lion. gentleman read theie.
They were

JUNE 10, 1903

two parties wlio seemed to have the saine
I bave found since, in
ame, Carpenter.
comparing tlîem, tbat they are îlot the same
Party.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It Is the fatiier and
thbe son.
Hon. Mr.
what I Say.

DANDURAND-It

confirms

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I axa
glad the lion, gentleman raised tixis question, not partlcularly ln reference to Ilils
Bill, w-hich appears ta have for ils objeet
tbe grauting of powers ta the New Canaidian
Company, Llmlted, of Englaad. Lt la flot
I amn aware of
an unusual tblng ta do.
that tact from the past action of tis
House and the other, but wliat I want ta
cail the attention of tue Hanse to, is the
tact tlint so many of these Bis receiving
their second readîng bere and referred ta
the commiLttees witlîaut explanatian, anad
wben we reach tbe cammlttee stage. The
bon, gentleman knows what took place tis
moruing,, when about fitteen or sixteen Bis
were rusbed tbrougb nt rallroad speed, nnd
wbea questions were asked as ta tbe ohject of the Bill and what the intentions of
the promioters were, la many cases thore
w-as no, one tbere ta give the explanation,
and attention was then called ta the tact
tliat sa xnay of these Bis -were intraducci
in this Hanse juat la that perfiunctor)' manlner la wlieb we bave beeni conducting buainess lu, times past, and 1 da hope thnt iu
future some member -will insiat updin an
expianation of the ebaracter of each Bill,
and wbat its objecta are lii order thet thase
who are nat niembers lu the comini4ttee to
wbich it la referred may kaow the suhjects
For that
upon whicb thîey are legialating.
reason I bave taken the liberty of ciling
attention ta the point, and more particuiarly
tram what occurred la the Rillway Calamittee.
Hall. Mr. LANDRY-Could the lion, gentleman let us know If this New Canaclian
Company, -wbleb bas been incorporated lin
Eaghaiud, la thie saine New, Canadiani Comnpany of whi-li I rend the prospectus the
other day ?
SPEAKER-I do îîot care ta interfere,
M-Nr.
but reaily, the proceedinga of tue Senate
have degenerated inita a mere conversation.

Both bon. gentlemen have already spoken
several times on this suhject.
Hon. Mr. DANDUtANL)-I :iw.aYs Ilke
to be as courteous as possible by answertng
questions put to me.
The -motion was agreed to, and the Bill
ivas read the second time.
FAST ATLANTIC SERVICE.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-I -%vislh
to cail the attention of the government to
a. telegramn whieh appeared lu last niglît's
Montreai 'Star.' Lt reads as foliows
For Fast Atlantic Service and British Ministers
Expeet Their Fulfilment.
(Special by Cable from the Specil Correspon dent of the Montreal 'Star' in London.)
Londcn. Jane 9.-Last night's debate ln the
Houss of Commons on the mail subsidy ta the
Canadian Pacifie Empresc steamers showed that
the British governmelit was continually pressing the Canadian governmefit ta complete the
through fast service to the far east by an effec-.
tive Atlantic iink.
Mr. Austen Chamberlain, repling ta Mr.
James Caldwell. admitted that the expectations
wlth 'which the British governmeflt bad subsidized the Pacifie steamers had flot been fuifilled. 1The present service ta China andi Japan
la of very littie advantage as a mail service,'
he isaid. ' The revenue obtained from letters
and packages golng that way bore no proportion to the British subsldy. The British government hail gone ta the utmost limita ln assentlng to the renewai of the Canadian Pacifie
contract for five yesrs. ia the hope that the Atlantic service wouid then be an accompliahed
tact andi a furtber qulckenlng of the Pacifie side
bas made the route of reai imperfl value. If
these resuits were not achleved. it wac uniikeiy
the British treasury or post office wouid cancur
ln the extension of the contract on the present
basic.
I understanfi that the Canadian government,
when seeklng a renewai of the Canadian Pacifie
subsldy. gave the fuliest piedges to the British
government as ta their earnest Intention ta
secure a fast Atlantic service lmmediateiy. The
British goverament bas flot yet recelvefi any
advices fram Ottawa of the recuit of the iatest
Invitation for tenders, but certalnly expect the
early fulfilment of the Canadian government'5s
Pledges.
This, the Secretary of State wlll see, bas
a serions side to it. Il appears that the
government has been pledged to do certain
things in coasideration 0f the subsidy wbich
was granted for the Pacifie service and
ivhich Mr. «Chamberlain complained bas flot
been fulfilled. Now, we ail know that priar
to the resignaition of the late goverament,
Sir Charles Tupper lad effecte-d an agreement with a Canadian company for the
establishment of a fast Atlantic service,
and on the accession ta power of the pre-

282

SENATE

sent governmnent tbey set that agreement
aside. Silce that time nothing bas been
done to accomplish the object which the
late governmnt had in view, further than
to ask for tenders and to take certain steps
,which, la the opinion of Mr. Austen Chamberlain, have Dot been fulfhled. Now, It is
very important that the reputation of Canada should not be lnjured by statements
of this kLnd. If these pledges have been
mnade, they should be carried out to the
very letter, no matter what the consequenices. It would be an exceedingly serious
matter If for any neglect on our part the
Imperial goverament should wlthdraw the
subsidy which hias been given for the mail
service to the line of steamers running froun
Victoria and Vancouver to Japan and
China. That is a trade that we are desirous of having continued. I have a distinct recollection thart It was after some
littie pressure and a good ideal of difficulty
that Sir Charles Tupper, when Hlgb Coinmissioner In England, persuaded the Imperlai goveriument of the necessity for rendering aid whlch would not only establish, but
perpetuate a line of steamers creating n
trade between the Orient and Canada. The

secure tenders that w6juld be acceptable for
the improved service across the Atlantic.
Up to the present time they have flot succeeded ia obtainlng any. off ers whlch, in their
judgment, would be of sufficient advantage
to this country to accept them. I speak
now without any real knowledge of It, but
It Is possible the subject may have been
discussed with the minister wvhen lu England last year. I do flot kîîow wvhether it
was or flot, but certainly no communication
lias been received of the character my lion.
friend adverts to, and as they have already
entered into a five years agreemenît witlî
the Pacifie line, we have some considerable
Urne aliead to consider what course we
ought to take.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Tlîe
only objection I have to the statement nmade
by the hon. gentleman is his remark tiiot
this is the statement of a reporter withi a
somewhat vivld imagination. The article
says tthey are the utterances of Mr. Chamberlain, and bie only repeats them. I hope
there will be some body else In power to
look after tlîls matter before five years
expire.

Secretary of State will readily admit tluat
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Wlien the bon. genstatements of this character, made in the tleman snys that up to date the government
imperial parliament, must have a tendency lias received no tender which would justlfy

to injure to a certain extent the reputation tbem la establlshlng a fast lîne, does he Inof any country that d9es not carry mi;t clude lu that the two last tenders ?
implicitly the pledges it has made.
It is
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes, certainly.
the only apology I biave to make for calling
attention to tue matter at tue present turne.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
I look upon it as a very serions statement
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I rise to a quesmade by a minber of the imperial governtion of privilege. Last evening, on the moment, and one wbich shauld be explnined
tion to adjoura I asked the hon, gentleman
or, if uot correct, repudiated at the earliest
from Stadacona if be bad made incjuiry
p)ossible moment.
Hon. MNr.SCOTT-It inight be serions if
there was any real foundation for IL. 1
eýoisider the article the product of some rep)orter wvith a very.~vivid ima gination. I arn
not aware that any pressure lias l)eeuI
brouglit to bear on the Canadiati cabinet
of recent years iii coînnectiou witu the fast
huie on the Atlantic. I (d0 nl :Iow prop)ose
to discuss the objections tiiere wvere to tue
Àlau proposition liu 1896.
Thjis government turiied it dowa ecus they did ujot
thiiik it one that they could give tlieir*
hearty supp)ort to. Tue goverumiieut lia ve..
on two or tliree occasionis. endeavoured to
Hon. Sir MAkCKENZIE BOWELL.

concerning a memorandum %vhich lie hiad
referred to In this House with whichi ie connected my Dame. I consider hie answered lu
an unsatisfactory way, from mny point of
view.
1 amn not very sensitive.
Anything
the lion, gentleman would say within the
lieariiig of gentlemen froni the province of
Quebec I would not mmnd, even if there

were innuendoes or aspersions, iniasmuch as
I arn as well known, I suppose, throughout
the province of Quebec as he is hirnself
but as bis remark was made witliin the
hearinig of gentlemen outside of the province of Quebec and corning froui a distance. who do niot kiiow of tijeir collezigues

283

JUNE 10, 1903
as well as of tliose wlio live in their neiglibourhood, I thouglit 1 owed lt to mayseif to
ask the lion. gentleman if lie Intended to
substantiate lis dlsguised charge or withdraw ItL Those wlio were present lieard the
answer lie made. Now, I want to read wliat
tooli place on the 27tli of May, and asli again
If the bion. gentleman lias anytling to say.
We were on a question put by the lion.
gentleman concerning a mnemorandumn that
liad been posslbly delivered to the Prime
Minister. I asked wvhat memorandum lie
The. lion. gentleman amreferred to.
swered :
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn sorry the bon. gentleman is always in the dark like tbat, but lhe
might be enlightened I thought. as in the past
In other memorandumxs in whlch bis naine was
concerned when the last elections took place.
But I wouid say for the information o! the bon.
grntlemnan. it ia a memorandum on the school
question.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Wliy does not the
lion, gentleman say so ia bis notice ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That la what I amn saylng now. I give that for the hon. geatleman's
own sake. and not for the lionourable minister
wlio knows ail about I. He knows It ls on the

school question, but as the hon. member thought
lie was not well inform id. I am giving hlm
tlîis supplementary inf-irmation exclusively for
bis owa use.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I should like the
hon, gentleman to bie a little more precise as
to the other memorandum to whldh he referred
ln wblch he says my namne appears. I neyer
remember a memorandum brought before this
House in wbich my namne appears.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not ln the House-in the
courts.
Tlie otlier evening I asked tlie lion. gentleHe said It
man about the memorandum.
lhd been mentioned la this House. 1 gave
him time to refer to it. 1 thouglit if lie liad
anythiug special in lis mind reiating to a
document in court bearing on my name,
detrimentally or otlierwise-if bie lad it in
mmid 1 miglit hlp 1dm ho get tlie document
befbre parliament. The lion, gentleman was

not pleased to ansu-er in a very clear way.
He spok-e of a document being liefore thie
courts of this country in whicli my name lias

I sliould lîkze to know if lie lias any answer
now to make, atter two weeks.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I suppose 1 shall
have full liberty to answer. The hon. gentleman ln his remarks on the 17th May
(page 199 of tlie Debates) sald:
I will give the bon. gentleman until the end et
the session.
But I suppose lie couid flot wait until the
end of the session so yesterday lie sprang
tlie question on the House witliout telling
me tliat lie was going to ask me that question, and I was flot prepared yesterday to
answer liim as fully as I Intended to do.
In vlew of the fact that lie gave me to the
end of the session, wlien lie cornes to ask
for new details lie sliouid at least have liad
the courtesy to tell me lie wvas going to bringthe matter up at this stage. He miglit liave
done so to-day. At ail e.vents I amn prepared.
I told the lion. gentleman yesterday it was ln
reference to tlie alleged plebiscite frauds
whicli were committed wlien the prohibition
referendum took place. Wlien I spolie in
tlie House on tlie 27tli May, I sald wliat the
quoted from the
bion. gentleman lbas
debates of tlîat day. The memorandum I
was referring to came up in this House on
the occasion of a reference to tlie plebiscite,
but it referred to wliat liad taken place ln
the hast general election. Tlie occasion tliat
brought it before the House was the discussion on the plebiscite, and tlie alleged
frauds connected witli IL I amn reported as
saying for tlie Information of tlie lion. gentleman, 'it is a memorandum on tlie school
question.' That is a clerical error. What 1
said was, it was not a memorandum on tlie
scliool question. On the 27tli of May, wlien
tlie hion. gentleman asked me about that
memorandum and said lie neyer remembered
a memorandum of tbe kind being brouglit
before tliis House, 1 replied:.
Not in the House-In tbe courts.
There is the mistake I made. The reverse
is true. It was in this House and not la
courts that the incident tooht place.

mest

appeared, witliout ludicating thei document.
It seems to be more damaging than eulogistic. I sliould like to knom, if the lion.
Hon. Mr. DJANDURAND-So there is no
genlemn las found that document or meniorandum or document in tlie courts.
memorandum wlicl bears my name whidi
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, I will tell the
lie said w-as before the courts of this country.
That was tlie question I put to tlie hou. lion. gentleman wblit it was. It was iii the
gentleman last evening. Lt was a question House and not ini the courts, unless you
w-hidi lie did not answer satisfactorily and consider this Hon-se as the highest court

SEINATE
of the land as the Senate ls generally called; riearly every day from Parent asking to bie m-

or speaker
ployed as election.
but I Nvill flot try to spllt bairs on tbis OC- during that an electioneering agent
Hon. Mr. DEVER-He was ainother Plgott.
I wlll say that this affirmation
casion and
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-He was s0 persistent
of mine 'flot in the House, in the courts'
an the contrary, not lu the courts, that one day. findlng that no one wanted ta go
should. be
otebcofOawcunyrmMnral
but lu the House. What was stated on the no genitleman caring ta leave bis office to, go
cn, that journey. I wlred Parent te, corne ta
1899, Is reported as follows
19th Mardi,
Montreal. He sald hie cauld make a speech. I
gave hlm some money ta go ta Labelle and
s;>eak for the local candidate ln the back parts
ALLEGED PLEBISCITE FRAUDS.
ef Ottawa caunty.
Furthier on, hie said
Debate R-2sumed.
That was my experience af the man who was
The Order af the Day beîng called:
qEmployed by the Dominion Alliance ta further
Resuming the adJourned Debate on the mo- the interests of prohibition ln the province of
tion by the Honourabie Sir Mackenzie Boweil,I Quebec.
K.C.M.G.-.
That was what the hon. gentleman said,
Tbat an humble address be presented to His
ExcellencY the Gevernor General; praylng that and ln bis speech hie affirms that lie was ta
Dis Excellency wclii cause ta bie laid betore the communication ivith that ndventurer and
Senate. ail correspondence witb the government
or any member thereof. relatlng ta the subject sent hlm telegrams. That was the document
of the Introduction of a prohbibtory liqucr law or memorandumn ta, which 1 alluded beby the goverasuent. together with ull affidavits cause the han. gentleman from de Lorimier
and other documents havlng relation ta tbe vote
cast tipon the question af prohibition, an the gave me permission ta caîl tint telegram a
29th day of September, 1898. and the aile.ed memorandum. At ail events, that was the
frauds ia connection therewlth.
document ta which I was referring at the
Speaking af that Parent wîo, was exu- ù1ine.
1 had flot, at the time I prouounced
ployed in tbis last general election ta whicb those words, the name of Mr. Wni. Henry
I alluded by time Liberai orgamizatiofi ini Parent, present lu my memory, but 1 had
Montreal. this is what Hon. '.%r. Scott the facts, and I knew tint the hon. memsaid :
ber, when lie interrupted me, bad been
The paper ta whlch bie referred, tbat repart one of the parties -who acted. with that
of Parent. bad never been presented ta tbe gov- man Parent in the elections tint took place
erament ;it had never left the parties ta wbaon
lt was for that I
il was made. Tbey had thesuselves dlscovered, before the plebiscîte, and
a very few days aller the report was made, that told hlm that if hie wanted sa muci extbey had simply been betrayed and deceived by
I vvas luian advouturer who gel trami them a certain planation of the, memorandum
sum of money ard sent la a fictitiouS repart.
quirifig for froni the Prime M.Ninister, lie
shoixld not forget those relations lie bad
Fmrther. lie says again, speaking of PaI was referring at the
wvith Mvr. Parent.
rent:tUnie ta thie telegrim lie -lad sent ta 2%r.
I understand Ibis man let' the Ottawa past Parent ta secure biis nid ln carryfng on tbe
office on the 111h March ;that wauid be about
elections -witb tint man wham lie afterthe tirùe bis repart came in. I-e was culy absent fromn the office twa days in February vh n
wards ealled n drunkard.
hp was suptc'sed ta be muakiig a tour tm QU2tee. and was absent on the I7th and l8tb, and
absent on the lst and 6th af March. The secoud
report is dated .'ither tbe lit or 2nd and professes ta be sent tram Montreal. The second
letter w-as an the 6th. I suppose hie vent bo
Montreal ta drawv bis maney. He left the pcmii
office on the 18th _Narch.

The lion. M.D-andurand w-as
Hanse on tlint accaunt, and snid:

lu

tlhe

I owe it te the House ta give my experience af
the man w-hase naine bas been brought belore
the Senate ln this discussion.
And Mri. Daîdtand iii tla t speecli te1lls
Ile siff
aill about the manî.
When tbe local elections came on I had the
management ot the provincial electianis in the
I received letters
district of Montreal, and
Hon. '.\r. LAND)RY.

lon. MNr.DANDURAND-I arn very glad
of an opportunity now ta clear up Ibis matThe lion. gentleman made a very
ter.
sweeping declaration as ta a. document lieLt mig-ht
fore the courts concerning me.
bave been a very damaging document.
There was niotiing precise lu the bon.
gentleman's staternent, and I was bound
t0 find out w-bat were tbe facts alluded
Instead of ýbeing a very damag-ing
ta.
document, l-t is a decliirftioii I made ta IbiS
Clia mber whlich tile lion. gentleman bas not.
according ta bis habits, rend comipletelv. but
lias i-eferred ta ai fen- sentences ta inako
t appear thlat tlîerc ,vas sometflinig di-

JUNE 10, 1903

85

Hi. Mr. SULIVAN-We lîaie soîiwicreditable, or daxnaging, in the statement I
made before the Senate.
The speech 15 thing to say ia that.
there in extenso, and 1 amn ready to, stand
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What Is the accusaby ail that I then said, and there is not a tion bronglit before thls House by the bont.
word that I witbdraw or would mlot repeat member ?
anywhere We were, at the time, discussing
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No accusationthe character of a man wbo liad iniposed
a fact. The bion, gentleman wNs disqualiupon the Dominion Alliance.
I stated
Ried, and because of his past record be bad
that 1 had been lu contact with that
no right to speek of tacts which. have taken
He wvas the son
mani some time before.
place before the courts concernlng a colof an ex-memùber of parlianient.
1 tboughit
lie was a good soni of a wortby fatiier, and league of bis wben he had not the slightest
I stated betore the House whiat bail been excuse for so doing.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will explain thiat
my experience wJth hlm. It wits In couIn 1873 I ran for the first tintie iii
nection w'lth elections. Tliere wvas nothing tact.
Illegal or damaging to any one in wvbat 1 the interests of the Conservative party iii
dleclared took place at that election withi the county of Montmagny. I was titen de~that man or any other mani. As a matter feated. It was wben the Liberal goverisHon. Mr.
of fact, I have badl considerabie to do with ment came into power' here.
elections In the province of Quebec, and 1 Fournier, the late Judge Fournier, was
may say, with satisfaction to inyseif, tîtat thien tbe representative of the county or
I have flever even been called as a wftness Montmagny. The double mandate lad beeii
during the long termi of years I have been abolisbed. He resigîted bis scat. île liad
assisting *my party. What I complain- been elected by 389 of a înajorlty, and i
ed of was the sweepiag, general, my- ran the election agaliust Francois Laingelier.
1
sterious dedcaration as to somethlng thiat It w-as my iirst attempt In puitlc lite.
wvould be very dnmnging to one's réputntion. was defeated by. a majority of 189 votes,
If I said :I
wli flot dare repeat before and elfgbteen months afterwards 1 preseiited
titis House all I know that lias transplred uiyself In the saute county and M-as elected
before the courts of the provinice of Que- ugainst one of the lights and chiefs of the
bec against the hion. gentleman froin Sta- Liberal party. He' contested my election,
dacona, I amn sure hie wouid hiave the rtght and do hon. gentlemen know the reason I
to probe to the bottoni this aspersion upon was disqualifled ? It was becatuse as a
bis character, because of its generai sweep- candidate I lad promised to try anîd get
iiig character. 1 quite understand hie wvould soute noney for a public road. Tîtat la tbe
object to belng thus .aspersed, whle If extent of the crime whicli I coinuîttd. I
I lixnited myseif to sa3yiug tbat the hoit. was disqualified for that, and there la not
gentleman ivas disqualified for corruption in tbe Liberal party a single advocate of
and lost bis seat for seven yeirs, 1 wvould any standing whatever, who wouid dare,
onîr De stating a fact, ihicli wvould bue ln a court of justice, to cite that case as
Einited lun its scopie, wii lie woulcl per- a precedent. iii contestiug other electiotta.
haps not like, but whieli would, ievertîte- That la ail îpast and gone. That stait i 1<
less, be a clear set tact, and not a mean In- flot fali upon me ; it remained on the judges
who gave the judgment at that time.
sinuation.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I tise to a point of
Hou. Mr. DANDURANI)-IIair, hua r.
order.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I know tbe tacts.
Hon. Mfr. DzlNDUILANID-I ain donce.
There were three judges on the heaich,
iîî<l
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wvant to know if Judge Dorion, Judge M. A. llundo
The three judges disthte boit. gentleman bas a rigl, iii briîîgjigý Jud.-e Routhiier.
up a question of privilege, to tttailz otliers. agreed. Two judges were agginst me. w'id
If lie lias tîtat riglit, I ailso have the righit one for. But do you know, what ha'ppened ?
to defend myselt. As for the attacks, I wiil The Hon. Mr. Dorion and the Hon. Mfr. M. A.
give bita ail the time bie wants. I will give PIniondon. the two Liberal judgeq. a-,i)
bita two or three sessions if hie wants that îwoachied fihe other judge. the Hon. M-Nr.
you agcev mvill
Routhier, and said :1If
long.

SEINATE
uis to annul the election, wve ivil jiist a1nnul the election, but if you don't agree, we
will disqualify the candidate.'
The Hou.
Mr. Routhier could flot agree, and the decision was that I was dlsqualified. The same
year that the Judgment was pronouuced
against me, having lost my rlgbt to preseut
myseif at the local election, 1 rau for the
federal. I bear some one suggestlug that I
sboiuld have appealed. Tbat is what I dld.
1 tried an appeal la Englaud. I did ail that
I could to reverse tbat Iniquitous judgment
but the inw of the province of Quebec Is so
framed, that I bad no rigbt of appeal. Sucb
was the .decision gîven by the Privy
(3ouneil lu Englaud.
In the autumu,
1878, 1 rau
for the same courity
where I bad beeu elected and disqualifled
because I liad promlsed to do my duty-1
was flot going into parliament for nothing.
I was going to work for those wbo elected
me-I l)reseuted myseif, and was eiected
aguinst the successor of Mr. Taschereau,
a-ho ls now a judge. That ls the v'lndication that the people gave me, and there is
not a iawyer of any standing lu this country
who wvill v-enture to quote that precedent to
assist hlmi lu the courts. In fact, It bas
neyer been doue, and it will neyer be doue.
Thie Senate adjourued.

tbe hon. senator represented a division lu
the province of Quebec, the tîtie of tbe division whicb hie represeuted should appear lin
the resolution.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEIED-lgbt 1 point
ont to, my bon. frlend tbat It Is unusual to
mention the fact that he dld not attend
duriug two consecutive sessions of the preseut parîlameut.
If the absence was between two parliaments the seat would sf111
be vacant.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-lt so bappens that It
was lu the present parliament.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seemis to be
establishing a precedent

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-We have to follow the
previous cases It was stated 'one
iAct. Inthis
session
parliament and one session the
prevlous pariameut.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-So long as the
absence extended *during two consecutive
sessions the Act Is satisfied.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They must be cousecutive sessions. of course.
Hou.
Mr.
DeBOUCHERVILLE-The
word 'resolved' ls used lu tbe motion. We
do not resolve, we deciare.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Very well, declare.
This is a resolution or declaration.
THE SENATE.
The SPEAKER-We miglit say ' two
Ottawa, Tlsursday, June 11, 1903.
consecutive sessions of pariament.'
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thrce
Hoa. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, that is ail
o'clock.
the Act requires.
The SPEAKER-The resolution will read:
Prayers and routine proceedings.
HON. M-%R.
MASSON'S SEAT IN THE
SENATE.
Hon. -Mr. YEO, from the Committee on
the Privileges and Customs of the Senate,
Presented their report in the matter of the
absence for two consecutive sessions of the
Hon. Louis F. R. Masson.
Thle report was adopted.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT moved:
Wixereas the Hon. Louis R. Masson bas failed
to give bis attendance to the Senate during two
consecutive sessions of the present parliament:
Resolved, that bis place In the Senate lias, by
virtue of par. 1, of sec. 3, of the British North
America Act, 1867, become vacant.
The SPEAKER-I would suggest to the
lion. Secretary of State that inasmucll as
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

Moved by Hon. Mr. Scott, scnnded by Hon.
Mr. Dandurand, that whereas the lion. Louis
P. R. Masson, senator for the Mille Tsles division for the province of Quebac, bas failed to
give bis attendance to the Senate during two
consecutive sessions o! parliament, It Is declared that bis place lu the Senate lias, by virtue of paragraph 1 of section 31 of the B3ritish
North America Act, 1867, become vacant.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Mr. 'Masson belongs to
n family in the province of Quebec that bas
lield'an honoured iname for many years.
In bis earlier life lie took a warm interest
la iiitary matters and was engaged in
active service during- the Fenian raids ;and,
on the occasion of thxe defeat of the Mackenzie administration, it seemed a proper
thing to name hlm head of the Departiielit

JTINE 11, 1903

287

haviug served in thie samne cabinet with him,
and also wlien lie was not a member of the
cabinet, la this House, 1 eau say that hie
commauded the respect of aIl wba knew
liim. The- marnent lie came ta the conclusion tliat lie cauid not perfarni those duties
required of a senatar, lie ceased ta bie a
member of this Hanse. My associations
witli Mr. Masson were of sucli a cliaracter
personnlly as ta lead me ta tbe conclusion
that a more onurable man 1 neyer met ar
bad any association w'ith. Lt mattered very
littie wbat the question was that was
brouglit before hlm, either as a representative or In is private capacity, if lie conscientionsly belleved It was riglit, lie wonld
-pursue It ta the end, and If ta tbe contrary,
no matter bow It miglit affect the party ta
which lie belanged, lie neyer besitated ta express bis opinion directly adverse ta it. I
arn speaklng now from my personai intercourse witbi hlm, and 1 eau only add tbat I
fuliy concur lu ail tliat lias been said by
tlie Secretary of State as ta bis lionanrable
cliaracter and tbe vainable servfces lie bas
rendered ta the country, botli as a civilian
and as an offcer lu thie militia forces In
Canada, as a cabinet minister, a senator
and a private member o! parliament. Ail I
can liope Is tbat ail aur records, wben we
cease ta be members af this Hanse, may bie
as spatless as tliat of tlie bau, gentleman
witli wliom we are naw dealing. I canuot
saY mare. Lt were nseless ta say mare. 1
hope, tbongb bis liealtb will not permit hlm
ta continue ta be a member af this House,
tbat lie may long bie spared ta bis family
and ta give advice to tliose by whom lie Is
snrrounded batli af a private and a public
character. I arn canvinced 1 am speaking
now thie sentiments, certalnly of bis political
BOWELL-I associates, and I tblnk 1 may safely add, of
Han. Sir MACKENZIE
apponents.
second this -resolution witb a very great bis politIcal
of pleasure, and, at the same time, with
deal
bear.
a very great deal of regret-with pleasure 1 lion. Mr. SCOTT-Hear,
abie ta concur in the ternis of the resaamn
BOWELLHan. Sir MACKENZIE
lution, and ail that bas been said by the
political opponeuts, I arn
of State lu reference ta our late Wbile lie lad bis
Secretary
from ail 1 bave beard and seen
caileague, Han. Mr. Massou ; witli very nat aware,
tbat lie bans any personal
great regret that thie state of his liealtb inl tbe public press,
enemies, eitber of a politicai Or O! a priv'ate
wouid nat permit him ta give that attentian
the regret conveyed in
ta bis pnblie duties w1ilch is demianded of *cliaracter. I second
this resoliltion and the appreciation o! biis
ail members of the Senate and of the HousE
is conveyed therein, with
of Cammons. Speaklng tram persanal ac. *character whieh
pleasure, deeply regrettiflg tbat the circumquaintance with hlm for a niumber of years,

of Mflhitia. Hie entered tbe goverumeut in
1S78 lu tbe Couservative administration ais
Minister of Militia. Mr. Masson liad been
a member of the House of Commons fnau;
In 1882 lie
confederation down to 1882.
resigned bis seat a.nd became a member of
the Senate. 13e remained bere forý a few
vears, and ou being offered the Lieutenant
Goveruorsbip of the province of Quebec, lie
accepted the position and resigned bis seat
In the Senate. After leaving Governiment
Hanse, at Quebec, Mr. Masson was again
appointed to the Senate of Canada. It was
quite apparent ta those wbo had lrnowu hini
for mauy years, like myseif, that lie liad
failed very materially iu lieaith and tnit
bie was unable ta render as effective service to tbis body as lie bad done ou forHle was a gentlemau who
mer occasions.
was highly respected by the members of tbis
body, and recognlzed as a frank and eandid mian, often differiug froili those witli
whom lie was politically allied, where bis
judgment Indicated that it was his duty
to follow. Mr. Masson was a gentleman of
rernarkable Integrlty of character ln the
varions positions whIcli lie lieId. Lne was
zilways regarded as a juan of the higliest
possible cliaracter, andi it was recog-nized
that, in ail the positions lie beld, lie discharged bis duties faithfully and bonourzibly, reflecti-ng credit on limself anti bis
itame. I, therefore, more:
That the members of the Senate beg ta convey ta their late calleague. the Hon. Louis
Francis Roderick Masson, the expressicn of their
great regret at the severance of bis connectian
with the Senate of Canada. The members of
the Seuate avail themselys af the occasion te
place on record their recognition of the great
services, civil and military, lie lias rendered to
his country In the varied and important positions he lias honourably filled.

SENATE
stances are such as to necessitate the action situated, and the gross weight, the tare and net
weigbt of the tobacco ini each package.
tak-en by the Senate.
motion was agreed to.
ws otin
The ageedto.The
0F THE WORLD ACT
WVOODMEN
AM1ENDMENT BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTFEE.
Hon. '-%r. DRUMMOND, from the Committee on Banking and Commerce, presented
their report on Bill (31) 'An Act respecting
the Canadian Order of the Wfoodmen of the
He
Worid,' with severai amendments.
sald : Tise first amendment is to limit some
very wide powers o! lnvestment which the
compauy sought to have. Tise second is to
extend for a period of thiree years the ne-

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
AMENDMENT BILL.

ACT

A message was received froni the House
of Gommons with Bill (188) 'An Act to
anuend the Welghts and Mensures Act.'
Tihe Bill was read the flrst time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
rend the second time on Mondny next. He
sald: This also, is a technical matter ; It is
to amend section 29 of chapter 104 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada relating to
welghts and mensures.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
quired lu Its operation ; and the third was the hon. minister give us any renson why
thse suggestion of the Insurance Depart- there is an exception made in the case of
ment, providlng for a deposit under certain postal scules ?
conditions.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. There are certain
Tise amendments were concurred la.
scales up to four pounds whlch are used for
postal purposes, and there is a penalty if
a party uses them for othier purposes. The
INLAND REVENUE AGI AMENDM1ENT
other subsecti6n relates to grain. They
BILL.
have no connectin.
A message was recelved from the House
The motion was agreed to.
oif Gommons wlth Bil (186), 'An Act to
amend tise Inland Revenue Act.'
G0VIERNMENT WORICS AT ST. JOSEPH
Thse Bill was read the first time.
DE LEVIS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
INQUIRY.
read thse Èecond time on Monday next. He
Hon. Mr. LANL)RY iniquired:
said: This Bill is purely a- techuicai mat1. Has the government beguni to carry out
ter, chnnging varlous regulations of the de- certain works at Fort No. 1, at St. Josph de
The first clause relates 'to tise Lévis, or in the neighbourhood thereof ?
partment.
2. Were
payment oif the severai duties which. are WVhen and tenders asked for ? for these wor1Xs ?
la what manner
the Otis o! tise following montis
now made on
3. Who is to furnish the wood ?
4. Who furnishes the cernent and lime?
on wliceh they accrue. It places it now on
done by the day cr
Are these
instead of the by5.thse piece ? works belng
the first day of tise montis
6. Who has charge of the purchase of masixts. The other relates to thse percentage
teniais for or In the naine of thse goveraflentl.
of abatements for refuse:
and what commission is allowed thse inte-niecessity of parting with the reail estate re-

diary, or what ls the fixed amount to be paid
to hlm ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The ansmers are as foiIows
1. Ves.
2. No, being only repaira.
Then la reference to tobacco it provides
3. The cierk of worlcs is authorized to
2. Every wooden, metai or other package
containing cavendisis, plug or twist tobacco buy locally the lumnber necessary.
weighing one pound or over, and ail packages
4. The samne nnswer as No. 3 apphies.
containing fine-cut chewing tobacco or snuff
5. By day labour.
five pounds or over. shahl have printweighinig
ed or mnarked thereon thse registered number of
6. The superintendent of works bas charge
tise manufactory, tise number of the Iland
of the purchase of the material with ai foreRevenue division ln wisich the inanufactory is
1. An abatement not exceeding three per
cent in distilleries using grain, and four per
cent in distilleries using molasses or other
saccharine matter oniy, for sucis quantlty of
fusel oil or other refuse as is separated tiserefromn by a second process of distillation.

Hou. Sir MACKENZZIE BOWELL.

JUNE il, 1903

289

Bill (43) An Act ta incorporate the Regina
and Hudson's Bay Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Bill (117) An Act to incorporate the Hudson's Bay and Western Railway Company,
as amended.--(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Bill (114) An Act respectxng the Niplsslng
and James Bay Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
Bill (70) An Act to Incorporate the Macleod, Cardston and Montana Rallway Company.--(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Bill (146) An Act respecting the Lindsay,
Bobenygeon and Pontypool Rallway CoinLEVIS POST OFFICE.
pany.-4LHon. Mr. McHugh.)
INQUIRY.
Bill (111) An Act respecting the EdmontonYukon and Pacifie Railway Company.Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inqulred:
1. Is Mr. Agapit Ouellet, of Lévis, nu employee (Hon. Mfr. Young.)
of the governinent in the post oMfce mail serBill (108) An Act respecting the Ottawa
vice ?i
Blectrie Rallway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Kerr,
2. What la specially is occupation?

man or contractor under him-20 per cent On
the labour and materlal (except stone) la
allowed the latter.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There la no naine
g-iven.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Wbo la the superintendent ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-They have not furnlshed that. The hion, gentleman did not
ask the naine.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Well, I wll ask 11.

3. Is it he who carrnes tbe mail baga froim the IToronto.)
vessels af the ferry company to the Lévis post
Bill (47) An Act ta Incorporate the Nipisoffice ?
4. Io it ta the knowledge of, aud la It with sing and Pontiac Railway Company.-(Hon.
the consent af the gavernment, that this gentleman accuples slmui-taneously the position of Mr. Landerkln-:)
organizer of the Liberal party ln Lauzon ward,
Bill (45~) An Act respecting the Calgary
in the town of Lévis, and that quite recently
hie bas devoted bis trne to the preparatian a! and Edmonton Railway Company.-(Hon.
electaral lies ?
5. Daes the governient know that this ge'ntle- Mr. Lougheed.)
man aise keeps a barber ehop twa steps frain
Bill (110) An Act respecting the Canadian
the Intercolonial station at Lévis ?
Mr.
6. Hlas not the gavernment already cleclared Northern Railway Company.--(H-o.
that Its pollcy wss opposed ta the accumula- Kerr, Toronto.)
dion of occupations by those whom It bas la its
Bill (119) An Act respecting the Alberta
service. and dose it Intend, la this Instance,
Le compel Mr. Ouellet ta accupy Mmnself exclu- Railway and Coal Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr.
sively wltb bis work as a publie employee ?

Lougheed.)
Bill (162) An Act respecting the Hamilton
and Lake Erie Power Company, and ta
:1. No.
change Its naine to The Jordan Light, Heat
2. He bas the contract for transferring the and Power Compnay.-(Hon. Mfr. Landerkin.)
mails at the Intercolonlal Railway station,
Bill (126) An Act respecting the Mexican
Léhvis.
Light and Power Company, Limited.ý-(Hon.
3. No.
Mfr. Kerr, Toronto.)
4. No.
Bill (120) An Act respecting the Lake Erie
5. No.
bas adopted no such and Detroit River Railway Company.--(Hofl.
G. The governinent
Mfr. Casgrain, Windsor.)
policy lu regard to contractora.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The
follows

answers

are as

THIRD READINGS.
Bill (124) An Act respecting the Hudson's
Bay and Paciie Rallway Compainy.-(Hon.
Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (132) An Act to Incorporate the Père
Marquette International Bridge Company.(Hon. Mfr. Young.)
19

SECOND READINGS.
Bill (134) An Act to incorpora te the ErieOntario Power Company.-(Hon. Mfr. Gibson.)
*Bill (143) An Act respecting the Canadian
*Nortli-west Irrigation ConiPanrl.-(HOn.M.
Lou.gbeed.)

SENA.TE
Bill (O) An Act to incorporate the Citizens'
Bank of Oanada.-(Hon. Mr. Landerkln.)
Bi I (P) An Act respectiug the Western
Alberta Railwiiy Company.--(Hon. Mr. Longheed.)
Bill (172) An Act to, lncorporilte thie City
and County Bank of Canada.--(Hon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell.)
Bill <Q) An Act resp'ecting the Nipissing
nnd Ottawa Rallway Coinpany.-(Hon. Mr.
Kerr, Toronto.)
NATURALIZATION 0F ALIENS ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
REI'ORTED PROM COMMITTEDE.
The House resumed ln Committee of the
Whole consideration of Bill (L) An Act to
amend the Acts relating to the Naturalîzation of Aliens.
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-We went tbrougli the
Bill carefully tbe other day and the bon.
gentleman

froin

Westmoreland

(Hlon.

Mr.

Wood) said he thought that thie courts lu
New Brunswick were not correctly described, and I referred the question to the
law

clerk of the

Senate.

He

looked it

up and made the correction, and the clause
now reads as follows.

LABOUR UNION LABELS BILL.
SEICOND READING POSTPON'ED.
lion. Mr. WATSON-I was golng to propose to the House, ln reference to Bill (D)
An Act respectlng Labour Union Labels,
that I should like to see the measure pass
the Hlouse wltbout the House committlug
ltself to the principle of the Bill, because
a certain amount of information can be
secured ln commlttee whlch canuot possibly
be seeured ln the House, and there Is another
Bill of a simîlar character before the commitibee affecting the same people, and 1
thought It migbt be weli for us to pans the
Bill without any debate and witbout coinmitting the House to It and refer lt to the
committee where the saine gentlemen who
were heard to-day can discuss the measure,
and the matter cnn be debnted on the third
reading.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-We caidnot all6w this
Bill to pass wlthout a debate.
Hon. *Mr. WATSON-Debate kt on the
third reading.
Some hon. MEMBERS-NO, no.
The order was postponed.
CHINESE IMMIGRATION BILL.
DEBATE RESUMED.
The Order of the Day belng cailed.

In New Brunswick. to the Supreme Court durResuming the adjourned debate on the motion
Ing Its sltting, or ta the Circuit Court, as the
case may be, ia the county ln whivh the allen for second reading (Bill 82) Act respecting and
resides.
restricting Chînese Immigration.-(Hon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowehl.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, from the commitBOWELL-It
Sir MACKENZIE
amendments,
Hon.
tee, reported the Bill with
is nlot my intention to occupy the time of the
whicb weve concurred in.
I siniply proHouse at any great length.
pose to cali nttention to the provisions of
NORTHERN BANK 0F CANADA INCORthe Bill, and probably may quote somewhat
PORATION BILL.
copiously froni the opinions expressed by
SECOND READING.
members of the House wben the quesHon. '-\r. YOUNG inoved the second read- tion was before it on another occasion.
ing of Bill (51) An Act to incorporate the Tbe Bill before us bas, I thinlc, but oxie
Northern Bank.' He saîd:. Yesterday when object, and that is to prohibit the immithis order was reacbed it was suggested gration of a certain class of the MNgoh90ian
that possibly the petition bad uiot beeli race, by inecasing the bead tax froin $100
passed by the Standing Orders Comlnittee. to $500, and imposing biglier penalties upon
1 ffnd. it was pissed under the titie of the infractions of thIe law by tbose wbo bring
Nortb-west Banl, of Canada, and ln the Chinese into the country.A suggstionX
House of Commons the name bas been bas been made by the bon. mover of the
Bill to arncnd it in tbis regard, tlînt iii givchanged to the Northern Bank of Canada.
in- the interpretation to the word 'laiidiig,'
Tbe motion was agreed to, and tbe Bill
permission be giveil steanfishil) coinpaliies
w-as read tbe second time.

JUNE 11, 1903
or any sbip arriving at a port lu this coun- opposed to the extent of a division, and
tiy, tea show tbe crew to land for the Pur- whiie I continue of the opinion that there
pose of ioadlng or unloading the vesseis, mhould be a certain restriction upofl the
without infringing the law. This Is a very immigration of Ohinese, a restriction which
wlse concession, but at the maine time, 1s would render Impossible the Introduction
lt flot ln direct violation of the prIncipie of what I might caU the warmt dlams of that
whidi bas governed the governent, and the people, the time bas flot arrived, considerlntroducer of this Bil-that is, ta prevent ing the labouring and commercial requireOhinese labour ln this country. Have they ments of the country, to paso a Bill whlch
considered the rights, ca' wbat are ciaimed la prohlbitory lu its character as this necesta be the rights, of longahoremen ? Whiit sarîly wiii be. The laws wbich have been
guarautee is there that you wiil mlot have passed lu other countries are, smre of thea,in the f uture, at a. different portion of the of a stringent character. That of Natal,
Dominion, the sane difficulties lu the way ta which the hon. gentleman referred, is
of strikes and objecting ta the Chinese do- preferabie to this. We could bave an eduIug that which the longaboremen and those cational test. The auswer ta that would
who ioad and unioad vessels have donc, be 1none of these Chinese cauld read Engand which they dlaim to have the riglit ta 11mb.' Some of thern do. If yau had an
do ? The object of this Bill being ta pro- educational test, and they wauld qualify
vent Chinese labour lu this country, whiech themsevem, then they might be adrnitted.
interferes with wbite labour, Is not this "n That, I thiuk, If applied ta other classes of
Infraction of the prînciple of the Bfi as Immigrants as wveil, would be an advantftge,
laid dowu hy the hon. gentleman wbo bas particularly fram the experience we have
introduced it ? However, I am nat OP- had recently- The question may be very
posing that portion of the Bill. The hou. properly asked whether industrions, woneigentleman lu lits speech, lu reply ta a ques- beh&ved Chinese, as Immigrants lu thls
toen wbich I asked, If hie knew the opinions country-if they do not corne lu nurnericallY
heid by his colleague, the Secretary of too mtrong-is nat as demirable a clama as
State, on this question-said something, If many of the people who have been settling
I remember correctly, not very complimen- themmelves ln the Narth-west of late-the
The auswer given Doukhobrs, wha are running about nakedtary ta his calleague.
Perhaps my hou. friend would prefer that
me wam :
I do not know what my coileaune gaid. nor dlams of Immigrants, naked, to the Chinado I know exactI, the views of the hion. leader men weil dremsed. We have badl the evîdence
of the opposition on. this occasion. He wam at
ane time a member of tuie governtqnént whîeh of eye-witnesses tbat some of the Doukhopaesed a law lImposing a head tax on1 the bars have been parading round the praiChiasse. and I arn quits sure that whatever=
ln the state
thie
hion. friend the leader of the House may tav ries looking for and Redeemer, found lu the
Eve were
doue ysars ago, my hion. friend the leader of in which Adam
the opposition will b>etrue ta his principles of Gadn of Edlen befare the fall. These
twenty years ago and be wiii support the BillGrd
people were brought into the country by
very heartily.
and have been
.1 thank the hon. gentleman for the con- the aid of the Dominion,
lu myseif, ai- held up by some members as model settlers
fidence which hie expresses
merely draw the attenthough hie had so little knowiedge of what ln the country. I
this occasion, or tion of the House ta this fact, that 'whule
bis colleague would do on
on the statute-book
whether hoe would be consistent with the we are about putting
ago. However, a law which is practically prohibltory, we
opinion hie expressed years
of people ta corne lu,
that ls a littie difference of opinion which permit another clama
to settie whose actions shock the better sense and
I shahl leave to the bon. gentleman
communîties.
between them. My own view is that the the modesty of civllzed
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-They are
Mongolian race is flot a deairable clama ta
have ln thia country in large numbers, modela who do not wear clothing.hence the original Bill introduced imposed
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
a hiead tax of $50 on Chinese. Since the
Iton, gentlemen carne lnte .power, tbey have they had better confine their operations to
increased that tax ta $100. That waa not the art studios, where modela are required,
19i

SEINATE

292

and not ta exhibit tbemseives ta tbe worlM
generaily. I asked the question wben the
hon, gentleman was speaking, as ta tbe
opinion of Mr. Dunsmuir, late premier of
British Columbia, and the answer received
fruin tbe hon. gentleman was this:
Hon. Mr. 'IEMPLEMAN-In their report the
commlssioiies ay :
The commission were not favoured with tbe
vlews of Mr. Dunemuir, s.lttiough requeste. in
an officiai utterance. dated October 9, 1900, as
premier of the province, hle favours ' n Increase of the per capita tax la such measure
se to sureir unmit the number of Immigrants,
and bY einactment of legislation similar ta the
'Natal Act,' ta regulate their employment

while In the country.'
That la what Mr. Dunsmuir, as premier, assented to, but ln bis private capacity be did
flot express bis opinion.

Whetber the Hon. Mr. Dunsînuir, who wns
premier of tbe province, bad been reading
a report of the debate, I do flot know, but
this I do know, on the 4th Instant I recelved the foliowing telegram:
Victoria. B.C.. June 4.
Senator Mackenzie Bowell,
Ottawa.
I observe frc>m the newspapers the Senate la
earnestly considering proposed ChInese l'ead tax
of $500. Passage of the Act imposing a tax

wiili flot be In the in'tereats of Industry la this
province, and wIll pander ta the aggressive la-

bour unions which have already paralyred all
Progressive undertakings here.
(Signied). JAMES DUNSMUIR.
It may be said tbat Mr. Dunsamnir, being
a large employer of labour, would necessarIly be against this Bill, but I have learned
on very good autbority that when people ln
British Columbia were asked ta sign tbe
petitions which bave been .presented by my-

self and others lu this Hanse, against tbe
passage of tbls Bill, timat tbey refused to
dc so for fear of the effect wbich It wouid
bave upan their business. They feared tbat
If It were found tbat they were trying to
prevent tbe passage of tîje Bill, the labour
element would strike, or so bamper thein lu
their operations as ta injure tbem.
Hon. Mr.
tbein ?

FERGUSON-Would

boycott

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
Those who have been In British Cohumbia,
and have studied the question kPow very
well the difficulties which exist la obtaining
labourers ta perforai the necessary work Io
carry on the various Industries la tliat counltry. 1 know froin a visit ta the state of
Califorala, where the vineyards and orchards
Hon.. Sir MACK<ENZIE~ BOWELL.

are very extensive, that If it were not for
Cbinese labour, the fruit industry could not
in the past be successfuily carried on. And.
mari- you, wheu I inqulred about the pay
they recelved, I found tbey were flot very
10w after ail. They were getting froin
$1.50 to $2 a day for planting vineyards and orchards, and 1 camne to this conclusion, that, however, objectionable the Mongolan race rnlgbt be In a country like ours,
If they became too numerous, that the industries of the country would be sadly bampered If there was a law on the statute-book
preventlng them froin comlng lnto the country altogether. On the caast It is almost
Impossible to get domestic servants. I suppose nobody knows better than tbe lion, gentleman who lntroduced this Bill the dIfficuity
of obtaining domestic servants In that country. It Is so great that private familles are
abliged to empioy Chinese as cooks and
chamberm'aids. Almost every gentleman's
bouse that I visited in that country the domestlc servants were Chinese, and wben 1
asked wby they were emplayed the answer
was, we cannot get any one else. Now, if
that be the case at tbe present day, It Is a*
grave question wbetber we sbouid prevent
this ciass of labour frain comlng even into
that part of the country. I know that In
Queensland, Australia, the goverilment passed a iaw preventing the black people, or Kanakas, being empioyed In tbe different Industries [n that coiony. Wbat was the resuit ?
Wbite labour could flot be obtained, and
wben it could ta a limited extent, tlie labourer could not stand the climate working ln
the sugar cane plantations. The resuit was
the law had to be amended so ab to enable
those engaged In growiag sugar cane to iraport froin the tropical islands Kanaka
labourers who were acclimatized to work
during the bot weatber lu the nortbern part
of that continent. This Is the experience In
different parts of the world. -In the lEawailas beena
ian Islands the sugar industry h
hampered and limited to a very great extent for the saine reason, and consequently
they bave been obliged to einploy verY
largely Chinese and Japanese labourers to
do that -whjch white men could not well do,
and even if they could, were not there in
sufficient numbers [n supply the demand for
labour. Under these circuinstances, it is
questionable wbether it Is in the interests
of the country that we should, at the pres-

JUNE 11, 1903

293

are very convenient mediums for
ent, place so restrictive an Act upon thet suits. They
conferring favours on the adherents cf the govstatute-book. Now, this is an explaixation erulment by affordlng office for those who are
to do.
for my bion. friend's benefit of the course needy and have very littie
wbicb I pursued ln the past, and wbIChI 1
If 1 were to, express My own opinion, I
belleve would be ln the interests of the coun-: would say the bon. gentleman was an apt
try at present. 1 do not know, If I were pupil, as he bas been carrying out the
opposed lu toto to the introduction of any principle to a very great extent since be bas
more Cbinese into, thls country, that 1 could had the bonour of being Secretary of State.
give the Senate a better or more forcible,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-History repeats Itself.
and shall 1 say, a more eloquent argument
than that advanced by tbe Secretary of
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
State bimself, on a previous occasion.
not men the bon, gentleman personaily ; I
mean the government of which lie Is a
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Hear, bear.
member. He continues:Hon. Sir MACKENZIE b...,,t'ELL-He
1 am curious ta learu what the report of this
placed tbis question before 'éhe Senate lu
lie.
a mucli more lncid, eloquent and forcîble commission may
Tînt report bas been before tbe publie for
I possibly could, I must, theremanner than
fore, ask the Indulgence of the Senate If 1 a long time. Then be goes ou ta sny :
read somewhat copiously front the speeches
What Lord Derby miglit have ta say to it. 1
ta know, because
rather
wbich lie deiivered on former occasions on would liequestion auxiouscurious history. it this
is a
bas a
Chinese
permission Is scar- matter within the remembrance. o!'us ail that
this subject, thougli such
the barliarians ont
ceiy necessary, particularly when I look the Chusese desired ta keep of time, and it was
for a long period
round the Chamber and see so many new of China
thraugh the arguments of grape and cauoniy
faces, gentlemen who have not had the nister, aud shot and shel. that they were luhumanizing
to, the bon, gentleman duced ta believe ln the superior and the Cauplea sure of listening
influence of the Anglo-Saxon race
at the period to which I refer. When casian race geuerally. We kcnow that we inus, that
the question of imposlng a flfty dollar tax sisted on their country being opened ta, trade ln
have the riglit to establish
ought
was introduced, my hon. friend waxed weiimited to
degree with the people of China. We
a
eloquent on the subject, and 1 am,' sure lie lu consequence established ourselves St Hong
Kong and insisted ln having five ports ouen ta
-will be deligbted at this period ln the Britisht shipping, and when the Chinese did not
history of the country to hear another see the proprlety a! trading with us we sent an
th,-Ir beautiful
Pekin aud
member of tbe Senate read is opinions. army down ta aud flnally burut were conviuced
they
Senate on palace there
The question came before the
by aur superiar arguments that a trade with
the 3Otb January, 1885, wben my bon. the outer world *as a policy that they ouglit to
It seeme ta me rather Inconsisteut and
friend made a speech-I see the lion. Secre- adopt. illagical for the Chinese now ta lie tild,
rather
tar*y of State is laughlng. I know tbat lie 'It Is true we wauted to trade with China and
desired ta
ln China.
we
wili feel flattered because 1 bave taken the havewanted to settle merchants taWe
malte all the
It free for aur
trouble to hunt up bis utterances and te money they could lu that country aud Invest It
ta
but the rule does not
give them ta the House, particuinfly for thE lu British stock,way sud we are opposedseem the
ta
the ather
beneflt of those who were not lu tbe SenatE work
sud settIlun
Chinese caming Inta our territory
ut that time, and wbo proYbably bave nol tliemseles amongst IV. It will lie an exceedta unravel. and ta saawkward
been such close students of this question ai Iugly the Chiueseproblem that we are consistent.
at lest
tisfy
othex
4 few. of us who were bere and In the
i must frankly confess that the question
House when the restricting Cbinese Immi
Canada. 01 1or conslstency bas not been a matter that
gration was first mooted ln
lias given the present governmeflt or the
tbat occasion he said :
lai(1 Secretary of State auy great coucera sînce
We learn that we are ta have a report
before us that bias been prepared by a comm:s -the-v have had tbe bonour of governing this
son that lately mat ln British Columbia ta in 1 country. He goes on In the saule style for
quire into the question of Chinese Immigratiol - a columu or two. I pass on and find lu
Into, that province. This government is nome

what famous for its commuissions.
s1886 a Iittle more, some stronger langunge
How truly he foretold the. pollcy of hi
tbat which I bave quoted. Tbut ls the
own government as far ug-o as 1885. H e than following tbe introduction of the Bill
year
continues :
imposing flfty dollars per liead on the
We bave commissions Issued very frequently
Chîinese. Another Bill was introduced ut
ln some Instances they produce very smail re

SENATB
that period ln order ta render the passage of
tbe Chinese througb tbe country, passing In-i
ta tbe United States or ta otber countries,
lees objectionable and less onerous tban It
was at tbat perlod. Notwltbstanding tbe
Introduction of a Bihl of that character, my
hon. friend was stîli a hittie stronger la the
opinions wblcb be bad uttered an tbat occasion. He sald :
Whea tbis Bill was lntroduced last year I feit
a great deal of repugnance ta lt, and many boa.
gentlemen wbo vlewed It In the samne ltght that
I do, accepted It anly because it was assumed te
apply salely to British Columbia.

The bon. gentleman Is now proposiflg to
ncrease It .to $500.
Bon. Mr. LÂNDRY.
uterest.

That is compounid

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It ie
wvorse than that. The remarks proceed :
Or ta imprisoninent for a terni not less than
three menthe; for an offence of whlch lie mey
net be wilfully gWslty. I say that unless the
EChinaxaan refuses ta register after bis attentien bas been called ta it, there should be na
penalty. The mere tact of bis faillng ta do lit
ouglit nlot to subject hlm ta so severe a penalty.
Wedo nat punish criminals unlass they Intentionally and wilfully commit crime. This is
flot a criminal offence of any kind whatever.
The bon. gentleman dld allaw It ta pnss These peopAe are living In total ignorance of
legislation, and the moment the 3lst
thea, because It applled onhy ta British our present
Deceneber next arrives these poor people la the
sections of the wilds of British Columbia are Ilable te this
Columbia and flot ta other
penalty, or ta lie Incarcerated in jali if they
country. He proceeds :
have not reglstered. I ask if It le reasonable
Now tbe intention lo to apply It ta ail other or fair or just ? If tliey are aware of it and
rafuse
it and
parts o! tbe Dominion, and as pointed eut by their attention le called ta penalty tbey please.
you
the ban, gentleman tram Halifax, here la a ta register, then attacli any
clause wbich applies almast ta aur very doar.
Comlng down a littIe later, In 1887, the
There are Chinamen in Canada going backwards and forwards contlnualhy, and are we ta bon. gentleman pursued a stîll stronger
say that no Chînaman can cames la tram the
an Interest i
United States, or, If lie goes ta the United St.ates course. To those who take
tic cannat return ta Canada witbout payment cf tbis matter of the Chînese immigration
tbis duty ? I tblak the Idea 11sperfectly mons- Bihl it will be lnteresting. In the year 1887,
trous and I for ane wlll test the sense ot tbe
committee before allawing It to paso. I do net the bon. Secretary of State again expresspropose that we shauld allaw thse whale of Can- ed bis views.
1 do not tbink the bon.
ada ta be placed ln the bumillatlag position that
accuples on thîs subjeet. Il gentleman bas changed bis opinion onie
Britisb Columbia
ls sa repugnant ta ail tbat le Engîleli or hon- iota. Tbat ls my bonest conviction, but
ourable or right that one can bardhy diseuss lt
are sucli that the lion.
la a proper trame of mind. .ro ssy that Brit- party exigencies
lob Columbia wlll press us lnta tbis kind of leg- gentleman is forced Into the position ln
Islation le absurd. I for ane protest ftgalnst it. wblch hie is now placed. But, if lie were
and I ask tisat the sense o! tbe committee lie
taJken an this clause. We acqulesced ln the pro- free from the trammels of oiffice and tbe
position as far as British Columbia Is cancern- Influences by whicbi he is surrouîided, I
ed. but 1 for ane will test the sense of the coingive expremloii
mlttee on Ibis clause and I shall oppose lt at have no doubt lie would
every stage of tlie Bil.
to opinions quite ns strong as those wbich
I arn about to rend. Ou tbe 28tb of June,
There Is mucli more, column after column
1888, the lion. gentleman said:
of the same character as tbat ta whlcb 1
la common with others who bave spoken on
of tbe House. He
bave called the attention
tbis subject. I feel tbat it ls a very great regoes on to say furtber:
proach ta the people of Canada tbat there sbould
be on our statute-book an Act restrlcting Chila Britisb Columbia are scattered nese immigration wben we consider tbe bistory of
The chînese
througbout tbe mountalas la remote places China ln the hast century. at ail events and the
wbere tbey mnay neyer bear of Ibis Act. Tihey difficulties that were tbrawn la the way af the
are living among a population that are pre- British people effecting an entrance Into Cbina
judlced against theen.
and trading with the Cbinese. Wbea It became
evident that China offered a ricb barvest to
I suppose tbat Includes bis colleague wba nritish merchants, great attempts were msade
the Bill.
lntroduced
year after year ta get tbe Chinese ta open their
and trade 'wlth tbe western world. We
are prepared ta incarcerate them la country
And wbo
ail know tbe repugnance which tbey feht ta
prison the marnent Ihey can do sa .ader the
witb other countries. but their objections
sanction o! the law ;and I say itl s *ntirely
unebristianlike aad nat la harmony wltb anytbing that la fair or riglit, ta expose those unfortunate peaple ta be taken by the broat and
put la jaîl for not dolng a tbing of wbicb tbey
are entirely Ignorant. Il would be ,'xtreniely
unfair far us bere ta put an record sucb legislation. I say that no Chinainan ouggbt ta be
subject ta that penalty, a penalty of $50.
Hou. Sir MACICIfNZIE BOWELL.

dealing
were overcome by what inav be callcd the
christianizing influences of shot and shell. We
burned down seame of their citles ;we penetrated ta Pekin and destroyed tbeir palaces.
and flnally gat them ta understand aur peculiar
ways and ta give us unrestrictcd trade wltb tbem
We insist upan the rlgbt of English peaple ta
travel ail through China. We insist upan pro-

JUNE 11, 1903
=z..

tection for our missionaries. If a Chinese mob
ln any part of, the empire infticts any personal
injury on a British subject, Immediately a manof-war i. Sent to the coast and the people of
China are warned of the coasequences of treating outsiders la that manner. No sonner had
they been taught aur ways, than they naturally
came to this country and they were met in a
manner by an hon. gentleman Who bas already
addressed the flouse on this subject-mfet by a
declaration that they could nat enter Canada
without ln the first, instance paying a tee af $50.
that they could nat pass thraugh this country
unless they were taken through in bond. The
effect or that clause which debars themn tram
passing through the country, except under such
regulations as may be made by the Minister of
Customs, really mens that It le impassible for a
Chinaman ta travel thraugh Canada unisse he
chooses ta pay $50 for the privilege. because
that ls practicaly what It means.
The law was changed so as ta enable
any person marrying a Chinese womiaii.
provided he le not a Chinaman, ta bring
The
bis wife Into Canada free of duty.
original law provided a per capita tax of
&W0 upon any one of Mongolian race or
origîn enterlng the Dominion. There were
cases ln which Britishi subjects, and parmissionaries going Into China,
ticularly
married Chinese women, and when tliey
braught their familles ta Canada the per
capita tai had ta be ixnposed on the women
and chil'dren. As soan as that came under
the notice of the government, tbey changed.
Here la what the han, gentlethe law.
man said wben the question was naGer
consIderation :
it ls flot creditable ta this parliament that
the 5.000.000 of tihe people of Canada are content ta have thîs dlsgraceful Act passed upan
the statute-book of the Dominion nt the Instance of 15,000 people, because I arn toid that
the people of BTIitieh Columbia are not unanimous in support of it. Tbey do flot nimrber
as many people as threre are in Wellington ward
in this clty. and are we at the lnuten(;e of as
many people as could be put into one ward
of this city te impose such leglalation on 5,000,000 people. If a poil oould be taken of the
people of this oeuntry I do not belisve you
would flnd outside of British Columia cze person in every thousand ln f avour of this legislatien. It has been foreed upon us by the province of British Columbia.
Hon.. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, bear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WbVo
said bear, bear ? The lion. Secretary of
State ? I suppose we are ta understand
f ram that 'hear, bear' that the same argument applies ta the present Bil-that while
the rest of the Dominion, five or six mnillions outside o! British Coliimbiq, would
flot be favourable to tbis Bi, that Britishi

Columbia, witb bts limlted population, nccordlng ta the statement af the hon, gentleman le ta farce an obnoxlans tai upoîi
every Chinaman who cornes Into the Dominion. In ather words, he acknowledges by
bis hear, hear, that British Columbia ls ta
govern the rest of the Dominion on this
I thank hlm for the
partlcuilar question.
expression o! opinion as Indicated through
that hear, hear, which met the rernarks o!
bis own wblch I quoted. Hie said :
Therefore I think the only way ta look at It
le, If the British Columbians want this leglslation let us make it a local Act ta apply ta British Columbia alane ;we of the ather provinces
do nat 'want It ; we ail prateet against lt. There
le a universal feeling againat lt--a feeling that
It la discreditable to Canada and the sooner it
la wiped off the statute-book the better. I give
notice that at the third readlng o! this Bill I
wIll add a rider to It that the law affecting%
Chinese immigration in Canada shall be beld ta
apply solely ta the province of British Columbia, and I arn quite sure that the sense o! thiS
House wlll sustaîn that amendrnent. I arn quite
sure that the mense of this country will sustalin
it. 1 amn sure that it leain accord wlth the vies'
of at least 5,000,000 of thse people of this country.

Let me say ta the han. gentleman, If he
will move that ameadment at the third
readlng o! this or any other sncb Bill, he
shahl have MY support at ail events, whattever the other members o! the House may
do. The officiai records are full of such
utterances as those whicb 1 have read, emanating frorn the bon. Secretary o! State.
There le, however, a goad deai of eloquence
la the hon. gentleman's utterances at a later
period ln tbe debate, but 1 shahl not weary
the Hanuse wlth It. I bave the passages
marked, so that any one who wlsbes ta
study the position taken by tbe bon. Secretary of State at that time, can do so. At
the close o! tbe debate, bowever, be did
Say :
It was la hopes that s0 declded an expression
of opinion la this flouse would have been met in
a different spirit by the government, and that
tbey would have conceded the point that was no
f ully debated last evenlng. They do not do the
Flouse of Commons justice in assuming that the
Bill would be stopped in that Charnber la connequence of the amendrnent which bas been made
here. On the contrary I think the Bi would be
mucb more favourably received in the House of
Commons if the ameadment lntroduced by lhe
hon. memnber from Halifax bad been allowed ta
remain la the Bill. It is proposed that the
functions of this flouse shall be completely set
aside. It le knawn that when the gaverament
appealed ta their followers la this flouse they
carry anything they choose. It le a complete
abdication of aur functions wben we consent ta
the goverlimefit carryiflg a Bil1 of this kInd contrary ta aur better judgment.

296

SENATE

I wonder if that is to be the case now.
I am very much lnclined to belive that there
are many supporters of the government who
are opposed to the principle of the Bill, but
because It is a government measure they
are prepared to'vote for It.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Mlgbt I ask the
hon. gentleman if be ls opposed to the princip le of the Bill ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIl have
already explalned my position. If the hon.
gentleman wants it again, I have no objection to repeat It. At the commencement of
my remarks I stated that I did not thlnk
the Mongollan race, if lmported into the
country in large numbers, would be any
benefit to it. I said I consldered the present Bill prohibftory, and it would be much
more bonest on the part of the goverament
to Introduce a Bill similar to the Natal Act.
I arn opposed to the imposition of the $500
head tax, if that suits the bon, gentleman.
Hon. Mr. TEMIPLEM.ýAN-The hon. gentleman is not opposed to the principle.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It bas no
principle.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Secretary of State continued :
I think so smail a concession as we ask mlght
lie made, and the ameadment migh-t lie allowed

to go. I do not intend to repeat the points thiat,
as rny hon. friend froni Minherst lias observed,
have been discussed ad nauseuxn. but I wisli to
rernark that although the majorlty of this flouse
may yield their judgment as t-o whether che
amendment shal lie pressed or not, t.hey are
not yleldlng elther one point-or the other.
The arnendment was madle, which was
carried on a vote of 29 to 21. Sucb was the
opinion of the bon. gentleman. I rnlght read
I bave
eolurnns of the saine character.
simply taken a few extracts from the num-

erous speeches made by the bion. gentleman
on the subject, and I give tbern to the
House as the utterances of a menaber of the
Whetber be is prepresent government.
pared to say that he bas been converted to
the correctness of the dernand macle by
these 15,000 people-a good many more now,
I admit, and a great many more Chinesethe House will know when the bon. gentleman addresses It. This is the age of reformation I know-particularly ln the politiclans of the present day. This is ouly another example of the policy, if sucli it maY
Hon. Sir MACKE'NZIE BOWO3LL.

be termed, of the government of wbich my
hon. friend la so distlnguished a member.
1 besitate flot to say, and the records wll
prove It, that* there la flot a profession or
principle that was enunclated and endeavoured to be enforced wblle the bon. gentlemen were ln opposition that tbey have flot
violated durlng the last six years, and I
know of none wbere the violation of the
principles they then advocated are of such
a flagrant character, as bîdicated. and approved by the extracts which I have read,
than on the question whicb la 110w before
the Senate. My hon. frlend opposite me says
there are lots more like that, but I tblnk I
have occupled the time of the House as long
on this question as I should be justlfled In
dolng. Let me recommend, If I may be s0
presumptuous as to say 50, those who have
flot read the debates whlcb I have quoted
ln 1885, 1886 and 1887, to read themn
now. They sbould do so before casting their
votes-that is, upon the presumption that
they have any confidence iii the opinions
and expressions of the lion. Secretary of
State, wbom tbey now follow. I arn not
sure that they wll ngree with bis statements, but I repeat there are those wbo hold
strong vlews upon this question and If It
cornes to a vote, I thiak the hon. gentleman
wlll find them votlng for the Bill1, while If
they were free to do as their conscience
would suggest, they would vote against the
Bill1 imposing this bigla tax. If the tax had
1)een increased to $200; 1 arn not so sure
there would be as mucla objection taken
to It as tbere la at the present moment. I
suppose this may be considered a tax Bill,
and it miglat be a question whether the
Senate -would have the power to strike out or
amend that clause Imposing tbe tax. Wblle
we can defeat the Bill if It were proper to
do so, it la questionable wbether, under the
constitution, we would bave the rlgbt to
amend it. If we had the power, motions
m-ould be submnitted to reduce that tax onehaîf or perbaps more. I can only regret
that the government bave seen fit to go so
far as they have gone on this question. The
lion, gentleman wbo lntroduced the Bill Is
very anxious to know what îny opinion was
on this question in the past. I bave not
cliangedl the opinion I expressed twenty-five
vears ago on this question; but there 15 a
'
distinîction betweeiî a restrictive Act and

JUNE 11, 1903

-29,

a prohibitive Act, whlch at the present mol- work and I believe they gara their wages, which

are given te them, or they weuld net be employed. When they make mouey eaoagh, they
return te thbeir owa country, Ohmsa, aud take
their moner with them. and therefore they are
not Permanent settiers. Ait auy moment whea
the leglslature o! Canada chooses, It eau shut
down the gate and say, u more immigrante
shahl corne here from Ohmsa; sud then neo more
immigrants wiii corne, aud these lu the 2ounitry
at the time wll
disappqar. They lasve
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I can very well under- not their familles rapidlyt!iem, and leave nobody
wlth
behind themn. but accordlag te their system, restand and fully appreciate the hesitation
superstition,
that many hon, gentlemen In this Chamber ligîcu hasor Just said, they as the hon, gentleman
will flot even leave
have ln supportiug the proposition whiclî ls their boues behlad the=. They are sent back:
elther alîve or dead': and theretore
now under consideration. As rny hon. friend to Chinano fear cf a permanent degradAItton.
there la
of
the leader of the opposition bas given niy the couatrv by a mongrel race.
views, as they existed xnany years ago, tçt
Hon. Mr. DeB OUCHE RVILLE-Would
the House, It may be necessary and proper
to advert to the history of this question. 1 the hou, gentleman tell me the name of
have bad to do wilh it one way or other for that man ?
over a quarter of a century, and have
H on. 'IMr. SCOTT-The late Sir John A.
watched very closely the progress of the Macdonald. It was on a motion by Mr.
question from that day to this.
I presumne Shakespeare-that was lu 1881-on the
had the Chinese question become tue embur- question of the influx of the Chlnese-a
rassing one it ls to-day ln British Columbia, proposition rnade la the House. That quesbefore that province came into the confeder- tion came up again and again, and fiualiy
ation, they would bave passed an exclusion the goverament diti what this goverument
Act, and we would not therefore have had bas doue. In answer te, the pressure that
this question to deal with. It did flot be- was brought te bear on them by members
corne a burning question there until about fromi British Columbia, they issued a comthe year 1870. From that time on It was mission. It Was composed o! the late Sir
brought up on motions by members repre- Adolphe Chapleau, 'then Secretary o~f State,
senting that province lu the House of Com- and of the late Mr. Justice Grey, a dismous, and in 1883 Mr. Shakespeare, repre- tingulshed member of the judiciary la Brisenting one of the couatituencies in British tish Columbia, who originally, I thlnk, came
Columbia, submitted a motion lu the House froin New Brunswick.
of Commons embodying the pri-nciple of exHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
cludlng the Chinese from that province. In
ortier that the House may know the views Mr. N. F. Davia was secretary.
of other gentlemen as well as mine, I give
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those two gentlemen
you, even at that eariy stage, the opinions madie an înquiry into the subject andi the
of the dlstlngulshed gentleman who for so resuit of ut was the Introduction of the
rnany years led the Couservative party, the Bill of 1885.
The titie o! that Bill was
lette Sir John Macdionaldi.
In the debates 'Au Act te restrlct andi regulate Chinese
that occurreti lu 1881, even before the Ohin- Immigration.' My impression is that the
ese question had become such a menace te Bill was disallowed ut Ilrst, or held bý' the
the peace and prosperity of the people of Govennor Generai for the consideration o!
Canada, Sir John Macdonald expresseti hlm- the Impertal authorities, andi subsequeutly,
self iu this way:
cotisent was given anti it became part of
I arn eufficient of a physiologist to believe that our statutory law, andi remalned so unthi
It Is quite
the two races canuot combine, and that no great a change was made la 1890.
m-iddle race can arise from the mixture of the true, hbou, gentlemen, that I hionestly hielti
Mengolian and the Asian. 1 believe It wouîd
be a great miptake. and would tend te the de- the views that my hon. frienti bas rend te
gradation of the people of the Pacifie and that you in the House.
I took an active vîew,
neo permanent immigration of the Chinese people
loto Canada le to be eucouraged as a body of because I did feel considenable revulsion at
settlers. but under the eresent system there the measure. and it la ouly because the
la no fear of Mhat. The Chinese, when they evil bas growa and augmuenteti to such a
corne over to British Columbia, do nlot bring
their familles, their wives, with the m. They degree that, if 1 amn correctly informed,
rnent and ln the state of the labour market
and the requirements of commerce, particulariy ln British Columbia, luduces me to
oppose the Bill before us Iniposing a head
tax of $500 on every Chinaman entering the
Dominion.

298

SENATE

tbe pieople in British Columbia are, 1 may
say, -unanimous. Of course, wben you talk

about 175,000 of a population, they cannot
1 think, 1 would bie safe
bie unanimous.
ln saylng, If 1 am» correct ln gatherlng the
facts from ail the Information I have on
hand, and niy rending ou the subject, that
between 80 and 90 per cent of the people
la British Columbia are opposed, for rea-

sons wbicb 1 need flot now discuss, to
Chlnese Immigration.
Hon. Sir MNACKENZIE BOWEL 1L-Statisties will, I arn lnformied, prove that the
Chinese are leas numerous to-day, ln proportion to the population, than they were la
1885.
Hon. %Ir. TEMPLEMAN-No.

Hon. L\r. PEItGUSON-The-re ls flot any
very material difference.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not L-now how that
1 know
1 do not profess ta kuoiv.
is.
the population uow. 1 took, a note of it at
tbe last census, nnd I confeas I was surprlsed Io thnd It was sa smali. The Chinese
population, as I had it on my memorandum,
by the census of Britisb Columibia, was
fourteen thousaud odd. That wns the last
census, but 1 amn told It la incorrect. We
find the census criticised constantly as being incorrect. It la an officiai rep'ort.

tiemen will undersand the character of the
legislation tbey bave been enacting, which
I may say every yenr has been dlsallowed.
Here is an Act passed in 190'2, number 14.
It reads as follows:
No. 14. Labour regulation Act, 1902.
Section 4 provides that any workman who
when asked to do s0 by a duly authorlzed officer shall fail to himself read in a language of
Europe this Act- shall fot bie employed on works
enumerated ln the sald Act, whlch Includes
bridges, railways, roads, harbour works, canais.
dams, sldes, &c., &c., under a penalty flot exceeding $25 for each day empioyed.
No. 64. An Act to regulate immigration into
British Columbia. The Act quotes the paragraph from the British North America Act on
the subject of Immigration.
1
Section 4 enacts that any persan unsil e to
sign ln tbe characters of soine
write out or
hanguage of Europe an application to the Provincial Secretary In the form. gîven cannot legally enter the province ;If hie does on investigation before a magistrate hie is subject to a
fine of $500 and if unable to psy may bie imprisoned for 12 months.
Section 6 provides that any immigrant found
in British Columbia ln contravention of the Act
shahl not be entlVled to hold land or to the
rlghts or prîvîleges of the free miner or exercise tbe franchise.
Section 7 Imposes a penalty upon persons and
corporations contraveDIflg the Act of $500.
1 mention that as a sample of the ActS
that they are constantly passing. Tbey are
disallowed nt Ottawa. Tbey are dlsallowed
and from my own standpoiflt, rnninly for

thc reason tbat they embrace the Japaflese
as well.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The bon.
Hon. 'M.r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Can the gentleman knows the reason for the Acts
hon, gentleman tell us the number ten years passed in British Columbia. The reason
previous to that ?
is that it is a catc4 vote. That Is ail.
MNr. SCOTT-No.
Hon.
Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-Judging fromn the debates in the House of Assernbly in Victoria,
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-My ownl
question in this.
Impression is that there nre fewer in the there bias been no political
Both sides have united. ThOse Acta have
country to-day than ten or fifteen years ago.
been passed with absolute unanimity.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We ahi bave to moderate
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
our views ns we grow older and w-e canuot
convictions in is correct, becnuse they are both phaying to
carry out our ohd arbitrary
W7e the gallery.
the administration of public nifairs.
have to exchauge views, and moderate and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They have botbi united
comipromise, where onîe cait honestly ani iii this, and it lias been going on year after
conscientiously do it. 'Wbat lins infiuenced year. My hou. friend sid lie had no objec-«
me considerabhy bas been the extraordînary-3 tion to the Natal Act. Thînt was an Act
unanimity of the hegisiature lu British Col- introduced firat in Australia with a view to
umbia year after yeal-, for the hast tan years exclnding Orientais.
certainly, and pi-obably longer. Thîey bave
Hon. Sir M-NACKENZIE BOWELL-I said
passed Acts whicli practically deprive the
the 1 thought that would lie preferable, on acChinese of tHe riglit to malze a living la
country. 1 will reid an .Act snch as tbey' count of its having an educational qualificaqare iii the hiabit of passing, anid lion. gen- tiOn.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNSE 11, 1903
ed every session as long as I can rernember,
flot one or two, but many of tbem, and, as
I was saylng ln my argument, one of the
great reasons wby we bave not allowed
these Acts to go Into operation wae because
tbey would insist on unitlng the Japanese
witb them. That was the reason, and It
was quite Impossible to concede that point,
because Japan Is too important an ally of
Hion. Mr. LANDRY-Are the Japs a Mon- the mother country to be put in a category
with China. Now Australia, and I tbink the
golian race ?
Cape and some other colonies, have passed
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat la ratber outside the Natal Act.
That wvould exelude the
of the question we bave before us. 1 arn
It would practicaliy exclude tbe
Japanese.
not golng to trace the origin o! the Japs. Chinese. In the Bill now before tbe House
Tbey have always been excluded and put bon. gentlemen wiil note tbat tlîis applies
on the same. plane wltb Clhinamen la the practlcally only to that class wbo would be
legisîntion o! British Columbia ; but I bave excluded under the Natal Act, because edualways felt that we bad to make a sacrifice, cated Chinamen coming to Canada, men beand we could not yield la aay sense to the longing to tbe different professions ia China,
appeals made by Britisb Columbia to exor scbolars, persons coming to this country
clude tbe .Tapanese. Wbat we did do was
for the purpose of belng further educated in
to brlng the subject before the Japanese
the arts and ways of Europeaa countries, are
government tbrough their consul-general,
iiot lnterfered with. They do not pay this
and they have, after very great consideraamouat. It is practically contlned to thiat
lion, passed a regulation tbat ail Japanese
degraded class that herd togetber, as we
leaviag their country must take 'witb tbein
and
couni- bear o! them lu Cbinatowil la Victoria
their passports,which must Indicate the
Vancouver. The Natal Act, therefore, wvould
try to whlcb tbey are goiug, and they have
wholly inapplicable, altbouglh, as 1 said
a regulation whicb is observed in the issuiag be
before, It bas been adopted lu Australla and
of those passports In the varions districts
la otber countries. Wben the report to whiCb
of Japan tbat oaly a limited number will
1 bave alluded was adopted and tbe legis*be permltted to corne to Canada.
lation of 1885 took place, it was be.aded:
Hion. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn just askiag 'An Act to restrict and regulate, &c.' It was
b as anytbing been done thought then that the $50 tax would be a
for information
toward askiag China ta adopt similar regu- barrier to a Cbiaian coming to Britisht
lations to restrict Chinese emîgration, or Columbia. It did not so operate. It bad not
would it be impossible to approacb the ques- that effect.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It dld
tiou ?n tbt
wa
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, It would be no use. to a great citent.
otm
Io.M.SOTAdfoltm
The Japanese are a claanish people. They
adeCOTT-Adef rom Ure to tini
M
Hon
take an intercet lu tbeir race. Wbeu Japs
wamdettepeetgorgo abroad tbey watchl tbeir future. and application
the fax. In 1900, 1 fbiak
are anxious tlmat the Japanese sbould be an ment f0 Increase
That did
but China does not lt was, we increased it to $100.
bionour to their country,
satisfy British Columbia. They sald
do so. lion. gentlemen know that there are not
stili came ln, and they desirraid to be 400,000.000 people ln China, aud the Chinamen
ed that they should be absolutely excludedChina ls indifferent to tHe fate o! tbe Chiaadopted the policy pursued by Our
ese outside. Tbey gave tbeir adbesion ta We then
predecessors, and appolated a commission
an Acf o! Coagress excluding the Cbinese
of fhree gentlemen Wbo were higbf roin that country. Japan would mot do It. composed
ly capable of performing the duties assigaJapan would break off ail connection witb
One of them was Mr. Clute, a
us rather than yield on a point of that k-lad. ed to thern.
distlngulshed barrister of Toronto, Who had
Tbey bave protested against the policy o!
dezil o! time, attention and
British Columbia endeayouring to excînde given a good
study to the labour question and this parthe Japanese. Tlhese Acts have been pass-.

Hion. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe effect of tbat would
be to sbut out the Japanese and certalnly
that le objection'able ia view of the strong
alliance aow existlng between Japau and
Great Britain, and the value that Japan le
as an, ally la Asia, and as a close watch
on the aggressions that are now belng mnade
from, time to Urne on thé part of Russia.

100

SENATE

ticular question, and Mr. Munu, a very large
employer of labour in British Columibia, who
employed Chînamen, an owner of canneries
and a representative of the labour class, and
Mr. Foley, who had been a candidate ln one
of the elections two or three years ago ln
British Columbia. They went very exhaustively Into this question, flot alone tn
British Columbia, but extended their lnquiries Into the adjolning country. They
weat to San Francisco and studied the effeet
It had there and on the labour element, and
went fuily Into the question as to wbether
It was really a necessity. The conclusion
they came to was that the effect of allowing
Chinese Immigration was to excînde white
labour. The Chinese were herded tagether,
men coming without their wives or familles,
havlng no Influences to k-cep theui up ta a
higlier plane of lite, and they fell to a very
10w state of degradation, and the consequence was they became a nuisance to any
locnllty where they llved. I will rend the
conclusion of the commission briefly. Thiey
say that the class that are practically exciuded are known as the coolie class. I
mentloned before that educated Chinanien
are not excluded. They have a riglit to
corne and go and pass through the country
without pnying the fine. The class that go
Into British Columbia are îlot allowed to go
to the United States now. The laiv which
expired this year, If it lias flot been i-eenacted by Congress, was passed for teii
years, excluding the Ohinese froni the Unit-

dangeraus to the Industrial p-ýace of 'lie com-

mnunity where they corne. They spend littie of
their earnlngs Iu the country and rade chiefly
wltb their own people. They fl the places that
ouglit ta lie occupled by permanent citizens,
many of whom leave the country ou their account . They are unfit for full citizeahlp. and
are persnitted ta take no part ln municipal or
provincial goverument. Upon this point there
was entire unanlmlty. They are not and will
not become citizens lu any sense cf the term as
we understand IL. They are so nearly allied te
a servile clsss that they are obuoxious ta a
free community and dangerous to the stat,ýHon. Mtr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-What is
the document the lion, gentleman is rending
from ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That le the unanimous
report of the commission appointed two or
three years ago to inquire Into this subjcct

before any further action was talken, and
reported to pariliament, and It Is owing to
the report of that Commission that this Bill
is now befare us. The report proceeds:
Your commissioners belleve that it la Impossible for the province et British Columbia ta
take its Place and part in the Dominion as It
ought ta do. unless its population is free fiom
sny taint of servile labour aud la lm.bued Mwlth
a sense of the duties and regpousibulities appertainiug ta citizeaship.
Then they report further:

The intereits of the empire cau beet be served
by building up a strong and united Canada,
able not anly te defend herself. but afford help
If need lie to the mother country. Whatever
permaaently weakene Britiah Columbia v-Fakess
the Dominion and the empire. and no0 material
gain ta individual intere-sts ought ta weigh for
oue moment against this Injury ta the nation.
Their conclusions are:
ed States, and wvhen they are cauglit they
That It ia in the interests of the empire that
Pacifie province of the Dominion should lie
are simply sent back aan-the
again
occupied by a large and thoroughly Britishi
The cae tam
outeruChia, raw trinpopulation rather than by ane in which the
They
poe
r lsses,
erd Chu a
pvrywhe er an umber of aliens would form a large proportion.
te cents asssy reree n h poernng whcabI We find that these representatians are Fubfew ent a
dy rpresnt he ernigs w;cbstautially true and urgently call fer a remed.
must suffice for a famllY; accustamed to crowd
We aise find that the Increase o! the capitatogether lu small tenements or buts, close, un- tion tax tram $50 ta $100 Ineffective and inhealthy and filthy ;with custoins. habits and adequate.
modes ot lite fixed and unalterable, resulting
Your com-missioners are of opinion that the
tram an ancient and effete civilizatian, wl h no0 further immigration of Chinese labourera luto
desire ta confarm ta western ideas. They forn. Canada ought ta lie proaibited;
on their arrivai, a communàty within a coinThat the most desirable aud effective meaus
munity, separate and apart, a foreigu substan-e of attaining tbis end is iy treaty supporte-1 by
witbiu, but nlot of aur body politie, with no li)ve suitable legisiation;
for nur laws and Institutions ;a people that
Tbat in the meantitne and until this can lie
will nlot assimîlate or heconie an Integral par, obtained the capitation tax shauld lie raised ta
o! aur race and nation. With their habits of tritn.
overcrawding, and an utter disregard cf ail
The on*ly point upon whlch your iammisalansanitary laws, they are a continuai menace ta ers coulfi net agree is the date wheu the capihealth. From a moral and social polint of tation tax of $500 ouglit ta) corne juta effeet.
view, living as they do without home life, schOels The cliairman andi Commissio-ne- Foley are of
or churches. and so nearly approaching a sropinion that the capitation tax should be raised
vile class, their effeet upon the r"st of th- corn- to $500 at once. wbile Comissfioner Munu la of
xnunity la bad. They pay no0 fair proportion of (rAifion that $300 sliould lie imposed for twa
the taxes of the country. Tbey ki-ep out irnmi- Years. and if a prohibitive treaty lie not obgrants wbo would become pprnanant cit E-Iis. tained within that period, that It lie then
and create conditions inimical to labour and raised ta $500.
1-on. Mr, SCOTT.

JUNE 11, 1903

301

Well, one year bas gone over since tbat tation and appeals made to the central
inqulry. I. bave given you tbe reasons power, it does seemn Improper that we aboula
which bave prompted the government to set Up our Judgment entirely against theirs.
bring forward this legialation. They dld it Whatever our views are, they must yield to
ln obedience to what tbey believe the ail the people who are more directly Interbut unanîmona feeling of the peuple o! Brit- ested. The government as a necessary conisb Columbia. Because it la ln the interesta sequence to the investigation, wbicb was
o! that province that tbe consequences a most elaborate one, bave bad to Introduce
Evidence was taken, a
pointed ont so forclbly and dramnaticaily by tlîls frgislatlon.
Tbey good deal of wbich was read by my hou.
tbe commission sbouid not be reallzed.
consider that tbe present condition cannot friend here, but flot one buudreth part of
go on. The British Columbia legislature IL. He bad to select evidence from varlous
unanlmously, year after year, passed Âcts representatives of Industries, on the coast.
such as I bave read. We cannot go un In 1 suppose the pile of evidence, witbout exthia way ; we must be forced to some aggeration, would be two feet bigh. The
pollcy that they wili et lest acquiesce lu, commîssionera were a long time occupied
because It would be preferable to allow the lu making thîs inquiry and their concluaions
Natal Act to come into effect rather than were unanimous. Under the circumstances.
bave a constant difficulty with British the government bail no other recourse; wbatColumbia. They claim tbat under the Brit- ever their individual views might be, they
isb North Âmerica Act tbey bave a rlght, must yield to the demanda f rom Britishi
>o a limited degree, to limIt tbe immigra- CJolumbia. Let me ask bon. gentlemen comtion Into the province. We contest the ex- lng from other provinces, if it were possible
treme view tbey take on tbat subject, and tliat a menace of that kind existed ln their
tbe consequence la we bave been from time own province, and the people unitedly asked
to time obliged to dlaallow their legielation, for the removal of it, would it be rlgbt for
and, as hou, gentlemen are aware, wbere the federal power to set themn entirely at
tbe legialation le; the product of a unlted defiance and say 'No, gentlemen, you are
people, o! ail the~representatives lu the as- wroug; we Èold dIfferent conclusions from
sembly, tbat la not really a aatlsfactorY yours and we cannot gratify your wishes.'
If that bad gone on for a quarter of a cencondition of affaira.
my Individual opinion may be, tury, as this bas, you can see how unreasonWbatever
and wbatever the Individual views any bon. able it would be for the federal power, in a
gentleman may bave, we have to defer, la free country like Canada, wbere we bave
some degree at least, to the opinions of others Ilberties sucb as are enjoyefi in few counwbo are more deeply concerned lu the ques- tries, to refuse to yleld to the desîre of
tions under consideration than we are our- the people of British Columbia to regulate
selves. We ln tbe eastern provinces of the this matter in the way they themselves think
Dominion, seeing the few Chinamen located fit. *To me it would be in contravention of
amongat us, regard them as a quiet, In- the riglhts that we recognize as due to tlie
offensive ciass. They attend to their duties, people of the varlous provinces of the Dowbicb are cbiefly Iu the laundry Une. They miilon, and it la on that account, and for
are 'often Insulted and provoked by boys that reason that the goverament bave
breaking their windows. Tbey bear It ahl brouglit dowu this Bill with the hope of
philosopbically and quietly. Therefore, the mneeting the wishes of the people of British
feeling witb those who bave not studied the Coluinbia and the approval o! parliament.
situation and do not kuow the condition of
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wi]y fot confine
thinga ln British Columbia, la that we ought it to British Columbia ?
flot to atrain the law and exclude the
Chinese. It la, I admit, a concession to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la a new questioni
British Columbia. If I considéred the people that I caunot anawer offliand. it seenis to
of British Columbia were at aIl divided have been a view o! my own at one time.
on the subject 1 should hesitate very
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) moved the
strongly myseif lu supportiug this measure,
constant agi- adijournment of the debate.
but after twenty-five years of

302

SENATE

Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-At the request 1this. It Is exclusion of the grossest and
of varlous members thia order lias been put most abominable kind. Not that Chinamen
forward from time ta Urne for somethlngi would corne here If the law remained unover a week. Now, there Is no reason why changed. Tbey do flot corne here because
we shonld flot ineet to-niglit, unless a large tliey cannot find employrnent. A few corne,
number wlsh to speak. My desire, having I believe, but more go back ta China
charge of the Bill, la that we proceed .with every year now than corne ta this counthe debate to-night, anid If possible, dispose try. I wlll first allude to what the hon.
Secretary of State said about the legisiaof it.
ture of Britishi Columbia passing enactments
The SPEÂKER-I declare the motion loit. year after year ta prevent Chinamen workIt being six o'clock, I now leave the Chair. ing on public works or under charters given
by the province. That Is very true, and
Alter leceu.
these gentlemen have done that simply ta
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (13.C.) resumned catch the votes of the worklng-people, noththe debate. He said: I do flot oppose this lng more or les; and those who pass those
Bill because It Is a goverument Bill. It will Bis to prevent Chinamen getting work,
be known ta the bon. Secretary of State emplloy Chinamen ln their own bouses.
thnt on former occasions, when the party I The hon. gentleman who has charge
belonged ta brouglht ln a Bill of tbls kind, of this Bill cannot deny that these men
1 opposed It as strongly as lie did, and on ln British Columbia who voted for this
thnt occasion ive threw It out and I sbould kind of legislation actually employ Chinese.
like to do the same ta this Bill to-day. I amn gardeners and cooks*and domestice lni their
always ln favour of giving white labour ail own houses, and simply because they find
the advantages possible, and la my own them extremely useful and cannot find any
humble way I do so. But I think 1 would peapiê t& taire their place. Why do we flot
lie cowardiy and lacking in my principles exciade the Japanese under thus Bill ? Simof jiustice and fair-play If I would nat speak piy because.Japan is a formidable nation.
of Chinainen as I know themn and as I Eind Japan has ships and armieh and she knows
them and as I have leard frami other per. how ta use them. If Chinamen ta-morrow
sons withaut any special interest bow hon- liad the franchise, or If they had large fleets
ourable they speak of them. I should be of slips of war that they. could use, we
derelict lu my duty la the interests of rîglit- would not pass this legislation. 1 say If
eousness and truth If 1 leld my pence. The they lad the franchise that this Bill would
remnrks made by niy hion. friend the Secre- flot be heard of ; It is a Bill entirely ta, catch
tary of State la former years are just ns votes, and not because Chinamen do any inapplicable to-day as they were then. There jury. On the contrary, the Chiniese do a
la no change la the conditions. If anything great deal of good and add ta the wealth of
nt ail, as far as mny knowledge gaes, we have the country, as I shiah be able to show hierefewer Chinamen ln Victoria and British after. Now, who are the class of p)eople
Columbia than we had then. The remarks tlint demand this hegisiation at the bands of
lie made ln the past were true, they were the government ? They are, of course, the
Does
rigliteous, tlcy were proper, tiîey were just, white labour, union labour chiefly.
and If I were ta try ta emulate lits example union labour at the present moment deserve
I should make use of the eloquent words lie anything of this kind ? Wlat Is union laused tIen, and sit down :but there are a bnur daing ? It is crippiiing aur industries,
few things I bave learned la the course of it is retarding progress, it is daiug everynîy living ln the place where there are a *thing ta injure every country wherever the
number of Chinamen that I have ta repent.
I consider this Bill an outrageons Bill, an
oI)prosive Bill, a Bill against a brandli of the
human family that I cannot support lu a
frcee country like thils. The governimeut of
thi.s country ls supposed to be a free trade
government. There is no free trade about
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)

union stands. They go beyond reasonable
baunds. They are flot sathsfied withi fair
wages and a fair numiiber of hours ta %vork,
but they must try to, control everytliii.g and
bave it iii their own biands. it cannot bc
denied thiat union labour does a grent deal of
harni and injury ta the country, not anl1Y

JUNE 11, 1903

to this country but to the neighbouring
statea where millions and millions of money
bave lbeea bast through union strîkes
durlng the past year. Do they deserve
this leglalation ? Had they showed themselvea deaerving of this, then they ahould
be entitled to some conaideration, but under
the conditions that exiat, they are noti
entltled, and Chinese labour ouglit to
be a kind of set off againat strikes. But
what do we find ? We find thie union so expert and au clever that tlîey are getting
Chinamen now to join theni lu the unions,
s0 that they wili have a monopoly of labour,
and when the white man stnikes the Chinamun stnikes with hlm. That la one of the
conditions ut present.

v ~ould agree with hlm that there la a stroug
Chinese
f eeiing in Britishi Columubia against
abour. 1 icertainly do agree wlth hlm. I
1~
la
g o beyond that, and say that the feeling
uinreasonable, and the action of the white
i abour there ls lnconsIstent When a white
nan takes a contract for the buildIng of a
mouse, la It a white man Who mixes the
Who carnies the bricks ? Who
nortar
arrles the lumber ? The Chinaman-not
has
t lie white man, although the white man
:he contract.
t
Hon. Mr.
deny that.

TEMPLEMAN-I

absolutely

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Ând the
bon. gentleman knows that Chinamen In
Victoria put up blocks of buildings, stores,
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-WlIere, miglit so on. Who do they employ to put them
1 ask, juat as a matter of Information, bas Up ? Chinamen, not white bricklayers and
lt occurred that unions have organized carpenters, and then they go on and abuse
Chinamen ?
Ohinese labour after taking thein money
(B.C.)-They are and putting It lui their pockets. I know that
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
from my expenlence lu the
trylug to do It ut Nanaimo and Cumberlaud, for a fact, and
country. The hon. gentleman cannot deny
reports.
according to the uewspaper
also that the Chinumen are a source of
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I think the great advantage lu domestic affaira, also
lion. gentleman miglit suy thut Dunsmuir In can-ning,. ln saw-milla and ln different
trled to organize them during the recent works In Britishi Columbia. He knows also
strike.
that those Industries would flot pay
labour.
at $2.50 a day for white
Hon. Mn. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Very Ilkeget Chinese labour at $1 a day
When they
ly : but recently white labour tried to
they make It pay. Canning la a very preorganize Chinamen In that way. It would
carlous work, and sometimes lt hardly pays
not be so bad If it wene doue by Britand If this labour la shut out from
ishera on Britishi soil, but the United at that,
Columbia, I do flot
the first to prompt the canning lu British
States people were
know what wlll become of it. It la an luthat Idea and they telegraphed from some
duatry now that brings ln between tlînee
parts of the UJnited States to Britishi
and four million dollars. Well, destroy that
Columbia to get the Chinamen and Japs
destroy the best lnduatry lu the
with them. I saw that lu the Victoria and you
the fore- country. In many waya 4jhinamen have been
papera. If It had not been for
uaeful and the hon. gentlema n
thought of the late Sir John Thompson, extremely
Code eannot aay that they have not been. There
lu passing that part of the Criminal
a caliing lu which the Chinawhlch Inflicts a strong punlaliment on la hardly
Elis man interferes with white labour. Take
people who lutimidate and obstruct
domestie work. Ail the young girls and
Mujesty's mails, the country would not be
purlia- ail the young men brought up lu Britfit to live lu. 1 do not believe the
Columbia have the udvantage 0f a free
ment of tixis country would have the cour- ishi
school system, a primary achool and a
age to do it, and If they bave the courage,
They will not take to
higli achool.
Il hope they wili have n chance lu a few
domestic work. They will flot go farmdays ou the Bill introduced by the lion, genlng. They keep In the tow.ns und look
tleman from Calgary (Hon. Mr. Lougheed),
situations. Girls look for employmeflt
not to Injure white labour, but to control for
They will not
to be controlled. Tîme hon. lu shopa and typewriting.
it as it requires
Some girls preI go Into housekeeping.
gentleman, the other day aslced nie if

SENATE

304

pare thernselves for teachers tu the pub- agitation in San Francisco whlch comnThey menced some years ago and becurne se
I do flot blarne tbern.
lic achools.
elevate thernseives quite properly. acute at one time that the legisiature of
try to
Some of tirese girls get as lIlgh as $70 a California appointed a commission to
month at teaching ; 1 cannot tell what Inquire Into the matter. I wish to read
wages tbey get lu shops and so on. But some extracts from the report of that comPeople talk of coolies as a
you cannot get that cîass of service for mission.
lornestic work, and I do nlot believe tbüt degraded people, but will the hon. gentleChinese Immigration or Chinese labour bas man tell me the rneaning of the word ?
kept out one single white person ln British Can rny hou. friend tell me what it means ?
possibly
3
. 1r. TEMPLEMÂAN-I
Ho.
Columbia. What class of people do we get
there ? We get very few rn with their might.
familles coming to take up land or goiug Into
We get young men, un-i Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It means
any Industries.
eastern
rnarried lu rnost cases, and what do they nothîiig more nor less than an
go there for? They do nlot go to farrn. carrier.
They do flot go for dotnestic work. They 1Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-The word cornes
go there for mining purposes, and are a trom Indla.
useful peopie lu their owu sphere. But lu
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The legisthat brauch Obiuese labour does flot interthe mines, lature appointed a commission to Inquire
fere lu the slightest. They go to
aerTecagsaaitte
and they expect to inake their fortunes Inintth
lu the Chinese were that they were coolies and had
a ycar or two and neot to settie down
thinga of
country. That Is the class of people that secret associations and differeut
s
sio reoed
corne to our shores now. Sorne years ago,tatin.Tecm
wlth other gentlemen In Vîcto-' follows
In common
they were
Âfter
ria, we engaged a num-ber of servauts lu s atlsfied the most thorough lnqulrycooiieiam or
there was no system of
gree adte ay hem hreetim
Englnd, nd paythemthre tes
avery among the Chinese of this State. that
ageed t
Englad,
They they were as free as any person in the State.
In Engiand.
the wages paid
The people of Califoruin were nlot satiswere engaged for three years, and
we were to pay their passage Out to fied witb that, because it is a true and fuir
Not one of those report and gives full justice to Chinarnen,
British Columbia.
yCn
poue
a
girls, after ail the expense and trouble get- btacmiso
Morton was one of the
ting them out, rernalned a year in the gress and Senator
That was commission, and here is part of bis report:.
I.
place sbe had corne to
Chinese labour lu California la as free as any
befoe ote my on.frind
ea
rom
Victoria, and If he was there;- I do not other. They ail corne as free men and are
I have their owu masters absolutely. The Chinese,
suppose he sent for a servaut.
white minera ln the gold mines of
stated now bow useful Chiuamen have been seeiug that were organlzed luto, socleties for
Califorula
to the mutual protection and for charitable purposes
aud are stili. 1 defy any one to say
aid te the sick,
coutrary, because yon caunot I the places givlug aid to newcomers, andorgauizatious are
did the same thlug. Their
benevolent and the ouiy foundation for
they are fillîng- uow, aud they do not take sîmply
outthey malutalu
the pince of white men. The hon. gentleman the charge that the tact that thetnibunais
presideats of
heside aur law la
loorof he
statd acossthe 0fthe Huse
usetiRthe
statd arosstuefloo
that I was pro-Chincse. 1Ill]n
other day
neitber asharned nor afraid to stand Up
for the Chinese or nny other people that I
thiuk are oppressed, or that are going to
be oppressed by legfisiation of this k-ind.
White men coutinually oppress these Chinamen and treat them unjustly, and I hope
1 wili never be nfraid ho take the stand,
These are my sen1ti-ý
1 do to-uight.
ments and I repent hhem. This agitation
iu British Columbia was tak-en from the
Hon. Mr. MACDON'ALD

(B.C.)

companies act as arbîtrators to oettle dîfficuities betweeu their countrymfefl. although
neither party la ever bouad by their fandIngs.
While I arn on this subject, I saw au
accounit the other day from the United
States consul in support of Ohinese, and lie
spoke of the integrity and wouderfuli honesty.
of the Chinese commercial mnan. If you
bargain with a Chinaman to supply you
with a certain quautity of goods. If be
could nlot fund them ut the price, he n'as
bound to get them no matter if ha loso

JUNE 11, 1903

lu

As to secret tribunals the Morton Cointhe wbole profit. He would strain every
«you and keep) rnittee report :
nerve to get the goods for
There are no lawyers, no police in China, beis promise, and that is flot only tixe
disputes and
of rnany cause every family decides Its ownM. Simon rea as
testimony of that consul but
Ieacb individualsociety policeman. of perfection
gards ChiDese Is happy..~ the Ideal
others. 1 inyseif bad some dealings wvitb
and prosperous. Per1ffll
-clu
~
-~~~

Tbey were bionest and pald wbant and i2th centuries. She then vegetated and
lapsed lu repose.
iba1i ton suv and were an example to
th
Now, 1 suIPPOse l! the evidence 1 have
white men. Mr. Richard G. Sneatb,
mnany
for rend were teli turnes more convîififg lu
President of a bank and mnerchaut
favour of Chinese labour the gentlemen
twenty years, said:pledged to the goveriimeflt
I bave dealt a great deai with the merchants liere who are asteBl.Iamvr
of thîs city and bave always found them truth- aebudt
Ianvr
Bi.
topsth
fuI. honest and peTfectly rellable lu ail theirarbun the position of the Secretary of
business engagements. I have neyer had one sorry for
lie bas no stomacli
up to
of them fail to live by them his contract. 1 State, ibecause 1 k-now
In a business
neyer lost a dollar
He Is as mucli opposed to
Il.
dollars. We fo
amouiiting to several mil-lions of word as go It In l lis heurt as I am. Mr. Balfour
a Chinaman'a
cornmonly accepted
for a cargo of merchandise while a written tbe other day la the British Hlouse, recontract was demanded of a white man.
ferring to a secret of the Cab inet, said,
Tlîat ls the evîdence givea by a United
.aithougli we differ In the cabinet we preStates baiiker; bie would take a Cbinaman's
The
bond. sent an unbroken front to the public.'
word as readily ns n white man's
of State could never agree to this
Secretnry
Mr. Justice Hydenfeidt, associated with thie
Bll, but it being arranged by the goverilSupreme Court and a resident of Calîfornia
la a
ment and promlsed by the premier on acf or twenty-seveii years, testified thatmoment o! weakness, It is altogether
I
us to-day.
He consldered the Chinese the best labourinir count of that it is before
cîass we have among us-more faithful, more would vote for It wilingly If the Chinese
any equal
reliable and more intelligent than Nearly allIinjured the country, but the Chinese have
number of European Immigrants.
been a source o! wealtb to my province and
cau read sud write.
to be, if they
Donald M-%cLel.lnn, manager o! a woollen stili are, and will continue
If It
o! tbree bundred Obînese, are aîîowed to corne Into the Dominion.
ill and employer
lijured any industry to have Chinese Immitestified :
1 -would -not onlY tax thefli, but
I ne'Xer found a case of theft amcng them. I gration,
If
would drive them out of tbe country.
have neyer seen a drunken Chinaman in my life.
is the my bion. friends opposite lire anxious for
1Ioil, Nir. TIfMPLEMAN-WVhat
good Immigration, they should -fring In a
lion. gentleman reading from?
to deport; the Doukbobors. We do flot
Hou. 'Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Frorn the Bill
wnnt mad fanatlcs going about the country;
Sejiate Debates, 1886. It Is a good tbing
want sober, Industrious men to cultivil
my lion. friead did not find this. I up we
tbe soi. Why do flot =xy bon. frieads bring
pose bie would bave burned it Up because
la a Bill to deport the Doukbob6rs iastend
It is trutb. Col. Hollister, one of the îargest
f rueiu- of interfering with a harniless, use! nI,
farmers la California and a long turne
people ?
ployer of Chinninen, testified :gaI
understnnd
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I
As a labourer be ls most submissive and.
rts
done
rts
you
hnmnI
klndly, ready to do whatfound want honest withtieeaebot1,0Chalfnlu
and teeaeaot1,0
hlm
entire good-wlll. 1 have
bon. gentlemani tell
Could the
very intelligent. Whoever saw a drunken Columbia.
us how many of tbem bave takzen the oath
Chinaman ?
word.

lion. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-That
true.

is quite

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (BC)

.Wmn.

Babcoclc, employer of 120 Ciiinamieu,
:tbem.
said
bathe
night of their lives Cliinamen In this
Every
themselves from head to foot. They are
classes.
respect differeat from the lower white
20
F.

of allegiance to the Crowa ?

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-1l coulaI
Some bave taken tlîe onili, but
flot say.
If aay bave, this Bill should Dot touchi
Chinameil coiag from Hong Kongp
Tbey are Britislj
should not be taxed.
Chinamfen. This Bill, bowever, is going tc

306

SENATE

tax every Asiatic. It is a cowardly Bill. if
those men had a vote to-morrow the gorernrnent would flot touch them. If the
Japanese were a wretched disorganized
people, like the Chinese are ln their own
country, they would be taxed also. The
CLInese are governed by viceroys and have
If they were
not a centralized power.
strong enough, -why should they flot, put a
co'untervailing tai on 'white people ? WlIy
not keep the British ont of China unless
they pald a tax of $500 per head ? I hope
they %wIIIdo It. But there is no centr-aq
pn rilament li China, and the viceroys are
neyer heard by the central governmnent.

what we do!7 What do Chinamen do in
China ? They load our ships. There are
110W five or six lnes of steamers of ten or
twelve thousand tons coming to American
ports.

Who

load those

shIps ?

Chinese

labour loads them with varions products.
They corne ladenk witb products of the
Orient every -week, and yet we treat i-hose
1 do
people lu this ungenerous way.
not want to use strong language, but
the Bill is la my opinion an outrageons Bill
However, I suppose I arn only wasting the
time of the House. There was a commission appointed at the Instance of the British
Columbia government by the goverumeat of
Canada la 1884-85.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The Chiluese nt
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I nnderstood the
present In British Columbia are flot affected
hon. gentleman to be reading a report made
by this Bill.
to the United States Congress la 1883.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I know
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-No, I canthat, but Chixiamen do flot live for ever. I
sat, but it
Chinamen go back to not say what year the commission
believe as rnnny
was quoted ln this House in 1886.
We go
China IIOW as corne from China.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I understood tHe
to China and coinpei them to open their
ports to us. We say : «'You must trade hon. gentleman to quote Senator Morton's
with us ; we want to go Ikto your country opinion ?
and make ail the money we can, build
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Yes.
railways and seli merchandise, and you
Hon. Mr. 'TEMPLEMAÂN-Does the hon.
must flot stop ns. If you do we will
gentleman wish the House to understand
biow you to Jericho.' What are ail the
the
nations of Europe doing ? They are ail that the extrnct he was quoting was
fanding of the commission ?
trying to reach ont for the trade of Chinaail strIving for the open door, yet we treat
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Nd, I said
tbe ChiÙese worse thaa we do dogs. You It was what Senator Morton said. I do not
would flot tax dogs coming Into the country want to deceive the House for a moment. I
-even mad dogs.
say everything over and abo-ee-board and I
they neyer defy the hon, gentleman to catch me.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Were
taxed before this Bill ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I slmply want
to understand what the hon.,gentleman was
smali tai only.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-A
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I ani ln
favour of a certain amount of restriction on
Chinese. We had that restriction and It was
heavy enough. The first tax was quite highi
enough. When It was raised to $100 I thought
it was too high, but we agreed to it and It
Is on the statute-bonk to-day. That ought
to be enough considering our need of labour. We go to China and mako ail the
money we eau. We do flot take our familles
there, and we do just what you accuse
Chinumen of doing- here-curry our earnings
out of the country. If we are a Christian
people, more enligbtened and intelligent,
why shouid we complain of Chinamen doing
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)

quotIng.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-First of
ail there was the California commission itself, then there was a Congressional commission and Mr. Morton was the chief man
on that commission. I found the report some
years ugo, and quoted it, and others quoted
it also.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The bon. gentleman must know that Senator Morton made
a minority report ut that time.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-There was
a commission in 1884 that took evidence in
The commission were
British Columbia.

JUNE 11, 1903
flot satisfied with that, but went to California and took evidence there. In the
California evidence the resume finde:
Obinese labour la a most efficient aid la the
developtuent of a country and a Oreat means
of weaith. A-s a railway navvY the Ohinaman
has no superior and his preseuce In California
bas given the state a start many years rhead
and added jncalculably to, its -naterial prosperity.
While taiking about that, the hon. gentleman knows the Chinamen were principally
instrumentai lu building the Canadlan PaciIt
fie Railway tlirougli British Columbiai.
la likely If that bad been left entireiy to
white labour the road weuld flot bave been
built to this day. You cannot control white
labour ; they are bere to-day and away tomorrow, but the Chinese are bere cool and
ready for work. They do not drink SaturI had the pleasure of
day and Sunday.
teliing Sir John Macdonald, when lie put
the $50 tai on Chinamen, that It was the
mont un-Britisli thlng he had ever doue.
You first Invite those people to corne to the
country and then tax them. That la not
British. The resurne of the inquiry at Sau
Francisco continues :
The Chinese being a non-s.ssimilable race,
clsarly marked off frotu white people by tolour
and national race characteristlcs, their preseuce la a country te not uaattended wtth disadvantages, foremost among these belng the
Irritation. diacentent and resentmont they Inspire in white labourera.
That is quite true. The restiue continues
The statements as te their bad moral effects
on the communltv are zrnelv exaggerated. In
fact their moraiity la flot lower than that of
the same classes of other natienalities.
I know tînt te be perfectly true from my
o'wn observations lu London and New York.
1 arn sarry to say it, but it la a tact. Mr.
Robin, that my bon. friend quoted the other
day i-n the evidence> given, before this
British Columbia commission-I arn readiug
tram the report of Mr. Clapieau and Judge
Gray-stated :
Whien the Chinese first came te thls province
they ne doubt supplied a want then felt, and
their ceming was encouraged and welcomed especially I ma- add bY the Vancouver Coal Minlng and Land Company, Limited, whichi 1 represent - but the labouriflg population wvere always
strengly adverse to their Introduction. At the
time of their comlng here tuy rompany had
been sufferlng frotu a strike of the white labourers and we accepted the Chinese as a weapon with wich te settle the dispute.
I think the day is net far distant when
yen will have te get Chinese labour te meet
20j

the unions. White labour is going to ruin
the country, It Is becomiug s0 unreasonabie.
Nr..Dunsmuir, the proprietor of the Wellington mines, sald at that time :
The Immigration of Chinese bas, I cousider.
inaterially aldsd the general develepment of the
country frein the tact that they have asslsted
In pushlng te cocapietion the public works undertaken and could always be depended upon as
a labour power. Tbey have, moreover, pitclied
Inte that kiud ot work which frotu Its arduous
nature and humble cliaracter has .let-3rred the
proportion of Incom*ing white mnen fretu acceptIng wlllingly In a new country where tliey Iramediately expected te better their position or
step Into a better place than ths one they had
juet left.
Thnt ls true of whlte labour to-day. Tbey
rush off te the mines. I do not blame thetu,
but you cannot get thetu for domestic or
Industrial work. Mr. Dunsmuir continues :
I do not think the graduai Influx of Chinese
has retarded the Iucoing of white labour as
I find few of those new white arrivais williug
te undertake the work performed by themtul
other countries but declined here and given te
Chinese labourera.
This British Columbia commission says the
results are :
If personal preJudice and feeling lie eliminated froin this evidence it is Impossible net
to admit that as a labouring class the prepener-ance is net against the Chinese. They are
stated to lie honest in their dealings. industrious, sober, peaceable and law-abidiug, frugal
and cleauly. and when doing weli to live wel.
consuming the same articles and gooda as do
the white labourera. thereby equally contributlng wlth thetu to thle revenue. That as domestic servants they are qulte as geod If not preferable. Tliat they do net compete or Interfers with lumberlng. farming or .%uy skitled Industry and that even in market gardening tlisy
would be beaten by the whites If thie latter were
willing te work as liard, as ahown by the instance of the Italian gardeners lu San Francisco.
That Is true to-day. Sir Mattbew Begie
was asked about their industry, economy,
sobriety and law-abiding characterlsties,
and le said these are their four promInent
qualities. Hie was.asked also If they were
drunken, and bis reply was :
Lazy. drunken. extravagant and turbulent;
thîs is. by the voices of their friends and foes
exactly what a Chinaman la not. This la, on the
whole, I thlnk, the real cause of their unpopularity. If Chinanien would on-ly lie less Industrious and economical. if tbey would but occasienaîlly get drunk they weuld no longer be the
formidable cornpetiters with the white man
which they prove te lie lu the labeur markcet;
there would, be ne longer a cry for their suppression. Tliey weuld not be liked ; the two, races
are tee dissimilar and each has tee higlk an
opinion of bis ewn dese-rts. But they wo,.ld
net lie hated : lu fact theY would net lie bere
te excite liatred. The reason why they are bere

SENATE
faitb ln the brotberbood of
is bezause their peculiar qualities commead a nlot such a strong
ready mnarket. If they had net theee qualities nations, and for that reason 1 feel that it is

nobody .would want thern. If nobody waated perfectly plain that we have the rigbt,
them they would not corne.
He says the chief reasons for the hostility legally and morally to pass this Bill. The
is expedient
to the Chinese are, tbey are too industrious only question then is whether it
1 would
and soher and white men do not lîke thern. to do se. If I were shut Up to that,
take the report of that commission, fromi
I amn very ghad 1 bave had an opportunity
evidence afto speak the trutb lu favour of burnan whlcb 1 shall nlot quote-the
forded on every hand-the speech witli
beinga.
whicb this Bill was launched upon this
Hon. Mr. KERR (Cobourg)-ILeluctant as Hlouse by the hon. member for Victoria, a
I always amn to intrude myseif upon the at-' fuli. moderate, temperate, cQnvinCiflg speech,
tention of this Chamber, or take up any con- but I arn net driven to that. Before I prosiderable time of this House, stili the Bill ceed furtber I shall give you wbnt I believe
now under our consideration seerns to me reisons sufficlent, apart altogether from
of sufficlent Importance to Justify me ln ex- those to wblch I bave referred, to justify
pressing my vlews upon It before I cast me ln supportlng this Bill. I watcbed with
rny vote, In the first place, I rnay remark a great deni of interest, as 1 always do,
that the Bill Is Intended to impose a check those wbo have spoken for and ngainst this
upon tbe inundation of our country by too BIi lu order that my previous conviction
large numbers of that brandi of tbe Mon- xnight be strengtlhened or weakened. The
golian family cnhled Chinese-not the best gallant leader of His Majesty's loyal oppome*.mbers of that great famlly. I couhd wlsh sition lu this House lias seen fit, and it is
with tbe leader of the opposition tbat se
proper for hlm to do so, to call the attention
otber check-an educational cbeck ratber of the Secretary of State to bis altered attithan a financlal cbeck-were the means used tude wlth regard to tbis question. Well,
to brlng about that purpose, because It is the gecretary of State bas given wbat seems
not to get rnoney that this tax is Imposed. to hlm and what perhaps wll seem to others,
The money is a very secondary considera- as it does *te me, a sufficient reason for
tien. The object Is to prevent too large ac- supportlng a principle wbhh le f<ormerly
cession from the direction of China. Now eloquently opposed. And ln this connectionl,
I start with two propositions :First, that it perhnps I could not Illustrate -%vbat I men
is perfectly legal for us to pass tbis Bill. better tban by a quotation from Lowell. He
Tbe bighest court lu tbe realm, the Privy says
decided that no
Council, bave aIready
foreigner bas sucb a right as would sustain

an action, to enter any part of the Britislh
Therefore, the law Is lu faveur
empire.
of the passage of this Bill. Then 1 take another propisition, that we have a moral right
to pass this Bihl for the protection of our
own people. 1 bave long ago learned that
every man, every community, every nation
should be just before It Is generons. The
application I wonld make of that principle
is this, that this parliarnent bas a right, andi
Is bound ln duty, to be just to our own people before we are generous to foreiguers.
I bave
1 take tbat as a sound position.
heard said here that it is inhuman-that
it is barbarous, and that it Is contrary to
Liberal principles and to Liberal policy to
take a view sncb as Wonhd lead te supporting thus Bill. I deny tbat proposition. 1
hiave -a very considerable leniningll to the
idea of the brotherbooti of man. but 1 bave
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD, (B.C.)

New occasions teach new duties,

Time rendors ancient gooci uncouth
They must Upward etili and onward
Who wouid keep abreast of truth.
Conditions have changed since that, and
the evil that then was expected by sorne,
and nlot anticipated by the Secretary of State
at that tirne, bas gr3wn to large dimensions and be, bnving the responsibiiity of
government, Is bouud, I take it. to protect
every member of our coufederated family,
and if BrItish Columbia is speaking out
loudly against this great influx of Cliinese
Immnigration, and It bas corne to the ears of
the goverument, and tbey are satîsfied that
the dimensions of that immigration are becolnipg meuacipgly strong, in my opinion
it is their duty to checkmate it and that
is what I suppose they hope to do by the
present Bill. But, hion. gentlemen. 1 Shahl
flot alhow any one wivth Impuuity to charge
me with being inhuman. of being- illiberal,

JUNE 11, 1903

oi

is the first law of nature, and
or of being unfriendly to the burnan famiiY, preservation
we have a right to defend ourcelves and probecause I see fit to support thMs Bill. My
an Influx Of immigravery nature le to be syrnpathetic with ail tect ourseives ngainet
tion frorn aay country. especiaily a counltry
the world, and If I support this Bill, it la
our civilization and boastfully'
because 1 feel that I arn discharglng a duty which despice
the assert that their civilizatton is four thoueand
to this Dominion. Now I arn coming to
pararnount reason for supporting thus Bill, years tn advaace of oursand it le tlis: I have been a close student
Hon. Mm. LÂNDRY-That le true.
of ancient and modern history, watcbing
Hon. Mr. KERR-I ptty the hon. gentlethfe progress and mise and fali of nations,
They do not
f elt, since thie question mnan's idea of civilization.
and have always
corne here, as they do from rnany lande.
was first mooted, that It was not la the best
frorn oppression, to work out their
Iaterests of this Dominion that Chinese im- fieeing
destlny la a new land, fiiaging off the trammigration shouid be allowed into this counmeis of the oid worid and coming here
try. It has been said, as a counter statedone wbere everythtng le as free as the moutilin
ment. see what the British people bave
They do not corne here with that purln forcing an entrance tato China. I arn not air.
ot called pose. They corne to make a little rnoney,
called upon to defend that. I ar n
not to assimihate themselves. That la al
upon to pronounce an opinion on It, and 1
man ight as far as It goes, but they do not corne
would be soriy, although I yield to no
themseives with our population.
la this Dominion cr ln the British empire la to assimilate
They do not came a fig for our govemamelit
my loyaity to the British throne and British
our Institutions. They are law.abiding
instItutions-I iwould not hIke to defend or
the ame while here. 1 give thern credit for ai that,
everythiag that bas been done la
against British
Whether Britain was but s0 prejudlced are tbey
of British freedom.
Itt institutions, or they bave such a preferellce
right or wrong la forcing ber way
own, that they take came when one
ChIna or not, we are not called upon to dis- *for their
upon of their number dies to preserve hic bones,
cnes to-night. But wbat we are cailed
and wbea they have made a littie moaey
to consider ls tbis : we bave a magnificeni
of
It, and retura to China, they take the bones
berîtage la tuis Dominion. I look upon
dead comrade wlth thern and wiil not
tmactag the mise and fali of nations, that the their
them to mouider away ta Brittsh soit.
teadency of higiier civilization is f rom th( aiiow 1 feel that this Bill ls a Bill that le
Now,
south and the east to the north anid the weet
I kaow the bon. member from
and whether it may be a fancy or a dreaLm far.î'eachuig-.
(Hon. Mr. Macdonald), for whom 1
or whether peradveiiture it may be reality Victoria
bave profound respect. He calîs this Bill
I look upon this Dominion of Canada asE
San 'outrageous Bill.' He sys it Ie a 'Bill
centre point which the eyes of Europ(
votes,' and a 'cowardly Bill' Weil,
and the world already look upon or will Il to get
I arn corry be thinks so. 1 do not kaow
the near future. We should begin now
the Bil le destgned la the interests
just upon the tbresbold, wben we are inylal Swhether
of party or not. 1 have no reasn to supthe foundation of an empire broad an<
1 wtll not suppose it is, but that
strong, and I sbould like to see upon tht s pose it is. what it purpoi'ts to be, la the
e
thi lt ls just
Dominion a people the best educated,
of the Dominion la generai and
rnost temperate, as we are now, the mnos t nterests
upoi British Columbia la particular, and 1 ask
intelligent and the mcst law-abiding
every well-wisher of thls Dominion la thus
the fact of the earth. 1 do not want tha
we are aIl mreil-wisherc of
'witl iCbamber-and
happy state of things to be interfered
Dominion of Canada and the British
the
Lt
But unlees we take corne steps to prever
empire-to unite as one man and support
Chinese Immigration ta great nunibers fr01 n
and la the years to corne you
that empire whose population numbers but Sthis measure,
ilwiI feel that you conscientioucly did your
dreds of millions, we cannot tell what wl
had, and
Bduty according to the ligit you
happea in the near or ta thie distant futur
Y thea you wIll be nîl rig-bt with your con1 have nothing againct thie Chinese. '.N
1 have 110 object to serve la the
:0 science.
matto is charity to every man and malice 1
f- vote 1 give. I have only one object, and I
none-that Is my creed-but 1 say that sel

310.

SENATE
310

the Bill as strongiy as I could ln Its varions
It passed into commlttee, and
stages.
the commlttee reported progress and asked
We had bad a very
leave to sit again.
animated discussion lu committee, and the.
subi ect had been very thorougbiy Investlgated and the points very clearly brought
Wheu the commlttee presented Its
out.
report I was so strongly opposed to, thu, Bill,
teit It to be so, detrimentai to the real interests of Canada and especlally to the bonour and chatracter of our nation, that wlien
the commlttee presented their report and
asked leave to ait agaîn, 1 ventured to, nake
the proposai that leave to ait again be given
That proto them that day six montbs.
posai was accepted by the House, and
although 1 was a supporter of the government, nnd the Bill bad the governmeut
support, 1 do flot think It was lntroduced
beur.
as a goverument measure, but It had the
Hou. Mur. LANDRY-Hleur,
government support and the usuai frlends
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-And aithougli I admit
of the governinent supported it.
he bas superlor talent, and can by lbis elo.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It wns a governquent speaking, perbaps affect the judgmeuit
iota thue ment measure ln the other House.
o! many, be bas flot changed one
judgment which I had formed ln my
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Buit flot ln thiz House.
mind many years ago wlth respect to, It was lutroduced by Mr. Plumb at that
thus question. The measure first came be- time, but under the circumstances 1 was
fore the Senate about seventeen years ago-- acting, as I supposed, strailht against the
when I took action upon It. 1 thon, ln very wlshes of the party lu power. I ventured
plain terms, expressed my view of the ln the exercise of my judgment, to take
character of this legisiation. I pronounced that course, and succeeded lu defeating theIt lu the House to be un-British and un- Bill. My motion that the commlttee should
Christian, and I contend that 1 eau arnply bave leave to ait again six months hence,
prove that It sustains thus character stili, was agreed to, but ht hiad no chance to meet
and, consequentiy, It wiii be observed I tagain, because parliainent 'would flot then
differ very wlde]y from the sentiments jusi be lu session. It is rather rernarkabie tbat
expressed by my hon. fniend as to the pro. la that motion I was supported by my bon.
priety of this measure, Its usefulness, It8 frlends Mr. Dever, Sir Ailphonse Pelletier,
necesslty, and the obligation resting upoi IMr. Power.
ail of us to carry thus Bill Into effect.
Mr. DEVER-I shouid Ilie to heip
beieve If we had right views with respec t -Hon.
to-day ln the sane manner.
eyou
to the honour and dignlty of the empiri
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-The bon. Secretary of
and the Dominion we wouid give this Bil
this day six months *State, and hy my venerable friend Mdr.
Its second reading
good namnes. Hou. g-enThnt wouId be the proper course to adop tWark. Those are
advocated those sen .tlemen know them ail. You know how
with regard to it. I
timients seveuiteen years ago, and advocate dimportant their opinions are nnd how great
n la their influence lu this House.
them strongiy, in this House, as wiii be seeu
e
hy the Dehates of thnt yenr. And ther
the hon. genwitii It tiuii t Hou. Mr. LANDERKIN-Did
15 a littie item lu connection
e tieman from Victoria assist you there ?ý
it la just as weii to eall attention to lu th
Hon. M.Nr..VIDAL-Can it be possible that
Hlouse. beeause I think there are oniy fin' e
e ini seventeexi years such a change bas corne
members that voted with me tien tiat ar
d 1over tiiese lion, gentlemen that they could
'to-day mnemberS o! this Chamber. 1 oppose
Hon. Mr. KERR.

tell you with ail my heurt and wlth ail the
sincerlty I possess-and I try to be cundld
and sincere-it is thue welfare of my country I have ln vIew, and my country irreWith thut vlew and
spective of party.
wlth that vlew ulone, I lntend to cast My
vote lu favour of this Bill. As a Canadian'
I love Canada so, well, I love the British
empire, the British throne and British institutions so, well, that 1 sometimes feel that
I should like to live a tbousand years to
heip to perfect our institutions la order to
leave a more glorlous heritage for those
who corne after us.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I dlaim to, be as f ully
persuaded of the greatness and glory of
the British empire and as fuiiy interested
ln the well-belflg, prosperity and bonour of
Canada as my hon. friend fromn Cobourg.

JUNE 11, 1903
liroughout the world. The idea of Cananow urge upon us the acceptance of a Bill t) jans being afraid of being burt by the
themmelves denounced ln the d
whicb they
.xcorning of Chinese. le It nlot absurd for
strongeet terme ? I do not know what ii s, a people who are spending thousands of
their views may be. Possibly they may even u ollars to bring lu a lot of Doukhobrsnow do as I did then-vote -against those d
with whom I generally worked. I was nat
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
thinking se mucli of the detals of the Bill
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Who do nlot speak our
juet now; but the feature of It that strikes
me etrongest is that la its character it le, anguage and have nlot the same faith, have
ln -my judgment, sa utterly InconsIsteat with r îo sympatby with ue and know natbing
British princîples. 'You do net find any Lbout us ? We have spent thousande of dolsucb legIelatioli as this on the statute-booke are ta bring them In and lion, gentlemen
of the United Kingdorn-nothiiig Ilke it. Iti znow they have been a littie troublesame
is quite true Bille are passed ln corne of the iitberto ; but the Chinese that corne into
dependencies like Canada, and It surprises rnr country are of an entirely different
me very mucb that the home governmeiit class, and would It nlot be the part of
lias not vetoed corne of these Bills on ac- wisdom ln our government, when they are
count of their interference with the treaty wanting to populate our million acres ln the
rigbte enjoyed by other nations. Even ln North-west to brin- ln thousands of the
connection witb thils, If my memary serves Ohinese with their farniliee nid locate them
me riglit, our awn goverament have vetoed. there and let tlicrn cultivate tic grouiîd and
Bille iii whicb the Japanese have been treat- raise wheat ? Why not ? Are they any
do nat
ed In tîje same way as Chinese. Why Ie that worse than the Doukhobore7?I
done ? It le well known Britain 'would not thlnk so. As a peuple they are a quiet,
permit us to excînde Japanese, becauce Jap- peaceabie, ueeful set of men. As to their
an Is strong and Influential and valuable character, they have been spoken of as
as a friend of Great Brîtain ln the enet.
though they were people we could nlot associate wlth and be familiar with. 1 think
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-That Is It. lion. gentlemhen muet farget a great deal
of what should be known by ail of us. There
Hon. Mr. VIDAI-And that Is the reacon are among us Presbyteriane wha know a
why a distinction is made by aur own gov- little about this matter, and If so I can only
i
crnment between the Japanese and Clinese,, remInd them of the proceedinge of our
eirnply because the Chiniese, numerous as miesionary eent to the Island of Formosa.
they are, are unable to resiet the power of They knaw very weli the great, glorlous and
Great Britain. I do nat think that that Is wonderful work accornplishe-1 by that dean argument wbich shauld bie used for the voted man. He lias paseed away to hie rest
Introduction and maintenance of unjust now, but during bis lfe there. we bave
legielation. Now, it Is said by my hion. friend the reenît la the conversion of thousands
wlîo spake iast that this le a measure for of Chînese lving in eobriety, ln peaceful
self-protection. It strikes me as the niost occupation, ln great comfort and proeperity,
absurd statement ta make-self-protectiofl. and ln their daily 11f e and Intercourse with
We, a Caucasian race, need ta pase a mea- one another are really model Chinese Chrissure of this kind for aur self-protectionl. The tbens.
thing is utterly absurd. Look aver tbe
People ln thie land might Irnitate wltb
whole warld, wherever aur people have propriety these canverts wvho are ieading
gone, in every clîmate and arnang every peo- really more moral and better lives than
pie, have they not always made their home many of aur own people. While there 15
where they pleased and retained possession no neceeeIty for Immediate amalg-amation,
and exercieed power and Influence wher- it le not the Impossible thIng wbich some
ever they have gone. And why le It ? bon. gentlemen have spolcen of. In that
Because wherc they go thcy carry with tlier
case, the missionary ta -whom 1 have
the blessinge of civilization and true reli- referred married a Chînese womnan. 1 had
gion, and that is why Britain bas sncb great the pleaeure af eeeing lier wliei she carne
power and wby the Almighty continues ta over to this country, corne seventeen or
permit them the exercice of such power

312

SENATE

eighteen years ago. She was a reiined,
educated lady, with whom it -was delightful
to bave intercourse and conversation. She
would have ndorued any drawing room ;
wherever she went she was loved and respected and treated as an equal, and yet
people will saiy that there Is no posslbility
of thiere being any amalgamation of the
people witb us. But even If there were
not, 1 do nlot tbink that affects the general
merits of this question. That, as I say, 18
a wrong kind of legisiation altogether and
that we ire making a mistake. Even morally and legafly, using tlhese words, ln con.
nection simply with tbe British empire
prînciples, I tbtnk It ls a very great mistake
that we lire inaking and tbat it wouid be
a far better course to pursue to receive
tbem Ilu a friendly mannier and te give tbemi
large areas of our millions of acres wbiicb
require culture and occupation. It is flot
neeessary to occupy any lengtbi of tiane lu
discussing this mensure, because the merîts
of the case have been pretty well debated:
but I must admit that wbiie I have
listened witla the greatest possible care
and attention to the advocacy of its
frlends, I bave falled to biear one single
reason to justify suchi an Interference witlb
British procedure and the generoslty which
Brltain bas 'ever extend ed to people frein
othier counitries. We have hnad abundance
of evidence of the prejudice existing, but
no reason. wby tbat prejudice exists. In
the course of the arguments whicbh have
been ndduced and the evidence wbilh has
been rend, a sort of renson bas hieca giveu,
that the Chinese interfere with the labour
of our people. Surely that is an absurd
reason. Have we nlot lad to-igb-lt a coinplete refutation of an argument of tbiat
kind, showiug that, s0 far froua Interfering
with the work of wbite men aniong- us,
they aie needed, that there is an actual
ileed for tbe belp of these people nmoug
the wbite population la British Coluiubia.
FlIou. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Wlaere did we
have the refutation of that stateinemat timnt
it initerfered with white labour ?
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Well, it is a miatter of
opinion 01niY.
LIon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-A
evidence-a moatter of faiet.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL.

moatter of

Hou. Mr. V%,IDAL,-If It does, -ývbat does
it amount to, if you look into tbe founidation
0f it ?

is it net the very

ame principle

ibic 15 la operation by labourers wvbo feit
that the Introduction 0f labour-saving
-inachlnery Was a great curse and golng to
take away their wvork, and tlut It maust be
doile away wlth ? And is not thant the
foundation 0f the priaciple, that If tbe
coming 0f the Ciniese Interferes withi labour
of the white working-people, therefore tbey
nust Le kept out, and not trèated as -we
trent otller nations. It Is very poor reasonIng liideed. There Is great need Ili manyv
parts of the country for eucouraging tbe
coinlng lu of the Chinese. Tbey make
excellent domestie servants. I know t1bàt
personaly. I have been in bouses w'here
tbey are employed and I bave seen tbe
proprlety of their conduct and the way lu
wichl thieir work is doue. They perferm
efficient and valuable services, and thiat is
a grent Item. In these days anany famuilles
have felt tbe Inconvenience of getting the
requisite amounlt of femnie labour iii their
establishmnents, and If we could get wellbebiaved Chinese, quiet, orderly people, It
would be rathier an advautage to the counW'bere is the
try than a 'disadvantage.
possible evil that Is to result froin tbleir
coming lu ? That is the tbiug I waut to
know.
Tliere should be a very strong case made
for an ini.%rference witb British principles
ln thîs kind of legîislation. We sbouid. be
able te point out the evil whicb would resuit
froin their coming lu. Hns it been showni
that there Is evil resulting from the Chinese
comîng amoug us ? I do not think it bias
beenl. I have not seen it. I have not beard
the nature of the difficulties thiat I regard
as a proof to justify such a statement. I beleve that their coming lu la very great numbers might prove au inconvenience Ila some
places, but sureiy, speaking for Canada as a1
whiole, the large majority of Canada would
not approve of -tbis Bill if it were laid before thein.
Tbey wvould sny, ais they did
when the otber Bill was before us, ' It is
British Columubia foeng upon the rest of
th(; Dominion semetbing which the rest of
the Dominion dees net desire and dees net
These were tbe sentiments
approve of.'
of the hon. Secretary of State la 1886. They
have chaaged now, but I think tbey were

UNE 11, 1903

why should tlue Chînese, in the exercise of
their God-given rights nlot have the privilege of corning, like any others, into the
British empire when they thInk that by
coming tbey can better their circurnstaflces
to be and live very cornfortably and quietiy and
Dominion tluat If such a measure is
better provision for advancillg therntolerated at ail it should be confined to make
selves ? Why should they nlot corne ? Wiy
According to tbe veryý
British Columbia.
we do anytbing to shut themn out?7
strong arguments used by my bon. friend, should
What right have we to do anytbing to shut
the Secretnry of State, In a former debate
tiier out ?
upon this question, tbe mensure sbouid be
I hoid that they have mast as perfect a
parliament
confined to the Pacifie coast,
under British iaws and
should nlot infiict It upon ail the rest of the rilht to corne In
are weicome, locate themseives among us and become
Dominion wbere these Chinese
as we British subjects bad
are doing good honest and decent worh<, and British subjects
gentlemen, tbey to corne over here to America and take
where, let me remind hion.
Indians' lands. Denying
are freer from aIl charges of disorderly con- possession of the
corne nmong them the riglit to enter our country la a
duct than nny other people who
in connection with this great
us. Hon. gentleman nleyer heard of such a suiali matter
brouglit before Dominion of Canada. Instead of treating
thiùg as a Chinaman being
this way, we should encourage thenu.
the court for any violence or wrong--doing, tliem
lu
f rom outrage Onie of the objections is that they corne
unless 1h is defending limseif
singly and do nlot bring their familles.
cornritted upon hlm, and 1his jush the saine
Is that ? Is nlot that the fauit
in British Columbia. 1 bave been there and Whose fault
of Canada, because she puts difficuities lu
have seen hhem at work In the country. 1
brlnging them in ? Thiey eaudo not know wbah the white people wouid do the way of
not afford to bring in their wornen and
tbere If you shopped the Chînese from com$100 a head on thenii.
Iug la. In some 'factories ahl the work Is cbildren and pay
WNe are responsible for that defect, and if
done by Chinarnen, with wbihe overseers
were thrown open and Chinese
over them, and done well. In eveiry way the door
familles ailowed to corne In and settie, 1
hhey have been a great hielp and comfort to
Canada wouid be greatly benefited
British Columbia. I should like to kuow how believe
*by them. They wouid be fouad to be peacethe Canadian Pacific Railway In that
and successfui cultivators of
province could bave been built witbout fui labourers
*thue soli. In the course of a littie whiie, as
theun. White labour couid not have coinhave seen by the labours of missionaries
pleted IL Tbey were obiiged ho have we
amuong thier, tliey become civilized after our
Chinese, and a great deai of the worl;
fashilon, and hold our vlews with respect to
doue, lu British Columbia is owing
moral truths of Christianity and
largeir ho Chinese labour. 1 see nothing the great
valuable citizeus of this great DoIbecome
n bout tbem wbich shouid shir us up to ai
1 shouid greatly rejoice that eilier
nct of this kind, because tbis mensure lu iinion.
Bill was thrown out aitogether, or, if
really prohibihory, to say that the Chines( tlils
s0
cihizeiE it must pass, thiat It couid possibly be
$hall not corne among us and become
as to confine lts operations to the
of Brihish Columbia. Wbat are we doine e luanged of British Columbia.
province
on this western side of the Ahlanhic? Did wt

corr1ect statements. I held thern thien and
luold tbern to-day, and shahl continue to hoid
tbem,. because they are rîglit. and It would
be a very desîrabie thing for the House
to recognize the general sentiment of the

uuot corne In withouh aur specific right anc
9 Hon. Mr. McýIGREGOR-Thie expressions
hake possession of the lands of the Indiani
ifroun the last speaker are more couuvinciuig
and cali them our own ? We dld not evel
î tluau anythiug I bave heard in this House,
treat some of them quite as weil as the,
yet I arn going to support tais Bill and I
shouid be treated, althoug-h I admit flue Brit
.-Ive my reasons for It. I have rend
Canadian authorîhies bave aiway swaut to

lsh and
sornewbat carefuily extracts frorn the retreahed fie Indians kindly, weii aud genei
I kuew
1port of the Chiinese Commission.
ously ;stili, we came lu here and took pos
somewhat of the Chinese before rending
session of their lands without their consent
r thuait report. 1 speut a nigbt In San Franand why did we do 1h? We did 1hto bette
some years ago visiting the haunts and
our own circumstances and conditions, ani - cisco

SENATE
dives of the Chinese, and saw them ln al flot get any one else you eau get me,' flot
states and positions under the Influence of tbinking there would be anythlng more about
opium. These thlngs I knew of, but 1 neyer it If the hon, gentleman wlshed really to
liad muchi sympathy with restrictlng the make a pair, I supposed hie must have gone
immigration of the Chinese, and I came here to some other gentleman, because hie did not
wlh some seruples agalnst votIng for thîs nsk me wblch way I was going to vote,
Bill, but after hearing the discussion I can nor did I ask hlm. That Is the position
vote for It wlthout hesîtation. The hon. I am ln, and therefore If there Is any hon.
leader of the opposition read extracts from gentleman present with whom hie palred hie
speeches made by another member of this ought to let me know. If there Is flot any
House to show his lnconsistency, but not hon, gentleman in that position, Inasmiich as
one single argument dld hie advance to show I could flot reach Mr. Tessier by tel.egraph,
why these people should not be kept out. iiot knowing where hie was-and certalnly
He rather admltted that when hie was a I could not do It by letter-I assume that
member of the government that lmposed a lie wouid bold me bound by this expression
tax of $50 It was not imposed for revenue of mine, although I had no real Intention
purposes. I hope not. I thlnk It would bie of carrylng It out. I may as well disclose
a most contemptible thing If we were to whiat my opinion is ln the matter and
ralse revenue in that way. We wlll get whlch way I was golng to vote. I bad no
less revenue under this measure, and If the Idea that this matter was assuming such
principle Is for restriction It wlll be more political importance as it bas on this oceffective. The W5 head-tax It was found casion. My Impression was tbat it would
dld not restriet. At a later perlod, I under- bie a matter whlch senators would be allowstand, If the bon. gentleman dld not support ed to vote upon wlthout any appeal to their
lie did not oppose the Bill maklng the re- political feelings. However, I regret that
It is not so. I regret that It should bave
striction $100. Is that correct ?
tnken anothier direction, and that the Bill
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT.-There was no division
wns not ailowed to go on its merits, and
lu the House.
we could glv.e a vote at ail events that we
Hon. '.%r. MeGlIEGOR-If some hon, gen- could justlfy before the public and dlvest
tleman would move to repeal the tax, I this House of what 1 always condemn, a
miglit support the motion. I wanted to get tendency to partisan spirit.
the arguments in favour of admltting the
Wi1th referene to the subject of Chînese
Chinese and listened carefully to the argu- immigration, this discussion reminds me
ments of the bon. member from Victoria, or a gentleman wbo used to say to bis son,
but the bon. gentleman gave away the Tom, there is a great deal of kuuwledge
whole thing when lie saiiil he was bim- outside of your head.' 'I was thinking of
self ln favour of restriction. If the princi- that when some bon, gentlemen were givlng
pie of restriction is right, $500 is better learned opinions about the Chinese. Gentlethen $100. 1 do flot say It is righit, but I men who bave llved lu China for years and
caii vote for $500 instead of $100.
years-Slr Robert Hart, for Instance, who
Honi. Mfr. SULLIVAN-I did not lntend for many years liad control of the Chinese
to sny nnytblng on this matter, and wDuld customs .department-say they know nothing
Some bon, gentlemen judge
flot now were it not that the vote is assum- about them.
consequence. I want to re- of the habits of the Ohinese by wbat they
Ing particular
late something in the nature of a whinm- bave seen and beard of Chinese on the
The Hon. Mr. Tessier, ]Pacifie coast-their use of opium and the
sical adventure.
one of the gentlemen who occupies a horrible thlngs they eat, beeties, rats and
seat ln the room wltb Dr. Robinson nnd mice, and ail thiat sort of thing-but the
myself, was going away to-day and hie Chinese as a race ought flot to be judged
appeared to be very anxious and asked me by that. any more than we should be judged
wbere lie could get a pair. I smiled and by the worst specimens of our owii race. inxvished to know what hie meant, not think- fanticide Is common in China. but have
iIîg tliere was any sucli tbing in the Senate. we Dot ail heard of a Caucasian legislator
He said lie bad to go away. 1 said : 'l wbo advocated the killing off of aIl the
suppose you will get some one--if yon do isurplus population ? Fortunately, that bas
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR.

JUKNE 11, 1903

31à

the past, practislng ail the domestic virtues
which we ail know have doue the country
so mucli good ; and the idea of having to
break up a home and transfer our
household gods to some botel Is repuguant
to, the Ideas of every right-minded Canadian.
We hope that that feeling will neyer be
It wlll be a
prevalent lu this country.
sad.day for Canada 'wheu the people, either
trom extravagant living or other causes,
should be coxnpelled to break up the domestic circle, and ln that wny lower one ot
the greatest bulwarks against the introduction of anything of a vicious tendency. In
Ontario a great number of people have seTbey flnd Ahat
cured Chinese servants.
these Chinese servants are capable of doing
will
My feelings were shocked at the state of Nye's ail the work whIch two or tflree girls
sleeve,
do, and therefore, they employ them. They
Which was stuffed full of aces and bowers,
Iu Xlugsthem more wages.
And the saine with Intent to deceive. heathen bave to pay bc
ra
o
5ntarc
tn vn
ra
o
sntarc
But the bauds that were played by that
hc
tn vn
Chinee,
so far as wealth and population are
And the points that be made were qulte frigbt- town
ffmle
me
fui ta see,
fails
concerued, there are a nume
Till at last he put dowu a right bower me.
servants, and they exthat bave Chinese
same Nye bad deait out ta
Which the
press themselves as belng bighly satlsfied
Then I gazed upon Nye aud he gazed upon me.
mirto
fCies
And he rose witb a sigh and he said, 'Can thiswtbtsepoe.ICheeImirtn
i1'eepepe
be V
should be the means of assisting the peoruined by Chinese cbeap labour,'
We are
pie of Ontario ln getting a supply, so necesAnd he weut for that beathen Cblace.

flot been advocated by any one ln Canada
I say it is Impossible for us, with
yet.
our llmited Information, to form any opinion of the habits of the Chinese as a race.
The statements we hear about them are very
conflicting. By one set of people they are
represented to be the most vlrtuaus of~ nations, honest, trustworthy, careful of their
parents and their children ; others represent
them as the very reverse. Just to give you
an Idea of the estîmate in which the Chinese were held by a portion of the population of the Pacific coast of the United States,
I may be permitted to quote from a poem
by Bret Harte, lu which be described how
a Chinaman took part lu a game:

of domestic servants, It will be a great
There Is the 'whole solution of It- -they sary,
I do nat want It underta them.
interfere wlth white labour and progress. boon
against
this Bill If I stood that I desire ta gay a word
I was goiug ta vote against
au Intelligent and respectable body
had flot paired with Hon. Mr. Tessier. Sa I such
as the domestlc. servants of this
wll assume, as he Is one of what the hon. of people
I know many of them, and I
gentleman from Moutreai1 cails neophytes- country.
ta be
be, as ail know that they are people we ought
whatever they are-be would
of, but the traininig whlcb tbey
neophytes are, wlth the bon. gentleman who praud
la many homes Is sometbiug wbich
bas charge of the Bill. I can only bay I undergo
sbould psy for, instead of belug pald
was goiug to vote against It for the same tbey
That Is the reasan 1
their services.
reasons, I presume, as other hon. gentlemen, for
it would be better for me ta vote
ta a certain exteut, for economlc reasous. thougbt
this Bill. As ta the amount of the
Religlous reasans and ethuological reasons agalust
I do not know how that 15. It would
are out of the question; It Is a matter of eco tax,
I
a good deal of cousideration.
nomy, and because Chinese labour would be require
that money goes into the treasury
beneficlal ta the people of the part of Can- suppose Dominion.
the
ada ln whicb I reside, I was going to vote of
Hon. Mr. FERÀGUSON-One-haif.
Bill because that vote would
against this
be ln favour of the vlew which 1 hold.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I do not think it
There bas been a scarcity of a certain class
out as would amount ta a great deal. It ought not
of young women wbo used to hire
a goverumelit like the present
domestic help. That class of artisans, or ta influence
and one, wbo are go weaithy and go fond of
professional help, is getting scarcer
would not say extravascarcer, go it is uecessary for people ta look spendiug mouey-I
gant. Therefore the amount of revenue
about and see whether It is possible auy
the tax ought not ta be a conlonger to keep bouse and retain their fami- derived froni
ln sideration. If the people of British Coluinlies and live as tbey have been living

SENATE
trious, bonest, with good moral habits, and
are prepared to becorne Brltishi subjects.
They have so signlfied their intention. They
objected la the first place to take up land,
because they did flot believe lu asking any
human belng for any portion of the earth
to live on. They, no doubt, for a time were
nduced flot to take up bomesteads by agitators who were trylng, as It were, to lutîmidate the people with the belief they would
have trouble If the authorities Insisted
But the govon tbeîr making entries.
erument were flrm ln that matter, and
I arn pleased to inform the House
that these people are now making homeAf ter the Doukhobors
stead entries.
turned out their stock, the goverunelt
Hon. Mr. NWATSON-Two or three lion. undertook to take care of them uatIl
gentlemen ln this debate have compared tue the agitation was over and the DoukChîlnamen wlth other classes of Immigrants hobors settled down. There are about seven
comîng to thîs country. I think it Is the thousand Doukhobor settiers nltogetlier.
intention of hon. gentlemen to be fair to About one-third of them turned out their
nIl classes of people who may conie to Can- stock. The goverirnent took possession of
qda. The hon, gentleman wbio leads the It and sold somne elg'hteen thousand dollars
opposition saw lit to compare the Chînese worth, and that money was put into a fund
wlth the Doukhobors, and thought thcy to cover expenses incurred through the pliwere probably as good a class of people to grimage. I mention this, because reference
settle la this country. The bon. gentleman lias been =' de to the expenses lu connecfrorn Kingston, says that the Chinamen tion wlth the Doukhiobor movernents. The
should not be judged by the fact tlfat sonie total expense lu connection with any trouble
of thern eat the class of food wlilch lie the goyerniment had wlth the Doukhobor
mentions ; no more sbiould the Doukliobors pîlgrimis was paid ont of the fund reallzed
be judged by the fact that some of theIn by the sale of the Doukholaors' stock. So
have been going on an Insane expedition. it did not cost the governument one cent.
Last fail the trouble originated amongst Sorne eight thousand dollars of that Money
the Doukhobors owing to the relig-lous w-as expended lu looking after the Doukbelief soine of thern had. Instigated by hobors whio started on that pilîgrimage.
aitators to go ont and meet the Saviour, They went back to their villages and have
about two hundred started on a pilgrimage. since made entries for homesteads, and
Tbiey travelled three of four weeks, and signlfied thieir Intention of taking the oath
were finally persuaded that their missioni or allegiance and becorning Britilh subjects.
would be a fallure and were linduced to 1 believe they will be good citizens, and I
do xîot wisli to hear any one compariuig.
return to their villag-es,
to the Chinese, because 1 am flot
OWEL-ttier
MAKENIE
Hon Si
aware. that ainy Ohinamani has corne to
gentlema
MAon.Z
on.ed Sir
wîtli the Intention of becoming a
te
Forcd,getlemn mens.Canada
ho.
British subject or taking up land and cultiHon. '-\r. WATSON-Thiey had an idea
tbeF should flot use horses or cattie for vating it. The Doukhbobors came wlth that

bia are unanirnous ln wlshing to have the
Chinese excluded, If they Injure the growtli
of the country or Interfere greatly with thie
supply of labour, I would certainly use rny
Influence against admitting thern Into the
country.
Hon.'-%r.
EMPEMANHea, bar.
Hon.Mr.
EMPEMÂNHea, her.
Hon. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-Of course, I do niot
know anything about that. 1 regret tlîat
this question has taken a political tura.*
Members of this Senate should v-ôte frieely
and wlthout any party restraint. 1 thought
there neyer wouid be any such thing as a
man asklng for a pair lu thîs Seniate. I
amn sure It wlll neyer occur with me ag-aîn.

labour-that tbey were God's creatures, and
should go free. Now, I kaow something
about tlie Doukhobors. I have visited their
settiemients. and have nio hesitation in say-

intention ; tbey have taken Up land, and I
believe they will bie a valuable class of
settiers in the future.
I have sonie knowledge of the eariy

iiug that a great mnajority of the Doukhobors settiement of the Mennonites in the prowill hecomne first-class citizens. Thiey are viice of Manitoba, and my recolection of
first-class settiers to-day. They are inidus- the early davs of tlîeir settlement as comHonl.

MIr.

SULLIVAN.

JU-NE 11, 1903is for protection.
pared w-ltb the Doukbhobors ig very similar.I the party to which 1 belong
If that tax were meant to be 'protection,
They are a similar css of people. If anYthing, thxe Doukbobors are more religions. experience bas proved It Inadequate.
wbich
The Mennonites have become good settlers, Now, we are confronted with a Bill
I have no doubt the Doukhobors wll Imposes a tax of five bundred dollars on
and
be qulte as good as the Mennonites, and I each Mongolan from China comlng ln, and
do nlot like. tô bave theni compared witb this protective tax Is lmposed by the party
I neyer was la British whicb is pledged to reclproclty in ail tblngs.
the Chinamea.
I know very littie about the This is an anomaly frein the point of
Columbia.
Chinese, any more tban wbat I bave seen of view of bon. gentlemen opposite. Therethe Chinese engaged here la lanndry work. fore, I cannot vlew this question eitbi-r
Tbiey disappear : we do not know w'here frein a Conservative or a Liberal staîîdpoint.
standtbey go. It la sald tbey go bac], to China, Ir 1 viewed It from the Conservative
even taklng the bonles of their dead compan- point, I would vote for It .If from the Libelonq witb tbem. One thing I do k-now, there raI point of view, the logîcal poiicy would
lias been a constant agitation lIn the province be to abolish it altogether. Flfty dollars do
of Britisb Columbia against the Chitiese, and not protect, whlle five bundred dollars proa demand made for their exclusion. A tax tect. On broad, human, clvillzed prînciples
admitted
of fifty dollars per head w-as placed on the 1 would rather have Chinamen
Chiinese by the late Conservative govern- f ree, because we are compromising our priaiment. I suppose It w-as tbougbt at that ciles of liberty as mucbi as by Imposdo lîy
tume that it w-as sufficient to keep Cîxinese ing fifty dollars as a tax as we
dld not succeed. Iiposing a tax of rive blundred dollars,
ont of the country. That
The tax Nvas lncreased by the preseut gov- wltb the difference that flfty dollars
ernment to one bundred dollars ; that lu- does not protect, whereas five lbundred
extent.
creased tax bas nlot prevented them f rom dollars wlll protect to a grent
against them con- Conslderlng this question frein n ethicoming. The agitation
tinues la British Columbia. The legisiature cal standpolnt, blstory bas been resorted
bas trled, to pass laws to excînde tlîe Cbinese to. and the bon. gentleman froni Cobourg
entirely. but that legisiation lncluded the lias told us that the Chinese civilization
Four
exclusion of the Japanese, and it w-as vetoed anitedates ours four tbousand years.
years ago tbey were as clvilized
by the goverament at Ottawa. It seems to tlîousand
me, when there Is sncb a cominunity of as tliey are to-day, aad to-day tbey -ire not
feeling for tbe exclusion of Chiinese froin more civilized than they were then. Tliey
British Columbia,. as voiced by the repre- i hIave remained ln statu quo. That is not ia
go
sentatives of the people, tbrougb the press. their faveur. Niot goinig forivard. they
brlegisiative acts, it 15 baekward. If tbey were clvilized long9 tige,
and tlîrougb
nothing but rigbt that we should protect tiiere must be soimethlng very wrong iii their
and
British Columbia agalnst a furtiier Influx institutions since they bave remalned
steadfast. It does 'not
of Chinese, and for thiat reason the Senate are stili remainiag
redound to their credit.
wvlll be justified Ini voting for this Bill.
My lion. friend frein Sarnia (Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I will not consider Vidai) said that no sncb tbing as a restricwliether this la a goverument Bill, or tion upon immigration bas ever been Inwbietber tîxere is any political signifie- troduced lin Englad. I do not believe that
I bave been In
ance attached, to It
England lias been in the predicament we are
the habit. sinice I came to the Senate. l to-day, and we cannot draw any historiof votiixg on ail measures according to cal Inference frolu wbat England bas done
their merits, or accordlag to xay ability for this question hiere. The Enlish people
to discera tbe merits froni my poinît 0f prote cted. thienselves wbien tixere w'as uch
view. The question before us is one of great IEss occasion to do so than w-e have now, If
moment. It bas been deait w-ith before by
refer to the Pilrini Fatliers and the
the Conservative party, and a tax of fifty you
of the MaN'.Yflower.' We do not kniow
tie
dollars per bead w-as imposed on eacha
wlit the Englislh people woýuld (1o if they
Chiniaman comiag into the country. WVas
that w-e are
The polley of were la the sanie predicament
thxat sufficient protection ?

318

SENATE

lii at present. Tbey have a small islaud
aud have been able to take care of themselves, and at no time have tbey been threatened with an Influx of Immigration that
rnlght have lmpalred their institutions or
iuterfered wltlh their aspirations for liberty.
Cornlng to this question on a broad principie, L should rather see the whole world
f>ree to corne Into tfils grand country of ours
se full of great possîbilities. But our obligatIon te extend bospltality to the world ut
lsqrge le governed by the same principles as
extendlng bospitallty ln our ow'n homes. On
broad prîncîples, on Christian principles, on
beathen princîples, we are bound to open the
doors of our bouses to ail corners. The Jews
dld lt, because there was a tradition among
them that a traveler and tramp migbit be
nothing less than an ang-el in dlsgulsc, and
the beathen, as we sec by* the Odyssy,
held It sacred, heid It as a tenet of thieir
religion to open thelr bouses to ail corners,
because a god rnlght be concealcd under
the garb of a begger. On broad principles,
hospltallty Is a virtue, but there are
exceptions te ail rules, or modifications
Who
te the application of ail rules.
amongst us wiil îîot discrimînate as to the
guets we admit Into pur bornes ? On broad
prîncîpies nîy bouse Is open to ail. Still, If
some objectionable guest, some person whose
character Is anything but oderous, should
corne, I will, in a sort of polite way, try to
keep hlm ont ; or, If lie is ln, I wlll try to get
hlm out of my bouse. This Bill Is notblng
but a polite way of lavitlng the Chinamen
te stay at home. Lndivldually, the Chinese
are our brethren and as good as we arc, but
tbey are not, ln rny estimation, a desîrable
ciass to admit Inte our country, nor desîrable gucsts to bave af our dinner table with
our people. They bave been compared te
the poor Doukhobers. I bave more pity for
the Doukhobors than rigour. Tbcy went 100k,lug- for Christ and tbey found Sitton. Let
us drop the Doukhobors for a moment sud
take lu Chinamen. Hon. gentlemen must flot
judge what Chinamen may do from the f cw
specimens of wasbec-washee we bave lucre
ln Ottawa. If you wish to judgc the Chinese
immigrant, go te San Francisco, and there
you wlll sec wliat thcy do whcen herding tegether in large numbers. L would net, for
the good1 xamc of Canada, give xny vote te
what mîglit produce snch a disgraccful. horHon. Mr. POIRIER.

rid sigb t as travellers witness ln San Francisco, wbere men are ashamed to see thelr
fellowmen doing what Is being perpetrated
la those dives. I sympathize with my hon.
friends frorn" British Columbia. They wlsh
to proteet themseives, and we rnight yet be
ln a position to appeal to them to protect us.
Wlthout goIng further into the inerits of this
case, without asking uîyself If tiiere is any
polticai significance attached to this Bill, 1
will deal wlth It as If my bo'n. leader was
pressing the Bill. 1 shall in this case vote
la favour of the Bill for the fcw reasons I
have urged, because those meii shouid be
politely Invlted to remain at home. We
should flot open the gates of our country to
an immigration, the resuit of wbicb rnay be,
If mot dIsastrous, at least leading to such
vices as the civillzed world is shocked witb
ln San Francisco.
lion. Mr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-Wbdfl I
iearned thàt the governent were presenting this Bill, 1 thouglit It would be very
lnteresting to sce what the commissions on
this subject had reported, and 1 took advantage of the knowledgc wbicb I got here,
not inany days ago, to look into the question. I thought there must have been discovered some great vices lu these Chinese
silice we thought of net only Increaslng the
tax on them, but making it absolutely exclusive. I understand that fifty dollars Is
not a tax to exelude. Lt meets the great
expense whieh sornetimes an Inferior class
of Immigrants will Impose on the country.
Wben the tax of fifty dollars was lmposed,
it was not for the same object as this is.
When It was raised to a bundred dollars, It
was nlot even then an excliisive tax, because
the poor Chinese wbo are engaged as domestics ln British Columbia, get from twcntyfive to forty dollars a montb. If a man can
make tbree bundred dollars lu a ycar, the
011e hundrcd dollars wbich lic wouid pay te
corne into the country would nlot prevent
hlm from getting fair remuneration. lu Ontarie and Quebec there -ire net many domestic
servants whe get $200 a ycar. But when
wc put on a tax of five hundrcd dollars, it
is impossible fer these men to paY it unless
tiiey are wcalthy. They wili corne to this
country and probably not get te work as
sooîî as they land, and then will receive probably nlot more than tliirty dollars a mnouth.

JUNE 11, 1903
stop the use
Therefore, they will nlot be able ta recoup a duty on opium and you wlll
are the ouily two vices alleged
of it. Those
themselves for what they spend.
la charged
I expected to learu that these people were against the Chinese. Gambling
to bie au extraa dangerous element lu our population. against tliem, but It seems
We neyer hear
Nobody asserta that tliey are superlor to ourr ordiuary kiud of gambling.
by garnbllig.
race, either physically or intellectually ; i0f ChInese Who are rulned
afraid of comniittling suicide. Those people are not
then why should we be so mucli
them la more like
thern? ILow many of tliem are there in r ch, and gambling with
those years tliey childreu playing marbies. 0f the two vices
Britishi Columbia ln ail
one can be ensily
have been coming Into the Dominion? About cliarged against tlier,
altogether. What stopped, and the otlher la not a very serlous
fifteen or sixteen thousaud
they are nlot cleauly
ls tat compared with the population of oue vice. Lt la stated that
amount to lu their iodgIngs.- This condition lias been
of our large cities ? It does nlot
in British Columonie-twelftli of the population of Toronto. already greatly Improved
maie aduits bia. A by-law has beeu passed by whicli
There'are about fifty tliousand
than six persons
and thlrty thousand white womeu lu the Ithere caunot be more
These people iodged iu a room twenty feet long by thirty
province of Britishi Columbia.
enforced. There
are endeavouring to Impose on the goveru- wide. This can be easily
not thiuic any is another matter. I refer to cliapter 4 of
tuent a tlîing whicli I do
whicli reads
civiiized country In Europe lias ever doue. the report of the committee,
iThe Chinese compare favourabiy with the
By this Bill we say that a British subject
cannot corne to Canada, unless lie pays whites.
Aud, mmud you, this report is rather against
tive liuudred dollars. Tliere are a number
a
opr
hysyte
of Chinese, as hion. gentlemen know, wlio te;adwe
are Britishi subjects. A great many of tliem vourably, It means tliey are mucli better
e
Iwssrrsdt
lewie.
were bora la the Britisli possession of ta
ote sow
eport de
we are going to vote f or Ihat, ater aihit.Is
Hong Nong, and
osntso
hsrpr
a Bill whicli exclndes British subjects from laatralthi Chintese are so bad as tliey say.
t
t4,t
Iantrthg.Teb.gnle
le
a British country. Now, taklng tlie vices
er on
r
Hu
oor
whicli many of us believe prevaîl among mnfo
the Chînese, what does tlie report of the fault becanse when CAiluese die la Canada
Commission say ? The Rev. Canon Beau- tîteir relatives provîde that tîjeir boues shahl
lie brouglit hack to China. Lt seems to mue
lands testifies :
respect aad
I have had Chinese dnmestic servants. They the lion, gentleman, whorn I
are honest, sober, industriaus aud chEaaly in whose good feelings I believe lu, would
ot fiad it strange to see tlie remains of our
the hose.
country,
it happens they are niot sO wliite friends, dylng la a foreiga
Sometîmes
brouglit homte for huril, and If the dedlean, I suppose. Tlie liealtli officer finds
lie probably would
their liouses are crowded, It mnay have been ceased liad tlie meaus,
Therefore,
and they hiave left tlie moaey to do it.
by friends wlio came ln at niglit,
gentleman
not put tliem out. 1 would asic If, I was astonislied at tlie lion.
would
York you referring to this as a fauit witli the Ch!la thé aluns of London and New
It ls nlot a fauît. Tliere Is auwIll not find overcrowded lodgings worse ilese.
vices whIch otiier thlng whicli the lion, gentleman sald :
than lie described ? The two
a judge-he did
are attributed to the Chluese are gambllng Hle cited the decision of
habit, I thinhc net kuaw the namne of tlie judge-that peoand opium. As to tlie latter
corne into British
It bas been exaggerated. Lt Is not only the ple have not the riglit to
let us admit possessions. I must differ fromt hlm. Whea
Chinese who use opium, but
ln new9papers
that thle Chinese do use It: to excess. Lt is a country like Canada places
it-mucli easier au Invitation to corne la, wlieu lt sends
easy to prevent tlie use of
corne lin, and
than to prevent the use of liquor. If we agents to asic strangers to
people will publlslies pamphlets and sends them ail over
put a higli tax ou opium, tliose
itot be able to get It. Lt may lie said tliat the world, 1 thinli we Invite imigration.
I hiave a
opium la necessary for medical put-poses, If you asic me liito your house,
The hion. senator said
but it Is not used lu large quantities. Put riglit te corne la.

SENATE
these people are flot Chrlstianized.
We
send missionarles to China to Christianize
Wrhat do they tel] tliem ?
those people.
They say, 'Corne wlth us; we are nIl broAnd some 0f
thers; we lUke one anotiier.'
those Chinese who have corne here will say,
'Wfiy did you make us pay $50 wben we
carne to your country ? Is that hrotherly
love?' They miglit reply, 'Oh, weli, that
ras passed ; there was sorne reasoîî for
A littIe Inter the same thing occurs,
that.'
and tbey say, 'If we are brothers why do
you put $100 on us ?' Tbey do flot underInBut thls Is much worse.
stand it.
stead of a tax of $100, whelch they rnny pay
lu a certain tîme, we are going to put on
$500. What is It ? It is pure prohibition.
I arn net surprised, when I see that Ili sorne
part of China the people hate Christians,
For these reawhether English or flot.
sonrs, I thiuk I ani justified Ili veting ngainst
the Bill.
Hon. M-%r.3IACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I do
îlot wlslî to take up tirne goiuug into the
details of this measure, but shall pursue tire
sarne course whiclî I folIowed, on former
occasions when a similar Bill ras before
the House. I consider we shouid not
pass a inensure taxing any people coming
into tire Dominion of Canada, and I arn sure
when yon raise tire tax on the ChInese frorn
$100 to $500, you are prohibiting tlîein emitirely frorn coming into the Dominion. Now,
it is very weli for enligbteuied gentlemen
to tel] us of the degraded state linwvlicl tire
Chinese are lu San Francisco and other very
We see a good rnany of
distant cities.
thein ourselves ln the different cîties and
towns of the provinces ln which we lve,
and I mnust say, from nîy experience of any
I have seen, they are just as good citizens
as the average people corning into the oounIl)
try froîn auy other foreign nation.
I corne there are
iil
thre province fron
certainly net a very great îiumber, but 1
presurne that they are aimost la as great
proportion in tire city of Charlottetown as
Ili the province 0f British Columbia lu proportion to population.
Hon. '.\r. TEMPLEMAN-I think there
are oiy four lu Prince Edrard Island.
lion. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I beg
tie lion. gentleman's pardon; there rnight
have been oniy four at the tirne the census
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE.

wfis tak-en, but there are a great many more
than that number at present
1 find that
those that are there are lad ustrious, soher,
peoplie. They go to the markets and purdbase the necessary supplies for their biousehoids, just the sarne as the other lahouring
p>eople In the communlty do.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-People cannot get
Tiiey
liquor ln Prince Edward Island.
bave the'Scott Act.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I l)resurne this prohibition of the Chinese wn]]
be more effectuai than the Scott Act. If
it Is not, the Chinese wlll corne Ili wvithiout
nny bindrance whatever. I would just refer
Lrieey to some of the objections that have
been urged against the Chinese corning into
tue Dominion. It ls said thut tbey nil] net
asintlate with the people. That wns one
off the principal objections 1 have beard
nguIuîst their admission into the Dominion.
That Is rather an advantage. If thiese people are such a class as bas been statcd, it is
an advantage that they do not assinîllate
wltb the people. Another reasoni is that tbey
corne la here and ean rnoney and return te
their on country wlien they have earned
sufficlent to live ou. That is net a very
great objection against the Chinese, because
we know that people frorn other countries
corne Into the Dominion, become mililonaires
and go abroad te spend their money, w-hidi
ls only what the Chinese are doîng. Tbey
foHlow ln that respect the exuluple of 31r.
Carnegie and mauy other milhienaires who
go to reside lu the country lu whici they
were boru. I do net think It is a very
objectionabie thing that tbey desire thînt
tlîeir boues should be taken back te thie
country frorn which tbey corne. Wc find
our owa people who die lu a foreign country,
the United States or anynhere else, have
their bones brought home for intermnent. You
cannot travel on a railway train carryiflg
passengers frorn abroad in -which you do
net flnd the rernains off sorne person being
hroughit to be interred lu the country lu
which the deceased was horu. Such objections as these are ridiculons. I cannot give
my support to'tue Bill nor before the
lieuse. The arneunt that we propose te tax
these people cornin" lu is prehibitery. and
yen wnl soon have noue off thern at ail, In
a short time you wl] find we w-i] re:111re

JUNE 11, 1903
them; and It wlll be necessary to repeal this
law and admit them Into the country to do
the work we require and wblch it is difficuit
to get our own people to, do. Some hon.
gentleman wbo spoke mentloned the difficulty of getting bousehold servants, and In
the eastern provinces here we would be very
glad to have some, Chinese corne in to perform, domestie service.

FAST LINE STEAMSHIP SERVICE.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
should like to eall the attention of the
Secretary of State to the effect which bis
answer to the question I asked hlm yesterday in reference to the pledges made ln reference to the fast uine, bas had In England.
1 observe a telegram in to-nlght's paper
which reads as follows:

Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I would asic the
Surprise is expressed here at Senator Scott'a
bon. gentleman for information; what do the statement in the Canadian Senate yesterday.
that the British governmeflt had made no reUnited States people charge ?
presentations to the Canadian goverament refast Atlantic service. The tact la
prohi- garding thethe British government agreed ta a
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Absolute
that when
renewal of the Canadian Pacifie subsidy. the
bition on the iabouring classes still.
Canadian govèrnment frankly recognized that
not been earned, in that a fast
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Who pays that the subsidy had service had not been provided
or some agent through postal It was understood that Canada
money ? Is it the Chinaman
to the far East.
utmost exertion
pledge ta
that takes charge of the Chinamen? is lt had given a the British use the the eariiest paslink at
wbo takes to complete
îîot paid by some gentleman
sible moment, and certainly before the expiry
charge of the cargo, as it were ?

of the renewed contract.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I think so.

made by Mr. Austin
The statement
Chamberlain and confirmed by this teleHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I think
gram was that the pledges that were
s0, ln some cases.
made were for the purposes of a fast
agent runs line from Europe straigl to Japan and
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The
China, and that through the action of
that business ut a profit.
the Dominion government these pledges
Tlîe Hlouse divlded on the motion, whicb
had not been fulfilled ; the consequence Is
was carried on the following division
the postal service, on account of it not
CONTENTS:
being establisbed, is not remuflerative or
paying the expenses to the British goveraiHan. Messieurs
ment nor to Canada. I cali the.attention
Mackay (Alma),
Casgraln
McGregor,
of the Secretary of State to, this in order
(de Lanaudière).
McHugh,
Coffey,
that it may be brought under the n6tice of
MeSweeney,
Dandurand,
the goverament so that no misunderstandPoirier,
Dever,
Scott,
ing in the future may exist in EngltÉnd as
Ellis,
Templeman,
Fiset.
to the position of Canada upon this question,
Thibaudeau,
Frost,
(de la Vallière).
It is very important that our Canadiail
Gibson,
Watsonl,
JTones,
reputation should not be smirched by a nonYeo,
Kerr (Cobourg),
fuliliment of promises, if any promises were
Young,-23.
Kerr (Toronto),
ma de.
Landerkin,
NON-CONTENTS

Hon. Messieurs
Macdonald (P.E.I.),
Baker,
Macdonald (Victoria),
Boucherville, de
MeDonald
(C. M. G.),
(Cape Breton),
Bowell,
Montplaisir,
(Sir Mackenzie),
Robertson,
Drummond,
Vidal,
Ferguson,
Wod,--14.
Landry,
Lovitt,

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second time.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I quite apprecifite the
importance of having the truth inquired
into and the report thoroughly tested.
Wý%heu I spolie I thougbt it was on informationi. 0f course It is just possible I may
be mistaken. I will have a thorougli exanhination made into the despatches, and if 1
overlooked auy of them I wili so advise the
Hou se.
The Senate adjourned.

SENATIE

322

What point is there sa obscure li this decision of the Lords of the Privy Council, that It
is necessary ta have recourse to Illumination
Ottawa, FrLdai, June 12, 1903.
from Mr. P. V. Savard and ta bis vast knowiedge In order ta clear Up with brilliancy the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three respective rights of the federal government.
the provincial government. and the Labrador
o'clock.
company ?
Io the salary of $5 a day given the celebrated
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
jurisconsuit in accordance w1th the signal service that he Is called ta render ta hie country
INTERCOLONIAL RAIL WAY BENCHES by flooding with his luminous clarity the legal
obscurity of the hîghest tribunal of the British
AT LEVIS.
empire, and is It the government's Intention ta
remunerate this employee of lis chaice la a
INQUIRY.
mare suitable manner ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That question I can1. Wben did the goverfiment si for tenders not answer. I have always been anxlous to
for the construction of the benches for the use
gratify the curiosity of the hon.: gentleman,
o! the Intercolonial station ai Lévis ?
2. In what newspapers and at what date did and have answered very many questions to
the government publisb a notice of such re- whieh exception might have been taken.
quest ?
3. If the newspapers have nat published any Where lt was at ail possible or reasonable,
notice of such request, how was the public I have endeavoured ta, gratify bis wishes.
made aware of this requesi for tenders, and ai
In the present case the bon. gentleman seeks
'wbat date'?
ta make a covert attack ou an Individual
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as whom I do flot know, a gentleman who Is
follows «
an advocate In the province of Quebec.
1. Tenders were invlted on the 3lst May, The hon. gentleman asks :
1902.
Wýhat point la there sa obscure in tbis de2. Tenders were not asked by newspaper cisian of the Lards af the Privy Council that it
is necessary ta have recaurse ta Illumination
advertlsement.
tram Mr. P. V. Savard and ta bis vast know3. Tenders were lnvited by circular.
ledge In order ta clear up with brllliancy the
respective rigbts af the federal government. the
QUEBEC AND LEVIS MAIL SERVICE. provincial goverument, and the Labrador company ?
Is the salary of $5 a day given the celebrated
INQUIRY.
jurIsconsuli In accardance with the signal service that be Is called ta render ta his country
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
by floading with his luminaus clarity the legal
Has Captain George Chamberland, a! Lévis, obscurity of the bighest tribunal af the British
Depariment for empire, and Is It the goverament's intention
a cantraci with the Post Office
the carniage of mails by the vessels of the Que- ta remunerate this employes of its chaice In a
bec and Lévis Ferry Company, or Is it the said more suitable manner ?
campany whlch bas this contract, and at what
My lion. friend must see that that is
price was ibis cantraci given ?
not a question thùt ought ta lie answered.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is no contract
Lt should flot be on the order paper, beciuse
wlth Captain George Chamberland for the
we ought flot ta use the records of the Hanse
carriage o! the mails referred ta, the service ta cast reflections an anybody outside of

THE SENATE.

belng performed by the Quebec and Lévis 't.
Ferry Company, paynient heing made thereHou. Mr. LANDRY-The gentleman nainfor at the rate o! one thousand dollars per
ed ig not a member of parliament.
nnnum.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The lion. gentleman
FISHING 1IIGHTS IN THE SEIGNIOLIY iniglit attack a member of parliament, liecause lie would have a chance of making
an attack in return, but a gentleman wlio
lias ijot the privilegeofa replying, wlio is
outside of pirliament, is not iu as good -a
0f law reconflicts bave arisen he- position as a member, and besides it is not
gardiag which certain
tweea the !edeiîal governmeat and that of tbe the proper thing ta do.
proviaces o! Quebec and the Labrador campaay
Hon. Mr.. LANDRY-Could the l'on, genwith respect ta the fishiag rigbts ia the Seigaiory of Mingan ?
tlemiani answer the first question as to Wlla-t
Did nai the judgmnent of the Privy Council ha
are tAie facts and the points of lanw ?
England defiaitely settle ibis question ?
OF MINGAN.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
What are the facts and the points

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 12, 1903
Hon. Mr, SCOTT-I arn not able to give
the pointe of law, nor can anybody else.
Tro Mr. Savard was referred a number of
questions to Inquire the facts on the grouad,
and give some Information to the minister
who had charge of the decision of the varloue disputes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If those questions
have been subrnltted to Mr. Savard, I do
not see why we are not entitled to know
what tbey are.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, certalnly not. The
House le not entitled to tbem.
Hou. M~r. LANDRY-The House la not entitled to k-now what instructions the governrnent gave to Mr. Savard ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they are for the
private information of the minister. Hie
opinions do flot prevail.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Mr. Savard le pald by
the public treasury wlth our money, and we
have a riglit to know the points o! law or
tacts subrnitted to hlm ln those questions.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it le qulte unusual.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That le the firet time
the goverfiment have refused to give to thse
Senate Information whIlh they gave to a
private Individual.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have, ln my anxiety
to meet s0 many of thse requeste of the hon.
gentleman-because thse bon. gentleman pute
more questions than any inember of the
House of Gommons doesHon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn so Ignorant.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amrnisciined to think
there is a motive beblnd It ail, and It does
siot eeem fair; I arn anxioue to meet tise
bon. gentleman's wishes wbere the public
have a right to know -the tacts, but he carries It too far. I refer to Todd's Parliarnentary goverfiment in Eagland, where we find
the following:
Numerous precedents can lie cited whereln
minusters of the Crown and other members have
declined to give any anewer to questions which

323

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I could flot. The
judgment of the Prlvy Council Is a matter
tliat is found ln the law-books of the country, and I amrn ot golng to Invoive my Judgment wlth their judgment, I miglit flot
agree wlth the Prlvy Councl. He aske me
to explain a judgment given by the Prlvy
CounlI.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn asking what are
the points Involvedl tbat necessitated the
nomination of Mr. Savard 7 He was narned
for a purpose.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The points of law and
tact ln a long lnvolved judgment which
very few lawyers understand, le flot a
proper subject to be lnquired into across the
floor of the House by any member.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Would the hon. gentleman makze any objection to n motion for
an address to His Excellency to hnve the
Instructions laid before this Houee ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I must judge of it whien
I know somethlng about It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-He could not objeet to that.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I know that.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I would suggest that
this motion* in its present form be expunged from the records, and n motion PutHon. Mr. LANDRY-'1'he hon.
muet give notice of motion.

member

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-As a matter affectlng
the dignlty of the Senate, poselbly the good
sense of my lion. friend would dictate that
course, and I have no doubt that nny Information asked for ln a reasonably proper
manner, whilh It would be the duty of the
minister to give, would be forthcomlng.
Certainly a question put ln thie form would
tend to lower the House in the estimation
of lion. Senators. I think the feeling o! the
hon. gentlemanl's feliow members, le tbat
that should be expunged, and n reasonable
motion could be put which would elicit the
Information.
they considered to lie unnecessary, inexpedient, deslred
tinusual. ImpiertnentHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-My lnqulry cannot
And I sbould like the hon. gentleman to be expunged on a question of feeling. It
la]ce corne stress on tbat wordcan be expunged on a question of riglit. If
-or as involving matter of too muai gravity the hon. gentleman wante to make a motion
to be deait with by way of reply to a question.
of that kind, let hlm do 80.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Let the two or three
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I arn appealing to the
last questions drop, and can the hon. minislion. gentleman's good sense.
not answer the firet part ?
ter
21J

SENATE

324

land. I know that lands may be expropriated for public purposes and by railways, but bere is a private company whicb
seeks from us the right to expropriate
land. and on that ground I think it Is
Infringlng on civil rIgbts whiclb are given
THIRD READINGS.
altogether to the jurisdiction of the local
the Canada legislature. From that point of view, this
Bill (80) An Act respecting
North-west Land Company, Liited.--(Hon. Bill Is nconstitutional. It ls a private
enterprise and should go before the local
Mr. Kerr, Toronto.
For these reasons I oppose the
Bill (54) An Act respecting the Canada legislature.
Bill, and beg to move an amendment :
Permanent and Western Canada Mortgage
That the said Bill be flot now read the third
Corporation, and to change Its name to The
time but that It be read the third time this day
Permanent Mortgage Corporation. six months.
Canada
-<ýHon. Mr. Kerr, Toronto).
Hon. Mr. WATSON-In looking over the
BlD (25) An Act respecting the Eastern Bill it appears to me It is necessary for the
Townships Bank.-(Hon. Mr. Baker).
company to corne to tliis parliament for
Bill (31Y An Act respecting-the Canadian power, because It Interferes with a navigOrder of the Woodmen of the World.-(Hon. able river. I do 'not think the provincial
Mr. Watson).
legisiature would have power to pass tlhis
incorporate the Mis- Bill, Inasmuch as it interferes with the
Bill (J) An Act to
sionary Society of the Cburch of England navigation of the St. Lawrence river.
in Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Kerr, Toronto).
Hon. Mr. LANDERRIN-The hon. genBill (L) An Act to amend the Act relating tleman did flot see the Bill before.
to the Naturalîzation of Aliens.-(Hon. Mr.
The SPEAKER-The question before the
Scott).
House le the third reading of this Bill.
SAULT ST. LOUIS LIGHT AND POWER 1Hon. Mr.. LANDRY-I have moved an
COMPANY'S BILL.
amendment.
THIRD READING.
The SPEAKER-lt bas not been secondmoved the third ed.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is it necessary to
reading of Bill (113)ý An Act to lncorporate
the Sault St. Louis Light and Power Comi- have a seconder to my motion ?
pany.
The SPEAKER-It bas always been so
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before this 11iii Is understood.
read the third time, I wish to call attention
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want a decision.
to tbe fact tbat It Is for the Incorporation It Is necessary la the House of Commons
of a private company for local purposes, to, have a seconder for a motion of this
and for work to be done entirely with!n the kind, but It Is not necessary bere.
It Is a Bill which
province of Quebec.
The SPEAKER-I rule that the amendshould go before the local legislature.
ment cannot be put unless it is seconded.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The hou. gen- I have neyer known of a motion being put
tleman said that before.
which was not seconded.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It le the first trne
I move,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WeII,
I have said it here, and the bon. geutleitan
by the Hon. Mr. Bolduc, that the
seconded
has no right to refer to what I sai in
Bill be not now rend the tbird Uirne, but
comxnlttee.
that lt be read the third time this day six
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I did not say il months.
was ln committee.
The amendment was rejected.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will the bon. geiîHon. Mr. POIRIER-Before the vote is
tieman state where I said it before ? This
taken on the third reading, I should like
Bill empowers that company to expropihite
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Well, my good sense
Is what guides me and I refuse to drop My
question. The refusal of the minister to
answer setties the whole thing for the time
belng.

Hou. Mr. YOUNG.

JUNE 12, 1903
to know if the Speaker lias given lits decision -as a final one. This is a matter of
I
procedure which ls very .iuteresting.
do not at ail find fault witli tlie decision ofq
His Honour the Speaker, but It ls a matter
of procedure which ouglit to be settled.
Tlie point bas been raised liere before to, my
knowledge. If I reniember correctiy, lt
was previousiy decided that sueli a motion
as lias been put by my lion. friend needs
no0 seconder. We have bad to-day a decisIon that it requires a seconder. 1 amn Dot
nt ail saying which decision ls riglit, but
I have a right to, ask that a decision be
given whicli wili make our procedure uniforni. As it ls now, we bave a conflict of
the decisions o! our Speakers. I, therefore, with proper regard to wbat is due to
the Chair, ask Mr. Speaker to, looki Into the

325

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If my lion. friend wili,
turn to the Manual of Proceeding, page 84
and page 82, lie wiil see what the practice
bas been. Examples are given on page 81
as well.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliat la not the rule.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I admit that. I arn
quotlng from the Manuai of Proceediugs, a
document wh!cb was adopted by tht. Hlouse
at the samne Urne that our Standing Orders
were adopted, and therefore to some extent
a part of our proedure. If my hon. friend
wll turu back to tlie time when our Standing Orders were adopted hie wiii find tliat
side by aide with that there was submitted
to tlie Senate this Manual of Procedure,
which was adopted at the saine time, and
gives it a standing practically equal to Our
question more at leugth, because bie was Standing Orders.
taken by surprise on this occasion, and see
l
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-EvenIn the manual
If bis decision is one to wbicb lie will ad- the lion, gentleman cannot find a rule rehere for the Instruction and guiidance of quiring a seconder for a motion sucli as I
the Senate.
have given.
Hon. «-fr. LOUGHIEED-Tliat bon. genHon. Mr. YOUNG-I do flot say there le
tleman wili fiad lu Bourinot, at page 367, a rule, but I say tliat lias been the procethat it le not necessary, as a matter of dure.
practice, to have a seconder for a motion
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I must
lu the Senate. Our practice is based on
me. I neyer iooked
o! the-House of Lords. Bouri- confess this is new to
the practice
at the rule, but we ail know wbat the pracDot says:*
tice lias been. The ruiing of the Speaker
It is not an unusual practice la the flouse of is correct so far, as the practice is couLords-and the same lias been sometinies folseconder
lowed la the Senate--to allow a member ia giv- cerned. According to Bourinot, n
ing notice to make remarke of an explanatory ls not necessary. I tbink It would be betcharacter as to the nature of the motion as to, ter to leave It to the Speaker and let us
the reason for proposlng It as to the course the
member intends to pursue but no remarks of a have bis decision to-morrow.
controversial or argumeutative character should.
The SPEAKER-I do not feel that the
be made nor wlll any debate be permitted at
such stage wben the flouse lias liad no oppor- Speaker ls caiied upon to decide the questhe
tuulty cf considering the subject matter of
motion. No notice ueed be given In tike Sewtte tion, because the lion. gentleman from Staof public Bis. Neither lias that body aay dacona procured a seconder and the motion
speclal rule. like that of the flouse o! Coinan acadeirous. requirlug a seconder ; but it le the prao- was put and lost. It is merely
tice nevertheless to have a motion duly se- mic question now, but the question seems
conded.
to, be settled by the quotation from Bourinot.
At the saine time, I think that conclusions
The foot note is as foliows:
draw.n from the practice of tlie
In the Lords any Lord may submait a motion which are
for the decision of their Lordshlps without a House of Lords are sometimes inconvenient.
seconder-the only motion requlrlng a seconder,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Let mue cali the attenby usage, being that for the address, In answer
to the Queeu's speech.
tion of the flouse to page 99 of the manual :
That le the practice, altliough there. ls no
If an ameadment je moved to a motion for a
second reading, the Speaker says :The question.
mile on tbe point.
bon, gentlemen, before the Senate le for the
In
intituled, &c.
(B.C.)-Ali second reaeing of Bill
MACDONALD
Mr.
Hon.
nîneudmeut bas neyer been seconded la this
flouse.

seconded
amendmeat it is moved by
&c., and then the debate folby
lows. &c.

326

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That does flot settie bore for ail as lu doue with ardinary compiantes, or Io It a commercial company for
the question.
manufacturlng ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Would It be reaily wlse
Hou. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-I mlgbt tell Vie
to disturb a practloe wbicb bas exlsted lu
his House for more than a quarter of a bon. gentleman, If he wll alIow me, that Vie
century at any rate? 1 think It gives Bil lu flot standing lu my name. The hou.
weight and gravity ta, a motion to bave It gentleman who badl charge of it,. Vie Hon.
seconded. If lt is lot the practIce of the Mr. Dandurand, bas gone out, and he asked
Bouse of Lords, would It bie wise for us to me ta miove Vie second readIng, so Viat It
alter aur practice ? It ought flot ta be de- couId get before Vie committee, and ail Viose
cided ln that very off-band way. We .would questions that tbe bon. gentleman Is askbe lntroducing a new rule in this House, ing can be sifted ln committee.
so far ns my experlence goes. I do flot
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Necessarlly so. I do
tbluk It would bie wlse or prudent, unless
nat wlsh ta impede the Bill. It bas been
lion. gentlemen tbougbt it was a proper
some
tblng ta, do. ta change the practice that bas suggested, and I thlnk rlghtly, that
explanation of Buis should be given aI Vie
prevalled from time Immemorlal.
second reading, and I wanted ta have this
Bon. Mr. FERGUSON-Some three or explanation, which Is Important. However,
four years ago, under a previaus Speaker of I wll ual raise any abjections ta the second
this House, my hon. frlend framn Wolseley readlng o! the Bill, reservlng my privilege
(Bon. Mr. Perley) submitted au amendment ta ask questions wben il goes before comnta a motion with regard to, the preventiofi mittee.
of the sale of spirltuous Iifquors in the resHon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-AIl rIght.
taurant of this House, and no seconder came
forward, and attention was called ta the
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
tact that lits motion was not seconded. 1 was read the second time.
thiuk I put that myself. The bon. gentlemani tram Ricbmond (Hon. Mr. Miller) cor- PUBLIC PRINTING ACT ÂMENDMENT
rected me Immediately, and sald tiiere was
BILL.
no seconder required for an amendment lu
SECOND READING.
the Senate. I bad occasion to look it up
three or four years ago, and it was adHon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readmitted the motion a! the hon, gentleman lng of Bill (182) An Act ta, amend Chapter
was in order, although it bad nat been 27 of the Revisei statutes respecting the
seconded.
Departmenî of Public Printing and Stationto, and the Bill ery. H1e said: This deals with tbree subThe motion was agreed
jects thal are under the direction 0f Vie
'was read the third time, and passed.
Department of Public Printing. In 1893 the
FEDERAL QIL COMPANY'S BILL.
Act relating to Vie Departnient of Pubic
Printing was amended by lntroduciug Vils
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN, ln the absence provision -Provided that uothing iu this Act shall reof Hon. Mr. Dandurand, moved the second
that printing for the purposes of thie Inrea ding of 'Bill (30) An Act ta Incorporate quire
tercoionial Railway or the Prince Edward Island
Railway. shall he done ln the said establis:i
the Federal 011 Company.
ment. in any case where Buch printing may be
Bon. Mr. POIRIER (in Frenc)-It was more convenlentiy doue eleewhere at a cost not
for such
my intention to ask the promoter of the exceedinglnthat whlch would hie charged
said establishment.
priuting
Bill (Hon. Mr. Dandurand) if the company
The necessity for the legislation is due
had power under the charter to sink wells.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I wiii consider
the lion. gentleman's proposition when we
go into committee.
Hon. Mr~. POIRIER-I -waxt 10 know if
thîls eompany- is seek-ing for privileges 10
Honi. Mr. YOUNG.

to, Ibis tact : Viat for uearly ten years the
Auditor Genera] was content ta pay any
account for the printing in the maritime
provinces connected with those two railways
on a certificate from the King's Printer, setting fortb that the charge was fair and

JUNE 12, 1903

327

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh no, I read the utareasonable. He discovered that that did
ute of 1893.
not conformn to the language of the section, ti
because the language of the section is that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
the work should be doue at a costc ontrary ta the statute.
be '
not exceedlng t.hat which would
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In 1893 the statu-te
charged' for sucb printlng at said estabras amended ta read as follows
to pay a uumlishment, and s0 hie decllned
ber of bis, and a number o! bills are
Subsection one of section five of chapter 27
standing at the present moment. The sub- hall be amended by adding thereto the followng
gtîtution for the -words of the Act of 1893, 1 Provided that nothing lu this Act shall be
puras proposed In thîs Bill, reads as follows :
.eld to require that the printlng for thePrince
oses of the Intercoloutal Railway or
Provided that nothlflg lu this Act shahi re- Pdward Island Rallway shall be dous lu the
quire that stationery and prin-ting for the pur- aid establishment lu any case where su.ch
poses of the Intercoloulal R.ailway or the Prince Printing may be more convenlently doue elseor
Edward IelaiLd Railway chali be obtainedcase ' ~here at a cost flot exceeding that which would
lu such establishdoue iu the said eetablishmnent lu any
may b. be charged for such printing
neut.
where such etationery and printing
at a cost
more convcniently procured elsewhere
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I did flot observe
not exceediug customarY and fair commercial
rates for sîmîlar work or supplies Iu sîmhlar t bat this change bad been made Iu the law
quantîtles.
but 1 fiud that subsection 2
1 revlously,
The next clause -confirms and makes part >rovldes that this section shall apply ta aU
of the statute an Order In Couincli that was )fils lncurred or rendered within the eurpassed on 'the 27th November, 1893, whichr ent fiscal year, 1902-3. 1 can scarcely dis!over what the ameudment really afiected
reads as followsWhat ls the change lu the law ?
Ou a report, dated 27th November, 1893, from 1s.
a
the Secretary of State. statlug that, with ta
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thought 1 made it
vlew ta prevent any unreasonable Increase the
of work by graduaI accretions ta
clear. The Auditar General had been lu the
the cost
rates af wages paid at the Priuting Bureau. It hiabit of paying the accounts for prlutlng
that the
ls expedient to lay dowu the principle
rates of wages pald ta the operatives employed since 1893, on a certificate from, the King's
sbould be based upon the current rates for simI- Printer that the charges were iair and realar work thraughout the Dominion. and that,
refor mare speclal guidance ta the officers of the sonable. Ou refereuce ta the Act very
the
department. It lB advisable ta order that and cently, within a few mauths past, hie disrates af wages lu the cities of Montrealas a covered that the. wards In the statute reToronto shail. for the future. be taken
standard flot ta be exceeded.
quire the certifleate ta be ln a differexit
ougbt ta state
looking at thîs form, that the certificate
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-Ifi
that the charge for those printlng accounts
Bill I fiud that there is a very serions dedld nat'exceed that which wauld be charged
parture from what has been the law. 1 for such prlutlng at the sald establshmnent.
mean that there are two radical ameud- Dr. Dawson said : * I cannot certify that.
nients i It. The first ane deals wlth the
It is quite Impassible for mie ta do It. bework whlch should be doue lu the Prlnting
cause lu many af the small offices lu the
Bureau, and I find here that there ls a
maritime provinces they could flot do It,
new part of this clause Introduced which
presumably on the ground that here there
permits the gaverument ta have ail the
There
is na charge for capital account.
printiug or any prluting for the Intercolonial
million dollars lnvested ou
is over balf a
Railway sud the Prince Edward Island Railwhich there Is no charge, and the anly
elsewhere than la the Printing
way doue
charge at the Bureau is, of course, the
Bureau ; and lt provides further, In subsecmoney paid ta the operatives, and It could
tion 2 o! section 1, that the provisions of
flot be presumed that small country afflces,
thîs section shall be retroactive, that they
run by some power, could do the printshail apply ta work doue lu the present fiscal flot
Printer
about ing as cheaply, or that the King's
year, or lu the fiscal year wbich is now
that they could do It as
certify
ta expire. It appears that the Minister o! would
cheaply as at the Bureau. Weil, when the
Railways and Canais has had printîng doue
were refused a few months ago,
lu private printing offices, contrary ta the accounts
the ininistel' said : 'We will have ta leavo
statute.

328

SENATE

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But it provided
accounts open, and we will have the
and it Is those accounts thiat that work could only be done at rates pald
amended,'
standing that have not been paid since at the Bureau.
Auditor General gave hits deeision.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But as the government interpreted It at the time, It was not
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I see now the necessary to certify that it was done as
scope of the amendment. Hitherto the cheaply as at the Bureau. The Auditor
arnounts ailowed on accounts for any woi'k General is now gettlng a littie crotchety.
done outside of the Prhxtlng Bureau had
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-I arn
to be regulated by the cost of work done
this amendment Is to astonished at the statements of the hon.
In the Bureau, ai
overcome that. It can now be paid for If Secretary of State in reference to the action
the cost does not exceed fair and customary of the Kilng's Printer, and also the practice
rates for similar work In similar quantities In the past. It was found, in 1893, that It
done elsewhere. I can see that the object was more convenient to have some work
ls, even though it may cost the govern- done In the maritime provinces Instead of
ment sornewhat more If the charges are at the Prlnting Bureau, but the provision
not unreasonable, from a commercial point Ia the law was very strict in order to pro0f view, that work can be doue in other tect the revenues of the Dominion, and preAnd vent the government of the day, as I thinik
places than the Printing Bureau.
the subsection is simply to make that pro- they ought to be prevented, from paying
vision apply to bis that are outstanding any more for the work which was performed
for work done In the hast current year. In than It would cost the goveranent and the
other words, It will enabie the government country if performed In the Bureau.
of Canada to pay higher rates than they
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The government
would be able to pay If the law had re- might get It done for less, probably.
rnalned as It ls. It would seem to me that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If the
it would be much better to adhere to the
previons practice, and if it is found that government can get it doue for less, so much
work cannot be done as cheaply in private the better for the finances of the country.
printing offices as it is done In the Prlnting The Bill goes a good deal further than has
Bureau, the work should go to the Print- been explained by the hon. Secretary of,%
ing Bureau, where it seems to me it ought State. It Includes, also, stationery, which
to be doue, more particularly ini vîew of the there was no power under the law upon the
doctrine laid down by the present Minister Revised Statutes to procure outside of the
of Trade and Commerce, years ago, that Bureau ;now the amendment gives the
the giving of public printiug to newspaper power to the government to have the staoffices and to private printing offices was tionery purchased ' where they please. The
a pollution of the wells on which the peo- present proposition, as has been pointed
ple were dependent for their political ln- out by my lion. friend from Marshfield
formation. This enables the goverament ta (Hon. Mr. Ferguson), goes further. It progo on In this process of polluting the welis vides that ail stationery may be obtained
which the present
of the country, the newspapers to whîch the ut other places than that
people look for information on public ques- ilaw provides.
tions. It is a pity this amendaient is being -Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Not ail the stacarried. It is a pity the governinent are tionery.
departing from the sound principle of havHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Staing the work done in the Bureau to have
tionery required for the purposes indicated
it done elsewhere.
in this Bill. I arn not speaking of the staHon. Mr. SCOTT-We are only following tionery that is furniished to nibers or
I arn speaking of the prowhat was enacted by the friends of the hon. parliament.
leader of the opposition. It was not en- visions of this Bill. Then there is a mateacted by us. It was enacted iu 1893, and it riul change in this proposed law, that instead of paying the prices which it would
has been going on sînce that tume.
Hion. Mr. SCOTT..

the
Act
are
the

JUNE 12, 1903

zV

tan up l
cost for the doiug of this work ln the Print- the last> two years the estimates
that could
Bureau In Ottawa, you pay wliat tbey that one newspaper office 'alone,
ing
terni a fair commercial rate for similar tiot exist wltbout ItWork supplled ln similar quantities, That
HomL Mr. UcSlSWEUNEY-Wliat office was
will vary materially. There are soine counthat 7
try printing offices tbat would nlot bave the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Th'71e
materlal to do it. There are other printlng
whicli could do It just as cheaply Montreai ' Herald.' 1 did flot care to memoffices
as at the Bureau, but this opens the door tien it. In tbe ast four or fixe years it bas
to an almost Indefiulte amount of-shail bad $10,000. No wonder tbat paper cau be
1 say fraud ?-I won't say that, but the circulated tlirougbout the country at $1 a
exacting from the goverument, prices wbich, year. 1 know lu my own county tbat daily
for ordinary commercial purposes, would paper, a large paper and weii edited, getting
not be asked. The bon. gentleman tells us $15,000 or $20,000 out of the government,
tliat the King's Printer iuformed the Audi- bas a large circulation. I kuow enough about
tor General, or the goverument, that lie prlnting to know tbey eau afford to print
was unable to fix tbe price nt wbicb thisa eycapaertciulethrpowork sbould be doue. I sliould like very tical views with sucbi patronage. Then
inucli to know, baving bad a little practice corne down to Moncton and turu to the
myseif, if a hundred tbousand copies of a .Transcript.' That paper attacked tbe govr
rmncotualfrthfisye
certain form were requlred upon a certain
of paper, and certain size, wlietlererm tcotnayfrtefityarr of goverument, bequality
tbe change
any printer could not tell at once wbat It two after
arng.Lo
o*e h
l
If they wanted a thousand or cueI
would cost.
It gets
prices would vary. at the public accounts and see what
a liundred tbousaud, the
and lias got sînce. It bas become au
Âuy one wbo knows anytbing about prînt- now
of the goverument. There are others
ing knows that very well, and If the King' s admirer Brunswick. I am not looklng at my
Auito Geerail New
fot elitli
Pritercoud thf
be
(leuis
medto
frieud lut front
Prbone
e
M.Bls
rn fm
redi
what the price of a certain form would be bn
hie bad the courage to tell the goveruIf furnished at the Bureau, and in certain cause
sliould do and would not
quantities, lie would udt be able to charge ment wbat tbey
Iu the wake of the pollution whleli
tbe departinent that ordered it at the Bur- follow
down iu tlie province
He could tell the bon. Secretary surrounded the parties
eau.
Brunswick. That Is the object of
of State what a hundred thousand of New
patronage to the goverfieopies of a particular formn of a certain this Bill, to give
press. I say the Bill that was Introkind and quantity of paper would cost, just meut
of wbicb I was
as well as if hie had printed it himself, and duoed by the goverument not to bave been
I believe ougbt
charged It to bis department, because that a member,
I were lu the government
Is the practice. If the Customs Departmeut passed, and If
gain I would not lie a party to it. The
got ten tbousand of a certain form prIited, a
as great as I bave lndicated,
and cliarged it to the contingent accounts abuse lias been
under this Bill It gives the government
of the Customs Department, hie could and
what tliey bave been
tell ' just as well, and I think the lion. Secre- power te do legally
Illegally. If tbe Audîtor General lias
tary of State must bave been misinformed doing
it la for l'le reawben bie got that information. Then it retused to pay these blls,
the certificates bave not been lu acopens the door to favouritism, whlcb my son
law and tbe Auditor
bion. friend called attention to, and wbicli cordance wlth tbe
General Is perfectly riglit ia what lie lias
the late opposition used to coudemn. 1
sixteen or seventeeli
could point out certain newspapers wlîicb been doiug. From
years' acquaintauce with the Auditor Genereceive large amounts o! patronage. There
hlm, tbat lu every
is one certain newspaper ln a large city, one raI I wlll say tbis for
Instance wbere bie tbougbt the action of the
of the largest commercial cities ln Canada.
with the law, bie
It takes only two or tbree bours to get thiere, ininister was -not lu accord
put bis baud and foot upon it, and I coinand yet if you look at the Auditor General's
so. Duriug my
nccounts you Nvill fiud that their buis bave meud hlm for baviug done
experience, wbicb was somewhat long
run up from $15,000 to $20,000 a year. In Inter

330

SENATE

besitate not to say that ninety-nlne per cent
of the patronage wbich was formerly given
to newspapere, and whlcb was condemned
wlth sucli vehemence by my hon. frlend and
hie colleagues, could have beeu done mest
as weli and as cbeaply lu the clty, and it
wouhd be just as well, If this change le to
be made, to abolleli the Bureau altogether. I
have stated very frankly wliat I thlnk the objecte of this BUi are. One object Is to pay
a larger price for the work the goverument
le bavlng doue outslde ln order to suetain
certain newepapers whicb are supportng
them, and wbicb propagate the vlews of the
governuielt and to enable tbem to circulate
these journale tbroughout the Dominion at
a much lower rate tban they couid If they
nad to depend exchusively upon their commercial work and the appreclation of the
people who read them. I bave not seen that
this question was dlscussed to any great extent ln the lower House, and It may be
because practical gentlemen there did
flot study the question as closely, perbape,
as some of us have done. If we hive long
enougli I shahl ask for a comparative statemuent of prcles, those pald for the work doue
outside and the prices pald for similar work
at the Bureau. We know wbat took place
la 1874-75-76, when I took this question of
prlntlng ln hand and made the statement
in the House which neceseitated tbe resignation of the Speaker who had to go back to
bis constitnency for re-election. At that
the rates prevailing ln the commercial cen- tîme the examination of the accounits rentres, may be wise from a different stand- dered and the amounts allowed by the
point. It enables the government to say Queen's Printer was from twenty-five to
The
to the printers' union when they make cer- tblrty-tbree and one-third cut off.
prices were put ln at wbat they demauded
tain demande : 'The law says that you
shail bave sucli and such wages and no as the fair commercial rate, but when the
other, and consequently we are unable to Queen's Printer took them and compared
meet your wishes in this respect, otherwlse tbem wlth the prices which hie should
we would be delighted to give you so mucli charge were lt doue in hie office, they were
more per thousand, or per day, or per week.' cnt down by thousands and thousande of
Some bon, gentleman may reIt la a protection for the government againet dollars.
the demande and niember the circumstances wbich toolc
what mlght be considered
impositions of the trade unions. I arn not place then and this le a Bill to enabie
prepared to condemn that further than to the government to do that wbich the
say it only shows tbey have not the courage parliament of 1874-75-76 condernned and
in the
to do that which they are putting on the created a number of vacancies
I do
statute-book. If it Je necessary to confine flouse of Comnmons at tbal time.
not suppose any amendments that I wouhd
them to commercial rates, it is juet as nebut 1 ask
cessary to confine tbem to the law, that propose to this Bill would carry,
the House to refiect upon the provisions
they shahl pay no more for printing done by
I and objecte of the Bill nnd wbat will recuit
outsiders than it costs at the Bureau.
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

In managlng departients, 1 found the Auditor General strict lu the performance of bis
duty, for whichhle deserves the commendation and approval of the country rather than
condemnation by the ministers. I do not
pretend to say some of my coileagues did
flot find fauît wlth hlm because lie refused
to do that which lie thouglit ouglit flot to
bave been done, but that la carrled to a
greater extent, a hundred-fold, under the
present government and you bave only to
read the Auditor General's Rteport to see
that what I amn saying le correct. He ie
constantly comlng ln conflict with them.
The iaw apoplnting an Auditor General le
one of the best laws on the statute-book
for the protection of the revenue of the
country. The other feature of this Bill
whicli le objectionable to my mind le givlng
It a retroactive effect. Tbat can only be for
the purpose of enabling the government to
pay a bigher price for the work wblch bas
been performed by tbese outside offices
than It would cost the country were it
printed at the governuient Bureau. The
Prlntlng Bureau was eetablished for the
purpose of doing the work, and while there
are cases, I frankly admit, where lt la lnconvenlent to bring everything to Ottawa,
the most of the prlntlng that bas been given
to the duferent papers, many of which 1 have
not mentioned, could -be done as weli at the
Bureau at lower rates. This other clause,
whlch provides for paying the printers at

JUNE 12, 1903
f rom its passage, and If we live a few years, prIntlug as cheaply as at the Bureau here,
If my prognostications are flot correct, I wlll where nothing ls charged for capital account or, probably, for supervision and salapologize for what I have said to-day.
aries. All that le cliarged Up against the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hou. gentleman printing there la the amount paid to, the
could scarcely have understood the explau- operatives.
ation I made on this Bill, because lie la enHon. Mr. ELLIS-I do flot think there are
tirely astray. In 1893 the government of
whieh my hou. friend was a member re- auy duties charged elther.
cogniz 'ed that the printing for the Prince
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. The object of this
Edward Island Railway and the Intercolceronlal Railway should be doue Iu the mari- clause ls simply to legalize the formn of
was more convenlent. tificate my bon. friend's government aptime provinces. It
ofIt consisted of bis and notices of varions, proved of during the time tliey were In
the runulng of. fice. The Auditor General saw uo reason
kluds lu connectIon witli
the rallway, so they passed this Act lun to dispute the correctness of a certificate
his
1893, authoriziug the priuting for the Inter- of that kind. He lis lately changed
of the
colonial Rtailway and the Prince Edward mind, and It is to meet the objections
le
Island Railway to lie performed lu offices Auditor General that this legisiation
Iu the maritime provinces. We have made souglit for. The parties declined to accept
them,
no change ln that. This Bill limita the the amount that would be awarded
accoufits.
printing, and refers only to tlie 4nrintliig and it is lu reference.to those
are only
for the Intercolonlal Railway and Prince There are not mauy of them. They
Audîtor
Edward Island Railway under the statute the accumulation sent lu sînce the
hou. frIend's government. General took the vlew that I have spoken of.
passed by my
of them.
From 1893 up to 1903, the Audîtor General It ouly relates to comparatIvely few
for those prînters on the I do not think my hon. frlend's strictures
passed the accounts
It would
certîficate of the Queen's Printer that the have any application whatever.
fair and reasonable and sudh fot b e prluting doue lu the Montreal ' Hercharges were
That la
charges as sliould be made for simîlar workc aId'1 or the other offices lie named.
A few months ago-I do altogether outside of what lie refera to. It
lu the provinces.
of Agrinot know wliat prompted hlm to do It, but was printiug fromn the Departmeut
lie read the Act more carefully culture. His criticisms may be fair or
I suppose
to look at
or has attention was called to it-he sald otherwlse, mast as y011 happen
Dawson: II wlll flot pass those ae them. I presume bis governuient dld prettY
to Dr.
goverument does.
counts on that certificate; you muet give me mucli the saine as this
lu accordance with the statute There are times wheu, fromn excessive work,
a certificate
Dr. Dawson said: 'For lt cannot be doue at the Bureau and a llmpassed In 1893.'
Iu sendlng
years we have been paying those ac- lted amount is sent outaide and
ten
for the it out it la sent to papers frieudly to the
counts. It la the ordiuary prluting
the former
two railways I have named.' The Auditor government. That was wbat
Dawson said: goverument dld and what lias been doue
General decliued to pay. Dr.
to the
II canuot couscientlously give you a certi- from time Immemorial. In regard
required by the Act of second clause, It is merely legalizing an Order
ficate such as la
govern1893 and yüu have neyer required lt be-. lu Council adopted by the former
have always been satisfied tomet
fore ; you
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In retake my certificate that the charges were
If you 'will not pay ply to the bon. gentleman's reference to
fair and reasonable.
these accounts, we must go to parliameut the charges made and the certificate whlch
and get authority to pay them on the same has been, lie says, recognized by the Audibasis that you have been paying them sin*ce tor General, of course 1 cannot Say auy1893-that la, based on the charges made to thing. If lie whll refer to the speech I
otlier parties ln the provinces for similar made on tbis question lu the House of Comprinting.' As I said before, ut would be mous lie will find 1 pointed out the amounts
absolutely Impossible to expect country of- charged for the different work that was perfices lu the maritime provinces to do thleir formed lu St. John, N.B., liy the then Speak-

332 '

SENATE
332

arn afrald. Wheu we have a
er, and the amount whicb was deducted by character, 1
general electioa the prlnting in counection
the Queen's Printer as belng an overcharge
voters' list and the ballots is ail
lu every single instance. The amount of the wltb the
doue under a sciiedule of rates that is fixed
bis rendered is given, together witb the
the printing is asked for, and
amount of the deductions therefroni. Do before ever
the bis are sent ln tbey are eut down
I understand tlUe Secretary of State. to Bay whea
General to eomply with this
tbat tbe Auditor General, since the passlng by the Âuditor
rates. Why not bave the prIntof tbe amended Bill in 1893, bas been payiug schedule of
If it is absolutely
ail the accounits for the worl, doue outside lng that is done outslde,
saine way ?P I
prIces whicb were rendered by those necessary, done in the very
at the
any deduction think it should be doue. In the first place
wbo prluted them, without
every single item of printing for this Doat ahl ?
minion whlch could be doue in the Printlng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no. I arn only Bureau should be doue there, and if the
speaklng of the accounts for the Intercol- Bureau canuot perform that duty, and printoulal Rallway and Prince Edward Island lng bas to be doue outside, then It sbould be
Rallway. The Auditor General requires the doue under a schedule of rates flxed by the
Klug's Printer to give a certificate that tUe superintendelit of printing, and no departure
charges are fair and reasonabie, such as should be made from that schedule of rates.
were charged to other parties in the pro- That would be the proper way to do It. 1 revinces, aud bie wanted a change in this cer- member wbeu bion. gentlemien opposite were
tificate recently.
In power that a very large amount of mouey
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And hie was spent, for instance, paying tbe Moncton
pald tbern on a certificate of the character 'Times ' and the Halifax 1Herald ' for performlng work for the Intercolonial Rallway
the lion. gentleman rnentloned ?
and priuting for the goverament. We conHou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
demned It. I did every year. The MoncHou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then ton 'Times' drew $25,000 to $30,0O0 some
it was contrary to the law.
years, and the Halifax 'Herald' in the saine
that coiîduct on the
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It bas been going on way. We condemned
part of hon. gentlemen opposite. We do flot
for years.
want to condone it now. I do flot want
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I arn sorry to to, as far as 1 arn concerned. Stili there may
thinl, that the entire printing of this Do- be. justifiable grounds for this. I do not
minion is not done at the Printing Bureau. say the Miuister of Railways is not influwbere it ought to be doue. Witb regard to enced by houest motives, but there should
this B ill, I bave this to say :When the Bill be positive evidence that the Printing
of 1893 was introdnced in the House of Bureau canuot perform the wori, as it should
Commons, I certaily, as one, condemued be performed, and then if it is necessary
the provisions of the Bill and found fault be (loue under a schedule of rates that
would not be departed fromi.
witb It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I do not disagree with
the lion. gentleman did.
my hion. friend, or even the leader of the
to having the public
Hon. Mr. MýcMULLEN-I thonght theu opposition, with regard
of this country priuting doue bere. Inasmuch as we bave
it was wrong. The printiug
ail the printing shonld
sbould be doue at the Printing Bureau, and If a Printing Bureau,
capable of doing- be doue, as far as possible, by that Bureau,
the Printing Bureau is not
to the Intercolonial Railthe work, then any outside printing shouid *But with regard
wvould way it Is a very large establishment. There
be doue on a schedule of rates that
heads to it. There is a
be flxed and certifled to by the superinten-. *are many different
arE constant rush of printling required. The man
dent of the Printing Bureau. If you
say, form No. 456 or
going to allow outside journals to charge lu charge of orders,
982, or finds himiself, at a momient's notice,
their own rates and send in their bills, it
H1e sends to somne printwill open the way to n very conisiderable 1ont of blanks.
office, perhaps at Moncton, or St.
arnount of expenditure of ai> extravagali t1inz
Hon. Sir MALCKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 12, 1903
He wili stili audit the bis as he
John, or Halifax, and withln twcnty- a long.
did before, and the payments wiil be made,
tour hours hie work cornes ln. That bas
tbink: there will be the opportubeen the case over and over agaîn ln the so 1 do flot
nlty which some bon. gentlemen seem to
Rallway Departrncnt. Whether that could
gettlng more than a fair and reasonbe overcorne or not, so that those blanke orý think of
able rate because It wlll corne down to the
forme couid bc printed ln large quantities
Printer la the end to say what It
and the supply neyer rua out, le a question. Klng's
shall be. It la an effort to harmonize It.
Then again the Intercoloalal Railway la a
With regard to the second clause, my hon.
business. Ia twexity-four hours It wlll get
friend the leader of the opposition will
*up thc Idea of excursions, or somethlng of
have been renbefore. Prlnt- uaderetand ail those bille
the klnd, that it has not donc
dered and paid-it says 'shall appiy to ail
ing will be rcquired for that, and It muet bc
bills lncurred.'
sent somcwherc and doue irnmediately. I
recollect very well that whea Hie Royal
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
Highness, the Duke o! York, and the Pria- the Secretary of State eaid they had not
cese wcnt over the Intercolonial Railway been paid.
the Idea of those visitors comlng gradualiy
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Certalnly, in part they
grcw ia extent, aad there came a audden
had not been paid. I do not knowdemand to Impress them with the beauties
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
of the country through which tiey were
going and a great variety of printing of ahl said they had not.
It
kinds was required la a great hurry.
Lion. Mr. ELLIS-The hon, gentleman will
ie a question whethcr the Bureau couid do sec the Âudltor General oaly recently rethat work in tîrne. I do not know whethcr it fused to sanction them, I presume since the
could or not, but I juet make that sugges- bille of 1902 have been rendered.
tion to hon. gentlemen so that their
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wlthln a few months.
minde may De prepared to accept thc view
Railthat ahl the work of the Intercolonl
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-He bas taken that
way couid not De very weil donc at the short ground, and that would put the bills unnotice it le requlred to be donc by the per- doubtedly lower than many newspaper pubsons in charge of the different departments. Ilshers could do the work, so that it seems
Wlth regard to what the bon. genitleman to me It is not a fair thlng, lnaemuch as
froni Wellington bas said as to a echedule they have been paid since 1893 to 1901, acof rates, the practice at thc present mo- cording to a systcrn, that a new system
inent-right or wrong, niy hon. frlend's ehould be put ln operation for a year as
goverument adopted It la 1893 and foiiowed against those bills. This It appeare to me le
itsince-is that thc Klng's Prînter undoubt- ail there le ln that clause. 1 quite Imagine
edly bas a standard and ail the bille, 1 as- that it might be possible, under the system
sume, have to conforni to that standard. of distributing printing around the newsThat le to eay, If a newepaper sent la a bill paper offices to give patronage to the friends
that he coasidered heyond what was fair of the goverament. My hon. friend bas been
and reasonable, he would eut it down. That good eaough to say that I have been refusbas gone on for a good many years, but the ed-aud it occurred to nme as a case la point
Audîtor Generai bas, and 1 thiak pro- -but I might say that 1 amrn ot cognizant
perly-I do not find fault with It or consider of any quarrel with thc miaister on that
It evidence of crankinees on the part inatter. There le no quarrel on my aide.
ln
of the Auditor GeneraI, but understandlng However, I wish to state I arn gcnerally
donc at
better what the statute requires, dcmanded favour of having ail the printing
be done
rccently that the certificates shaîl be in the Bureau. It can, undoubtcdly,
priater, because
accordance with the statute. This legisia- cheaper tban by a private
advantagc of getthon, I assume, Ie for that purpose, but the the govcrnrncnt has the
rate of cost. It
King's Printer wli etili have hie schedule- tlng ail rnachlnery at a 10w
i
-wili understand wflat the fair and reason- Is able to pay casu auua rno .
able charges are, because they were fair and and its advantages arc vcry great, but 1
reasonable charges which be allowed ail realiy tbiuk, on the other hand, that It

SENATE

334

would be wholly Impossible to do ail the years expired the goverament of the day
decided to transfer the property to the town
work of the Intercolonial at the Bureau.
of Dundas. 0f course, these mortgages were
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbere pald off long ago, but no dlscbarge was
slmould be sonie provision as to thé payment registered, and the object of this is to reof It. Then, in confirmation of what was
inove the cloud. on the title.
sald by the bon. gentleman f rom. Wellington,
I might say, la reference to prlatlng outHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
aide, that at the office wltb which I bave ilot thlnk they were ever pald. been connected a great many years, the
I-on. Mr. SCOTT-Why were tbey flot colprices allowed for similar work by the goverament Is higher than we charge to the Iected ? There Is no use openIng that quesmunicipalities for preciseiy the same work, ticnî îîow, howevcr, because the goverument
nnd we were quite willing to accePt the transferred tliem. Tbey transferred them
Hlng's Prînter's rates. Tbat Is ln telle- durlng the time of the Mackenzie adminisville, and I do not know about the maritime tration, some lime about 1875 or 1876. This,
provinces. I have heard the foreman and nt ail events, Is for tbe purpose of removing
the mauager of the office in Belleville Say the cloud on the titie. Lt bas passed Into the
that it was a fat job to get that fromn the Infants' bands long since. Tbey are flot
goverament, for tbey got more for it tban flic original parties at ail. Tbey bave time
tliat whicb they did in prlnting the voters' and again, asked to bave them dlscharged,
llsts for the clty of Belleville and for the and there was no way of dlscbarging them
couuty.
except by Act of parliament.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Clearly understand me,
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-The
that in my judgmnent the Klng's Printer's
Bill wici authorlzed the advance of the
supervision wlll stili continue.
money by tbe parliament of old Upper CaThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill nada was passed ln 1832. Then certain parwas rend the second time.
ties nanmed in tbe preamble became security,
or gave niortgages upon certain properties,
SECOND READING.
toaid iii the construction of wbat is known
Bill (112) An Act to incorporate the Cana- as the Desjardins canal. Lt was considered
dian Industrial Corporation, Llmited.-(Hon. of sufficlent Importance tben for the parties
Mr. Lougheed.)
owning property la the neighbourhood to
mortgage tbcir own property to aid ln this
DESJARDINS CANAL BILL
and the government adconstruction,
vanced the money. A short time ago,
SECOND READING.
fifty years having expired-I arn speakHon. Mfr. SCOTT moved the second reading ing under correction, but tbis is my
of Bill (183) Ani Act respecting the Desjar- recollection o! reading
case-the
the
dins Canal. He said : In 1832 a company lieirs made a dlaim to tliis property and
was foried for the purpose o! building the
there was iikely to be interminable litiDesjardinîs canal. One of the conditions of
gation arising out of lt. Was this ]and or
tlîat w-as that at the end of fifty years the
that property conveyed to the Dominion govworlz w-as to revert to the Crown. The ernment, or did it become theirs. I should
Crown, however at the time made arrange- say, at confederation ?ILt must have done
ments for assisting them and authorized cer- so or it would not be necessary to pass the
tain moneys to be advanced on security Bill now lu order to quiet the titie. My recolgiren by the late Sir Allan McNablection Is tbat the parties who borrowed it
Mon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He neyer paid the money, but the property was
transferred by the. goverament o! the day
-was One o! tbem.
to the town of Dundas and the town bujît
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-And a Mfr. Peter Hunter upon It, and certain properties in Hamilton
Hamilton. They gave mortgages on certain worth a large amount, running up into bundproperties iii the district of Gore, as they reds of thousands at the present day. The
lN ewcastle. WThen the fifty Dominion government introduced this Bill
were thenin
Hon. '.%r. ELLIS.

JUNE 12, 1903
declined to recognlze tbat Order
to quiet that titie. That is quite proper If lias recently
it, and I suP)- in Couneil as giving authorlty to the goverflthey bave the power to do
ment to give contracts for work of $5,000
pose they bave or they would flot do it.
the
less. In other words lie bas corne to was
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It goes for whftt it is or
that the Order lit Couac!!
worth.conclusion
W
It hcmes necessilry to
onu
1--... a-il
worth.~là
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But ass this Bill.
looklng at it casually tbat pertains to the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wheu
province, as It was thse oid Upper Canada n'as that order passed ?
pariamerit that gave thse power to take
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Many years-agO.
those securities and advance tbe money.
of Justice bias looked
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I do
I suppose thse Minister
Into It ?
not remember particular cases of thls kind.
I do remember, however, Wbere it was neHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
cessary, under the law, to advertise for
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I ask tenders for ferries, particularly the ferry
it for information-flot to oppose the Bill. running between Ottawa near the base of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It must have been the canal and over to Hull, wbere the adtbe
looked into. 1 have heard for many years vertisement cost two or tbree times
was a cloud on thtis titie, and it amount paid for the lease, and lu cases of
that there
away 'wlth
passed over to the federal parliament-I that klnd it ls very well to do
firat to thse federal the advertisement. It is only In cases sucli
presume it passed'over
where
parliament and then they transferred lt to as I indicated a few moments ago,
you wanted to, belp thse newspapers.
of thse town of Dundas.
thse corporation
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-1 have before me a copy
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
of the Order ln Council approved ûn the
was read the second timte.
That Order In Council
Srd March, 188.
bas been .construed to apply to cases where
PUBLIC WORKS ACT AMENDMENT
the expenditure was less than $5,000, that it
BILL.
did flot require an advertisemnlft, and s0 the
SECOND READING.
Auditor General allowed It to go until the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT xnoved thse second rend- last year.
ing of Bill (193) Au Act to amend thse Public
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL->erWorks Act. He said: The object of this haps lie found it was so frequentiy abused
Bil Is to amend section 13 of the Public It was necessary to check It.
Works Act found In the Revised Statutes.
The motion was agreed to, and thse Bill
Thve clause In the Bill rends as foliows:
vras read the second tinie.
13. Thse minister shall invite ten~ders, by public advertlsemeflt. for tise execution of ali works,
except lai cases of pressing emergeflcy In which
delay would be Injurions to the public Interest,
or in cases ia 'which. fromn thse nature of thse
work. it can be more expeditious1y and econornically executed by thse of[Icers and eervants cf
tise departmnent. or in cases wisere thse estimated
cost of thse work Is less than $5,00 and It appears to thse minister. in view of thse nature of
thse work. that It Is flot advisable to Invite tenders.
Thse latter clause is In thse spirit 0f an
Order in Council passed many years ago
wIsich authorized thse Miaister of Public
Works, where thse work was to cost less than
$5,000, to do It In thse way indicated bere.
It was found that thse cost of advertiseflelits
amounted to as mucis as thse work. Thse
Auditor General. paid out during nxy hon.
friend's time and part of our time, but he

ELECTRIC LIGHT INSPEC'TION ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved thse second rending of Bill (187) An Act to amend thse Elec-

trie Light Inspection Act. He sald: This
Bill contains one clause which reads as
follows
2. Where the offender le a corporation. sucis
penalties shail be recoverable in like manner.
and any process br other paper requiredto by
be
part LVIII of the Criminal Code. 1892, under
aerved upon the defendafit in proceedinge upon
be served
that part. may in1 such case
the mayor or chief officer of auch corporation,
or upon -the clerk or secretary thereof.
It is just making provision for thse mode
of collecting, where it is a corporation,

SENATE
where the service en be madeon the mayor
or other officiais.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was read the second time.

CORRESPONDENCE RE GRAIN ACT.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved:
That an humble address be presented to Hia
Exceliency the Governor General ;praying that
Hia Excellency 'wili cause to be laid on the
BILL INTROI)UCE D.
Table et the Senate copies of ai Orders ln
reports and recomAct respectiag the Midway Council. correspondence,
Bill (R) An
mendations of the warehouse commissioner, and
and Vernon Rahlway Company.-(HEon. Mr. other documents ln aflywise relating to the
'Grain Act' since January. 1901.
Macdenald, B.C.)
The motion was agreed te.
LABOUR UNION LABELS BILL
PRINTING 0F THE DEBATES.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Heu. Mr. LÂNDRY-Before the Orders of
The Order of the Day being calied:
the Day are called, I sbouid lke te iaquirè
Second reading Bill (D) *Aa Act respecting of the bon. Secretary of State If he bas any
Labour Union ILabels.-(Hoa. Mr. Watson.)
Information to give us reiating te the printHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-in the absence lng of the French edition of the Senate Deof tbe hon, gentleman, I move that this bates. We have bad no French edition se
Order of the Day be discharged ani placed f ar this session, and I tbink, ln justice te
the French element ln the Senate, we
on the Orders for Wednesday aext.
sheuld have It printed, because it bas been
was agreed te.
The motion
translated.
B W~.Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nor had we last sessbeuld like te make a suggestion that the
The practice
postponed a littie longer sion, nor tbe session before.
second readlng be
bas neyer been te print the French édition
than Tuesday. A number cf members are
till after the close of the
desirous o! giving their opinions on this of the Debates
session.
Bill and they cannot be bere on Wednesday. I refer te the bon. gentleman freni
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I know that bas been
Smith's Fells. Hle would like te be présent. the practice, but I understand the personnel
The gentleman la charge of the Bill, la con- of the staff has been increased, and we have
versation witb bis coileague and me te-day the services of French translatora wbo are
suggested thet It be put 'off tili a week supposed te be, up to date. All the work
frem aext Tuesday. With the consent ef is done. The manuscript Is at the Printing
tbe House, I tbink tbat inight be done If It Bureau now, or la the hands cf the head of
meets the bon. gentleman's vlews.
the Bureau.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I have ne ebjection.

Hoan. Mr. SCOTT-I will make some f urther lnqulry about It.

The SPEAKER-The House bas soleninTHIIRD READINGS.
ly fixed this Order for Wedaesday, and, I
Bill (79) An Act te incorporate the Bank
think when Wednesday comes it will be bet- of Wianipeg.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
ter te bave It pestponed la tbe regular way.
Bill (92) An Act respectlng the Dominion
The Senate adjourned.
Burglary Guarantee Company, Limlted, and
te change its name te tbe Dominion Guar-

THE SERÂTE.
Ottawa, Monday, June 15, 1903.
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Eiglit
e'cleck.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

antee Company, Limited.-(Hon. Mr. Ellis,
in the absence of Hon. Mr. Casgrain, de
Lanaudière.)

Bill (107) An Act te incorporete the Empire Accident and Surety Company.--{Hea.
Mr. Watson.)
Bill (129) An Act respectiag the Crown
Bank of Canada.--(Heii. Mr. McMullen.)

JITNE 1.5, 1903

337

Bill (148) An Act respecting certain trust port and I think it was, after aIl, the proper
funds of the Diocese of Moosonee.-(H-On. committee to which the Bill was sent At
ail events. it was sent there and bas been
Mr. Vidal.)
reported on. The ameudments wbich were
NEW' CANADIAN COMPANY'S BILL.- made to the Bill were concurred lu by thus
House, and I think we should now proceed
TRIRD READING.
wlth the third reading.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved the third
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the hon, gentleAn Act to Incorporate
reading of, Bill (83)
man chooses to refuse my request, I arn
the New Canadian Company, Limited.
I move tLe
bounid to oppose the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before saying any- six months' boust and shall give my reasons
thing against the Bill ltseif, I should like for doixig 80.
to ask the prornoter of the measure in this
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I beg to state that I
House If lie would agree to send it back
have recelved from some parties interested
to the proper commlttee to which It sbould
against
or.iginally have gone, as Its nature Indi- In the Bill letters strongly worded
the Bill. I must admit that I 'do flot
cates-that la the Cornmittee on Railways,
Telegraplis and Harbours. The BM W' understand very xnuch about it and about
mistake was sent to the Committtee on the difficuities, and opposition to the Bill,
Banking and Commerce. Wben the motion but I have reoelved f rom parties, occupylng
was put by the Chair, I rose lu this House responsible positions, letters urging me to
I have nothing eise to
and pointed out what I thought was an oppose this Bill.
say. 0 f course I couil have gone to the
error in sending the Bill to that committee,
If -I had desired
and I think my hon. friend himself sald lie meeting of the committee
to do so. I dld flot go. I arn not Interested
was flot very sure whether It should go
except that
there or to another committee. At ail events, in aur manner in this matter,
I wish to inform the House that there are
the objection being taken by both of us,
who are, rightly or wrongly,
on my part formaily and on the part of the persons outside
opposed to the Bill.
bon. gentleman In perliaps a milder way,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Would the hbon, genI think lie lu justice should aliow this Bill
to be sent to the Committee on Railways, tleman state the grounds ? 'Did those peoTelegraplis and Harbours, so that we would ple not have an opportunity o! appearing
be able there to ventilate the whoie ques- before the committee In opposition to the
tion. I desire If possible, to prevent tbe dis- Bill ?
CUSsioli of the Bill in this House inasmUch
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I could flot tell the
as before the committee It seems to me hon. gentleman. Very likely they had. They
that 1 could*gîve ail the reasons perhaps may or may flot have badl the oçportunity.
In a more satisfactory way than I could I1 arn simply Informing the House of the
here.
contents of the letter. 1 do -not mean to
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I arn sorry my say that the opposition to the Bil ls justihon. friend was not present at the meeting fiable. I simply state that there Is opposiof the Coirmttee on Banking and Commerce, tion to the Bill.
of 'which neither of us happens to be a memHon. Mr. LANDRY-I supp>ose the hou.
ber. The Bill was referred to that com- gentleman will consent to my request ?
mittee and was very carefully considereod,
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No.
and I am quite sure after the work done on
this Bill by the committee, it wouid be quite
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will give, then, the
useiess to send It to any other committee. House the reasons why I move the six
Besides, wheu one reads the Bill It 1s easy, months' hoist. This Bill is to incorporate an
to see that It could be referred to the Com- Englisb company, forrned In London. under
mittee on Bauking as 'well as to the Com- the name o! the -New Canadian Company.
mittee on Railways, Telegraplis and Har- As I remaked -when the Bill was Introduced,
bours, because It Is a commercial enterprise. it does not give the names of the directors
The scope of the Bill la mucb more con- and does not give any details of thie formaAll we kflow Is
siderable tban the work to be done at the tion of the corporation.
22

33S.

SENATE
33S

onte Canadian sharehiolder, one director, and
If yon
the rest are people tram London.
refer to the 'Star' of November 18, 1902,
you will find, under the signature of 'VWindermere,' the speclal correspondent of the
Montreal 'Star,' the following cable sent
fron' London to the Moutreal 1Star':
Prospectus For Canadian Railway.
Conmpany Formed to Get Charter of Atlantic,
Quebec and Western.
Receives Good Notices.
(Special by Cable from the Special Correspondent of the Montreal ' Star' in London.)
The Prospectus le expected to-morrow of the
New Canadian Company receutly registered with
a capital of £ 100,000, ail ordinary stock. Iu order to acquire tram Charles Carpenter. of Gaspé,
the charter for the Atlantic, Quebec and Western
Rs.ilway. The obi oct la to build a railway tram
G.a9pé to a point uorth of Caueapsoei, where a
junetion will be effected with the Intercolonial.
Preliminary notices af the press make a great
flourish about the railway as a fast mail route
and dwell upan the difficulties of St. Lawreece
navigation aud the commercial 'osas thereby.
by the coulNWINDEUMEftE.
This is the object set forth
pany lu tbe Bill itself. What about the
was the first Intimation tlhat we got
'flat
stock ?
on this side of the Atlantic of the formXationI
stock of the company shall be
The capital
The following day
of
aive thousand dollars, *divided Inta shares by of thUs new company.
the ' Star' published another telegran' con'flve dollars each, and may be called up
the directors tram time to tinie as they deen' Ing also from London. It reads as tollows
necessary.
New Canadian Company.
Besides that the Bill provides
Prospectus Will be Issued To-morrow.
by a reThe directars, being firat autharized meeting
Capital £100,000.
solution passed at a special generaýl ta finie,
Corr-sp:ono! the sharehaldirs, mêy, tram time
ta (Special by Cable trra the Special London.)
issue bouds, debentures or other securitiesreal
dent o! the Montreal ' Star' lu
of the
the extent of seventy-five per cent
Landou, November 19.-The prospectus of the
value of the property of the campany, such
New Canadian Company wlll be issued to-morinvalue having been airst establisbe-d by an duly
at
raw. The capital will be £100,000, shares alventory of the assets o! the compauy
£1 eacb, of which 50,207 shares have been
audited and revised by auditors ï.ppointed at lotted at par, with five shillings per ebare paid
a meeting of the sharehaldars.
up. The objecta of the company are stated in
In addition to that, the dîrectors have also yesterday's cable. Sir Douglas Fox and bis
partuers are the cousulting engineers. Th2re
the riglit ta issue additional bouds' lu aid are no well-k3lown men among the direct ors.
:
of the construction of
WINDERMERE.
Any dsteama of 3ther vessel whicb by this Act
1 cali specially your attention to this asserIn
it la authorized ta acquire or canstruet,ofcrany
tIor made by the ' Star's' correspondent, that
aid of the acquisition or construction
dock, in.
milI, factary. grain elevalor, wharf, furuiture. ' There are no well kznown m'en amang the
botel or warehause property, fittîngs,
the following daY
In
plant, appliance or lands not cxce-dingpro- directors.' On the 2Oth,
' Star ' recelved another cable from its
amaunt the cast of such vessel ai c'tber
the
perty.
ccrrespondent ln Landau, which reads as
compafly bas a generl
follows
That is ta say, thUs
New Canadian Comapany.
power to Issue bonds at 75 per cent of the
Landan Papers Full of Prospectus To-day.
rea] value of tbe assets of the conipauy,
Corresponsud besîdes that, to issue any addltlonal (Special by Cable fram the SpecialLoudon.)
dent of the Montreal 'Star' In
any praperty they
bonds up ta the value of
Landau, November 20.-The papers are full
want ta get. 'flat ls a double right which to-day of the prospectus of the New Canadian
o! Sir Wilfrid Laurmay bring the company into viist enter- Compauy. Mucb la made
elleged cordial approval and bis pledge ta
as regards pecuuiary aid or pecuniary ier's subeidies ta the proyposed railway liue from,
prises
grant
Naw, what la the compaly ? That Gaspé to a point uortb o! Causapecal, In the
swindle.
Intercalonial Railway. lu counection wiLh the
camnpany was formed In London. Ther e le
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

that that company seeka incorporation froiD
the Canadian parliament, and for what purClause 11 reads:
pose ?
Thxe coinpany uiay(a.) own. manage, caustruet, lease, acquire
and dispose or tramways, basins, docks, jetties.
abatwharfs, elevatore, warehauses, hotels, necestoirs, refrigeratore, and other buildings
and for
sary for the carrying of passengers and torthe receiving, storing, traushipplus,
goods and merwarding of mails, Mive stock,
from. rali1chaudise and of any ather freight ta or eaid Gaspé
ways, tramways and vessels at the
Basin and Gaspé Bay ;
(b.) purchase. acqulrç, lease, sell and dispose
of lande, water lots and water rigbts for the
construction of the wharfs, jetties, basins.
buildings and other warkis abave meutioned
(c.) construct, leasfe, acquire, freight, m'anage sud dispose of steamers, ligbters and otber
vessele of any kind, ta receive, store, forward,
carry and transport passengers, malse and
freigbt of any kind;
(d.) carry and transport passeugera, mails,
tram
gooda, merchaudise and freigbt toansdBritain
Gaspé Basin and Gaspé Bay and Great
or any other foreigu countries.

JUNE 15, 1903
requiremenits of the charter of the Atla.ntic.
Quebec and Western Railway. The campauy la
flot now asking for public subscriptlons, the
advertisements being simply for public !nformation.
WINDERMERE.

Hon. Mr-. FERGUSON-Tbat could hardiy
refer te this company, aitbougb the name la
similar, because thbe company dees net bave
power te bulld a rallway.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe charter for the
construction of the ralWay Is already
bought. On the 6th of December, 1902, the
'Star' had this news :
The New Canadian Company, Limited.
Under this titie a new company bas been
formed with a capital of £100,000 of £1, of
which £50,207 bas beau subscribed and flve
shillings par sbare paid up.
The famous fi-m of Sir Douglas Fox and paritners ai-e the cousulttng engineers. Among the
dl-actera are :Mi-. William Griffiths, of Hamilton House, Bishopsgate, London, E.C.. mauaglng di-ector of the big fi-m of goverumeat contractors, Wm. Grlffitbs & Ce., Llmited, and Mi-.
Joseph Mellowes (of Mellowes & Company, Sheffiel), himself a large gevernment contracter.
Anather member of the board la Mi-. C. B. X.
Carpenter, a well-known resident of Gaspé.
Hon. Mi-. MACDONALD

(B.C.)-lis

that

tbe well man?2
Hon. Mi-. LANDRY-Yes, the weli man,
*wvbese namne appears as a di-ecter la ail
Tbe
tbose companies open te suspicion.
prospectus was Issued, and as tbe 'Star'
sald ' fer public information oniy.' These
ai-e tbe fi-at words we find on tbe prospectus
The New Canadian Company. Limited. Incorporated under the Campanys' Act, 1862 te
capital £100,000, divided into 100,000
1900O.
shares of £1 eacb. 50,207 of which have been
appiied for and ,llotted at par, and five shillings
Der share paid up thereon. A settiement lu thie
shares bas been granted by the committee o!
the Landan Stock Exchange. Directors William
Grifflths (of Wm. Grilfths & Company. Llmlted),
Hamiltan Hause, Bishopsgate Street, Landon,
E.C., chairman. Joseph Meflawes (Meliowes &
Company, Sheffield), 28 Victoria Street, London.
S.W. Sidney Lee, 120 Bishopegate Street, London, E.C.; C. B. K. Carpenter, Manor Hanse.
Gaspé, Canada. Consultinglengineer, Si- Douglas Fox and partuers, 28 Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W. Bankers. Bank of Montreal, Abchurch Lane. London, E.C. Solicitors, Le
Brasseur & Oakley, 12 New Court, Lincoln'$
Inn, London, W.C. Gouiu. Lemieux & Brassard.,
1.592 Rue Notre Dame, ?Qontreal.
Wlhen they applied bei-e this session te
pin-liaînent, In publishlng -notices and pi-esenting the petitiens, only tbe names of
Messr-s. Goulu and Brassard appeared. As I
bave sbowu already, the name of Mr-. Lemieux. -wbe Is n member of this pariament,
22;

339

disappears and the naine of Mr. Gouin, wbo
is flot a member at Ottawa, appears ln the
But when
notice in the 'Canada Gazette.'
they go to Quebec, the name of Gouin, wbo
Is a ministeraut Quebec disappears, and then
the name of Lemieux appears ln the provincial notices.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-The bon. gentleman bas already stated that ln the House.
From tbe beginnlng of bis remarks tUp te
this moment the hou, gentleman bas followed the saine track exactly as ln the former
debate, s0 the House knows everytblng be
has said. It appears ln the Debates. Tbese
are remai-ka absolutely Identicai witb the
remarks the hon, gentleman made before ln
the debate on this question.
Hon. Mr-. FERGUSON-This Heuse bas a
perfect rlgbt te bave Information aise.
Hon. Mi-. DANDURAND-I spoke of the
previous debate ln tbis House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WIU1 tbe ,bon. gentleman let me take my ewu course. I do
not care to conuat blm. I knew 1 would
not get geod advice.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-Tbis 19 a second
editien of the bon. gentleman's speech.
Hon. Mr-. LÂNDRY-I bave just gîven the
names of the directors of the New Canadian
Company. Let us new see If their prospectus is lu accord witb the petition aud
wlth the Bill before us. The prospectus
sets forth that the principal objects for
which tbis company is' establlsbed are;
To acquire the benefit af an Act of parliament of the government af the province of Quebec. dated thie 25th Mai-ch. 1901, foc thie Incorporationi of a compaly entltied the Atlantilc,
Quebec and Western Rtaiiway Company, for the
construction and workIng of a Une of railway
and to cause to be performed ail tAie obligations
set forth ln the said Ad.Ta undertake the issue of the capital and
debeuture stock of the said railway company
under the terme of thie sald Act.
Te procure thie neceesary surveys for the railway te be made under the supervision of eminent engineers.
To enter Itt coutract for the construction of
the Une of raiiway and ta arrange for thie payment for euch constructian te be made, wholly
or partially lu cash or bonde of the railway
company and from: goverument subedles, &c.
To enter into, cantracte for the acquisition af
steamers and other vessels and shipe for brlaging matis and trafic ta the railway lu accordance wlth the pawer of the sald Act, &c.
To pi-omote and encourage colonisation for
thie development1 of the vast *reglion through
wbich the railway wili i-un, and ta, acclufre, operate. deal in, develop and dispose of sections

340

SEINATE

parliament. Since the provincial company
bas sold is charter to the English company,
they are asking pariament to incorporate
them ln the Dominion. In Quebec they had
the power to construct only one railway and
tbat power they sold to the Engllsh coinpany, 'but ln Ottawa here they are now
asking for a federal charter to exercise the
saine power they sold and for an additions)
power-the power to construct a second lMie
trom the basin of Gaspé ta Paspeblac, about
one hundred miles on the seashore ta join
the old Baie des Chaleur Rail Wiy.
In
ail those railways we Eind the same men,
Carpenter and Higgins, and nt the time lie
was lving, yon would have siso found Foiey
who was ln ail thase cam-panies. My object
to-day la ta cal) your attention ta the Incorporation whIch Is asked here to-day and
ta see If we are flot putting Etnglish money
Iu peril by incarporating this company and
glvlng the two campantes power ta borraw
money on the British market and dispose of
that nianey in a wsy that we canuat tell.
The Quebec charter was sold for $200,000
and this charter will be sold lu the saine
way. The English compsny cannot work
the rsilway If this Canadian company does
not sel! thein thls charter. How can they
worl, on a road with confllctlng rights
given ta one canlpauy by the sale of the
provincial charter and given ta another
company by the federal charter ?
The
EngIish eompany may say 'this is our road
-we bouglit it' The reply would be this:
But since we sold It ta you we have got
Ilue froin Gaspé ta Oausapscal. It is that an Act of incorporation froin the Dominion
Ta
provincial charter that was soid to the New parliament aud It Is aur prop.erty.'
Canadian Company lu England. The price secure peace, the English company would
was £50,000 sterling. A fortnight ago wve be obliged ta buy the federal charter as
English
passed a federal Act lncorporating that they bought the local charter.
money will go ont ln that enterprise as it
same Atlantic, Quebec aud Western Railway Company. We gave ta the company. went ont l.n the oil well schemes lu Gaspé.
as incarporated la Quebec, comprisiug the ITo show tue House that these people a -re
directors named [n the Act passed by the neyer short ln thefr vast conceptions, 1 shall
leglalature of Quebec, the power ta luild narrate ta you what was done in the year
the same hune of which they have sold the 1900, by these samne people wha are to-day
provincial charter ta the English campauy. askirg for incorporation. You wlll Elnd in
There are uow two conipanies having an the 'Star' of April 14, 1900, this telegraül
equal right by legisîstion ta construct the froin St. John, New Brunswick :

of terrltory granted as subsidies by the gaverament. valuable for colonizatlon, miaing, lumabering and pulp works.
This New Canadian Company incarporated ln England, asserts in «these paragraphs the abject for which this campany
la arganized. It Is ta acquire the benefit
of an Act of parlisment for its own purposes ta undertake the Issue of debenture
of the said railwsy compsny, &c. Now let
me cali your attention ta the ast clause of
Its prospectus:
The purchase prices payable for the benefit of
the royal charter-that Io the charter of the
province of Quebec--ls the mum of £50,000 payable wholly or lu part. at the option of the directors. ln cash or in fully pald up shares of
the company.
The ather day I heard somewhere that
this New Canadlan Company shouid be
termed the construction compauy of tihe Atlantic, Quebec and Western Rsllway Comnpany. Let us see what are the powers of
that sa-termed canstructing compsny and
what are the powers of the other coinpany. The Quebec, Atlantic snd Western
Company wss lncorporated *by an Act of
the legislature of the province of Quebec,
assented ta on the 8th of March, 1901, and
the directors of that compauy are Mr.
Henry Higgins, of the 0OuTrust Petroleuin
Campa ny, Alfred Wm. Carpenter, banker. of
the saine campsny ; Charles Ernest Richard
Preston Hillary, solicitor at law; ail three
of the city of London, Englsnd. This company, chartered by the Quebec legIsiature,
was .lncarparated for the purpose of constrncting what is called the Interior Short

saine railway-an English company wbich
bas bought that right fram a Canadian coinpany incorporatedý by the Quehjec legislaftre and that saine Caniadian company
which has just been incorporated by this
Hou. Mr. LANDRY.

Canadian 011 industry.
An immense company may be formed with flfty
million dollars capital.
(Special to the 'Star.')
St. John. N.B., April 14.-A meeting of the
Baltimore Railway and Coal Company was held

JUNE 15, 1903
his Dominion. Let us now corne back to
bore this week. Among those present were :
Hen-ry Higgins (chairman of the Petroleum 0U1 the New Canadian Company. After lssuing
Trust. London. England).
its first prospectus, It came out with parHiggins Is chairman of the conipany incor- ticulars on the new fast route, and as 1
porated by the Quebec legisiature, and also
cliairman of the Federal 011 Company.
Mfr. Higgins, wbo la chairman of the cçmpany

ownlng the Gaspé wella. uays there la a lîke-

hood of an amalgamation of thse o11 and coal
luteresta lu Canada Involving fifty million dollare of British money. He says there la a great
patrletlc feeling ln England now la faveur of
the deyolopment cf the imperlal resources by
British capital. If sucli an amalgamation took
PlIace lt would have no cennection with the
Standard 011 Company. Ho expresses confidence
that a groat eHl lndustry will ho doveloped ln
Gasupé. Sir Win. Bailey, an ex-mayor of Manchester. la cemiaz out probably neit month to
visit the Gasvé worlcs.
This name of Bailey was already mentioned on the floor et this Heuse wben I read
what was the Canadian Petroleum CeomThie Canadian Petroleum
pany la 1900.
Company, tormed In England, bouglit trom
the Petroleum 011 Trust a certain number
et sliares and wells and went te work.
This telegram tells that Bailey is on ifis way
te visit the works ln Canada. If you read
from tbe 'Daily Sun' et St. John, ef date
the lBth or 14th ef April, 1900, you will
see that Mr. Higgins, la 'bis speech, announces te bis audîters tilat the wells were
In full operation-that even one ef the wells
bad a klnd ef explosion-I do mot know
of what kind, but It had threwn out the
boring plant.
it threw eut tise boring Plant and the stream
of o11 rose seventy feet ln the air..

That happened whlle Mr. Higglns was
absent ln St. John N.B., the sme day lie
was speak-Ing to the meeting. I thlnk the
explosion was ln bis words more than lu
the wells, because ne ene wlio was living
on the spot saw that explosion ef o11, and
neyer saw the o11 ltself. Weil, Mr. Balley
came over from the other aide cf the Atlantic. He was at the werks and returned
te England, and wbat was the result ef bis
trip and et bis Investigations ? He was
bound te wind up the Canada Petreleum 011
Company. He wound it up lu England, and
he wound It up te save bis reputation and
He feund ne oil ln the
bis own credit.
wells lie had beuglit frem the Petroleum
Higgins was then
0i1 Trust, ef whlch M.Nr.
the manager. This 'Mr. Higgins, the fameus
011 digger is new ln the Atlantic, Quebec and
Western Railway Company, incerporated in
Quebec. and which bas been incorporated lu

have aiready toid you, gave as its first- advertisernent, on the first line on the first
page the assurance tbat the Rt. Hon. Sir
Wilfrid Laurier, K.C.M.G., Premier ot Canada, on the occasion of bis public address to
the inembers of the legislature, and.political
associations ln Gaspé, Quebec, last year had
exl)ressed bis cordial approval et the mnime.
diate construction ef thils new railwt'y to
the great barbour at the mouth et the St.
Lawrence, and promised the support of bis
goverument to the sclieme. Political associations lu Gasp&-I sbould lîke to know
wbere tbey are. The only political associationi ln Gaspé i. the member that represents that county in this parliament, and
wbo also belongs to the legal association of
Gouin, Brassard and Lemieux. There Is no
other political association la the couinty, and
I Xnow that la a tact. Wbiea Lord Stratbcona read .the New Canadian Company's
prospectus and saw this assertion on the
lirst page ef the book, he wrote to the
Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, asking
hlm If It was true that lie had promised any subsldy to the sclieme, and Sir
Wllfrid. denied that lie had ever off ered
auy subsldy to the construction ef the road
lu the Interier et Gaspé, and I would cballenge the bon. member, who lo now promoting the Bill, to say anything to the
contrary. He cannot tell us that any promise lbas been made for a subsidy over the
road tlirough the Interior. Let hlm take a
note of that, and I hope lie wIll not forget
te answer it. AUl the French members in
this House know the table of Lafontaine,
describing how a bird stole the fenthers
et anomber one. This prospectus la aothlng
elsa but that. Ail tbe words of tlis prospectus have been stolen ln a bock prepared
by Mr. C. Langelier, ini a pamphlet called
' A sketch on Gaspesia, by J. C. Langelier,'
Just take a few
and I will prove it.
sentences. On the ârst page are given
some particulars on the new railway route,
and the port and harbour et Gaspé, Canada,
situated at the mouth of the River St.
L.awrence. It reads :
The Gulf of thse St. Lawrenlce being navigable
at ail seasens. it is evident that the harbour and
port of Gaspé, as the key to the St. Lawrence

342

SENATE

trade, presents the greatest amount of advantage by its geographical position, as It is nearer pool.
by some hundreds of miles te the great ceutres
Mr. Laugelier, ln bis pamphlet from
of Canada thau Halifax, N.S., Sydney, C.B.. or
which I have been quotlug, says
N.B.
St. John.
In
If hon, gentlemen wlill turu to page 82 point aof trans-commercialdes and Interprovinzial
Chaleurs railway is
'view, this Baie
of Mr. Laugeiler's book, they wfli find the absolutely necessary, and its construction wil
allay a great want.
!oliowlng :

The Gulf of St. Lawrence being navigable lu
ail seasons It Is evideut that Paspebise bas
the meut. advautages. Its geographical position
puis It under the centrol o! the Canadians. It
la nearer of the great centre of Canada than
Halifax or Louisburg.
0f ail the stoien feathers the oniy one
that bas net been robbed la the word
'Gaspé.' Iu every place where Paspebiac
la used, the word 'Gaspé' bas been substltuted. In 1874 a committee was appoIuted te
ascertaln the best route for'the fat Atlantic
service. That commission w*as presided over
by our iste frieud, the Hon. Mr. Robitaille,
and their report was decidely ID favour o!
Paspeblac. Lt ls for tbat reason that the
book writteu by Mr. Langeller made the
statement I have mast quoted and gave al
the advantages ef that port but what la said
about Paspeblac is now falsely applied te,
Gaspé. It la nearer the great centres of
Canada than Halifax and Louisburg, says
Mr. Laugeiler. The prospectus proceds:
luI order te obtalu for the Canadian railways
the traffic which now takes the route of the
American ports, It is ef the greatest importance that this i3pleudld harbour should be placed
in railway communication wlth the great cities
of Canada. To do this It is necessary oniy te
build the connecting railway link of about 140
miles, and thereby directly connect this barheur with the great railway systems of the
West.
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Ând the
harbour open ail the year round ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wbat does Mr. Laugelier's book say ? Lt reads as foliows -

The prospectus says:
The railway aise provides an efficient trade
outiet to the markets of Quebec. Montreal. Toronto, Winnipeg and the West, and an opeuing
for the produ-eta of -the Gaspé penînsula, with.
lis rich farm lands.
Mr. Langelier, lu bis, pamphlet, says,
It wili open a seaport town te the western
provinces, and In particular It wiii open to, the
various produces of Bale des Chaleurs the markets of Quebse, Montreal, Toronto and Winnipeg. At present, a great part ef the sea Ilsh,
which ls cousumned lu the provinces of Quebec
and Ontario, and Manitoba, cornes from the
United States.
And then the prospectus gîves us a de-

scription of the harbour of Gaspé whlch ts
false. In the harbour of Gaspé ice le pernianent during iflve menths of tbe year.
There le ne Ice at Paspeblac, and the navigalion eau be kept open ait the year round,
but the description which ls given-except
of the land surroundlug-the description
or the temperature, the description of the
state ef the tee and the river ls ail taken
!rom Paspebiac and applied to the 'basin of
Gaspé.
Hon. Mr.

FERGUSON-The

charge the

hon. gentleian makes is that this company
lssued a false prospectus ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certailuy it le a
fe¶se prospectus, containing faIse statemente.

Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-lfl the mina oi.
the bon. gentleman.
(B.C.)-How
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
Port Paspebiac occupies an exceptienally advantageous position ln every point of view, and about the harbour beiug open ail the year
it is of the greatest Importance, lu wintr as round ?
well as in summer, te put it iu a constant communication with the great cities of Canada, ln
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We cau talk ail
order te keep up the trafBc on our Canadian
the year round on this subi ect. The people
railroads, which at present is sent te the United
States ports by American roads. To have this of Paspebiac would say It la superior, and
traffic lu our countries, a railread between Pas- those froin Gaspé would say the other
huepebiac and Metapedia (a distance of four
dred miles) must ho built.
The prospectus proceeds

From the. standpoint of the transit of the interprovincial trade, this railway is absolutely
It will provide an opening for a
essential.
short grain route from the west to tide-water,
and Parry Sound, which is in connection with
the entire systemn of navigaticn upcni the great
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

thing.

Hon.

Mr.

FERGUSON-Is

it true

tbat

th, port of Gaspé la open ail the year
round ?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I suppose il la.
I do not ball frein there.

JUNE 15,,1903

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is a mere supposi- 1 The prospectus ends like this:
Railway enterprise ln Canada la being actively
promoted by the Dominion governmnent, as well
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do not; live as by the varlous provinces and munlcipalitlea,
and Sir Wilfrid Laurier, G.C.M.G., the Premier
there.
of Canada, bas undertaken that the road shall
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, the hon, gentle- be duly subsldlzed as construction proceeds.
man wouid freeze there. It occuples a spectl position wlth regard to, clirnate. This
work o! Mr. Langelier says:
In a cllmatolaglcal point of vlew, the latter
regian occupies a pcosition worthy of remark.
The sea, tbat aurrounds It on tbree aides, regulates the climate and attenuates the variations
of cold and beat. Even the nature of the ditferent parts divides the penînsula of Gaspé
into two distinct climatological townships, that
of the nortb and south. The nortbera region,
more or lesa exposed ta the cold blait and ta
the neighbouring cold waters of the Labrador
and the tce that entera Into tbe north-east of
the gulf by the StraIt of Belle Ile le a ltle
The
colder tban that of the south * 0*
south-eastern region is somewhat warmer, and
as regards agricultural operations, far superior
ta that of Great firitaîn and Irelançi.
Then lie proceeds :
Protected on one aide hy the mountains of
Notre Dame and Shlckshock, against the north
wind, exposed on the other aide ta the warm
breezes of the soutb, wblch takes part of lis
heat tram the guif stiream, upon whlcb the raya
of the sun fait perpendlcularly ; in tact, nature
seema ta lend ber hand ln rnaking tii place
the moat bealtby and moat agreeable ln tbe
province.

I say thls le the most striking faisehood
ln the wtbole affair. Sir Wltfred Laurier
bas denied that, In a letter wrItten to. Lord
Stratlicona.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Has the
gentleman a copy of thce letter ?

hon.

Hon. 1fr. LÂNDRY-I bave not a copy of
tbe letter, but I defy my hon. frlend ta, deny
the existence of the letter that Sir Wilfrid
Laurier hîmseif showed to one of the parties
of whom 1 arn now speaking. I defy hlm to
deny rny positive assertion gîven to, thîs to
Chamber. That letter was written by Sir
Wilfrid Laurier ln answer to an lnquiry
made by Lôrd Stratbcona, and states that
he had neyer made sucli a promise as the
one ailuded to by the prospectus. And aft2ýr
why did the Canadian company get their
charter la the province of Quebec, If not because tbey told the legisiature that tbey
were able to bulld the railway Without any
subsldy, and so positive were their assertions that they were embodied in the Bill
Itself, and the present Act of Incorporation
recites :
The present Act of Incorporation Is grantefi
under the followlng express conditions:
That the works authorlzed by this Act shal
be commencedl la good falth witbln the delay of
two years tram the sanctlaning of this Act.
such commencement ta be evidenced by the construction at least of ten miles.
And what le the other condition ?

That la the south part, flot the one moSt
exposed to the wlnds. Now let us see what
the prospectus says :
The sea, wblch surrounda It on tbree aides, regularizes its climate, a.nd lessens the fluctuations bet'ween cold and beat.
It le the same description
Protected on tbe one aide by the Notre Dame
and Sbickshock mountains, expased on the other
ta the IntLuence of the warm breezes trom the
south, whicb come laden wltb a portion of the
heated air of the guif stream, this part of thes
That the whole of thes raad shahl be conpenînsula bas one of the best biblanaed and structed wlthln the delay of fIve years tram the
agreeable 0f climates, bath winter and summer. sanctlonlng of this Act
The port of Gaspé, owlng to the health-givlng
That Ia default of the accomplis1imnt of
properties of Its air, wlth railway facilîttes, eîther of these two conditions, such default
would soon become the moat popular holiday shahl plena-jure occasion the forfelture of al
resort of the eastern coast.
the rlghts, powers and priviieges granted by
It goes on like thýat. At one place, the this .Âct.
promoters have the deceney ta say :
There was a-nother clause added:
Mr. J. C. Langeller, in bis work, 'CalantzaThis Act shahl came into farce by proclkmation of Gaspé,' (givlng It a taise name, 1Coloni- tion of His Honour the Lieut-?nant alovernor,
Gaspé ' lnatead 0f 'A Sketch of Gaspe- atter the carnpany shah bhave giveua poEdtlve and
zatian of
sa,' write-s-Colanlzatlon bas ln the peninsula of clear proof ta the Executive Councll *tb:t It
Gaspé a vast field ta work. and If ail1 the resour- possesses the necessary resaurcea to eonstrtict
ces. the natural riches and the settienient of ta- the sald raiiway.
cilities o>fthis fine reglan were well knawn ani
I. arn reading from the 'provincial Act
appreciated at their correct value, by the British
publie, and if these riches, resourcea and fa- lncorporating the Quebec, Atlantic and
cilities o! access were properiy brought to the
knowledge of European Immigrants, It la un- Western Raiiway CornpanY, and making Jt
questianable that the current of Immigration a condItion to their Incorporation tbat this
'would flow tawards this, the easiest paint of
Act should corne Into force only u'hen tbey
acceas from ail Europe.

SENATE
could cieariy prove that tliey liad sufficient
means to construct the road, and I bave
told you how tbey gave that proot, by
addressing themselves to the New Canadian
Company and asking them to send a certificate that the auma of £7,500 sterling was hn.
bank to the credit of the New Canadilli
Company. I have proved that the Lieutenant Governor issued the proclamation
asked for soiely on thls proot, ln other
words flot because the CJanadian. company
had the money lni bank, but that another
company ln Engiand had 17,500 ln bank.
That was considered suffIcient proof to stisty tbe Lieutenant Governor that the Atlantic, Quebec and Western Company was
able to, build 140 miles of rond.
Hon. Mr. MeMILLAN-Wby were we not
furnisbed with the statemeuts the hou.
gentlemian bas made ln this House at the
meeting of the committee ? Was lie ln
possession of these facts at the time? If
lie was and did flot produce them, 1 do not
feel that we ouglit to give them mucli consideration here. But If he was flot lu possession of the facto, it wlll certainly govern
me a good deal li the way I shall vote on
this quetstion.

stated, about word for word, what lie bas
stat'ed this evening before tbis House.
I
arn surprised that the hon, gentleman from
Stadacona would say there are tacts whlch
were not ln his possession last week and
whicb lie la now posseased of, because I
sbould be surprIsed If lie could point to n
single allegation or statement of any Importance w-hIdi lie made to-night that lie
did not make betore.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I
most Important tact-tie
frid Laurier bas denled
a subsldy to, that railway.
flot ? I. It Important or
only ascertaiued to-day.

have stated one
tact that Sir Wilthat lie promised
Is that a tact or
flot ? This tact I

Hou. Mfr. YOUJNG-Is tbat the reason tbe
lion, gentleman wants to send the Bill back
t., the committee ?
Hou. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I want to, send it back
to bave It discussed, to sbow tbat the prospetus le a falseliood trom beginuing to eud.
and especlly ln that particular, because
It lr, Iuducing Euglish capitalists to Iuvest
rnoney where tbey sbould not put It, countIug on a subsldy trom the goverument

Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-Is the prosHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I. was ln possession
pectus wliicli the lion, gentleman speaks of,
of certain tacto aud the other facto I only
got to-day. I did not know thbe Bill was thie oue lielbas not named and wbich I hold
coming before the commIttee. I supposed ln my baud.
It would go to, the Committee ou Railways.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbere are two.
Hon. 'Mr. FEP.GUSON-It la where it
Hou. Mfr. DÂNDURÂND-Tbe bon. gentlesbould «have gone.
mn lias travelled a consîderable distance
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-It is for tbat reason from the Bill under discussion. Tbis Bill
I asked the 'hon. gentleman, at the begin- does not speak of the building of a railway,
ning, to let the Bill go to, the Railway Com- but I bave no objection to, follow the lion.
mittee, s0 tbat we could follow the whole gentleman lu the discussion of this prostliing, but as lie refused it then, I brought pectus wlicb lie speaks of. The company lui
their prospectus, 'for the information of tlie
it before the House.
Hon. Mfr. DÂNDURAND-I arn surprised public,' state the route of the railway whieb
at tbe answer made by the hon. gentleman they intend to, belp to, construct uxuler the
to, the question put by the bon. gentleman .ebarter from the proviuce of Quebec. Tbey
from Alexandria. It ls apparent that the describe the route and state it is a splendid
hon, gentleman was not preseut at the last route ; that tliere ls a large area of valuable
discussion we bad on the Atlantic, Quebec timber, aud that it is a very ricli part of the
proviuce of Quebec. Nobody wili deny that
and Western Ruailway Company.
in this House. Tliey go on to describe the
Hou. Mfr. McMILLAN-No, but 1 was a situation of the liarbour of Gaspé, and the
member of the committee thlat had this advantages of that port. There is not a mian
Bill before it.
who knows anything about Gaspé or the
Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND-My hon. frietid peninsula wlîo will venture to assert tbat it
was îlot present when the hon. geutiemn
la liot 'a splendid port.
Hom. '.%r. LANDRY.

JIJNE 15, 1903
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Open ail the year Wilfrid Laurier In which lie said lie liad per.
sonaily no hesitation in saying- that lie
round ?
would favour the building of the raiiway.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDtJRAND-I do flot know The question was put to hlm by one of the
that the prospectus says se, and even If the parties present ' even ln the Interlor,' and
prospectus did, I suppose there are maiiy bce replied, ' Yes, I would be disposecPto help
winters wli the port of Gaspé is open the even the road la the interior. This country
year round just as the Paspebinc port Js. Is rîcli enough to help to develop that part
But this I wli flot vouch for personaily, be- of the Gaspé peninsula.' So this ls a direct
because I live quite a distance from there. answer to the challenge of the hon, gentleBut the company ln that prospectus say that man as to my being able to show itnytblng
they lntend to build tbis railway with, 1 to Indicate the desire of Sir Wilfrid Laurier
suppose, part of their capital and with suh- to help the road ln the interior and the road
sidies to be obtained froma the Dominion of on thie shore. 0f course, I did flot hear Sir
There Is no Wllfrid Laurier speaking myseif, but I saw
Canada and the provinces.
question as to the federal government and the speech as reported lu extenso of the profederal parliament being desirous of heipIng ceedings that took place at the different
the road through Gaspé with subsidies, be- places where the premier passed througlî.
cause ln 1899 parliament voted a sum of and a part of that speech was Indicated to
$250,000 for a raiiway to be built to Gaspé, me la order to answer the remarks of tue
without mentionlng any company, but simply hou. gentleman. Sir Wilfrld Laurier unindicating Its readiness to give a subsldy doubtedir deciared that lie was la favour
to that amount to any company that would of assisting the road, even la the interior.
buiid it. I had ln my bands the other -day, Now, we have the fact that before he went
when the hou. gentleman spoke against a there, even as I bave just stated, lis governcharter to the Atlantic, Quebec and Western ment asked that $250,000 should lie voted.
Railway, a copy of a newspaper publisbed and it was voted for a railway to Gaspé
Iii Montieal. which substantiated word for basin, meaning, 1 suppose, the shore road.
word the affirmation made ln tlîls prospectus Se tliere la evidence there of the disposition
that the goverament viewed with favour of the Dominion government to heip the railthe building of that rallway. Of course, ln way.
tîxis prospectus tbey speak simply of thxe
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wish to point out to
short route from Metapedia or Casaupscal
to Gaspé basin, but we ail know that when tlie hon, gentleman this fact, tliat the Engtbese people camýe liere for a confirmation il company. the New Canadlan Company,
of these provincial powers,. parliament this liave acquired oniy the interlor road, and
session forced them to buiid concurrently lias nothing to do with the sea shore road,
a Une througli the lnterior and a line on s0 the subsidies tliat are named la the
the shore, In order to foliow the settlements, prospectus apply to the interior road. The
a,; tbey are on the shore, and forcing them hon, gentleman says that lie saw a report
to build ten miles this year and ten miles of a speech by Sir Wilfrld Laurier la which
next year. They assert that Sir Wilfrid lie promised to aid this enterprise. I give
Laurier lias declared to politicai associations hlm a better élue than that-let hlm look
of Gaspé and to the legislature that he was at tlie letter denying that.
favourable to subsidizing the road ln the lna
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I asked the lion..
terior as well as the road on the shore. 1
may state, on nîy responsibIiity bere, that gentleman on what lie based his InformaI had la my liand a newspaper from Mont- tion, and now he challenges me to produce
I do flot know anything of
real, publishing eighit or ten columals of that letter.
speeches made by Sir Wilfrid Laurier two the letter or Its contents. He shouid be
years ago or thereabouts at different points able to produce It: since lie has referred to
on the Gaspé shore. He spoke at divers places it himiself and net expect me to prove a
where Liberal political associations headed negative.
by the mayor of the county and the principal
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will the lion, genparties o! eacb place presented addresses
to hlm. I rend nmyseif .1 speech frorn Sir tleman deny fixe existence of the letter ',

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Again the hon.
gentleman would like me to establsit a nega.
tive. I cannot undertake tbat, but I as<
the hon, gentleman to produce tbe document
to which hie refers. Has bie only heard of,
or bas* he seen the document ? My hon.
friend should stibstantiate bis own assertions.
He has been, since tbe beginnlng
of the session, puttlng questions about ail
kinds of things. It seems to me that this
letter, passing between the Premier of Canada and our Higb Commissioner, sbould
have been of sufficient Importance to warrant hlm ln asking for the production of it
before this eventng.
He bas flot done 80,
and hie defies me to, deny the existence of
the letter. I do not know anytbing about
tbe existence of the letter. My bon. friend
spent half an bour of bis speech In an attempt to show that the description of the
port of Gaspé, ln the prospectus, was a
description made by Mr. Langelier of the
port of Paspebiac. He drew no conclusion
from the comparison. What does that prove 7
He did not assert that ail that was sald of
the port of Paspeblac was true and what
was said of the port of Gaspé was untrue.
There Is bardly anytblng that could be said
lu favour of Paspebiac that could not be
said of Gaspé.
If we bave a favourable
description o! the one, I tbink any one living ln the neighbourbood would say this
description is as correct as possible of the
other port. This Is the k-ind of argument
we bave had for bal! an bour before this
Chamber. The hon, gentleman could bave
-one before the Banklng and Commerce
Committee and said ail tnit hie bas said
now in this Chamber, or that hie sald two or
three weeks ago before this Senate. I migbt
state tbat, r9presenting hlm to the best of
my abillty ln bis absence, I expiained to
the committee that this was tbe New Canatdian Company, of wbicli they bad heard
the bon, gentleman speak, for an hour ln this
Chamber-thiat It was intended to be a construction company to build the road froxn
Paspebiac to Gaspé basin aud iu the interior. I showed on the map where that
railway would run, althougli il: bad nothixîg
to do with the Bill proper, but I wanted
the committee to be apprised of wshat the
New Canadian Company was.
Most of
what i told about the comipany 1 lîad froin
tlîe hon. gentleman's own lips.
so the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

Banking and Commerce Committee knew
with wblcb company tbey were dealing.
One member asked me If it was the com-.
pany that had members ln the 011 well trust.
1 replled ther 'e was only one naine the saine,
and thnt one was the son and the other the
father.
I bad learned tbat fromn the lips
of the bon, gentleman.
He says hiebas
moved the six montbs' bolst ln the Interest
o! English capitaliste wbo bave sunk money
lu the 011 wells of Gaspéi.
If they have
suuk money there tbrougli tbe lustrumentality of the promoters of thîs company,
I hope they wlll continue their confidence
ln themi and build the road and get the
subsidy. Just now we are deallng witb the
demand of a certain set o! gentlemen asklng to be incorporated to do certain work at
the port of Gaspé.
The bon, gentleman
states that tbe company is already organized ln England, and bas already subscribed
iind put a sum of mouey into Its treasury.
It ls a far better evidence of its solvency
and seriousness than tlîree-fourtbs of tbe
companies tbat come before parliament.
Here we bave a company thnt bas already
paid up five shillings on eacb fiye pounds
slare, s0 we are witb a company thnt bas
shown Its desire and abllity to subscrlbe
a certain part of Its stock and pay for it.
If hon, gentlemen will look at the Bill, tbey
will see It asks for notblng but the ordinary powers granted to, simîlar companies.
The hon, gentleman fronî -tadacona seems
scandalized 'by the fact that tbey ask power
to, mortgage their assets.
If le will look
through the charters granted by thls parliament for the last tlree years, lie will
find exactly simlar powers given to other
companies. Besides the rigîit to, issue bonds
and debentures, tbey always give to a slipping company the right to mortgage their

shippiag to the extent o! -à5 per cent of its
value, and la the new Companies Act, whicb
we passed last year, we did xiot evea fix
a limit.
A compan3- inicorporated under
that Act ivill bave the rigît to mortg-age
a steamer to, wlatei-er extent a lender will
be pleased to advance money.
The lender
knows wbat bis securîty is, and lie may
advance money up to the full value of the
ship, or te, the extelit o! 75 per cent of its
value, if lie pIeuses. These powers any one
cani obtain by applying for letters patent
under the Act, an(] they ire exactly simiilar

JUNE 15, 1903
to the powers obtained by other companles.
This is ail a tempest In a tea-pot. This
conipany je fnot aeking for extraordlnary
powers. It le organized ln England. Under
their charter ln England, the company may
conetruct any kind of work they are empowered to do by virtue of their letters paBut ail we are lnterested ln le to
tent.
see that we vest them wlth no extraordinary or speclal powers, and If we do nlot do
that. and they are nlot proved to be a fraud,
I tfflnk that we ehouid grant tbem their de
In fact, the Banking and Comnmande.
merce Committee have reported that those
People have done no wrong to Canada. As 1
stated ln the former debate, whatever money
they obtained on the other elde, wbatever
deahings they had ln the Gaspé peninsulaand they had been working there ten or
twelve or fifteen years-tbey do flot owe a
cent to the People of the province of Quebec or Gaspé peninsula, aud the hon, gentleman has juet stated that a gentleman,
Mr. Bailey, comIng to Inveetigate as to the
doinge of this compauy and the advantages
of hie compaur In trying to find o11, bas
returned to England and llquldated the
If he liquidated the company,
eompany.
he paid one huudred cents on the dollar for
aIl that hie bargained for, or did se la the
province of Quebec, and that je more than
we eau eay of very many ralway promotere
and othere. I think this Bill ehould have
Its third readîug. We are granting no special privileges, anîd undtt tbe scope of thie
Bill I do nlot see that they can do auy harmi,
but spend their own money.

347

ing either those ln Englaiud or any other
place. I should Ilke to hear a very clear
distinct etatement lu reply to My hon.
frleud, aud If It le really true tuat this
charter wae sold out for fifty thousand
dollars and -that the people vlrtually did
notbing-tbat an Engllsb company bougbt;
it aud that they are now comlng here,
after It lias virtually expired,. to resurrect
It: and put It on ahl fours aud the saine
parties who bave disposed of the charter are
applyiug for a new charter. for the saine
thlng-we should kuow If that is true.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-No.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-If that le so, we
ehould not grant this new charter. More
than that, thiere are virtually two companiee. By thls charter they are brought
here and'amalgamated Into one. I do not
want to do anything to Interfere wlth people obtaining a charter, but tbe credît of
Canada le at stakze lu transactions of thîs
klnd, and we muet bave tbe cleareet and
most distinct proof that there le nothing
about thie that savoure of anything of that
eort. Otherwlse, I cannot vote for the third
readlug.
Hou. Mr. LANDURAND-The hon. gentleman mlsunderstood the lion, gentleman froin
Stadacona.
Hon. Mr. 3lcMULLEX-No.

Hou. Mr. DANDUItANI)-The bon. gentleman should allow me to show that hie
Tbe hou. gentleman
mlsunderctood hlm.
thlnlks that the parties who are aeklng for
Hon. Mr. MclMULLEIN-I just waut to say powere under thîs charter have already sold
a word wvith regard to this Bill. There le one charter.
one point that my hon. frlend from StadaHon. Mr. MCIULLEN-No.
cona made which bas nlot been answered
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-Tlîey l)ouglit ItL
by mny bon. friend who bas mest epoken-a charge that the holders of this charter
Hlou. - Mr. DANDURAND-Ic tînit wliat
bad sold It for corne fifty thousand pounds,
?
and that those people that had dlsposed of the lion. gentleman believes
the charter applied at the precent session
Hon. Mr. McI.NIULLEN-The lion. inmber
of parilament and obtained a new charter froin de Lorimler had the couduct of tbe
for something upon the came hunes, lu Bill and it was his business to take down
this charter we are undoubtedly reviving- an thiat statemieut aud answer it.
obsolete company. That le qulte clear by
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-What I took
the clauses of it, and for my part I should
that there down wus the apparent impression of the
like to be tboroughly convinced
le nothing about It that savoure of traffick- bon. gentleman as shown by his questionsc.
Ing with charters aud selling and buying Ile wants to know if thiese gentlemen who
for the purpose of malzing gain and fleec- 1are now asking for a9charter hiad not ai-

SENATE

348

ready soid rights they iield under a preced- life out of the compauy for whîch it Is
built by gettlug aIl the assets, present and
lng charter.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-No, bought tbem. future, of that company for the building
o! the road. This le, la a nutshell, the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The bon. gen- situation of the New Canadian Company
tieman says they bought rights. That la under Its English letters patent. They corne
very different froxu selling riglits ivhich before this chamber, not for revlsioa o!
they had. The hon. gentleman thought they the power to bult the railways, but slmply
hiad sold the powers which they obtained. power to build raiiway terminale, andi barTbey dld nothing of the kind. They de- bour facîlities at Gaspé.
I think, under
clare ln the prospectus that they wlll pur- these conditions, we have nothing to do with
chase the rigbts of the Quebec, Atlantic their dealings with the Quebec, Atlantic
and Western Railway, to bulld the rallway. and Western under their letters patent ln
according to the articles of agreement, as Engianti an the provincial charter, because
a coastructing company. Ail this is beside It is outside of the scope o! the Bill, andi
the present charter, but these people only even, If It were tu thîs Bill, It would nlot be
declare to the Engllsh public that they ln- relevant.
tend to buiid a railway under a charter
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I underobtained froxu Quebec, by the Quebec, Atlantic and WNestern Railway. Tbey declare stand the bon. gentleman froxu Stadacona
that they wlll pay flfty thousand pounds wants to protect the English investors fromi
for the advantages of that charter. They lnvestIng their money untier a false prospecwill pay elther ln cash or ln paid up shares. tus. That prospectus shows that there are
Now. these people who wîli become the subsldies promlsed by the Dominion gorconstruction company of the Quebec, At- erument, which Is uncertain.
lantic and Western are simply handing
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It Is i-oted.
over a part of their shares, as pald up, to
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-That the
the people who are iu the Quebec, Atlantic
and Western llniiway. What we do not harbour of Gaspé is open ail the year round,
know, but what does exiat, le the contract whicli ls not the case, and other thlngs which
betweeul the construction company and the will not bear daylight. It Is to protect the
provincial promoters o! tlie Quebec, At- English investors from putting their money
lantic and Western by %vliceli they get nlot into a thing o! that klnd that the hon, genonly the subraldies to accrue to that coxu- tleman froxu Stadacona. has brought up the
pany for the building of the railway, but .matter. Did not 2%r. Carpenter float a
the bonds« and shares, so that wben they schemne for oil welis lu Gaspé, and was not
get froin the Quebec, Atlantic and Western that a bogus scheme ?
the whole of the line, ail the possibilities.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No.
ail that coulti accrue to the promoters of
Hon. Mr. MACD)ONALD (B.C.)-There is
the Quebec, Atlantic andi Western under
no cil there.
their charter for the building of their railway, they return in kind paiti up shares o!
Hon. Mr. DANDUPLAND-No one can a!their own coxnpany. which may be value- firmn that there Is noue.
less, because aheati of themn will corne the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-There ,
preferreti stock anti the debentures, and the nlo o11 there. Somethlng should be doue to
rond can be bonded for twenty thousauti protect English Investors froxu going into
dollars a mile, and they know very weli
bogue scheines o! that kinti. I suppose the
that on the building of the road the Initiai
House wlll pass the Bill, but many of
bondholders generaliy get very littie so that these schemes are ficateti anti s0 man)y of
there is there a simple bargain' between the Englisli people. when they see such a
this New Canadian Company to obtain the
prospectus, are apt to believ-e It is true.
right of building that railway. There is
aothing immoral or special or extraordinary
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-I hati the honour
in it. Lt is flot everything that -a construc- of being on the Committee o! Banking anti
tion company would do. A construction Commerce wlîen this Bill was considereti,
couipany builds a roati and takes the whole and I must say, wltli the lioa, gentleman,
Hon. M-Nr.
DAJNDU'RAND.

JLTNE

15, 1903

349

Paspebiac to London, Liverpool,
Bristol or any other port on the other Bide.
They were to eall at Charlottetown
I remember I took a particular luterest in it ou that account, and they
procured the ' Gaspesia,' and wheu she
arrived lu Charlottetown there was a
They dined us on that
banquet on board.
occasion and there were speeches made,
and a great many things like that
happened, and the 'Gaspesia ' made ber
way to Liverpool, snd iu our effort to get
'back lu the early part of the wlnter
t, Paspebinc, wns fastenied lu the !ce, and
the crew rau Imminent rlsk of beiug lest
or stnrved ; but eveutually tbey got ashore.
Bringing the Baie des Chaleurs matter Iute
recollectien, aud kuowing how much harm
was doue to the good name of Canada lu
Hou. 'Mr. DÂNDURAND-Oh, nlo.
tateentwasthat connection, knowing something about
ERGUON-he
Heu.'.\r.
staneonentpor the old 'Gaspesia 1 steamer, 1 thiuk 1 have
F Go-h G
mad tn. th por.
gIsh neport very good reason for looking very carefully
fd aspd
rt
mte hat e
Into the bona tides of this com.pany and of
lnh ivstcor
pur
rn
the ashedle
oand t stte
n
ade
paur ou the streugth of carrying on navl mteut ofa seen
gentleen mysel, bu thee hou. gete-l
gation and railway connections with the mont
o.glte
yef u h
etee
port of Gaspé on the statement that it was hn read It to the House-that English Iuyer
an oen ortthewhoe rund Liingman
ldtblevntetriso
etrwr
as 1 do on the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and
grat amythis prospectus, that the port of Gaspé was
,spekin Inthepreenceof
I have no hesitagentlemen who corne frem that part of the open the whole year round, was false, and 1
o hsittio insayng hattation lu saylng that that
counryI hve
think It Is cleàr, If the statement was made,
ine
hesiaIodo aynha
haet not
coutry
nhet krowr otwithstandlug the explanation we hav;e
thiat stemenrt ifGspéo truie. Io
heard, whlch I. do nlot thlnk falrly meets the
0fw th n hau
ide
portb buf 1ap
wteli
who has
spenking lu the presence of gentlemen wlio charge from the hon. gentleman
Laurier
outslde of that port of charge of the a BIil, that Sir Wilfrid railway
kuow very well-that
for the
Gasp, srethingalltheway p t Belehad proxnised subsidy, notrallwny runiiing
the
Gse, andtretchen ail the ay Upd to Bae ýround the shxore, but
Cape through the Interior of tlic country to the
toer
ad
a o! pao
te
Nortsuh
soidpac oficeevey wn-Intercoloulal Railway-lf the statemeut was
Norh tereis
ter, and that is absolutely untrue to say th-lt ndlatepoecuasheo.gnle
t
the
rspcus alin th hon.geiethat port is an open port lu the sense of bav- manad u
ing communication with the outside world max> rnid t the House at tat subsidyn
has as statee
Iso
c promset, cohat.
the whole year round. I remember about
four years ago a company was forrned Ili whicd was fte corr. geten-atnd turte1
d
connection witb the old Baie des Chaleurs stoted b the heu. etean-und tht th
motin
bs bee onf
eet thesecmals
Rallway. There have been se mauy names dowr
n fteecmais
bandb
gîven to companies operating up tjxere pwr
fauîous Baie des Chaleurs that we under the provincial charter were nlot to go
since the
shown
hardiS kuow what Is wbat about tbem. But iitto effect untîl certain things were
a cornpany there that undertook to to the Governor lni Ceuncil of the provinice
there was
represenestablish communication witb Great Britain of Quebec, and that a frauduleut
part of Paspebiac. They pur- tation was made ou that occasionfrom the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Oh, no.
chased an old steamer whicb they uamed
the ' Gaspesia,' and announced that a Une of
I-on. Mr. LANI)RY-Yes.
steamers was to commence regular trips

that It received a great deal of consideratlon, from
and as far as the Bil Itself Is colicerined, If
was looked Into quite carefully, and altbougb
It Is so.mewhat unusual lu Its cbaracter,
as we might say, graftiug a Canadian
charter upon n charter already obtalned lni
England, yet stilI. It dld nlot seema to the
members of the commIttee that there was
anythlug out of the, way lu the power
we are proposmng to give tluls company ;
but wheu the bon. gentleman wbo has addressed the House briugs proof of the statements he bas made this eveuIng, that the
prospectus Issued by this compauy coutains
taise and fraudulent statemeuts, aud Boule
of them which I thiuk It 15 plain, were
utterly fase-

350

SENATE

lion. Mr. L)ANDURAND-What ls it?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As I understood
my hon. frIend, it was represented that a
certain amouut of money had been deposited ln a certain bank as the money of these
.peopie, whereas It was flot their own money
which was deposited, but the- money of another corporation altogether, witb a string
to It. That was the statement.
lion. Mr. LÂNDRY-Certainly.

lu titis House, the Bill of course wiii be
rejected, but If, on the othier band, It is
found that tbese statements are unfounded,
and that no false prospectus bas been lesued
and that It le a bona fide company lu every
respect, It; will b ail rlgbt. Tbere la ample
time« to consîder tbe measure, and no need
of rusblng tbe Bill titrougli lu the face of
these statements. I thlnk It la due to this
Hlouse to bave the matter thorougbiy slfted.
and the BiIh should be referred to the Conintlttee on Raiiways Telegrapbs and Harbours. I, therefore move, ln ameudment to
the amendmettt of the bon. gentleman from
StadaconaTbat this Bill be referred to the Committee
on Rallways, Telegraphs and Harbours.
Hion. Mr. YOUNG-Is that ameudmeut lu
order ?
The SPEAKER-I thlnk so.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I amn quite ludiffercnt, for my part, to tiis Bill, but 1 muet
confees that I arn rather surprieed at the
course pursued by the bon. member for
Marehfieid, who was present wben the debate took place on the first of this miontit.
and wben tbe bon. membel- for Stadaconal
gave us bis firet edition of the speech whicb
ie made to-day, eetting out ail the facts
thiat hie stated to-day. The bon, gentleman
sys that the iiI was tboroughly examlned
lu the committee of whIch lie is a member,
the Bnnking and Commerce Committee, and
now bie takes exception to titis Biil.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If this statement
la not correct, It wili be contradlcted or
explained. If it is true that tbese people,
under dIfferent naines, and representing ail
the tnme aimost the saine pereons, have
been obtainlng charters and seliing tbem,
have been putting out prospectuses lu England, containing mlsieadlng statements, If
these statements are true we shouid know
It. I confess that ail 1 know about
the question ie wbat I learned from the
,statements of the bon. gentleman from
Stadacona, and the explanations of the
hon, gentleman from de Lorîmier. I muet
say that I amn far frorn satlsfied that
titis unusuai charter, lu the first Instance,
was flot obtalned by fraudulent means. It
le a pity that we ehouid leglelate- ln titis
way and gîve powers to adveuturers, and
very unscrupulous adventurers If these
statemeuts are ut ail proved. My hou.
fr lend says no barm Ie doue td Canada. If
the statements wili were made to tis
House are true, a great deai of harni bas
Flou. Mr. FERGUSON-I was not aware,
been done to Canada. The reputation of
this country shouid not be Injured by these wheu this BIII was before the Commlttee
people, and we shouid not encourage peo- on Baukiug and Commerce, that It was the
pie who go to Engiand and lnduce capital- came concern or connected lu auy way
iste to invest lu Canadian enterprisce by whiatever witb the other Bili.
I think Ibis Bill
false representations.
Hou. Mr. LANDERKIN-I miglit eay that
sliouid have gone to the Commnittee on
cisc wouid ever thiuk be was talkwhicb tbey are nobody
Railways. The operatione
lng about titis Biii lu the conversation lie
carrying on belong to thiat committee. They
lias g-ivcu us to-nig-lit.
aire a construction company, for a raiiway
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE,-I muet eay that, for
compauy. Even tîtat would clearly show it
should have been sent to tliat coimlttee. nîy part, when the discussion took place I
but lu view of the etateménts made by tookz the trouble of iuquiring about botit
the lion, gentleman front Sýtadacona, wve Bills, the DiII of the Atlantic, Qucbcc and
should send titis Biii to thie Com- Western and titis Biii, hecause of the speech
mittee on Railways and Telegraplis and
Harbours, and tteit If those persons who
are bebiud ny liton. friend. or the hou.
gentlemnan himself. will corne beforeý ta
commnittee, and rrove thte statemients made
Hon. -Mr. LANDRY.

wvhich *was thien made by the hon. member
for Stadacona ;atnd 1 must corifess tîtat
I fail to see auy reason why titis Biil should.
flot be rcad a third tirne. Wbat are the
This
ailegations against titis comipauy ?

JUNE 15, 1903
company, as bas been weli stated bY the
bon, gentleman for de Loimier, sks no
powers which cannot be obtalned by lettera
patent under the seai o! the bon. the Secretary of State. It ls flot a Bill asking for
powers to bulld a railway. Ail the powers
that are asked for and that are granted by
this Bill are powers whlch can be obtalned.
by letters patent under the Companies Act,.
and now we are told that thia Bihl sbould be
rejected because there were false representations or taise statements madle ln England. I should lîke to cali the attention o!
the hon. member to thîs tact : that, as 1a
set out ln the preamble of tbe Bill, this
company was lncorporated ln England
under the Companles' Act of 18612 and 1900.
It was Incumbent upon tbe Company to
file witb tbe registrar tbe prospectus that
they pubiished or lssued. It was incumbent
upon theai to make public, or file with the
registrar, ail the particulara o! any contracta wbicb tbey madle. any advantage
W'bich wu& obtained by pronhoters in coutracts made, snd any paid up stock whlch
wam 'lssued for one consideration or another
-it was incumbent on tbem to state ail that
ln the prospectus, and itwas Incumbent flot
only to do that, but to state It ln the reports
madle to the abareholdera wltbin tbree
montha atter tbe company commences operation, and therefore we have the guarantee
tbat the Eugiisb investor had fulil reports,
and hiad knowiedge of ail the tacts o!
the case. But there la more tban that 1
draw the attention of tbe hou, gentleman
to section 28 of tbe Companies' Act under
wbIch this company was incorporated ln
Engiand, which provIdes:

face of a position such as that, wbich is
occupied by that Company in England, It
[s idle for the hon. gentleman trom Stadacona, or any other member of this honourable House, to corne and say that the
Engllsh creditors should be proteeted-that
there was such and sucb false statement in
the prospectus of the company, and that we
should protect the In-vestors, and sbould
refuse to grant to this company the ordinary powers tbey are asking. For my part,
I cannot joln la this, and [t seems to me
there muet be some addltional reason given
to show wby we should, on this occksion,
refuse to confer on this company the powers
wbicb we grant by the dozens every day to
other companies.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hon. gentlemenHon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Spoke.
rHon. Mr. LANDRY-Does tbe hon, gentleman maise a point of order ?
Hon. Mr. YOU.NLG-The proper course to
eoilow [s to walt untIl the amendaient wblch
ls now betore the House la voted clown and
then the bon, gentleman from Marsbfield
can move bis amendaient.
The SPEAKER-I tblnk the amendaient
of the hou, gentleman from Marsbfield [s
unusual, but stîll [t le In order.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe argument used
by the bon, gentleman (Hon. Mr. Beique)
who bss mast taken 'bis seat, would be as true
If it was appl[ed to the tollowing case : A
A man
man bas murdered anotber one.
gets up ln tbls House, like my hon. friend,*
and says, 'I cannot belleve that. He wouid
If any person in any rettirn, report, certifi- neyer klli hlm because tbere le a law wilcb
este, balance sheet. or other document required says he would be banged If be dld.
He
4y or for the purposes of this Act, wllfuily
That la the
makes a statement Wase ln any material par- would Dot dame to do that.'
ticular. knowing it to be taise, he shall be argument tbe hou. gentleman uses to prove
gui'Ity of a misdemeanour. and shall be liable there ls notbing taise ln this prospectus.
on conviction on indictaient to imprisonment
for a tera not exceeding two years. witb or He maya tbere can be notblng of the klnd.
without hard labour and on summary convic- because theme le a law against it.
I do
tion to Imvrisonment for a tera i nt exceeding
four months, with or wlthout bard labour, and flot tbink tbe bon. gentleman wlill make con[n either case to a fine ln lieu of or ln addition verts by sncb an argument as that.
Anto such Imprisourment as aforesaid:- provided
that the fine Imposedl on summary convictionl otber tact whlcb sbouid be stated la thîs :
shall not exceed one hundred pounds.
tbe provincial company-Mr. Higgins, Mr.
Therefore, If It la true that there werE *Lavole and others, obtalned from the local
auy taise statementa, the Englsh share. *goverument a charter. That local charter
That
holders or creditors have their remedy, and 1 they aold to the English company.
The
are entitled to prosecute every director of ls a tact whlcb" cannot be denled.
that compauy criminally for having macle prospectus of the English company states
More than that, the EnglIsh Company
It seems to me, ln thE *it.
faise statements.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. McMILLÂN-Ând they got it.

that Sir Wilfrid Laurier wrote to Lord
Strathcona. ln answer te an Inqulry muade by
the latter, wbether it was true that the
premier had promised a subsldy to that road,
denyingthe truth of that staternent. He sald
lie neyer had promised such a thing. If the
hon. member wants proof of tbat, let hlmi
refer the Bill back to cornmittee and we wll
ask Sir Wiifrid Laurier whether It was the
case or flot. If Sir WilfrId Laurier says
hoe neyer wrote a letter to Lord Stratheona
ln the sense I bave rnentioned. I shall wltbdraw, by objection to the Bill; but in the
meantîrne I maintain my assertion that
snch a letter exlsts and I wiil stand by the
assertion. If the House wll allow me to
withdraw my amedment I wll substitute
for It the amendment to the azuedment.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And tbey got ItL New,
there are two parties baviug equal rights.
~The English company say, 'we bought that
',Charter.' The provincial cornpauy ssy, 'but
we have got a charter since then froru the
Dominion parliament.' That is the danger
te whlch I amn cailing the attention of the
House, because lt Involves a loss of Engllsh
nioney. Now, what Is this road tbat the
English company bougit ? It is the luterior
road frorn Gaspé to Casaupscal. That le
the rond whlch Sir Wilfrid Laurier sald lie
would neyer subsidize, and whicb the local
legisiature said they would neyer subsidize.
Surely no subsidy bas ever been attached
to the road, and I have proved that te get
the charter the Quebec, Atlantic and Western Company had to furnlsh proof that
they were able te build the road theuieees
which obligation excindes necessarily the
idea of any local or federal subsidy. Netwithstauding that, they go before the public
and publish lu their -prospectus that Sir
Wilfrid Laurier a.ud the local goverumeut had promlsed te subsidize the road.
These are taise statements, aud it is useless
te say there is a law te prevent the
publication of taise statements, and theref ore it could net occur. There is sometbing
better than the law. There is honesty, and
where a cornpany is houest we need net
appir the law fer criminals. The lion, genltleman trom de Lorimier reported thiat hie
saw in a paper that Sir Wilfrid Laurier had
made a speech two years ago promising te
aid the company. That is ail the pro if he
lias. I assert in nmy place ini this chamber

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is a very unusual
course to challenge a private Bill on a thlird
readlng, after It has b0en before the cernmlttee. 1 Eind, on reference te the advertlseruants. that an unusually full notice was
nublished, rnutionlng ail that the cornpany
hsks for, and more, for one or twe points
The
were stnick out lu the cornrnttee.
notice was publshed on the 13th FebruarY,
both lu the 'Canada Gazette' and a local
paper. It received the nouai publication.
The Bill on its face certainly bas uothiug
objectionable. I think It lo rather unfair for
us to attack the Engllsh Bill ; practlcally
that la what It mens. We are asked to
take the prospectus issued ln England. The
EUnglislh laws have been explained by the
hon, gentleman from Moutreal (Hon. Mrv.
Beique) as extremely strîngent, puuisbing
directors for rnaking taIse staternts, and I
think we can very weli leave the Englisli
directors to the English law if tbey have
acted as charged. This Bill. as bas been observed, Is sirnîlar to fifty other Bis coinrnly passed bere. The company slmply
ask to be iucorporated-ask for 'ne special
provision. The power ot borrowlng money
is lirnlted te 75 per cent, which is a greater
limitation than existe lu the Companies'
Act. Under the circumstances, I feel great
embarrassmeut in votlng that the Bill should
go back again to cornmittee, because 1 do
not think the cornrittee canl go outside of the
powers asked by this Bill, as there le uotbing
unusual te challenge. Any body ef men can
becorne incorporated for the purpose this
company asks to be incorporated for. I

Is formed for what ? For a purpose, for
an object, and that object ls stated ln the
prospectus, as follows :
To acquire the beneflt of an Act or parliament of the Government of the province of Quebec. datedf the 28th _March, 1901, for the Incorporation of a company entitled the Atlantic,
Quebec and Western Raiway Comnpany, for the
construction and working oe -à ine of rallway'
and to cause to be perfo.-nuie ail the obligatlonb
set forth ln the said -%et.
The English company is established just
for that purpose, to buy that provincial charter. They hought IL.the price is ffxed. theY
When that
mention it ln the prospectus.
provincial cornpany has eold its charter, It
cornes to this parliarnent and asks for auotber charter for the same rallway.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

JUNE 15, 19038i;
ou Bill (193) An Act to amend the Public
bave gone through the Bill and there la
Works Act. He sald : As thîs la aLShort
nothlng ln It to object to.
Bill, It might as well Ïbe read at length at
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The pros- tbe Table.
pectus la objectionable.
The SPEAKER-That practice la antiHon. Mr. SCOTT-It la straiifg oui posi- quated. Wben a Bill la at tbe second readtion very much to throw out the Bill on lng, If It la a sbort one, it la quite competeut
the ground that a prospectus lu England then to move that it be read the second
goes beyond wbat we think a prospectus time et length ; but after the Bill bas been
We ail know that prospec- read lu tbe usual way the second time and
ought to go.
tuses, as a mile, are more blgbly coloured referred to, commlttee, tbere la no object
Our law wbatever In readiug the Bill -t Iength ait
probably than tbey should be.
la strict, and provldes that If any false state- the Table.
ment la made lu a prospectus the d1rectors
The motion was agreed to.
become liable. The Engliab law la equally
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the commlttee, mestrict, and I think we can very well leave
English directors to, the English law lu the ported the Bill witbout amendmeut.
That la
prospectuses they Issue tbere.
ELECTRIC LIGHT INSPECTION ACT
the Idea I bave about IL.
A«MNENDMENT BILL.
Hon. lir. ELLIS-After tbe statements
this House, and
IN COMMITTEE.
whicb have been made ln
as tbe adjournment la not lu sight, it may
The House resohved ltself Into a Coinbe better, under ail the circumstances which mittee of the Wbole ou Bill (187) An Act
bave been stated, to allow this Bill to, go to amend tbe Electrlc Ligbt Inspection Act.
before the *Railway Commlttee. I can see
(Iu the Committee.)
no harm lu that course.
Tbe Senate divlded on the amendment to, Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It bas been found that
the amendmnent, whlch was adopted by the you cannot proceed agaînat a corporation
for a breach of the Electric Light Inspection
followlng vote :
Act, and tbls Bill la to enable such a course
CONTENTS:
to be taken.
Hon. Messieurs.
Legris,
Hon. Mr. WATSON, from the committee,
Baker,
Macdoald (P.E.I.),
Bernier,
reported the Bill without amendment.
Macdonald (Victoria).
Bolduc,
Boucherville, de
(C.M.G.)
Casgraiu (Windsor),
Coffey,
Dobson,
BUlis.
Ferguson,
Landry,

McDonald
(Cape Breton),
MeGregor,
McKay (Truro),
McMillan,
Ferley,
Vidal,
Wood,--20.

NON-CONTENTS:
Hon. Messieurs.
Beique,

Casgrain

(de Lanaudiè re),

Church,
Dandurand,
Fiset,
Landerkin,
Lovitt,
McSweeney,

Robertson,
Scott,
Templeman,
Thibaudeau
(de la Vallière).
Thompson,
Watson,

SECOND READING.
Bill (164) An Act to lucorporate the Pacific Bank of Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
INLAND

REVENUE ACT AMENDMENT

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Mr. SCOTT moved tbe second readHon.
ing of Bill (1SO) An Act to amend tbe In-

land Revenue Act.

Yeo,

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think this la a
Bi-1 which calha for soine explanatioxi, and

Young.-17.

the order sbould be postponed.

is to mak.e a few techuical changes. The
first paragraph fixes the turne for payment of
tbe duties on the first day of the month inIN COMMITTEE.
as ut present. The second
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the House stead of the 6th
exceedhflg
a Committee of tbe Whole 1 change la that an abaternt not
resolve itself lnto
PUBLIC WORKS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

254

SENATE

'tbree per cent in distilleries using grain, and the liquor made from the grain and the
tour per cent in distilleries using molasses liquor made from the molasses.
and other saccharine matter, ls allowed for
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That difference ln
sncb quantlty of fusel-ol or other refuse.
the making of liquor from grain and from
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The first two molasses and saccharine matter always examendments are simple, but I tbink the lsted and stili the law bas flot been cbanged
others would require a good deal of expia- tili now, and not only tbat, but the clause
nation and consideration and on tbnt ac- says this shiah be retroactive, and lt shall
count I was golng to suggest that consider- apply to ail hiquors manufactured durlng
the yenr ending the 3Otb day of June next.
ation of the measure be postponed.
The SPEAKER-This is the second rending.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The only change la the
last Is to make declaration that packages of
cut tobacco welgbing one pound do flot requIre to have tbe gross tare and net welgbt
therein' marked. There are just the tbree
points in It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think that there
are much more serions changes In the proposed law than one would Infer from my
bon. frlend's explanation. 1 find clause 3
of the Bill makes a different provision from
what we have ln the Act. The law reads
that an abatement not exceeding three per
centHon. Mr. SCOTT-I explained that.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Here we provide
ln the case of liquors manufactured from
molasses or saccharine, that the abatement
shall be four per cent. My hon. friend has
not told us why sncb a change should be
madie. Why shoulid there be a larger abatement made for liquors manufactured from
molasses, wbichi is flot a product of the
country tban from grain wbicb la a prodnct
of the country ? There may be a good reason but it calls for an explanation.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The chemists have
found that there shouhd be a differeace between tliem of one per cent, and that the
law was defective before. It was not quite
the falr proportion. The grain and tbe molasses contain different quantities of fusil
oi1. It is owlng to chemicai Investigation
no other explanation of it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There are othier
changes lu the Bill whlch wll require explanation, but as we can bave themn lu
committee I do not think It 18 necessary
to go into It further at present.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read tbe second time.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACT
ÂMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (188) An Act to axnend the
Weights and Measures Act. He said : This
is another techlncal Bill. The first section
rends as follows :
4. Postal scahes, when engraved and stamped
as such, and of a capaclty flot exceeding four
pounds, and not used for trade purposes, may
be sold without inspection under such regulations as the Department of Inland Revenue prescribes ;but any person uslng such scales for
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is due to the fact other than postal. purposes, shall be liable to
that It bas been determlned that the quan- the penalti es prescrlbed by subsection 1 of this
isection.
tity of fusei-oIi in iiquor urnuuiactureu

tiuiu,

molasses and saccharine matter is greater I The next change is made at the Instance
than that fonnd lu the liquors produced of tbe grain men, to substitute a smaller
from grain. The grain la left at tbree per quantity o! grain for test tban at present.
Tbey break the law becanse they say It la
cent and the molasses at four.
Hon. Mr. FERGU1SON-The difference ln preposterons. They cannot afford to hose so
the production of these materials bas al- mnch ont of a given qunntlty, and they
take a hess amont.
wnys existeti.
The motion was ngreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was alwnys three
ought was rend the second time.
per cent, and it was found that there
The Senate adjourned.
to be a dîfference o! one per cent betweea
Hon. Mr. SC~OTT.

jUNE 16, 1903
3. $520 which was the highest tender
received.
Ottawa, Tue8day, June 16, 1903.
4. There is no restriction la the coutract
as to the sale of newspapers.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
5. No.
6. The department have not received any
complaints about the contractor.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The answer to No. 2
BILL INTRODUCED.
Io flot complete. The question is did he
Bill (S) An Act to amend the Criminal obtaîn the privilege aftér havlng tendered,
,Code, 1892, respecting free labour.-(Hon. and for bow xnany years. I want to know
Bir. Belque.)
the number of years.

THE SENATE.

CATTLE QUARANTINE AT LE VIS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inqulred:
1. Is the namne of one Mr. P. Laliberté to be
found on the pay-list ot the workmen who have
been employed on the works at the cattle quar-antine at Lévis during the summer and the
aUtumn of 1901 ?
2. F'rom what date and to what otber date

of the same yetar was he emplo3yed on these
'works ?
3. Hlow much was he getting a day ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
bon. gentleman's questions are as follows
1. les.
2. Fromn the Ist August to the 15th Sep:tember.
3. Pald at the rate of 17ý cents per hour.

Hon. Bir. SCOTT-I have flot the number
of years. They have only answered the
firat. I will maire the Inqulry.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman's question is for the lowest
tender.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It I understood the
hon. gentleman he gave me the hlghest
tender.
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-The question Is 'did
be obtain it after having tendered and for
how many years V The answer is yes, but
tbey have falled to answer as to the number
of years.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But I refer to question No. 3.

AT LEVIS.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Question t!hree Is
what was the amount of bis tender aad
was It the lowest one ' and the answer la
1five bundred and twenty dollars, whlch was
the blghest tender recelved.' It wlll be tbe
.Raiway Station at Lévis the newspaper-stand
higbest, of course. They were interested !u
for the convenlence of the travelling publie ?
2. Dld he obtain it atter having tendered, and gettlng the hlghest.
for how many yeare ?
3. Whet was the amenout of his tender and
DESJARDINS CANAL BILL.
'was it the lowest one ?
NEWSPAPER-STAND

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRYIlnquired:
1. Who keeps at present at the Intercolonial

4. E he obliged to furnish newspapere to the
public without regard to the political colour of
ttese newspapers. or bas he the right to offer
for sale only the newspapers whlch reflect the
political opinions of the party which gave the
position that he occupies ?
.5. Does the governrment know that the actual
keeper of the newspaper-stand at the Intercol-onial PLailway station at Lévis inethodically
keepas from the publie the sale of Coneervative
newspapers ?
6. Is 11. the Intention of the governnent to
notify this newspaper-stand keeper of the compflaints brought agaînst hlm and to bring Mlm
-to serve the public without display of political
partisan-ship ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The
,questions are as follows
1. F. Pichette.

2. Yes.
23--

answers

to the

THFIRD) READTNG.
Hon. BIr. SCOTT moved the third reading
of Bill (183) An Act respecting the Desjardins canal. He sald : If any one desires fuller particulars of this Bill I have a
hlstory of It which I can read.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1 suppose thie statement made in the House is
correct q
Hon. Mir. SCOTT-Yes. The area is large,
a portion of Hamilton Is buiit on It. It bas
been passed regularly as having been paid
for, but recently it came before the court

SEINATE
it to clause 7. A section was scrucl, eut of
t he old law whlch had given rise to a great
leal of discussion both in England and lu
É
t bis country, and ln England it was struck
ut of the new Act and anether substituted
for it. It was a clause wbich required,
where stock was allotted In pursuance of a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The contract or agreement between the parties,
question really les whether the parties ever that it had to be filed ln the office of the
pald the money back. The preperty le hield Secretary of State. It was a clause that was,
by innocent parties new, and this Is the most as I said before, subject te a goed deal of
expeditieus way cf perfecting their titie.
discussion, and as far as the Ontario bar were
concerned, was generally-I might say aiHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes that is the way.
mest universally-d-flsapproyed, and by a conThe motion was agreed te, and the Bill siderable number of the bar of sorne of the
was read the third trne and passed.
other provinces, gentlemen of the profession
for whose opinion 1 entertain very hlgh reTHIRD READINGS.
spect, and therefore I agreed on a modificaBill (193) An Act te arnend the Public tion of it, that wbere stock ls allotted and ne
cash paid, where preperty Is taken or where
Work-s Act.-(Hen. Mr. Scott.)
a going-business is transferred and stock
Bill (187) An Act te arnend the Eiectric allotted In payment of it, that a centract
Light Inspection Act.--(Hou. Mr. Scott.)
must be first made. But instead of filing
ln the office cf the Secretary of State, which
SECOND READINGS.
1 think is a very Inconvenient place te
Bill (115) An Act te incorporate the Richi- search those matters, particularly for dismond and Drummond Pire Insurance Com- tant parts of the Dominion and distant propany.--(Hon. Mr. Thonipson, in the absence vinces, I have provided, as lion. gentlemen
of Hon. Mr. McHugh.)
will notice, that this contract rnust be kept
An Act te incorperate the Do- on record ln a book cf the cornpany, so
Bihl (91)
minion Gas Imprevement Cornpany.-(Hen. that all shareholders and ahl persons wbo
Mr. Landerkin, in the absence of Hon. Mr. propose taking stock ln the company, wll
have the opportunity cf seeing exactly what
Kerr, Toronto.)
place, other than
Bill (121) An Act te incorporate the Con- transactions have taken
Mr. for cash. My own opinion, and the opinion
solidated Trusts Corporatien--(Hon.
cf a large number of the proLanderkin, in the absence of Hen. Mr. Kerr, I may say
fession, bas been that se far as allottîng
Toronto.)
stock for kind, that is for other than cash,
Bill (163) An Act respecting the United the law amply authorized the Secretary cf
Empire Life Insurance Company.-(Hon. State te issue letters patent. That I know
Mr. Coffey.)
has been disputed by sorne members of the
Bill (M) An Act fer the relief of Harford profession, for whom I entertain respect,
.&shley.-(Hen. Mr. Perley.)
but at the sanie time I arn bound to say
Bll (R) An Act respecting the Midway that certainly nine-tenths of those wlth
and Vernon Railway Cornpaniy.-(Hon. Mr. whorn I have had the opportunity of discussing the matter, did net share that view,
Macdonald, British Columbia.)
but in deference te the opinion that there
COM-NPANIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL. were doubts upon it, I have prepnred this
clause; I have added te it, as hon, gentleREPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
weaken ln
into a Commit- men will notice, that it will flot
The House resolved itself
any way the letters patent that have altee of the Whole on Bill (K) An Act te
ready been issued, under the Act on the
amuend the Companiles Act, 1902.
assumption that the Secretary of State hiad
(In the Corniittee.)
power to allow stock te be aliotted for other
amendiment than cash. I purposely ln the Act of 1902
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have an
te submit te this Bill, and I propose te add say nothing about the value of the article

in some way and the master had some hesitation about the title. Te go te work and
release ail the rnortgages new, subdlded
as the property is, would cost twe or three
thousand dollars, and this was thought the(
slrnplest way of getting rid of ItL

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 16, 1903
transferred, leavlng it to the common law
of the country. In the event of the cornpany golng into liquidation, It wouid be
for the court to say whether the stock was
ailotted for a fair eqnlvaient of cash. It
would be purely a matter for the courts.
I In no way pronounce upon tha.t part of
It In the allotment of stock the parties
rnust take thelr chances as ta whether it
would be upheld In the event of its belng
disputed by creditors at any future Urne,
but a rider bas been added which I think
protects ail letters patent that have aiready
been issued giving that power. These
arnendrnents wlil be prlnted before another
stage.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Is that
a substitution for the clauses that are
here ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, It is a new clause
altagether. It la simply added ta thant part
of the Act It cornes In as a subsectIon of
clause 7.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL L-If 1
heard correctly, the B ill provldes that Instead of the registration of the Issue being
nmade ln the office of the Secretary of
StateHan. Mr. SCOTT-No, it ls authority to
the compnny to Issue stock in that way.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But as
ta the records, under the present law It bas
ta be registered with the Secretary of
State.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat is the aid Iaw that
was repeaied. There la no law now requirlng thern ta file the contract Iii the Secretary of State's office.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWrELL-Slrnlily ta keep a record la the book.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-A record of the lettera
patent, of course.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Tbe
ouly difflculty I see ls lu the case of the
destruction of the books by fire. There
would be noa evidence and neo meeas of
reaching lt.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The letters patent are
always reglstered la the office of the Secretary af State, but of course the contracts
and agreements and by-laws are flot registered there unless the campany are making

357

appication for addltIonal prîvileges, but not
otherwlse
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It wouid stand as any
other docurnents.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I consider this a declded Improvernent on the oid iaw, because
it certalnly wUll give rnore satisfaction ta
the sifareholders, and they wll be able ta
follow much better what the cornpany la
dolng with the stock.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have subrnitted to
the Secretary of State another arnendrnent
ta section 18 of the Act. This section requires that before cornrneng operations
10 per cent of the authorlzed capital shail
be subscribed and pald for. That la ail
right, but it la sornewhat exactlng when a
capitalization la very large, and the object
of rny arndment Ia ta Bîrnit In any case the
arnount ta $25,000 paid la cash before cornrnencing operations. The clause, as amend-.
ed, wiii read as fallows
The company shall fot commence Its operations or Incur any liability before ten per cent
of ltàa uthorized' capital, or uDtil capital
am ountIng ta $25,000, bas been 3ubscribed and
vuld for.
The balance of the clause wili remain as
it la.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It ta a pity that
rny hon. friend the Secretary of State and
rny hon:* friend frorn Meontreal (Flan. Mr.
Bélque) had not given notice of their intention ta move these arndments. The Flouse
la ilardly la a position ta pass judgment an
them now until after they appear ln the
rninutes, and 1 thlnk it would be better that
the comrnittee should rîse, la order that we
cari understand the scope of the amendments after they are printed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Woujd it not be better
ta reprint the Blill as arnended, and then go
back into cormilttee ? The purpose of the
han. gentleman's suggestion la this : where
the capital stock ls very large, $5,000,000 for
Instance, It arnounts to a very large sum
that the cornpany wouid have ta pay in before commencing business. The proposition
of tire hon. gentleman from Montreai (Han.
Mr. Béique) la, If they pay $25,000 they may
proceed.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This flot only altplies ta the amaunt paid In. but ta the
arnount subscribed. Lt seems ta me a cou-

SENATE
pany with a very large capital, such as referred to by my hon. friead, should certainiy not Incur llability or proceed witb operafions until 10 per cent of Its capital Is subscribed. A company witb large pretensions
ean contract liabilities far exceeding $25,000, and If they do and there Is no capital
subscrlbed exceeding that amount, there Is
no recourse for the creditors for payment of
their dlaims. 1 tblnk certainly 10 per cent
of the capital at least should be subscribed
before any company Is permltted to enter
on Its operations. It Is a matter for consideration as to wbetber it is desirable that
that amount sbould be actually paid ln, but
It sbould be subscrlbed so that there will be
a contract between tbe subscribers and the
company on wbicb tbe creditors might depend for payment of any liabiiity.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I entireiy agree with
the suggestion o! the bon. member, and wlth
tbe permission of tbe committee, I wll
change tbe amendment to give It that effect.
Wiîat I badl ln mind was the payment ln
cash.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Our Act Is more stringent than the English law or the Ontario
law. Under the Ontario Act they may go
Into operation at once. They bave oaly to
subseribe a very smali amount, and so It Is
ln England. Our law Is now more stringent
than any other.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn glad It le. A due
regard to the Interests of outsiders wbo are
liable to be victlms wouid make the Act
more stringent than it is. Any change
ougbt to be In that direction.
Tbe first clause, as amended, was adopted.

tions on the subject.
be long enough.

Three months xnigbt

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WhY sbould bolders of fractional shares be compeiled to seli
them witbin a stipnlated Urne ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbinkthe rulebas been
that companies seli these fractional shares.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-They aiways sel
the fractional shares and distribute the proThree xnonths I
ceedg among the owners.
think would be a better time tban one
montb In wbich to seli.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They might be in
thQ treasury.
Hon. Mr. liMILLAN-No, the money is
returaed to the owners of the fraction.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
gives power to the company to take froni a
shiareholder who holds a fractional share
property tbat hie holds ln bis owu right, and
then snpposing It Is sold at twenty-five beiow -par and the person holding It desires
to continue the ownerslilp ln the hopes that
the value of tbe stock will rise to par lustead of being depreciated, tbe selling of bis
stock, eitber ln tbe open market or by the
company, Is taking it froui hlmn at a depreclated value without bis consent, thereby
depriving hlmi of what he is realIy and legitpresent
Duringthe
the owner.
imately
one a Bill relating to the Bank of Moutreal,
reducing their shares from $200 down to
In the case
a uniformi stock of $100.
of the Eastern Townships Bank tbey %vere
raising the value of thieir shares so that
every one -who had an odd share of $50
wvould eithier lose it by public sale under
this clause, possibiy at a depreciated value,
or It might possible be, sold at a premiuni.
Hon. Mr. M'%cMILLAN-I cannot underIt would
stand how it would depreciate.
seli at the mnarket value. Ail the fractional
shares would bc put «together aud sold at
the market value, and the rnoney distributed
share cadi
according to the fractional
sharehoider owned.

* on. Mr. SCOTT-When the Bill was up
for second readlng the leader of the opposition drew attention to a clause wbich
autborized companies having shares o! less
than $100, and wanted to briag up their
stock to $100. wbich raised a very Important question, supposing a stockhoider bad
not shares enougb to make Up $100. 1 have
an amndment which would cover that. It
provides that if tbe parties cannot agree
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-There
among themselves the company wili pur- are slîares in the manrket now that are not
chase the share. The hon. gentleman frorn within 50 per cent of their par value.
Aleidandria (Mr. Mcielilan) suggests one
*why 1
ILA-htis
Hon. Mr. M
month is too short a tirnie in whieh to seil
I amn open to sugges- wish the tirne for sale extended.
the fractional shares.
Honi. Mr. LOUGHEED.

jUNE 16, 1903
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
point 1 hmn raislng doea flot toucli the exIt la a matter of policy.
tension of tima.
1 amrnflt prepared ta say whather it la
rigit. or wrong. It takea frorn the holder
a fractianal share whlch balonga ta lilm byt
law. If you get the unenImous consent o!
tlie company ta do that, 1 can undarstand it,
but aven If yau lied two-thlrda of the sharehoiders-stili It would ha a depreciation of
the value of the aliaras beld by individuals.
It le a difficult thing ta deal witli. It la an
Intarference with the riglita of praperty, and
wliather It would be wise for the Sanata to
adaopt a principle of that kind la questionable in my mind. I do nat thlnk we ouglit
ta do It.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The campany wIll bie
guidad by the interest of the majority. The
mlnorlty must giva way ta the majority. I
wlll maka the tima three montha.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Tlie
Secretary of State la quite riglit-the minerity lu casa of differancas must aubmit ta the
mejarity, but that la whan you want ta place
ail the stockholders on the same footing.
There la equality lu that case. If you want
ta raduce the capital of a bank 50 par cent,
yen, place evary man on a footing of equality, and bis liundred dollars is wortli only
fifty; but In this case you take from the ludividual stocilialder that o! whicli lia la
owner.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I assuma the abject of equalizlng the ahares la for convenlenca lu listing the stock on the stock exchange. That would bie the only raon I
can sac. Would it not hae a goad solution
of this difficulty ta allaw the persans who
bold shares lu a company, wlhare the value
of a abare was $50, ta allow those people
ta liold haîf a share ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tit would ba
ail right, but it interf ares ta the extant a!
the voting power of a shara.
The clause as amendad was adopted.

'

35

vhicli renders the company Insolvent, or dîminshes the capital thereof ;but If any director
resent when Bucli dividend la declared, forthw'ith, or If any dîrector then absent, withln
after hae has become aware
t.wenty-four hours so ta do, entera bis wrlt-ten
hereof and able
~rotest agaînst the saine, and withln elght days
;hereafter publishes such proteat in et least
one newspaper publlsbed at the place In whlch
lie head om1ce of chief place of business of the
company is sltuated, or If there la noa newspaper there publlshed, then In the newepaper
publiahed. nearest thereto. such diractor maY
thereby, and net otherwise, exonerate himaself
from such lablIty.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Does that
npply ta loan and savinga companies ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it wvould not appiy
ta those et ail. It la represented that It is
a fair thlng in the case ot a dîrector acqulescing in the payment of a dividend wlian
a company la nlot solvent, lie sbould be hield
lhable for the amount of the dividend, but
nlot for the dabts of the company. In the
Ontario Act It bas been changed, maklng
tha director lhabla for'the partîcular dildand lie may aid ln declaring If the compafly
la flot la a position ta declare sucli dividend,
and 1 have bean asked ta introduca the
clause In the Ontario Act ta make It In accord wlth It. That clause limita bis Biablity ta the perticuitr dividends tnit lie MaY
have taken part ln declarilg 'whan the coinpany was nlot In a position ta declare them.
In the other case It makea hlm lhable for ail
the otlier debta of the companY.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHED-Hlow as to bis
knowledga ?
HEon. Mr. SCOTT-He would lie presumed
ta have knowledge.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbere may be circumatancea whera lie would flot bave knawiedge.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When it cames ta lits
knowledge lie cen take action and gat reliaf.
Hon. Mr. LOUtGHEED-What provision
has the lion. gentleman made as ta knawladge ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie provision la as follows

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I bave been requested
If any director t-ban absent wt-in t-wentyta move an amcndment ta section 69, whichi four houre after haelias becoane aware thereif,
wrltten protest
I -will read for the information of the comi- and able to, do se, enters hisetght days causes
against the samae. and wt-in
It is as follaws
letter
anittee.

69. The direct-ors of t-be company shall not
daclare or pay any dlvidend when t-be company
is insolvent, or any dividend, t-be payment of

sueba protest to ba not-ified by a registered
t-o t-be Secretary of St-ate. such director rnay
t-hereby and not otherwisc, exonerate hîmself
f rom liabllity.

360

SENATE

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The hou, gentleman is
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-May I ask why It
la that notice to the Secretary of State la not bound by the discussion.
substituted for publication ln a newspaper ?
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-We are not in a
position to take part in the discussion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is copied from the
Ontario Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn here to give the
fullest Information ou the ameudments and
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-For the protection
I arn glad to le interrogated and accept any
of the public 1 would rather have It as besuggestion. There is no use ln printing
fore.
some of the changes iln the Bill unless It ls
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk s0.
thought that they are going to meet with
the commu- approval. The fairest and truest way la to
Hou. Mr. POIRIER-Because
nication wlth the Secretary of State wili ask gentlemen to send ln suggestions, give
be private and the other shareholders wIll the cormittee the benefit of them and find
know nothing about It, but If the operations out what la the sense of the comnIittee and
are to be lu a healtby condition, it la bet- have thern priuted la the new Bill.
ter to have the publication in the newsHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-The
papers..i
clause the hon. gentleman bas juist read
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I quite agree with that. is a protection to those who become direc[t was handed to me, and I submit It for tors of these companies merely to lend their
name, who neyer go near the company and
what It is worth.
consequentiy know very iittle, or nothing,'
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Does that clause ap- of what ls going on, and as the provision is
ply oniy to the directors who may be ab- that he bas to give notice witbin twentysent, or to those who rnay be preseut and four bours after the kuowledge cornes to
ln a minorlty ?
hlm that a wrong has been doue, then he
The man who hends bis
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In the first place, It becomes hiable.
applies to ahl directors, and thea If, wlthin name to a cornpany and takes no luterest
twenty-four hours, those who are absent ln it, wIlh neyer be hiable for any penalty,
enter a protest and take such measures as because he wili take preclous good care iiot
now proposed, and insert their protest ln a to know.
local newspaper, by that act they would
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-If le does not take the
be relieved from the liabiiity attachlng trouble to learu be wou]d be hiable.
to the other directors who had beeii parties
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But it
to the payrnent 0f the dividend.
is within twenty-four -hours after -lie beHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I beg to subrnit cornes aware of the Improper declaring of a
that this is a rnost unsatisfactory way of dividend that le becarnes liable to the penlegisiating, and, in view of the very serions alty, lence le wilh take care flot to know
and Important changes proposed to be made that an imporper dividend bas been declared.
my hon. friend should withdraw the Bill
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-But they
and submIt a new one. A few members
are hiable ail the same.
may be able to foliow tiiis discussion, but
If we have nothing before us we cannot
Hou. Mr. POWER-This written promake comparisons and talie part iu discus- test shouid be served upon sorne parsions of this kind.
The arndment proposed
ticular person.
simply says, le can make a written protest.
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-Those propositions have
but it shouhd be fiied with the secretary of
reached me since the Bihl has corne before
Lt cornes
the cornpany, or sorne officer.
the House. The cornmittee might rise and
to this, tînt unless you specify the persoii
1 wili have the Bill reprinted, and tben
wlth whorn the protest is to le fiied, a man
point out to the hon, gentlemen where the
rnay dlaim that he gave the protest to a
difference is.
rnerber of the corpnpay, or to a director, or
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON But what I object sornething of that sort, but lie sbouhd be
obliged to file the protest with the secretary
to is the discussion now going on.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT.

.JUNiE 16, 1903

of the company. That Is the proper place
to have it. That sbould strike bon. gentiemen as being business and comnion sense,
that If a protest againat the action of the
directors is to be filed, It sbould be filed
wltb the secretary of the company, or wltb
' the board of dIrectors, one tbing or the
other.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-The suggestion was to
add a Ilke provision, word for word, to tbat
ln the Ontario statute, passed ln 1897, the
Ontario Companles Act, and I bave Just
It strikes me tbat there
read the clause.
was something omitted ln copylng the clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We wIll have that corrected.
BEIQUE-My recollection Is to
Hon. M.Nr.
the efiect that It bas to be publisbed iii some
paper.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That Is the law
to-day.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Under the Ontario
Act It bas to be publlbed ln some paper.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-T-'hat Is the Joint
Stock Companles law to-day.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We would retain that
part of tbe present law wbicb requires tbe
director te publisb this protest wltbin eight
days thereafter ln, at least, one newspaper
publisbed in, the place where the bead office
ls situated. That would be the beet protection. I wlll re-draft that clause.

6

wltbout a by-iaw. Now, 1 think the shareholders sbouid certainiy authorize the directors to borrow money by by-iaw, but neot
by the passage of a by-law for each specific
joan.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That ts what tbey do.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

The bon. gentle-

man's amendment proposes now to do entlrely away wltb the passage of the by-law
for the borrowlng-of money by tbe dIrectors
on promissory notes, buis of excbange and
10 oni.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat bas always been
the law. Tbe sharebolders may do it If
they like, but so far as the iaw is concerned.
tbe directors always bave the right to accept and use promissory notes and bis of
exchange.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Not unless lit
came wltbln tbe purview of the durrent
business of tbe company. If it became necessary, la the ordinary course of business,
to do so they could, but bere you do away
altogether witb the necessity of a by-iaw for
the purpose of borrowing money.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, only so far as promissory notes and bis of exchange are concerned.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-So far as promissory notes and bis of excbange are concerned, the directors of tbe company couid
place la jeopardy the wboie assets of tbe
On clause 2,
company by reason of exercisIng extraordiin the way of proHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbis clause Is simly nary borrowing powers
missory notes.
to remove a doubt. Some lawyers were of
opinion tbat la reference to defining the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is a very easy matter
method of borrowîug money by the com- for the company to take precautions :they
pany, even in lssulng promnissory notes, tbey can pass a by-law.
would have to bave a meeting of the shareHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-BUt you say it is
bolders, and a by-law andl ail tbnt. That
not necessary to pass a by-Iaw. In the carrywas never intended and neyer contemplated,
the operations of a large company,
and not la the spirit of the Act, but sorne lng on of
*If It Is Intended that tbe directors sbould be
very scrupulohls lawyers bave taken excepto borrow money on promissory
tion and tbis clause is to provide that ln *empowered
notes, the sharebolders shouid. at the Inreference to promissory notes and Dills of
ception of the coxnpany, or periodically, exexchange, it is not necessary to bave a meetpress tbeir desire that the directors sbould
ing of the shareholders or pass a by-law.
tdo business ia that way.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEDI1 wouid poîni
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You would make it
out a misleading idea tbat may be gatbereÉ
mone3 pabsoiuteiy impossible to do business la a
from tbis. The directors may borrow
upon pronaissory notes and buIs of exchangE ibank.

362

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
Ontario Act regulatlng companies, provIdes
that the directors must pass a by-law givIng them power ta borrow money froni the
ban]. ta carry on the business, and then
they have to eaul the shareholders together
and get the approval of two-thirds of thxe
sharebolders before they ean put a note ini
the bank. Wbether that Is the law under
the Dominion statute I do not know, but It
Is with reference ta the Ontario statutes.
I belong ta a company that desired ta
borrow money from a bank, ta carry on
business, and we first had ta, pass a by-law
and then we submitted It ta th.e shareholders
at a meeting called for that special purpose,
and bad ta get two-thirds in value of the
stock, ln addition ta the majarity of those
present, ta pass the by-law. Then we had
ta file that by-law with the bank ta show thxe
authorlty on which the money was barrowed- I arn nat prepared ta contradIct
what the Secretary of State says wlth re<erence ta the Dominion Act. But does this
bear fixe interpretation that bas been put
upon It ? Would the campany have power
under thîs provision ta borrow on promissory notes of the company, or does it mean
that they couid borrow on notes or bis of
exchange given ta them in. payment of
articles manufactured by fixe company. Is
tbnt the point at Issue ? We kaow how
gaods are sold and the purchaser gets sanietimes tbree or four montbs credit. He gives
bis note. You enter into arrangements
with the bank to cash these notes-that la,
you borraw on the strength of the note.

friend said that was the
amendment.

object of the

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-To remove doubts 1
said. I bave no doubt on the subject.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The doubts must
have. been sufficiently substantial to warrant
my bon. friend removing them. That bylaw .niight be î,assed at the inception of the
company. It is flot necessary to pass a bylaw every time a promissory note Is reqtxired.
It is for the cornpany to decide the limit to
'whilb the directors sbouid go. That Is a
salutary lumit to place on the directors. If
the directors are ta exercise such powers,
there should be a general by-iaw definlng
the extent to whlch they sliould go when so
borrowIng. Increasing the latitude of the
directors to borrow money eutlrely Ivrespective of the knowledge or consent of the
shareholders seenis ta nme to be bad legislation.

Han. Mr. SCOTT-It Is for each colpatly
to maL-e its own arrangements lu regard
ta that. Any company la authorized ta maL-e
a by-law lessening the powers of their directors if they please, but I do not tbink it
would be a proper thlng to introduce with
this partIcular amendinent that 1 propose.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-But the lion. gentleman is saying It will not be necessary.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But still they may do
It If they tlxink there ought ta be sucli a restrictive power.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlien the Secretary
of State must see that it would be authorizHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There Is no doubt lng the shareholders by a by-iaw ta overthat under the present Joint Stock Com- ride this statute.
panies Act, section 57, the board cannot,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they can do It 110w
43orrow money-that is, the directars are
not empowered ta borrow money on their If they pass a by-law. Section 24 gives the
promîssory notes, bis of exchange and s0 directors power. Companies do pass tbose
on, excepting there be a by-law passed by by-laws, but I lenve It for each compauy ta
the shareholders authorized tlxem so ta do. take its own course. We do not maL-e it
absolutely necessary for them to do so.
That Is the present law as it stands.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, that bas not been
the interpretation passed upofl it.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tlîait is a question Of policy; we. can discuss it af ter.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tliat mnust have

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Under the old Act,

been the Iaw, because you bring ini an section 47 provided for borrowing by the
amuendment for the purpose of giving greftt- shareholders, and there was this rider, that
er latitude and permitting- directors without the arnount borrowed sliahl not be mrîe
M.Nybon. than 75 per cent of the actual pnid Up stock
that by-law ta borrow money.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 16, 1903
of the eûmpany, 'but the limitation of this
section shafl mîet apply to commercial paper
ln the new
discounted by the comp.uy.'
Act the corirespondlng section, section 57,
is worded differently, and the rider relatKs
lng to commercial paper ls omitted.
a consequence, I know that companies have
been called upon by banks to pass by-laws
or they wonld not be admltted to, discount
$100 of paper. It seems to me it neyer
was intended to require that a by-law
should be passed to authorize a joint stock
company to discount the paper received In
the ordinary course of lts business. Now,
It ls possible that the wording of the amendment might be changed. Those words
mlght be added-' in the ordlnary course of
Its business '-but the ameudment coinmends itself te me.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BON5IELL-1o I
understand the hon. gentleman to mean
the raising of money by a company on promissory notes and bills of exchange tbey
have received from other people or paper
issned by themselves ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As the present section 57 stands In the Act, the companies are
nbsolutely prevented from borrowlng, wlîether by pledging thieir own paper or mot,
without a by-law, wlîich was evldently an
oversiglit. 1 was present when section 57
was adopted and did not approve of the
clause. It seems to me it should be
modified. The amen dment. amounts to thls,
that a by-law shahl mot be necessary for
borrowing lu the ordlnary course of a cernpany's business, and if those words 'lu the
ordinary course of its business' were added.
it would remove the objection.
Hon. '.%r. POWTER-There Is a grent deal
of force in what wns said by the lion, gentlemani from Calgary, and 1 do îîot think
the Secretary of State has grasped thie point
lie made. The lion, gentleman dloes not propose thit tîxere shal lie a hîy-law every
time a promissory niote or blli of exchnnge
is made, but lie proposes thiat whien the
coimpany is orgaiuized tlic shiarehîolders shail
decide whether or not tliey shînîl authorize
thé directors to become parties te negotiable l)aper -and te wbat extent. 1 thinlc
tliat is legitiînate.

363

Hon. Mr. POIRLE R-Tliat is ivariabiy
done.
Hon. Mr. POWý,EL-Thiat seemns to lie a
reasenable proposition.
Hon. Mr. SGOTT-It ls absolutely Impossible. Large companles probably have ten,
titteen or twenty drafts and bis a day in
different banks, and this question would be
constantly asked: 'Where is your by-law.'
Hou. Mr. POWER-Tlie speech which the
lion. gentleman ls making shows I was
right, and that lie did not quite understand
the point made by the lion, gentleman from
Cjalgary. The hon. gentleman does flot say
there shall be a by-iaw wlhenever the coinpany wish to maL-e a note or bill of exchange, but that when the company is
going into operation the shareholders shahl
pass a by-law anthorizing the directors generally to do tbat and saylng to wbat extent
they shali go. Thiat Is a >right and proper
tMing, and does not interfere with the
transaction of ordinary business. This
amendment gives them the power, wlthout
any limit whatever, or any previons authority from the shareholders, to make notes
and bills of excliange to any extent
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would absolutely
cripple business. There are companies dolng enormous business-transacting business
from the Atlantic to the Pacifie-with bis
of exchange In hundreds passing Into the
iaanks, and the question wouid arise in
every bank lu which tbeir paper was presented, 'Do you know whether that is properly issued ?' If the company must be
authorlzed by by-law to issue a draft, you
would have to keep a copy of the by-law
ln every bank.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does my lion.
friend think a bank will accept a company's
pîaper without having some evidence of their
authority for issuing it ?
Hon. Mr: SCOTT-Certainly.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-lt has not been
mny experience. They require evidence that
the directors have the nlecessary power.
The amenument was agreed to.

On clause 7.
Hou. 'Mr. BEIQUE-M-\y amiendient will
Honi. Sir MACKENZIE IBONN71EL-Or afmake the clause rend this way:
ter they have been in oper.ntion.

SENATE
The company shail not commene its operations or incur any liability until ten per cent
of Uts authorized capital has been subscrlbsd'
and the sald ten per- cent, or capital to the
ainount of at least $2o.,000, lias been paild for.
The amendment was agreed to, and the
clause, as amended, was adopted.

gular that It should flot bave been discovered
and the different abatement put into force
long ago. What surprises me most is that,
tn making this change, It is proposed to, go
back ànd make the change retroactive.

derstand why this legisiation is required
more than it bas been ia ail the past history
of the Dominion. At the present time three
per cent is allowed for tlîe waste fusel-oil iii
the process of distilling, no muatter from
what material the liquor wias being PI<luced. If there is this difference, it is sinHon. Mr. BEIQ7JE.

ties who bave been distilîing spirits from
molasses and other sacchagrine matter. The

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Only lni the present
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the commlttee, re- year.
ported that they had made some progress
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It seems singular,
wlth the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
If there bas been this distinct difference and
If there Is that difference now, that the
INLÂND REVENUE ACT AMIENDMENT
abatement should have been computed on
BILL.
the same percentage ail over, both with the
REPORTED FROM COMMITTZE.
manufacture from grain and from molasses
The House resolved Itself Into a Commit- and other saccharine matter, that ln ail the
tee of the Whole on Bill (186) An Act to past history of the department the abatement was made the same for products from
amend the Inland Revenue Act.
botb sources, and that no change was made
(In the Committee.)
until now ; and now It would appear that It
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This Is one of the many is so serious that it Is made to apply to the
Bills the Inland Revenue Department from transactions of the whole year that will extime to, time Introduce makllg changes lin pire at the beglnning of the next month.
the Act wbich governs the management of The making of this provision retroactive
the department. They are always getting seems to require some explanation. Why is
new light. The first clause substitutes the it that It should be so ; and why do they
first day of the montb for the slrth day 0f now make the change, and especially make
the montb for the payment o! the goods, and it apply to the transactions of the whole
a provision that If tbey are not ready to year that is just about to expire ?
pay, tbey wiIll bond the goods.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presumne It is the reHon. Mr. FERGUSOIN-That is just a mat- suit of representations of the parties wbo
ter for the convenience of the department ? !eeî tat tbey are being unfaIrly deait wlth
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
where the molasses and saccharine matter
form the basis for the distillation, and the
The clause was adopted.
department have probably ascertained tbey
On clause 3,
were wrong ia unduly compelling the parties
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In the distilhing It Is who used molasses and saccharine matter
found there are more Impurities wbere mo- to pay an unfair proportion. That is the
lasses and other saccbarine matter are the only explanation of it. Then, as to applying
basis of It. There Is one per cent more of it to the fiscal year, there is probably a lot
Impurîties In tbat, and therefore the law of it lu bond that would not be taken out of
bas been changed. It w-as formerly three bond.
per cent for grain as well as molasses and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWrELL-In
saccharine matter .tbey now allow one per passing Bis of thîs kind, they always take
cent for the presence o! fusel-ojI and refuse effect from the day tbey become Iaw. Has
where the molasses and saccharine matter there been much of this kind oi spirits talzen
are dlstIlled.
out o! bond and the duty paid, because this
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I cannot quite un- provision provides for a refund to parIaw provides that liquors shall not bo sold
tintil they are of certain age. The duty is
not paid until they are taken ont of bond.
This evidentir, if it mens anyfhing. Is for

'the purpose of paying back to those who

JUNE 16, 1903
have distilled spirits during the past year
and paid the duty on th2mHon. Mr. SCOTT-T!hey may or may flot
have paid ItL

allowed to distillers for fusel-ol or anything
else. The duty was collected on the spirit
as it came from the worm. I remember the
question coming Up under the late goverfixfent. It was discussed a good many years
ago before they allowed any rebate, or rather
any ailowance to be made for what the law
declared should be destroyed, -and this is upon the same principle, only you are extending it further and you are paying back to the
distillers who have manufactured this quality of spirit a portion of the duty collected.
The statement made by the hon. Secretary
of State may be quite correct. There may
be more deleterious matter ln the spirit
manufactured from the molasses than there
would be from corn, or barley, or any other
Psy them If the principie bas
grain.
been admitted, but let It commence when
this Act becomes law.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When the amendment 0f the Secretary of State Is to be retroactive he should state the reasons for It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think 1 have.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-Then
It does not apply. it is not retroactive. If
It Is ln bond, they have not paid the duty.
Ail the distillers keep their lquors ln bond
until they seli them. and they wouid nlot
advance the two dollars a gallon on the
liquor two years before they soid ItL Then
It says 'On saccharine matter only.'_ I
have always understood that there was
more fusel-oil ln the spirits manufact'ured
trom potato. They do manufacture It from
potato, and whether the present government
have given power to the beet-root sugar
factories to manufacture spirits from
the residue, -after the saccharine la taken
out, I do not know. Those who are In the
habit of distilllng and manufacturing wines
In the western portions of Canada have applIed over and over again for permission to
nu
fter the wine bas been ex---th o re
tracted for the purpose of manufactiiriflg
alcohol. Would this apply to that ? Would
that be called saccharine matter, because
there must be sugar in everything from
whichi It is extracted.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-I do not think spirit
caemanufactured from anything that
acaiemte.If
canbet coti
acchrin mater.planations
doesflotconain
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
the spirit is of Inferlor quality. The gre&&t
objection is to making this legisiation retroactive, because it looks like handing back
a lot of money to people wbo have been
manufacturillg spirit from saccharine matter.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presumne this bas been
brought to the knowledge of the department
and they have been making the parties who
have been distilling from molasses and other
saccharine matter pay unduly, and when
that bas been represented to the department and they have discovered that they
were incorrect, they have said 'very well,
we cannot go beyond the fiscal year, and
*wbatever you have paid will be considered.'

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hou. gentleman
sald he thought, he supposed, hie presumed
tha-t It was because payments had been unduly made. How could -a payment be unduly made ? If a payment Is made agaixist
the law it should be refunded, but we do flot
want any law to have a retroactive effect
It Is unduly made. We want more exthan we have received to justify
us in passing a law with a retroactive effect.
It should be made clear. There should be
no presumptions.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The law stood that way
for a long time. I find back In the Revîsed Statutes that an abatement net exceeding three per cent for fusel-ol Is ailowed. They have gone on for ail those
years allowing three per cent for the refuse
matter. Weil, It has become patent to them
presume on re presentation, and one caii
-I
readily understand that saccharine matter,
molasses particiiinrly, would not render as
pure a dlsfillation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is nobody objecting to that, but we object
to malfring It retroactive.
Hon. 'Ar. SCOTT-Then If wqie have been
Hon. Sir MACK~ENZIE BOWELL-There
out this law, when discrimlinatiflg against certain persons ive
was a period, in carrying
if we can mnake comnothing was allowed. No abatement was should not do se, and

366 .

SENATE

366

SENATE

pensation for the current year we sbouid do
so. That 18 quite clear. 1 suppose rnY hon.
friend wiil rernark tbat ail this liquor Is
there lit bond. It Is there under the control of the governrnent, and If the department Is convinced we have been discriminating ngainst one class of distiliers, It is ouly
fair to inake compensation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If it
Is fair for six months. then It is equally
bonest to make Il: for twelve ionths.

hieard It read nor explained, wbicb makes a
materiai difference.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I amn sorry my bon.
frlend dld not bear me. I said It was onhy
cbanging the date fromn the Otb to tbe lst.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There Is another
change ln the section besides that. In the
law as It stands the words in the opening
section areExcept ln the case of methylated spirits.
Methylated spirits are lef t out now. The
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le twelve months.
provision In tbe old law making an excepHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And tion lit the case of metbyiated spirits wiil
to go back to the tie the law was passed uot prevail now. There must lie some proand refund tbis money tbat the government vision for deaiing wltb metbylated spirite.
It seerns to be a very Important change too.
Iiavo~ leen lrnproperly taking.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WiTth the Intarest.
cause of that explanation 15 a .good one, lieHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I could cause It puts goods manufactured ln bond
easiiy understand that the measure sbould lu the saine position as otber goods. They
be made retroactive If the manufacturers are beld a certain tUnie. Wby le metbyiated
of spirit bad started their business only Ini spirite left out ?
the iast two or three years, but whisky bas
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn unable to give
been rnanufactured out of molasses and
saccharine matter wltb a knowledge of what any explanation.
the iaw was, and If the governrnent renlize
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe general law Is
now that It is flot just to the manufacturer, made applicable.
they have a rIglit to make the amendmient
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand the
they have made, but I do flot believe it ls goverument takes aIl the metbylated spirits
just to make It retroactive.
turned out by the distiller.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I understand that it
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink they selI ItL
Is retroactive against the Crown onily, and There are certain concerus, tbe Ratbbuni
sorne date must be fixed front wbicli the ae- Company and others, wbio buy aIl the rnethycount shiah lie made up. It Is retroactive lated spirits.
only against the Crown ln favour of the
Hon. Mr. DEVER-For manufacturlng
parties who bave paid, or who are called
purposes.
upon to pay.
Hlon. Mr. SOOTT-I cannot recaîl whiat it
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whio
pay. is really for, but tbe governent disposes of
bave paid, not wbo are calied upon to
Tbey bave the liquor in bond and they pay it to one or two firrns.
w-lien it cornes out and the allowance would
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It 15
lie rnade.
used iu 'other manutactured articles. What
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-It Is only against thE w'- want to know le why it Is ieft ont.
The clause was ailowed to stand.
Crown. It is retroactive against the Çrown,
niot against aliy subject.
On clause 5,
LANDRY-If you take thal
lion.u.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Part of this, also,
ueoney to give it to a few parties you are is entirely new. 1 notice that after the
taling it fron the public.
word 1quarter' on hune eleven, beginning
The clause w-as adopted.
wltb the word ' except'1 it is a new section,
sud subsectioa two is entirely niew. It wilh
On clause 4,
BOWELL-ClausE lie noticed that subsection two is also retrolion. Sir MACKENZIE
to tbe
We have no't active. The change gives discretioli
4 applies to goods la bond.
Hoil. Mr. SCOTT.

JIINE 16, 1903
Minister of Inland Revenue, when lie finds
that a deficiency has been found and a failure to reach a standard-as soon as lie finds
It la nlot xlue to fraud. Why this provision
Is necessary the lion. gentleman lias nlot explained.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On clause 6.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Wby is It tbat wliile
every pound package of cavendIlsh, plug and
twist tobacco must have the registered number of the factory on It, in the case of other
klnds of tobacco you can go up to flve
pounds?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The explanation given
me is that the only advantage is to make
the law clear.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tli5 excepts ail
otlier tobacco except these tliree kinds of
tobacco whicli tlie bon. the Speaker lias
pointed out. Under the law as It previously
stood, ail tobacco requlred this prlnted mark.
Now you lmit It to tbree kinds.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I cannot understaud
wliy tlie distinction is made.
The clause was allowed to stand.

36'

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The scale must be very
sensitive.
Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-I suppose the law punîshes people for using
scales even for postal purposes uniess tliey
are Inspected ? If you are mailing matter
for whlcb you pay by welght, why shouid
not the postal scale be accurate and lie Inspected as well as any other ?
Hou. Mr. ELLIS-If your scale dnes not
weigli riglit, tliey wll charge you extra.
It Is your lnterest te lie honest In that matter.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Suppose the scale should make it welgh more
tlian 'it really does, tbey would take more
money than they should.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEldAN-The weigltit
determined at the post office.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Suppose You Put On
tliree stamps Instead of two le
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If the
scales macle It weigh more than It really did,
you would lie paying more postage thon
you should, and If the scales weighed light
then the sender would lie paying less than
lie should.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED, from the comnon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think thlis
they bad madle some
mlttee, reported tliat
progress witli tlie Bill, and asked leave to clause is beneficial, but there is a great
deal In the point made liy the hou. gentlesit again.
man (Hon. Mr. DeBouclierville), because
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACT
really a cook could lie fined for making '.iP
the proportions of soine of lier idishes by
AMENDM~ENT BILL.
using a postal scales.
IN COMiMITTEE.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.
Tlie House resolved Itself Into a Committee
of tlie Wliole on Bill (188) An Act to amend
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is absurd.
the Welglits and Measures Act.
1 think the sug gestion whicli the lbon, gen(In the Committee.)
tleman (Mr. DeBoucherville) makes te insert In the fourteentli line the same words
clause,
On tlie second
tat are used In the twelftli line, ' for trade
DeBOUCHERVILLE-Wliy purposes,' should bie adopted.
Mr.
Hon.
confine the use of tliese scales to posta:
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It woul net
purposes ? A family using sucli a scale foi
purposes would lie lhable to pun. - le trade purposes if you used it in your
ordinary
isbment. I tliink tlie prohibition sliould bf own dwelllng.
limited to trade purposes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUJSON-Ini a family there
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I 't ia perfectly plain i tmiglit lie many uses a scale would lie Put
is only used for postal purposes.
te lu a hurry. 0f course, 1 do not suppose
that
t
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Wliy no0, the law would lie macle sO Inquisitorial
E
a pound o: it would reacli tlicse cases, but the law
allow it te lie used to weigli
should lie made common sense anyway.
tea ?

SEINATE

368

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-The law
These scaies are
la ail right as It Is.
manufactured expressiy for the Post Office
Department. They are stamped with tbat
mark on them, and their use la conffined
to the post offices. No person bas a right
to use them for auy other purpose any more
than they wouid have to use a scale not
stamped by the inspector of weights and
nieasures.

Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Why flot use the
words 'for domestic purposes' ?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What kiud of
scales do you use ln tbe kitchen. for instance ? Do. you require to bave them luspected ?
As 1 unHon. Mr. ELLIS-Certainly.
derstaiid the iaw, ail scaies aire subject to
Inspection. This simply excepts the scaies
on which you weigb your letters, and I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1 have thlnk it la a very fair thIi to do.
flot heard any expianation why this change
The clause was adopted.
la asked for.
On tbe third clause,
Hon. Mr. POWER-There la no reason
wby one ehould go to the expense and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE. BOWELL-What
trouble of bavlng scales examined l>y iu
Is the effeet of that ?
inspector and stamped whlch are oniy to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The officiais calIed
be used for letters.
'deputies' la this section are cailed 'asHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My sistants' everywhere else, and this amendhion. frlend says it la for the protection of ment la to make the Act unIform.
If It Is, then It should be a
the public.
The clause was adopted.
correct scale.
On the st clause,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not think It la for
the protection of the public. It la for the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We are here reconvenlence of the owner.
peallng a section introduced ln the Act pnsHon. Mr. SCOTT-The scaies are used sed in this House lu 189S. 1 did not take
any part ln It myseif, but there was a very
tu business offices.
long discussion on it here, and the Section
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WVe ,%vas finaliy introduced Into the Act. Perbave bad no reason given us yet why thîs hapa the hon. gentleman cau tell us why it
cbange la made.
la now to be repeaied. The section requires
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The reason la it does that a larger quantlty of grain shall be
not seem quite fair, when the weighing of used for a test.
a letter in a business bouse Is not to lie
Hon. Mr. SCOT-It was found that n
final, because the postal authorities do flot
welgbt. Therefore, when those bushel was entlrely too large a quantity,
accept the
too large an
scaies are not kept In order constantly It that the farmer wss losing
altobe very unfair to ex- amount, because It is taken away
seenis to me it would
gether. Now tbey substitute a much amalier
pect parties to have them lnspected perlodically and pay the fees, and It la oniy fair quantity, I tbink about a quart.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The weighiug
they should be aiiowved to use them without baving them laspected from tirne to machine was required to weigh flot lesa than
time.
a busbel.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It la to prevent
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
themn being used for trade purposes. Why afraid tbis la another Illustration of introgo further ?i I can understand when those ducing legisiation and governlng the counscales are ailowed te lie soid and pasa into try by departments, ivithout each member
a family, so long as they are not used for of the council knowing what la being donle.
trade purposes that family should lie allowed 1 L-now the late Minister of Justice, when
to make any other use of them. Why not ? lie was here, stated that tbat was the prinHon. Mr. SCOTT-In trade matters the ciple upon which they were acting, and lie
scale must be inspected and examnined and ridiculed the idea that every member of the
cabinet should bie made acquainted wý%ith t11e
carefully tested from tîme to time.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

Jr'ÇTE 16, 1903
belng able to tell
different changes whicb It was proposed to ister sltting here without
really the fact.
make la the laws tbat came before paria- us what tbey are. That la
1 do not deslre to find any more fault wlth
ment. I bhave already polnted ont the diffiblm my symcuities that must necessarlly arise. Take the lion. mister, and I offer
pathies because I thlnk he la placed ln a
the case before us: here we bave tbe Secretary. of State introduclng iaws, materlftlly taise position.
cbanging, alterlng and amendlng tbose
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I think my bon. frieud
aiready upon 1the statnte-book wlthout Is flot qulte correct, especlally la reference
having a proper precis before hlm, to telfus to, a department like tbe Inland Revenue,
wbat they mean and why It la doue. I know where tbey bave to do -%vith welghts and
I bad the responsibllty, wben occupylng bis measures. It Is slmply Impossible for a
position la this House, of lntroduclng mea- member of the goverument to know anysures wbich, lndlvidually, I was not ac- thing about It. He la only able to, state
quainted witb ; but 1 refused pointedly, until what Is sald by men who bave to do with
that matter wvas discussed ia councl, and the worklng of the law. We wIll remember
we understood tbe reasons for the Introduce- bow this matter was tbreshed out witb peotion of the Bill and the changes whlch It ple from the Nortb-west ln regard to the
was proposed to make, and then I hiad a grain, and a varlety of Incidentai questions.
precîs before me, givlng an explanatton why It la mlot a matter any government èould
It would be
pariament was asked to change each clause. understand or comprebend.
If that practice were followed now, we absoiutely Impossible, and there would be
sliould ijot bave this dlfficulty. There nay no object ln dlscusslng It la councli. It ls
be good rensons for maklng a change, and the mien w'bo bave to deai wlth It, and wbo,
those rea sons may be the reanît ot the from year to, year, bave to make changes,
practical working and operation of the law, as they find tbey cou do better. The subwhîcb niome but a miaister wvould under- ject Is comparatlve'y new. We are la a
stand, therefore an explanation le; required new country and new conditions are arislng,
by gentlemen occupylng the positlôn we do, and It ls only the men wbo are conversant
not knowing the reasoas. All this difficulty wîtb tbe management of tbose detals that
wouid be remioved unless some new prIn- can give us information.
cipie was iatroduced, and I bave ouly to
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I would suggest
repeat wbat 1 bave often said bere, that if tbat when a Bill comes before us whlch the
the Secretary of State would tell his col- minister Is not able to explain, it should beleagues that he would mot take charge of referred to a special commlttee, 50 that we
a nieftsure comiag froni another departmeut, could get the officers of tbe departmeat,
making departmental changes ln the law, and from them know ail tbe details tbat are
whlch are necessary from tbe working ot asked for.
the law, lie would bave less difficulty in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have allowed to,
la haviag bis Bills passed by the Senate.
reasonable stand any clause wbich bas flot been exAnd 1 can say again, It is mot
to suppose tbat any of us, unless we hadl plained. 1 deny that I bave ever deciinedi
been ln the departments, couid know why to expialn. 1 am sorry my bon. frlend bas
these particular changes are belng made. not g-iven me bis attention, and therefore
Tbey are snggested from the work.ing of does not comprebend tbe subject, but if lie
tbe law, and wbile tbey may appear had been giving close attention, be wouid
absurd to, those who bave to deal wltb mot say 1 was Ignorant ot it. Tbe clause
tbem, tbe minister, wbo la practlcally work- as It stood before, read :
ing the law, should gîve an explanation
No weighIflg machine, used for weigbing. or
menany
as to wby the changes are being made, determinlflg the weight of be of articles,
less certlfied
tioned ln section 16 shall
and If that were donc, *we won¶d avold caixcity than one bushel.
ahl tbis difficulty of baving latricate Bills,
I say tbat la altogether too large.
sncb as these are, dealing with techniHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
calities of the department, and asking us
tc, approve of them without knoinilg RUY- wlsh to take exception to one remark of
thiag ot what they are, and having a lui- the hon. Secretary of State. He acquiesces

SENATE
lni what I Say, that It is Impossible for tiret, bow thîs came to bie enacted. A gensenators, as we are, to understand why tleman ln this House complalned that in
somie Instances a test was made out of a
these changes are being- suggested.
b!»i of grain and a very sinail quant1,iy,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That is, techaical was tak-en out wbere tbe grain was not as
cbanges.
good, and the quality of the grain was deHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe termined from the welghlng of a very
mInister aiso declared it nonsense to bring smali ample. Tbe late >Ir. Justice Milîs
I can tell the un)dertook to consuit the departmneut, and
thein before the cabinet.
lion. gentleman that no minister, durlng the result was tbe department furnlsbed
the seventeen years that I was lu the thils clause wbichi It was tbougbt would
cabinet, was aliowed to present any Bill meet the case. I suppose It dld meet It, but
having the Iinprimature of the goveru- II: brought wltb it a practicai dlfficulty
ment for wbicbi tbey were responsible, go greut that It made It inoperative.
until the question was first discussed in
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wili
council, and the Minister of Inland Rev- the lion. gentleman strike out that clause ?
enue, or the Minister of Customs, If
hie desired to make any change in the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
law, went to council witb bis proposition,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In former sesdlscussed it witb bis colleagues, recçived the
sions ln bighly tecbnIcal Bills of tbis cbarapproval of bis colleagues, and then bie came
to parliament, and bath tbe minister wbo acter, an officer of the department luvariaoccupied a seat ln tbe Senate, and the min- bly attended the Senate to give any expiaister ln the otber House, when it was dis- nation to the mînister that mlght be recussed and approved in counicil, knew wvhy quhî'ed. One can understand the difficulty
of
lt was done. But the difficulty witb thîs of any minister deallng wlth clauses
thils character.
government bas been that each mInister
The clause was adopted.
étrrogates to himself the right to suggest
cbanges and brlng them before parliament,
On clause 2,
and his colleagues know notbing about tbem,
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I should Ilike to go
and that la what my lion. friend justifies.
back to clause 2, and say thiat tbe word
That is wbat I take exception to, and not
the principle in the Bill. We would not doînestic' shouid be added after the word
bave this difficulty if the saine system pre- 'postai,' ln line 14. One may bave servailed wltb tbls present goverament as witb vants in bis bouse.
the late government, snd just so long as It
Hou. Mr. POWER-No one will meddie
la carried on lu this way, just go long will
%with the servants.
we bave tbe spectacle we bave to-day, Bis
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Wle may have serof the most liitricate character, affecting the
trade of tbe country, and the minister wbo vants iii our bouses, and if they are dislntroduced them, not being able to explaln satistied they may tell of our using that
scaile for domestlc purposes.
why It Ia doue.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I do not tbink nny
harm can be done by strik-ing out this clause.
It refera to the testing of grain and a much
smailer quantity and amaller machine is
found more convenient and cheaper. I
tblnk hon, gentlemen wjll fiad, If tbey sanction this, it will work out in the best interests of the country.

Hon. Mr. POWER-The object of this la
to prevent fraud la seihing, and If a man la
goiag to use scales to weigh tbe ingredients
of a pudding, hie la committing 11o crime.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This is to provide
tiiat where scales are used la dealings between individuala, that they must be inspected, so that the correct wçeights are
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-I agree with the gîven. bot I bave never understood that t'ae
ho0n, gentleman. The section shouid be Inspection Act invades anybody's kitcheni,
I remnember now whiere scales are oaly used for household
talken eut of tAie law.
very distinctly, a]thougb it w-ns bazy at purposes.
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE

17, 1903

371

Bill (112) An Act to tncorporate the CanHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It only applies to
adlan Industrial Corporation, Llmited.scules of traders.
(Hon. Mr.-Lougieed.)
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We are making
Bill (188) An Act to amend the Welghts
this section more strict than the former
use and Measures Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
law. We are maklng lt punishable to
these scules for any purposes except postal.
RAILWAY LABOUR DISPUTES BILL.
'We should put It slmply 'trade purposes.'
is, we are making the cook In the
As it
REPORTED FROM COMMTTTEE.
kitchen punishiable for nslng them for cookThe House resolved Itself into Committee
Ing purposes..
of the Whole on Bill (17) An Act to aid ini
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the committee, the settlement of Rallway Labour Disputes.
reported thiat they land made some pro(In the Committee.)
gress with the Bill, and asked leave to sit
again.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thls Bill proposes to
aid In the settiement of disputes b.etween
The Senate adjourned.
rallway companies and their employees.
The object of It is the formation of a cornmittee, whlch may 'be called a committee of
conciliation, mediation and investigation.
THE SERATE.
There ls nothlng coxnpulsory about the Bill
except the attendance of wltnesses wben the
Ottawva, 'Wedne8day, Juine 17, 1903.
commlttee choose to cail1 them.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three IOn clause 2.
1
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Clause 2 Is an interpretation clause definlng the meaning of the
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
word 'minister,' 'department,' 'railway,'
railway employees,' the expression 'differBILL INTIRODUCED.
ence,' &c., ' the committee ' and 1the board.'
Bill (T) An Act to amend the Criminal
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-BeCode, 1892, respecting the punishment of
fore we adopt these clauses, 1 wish to say
Frauduient Debtors.--(Hon. Mr. Béique.)
a word : I do flot know thiat we bad much
discussion upon thls question at the second
THIRD READINGS.
rend!ng. and I am flot aware that there is
Bill (90) An Act respecting fhe Niagara- any very strong feeling against It. The only
Welland Power Company.-(Hon. Mr. Me- thing that strikes one ln readlng the clauses
and consldering the Bll Is what I think 1
Muhlen.)
might cali the inconsequential character of
Bill (118) An Act respecting the Canada it. It Is permissive in Its chiracter, and
Mr.
Atlantic Railway Company.--(Hlon.
the only compulsory provision In It, is, as
Coffey.)
I understand It, to compel the attendance
Bill (69) An Act to incorporate the North- of witnesses la case a committee of arbiwest Coal and Coke Railway Company- tration ls held under the Bill. There Is n(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
other clause la It, which, perhaps miglit be
the paYrespecting the Alberta considered peremptory, and that is
Bill (42) An Act
ment of fees, wbich Is some consideratiofi
Central Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Watto those who attend to it. Reahly, the quesson.)
tion is .whether it is advisable to put a Bill
Bill (134) An Act to incorporate the Erie of this character on the statute-books. It
Ontario Power Companiy.-(Hoii. Mr. Lan- seems to me to be a simple desire to play
derkin.)
to the prejudices of a certain class of people
Act to incorporate the riederal wi1thout accomplishing anything. In readBill (30) An
ing the commnents upon this Bill by the
011 Coinp.tny.-(Hofl. 'Mr. Dandurand.)
24,i

372

SENATE

labour people-I mean those engaged lu tue
avocations of life to wbich this Bill refers--and aiso of those interested in it froin
an employers' standpoint-nelther the railway peopie nor those empioyed by them are
satisfled wlth the Bill. They botb oppose
It, and I cannot see wbat object there cau
be In piaciug a Bill of this permissive character on the statute-book.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALI) (B.C.)-Milk anti
water.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes, It
la a milk andi water Bill. It Is neither fisb,
flesb nor gooti red herring. The only Interpretatlon 1 eau put upon It is a desire on the
part of the Minister of Labour-that is the
Postmaster General-to try andi make bimself popular by pandering to prejudices
whicb shoulti nnt be recognizeti by ininisters.
The utterances ot the Minister of Labour,
ln bis addresses to different organizations
in mnauy parts of the country, notwithstanding tbe respousIbie position that he boitis,
have tendeti to Incite strikes rather than
prevent: tbem. Any one who bas taken the
trouble to rend the reports of that gentleman's speeches must have corne to that
conclusion. Take, for Instance, the speecb
lie çlelivered ln Moutreal during the longWbat other tendency
sboremen's strike.
could bis remnrks.have had than to Incite
tbose people to continue the strike and to
ruin tbe trade o! the commercial centre o!
Canada. We know tbnt tbat strike Ini Montreal, almost npproved of by the Minister of
Labour, bas lost to that commercial city
bundretis o! thousands of dollars lu the
way of trade this year. 1 kuow of a case
wbere the importations froin Europe andi
froin other portions of the -,vorld have been
dîrecteti tbrough New York rather than by
Montreal by a man engaged in the largest
ma-pufacturing operations lu that city.
Wby ? Because be feared, owing to the labour troubles that existet inl that city, that
hie would bave difficulty lu having bis goods
I am not
landeti andi properly handled.
going to quote an adverse paper in justiMontreal
The
fication o! what I say.
' Herald,' wbich is a government organ in
the city of iMoutreai, reports the Minister o!
Labour as having given utterance to this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

anguage lu speakiug to tbe longslioremen
wben tbey were on strike:
You have borne yourseives like muen. Continue to act with dignity, and you wll help
the great cause of labour lu Canada Immeasureably. To-night I go back to Ottawa. I will
teil the Premier, Sir Wilfrid Laurier, of the
creditable way lu wbich you have acted.
Wiiat ls that but iucitiug the strikers ?
No other construction coulti have been put
on sncb language by tbe strikers. I shaîl
rend an editoriai commuent of a Liberai paper
on this utterance. If lt had been written by
a Conservative editor, it migbt be supposed
it was publlsbed for political purposes. That
Liberal paper says :
Ail this sald wheu Sir William, by looklng out
at a wiudow of the hall, could see the wharfs
lined by red-coated-séntries, but for whom flot
a box or a hale could he uuloaded f rom the
ships waltlug to dlscharge their cargoea. The
muen whom he was complimenting on their conduct , had driven non-union labourers luto cover,
had mercilessiy pounded those who fell into
their bauds, and, when they could wlth safety,
heen flilng the air with alternative volleys of
stones and curses. Wby were 500 youug men
summoned from desk and counter to shoulder
the rifle, and why have the taxpayers to foot
the bill of $18,000 ? Was it flot to put au endi
to a reigu of terrer by these very men whom
two ministers of the Crown praise for the creditable way iu which you have acted ? s not
such encouragement of lawlessuess. sncb patronage of brutal oppression, an uudermining of
public security, a menace to the future peace
of the country ? Iu this free Canada the shamefnl spectacle was seen, that men williug to
work couid only do so under the protection of
the bayonet. Aside frein ahl questions as te
the nierits of the late strike, rîses the paramount duty of obeyiug the law, and that the
law was defled and trampled upon with fierce
brutaiity by the strikers, and that tbey were
oniy witbheld from hourly deeda of violence by
platoons of soidiers, la undeniable. Men have
a rlght to refuse work, but they have no right
to prevent others froni working by Intimidation and brute force. This great truth bas to
be vindicated lu Canada; it will not be by
Mulocks and Préfontaines, who flatter and encourage when they should rebuke and condemn.
Hlon. Mr.
fraim ?

SCOTT-What paper

is

that

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-From
the Huntingdon 'Gleaner.'
Hon. Mr. SCOT'P-Oh.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
moment a Liberal paper bas the courage of

its convictions and speaks the trutb, or the
moment an oid Liberal rises to condemu
that 'which be had been condexnning lu bis

JlTNE 17, 190333
opponents for years, lion. gentlemen opposite None of those affected by it, on onie side
the Bill, and
say : 'oh. oh. he is a Tory editor.' The or tbe other, are in favour of
its I1 see no necesslty for putting lt on the
Hunting-don ' Gleaner ' is consistent with
good Bill,
formier record. I have known the editor statute-book. But if It, be a
a Bill which should be placed on the statuteof that paper for forty years, nnd lie has
wlth the rallways, whiy
been a consistent memnber of the Liberai, booklinl connection
Is It mot made applicable to every other
or wbat I -would cail the Iliiberal, party for
la It
years. And 110w ihut hie tries to lmpress business, and why, above ail things,
not made applicable to 'the Initercolonial
ca» the people that the iministers lie assisted
to get into power are violatlng ail their Rallway ?
former professions, they cry 'ohi, oh'. Well,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls.
I sympathize with the hon, gentleman lihe
is lii thv.t same category himself. and I ean
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE LI-In ail
easily understand why lie should condea
things ?
thcýse wlio are consistent witli thîcir formier
professions, whien lie himself is one of tlie
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
greatest sinners, ln tue way of inconsistency,
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWnEL-I was
In tis House.
understand the position. That confounding this wl'th another Bill which
0f course, I
Is ýtroiig language, I admit. Is it stronger is flot made applicable, but even in this
than tue cîrcumstances demand ? Is it flot case I cau ouiy repeat my objection to al
a fact. staring the two mninisters referred this ki.nd of leglsiation. If ive are to have
to lu their faces at the very time Sir Wil- a Bill at ail, let us have one that ivili have
liam wvas addressing those longsboremefl somte eff ect to It. If the principle of arand uttering those sentiments, tellng them bitration lie righit between these people, and
how weii they ladl behaved, that the oinly the government sbould lnterfere, let us have
means of muoving a bale of goods was under a measure that would be effective, and cointhe protection of the bayonet, and the pel workimen and çimployers to act under
strikers hiad been mobblng those who dared It. This milk and water legisiation lias been
to offer their. services and perform work, latroduced for no other purpJse, I hesitate
and earni bread and butter for their chhîdren. not to say, than to try and mah-e bon. gentlelu the other strilze, I amn glad to sîiy thiat men opposite pçipuiar with a ciass of the
the judge of Montreal lad the courage to community that are 110w controlling and
do thiat whichi many others had not the destroying the commerce, trade and business
courag-e to do: that is, senid people to jal of this country. We cannot go into a city
wltb liard labour for one to six months, outside of the one in whîcli we are standas a punishiment for violating the luw, and ing, but this fact presents ltself to us, that
abusing men who were desirous of earnlng is that building operations and enterprises
an honest living. Tbere are many other of a commercial character, and lndustrial
quotations which I couid give, but I tblnk pursuits are blocked. lu the city of Toronthe quotation I have given Is sufficient to to alone, between two and three million
sliow the unfortunate position of affairs-I dollars' expenditure whlcb would have takeni
say unfortunate, because I iool, upoiu it as place this year lias been ahandoned simply
a great misfortune to this country tlat genu- for the reason that no man la safe to enter
tlemen ln high positions, men holding re- lnto a eontract and no man la safe to coinsponsible offces shouid so forget their duty mence an industry or extend the operations
to the comumunity and to the w-hoie country of the Industry In wblchbhe Is eng-aged, slmas to eulogîlze and pralse men who are com- ply because lie neyer knows -what moment
mltting the deeds of depredation and wrong lie Is going to be blocked and his credit and
that these people Ia Montreai at the very bis -whole business rulned.
Urne these sentiments were uttefed were
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEM.AN-What w'ould the
If I were on the stump I
committing.
w'ould say, speaklng flot very classically, hon. gentleman suggest to $top thînt conthat this Bill does not amount to shucks. dition of aff airs?

374'

SENATE

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
would xiot pander to the eleint tfiat ls
creating the 'trouble, as the hon. gentleman
is doiiig both lu the Chinese Bill and otiier
measures.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--And If
that did not do it, I would adopt tue prin-,
ciples that are laid down by the legisiature
1 wonld put sucli
of Victoria, Australia.
a law upon the statute-book, as to prevent
the pr'ssibility of these outrages occurrlng,
and If they did occur, then send the oftenders to jail and keep thern tbere for a
long tirne. Tlmat Is tbe %way would prevent
I
it, and mark. you, the tirne 15 fast arriving
when scarcely ny man will be safe lu entering into any industrIal pursuit for fear
of the littie capital be may bave being coutrolled by tbose wbo have no capital ut ail].
Tbat Is the tendency of tbe age, aud the
more you pander to It the worse It wll be.
We see the results of It to-day, and lt la
exteading continuaily.
I know tbat I inn
not speaking the popular sentiment of tbat
class of people, nor have 1 ever doue so
during- my Ilfe. I arn condernng what 1
belleve to be the curse of this continent nt
the preseut day, aud 1 arn givlng utterance
to wbat I honestly and couscientiously bclieve to be the oniy rernedy by wbich youi
ca'n put a stop to it, but just so long as we
have agitators, and just sa long as we have
people who are williug to surrender their
individual andi houest convictions, lu order
to obtain favour in the politicai world, just
so long wlll we bave these dîfficulties.
I
bave spokea warmly on this subject, perbaps, but 1 have sîjoken as 1 feel, and it
is foir the Senate to sny, xvhile they pass
this Bill. whetber they approve of the couduct.of mien who deliberately, in their cool,
caini moments. -ive utterance to sncb la!Iguage as bas beea used by the Minister of
Labour, lu tbe very face of tbe disîurbance
andi unliwful nets committe in Montreal.
lu
As far as 1 arn coucerned individually, I
wipe ruy biauds cleur of it.
Those %vho
like to support such couduct and leg-Isiation
can settle it with their owu consciences andi
the people they represent.

derstood from the Minister of Labour that
this Bill is asked for both by the ernployees
and by tbe rallway companies. I recollect
a body of railway employees meeting tbe
Minlster of Labour lu Toronto some trne
ago, and bis submItting to them bis proposai
and, as I uuderstood then, and bave understood since, they favourably considered it
If we look back upon the strikes in the
past-I arn sorry to say tbey have become
very nurnerous, and appear to. be increasing
In number year by year-you wili find tbere
ls just one way ln whieh they bave been
successfully settied, that ls, by the very
method proposed ln this Bill, by conciliation, getting bath parties to yleld sometbing.
Both parties are very often to blame. 0f
course lu sorne cases strikiug is wholly lndefensibie. In other cases a strikze may
arise from grievances Imposed on men, and
It ls only fair that Ibose grievances sbouId
be consldered, and as experience bas
shown, iu many cases the employer bas to
yield. But it is only througb this chanuelthere ls no compulsory way of settling a
strike. That is tbe experience of everybody
wbo bas given any attention or study to
the subject. Now, in reference to tbe observations that bas been read of the hon.
Minister of Labour, I arn quite sure that at
the time the Minister of Labour gave utterance to the expressions wbîicb bave been
reported, those acts of violence bad not been
committed.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-The
strîlze was going on at the time.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Of course, I speak subject to correction. I read at the time the
observations of Sir William M'%ulock, aind
tliey appeared to me to be ail lu tbe direction of conciliation. There was no use, if
lie hoped for any successful results, to cornience ut once to abuse them. That is not
tue way to bring over an excited body of
men. You bave, iii a certain sense, to buinour tbem-to get them to recog-nize tbat
you talie an interest lu tbem and desire
their weifare-tiat you recognize tbere are
some wrongs to be rigbted. Otberwise It la
Impossible for any mediator to intervene in
n labour dispute. That is the only way it
Hon. McNl.
SCOTT-The Information fur- can be accomnplished. This Bill proceeds
nisheti to me dîffers cousiderably from tbe just on the hunes I bave indicated. I am
stateinent of my bon. frlend. I bave un- inforrned-and mv information cornes fromn
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

JUNE 17, 1903

37 à

say whetlier the provisions of this Bill may
be a succesa or not. i am exceedlngly sorry
that-there appears to be no provision lu It
to enforce a decIsion. Wliy it la so, 1 am
unable ta say. 1 quite agree that the Incidents which bave transpIred lu this country for the ast two or tliree years 'very
ciearly Indicate that it la highbly desîrabie
that some, stop should be put to strikes, particularly raiiway strikes. The MinIster of Labour bas commenced wlth raiiway strîkes,
and If lie succeeds wlth theSe the law may lie
extended ta others. The question of not
belng able ta enforce a decision of tlie
board may rather weaken and Injure, If It
Is flot efficient, tlian Improve the conditions
that exiat. It 1-.aiso, I may say, iegislatingon very dangerous ground. If bath parties
are not wiihing ta accept the offices of those
nppointed to act as conciliators, or If they
take objection to their findlngs, and 'One
party refuses to abide by the fandings of the
board, It is going ta weaken thie iaw considerabiy lu settiing other thinga perhaps
than strîkes. Now, the leader of the OPposition bas drawn attention ta the strike
which took place la Montreal. I have looked over the crimînai code, and 1 arn amazed
that -In the face of the strike whicli toolk
place ln Moutreal and the conduet of men
nury to non-union
there la daiug personailu
men by throwing atones and in other waYs
-I ara amazed ta think that the power of
the criminai code n'as flot brauglit ta bear
more effectualiy than It was. I sbould like
any lawyer Ia this House ta paint out ta me
a single act of violence or calliug names,
or hn any way Interfering with men in the
diacharge of tlieir duty, that la flot in violation of the provisions of tbat code. It is
very singular ta think- that bath in Montreai, where we have unquestiouabIy able
lawyers, men are permitted, openly ta vialate the provisions of that code and act la
a disgraceful way ta Injure the freedom Of
labour and the trade of that city, wlthout
that criminal code
Hou. mr. McMULLEN-I must aay tliat havlug the provisions of
of Labour ahl credit for put lu force againat them. I have iooked
1 give the Minister
trylng ta put ou the statute-book a iaw that over the existing iaw for the punishment
may possibly render same assistance in the of wronga of this kInd, and tried lu My
wilich would,
case of rallway atrilces. We ail know per- humble way to prepare a Bihl
bas suifereil ia some measure, puniali the outrageons
fectiy well that the country
great Inconvenience by the strikes whicli conduct of persons In cities and oCher places
amazed
bave taken place from time ta time. I ain where strikes takze place. 1 n'as
flot a lawyer. I amrn ot la a position ta ta find, wheu I campared the draft of my

the fountain hlead-that this Bill la acceptable to the ernpioyed and ta the companies.
Some bon. gentleman said, when the Bill
was up for second reading, that there was
strong opposition to it. In order that the
opposition might be developed, 1 sald :
* Send It to a committee and let those wlio
oppose the Bill appear and give their reasons. They cannot give their reasons lu
tlils Chamber, but they eau before one ot
the committees of the House.' No one appeared ln opposition to the Bill, aithough
ample opportunity was gîven. 1 thlnk It
was about a week after the Bill was referred that It.was taken up for consideration,
and yet xio one appeared to oppose it. That
must be taken as evidence that the Bill Is
acceptable to ail the parties who are Interested. 1 fuiiy recognIze ail the lion. gentleman lias said as to the unfortunate position
of the country at present 'wlth regard to
strIkes. Tlie;e la no doubt they are increaslng very rapidly, and lu mnny cases are
wboiiy unjustlfied, and that the effeet bas
been ta weau iargely the sympathies of
thode who would ordinarily sympathize with
the labouring men In their troubles, recoguizIug that they have a good deal to endure
and suifer. They have to work liard, and
public sympathy as a rule Is on their aide,
but I do say unhesitatingiy that that sympathy lias been largely alienated by the ludefensibie couduct of the unions In the lat
few months. It lias changed the feelinugs
of the community on the labour question,
and the sooner the unions recognize that
the better. They must have public opinion
ou their aide If they are to make their
strikea a succesa. The constitution of the
labour organizations la sound, but unfortunateiy there la an element of excited men
who, wlien aroused, violate ail rules and the
iaws of the country, and more particularly
of late by denounclng men wbo refuse to
join the unions, and debarring sucli men
from the priviiege of workiug.

376

SENÂTE

Bill wlth the crirninai code, that it w'as
covered in every particular by the criminai
code as it exists. I gave up any further
attempt, because 1 did flot see how a Bill
couid be framed that would go furthier thau.
the criminiai code does, and what I arn
amazed at is that it lias flot been- put in
force. If this Bill succeeds to any extent
-we shall ail be greatly i)leased. I shall
give the minister credit for the lionest effort
lie mahes if it <ioes flot succeed, and I arn
sure lt Is the wish of every -member of this
Chamber, if this Bil becomes iaw, that it
shahI be effectuai. If we find, after It lias
been put into force, that It is flot In every
respect as effective in stopping strikes as
we wouid like. we can arnend and improve
It so) as to prevent the unfortunate condition of thing-s that has existe-d iii this
country for the past few years. For niy
part, 1 entireiy agree with the expressions
of opinion we have heard to-day regarding
the unfortunate condition existing in this
country, for the last year particuiariy, with
regard to strikes. It is most deplorable to
thiak we have the condition of things that
exists in the east and the west and in ail
directions. I was amazed on Monday.last
to rend in the ' Globe' a copy of a circular
that lias been issued by labour organizations
of this country, for circulation throughout
Great Brîtain, teliing men th-3re that there
w-as no room in Canada for skiiied labourthat the price of everytliing hiad gone Up to
sucli an extent that this was flot a country
for skiiied labour-that tiiere was no room
here, and that w'orkingnien here were living
from hand to mouth. It is deplorabie to
think, that there is any organization w-hidi
w-ouid be so untýuthful, so unpatriotic, si)
disloyal to the future of this country and
to the present conditions and progress of the
Dominion that 'they wouid dare to put in
bhack and white such a circuiar as that.
For my own part, I arn interested In one or
two manufacturing institutions, and I say
w-e cannot get skiiied labour. We are paylag for skilied labour in a factory I amn interested in $20 a week, and -%ve cannot get
men enougli to fill the places or do the
work. In Toronto the manufacturers have
approached the goverament and represented
to tlier that there !s roorn here for 11,000
skiled labourers in this country If they
rouid be got to corne bere. In the face of
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

that fact, a fact whicb 1 know to exist, and
which can be proved, the labour organizations of this country, to serve their own
ends and enable them to successfuliy frustrate the efforts of employers of labour, have
issued that circular and senit It to the labour
unions of Engiand for circulation tiiere. An
organization which eould be guilty of sucli
conduet deserves to be treated with drastic
legisiation to prevent the condition of thing-s
xve have ia this couutry. As far as this
Bill is concerned, if it wviil heip to put a
stop to labour troubles, I shall be greatiy
rejoiced. I hope it may, and I shial be
prepared to give the Minister of Labour
credit for tAie effort lie has made. If it
does not accornpiisli ail w-e whsli, -e can
amend it so as to put a stop to those
troubles in this country..
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWrELL-I
quite agree w-hth the bon. gentleman that
if this Bill is to -have the effect lie anticipates it wi, w-e shahl ail be gratified,
and I shahl be pieased to give the credit
to those w-ho have introduced It and put
It on the statute-bool.. The mid, genial,
soothing nianner ia whlh the hon. Secretary of State bas defended this Bill ieads
me to conclude that lie agrees witli mostiy
ail I have said la reference to It. The
tendency la lis mind, I arn convinced,
is as strongly in the saine direction as mine,
as it can possibiy be. The lion. genîtlemn
fromi Wellington says lie is surprised tiîat
the provisions of the criniii';ji iaw were
flot. put in force in Monitreai. I w-as very
mucli of that opinion, but I can uiiderstand
whiy w-len I corne to rend letters received
frorn Britishi Columbia ln reference to the
Chinese restriction Bill. Whli certain people
were denounclng the Bill as introduced very
strongly, the question w-as asked ' Why do
you flot sign the petitions ?' The repiy w-as:
'Sirnpiy because w-e dare îlot do it.'
Hon. Mr. TEMNPLEMAN.

Oh, nonsense.

Hon. Sir MACK,,E NZIE BOWqýErL-Perhaps the hion. gentleman knows better than
the gentlernan w-ho w-rote nie about it.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I know better
than a great many of then.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbere
are many w-ho w-ouid flot sigia the petitions
sirnply because they know they wvouid an-

JUNE 17, 1903
tagonize the labour element tiot offly iii
Britishi Columbia. but in the enst. Th7e lion.
gentleman bas referred to ait arbitration lw
What bas been the effect of it liu New ZeaNo doubit every lion. gentlemuani
laud ?
niakes hinaseif acquaintedl %viti tlhe events
ofi the day. A difficulfy occurred lu New
Zealand. as reported recently, and wben 1
give the authority froua whiclb I quote, «11
editorial of the Toronto ' Globe,' of course
niy lion. friend will accepit it-aîîd wlîeu 1
,desire f0 miake a point 1 prefer to quote
on. gentiefront papers whicli support tli
mnic. The ' Globe' ln its editoril givies a
A dispute arose
quotatioîi of this cliaracter

between the funituire nialkers and tlielr cmployees. The governiment nppointed a board
,of arbitration. Tlîey made au award. The
aîîswer made by the manufacturer was
Ii-s :4If I iccept fliat .9werdl and pIy file
w-ages you have decided that 1 shail pay, 1
-%ilI either have to abandon mny business,
or import f ront Europe, or soine otixer part
of the world, those articles wvbich 1 have
been In the habit of inanufacturing lut iny
establishmnent ; or 1 -,lrll taIte the other alternative of disnaîssiîîg every man wbo Is
flot a first-class naechanice and can eairn the
wages that you hîisist oitn e payling.' There
is one, of the cuises of arbitration. There
tire maur men lu cvery ianii's ernploymntevery oit@e Lnows it-wlîo eau cara fifty or
scveîîty-five per cent more titan another
iin. aud yet the arbitrators decided tbat
iiider this laiv the iiiferior man wbo was
ulnable t0 cara bis %'-ages, or tlie rates they

377

large orders at his disposaI, takes very good
care nof f0 do tbiat wlîiclî -viil anfagonize
tbosc whose labour lie niust have Iu order
f0 carry on bis business. I arn very glad
this discussion lias arisen. I arn very glad
the bon, gentleman from Calgary introduced.
bis Bill, wbetber it ever becomes law or flot.
I arn quite safisfied thaf the effect upon the
wbole community, whiether it bce le mployers or tbe employed, will be a salutary
one, and do more towards puttiig an end
to these strikes-not s0 niucli fte strikes,
perhaps, but flic evils wbiclî result from
theni-thati any milk aud water legislation
wbicb we can put on ftic statute-bookz. 1
sincerely hope this Bill wilI have tbe effect
wbicb the bon. member froua Wellingtonl
(Hon. Mr. -MeMullen) speaks of, -but 1 bave
grave doubts of if. It meaus uotbiug, Is
intended f0 menu nofbiug-, and will secornplisb nofhing.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I sliould like to
say a word about tbe adrni iiistrafi oi of justice iu tbe late sfrlkes lu Montreal. The bon.
gentleman from 'Wellington was surpri8ed
at the failure of fthe administration of justice iii connection -with those. strikes. 1 may
tell hîm fhaf if lic lived lut Monfreal ho
would flot bave corne f0 fhaf conclusion. If
is bard f0 lay one's band upon a cuiprit
whcn four or five lîundred men are gathercd fogether. A volley of stones is fired and
some strik-e the vicfims, aud if is a liard
tbing f0 ldenfify the guilty parties. There
were, af flic hcginning of ftic loîgslioîemen's strike, some small disturbances. If
biad declared. should receive the same wages was the first Important strike w-e biad bad
as a skillcd artisan. That is an Illustration lu Montrenl for a number of years. The
of flic worlting of conipulsory arbîtration. police of flie city w'erc taken unawarc,
~Such arbitration is of this character :If If and had not'had sufficient experieuce as to
suits those wlio are affected by it, tbcy will1 fbe proper way of coping successfully wif h
accept if if it does not, tlîey %vill revoit sucb a situation.
As it is a debatable
aganust IL. and do as flese manufacturing question witb reference f0 the jurisIndustries will do. it lias tlie effcct of pro- diction of the police of Mont real ou the
ducing strikes. My lion. friend from Vic- wharfs of the clty, the chief of police
toria, (Hlon. Mr. Templeninn) wben 1 gave tbought thaf the troops sbourd be called ouf.
as an illustration the reasorts why many per- A few hundred men were brougbt there. sons, w-ho objected to thec anti-Clhiese Bill, amn quite sure If was useless to caîl those
would îîot sign petitions against It, question- men. A hundred well-disciplined. men would
ed the correctness of my Information. 1 have coped wltb fbaf strike and 1kept At
have no objection f0 show itan the letters *bay tbe fiffeen hundred stikers. Perbapis
that I receîved upon fuis qluestion, showlng if is a very large number of men to manthat the evil to whlîi I refer exists lu our aige, wifh a limited number of pol«icemenl.
own country. We ail know fliat n nian Soule special police sbould perbaps bave been
bundcarrying on aî business, wvbo perhaps lias sworn lu. At ail eveuts, two or tbrce

SENATE

:378

The lion, gentleman has spoken of tbe eticouragemieli given to the strikers by the lion.
Postmaster General and the Minister of 1Marifle and Fisheries when they came down te
Montreat to try and stop the longshoremefl'S
strike. Olie of the ministers, the Postinaster General. was reproached for bavlng used
soine words when speaklng to the strikers;,
but the langunge attributed to bhlm, and
whicb slîould have been condemned, and deserved condemnafioli, was repudiated by hlm.
rlghf of a man f0 enrai bis own living. and ov-er bis own signature.
the law should protecf men wvhen tliey ar*e Hon. Mr. Me.MILLAN-It was deelared by
desirous cf earingi. titeir owva living. A the press they couid prove It. 1 -will give
few wecks ago we had ftic Montrent street the 'Gazette' as authority.

reci sAidiers rcrnained there frorn fthe beginiiiiig. Perbiaps fliere were more, but twû
or thiree liundred men did serve mosf of the
timie, and froin the moment f here was sufficlent force f0 Leep the unruly af bay, or to
show thiat Iaw and order wouid bc mainfained. there was no furflier difficulfy. licn
who were willing to work could do so. We
nil recognize that a man lbas a riglit t0 abstain from working, but there is a furtber
higlier aîîd more solemnn l:iw, and that ta flhe

railway strike. In fliat case we liad proof
the
at
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But
of the ese with wbich law çan be mainîsaine turne we bad the admission froin the
tained, If the police wili slmply do ttîelr
duty. There was a slight outbreak, seinee 'Gazette' fliat ifs reporter bad net bee'i
disturbance on a Suniday affernoon, *Iîst able f0 go to that meeting, because news1w cause flic police authorifies thouglit Iere paper men were debarred from attending.
was no harin lu allowing the strikers f0 waik Some one made the report. It w-as a secIn procession. As I said a moment agO, one-band report, but ln the face of the
we do nlot always know cxactly wbat %villsolemn dental of the minister of the Crbwn
happen froin day f0 day. Our police know stating that be had not uscd the language atnow the 51f naflot exactly. Tbey bave had the trlbuted to hlm, if seema f0 me bis word
experience. A few mien were hurt, but fne to-day sbould go*uncbailcnged.
police know that ln tumes of strikes thepy
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I dld
should aliow no body of men t0 congregafe îiot quote froin tle 'Gazette.'
1 quofed
or marcb ia the streefs, that every man from the ministerial organ.
should attend t0 bis own business, and
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I am very glad
that the streets of the city should
rot be blocked by any kind of procession to bear the bon. leader of the opposition
or ag.-regation of men. This was flic wboie speik of that organ*ns the goverument orIf is the Huntingdon 'Gleaner,' is
solution of the trouble. Once the police gan.
lt Dlot ?~
came te flic conclusion fiait if was dangerous f0 allow mca f0 congregafe togeflier, we
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not at
Lad pence, and the men wlio were williag all; the Monfreal 'Herald,' in wbicb one
to ivork were absolutcly profectcd. A few of the ministers, I understand, is a stockdùîys aftcrwards the strike ivas-off, perhaps bolder, If not a dîrector.
I quoted fr0ein
Jr consequeuce of flic fact that fthc mcei were the report made by the Montrent 'Herald,'
w,-Illhiig f0 work wlica flicy were profccted. and then I quoted tbe comments upon it
I said If w-as bard f0 catch nien who, Ia
a crW-d. creatcd a disturbance or assaulfted

Individuals.

But five or six men arresfed

o-'

the

Huntingdon

'Gicaner,'

a

Liberal

paper.

Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND-I did nof folio w
f bore are serving- quite, long sentences f0fron flie
day at bard labiur, some fhree monflis, some word for word, the quotation
Montreai, 'Herald,' but I an linformed tlie
six moaflis-ail t hose that flie police could

even bieiay thelr bands upon arc now breaklng atones ' Herald' corrected Its own report
fore tbe Postinaster Gencral iade an ottilu Monfrent jail, and I arn quife sure that
denial.
Nviflh the experience we bave Lad our police cmal
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW%,EL-Il con
will be able in future t0 cope wifh aîîy kiad
cf strîke, and protect the man who wisbes fess I neyer saw if
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-At ail events,
to wvork and stop., af ail eveats, the disgraccin M-Nonfr-eai. lt appeared wlierc a dental was mosf iieedful disturbances wc have bad
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

JUNE 17, 1903
ed, ln the Montrea:l press-the 'vhole presa
of the city. I am surprised thxat MY lhou.
friend did not see within tivo or tbree days,
the dental of the Postinaster General over
hir. own signature.
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE UOWELL-Yea, 1
saw is dental of the remarka reportd la
the 'Gazette.' I read that.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This was a deniai of the atatement that hie badl declared,
te the strikers that If lie liad been ln their
place lie would bave struck himself.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Exactly, but that is not wbat I qiioted.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-The bon. gentleman quoted the Huntingdon 'Gleaner,'
wbidh is supposed ta be Independent Liberni, but I hardly know a question on
which that paper does flot differ from the
It bias openiy assaiiedl the
Liberni party.
policy of the provincial and federal goveruments froin the time of their coming Into
office, and at times even condemnied the
pollcy of the Lîberal party, provincial aud
federal when lu opposition. So tbat when my
hon. tniend cites the Huntingdon 'Gleaner,'
we could have the opinion of the Huntingdon
'Gleaner' cited againat the policy of the
Liberal party on almost every question.
Hon. '-%I. LANDRY-Why ?
Mon. Mn. .DANDURAND-It showvs the
hou. gentleman perhaps nather agrees with
the poiicy of the Conservative panty. He is a
party who opposes -nearly every act of the
Liberal government. My hon. friend condema
the poiicy of the gaverninent as expressed ln
the present Bill. It seema to me thia Bill
can do ne injury and can do some goed.
It la said that wben a atrike la about to
bappen, the parties sbould go ta arbitration.
It la a good policy and a good prInciple te
adopt, and If it ends la peace and conciliation it ahouid do good. I want te refer
to the remarka of the hon, leader ot the
opposition on the Chinese Immigration Bill.
The bon. gentleman states lie liaa letters
tram parties la British Columbia proteating
against the adoption of that measure. We
,have liad for a niumber of yeara the o>fficiai
representatives of Britiash Columbia ln their
provincial leg-islaturea pretending ta speak
for the province, and apenking uniformly In

the samne way ail along for a number of
years. We have beaidea the membera fran'
British Columbia lu the House of Coinmous, wbo, have foilowed the provincial
legialatures In condemning the Chinese Immigration, and asking for restrictive legislatIon againat that liuigration. It seems,
tberefore, that thls parliament is weii juatified ln acceding to the desires and 'wiahes
of the legisiature of British Columbia.
CiLinese Immigration lsan question which
On
affects British Columbia exciusiveiy.
this aide of the House we dlaim to be autonomista, and it seems to me when a question affects a province aoieiy, it la but juat
that we shouid, after the long number of
years that they have uniformiy expressed
thinseives unanimousiy againat admittingthe Ciîinese that this pariiameft sbouid
accede to the unanimous voice coming troa
There Is nothing lithe Pacific coaat.
moral la the legisiation. Our riglit to prevent people froin entering this country ls
We have a law against allen
absolute.
'Ile United States have a law
labour.
ngainst alleu labour. The United States
and Canada can say to 'foreigners employed
under contract, thatt tbey shall fot be admitted. We caa prevent a white man frotn
entering our country, and a white man cahî
be prevented froin entering the States wbeni
I do
lie entera under certain conditions.
not see nny principie vioiated by the Act.
The righit of a man to ronin about the worid
la limited by the supreme will of the country lie wants to enter, and the conditions
ander which lie may bie allowed to enter. i
I oniy
do îîot see auy principle violated.
see lu the question of Chinese immigration
the riglit of parliament to give effect to the
unanimous voice of British Columbia.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The United States iaw does not prevent the naturalized United States citizen from going back
to the States.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Na,
thinir it does.

I do not

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The British law prevents the Chinese froin comiug
into this country.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If
Chinaman.

lie

be

a'

380

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman misapprebiends wbat 1 snld
In reference to Chinese labour. The reason
that I referred to Ut was thal the bon.
senator for Wellington (Hon. Mr. MeMullen),
expressed bis surprise that certain people
ln Montreal did flot take action under
the crirninni law, and I said probably that
resulted from the saine causes wbicli prevented people who were opposed to the
Imposition of the extra tax on1 Chinese
labour ini British Columbia from signing
the petitions protesting against the antiChiuerze legisiation for fear of the effect It
would bave on their trade. That is tire
,only reference I made to It. I did flot argue
the question genieralir, as the hou, gentleman bas done.
Hlon. Mr. DANDTJRAND-I suppose as
the pi-enises laid dow-n are found to be
errolieous the conclusion should follow.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 3,
Hon. %Ir. McMeIýULLEN-I notice that this
clause provides that the minîster shall give
notice, and so on. 1 should like to know
on whom that notice is to be served. Supposing a strilze of trackmen, for instance,
has irisen, and there is a very large number of trackmen ail along the line, bow are
ail the trackmen to be held responsible for a
notice servedi on one trackman ? Who is
to be served «? Wbho is to be recognized as
the' bend of any organization upon whoin
they wishi to serve a notice ? That Is a
point I sbould like to ascertain. One party
mny get notice and the other pnrty rnay
say : ' 1 do not recognize hlmi as rny authorlty, or a man I sliould follow in receiving
notice to consent to an arbitration.' Sorne
provision should be made, If you are going
to serve notice, that there. should lie sorne
one to receive ItL Then when you corne to
the railway men, are you going to serve
notice on tbe president, or the traffEc manager, or wbo ls to be served ?

the manager. It is a circurnstance whichi
is known to everybody when a strike is
imminent, and I do flot see the slightest dîfficuity la that part of It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
not so sure of that. There seerns to be a
good deal of force la the rernarks made by
the hon. gentleman from Wellington. Is It
the presîdent or the manager, or who 15 it to
be ? Are we to understand that this is a
recognition by this laîv of the unions that
cause the strikes ? Must the head of theunion De notified ?i
Hon. '-\r. TEMPLEMAN-It does not mention unions.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I know
That is wbat the hou.
it does not.
gentleman from Wellington says. It does
xîot mention that or nnything else. Take
Compiaint was
the strike in Montreal.
made in reference to that railway strike.
One of the men was disrnissed for incivilThat bas taken hnid
ity to passengers.
of by the bead of the union as a grievance.
W%ýbat was bis dlaim ? I have no doulit you
have ail rend It. He published a letter to
this effect: If tbere was nny complaint on
the part of tbe public of incivîlity by one
of the railway conductors, wby didn't they
go to the head of the u' ion and cornplain, and not to the gentleman who
owned the railway ? Was be the maxi
who should be invlted, or was. it the men
whio empioyed hlm ? There was a case showing exactly what the tendency and the demand of the officiais in the union are. Now
tliat man, no doulit, on behaif of the union,
wouid dlaim, if there was a dispute and they
ordered a strike, that they are the parties
who shouid be notified as to what klnd of
settiernent shouid take place and not the
parties wbo are- affected by the strike. If
this Bill Is to be effective at ail, there is a
great Geai of force ln the suggestions made
by the bon, gentleman frorn Wellington. I
arn very mucli afraid that this Bill Is like
a great rnany others that the bon. Secretary
of State bas lntroduced. He bas not given
it that attention, probably, tbat be sbould
have given it, and is not sufficientiy acquainted witb the detalîs of It to accept
suggestions tbat may be made.

Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-I do not see that any
ditticulty can arise. We ail L-now that on
occasions of that kind the men act ln unison and some individual is named as
spokzesman for tixe others. So far as the
railway company 15 concerned, it does not Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-We must tbear ln mind
matter wbether you notify the president or tbe nature of the subject wltb whlch this
Hon. NIr. DANDURAND.

381

JUNE 17, 1903
Bill is dealing. The Bill deals wIth any
differences which may arise between employer and employees. These differences
will arise ln most cases between a rallway
company and employees who are flot regularly organlzed, or the difference may arise
between a regular labour organization and
a railway company. Therefore It; is an Impossibility to define an which party to the
difference the notice should be served. It
will be for the minister, according to each
special case, to determine the best way of
niaking a service. The moment a dIfference
lni the nature of a strike arises, lt ls invariably known w-ho are at the head of the
movement, and it will lie easy for the
minister to determine w-ho should be served
w-lUi the notice. Therefore, it seems ta me
it w-ould lie an impossibility to define, and
it would nullify the law, as a matter of
fact, if we tried to define on what party
notice should be served. While I amn on
mv feet. 1 desire to say. for my part, I
think that this Bill is a valuable measure.
One must admît that the most Important
thxing in dealing wîth strikes Is public opinion, and public opinion is hiable, for want o!
proper information, to err in taking one
side or the other, and it Is very Important
that at the outset there should be a tribuxial organized whose duty it would be
ta see If the elnployees have axiy grievance,
and if they have any real grievance, public
opinion w-ill be brouglit to bear on the employer so that justice will lie doue; and It
w-i
lie iequally important, if the grievances are not of a serious character, that it
should lie known as soon as possible so that
public opinion miglit lie properly directed
and brouglit ta bear so as to prevent a
strike. Therefore. ns far as I can see, that
is the object of the Bil, and I amn sure It
w-i serve a valuable purpose.
The clause w-as adopted.
On clause 6,
6. If any member af sald committee or board
shali die, refuse, negleet or become Incapable
ta act, then whenever the same shahl happen a
succesar shall bo appainted ln like manner
as ls abave pravlded ln respect af the original
member of tommlttee or board. Before such
appolntment the name af the persan prapased
ta be appointed shall be submitted to bath
parties ta the difference and there shahl ho aifarded ta each of them an appartunity not exceeding ton days of maklng knawn ta the appointlng authorlty whether snch proposed appointee ie oUjected ta, It belng lntended tbat it

shahl he endeavoured ta appoint anly such person as shahl nat ho reasonably objected ta by
elther party.

Han. 'Mr. POWER-Does not the haol.
Secretary o! State think that ten days is too
long a time ta allow
Hon. '-\r. BEIQUE-Not
days it says.

exceeding

ten

Hon. 'Mr. I'OWER-I know, 'but it is ahways desirabie these difficulties shouhd lie
terminated as soon ns possible, and il should
not take anytbing like ten dilys for either
party ta decide whether toa ccept the arbitrator named. It seems ta me it should
not bo anythixig like ton days.
Hon. MNr. D.ANDUR.IND--It w-ould li&
dangorous to reduce that number of days,
because the country is so large it may be
bard, if there is a strike ini British Columbia
for instance, ta lix upon a maxi ta act. If
it is a dispute in Ottawa. very likely the
If
time given would lie forty-eiglht hoUrgI.

it is ln Montreal it may be twice that. or
three days. 1 suppose a limitation should
not lie made for either.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
langer you put off the time the longer you
continue the difficulties that exist. If there
Is ta be conciliation, it shauhd lie ns soon
as p.ossible.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie minister appreciates that, and w-ill close it up as soon as
possible.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But the other party May not.
Han. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýELL-It i.s
not for the minister ta say. The parties interested have the ton days ns w-ehl as the
ministor.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I SUiR think that tel'
days Is an unduly long timo.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Say five days.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-A week at the ontside. With respect ta the point made liy
the lion. gentleman from de Lorimier (Han.
Mr. Dandurnnd) as ta a strike la British
Columbia, there might lie force In that objection If we had no telegraph hines ta British Columbia; but thore is no part of this
country that cannot lie reached In a day by
telegraph.

SENATE
clause
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under
three only five days are given the parties f0
nominate flic arbitrator. I see no renson
why the sanie Iluit of lime sliould not lie
applied in clause six.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-TliCe
Secretary of State slionld accept that suggestion.

settliment as long as possible.
Further,
section six onily provides for the filing Up
of a vacancy. If that v-acancy arises, the
board Is practically where it was unider
section tbree before fthe appointrnents were
made.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do not read
clause six as the lion, gentleman from Calgary does. The appointment niay lbe made
la five days ; it will not exceed teit days. Il
is a power that wîll give fthe minister the
discretion. ln fixing the delay. If lie thinks
forty-eight bours are sufficient, hie will give
that delay whlch wvili be within the limit
mientioned. 1 thinkl Il is w-cii to leave Il 10
the power affording thle opportunity to use
luis discretion to fix the time limit, provided
il does flot exceed ten days.

Hon. Mr. M-NcMULLEN-I do not fhiik it
would lie wise 10 lumit ftle finie, lon. gentlenmen must remember tlis. once a move is
made by flic Minister of Labour f0 settie
what may possibly resuit ln a strike, parties
on boîli sides are looking forçvard 10 a settlement, or anl effort on thie part of flic Miaister of Labour f0 settie flic dispute. If a
lapse of eveni teni days takes place, il will
give lime for the quieting of flic venoni and
Hon. Mr. DRUMMDOND-Let nie direct atspleen fliat may arise bet-ween flic parties,
tention to clause twenty-four wlîich reads
and cause them 10 reflect and think over flic
as follows
wliole question. If yon limit If down and
24. The mînleter may fromn lime 10 time niake,
Insist upon arbitration before fhey cool
alter and amnend regulations, as to thec ime
dowa, Von mnay îîot effect a settlement at wlthin which any thing hereby authorized shall
be done, and also to any other mnalter or thlng
ail..
which appears to hlm necessary or advisable ln
Houi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Bnf order 10 the effectuai workîng of the several
provisions of this Act.
suppose a sîrikze talzes place, as il ofteuî hapThat seems to cover ail the objections.
liens, before parties onîside know anything
about il ? The lion. genîtlemn's argument
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-After the foris aIl riglit If the dispute is going on before mnation of tlie board. if a dealli occurs, liosflic strike.
tîlities may have ceased.
No great diffiHon. '-\r. TEM\PLEM\AN-Ini the appoint- culty will arise,. and conciliation rnay be
ment of a bonard ouf coinciliation five days effected. Thîis is a mensure of conciliation
notice is given. If that board of conciliation and everything in this Bill 15 to carry out
As the Posîmaster Genieral
is unable 10 eifect a settiemexit, fliere is 10 that object.
l)e a board of arbltratioxi and clause six desires to give it a fair trial, fixe House
demis wiîli the board of arbitralion. Tbey should bear hlm out in endeavouring f0
are tiien f0 piroceed 10 try and land ont -wlere pass lt on the line hie prop3ses. I fhiink we
Give hlm anl opflic M)aille lies as 10 flic strike. Slionld any slîouid not cavil at il.
coînmitfee die, a fime not portunity. He lias made a special study of
îiîerber of tuaI
exceeding ten days is given f0 get somebody it, and bas sliown a deep interest ln the
elsý. If is 10 lie assnmed tue Miaister of La-. cause of labour, notwithstnnding the fact
that lie has been misreprcscntetd. Endçavbour wvould have flic appointment made ont
our is made to interfere with the successful
at as early a date as possible. I think il
conduct of measures that hie may have in
w-auld lie unwç%Isc to change that ;making il
this direction, but I think, we ouglit to lend
five days will not improve il, because I
hlm a willing hand in assistiag hlm to carry
of Labour can
liav~e no doulit if tîxe Miaister
out Ibis mcasure-we should give hlmi every
inake flic appointment la five days, lie wll
assistance la our power.
We- have had
do so.
strikes golng on for a long time, and lie
Hon. Mr. LOUGL-EED-The hon. gentle- lias endeavoured, by a policy of conciliation
mani overiooks the fact that the other side to sottie theni. Arbitrary mleans hiave been
iniglît takie advaîîtage, of flic ten dmys delay. tried la other countries. He is frying a conIl
ig.lit lie 10 flîcir advaiitage t, delay a ciliatory measure.
Give hlmn a fair opHon. Mr. POWER.

JUNE 17, 1903
Portunity. Do flot interfere and cavil nt
the time hie takes, because that may be ail
a part and parcel of the process by wbicb hie
endeavou 'rs to bring conciliation about.
Wlth regard to the efforts of the two minIsters wbo endeavoured to settie the strike
in Montreal, politicai rancour goes so far
that efforts were made to minimize their
Influence. They were rnlsrepresented, and
it is flot the duty of tis House to continue to misrepresent the Ininisters wbo
made the effort and had the courage of
their convictions and went to see thle mien
with a view to bringing about concllath>ni,
and 1 tbink wben the minister says it is
necessary to have thus time, we should accept it.

out wbat -ie conceive to be defectis or ask.
for Inforination. This crlticism as to the
ten days is along the linie of harunonizing
tbe Bill to carry out tbe object In vlew
rathier than otherwlse. It is for tbe purpose
of permitting it to be done speedlly so
bliat disputes w-il! not continue longer thai'
necessary.
LANDERKIN-We have passed
Hon. M-Nr.
the board of conciliation. We are
passing to the board of arbitration. The
hon, gentleman. I hope, w-i read the clause
again. H-e is an able law3-er, and wby this
misunderstanding of the Bill ? Conciliation
bas succeeded tliis far, and then before wve
go on to arbitrate, If a memlber of the
boaurd of arbitration dies, the minister maY
from

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does tlue bon, gentle- have tius delay to give an opportunity to
man intend to move flint the committee rise miake ui alppointmenut that would nieet the
and report the Bill without amendmient ?
aipproval of both parties. Hastily doing it
Hon. Mr. LANDEIRIN-As to this matter of date, I think that the minister should
bave bis way as far as that goes. On other
matters, I thlnk that hie invites the fullest
discussion on bis Bill. 1 arn oniy giving
My own view.

witbin an arbitrary date of less than ten
dnys mîght embarrass the arbitration.

Hon. MxI. LOUGHEED-I do flot wflft to
contradict rny bon. friend, but If bie wi!!
look at clause six bie w-il! see It applies to
bothi the committee of conciliation and the
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My bon. frienrd board of cirbitratin.
fromi Grey rather rnisunderstands the point
Hon. '.%r. LANDERKLN-I know that.
that is taken. It Is this :Under section i said so before.

three, five days are given the parties to
nominate their appointees to the board.
Clause six provides, in case one of tlue
ahipoinitees sbould die, fint five days will
elapse before any appointment w-il! be
made, and ten days after thiat will be given
for eithier party to show cause wby tbat
appointaient should flot be made.
mentioned
Hon. M.LANDERKIN-I
tbat in my speech. 1 salnl as the board hnad
been formed, then hostilities between tbe
parties would cease and a littie time might
briag tbem dloser togetber and stop tbe
strike. I fancy the bon, gentleman was
asleep when I said It.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEEDf-The hon. gentleman must himself have been asleep. It
18 flot an attack on the Minister of Labour.
If the hon, gentleman is consistent in bis
view, hie should move that tbe .«committee
rise and report the Bill, but if the function
of the committee Is to criticise the Bill,
then surely it sbould not be said we are
showing a spirit of hostllity wben we point

Hon. Mr. BERNIER-It menus that the
ten dâys w-il! alm-ays be taken advantage
of. The ininister. will iiot always be master
of the situation. Cases mai- arise wben lie
would thiik It wise to reduce that number
of da3-s, but the strikers will take advantage of tbe ten days in ail cases.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I arn disposed
to tblnk my bon. friend from Calgary does
not quite realize the effect of tus sentence.
He seems to argue tbat the limit of ten
days is at the discretion of either party ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. TEMPIILEMýAN-It is intelligible to construe it in this wnv
Before such appointment, the name of the
person proposed to be appointed shall be submltted to botil parties to thle difference, and
there shalh be afforded to each of thern an opportunity not exceeding ten daya, &c.
That is,' an opportunity at the discretion
of the minister.
Hon. Mr'. LOUCGH-EED-Ob,

no.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMNAN-The minister
shall afford tbem an opportunity to give
an answer in five days, or two days If bie
tblnks proper. The inaister shall bimself
define the number of days. It is flot at
the discretion of the parties.

Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-Xo.
My bon.
l'riend surely does not say the Minister of
Labour will bave the rigbt under this Bill
to practically change tbe Act ?

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Would it flot be
possible under this clause to keep Up a
strike for an indefinite Urne ?

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Read the first
part of clause 6:
If any meniber af said conimittee or board
shial die. refuse, neglect or becomne incapable
to act. then whenever the sanie shall happen a
successor shalI be appointed In hike manner Ls
la abovo provided in respect of the original
moember of committee or board.

Hon. Mr.

TEMPLEMAN-Impossible.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He
an
linait wîtbin tbe ton days.

change

the

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-It says 'not exceeding ten days.'
Now if the party is
objected to at tbe end of ten days, hie canHon. Mr. LANDRY-Giving ten days ?
flot be appointed, and that causes more
Hon. Mr. DANDURXN,-\j-He
has five
delay. Another name is meationed : stili
days under clause 3, tbe latter part of
the strike goes on for another ten days, and
whicb providos that the minister shahl notianother member is objected to.
l'y thoe parties andHon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Provisioa
is
If either party within such trne or aoy extension thereof that the nŽinister, on cause
made for tbat.
shown. may &rant. refuse or fail to namne a
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED Thiere is no final- momber of sald commltteo, the minister or the
Lieutenant Governor ln Couneil, as the case
ity to ItL
May be., as hereinafter provided, may appoint
one la the place of the party so refusing or ini
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I tbiak it sbould default. and If the miembers of eaid conmmittcc
so chosen fail
select a
the
say the lirnit is ten days, provided tbe ninister. or thetoLie~utenant third miemberCounGovernor in
strike bas niot takzen place. There should cil, as the case inay be. mnay niake such selerbe some provision so that a strike could tion.
Tbat would apply to clause 6 as woll.
not be exteaded indetinitely.
Hon. Mr. POIWEll-I ain niot proposing to
move any amendmont, but I reilly cannot
sec wby tbore sbould bo the differeace ii
time between clauses 3 and 6. Ia tho first
place, wben a board is beinig constituted
wo are told tbat the minister shiah in writing
Hon. MNr.LANDRY-But hie cannot make notify
eacli party. anti eacli party lias fi'-e
a limitation against wbat is fixed by law. days to do the thing.
Then if a vacancy
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, but hie can occurs in eitber this comniittoe or ln the
board, If the committoe l'ails iii mn kiag a
make is own limit witbin ten days.
settioment, tbe terni is extended to a terni
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE .BOWELL-The not exceceding tea days. I do not see wby,
question put by the bion. gentleman from when the original appointmnent is to be mado
Wellngton (Hlon. 'Mr. MýcM-Nullen), I under- within five days after notice, a longer poriod
stand, was wbat provision is tbere for com- should be givon to the party to object.
pelling the appointment of a person to fill
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It seems to nie tbat
a vacancy. Suppusing tbey object to ten
days, and anotber appointmeat Is made, and the reason is tbis :the original appointaient
tbey keep objecting, sbould flot the M.inister iîder clause 3 is. to be made -%itbin f1veThon If a vacancy occurs it is to i-c
of Labour then bave *tbe power to appoint days.
one b!mself to fill tbe vacaacy if tbe desire made again witbin the sanie limit, five d9yq,
but as tbe appoiatee migbt be a man peris to make tbe law effective ?
fectly unknown to the other party, mniglit bie
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He bas absolute lati- a man imported from the States, it is protude, as pointed out by tbe lion. gentleman vidod a longer dol.qy may be bad, but it Is not
from Montreal.
necessarily longer. A longer delay may ho
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon, gentleman from Montreal (HIon. Mr:. Drummond) bas drawn attention to clause 24,
whicb allows the minister to make reg-ulations as to tbe time limlit.

JUYE 17, 1903

385

given to the adverse party to inforin hlt-. Hou. Mr. DANDURÂND-No, witb the
self whether this party Is really qualified or limitations contained in clause 6.
sbould be refused. As very properly stated
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
by the bon. gentleman fromn Montreal, this
Clause 3 refers excluslvely to the appointwill be dealt wlth by miles wliich wlll be
ments on the original board of arbîtration
made by the minister nder section 24. It
or concliationand It provides that ln case
la a matter of detal, and It seemns to me,
any per son wbo la selected to serve refuses,
belng a matter of detail, and belng merely
or dies, or for other cause neglecta to accept,
the maximum deiay whlch may be granted,
then there Is power to I that position.
that this committee should nlot interfere
Clause 6, as bas been polnted out by the bon.
the Bill as drafted.
wlth
gentleman f rom Calgary, refers te one positien alone and that ln case of the death of
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Hear, hear.
the person certain proceedings shall be
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is the taken, and ten days saah be given for eltber
hon, gentleman really correct ln the Inter- party to object. It dos not refer to clause
pretation he han given the clause ? If clause 3 at al].
6 in governed by clause 3, then there would
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-It does.
be no necesslty for this discussion, but It
seerna to me clause 3 and the provision to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
whlch. the hon, gentleman referred, of givlng
Power to the minister or the Governor ln
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Except as to the
Council to fill a position, wbere a person appointment.
refuses or negleets, or for any other cause
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
fala to accept the position on the board of
conciliation or arbitration, then the Gover- la ail. To rny mind it does not appear that
nor In Counicil or the minister has the rlght the one goverus the other at aIl. One provides for one state of proceedlngs and the
to fill that place ? Io that not the case ?
cther for another. The bon. gentleman fromn
Hon. Mr. BEIQUEL-No. In a law of this de Saiaberry and the bon. gentleman to my
kind lt Is very dificuit, and It In nlot neces- left meferred to this clause. That clause or
sary to provide for matters of detail. It in a similar clause Is ln alrnost every Bill that
MUCh more effectively donc by mules. It la la of an administrative character. The Custhe maine thing wlth the courts of law. In toms Act makes provision that rules and
matters which pertain to the worklng of the megulations may be made for the carrylng
law, the judges are governed by mules whlch out of the provisions of the iaw-n0t, to
miay be cbanged front tirne to Urne as ex- change the provisions of the law.
perlence shows, Instead of corning to parhiaHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Heam, hear.
ment. Here nmre bon. gentlemen taire it
be the minister wbo
for gmanted that It wHI
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
wlll fLx the delay. For my part, I do not there la no law upon the statute-book, or no
see anything of the kiud ln the law. It rnay piactice that I ever heard of, that wouid
be the minister. Of course, It le the adverse give the power to a miaister to adopt regupamty wlho bas the delay, but as far as the lations changing the law. The regulations
detals are concerned, It la to be regulated referred to bere are for the practical worklng
by the mules whlch will be made by the min- ef the Act There may be a regulation that
Istex and wbich may be changed as expert- certain things shahl be done, but It must be
ence shows.
ln accordance wlth the provisions of the Âct
-that la, If experience la any use to me.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It mny
Hon. Mr. DANDURANU-He could net say
b'A presumption on the part of a layman
to take exception to the logic of my hon. twelve days ; but could say eight days.
friend. I was nlot eferring to bis statement.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--No, he
I xwigs referring to the lion, gentleman oppo- could not change tbat at ail.
site. wliomn I understood to declare that the
aripoiintment lui case of death, as provided ln .Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-He bas the discretion.clause 6,;was governed by clause 8.

S ENAT E

386

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He bas
no discretion ln my mind. I should like the
opinion of the Secretary of State upon that
question. The law says distinctly that the
parties concerned shall have ten days. They
cannot have more than ten days. It Is optional wlth them to take the ten days, and I
contend that no minister, under the clause
referred to, number 24, bas the power to
make regulations changlng and altering the
ten days. He may make regulations for the
governing of It.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Does the bon.
gentleman mean to say that the minister
migbt not say 'You shall bave an opportunity, flot exceeding elgbt days' ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes, 1
say that Most distinctly.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-I wish to ask,
for information, if the following interpretation of the clauses Is cirreet.
Clause 3
deals exclusiveiy wlth a ccimmittee of conciliation, mediation and Investigation. Clause
5 goes further and provides for the appolntment of a board of arbitrators. Clause 61,
which Is now under discussion, gives an opportunity not exceeding ten days for fihlng
a vacancy on the board of arbitratlon. Now,
supposing a tiame is submltted and the opp:3rtLlnity not exceeding ten days Is given for
objecting to it, and it is objected to, what
Is the next proceeding
an they have
another ten days for the next name that is
submitted, and se on, ad lnfinltum ? And,
moreover, tiiere is lu clause 3 n absolute
provision for fiulng a vacancy In the board
of conciliation, but clause 6 makes -no provision for fihlng a vacancy ln tbe board of
arbitration. I should hike the opinion o!
the minister on these two points.

Hlon. Mr. TEMPLEIMAN-If so, wh3
shouid It flot be cllstinctly stated ln this
clause 'And there shall be afforded an opHmn Mir. SCOTT-I really thlnk the matportunity of ten days'1 Wby the words
ter ls not worth the discussion given IL I>ernot exceeding' 1
haps It would axeet the views of the leuse
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe If we struck out 'net exceeding ten days'
clause la clear enough. It says the parties and substltuted 'witltin suchi tinie as the
minister may fix'.
may bave ten days to do a certain thlng.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Supposuîîg 11n ohbHon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Not. exceeding ten
jection Is made wlthln the tume appointed by
days.
the minister and a freali name is submlttcd,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That ls there te be a repetition o! this proccss ad
Is glving hlm ten days.
lnfinitumi ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Ât the discretion
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I 'will cali the attenof the minister.
1lion of the House to the fact that this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No. change would be a very serious one, beIf It said that lt would te ail rlght. If you cause It would caîl upon the minister t> fix
want to give It that Interpretation, put it ln the time ln every case. I take the ecothe clause. What I contend ln reply te my nomy of the Bill to be altogether different.
bon. friend who spoke firat, who la These are matters of detail wbichi will be
an eminent lawyer-and I do It with a regulated by the minîster under section .24.
great deal of diffidence,
being only Re wlll make rules whlch wlll provide for
a layman-is that tbere Is no power the cases that have been mentioned, within
given lu that twenty-fourth clause to any what delay, whether ten days or five days,
minister te change one single provision In the parties mny be refused or wiIl finally be
thait law, If it becames Ian-. I say that froni accepted. If he is required. of course if is
experience e! sonie 15 or 16 years denling always governed by the sane delay o! five
with departuients 'which w-ere entirely ad- days. If bis appointment caunot avail, It
ministrative ini their character, and where is net a regular appointmDent. then lie is to
they had the greatest possible power that ho appointed witlin: five days.
couid be giveii unider the lawv for adopting
Hou. Mr. BERNIER-Tbe ruies mnust be
regitions for the governîng of the depart- consistent with the law. He cannot mak11e
rules ln contradiction of the law. The sngHon, Mir. DANDURAND.

JUNE 17, 1903
gestion made by the hon. Secretary of State ways' in place of 'The Intercolonil Railway,' because if the government become
ls a gooci one.
propirleturs of ether roads it sbould apply
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think the sug- te them.
gested ameadment would be a gooci one.
is
Hon. Mfr. VIDAL-The question
Hon. Mfr. BERNIER-ibe minîster wIll
whetber It la by accident or desigu that
be torceci to allow the ten days In every onIy the Intercolonial Rallway ls mentlened.
case for fear of Intimidatlng the other
Hon. Mfr. POWER-The reason ls that
parties.
the case ofth~e Intercelonial Rallway the
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-We la.
minister is looked upon as belng the emmight let the clause stand, to prepare an
ployer.
n mend ment.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-The point made
Hon. Mfr. PIOWER-The mînister is flot
I thlnk la proper. The Intercoloulal Railthe appolnting authority.
way and Prince Edward Itland Railways
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In are treated as different railways ln ail
case the dlfficulty sbould arise, as pointed public documenta, and I tblnk the Prince
out by the hou. gentleman from Montreal, Edward Island Railway should be named
then let the minister bave the autbority te as well as the Intercolonial Railway. It la
&-et.
intended the Prince Edward Island Railway
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Supposlng the person sbould be lncluded, because further on ln
te be appointed is to be appieinted by the the Bill it is mcntioned *that the Lieutenant
employer and there la afforded te eacb of Governor .may be named. for the purrpose
the parties an opportunlty, flot exceedlug: of putting this clause ln motion.
ten days, of maklng known the appointHon. Mr. SCOTT-There la no objection
ment where sncb appointee is objected
te putt-lnt it ln.
te : the employers, propose a- man and the
other people have ten days te say If tbey
Hon. Mfr. POWER-The bon. gentleman
object te hlm It lo flot tne minister. The from de Salaberry suggests that we strike
original members are net appointed by the eut the Intercolonial Railway and Insert
minister. One member of the board ls ap- any -government railway.'
pointed by the mînister, but the others are
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I do flot think
net.
that wiil answer, because the goverameut
Hon. Mfr. SCOTIT-In case ef their refusai bas aloo leased a lune from the Grand
to do It tbey are.
Trunk Railway and I do not know wihether
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMIN-Under clause that will cover It.
3 the minister may cause an inquiry te be
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Ob, yes, it ls a governmade Ite the sme, and the clause thereof, ment ralliuy.
and for th.at purpose under bis band and
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-We bad a Bill
seal of office establisb a committee ef conciliation. Under bis band and oeil be similar to this one passed by parliament
three years ago, known as the Conciliation
appoints tbem.
Act, whlcb provided for somewhiat similar
Hon. Mfr. POWER-He establishes them. troubles when they arose outaide iln any
Hon. Mfr. TF)MPLEMAN-Each party tio ether Uine of employment except railways.
This ls an attempt te apply, lu a somewhat
the dispute names an arbitrator.
modfied or different form, the same prinHon. N[r. SCOTT-We cannot discuss it ail
ciple of conciliation to, goyerument railday. Let It stand.
ways, and to ail railways, as the ConciliThe clause was allowed to stand.
ation Act of 1900 xvus applied to other
employments. 1 notice, Nwith regard to the
On clause 7,
Conciliation Act, tliat when the government
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Wlould it be proper liad trouble flot very long ag-o, when niy
io substitute the words 'government rail- lion. friend bnci trouble in bis own depart25eq

388

SENATE

ment, that he did not caîl ia tbe services of
bis colleague, thé Minister of Labour, to
procure a settiement of the difficulty with
bis empioyees : but, as tbey think, he treated
thera very arbitrariiy, and proceeded by
sending an ultimatum ta thema and the
Conciliation Act was treated with very
scant respect by the government that had
enacted it, a.nd even the Minister of Labour
was not heard of Ia -connection wi-th -that
matter, and the goverument with a stromg
band put down the discussion entireiy and
completely withb regard ta tbeir own eniployees. When the goverament Is deaiing
with this subJect and proposing la the case
of government rail-ways that there wIll be
a means of putting It Into operation, 1 think.
that the power shouid be put into operation
independently of the Minister of Labour.
It seems to me that when trouble occurs
In the goverament raiiways, the application o! one o! the parties tu the dispute-in this case it would be the operators, or the municipalities that are
named la section 3-that they shouid be
permitted to make their application direct
to the Lieutenant Governor of the province
In whlch the raiiway Ira situated. It would
seern to me that there shouid be the saine
power as on the part of the employees o! any
ot.her railroad.besides the goverument railway. Under the machinery prof ided Iu
this Bill, the Lieutenant Governor, before
he bas any power, muet be named by thè
minister for the purpose of undertaking this
work, sud to vest hlm with the power
which, under clause 3, la given to the
minIster himself lu deaiing with other than
government railways. Tbat la the point
tbat occurs to me lu clause 3. The section
provides that when it appears to the minister that a difference exista, or on receiving a
representation froni a municipaiity, or on
the application of a corporation of any
municipality-that bas been affected by the
difference, or of bis owa motion, he can do
certain things. It would seema to mie tlùit
If the government are really desirous of
giving the employees on the government
raiiways, the same protection that this Bill
is alieged to give other railway employees,
they sbould ailow the application to be
made direct to the Lieutenant Governor of
the province in wbicb the trouble occurs
because it is to him ultimately that it bas
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

to be referred, If anything is done in the
matter.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I would suggest.
In connection with this clause, when we
make it applicable to the Intercolonial Railway, we shouid make It applicable to our
canal system aiso. Our canal system has
become an exceedingly important avenue of
commerce.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Hear, hear.
Hon:*Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
hear.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-It should be nmade
to apply tu canais, where a strike may takze
place and Interfere seriously with the commerce of this country. I respectfuliy suggest there shouid be some provision witb
reference to canais, because we know whnt
a serions strikze we have just passed througb
la the city of Montreah
Hon. Mr. McKÂY (Truro>-Take the Intercolonial Raiiway as an example. SupposIng a strike takes place aIl over the
Intercolonial Raiiway, what province appoints the arbItrator ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would be any one of
the Lieutenant Governors of Quebec or the
maritime provinces.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I move that the
word 'canal ' be inserted In the twentysixth Une after the words *Intercolonial
Rallway.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I hope the hon. gentleman wUll not press that amendment, because it would mean re-dratting. There
is no taik of canal men striklng. They have
a soft thIng as it is.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-,e niiglt insert the
words 'Prince Edward Island.' It Is clear
that the Governor of Prince Edward Island, or th .e Governor of Nova Scotia
would be caiied la where the trouble arises
In any one of these provinces, aud that
belng the intention of the section it is necessary that the words 'Prince Edward Island' shouid be inserted In the measure.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is uecessary to put
those words. The Prince Edward Island
Raiway is spoken of as a separate thingfrom the Intercoloniai Raiiway. I move that
af ter the word ' raiiway,' in the twenty-

JUNE 17, 1903
iixth Une, w-e insert the words ' Prince Ed- lshed in the 'Labour Gazette,' and bp, tuciuded ln thse annual repor-t of the Departmnent
ward Island.'
rf Labour to the Governor General.
Hon. Mr. V±L-'ÂL-The trouble wHI occur
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
on the part of the road near Montreal which case that la publlshed ln the ' Labour GazIs ieased from the Grand Trunk Railway. ette,' la It charged as part of the expense
That is flot a goverument road. It la the of thse department ?
Grand Trunk Rallway.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, there la an apHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does p:ropriation for the expenses of' the departIntercolonial Rallway 'ln the Interpretation ment.
clause include the Prince Edward Island ?
Hon. Sir MACKEN4ZIE BOWELL,-You
If It does, there would be no necessity for
provide that every newspaper shail have a
titis amendment.
copy free of expense, and thea you publish
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, the Speaker Is qulte It ln a paper tisat nobody sees.
rlght. We speak of the Intercolonlal RailHon. Mfr. SCOTT-It la only If the newsway on Prince Edward Island Rallway,
paper applies tisat It la furnlshed.
and ln a matter of tbis klnd, where It le
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-The
permissive and flot compulsory, It seems
necessary. If there was any dlfficulty on Labour Gazette' la a useless publication,
the Intercolonlal Rallway It would be set to say thse least of It.
ln force.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It lins a large circuHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We lation.
mlght apply an'expression used ln answer
Hon. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWELL,-Â free
to a contention of the Hon. Edward Blake circulation ln the Interests of the party
-that Is 1there la nothlng to It.'
who publlsh It to boîster up the governHon. 1fr. TEMPLEMÂN-Where dld he ment and whiat they do-particularly the
Minister of La)onr--clreulated free, I
use that expression ?
Hon. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWELL-If the presume, to ail labour organisations and
and
bon. gentleman reada the debates hie wll newspapers. It Is very well prlnted,
I suppose a clever matn edîts It, but It la
find out
ln thse Interest of one class alone, and that
The CHAIRMAN-We wll add the words la tise government
and the Prince Edward Island Rallway.'
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Is my hon. frlend
On clause 14,
qulte clear that that will Include the leased
14. on thse applicationi of any of the parties, or
Une from Léis to Montreal ?
on lus own mnotion. thse board may Issue uumHon. 1fr.- SCOTT-Yes, that ls part o! the monses ta persona to appear aud give evidease
before the board. and any wltnees sumzacned
Intercolonlal Rallway.
by the board uhall be eatltlIed to Ores tiansporover any railway en route when proHon. M'r. FERGUSON-That la part o! tation to the place of meeting of thse board.
ceedinz
and thereatter returning ta his homne, and thse
the Grand Trunk Rallway.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Part or It before you
get to the junction is the Grand Trunk
1(allway.
Hlon. 1fr. McKAY (Truro)-In case of a
strike lu Prince Edward Island, what province appoints the arbitrator ?
Hon. 1fr. -SCOTT-The Lieutenant Governior of Prince Edward Island.
The clause w-as adopted.

board shali furniss ta sunob witneea a proper
certiftca-te evldencing his rlght ta such free
transDortation.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is that tise oaly
provision there la ln thse Bill for the costa
of wltnesses ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. thiey are paid.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How la titis to be
enforced. againat rallways ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The whole legislation
is ln the interest of thse railways, and I think
On clause 12.
they wlll be only too glad to acquiesce Mh
32. For the information of parlianient and the
public the report shail without delay be pub- the principle.

~i9OSE-NATE
Hon. Mr. POWER-I suppose the Idea of
Hon. '.%r. 3IcMULLEN-Thl5 clause does
bere is to try
railways shall carry them for having the Bill considered
z,.ot say the
and perfect It. I make the suggestion to the
nothiag. It says the wltnesses shah bhave
hion. minister thiat lie s'hould let clause 14
free transportation.
stand and coasuit bis colcague, the Mînister
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thft
of Labour, and see If they camnot make tnit
might mean that the goverament will pay clause more perfect.
for thelr transportation, or it might mean
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, there Is nothing you
thiat the par~ties interested shaîl pay.
can do to improve it that I ean see.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Free transportation
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Simce
mens that nobody pays.
the Bill is to become law, let us try and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL--A nian Improve It, whatever we may tbink of Its
wlth a pass la bis pocket bas free trans- character. Here Is a provision for the free
portation ?
transportation of witnesses. Who Is to pay
Hou. 3fr. LOUGHEED-Thiit is to say, the otber expenses of the witnesses ?
the govermmeut provide that sucli a wltuess
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Provision Is made for it
inay travel free over any of tbe railwiiys later on.
in Canada ?
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Â man
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, wbere tbe witaess must have sometbing to eat and bie ought
is summoned by the board itself.
to be paid for bis time. Is there any proHou. Mfr. LOUGHEED-They ivIII mot vision for that and who Is to do It ?
have te reimburse the railivay ; the railHon. Mfr. BEIQUE-We are deallug now
way would have to, carry the witnesses ? with clause 14. There are two, objections
taken. The first Is that there may be an
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.
la the board sutnmoning witnesscs
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I think this clause abuse
from a long distance who should not be exIs flable to abuse.
amined. We cannot anticipate anythlng of
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It is oniy the board the kind. It does flot follow because the
that Issue those summonses.
parties apply for a suxnmons that a sumon the
Hou. '-%r. POWEI-1 On the application mons wlll necessarily be lssued ; but,
of the parties, or on Its own motion other biand, the parties sbould bave great
of amy
no
the board may Issue summoases,' the clause latitude la callIng thelr witnesses, and
suppose one of the parties doubt wiil bave great latitude. I fail to see
Now,
Say$.
snakes application to summon Its f riends that amy objection ean. be taken, to the first
who would like to get free transportation part of clause 14. As to, the other point,
for bundreds ot miles, this la an easy way the free passage on the rallways, of course
to get it. .Ânother point le that indicated this Is a public Act, and the witnesses will
by the lion. gentleman froin Calgary ; I have a certificate of the board wbielî 'wIll
doubt if you can by this general language entitie them to free passage on the railway,
compel a railway to carry passengers free. and the government assumes that the railway will submit to the law. It wIll be laHon. '-%r. SCOTT-If Nve cannot the clause cumbent on tbem to transport them free.
means nothing.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But suppose tliey
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-Then bow are do not, what thien ?
you going te .-et the witnesses ? Supposing
Hon. M1r. BEIQUE-Tbey will be prosea railway conipany says .We will flot bonour cuted.
the certificate of the board to carry those
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-EUnder what law
witnesses free, and the uitnesses are lef t
how do Tou wili they be prosecuted ?
at the point of embarkation,
propose getting theni to their destination '? Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Does the hon. memngoing to anti- ber suggest that in this Bill we are going
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT- Imaniot
to the extent of anticîpating that railway
will do.
cipate wliat the board
Mon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 17, 1903
companies wiil refuse to obey the law ln occasions I did not hesitate, wbetber tbey
were public Bis or government Bils, ln
a matter of publie luterest ',
I belleved
movlng amendments wben
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In the event of a
tbey were requIred. Before the lion. gentlerallway company seelng that great abuse
mani rose, I lntended to reply to the inqulry
was practiced they would refuse transportawhich lie put when hie asked what wll be
tion on those certIficates.
the way of proceedlng If the rallway cernHon. Mfr. BEIQUE-The law would lie pany refuses to carry passengers. It would
changed, very Iikely.
When I
stand on the common law.
Hon. Mr. McMeIULLEN-I ami at a loss. amn the bearer of a ticket. on a raulway, I
tzi know bow it Is going to be put ln opera- arn entltled to be re4cýeived on the rallway
they do not carry
dion s:) far as the rallways are coxicerned. and to i.e carrled, and If
me, Is there no law furnisblng a remedy ?
SupposIng I, as a witness ln a case to lie
this law
tried, say ln Sarnia, arn subpoenead here to There surely la, and the moment
declares that a wltness shall be entitled to
attend that court. Wb en 1 go te the railway station and present my subpoena, wll be carried free on showing bis certificate,
the ticket agent at tOiat station give me a then the general law wlll apply and it seemi
ticket ? Can I force hlm to do It ? If I get to me that It wiI be sufficlent.
on board the car and present my aubpoena
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In pointing this
and say 'l amn going- to Sarnia to attend as out, I did flot wlsh to InsInuate for a moa witness', will the conductor accept my ment that the bon. gentleman was not dolng
summons and carry me to Sarnia 7 Tbere justice to hls duties as a crltic of this Bill,
should lie some provision In this clause that but I do say that rny hou. frlend bas advoa mati should lie entitled, on presentation of cated thîs very anomalous principie, that
bis sumamons, to recelve a ticket to any point as this Bill le; drafted It sho lnd be accept%vbere the caurt is being held, or there ed by the House on account of the care
should bie some provision that a subpoena whIich bas been taken ln the drafting of It,
shail be a warrant to tbe conductor to carry and we should flot move amendments to ItL
that mau.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I beg the bion. gentieHon. Mr. POWER-Tbere is sucb a pro- mau's pardon. I dld flot state anythlng of
the klnd. I sald that ln connection wlth the
vision ln Unes 39 and 40:
And the board shall furnlsh te mach wltunm ten days' delay ; I said It was a matter
a proper certificate evidenclng his riglit to such of detail and of no Importance, and the
free transportation.
House should heuîtate ln disturblng matHon. Mr. LOUGIIEED--It seems te me, ters of detal, of nlo Importance, when the
from wbat the bon. gentleman from de pRrty who prepared the Bill was supposed
Salaberry <Hon. Mfr. Bélque) says, and wbat to bave nme speclal reason for drnfting It
the hon. Secretary of State says, the atrnos- as It was presented to the Honse.
phere will be surcharged ivith sucb a liberal
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No oute 19 better
lovlng spirit ef conciliation when thls Act
qualified than my bon. friend to inie this
is brougbt iuîto operation, tbat It wlll be
Act workable If lie wlll look iinto It carefully.
utterly unlecessary to Invoke anytbing lîke If the Act Is to be useful for the object lii
the minchlnery ef the IRw for th(! purpose of
view It should be carefully consIdered, not
exercising that spirit. 'No hon. gentleman for the purpose of sbowiug hositlity te It,
would exercise more alacrity in amending a but for the purpose ef making it workable.
Bill than .the bon. gentleman from de Sala- It la qulte plain froin a perusal of this clause
berry If bie were anîending any other Bill tat the board mnay subpoena their witnesses
than thîs.
from distant points. There is ne way of euHon. '-%r. BEIQUE-My bion. friend bas ne forcing free transpôrtation. Take the case
right to say s0. I think I bave given evi- of a dozen wituesses summoned in Vandence to n'y lion. friend of n'y firmness ln couver and brougblt te Ottawa in a dispute
de.alin- îvith Buis, wbether public or private with the Canadian Pacific Railway. The
Buis. 1 think I bave given evidence ef n'y Act says tbeY shall bave free transportation.
desire to discharge n'y diîties, and on former Tlîey present tîjeir certificates at the station

SENATE

392

Hion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ifl
la Vancouver. Is there any iaw by wbich
made for
wiii assume lia- that case, provision should be
the rai.iway company
transportation. Thse government could not
biiity by reason of flot carrying those
parties,
Thse case re- compel the steamboats to carry thse
witnesses? 1 say no.
but they couid compel thse railways.
ferred to by iny hon. friend, of a
Hon. Mr. FULFORD, from tise committee,
passenger on a raiiway, is regulated by the
some progres
Act, and regulated by tise law of reported that they had made
Rallway
of contracet witih the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
contrftct ; but there Is »o law
isere, simply a declaration In thse Act that
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Let nme lutransportation shall be f ree.
Bill (12) An Act to incorporate thse Huron,
case : a witness coming froru
stance another
Vancouver to Ottawa would be under an ex- Brie and Buffalo Railway Company.-(Hon.
pense of nt least $30 for 6leeping giccoin- Mr. McMullen.)
niodation and for meals. Now, there ls no
Bill (125) An Act to incorporate thse
provision made ln tbis Bill for thse paymnt
Coniexpenses, Guielphs and Georgian Bay Railway
of witnesses, or for their living
Mr. Watson.)
irheuî they arrive at their destination. Tbese Pany.-(Hon.
Act respecting thse St. Mary's
things sbouid be provided for If the Bill Is Bill (139) An
Lougand it should be our River Railway Company.-(RoT. Mr.
to be made workabie,
We may ileed.)
duty to make thse Bill operative.
Bill (140) An Act to Incorporate tise Caror may flot approve of the principle of the
Bill, but If It la to be a succesa, let us usake diff Rallway Comnpany.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
it as workable as In our humble way we can.
Bill (144) An Act respectlng the interprofewmintesago
Hon.Mr.BEIUEopay
Bduayd.)
D
Jar.
that, -<Hoal n.
1 was on the eve of rlsing to remark were -Hn
adrn.
r
for my part, the auggestions which
Bill (177) an Act respecting thse Klondike
made from the other aide, especially those
Mines Railway Company. - (lion. Mr.
made by thse hon. gentleman from Calgary, Young.)
were offered in a good spirit. I have neyer
Bill (149>) An Act to Incorporate the Ham
questioned that, and 1 am merely expressAt first sight I Ilton, Gait and Berlin Railway Company.lng my humble opinion.
Robertson, In absence of Hon
tisought this clause was fair enough, and (Hon. Mr.
of helping In pre- Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
lt was merely by way
eaeajund
h
paring thse -mid of thse eommlttee that I
TeSnaedorn.
spoke. On a study of it, If it is deemed
lnsufficient, by ail means let us auggest
Tm SEINATE.
somethlng thiat would remedy the defet
8 93
hrdyJn
taa
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Haa
8 93 e
Otw~TuaaJn
thse hon. Secretary of State found the clause
Tise SPEAKER took thse Chair at Thre
witnesses ?
as to the payment of
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, 1 was mistaken
Prayers and routine proceedings.
of thse
about that I will cali the attention
TIDRAIG
to it. 1 saw that ail thse parties
minister
TIDRAIG
clerks,
wer., to be pald-stenograpsers,
Bihl (143) An Act respecting thse Canadla:
a1rbItrators and so on, and on reading It 1
see It North-west Irrigation Comupafly.-(Hoii. Mi
thougbit it Included witnesses, but I
Lougheed.)
does not.
CAMP AT THIREE RIVERE
Hon. Mr. MeDONALD (C.B.)-It is pro- MILITARY
INQUIRY POS'TONED.
vided that tisere shahl be free transportation by rail. Lt mnay be necessary to travel
Order of thse Day being calied:
by seamrcoch.The
orstae

By thse Hon. Mr. Landry-That lie will Inquli
have no control over of thse government:
Hon. Mr: S COTT-M-e
Does the governmeflt know that the fourt to
that.1.
niilitary district which has been called uponi
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JUNE 18, 1903
go loto camp at Three Rivera on the 131h June
jactant. le compeaed, with regard to rural regitanl.
of(a.> tiaree Englith regimentu. the 541h. the
791h and th1e 111h.
(b.) ten French regiments, th1e 64th, th1e 8ird.
the 861h. the 80111. the 4th. the 17th, the 131h.
the lot. the 87111 and the 811hT
2. la the goverument avare tbat the staff of
the tourth division in composed. of officers.
.âmong whom are ta be found military men who
are com.petely Incapable of speaking French,
and whoee u9efuinesa under the circumatances
ia more than probismatical. especially ln lhe
matter ot transmitting to Frencb regiments ordors given In ]Englisiý?
3. Oaa the governmeat modity tie present
composition of the staff oft he fourth mlitary
district ln such a way as to, give ti staff th1e
greatest efficiency passible by requirtng, et leant
f rom those who v«Ii be in nccesuary and dalir
contact with th1e French regiments. a sufecient
knowledge of the French language, to be able ta
translate to 1110ee regiments the aider. 'which
tb.y may have ta transmit la them?1

393

2. Was the colitract for keeping Ibis retreshment couater given atter tenders had bcen
asked for ?
3. Was the persan who obtalaed lhe centract
Uic lowest tenderer. and what vas the ament
of hi. tender ?
4. When andjo1r viat leagth of lime did Le
obtain t1bis contract ?
5. Ha. th. royernment been made avare by
Uic ralvay authorities at Moncton, or by any
otier vermon wiaseever. liaI Uhit.refreshment
ceunter i. badly kept and dons not la any way
snswer the reasenable requiremnents ot the
public ?
6. Io it tie Intention ot the government te lake
the aecessary measures te render justice ta tie
nublic la this malter ?
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-The anwers are as8

follows :
1. It ls understood thal Fi. PIchette, contractor for the new stand at lAvis, selle
confectionery and fruit.
2. There i. fia contract for e retrefihmfent
Hon. Mfr. S(JO¶!-I have not the enswer counter.
3. Reply given to number.two question
to, tbis question.
answers th.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-It ham been on the
4. Reply given te, ntumber two question
Order paper ince the 12th June.
answerm tbis.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTiT-1 cannot help 11.
5. There have been fia Complainte recetved
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I hope the hon, min- as lu 110w the refreshment counter ia kept
6. Reply given te nunuber flve questan
luter will find hie way to answer.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I wifl oeil attention to answers tuis.
il again.
RAILWAY STATION AT LEVIS.
The order was allowed to stand.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquired:
1. When doe Uic gôverament Intend lu open
te lbe public thc new raitwaY statien vbich
ha. Just beca conslrucled aI Lévis ?
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY lnquired:
2. Hqw much han thus station cosl up te tht.
1. What ie the name of th1e clerk of the warks date ?
who reccived. authority ta purchase the wood
8. Whlat arc the names et Uic varions persans
and other materisis ta b. used, ln the vorks vhu have ubtained contracte ta cannectIGIn witi
which are actuslly gaing on at Fort No. 1 et thc construction uft Iis rallWay station, and
St. Joseph de l4vis, or la th1e neighbourhood viat ls Uic amount received by each mach verhhereof ?
son for each iuch contract ?
2. What vas th1e noms of th. superintendent
4. Ha. Uic gevernment asked for tender, or
ot such works ?
decs Il Intend le ask fer them.. for th. keePtng:
3. The name ot thre foreman or of the con- tnalis new railway station of a newspaper
tractor who Io working under the eiders of the stand and et a refreshment ceunter for the une
storesaid superintendent ?
of th1e public ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tlie answers are a15
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The answers are ne
followm :
follows :

WORKS AT FORT LEVIS.
INQUIRY.

1. Mfr. L. J. Mathieu.

1. It te propoeed te, open the .new station

2. 1fr. L. J. Mathieu.
nt Ldvts on JuIy 1 next.
2. The cest te date le $44,478.82.
3. Thou. Power, potnting walls No. 1
3. Joseph Gosselin, $38,177, and L. P. FerFort ; P. Robitaille, 'woodwork, No. 1 Fort,
-and R. E. Park ; J. A. Blouin, floors et Na. land $1,546.9-5.
4- The malter ot asking tenders for newe
2 and 3 Forts.
stand and refreshment counter ia the new
REPRESHMENT COUNTER AT LETIS.
station te under consideration.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY inquired:
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY inqutred:
is aI present the number of agents
1. 'n'at
1. Who .keei)s. at the Intercolonial Railway and sub-agents charged with the sale ef tickets
station ai Lévis. the refreshment counter for
the accommodation of the travelling public ?

aI the intercolonial Railway station at Lévis ?
2. What are their namnes ?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as
follows
1. Two.
2. D. McDonald. ticket agent, and A. J.
Roy, assistant ticket agent.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat is ini the Auditor
Generai's Report.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I thik there waS
land purchaspd slnre that time ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-They bave flot referred

MILITIÂ GROUND)S AT THREE R[VERS. 1 te It.
iMPýiERIAL SERVICE ORDER.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
1. In cennection with thse varlous properties
which the gover1neflt possesses. or of which it
bas

the use

for military' purposes,

at Three

Rivers. how much has been paid(a.) For the purcbase af the original camping
cround.
(b.) For each purchase of additianal land.
(c.) For thse construction of target s.
(d.) For each ather wark.
(e.) For thse use of the aqueducL.
(f.) For the rentai ot the exhibition grounds.
(g.) For damnages donc ta these grounds.
(là.) For each other damage donc to other
properties.
(i.) As payrnent for titie deeds or contracta
of sale and the registration thereof ?
cf Who are the varlous persans ta whom sumo
ofmoney have heen paid as aferesaid, and how
much bas each suci permon rocelived ?
3. Wbst 1s the area of the land mentioned In
psragraph (a). and what Ia the ares et land
wentioned Ia paragraph (b) ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As regards questions
1 (a, b, c, il, 1) and 2, If land for tbe rife
range ls referred te, the Information required can be obtained from thse Auditor
Generai's Report for the year endlng SOth
J une, 1902, Q-99.
(e.) Nothing.
(f.) Nothlng.
(g.) Fifty dollars.
(b.) Nothing.
3 (a.) 271-39 acres.

(b.) None.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I think there
some payments made since 1902 ?

were

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-If the bon. gentleman
tahkes the memorandumn, he wili find the Information.
(e) For tbe use of aqueduct, notbing.
(f) For the rent of the exhibition grounds,
notbing.
(g) For damages done to tihe grounds, $50.
(hl For -each other damage doue ta otber
properties, notliug.
Area of land in (a) is 271 acres and thirtynine one-hundredths. As to (d), nothing.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Did the lion. Secretary of State give me the answer for (b) ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose te cail the attention of the goverliment to the followilig
tactson Auguat 8, 1902, the London 'Gazette' (extra) Dubiished the following as the statutes et
the iperial Service Order
.Edward. R. and I.
Edward the Seventh. by the Grace of God, of the
United Kingdorn of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dorninins beyend
the Seas. Kcing, Defender of the Faith, Ernperor of India. te ail wliem these preaenta
shall cere. Greeting :
Whereas. we are desirous of recegnizing more
f ul than has hitherto been possible the falthfui and meritoraUS services rendered te us by
members of the civil services of the varlous
parts of our empire. we do by these presents.
for us. aur beirs'and succeasors, institute and
create a new Civil Order of Distinction-to te
designated as hereinafter deacribed-afld we are
graciously pieased ta make, ordain, and estabiah the foilowing rules and ordinances for the
goverament of the sme
Firstly.-It is ordained that this order shal I
henoeforth be tyled and designated 'The !rnperil Service Order.1
Secondly.-It ia ordained that the order shalh
consist of the Sovereign. the Prince of Wales,
and such comanions as we, our heirs or successors. ehaK appoint.
Thirdly.-It is ordained that we, our beirs and
successors. lngs and queena regnant of the
United Kingdom of Great'Britain and lreiand
and of the British Dominions beyond the mess,
Emperors and Empresses of India, are and for
ever shall be sovereigna of this order.
Fourtlly.-It is ordained that only members of
the administrative or cierical branches or our
civil services shall be eligible for the distinction of companions of tbis order.
Fifthiy.-It is ordained that the number of
companiona of the order shall not exceed four
hundred and twenty-five. of whom two hundred
and fifty shahI beiong to our borne civil service,
and one hundred and seventy-five to the civil
-services 0f our colonies and protectorateS.
Sixthly.-It la ordained that no persan shal!
be eliglble te be a Companion of the Order
whose naine bas nlot been laid before us, aur
heirs and successors, by one of our or tbeir
Principal secretsries af state. and who bas not
at the turne of bis nomination rendered at ieast
twienty-tive Years' meritorlous service ln the
United Kingdom. Provided that ln a cob)ny or
Protectorate which, under the Pension' Acts or
regulations applying to tbat co-lony or pratectorate. is recoýgniZe d as unhealtby. the minimum
Period of service shahl be sixteen years :Provîded alsothat it abali at any time be corn-

JUNE 18, 1903
petent to us. aur heiro and successors. ta, appoint specially ta the order persoae wbo, L-ot
having completed the atoresaid perlods of service, have rendered such eminently meritoriaus
service as to qualify them la our opinion ta
become recipients of this distinction.
Seventhly.-It la ordained that when we, aur
heins and successora. shall ho pleased ta appoint
any porson ta be a ComDanian of the Order,
such appointment %hall ho made by warrant
cnder aur sign manuai and cauntersigned by.
ane af aur principal secretaries af state.
Eighth4ly.-It-. ordained that the decoratian
ta, be worn by Companions af the Order shahi
be a badge or medallion of gold and enamel.
bearing on one aide aur imperial afld rayal
cypher. and on the reverse 'For Faithtul Service.' bath ta be executed An dark biue onamel
on a plaque ar shield of gold, surraunded by a
wreath of laurel. surmaunted by the im-porial
crown.
einthly.-It i. ordained that the decaratian
shaîl he woa on the lett breant suspendait hy
a ribbon af ane -inch An wldth.
Tenthly.-It la ordained that the names Gf
those upan whom we are pleased ta conter the
decaratian shahl be published ln the London
Gazette.'
Eleventhly.-It la ardained that Campanians
of the Order shaîl have the privilege af adding
the lettons 1I.S.O. aiter their names.
Twelfthly.-It a ardained that membens et
any arder af knighthaod shail. if otherwlse
au.liled. be eligiblo ta hecomo companians of
tbis order. and that campanions of this arder
shail ln no way ho deharred tram becaming
tboreaftor membens of any arder of knighthaod
for which their services may qualify them.
Thirteenthly.-It la ordalned that an afficer
shall ho appointed ta the arder who shahl ho
styled 'Secretary and Registrar.' and who shall
ho e o flicia a Cainpanian af the Order.
Fourteenthly.-It la ordainod that the sacretary and rexistrar of this ardor shall he appointed hy us. aur heirs and successars. and
shaîl have the custady af the archives of the
arder. which shall be kept in the affice of aur
secretary af state for the hame departmnL
Mo .shall attend ta the service af the ordor and
shali execute euch directions as ho may receive
tram, aur principal scretarios 0f state.
Fifteenthly-It fa ardained that those members ef aur civil service wha are not ohigible for
appointment as campanians of this order may,
on retirement tram our said services after nat
lois than twenty-five years of meritoriaus service in the United Kingdom, or flot less than
sixteen years of such service ln a coloflr or
protectarate which. under the Pension Acta ar
Regulations appiyiiig ta that calony or proteztorate. is recognized as unhealthy. be awarded
a medal ta be deslgnated ' The Imperial Service Modal.' provided that no such medal abail
be granted except on the recommendatian of
ane o! our Principal Secretaries of State. Provided also that At shall ho competent ta us, aur
heirs and successors. ta confer the modal upon
not more than five civil servants ln each year,
who have retired after leas than twenty-five
rears' services. should special circumatances ln
aur or their opinion justify the grant.
Sixteenthly.-It As ordained tbat the Imporlai
Service Medal shall he of silvor and of a desigrn
similar to that o! the badge of the companinns
o! the aforesaid Imperial Service Order. and
shall be simllarly worn.

Seventeenthly.-It la ordained that the names
of thaso persoa ta whom tJhe Imperial Service
Medal shall be granted shall be duly published
Ln the London ' Gazette.'
Lastly.-We reserve to ourselves, aur heirs
and successors. full pawer of annulling. altoring.
abrogating, augmenting. Interproting, or dispensing with theoe regulations, or any part
thereaf. by a notificatian under the aigu manual
af the sovereign af the order.
Given at aur court at Buckinghamn Palace,
this eighth day of August, An the year of aur
Lord nineteen hundred and two. and the second
year of aur reign.
By MiEs Majosty's Commané,
CHARLES T. RITOHIE.
On the 29th o! Mçay. 1903, a second supplement
ta the London ' Gazette ' publishod ,the fellawIng appointments
Friday. May 29, 1903.
Hame Offce. May 28, 1903.
The King bas bean graciouely pleased ta make*
the following appointments ta the Imperial Service Order, and ta approve af the grant af the
impcrial service modal ta the gentlemen named
below
To ho Companians.
L. John Mortimer Courtney, Eeq.. C.M.G., Deputy MW.ister of Finance af the Daminian of
Canada.
2. William Grannis' Parmelee, Esq., Deputy
Minister of Trade and Commerce of the Dominion of Canada.
3. Charles Jerome Jones, Esq., chiot clerk.
omnce of the secretary ta tho Governar General
af the Dominion ai Canada.
4. Colanel Donald A. Macdonald, chiot clerk
and chiet superintendont af stores, Department
of Militia and Defonce ai the Dominion of Canada.
6. Kivas Tully, Esq.. consulting architect and'
engineor. Department a! Public Works of- the
province af Ontario.
6. Eugène Etienne Taché. Esq., Deputy MinIstar of Lands. Mines and Fisherles of tho province of Quebec.
7. Martin Murphy. Esq., provincial engineer
af the Province of Nova Scotia.
S. James Scott Bock. Esq.. Auditar General of
the province af New Brunswick.
*9. Lieutenant Colonel Richard Wolfenden,
King'o PrInter, province of British Columbia.
10. Salon William McMichael, Esq., chiot Inspectar af customs, Toronto, ln the Dominion of
Canada.
il. Augustus Power, Esq., E.C.L., K.C., chiot
clerk af the Department of Justice of the DomInion af Canada.
12. Froderick Montizambert Esq., M.D., director general of public healt, Departmont of
Agriculture of the Dominion of Canada.
To ho grantod the Modal.
1. Mr. Robert Bruce Winton, light keeper, Department of Marine of the Dominion of Canada.
2. Mr. Jean Gauthier. light keepor, Departmont o! Marine of the Dominion o! Canada.
3. Mr. Robert Rivers, Ilgbt keeper, Department of Marine of the Dominion of Canada.
4. Mr. James Barnes. letter carrier, Pest Office
Department Dom inion of Canada.

SENATE
5. Mr. Patrick DenneneY, lockrnan, Department
of Ralwayz and Canails of the Dominion of
Canada.

whlch say 'it ie ordained that no
shall be eligibie to be a companlon
ordcr whose naine bias flot been laid
us, our hieirs and successors by omie
principal secretarles of state.'

person
of the
before
of the

6. Mr. Alexander Adame. labourer, Departmient
of Raiiways and Canais ut the Dominion of
Canada.
And that he wili laguire-la the principal
1. Have the twelve naines given by the LI.»- Flou. Mr. SCOTT-That
dcu ' Gazette' of the 2ZStb May, 1903. as com- secretaries of a tate la England, flot lu the
panions of the Imperial Service Order, been laid colonies. They do not pass tbrougli rue at
before the Impertal government by the Secreail.
tary ut State of Canada ?
2. Have tlhe six additional names given by the

Hon. MUr.LANDRY-What does the word
London ' Gazette ' of the samne date, as 'ýecipients of the Imperial Service Medal. been 'their' mean ?
laid before the Imperial goverument by the
Scecretary of State of Canada ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is the principal
3. When such recommendations have been secretary of state ln England. Mr. Chamu?
made
referred
4. Have any other names been recommended 7 berlain would have been the person
5. How many of each distinct province of the to, as far as Canada le concerned.

Dominion ?

.6. How many years of service have been fui-

filied by each of the above nominees ?
7. On what principle or basis, were chosen

the names that were recommended ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-AiI thîs le new to me.
1 have neyer read the London *'Gazette,'
and I have noever seen anythlng beyond
wlut appears lu the public press.

My an-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It does tiot say «'our.'
It says 'their.'
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The Secretary of State
of Canada lias nothing to do wlthl It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I thlnk
the answer of tlîe bon. Secretary of State
ls quite correct, so far as lt goes, but the
question goes a lîttie further. It says were
they recommended by the Secretary of
State of Canada.

swer ta the flrst question ls no, and the second, no. I renlly cannnt tell my lion. friend
wlmcn such recoxumendations are made, nor
can I swiy anytbing as to liow many were
Hon. Mr. SCOTTf-I have said that I bad
recommcnded, nor how many from oacli pronotblng to do wlth the recommendation.
vince. Mdy hou. frlend nas giron that InHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tben
formation himsolf. I prosumo the terni of
service, as laid down lu the 'Gazette,' Is 'No' is the answer.
tweiîty-tive years of morîtorlous service.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I answered 'No.'
Tien as to the princîple or baisis on wblcb
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Âre we to believe
the jiames wore chosen, It le on the princîple
that appointmlents are made ln England of
of neiet and leugtb of tîme lu the service.
those meritorlonu people who have served
L
H on. ?%1r. ANDRY-Do 1 understand by et least. twenty-five years ln the civil serthe answers givon by the boa, gentleman vice without any Information being given,
that any rocommendation bas been made ?
or any recomme¶idation being made by the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It does ixat corne governaient of thîs country ?
througli nie. The honors are very pecullar.
They are different front anytblng else. Honore emanate fromn the Sovereign, wbo always bas the clhief voice lu theru, and bis representative le the Governor General, and
tie Governor General did receive recommendationis I have no doulit. 1 know of one
case of a reconiînieudation froru one of the
lieutenant governors front one of the provinces. The government mnuet, o! course,
ln the end assumine the responsibility, and
that is ili 1 cau say ou the subject.
Hou. Mr. LANI)LY-i would cail the attention or' the minister to the regniatiOns
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the goverament
of Canada assumed the respousibllty, as far
as that goes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
seems to me to be a very strange position for
the Secretary of State to take. 1 can understand very -welI wbat the hou. gentleman
says as a mnatter of practice and habit, but
1 can scarcely unilerstand hiow the authorities in England could know what the mernte
and service of these different gentlemen
have been, without it hein,- called to thieir
notice bv the M1%ilitia Departnient lu Canada.

JIJNE 18, 1903

1 can understand very weli tbat the. Secre- vinces, acting, no doubt. witb the approval
tory of State could bave no k-nowledge
otber tban that wbieb lie would bave ta
communicate If the recommendations were
made by the Minlster of Mllitla. Tbey
would bave ta pas tbrougb bis bands, or
rather, tbrough bis office. Wbetber tbat
wonld be some recommendation on the part
of the Mlnister of Militia, or bis recommendation ta be considered by tbe gavernment, tben tbey wouid be transmitted
ta tbe Colonial Secretary tbrough the
Secretary of State. I amn findlng na fanit
witb bis answer, 1 arn only speaking
of -tbe practice and wbat It wauld be
necessary ta do ln order ta bave these
officers, meritorious or otherwise, living In
Canada, braugbt under the notice of the
imperiai government. I can scarcely coneive it possible that the Colonial Secretary,
or tbe Militia Department ln England 'would
take stepa of this ebaracter, without lirst
baving the facts laid before them on a report tram the Militia Department of the
services rendered, nat only to Canada, but
ta tbe empire, ln their military capacity.
If we are ta understand tbat the Imperial
government act upon their own responsibIlity wlthout reference to the goverument
of Canada, aIl I can say la It la a new departure, and It la assuming something on
the part of tbe Imperial authorities that
tbey bave nover assumed ln the pant

of tbeir governments, directed ta His Excellency the Governor General. The list le
made Up largely in tbat way, and then It
received the *approval of the Governor
finally, and the names are submitted by His
Excellency.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
le, wbat I would bave supposed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey are transmitted
by His Exceliency to the Colonial Secretory.
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbc
bon. gentleman migbt bave added this to
It, the source of bonour le tbe Orown, and
amy honours that are conterred upon any
Canadian, axre upon tbe recoinmendatlon of
Tbot la correct.
tbe Governor General.
But the Governor General neyer, during
my experience made aur sncb recommeatdation witout consulting the premier at
leait, wbether lie consulted the cabinet
or not. I knaw tihat there are certain
hononrs eonferred. wbere the cabinet la not
conaulted. Tbe premier may conunt and
advise wltb bis coileagues, or lie may not,

mast as ho pleases.

That la a matter betweeu

tbe premier and Governor General, and If
the premier recominends-and ho may do
that wltbout the consent or witb the consent,
mast as he pleases, of bis cabinet-the couterring of banours upon any one, and the
Governor General accepte that adylce, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. Wbat I sald was the honour le couferred.
that the bonaurs, as =y bon trfeud knows
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In my answer I sa-Id
very woll, emanate froin the SoveroIgn. The
of the Sovereigu ln tJls coun- the reaponsibiiity rested finally with the
reprosentative
try la thbo Goyeruor Genoral. Ho la the governmeut of the country.
Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-If the government
medium of communication. Probably the
bon. gentleman, tramn bis long experience 18 responsible for those nominations, I
In the government of this country, knows abould lke ta know firstvery well that, In reference ta those bonours,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. friend need
tbe representative of tbe Crown usually not Inquire any furtber, because I do not
dlaims perbaps more than ordinary diacre- pooet
oit
h
atrctgrcly
tion ln submittlng nomes ta the Soverelgn. propose tano inormtion mttef
caeoicll
Tbe names, as I underatand It, embrace Ir bfave o nrton
y
tesbet
eyself, peroally
first a list of names of ail tbose elîgible : 1or
ofily on nae subject, ecpt, ebaps
that would be submltted.
They uum- Iy tnhe 0f ofe tahe tbpat w ecomede
f h
eatet
yteha
bered some bundreds, I tblnk lbetweeu
Hon. Mr. LANDRYý-I want to cai the attbree and four bundred, wbo completedl
their twenty4fve years of service. Then, tention of is House ta certain facts, and I
so far as the outeide provinces are cou- think I have the rigbt ta do so. In the nomicerned, I tbink the communications were nations made there is one fact that we sliould
from the Lieutenant Governars of the pro- flot forget. I arn speaking of nominations

SENATE
of empioyees who have a right to the decoration or to the medai by their long service.
They are qulte numerous. But let us mention
oaly those that eatered the service ln the
160s. Mfr. Courtney who bas received the
order first enterred. the service 2nd of June,
1869l. Dr. Montizambert entered the service
la 1866. Mfr. Denaeny entered the service la
1869. These are three names only la the
e60s. They received, the two firat, the decoration, and the iast, the medal. But what
about the others who entered the service
before them ?1 Besides these gentlemen,
Just aamed, we have a very old servant who
entered the service ln 1842-another in 1849
-another ln 1850 ; three la 1853 ; four that
entered in 1854 ; la 1855 you have six ; ln
1857 you have four; and amongst those
namnes you 'have a namne weli known ln this
bouse-the naine of Mr. Boucher, our assistant clerk. In 1858 you have live more; in
1859 you have thirteen. Ia 1861 you have
sevea ; In 1862 you have five; la 1863 there
are tea. Ail those persons are eatitled, as
well as those who came after, aad If the
length of service bas aaythIng to do with itHon. Mfr. SCOTT-My hon. friend did not
4sk me on that point. Canada was iimited
to a certain number.
Hon. Mfr. LA.NDRY-I kaow that. Thiere
were twelve for companionship and six for
TIhe twelve for compnnionship
medais.
have been chosen amongst servants thxe
oldest of whom dates only from 1869, and
ail those 1 have just mentioned, as far as
number goeg, are prior to 1866. 1 think
those nominations have been made without
a due regard to the subject.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Mere length of service
-%vas not the test. The test was meritorlous
service for twenty-five years. You migbt
pass over a man who had been fifty years
in the public service, and regard one as
much more meritorious who had served
twenty-flve years. Length of service alone
did not entitie hlm..
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Menit ?
Hon. Mýr.

.SCOTfT-Yes.

Hon. bir. LANDRY-On that ground, 1
think, our assistant clerk shouid he as deserving ns n man who hbas heen keeping- a
Ilghthouse «since the 24th of April, 1877.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

Hon. Mir. TEMPLEMAN -Bring- hlm iii
tiext year.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We do flot know
how many persons we're recommended and
It i»ay have
whio were finnily chosen.
been very arbitrary and mny -have beeii
I amn somewhat
doue on the othler side.
doubtfui as to the propriety of attacbiug our
officiais to the Imperiai meritorious service.
If we go into sucli a course, I sbould prefer to go in ourseIves and make our own
selectious and the fountain of honour wouid
reside ln Canada.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I asked the quest ion,
how many were recommeuded, so that we
should see wdio ivere recommended. At ail
events, as we may see the imperiai service
order is loslng much of lts merit the way
It bas been granted.
EXTRA-JUDICIAL EMPLOYMENT
JUDGES BILL.

OF

FIRST READING.
Hion. Mfr. FERGUSON presenlted Bill (U)
Au Act respecting the Extra-Judicial EmiThis,
Hle snid :
pioyment of Judges.
though a Bill of some Importance, is short
and I shahl rend It :
judges of any Dominion or Provincial court
who are appointed by the Governor Generai or
by the Governor General in Counchl, shai flot
hoVdl or act under any commission to inquire
into an mnatter relating to the good goverament of Canada or any province of Canada cr
to the conduct of any part of the public business of Canada, or any province of Canada, or
to the conduet in ofIRce of any minuster of the
Crown or of any person ln the service of Canada. or any province of Canada, whether such
commission la Iasued under the authorlty ofÂny Âct of the parliament oi Canada. except
chapter 138 of the Revised Statutes respecting
the Judges of provincial courts ;or
Any statute or ordinance ln force in any province of Canada : or
Any other power to Issue such commissions
Possessed by the Governor in Council or by any
Lieutenant Governor ln Council.
Thnt is the whoie of the Bill. The first
point ln connection with the Bill whlch
wlli strike hon. gentlemen ls with regard
to the power of parliament to pass this particular legisiation that refers to the employment of judges by provincial governments. 1 have consulted with what 1 regard
as very excellent authority on this question,
and have iooked carefully through Dlot oniy
the British North Anienica Act with sncb
aFsistaince ais I could obtain, but aiso ail

JUNE 18, 1903
the reports of the varlous MInisters of Jus- affect the independence of the bench. With
tice mince confederation, on provincial legîs- ail the due respect which we muet bold, and
lation. and many of these reports have which I aïn prepared to say la uaually heid
touched on this question of the adminiistra- for the bench lu this country, we muet feel
tlon by judges, the power of the govera- and knaw tbat wben tbey become judges tbey
ment to appoint Judges, the control over do flot cease to be human beings, and it la
those Judges and how they mbould be paid, flot rlght that temptation should be put ln1
and ail such things as tbat, and have found their wfty, and Inducements -heid out
that nearly ail the emineat gentlemen who to theul, or tbat it should be lu the
bav-e beld the position of Minister of Jus- power of any governmeflt to conter tavours
tice ince confederation are on record ln upon those who should be above ail lnthese reports, at one time or another, ex- fluences either from the government of the
-pressing their very pronounced opinions as day, or- from the opposition, or froîn any
to the absolute and complete control witb party wiiatever. Tis vlew that I amn now
regard to the emoluments to be paid and preseuting is one fliat bas been put before
right to control the judges la every respect the public by different Mlnisters of Justice,
being ln the possession of the parliament and I arn not. going to shlow this proposiof Canada. 1 shal flot say anything more tioa to reat oa my owa Judgment alone,
on that point, but I wiI submit just two but wMi submit to the House the opinions
or three reasons whieh appear to strongly et nmre eminent men who have ilhledl the
caîl for this legisiatiou on the part of the office of Minister of Justice ince coafederaparliament ot Canada. I bold that the ap- tion. Turniiig to tlîe reports of ail the chief
pointaient of judges on commissions la de- Miaisters of Justice that are embodied la
trimental to the efficient discharge of tiheir this volume, at page 84, 1 find Sir John MacstrIctly judictal duties. It la assumed, donald, then Minister of Justice, laid down
when lawyers are appoiated to the beuch. this view on the l4th of July, 1869, when
lhat the wonk of the courts in the differeat dealing wlth a law passedl by the province
provinces which they are called upon of Ontario-the Supply Bill of Ontario In
to preside over cells for the exercise tact for that year, la whicii provision was
of their best efforts, and If they are liable made for the paymeut of n1,00 to certain
«to be called mway from their duties by judgcm of the court la the proviace of Onextra-Judîclal work by appointments froin tario. Sir John Macdonald maid :
That the aixth section of ebapter oas, being
the provincial goverumeat, or from the gexiBiR for 1969.
eral goverament, to try cases arising lu con- tii. Supply 96th and 1OOth la ai-o objeotionabie,
clauses of the. Union
the gooAct
-'tonwth god goverament ot the &8by the vrovided that the Goveruor General
It la
nectin ..
country, or the conduct of any miaister, or shali appoint khe judes of the superlor courts.
fix ad
and
offices- of the goverament, then there la no vide the parliament of Canada shali pensionspr-; it
their salaries. mllowaaces aud
taken awmy from that whicb wulh seesa that the Judges of tiiose courts canmnoh time
probreach
without
the government and parliament ut Canada mot Properly, andernolurnenta of amr or its from
receive
udiialvisions. the. power whlch appoints and kind them
b gien tritlyto Jdica
provdesshal
pays
au but
ha iveastretlyto
provdes hai
duties. 1 thiak it goca without smyiag that the total salaries attached to their judîcial
the judges of the courts shan flot be called IPositions.
I mmy turther explalu that Sir John Macsway, as we have known thcm to be for a
montha at a time, and more donald did not s-est upon bis own judginonth or two
tihan one of them sometimes, fs-om the pro- ment upon that case alone, but lic advised
per discliarge of their duties wlthout sme the Governor Geacral to have a refes-ence
detrimeut to the service they are appoiated made of that Act, along with two others,
If the other side of to the law offices-s of the Crown lu Eugland,
properly to perfos-u.
this proposition la maintalaed, that no de- and they repos-ted thereon. Mr. Collier,
triment arises, the conclusion is inevitable a very emineut lawyer, and Mr. Coletîtat we have too many judges and are spead- ridge, atterwards Chief Justice of England,
ing too niuoh money for the performance of reported that this Bill was beyond the
Another point pow%%er of the Legilsiature of Ontario to pas
judicial duties ln Canada.
is that the employmieft of judg-es to per- and the measure was disaliowed. My honforni extra-judicial duties is caiculated to friend the Seerttary of State will £fnd the

SMNATE
report of the Iaw officers of the Crown of
Engiand on this subject on pages 84 and
87, of the book to whlch I arn referring,
Hodgins' edition of reports' of MinIsters
So much
of Justice from 1867 to 189.
for that case. We ftnd that the Hon. James
Macdonald, at that time Minister of Justice
for Canada, reported on an Act passed by
the legisiature of Prince Edward Island.
My bon. friend wlll find the report on page
1203 of the same volume to wbich I bave
referred. This report goes ln details. I wili
read the part of It that deals with this Bill
A similar question came up la connection wlth
an Act wbich vas passed by the legislature et
Ontario ta 1869. whereby the aum of $1,000 eacb
per year vas aliowed to the judges of the superior court payable out of the moneys of the
province.
The opinion of the law oficers -of the Crowu
la England as to the autborIty of the provincial
legisiature to paas such an Act vas taken, and
they gave it es their opinion that it vas not
ccmpetent for the provincial legialature to paso
IL.
On the 19th January. 1870. 4the thea Minister
of Justice reported upon the Act and recommended its disaiiewance.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The disailowance was
got over by paying the judges notwitbstanding.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
ays It was got over. That raises a point
whicb I fully expected to meet. It la true
the legisiature ot Ontario passedl a law In
the foliowing session of parliament under
whlcb the judges of the court of error and
appeai were to receive, and have received
from that time, 1 thiak, up to the present
time from the province of Ontario, $1,000
a yca each during the tIme that each of
tbem shall hold a commission with reference to beir and devisee and assignee proceedings, and it Is also on record that
the then MiNlnister of Justice did not
think that Act was Intra vires either. A
foot-note is found ln thîs volume. Sir John
Macdonald was very 111during the whole
of that summer, and In consequence of the
illness of the M.Ninister of Justice, a report
hiad not been made upon that iaw and the
tu-eh-e months during whidih It could bave
been disaiion-cd. passed, and it bas remained
on the statute-book, but in a report in 1888,
by Sir John Thompson, dealing witii this
subject pointed out this fact, that notwithstanding the Bill had not been reported on Aid it liid consejuentiy been ieft to
Hon. -Mr. FERC.USON.

whatever operation It might bave, that did
not at alI settle the Intra vires character of
that legislation. On the coatrary, he heid
piainly la a very iengthy and full discussion whicb he made la reference to an Act
wb.Ich was passed by the province of Quebec, ln, I thiak, 1887. appointing district
magistrates In the city of Montreai, that
the Ontario Act Ia question was ultra vires.
and would be so heid If the question had
been raised. However, thie question was
not raised, aud I arn bere free to admit
tliat wbether tbe BiB1 tliat I have submitted
wili cover It or not-I amn rather Inclined to
tbink that it wouid net reacb that provision
of the Act of the province of Ontario-the
many and strong objections whicb are entertained against the payment of judges lu
most cases do net appiy against the provision
that found its way Into the statutes of the
province some thirty years ago, and bas
remained there ever since. Ail judges, wben
the-! are appointed, know that It Is ln existence from their predecessors en-joying the
salaries. T'here la no Inducement held ont to,
any individual judge in connection with it,
andi whether It la constitutional or not, It
i. flot open to such grave objections as
nmust be held to be vaiid against the occasional employmeat of judges by the goverameats of the day and the remnuneration which arises from such occasional employment. I wIll read what Hon. James
Macdoald, now chief justice of Nova
Scotia, says. He le here dlscussing the
legisiation of the province of Prince Bdward Island. He says :
The principie of paying judges by fées vas
long ago found to be a vicions ane, calculated
ta Interfere with the independence o! the beach.
If the payment o! very smali tees te
county court judges, such as arise under
the operation o! the lau' ln these courts ln
Prince Edward Island, is held to be a serious interference with the Independence of'
the bench, It must surely be hehd that the
einployment and remuneratien of judges
by provinces, where the employment Is quite
Important and tbe emoluments are very
high, is aiso an interference with the independence of the bench. I couid submit
very much stronger statements than tliat
by other Ministers of Justice. For instance,
1 u'ill turn to the view of Sir Ahex Campbell, when he was M-%inister of Justice. 1

JUNE 18, 1903
w-ill give nîy lion. friend the referente. It
i., page Js;j, of the sarne volume ta whici
I have already referred. Hle was discuasing Ontario legisiation also, and bie said :
The undersigned thinka It doubtful whether
the provincial legislature can constitationally
ir this manner appoint judgeu, vho hold office
by commission fromn Your Excellency ta other
offices under the provincial government. The
expediency of allowing county judges ta act
as referees and local miesters la questionable
and the same may at aone future time require
the ccnsideration of parliarnent. Should paruinent think proper ta legisiate upon the eubJect It Is evîdent that the provisions last referred
Cc, of the Aet now under consideration wouid biecorne inoperative.
This report I amn reading and the refcreuicca 1 arn giving. are lncluded ln a large
volume wich cavera fram 1867 ta .1895.
Hon. Mfr. LANDERKIN-18
Mr. Hodgins, of Toronto ?

tint

by

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes. I ill now
turu ta tbe opinion of Judge Fournier,
tien Minister o! Justice, on page 1032
This deals with
of the sme volume.
British Columbia legislatian, ln 'which the
leglalature of that province iad undlertak-en by inw ta interfere with the circuits
of tie courts lu British Columbia, ta suci a
serions extent as ta call for the Interference
o! the federal autbarity :
They furtiier allege that that Act ln substance.
conters an the local legisature power to appoint
any county court Iudge for a particular district
a power o! appolntmnent whlch belongs alose to
the Governor General. and that any sucii power
of contrai by the local legialature carriez with
lt the power of rewarding such judges as may
hae favoured hy the minieter o! thie dey by transfernlng thexu ta more agreeable pons or vlaitin.g dispîcasure upon thecn by orderlng them
to tiie Inhospltable districts of the Intenter. All
which la Incompatible witb a continued faithf'xl
and uniiiased discharge hy the county court
Judges of their Judiclal functions.
Tiare are many otier opinions o! tie sme
klid, and thIroughaut tbe entire two volumes that I bave before me-a very considerable proportion o! tie volume deals wlti the
question of the administration of JusticeI have been unable ta find one single repoxt on any pbase o! tus question wiicb
would seern ta caîl lu doubt the position
I takze with regard ta this Bill, and !rom It
I gather as the opinions of tbese erainent
mcen that the view, 1 arn presenting ta tbis
House. finit sncb employrnent as 1 amn referrixxg ta la calculated ta interfere witi
flic independexce of fixe bencx, lias been
ield and- put forward strongly and prornin'26

ently by different Ministers of Justice.
There is just one otber point tint I shll
refer ta now-there will be ample apportimity for discusalng the Bill at the second
reailing, but I thouglit it ivas a mnsure of
sufficient Importance ta warrant smre explanation belng made at this stage, and that
la that the appolntment of judges ta these
employments ls detrirnental ta the maintenance of due respect for the benci. I need
flot dwell upon thnt point. It is ixo doubt
in the mlnds of bon. gentlemen ln this
Hanse, as lt is ln the rninds of the
people af the country, thnt at tuis present moment a feeling prevails lu the
province of Onxtario, xxnd very much lbeyond that province, on tMs point that
ls a very unpleasant and very unsatisfactory one. I arn not gaing ta enter into,
a discussion as tu whether tlxere are sfi
dlent grounds for that feeling or not, but
I have no hesitation lu saying that that
feeling does exlat and 1 arn n- tnt ail exaggeratlng when 1 gay that a majority of
the people of Ontario who think on those
subjects feel that the bench bas been pulled
dawn, soi ta speaIr, by wbat bas accurred
within that province witbln the last two or
three montis, ln the ernployrnent of judges
ta try what la pureiy and solely a poiltical
question. There la an opinion tbat in a
country enjoylng responsible governrnent,
those questions ahould be tried by the representatives of the people themselves, but
Judges have been Induced ta accept a commission and hear evîden2ce on that case ancl
at tiîis moment as every bon. *gentlemalk
knows, we are just as far from a satisfactory solution of the question ln the publicmmnd as when the Investigation was entered
upon. Th*e public mmnd la just as far f rom.
arriving at an agreernent upon the question
as tbey were wben the Investigation of that
question began. In fact, everybody who bas
looked into It at ail bas corne ta this conclusion, that 'wbile it la beyond ail question tint a crime was commritted ln tbe bribery af a mernier oif that House, yet the
source af thant rnoney lins ixot been disclosed
and from thc fact tiiot it lias ixot been disclosed, there can Ibe no other feeling than
that the inqxxirv lias flot resuited ln the ohject whicb wvas ixx xiew wben the commission was appointcd. Tixere are soine wliose
view la tixat a proper resuit froni sucb an

SE N,ýA TE
Inqulry is reached If a report favourable to
their own party is arrived at, but that cannot possIbly be the view of the people of
the entire country wbo want to have the
truth discovered, who want to have the
whole tacts disclosed, and nlot a flndlng, or
-charge, or whatever you may eall it, on evidence whlch everybody admits has neot
been sufficient to disclose the whoie of the
tacts, and lndeed the most Important of the
tacts. To bear out what I have sald, that
the appointmuent of Judges ta commissions
such as I have named is detrimeutal to that
respect which shouid be feit for the bench,
.1 wiii read to the House an article which
appeared only three or four days ago lu a
newspaper publlshed ln the clty of Torauto. I refer to the Toronto 1News,' a
paper that Is edited by a gentleman who
stands undoubtediy at the head of the aditonial profession ln Canada, a gentleman
'wha for many years edited the Toronto
'Globe,' and promoted the iuterests of that
paper, while he had editoril charge of it,
and brought It to a position of great respect
and standing lu this country whIch the
* Globe' neyer enjoyed before, and who is
now empioyed on the editoriai staff of the
Toronto 'News!' a thoroughly Independent
paper. This Is the article to whilh I refer:

tical gatherlng. It wns a gatherins Irnespective of polîtica.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-Who was the
speaker ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It does nlot say
la the article, but 1 believe It was Dr. Ryerson. The article continues:.The cause la slmvie, and easiiy ta be avolded
If any goyerninent had the courage ta avoid it.

The jijd-es bave been made a part of the poilticai machtnery of a party. The responsibillty ls iargely their own. They have aiiowed
themselves ta he made poltical agenclea when
they need not have doue so. and* that la the
charge which the public laye agalnst them. But
the burden lies malaly upon the government
whlch lmposed thîs new obligatilon upon them.
And as atraws show the vând, no the laughter
of the Queen's Park crowd-a crowd of patrlotic
citizens. assembled ta honour their nablest
dead--ehows lu what depths of degradation the
Dnesent treatment of the judiclary will liaud thîs
people.

These are very strong words coming tram
the quarter from which they emanate and
they are eatltled ta, and must receive a
great deal of consideratian.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Does the hon.
gentleman propose ta abolisb the trial of
coafroverted electians by judges7
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-if My hon. frlend
wili look at the BihI and brush up bis iaw
an these questions, he wlll find the BIRl wil
not reach suchi questions at aill The controverted elections are tnled by the exlstIng
It is nat
courts lu ail of the provinces.
an extra-Jdudlil proceedlng at ail, but a
strlctly regular pnaceedlug under the organizatlon of the regular courts of the country.

The Judiciary.
Wbat do the people of Canada thlnk to-day
of the Canadian Judlclary ? The question la a
vital one. It involves a naitlon's regard for law
and order. It involves the intçgrity of our national Institutions. And it Invoives aur national
moerality ana deceacy and self-respect.
A year ago there could have been no such
quebtion. Its answer wouid have been absalute.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-The hon, gentleuïrhesitating. unquailfied. The judiclary was the
One thlng lu which the people trusted. In the man has nat answened my question, wbich
mildst of a xeneral break-down of politicai. mona simple eue. I nsked If he iutended te
alty. the disappearance of ail party pninciple. Is
the elimînatIon fromt public lite of aimost all
the big men who heid the natlou's confidence.
the courts of Canada remalned la full possession
of the people's respect. Have they It to-day ?
A terribly sîgnîfIcant Incident occurred at the
decoration of the veterans' monument in Queen's
Park a week ago. In the course of a patriotie
oration. which was beiag enthuslastlcally recelved. the speaker made the customary euiog;stic reference to the position of the Canadian
beach. It was receivefi wi-th ribald laugbter,
whlch compveiled hlm to change h-is subject as
soon as the Jeers of his audienýe subsided andi
be regsined s hearing. 1.t was an Incident that
wouid have been impossible a year ago. and we
csn <-nîr hope against hiope that It wiii be irarossible a vear bence.

abollsh the trial of controvertcd electIaus
by judges ?
Hon. Mn. FELIGUSON-1 answered that.

Hon. Mn. LANDERKIN-No, the hion. gentieniana answered it l)y rhetoric.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I told the bon.
gentleman the courts lu trying controverted
elections m-cre regunriy organized courts.
Sucli triais are not extra-judical proceed!ings, and My B3ih wiil net touch theni.

Hon. 1%lr. LANI)ERKIN-Tey will still
This was nt a gnthering to decorate the
he in pollties. The jndges wvill lie bandling
monuments of v-eterans wlio felI lin the serelection cases.
vice ef tIreir country. It mwas flot a pol- eontroverted
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JUNE 18, 190340
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have alw4Iys feit;
there was a great deal of force ln that
objection. There dld flot seem to be
any other method openi to bave election
In My
I always feit so.
cases trled.
own province I saw, ou many occasions,
judges called to do work which was uot;
proper work for them, but there seemed
to be no other way of dolag It and,
under the circumstances, we had ta endure
the evil; but that does flot make It at ail
necessary that we sbouid go ou and extend
that evil where there la no necessity for dolng go. Now I shalh turn to another opinion, that of one Who, I arn sure, will be regarded by every hou, gentleman lu this
House and by every person ln this country
as a very hlgh anthorlty on sucli a question.
I refer to Dr. Goldwln Smith, of Terouto.

mercial union, and the» irestricted reciprocity, and I tiik lt lad a very streug nd
eurnest support from the hou. gentleman
wbo interrupted me.
Hou. Nlr. LÂNDERKIN-It was lutroduced by the h on. gentleman's leader, Sir
Charles Tupper.
Hlou. Mfr. FERGUSO'N-Ând furtbermore
1 am just reminded that the Hon. Edward
Blake, the greatest man tluat every lield a
position la the Liberal ranks, and the greatest man the party ever produced, left; the
ranks ef bis party and witlidrew frorn polticai lite lu Canada in dIsgust, because of the
propoundlng of that policy ef commercial
union and unrestricted recipreclty by the
parti to wliicb my bon. friend belc>ng-s.

Hou. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-No, no.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I do not thluk
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Ând because lie
any senater should quote as au authorlty for the Senate a gentleman who bas regarded that policy as Involvlng and leadadvocated the annexation of Canada te the ing ultimately to annexation and that lie
thouglit the question of annexatlon should
United States, as Goldwlu Smith did.
discussed fairly and squarely ln
Hou. 1fr FERGUSON-I arn not sure have been
the first Instance, lnstead of belng discussed
what my hou. friend bas uot advocated ln
Indirect way. -However, If I were to
bis time. If we are golng to enter bite that lu an
go on and answer my hou. frieud, the requestion, I dure say my bion. frlend was lu
be to draw the attention of the
favour of commercial union at one time lu suit would
Ilouse entirely away from the Bill wbicli 1
Canada. and we ail k-now that meant anfor Its consideration. As my
uexatlon, and If my hon. friend wants am submltting
hon. frlend has conciuded bis Interrogations,
te Impugu the judgment of Dr. Goldwiu
read the opinion of Dr. GoldSmith on every snbject because, slmply, at 1 propose to
Win Smithone time lie recoenmended, or advlsed the
aunexation of CJanada ta the United States,
Hou. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-Tlie annexalie ls. condemning hhmself, because hie ad- tionist !
vocated what we kuew very Wel, amounted
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-He ays liu this
practically to the'same thlng.
article :
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-I wlli inforrn the
The legisiature. having at last met, a memnber
hon. gentleman that I neyer udvocated com- of it charzed another miember. who was aIma
metcdai union, and the Liberal party neyer a member of the goverament. with an attempt
duty to, hie conadvecated It, nor did tliey Issue nu annexa- at brlbing hlm to betray hisa ýcase for a parstitueuts. This sureir was
tien manifesto to tue United States. It wns iiamentary cormlttee of iuquiry. If the legIsiature has ta coufess that It la incapable of
the party wlth whlch tue lion, gentleman 1s vlndicating its own oharacter. to wliat a pans
have we came. The House deserted is own
allled wlicli did that.
honour liT delegatlag the case to any exteriMl
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE~ BOWEL-I amn tribunal. unless lt "Thtended a crirninal prosecushould have bean
la which case
very mucli afraid the lien. gentlemin lins tiou. ta the courts ofrecourse justice. But the
crirninal
had
takeni the ndvice of a certain provincial ini- obvious course was flot the one which best
suited the lntereat of party. The case was
lster. to forget some tliings.
handfed over ta an anomalous tribunal, selected
flot concur in
accuser
Hlon. Mfr. l'ERGUSON-I ani afraid lus by the case, while the followed did monster trial.
a
selection. There
niemory is bad. The siinie propbosition was
refurnishied and presented to the iieofie. as
unirestricted reciPrLcity. It was first rmla26ý

is
with intermninable wranglings of counsel. and
bullyings of witnesses. ainid great party excitement and al.tercations of the party press.
What the Public wanted to know was wbetber

SENATE

404

a bribe bad been offered to NIr. Gamey, if it tue peopule tluat they have neot ccnScd t., bc
had. trami what fund it came, and by whorn Influenced by their politicai feelings, w-leand through wbat hands that fund was empioyed. These facts a strong chairman of the ther they are independent of party feelings
Darliamentary com'mittee might sureiy have ex- or not. And what lias occurred tram that
tracted by direct and searcblog questions.
The ciour of satlsfactory Inquiry has been time forward ? Judge Jetté, who made that
closed upon us. but tbat of reflection la flot, favourable report, cantinued ta bc a judge
and surely any ane ln wbomn party bas nat ex- of the Suprenue Court, until the party withi
tinosuished ail power of reflection. seelng wbat
lias taken place. seeing the course of edec- whIkh lie formerly was connected camie Into
tioneerlng roguery and corruption througb wihlch power, and siace thiat time lie lins been
wie have been passing, and Its necessary consequences, ta political, and even general moral- lienoured ln varions ways. He liab leeeju
lty. must reflect an the wisdom a! ret.alninga
appointed goverunor af tie pravince of QuesYstem of which these are the natural fruits.
I mlglit aiso mention tlhat this is not the
only case iii wiîicl I tiliin developments
ilîl have îîot been caicuiated
occnirred
to strengthen the judlciry of the country
ln the estimation of the people of Canada.
Ami now I amn dealing witu what ay lic
regarded as a conservative action, the aictiouu of the Conservative party. I arn referring to the commission issued lu tlie jirvince of' Quebec wvith regard to the deveiopmeats ln the Mercier regime, lni 1891. On
that occasion a royai canimissinn of Inqulry

was issued, I think on the suggestion of the
governor of the province, the Hou. Mr.
Angers, but a commission for.whioh the premier of the day assumed the ministerlal responsiblIty. That commissioni consisted of
tliree members and a report was finaily presented-I amrn ot dealing now with the preliminary report, but witli the final report-la
whlcli two of the judges -found Mercier
guilty of the charges that biad been
The third judge
preferred against -him.
brouglit

la

a

favourable

report.

The

judges that found the judgment againet
Mfercier on that occasion were Judges Baby
and Davidson, and tibe judge who made the
tavourable report was Justice Jetté, at the
present Urne governor of the province of
Quebec. This is oniy one of many instances
that can be referred to. The public cannot
shut their eyes ta the fact, that the
court divlded on the question accordîng ta

bec, and lias received an aplpaiatiineiit. but
lias net entered upon bis duties, te Uc Iligli
Commissiener lii reference ta the Aiatskauî
Bouadary. 1 au> not charging to the sliglhtest extent that these lionours and distinctions and advsntages wbicli have Lieci coniferred upan liin since that tîime. bave lîeen
la consequence of any service lie yendered lu favour ot Mercier. 1 arn sure tiiat
lias uot beexu the case. For my own part,
I arn quite sure tliey have been bestowed
upon liirn ln coasequence of bis higli
character and abllity, and perbaps witli
sorne regard ta is enilnent politieai services

to bis pnrty betore lic weat on the bencli,
but it ls liard ta disabuse thie publie mmnd
0f the impression-lt lias oftea been suggested ln rny learing-thattliis preferment,
adantage and distinction conferred upon
Judge Jett4, lias been to sorne extent owing
te the fact that lie had reudered a favourable judgment te Mercier la the investlition of the charges at that period. 1 do not
entertala those views myseif. I do îîot
know tlie gentleman ; I neyer met hlm, but
I -have beard hlm spoken of la the higliest
Nevertlieless tlie employaient af
terms.
Judges ln services -whlcli are calculnted to
create la the minds of the public sucbi
serions suspicions, is not ln the public
Interest.
Hon. '.\r. LANDERKIN-Dld the lion.
examine into the case of the
gentlemn
Judges w-ho cenducted the Pacilic scandai

the political feelinig of the judges before tliey Investigation ?
went upon the beach. It turned eut that the
two judges that reported advcrseiy ta Mercier were judg-es that liad been Conserva-

possii)ly
Hou.
Mr. FERGUSON-Tuat
wouid lie anetiier Illustration, and perhaps
stronger than the eue I used.
Hon. '-%r. LANDERKIN-Dees the lien.
gentleman hiiew tue resuit ?

tives befare they went an the beacli, and
the judge wlie gave a favourabie report bad
been a Liberal. M'lien yru find in tlue jury
room, or on tie bencli, that either the jur*y Hon. '31n FERGUSON-I de not kuuow
:)r the beach divide on politicai uines, it caxu- tliat it is one -lit better, w-luether it coincs
g<>viot fail te fix the impression on the minds of froin the Coiis"rv.tiv-es- or thc lieri
Hon. Mir. FERGUSON.

JUNE 18, 1903
erlinent, an~d If there Is injury to arise, or Politicai arena to be called upon to
Judg
interests to be affected, It 'a-l be just as of a matter betwieeîî the
goi-ernment tha
I>ad ivith one party as the other.
appointed hlm, and the party ln whose set
vice he bad work-ed *up
Hon. -Mr. LANDERK[N-M7e should bave the people of the Yuk-on. to that trne, an(
I nilght further re
the tacts on both aides, so tbat we could mark that my Bill
does flot propose t(
Judge.
lessen or take aivay from the governinent
whether
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It Is iii the mind to Isue provincial or federal, the powei
royal commissions, but If I hac
of bon, gentlemen ln this country at the pre.- gone that
far, I amn sure I would bave th(
sent moment, that a proposition has been ardent
support of niy hon. friand the Sec,
made to appoint a Judge, flot very long rtr
fSae
fh
ihst
ar
u
eince elevated to the bencli, tu Investigate the Liberal
piattorni ln one very importaul
rzore charges wlth regard to concessions particular,
and If le suggests au amendment
gi-en to Treadgold and bis associates la the to my Bill
ln that direction, 1 wil accept It
Yukon. and It la notorlous that the suit- heartily,
and the House wlU pans it unaibihity of the gentleman to that position, animously.
The Liberal convention that
and the propriety of appointing Judge met ln 1W98,
passed the following resolution:
BrItton. has been strongly cailed ln
That It là; the ancient and undoubted right
question.
I had the pleasure of knowing of the House of Commins to Inquire
into
Judge BrIttun, and entertain a very 11gb matters of public expenditure, and Into ail
ail
of misconduct
opinion of hlm. I have not ei-en a sus- chargs Crown, and the ln oilice against ministers
of the
reference of such matters
picion, as far as 1 arn cuncerned, that lie to royal commissions created upon
the. advice
uthe accused
would do wirong If appointed to sudh a uponsîblîity of ia at variance wlth the due r.minustera to the Rouie of Composition ; but kaowing tînt lie lias only mons. amd tends to wealcen the
authorlty ôt the.
veryrecntl
ti
~House over
ver
reenty lef
ltta
very acive area of convention the executive goverament ; and thua
ae
affirma that the DowOrU of the
poitics, tbat he waa very actively ern- peuple'. representatives
in this regard .8hould
ployed ln rouai 49 la this building, In uoie. onl aIl fittlnir occasions be upheid.
or I thlnk, tiio sessions, defending the govThis Blill doca not taire away the power
ernment fruai sîmîlar charges to those of the governaient to Implement the Public
wivhch lie is now lnvestigating, that he en- Inquiries Act nd tu make ny other
tered Into the defence uf tbe gul-ernment Ia Inquires they may deem necessary
Into
'that cornmlttee wlth a great deuil of earn- the working of amy law of the country.
,estaess and abllty and voted to exculpate It dues not nllow themn to appoint
judges
the goverament with regard to th'e eoncen- for these services, but they can cail
ln
trated food suld for the use of our soldiers any other expert. Ail the legal knowledge
In South Africa, and that the report wahich uf the country" la mot upon the beach
by
be submitted un that occason waas of sucli a any means. There are very many eminent
nature that It forced sudh an independent lawyers at the bar la ahl the provinces,
and
:man and su good a Liberal as the hun. mem- many of them - ithout very strong
prober for St. John tu vote against the adop- nounced political opinionq, a-nd ont of
sucli
tion o! that report, and other gentlemen a large number of able men it will be quite
equally owing party allegiance, as my possible for the government to fiad somfe
bon. friend and other ladependeat men sultable, If they 'a-sh to continue appointing
to vote againat that report, I thlik the ap- these commissions, and putting the responsipointment wuuld be unsultable. 1 entîreîy bihity for the guod guterament of the coun.disagreed witli Judge Brltton's conduct and try ln maur cases upu» the ehoulders of
aIction and fanding with regard to that con- commissioners.
centrated food lnquiry, and witb regard to
Hon. Mr. BIEIQUE-I desire ln no unthe West Huron Investigation, and I thinir frlendly way tu maise aI question
uf urder,
there were many others, wlio had the op- because uf the importance ot
the subject.
portunity of belng la that room and fol- [t seems to nme thaf tItis Bill
raises a conlowing that Investigation, came tu the con- stitutional question of extreme
Importance,
clusion that nu matter how~ goud a man he as tu wbether it is within the
jurisdiction
was. nu matter 1>0w able a lawyer lie mugit of the Dominion parhiamient
tu legisIate ln
be, lie is just a littie tou fresb fruai the the direction mentionied lu
the Bill. The

SENATE
question Is flot new. At the tinie of the
enacting of the Controverted Elections Act
the question came up as ta the powers of
the federal parliarnent ta assign new duties
te courts of justice creatcd ln the provinces,
and the Suprerna Court held, and their
judgine nt was coufirmed by the PrIvy Council-and I find a reference te the judgment
of l>oth courts ln Bourinot, pages 93 and 94that it was within the powcrs of this parIliannt ta assign new duties ta the judges
et the different provinces. The decision cf
tht- Privy Council inn9y be summed up ln
these few lines
That there la no doubt about the power of
the Dominion parliament ta impose new duties
give
uPon the existing provincli courts, or ta,came
new powers as ta matters which do not
withia the classes of subjectsa asignai! exclusively to the legisiatures of the provinces.
The British North America Act, la secthons 91 and 92, defines tie powers cf the
federai parlia ment and -af the local hegislatures, and on referTing ta section 91, subsection 27, wbicb Is the only sectian whlcb
need be referred te, now, we find the followlng :
The criminai law. except the constitution a!
courts of criminel Jurisdiction. but Includ.ing
the procedure ln criminal matters.
If we refer ta section 92, wbich section
defines thc exclusive powers o! thc provincial legislature, paragraph 14, we find
the followlng :
The administration o! justice ln thc province,
including the constitution, maintenance and orgzanization of provincial courts, both of civil and
criminal jurisdictioa. and inciuding matters o!
civil vrocedure in those courts.
Lt ls, therefore, clearly laid down ln the
Constitutionai Act that Uic power of organizing the courts belangs te thc proand the power af
vincial legfisiature
thc federal parlisenent is limited ta appalnting thic judges and providing for the
payment of their salaries. Now, under the
holding et the Supreme Court and the
Privy Council under the Controverted Electio-is Art, if is quite plain that it would be
within the powers of this parliameat ta
assigai a new duty ta the judges and passibly, and I might say for my own part

I amn under the impression for the mo-

#-,rmalzing inquiries under appointments of
thae Governor Generai ln Council ln niatters
ivithin the jurisdictian of the federal parlaient, but 1 direct the attention of bon.
rnembers of this House to the fart that
the Bill seeks to, take away froin the courts
of the provinces the right to inquire, about
wbat ? The Bill reads :
Judges of any Dominion or provinciai court
who are appointed by the Governor General or
by the Governar Generai in Cauncl, shall not
hoid or sot under any commission ta Inquire
into any metter reîating to the goad government
o! Canada or any province o! Canada, or to the
conduct o! any part of the public business of
Canada or any province of Canada, or ta the
conduct ln office o! any minister of the Crown
or o! any persan ln the service o! Canada or
any province o! Canada. whether such commission la Issued under the authority ofAny Act of Parliament of Canada, except
chapter 138 of the Revised Statutes respecting
the Judges o! provincial courts ;or any proAny statute or ordinance ia force in
vince o! Canada ,or
Âny other power ta Issue such commissions
possessed by the Governar in Council1 or by anY
Lieutenant Governor in Council.
Therefore I submit that under this Bill
It is saught ta remove tram tihe courts of the
provinces the right ta inquire as ta, the action of mny mnIaster cf the Crown-nhinisters
ln the provinces may be ministers of the
Crown as well as In the Dominion-or of any
persans In the service of Canada or any province o! Canada. Lt seems ta me that this
would be an infringement upan the jurisdiction o! local legisiatures and would go
beyond the pawers et this parliament Lt
is quite a different tbing tram recognizing
that this parlianient has the power ln sncb
niatters as are nat civil matters ta Impose
duties on Judges and to maintain that It can
override or Interfere with the jurisdictiail af
Uic courts created by the several provinces
The anc may be canceded,
of Canada.
and for my part 1 amn ready ta conrede it,
but I arn nat ready ta canrede that t-his
parlianient bas the rigbt ta Interfere wit-hi
the JurisdictIon, or any part of the jurisdiction, whicb nîny be given by the legislature of a province ta the courts arganized
by theni, and therefore I teed It rny duty ta
raise a question of order so that the miatter
mnay be decided by the bon. the Spcoker et
this Hanse.

BOWELL-BeHou. Sir 3ICEZE
ment, if would be witbin the power of the
ny)
order is dc!ded,
federni pqrlianieut ta pass a law wiiicl fore the question of
the riglit 1 ask the bon. gentleman wlîetlier he conwould take awny tram the judges
be read from page
of inquirhî)g iuta or adninisteriug justice, siders the paragrnpb
H-on. ir. BEIQUE.

JUNE 18, 1903

407

94 of Bourinot, second edition, applies iln Nve rniglt introduce any Bill we please and
as they bave
auy way to thse Bill now before thse House 7 the courts rnight set it aside
Sorne courts have dedoue lu the past.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
ciared that the Acte of the provincial legisand the Englisb
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-The latures were ultra vires
as 1 courts have decided they ivere intra vires,
paragrapis the bon. gentleman rend,
and so the question bas been settled, and
understand, is as folews :
I presunie It would be so ln case this BIU
There Is no doubt about the power of the
Darmnion Parliamefit to impose new duties upon were to be placed, on the statute-book.
the exlstiag Provincial courts.
rny hon.
Flou. 3fr. LOUGHEED-Will
No one disputes tat part:
frienti point out, for the Information of the
Or to give theni new power as to the mattera Ilouse, how this is interference with prowhlch do net corne wlthln the clones of sub- viiacial courts ? It la not calculateti to lnJects asslgned excluslvely ta thse legisiatures of
the Provinces.
terfere witb the courts of the provinces.
a limitation upon Judges acting
I tbink that Is the paragrapis the hou. geti- but te place
wlio are offtread. That decision la that tbe lii un extra Judicial capacity,
tleman
cers appointed and paiti by the federal auDominion parliarnent bas the power to ImWill the hon. gentleman point
pose other duties upon thse provincial courts thority.
out ln what way that cornes witbin subsecthat are nef given to them ln the Confederaof section 92 of the Britishi North
tien Act, but there is notbtng there, as 1 un- tion 14
That section defines the
America Act
derstaiad it, te prevent the passage of a
reference
shall iot do so and so autherity of the provinces with
Bill saying that they
to the administration ef justice ln the prounless It eau be shown that we -are acting
constitution, maintenbeyond the powera of thse constitution. With vince, iucluding the
auce and organization, etc., of those courts.
reference t0 thse point ef erder, Billa are
overlook the tact
belng constantly passed ln thse legIsiature My bon. friend muet flot
that the Judges do flot act as Judges on those
of thse different provinces that are ultra
for Instance, the com,rires. It ls now chsrged In tise Ontario commissions. Take,
mission referred to, which recently has been
legisit.,ture-the discussion enly took place
Judges ln that case
thse other day-tbat tise Dominion parlis. sitting ln Ontario. The
but simply as comment bas been In!ringlng on the righs o! did not oit as Judges.
of Ontario could
the different provinces In refereace to the missioners. The province
laymen thse same aupowers tisat pertain particularly to munIci- have delegated to two
and
iese thinga are occuirrlng con- tbority te act, ln taking the evidence
palities.
did to these
tlnually, but It ls not a question of order, In holding commissions, as they
surely, whether we shall place on tise statute two particular judges.
book au Act whIch, ln the opinion o! smre,
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE--I have, with a view
would be ultra vires andi In tise opinion o! of saving tue tIme of the House, Ilmited myothers intra vires. Thse bon. gentleman self to, referring to the jutigment of thse
wbo presenteti this Bill stateti dIstinctly that Privy Council, but If I hati takeu time to
be lind coiisulted smre o! tbe beaf legai au- read the rernarks appertûIning te fthe Sutisent les In the city o! Toronto. He bas preme Court, It wouid bave answered the
consulteti others ln this city, and et the point raiseti by the bon. leader of thse oppofirst biush they thought it was ultra vires sition. 1 read froui Bourinot, page 93:
of fuis parliament to put auch an Acf on thse
In 1874. the Dominion parliament passedl an
statute-book, but a!ter looking Into the Act imiiosing on the judgas of the superior
and conaidering if, and on refer- court of the provinces the duty of tryling conquestion
the House of
e:îce to thse clauses ln the constitution whlch troverted electiona of members ofraised in the
The question was
reati, they came to tbe Commons.
the bon. gentleman
courts whether the Act contravened that partisection of
conclusion, deliberafely, that tisis parliament cular provision of the 92nd exclusively the British
assigus to
whlch
do wliaftilse hon. gent le- North Â.merlca Act
hbnd thse power to
Provincial legisistures the power of leglslatlng
I ami uof going to for the administration of justice in the proviniian piropxoses te do.
the constitution maintenance and
armue thse othier question Just now, but 1 ces ineluding of Provincial courts of divisional
organizatioD
thiulc thse question of order is one fisat could and criminal jurisdliction and including proce.
not possibly lie raised at present, because

dure in civii (flot ini criminal) mnatters in thos.

SENATE

408

courts. The question camne at iast before the 1 dlaim it is ivithin the exclusive jurisdiction
Suprenie Court which constituted as a full court of the province to organize the courts and
of four Pudges. unanimxous4y heid
judisdiction witbThat whether the Act estabiished a Demiuiun te state what will be their

court or n:)t. the Dominion parliament had a in the province, and that the parliament of
perfect right to give -ta the superior courts of
bas no power to interfere with that.
the respective -provinces and the Iudges thereof Canada
the power, and Impose upon tbem the duty of Ail that we can do is in coniiection with
trying controverted elections of members of the matters pertaining ta federal jurlsdiction,
House of Commons and did not, tn utilizing exlsting Judicial officers and estabiished courts ta and as an Incident power to that, to confer
,discharge the duties assigned to them by that sdditional poivers on the provincial courts.
Act in any particuhar invade the ri.ghts of tie
on referrIng ta rule 56 of this
Iccal legisiatures. That upon the abandoament Now, I sec,
by the House of Commons of the Jurisdiction honourable House, that :
exercised over controverted elections without
express hegishation thereon, the power of dealIng therewith would fail Ipso facto w-ithin thc
JurisdictIon of the euperior courts of the provinces by virtue of the inherlent original jurisdiction of such courts over civil rights. Ths.t
the Dominion parliament has the right to Inter-

Any private BiHl &hall, If It be dernandcd by
two senators when read the first time, be referred to the Comm.ittee on Standing Orders to
a.%certain and report whether or not the said
Bill carnes witbin the classes of subiects assigned exclusively to the legislatures of the
fere with civil right. when neceasary for the provinces..
vurpose of legisiating generalhy and effeetually
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the lion, genIn relation ta matters confided ta the parilament
of Canada. That the excip;sive power of hegis- tleman consider this a private Bill ?
lation givea the provincial legisiatures by subsection 14 of section 92. British N'~orth Amrerica
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I say tlîis Is not a
Act. over procedure In civil matters means pro- private Bill, and It seems to me, unless there
cedure In civil matters within the powers of
the Provincial legislatures.

I refer to this for the purpose of conccdIng that, so far as giving additional powers

be some other rule wblch 1 have overlooked, this would be the time ta maise the question of order. 'The bon. gentleman opposite
(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell) says that iaws
are passed excceding the jurlsdiction of the
federal pnriiament or of the local legisiatures, and that It ls left to the courts of

ta courts organized by the provinces, It was
within thc powcrs of the federal parliament,
but the distinction wbichi I made, and which
I make again, Is this, that there is a dccidjustice to declare whether those laws are
cd difference between giving the courts adbinding or not- A iaw which, on its face,
ditiOnal powcrs and Interfering with powers
would be unconstituttonal, would not be
which may be given ta the courts by

effective; and the courts of iaw would bave
the authority crcating them and defining the power to declare It unconstitutional and
Now, answerIng Uic
their jurisdiction.
therefore of no effcct. But it la our duty, as
question of the bon. gentleman tram Cala parliament, to inqire what are the powgary, 1 say this : It may be that, as a
ers of parîlament, and It seems ta me that
so far, the provincial Courts
matter of tact,
now is the time to make thant inquiry, and If
have flot been'assigned such powers as are
corne to the conclusion that It Is
suppose that to- we should
mcntlancd In the Bill, but
beyond the powcrs of this parliament, we
morrow sncb powers should be assigned by
shouid In reason declare 80 and deal accorda provincial legislature-that the legisia-

Ingly witb the Bill.
ture of a province shouhd pass an Act
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friend
saying that sucli and such inqules-any of
the inquiries that are mentioned In the Bill has been driven to shift entirely the position
-shaîl be miade by the judges of -the Su- on the point of order whIcb he first took,
perior Court In the province' of Quebec, or nanîely, that the Bill wags beyand the power
by the Judges of the Higb Court of Justice of the federal authorlty, on the ground that
In Ontario. would It be within Its powers ? it is invading the jurisdlction of the proI claim it would be clearly within the vinces witb reference to provincial courts.
powers conferred on the local legishatures by The bon. g-entleman iiow pre-supposes the
section 92 of the British North Aincrica Act, calling into existence of a provincial court,
and If thiat would be withIn tbeir power, it xvith authority to delegate to judges sucli
would be within their exclusive power, and inquiries as the judges have been holdIt would show that as a consequence this ing in their extra judiclil positions litretoparliament could xîot override or interfere fore ;but iny hon. friend can scarcely take
with powirs of thiat lcind. In other words, tlîat position unttl. the province org-anizes
Hou. Mr. ]3EIQUE.

JUNE 18, 1903
Elouse, and therefere I amn quite unprepared
sncb a court as that wlaich hie pre-supposes
tdlscuss it. 1 shall be very glad to conexistence. Until thait
ilgft be called Into
aider and wiil give my opinion on it toperiod ls reached, I fancy my bon. friend
I bave just ta ken the authorities to
can scarcely sustain bis point of order. Now nnîreow.
consuIt tiieni and form a Judgment tiat
tbere is ne question, we de not doubt, that it
somiething. At present 1 do
is witbin tbe authorlty cf the province te, wo'îld be wtrrth
feel Ili a po.;ition te ndvise. 1 nmar be nt
eataiblisb courts, possibly te exercise jurls- mot
nienutinme. the Bill
,diction outslde et tbe ordinary jurisdictien a future stage. Ili the
It lias not been printed yet.
of civil and criminal courts as they now ex- can stand.
lot ln the provinces, but until that time ls
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
reacbed, surely.my bon. frlend ls not serious
legis- bon, gentleman la qulte right. It is only Up
ln aaying that thia parliament cannot
Witb reference to the
late as te tbe duties or Judgea--as te Judges for first reading.
clearly point of order, If the point is well taken,
met performing duties, wbicb very
Speaker of labia Bouse
pertain te laymea at tbe present time? then It 15 te maire the
Judge of a question of iaw on which there
As I peinted eut before, tbere la nothing te
of -opinion. Certainly it lis
prevent the provincial government ef Or- la great diversity
that no breach of the rules of the Bouse te intarie frem aaking two civilians te hold
tboiigb It may be ultra vires.
commission, and te gîte to tbem aIl the troduce a Bill
Tixisz questi il i, olle that lins bern disputed
pewers exercised by the judges.
by the most eminent legai minds in the couniBon'. Mfr. SCOTT-The peint ait Issue Io a try. ' lion. friend lias t'ild us tliat lie ls of
very simple one. Can Ulis parliament re- the .piniifl tliat lt is intra vires. The posistrict the powers ef the judges and compel tion of tbe lien. gentleman la that noe one can
tbem te refrain from holding Inqulries nt introduce a Bill that pertalis to the constithe Instanice of provincial goveriuments or tution of the country without violating the
legialatures ?
ries cf order. The Secretary of State himHon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
self ls at seai te know whether this BIII Io
BOWELL-Can constitutienhil or not, and be very properly
nen. Sir MACKENZIE
bas asked for trne te consider It. I hold
such a laiw be passed ?
that it ls no violation cf the rules of parliaHon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbe beat way te ascerment for a member te Introduce any Bill
tain> the rlgbta and powers of this parlia- effecting the'administration of the affaira
ment la by a reference ce tbe Supreme Court of the country. If.-the Speaker should rule
under tbe autborlty of the Âct constitutlng
that this Bill la ont cf order, he would.
the Supreme Court. We have sucb a power, simply be arrogating'to bimiself the Interpreand thait is a simple way et meeting the tation cf the constitution, and that toc upon
objection wbich bas been ralsed, whlch 1 a questien upon which there is a very pCeat;
think is a very streng eue. That 'would be dIverslîr of r.pinion4 It is not se plain te
tbe quicker way cf arriving aI tbe juris- my mind as lt seems to be to the hou. gendiction of tbls .parhament, by referring te tleman ? The quotation from Bourinot bas
the Supreme Court tbe point at Issue.
ne reference wbatever to this question. On
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-De
the contrary, If there are any deductions te
the bon. gentleman think It i. ef sufficient be drawn from tbe eztracts f roma Bourine.t
Importance te act upon tbe suggestion wbicb read by the. bon. gentleman tbey are ln
he bimself bas made te refer tbis question favour of the course that bas been taketi
te tbe Supreme Court ? Will bie tell us tbat by the lion. gentleman f rom Marshfield, for
lie, on bebaîf ef this Bouse, will brlng the tbe reason that when the law was passed
matter before bis celleagues and have that relegatiiig te the courts the trial ef election
reference made ?
contests, it was decided by the Supreme
Now.
the wbele Court that parliament liad the power.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Of course
If tbey bad the power to do that, tbey would
question la absolutely new. I was net aware
have the power te talce it from them, and
et the lion. gentleman's Bill. It is aIl new
logficalîr 1 think that would be leading to
te mest of us. We did net knew, be was
have the
the tlîe conclusion thiat they would
geing te lauincl snch a question on

SENATE

410

Hou. '.%r. FE RGUSON-I ask niy hou.
frieud te look at that point a little dloser.
Nobody disputes the power of the provinces
to breaden the Jurisdiction of the courts and
te define that jurisdictleni se that It w[li
Include ether matters that are nlot now i1xcluded ln the jurisdictieu ef the court. 1
do net dispute that point at ail, but the
moment tbey se deal with the matters iiieiuded In my Bill, they cease te be extraHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I could scarcely judicial and beceme regular matters te be
believe that my hon. friend who lias taken dealt with by the courts. My heun. frlend.
this point ef order was serions. Had be and 1 tbink Éhis Heuse wl ngree wvith meL.
taken a littie time te consider, lie wouid imet that mnny subjects that are made inatters,
have raised ft. To call upon the Speaker of of inquiry by commission %veuld.be quite
titis House to decide a question with regard Impossible to embrace and bring uuder the
te the constitutionality cf a Bill whlch be jurisdicticn of the courts by auy procedure,
devise ; but I couteud
bas nlot bat! ln bis band or had time te con- parliament miglit
if the legisiature baving the power te govern.
sider-aud tbls House is asked te refer a
civil
iii
measure cf this klnd off-hand at the tirst the procedure ef the courts
matters should bring any of the. these
reading cf the Bill te the Speaker and insist
upen an Interpretation by tbe Speaker-is te subjects withln the jurlsdictiwu of lthe
my mmnd unreasonable. The proper course courts as constltuted, with the ordlunry
wouid be te allow the Bill te be read the macbinery tint now existe, they cease to,
tiret time and at the second reading cf the *be extra-judicial sud wouid net corne under
mensure to present an argument. I may the operation of my Bill. Tiiat was exactpelibe excused for saying-I. arn net a iawyer, Iy the case with the trial ef election
tiens. My Bill does net reacb ciection trials,
far from It-tbat If my lien. friend who la
wbether provincial or federal. Ail that wasý
a very eminent lawyer can preduce any good
uecessary te be doue by the province -was te
argument against the constituticnaiity of'
its powers ef legislatien se ns te emuthis Bill be will bave rte de It ln a different use
braoe Vie trial of electien petitions in the
mauner from wbat lie bas doue. The queprocedure of the exlsting courts. Then the
tatien wiiich he made from Bourinet is la
judges ceased te be deiug extra-judiciai work
faveur ef the Bill, and shows that the
and received ne extra remuneration. They
federal parliament can increase the power
were doing work cieariy defined and
of the courts, and se for It is la the line laid down and there could be ne conflict
of extending tbe jurlsdictien of this parliabetween Vie federal iaw aud the provincial
ment lnutead of restrlcting It. But If1 Ihave law. Surely my bon. frieud must see that
understeod. hlm riglit, be says It la possible Viat wouid be the case. It ls se witb rethat the legislatures of the provinces may gard te election trials and could be made
pass laws .governing the procedure of the se with regard te other matters. Take the
courts la such a way tbat tbey wiil make Gamey charges lu the province of Ontario
some efthVe questions tha~t are included la fer instance ; lt weuld be quite Possible
îny Bill proper subjects fer censideration ln Ù) bring some et the transactions there Inthe courts. ls that the peint the lion. gen- velved befere the courts ef the country
tleman made?
under the criminai law. That did net prevent, at the same tîme, the leg-ishature of
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-l Say tuis, that wbe- Ontario, appeinting a commission te lu1tlier the provincial courts have (loue it or vestigate them. If the hegisiature of On1net, it malkes ne differemce, that it is a ques- tarie, or ot auy province, goes ou and protien of jurisdiction, anmd I say if it is ln their
vides macliuiery by whichi aur matter inPower to do it, thei because it is exclusivecluded in rny Bill eauj prol)eriy corne before
ly in theii *jurisdictioii it sh~sth:tt it '5;
courts
of the jurisdictiom of the federai the courts, then the judges of those
outside
tbern, not as royal cornmiswill ti-y
parlianient.
power to say wha't duties shlouid be performed by the judges whein tbey appoint
and whoïn they pay. 1 said the other dlay,
ln speaking in opposition to the opinion of
my hou. friend, It may be considered presuniptious for a layman to discuse a legal
point, but on pariiameu'tary practice I arn
positive this question caunot be ruled out cf
order.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 18, 1903
sioners, flot as extra-jucliciai, but lu
eontormity witb their duty as judges. My
bon. friend, In the course of bis remarks,
wbacb is strange fer an eminent lawyer such as lie is, seemed to be conNofused between judges and courts.
body -knows better tban bie does tbat
The judges. are offttbey are distinct.
cers of the government of Canada, appointed under the British North Ametica Act,
wiile the arganization of the court bielongs to the province. It bas provided
that ail salaries, nliowances and pensions to tbose madges shall be paid by
the goi-erument of Canada, and I believe
thiat a correct interpretatlon-and it bas been
beld by ministers of justice-of tbat section
wouid prevent the payment of salaries outaide of the salaries paid tram the federai
treasury to judgea--tbat it would not admit
of their belng employed and remunerated
outside of thait. My contention la that the
hon. gentieman's point of order la not well
taken ; that it la flot competent for the
Speaker of this House to, decide whether thle
Bill is ultra vires or not, and even If It
would be competent; at some later stage o!
the Bill te take sucb action, or to reter the
iili ta the supreme Court as uuggesteil by
the Secretary o! State-the proper course
now la that the Bml sbould be read the firut
tUrne and set down. for second reading and
if, after due consideration, It la held that
at some later period sorne action such as the
Secretary o! State suggests sbould ho taken,
by that Urne be will bave consulted authorities sud will be botter able to form an opinion than ho could now and anyway I hold
that thfis la nat a measure which mun properiy be made a subject tor a point of order
at this stage.

411

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-lt is with a
g(.od deai of reluctance I rise to discuss a
point oif order, but I think the position taken
by the hou. gentleman from Montreal lias
probably flot beeu appreciated by some ban.
gentlemen wba have apokon. It would seem
ta me ta bie a bigbiy inconvenlent tbingas has been stated by tbe leader of the opposition, wlho spoke on tis aide of, the
Bouse-if tbe decîsion of the Speaker on the,
point raised should exclude legisiation. On
tbe other band, it is qulte« clear this Senate
couid determine some question o! order,
for if a Bill were so ciearly out of order.
as for Instance, one to change the succession
ta the tbrone, 1 do not think there wouid
boe mucb difficulty ln determining that it
was ont of order, and no constitutional argument that could bie addresied would make
it even debatable, so tbat it la necessarY
tbat a question of order sbouid bie a very
deffuîte one. I think that will bie conceded,
and that it should be defltely and cieariy
out of order before sucb netion as bas been
suggested bere would bie taken as would be
necessary on the question raised by the
bon. senator from Montreal. But the point
taken by bim, ln order that it may bie appreciated by some bon, gentlemen wba bave
spok-en. I take It arises on the Interpretation of a section 0f the Britisb North
America Act, and it la on thc questions
which arise over the various sections dlviding and assigning ta the Dominion and the
provinces respectlvely tbe legisiative duties
that arise. Tbose relatlng to tbe provinces
have been clted by the bon. gentleman, and
it la not necessary that I shouid read tbemi
again, althougb I should cail attention, perbaps, if I may bie permitted to the first
dlaim spoken of :

Han. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWELL-I cali
Hon. Mfr. DÂNDURÂND-I regret very
member to the
much tbat the hon, gentleman trom Marshi- the attention o! the bon.
fact tbat the question before the Senate at
tield bas deemed proper *to brlng down this
this moment ls wbether thec Introduction o!
Bill at this Urne and before tbis chamber.
this Bill la out of order.
The SPEAKER-la the hou. gentleman
Hon. Mr- KERR (Torsiito)-Tliflt is the
speaking to the point o! order ?
point to wbicb I am addresslng myseif, and
question, the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I arn apeaking I say tbat ln suggesting thîs
first autbority was the legisiative power o!
on the Bill Itseif.
the 'province. The legisîntive power of the
The SPEAKER-As I understand, the bon. Dominion bas not been speciaiiy referred
geutleman frorn De Salaberry bias raised a to with reference to this particular matpoint of order and that point wili be settled ter. We are discussing ra Bill whlîi it la
proposed to introduce. to prohibit, judges
first.

412

SE.N AT E

of provinical courts from intervenig or
dealing with any matters outside of tbose
,duties which they dîscliarge ln court. That
is the effeet of lt-to prohibit themn from
aicting on commissions of Inquiry or anything of that kind. I refer on this question
to section 97 subsection 14, and tliat sulisection goes Tery far. It rends as follows:
The administration of justice ln the province,
lr.cluding the constitution. maintaînence and orgaDization of IDrcvincia1 courts. both of civil
and cf crîrninai jurisdiction and lncluding procedure Ia clvil matters in those courts.
And thien sulisectIon 16 rends :
Generaiiy ail matters of a merely local
vrivate nature in the province.

or

I apprebend, a motter affecting the seat
of a member, or the conduct of a member of

thé provincial bouse. wouid lie a local matter within the meanlng of this Act Then
the otber sections of tbe Act wbichi relate
to wbat this parlament con do, with refer,ence to the duties of the judges, are 96 and
the foiiowing section. Section 96 gays that
the Governor Generai shahl appoint tbe
judges. Tlien it provîdes for the number
of judges and fromn whom they are to lie
seiected. The court from whicb tbey are
to lie selected Ia provlded for ln section 97.
Thien section 98 rends :
The Judges ot the courts of Quebec shahl be
seiected from the bar of that province.
Section 99 reads:
The judges of the superlor court shahl hold

office during good bebaviaur. but shail be re-.

znoi-able by the Governor General on the Address o! the Senate and House of Commons.
That seems to lie the extent to whlch this
parliament Is clothed with autbority to provide for the duties of judges. They are to
do so during good liehavlour and are removable-that Is for something that is not good

bebiavionr upon an address of the Senate
Tben the otber
and House of Cominons.
niatters are mentloned here, that is, the

saliries, ill-wances and pensions of thie judges shal lie fixed and provided by tbe parDiaent of Canada, and the oniy other
pcower given is wilh reference to the Domuiion court. whfchi may lie organized.
taicen,
Therefore. tbe point that was
as 1 understood it, was that this uiot

no power to prescribe as to the manner ln
whicb tbe Judge shall bebave, except as to
good behaviour. That Is the point practicaIly taken by my bon. frIend, based on
and supported by the judgment of the
Privy Council.
Hon. Mfr. F'ERGUSON-It may lie as well
to eau attention to wbat la a breacb of order. The hon. gentleman takes a point of
order and nsks that a Bill which bas flot
been rend bic ruied out, a Bill wbicli the
Speaker canot officialiy know about bimself.
Con anybody conceive of sucb an absurd
tbling ?
Hon. Bir. BEIQUE-I did not interrupt the
lion, gentleman before when lie used an offensive expression, but I do flotHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I hope I bave not
tised un offensive expression.
Hon. Bir. BEDIQUE -The hon. gentleman
lias been using the word 1absurd.' I thlnk
tbe position I have taken Is not absurd.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Henr, biear.
Hlou. Mr. BEIQUE-Ând It ls taken in
good faith.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn glad my
hon. friend bas calied attention to It ; I
never thought of usIng the word iln an offensive manner. I have the greatest respect
for xny hon. friend and for bis legal attainments, and I hope lie will not tbink for a
moment that I Intended to lie offensive. At
the same tie, I con point to wbat 1 regard
ns an absurdity withont being offensive to
any one. I find It very bard to get a better
word thon 'absurdlty ' to characterize a
proposition that tbis House shall call upon
the Speaker to pass judgment upon a Bill
which hon. gentlemen bave not officlaily ln
their bands, or wbich Is not before them.
If my bon. friend liad moved to appoint a
committee to stop proceedings, to have this
Bill examined, to see If it were proper to
lie read, there migbt lie sometbing in bis
proposiltion. But the form In whicb be has
placed It Is most extraordinary.
Hon. Bir. LANDRY-I think the question
of order that has 5ust been raised is one
tbat we sbould perfectîr understand

our-

a matter pertaining- to good be- selves. The hion. gentleman wants the bon.
hsviour. or defining good bebaviour on the Speaker to decide that that Bill is unconpart of the judge, the parliament bere bas etitutional. M'ell, we are asking the SpeakHoui. -Mr. KERR.
lieing,

'2urpBo.î Is.11g aqI 4u' asflOH a,1 o; 111H Sill 0ý uoi4sod B ni aq pînotis asnofl. .iatil4 JO
pittO; II
JO sluellioa orq; Xînj os 5t111?dxa .0qmiotu t .ia-luedS aq4 lBq4 palaadxa aq loi,

â.i nosua.I
atil .1ini
aor.m
;ui; sL£unliu ;ou si 1 a sneaaq 'pasLajd aq *.Op.1o jo iflo 111-j
14[n Bil si
ou aq SjuIB;.10a pinoà1. ;uti 'SO
1 '-Ittitiitdu1oa jo
01 4q2li U suil .S pioq
j1E aqq jo uloil.xod v Iýq4 Lq pue Xq plaq aq
mon
peoaisai asflOH aj-NýOSaoldUa± %liq
pinoqs 41 il Pau

*reUOn;usuoa pue lelal il4aaj.1ad si Il
Inq lunn~un aoîliîc si Iî-SIc~VRlfa'soqj

'Upe3UBC O

uOluimOa aWI JO

.iaalgO 119 jo jnpuoa aq: sladsa1 su ici os
t 4inoi uoluituocj e JO a2pnr li q4îim IBOp
SflOOj;ad
oI. Iuemulliud siqI .101 Iueladwoa
*noq Qqj
et 41 11111 eau 4snui nituop«02

*P10U11sil3 JOj UBtluaz "uoq
un
aqI Sq pa;iiopu cati suq om.înoa lusu
IPSUV
*ipiuiC JO oz-UiAOJd nu J10
*p0aj.inwo suq .101100GS aq; inorxoq 9111 sy 30 GOOIA.ie Oiut U OSed £UV JO JO u*.OJD OUi
padoîî pu 1 'puai si JO ol.muum Lui JO azno ut janpuoa a -oi OJ
*OsLOH aq; ss0.1ppl o;
spiumo ;o aoutAOJd Lui JO0 îpvuvD jo seoulonq
'
MJJHUVIaVoiMqnd q; 30 laiud OHRJO ;onpUo0 eU Oj JO@BPI
1H aq;
Lui
-uu3 o JO 0uiÂo.d Lu JO ipiui3 jo wau.oA
aqjL Pool au~ o; DupuîOeiJalsim Lui OI.Ui O.1pi
-amqi; s.îu alU Puý).î aq mou jîPu ill
£ou~ Ui .1apun loi JO i>îoq Iou
-ua3lu4 1lm si .1po. jo ;ulod aq; iluiq4 ;on Iluip -ul 0 OI4rUM ut Ii1uae JOUJSAOtO am £q JO pie
IPouUni
op I *pip aq su tîa-lods ;on puq uumaj;ua2 -U00 JOUJOÂOf0 am Lq Poluiccldu ai GRÀAlUoo
a Lu JO vexpnr glu~
-uoq ati iJ tOsji aiq Ion Siquqo.id pjnom UIVIOJOd JO Uo1Iumo(
*u;u2l'
liaAao.H
i -1n
:L ulv gslip esnuaeq 'aio ut si
tuoissfDsip anl
!neslait L.uaquîeS op tUoaj uueapuaZ uoil ain i[ui!f
8111 îîjq;Ilr%Sj4@ejàadý eSuA art ;nq
eAuTq as;Aiaxo p1nom uiq; Sullael 0.1010 1
quiod ;ein uo uoluîdo Lui sseidza o;
paijo.toid SlîîenI;eu pue 2uippai paoffs aq; '4109 lm uimînsa aiojaq IpaAtoili aq lem
a
lit opera aq o;. tioad aqq êajîî 0.1010 suA 1 ;nq ';on JO0 9aalA v.4ln si ylgg eM
epum uemal4ual *uoq ezq; 4uz qaaads et[jÉ
4aihM o; se uoi;uonb oqe ssnosip o; lqzix v
aOilq I Ieq4 PUê;8.id Ion op I Pue TriH 51114
»si 111H1 aq; jo eaulvu1 ag ;uqAi Zuîuîid
JO aginaut ;oue ata o; pe4ooip Ion Oum
-xa îdmiîs 'nîlà îîosmîu[ slnaluoa .oquiam
oqi; Siîpezlu;u aip ;v ;îq; si a~lnà îva Slqetqoid laja1qalig op moai ulemal4ua3 uoi
-ueS awpt asnuaq 'nuluau siq ;eq1 Sl;naip 0114 JO 0014118», àqj, *uoilsanb snolies lzaà
*aMil 1-1 811,
0114 .101 eqisuodsa1 ';ualza ulu4;oo e o;. 'sdeq
v ;ou si ;îq4 '.1aA8&OMH
-jad 191 plaU11sieI .101 uuW014ua2 *uoit ai; pua l injoe naaq Ion piq ili 9Mq tînoiq;
Ion -Iv 'J3.10m aq; .1eâo uo14olpSiaUÇ v OUflO
lioilu4oo
asiflO 0aqj,
£q uai.i
SUAi JO OMei Il zeUOTIAL 0PP8Pa o; 'zlipUO an; 0ÂI luqi aquas ululxoa B uijpue 'oui;l
num0
puoaas v .xo; da aurea 111H aq;, natim 'uoilisod
puai aq 111H 11 n4 eq4l.ÇpOm
111
il 4uM ;ep 181lquqo1d pînom -014111 *uoq azim *ulqil Rem' si p10uq1u]n
v ni o;inb SU
Inoui.ioid ail; pue .1OJ zaqmaux *uoq aq4 lq îroqie; Ignf Iulod
04;euaS ar[; '50.xn4eIsSi
4irpeuueo JO;numulud aq;: jo, suorpiifl
1uil Ion OP I-11SXVRds alti
atl ;Inq
a. q; o; su tuoi4sanb 110 ;znoCo
oaiuez
*Lui& zadoad u ut asfloH aq:i a.xojaq .a
awa.tdfg aq; jo suolsioap Sueu lue.uî vuaaq
-lemu atil 2u.q plnoiqs ai .Iulql 1 Xla4ui.p
eonu aiaq; su qantumil ;nq ';ino[) amad
ejni o; la3ljeds aq; zauise aie am
-ns aUj0 o; ;;je .801 o appaap it121M 05110E -ameri
4a.X *puul3ug o;t off ;qltu aui ';inoo owo.îd
on;I 'L;îîuuoîin;llstuoa s1u o; se 9;qniop Oaini2
-»niq; .1aqlo0uu si 111H onT; -ns am JO luauL2pnr 0114 q1làk patisliu5 ion
oe a.Xaq4 JI
aàam a 0il pue 'Ion .10 ieuoi4n;ilsnoo si 111£1
11111 at jo £ilî
uniAm nuaq; op 111mi 0as 4iqA%,
sq; Iaoq4aqÀi *saA1aSmaq; aplaap o; sja.i
Suu asiB.1
-lunolii;lîstiozo ati oi su uollSOIlb
aa.ixql .10 om4 a,.Iu liq2im 4.1110 amaa.dnS atil
UP0
oi outil~ 4qi. 014 si iBIi iuipil I
o; .ixon .1allBdS
lu passnagip Lîîe.1aua2 si Mi1l rqoiqm 2niqlamuos apl;ap
puoaaS atp
atil Oullsu aie ami Inq jaip.1o o; miii 2Uî.iq
aq;, jo aîdlîouîad ail; ;eit; 9mLes ainx iaqlonu
pal1oo1a&o
aO]gO atil JO salua a0q
uaq; pus !paluî.xd aq o; pa.xopao pue omuit pue
mqî iaqmuam atil ie'i; aplaap 112w aiuad
aq;
-pap00lo4U1l0A 'am111H1
4s.i 014 pui0. si
ln 'tuJoi qans Pu qOfls ni
li2t
Ieq; Les o; uo saoo l n.i ;xoîr aq; uoiq; pue auI
B 2111;uosa.d i1aqmam u glua.%a.id ;eq;
'111H atil 2upznpoiIuî i ut 11i2ii 511 ulq4iAi sEA 111H
*OsfloH
il
Iqj, *111S esfloH sjiq; JO e111. u si oaq4
pI0U11sJil .101 uuiuaI;ua2 auoq
*uoi4
l.ai jo lq-ix Oil siq4 jo salaiu aig ;o.îd.1;ui Semt aH
ve anpo.14ui o; .xo;uasS
-isod ;eq; ut iao-îuàdg oqq4 eaud o; ili?î Iou
SIus salai. in()0 *pastu1 q 11î2lj
sÇi lu;
i *Itrîoîuolpfl B .1a.xîîop o; JO
:1nql stio ;sanb 1urrollWilSuoa alB3110p api1D0p si il .1iuîqi
1

Pif.

£061 'St sýNflfi

SENATE
and It is lu the Interests of the Blouse that
It sliould be done.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
practice Is the Bill, Is reail the first time ;
Now, let my -hon. friend move the second
reading, and It wiii be open for debate on
the second reading of a montli If necessary.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON moved that the Bill
be rend the second thne on Thursday next.
Bon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-If the hon. gentlemnan .had contented himseif with iaying
the Bill before the Bouse wvitliout going
f ully Into the reasons wliy he brouglit this
subjeet before the Bouse at this moment,
1 wiould have foiiowed the usual practice
and waited for the second reading to express
my opinion. I simply want to address myself to the propriety of this Bill being
brouglit before this Bouse at the present
session. It seems to me that this chamber,
althoughl composed mostly of professional
politicians who have been for a long time
In the Bouse of Commnois, lias n quasi
judicial function and should abstala fromn
sliowing any politicai feeling or lias. The
lion. gentleman knows fuil weli that the
reason that lie giv-es for bringing this Bill
before tlie BouseHon. Mfr. LOUGEIEED-Is the lion. gentleman speaking to the first reading of tbe
Bill or to the second reading ?
Bon. Mr. DANDURÀND-I arn speaking
on the motion .for the Second readIng.
Hon. Mr. LOUGBEED-The second rendJng Is fixed for next week.
Bon. 31r. DANDURAND-I was ready to
accept the advice of the lion. leader of the
opposition as to the practice, but I did flot
suppose that w-ould have the eff oct of preventing me expressing my op)inion as to the
propriety of bringiug the Bill before us at
the present time. I may state that I strougly object to this Bill being prescuted to this
cliamrber at this period, w-heu the reasons
given by tibc bon. gentleman for Maî-shfield
are, that-.Itely in the province of O-ntario
au inquiry had been confided to judges,
wbieh inquiry should have been made in
the Ontaio le'gisiature. The' objection io
the introdu - tion of this Bill at this session
Honi. Mr. FERGUSON.

is that the reasons for whicl tlie lion, gentleman lias moved -are at the present
time being considered before another tribunal *whose lionour lias been Impugneil,
and wliicli Is sitting 111 supreme judgment
over the accusations whicli were referred to
judges. I therefore think that we should
have waited till that tribunal had pronounced upon tlie propriety of committing
that lnquiry to judges and the finding of
the judges. Wliat w-li be the effect of this
move ' It will be taken as an aspersion
upon the judges wvho sat upon the iquiry,
and w-il! only add futi to the alrendy excited
state of the people of the province of Ontario. That is why I think that It did flot
behoove a senator of Canada to move in the
matter this session, more especially wlien It
is at present ln the liands of another tribunal to w-hicli It naturally belongs. I refer
to the legisiature of Ontario. Judges have
often been asked. to sit before on similar
matters. Tlie lion, gentleman spoke of w-liat
took place ln Quebec lu the autumii of
1891. We ail k-now the Lieutenant Governor of the province of Quebec at tliat time
selected three judges froin the Superior
Court and told lis Prime Minister thnt he
liad to appear before that commission of
three nominees of lis or resigu. In the face
of the demand of the Prime Minister at the
time, and of two-thirds of the legislature,
thnt the legisiature of Quebec should be
called together to examine Into the accusations which were hein.- made and wlidh
liad started from thils v-ery eliamber. The
Lieutenant Governor appointeil thrèe judges,
and we' know what folloived. There was a
majority report. and a minority report. Considerabie bail blood w-as created lu the province of Quebec. Othe- royal commissions
w-ere appointed after the Mercier governmenît iere overtbrowu and judges again
were uined on thase commissions. It created no end of trouble and discussion lu Quebec. That w-as lu 1892, and yet no one lu
this chamber atnd none lu the House of
Comînons, nov-ed to limit tlic jurisdiction of
file judges, aud preveut theni sittiug on sncb
inquiries, and nom- to-day %vlîeu -we bave liad
the e.xpel-ience of 1S91-2. anxd -w-len thie boi.
gentleman lias beeîi beie since 1S93 and bas
ilot Yelt that it m-ais incumbent o11 hlm to
inovi' ii this inatter. tîjougi lic liadi the ex,ý
pericnue of the nomination of judges ini tic

JUNE 18, 1903
province of Quebec, lie cornes now wben the
legisature of Ontario is discussing the propriety of appointing that commission, and bas
named two judges to recelve evidence and
to make a report, and wants the parliament
of Canada to declare thut judges should flot
lu future be appointed to sit up.:n such luqulries. This la aimply upholdlng the contention ef Mr. Whitniey and his frîcuda of
-the opposition lu Ontario. That is the main
reason wliy I object strongly te the tatking
of thîs course. I question the propriety of
bringlng that Bill at this stage before the
There la considerable to say on
House.
ready te say that
unot
its merits. 1 a
judges should be appoiuted te' make an luquiry lu pelîtical matters and to make a
findlng as a resuit of that inquiry, but it la
another thing te delegate powers te a Judge
to take testimeny ln a legal form.
There was nothing more proper than te
appoint Judges te take evidence lu, for
because
affair,
Gamey
Instance. the
tbere w~ere there a number of witnesses aud
difficuit questions te handie, a number cf
witnesses swearIng white, and a number of
witnesses swearlug black, and it waa for
the Judges te see that ail the evidence waa
taken lu a legal manuer. What would have
been the cousequeuce If that luqulry had
taken place before a commlttee of the legislature of the province of Ontario, or auy
,other legisisture befere a cornmittee cf aay
elght. or ten, or flfteeu men ? It would net
have proceeded two heurs, before It would
have been turned lnto a bear garden. We
ell know what It la te examine a witnesa
wlth eight or ten partisan j.udges who stop
a wltuess te prevent hlm compromisling
himacîf, and lu the nick of time lnterruptlng.
There would have been ne end te
that lnquiry. It would have lasted three
or four moutha instead of a few wveeks. It
ivas quite proper te appoint judges te take
the evideace. I witbihold rny opinion as te
the proprlety of asking judges te give their
opinion tapon that evidence, for, as a Matter of fact, the evidence taken lni the Mercier Inquiry and lu the Gamey inquiry, was
publlshed fully by the wbole press et the
country. andi the supreine *Jury-xhich is; the
people. forms Its own judgment as te lts
v-alue. I contend that tiiere is iii the move
ef the lion, gentleman an implied censure
on the action of the Ross .goveriniwiît lu de-

41

iegating the lnquiry of the Garney charges

te judges, and for my part at ail events,
I consider that it was the most proper thlng
te do to arrive at the -truth of the matter,
as far as truth could be 1found. The hon.
gentleman sayu, that the most Important
thing was te kuow where the mouey that
Gamey haudled came from, and yet we are
to-day without that result. Can the heu.
gentleman pretend that before a committee
of teu or twenty members of the leglalature
lie could have arrlved at a better resuti?
Every eue bears witneaa te the absulute
impartiality ef the judges. the fairuess wlth
whlch ail the wltuesses who wanted te testify, or whe could be brouglit te testlfy, were
theroughiy examined by bath aides lu the
solemu presence of judges whe saw that
thec witneas was net hampered and couid
anawer as he pleased, and giving the fullest
latitude te ail wvltnesses te speak their ful
mmnd, and te aay ail that they bail te say.
1 know Tery well, from my experieuce et
what takea place lu committees, that the
cemmittee are partisans ou one aide or the
other, that It weuld have becu Impossible
te gather ail the evidence .which was gathered lu that inquiry and whlch was from day
te day preeted threugh the preas te the
Dominion, sud tuder those cîrcumatances.
I thiuk even thla Senate, where the atmesplier. la suppoaed te lic more serene, wll
net give that Intelligent aud Impartial conaideratien. te the Bill whlch the bou. gentleman now preacuta because ef the preseut
political disturbauce, and that It weuld lic
an act of prudence and commen sense sud
tact te wlthdraw and re-lutreduce it uext
session If the hon. gentleman, then unblase by the excitemeut which may have
reached hlm frem the province of Ontario,
feels that II: la proper te present the Bill
again.
The SPEAKER-The question of order
has net been directly raised, but this Ie a
most serious departure froni thîe uulforrn
practîce of the Hlouse. I have never knewn
a discussion ef thîs kind to arIse on the
motion that a Bill be rend a second
tMme at a future day. 1 arn net ruliug on
the qUestlen of order, but I call attention to
this fAct, that our practice, whîchli as been
uniforrn for neariy forty years, new la te be
nltered, and n-e are to have tlîese discussiens ln this wav.

416

SENATE

Hon. -)il. M\cMýNULLEN-I arn exceedingly
sorryThe SPEAKER-I do not want to Interfere wlth the hon, gentleman who Is about
to speak. but I call attention ta the fact
tiîat we are lnltiating a new and vicious
practice.
Hon. Mr. -NcMULLEN-I amn sorry, if
owing to the rnave that lias been made Ilu
connection ivlti the Bill that 1, as a mcmber of this House, would be deprived or
snying anythlng whatever ln reply to the
long speech delivered by my lian. frieud on
tHe Introduction of this Bill. Now, bad rny
lhon. friend simply Introduced the Bill and
asked for a second reading, the Bill wýouId
have then corne before tHe House lu the ordinary way.
We would baye had fuil
knowledge of what lie intended 'te bring
before the House and we rnlght have been
prepared to reply ta the speEch that lie
delivered to-day on tHe first readlng of the
Bill. 1 think that would have been more
courteous ta members of this House, tiien
ta take the course the hon. gentleman did.
1 do flot challenge bis riglit to Introduce
the Bill, if hie consîders It his duty to do
so, but I agree wvlth the rernarkis of the lion.
gentleman from Moutreal, that It would
have been mucb better nlot to Introduce this
Bill now, In view of the fact that the legIslature of Ontario la stihi sitting and discussIng these very proceedings. and are about
ta corne ta a vote, as ta whether they are
prepared ta sustain the flndiugs of the Judges, and the course pursued by them ln taklng the evîdence, or whiether they are not.
In vlew of that condition of thIngs, ln the
province, 1 think, my hiou. friend, who lives
nway down by the sen -where they are not
nt ail Iinterested lu niatters of Ontario, ta
the extent that lie wouid be If lie iere a
resideut of aur province, might have restralned hiniself.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-This la nlot a question for Ontario nilne.
Hou'. Mr. McMULLEN-He miglit have
walted, before bringing this measure before
the House, ta let th'le vote be taken first lu
the legisiature of Ontario, and leave the
people of Ontario ta do their owni business

doue. As ta the course pursued by the
governnient, I arn not a lawyer, nor arn 1 able
ta speak wlth regard te matters that have
transpired. in this Dominion for the last
thirty years, but I venture ta say that the
initiation ,of the use of judges lu the way
the Ontai'lo governmeut have made use of
then ta hold au Investigation was not the
work of the Reform party. The principle
was laid down hirst hy lion, gentlemen opposite-and lu fact, It has been doue by
bath parties Ili this Dominn-of referring
au investigation ta a commission of judges.
Let me say with regard ta the proèeedings
of that commission, tliere xîevev was elle
single wituess who was brought before that
commission who was not ailowed a full
opportunlty ta state everythiug he wauted,
ta say. He was subjected to investigation,
exarnination and crass-examiuatlon, uniimited. There was no restriction placed,
by the judges upon the Investigation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman Is golug Just a littie bit
too far.
Hou. M.r. McMULLEN-The counisel oit
eacli side were allowed every opportunlty
ta extract from ail those witnesses any Iliformation or knowiedge that they lad la
connection with the matter. The Judges,
after ail] the evideuce had been takeni,
gathered the nuggets, if I mighit s0 speak,
froni beglniug ta end that pointed lu nuy
shape. fana or way ta the subject tliat had
been referred ta them for their investigtit'ou, and made their report. The report Is
before the legislature, and It la before the
people of this country. My hon. friend says,
that a certain number o! people at the unveiling o! a statue lu the city of Toronto.

ridIcuied the punity of the beucfl whiea it
was spoken of. We know very Wel that
in the city 0f Toronto--and I do not find fault
with them, they have a riglit ta be strong
Couservatives or Toies-t-here is exceedingiy
strong political feeling bath as regards the
inembers they seud ta Otitawa. and the
members of the local Hanuse. There has aiwayq been a strong political feeling there
and they neyer hesitate ta -express it at

gathierings and on ail occasions. Oli this
in their own way. I think It would have occasion, possibly, a few of tiiose bitteriy
been better ta have donc that than ta take opposed ta the Ross goverrument gathered
the step in advance as mv lion. friend basý rit a certainî corner and wlien the moment
The SPEAKER.

JUNE 18, 1903
toame tliey exhibuted their feelings and
liostility te the government, but after al
that is ne evidenee that the report that vas
prepared by those judges ha net a report that
dees credit te thiem. Tliey have sovuw by
the manuet' lu vhich Uiey conducted themselves that t*iey made etery possible effort
te extract eut et every vituess ail the Information that couid bo gatliered, and It lia
been subitted 'te the local leglulature for
tlielr consideratien. I do net thInli that the
judges sliould lie cbaracierlsed as partiaans.
I de net tbinli that an assertion et that
kind lias ever been made ln this country
before. If se, I have nover beard ef lt.
My lion. friend from Prince Edvard Island
(Hon. Mfr. Fergusen) has doue thaît
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-My lien. frlend ia
lu the vreng.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-The bon. gentleman bas tied te ahow that the jIdges have
been eue sided.
Hon. Mr. FERQUSON-The hiou. gentleman could net poselbly have heard mue. I
dld net say the report vas partisan. Whatever I may think, I dld net say It vas oe
-sided. I did say that there vas a very
strong opinion amongat a very largo nunrber
eftihe people of Ontario that hI vas no, but
I did net say It va.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-Arnong the
Tories only.
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-The hon, gentle.man lias trled te throv odiurn upon those
tvo judges that sat on that investigation,
simply because tliey agreed te act and te
hold the Investigation, and the Conservative
press have nover ceaeed, frem the trne they
preseuted iheir report te the present day4 te
throw ridicule and odium upen iliose ivo
Judges, eue vlie vas a Reformer In pait
days and the other a Censervative. No matter wliat tliey were, If It ansvers poltical
ends tlie party press nover cease te hold
thern up te rialcule. The lion, gentleman refers te Goldwin Smith, wlio, lie aays, deplores tlie corruption whlcb exists lu thie
provrince ef Ontario. I admit that If corruption Is te exist by the press nover ceasing
to yell corruption, it exi-Êts. The Conservatire press have yelied corruption, corruption,
The 'Mail and Empire' libas
corrpution.
never ceased to yell corruption for the iast

417

two or tliree years. There vas no other
ground on vhicli they could hope to beat
the Roma goveroment unleas they could make
It; feit there vas sornething wrong, and they
proceed on that score and try to aecomplIsb
their purpose lu that vay. They have evidently made an -Impression on Goldwin
Smith. Mfr. Smith Io groving te lie an old
man>, getting Into hie dotage. He rends
:nothing, perbape, but the «Mail and Empire,' and lie bas corne te the conclusion, ln
lis enfeebied. moments, tliat the ' Mail and
Empire' wouid nover unceasingly yell corruption, corruption, corruption, unien corruption did exlpt, and lie bas lent the velght
ef hi. viewu te the opposition contention ef
thie state ef thinga that lie saya muat exitt
Tlie goverument' of Ouln Ontario.
tarlo have invited Investigation ln the
they have Invited It before
House ;
a commission that vas appointed ; they
Mr. Whitney was asked
Invite It nov.
acros the floor of the House te explain hlm
charges. Âny man vlio had any charge te
make could go before the commission. There
lias net been eue single tittle ef evideuce.lu
the House or before the commission that
goea te show that the Rose government was
corrupt I believo Hfon. G. W. Rosa te be
au bionet patriotic statesman-as honeut as
any -un that ever llved ln Canada. A determined effort lias licou made te blacken
hie character, but i viii net sueceed. If
Mr. Whitney nover reaches power until he
reaclies It by the' course lie lias adepted,
lie viii "nover lie premier lu the province
et Ontario. The people are tee enllghtened
te permit themselvea te lie liumbugged and
deceived. Nov, I arn sorry ve had net a
fair oppertunity on the second reading to
diacusa tlie vlole question. The reasen I
do lt nov i. simpiy this; I arn very mucli
afraid rny lion. friend viii neyer move the
second readlng et tliat Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
lion, gentleman sliould net trouble hlmseif
about tliat
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-Tlie matter viii
be declded ln the legisiature ef Ontario,
and atter it Is over the bion. gentleman viii
nover bring up the second reading et the
Bill, and consequentiy the few remarks 1
amrn ow making, If I had not mnade tbem
[now, 1 do flot suppose 1 should be afforded

SENATE
my hon.
another opportunity to do so.
frlend referred to Mr. Blake. He said the
Hon. Edward Blake lef t the country because of the adoption of the unrestricted
reclprocity pollcy by the Liberal party. 1
know Mfr. Blake as well as anybody la this
Bouse. If there was any one thing tiat
the Hon. Edward Blake left pariament and
Canada for, it was because of hlm firi conviction of the corruption that exlsted in his
Dominion, and he lost any hope of the people of this country relievlng themselves of
It Be had. held elections and In none of
them, did Vie people listen to hlm appeals
ln order to have pure government In this
country. Faillng to Impreas bis views on
that question, he left the country. Now,
I could not ait here as an humble member
frein Ontario without feeling deepiy gratefui to our frienda from Quebec who rose to
defend Vie commission and the Hon. 1fr.
Rosa, and I couid not, as an admirer of Mfr.
Ross, and the governinent of Ontario, ait
still and let the defence of that governmnent
rest entirely wiVi Vie gentlemen from. Quebec I believe we have an honeat Party
and a pure goverament and I belleve Viat
the people of Ontario wlU stand by thein
The great
wben Vie opportunity comes.
jury of Vie people will say wbether Mfr.
Rosa la corrupt or not and I am wiiilng to
abide by that verdict- If my hon. friend
ives long enougb-I hope he will-he wiUl
see Viat when the people are appeaied to,
the Hon. G. W. Rosa wll stand higber In
their estimation Vian he ever dld before.

Bill (15) An Act to incorporate the Niagara, Queenston and St. Catharines Railway Company.-(Bon. Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (171) An Act to incorporate the Chatham, Waiiaceburg and Lake Erie Raiiway
Company.-(Bon. Mfr. Landerkin.)
Bill (145) An Act reapecting the Quebec
Bridge Comipany and to change Uts naine
to the Quebec Bridge and Railway Coinpany.--(Hon. Mfr. Casgrain, Windsor.)
CUSTOMS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message was received froin the House
of Commons with Bill (174) An Act to
amend the Customs Act
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved the first reading
of the Bill.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
the hon, gentleman expiain the purpose of
the Bill?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It la only dealing wlth
details. There la nothing ln the principle
of ItL The firat change la ln the constitution of the Board of Customs. There wIll
be fewer memtbers. The Commissioner of
Customs la the chairman of the board. The
appointment of an Assistant Commisioner
of Customs la aiso provided for. Then
there la a paragraph reiating to the German
surtax.r Section 6 has been redrafted and
amended. There la no principie involved In
any way ln the Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
Hon. 8ir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I mulet no doubt of ItL
congratulate,.my hon. frlend, froin WellingThe motion was agrieed to, and the Bill
ton on the great energy lie bas displayed.
was read the first Urne.
The -motion was agreed to.
At six o'clock the Speaker left the Chair.
THIRD READINGS.

Âfter Recess.

Bill (88) An Act respectIng the Mutual
Fire Insurance Company of the City of
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Montreai, and to change its naine to the
Bill (85) An Act to lncorporate the Berlin, Montreal-Quebec Fire Insurance Company.
Waterloo, Wellesley and Lake Huron Rail- --(BIon. Mr. Ellis, ln the absence of Hon.
Mfr. Béique.)
way Company.--(Bon. Mfr. McMullen.)
Bill (87) An Act respecting the Vancouver
Bill (100) An Act to Incorporate the Connd Coast Kootenay ttaiway Comnpany.- lonial Bank of Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson,
(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
tu the absence of Hon. Mr. Coffey.)
Bill (14-9) Ail Act respecting the Elgin and
Bill (172) An Act to incorporate the City
Havelock Railway Companyv.-(Hlon. Mr. and County Bank of Canada.-(Hlon. Sir
Wood.)
Mackenzie Bowell.)
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.

JUNE 18, 1903

419

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I supB Ill (51) An Act te incerporate the. Northpose that la the beut mlch cow they could
ern Bank.--(Hon. 1fr. Young.)
Bill (164) An Act te Incorporate the Paci- get.
lic Bank et Oangda.--(Uon. Mfr. Yeung.)
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-There ought to be
nme provision ln this clause ln nme way
SETTLEIIENT OF RAIL WAY LABOUR to -rostrict the onormeus number of witnesaes
DISPUTES BILL
that may be subpoenaed by either party--say
the labour organisations. We unl suppose
IN CoIMrCTEH.
a strike takes place on the Intercolonial RailThe House reaurned In Committee et the
way and an Investigation la to be held at
Whele, cenalderatien et Bill (17) An Act te Halifax or St. John. The labour organisaaid ln the settiement et Railway Disputes. tion at Moncton rnigbt say, 1ire would like
to go demn and Uusten te the Investigation.'
(In the Cornrittee.)
snd they apply to the leaders of the labour
On clause 6.
organisation and may, ' we know something
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-This iras a very rnuch about the came, me wlsh yen mould brlng us
discusaedl clause which iras alio'wed te dowm,' and they mlght number fitty, sixty
stand on a questien irhether thue Uimit sheuld or nlnety wituesses. and they weuld bave te
be live days or ton days au te which ob- be paid under this provision.
jections mhould be offered te the appointHon. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. trlend la enment et an arbitrater. I uweuld suggest
tirely mrong; they mnust be sumrnened by
that It be changed by striking eut the mords
the board.
' net oxceeding ton daym'1 and substitutHon. Mfr. McMULLEN-But the labour oring ' te within sncb Urne as the minugter
May lix.'
ganisations bave te mupply the na-e eto the
wltnesses tbey want subpoenaed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-By
maklng that change yen irould give the
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-But the discietion 19
minister, under the 24th clause, power te with the board.
act ln rnaking the regulations.
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-The labour organi.Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yen.
sation may ay, 1me mant the mon ; ire de
net mant you te restrlct us as te the nurThe clause iras a'rended and adopted.
Give
ber of witnesaes we should brlng.'
On clause 14.
thern aUl, If you choose, free transportation
Hom. Mr. SCOTT-I propose te meet the te attend the investigation and leave it opviews eft he cornrittee, mhich I think are tienal wtth the board wbether they grant
sound, by addlng 'ahail bo Intttlod te thern return tickets or net. It dependa on
whether their evidonoe le requlred or net.
,wituosa tees.'
If their evidence Io requlred. and the board
Hon. 1fr. LOUGHEED-The bon.gentle- think they are entltled te free trangpertation
man mhould deline thern me that they ufill borne again, I would net object but te start
bo aufficiently largo te cover exponses.
wtth free transportation there and back, and
ef the labour orHon. Mfr. SaOTT-There lu a pertectly witesa fees at the option
et witnesa tees by ganisation makig application, I arn atraid
understeod, Interpretatien
My hon.
mili be open te great objections.
the courts.
friend sbakes bis head and maya ne. I can
Hon. 1fr. LOUGHERD-Under section 24 rernember a Urne when the provisions ef our
the miniater peusibly rnay have pewer te Iaw ouabied a member ef parîlarnent te
rogulate them.
dram mlleage frem any place ho started from
te Ottawa when sumrned te a sessien.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Who We ail remember how a member et parliais te pay these tees ?
ment drew mileage ilt the way acreas the
Mfr. SCOTT-That will faîl on our Atlantic frein England. We amended the
Hon.
good mother, the country, I suppose. The iaw atterwards, sirnply because it was loose
in that respect. I tbinl. we sheuid not pass
mother furnishes aIl the pap.
27J

SENATE

420

this law in sucli a loose mauner. We should
amend It lu smre way that dlecretionary
power sbould be retained by the board to
say wbether w1tnesses are entitled to returu
transportation or not. To mtart wlth givlng
them free, transportation both ways would
lead, ln my opinion, te abuse.

answer, 'Ob, we understand our own business better than you do, and -we waut this
hait dozen or dozen wltnesses.' I thlnk the
better way le to let the »B111 go. It ls an
absurdlty any way, aud lu the worklng ont
It wll be feuud so.
Hou. Mfr. GIBSON-I would suggest to my
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot concelve there beu. frlend the words ' reasonable number
of wltnessee'1 would cover the poiut. Would
ls any possible danger of the resuits my
hon.*
frlend describes, because the board are snp- the Secretary et State have any objection
posed to bave sme klud of judgrnt. The to putting that lu ? I thlnk It would get
chairman of the board la an independent over the diliculty. I have a very strong
officai. We muet surely put sme confi- recoilection of the case clted by the
dence in bis discretion and prudence.
He leader of the Opposition, where thlrty
would flot allow wltnesses to be summoned o! forty wltnesses In the West Huron
unless there was smre possible hope of giv- el ection trial were mubpoenaed te prove the
tag materlal evidence, and there would be sa-me thlng. A number topped at the hote],
and really at the end they were obllged to
ne necemsity for a large number.
stop thern comlug, because they one after
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.>-Why not another proved the same thlng. The govrestrlct the number to six?
erument le openlng a wlde door to wltnesses
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You muet leave It te belng called to give evidence la connection
the board. They are to judge.
wlth a labour dispute. ani I thlnk It wonld
Hou. Mfr. MÂCDONÂLD-Tbey mlght be wlse, for their own sake, and to prevent
the annoyauce It would cause to the minis.
bring up one or two hundred wltnesses.
ter and the department, to limit the power
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Surely the board are
of mubpoenalng to a reasonable number et
Blot fools.
wltnemses. That would leave It entirely to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie the diecretlon o! the officer wlio lias charge
presmrption of the Secretary et State la of the Department of Labour. He would
correct, that what lie has suggemted would know the Importance o! the case aud It
be carrled out but I cau rernember an lu- wouid be wlthln hie province and pewer
stance-I caunot at thîs moment remember te accept a reasouable number o! witnesses
the case, perbaps the hon, gentleman from ln accordance wlth the Importance of the
Wellington wlll remember it-not long ago qiuestioni under dispute. Wlth this amendln Outario, where the court bail to restrlct ment every one would understand that only
the number of wltnesses subpoenaed, for the a llmited number would be allowed to give
reasen that there were se many su-mmoned evîdence In conuection wlth the case.
to prove the sme thtag that It became au
Hoen. Mfr. SCOTT-Hou. gentlemen are asactual abuse. Perhaps the bon, gentleman
eumlug that parties can vounteer to be wvitwill remember the case.
nesses, or that the labour organization, or~
.Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-Yes, I rernember railway company, would bave the rigbt to
caîl the wituesses. They bave no sucb rilht.
It.
The names mnuet be submltted to the board.
Hou.- Slr MACKENZIE BOWELL-It oc.
Ia the case the bon, gentleman cited, the
curred a short trne «go.
Whlle common
trial of the West Huron case, there was
sense would lead us to suppose the board
check the
would act on the principle laid down by the no sncb check. The court dld not
Secretary of State, we know iu some cases
How is
sucb power bas been abused.
thp board to judge if the labour organizalion, or If the rallway, say it Is necessary
to bave dozen wltnesses broughit f rom BrItish
Columbia to Halifax. How are we to Stop
i ? The board cannot say no. They would
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.

number of wltnesses summoned.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I beg
the hon. gentleman's pardon. Thit is wl:at
happened. It became sucli an abuse that
the court stopped it.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-The pirties suflhInilflQ
themn and the court decl-ded it wç%as an abus~e.

JUNE 18, 1903
In this case the board takes the responsibility, and aurely you could flot have any
better security than that. I arn wiiling to
add the word 'neceasary.'

421

be necessary. Perhaps one wItness on each
side would close the whole matter. *My bhon.
triend is simpiy lnviting additional expense
by adding those words.

Hon. Mr. GIBBON-My hon. friend the
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I do flot dlaim to
Secretary of E(tate knows very weIl that la be as capable of wording a clause as my
a matter of this kind pressure 'would be hon. frieud or, perhaps, nme other membrought to bear on the governrnent.
bers of thia honourable House. But here
we have the Gamey charges which were
Hou. Mr. SCOTT--Oh.
Inveatigated In Toronto. Numrneous wltnesHon. Mr. GIBSON-Yes, there Ia no use ses were called on both aides. I do flot say
saying oh ! Pressure would be brought to that one was worse than the. ot'her. They
bear on the governent to bring an un- secured subpoenas to corne from Manitoulin
nevessary number of wItnesses, and they Island. A great rnany of them came out
rnlght force themselves In an unlirnited nurn- ot curiosi*ty. T.hey wanted to hear tihe case,
ber on the goverinent ln connection witb and many were mot called at ail.
this matter under dispute, and the resait
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But the judge did flot
would be a large expense wouid lie Inaubpoena them.
curred for perhaps a trivial motter.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN--Supposing My
If the words «a reasonable number of witnemmes subpoenaed ' were added, It would at hon. frlend la the judge. Supposing thé chaironce give these people to understand, when man of tihe commission, the labour orgaanizapplying to the officer who acta ln cases of ation, or the head of the labour organisation
labour disputes under the Minister of La- came aiong and aubmitted to the hou, genbour. that every one appiying would flot be tleman lifteen or twenty or thirty or forty
accepted as a witneus, because I know, and names, and aid 'I want to aubpoena those
there la no use dlaguloing tbe fact-we are people.' Are you golng to say to hlm ' I
sensible men here--that unlirnited applica- arn fot going to allow you to bring aN tihose
He rnay say II cannot prove
tions would be made to the officer for men witneoaea.
votanteering evIdence that would be of no our case without It. If you are flot gotng
earthly use whatevor, perhaps one glving to permît ua to brlng tihe wit-nesses we
evidence on top of the other, ail running In want there la Do use cornmenclng the Inthe sme direction, and yet for political vestigation at aIl. We want a 'wbole lot of
reasons the request of these men would be wituesses.' Now I say we should empower
acceded to, and wo would have themo dis- the chairman of the board to refuse transputes and It would cuit a vory large sum portation to witneases If they are flot
Give them transmaterisi tu the case
of money.
jDortatlon at flrst If they apply for transHou. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman portatIon. Let them corne. Then wthen
seema mot to have read the Bill very care- they start to returu, unless tbey are comf ully. The government have nothing what- petent witnesses, let the chairman refuse
ever to do with IL
to give themn transportation or witness fees.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLà,-EZcSDt There should be sme such provision made.
to pay the expense. That la where the My hon. friend thInka that because the
chairman of the board will have unlimited
trouble cornes ln.
power that he will control it. The chairman
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The board la a court of the board Io at the mercy of these people
made up of a representative of each party. who desire to get witnesses subpoenaed and
It would require the concurrence of the If they apply for a number of witnesses I
It question very much If we would refuse.
board. The chairman mnuet acquiee
muet be presumed tihe ebairman la flot going
Hon. Mr. VIDÂL-Would It not be an
to commit such a piece of folly. To add
the words my hon. frlend suggests might easy way to tbrow the responsibility for the
lead to abuse, because it tnvolves the pre- number -of witnesses on the chairman of
sumption that a number of witnosses would the board by inserting the following words :

422

SENATE

'The chairman may summon such witnesses end o! flie building, and 1 think It Is ouly
as la deemed necessary.'
a good protection ?

Would flot that be

reasonable the commIttee shouid have something to say about this 119 In sending
It back to the House o! Commons that the
The OHÂIRMÂN-That Is what the bon. government might be kept !rom needîss
Secretary of State suggests.
expenditure because It means that If the disHon. Mfr. VIDAI-In that way we throw pute-comes from the labour party, you inay
the responsibllity upon the board, of deter- just have as maiiy witnesses as we had In
mining that only witnesses who are neces- the last few days at our committee meetings, representatives f rom the trades unions,
sary should *be cailed.
and representatîves of labour lu ail branches,
The CHÂIRMAN-The hon. Secretary of asking the chalrman of thie board that their
people be summoned so that they may give
State suggesti that.
evIdence In regard to their particular trade.
Hon. Mfr. VIDAL-It la flot ln the Bill.
If a reasonable number were inserted In the
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-The wltness tees for Bill, the chairman couid tell them he
ail necessary wItnesses are to be paid.
was prohibited from bringing a large numHon. Mfr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)- ber of witnesses, but as It la, what does It
It appears from the remarks of the hon. mean ? It nicans If they have any political
senator from Lincoln (Hon. Mfr. Gibson) tha-t Influence that the commîssioner wiil wink
he wlshes to lnsert: In that clause the words at the matter and allow these men to, corne
reasonable number of witnesses.' Who 18 at the expense of the government, and If
there were no witness tees pald, and the
to be the judge of a reasonable number ?
men had to pay their own transportation
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-The chairman of the as well as the Individual, master or man,
board.
you wouid have fewer wltnesses, and lesa
Hon. Air. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)- expense In connection wlth the Conciliation Board. ln order to do away witb this
Is lie not that already by the clause ?
Idea the goi-ernment should Inforni the
Hon. Mfr. VIDAL-That would flot meet Department of Labour that they are lnviting
the question at ail. You put no responsi- trouble upon themselves by lnviting the
bility upon anybody then, but if you just hearlng o! disputes between parties, that
put upon the board the respoxislbIlity o! perhaps only one of the parties know anyjudging as far as possible beforehand wvho thing about. The other party to the disare necessary witnesses, that la the best pute may neyer have heard of It, and yet
according to the tenor o! this Bill that comway of dolng It.
missionner can, upon the application of
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-The clause reads
those who teed that they have a grievance,
On Uie appication of any of the parties, or on
its own motion. the board may lsune summonses ask him to summon perhapa thlrty, forty
to pe~rsona te appear and give evIdence betore or flfty wItnesses at a very large cost to
the board.
the government, and they mi;ht bave this
That la the point I wanted to cail the dispute up for weeks before It Io settled.
attention of the committee to, that un- I want to bear testlmony, la connection
reasonable numbers would appiy to the wi.th the labour matter that we bave seen
board for the purpose of belng examined In In another part of the building, to the tact
that the ralway employees put tforward
order to give evidence.
the best element of uniolim on the conThe CHAIRMAN-It says they may ex- tinent. What I mean by that Is, we bave
amine them.
been f'avoured In Canada for a great many
years with able men connected with railHon. Mfr. GIBSON-On the application of
either o! the parties, or of its own motion. way labour unions, and these men at reWhen the government Is going to pay the peated periods go to Montreai, the headexpenses o! the witnesses and niford free quarters of the raiiway companies, and there
transportation, we know what that means. for perbaps !rom three to six wceks, take
I have seen evidence of that in the other up the different things that are under disHon. Mfr. VIDAL.

JUNE 18, 1903
pute and settie tbem between themselves.
if that la done, and both parties agree to
1t4 and It takes from three to six weeks
before the grievance committee of the various railways to reacb au amicable arrangement, how much longer will. It take when
the government la a party to endeavour to
effeet the conciliation, especlally as these
men are to be pzid for their Urne. Now,
when the railway cornpany bave any trouble
to settie with their men, they meet the representatIve men of each department. The
raiiway company send railway passes for
a limited nuniber to corne down and settie
the inatter under dispute. The railway han
that matter In lits own bonds, and the men
appoint representatives of the varions
branches of the rallway service, where
thero are any disputes or difflcultles, and
the dlfficulty 19 settled by the railway company and the employees thenselves. But
In this case the government openly say that
persons may be summonéd wlio ean give
evidence, and 1 venture te say that there
will be dozens upon dozens of applications
froni mon ciaiming that they are thorougbiy
au fait with the subject, and they wil
receive the sanction and approval of the
commissioner to corne and give evidence
and ln that way there wIll be an unnecessary number of wltnemsse alled ; and lot
me say to bon. gentlemen that the greater
the number ef witnesses are called, the
more trouble there wiii be ln settling the
dispute, sart from the cost and oxpense
ln connection with the witnesses.- I eaui
say, after an exporience of thlrty years6
that lni any difficulty the fewer a man has
to, deai with ln any walk of life, the more
eaeily can that dispute be settled. But liers
lu the governmeat of Canada allowing-not
only allowlng, but encouraging, by paylng
cxpenses-an unnecessariiy large number of
witnesses to corne and iay a complaint
au imaginary grievance perliaps, wbich the
other party knows nothing about, and thie
government ailowing its commissioner to
summon these men and pay their expenses,
when ail that we ask, and the House Id to
consider, la that the number of witnesses
should flot be left to the commissioner, but
that parliament sbould be seized of the
power itself and sbould exorcise tbat power,
and say that only a reasonable number. of
witnesses should be called.

Hon. Mr. WOOD-One other point In connection wlth this question bias been suggested to xny mmnd by the remarks which
have just been made by the bon. gentleman
from Lincoln. The clause oniy provides for
the payment of witness fees, and for free
transportation of witnesses who are summoned by the board. I can conceive" of a
case ln whIcli an Important and materlal
witness might not be summoned by the
board ; that lu If the board lias the diacretionary power which the bon. Secretary of
State dlaims tliey bave, and whlcli 1 belleve
they bave under the wording of the Bill as
It stands. The board miglit, tbrough some
misconceptIon, refuse tu grant: a summons
to some person wlio was a material witness,
One of the parties to the dispute miglit
nevertheless brîng that person, and It miglit
ho found atter the trial was tbrough that
lie bad giron very Important and material
evidence ln the case. If the board la to have
thls discretionary power, I amn Incined to
agree that the views advanced bY the bon.
gentleman who bas Just resumed bis seat
and the bon. gentleman who preceded hlm
have a good deal of force, and that the payment of the witness tees and the free transportation sliould flot depend upon the tact as
to whetlier the witnesses were summoned by
the board or not, but wlietber they gave
material evidence on the trial, and If this
v'lew la concurred ln by other hon. gentlemen
ln thîs Houa., the clause could, by a verY
simple amendment, ho made to meot the
case I have mentioned, and aiso the dlfficultY
to which the bon. gentleman referred. I
offpr a suggestion for the consîderatioli of
the hon. Secretary of State, to erase the
words ln the tblrt.y-slxtli and thirty- seventh
linos ' and summoned, by the board' and
lnserting instead thereof *giving mateViat lu, whether lie was
rial evidence.'
summoned by the board or brouglit by either
party without any summons, ho would be
entitled to free transportation. The chairman of the board would have to furnish hlm
wltb a certiflcate that lie liad given meatonial evidence on the trial.
Hon. Mn. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Would not
that raise thc question at once as te who
wouid have to decide as to the inaterial evidence ?
Hon. Mr. 'WOOD-The board.

424

SENATE

Hon. Mr. MÂ.CDONÂLD (B.C.)-It would
raise a dispute. Ceunsel would say 'You
have given materiai evidence and you are
entitled te pay,' and It would iead to dispute.

have auy discretionary power lu that matter.
I should suggest after the word 1board'
ahould be added 'eacb member shall travel
by the shortest and moat expedîtious route
going and coming.'

Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-I would respectfully suggest that the words ln the thirtynintb Une 'and tbcreafter returning to bis
home' shouid be. eraued and the followlag words added: 'and the board
shail furnish auch witness a proper certifiente evidencing snob right to free transportation, to attend the board meeting, and
a like certificate to return home.' If he attends tbe meeting anrd bis evidence la not required and he has gone there through curiosIty, the chairman would have the right
to refuse to give him a returning certificate.
Leave it wlth the chairinan.

Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-Does not the hon. gentleman think the Âudltor General will look
out for that ?

Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-But he may certlfy thant he took so long ln returning.
Hon. Mr. CASGRÂIN-(de Lanandière>I wouid be wluing te have the clause stand
as It Is. I do not thlnk any one golng or
returning by a cîrcuiteus route could collect
a per dlem. ÂAy aide trips wouid be pald
foir eut of hits own peeket
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-I have been elghteen years la parliament, sud I have seen
sncb things happea.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We spent a good deal
The clause was sdopted.
of time over tais clause betore, and have
On clause 20,
spent a good desi of thne now. I have endeavoured te meet the views of my hon. friend,
H13on. Mr. McDONÂLD
but ft ls absoiuteiy Impossible, wlth the the value of this clause ? It seems to me
varlety of opinions expressed, to do se. I there la no neesity for It.
move that tbe feliowing words be added:
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-There may flot be. It
On the application of any of the parties, or
of ita owa motion, the board may issue sum- ta a matter of precaution.
mona to sucb persons as the chairman of the
board may think necessary te give evidence, "c
Hon. Mfr. McDONALD) (C.B.)-It la flot
The ameadment was agreed to, and the legîslation. It la almply a piece of informaIt la sImply maklng the preceding
tien.
clause as amended adopted.
po rt of the BI useless. It ays :
On clause 17,
No court ef the Dominion of Canada or of sny
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I would Just like province or territory shahl have ororposseas any
enforce or
power or Juriadiction to recognize
te ask If each member of the board shall ta receive ln evidence any report of the *id
have the rlght to travel whatever way he board of arbitrators or ans' report of the naid
committee of conciliation, or any testimony or
chooses ln going and returnlng, and .collect proceeding before either the sald board or comtea dollars a day durlag the tîme. Sup- mittee as againat Any party or person or fer
whatsoever, except ln case of proposlng an Investigation la to be held In the any purpoe perjury.
secution for
travels from Queclty ef Toronto, and he
That is slmply a piece et Information ; that
bec to Toronto ?
ls not legislatlen. If there la any statute
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The board will lie se- which would give jurladiction to this b~oard
lected la the province where the grievance of conciliation, tii repeals It and makes the
eus s.
matter worse. If there ls any sucli statuite,
this clause sbould be struck ont . If there Is
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Then supposlng he
statute and It is uot the intention
frem Cornwall te Sarnia, wll ne such
has to travel
te give juriadiction to auy court, then there
he have the option, when the meeting Is
ls ne necessity for the clause.
over, of taklng a boat and going round by
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It is to remove any posthe canal, and sallng home, and collecting
ten dollars a day, or will be lie compelled to stble doubt that niiglit arise ln the mind
travel liv the sliortest route ? I think some- of t he person lu whose faveur the award or
thlng sliould lie put lu so tlbat lie wili not report was made, that lie is axot at liberty to
Hou. Mr. WOOD.

JUNE 18, 1903

425

go into a court te enforce IL. That is thc the door to an enormous expenditure, and
you wlll mid there will be any number of wltwhole ebject ef the clause.
nesses to be pald. I eau easily underatand,
The clause was adopted.
or any persen who ha. ever had labourlng
mien or mechance to deal wltb, eau easllY
21,
*On clause
understand there would be great curloffîtl
Hon. 1fr. McI[ULLEN-This very clause on the part of those men to attend. aud theY
'wlll give the labour union an opportunity would muet upon the ehief having thein
of havlng a mneeting and chooslng ail those subpoenaed. We kuow how It occurred In
who want to attend the Investigation. That the recent Investigation. There were dezens
number Io snnctlenedl by flie gathering. It of men subpoenaed and carrled down to the
may be tweunty, or thlrty, or forty. The re- court at the expense of the province.
presentativeofe the men goes to the chairman
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In ivhat case ?
and says : 'I1 want subpoenas for thi. number.' The chaîrman aays, 'I1ebject, It le a
Hon. 1Mr. McMULLEN-In the GameY lUvery large body.' 1Weil,' ho saya, ' the or- vestigatioii.
ganizatien have had a meeting and It la reHon. 1fr. SCOOT-That la an entlrely dftsolvcd these men should ail be subpoenaed,'
ferent thing.
and he wauts subpoenas. How la the chairHon. Mr. MeMULLEN-If the hon. gentleman golng to limit Uic aumber ?
man ean point out how the chairme.n eau.
Hon. Mr. S(JOTT-I sec no dlfffculty what- rcstrict the number I would like hlm to
evor. I presume the ehairinan lo to be a explalu It.
man et somte degree of diseretion. The
Hon. 1Mr. SOOTT--Surely the bon, gentleclause ha. referenoe te a very largo number
or te différent man wll recolleet the discussion we haît
ot men whe have grievances
classes of mcn, say the trackmen and the on clause 14, where we provide that enlY
labourera ln reference te railways. Only neessary wltnesses are to be summoned,
te be
a certain number ot a clans are admltted te' and the chairman, ef the board was
befereth responsibie.
take part ln active proceedinga
board.
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-Hon. gentlemen will
notice ln dlause 81 thc only difference In
Hou. Mfr. MeMULLEN-What docs tdii
with« this matter i. that they
clause provide for ? It provîdes- that when conneetion
are net ail to take part; but -If one hunda dlmfculty arises, thc labourera or artisans
rcd men meet together, nlnety-nine of them,
that are proposlng to strike call a meeting
may come. This la a fittlng place to lUnit
for thc purpose et deeldlng what number
thc propoed Investi- the number. As the clause stands, the Only
and who shall attend
restriction to the number la that they aU
gation. There are fifty, a biundred, or two or
menu. There
A numirer may say, *II cannet go. What does 'ail'
thrcc hundred.
are aay one hundred and flfty at the meeteau give Important evidence.' White, Brown,
forty-nine may go,
Grey, Smith and ail the rest et them wll lng; one hundrcd and
but the hundred and Iflty cannot because
say, 1 1 want my name put on thc Ilst.' Thcy
must be'leas than tuie whole
get wituess tees and free transportation, and tienumber
number. Uot us deal with this ln a buaitbe result I. that the represontative will go
that a limited nume
cairman and say, ' Here I have a lât nese way and let us say
tte
ber may be chesen as delegates.
et forty for whom I want subpoenas.'
What dlscrctlonary power ha. the chaîrman
Heu. Mfr. OÂSGRAIN (de Lanaudière)te say, 'Thot la too many.' He bas noue. That la what la here now.
The only way you eau restrlct that abuse
Hon. 1fr. GIBSON-Ne. This Io net an
la te empower thc chairman te refuse them
on their retura trip, If ordiuary case of subpoenalng people to give
free transportation
they are net miaterl witucsses, and If the evidence who wouid be going bocause rechaIrman bas the power te say, 1 1 won't qulred; la tii!. case they are enticod to
grant you a certificate te take you home, you go. They bave a trip before them-tree
are not a necessary witness,' you will have transportation and expenses paid golng and
sorne limit, but otberwise you are openiug comiug. It is an Act encouraged by the

426

SENATE

character and affected the workmen who,
built the cars, or la other workshops oý the
company, that workshop would be shut
down, and It would be wlthln the province
of the conittee, because of the tact the
government was to pay their expenses, to
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN (de Lanaudiêre)-If have to summon an Incredible number of
iastead of a limIted number yon add to that delegates.
'summoned by the chalrman I?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman 15
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-That la already wrong altogether. There is no presumpprovided for.
lion of the gnvernment paylng bere. It la
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-My hon. frlend does only witnesses summoned by the chairman
not seem to realize that he has to be gulded who are paid.
by the representative of a class who has a
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The 21st clause la
grievance to lay betore hlm, and s0 long
really intended to do the very thing the hon.
as they are strIctly withln the law and
gentleman la asking for-to limit: the number
hold their meeting and they do not ail
of persons who saol go as wltnesses.
apply, there la no restriction. If the thing
a practical way for the
la to be done la
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-My dion. frlend seems
men we are legislating for a.nd the people to know ail about it. 1 should like hlm to
whose grlevances we wish to have settled, tell us where the limitation la that they
If we add a limited number sent as their shail not ail take part in the inquiry. Now,
delegates, I venture to aay the best men of aay there are one thousand men la the
the dlass 'would be sent, but If there ia no workshops in Montreal who have grievlimitation to It, then It would be, not the ances : bow many wouMd go?
most influential or esfent men, but the men
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-They would select their
who would mire the most noise, and they
are always to be found ln disputes o! thls delegates. The bon. gentleman bias not read
klnd. You neyer have any trouble wlth the the Bill, because he contou'nds It with trade
man who attends to his business ; but the unionlsm.
man who la a member o! an organization
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-If my bon. frlend
and Ilves practlcally, not by the labour thinks the railway employees are not In
of bis banda, but hy keepIng himself and trade unions he Io mIstaken. The mechanica
those surroundlng hlm ln trouble, creating in the workshopg are trade unioniste, as are
grievancea for them, ls the man you have the trackmen and tralumen. We have had
got te, deal witb. And bere the govern- thelr representatives Îhere for several -weeks.
ment having created a bureau of labour, 1 was trylng to point ont the dlfficlties the
are now forming a bureau of conciliation goverument bave before them. While It la
ln order tbat these disputes may be amicably true that a large number of men could not
settled. Now, let tbem stipulate the num- go from the engineers, the conductors, the
ber o! wItnesses that shail be sent from firemen or the brakesmen classes, from the
any one clans. A railway bas a large num- workshop they could go ln unlimlted number of classes of employees and It: would bers, and It ls not; in the power of the govbe Impossible for themn ail to leave their erament to say who shall be sent, because
work et the same tlme. In the case of a the men themselves are to select, and ail
railway dispute, where 10,000 men are em- they are confined to, so far as the 2lst
ployed and the works are shut down, there clause la concerned, la that they shal nlot
would be no limit to the number 0f persons ail go before this conciliation board.
sent by the men to represent their grlevances before this conciliation board. With
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It says It: shal flot be
the railway men 'wbo are operating- the necessary for them.
rond, sucb as the telegraphers, the conducHon. Mr. GIBSON-The men inay say
tors, the brakesmen, the engineers and the
firemen, tbey could not aIl get away from there are one thousanc&of us here and we
their runs, but if the dispute was of a serious wil] send down at least a hundred.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.
government of Canada to have as many
delegates as they possIbly can so long as
the whole meeting la not elected to go. A
Iimited number would put the whole matter
hn a nutshell.

JUNE 18, 1903

427j

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It le at their own ex- themselves would select out of that thonsand men the number they 'would consider
pense If they are not summoned.
imited, and they would send ten or a dozen
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-Â hundred of those àf the best men, representiDg fixe best
men may have been selected by the thons- element of the ehop or rallway who were
and to represent themn, and they apply to wIlling to settle this matter Iu. dispute
the chairman of the conciliation board for between themuelves and the railways, but
the transportation for the purpose of giviug as the clause now stands they would be
evidence.
overpowered by those who were flot favourable to a settiement of the strike In the way
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT--Oh, no.
it should be settled.
Hon. Mfr. CÂSGRÂIN (de Lanaudlère)Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-I think it 19 lnThey must apply for a summons.
tended by this clause wben trouble arises
Hon. Ur. GIBBON-I arn speakiug about that the mechanics shall meet and select a
something I know a little about. I venture certain fLxed number to represent them.
to .say that my hon. frlend neyer handled, Now, I would -suggest that In lune 42, after
workingmen ln hlm life. I have been em- the word 1 number,' you Insert 'flot more
ployed on public works since I was thirteen than two.' Tbe clais may be repiresented
by sme of their -number mlot more than two
years of age.
to be chosen by a majority, or the -agent or
Hou. Mfr. SO0'IT-Bnrt the bon. gentleman counsel, or moieltor.
Il puttlng an- Interpretation on the clause
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I would object to any
which it does not bear.
change ln the clause, because I do flot regard
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-Thexi let us put it no It as oné tbat Involves any expenditure at
that every one can understand It 1 was aIL It la an Indication to the men that It
going to say one thousand men employed will flot be n-ecesaary for them to corne ail
ln the workshops may inslst on a large together. I stand by the clause.
representation, perhaps to the extent of one
Hon. Mfr. GIBBON-Take the Seretary of
hundred, before the board. There wMi be a
fight ;or the position, because there is to be State's lnterpretation of the cIau@è, that the
free transportation and they wIll apply to men are to recelve no witness tees wbatever
the chairman of this conciliation board and unless they are suznmoned by the chairman
represent that the matter ln dispute ls o! of the board. They go there .voluntarily.
such Importance that i1t wouhd require at It la open for thèm to go. One hundred of
least from fffty to a hundred men to represent themi-two hundred of them go, and what
their grievances and they muet go before does it mea.u? It means that the arbitration
this conciliation board and recelve what ? wlU be delayed so much longer on account of
Lt la left entirely to the chairman of the no restriction being placed on them, even If
board to say how many ont of that hum- tbey go voluntarily. Tbey may have nothing
dred he is to select How la he to select else to do. The arbitration may take place
the number from men, not one of whom hie lu the locality where the strIke occurs, and
knows ? If It vas provlded ln the clause what le the effeet of it ? That this conciliathat on the men la the worksbops going tion board wfll ait for weeks and weeks
on strIke the government are prepared to at au expendîture of ten dollars a day for.
hear thelr grievances, but ln doing so they e'iery man who site on the board and ahI bis
muet bear ln mmnd that only a limited num- travelling expenses. if a limited number
ber of delegates can appear before the con, was provided for-I would not say two, bieciliation board, there would bie some reason cause one man might take one view and the
Iu lt But this clause as I read it, is open other another view, but an uneven number.
to this construction, that tbey cannot ail go. say live or seven, snd I*think the governThat means a very large number may go, ment would act wisely ln taking that course.
and ln order that a very large number may
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-If my hon. friend
flot bie able to go it wonld bie far better for
it cnrefully I t1hluk lie wouid
the goverament to put ln that clause that will loo0k Into
snrely conie to the conclusion thiat it is iiea Iimited -number may go. 'Then the men

SENATE
cessary to put some restriction on the flamber. The remarks of my hon. friend froni
Lincoln largely appiy to clause 14, and we
lutve lef t that clause ln an open condition
as"to the number that may be subpoenaed.
0f course they must apply to the ebairinan,
tout they will maire that application urgent,
pressing; the labour element wiii press very
strongiy that unless you give an opportunity
ta bring witnesses' before the board tbey
cannot prove their case. They will say : If
you are going to stand lu the wny of an
Investigation by Ililting the number of witnesses, then we need not go on. Io the government or the board going to restrict us lu
the Investigation we are going to have ?
This clause 21 la for a dIfferent purpose.
It ls for the purpose of the mechanics ineetin.- and electing a certain number from
s mongst themnselves to take charge of the
ca&e before tbe board of commissioners ;
but, as the lion, gentleman from Lincolni
points out very clearly, they xnny fotonly
eleet a nirmber ta take charge of tbe case
before the commissioners as leaders, but
they may rominate a lot of witnesses who
must be subpoenaed to attend. They go to
the chairman 0f the board and I do not know
bow he is going to refuse thein. I shouid
Ilke very well If the Secretary of State coutl
but
see It as I see it. Perbaps I arn wrong,
I really tbink that this clause and the clause
we have already passed wIil open un avenue
by whicb an enormous aîmount of money
wiUl be spent Men will appiy to be summoned ta be present at the invest1gation.
We know perfectly well that these people
rua together ln groupa. When a strike takes
place they are ail lu unison, nud every man
lknows something In regard to the grievanL-es. Bach one bas bis own grievance, and
they ail apply to be permItted to appear betore the board. They aIl have votes and
permittedl to attend. Why flot ?
tc
at.piyt
There la free transportation and wltness
tees. The press will urge they shouid be
permltted to present their cae before the
board. How la the chairman going ta refuse to allow those men to be subpoenaed ?
If tbere was any ilmit, and If the limit had
been Imposed that I suggested, the chairmnan would oniy grant returit ecetificates to
witresses material ta the case. If lie had
a discretlonary power to say whether th.ey
slial get f ree transportt:on back, or not,
Hon. Mr. MýcMULLEN1,T

men wouid besitate to press for subpoenaa
to go. Why ? Because they wouid know
very wveil if tViey appeared before thp board
the chairman would say 1you have given
rio material evidencc-there was no necesaity for you to appear, and we cannot give
ycu a certificate for your transportation
back ' and ln that way the chairman of the
boa-d would control.
lion. Mr. GIBSON-I have prepared an
ameadment to limit the number to seven.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot accept that
Hon. Sir MACKENZ[E BOWELL-Seven
la too many.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Make It five and I
will second It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think it la rather unfortunate hon. gentlemen sbouid, Interfere
with that clause, because It Is a clause
which affecte the operators themselves. 1
deny absoluteiy that there la any implication, from the wordlng of the clause, that
the dhaîrman 0f the board la to pay those
men as witnesses. I deny that there ie any
possible connection wltb the wltnesses who
are to be examined. The two clause have
no connection. They send those men as
agents, not as wItnesses. I have no objection, If It; meets the wishes of the committee, to say ' a llilted number,' but I canhlot accept an amendinent fixing the number, because It le dictating to the men,
who would say, 4why limit the number ?
We are not asklng for any fee or remuneration.' Strike out 'morne of them' and put
'a llmted number.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
wonld avoid. ail that difficulty and let them
bring a thousand If you like, provided they
psy their own expenses.
The clause was amended and adopted.
Hon. Mr. FULFORD, from the comniittee,
reported the Bill with ameudments, whlch
were concurred lu.
PUBLIC PRINTING AND STÂTIONERY
B[LL.
COMMITTEE POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being calied:
\Committee of the WhoJe House on BIU (182),
Au Act ta amend chap. 37 of the Revised Sta-

JUNE 18, 1903
tutes reu»ecti ng the Department of Public Priât- CHINESE IMMIGRATION RESTRICTION
Ingr and Stationery.
1
BIL14
*Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Order of
the Day be discharged.and that it be made
an order for to-morrow.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
hon. gentleman wishes to Improve the Bill
lie sbould. make -provision for the appointment of a party to examine the accounts
before they are pald.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Bince the Bill was up
I have Inqulred of Dr. Dawson If they have
been petit by the scale adopted w hen Sir
John Thompuon was Premier, and he ays
that the scale la belng followed.
Hon. Sir MACKE>NZIE BOWELL-Dr.
Dawson could flot possibly have considered
the question when he gave that answer,
because the rates of wages are so much
higlier now than they were when that
scale of prices was adopted. Through the
action of unions prices pald for ordinary
settIng of type, and what la cafled tabular
work and rule and figure work, have been
uncreased mone twenty-flve to thirty-three
and a third. per cent lni sorne cases.
.My honourable frlend opposite (Hon. M(r.
Euhl) kiiows, as a practical printer, the force
of what I arn uaylng. Heure the sêhedule ot
prices adopted eigbt or ten years ago wml
never do for the present tinte, flot If the ohiJect of the Bill. w-hlch la to pay a higlier rate
than lu paid at the Bureau, lai to be brought
unto effect. 1 maire this suggestion lni the
Interests of the governrnent There la another provision I object to, that le, rnakIng
It retroactive. I merely mention tbese facts
because, If the hon, gentleman does flot
accept the suggestions, I propose to move
arnendments to the Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We will let It stand till
Friday or Tuesday.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-1
rnerely throw out the suggestion and explain the course I wl pursue. If we .cauîflot get the protection to the revenue, those
wbo vote for It will be responsible. For
my part, I propose to vote against the Bill
unless some changes are made.
The motion was agreed to.

REPORTED PROX OMITEE.
The Orders ot the Day belng called:
Comrnittee of the Wb.le. fouse on Bill (82),
An Act respectlng Chimse Immtifration.
HEon. 1fr. TEMIPLUMÂN.rnoved that the
flouse resolve Itself Into a aornrnttee Of
the W-hole on the BlU.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is there any good
reason why that Bill ls flot prlnted lu
French ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-It the boit. geutlernan looka et hi. file 1 think lie wili find
a French copy there.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY.-I dld look at the file
and It la not there.
Hon. 1fr. FERGUSON-It la ouly rnarked
printed ln Engliali on the Order paper.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-The French edidion la distrihuted, and I think there la a
ccpy on my hon. frIend's file.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It la neot on mine.
and when I say It la not I do not see wby
my hon. friend should Insiat that It la.
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-I want to put
myseif riglit on that
Au hon. gentleman calledl my attention to the tact
that no F'rench copy was on his file, and the
page saw that the files were aIl supplled,
or at aIl events that my hon. triend's file
was supplled, and lie put the Frendh copy
oit his file before elght o'clock, hence the
reason I said there was a Frenchi copy or
the Bil on the flc.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Blefore
the Speaker leaves the chair I wisli to ask,
could this Bill flot be made to cornte Into operattion by the proclamation of tbe Governor
lni Coundeil ? In vlew of tbe condition of the
labour market ln Britishi Columbia, It ls a
serious thlng. The shiprnents of con) bave
decreasefi 100,000 tons a rnonthi for sonte
tirne now on account of a strike, and If the
goverinent conld take cognizance of the
condition of thc labour market tberc, I arn
sure tbey would do as I suggest to prevent
strIkes ln that part of the country. It woiiId
be a wlsc precaution, and I hope before thse
Bil) is rend thc third Urne the minister will
bave a chance to consuit with bis colleagues

SENATE
so that tbey can say yes or no to the proposition te hold the BuHll n that conditionput that ln as a suspending clause. The
other day. when discusslng the second readlng of this BUI, I mentioned that the -white
union labourera ln British Columbia at the
codl mines were organizing the Chinese and
Japanese. labour. The hon. member from
Victoria doubted that statement but ince
then, I have relad nme of the evidence taken
before the Royal Commission sittlng now In
British Columbia, and a miner from Ladysmith, a British miner, was sumrnoned as a
witness and was asked about the organization of Chinese, and he then, after nmre hesttation, confesaed that he badl telegrama
trom nmre agitators ln Chicago asking hlm
to organize the Chinese labour. Acting on
that telegram, he went out te the mines on
Cumberland river and very wlsely calledl
on the white teacher of Chînese In that
place, and tried to arrange wlth hlm
about the organization of the Chinese to go
on strike with the white mon. The teacher,
limving an eye to the beneffts ef bis clams,
mald, 'Very woll, If that la done 'wll you
pay Chinamen the sme wagem as you pay
When that question wam
white men?7'
ralsed the delegate left and did flot procoed
further wlth the matter. I suppose rny hon..
friend. wi111 believe that that la the casethat the minera ln that country are union
men and trylng te organlze Chinese labour.
There loamnother question arlaing. We find
ships arrivlng in Vancouver wIth coal frein
Japan, and It la a great lou te the country
that forolgn coal la umed In Britisb Columbia.
The mupply fromn our own mines leso 0 '
mal
that the 0anadian Pacllc Ralway the other
day purchased 10,000 tous in Japan to b.
shipped. to, Vancouver for their railway and
That la a very serions
different works.
question, and another matter te show that
the Chinese are net to bo se rnnch demplsed
as sme people thlnk, there la actually now
belng emtabllahed ln the University ef Camnbridge a chair for teaching the Chinese Ianguage, seeing that It la a necessity for the
trade cf the empire that they should knew
something about the Chinese language and
how te dcal and trade generaily in China.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Are tbey allowed te
work ln the coal mines ? I thoughlt tliEy

were prohibited.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (noC.)

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-There is
a local Act preventing thein working under
ground. Tbiey do a grent deai of werk unloading ships and worklng above grourid.
Ferrnerly they used te, work under gronnd
and above ground. I shonld like the
8ecretary of State te consider whether this
BihI could net be delayed until they see
the turne bas arrived te pût it ln operation.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wlll mention te the
members ef the governent the suggestion
mnade by tLe hon, gentleman fren 'Victoria.
The motion was agreed te, and the House
resolved ltsolf Into (Jommittee ef the Whiole
on the BIIL
(In the Comrnlttee.)
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I might explain
that this Bill 1s practlcaliy Identical with
the iaw now on the statute-book, excepting
1the crucil point that -the hoad tax la lncreased from $100 te, $500. Every clause
excopt that ls identicai with the present
1mw.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Thiere
other changes.

are sme

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I think I arn
ialrly accurate ln saying tho iaw la almost
ldenticaily the sme as provlded ln this BIIl.
I have the stata.te-beok before me.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There are consîderable changes in section 17.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The penalty ls new and
part of the claus3 referring te the Governor
ln Counefl la new.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I was dlspesed
te think myseif that 'the Act should be
brought inte force before the lst of January, but it was thoughit that it proobably
weuld hoe feund expedlent te postpone It.
But the matter may bie referred te, again.
On clause 6,
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Dees the expression
'Irrespective of alleglance 1 mean that a
Clîluese -wlh is a British subject is bound te
pay aise ?
fion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWý%ELL-He
wvould under thils clause, ne matter wliere
lie was boem.

JtTNE 18, 1903

431

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-But If the governHlon. Mr. MACDONALD (BC)ÂHong
]Xong Chinaman would pay under this Act. ment found It convenient to maire that lncrease, 1 do flot ueo why they ehould flot
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wouid ait the minflnd It convenient to make thia change.
Ister, la a Chinose who lu a British aubjeet It seems very hard for a British aubjeet
?
bound to pay aise
to be taxed for going through the empire.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Undoubtedly.
LOUGHEED-They weuld
Hon.Mr.POIIERIf e wre quue.Hon. 1Mr.s ubjects If yen let them hn. ail
Brts
Hon.1fr.POIRER-I le ore1 queu
.Hon. Mr. TEMPLEIfÂN-It lu every perHon. Mfr. ELLIS-This clause 18 quite reson of Chinese origin irepectIve ef ailepugnant to me. I veted fer the Bill and
giance.
arn prepared te suatain the general princiHon. 1Mr. LÂNDRY-We are taxing British pies ef the measure. We hear'a great deal
subjectu ?
abeut breaking dewn walla ef separation
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-ExactIy.
and trying te get people under the. gag,
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Is it constltutional and here ln Canada, where we boust ef ena
afleglance, we are paslng tIti law te tax
te tai British subjects ?
British subjecta. It la quite truc it was In
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There thc Act befere, but it la up again and there
la ne deubt under this Âct LIat If a Cliineze ia an opportunIty fer these whe have views
famlly iive ln England, and a cblld lu boru te express them. I am net ln faveur of
there. le eýuId flot get Into thig country an impert tax upon any *man Who lu n
wlthout paylng the head tax.
British subject, ne matter wbere le waa
I state that dlatinetly and poslIt flot be made bor.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Could
te read * Every person of Chinese origIn net tively. The law ought te be amended se
au te alw any British subject te ceme
à British subjeet.'
In. If Great Britain thinka It la tic PellCY
Hon. Sir M[ACKENZIE, IOWELL-Trhat of tic empire to pessess herueit ot parts
woId be better, but that bas flot 'becu the et China, and sIc extends ber civilisation,
law.
or endeavours te do it, ln that ceuntry, the
Bfon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-No, ttiat lu a
direct reversai ef thlu. As a inatter ef tact
the law aima at thc exclusion or restriction
of Chinese, whetler they are Britial sunjects or not. Whetbor the Chinainan lu .a
British subject or a aubjeet et China, le la
equafly objectionable. We bave ln British
Columbia a number et Chinese who are
British subicts. It would probably be a
very easy thing for the Chinamen frem the
provinces te go to Hong Kong and, atter
taklng the oath et allegiance there, flnd
their way Into Canada.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I suppose the oath et
allegiance alene le net suflicient. Ho must
have reslded a tew years perhapa In the
,country before taking the oath of allegiance.
1 think there lu ne danger ln that way,
but It seems very queer to tax a British subJect comlng Into Canada $50.

men ever whem she places her glag and te
whem aIe gives the rigîts et British subjects
sheuld have the rigîts te go unrcstricted,
te every part et the empire I do net
maIe speeches juat for Uic sake et making
speeches on questions of loyalty. I have a
reputatien Uic other way. But where a
principle lu Involved, I think Uic British
empire cheuld, le recognized as the British
empire. TIhi annet be a source ef trouble
te un. Thcre are net se many ef these Mongolians Ilkely te ceme bore that we abeuld
stand before thc empire ln Uic position of
retusing a British aubject permission te
enter Canada witbont the paymont et $500.
How dees this apply te a Chinaman who,
coming Into Canada, lu natnrallzed here,
goes away and returna ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-He returns ail
rlght.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEIfÂN-That la preHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
cisely the law as it ls on the statute-book.
The only change ln that clause is making within a certain number et months he
Must returfl.
the tax $500 instead of $100.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-One year.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I move that the
words fIrrespective of allegiance' be strùick
out and the words ' not a British subjeet'
Inserted therein.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-The hon, gentleman rnlght mest as welI move that the
committee ruse, because that would be defeating the wbole Bill. There la no doubt
about IL. If you are going to open the door
to have Chinamen becorne British subjects
tu Hong Kong, and so corne Into this country, you make this law less effective than
the old 18w with the $100 tax. It muet be
quite clear to hon, gentlemen that the
arnendment would ,defeat the entIre object
of the Bill and could flot posslbly be accepted.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Weli, we wilI move
it on the third reading and take the sense
of the House.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I bave another objection, passlng on to the details of the BIIL
I should like to make a change_ striklng
out the word *Canada,' In line fffteen and
subatltuting 'British Columbia' instead. I
cannot understand why BrItIsh Columbia
should force upon ail the rest of Canada a
law of this kind. We want these Chinese
lu ail the provinces. We flnd thema useful
citizens and why they should be debarred
frorn cong Into any other part of Canada
because British Columbia does flot want
tbem, I cannot understand. 1 do flot a"e
why British Columbia should coutrol the
whole Dominion. - 1 admire Britisb Columbia as a prosperous country, and arn as Interested In has well-being aud-prosperlty as
rny bon. friend who introduced the Bill,
but at the sme time I do not see that
they have any dlaim whatever to Interfere
with Ontario and ail tbe other provinces
of the Dominion to say that they shall not
have the privilege of bringing Ia Chinese
when they are wanted Iu varions departments of work.
The hon. Secretary of
State, when we had this question before us
years ago, argued vey strongly that this
idea which I have now enunciated should
be adopted, and hie then entertained the
view which 1 urge now, that British Columbia had no right whatever to impose
upon the rest of Canada a statute which
they do flot want. I amn sure the other
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

provinces do not want h. Why we should
bie obliged to say to the Chinese that tbey
should flot corne into Canada I cannot see.
Hon. Mr. DRUM'MOND-I desire to put
on record my agreemnent Iu general terms
with w.hat bas been said. I tbiuk"the Bil
a most objectionable one Iu a great variety
of aspects, aud more especially lu regard to
the motion whIch has mast been made. I
would support rnost heartily an arndment
to this clause In that respect.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I rnove that the
words ' irrespectIve o! allegiance'1 be struck
out and the ivords «'not a British subject'
ùe inserted.
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-I hope neither
of my hon. friends wlU press the amendment Eltber ef them would practlcaily
nuillfy the A«f particularly thel propomsition of rny hon. friend to atrîke out the
words ' irrespective of aUlegance.' In regard
to the objection of my hon. friend frorn
Sarnia, that the word 'Canada' sbould be
expunged and the word 'British Columbia '
substltuted, I thlnk that would be equally
objectionable. We could not posslbly aceept
that. We want the law for the Dominion
as a whole. We want to protect you benighted people In the east, If you do flot want
to protect yourselve.
You know perfectly
weil that If you permit the Influx of Chinese
for the neit ten years as It bas been golng
ou for the past tenj.ears, the saine trouble
wuIl present Itsel! hi your cties. If you
want any Chinamen In Ontarlo, we are
prepared to supply you to-day iwith the
surplus Chinese people ln British Columbia.
The Act does not corne Into force till the
lst o! January, and If the people of Ontario
are partIcularly anxious to bave Chinese
labourers, they cam Import several tens ef
thousands of theni before the let of January neut, and supply ail demanda for the
next twenty years. I think It la 1'ather
strange my hon. friends should propose to
change a provision a.lready ou the statutebook. I could understand them attacking
the proposed increase from $100 to $500, but
ia changing the Bill Iu other respects they
are trylng to change what they forxner]y
gave their assent to, and wbîch has been
the law of the land for the last ten years.
Hou. Sir MNACKENZIE BOWELI-Would
the lion, gentleman explain to the cornmittcee

JUNE 18, 1903
why, If the Chimese are so objectionable as amendment be adopted.
lie bas represented tliem to be, that be
shouid postpone the cornlng into operation
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
of tbis Bill for six or seven rnontim go as to goiiig to say to the bon. gentleman, wbo la a
enable British Colunmbia and Canada gener- member of the cabinet without portfolio,
ally to be inundated witli Cliinese. Why that his excuse stiould be accepted by the
give an opportunlty to bring tbem le for House if lie were au independent member
seven or eigbt months ? What reason la and. not supposed to know the policy of the
there for that ? la It to meet the views of governent, or wliy tbey bave adopted a
the stenmboat proprietors, or Is it to enable measure of this kind and wbich he bas to
the people of Britishi Columbia and others father. It was only the otiier day that 1
to get a larger nunber of tliem ?
bad to complain of the pollcy and the coulrse
by members of the governmelit
Hou. 31r. TEMPLIDMÂN-1 think 1 Mnen- pursued
two coming liere without knowing the effeet of
tfoned a hIttle 'while ago that clause
of the Bis which they badl bewam tbe one clause ln the Bill to wbicb the clauses
Lt fore the House. Miy bon. friend is ln the
a littie exception could be taken.
exactly ais the bon. Secretary
wau prepared ln the Trade and Com- sme position
la- or State. He tells us that It is prepared ln
merce Department, and I have not
of Trade and Commerce,
quired why this clause bringing it the Department
p.nd lie does not know wliy this provision is
Into force on the lot o! Jannary was1
it possible that that Bill,
drnwn lu tînt wny. I would not be averse, piaceil there. Is
mach important clauses and dliangIf the Houme le prepnred and there lu n0 invoiving
at least the details
valid reamon againmt It, to expunge clause ing, If flot the principle,
au it does, was
nîto.-ether and bring it Into force when of the law to sucb an extent
two
o! the Goyernor not brouglit before council, and the bon.
it receives the sanction
about it ? Lt is
General. I cannot expinin to my lion. friend gentleman does flot know
but 1 point oniy another Illustration of a governmelit
whly tue provision was lnserted,
out the fact that by coming into force on divided. amongst itseif.
the lot of January, it ouglit to be legs obHon. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-Surely the bon.
jeetIonabie to thome of our friends ln the gentleman would nlot say it is a question of
Hoüse wbo are opposed to the Bill alto- policy. It is a question as te the date when
gether, Inasmucli as it gives sir. montbs tlie Bil is g.>ing to be brouglit Into force.
more ln whicb Chinamen can corne into this
counttry under tbe $100 tax.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-It ls
a question of whlat the bon. gentleman
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Ciallse '7
knowm about a Bill wbich lie is trying to
ls a very beavy restriction and very few
Impose on the Hlouse. That ls the quescould corne ln under that The clause reails tion, flot the other. I asked a plain quesas follows.
wby a certain provision wns made
te tion,
7. No vecsel carrylig Chiasse immigrants one ln the Bill, and the bon. gentleman said
more
any port ln Canada shail carry tons ofthan ton- that lié did not know. Lt was prepared In
Its
such immigranit for every Mity such vessel who
nage ; and the owner ot any of the number ai- the Trade and Commerce Departmeflt, and
carnies any number ln exceas
the bion. gentleman does not know.
lowed by thia section shall Incur a penalty o fyet
for each Chiasese Immigrant
two bundred dollars
Hon. Mr. TEMrLEMAN-If the hon. geilso carried la excess of such numbers. be ailowed
2. No Chînese Immigrants shall
tlernan wvants to lecture me ln the Hcuse,
to land ln or enter Canada. coastwise or ovur- I shall not submit to it. 1 amn prepared to
land arriving in transit from any port or placE
guet
in America from any vessel eatering at whicl 'admnit that in regard to the details of tlîis
aumber
port or place, in excess of the trorn sncb ves* Bill, as of many other bills, I may be prowould have been allowed to land
foundly Ignorant.. 1 amn not alone ln this
sel bad it corne direct te Canada.
House in being Ignorant of details of leisHon. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-Thftt is tht
lation. passing this House.
present law.
(B.C.)-That IHon. Sir MÂCKIDNZIE BOWELI-Mlsery
Hon. 1fr. MACDONALD
1loves company.
out very efiectualiy.
keeps Chinamen

SENATE
vative party, this aide of the House favourHon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-I amn giad the
ed it while hon. gentlemen opposite opposed
lion. gentleman adjuits that
it. Now we have this condition of things
MACKENZIE BOttWELL-Yea, reversed. What has produced the change ?
Hon. Sir
because the hon. gentleman has company Are Chinese lesa objectionable to us now
than they were ten or fifteen years ago ?
alongaide of him.
Are they more tolerable ? Where la this
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-The thme the change ? Certalnly flot ln the Celestials,
law cornes In force la not material. If my Tbey are now what they have been for
hon. friend the leader of the opposition four thousand years. They have not changed desîrea to change'It, I wIll accede to hla we have. I voted for the law when it was
request and have it corne Into force at an being placed on our statute-books ; it stili
earger date.
bans rny approval. It la practically the same
on the amendment, Bill; its principle la the same. The only
The commIttee divided
non-con- difference la, that %vos a barrier to
which waa rejected ; contents 10O,
tents 20.
themn ten years ago la no more a barrier.
We have found ince that time, that really
Hon. Mfr. VIDÂL-I move to strike out there Ia a yellow danger, and we want to
the word 'Canada' in the 15th Une, and guard againat it. I, for one, shail vote as
substitute 'British Columbia.'
I did before, and nlthough objecting, on
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-If we mean to re- broad prificiples, or nything you Ilke of
strict ChInese Immigration, let us do It ln that sort against restrlcting Britishi subn practIcal way. By substitutlng 'British jecta from travelling through the empire.
Columbia ' for ' Canada ' we make thîs Bill I shall vote for tbls as I did before, and shall
practically nuil and vold-in fact, sirnply oertalnly not vote to substitute the wor1
ridiculous. We ahould elther restrict Chi- ' British Columbia' f ir the word ' Canada '
iiese Immigration or not. On broad prlaci- rnaking the Bill null and void and of no
ples, I should certainly be opposed to re- effect.
stricting British subjects, from travelling
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-There
through or settling ln any part of the Bnltlsh empire. That la a sentiment aport, la a very great difference between the Bill
but here we are facing a problem, a serious now before the House and the Bill to which
one-it la the yellow questlon. We muet the hon, gentleman has alluded. At that
not forget that China has a population of tirne the tai to be piaced on Chinese enter400,000,000 or thereabouts, and If they are ing the Dominion was fitty dollars : It la
nllowed to pour into this country a portion now proposed to make it $500. Like the bon.
of their population, we will be flooded with gentleman, I have the same view respectthern. Where they have landed lu large ing the'measure now tixat I had when the
numbers, as ln British Columbia, the peo- Bill was Introduced before. I was opposed
ple are waihing over them. They ftnd that, to the tax even at the simaller amount, and
on the whole, Chînese are objectionable as certainly I arn opposed to It whien it la lnImmigrants. In Montreal I rernember some creased, as lt la ln the present Bill. What
three or four years ago the laundrymen had la the number of Chinese now lu lhe Doto unite againat the Chinaman, and yet nilulon of Cauada ? It lo but a fraction
thieir -numbera are amaîll What would we of one per cent of the population of the
do If we had a comparatively arnal nurn- DomInIon, ard are Britlbh subjecta, men of
ber of them in this country, say tbree mil- the physique and stamina that the people
lions ? We would be abaorbed. If we want of this country possess, to be alarmed and
to stop this immigration, let us do it uow, friglbtened because a sniali fraction of oiie
and whatever our sentiments may be of per cent of foreigners -ire comlng into thjis
high ioyalty, let us leave that aside for country. It la absurd, lu n(y view of the
a rnornent and do our work properly. The
Whait la the nurner of British
inatter
discussion of thîs Bill brings to the mind
subjects in the empire of China compared
of the observer a very awkward. althongh
the smail nirber of Chinese in tlils
not very infrequent state of things. When wvith
1 have been opposed to the Bill
this Bill was first proposed by the Couser- country ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW%ýELL.

JTJNE 18. 1903
from the first and I arn opposed to i t vessol saling between China
and Halifax,
now.
COntlnully brInga hie servant with hlm,
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-We should congratu* wlth the Intention o! taking him back. If
late my hon. frlend frorn Âcadlî (Hon. Mfr. you Impose the tax o! $50 whon hie servant
Poirier> on the magnificient speech ho made, lands, there la no provision for gettlng the
but I arn at ses how to roconcîle his prin- $M0 bacis when ho salls agaln for a foroigu
ciplea with bis vote. Ho advocatod liberty port.
of the British subject, and for that reason
Hon. 3fr. MACDONALD (B.C.>-Âxiother
te voted againut my motion.
case might arise : ay a tourlet cornes from
The amoudment was deciared loat, and China with a servant, tow would tisat
the clause was adopted.
servant stand ln relation to this tax ? Ho
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-The subsections only cornes to Canada, and roturns igain
are oxomptions from the tax. 1 have a te China. Why rostrlct It to persona resubsectlon to foliow that whlch wo wiii caii slding ln China ?
aubsection (d).
Hon. Mfr. CASGRÂIN (de Lanaudière)(d) la tihe eaue of a person of Chinese origin Every foroîgner mlght corne witb a servant.
who la thse personal attendant or servant of a
British subject vlsiting Canada, the tax payHon. Sir MÂCKRDNZIE BOWELL-Tbis
able under the Onrt subsection of thîs section provIdes for thec admission
of a touriat
may be refumded to thse porion paylng thse nme
upon. hls furnlhlng satiafactory evidence thaï though ho rnay be of Mongollan origIn ; but
sucb -Chinese attendant or servant Io leavlng what my hou. friond asks le, aupposing an
the port of entry with bis employer or master,
on bis returu to China, If wltbin twelve monthu Englishman, a Gorman or a Frencisman la
of thse date of hie arrivai ln Canada, and upon travelling through Canada wlth a ChInese
returnlng to the controller of suvis port thse
servant, wbat provision la there to meet sncbà
certilicate granted under section 13.
a case? I know of a ciaoe whore a gentleHon. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWEL-That
man pissed tbrough Canada with two Japla a vory good provision, but dons It go far
amoue servants. Suppose they had been
cnougli? That provides, If I undorstand
Ohinese, the dlfficulty my bon. triend refers
the hon, gentleman, foi- Ohinese servants of
a British subjoct realding ln China, travel- to weuid arise.
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLE>MÂN-I am prepared
lng through this country. How 'wonld that
affect the servant of the captain of a vessel to amend the clause so as to cover the case
who la a resident of Canada, trading ho- of any Britishs subject vlsitlng Canada, by
tween Canada sud China ? When ho cornes addlng tisese worda *
back to Canada ho bringa a Cbinoso servant
In the ciaseof a sermon of Chineme origin, who
la a permonal attendant or servant of a British
wlth hlm. That clause would mlot permit subject
vislting Canada. thse tax payable, &c.,
hlm to land on any account uniesa ho pald &c.
the $500. If to pald the $50, thoro la nso That
wll meet'the objection.
provision for refundlng It when ho took thse
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.O.)-It la
Chinamnan back wlth hlm from thse country.
1 undoratand by thse amoudment wblch the botter than It was.
lion, gentleman proposes to add to the 8th
The amendment was agreed to.
clause, that that provides for tise ianding of
On clause 8,
a Ch 'nese crew for the purpose of ioading
aînd unioadiug a vossel ; but it does flot
Hou. 3fr. TEMPLEMAN moved that subineet the case to whlch I have caiIed atten- section 2 ho arnondeci so as to remd as foit jon. Tlîere are sucb cases.
Iowas»
Hon.
2. Thse landdng of a person of Chinese onigia
Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I thlnk we
could wlden the scope of thîs amendrnent f ront a vesmel wherever reterred ta ln thîs Act
shaîl aot be held to apply ta thse

to cover sucli cases: we cmii maL-e It
extend to Britishi subjects residing abroad
and visiting Canada.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-A resident, say of Halifax, wbo is captain of a
28j

laadiag of
sueis . erson on the wharf and the placing -of
bim ln a proper building where lie may. remain
intîl the provisions of this Act have been comfflied xvith and thse contro.}ler has given -hie authority for his departure therefrom, or to thse
terap)orary landiag- cf any Chinese tsailor. for. the
purpose of assisting ln tbe lading or unlading
of thse vessaI to whlch he belongs or for the p)ur-

SENATE
pose of bis transfer ta another vessel, and such bas the effeet anticipated. There wlil not be
persan or sailor whiie la such bulding: or while much revenue from Chinese immigration,
sa employed or waitling such transfer sahl for
the purpose cf this Aet be heid ta be an board and we need flot quarrel over the spoils.
the vesse! by which he arrived :this provision,
The clause was adopted.
however. shall nat allow the placiag of such
persan ln sucb building unti! ail quarantine reH1on. Mfr. FULFORD, fram the committee,
cuiremnents have been comnplIed with.
reported the Bill wltlî amendmuents.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Uuder
tbis landlng clause, thirteen Japanese came INLAND REVENUE ACT AMENDMENL'
là1 fram the United States the other day, qnd
BILL.
wvere not allowed ta land. They were carried

back ta Seattle, and were nat alloîved ta land
there. Wbat ls ta become of theni ?

ORDER OP THE DAY POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being cailed :
Hanse again ln Comniittee of the Whole on

Han. Mfr. TEMPLEIIAN-There la noa pro- Bil <186) An Act to aniend the Inland Revenue
hibition ngainst Japanese.
Act.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved that the Order of
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Thiey
were not aliowcd ta land at Vancouver. the Day be discharged, and that the Bill
and were carrled backwards and forwards be placed ou the Order of the Day for tabetween Vancouver and Seattle. A Chinese morrow.
woman was carrled for several mantha that
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
way. What became of ber eventually I do the hon, gentleman ascertaîn, for the Infornat know.
mation of the House, the number of disHon. Mfr. TEMPLEIIAN-Slie Is 1)robably tillera wbo are to be affected by this Bill
nd the amount that wouid be retunded
running yet
to thern If they have pald any excesa, beHon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-At Niaga- cause this provides that it shall take effect
ra a Chinaman was kept on thme bridge for on July 1, 1.92. At present the law allows
twenty-faur haurs. The United States would a rebate of three per cent on account of
flot have hlm, and Canada would not have
the tusel-oli which is extracted from the
hlm. This iras saine years ago. FlualIy,
spirits and destrayed. This Bill pravides
aur gaverument broke the rule and permitthat liquor manufactured from saccharine
ted hlm ta came itt Canada.
matter Is to recelve a rebate of four per
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-The 25th section cent. I want to know how muchi has been
wili certainhy apply ta Japauese.
paid by those parties, froni July 1, 1902 up
The ameadmeat was agreed ta, and the to the present tixne, because the government wlh have ta gîve then something If
clause ns amended was adapted.
they have paid the full amaunt.
On clause 24,
Haon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Or ln other words,
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-Why daes British Col- 1>0w much will the revenue suifer ?
umbia get ane-haif of tlils tax ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-Yes,
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-Because Britiah
and who are the parties aifected thereby.
Columbia suifers tram the Chinese ;but ny
lion. friend's province gets half of tue reHan. 1fr. SCOTT-1 shahI get the names.
ceipts tram the tax on Chinese immigration
The motion was agreed to.
Iita bis province, and the ather provinces
the sanie.
The Senate adjourned.
Han. Mfr. ELLIS-It muust be a grent
I cammnot see
temptation for smuggl!ng.
that a province suifera, and it wou]d be a
great deal better ta strike ont tue clause
.111( allair, the irbale of the tax ta go ino
the consoiidated revenue fumid.
lion. 'Mr. TEM\PLEMIAN-It xviii not be so
niateriai if the Bill ie are now comsidering
Hon. Mr. TEMNPLEMAN.

THE SENATE.
Offia, Friday, Jimc 19, 1903.
The SPEAKER toolz the Chair at Tlmree
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

JUNE 19, 1903
instant, la compooed, with regard to rural regiments. of(a.) three Entiish regiments, the 54th, the
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
79th and the llth.
(b.) ten French regirnonts. the 64th, the 83rd,
Hon. Mfr. DRUMMOND, fromn tbe <JOM- the 85th. tise âOUa. the 4th. the 7th. the llth,
mlttee on Banking and Commerce, reported the Glst. the 87th and the. 89th ?
staff of
2.
Bill (71) An Âct to Incorporate the Imperial the la the roverumnentla aware that the officors.
comqmoued of
fourtia division
Âgency, wlth amendments. He naid: It &mont whom are to be foumd oellitary mon who
upoaking French,
la my dut>' to explain tbese amendments. are cooepietely incapable of the circumstances
and whose nefuium under
constat pràactlcaliy In the change o! la more than robiematicai. eupecially ln the
Tbey
name and deletlog from thue Bill a clause matter of transmitting? to French regimentu orders gitan la EngUlsh
wbicb tbe committee considered gave im3. Can -the gaverament modMfy the proesti
proper powers to the committee of the direc- comnosition 0f the staff of the. fourth miiitary
a way au to give this staff the
tors, and the addition of anotber clause with district la snch possible by requiring, at least
irreatest efficiency
reference to tbe Raiiway Âct to meet the from those who, will b. ln necoasar>' and daily
case of the compnny bavlng, ln the course contact with the. Fronch regiments. a sufliclent
knowledire of the Frenca language to b. able
of Its operations, to finish and operate a to translate to those regimlente the, orders which
theY may have to transmit to them ?
railway.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are :
Hon. Mfr. OWENS moved concurrence lu
1. The 4th militar>' district does flot go
amendments.
the
Ieto camp nt Tbree Rivers. No camp hias
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-I o.k the hou. gentle- bieen ordered to assemble on the BOth June.
man to let thus stand until Tuesday.
2. The officers composing the 4th divisHon. Mfr. OWENS-We migbt take the tonil staff, upon whom the Issuing of orders
devolves, are Frenclh-speaking OanhLdians, or
third reading on Tuesday.
ore perfect>' conversant witb the IFrench
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-If tbe bon. gentleman
language, and their usefulneas as staff ofilno time would b.
would flot press It now,
cers of this division wa assured before the>'
lost. We coutl consider the amendmenfs
were selected for staff appoiotment.
reading
oui Tuesday and take tbe third
&. No, the subordinate or instructional
later. Borne lion. gentlemen would like te staff comprises tbe grenteat number of
look loto the ameudments.
Ferencb-speakiug 4nstructors available for
Hon. Mfr. OWEN-Very well, 1 move that
ts service.
tue amendments be taken loto consîderation
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I tink the bon. genon Tuesday next
tlemian la splitting baire. 1 asked ln my>
The motion was agreed to.
question about the 4th militar>' division,
and that la translated !the 4th inxlitary disBILLS INàTRODUCED.
trict.' I know that tbe 4th militar>' district
Bill (63) An Act respectlng the Lonudon la flot called to camp, but the 4tb division ls.
and Port Stanley' Rallway Companiy.--(Hon.
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-1 do flot know tbe disMr. Vidal.)
tinction. 1 aoewered the queiftUon as 1
Bill (169) An Act ta confer on the Coin- found It. Tbe bon. gentleman did ujot give
missioner certain powers for the relief o! nie nuy explanation of the error.
James Sinclair MacDougall.-(Mr. Gibson.)
H-on. Mfr. LANDRY-In My notice, as 1
Bill (185) An Act respecting the Canada have just rend lt, as I wrote lt, I put
Steel Company.-<Hon. Mr. Gîbson.)
the question as it sbould be put, the 4th
Bill (199) An Act respecting tue Good rniiitary division. Tbat bas been chuLnged
Shiephierd Reformatory ln the city of St. iiito a district. As to the Camp Itself
Johin. _N.B.-<Hl-on..Mr. Scott.)
I know it is fixed for the 30th Junie, and
when the government answer no, it is not
1MILITARY CAMP AT TFIIEE RIVERS. a fair answer.
INQUIRY.
Hlon. 1fr. SCOTT-It ls the 0111v ai lswer
for the date I got. The lion, gentleman
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY inquired
1. Does the governmeuit Içnow tiuat the fourth mueit not be hypercriticai xvitu me. 1 arn
IMPERIAL AGENCY BILL.

military division which bas been czlied upon tai
go inio .camp at Three Rivers on the 3Oth June not ta biame.

438

ýSENATE

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not say that
SECOND READINGS.
the bon. gentleman la to blame, but somle one
Bill (68) An Act to incorporate the Luinia to blame, because the ans wer given ls
berman's Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon).
neot according to the tacts.
Mr. McHugh.)
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-I
Bill (123) An Act to lucorporate the Huron,
tlxlnk the hon, gentleman ls ln error hlm- Erie and Buffalo Railway Company.-(Hon.
self. The reason why the answer bas been 1fr. McMullen.)
given ls because there is no camp at Tbree
Bill (1Z5) An Act to Jucorporate the Guelphi
Rivers on the 13th June.
and Georgian Bay Ralway Company.-<Hon.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It is the saine error 1fr. Watson.)
that bas been committed. If you look at
Bill (139) An Act respecting the St.Mas
thxe French edition -yen wiii tind It is tlie River Railway Company.--(Hon. Mfr. Wood,
3Othi June. I amrn ft obliged to make the ln absence of Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)
translation. We bave officers hiere for that
Bill (140) An Act to incorporate the Carpurpose. I wrote my notice *the 30th June' dIff Railway Company.-(Hon. Mfr. Watsou.)
and 'the 4th military division.' The transBill (144) An Act respecting the Interprolationi ias made ' the 4th nxilitary district'
vincial and James Bay Railway Company.and the l13th Julie? Now thut Is îîot my
(Hon. Mfr. Landerkin, lu absence of Hon. 3fIr.
fouit.
Dandurand.)
liou. 1fr. SCOT1-The lion. genîtlemnî
Bill (177) An Act respecting the Klondike
muist remember tlîat tis niotice lias been Mines Raiiway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Waqton thxe order paper every day for nearly ten son.)
days with tbe samne date-the 13th June.
Bill (149) An Act to incorporate the NamnMlon, Gait and Berlin. Rallway Company.Hou. 1fr. LANDRY-Yesterday I asked
to bave it corrected. There was another (Hon. Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
Bill (142) An Act respecting the Elgin and
fanit: they put ln 'tbree Frenchx' regiHavelock Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
ments Instead of 'three Enghisi.' 1 calhed
attention to thxe mistake on a former oc- Wood.)
Bill (154) An Act to Incorporate the Niacasion and the correction was made.
gara, Queenston and St. Catharines Rai w-ny
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Give a new notice, and Company.-<HEon. Mfr. Gibson.)
give lt ln Englisx, and 1 will answer ItL
VANCOUVER AND COÂSi KOOTE-NAY
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-I will give It ln
RÂILWAY C03MPANY BILL.
French.
SNOOND READING POSTPONED.
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-Very weii.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN moved the second
reading of Bill (87) An Act respecting the
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I rise to a questionx of
priviiege. The bon. Secretary of State wants Vancouver and Coast Kootenay Rillway
nie to put it again. I wll nlot put it again. Company.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-It is not printed ln
I put It as it sbould bie put, and I want those
w-ho mnde thxe error t0 correct It themsehves. French.
It is not for me t0 do that.
Hon. Mr. LANDERRIN-It cale up fromn
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-If the hou, gentleman the House of Commons printed ln both landoes neot take any inferest fl bis question, I guages.
certaiuly wil not.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-We have not the
French edition. and it is not marked printed
ln French, and I object.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (P) An Act respecting the WVestern
Hon. Mr. LANDERRIN-Thea I umove
Alberta Railway Compaiiy.-(Hon.
Mr. that the Order of the Day De discharged,
Wood, iii absence of Hon. 1fr. Lougheed.)
and that it De placed on the Orders of tuie
Bill (17) An Act to aid in the settiement of Day for îfonday next.
ItiwyLabour Disputes.<Ilon. 1fr. Scott.)
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JITNE 19, 1903
DEPARTMENT 0F PUBLIC PItINTING
AND STATIONERY BILL.
IN THE COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itselt into Coninmittee
of theWhole on Bill (128) An Aet to amend
Chapter 27 of the Revised Statutes respecting the Departmnent of Publie Printing and
Siationery.
In Committee.
Ho. .Mr. SC(JTT-A sLction lu the Act of
1893 provides that the printing for the purposes of the Intercoloiiiai Ituiiway and the
Prince Edward Island Itaiiw-ay mur, under certain circumstances, lie doue outside
of the Bureau. In order to appreciate the
difficulty that lias ariscu, I may cuit attentiou to the facts that led up to the legislation and the action tliat wvas taken upon
lt. I have here a copy of the original report to Couricil ou the subject, and on which
the minute of Coiciil w-as adopted and

The report of
zifterw'ards tlîc statute.
Counil is dated Sth -Novemiber. 1893, and
addressed to the Minister of Itailways. Attached to it is a scliedule from the QueeîV*s
Iliinter. I have also a certified copy of an
Order iii Council approved on the lOtli November, 1893. The minute of Council was
passed ou a report dated the 13th Ma\,ýy,
1893, from the Secretary of State, submitting that a difference of opinion bas urisen
as to the interpretation of the statute. It
appears that the goveriiimeut of that day
held over accounits too. Then. iii November
there w-as a minute of Council approved,
and a schedule attached giviug the rates
allowed for pî-inting djoue outside of the
Bureau for the Intercoloial Raiiway and
the Prince EdNvard Island lailway. As to
the second Item in the schedule, composition, Dr. Dawson says it is altogether too
small. Now, It is on that scheduie that Dr.
Dawson bias been going, except composition, w-hichi, as I say, hie considers altogether too small at present, and he bas asked
authorlty to increase. He acted on that
schiedule, nnd oit the instructions he recelved, as I have explained, until a coinparatively receut period-some months agowhen the Auditor General drew attention
to the fnct that the certificate was not la
accordance witb tbe requirements of the
statute. Dr. Dawson, of course, said he
could not furnish a certificate as required

la this statute, and tberefore the accounts
,%veîe held up. Sometbing wvas pald on
them, as 1 presume liad been doue under
the former goverrument. Iu May, 1893, a
minute of Council was passed recommending that fifty per cent of the accounts be
paid until they could get the opinion of the
Department of Justice and arrange for a
That actio n, It apbetter understandlng.
pears, was flot taken for nearly six months,
but in November foilowing they finally
adopted a scale.
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
is the opinion of the M.Ninister of Justice '?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-l presiue it is cmiFor
bodied iii that minute of Counceil.
neariy ten years the Auditor General coutinued to act on that and found no fault
%vith the prices; but recentiy lie has required that the certificate shall be in the
ternis of the Act, and as Dr. Dawson pointed out, hie lbad neyer contcniplated that at
the time.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW-ELL,-lI is
the Order in Council the hon. g-entlemna-n
It is not the rebas been referriug to.
port.
Hon. Mr-. SCOTT-The report is attaebed
to it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEILL-tWhat
w-as the decision of
1 asked was :What
the M1iniister of Justice lu this matter ? I

do not see by the papers laid on the table
that lie ever gave any. Tbere is noue.
Hon. '-%I. SCOTT-Tliat minute of councîl
stems to have been sent to the Minister of
Justice.
Hon. Sur 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is not.hing here from the M«\iiister- of Justice.
There Is a ceî-tified copy of a report of the
committee of the bon. Privy Counciil. approved by His Exeeliency the G ov-crnor General. That was based upon the miemorandum, or report, sent to icounceil by the Mn
That reister of Itallw-ys and Canais.
port 1s mot be-e, but I presumie the recoinmendatlon was based upon the agreement
that was entered Into by the King's Pinter,
and tbls Order ln Council provides for the
contrinuance of that until changed by soiiié
other a'uthority-proper authority. I t*hink,
are the words used.

SENATE
the revenue
Hon. '%r. SCOTT-There are two iitîtesi provision was mnade to proteet
by providing that lthe
one passed in NMay axnd one lxin froni over charges,
of council,
wtork should be paid for at the rates aI
November.
a-bich it could be .perfornaed at the Bureau.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Yes, '.%ybon. triend wll recollect, no doutât, the
but tliat îvould tiot affect tue poixnt ait is- reasons tixat induced tlie government of
Wliether the Auditor Gexîeral's atten- tîtat day to place such a clause in the stasue.
tion w-as cailed to the provisions of the sta- tet.
Every session, whenever the question
tube w-e canxxot say, but it 15 quite evident of estimiates came up, the governinent ivas
vehiemently. and ln very strong
from the papers %vitîcb hiave beeit t-ead by attacked
lthe bion. Secret.iry' of State. tliat the Min- ternis, and ail these neîvspapers thaï: reIster of Justice couid tiot mnake a report ceived advertisements were denounced as the
autlxorizing lthe paytxtextt of the accounts reptile press. subsidized and ted and kept
uxider lte loir uxiiess lthe terttis of the pro0- alive by the goverixifent because tbey sul)law~ %vere cotiplicd -with!. ported the êgovernment ;hence lthe governvisions of tit
Tixot is <Ittite eviclett.
ment in the Interest of the revenue, 1 repeat.
made Ibis provision in the law, that while it
did it. xtotwvltHon. MIr. SCOTT-ltxt lie
xniight be more convenient to have the railstandixng.
wav work doue at the different points ait the
wOBLIî-ill
ma-ritimie provinces wviîere the bead offices
HIon. Sir MACKENZIE
xtot say lie did itot, but ire have nxo evNideicee %vex-e. tiait tîtere should beQa strict positive
of ItL We have no evidettce of lthe Mixtisten provision that the prices pa.id toi that w-ort
of Jitstiee evex mlaklt g a tty rept (oxfirni- slîouid ixot lie langer or iighier thii they
ittg. or aî4îrovixtg. or, st:îtitig titat the liay- %vould lie if lte m-ork w-ere perfonmed Ixere.
the
establislied for that
xtawcrltteiiti
thaue
ie Bureau %vis
itenits Nvexe mxade in
lthere abotixti i . siiecial ipupose.
Noir. this Bill befoxe lis
la wv. Ttere is îxolhtix
or that the Auditur Gettex-als attetioni iad gives the pom-er to somebody. bnt there
itever heext called 10 I lie proîvi-iotîs of lthe ks no provision here as to w-ho is to checkt
There Is nothixxg in the
law, or tlit lie liad overiooked tue prov-isions 111(5e accouxîts.
it s <lutte <lear Ilite xmomnt
loir befox-e ns 10 prevent the xnost exorbitanxt
ot lthe law.
Il!-, attenitionî w-.s cillU 10 lthe pî-oNî isioxis of charges beixxg made. and being pnid by the
lthe loir, lie would not perforin lis dîîty if mninister, or by the officiai of te Rallwaýy
lie certîfied to these accolîxîls. because tlîey I)epartnmelt without any check wbatnever. If
must have beexi aI a lîli rate, but w-letiîer titis ircre done by the late governmett 1
iiher otr loirer lie couid ixot certify to titinî w-e wouid have heard some ot the genthemi under lte statute, utîtil the King's tlemien, wio are noir asking for- titis extrox
Pxinter had exanixted tbemu. and ascer- dixîary power, utterng a good deixi of contained w-betber the pi-ices chat-ged irere demnatioxi and we siîould banve ixeard tlit
lîigliet titan that at wlticlt Itey could clîoice expression that iras insed so ofteil
lie fîtrnislied 10 the Ixtet-colonial Riilwvay aI of tite vextai, servile. anîd reptile press leI qum -iot prepared
lte But-eau. The documuent w-iict tus hion. ieated very very oftexx.
tiexd bas î-ead oxily vei-ifies tixe correcîtness 10 say thiat the work caxtuot be done as
of lte stitement that I made yeslex-day îvhex cheaply ii 'Moncton and St. John as it coni
hc said that the Kîng's Printer couid flot be done ltei-e. uniess wîe are to odopt luis
vet-y Nvell xegulate Ibese pnices. The docu- pi-inciple, -and 1 know not w-ly it should
be that lu ail enterprises wiere, the publie
ment bie lias presetîted te us. is te sehedul
sbow-ing lit he -ras inoney Is expendied it is to do the work of
regulatixîg the prices.
illoNvaxnce beli g
capable of doixîg it, and more thati Viit. ib tixe people w-ithout an
You may spend
vesterdas, 1ha1 made for tue inveetment.
aiso vendfes w-laI I stated
the piies paid, if w-ork is te be done out- j hundreds of thousainds of dollars tbat tbat
side or even here, teti years ago wvould flot Butreau lias cost the colintry, but in doixxg
be faix- pnices for the work done 10 day. the m-ork you are only 10 coxisider te actual
troa te tact that wages haive miaterialls cost of tue work witbout any alloirance
iucreased. but tbe prixteiple bavixîg beenl for- capital or investient or w-ear axnd tear
%vliiî iti in, ondinary prîxtîxg office m-oufl
adopbed in tbe past that titisz kind of irn
done oulside the Bureau, lthe he allowt-d. I do xîot kitoi wby tbis Bill
coîîld be better
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JU'NE 19, 1903
sbould bie made retroactive. I amn opposed
to the principie la toto. I do jiot know wvlat
the Senate are lncllned to do in matters Of
this klnd. It wouid be found aiso tbat flot
only the printing but the statioflery is iniThey are ttaking a stili further
ciuded.
power than was give-n under the old iaw.
li the -lion. Secretary of State tell lis
who is to chîeck these accounts
Hlon. 1%1r. SCOTT-The Klng's Printer.
Hon. Sir -NACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is nothuîîg iii this Iaw to give tin that
powver. 1 suppose If thnt Is the case my,
lion. friend w-iii fot object to tiîis proposed
amendment to the Bill
Provlded that ail accounts for printing and

441

accounts for the last ten years, have aiwa1YS
been audited. They can only be pald
througli the Printing Department. It was
neot necessary to put it in the Bilt. There
Is oniy one woay to get sucli accounts pai.
and lit is through Dr. Dawson, in the Printlng Bureau; and as to paying the accounts
that are overdue and that have been standing, I quoted the precedent for it. In 1893
a number 0f accounts stood over from May

tiII November, slrnply because the government coutd aîot niake up their minds wliat
to do, and tiîcy mnade Up their minds they
siîouid be paid on the basis Dr. D)awson laid
down iii the report. I flid net read the

w-hoie report, but read sections of it iîî
whlcb lie points out that It was quite imivurchases made under the authorlty of thîs possible for blin to carry out the iaw as
A ct. skiait. before being paid, have been ex- i)ariiameiît intended It.
amined and proved and certified to be correct
by the King's Printer.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
'rhat is a supervision of the accountS lie say lit was impossible ?
)ily: it dees not invoive the principle in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. Ile points ont th:ît
t lie Bill of liaving the woric done outside. w-ork lias to î>e done out-ide ofteîî, printinîg
rhat would lie a protection to the revenue, tickets for excursions, and placards and
eepi
and I amn iiinied to ttiink. speakiug fromiohrtig.adteacut
experience, that If 1 w-ere lu the bon. gen- on the basis of those scheduies. I asked
tieniiî's place, or tlue head of the depart- Dr. Dawson whether tlîosc scliedules were
ment, I should tike very miucli to have that continued. and lie said, yes. 4Except.' lie
check ptaced iii the statute-book, knowing said, 'I do flot feel that composition coutd
tue pressure that wili lie brouglit to bear lie paîd on that basis anid sorne margin
on any minister aud bis officers. who have slîould bie aliowed, but ait accouiits have
te pass these accounts, te attow more tlîai to lie vouched for,' but at ait times, no0 matthe actuai vaine of the îvork. If my hon. ter îvliat is bouglit iii the way of stationfriend wiii accept this anîendrnent wiien we cr3- or sup)plies and that kind. of tling, thieY
corne to that clause, 1 think we miglit pass mnust go thîrougli the hands of the King's
li on. friend bas gonie out of
tue measure probabiy without any furtlier Printer.
discussion. The principle of the Bill is go- lits way lu chargtng that the government
ing too far, liaving a public Bureau, wliich haîs given w-ork outside. There are times
lias cost the counitry s0 mucli, w-e shoutd wilil it is impossible, with Utic sîze of the
miot pay more for this wontt than ut Bureau and tue limlted amount of machincan lie doue for ait the Bureau, but yield- erv. to do ail the work, particuiariy when
uung tliat point and hiaving a check on the parianent îs sitting, or wlien the voters'
accounts, for muy part, I woutd uîot give the tists are being prepared. anîd v-arions other
unatter any further opposition, further than tUnies, and so. occastona ly, printing bas to
if a division is asked for, I wouid say tiîat lie gîven ont, bùt it is uîot given omît on
rvle
le
it shoutd only appIy froni the time the sta- ayhn letesaeta
he
tut Isplaedontatteboo, lke llour predecessors were lu office. They gave
others; and I would also ettîninate the sec- it out, aithougli they were bound to give
They
ond paragrapli of clause 5-ttîat is the one tlîeir prtnting to a contractor.
muot liesitate te give out printing year
rtroativ
givig ita effct.did
Hon. Mnf. SCOTT-This government pro- after year, aîîd the consequence was they
poses to do in a legal way, under the autti- not oniy paid hiiguer prices outside to perority o! the statute, w-bat the goyerîîtent sons who did the work, but thîey lbad afoie ry lion. friend did without finat author- teru-ards to pay the contractors large damiity. That is the object of tlis Bill. Those a9ges. Thîis country had to pay nearly a

SENATE
quarter of a million because work was done
outside, and that was a charge over and
Lt was not
abovc the cost of the work.
alone the cost of the work. Take one year,
just a sample of a number of years :In
1883-4, Burland & Company rcceived $21,173; the Canada Paper Company, $13,710;
the Gazette Printlng Company, $9,069 ; the
Independent Publishing Company, five thonsand odd; the ' Free Press,' Loudon, $5,375; the Mail Printing Company, of Toronto, $9,833; the 'Spectator,' Hlamilton, $6.593; J. Stuart, Halifax 'Newspaper,' $22,737; Toronto Paper Company, .$3,502; the
'C'ourler,' newspaper, $7,000.

accotints froni the maritimie provinces w-ere
Auditor
but the
fair and reasonable,
Genera] said, ' I will îiot take tliat certifiYou must certify that those
cate now.
prices are as 10w as the work could be done
for in the Bureau.' Dr. Dawson said. That
is impossible and it is not a fair criterion.'
The reasons are enumerated in the report
to which 1 have referred. I have no objection to add the amendment of the leader
of the opposition, because it is simply what
the law alrcady provides.

lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ifthei
word wvould not be too strong, alid probably considered uuparliamentary, I would
Hon. '-\r. FERGUSON- These are very say the statement the hou. gentleman h:is
smaI amounts compared witb the others. made is somiewhnt disingenuous. Ile lias referred to difficulties that occurred before the
The
Hon. «M\r. SCOTT-I beg pardon.
Bureau -was establilhed.
liou, gentleman must recollect that thcy bad
Hon. Mr. TEMNPLEMNAN\-That does not
to pay the contractors over again for the
profits. wbich amounted %vith the costs alter the case.
That wvas paid over
to nearly $250,000.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The work -,as ail unand above, because several conitractors der contract.
brought suits in the caurts froin tume to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lLiat
time and got judgments against the Crown,
is quite a differeut thing froni Nlat wve
aîîd that wvas pald because this ivorlz did
are discussing- now. Contracts w-ere given
nal go to flie contractors.
for certain printing.
corhanl. 'Mr. 'MACDONALD BC-h
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-M-\acLeaii. Roger & Co.
titied to these accounts bcing correct «?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume they w-eut had ail the work.
lion. Sir MACKCENZIE BOW\NELL-Tuie
tu the Xingýs Printer. I do not know, as
t matter of fact. I kulow ail accounts of difficulties that arose, to which mDY 11ou.
Tbey would friend bas rcferred, were on accouint of the
that kind must be certified.
not be audited unless they were certified departments giving work to outsiders and
by the proper officer, and he was the pro- not having it donc by the contractors. as ît
should have been done-I do flot hesitate
per officer.
(B.C.)-All out- to say so-by the contractors. The result
Hou. Mr. 'MACDONALD
the profits
side worlc will be scrutinized by the îKîng' s was the contractors sued for
which thcy would have made upon the workz
Printer.
had they performed if. I do flot say that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It alway s bas becu. tbey wcre flot right : t w-as for the purThis clause is flot an addition. 1 consider pose of prevcnting things of that kind that
it was redundant. No work of that kind, the goverument Bureau w-as cstablislîed and
froni the time the Bureau lias been cstablislh- an immense amnount of înoncy expcnded.
unless it passed I do not prctend f0 justify what the hon.
cd, could be paid for
If, for instance, a gentleman bas condeîuned upon that point.
through the Bureau.
dcpartment gives an order for any supplies Although, as a member of the government,
that are furnished to the Bureau, thoy I was just as responsible as anybody cisc
caunot be paid for except ou the certifi- la the cabinet, if you examine the record
cate of the King's Printer. The Auditor you will not find that that xvns donc ln My
General w-ould not take a certificate fromf departmcnt. 1 d1o fot give that as an exaur anc outsîdc, but the fonm of certificate cuse. howcvcr. The newspaper accounts, to
lias been the trouble of late mouths. which my bon. fricnd bas rcferred. wcre
ccrtified that the principally for advcrtising, not for work,
The KigsPrinter
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

J1JKE 19, 1903
excepting one or two large jobs. ,We etablislied a Bureau for the purpose of pueventingý that by the then goverument and
by succeeding governrnents, and wlien they
placcd tbls iaw on the statute-book givliig
permission to have the worc done outside
wbich was necessary for the Intercolonial
Railway in tbe maritime provinces, they took
tbe precaution to add a clause declaring that
the prices paid for that work sbouid not
exceed those wbich it wouid cost at the
Bureau, wbich the present Bill repeais.
If the Auditor General refused ttu pay
without that proper certificate, he oniy
pcrfornied bis duty and the only coinplaint we can make is tbat it was not donc
before. I bave simply tluat expia nation to
make in refereace to the statement of Uhe
hon. Secretary of State. There is nothing
in this report of the Kings rriiiter of the
character indîcatcd by tue Secretciry of
State on the point of not being able to do
tue work.

s2ectioîî to clause three and appiy to number
tbree as well as to number one.

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Thie amendient 1)crlaps requires a slgî-t limitation, ' Provided
tluat ail1 accounits for printing and purchases
nmade under thc autbority of this Act shahl,
before bcing paîd, bave been examiined and
certified.' Then I bave added these wvords,
.By Uhc King's Printer la accordance witb
thc provisions hierecîn cointained.' 1 have
strucc out the w-ords 'to be correct,' because
we oniy pay themin l accordance witu this
clause.

lion. Mr. SCOTT-Thie law is very striaugent on1 tliat point.

Hou. Sir M.NACICENZIEBO
1 think tbnt is right.

L-Ys

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This wouid appîr to
ail. The proviso lu the section, of course,
covers ail the purchases and work for the
department. and wbatever is donc ln the
Bureau itself. 0f course the form of certificate wili be very different from the fori
of certificate we are autborizing for the Intercolonial R.ailway and Prince Edward
Iland Railway. Then. so far as the purchasing of paper and stationcry. there is a
special statute on that. It provides that ail
paper shall le bougbt on tender andlvariably the lowest tender accepted.
Lin. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
other clause only applies to the power of
eniploying apprentices, journeymuen, skilled
bands and others and the purchase of mnaThat wouid
teriai, -not inciuding paper.
îneaîî type, presses, rulinig machines, and ail
that sor-t of thing.

Ilon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWNELL-Theii
oniy question is whetber the appioval of
the King's Printer should be obtailied zis
to the prices before lie pays for miateriail
as iveil as stationery.
ISCOTT-Tbnt ls quite clear.
Ilon. M'.%r
Hiou. Sir M\ACKE-NZIE BOWVELL-AIl 1
desire is to nuiale the accounits of thc purchases in this w-ay subject to exarnunation
and certification by the King*s Printer.

Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-Wc have laid clown thc
HIou. Mr. SCOTT-The statute is very
principie tbat they shall be fair commuer- clear on tbat point. Section 4 of the oricial rates.
gluai Act provides that ill purchases shall
BOWELL-That be made on requisition flpproved by the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
gives power to purchase unaterini other than minister or King's Prînter, and lu the case
printing and othier paper neccssary for such of paper, ia accordance withi contracts nmade,
service. 1 think the proviso should appiy ta wltb the ie approval, after tenders have
been caiied for.
botb.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe statute itself ls
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
clear about that. The King's Printer pur- not the bon. Secretary of State think that
cha ses evcrytbing.
the arndment to clause 5 reinoves the prowhich
BOWELL-I amn tection wbich is taken la the statute
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
be bas just rend as to the tenders ?
,.-+ A-1-rn
T o,,
-..
f~ +11fault with wlio sbouid purchase it. Let me
Hoîu. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
asic the Secretary of State, froin a legal
The amendinent w-ns agreed to, and the
point of view, wbether tbe amendment be
bas now ln bis bands sbouid not be a suli- clause ns nmended was adopted.

SENATE
Mr Puttet', wbo speaks for the laibour
tiffons, ia the debate on it there said :
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BO0WELI-Will
minister the
to
I
the hion. gentleman tell us wby it is neces- the suggest'withthethe approval ofstriking out of
the minjester,'
words
sary to tace power to employ appt entices so as t o leave the Bureau under the control of
the practical superintendent who would carry
and journeymen ?
It oit the saine as any ordinary concern. I bieHon. '.I. SCOTT-These are the wordS leve that involves the whole question of the
words be
patronage In the Bureau, and If thesedone away
of the original 'Act.
struck out political Influence wiil be
BOWVELL-But
Hou. Sir 'MACKCENZIE
T propose to move au amîendaient, for fiy
the law does iio-t specify that particular
poNver, and it seems to mie if the true reasou owni personal conifort at aill events. anti
Yvere given it wvould be this. that yoii want tlirow the responsibility on the superinteiiister,
to hav-e distinct statutory power to (10 that dent of printing andi on the deputy min
unions object to your doing. P r. D>awson. and malce it read this way
whiclî the tradte
On subsection 2,

Tue trade unions lay do,%ni the priniciplP
tlîat you miust employ oîîly so maîv apprentices ia proportion to the' size of the
office anti the number of the' ment emIn order to override tîjat greater
ployed.
povver. tlic trade unions, yon tzike power by
Act of parliament, s0 that if the trade unions
object you can say :We bave authority
under the' law. I do not object to it, but
it lookus ie seeking a power t(J do that
wliicli you have uîot the courage to do othorwi se.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Lt is already ini the' Aet.
Tht' reason I am introdncing it here is that
I w-ant bo legalize tlie Order iii Couîîcil
passeti ini 1S93 wich fixes the basis of the
rates of %vagesto be paid liere.
Ilon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWE1LL-That
is iiot the' point 1 raised. You tak-e power
iii this clause to employ apprentices and to
purchase inaterial.

The superintendent of printing may, with the
approval of the deputy nïinister, employ apnrentices. &c.
Ilon. ?%r. POWER-All througbi this statite Dr. Dawson Is spoken of as the King's
l'riîîtcr aîîd I do not see why the lion. geiitliman called bilu the deputy minister.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Under the statute lie is
deputy viîniister of the Department of Printiiîg anti Stationery.
Hoii. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-I believe lie is, but the bon. gentleman will find.
tliat wvill lead to somie misappreliension.
The' question -%vill be, who is the' deputy minister-wlîetierit 15 the superintendent who
ranh-s as a deputy minister, or the deputy
miinister of the' Secretary of State's department. The latter is the only one recognized
as deputy minister. If the lion. gentleman
Nvill adopt the' Speaker's sug-gestion, I tiik
the difficulty wili be overcome.

Lon. Mr. SCOTT-1 bave no choice la the
mnatter.
H-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
as
- mtWL
Sir 'MACKENZIE
Ili.
lion, gentleman wvould have no difficulty
:îsling tut' r'easoiî why sucb po-%Ner shoulti
theut andi no difficulty could arise; I may
he aslied by statute xvheii you can do it at
tîtit that I bad not read tlîe debate to whicbi
any timie.
iniy lion. frienti refers, but 1 think it is a
lias
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-I ani re-elactiîug the' gooti suggestion wlîicb 'Mr. Pnttee
super- mnade. The lion. Secretary of State kiiows
olti law wbich provides tbat 'tht'
intendeiît of piitiig m.ay, witli the' approval tue pressure thiat is broughlt to bear upon
of tht' minister, employ sucbi apprentices, tue uninister, anti if they tbrov the respon&c.' It is not in order to coîînect it Nvitli that sibility upon tbe Kiiig's Printer let hlm
Ouder iii Council. I am not cbanging tlîe law takze it. l'ut I differ altogether from the
statenent of the Minister of Justice that
at aIl.
tiiere is no department s0 fret' from presHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL Then sure or political influence. The manner in
it is not necessary to do it.
%viiie pressure is hrought to bear upon tht'
of ComHolu. '-Ir. SCOTT-I thouglit it was. Wlît'ui iniister by members of the House
of Otw-as before tht' otîter Ilouse 1 nlotice imons and1 l)aiticularly iii the' city
the Bill
lon. Mi.SCOTT-I ani not chnigthel
Act at ail.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT.

JUXNE 19, 1903
tawa, to force printers upon the lion, gentleman, %vould indicate tbat there w-as a
good ileal of political Influence exercised.
Flou. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tben strike out the
word 'uninister' and put In ' King's Printer?'
Tlîe! amcndment %vas agreed to, and the
clause, as amended, wvas adopted.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--We
ivere discussing the provisions of the third
clause, raising the rebate upon spirits manufactured from molasses and saccharine
nlatter from tbree to four per cent, and I
asked my bon. frlend then If he would tell
us who was to be affected by this, and the
îîmount invoivcd.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A
qluestion arose just now as to %vhatthe report of tbe 3l\inister of Justice was upon
the memorandum whicbi was sent to hlm
frein the King's Printer, certifying tbat the
î;rices luad been paid for a number of years,
an(l that it wvas satisfactory until the Auditor Generai's attention w-as called to the
p)rovisions of the law. An bon. friend bas
sho'vn me tlue report of 'Mr. Newcombe, the
lieputy Minister of Justice, on that point.
I do net kuiow tluat lt is necessary to rend it.
Hon. 'Mr-. SCOTT-Oh, no.

Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-It only really affects
elle concern, and it only affects 1,936 gallons wbicbi were wasted-tîrown away into
the sewer.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-That
would be $1,936 ?

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Only
tlîat lie says distinctly that the Auditor
General would not be justitied ln paying
these accounts unless they were certlfled
as being done at the same rates for wbiclî
they could be provided at the Bureau.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no. It was wasted
and did not go into consumption, and was
simply turneld ite the sewer as so much
lest stuif, and therefore the parties sbould
not be cbarged with It.
Hon. Mr. FERG.USON-Aii abatement is
nmade on an estimate of what the fusel-oil
Is.

thnt we had passed clause 3, but even clause
3 wis held over.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
four per cent instcad of three-one per cent
upon w-batever i, witste.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlîere bas been onil3
one concerni using molasses, and it is
thouglit tbere will be more next year, and
that is the reason the law is changed, because that is really the difference. There
is more waste and refuse lu the spirit made
from molasses, *and that is tho allowance
that is granted by the Crown.
Hon. Sir 'MACKCENZIE BOW'ELL-Could
the hou. gentleman tell me bow much would
have te be paid to the party if you adopt
the clause giving it a retroactive effect ? If
be bas paid upon the basis of tbree per
cent, be sbould bave been allowed four per
cent iin reduction. Is tbere not an abatement of one per cent more to be allowed ?
That Is the question I nsked.
Hon. 1%Ir. SCOTT-It would be tbe value
of the 1,936 gallons. The duty would be
$1.90, and It would amount to about $3,700.
There is no money Involved, because the
stuif was not used at ail and it is a mere
mntter of bookkeeping.

Tbe CHIAIRM.NAN-Tbey were certified by
tIe Chiairman.
Hon. ',\r. FERGUSON-Yes, le rushed
things and w-e raised a row.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is this : That
if tbe old manner of computation of abatement was to prevail, tbiree per cent would be
The difference between
the abatement.

Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hou. 'Mr. FULFORD, frorn the committee. rQl)orted the Billi w-ith amendments,
whielh were concurred in.
INLAND REVENUE ACT AINENDMENT
BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resumed lu Commlttee of the
WVhole consideration of the Bill (186) An
Act te amend the Inland Revenue Act.
(In the Çommittee.)
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Wlien the House was
l committee before, there were two sections, 5 and 6, that had not been considered.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We had not ad-

vanced so far ln tbe Bill. The minutes said

SENATE
facture of spirits lin this factory witliin the
l)ast year, or up to the present timie, and
thiat, therefore. it was destroyed
H-on. Mr. SCOTT-It was a quantity of
refuse, a substance thiat could not enter iinto
one
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-In this case the loss the manufacture. It only applies to
think
was not very much. One per cent-lie was establishment, but the department
Lt was fifty-six tliere will be others wbo will be followlng
not allow'ed even that.
thiat samne plan in another year.
hundreths. Lt was iot one per cent.
lion. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I preHon. Mr. FERGUSON-But nevertheless,
is proposed
the difference lu the abatement betweeii sume the reason this change
cent mnakes a total on niow, is that it is shown that there wili be
three and four per
1 four per cent of fusel-oll in spirit manuone year's operations of about $3,700.
hon. friend to say that. 1 factured fromn molasses ~?
understood my
suppose that lu the administering of a deHon. Mr. SCOTT-Thiat wiil be the ontpnrtment like that there will be always niew side. There mny not be tliat. Iu this case
llght obtained and new facts developed, there was only a little over three and a
and I can uuderstand why it would be pos- hia f.
sible for the departmient to wakze up to the
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.L.)-I think
fact that tis three per cent that tbey were
1 understand the iatter niow.
allowing as an abatement was inot accurate,
BOW",ELL-I
Sir MACKENZIE
Hlon.
and that a higlier percentage was necessary
to allow for fusel-ohl and other refuse. But mlght apîu1ugize for saying that I tblnk 1
having corne to that Conclusion, and haviias understand it. 1 hiad a short explanatioli
ascertaiîied tliat fact, 1 cannot well under- froni the deputy, and lie puts it very
stand why it is necessary to go back one clearly. The establishment, manufactuiirng
year to inake the allowance to the manui- spirit from molasses. lias only been in exfacturer. Lt seems to me, if you go back istence front about Iast July. Not a drop
one year you should go back more than of the spirit, or whisky, bas been takehi
one year.
out of bond. It is ail ini bond, and cannot
bo taken out until it is two years oid, and
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-This is a niew venture.
they have ibis Act w'ill cover ail spirit mnanufactured
This is a niew establishment, and
f romi molasses, fromt the time of its comnnot been nmanufacturing spirit with molasses
mencement until the end of two years, when
previou s]y.
they take it out of bond.
Hon. 2\11 FERGUSON-We do îlot know
Hon. Mr. FERIGUSON-It is not altogether
thla t.
to mie that this is the first instance
by so clear
SCOTT-I amn so lInformed
Hon. McNI.
of liquor heing marnufactured from sugai,
the minister.
by tbis process. Is that the fact ?
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-That this is the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
anuactucu u l~n~A
las
tiiee oue ben
only case which lias occurred ?

three per cent and four per cent would
amount to about $3,700 on, the transactions
of the year. There wouid be just that much
more revenue this last year if this lawn is
not passeti.

r.SOT
Hon.~~~~ e.from
FERGUSON-If tîliIt is SO, it
Hon. .
w-ould accounit for uiaking the Bill aplPy
f or the year, but 1 thoughit this wvas goilig
oni and the department discovered that four
lier cent wvas a more correct abatemneult
than three per cent-that they had arrived
at that conclusion, and if that were so, it
-onld seemi to me it should takze effeet front
the passing of the Act.
Hon. '.%I. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-D)o we
understand that this 1,900 gallons wvas the
quantlitt of fusel-ol produced in the manuHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

molasses until it was established by the
sugar refinery in MNontreal. There was application made years and years ago for permission to manufacture spirit from the cesidue of the beet-root sugar factory, but
the governient niever Nvould pet-mit thelli
to (10 iliat ulilessi. they paid the saute
license, aind titiler the saine rcgulatioîî
that govcrnied the different distillerie., in
It Cost too muculei andi tlley
the~ Countryî.
'lie sngar reflueries ba;veý
never did it.
conle to the conclusion that thley Cali
manufacture spirit froin the molasses. and

JUNE 19, 1903
mor-e profit than by selling the
moas.The price at whichi it is sold
at the pre,.,ent day is so 10w, muid wvhen you
consider the expense of the barrels and
the tins in which the molasses is encased,
there j, really no profit in the molasses,
and consequently they have purchased
niaclîinery and have nîanufactured spirit
out of the molasses. instead of putting the
muolasses on the market.
make

On clause 5,
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-The
made retroactive.

clause

is

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The statement is made
that ln many vinegar factories they have
had to pay for more than their apparato6
It Is proposed to give them the
yielded.
privilege of merging two quarterly perlods
into one. There are sixteen bonded vinegar
Where their
manufacturers ln Canada.
hlon. 'Mr. FCERGUSON-It is the first machinery was defective and the converters
tune spirit lias been manufactured froni would -not convert the whole quantity niaksugar ?
ing one hundred gallons to the twenty-five
of spirit, which ought to be the
I-on. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E..)-It ls gallons
product-where they failed to produce that,
not the first time -whisky bas been manuthe department ouglit to make them ian aifactured from molasses, uecause to my cerlowanice.
tain knowledge in the maritime provinces,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If I understand
confederation, to a very large extent
before
it right, the object of this clause is where
it w-as produced from molasses.
ln any particular quarter a difference is
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-HI-as It disclosed, that the hmîndred gallons bas not
Ieen since confederation ?
been reacbed, two consecutive quarters are
If the two are fouind to be both
M-NACDONALD (P.E.I.>-No, be- allowed.
Hon. M.Nr.
short, of course this provision does not cover
fore confederation.
It. Lt is only if there is an excess In on(BOWELL-I of the quarters and it makes up the defiHon. Sir MACKENZIE
know nothing about what occurred in Prince ciency ln the other. Do I understand it
It riglit ?
Edward Island before confederation.
was only sixuce confederation 1 was speaking
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. genItleman's
of.
Lt did not seeni
explanation is correct.
The clause was adopted.
to me quite fair, but I arn told that
Is the law-that they have an opportxnity
On clause 4,
to make up the deficiency lii the second
Hon. Mr. FEIGUSON-We were to have quarter. Suppose tbey do -not brlng up the
an explanation about methylated spirits. quantity in the first quarter, they are not
We charged for it, but are allow'ed the niext
The reference to lt has disappeared.
îvant to l<uow wby ?
quarter and there is margin enough in nilowHon. '.\r. SCOT1-We are not making any ing twenty-tive g-allons of spirit to mnake
change in tue law. Methylated spirit Is one hundred of vinegar. If the genieratoyrs
nowv entirely under the coutaol of the gov- are in proper order they cauin ake up the
ernment and they do mot' allow It to be deficiency by exercising care, but if they
mnanuf-actured outslde. That Is why it is are short they have to make up the amrint.
Hon. Mr. FEItGUSOiN--Why is that made
dropped out.
BOWELL-Do retroactive ? Why is It applied to the year
Hoil. Sir MACKENZIE
jnst closing ?
the government manufacture it themselves »?
Hon. M.SCOTTJ-It is retroactive byecause
SGOTT-We have control of It.
Hon. M.Nr.
la the cases whicb are affected it gives theni
Lt is disposed of for Industrial purposes.
the benefit of the curi-ent quarter. They
methylated have recovered theniselves in the second
Hon. )Ir. FERGUSON-No
spirit is hield by manufacturers iii bonded quarter.
wa-ehlouses ?
Hon. Sir _MACK-ENZLE BOWELI-This
Hon. 'Mr. SOOTT-No.
It
is tw-elve nionths; it is not '.i quarter.
goes back to the lst of July, 1902.
The clause -was adopted.

SEN-\ATE
lion. M\i-. SCOTT-Tbie parties wbvlo wvere
deficieut are recovering it ou the curreiit
quarter, wlîich seemis lu couforullity witli
the law we are passing.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But If
there is any deficiency lu 1902 you have te
pay it back to themi under this clause ?
Hou. Mir. SC'OTT-Tbie deputy tells me
thiat those meii have practically covered
theieselves, but the iaw would niot aliow
tîîem te get the beijefit of It uuless this
Iu tic iast quarter they
Bill is i)assed.
have brougiht up the quantity' aiid tiierefore
tijis is niecessary.

THE SENÂTE.
Ottawa, Monday, Juize 22, 1903.
Thie SPEAKER took the Chair at Eigbt
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceeding-s.
-NEW SENATOR.
Hon. LAURE-NT OLIVIER DAVID was
intioduced and took bis seat.
BILLS INTRODUCED.

Bill (963) An Act respecting the Kettle
River Valley Railway Company.-(HIon. Mil.
Watson.)
Ilon. .Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-If
Bill (97) An Act respectiug tue Manitouliin
this, it shouid go back
tiîere is au! equity iii
to il tue timie tbey have beeîi manufactur- and North Shore Raîisvay Companiy.-(Henol.
Mr. Dandurand.)
inîg.
Bill (194) An Act respccting Inîfectious or
Hou. NIr. SCOTT-The B'ill bas haeeu drawii
1 think the bion. genitie- Contagions Diseases affecting Animais.carefuiiy.
very
manx is iiypercritical, particularly as I bave (Hlon. Mr. Scott.)
giveil the naines of the parties affected
MILTARY CAMP AT TIIREE RIVEI1S.
by it.
INQUIRY.
BO EL-h
flou. Sir MACKENZIE
LANDRY iiiquired
Hou. Mr.
suljsectioil siîouid be struck ont. There 's
ne poessible uecessity for it.
1. IJees the government knew tbat the fourith
division which bas been called upon te
the milltary camp at Three Rivers on tbe 3Otb June
Hlou. Mr. SCOT-Tbat would destroy
go inte
Instant, la composed. witb regard te rural c~eBill.
giments. ofw-vas adopted ou a division.
(a.) tbree Engllsh regiments, the 54tb, the
The clause
79th and the 1lth.
Ou1 clause G,
(b. ) ten French regiments, the 64th, the Sîrd.
the 85tb. the 8Oth. the 4tb, the 17th, the 18th,
lion. «MIr. SCOTT-Tbe oniy change in this the 6sit. the 87th and the 59th9
2. la the goverament aware that the staff of
is te defiue tic inds ef tobacco.
the fourth division la comeosed of officers, among
Hon. MiNl.POW'ER-WNe should bave In- ivhomn are to be found miiitary men wbo are
completeiy incapable ef speaking French, and
formation on tCils question. Wby put tbls whese usetuiness under the cireinstances is
stanip on a pound ef smoking tobacco, wbiie more than probiematical. especialiy in the mattransmitting to Freach regirnents orders
yen caui put up packages containing any- ter of In Engiish ?
given
tbiug- under five ponnds of chewviig tobacco
3. Caa the goverament modhf y the present
composition of the staff et the fourth milltary
or sîsuif witbont the stamp ?
district In sncb a way as to give this staff tbe
at
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The explanation given greatest efficiency possible by requiring. and
Ieast from those who wili be Ia necessary
is impos- daily contact with tbe French regiments, a suffinie is that on small packages it
Tiîat is the only dient knewledge of the French language te he
sible te put the stamp.
able te translate te these regiments the orders
reasoii for the cbange.
which they may bave te transmit to themn ?
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Does
It would be
the bon, gentleman net tiik
w-cil te treat tbose tobacco packers the saine
as bc dees the 'Labeur Gazette '-bave tbe
unîion label attacbed te tbem ?
Thie clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the committec, repeited the Bill witliout amendment.
Tue Senate adjourned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Honi. Mr. SCOTT.-Witlî refereuce te thie
inqulry respecting the Tbree Rîvers camp,
the replies are as follows
1. Yes.
9. Tbe officers compesing. the 4tb dlvisional staff, upon wbomn tbe issulng et orders devolves, are French speakhug Canadians or are perfectly conversant witb thue
Fýreicll language, and tiieir usefulness as

JUNE 22, 1903

4-19

Bill (163) Ali Act respectinig the- United
staff officers af this division was assurcd
CompanY.-(HOfl.
before thcy -%ere sclectcd for staff appoint- I ~mpire Life Insurance
b1r. Macdonald, B.C.)
ment.
Bill (105) An Act -ta confer on the ComLANDRY-Tiîe answcr ta the
Hon. «3Nlr.
nissioner of Patents certain powers for the
second question renders lt unnecessary to -elief of the Standard Car Truck Company.
answcr the third question,
-(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The staff selccted comnBill (40) An1 Act ta conter on tlio Coinprises the best non-commissioucd afficers missioner of Patents certain îbowers for th e
available for instruction iii Frenchi.
relief of the International R.ail-,aiy AppliHon. Mr. LANDRY-As a niatter af fact, ince Company.-(Hon. Mr. WNýood.)
1 tliink tliere is oxie of theni ut lenst that
Bill1 (180) An Act ta amend the Inian<i
(lacs not speak a wovrd af Frenchi. One ai Revenue Act. (Hon. '.%r. Scott.)
those appoiutcd as orderly ofliccr does not
DEIARTMENT 0F PUBLIC PRINTING
know a word of Frenchi.
AND STATIONERY ACT AÂMEXD-MENT BILL.
IIEPRESENTATION 0F QUEBEC IN
THE SENATE.
THIRD READING.
INQUIRY.
Hon. 31r. SCOTT nioved the third readingHon. 3hr. LANDRY inquircd:
of Bill1 (lS2>» An Act ta anîend chapter 27
Whether. taking into considerationrespectlng thec De1. The f act that the province of Quebcc, whicb. of the Revised Statutes,
according ta the lest census, has a population partinent of Public Printing and Stationery.
of 1,648,898 out of the total population of 5,371,Hon. Sir MLACKENZIE ÏJOWELL-Be816. lias the riglit ta a repzesentation of twentyfour members in the Senate;
fore the motion is carried, I desire ta cali
2. The fact that the French population of the
whole Dominion is very neariy ln the same pro- the attention af the House ta soule facts
portion. compared with that of Canada, that la ta wvhichl I made reference ivhen the Bill
ta say. 1,649,371, compared ta the total populawas lu commlttee. 1 know it lias been untion of 5.371.316;
3. The fact that the French representation usual ln the Senate, ta discuss Buis nt the
of the Dominion ln the Senate contains the fol- third rcading, unless there is soincthilg
lowing names. taken alphabetlcally :-The Honourable M,%essieurs :Béique. Bernier, Bolduc, de important ta bring before the Hanse, and
Boucherville. Casgrain (Windsor), Casgrain (de my only excuse for asiiing the Indulgence of
Lanaudière). Dandurand. Fiset. Forget. Godbout,
Landry. Legris. Montplaisir, Pelletier, Poirier. hon. gentlemen for a few moments on
Shehyn. Tessier. Thibaudeau (Rigaud). and Thi- this occasio-n is the fact that I made cerbaudeau (Vallière). that ls ta say. nineteen
tain statements, when this Bill was befare
members altogether;
4. Is it the Intention of the government, ln the House a few days ago, without having
now
making the appointments to MIî the seats take the particulars before me ; and, though I
vacant, or those which may become so, ta
popula- have no reason ta suppose any would doubt
into account the rights af the Frenchi
tion and to Increase its actual proportion, .0 the correctness af the statements I nmade,
that that proportion xnay be twenty-foui' Senators aut of the eighty-one that the Senate num- I desire ta put thein more clearly on record.
bers?
Among other things I said was, that thle
SCOTT-Tt many l> advisable present government had carried the princiHon.u .
to rEvise the poiicy ioliowcd iln this respect pie oi patronage ta outside newspaper offiby tice administrations wlîich wcre In office ces, ln direct contravention of the provisions
lîreviaus to the present anc ; but no op- of the law, ta such an citent as ta mun Up
portuffty lias arisen ta consider any suchi into the tens af thousands af dollars. Among
other things, I said was that one paper lu
question.
the city ai Montreal, during the last fixe or
THIR D RtEÂDINGS.
six ycars, had. received over anc hundred.
Bill1 (0) An Act ta lncorporate tlîe Citi- tbousand dollars. I stated, f urther, that that
vens' Bank of Canndat.-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie journal could not exist,-or did not exist,
because It had passed into very many bauds
Bowcll.>
Bill (115) An Act ta Incorporate tlîe Rîcli- -until it reccived this enormous patronage
moud and Drummond Pire Insurance Coin- from thc govcmnment, and if the newspaper
statements be correct, one oi the cabinet
pany.-(Hon. '.%r. McHugli.)

SEN-ýATE
I notice that a
d ifferent departinents.
pisper la tile Yukon got some $2,720.
1 do not know tbat that work could
~ery well be done here ; but if we go
'v
t o Halifax, we find that the Halifax
Chronîcle'1 -ot $S,637.76. Whether the Finlice Minister bas any lnterest ln that establsbment I do flot know. It used to be hIIS
1
rgan and hie used to edit It. However, it
,ot over $8,000. The 'Echo' got Ul.5
1do flot know what kind of a paper that
s,
1 or whetber it bas much Influence.
Hou. Mr. F-ERGUSON-That is the evenilg edition of the 'Churolicle.'
lion. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL-I have
called attention to the -Montreal ' Herald,'
Patrie' did flot get mIllch.
2,349 00 but 'La
00
1898...........1946
12,208 00 only $3,361.43.
00
1S9.2.800
It will net get mucll
22,358 0O
00
14o.2,766
The St.
My bon. friend says.
49,068 00 now,
00
1901...........2,697
is the flext. If I have
John 'Gazette'
$86,587 00 anly recollection of the St. John,
11,203 00
Totals......
.the arnoilnt paid to ' Gazette,' It Is a paper of a few years'
Add to these figures
Not v-eîy long agi. it started as
the~ salue journal duriug the year ending standing.
Julie 30, 1902, 1151S31.96, and yeu bave a .n independent paper, but afterNvards feul
total of $113,621.96 cents.
Wlîether the fact tia t it rejuite Une.
These suis were paid in direct contraven- ceived over three thousand dollars last year
tion of tbe provisions of the Act. If the late îuay bave turned it loto a Blair pape-, 1
governinent erred, as was indicatcd by the cannot say, but I believe it did support ila
lion. Secretary of State wieu hie read about and that, too, very strongly. Then the 'Telethe few thousand dollars that was paid te grapb,' In w-bich It was reported tbe M,%inthe ' Mail ' anîd soie othier newspapers for ýster of Railw-ays bad a large interestadvertising (whicb does flot coule witlîiiu w-hether bie bas now or liot 1 cannot sayOf this amount
the pnrview of the law) I should like got last year $18,021.
4o ask hlmi to calculate by the common $17,000 wvas for printiug and litbographlng,
rule of three. as we used to cali It wvbich tbe law prevides shall be donc at the
-when I was a boy, what was tbe extent Printing Bureau, and $920 for prlntlng.
Tbe Wlnui0f the sin cormlitted by tbemselves wlien nîakilig a total of $18,021.82.
tbey bave given to one newspaper aloue peg- ' Free Priess,' w-bicb is know'u to be the
nEcarly $114,000 in six years to keep it Ili organl of the 'Minister of the Interlor, got $2,I amn going to read a very fewv 693 and some cents. There are a great
existence.
fromn this blue-book, and bon. gentle- many pages of items here, totalllng Up $3S3,Items
men will find that the sums which have 000.
There ire Items for othier journals,
been pald to- the different newspapers sup- ruiiiiing frein twe hiuldred te three hiunporting the goverument are not sinail In dred dollars eacb, just Ilu proportion te tbe
If. bon, gentlemen turn position tbey occupy ln the political ivorld.
their character.
to page 21-B tbey will find that the adver- Miy lion. friend opposite, the ifninister wltbtising and other printing-, lithographing, and ont portfoElo (Hou. Mr. Teniplemnan) was
I
so on, amounted te no less, during the ye.gr îlot se well treated as tbe rest of Ibein.
endlng 3Oth of June last, than $383,164.57. tlîink Uce bas grent cause to complain.
If bon. gentlemen turn back two pages thiey
us the
Hon. Mir. TEMNPLEMAN-Give
wlll find the departinental printing amonted to $383,164.57, so that the newspapers
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Durrecelved during the year about as mucbi,
more, than the legitimate work lng the hast year the bon. gentleman's jourIf flot
that was done at the Bureau for the nal got otily $495.90.

ministers is not only a large shareholder ln
that establishment, but a director. Now, 1
do flot inake that statement upon rny own
responslbillity, because I ar n ot aware of It
personally. 1 arn siniply repeatiiig wbat Is
stated ln the newspapers. 1 find, on reference to the Auditor General's reports fora
the year 1897, about the tinie that paper
changed bands, down te 1901 (1 will refer to
1902 imrnediately), the Montreal ' Herald'
received duriiut the first five years this goveromnent w-as in power, ne less a suin than
$t97.790, and in the year 1902. $15,831, rnaking a total for six years of S1362.6
Here are the items as they appear l the
Auditer General's Report:
601400
$
994 00
1897 .... .... .. .... .. $

JUNE 22, 1903

à

from section five of the Act respecting the
Department of Public Prlnting and Stationery, whicli enacts :
A government establshment shall le arganlzed at Ottawa and sha$ lie under the management of the superintendtnt of prlntlng, lu whlch
establishmenlt ail prlntng, electrotyplng, stereotyplng. lthographlng and binding and other
work of like nature required for the servlec of
parliament and government of Canada shal lie
exctd
Now, that lias nlot been repealed. That
[s stili the law, aud notwlthstanding that
tact, we find the government subsidizrng-I
think tliat Is a good expression to use-their
own journals that could not exist wltliout
It, to the extent, ln one case, of over one
hundred tliousand dollars. %Ir.Dawson, ln
reply, on September 10, 1902, says:.
I have tbe honour to acknowledge receipt of
Instant, and
your letter of the Sth ln the remarks to express
you make
fullest concurrence
dos
nt
certinl cone
cerainy et omewitin hepurview as to the illegallty of purchaslng books or
des
Printer's
through
statlonery
of the Act. After the exposure of the mal- Department.save lias been the Klng's polnted
lncessantly
It
administration of tbis part of tlie depnrtail
ymbtwhu
mental work in the House of Conions, tlieyou
Wliat does tbis governmnent care about
clianged the law so as iîot to reacli comlaw, or the fact ot havlng their attenvudntthe
patîles, 50titaycmai
tincalled to the violation o! It, If there
violate the Indeperdeiîcc of Parliament Act
by it or a friend
by doiDng this chass of ivork . so that If the [s anytliing to be galned
to be asslsted? There is nothing lilce liatlDg
blinister of Agriultln court Is an oîd adage, well IllusHon.Mr.TEMPEMA -Itwas he atefriends by these proceedlngs. Now, there are
Hon.Mr.TEMPEM N-Ltwnsthe atetrated
other extracts but I will nlot weary the
government clianged tlie law.
of them. The
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Very House wlth more than one
to protect just sucli Auditor General cals the attention o! the
Ilkely. Tliey wanted
Klng's Printer on October 9, 1902, to the
men as the lion. gentleman.
many Irregularities and contraventions of
Hon. Mr. TEINPLEMAN-Tiey suicceed- thie law and lie says, among other thingi:
ta this statement supplies to the
ed IndoingAccordlng
amount o! $12,109.60 were obtalned lu this IrHon. Sir M1ACKENZIE BOWELL-As
and on through Tour department.
the law stood on the statute-liook at that regular wayfound pald examlnlng this statement
It wlll lie
country, that every department bas offended lu thîs retime, a bank glvlng credit ta thie
degree.
or any company lu existence whicli mîglit spect ta a greater or less
That Io, contrary to the law and without
Acts of
ash- for faveurs or changes in their
Incorporation, ln whlch a member of par- a proper certificate. The statement wlll be
liament bad stock, would violate the Inde- found on page 84-T, of the different dependence of Parlament Act ; lience, wrlen partments, that have been vlolatlng the law.
the matter was tlioroughly lnvestigated, It The Agriculture Department was $637.59.
The Auditor General's Departmelit itself
was found necessary ta make that change,
tliey put was $3.40.
but when tliey made the cliange,
That reminda me of a littie Incident. I
a law on tlie statute-book ta regulate the
be per- was inyself accused of vlolatlng the law,
printing s0 that certain work sliould
formed ln the Prlnting Bureau. Thse present after the new government came into power
governmeiit was not Ignorant o! that fact, in 1874, througli my connectlon wlth a nýewsfor thse Auditor General called attention to paper company. Af ter an Investigation by
lit when be wrote ta the Queen's Prînter as tlie Public Accounts Committee,. ln thse
follows on the 20th Mardi, 1902. H3e quotes paper I liad lad control of, ta the tune a

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I thlnk 1 have
a grievance.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
the lion. gentleman lias good reason to complain. Now that be Is ln a position to comznand tlie Secrýetary of State, lie should see
that lie Is flot so0 badly treated lu future. I do
flot find fault with tliat portion of
expenditure, because ln Britishi Columbla and those outlylng provinces lt Is
flot to be supposed that the aclvertlslng
necessary to bc done ln tlie lnterests
of tlie gorernment could be done anywhere else, tliougli under the preseut law
does nlot my lion. frlend corne withln lis
purview ? 1 amrnflt so sure tliat It Is mucli
worse tlian it was formerly. I do iiot know
wliether my lion. friend's establishiment Is
If
a company business or not, butliemynot, lie
itlin

452

SENATE

62J cents. That was mny crime. However, it applies, If 1 understand the Bill ariglit, to
iîever occurred again. The other depart- the printing for the Intercolonial Raflway
and Prince Edward Island Railway. The
ments whlch transg-ressed the iaw are:
bon. Secretar3' of State nads Ilis liead, s0 1
The Customs Departmeut, $6,928.24.
arn riglit lu that particular; but It wîll lie
$7.15.
Finance Department,
observed that Ili nearly every case whilch 1
Geological Survey, $231.32.
bave polflted out to tlie House, of printing,
$8.
Governor General's Secretary,
ilthographuing and other work, which sliould
Indian Departmeut, $4.85.
have been doue at the Bureau lbas been alto$30.
Inland Revenue Department,
gether apart froin the work necessary for tlie
Interior Departmeut, $829.91.
Intercolonial Railway, unless we are to unJustice Departinent, $303.86.
derstand tbat the lutercolouia] Rahlway abDepartinent, $3.
Klng's Printer
sorbed the wbole $300,000 iu order to carry
Cierk of the Crown lu Chancery, $14.
on lis operations, whiclh is not at ail likely.
$253.iO.
House of Commons,
1 cal! thue attention of tbe House to tis fact,
Senate, $222.
ta show what the practice lias been lu the
Marine Departinent, $244.08.
pnst, and If tliere was ground for the bon.
Militia Departmeat, $440.30.
Secretary of State's attach-, In repiy ta the
Nortliwest Mounted Police, $49.80.
remarks 1 made before, that a few thousaud
Office Departmeiit, $202.07.
Post
dollars liad been paid ta the Mi, whilch
Prîvy Counacl Office, $20.90.
would be for advertislng and whilh would
Departne'ît. $589.69.
Public Works
Secretary of State's Department, $157.30. not corne withln the iaw at al], bow much
more bias the present governent violated
Rallways and Canais, $S11.01.
Trade and Commerce Departmeflt, $110.80. the law-haow mucli more culpable are they
than thieir predecessors, for the manner in
A total of $12,109.60.
beea feeding their owD
the violation of whichi they have the country, and partiI read this ta show that
aw Inorace.TheAudtorpress throughout
theot n as
Igoanethe Piitr Aud' t cularly the present Mînister of Trade and
tliera a waltlu
T-e Comrnerce, wlio used ta denaunce Couser' rPv in'
a
eneral ad aIed lie n
the v'atIve newspapers as 'tlie reptile press,'
ter
gln
ovbi
tenin Ptater sad
bis clee that-e because they received money for dolng adKutg' Pinterad, a
h
ihi
o oe
law.
ich
tention o! the goverument to these Irregu- purviigw
pald no attention ta It. uveoftelw
larities, but they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Had 1 heen aware that
His language was, that lie .
ohv
a
fteopsto
concurrence In the re- telae
1Expressed bis fullest
as to thc absolute givenI us an accaunt Of the sinis of tue premarks of the AudItor General
Illegality of purchaslng books or statlonery save sent administration whien giving warlz onttbrough the Klng's Printer's dcpartrncnt. It bas side of the Bureau, I should have had with
been incessantly polnted out by me, but wlthme~ the lit I liad iast weeh-, and fromn whicli
out avail.
I rend a few items lu anc year alone of the
As ta the excuse for daing sO mucli litho- quantlty of printlng and advertising gîven
graphing outalde af the Bureau, the King's out hy tIc late administration. I stated
Printer sald It was on accotiat of tIc fact tlîat before the Bureau wvas established ail
that the goverament bad neglected ta pur- the prmntîug and furnisbIng of printlng supchase lltbographlng apparatus. Tbat being plies was given out by coutract. The garthe case, and It belng required, that portion erninent were bound ta give aIl the work to>
of the work would have to le donc outslde. contractors. It was xîat exactîy a. govcrnBut they are equally cuipable la not pro- ment office, but under thc contrai of convIdIng the materlai whlch was requlred ta tractors, while, Ia consequence of ie govertucornpiy wltli the law. We are now asked,, ment giving out this year by year ta fricndlu this Bill that 1s before the Hlouse for 13, newspqpers, the 'Mail,' Moatreal ' Gaztird readlng, ta justify tlie payment of sucli cite' and other political jouruals, tIc couaccounts at higlier prices than sliould have tractors brouglit actions agalnst thc Dominheen paid under the law as It stood ou the loi and the arnount recovered by themn for
statute-book. But bear ln- mind, it oniy loss of profits of the 'iorl, taken away, taHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 22, 1903

153

talled close to a quarter of a million dollars. are going on, and the evidences of actlvity
lu the country, which have been very great
I had the figures here the other daY.
ln the last four or fBye years. Those accounts
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It w-as are always carefuliy scrutlnized by the
not so large an amount, the hon. gentleman King's Printer, and cut down to commerIs stretching IL.
cial rates, so that no charge can be made
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That w-as siniply for agalnst the administration on that point.
damages for loss of profit on the work sent
Hon. Sir' MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Has
outsle, but it must be rememibered that the
the hon. gentleman forg-otten that he toid
Printing Bureau bas now been established
us the other day that the King's Printer
twelve rears. The w-ork that should be done
couid nlot do that ? I understood hlim to say
at the Bureau bias far outgrown the capathat It was imposible for the King's Prinof the building. Any hon. gentleman
city
ter to lay down a schedule of rates, and conw-ho chooses to Investigate for himself wii
sequently they propose this measure.
utteriy Impossible It Is to do any adsee how
dItional w-ork at the Bureau. In the biadlng,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, the lion. gentleman
for Instance, four-fifths of the work bas te be must have misunderstood me.
I brought
doue outside, la consequence of an absolute forward the scheduie prepared by Sir John
w-ant of space, and the fire that occurred at Tbompsoîi, w-ih bas been la operation ever
Mortimer's recently burned up a very large since, with one single exception, to which
number of publications, biue-books that were I cailed attention. That Is the composing.
sent tbere to ho stltched. That ig the condi- Lt w-as the same scbedule 1 banded over to
tioni. Se far as the lithographing is con- the lion. gentleman. It was dated ln 1893.
cerned, they bave neyer bad eitber space ni. and there w-as the certificate ef the Promaterlal for doing the lithograpbing work-. mier's private sig-nature. I have learned since
Lt requires a great deal of room. Litho- that time, that %vbile this w-as being doue
grapbing now Involves the maling of maps, under the late government, and althougb Sir
The Interior Department pnrticulirly have John Thompson reported ln that waY, he dea great deai of that work to do. It bis ai clined to allow that report to go on record,
to be given out, because really they have because he feit tlîat It w-as contrary to the
no facîlities for dolng it at the Bureau. The statute as it stood, and so it w-eut on lu
Prrintlng Committee have from tinie te time deflance of the law. la full know-ledge that
ca lied attention to the lnadequacy of tbe the law w-as hein.- defied ; but the oulY
Bureau for doiag the work, but parliameut %way w-as to go to parliament and make
bas negiected or omitted Io vote aay ap- the change proposed Iu this Bill, that the
propriation for the purpose of euiarging the rates pald for the Intercoloulal RallwaY
building, which ls realiy an absolute neces- and Prince Edw-ard Island Railway should
slty. Às I said before, If I had beeil aware be similar to the rates paid la those prothat the hou. gentleman w-as to bring for- vinces, the King's Prînter having taxed such
w-ard evideace of that kLnd, I couid have accounts on those lines. The cause for the
delighted and amused the Hlouse by quoting legisiation w-as that the parties rebelled and
proof that similar faveurs had been extend- said. 1We cannot take it. It does uot pay
ed te politicai journals before the change the labour,' and se a lot of the accounts have
of goverument. Hou, gentlemen w-i qflite been Iying, just as they w-ere lying over la
appreciate the situation without details. I 1883, until either an Order-In-Council w-hichi
mention simply the one fact that the some gentlemau in office respected, or some
mere loss ou profit la the actions legisiation w-as adopted ln order that the
brouglht by the contractors, amounted accounts mlght be settied on a reasouable
very nearly to a quarter of a million basis.
dollars. That is the best proof that very
Hon. Mr. FERiPxUSON-I know very well
liberal supplies were given out on former
occasions. I think the hon, gentleman coup- that the statement made by my hon. friend
led -wlth the printlng given out alio the ad- the Secretary of State with regard to the
vertislng. 0f course It Is scarcely fair to lack of space at the Printlng Bureau ls
do that, becau'se the advertising depends en- strictiy correct, and I remember very w-e'Iiuk it w-as about two yearu ago-that
tirely upon the number of publie works that

SENA T E
the matter was lnvestigated by the Printing before tbem for a considerabie time, and 1
Committee. The Klng's Printer was asked tbinik they shouid have applled themseives
to appear before that commîttee, and the to bave obtalned the proper remedy, whicb
information given was tbat it was Impos- would be to have the Bureau enlarged la
sible to instali uew plant and machinery order that ail the printing could be there
there and other machines wltb which to perforined.
extend the work wlthout enlarging .tlie
Hon. Mr. MCIULLEN-I arn exceedingly
building, and If my memory serves me right, sorry that the Prlnting Bureau, apparently,
the Joint Commlttee on Prlntlng on that oc- is flot capable of doing ail tbe work necescusion made a' recommendation that the sary for the parliallent and the severai
building should be enlarged. 1 really thinIk departrnts of the government. With rethat somethlng sbould bave 'oeen doue. The gard to advertising lu the newspapers, tbat
finauclal state of the country would warrant is unquestionably a necessity wbere conIt. Large expenditures are made ln other tracts bave to be let. Public notice mus~t
directions, and I really thliuk that sorne- be given thut tenders wîll be reccived for
thlug sbould have been doue before this to certain work. lu that case, advertising is
have the prernises at the Bureau eularged necessary, but wbere priuting is doue, unlu order that a reasouable proportion, at ail less the Printing Bureau is overioaded aud
eveuts, if not the whoie, of the public print- canniot do tbe work, It is undoubtedly wrong
ing should be doue ut thit Bureau. My to give it to the outside press. 1 condened
bon. frlend bas put forward tbe old excuse ln parliainent tbe course adopted by the late
for the goverument of whlcb hie Is a member goverument for twenlty-oue years, and I amn
on this occasion, that tbey are flot very prepared ta conden nuow what I coudemned
muchi wor«se tlan their predecessors were. before, if it cau be shown that It really is
He liardiy claimed that tbey were no worse- being done.
that the amounits they were paying were Do
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The bon.
larger, but that their predecessors bad also
gentleman is cousisteut in tbat regard.
given a considerable amounit of printing ta
private offices and newspapers uotwith- 1Hou. Mr. IMcMNULLEN-No organ of tbe
standing that tbey raul a Printlng Bureau. goveruiment sbould be favoured to the extent
I do not know that thut would be con- of taklug worlc froni tbe Printinig Bureau
sidered auy defence for rny bon. friend and and giving It to tbat organ for the purpose
bis colleagues, because we well remember of building lt up and strengtliening it finanthat this was a point on wbich tbey made a cially. I arn uot saying tbat was doue iu
particular assault upon the late goveru- the case of the ' Herald ' or any other paper.
ment lu consequeuce of the amount of If my hon. frieud, tbe leader of the opposiprluting, that they caused to be doue Ii that tion, will go into au investigation and show
way, and it was declared iu every form by that some extravagant prices bave been
my bon. friend and lits supporters, and col- paid for tbe worl. that Is being doue outleagues tbat the press was belug corrupted, side, I arn prepared to coudemn It. It sbould
It liad become a reptile press, the public xiot be doue. Then, again, as I sald Ili tbe
wvells were being polluted by this policy of first place, the ouly possible excuse for givthe late governmeut, aud lu vlew of that, in-- ont w-ork of that Lind is that tbe PrintIt was promlsed that on a change of gov- ing Bureau Is not able to do tbe worl.. If
erumeut an improvement would be made. that Is tbe case, we have to get tbe printing
Notwithistanding that, my bon. friend's plea doue elsewbere and I frankly admit that to
Is that they have flot been any worse, or say uow that tbe late goverument was as
inuch worse than their opponeuts. My hon. bad or worse tban the present one, Is no
frIend's plea, to wblch 1 have just referred, auswer to a charge tbat wrong is bein'g doue
that there Is not space withiu the present fit the present tume. 1, for one, sat iu pgrliabuilding for the purpose of carrylng on tbe meut fourteen years, and condemined the govoperatiaus required Ili connection wltb tbe erniinent for sacrificlig tbe people's mnoney
printing service, wbite I know It Is true, ls in the way of givinig ta the outside press
noa excuse for the goverunent, because tbey work that should bave been doue by tbe
have had a recommeudatiou on that subject parties wbo had the contract for printing
Hon.

M.FERGUSON.

JUN'\-E 22, 1903
for tbe goverament. I coudemned It then,
and I condemu it as much now If It exiets.
I arn prepared lu the meantime to take the
statement of the lion. Secretary of State that
tUe Bureau is not capable of doiug the necessary w-on. Under those circumstances, the
goverument have ben forced to gilve It to the
ontside press. If they have paid reasonable and fair prices for the work that has
been done, I have uo rigbt to challenge It,
and I arn prepared to support It; but if my
bon. friend can show that the PrIntlug Bureau is capable of doing the w-ork, and,
noxwitlistanding thiat fact, the work has
been given ont t0 favourite papers, and that

Reforination is mucij
New Brunswick.
more likely to be accomplished In a reforma.
tory of thiat character thau In a prison.
Hon. Mr. F ERGUSON-We fiad a Bil before us this session, which was duly passed
by both Houses, relating to juvenile offen.
ders iu New Brunswick, ivhich gave powex
to the Qovernor, on recommendation of th(
Attorney General, to transfer Incorrigibles
wbio had been sentenced by a judge to the
reforrnatory of St. John, to the penitentiary.
WilI that provision apply to this institution
als well ?

Ilin. Mr. SCOTT-Xo.
thiey havé received large prices for doing
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-If that w-as a
it. I say that if is w-rong and ami prepared te wise provision appliefi to other classes of the
condemin if.
population, would It îiot be wvise to extend
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill the saine to this institution ? This is just
w-as reid a thîrd time, and passed.
the saine elass of institution as the othier
%vithi which w-e have already deait.
SECOND READINGS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTI-The offences for w-hidi
Bill (145) An Act respecting the Quebec girls are sometimes punished bring theum
Bridge Comupany, and to change its naine t0 peculiarly under the hiappy influences of the
'The Qnebec Bridge and Railway Coin- Goofi Shepherds, and I thinuk it w-ould be
panyý.*-tHoni. Sir Alphonse Pelletier.)
very niuchi better to adopt the proposition
Bill tlS5) -ln Act respecting the Canadiani here. I do nlot think it w-ould corne within
Steel Company-(Hon. 'Mr. Landerkin, lu the the purviewv of that Act.
I will ascertaîn
ibsenrce of Lion. Mr. Gibson.)
:ît the next stage of the Bill.
EUh (S7) An Act respecting thle Vancouver
Hon. 'Mr. ELLIS-The otlier Bill onily resI
and Coas Kooteilay Railway Company~ferred to boys w-ho nxight bo sent to the
Hün. _\Ir. Landerkin.)
pcnitentiary.
Bill (171) An Act t0 Incorporate the ChatFERGUSO.N-They miglit, on
Hon. M.Nr.
hami. Walhaceburg and Lake Erie Rahhway
the action of the Governor on the recommenComreiny.-HI-on. Mr. Landenkin.)
dation of the Attorney Genera], be sent to
GOOL) SHEPHERD 1IEFORMATORY IN tUe peuitentiary.
THE CITY 0F ST. JOHN, N.B.
Honi. Mr. ELIS-Proçided they were
Bir.L.
committed for a penitentiary offence. That
does not appear to be the case in this Bill.
SECOND READING.
Honi. M.\r. SCOTT mnoved tUe second reading of Bihl (19~9) An Act respecting the Good
Shepherd Reformatory in the city of St.
Johni. New Brunswick. He said :The
object of tis Bihl is to authorîze the courts
lu St. John, N.B., t0 send any voinIan or
girl w-ho is a Roman Catholic, and w-ho is
convicted of an offence w-hidi is punishable
Up to two years' imprisoument, to the reformatory under the control of the Good ShepWo
berds, instead of the common jail.
have had legilslation of tUat kiad hefore iii

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It eau be considered w-hen w-e get ite commlttee.
The SPEAKER-lu the act respecting a
similar institution lu Halifax, there Is a
provision that, uncler certain circumstances,
incorrigibles can be sent to the penitentiary.
Thiat Is mY impression.
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
w-as read the second time.
The Senate adjourned.

SE-NATE

456

BILL INTRODUCED.

THRE SENATE.
Ottaica, Tuesday, Junc 23, 1903.
TUe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (1SS) An Act respecting- the CanaMr. Gibson.)
diani Steel Conp)aniy-(IHa.
Biii (121> Ail Act to incorporate tUe ConMr.
solidateti Trusts Corp)orationi.-(H-on.
Kerr. Toronîto.)
SALE

0r PUBLIC LANDS IN NORTHWEST TERRITORIES.
INQUIRY.

Hon. _%r. PEIILEY rose to asic the goverament:
if it is true the governmeat has sald to the
Saskatchewan Valley Land Company, or any
other compaay. a quantity of the pubile goverament lands of the North-west Territories?
Andi if Sa. ta what.companles or persons have
How mny acres ta eaclt
they sald lands ta
of the respective companles. and how much per
acre diti they seli it fcr ?
Whbat we're the termis of payment. and the
resp)ective p)ersonis cf the several companies?
If more thýan one conipany. and aiso, the conditions of the sale durlng the last two yearis ?
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-I amn advîsed that there
have heen no sales ta the Saskcatchewan Valley Land Company ; that sales have been
made ta a niumber of individuals who prohabl3- have transferred and sald It ta them.
If the lion. g-entleman wouid move for a return. -%e woul have the information al
Allow It to
brouzht dow-n l that way.
stand for a return. and I wîll give Instructions ta briug- forw-ard ail tUe Information
cannected w-ith the transaction iii the departmnent.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-If I move for the return, will the lion, gentleman undertake ta
produce lt ?
Hon. «Mr. SCOTT-I w-il!
quiry- ta stand foru a return.

allow this in-

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-WIII tUe returni came
dowa ?
SCOTT-I will give instructions.
Hon. M-Nr.
Hon. '.\r. PERLEY-It will be a strang-e
thing If it does.

Bill (122) An Act respectlng the Rathhani Companiy.-(Hon. Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
NE'W CANADIAN CO.%PANY'S BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. 'Mr. DANDUILAND moved the third
readiiîg of Bill (83) Ain Act to incorporate
the New Canadian Company.
FLon. Mr. LANDRY-i would iiot be perwhat 1 consider iiy duty, and
foringii
would flot be doing justice to the case, if
1 allowed tîsis Bill to pass its thirdl readlng
and be adopted by this Hanse ivithout enterinig my protest agalnst what I cojisider
to he the perpetration of what 1 inay c.al1
a fraud. People who have already deceivcd the public and obt-ained rnoney isînder
false pretenses on the Englishi and Belgian
criminally,
w-ho
have
ina rkets-people
aginist ail the rnost positive prescriptbons of the law, converted capital stock
sold by them lnto a 40 per cent dividend.
-whlîi was divided ainongst a few sharehtoiders, and boasted of it as a clear profit
on a mnost l)aying- enterprise-people wha
have succeeded in decciving the Lieutenant
of Quebcc,
Governor cf the province
through the rninistry of his son-iin-law, convincing hlmii that a deposit iii a baîîk iii
England of a surn of £7,500 sterling, put ini
the îîame 0f one Enghisli comipa ny. ivas
clear and sufficienit proof that another cou'paîny a itogether tîtat w-as fornw d on the
bank of the St. Lawr-ence w-as unquestioniabl- .able and Uns showni its capacity to
build one hunidred and fort3- miles of rail%-av wvitl thiat suil only-people w ho hav e
uiiited to disparag-e and injure oui- great
%%ater-wav.y, tUe St. Lawrence river, for tue
Uciielit of their oç%ni private enterprisei)edlple wvho have published iii Englandf that
the basini of Gaspé is ail the year round, or
at .ai events, teli months of the year, .1n1
open port, frce froni ice-people wlîo boldly
assert in their prospectus that tUe Primle
Minister of Canada lias undertaken that the
road (that is the Gaspé short lune) shaîl be
largely subsidized as construction proceeds,
w-hidil is a deliberate falselîood-p( ople thiat
annonniced !in Englisli narkets-at ail events
!in Englishi moiietary p)apers tlîait sevonty
miles of that road have now beeni construct-

JUXNE 23, 1903
Hou. '-%r. DANDURAND-No.
Hlon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Who says no?7
Ilon.
tact.

Mr.

DANDURÂND-I deny

tilat:

give you the
H-on. Mr. 'LANDRY-I
filets. 1 miaintaîn my assertion and for the
-information of the hon, gentleman let me
teli imii that I have here the paper that
If I forget
gives sucb an a-nîouncement.
to rend it nt the proper lime let hlm not

sent. I do nlot want in any way te share the
responsibility o! ail Ibat wbieb tbrealeus to
happen, and wbicb, sbould tbe Bill pass,
wiil come in the very near future, and I
wrant, on Ibis occasion, te enter my protest
ag1ainst a premeditated fraud, and sbouid
tue Bill pass, let it pass on a division. 1
%vastold by one lndividuai, whiose personai
interest lu the malter preventcd hlm from
hein,- just tow-nrds me, that I was making

this opposition freu a1 pehitical sentiment.
NV by ? The two promnolers of the Bill are
Conservatives. I Nvas told by one gentleman

fail te Cali my attention to the omission.
I repent, people who announced in Englilh whio proinotes the Bill l this I-ouse Ibat
iionetary papers tha t ah-en dy seventy Mr. Carpeniter wvas a1Conservative. I klow,
miles ont of the one hundred and forty for'a filet, that Mr. Lavoie is a Censervative.
have niow been constructed-whicli is dise The anuoucemient of tixese two naines,
.a deliberate faisebood-people with such pi-oves te Ibis House that I au nlot nctill.l
a record agalinst them, and with sncb a frcm a politicai motive. I aux aLting Iu bihe
stain ou tbeir cent et nms, are iioNV iuterest of our Cânadian people, and the
befere this parliainent seeking au Act of lulerest of tue Brit1sb capitalist. Tbat Is
incorporation. and w-e -are told that we ail the interest I have lu the mnalter. I ivas
shold no be ailowed to cali the attention told, moreover. thlat I was only ecboiflg the
of thki parliarnent te ail Ihose 1l-dolngs, sentiments of olle simple curate of the
and the attention of the British caîpital iu county of Bonaventure, a bitter opponent
particnlar to what threnteus thenil in the of Mr. Leuxieux, wiîo met hlm o11 the bustfuture. Rucb is not nîr iden of the duty I inigs. the only man, sald lie, l the county
have te pcrformi hcre. On the contrary, I o! Bonaventure that was opposed te the
This is very easy te
arni !i duty and in bioueur boundf to de- GaspéC Short LUne.
those attempts te decfrand, te de- answer. I have given proofs of th e contraty
nouce
nounice the people w-ho makze them, and te oiready. I have told Ibis Hlouse that %vben
denounice their mlisrepresentatiou and faise- that Bihl 0f the short Une came before the
inid, ni11 legisinture of Qnebee. 2.639 pe rsons. aganilst
They are net, te niy
lioodsý.
S ul, petitioued lu opposition t0 the Bill. But
guilty.
cejualiy
1 go further. 1 %viiigIve lion. gentlemen
what w-ns passed unanimously by the muniHIon. L\r. LANDRY-No, they are net ail] cipaiity or the county o! Bonveuture
of
At a gefleral meeting o!
ecîuahiy guilty of tîjose wiid-cat schemes, the county o! Bonav-enture, the municipalîty
ai the town hall,
but I arn bound te denounce the pronioters, *New Qarlisie. on Wednesday, the 111h day of
in conformity with
tiiose that are entrapping, or trying to en- -Mardi. of 1903. province of Quehee, attie municipal
which meettie
code
Urap, iii the maille o! the public înterest, ing the following mayors were present :
liolest people aud Britisx Capital. The con' *Ernest Allard. Eso., ivarden, neayer of Nouelile and Shoalbrid.
mittee whihlcbhad Ibis Bill under considera
Niciolas Arseneau, Esq., mayor o! Carleton.
sent tixere by il
tien. after having been
Francois Dicn. Esq.. mayor o! St. Ois. Caplan.
Jcsepi Guité, Esq., mayor o! %laria.
speciai order of Ibis House, have ncecepte(
Narcisse Cyr. Esq., mayor o! Musselyvili.
nppareutiy il
the Bill ou the ground that
Bonaventure 0-authier, Esq-, mayor o! Hamilwas mierely for the Incorporation by thii Iton.
Rempifer. Esq., mayor o! Newv CarWm.
parliaxuent of thc Englishi company, and tha' hlie. L.
John Clement, Esq-, max-or of Paspeblao.
nctbing l the Canadian Bill could indicati
Michael MeInnis. Esq.. mayor o! Port Daniel
the objectionable features which I took up Est.
Forming a quorum under tie presidency of
on niyseif te point out. I do nxot wvant t(
worsbip tie
disc.uss the wisdomi of the decîsion, bu t isThe follox-ing warden.
resolution weas nnanlmously
w-lien asked to adopt the Bill at ils thirl adopted :
Moved by Mr. Clement, seconded by Mr. Mcî-eading, and to approve by my vote, o! lb!
Innais, and resolved,
financiai disaster that, ini reaiity, befori
1. That the federal and local goverament. lie
te join la constrnctiiig tie railway along
long it wili brIng forth, I refuse mv Coli -prayed

lion. Mr. DAXNDURAND-Hear

heur.

SENATE
the shore line from Pasbebiao to Gaspé basin.

terminus. whtch road, with the proIts natui.n
jected hranch road from Metapedia to Rivière
du Loup. w'ould realiy he the short line from
Gaspé tu Quehec. otherwise to, grant to the
trustees of the hondholders of the Atlantic
and Lake Superior Railway Com.pany, in preference to ail others. the necessary powers to
complete the ssid road to Gaspé.
2. To give to the said trustees the necessary
hein to, carry on the enterprise hy giving tbem
sufficient subsidies or guaranteeing the interest
on the honds.
3. To bind them as a guarantee of their gond
faith to begin the work of construction si >multsneously ut Paspebiac and Gaspé within a year
frorn the sanction of tbe Act. and to build ten
miles of road ycarly, otherwisc that their charter he lansed.
4. Not to grant any charter, extension of charter or subsidies for raiiways through the interior of Gaspesia hefore the compîction o! the
railroad along the coast lins.
5. To put in

the estimates an amnount

suffi-

-cient to ever the lapsed and due dlaims for
work perforrued on the Baie des Chaleurs Railway from

M.%atapedia to Paspebise, and thereby

do Justice to the p)opulation. of this region.
6. That copies of the ahove resolutions be
transmitted to the Privy Council and Charles
Ottawa, and to the HonourMlardi., Esq., M.N.P.,
able Provincial Secretary aud Wm. H. Clappertc n. Esq., M.L. X., Qucbcc, as well as to the
Montreal 'Star ' and the ' Eventa ' o! Campbclton.
Passed.
(Signed) ERNEST ALLARD,

Warden.
(Signcd) L. P. LeBEL.
Secretary-Treasurer, C.B.
Certilled a truc copy.
L. P. LeBEL,
Sec retary-Treasurer.

This proves that te curate of the coulnty,
,whoml Mr. Lemlieux pointed out as tie single
nman agnainst the short line. was atot the only
one opposed to it. All the population o!
the sea shore is against the construction of
lte interior road before the line ou the shore
ia completed. More titan that, a petition was
sent to I-lis Excellency the Governor Getieral lu Counceil, as follows

cne hundred men and more were then workinq
at thcse wells or in the neighbourhood.
That the same com*pany seemas now to be wiiliuig to do with rajiway charters what it bas
done with vetroleuma wells.
That some of the directors of the Petroleuin
0O1 Trust. after baving met with a refusai ut
Ottawa have actually obtained at Quehec, uftdcr
the enigmatical name of Atlantic, Quebec and
Western. a charter authorizing the construction
of a railway from Gaspé basin to Causapscal.
but flot without having reprcsenited that thy
absoiutely wanted that charter 10 continue to
carry on their 011 industry. of which they spcak
no more. and thst me-reover they had by themnselves the necessary funds to buiid their railWa V.
That after having obtained their charter in
liarch, 1901, they have flot done anything. still
they ivere obliged to build tenl miles of railway
before M.\arch 2S. 1903. or their charter was tD
be declared lspsed.
That in November ast. these same person.;
have organized in England, it seems, a new company. the New Canladiso Company, whicb tb'ey
cill their construction cosnpany, of wblcb Mîr.
Carpenter, Jr., la a member, to buy the privilegea of the charter of the Atlantic, Quebcc amil
Western Company, wh&se prcsident la Mr. Carpenter. sr.. whicb charter ;vas then virtually
iapsed.
That titis ncw company bas deposited to the
credit of the government, they say, the sum of
$37.500. w'hicb sum seems to have hpen subscrihed hy the Messrs. Carpenter, or perhaps bv
other shareholders. thanks to the publication of
a prospectus exaggerating the dangers of tbf'
navigation of the River St. Lawrence, to tbe
detriment of the porta of Quebec and Montreal,
but to thp, beneit of the AXmerican porta ind
chiefly of the port of Gaspé wbich they falseiy
to
repres"nt, in Engiand and bere as open
navigation for ten and even twelve montbs rf
and assuring faisely also that the govthe year
errimrent of Canada had promised aubsidies to
Mal.
their pretended short line (se2 Daily
Novemnber 20. the English prospectus whicli
publishel
differs from the t"anadian prospectus
in the 'Daily Star,' December 3, 1902).
That the said Atlantic, Quebcc and Western
Company la actuaily petitionin-

Hon. Mr. SULLIV\AN-Is it a fact thnat
there is ohl in Gaspé w'here these welis were
sunk ? Is it an establislied fact that tîtere
are real ohl welis there ?

To nia Excellency.
Hon. Mr. LAN-DRY-I cannot tell Fou that.
The Governor Ceocrai in Council.
We have flot seen the oil1 we see the w'ells.
The humble petition of the undersigned rate- The petition continues:
payera of the county 0f Gaspé respectfuliy represents:
-the local government for an extension of tîme.
That the Petroleuma Oul Trust, Limnited, of dies though it pretenda to have made at Quebec
London. Engiand. after baving organized four or a sure and complete proof that It bas by itseif
five companies to carry on the oil industry in the necessary pecuniary means to build its railGaspé. bas finally sold its wella to the Canada way. which prcof se2s to be conflrmed hy the
Petroleum Company, or Manchester, Engiand, proclamation putting its charter into force.
wvhich latter company bas liquiduted aftcr havThat other companies are alan petitioning for
îng compiained that the Petroleum Oil Trust charters to huiid railways throughi the Interior
had

sold to il empty welis

(see amuoug

other

English papers the 'Manchester City 'News,'
August 31, 1901).
That English papers had ncverthciess published that out of fifty w-cIls dug, thii-ty-two
were flou ing weils. and cil fromn one of tbem
had spouted to a height of seventy feet, which
nobody in Gaspé seems to bave seeni, thougb
Hou. Mr. LANDRY.

of Gasesia.

That the officiai report of the exploration
made in 1885 by '.\r. Josephi Bureau, a well
known explorer and the ill-starred venture cf
the petroleum companies of Gaspé do not justifv
that run on our governments for charter authorizing tbe construction of rsilways througli the
heurt of that region.

JTJNE 23, 1903
That those demands are foundel on ineempl-te

and even false informations, as proveci by the
decieration made by th.e author of the Bill of
the Atlantic, Quebec and Western, that the lnterior of Gaspesia was known only ta hunters,
which region lie lias been pleased to falsely

deecribe ln the preamble of is Bill, as a real
Klondike accessible ta lits short Une only.
That the too welcame reception and chiefly the
support given those demands liy aur gaveraments. under the present circumstances. would
close for ever the English market ta any public
undertakinz-be it the most recommeadale-

In Gaspesia, and even elsewhere ln Canada, If
It ls flot already dune.
That the trustees of the bondbalders of the
Atlantic and Lake Superlor, sines they bave
taken possession of that road, have completed
the wark an the section from Caplin ta Paspebiac.
That they are even biinning ta pay the
amaunts adjudlcated agalnst the company, but

they cannot lie expected ta pay the daims that
the labourera have allawed ta get iapsed because
they had a riglit ta believe the gaveramenits
would pratect them.

That the labourers' dlaims actually befare the

Rovernment shows how we have suffered ta be
victimized ; but we would flot lie duped.
That we cannot but reflect sadly that thase
claims would have been paid long ago, If thly
hed heen presented by influential oaçtractors
insteafi of voor fishermen, etill the gavernment
owes protection flrst ta, the poor and humble.
Therefore, yaur petitloners pray yuur gaverament1. To liuild itself, the Gaspé Railway along the
coast from Paspebiac ta Gaspé, Its natural terminus. wbidh road with tbe projected liranch
rcad from Matapedia ta River du Loup, would
really lie the short Une from Gaspé ta Quebec,
otherwise not ta, allow the persans In'terested
In the petroleum companies to have anytblng ta
do with the construction of that aur shore railwsy'. but ta grant ta the trustees of! the bondholders of the Atlantic and Lake Superiar Rail way Company in preference ta ail others, the
necessary pawers ta complete that road ta

Gaspé.

459

I was told aiso, on the saine occasion, that
I was myseif a bitter opponent to the lion.
gentleman's candidature in the county of
Gaspé, and that I went down to that county
and opposed hilm at the time of the electorai
contest. Tlhat assertion was so audaciously
made that It took me by surprise. As I
generally go Into counties ln elections, I
thouglit I miglit possibly bave been la that
county ; but, as a matter of tact, I totally
deny IL. I neyer was ln the county of Gaspé
against the hon, gentleman. I neyer met
hlm an the hustinga ; I neyer liad a word
to say ta -him on any occasion whatsoever.
I deny It emphatically, but It was a bold assertion just made to carry the day and an
attempt to convey the idea that I was merely acting through prejudice or animosity
against the lion, gentleman. And lie added,
wlth the same audacity, tbat the Carpenters liad bought ail the praperty of the late
Canada Petroleum Company, and had pald
every shareholder of that compnny one
hundred cents on the dollar ; whereas, as a
matter of fact, the property wvas sold by
auction by order of the court, and the
amounit realized by the sale wns only suffidlent to pay twenty-three cents on the dollar
instead of one lbundred cents on the dollar.
Now, 1 slîould not like to take my seat before givlng proof to the hou, gentleman, the
promnoter of this Bill iu the Senate, that
what I said ls true. I boid la my bauds the
'Money Market ]Review,' publisbed in London. This number Is dated Saturday, M-Nardi
28, 1903. I find, on page 483, the following
annouacement :
NEW CANADIAN LINE.
Cable advice received at the London office of
the New Canadian Company, Lixntted, reports
that the construction of th~e lne lias now
reached within seventy miles of the Intercolonlai Railway.
That Is the assertion of a positive fact, thnt
bal! of tîfe raiiway la now constructed. Thnt
Is tie Information givenl to the Englisi public by a cable received at the London office
of the New Canadian Company. The auinouncemnent continues:
And that the roads are good and su far easy

2. To give the said trustees the necessary help
ta carry on that enterprise, eÉther by giving
-them sufficient sulisidies or guaranteeing the
Interest an the bonds.
3. Not ta authorize the construction o! twentyalve mile branch-raads mentioned ln the advice,
before the main lune is completed.
4. To bind them. as a guarantee of their goad
faith. ta liegin the works 0f construction simultaneously at Paspebiac and Gaspé within ane
year frorù the sanction of the Act, and ta build
teni miles Yearîr. otberwise their charter ta lie
declared lapsed.
5. To refuse any demande o! charter, extension of charter or subsidies for the construction of railways through the interior of Gaspestn. befare an Investigation is beld on tlie
doings of the petroleum companies o! Gaspé and
a new study of the oil-bearing lands bas been
made by a geological commission.
grade, w-hile the country is favourable.
6. Ta came ta an understanding with the local
Tbey know ail about lt.-seveuty miles cougovernment s:) as ta put la the estimates a
sufficlent amount ta caver the lapsed clains due structed-the country Is favournble-tlîe
Baie des Chaleurs
for work performed on the
flailway from Matapedia ta Paspebiac and there- gracles are easy-glving ail the details, so as
liv ta do justice at last ta, the population of that to impress English luvestors and lend themni
region.
to put their money into the enterprise.
And your petitioners will ever pray:

460

SENATE

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbie lion. gentie- a big word. He bias repeated it many times
nian added tue words ' the countr.y is fav- during bis speech. The facts wblcb hie bas
cliaracterized stand for tbemseives, bul the
ourable.'
things which lie thus assails are beyond our
tlie
'wille
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes
owil Inspection or control, because 'tbey recountry is favourable ' is the language used. fer to the operations of companies witb wblcb
The despatcIi Is viery favourable to lhe coin- we bave îiothing to do. But we have to do
pany also.
ivith tbis New Canadian Company, and the
Hou. Mr. 3iCMULLEN-How many miles boit, gentleman thînks that lie bas made a
are built ?
big point when lie speaks of another misrepresentation of the grossest character pracHon. Mr. LANDRY-Seventy miles, It
ticed upon tbe Britisli public. WeUl, decidsays.
edly, I miust give Ihlm credit for being very
Hon. Mr. McM.%ULLEN-H-ow many miles industrious, or perliaps some of bis friends
are really built ?
behlnd hini are. He cites the 'Money Market Ileview' of tbe 2Sth Mardi, 1903, and
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-None.
says bis only aim is to protect the British
This
one.
LANDRY-Not
Mr.
Hon.
public against the dolngs of tbis company,
despatcb Is a deliberate falsehood. 1 do not
to prevent tbem puttIng tbeir money Into
blanie the paper for announcing It. Tbiey sncbi a venture, witli. sucli misrepresentasny tliey received information telliîîg tleie tions ns those piaced before hlm. I bave the
tbere was already seventy miles of colt- 'Daily Telegrapli' of Mardi 24, four days
struction done, and glving ail the partîcubefore lthe Issue of the ' Money Market Relars lu regard to the rond. I suppose lie view' from whichi my hon. friend lias quothon. gentleman w'lll not tell me now tîtat I
ed, ln whicb appears a telegram, publslied
arn wroiig. He wiil not venture to say thiat simultaneously ln ail the other newspapers
on fact. This
iny assertion is not founded
of London, and we wlll see bow It accords
is wbiat the paper says. If tUe lion. geiitiewitli this reproduction ln the 'Money Market
to hlmii.
inaî wants the paper I w-i liand Il
Review,' taken from some of those papers.
The announcemnent continues:
The telegram front wbich I wili read, as I
Tbe secretary adds that the party %vbieh have said, Is dated four days before the
stsrted for the east from Gsspé basin will have
The
now Joined hands wjth the western survey 'Money 'Market Review' appeared.
party.
cablegrain the lion, gentleman speaks of
This is the information broug-lit to bear reads ns follows-.
The secretary of the New Canadian Company
on public opinion la favour of titis compatty.
reports that the following cable has been reAdd thal to lie equaily false assert:on lhi
ceived from the engineer in charge of the surthe rond wvill be subsidized by lthe government under promise of lte premier, Sir Wiltie wiole
frid Laurier, and you wili see lit
scherne-ali the efforts mnade iii this country
and eisew-here--bas been prepared to deceive
lte public, as lte public have becît deceiveil
up 10 lliks day. Witli tiese few additional
%vords, wlîiciî I give in order 10 put the
English cai)italists on their guard aiîd iii a
position bo judge wlial is being attenmpîed,
I resume my seat declaring titat 1 sha il vote
ngalnst lte motion for te third ieadiîtg of
the Bill.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND TUe only iiewv
fact lte bioit, gentleman lias brouglit out is
lte one lie lins einpliasized"by readiîig fromi
the 'Moîîey Market Review ' of tlie 2sti
Mardi, anîd it is w-itat lie characterizes. ia
Ilis 1usu¶u plain lang-uage, as 'failseltood.' Lt is
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

vey of the railway :Have now reached iseventy
miles front Intercolonial Railway, good roads,

so far, easy grade, country favourable, timber
good.

Neari! ail Iliat there Is la this cablegrain
is reproduced by the 'Money- Market RIev iew,' wlth this error :It says that the construction of the line lias now reached witiiii seventy miles of the Intercolonial, w-hile

the real cable, wbicb appeared four days liefore, spoke of a survey party baving reacbed
within seventy miles of the Intercolonial.
Tihis cablegrami appeared in ail the newspaiters of London. and here is a paper. the
value of which I cannot give 1m' opinion
ipon. because I do not linow of it, Nwhieh reproçirices liie cablegi-arn. withi the error
whieil I nlow mnention. Lt is tiie oniy error.
Whto is responsible for thnt error ? Tue lion.
genitlemanIl says t1itt it is the ewCainadian

JU-NE 23, 1903
CompaniY. Lt woid be v-ery queer if the
cablegrami would appear four days before
this publication is given to the public witb
the real words of the cablegram. Lu fact
this reproduction mentions survey. Lt says:
The secretary adds that the party whicli
started east for the Gaspé basin wîll now have
joined hands wlth the survey party.

4651

vliom ? to the Lieutenant Governor iu Counýil, whicli the Lieutenant Governor never
sees himself, whicb hie sinîply sees wben the
report from council is brouglit to bim for bis
signature so that the council has taken action upon lt, bas deliberated, and wben the
councIl lias deliberated, the premier advises
the governor to sign. Where can there be
uiy deception from tlie outside practiced
upon. the lieutenant governor ? The lion.
gentleman seems to like to bite. It seems to
be bis dally avocation. To-day lie speaks
tlisparagingly of the Lieutenant Governor
of the province of Quebec. That bion. genitleman need not be defended. He stands so
bigli In the estimation of the province tliat
lie Is mucli above any Insinuation thie lion.
gentleman could make.

We aIl know wbnt errors journalists and
reporters wil make la gatliering news and
rusliing it tlirougbi to their popers, more
especially wltb dally newspapers, and I am
quite sure tliat tliis error is easy to explain
and readily understood wvlien it is put before
tlie public mmnd, and before tbis Senate. So
that this gross misrepresentation is on a
par witb ail thie misrepresentations whicb
the bon, gentleman lias spokien 0f during
The motion was agreed to on a division,
the last tbree debates whicli lie bas raised
and the Bill was rend the third timae, and
before tliis House. Tliere ls one muore fact,
and'only one, -wliicb I want to allude to be- passed.
fore I resume my seat. It is not a new
fnct. I did not tliink It was wortli while CHINESE IIMMIGRATION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
to answer tbe long speech of my bon. friend
THIRD READING.
and touch upon every point tliat hie raised
lu tbe precedlng debate, but lie comes back
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the third
again, and when lie does flot filltiis Cham- reading of Bill (82) An Act respecting and
ber witli big words sucb as 'falseboods' restricting Obinese immigration.
and 'gross niisrepresentatlons and frauds,'
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I wisb to
lie proceeds by Insinuations. He did s0 In
about brlnglng tlie
made on this ques- Inquire If my suggestion
a couple of speeches lie
Bill into effeet by proclamation of tlie Govtion, and again lie comes bach- to the chiarge,
ernor In Council lias been considered at ail 9
and says fraud was practiced upon thie LieuHon. Mr. SCOTT-It does flot go into
tenant Governor of tbe province of Quebec
Tbat will
My operation until next January.
throu.li the action of bis son-in-law.
give abundance of time. Lt will be a montb
lion. friend again will flot be taken at bis
or six weeks before parliament meets, and
word. He rend the statute passed by the
the government does flot propose to add any
legisiature of Quebec, wbich said tliat tlie
otlier rider to, It tlian that.
Quebec, Atlantic and Western Railway
The motion was agreed to on division, and
would not be empowered to start operations
tilI It bad satisfied tlie Lieutenant Governor the Bll ivas read tlie tliird time, and passed.
in Counil of Its capacity to carry out tbe
LABOUR UNION LABELS BILL.
work. The lion. gentleman is a mihd and
innocent lamb who lias no fanaticisul, but it
BILL R'EJECTED.
ls very queer that, witb ail bis Intelligence,
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved tlie second
lie seems not to make nny distinction betw een the Lieutenant Governor and the reading of Bill (D) An Act respecting Lamoving the
LuI
Lieutenant Governor In Council. The Lieu- bour Union Labels. He said:
second reading of this Bill, I quite undertenant Governor, lie says, bas been deceived
is liable to lie considerable
by bis son-in-law. This, of course, carrnes an stand that tliere
opposition to its passage, and I do not proimputation that lie can be more eisily deceiin
v-ed hy bis son-in-lnw thain by any one else. pose to make any lenigtliened remarlis
connection witli it, because I think tliat proI draw the attention of this Chamiber to, the
befact that a lieutenant governor can be ap- bably more information can bie secured
fore the committee tban can possib]y be
proached onhy by a petition addressed to,

462

SENATE

elicited in the House. I have received a his goods, and the result was that lie bi a
mass of correspondelice in counection %-with strike that lasteci for some two or three
the
this Bill. A large number of petitions bave weeks. The men struck si-rmply on
been sent to this House -asking that the Bill ground 1 bave mentioned. Now, I think that
should become law, and I simpiy ask the where an organization of labour claims the
bouse, without committing itself, to allow right flot only to demand higher wagesthis Bill to have its second reading and to which perhaps is proper, If they do it withgo before the cornmittee, lu the sanie way la the lawv-or the riglit to ugitate for
that a Bill was sent there the other day. shorter hours of employment-which they
Both sides could lie heard there. A simular have, no doulit, as long as they do it legally
Bill introduceci by the hon. gentleman froi -but to unite for the purpose of forcing a.
Calgary was referred to that cominittee andi manufacturer to comply wlth such a dereceived considerutlon at their hands, .and mand as this is a gross and unreasonable
was reported,- and I would a9sk the sanie interference wlth -a man in the conducting
treatment for this Bill. A Bill of a similar of bis business. A manufapturer should be
character was passed on two different occa- allowed to conduct bis side of Ilis business
sions by the bouse of Commons andi throwfl without beiag Interfereci with by his eniout by the Senate, on the grounci that It in- ployees. 1 have no antipatby whatever to
terfereci with trademark riglits. This is a labour organizations, as long as tliey are
Bill entirely separate froni the trade marks ; used for their own mutual andi general blethe labour organizations are simpW asking fit ;but the very moment they step beyond
to lie able to register some mark wich they that lumit -andi attempt to interfere with their
could bold as their property. It is claimed employers andi dictate as to how they shahl
by a great many people that this wonld not conduct their side of the business, I say
oulv assist the labouring classes, the organ- that It is going too fui, andi this House
izeci unions, but also guarantee the public a shoulci not couatenance a Bill that would
In enalile theni to dictate ternis of that kind
better class of manufactureci goods.
other words, it would do away witb the on this side of the line. 1 ami willing to do
sweating systein, andi it woull lie a guaran- every justice to trades unions. With regard
tee that any article bearing the union label to other Buis that have been before the
haci been manufactured by workmef re- bouse, very extendeci discussion has taken
ceiving fair wages, that the sanitary con- place upon theni. I waut the workingmien
ditions la connection with the manufacture of Canada to have every liberty and privi
and everything else lu connection with the lege that they are entited. to under the Brit
goods bearing the union label w-ould lie ishi Crown. I wunt theni to enjoy thut liber
right. It would lie a guarantee to the public ty to the fullest extent, but I do not wanl
that it was a better ciass of goods on ac- to be gulded, directeci or controlleci by ont f
count of lieing mauufactured by more skill- side Influences coming froin a country wher
labour bas mun wild-where the condition o
ed labour,
desire to say a things is most disastrous, and wbere Maxnu
bon. Mr. Mc,%ULLEN-1
b~
f ew words in regard to the importance of facturers are driven to their wits' ends e
a law of union strikes thaI are unreasonable andi un
this Bill. I kniow a littie of what
axu
this -kinci does ucross the border. I have a fuir. I hope that this bouse, after due
of Missouri careful consideration of this mensure, wvil
littie experience. In the state
ar
they have a law something of thîs charac- do itself the honour of saying that they
s
re- flot preparei to sanction legisiation of tii
ter, and I know of a certain case where
cently a number of «enployees of a manu- sort.
bon. Mr. DEVER-I rîse to oppose tii e
facturer threatened a strike, not for wages
second reading of this.Bihl, because I 100 k
-they were quite content with th eir wages
nrnpecti<t
xrm
A
-not for shorter tume, they were quite conUdeuno
tent with that-but liecause the manufac- o011r
are both
turer who employeci theni declined to brand as one andi the sanie thing.1 They
hybt
that lie turneci out of bis hostile to liberty and progress
upon every article
factory the words 'Union label product.' aui qt fleecing the public under faise preHie dechineci to lie foreeci to put that upon 1tenses for personal gain.
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

JUX.LE 23, 1903
Hon. Mr. DEVER-If the lion, gentleman
They compel ns to obtain our goods lu a
market where there is no optiou-you must wIiI have patienc.e lie will understand. Before
trade with themn or do without the goods. confederation tliey were free to import froni
Trade uuionism Is despotism of the worst ail parts of the worid as distributing ports,
klnd. It Is opposed to business and progress, and neyer paid bigher duties on generai
and no liberal-minded man should tolerate goods than 17J per cent. Then tiiese cities
were prosperous and property ln themn was
It ln any department of this country.
Extreme protection is the parent of trade valuable. Now It Is flot. If you continue
unioism. Look -at extreme protection as It to protect manufacturers, you must also prois fostered lu the excise departmeut of this tect labour or trade unionism. Tliey are one
Dominion, where two or three parties are and the saine thing lii principle. Aud wliere
making millions out of tobacco aud aIcoliol wiii It; end ? It. means ilier prices for
by an outrageons protection, and nobody is goods, more strikes, and perliaps breaches
able or wIiling to relieve the people froin of the peace.
The people are opening their eyes to tiis
this gigantic parasite. I have nlways hield
thiat our tariff and excise Iaw should lie covert oppression, and wIll not sulimit any
framed by a commission of trained business longer to It. Labour Is of littie accounit
men, so as to protect the government and without capital. It would be like that of
the people from heing- plundered by mono- the man roiling- the store up the mountain a Il
polists who are mot wiiliug to meet fair coin- day and liaving it faîl back on him lu the
evening. Labour would go for nothing withpetition.
capital to pay for It. I aim lu favour of
No tariff should lie iîigher in this couutry out
liberty and fair-play for ail men lu the
thian 25 per cent, and manufacturers wlio
battle of life, but special ndvautage to none.
canuot work under this sliouid go at someI hiold ln my hand a paper whicli was sent
thiug else and not want to rob their feliowme by trade uulonists, andl the conclusion I
citizens by shutting ont better value of
have come to atter reading it is that the
goods from other countries. A hundred per
promoters of It are fit subjects for a luuiatlc
cent duty miglit be permitted on some goods,
asylum. The cool Impudence of such people
but 500 per cent Is excessive, and is doing
to expect their employers will Ignore themnserions injury to varions Industrial trades
selves and fail under the control of strangln which these goods are
and manufactures
ers by a subterfuge or Bill of this wordiug-é
used extensively ail over the country.
the thing 15 too ridiculous to lie entertained
The Dominion goi-erniment, the local gov- for a moment.
eruments and the municipal governments,
Fancy celebr-ated manufýacturers allowing
are ail squeezing too mucli money ont of the their hired men to share with tliem the rep~eople by plausible pretenses of pleasing the putation tbey acquired for goods after long
temperance people, without lessening the de- years of palnstaking labour to acquire this
bauchery of drnnkenness lu the slighitest de- reputation. If trade unions wish to obtaini
gree.
credit for workmanship, let tliem manufacEngland bias pauperized a large portion of ture for tbemselves and gain fame by the
lier people by excessive demands on spirits quality of their productions ; but to steal
and tobacco to keep up lier army aud navy. other men's laurels by scliemes of this deThe United States have doue tlie samne to pay scription Is somethlng tlîls Senate will not
lier war expenses. Canada is meaniy fol- permitI, I think.
lowing their example itliout proper cause,
Might I ask here how mnuch .capitai Gomnmerely to obtain au abnormnl tax on these pers and other agitators give to labour ?
goods.
Talk is clieap to tliem, but we aliege their
Hor cau It lie expected the maritime pro- capital is lu the savings bank, If tbey have
vinces, especilly the coxumeréiai cities of any. Trade uuioniism is treason against
of commerce and the people
Halifax aud St. John, will sulimit to tls the freedom
and should lie opposed by ail men wlio are
excessive tax and protection any longer ?
lu favour of fair-play to ail maukind.
the lion. gen- He is true to God whols true to manî, wlierHon. M~r. FERGUSON-Wiil
ever wroug Is done.
tleman excuse me, but I do not see any rele- To the humbiest and the weakest 'neath the
ail behiolding sun.
vauce between ail this and tlie union label.

SENATE
Tbat wronig is also done te us anil theY are have been manufactured by union labour
Is flot tbat one of the objects, 1
men.
slaves most base,
WVhose love of right is for tlsemselves and wvould asic the hion, gentleman ? Is it not
not for ail the race.
the objeet-the principle of it ?
like aIl other values, should be
Labour,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
free to competition and tbey who seek to
Hon. Slr MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
restrlct lt sbould flot complain if their food
and living be restricted by similar means- sliould like to ask, withi these facts before
us, if the Secretary of State could tell us
that is by monopoly and ceercion.
We have a great free country ln Canada. w'ly the 'Labour Gazette' lias a labour
Let us legisiate to keep it free for ai tinse te union label placed uponi each number ? Is
corne. Certainly It sheuld net be crippled the Bureau conducted on that principle *?
by men or the sons of mnen whe only latelY If I take the answers gîven iii the House
escaped fromn the despotisms of Europe and of Cojumons to this question, 1 find tlîat -t
the slighlt comforts of pauper w-ages. There is not, and yet we have the governnient
ls nothing ln this country te keep any manx actually vielating the principle upon wlicl
froni beconIlng a capitalist onily his own we are asked to base this legisiatien, by tise
conduct, therefere, 1 cali on this Senate te hlghest power in the reaini. Mr. Brock asicbe liberal and fair te ail men, but permît ed certain questions, axnoug tlîem.
advantages te noue.
Does the goverament employ Canadians who,
du flot belong te such organizations to work on
forgot te add te such reports, documents or publications upon
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I
my speech, before I sat dewn., a motion, which such label or imprint appears
whlh I now inove.
The Minister of Finance, the Hon. Mr.
Thiat this Bill be not now read the second 1Fielding, replied tlîat the ' Labour Gazette
time but that it be read the second time this was issued witb wliat was called the union
day six months.
label. It was intended to indicate tisat the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELIlt
worl. was dene by union labour. Ne,\w, if
wouid be utterly useless, even if the bouse I understood tbe Secretary of 'State a short
consented to the second reading-, t0 send time ago, la referring to Vlîs question, lie
this Bill te the Banhking and Commerce
denled the riglit of the labour union organiConmittee. 1 arn not aware that any new
zation to, interfere with the governiiint
information could possibly be produced on
printing, and therefore, it could îlot be pubWe have lad it before the
this subject.
lisbed exclusively by a labour union printBanking Committee two or thiree years lu
ing office. But te go a littie further, Mr.
succession. It lias been discussed by those
Clarkce asked this question, for 'Mr. Lancas-.
who are in faveur of it frei tise different ter, the samne day:
standpolnts that are taken by those who
Is the Government P.rinting Bureau In this
are interested in having it placed 0o1 the
oity an open office or is it a union office ? Are
statute-book, and in addition to that, tue men who do net belon% to the Typographical
labour organizations have circulated tlieir Union Perm.Wtted to work as compesitors in the~
xnany such men
room and if se
views in a printed forai amongst, 1 presurne, composingem'ployed there? bow
are now
members of the Seniate. I know
the different
The Prime Minister gave tbis answer
I have rend It: very carefuily. I find no iiew
ideas advanced in the document çvhicll lias
There neyes' bas been any objection on the
been placed in my bîands, and for that rea- *part of the goverament to emvloy union men
only. It la now an open office.
son, even if the Senate were te consent te
And yet la the face of these two answers
the second reading, I sleuid be oppesed te
it-te the committee te wvaste :1113 we find a government publication sent forth
sending
furtber time over it. If I uîîderstand the througbout the world with the imprint uponi
character of the Bill as described by flie it of the us4ion labour organization ins tise
hion, gentleman lu charge of if, wibe made a *shape of a label, tlsereby doing that whicli
very moderate, and, I must say, a teniperatE ethe unions declare they want to preve:st,
speech in cennection withi the subjeet, it i S that is tise use of the label on articles neot
that the articles upen which the union lab - the product of union men. If the governmenit
our label is placed indicate the cliaractel r may do thiat what may w-e expect of the peoof the work on them, and tise fact thsat the~7 ple ? I mnerely wiant to point out that they
Hon. Mr. DEVER.

JUTNE 23, 1903
are flot consistent witb thereselves. They
sfpnd forth a document to the world bearIng a
certain imprint whieh ls, according to t-heir
own declaration, Incorrect. The Secretary of
State and his colleagues alongslde of him
can recoucile tbese tbings, perhaps. I coufess I cannot. I look upon thîs Bill as being detrimental, If placed on tlie statutebook, to the 'whole of the Industries of the
country. It is said no0 one will be compelledl
to ýplace the label on the articles produced.
We can ail remember that the first Bill1 Introduced into this House, after belng passed
by the House of Gommons, made It Imperative. It was a measure compelling manufacturers to place the label upon the articles
manufactured by union labour.
Fin.ding
tbat that was strongly resented, the next
Bill Introduced did not contain that provision, and now this Bil1l cornes before us
lu a modified form. It. ls aIl very well to
say that those unions will not Insist upon
the label being placed on the articles they
manufacture.
We know from experience
that they do insist, and Issue circulars to
try and prevent; the public from deallng wlth
maniufacturera who refuse to recognize the
union, and those who refuse to put this label
upon their goods. I liold ln my baud a document Issued by the labour union cautIoning
the people flot to trade with .certatin manufacturers for the simple reason that they
refuse to recognize the union. Thle manufacturers should flot object to employitig union
men. That wou.ld be arbitrary and Improper,
because unions, when organized for proper
and legitimate purposes, are benefical to the
worklngmen and their familles ; but the
moment they go as far as this, It shows that
unions become dangerous to the commerce
of the country. There are scores of Illustra-,
tions -whlch mighit be given of a similar
character to that whiclh has been furniashed
by the hon. senator from Wellington. We
need flot go to the United States for 'examples, we have them here. Speaking for
*myself, I cordially support the motion of the
bon. gentleman to give this Bill the six
montes' hoist.

contend that the mechanics and the people
who toil have a rIght to be heard ln the Senate, even If they do, flot occupy as high a
position es manufacturer.
If the manufacturers are In trouble and there is a trade dispute, they are flot always guiitless. The tyranny and overbearing conduct of the manufacturera have driven men often to revoit.
Theae unioi;s are the natural result of the
despotism of capital. Men were forced Into
going on strike as the only weapon with
whlch they could secure their-rights. Any
number o! people-I do flot care If there were
only twenty-live lni this country-have a rlght
to comne before parliament and submit their
grlevances and ask them to be examined.
Even If this 8enate la superior to popular
feeling under the constitution, it sbould, ln
honour and justice to every section of the
people of this country, give them a. fair aud
square hearing. I neyer knew It to be refused in this Senate before, and If we are
going to stand on that principle and hold &
whip over any sectio n o! the people o! Canada, and such a weapon as the hon. gentle-'
man from Wellington bias submitted to-day,
I say it would be a serions matter to conaider. What do we depend'on bere ? We
lve on the laws maintained, and we live
ln peace because the people are wil.ling to
support the law-because the whole of the
people are law-abiding. What does this
mensure mean but class legislation ? Where
la there any fairness or honour about It ?
I should be ashamed to vote for such a
motion as this. 1 would allow every man in
tais country.to be heard, and the Principal
duties of tais Sonate are to protect minorities.
I saw tais session gentlemen representing
the labour element before the committee; and
I really must say that lu point of conduct
and gentlemanly bearing, and ln point of
argument, they certainly surpassed the representatives of the manufacturera. The
last time a Bill 11ke this was up It went to
the committee, and they let the manufacturers have their own way. There was not
a single mechanic or any one to speak for
them.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I have flot studled
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Oh, yes, there was.
thi Bill very closely, and there are certain
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I did mot bear fram
things ln lt whlch I would flot support, but
any.
this motion for a six months' holst is a very
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then.
ungraclous way of receiving a Bill from any
section of the people of this country. I the hon, gentleman was not there.
30

SENATE

466

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Who were those people will corne together in time. It is like
a aida and is wife ; Interference f rom outgentlemen who spoke for the mechanics ?
side neyer settled a domestie quarrel. It
Hon. Mi-. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Several.
must be settled entirely In the famiiy, and
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I men the time be- so It 18 la this case. 1 hope the motion of
fore :I do not menu this session.
the hon. gentleman wIll flot prevail.
Hon. 'Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I rise nt tis momember for Nanaimo, who was at the head ment to deal wlthi a statement made by the
of the organization, Mr. O'Donoghue, and bon, gentleman who bas just taken bis sent
otbers addressed the committee ln favour of to the effect that the saine attentive hearing
the Bill.
was' not given to, the representatives of
Hon. Mr-. SULLIVAN-It Is no0 matter. To labour before the committee as was given
my mmnd, they dld not get as fair a biearing to the manufacturers.
from the coxmlttee as the otbers did-tbat
Hon. Mr-. SULLIVAN-I withdraw that. I
Is, so far as the feelings of the committee
say the tone of the committee was agalnst
were concerned.
the worklngmen.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Nobody
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-With that qualifilnterrupted them though they spoke for
cation of bis remarks 1 do flot desire to
hours.
quarrel wlth my hon. frlend. I believe that
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-That does îîot ladithe opinion of a very large majority of the
cnte the sentiment of the cornmittee.
committee was flot favourable to the conHon. -Sir MACKENZIE- BOWELL-The tention of the labour delegates.
sentiment of the committee was precisely as
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That Is ail I menu.
the bon, gentleman says It wns, but tliat
does flot Indicate that the labour unions dld
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As the matter bas
flot get a fair hearing.
been rnised, I wish to make this statement,
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I said the senti- that botli sides were ably represented before
ment of the committee was la favour of the that committee la the recent inquiry that
manufacturers. They were alwnys treated took pince, and 1 would flot venture to say
well, and I hope they nlways wlll be. And whichi side displayed the greater amount of
I hope this Senate may not put itself la suchi abiilty ; but I venture to say that botb sldes
an arbitrary position as to throw out this were beard with the same -fair-play and an
Bill on a six montlis' hoist. It Is contrary to equal opportunity was given to both.
the feelings of the people, offensive to the
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I wlsb to say that
principles whicb should actate members of
I liad no reference to that last meeting. There
this Senate. I' have not studied the Bill
were two meetings. I referred to a comsufficiently. 1 had no Idea such an arbitra-y
xnittee meeting on another different Bill.
stand 'would be taken. 1 think thls niatter
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Not this session.
will neyer be settled by law. How dld the
Peter Maclai-en, Mr. Rathbun, ±ur.
Hon.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Not this session
Calvin, sr. and others like them keep at ail.
their men, scattered as they were al
Hon. Mr-. FERGUSON-I arn golng to deal
over the country, except by conciliation,
to their grievances ?~ witb this Bill that is before us ns it is iakindness and attention
If employers wlll do that, I promise you tended to accomplish precisely the saine obthere wll be no strike. Strlkes are the off- ject as former Bis on the samne subject, nispring of oppression in some forai or other, thougli this Bill tries to accomplish It in
and men would neyer combine together If rather n different way, and 1 arn not quite
It were not that they are driveii to It. 1 arn isure that 1 can namne the yenrs la which we
flot la favour of unions altogethier. I con- bave had this proposition before us, but
dem an great deal of what they do, but I I know we have hnd practicaliy the same
Lt bas been dealt with by this
think they have a riglit to be hieard, and wc Bill.
One of thiese
will neyer Improve the condition between House on two occasions.
measures was introduced ia the Coincapital and labour by arbitrai-y laws. These
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 23, 1903
ly as it was in committee, I do flot think this
House la open to the charge of treating
this measure brusquely or without consideration, If we decide on this occasion to
aêlopt a motion such as -bas been made by
the hon. gentleman from Wellington. Unlegs we have new light on this question,
unless In the course of this debate some new
ligbt shall be thrown upon it, showlng
that this la flot the proposition that we hadl
before, or thàt some new Information la to
be submitted that would be sufficient to
change the minds of hon. gentlemen, it is
not due to this Bill or to the Hlouse itself
that we should again go into committee upon
this measure after ail that has happened.
In the present state of the discussion, at aIl
events, I will have no hesitallon la supporting the motion of the bon. gentleman from
Wellington. To my mind, this Bill is calculated to establishi a boycott That Is the
essential object of the Bill, to enable trades
unions to boycott non-union Industries, and
flot only that, but to, interfere writh shop
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I was not dismanagement and to hamper and deal uncussing the merits of 'it. I only discussed
of labour.
here. fairiy with employers
the principhe of throwing out the Bill
flon. Mr. DANDURAND-I sbould like
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I am dealing with
made a to say a few worda before 'I vote on this
that very point. My hon. friend
distinct statement that when this Bihl was measure, because I do flot want to, give a
before the House on a former occasion, the silent vote. 1 wish to declare here and now
same opportunities were not given to the that I intend to vote for the motion of the
supporters of the Bill as were given to its lion. gentleman from Wellington. The prinopponents. I remember that the hou. gen- cipies underlying this Bill vIolate ail my
tleman from Victoria on the goverament side notions of the contract of hire. 1 have ahof the House who had charge of the ways thought that the description made of
B.ill on that occasion, not satisfied with that contract by our civil code was a right
the consideration which it reeived from the one. The lease of hire or of work la a conCommittee on Banking and Commerce, when tract by 'which one of the parties called the
it went first before it, askied this House that lessor obliges himnoît to do certain worc
it should be referred back in order to give for the other, called the lessee, for the price
the advocates ot the Bill a better oppor- whlch the latter obliges bimself to pay.
tunity to present their views. It was so The extent of the interest whlch the labourreferred back, and on that, occasion botb er bas In the work which ho does la the
aides were heard at great hength and a very payment of bis salary. Once bis salary is
the
able argument in favour of the Bil was paid teo him accorfting to the contract,
end.
dellvered by Mr. Ralph Smith, the member obligation of the lessee is at an
for Nanaimo. Othefr gentlemen also supHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Hear,
ported the Bill and reasons were heard on hear.
the other aide, and I think I am safe In
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The lessor bas
saying that the decision of the committee
adverse to that Bihl was arrived at unani- muade a bargain to bire himmeif for days,
mously after that inquiry had been muade. weeks, months, or years, and If treated as
Af ter having sifted this Bill se thorougbly, a hiuman being should be treated, according
af ter having had it threshed out se thorough- to buman principhes, and If hie receives at
304

ruons and passed there, and it came
to this body and was referred to the Committee on Banking and Commerce, and there
&lscussed at length. Opportunities were
given to both parties to appear, and they
did appear, betore the committee. Repre-sentatives of the labour organizations came
before"us, and* an expert f rom. the Departihent of Agriculture, Mfr. Jackson, was
calledl In order to give Information with regard to, what really dld constitute a trademark, In order that-we shouid. have tecbnical and thue expert information subnitted to us. Ail that was gone into, and
the result was that the commlttee, .f flot
unanimously, almost unanlmously, agreed
The
to report unfavourably on the Bill.
year following it was again Introduced by
an hon. gentleman In this House, and was
sent to the Committee on Banking and CJommerce. It was there considered and an unfavourable report was presented to, this
House witb regard to It.

468

SENATE

the end o! tbe contract the amount of bis
,salary, I say that tbe lessee bias performed
bis obligations towards hlm. The legislature o! Quebec bas gone very far towards
protecttng the rIgbts of the lessor of labour,
tbe one who hîres hlmiself. It bas given hlm
ail kinds of prîvileges to protect what bie
eans. From year to year the legislature of
Quebec bas extended the protection given to
tbe labourer ln collecting bis wages. With
tbe permission of this Chamber, I wlll read
articles of our code conceraIng this matter,
whlcb will show the paternalism, o! the laws
of! our province. The clause rends as folIowas
1697a. Every builder or coatracter, whetber
cblef or sub-coatractor. who employa workmien
by the day or bY plece work to carry out a contract must keep a list shawia-g the namee and
wages or Price of the work of sucb workmen ;
sud every payaient ta them. made, must be attested by the sigature or cross of sucb workman affixed thereito. lu presence of a witness,
Who also signs ItL
1697b. It shall be lawful for every worlcmau
Who a15uupald to produce, la the presence of a
wltnes. tu the proprietor Wha gave the work
out te ooatract. bis clia la duplicate ln the
ferai of schedule B. and tram the Urne such
dlaim shail be produced, the suai then due upan
the price or value of a couitract shall be deerned
ta be oeized la the bauds of the proprietar pro
rata up ta the aaioun't of the elaim of tbe werkman. Pive days after the production of such
claim. If the dlaim of the workmna has net
been pald. the latter may prac eed judlcially
airaiast the coatraotar Who employed hi=, maklug the proprietor a party to the suit.
Paymeats made te the proprietor after the

be opposed ta
Production af the dlaim cant
the warkmnan'a dlaim.
1697c. Several uapaid warkmen may jain !n
the sanie dlaim.
1697d. In tbe case of an assignaient by the
cc'n'trac.tar te a third party o! the price of the
work. the claini of the warkmaa bas, with respect to sucb third party, the sanie effect as It
wauld have bad wltb respect ta the contracter
If no sucb assignaient bad been made.
Ali tbrougb the economy of our code,
labour bas a first len upon the assets of
tbe employer.

Hon. Mr. BAKER-And the
too.

proprietors

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbc
sanie law exists la Ontario la reference te
mechanics and others.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We bave two
parties to consider, the employer and the
Wben the eaiployee bas received
employee.
fromn the employer bis daily wages, bis responsibility ends, wbile the capital invested
by the employer, transformed Into goeds,
remains at the risk of the employer, and reHon. Mr. DANDURAND.

It is absolutely
mains bis own property.
indifferent to the employee wbat becomes
of the produet of bis labour. Ali the produet of -bis labour, the thing upon wbichi
bie bas worked, remaIns ln the hands of tbe
employer who bas to dispose of IL. Let
the mark,t go up or go down, the labourer
goes borne feeling perfectly disbniterested
and protected, and I say tbat we have no
right to go beyond the general privilegeg
wbich tbe labourer bas to protect bis daily
salary, and that we must give the rlbt te
capital, %,hlehbas been transformed luto
goods, to the value of whlcb the labour bas
been added, the prIvilege o! being the sole
judge as to tbe means te be employed ta
dispose of those goods. 1 have beard the
explanations of the gentlemen wbio bave
been urging parliameat to pass sucb a measure. 1 bhave net found one good reason
ln faveur of tbe Bill, because It seems to me
tbat It is an encroachmfent upon what ls not
the promise nior tbe property of tbe labourer.
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD
tinence.

(B.C.)-limper-

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe capital and
the geods belong to another party. It is
a matter of indifference to tbe labourer
wbat becomes of the capital and the goods,
and I tbink, ln consequence, the law sbould
not be altered.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Tbe bon. gentleman
from Kingstoa bas failed to draw the distinction wbich exists between wbat tbe
workmen are entltled to and really posses
with refereuce to theïr wages and their
bours o! labour, and tbe exercise of wbat I
would call tyrann3' over tbose who employ
tbem, and aiso the exercîse of tyranny over
those fellow-workers wbo do not join the
union but are quite willing to continue te
work witb tbeir employers at the wages
tbey are willlag to pay. There ls a vast disWe are
tinction between tbe two things.
not doing any injury to the labouring classes. We are not treating them unkindly or
refusing te bear tbem. We bave granted
tbern very f ull protection Ia regard to ail
their acknowledged rlgbts, but we do take
the stand -which bas been taken bere before,
and 1 trust will be maintnined stili, that
wben tbey go beyend. requiring wbat is
necessary and ixseful for tbem and try ta
interfere with a matter over wbicbi tbey

JUNE 23, 1903
should bave no control whatever, tbey go
tea far, and especialiy I think we ought to
try and guard the rlghts of our fellow-men
who are unwlliig to join the unions and
The amenddesire to continue at work.
ment of the hon. gentlemarn frdrn Wellington Is w.ise and judiciaus, under the circunistances which have been already narrated
to us. The question bas been s0 tully discussed here before us, and the decision of
the Senate corne to on former occasiobis 80
unanimaus, I think. we should still adbere
ta that décision and throw ont the Bill.
Han. Mr. SULLIVÂN-In explanation 1
may say that I did not state that I would
vote for the Bill. I wouid not vote for It,
but I say that It should be allowed ta follow
the course of other Bis. I do not see 'why
it should be so harsbiy treated: coming as
it does tram a. section of the comrnunlty
wbo are entitled ta some considération. I
dld not discuss the merits of the Bill at ail.
Han. Mr. VIDAL-Because the BU11bas
been s0 fully and abiy discussed before. At
this period of the session, ta give It the saine
treatment as a new Bill would occupy a
grent leng-tb of tirne. Being n public BU!I,
it would be referred ta a Committee of the
Whale Hlouse, and lt wouid occupy a great
deai of time. I notice lu the Bill Itself the
introducers have evidently had ln their minds
a sense of tbe danger to wbIch it ivas ex.posed of being rejected, for ln the last clause
they put ln what they think wouid bie a
sufficieut guarantee that thiere would-be no
objection ta It on the part of capitaiists and
employées, «but although it reads rery well
and fair, I do not thtnk it wouid have the
least eff ect ln preventing the exercise of this
tyrannical power If we passed thils 13i1. It
really professes ta say that :
1.2. Notwitbatanding anything lu this Act contained no label shall be put or placed upon any
goods, wares. merchandlse or other praduct of
labour -without the consent af the owner ur
praprietar af such gaads, wares, merchandise or
other product af labour firat had and obtained.
It sounds very Weil, but I do not tblnk It
amnounts ta anything.

469

Thîey form a cambine and fix a price. Talk
about Canada being a free country ý We are
aiiythilng else but a free country. You cannat buy a tan of coal except throughi a comnbine. I know this, because I bave the proof
ln my possession. I wrote ta a man who
contrais the coal ta a large extent, and 1
was toid that I could not get a carload of
It unless I wanted it for my own bouse.
If I wanted ta seil It, I mnust first gtve a
man ln Wolseley $5 for bis share, because
tbey oniy ailow ane maxi In the sarne place
ta seli coal. Tbiey use their powers af monopoly and will oniy seli ta one man lu a town
and that man caxi charge you whatever lie
pleases. I must buy frarn tliat mani and
pay bis price. When I carne ta buy a thonsand feet of lumber, it la the sarne. There
Is no article more needed in the Nortb-West
than lumber. I needed a carlaad of lumber
the other day wben I was nt borne, but I
was toid ' you cannot buy It from Us; YOu
must buy It tram' the merchant at your
place.!
Hon. Mr. DEVER-That Is a trade union.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Yes, of another kid.
Thé cotton men and aimost ail the matnfacturera bave farmed combines by wbiclb
they regulate tbe prices. I arn appased ta
that, and I arn apposed ta this legislation.
I voted for the anti-Combine Bill of Hon.
Clarke Wallace, whlch was tbrawn out biy
this Flouse. Lt was a good Bill. I do nat
blame the labouring mea so much. They flnd
that the manufacturers bave formed comnbines ta nmire money aut of their labour. I arn
opposed ta labouring men forming combines,
because thiere Is enough demand to-day ln the
country ta pay every man good fair wages.
I do not believe this Bill is right, and 1
Wauld vote against a Bill supporting comnbines of any kind lu Caniada, because I
believe they are more Injurions ta the country to-day tban tbe trade unions. A Bill
passedl Its third reading in this Flouse taday ta reatrict and regulate Chinese Immigration. I think It Is the greatest outrage
ever perpetrated iu Canada. I condemneli
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I am opposed ta thxis the late government for lrnposing a tax on
Bill, but not because I ar n sympatby witlb Chinese Immigrants, and I condemu this
the manufacturers. There Is no more tyran- also. The Idea of preventing a British subnical class of people iu Canada to-day tian ject from corning to Canada unless lie is
I know thiat in the prepared ta pay $500, la absurd. There Is
the manufacturers.
North-west Territories I canuot buy a thou- one wise provision ln 11, that the Act shahl
sand feet of lumber fromn the manufacturera. not came into force before January next.

470

SEINATE

that It was on the Orders for to-day, baving
been unfortunately absent wlien the order
was fIxed for to-day. I wlsh to have an
opportunity of presenting amendments whiCh
I tblnk should be incorporated in the Bill,
and it 18 only wltli a vlew of belng perfectly fair to the promoters of the Bill that I
SECOND READINGS.
propose the postpoflemeflt, In order that -1
now and let inembers
Bill (85) An Act to incorporate thie Berlia, may give the notice
Huron Rail- have an opportunity of readlng the amendWaterloo, Wellesley and Lake
ments.
way Company.-(Hou. Mr. McMullen.)
The SPEAKER-I thlnk the object of the
Bill (169) An Act to confer on the Commissioner of Patents certain powers for the hiou. gentleman would be attalned If the
relief of James Sinclair 3icDougall.-(HoII. lion. promoter of the Bill would agree to
Mr. Gibson.)
postpone the third readlng untîl to-morrow.
respecting the London
Bill (68) An Act
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
and Port Stanley Railway Company.-(Hon. lion. gentleman from Toronto should lad!Mr. Vidai.)
cate wliat ameudments lie desires to make
to the Bill, and lie miglit also take the opporIMPERIAL AGENCY BILL.
tunity, when the third readlng is moved,
AMmNVIMENTS CONCURRED IN.
to sulimit bis amendments or niove Its reHon. Mr. OWENS moved concurrence In reference to the commlttee. I mlght say
tlie aniendments made by the Standing Coin- to the bion. gentleman that almost every
mittee on Banklng and Commerce to Bill suggestion that was made by those who were
(71) An Act to lacorporate thie Imperlal opposlng the Bill, In the way of ameadment,
Agency.
was acoepted. The name 'was clianged.
The motion was agreed to.
There was an objectionable clause ln the
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-On looking at Bill whlcli gave power to the trustees- or
the Bill It seems to me that It requires some board of directors to divest theniselves of
amendment. I therefore, suggest that the the responslbility attaclied to their position
consideration of -the amendments lie post- by relegatlng it to a committee. Tbat clause
poaed until Thiursday next. In the mean- was struck out of the Bill, and I thilik that
I wll give notice of tlie amendments
tie,
was ail the amendments which were sugwhlcli I desire to bave made to the Bill.
gested. Wlietlier there are any other ImHon. Mr. OWENS-This Bill nas very portant amendments necessary I do flot
fully discussed ln the Committee on Bank- k.now. Tlie gentlemen of the commlttee wil
ing and Commerce and ail the ameadments remember distlnctly tliat It was discussed
whlcb were suggested were accepted by tlie for a long Urne and almnost every ameadment
promoters. When the Bill 'came before the tliat was proposed was accepted by the coinHouse last week It was specially asked tbat mlttee, notwitbstandlng the fear that was
It should stand over until to-day. If the expressed by those wlio were promoting it
hou. gentleman latended to move any amend- that tliey would not have tume to send it
ments, lie sbould bave given notice and back to the House of Commons for ratifibrouglit them up to-day. He bas lad non' cation. 0f course the commlttee tool. a
four days to do it in, and I think It n'ould very proper position. Their position n'as
lie very unfair to the promoters of the Bill that that was not a question that they ought
to bave it beld over for a longer time. The to consider wlien they had a Bill before
motion Is not In order, la my opinion.
tbem that required amendment, whether the
Billlied time to go back to' the House of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is quite ln order.
duty was to revise
Hon. Mr. KERR-I have no intention Commons or not. Our
the Bill. 1 amrn ot a and amend where we thouglit ameadments
wbatever of delaying
of the outside parmember of the Committee on Banking and would be in the interest
no opportunity of pre- ties interested. I would suggest to the lion.
Commerce and had
at present,
senting objections tbere, nor n'as I aware gentleman to allon' this to go

If an election takes place before tbat, the
ýAct may not be put In force. Any government ouglit to lie asliamed that dlaimas to
be a British goverament to introduce legislation of tliat klnd.
The motion was agreed to.

JUNE 23, 1903
and if be desires to make amendments, to
do so on the third reading.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-The bon. gentleman mlgbt allow these amendments to go
as a notice and move them at the third
readlng.
Hon. 3fr. KERR (Toronto)-I have no
desire wbatever to delay the Bill aïd I
shaîl be pleased to adopf the suggestion of
the hon. member.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I inove the suspension
of' the 41st ruie ln so far as it relates to
this Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of the Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
the hon. gentleman proposes that the third
readlng be fixed for to-morrow ?

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mfr. OWENS-If tbe bon. gentleman
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
from Toronto would give us notice of what not suppose it makes much difference, for we
amendments he proposes to make, I will cannot amend IL.
defer the third reading until to-morrow, If
Hon. Mr. SCOTTe-The money Is ail spent.
that will suit the hon, gentleman.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE *BOWELL-As
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I would suggest Thurs- there is only one copy, we cannot have an
day.
opportunity of studying It. This Bill, if I
understand lt, la to provide for expenditures
The SPEAXER-The hon. gentleman from
this
Toronto ays he la prepared to band In bis of money prior -to the 30th of Jane of
notice now. The hon, gentleman from Argen- year, and that were not covered by the estiteuil liadt the right, ander the raie, to have mates of hast year ?
this Bill. read a third time to-day. He bas
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.
deferred II; until to-morrow, and I do not; see
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-So
wby we should inslst on interfering witb that maires a sum of $1,3S4,016.51 expended
the rights of the member ln charge of the ln exoess of the amoant required for carryBill.
lng on the different works for the year endThe motion was agreed to.
ing the 3Oth lune. I notice ln this Bill there
is no hess than $30,998.67 for civil governSUPPLY BILL.
ment. That seems to be a very large amount
for civil government. It la made up of any
FIRST AND SECOND READING.
number of Items and I see a good many of
A message was received from the House tbem of a character wbich bas characterized
of Commons wlth Bill (206) An Act foi
Supply Bill for a number of years past,
rthe
granting to His Majesty certain sumà of ' notwithstanding anything ln the Civil Sermoney for tbe public service for tbe fin- vice Act to tbe contrary.'
ancli year endIng BOth Jane, 1903.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those words bave
The Bill was rend the firat tIme.
beeni ln for twenty-fIve years now.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-In moving the second
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
reading of thîs Bill, I mlght say it is to covei is the old story. I lîke to hear it. I have
expenses that have already been lncurrei simply to say, with reference to that story,
during tbe carrent year. Tbe amount li that whihe it Is true to a certain extent, it
$1,M8,016.51. Tbe chief Items are Yakoi has neyer been carried as -far as it bas been
teiegrapb, $205,000 ; North-west Mounte< of late years, and I will take the opportuniity
Police, $150,000; nhlitia, $103,000; pubIfi upon some future occasion to read a page
buildings, $101,000, &c.
or two to show bow often the iaw bas been
1 violated ln this respect and the amounts
The SPEAKER-I would suggest, wit]
for me to
a vlew of facllitating matters and prevent covered by it. -it Is impossible
present year to the statement, aling difficalty, that; the 41st raie be suspended 1, add the
and that the Bihl be read the second ti e thougb I see the expression ' notwitbstandService Act' lai
now and fixed for a third reading to-morrow ing anytbing ln the Civil
jncreasiflg every year.
then discussion could takze place.

SEX-\ATE

472

Hon. Mr. JONES-The country is grow- least. I see that on the Intercolonial aud
Prince Edward Island Rallway there was
Ing.
That is a subject
it ? spent last year $937,983.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
for discussion soine other turne. Wle will
I arn glnd of that. That is sometliing new
try to shiow to the country how that Interaise. The boen. gentleman a littie to the
and wliy it
south of tlie lien, gentleman frein Toronto colonial Railway ls managed
costs s0 mucli.
told us thie othier day thint since thîs geverninent came lnto power tlicy lave disHon. Mr. FERGUSO-I- suppose tbese
covered a new Canada, and now the hon. supplies that we -are now votlng are tlîe
gentleman from Toronto, w'he represents a final supplemeatarles for the yenr endlng
very large ladustry which ls increasinig very the 30th of the present month ?
rapldly-aud 1 arn glad te know tbat-In1 think
foris us that the country is grewing aise. .Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk not.
It is very gratifying te knew these facts, tliey nre only the pressing eies, wlîlcl the
and It is still more gratîfylag te knew tliey House concurred ln yesterday.
are truc, but lt Is net se gratlfylng te knew
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And the finnl supthnt tlie law which lins been placed upen
plementary supplies of this .vear are not
tlie statute-book la order te goverii this
ernbraced In It?
country economicnlly, Is violated every time
parliament meets. That Is growing mudli
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not tlinkl. it.
more rapidly than the hon. gentlemann's InHon. Mr. FERGUSOX-I w-as going to
I lave flot liad
dustry, or the country.
suggest, If that were the case, that nt the
turne te study. this Bill fully, but I thlnk
there are sorne very interesting items ln It. third readlng to-morrow, flic lion. gentlemnni
I notice even tlie Senate exceeded Its appro- miglit give the House tlue Information if
I hiope thc lion. Secre- these were the final supplies, or-, even If
printion by $2,300.
tary of State will, tbroughi tlie dlairman of they were net; lie probably knows wliat is
the Internai Economy Committee, see tlint yet to corne. He miglit give ns a stateinent
tliere is a larger suin put -in this year ln 0f the entire suin tlint*lias been votcd for
MNy lion. friend could
erder te prepare fer us a committee room the present year.
la whlch we can lie more coinfertable thani easlly obtain thiat. We miglit obtaini it for
ourselves, but lie lias the uieans of obtainwe have been in tlie past.
iiig it more readily tlian any of us, and
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Henr, hear.
when that Is submltted Nve wIll be able te
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIE-I knew take up the pleas put forward by tlie governiHe ment and by the lion. gentleman fremn Tomy hon. friend's desire fer pure air.
likes It, and I can stand almost anythlng, ronto, that the country is growing.
'We
still I found, after the experience we lad a can compare the growtli of population, whiich
short tirne aga du tînt room, wllcl was 1 think wonld probabiy lie about 10 per cent
crowded te excess on a hot day, that I liad since Sir RIliard Cartwright declared tlint
the benefit of a liendachie ail the rest of the an expenditure of thirty-six millions %vas a
day, and net hcing- as yonng as I wns eig-lity sharneful expenditure foi 4,800,000 peCople.
T
years ago, I tliink It is about turne 1 began W e will be able to compare tlie growth of
te look after rny lenltli.
the expenditure-with tlie growtlî of populaHon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie country should take tien, and It will possibly bie founld tluat
whîle the population lias lincrensed oiy 10
care ef ail the good men la It.
or il per cent, the expenditure lias laHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie crensed 80 per cent.
lion. minîster refers te biniself ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose wve wiil
Hon.Mr.SCOT-Iwasrefrrig t my
those Bis printed for to-unorrow ?
-Iwsefrigtmyhave
r. SO
ho.
Hon. M.Nr.
SCOTT-The Supply Bill1 is uee
Hon. Sir MýACKiENZiE BOWELL-I 'arn
î'yrinted.
giad my hon. friend takes care of himscif,
and I am getting at tliat age tint I desire
Hon. Mr'. LANDRY-We get it g(ieirallY
te foilow lis example, ln tbat respect at aifter the sessioni.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE

BOWELL.

JUNE 24, 1903
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Yes.
Mr. LANDRY-I sbould like to getý
it for to-morrow.
-Hou.

Hon. Sir MNACKENZIE BOWELL--I
shouid like to know If the Secretary of State'
underÉtood the question put by the hon.
It 'was, If 1
gentleman from Marshfieid.
understood hlm, as to wbether there was
iikely to be another estimate for expenditures whieh had to be made for the yenr
ending thei 30th of this montbh.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I think I answered tbnt.
I dId not consIder that this Bill embraced nll
the items of the present year. It embraces
those that were most pressing ln which payment had to be made Immediatey.
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-The hon. gentleman wiii b-now about it to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I am quite sure
1 know about It now.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was rend the second turne.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.

473

Nvithout the petition having been passed
by the Standing Orders Committee. The
Bill should not have been referred until the
petition had been passedl upon by the StandLng Orders Committee. That is the position lni which the CommIttee on Banking
and Commerce found themseIves when they
came to consider that Bill. The« CommIttee
on Standing Orders had a meeting at two
r>'ciock to-day. Unfortunateiy I am flot yet
ln possession of the report, but in that report
there Is a paragraph recommending a suspension of the miles so far as the notice
for this Bill is required. I make this statement so that the House will know exactly
the circumstances ln connection with the
BIIL What course the House wiii see flt
to takre under the clrcumstances, remains
for the good sense of the House te decide.
The Bill shouid not have been referred to
the Banking and Commerce Committee, untii It had been passed upon by the Standing
Orders CommIttee. It was an oversiglit.
The petition wIhI be reported upon as soon
as the report comes to hand, but that report
1s again subject to the rules of the House,
because it contains certain recommendations-a suspension of certain rules. Possibly the report of the Bankling and Commerce
Committee baid better stand until the other
report comes lu.

BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
think the objection Is a littie more than
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three teclinicai.
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Yes.
Prayers and routine pmoceedings.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-The
LUMBERMÂN'S FIRE INSURANCE COM- 65thi mule provides that the Standing CoinPANY BILL.
mittee can consider a question of that kind
after the report of the Committee on StandREPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
ing Orders bas been placed before thein.
Hon. Mfr. DRUMMOND from the Coincommittee this morning had no report
mittee on Banking and. Commerce reported The
froin that committee and consequently thiey
Bill (68) An Act to incorporate the Luinhiad no basis upon whIch to investigate the
berman's Fire Insurance Compnny, without
provisions of the Bill to see whether it
ametîdment. He said : The note nppended
exceeded the law, or whether they were
to this Bill was consIdered te be caiied for
asking for more powers than the miles would
on the part of the committee, but It renfly
give them. If I understand the objection to
refers only to a technical point. No objec- this Bill, it is this : It is nsking for powers
tion was raised by any member of the cointo do business ln nhl parts of Canada, but
mittee, and I trust the House wili sec Its
the advertising that Is necessary to be donc
way to remedying the defect.
ln the different provinces ln which the OP68 was rcferrcd te eration of the Bill Is to take effect was flot
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-Bill
the Comniittee on Banking nnd Commerce, donc. The advertisIng only extended to the
Ottaira, 'Wednesday, Jiiie 24~, 1903.

474

SEXNATE

provinces of Ontario and Quebec as I Un.derstand it.
Hu r YOUNG-And Manitoba.
Hon.31r.and,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
the Bill Itself empowers the company to go
into operation and do business ln the whoie
of the Dominion. Whether that 18 considered
technicai or flot, or what the committee

has been favourabiy reported on by the Com-

znlttee on Standing Orders.
That petition had flot been reported on,
therefore, the second reading shouid
flot have taken place. That is the position
of the case. That Bill was introduced by
petition.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD tB.C.)-The coinmte
eotdo
h
ilt-arcm

of heà Comns aond te Seteonform mending that the ruie be suspended. The
of te Cmmos Seateconormcompany can confine its operations to the
ad th
have reported, I do flot know at present ; provinces in which they advertise. The
but It does seeni to me that If the Bill Is to House can. confine the operation of the Bill
have trie effect that the company niay carry to those provinces, and it la qulte proper
on Its business In ail parts of the Dominion, they shouid do so, there -bas been so mucli
lt shouid be advertised ln ail parts of thxe iaxity ln the matter.
Dominion-tixat Is the principal point. This
The SPEAKER-The report must be postis another Illustration, I ami afraid, of the
loose manner In which we are rapidly drift- poned until to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. McHUGHE-I see no object to
Ing ln the legisiation of this House.
it
be gained by postponIng 1 until to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, Ixear.
However, I move that the consideration of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When the report be an Order for to-morrow.
the motion was first made, the hon. gentleThe motion was agreed to.
mn! In whose charge it was, asked to have
it stand until the Standing Orders ConiUYAD
EBT ON GRCI
mittee couid report. When the question
D
T AD REBATEMONTARIU
PEMNS
came up yesterday It was moved forTRL
INQUIRY.
the second reading without any report
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired of the govhaving been laid before the House from
the Standing Orders Committee, done I ernient :
have no doubt lnnocently by the who]e
What was the amounit that a harvesting
of us, but it only shows the necessity Of biader wea valued at. for dutiable purposes ia
the ate goverament, and
adhering strictiy to the ruIes. Some might 1895. under now for the sanie purpoees ?what ls
It v'aiued at
Also, what was the amount of rebate given
think the objections are of paramount
Importance; others, that it makes no dif- the manufacturera of agricultural lmpiefnents
ln cash ln 1901 and 1902 respectlvely, on goods
ference whether the notice was advertised ln manufactured ln Canada and aold la forelgn
ail the provinces or not If we had had that countries. and to what firms was the rebate
report before us we couid have decided gziven ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Inmportations of baras a committee whether the operations of
the Bill shouId have been confined to On- vesters (binders) were valued for duty purtario and Quebec alone, not havlng asked poses ln 18935 at from $90 to, $100 eachi, acfor furtlier powers by advertising ln the cording to, the size of the shipment, the
other provinces. That Is reaiiy the position, average value of the Importations heing $96
and wouid lt not be better to let this matter for each blader. The present value of bindstand until the report from the Standing ers for duty purposes is $97.
The drawback paid on agricuittîrai imOrders Comniittee bas beea laid before parliament. Thien we can consider tbe pr~o- plements exported from Canada duriîîg tHe
priety of suspending the rules which pro- fiscal years ending 3Oth June, io01 and
1902 Wvas as follows
vide for advertisiag la ail the provinces.
1902.
1901.
e-To
Ho.'Nr YUG-ht h lo.
en-Harris Company, Limited,
ie on.
Hon.31r
YOUG-Wiat
TPoronto and Blrantford -.. $49.781 69 $89,696 54
tiem.an said is absolutely correct. Rule 54
Company,
Plough
Verity
reids as foliows
1,231 16
3,165 96
...
....
Brantford.. ....
Every pri-vate Bi is iatroduced on petition Çocksh.utt Plough Company,
1,224 98
...............
....
Brantford ....
land presented to the Senate after the petitioa
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 24, 1903

47ý

Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-If that reason is a
1902.
1901.
To
J. W. Mann Manufaoturing
gacd one, wby does It net apply ta the
-Company,
Brockvllle.. . .$ 265 15$
289 go
Prost & Wood. Smiths Pale......1,893 37 other Items ?
Nozoa Company. Limited.
Hon. 1fr. SOOTT-Tbere bas been no unileverooll.... .... .. .... 1,61 80
Peter Hamititon Psbnutaoturformity.
62 37
Inz Company. Peterborough
Company,
OouithardScotit
90 Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I think we sbould
Oshawa..............167
bave some unifornIlty.
Totale........54.686 87 $93.953'75
The SPEAKER-As I understand, these
letters are not put at the third reading of a
THIRD REÂDINGS.
bave been on befare. They
Bill (Q) An Act respecting the Nipissing Bll-where they
were flot on lnx tbe cases mentloned when
and Ottawa Railway Company.--Han. Mr.
the BUis came for second reading.
Kerr, Toronto.)
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-But they sbould bave
Bill (123) An Âct to Incorporate the HEuron, Erie and Buffalo Raiway Company.- been.
(Hon. Mfr. Coffey.)
SUPPLY BILL.
Bill (125) An Act ta Incorporate the Guelph
THIRD READING.
and Georgian Bay Railway Company.Hon. Mfr. SCOTT maved the third read(Hon. Mfr. Watson.)
Bill (139) An Act respectlng the St. Mary's ing of Bill (20)6) An Act for granting ta His
River Rallway Company.--(Hon. Mr. Wood.) Majesty certain sums of money for the
public service for tbe financlal year endlng
Bill (140) An Âct to incorporate the Cardiff BOth June, 1903. He sald:« Yesterday, I
Railway -Company.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
think the leader of the opposition asked for
Bill (144) An Act respecting the Interpro- some information ln reference ta the supplevincial and James Bay Railway Company.- mentary estimates for tbe current year. I
MHon. Mfr. Landerkin.)
tbink I stated. from memory that this Bill
Bill (177) An Âct respectlng the Klondike contains only a portion of the Items, tbe
Mines Railway Company.-4Hon. Mfr. Wat- mast pressing for payment. The total auj>plementary estimate for the present year la
son.)
$5,090,000, af wbich the appropriations lu
Bill (149) An Act ta Incorporate the Hamilthîs Bill are tbe moat pressing part.
ton, Gait and Berlin Rallway Company..Han. Sir. MACKENZIE BOWELL--Has
MHon. Mfr. Kerr, Toronto.)
the Bill wbicb tbe bon. gentleman is moving
Bill (142) An Act respecting the Elgin
and Havelock Railway Company.-(Hon. been printed and circulated ?
Han. Mfr. SCOTT-It Is neyer usual ta,
Mfr. Wood.)
Act respecting the Good circulate the Supply Bill.
Bill (199) An
Shepherd Reformatory ln the city of St.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Haw
John, New Brunswlck.-ffHon. Mfr. Scott.)
are bon. gentlemen going ta discuss It ?
MINUTES 0F THE SENATE.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Althaugb this Bill
bas been passed, I should lîke ta knaw why
thîs order, and the fourth and second ardere
of the day, do not Indicate on the notice
paper that Bis have been printed ln EnghIsh or in French. I know, as a matter of
fact, that tbey are published ln both Ianguages, but I do flot see why it is flot imdicated ln the order paper.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-Very often ini the last
stages of a Bill that is omitted. lb

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I bave neyer known It
ta be discussed, i thirty years of rny experience ta tbis Chamber. When I was an
the opposite side, la the position my hou.
friend la, I took occasion ta maire some remarks on the Supply Bi!l wbiea the guns
were firing for prorogation, but I neyer
knew the Items ta be challenged except lu
general debate.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
read a Bill yesterday that was not prlnted
or before the House. Now we are asked

476

SENATE

BOWELII
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
ta read It the thIrd time tbougli we have not
want ta cali the attention of the lion, gentleseen the Bill.
man to the neoessity for hiaviiig tbat Bill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hou. gentlemen know it nt least prepared and printed, otlierwise
la the Supply Bill for $1,340,000. If 1 arn the Governor or Deputy Governor will have
breaking a ruIe that has not been observed no Bil ta whieli lie eau give bis assent. The
iii thlrty years, 1 shaîl submit ta the judg- explanation furnished by the hon. gentleman
nient of the House, but we must caunter- ls, I believe, the correct one. After leaving
niand the order for the Governor ta came the Senate yesterday, I examined the supplementary estimates that had been presentdown to-morrow.
ed ta the House of Commons, and find that
Hon. SIr MACKENZIE, BOWELL-I the present Bill covers a portion of the five
wish lit ta be distinctly understood I arn million which they are askIng a vote for,
makIng no objections, but It seems ta mue ta being expenditure over and above the fiftybe irregular. My recollection la not the three million that was voted last year. Wlien
sme as the Secretary of State's. My re- the question was asked wbat the appropriacollection is tbat the Bill laid befare the tion for last year was, It was very dexterHanse coataining the estinmates for the year ously answered. The Secretary of State
ls always prlnted. I arn nat objecting, ouly very Innocently sald that you may take tif ty
It seems irregular.
millions, but It does not follow that it sbould
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It wais niot prlnted lu be ail spent. We find by the estimates
the other Hlouse. It passed there about liaif now before us, that tliey nlot ouly speut
an boeum before It came here and was iii a the fifty million, but five million smre hundsingle print. If It liad been printed we red tliousand In addition.
wauld bave bad copies of it liere. 1 was
Hon. Mr. 'SCOTT-My lion. frieîîd k-nows
asked yesterday what wus the total vote last very well that is not the style of bookyear. 1 arn ln a position ta give tbe liifar- keeping tbat ls kept.
ination to the House. It was fifty million
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BONVELLj-I
odd. 0f course, It does nat follow that ahl
care nlot about your Inticate bookkeeping,
that rnoney was spent
1 ar nflt going to discuss tlie question of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The bookkeepiug at alI.
The lion, gentleman
government spent a goad deal more.
asked for an appropriation last year, accordown statement,
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Tliat was the vote last lng ta the bon. gentleman's
of fifty million when lu fact It was fiftyyear, and these five millions lu the Suppîy
Now bie ls asking by the
Bill, aithougi nlot before the Chamber naw, nine million.
mupplementary estimates for an additional
will bie added ta that. Tiiere ls a Supply
to cover the over-expenditure
Bill now before parliamnent. and oiily a por- five million
during this year, otlierwise the Bill menus
tion of it lias corne up ta this Cliamber. The
Supply BillI s for the current year, five nothiag.
Han. Mr. WATSON-On certain special
million dollars. One million three hundred and forty-faur thousaud dollars con- services. The bon. gentleman kuows very
tained in this Supply Bill is a part of welI that we caunot take a vote for aniy
the Èive million dollars that requires ta lie special purpose, and apply it to another that
voted for the supplernentai estimates for ls short. There ls fia evideace that tif ty
the present year, whicli money bias lieei million bas been spent.
practically speut. The year expires lu a Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If
few days, and there ivas a pressing necessity the money lias not been spent, then they
ta meet demands thiat have corne iii. Take should not ask for ItL What the bon. gentlethe Instance of the Yukon telegrapli-that man mens to say ls thut tliese are ail for
15 te pay the wag-es whIll are iii arrear special purposes.
from January-and other pressing payHon. Mr. WATSON-Not altog-ether.
mients of that kiud, and the other Hanse
consented ta that going througli for the pur'- Hon. Sir Mý\ACKÊBN\ZIE BOWELL-There
are soieof thema to override the Civil Serpose of meeting expenses.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 24, 1903
vice Act. That was flot unforeseen. The
estimates, that have been laid before the
*Hanse
of Gommons are for an additional
live million to cover an expenditure during
the year. The libon, gentleman tramn Manlitoba says probably the other fifty millions
have flot been spent. 'Perliaps they have
not. The Auditar General's Report 'wll
tell us. What I wanted ta cail attention
to was the fact that flot only did they spend
the amount of the appropriation last year,
but they spent a much larger sum, and,
If my Information la correct tbere will be
other supplementary estimates brought dawn
shortly to caver othier expenditures.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I shiould Ilie ta
know from the government If i is their Iutention ta press the adoptian of the Bill
to-day.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-So we are called upon
ta pasa a Bill that la not even printed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh
yes, It Ia liere.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Not dlstrlbuted. We
are ask-ed ta shut oiur eyes and swallow that
Bill and vote confidence In tie government,
against the miles of this House, and againat
the mules of comman sense. That la what
we are asked ta do. The hon, gentleman
said juat now it was generally done ln the
Iast days of a dylng session, such a practice
could not lie tollowed now for we are at
the beginning of the session -and it la absurd
for us ta be asked ta swallow- this Bill
wlthau± a word-without even the right ta
claim that the iules of the Hause shauld be
observed. When we have rules we should
abide by them. Would the han. minister
let us hope that the next Bill of that klnd
lntroduced here wlll be prlnted, so that we
may have an opportunity ta see into the
figures' a Ilttle ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I ani sure my liou.
frlend would not ask me ta make any rash
promises. He bas the estimates. They are
distmlbuted wlien they are brouglit down ta
parliament For Instance, the five million
estimnatesHon. Mr. LANDRY-I have that.
Hon.. Mr. SCOTT-This only embmaces ane
million four hundred thausand of Items thal
are mentioned here.

477

Hou. MT. LANDRY-But I do flot know
what they are.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT- 1 read a few of them.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-Twa of them, one of
$30,000 and one of $3,000.
Hon. Mr. FERGtISON-Yesterday, wlien
thîs subject was before the House, I askedi
the hon. Secretary of State If hle would be
klnd enaugh, -when It came up to-day, ta
give us a statement of liaw muchi money
was brouglit dawn lncluded hI the varions
estlmates submltted bath durlng last pariament and this parliament and for the purpose of the present year-the year explrlng
on the SOtli June. 1 do flot know that my
hon. frlend bas given that Information. If
If lie has It In is lianda, It wauld ba very
useful ta us, and I thlnk It la flot out of
place ta discuas this matter fully now, because we aIl knaw that the Supply Bill
often cames ta us so near the end of the
session tbat there la na possible tIme ta
discusa ft, and as this la a matter of supply, and as It cames ta us when we have
time Ia cansider It, I think It la very desirahie we shauld know tramn my han. frieud
haw mucli money la lncluded ln ail the varloua estimates submitted ta parliament last
year and this year, for the purposea of tixis
year.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did not-know my bon.
frIand asked for the present year, because
I am flot ln a position ta give *that. Ail the
estimates for the caming year have not
been brougbt down. An ,estimate waa
brought down for the current year-that la
the $5,000,000.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I am speaking of
the current rear-not the Inconxîng year.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I rend the figures. Last
year the vote was $50,061,000, and ta that
would be added now ta the fIve millon odd.
That woÛld be fifty-five million add, vated
for the year ending SOtb of the present
montb. I am unable ta gîve the figures for
the present year, because tbey are flot ail
now befare parliament.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I t.hlnk my han.
friend la not correct lu the figures lie la
giving us, as the amunts that are voted are
for the current year. I have the main esti-

18

SENATE

mates for tbat year la rny possession ; I
qnly obtained them about five minutes ago,
and I find the total arnount estirnated for
1902-3 was $53,3G,638.51. That Is In the
main estimates for that year. Then there
were supplerntary estirnates brouglit down
for the same year, sessional paper No. 5
iast year, and flint embracedl $5,090,9G8.27.

$36,00,000 was a shameful amount to expend on behalf of a population of 4,SOO,000.
Now, wvith a population increased ten or
eleven per cent, we bave the expenditure
incereased over 80 per cent.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is growlng, ls it lot ?

Hon. Mr. 'SCOTT-I wishi to say that I
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That Is about the
went to Mr. Fraser, who keeps the accounts
sarne as the one brouglit down this year.
ln the Finance Department, and asked hlmn
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But it Is for the to give me a staternent of last year's expenpurposes o! this current year. Then agaîn dlture, and hie sent it and rnarked it in this
I find there were some other supplementary book, giving the fifty million and sixty-one
est1m'ates brouglit down last year, as A, B, thousand as the main, and the current estiand C, supplerntary to flant whicb I have mate as $5,090,000. It Is In the first column
Just read, the one rnarked No. 4. I really of thisÈ blue-book : 'Estlmated expenditure
have flot as rnuch frne as I sbould like to of fiscal year ending 30th June.'
look at the figures. Sessional Paper No. 5
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My observations
that I have al1ready referred to, was for the
fiscal year eadiag 3Oth June, 1903, aad I have have entlrely an application to the present
givea the figures for ItL Then No. 5a for year.
the sarneyear there was another set brouglit
Hon. Mr,. SCOTT-That purports to give
I
down that coaslsted of $5,639,301.79.
that there are
very sure that 1 have aýl of týhese 1903. It may be possible
arn not
statutory payments fliat are flot included.
suplementary estimates la my bands,
are certain suais
but I certainly have the main one, which I realiy cannot say. There
tliat are voted by statute that do not appear
exceeds fifty-tbree million dollars, and I
have two supplerntary estirnates la ad- In what are called the estimates, aad then
dition to that, one of wblch amounts to there are other sums which have to be .voted
$5,M9,000, and another of which Is $5,663,- regularly every year. I cannot tell whether
000--about $64,000,000 embraced Ia those es- It embraces ail these.
timates. I have some otiier papers tu my
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I canband. I went to the Distribution Office a not understand where the hou. gentleman
!ew moments ago and. asled for thec asti- gets the fi! ty million.
mates covering the year, and I find one of
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The first column, page
the î>apers I have referred to, for the year
ending 3Oth J une, 1902, but here I have, tour.
nt aIl events, three estimates covering the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
current year, -,Vhlich wiIl expire cii tle 3Othi referring to that page, aad the first column
of ihis month and these three estimates shows the sum to have been fifty-nine milamount ln round aumbers to $64,000,0)00. lions, not fi! ty millions. What I am referring
Yesterday, when rny hon.. friend frorn Tor- to Is the estîmates for the fiscal year eading
ont-a remlided my hon. friend the leader of 30th June, 1903. If you tura to page four
the opposition thiat the country was grow- you find a sumrnary o! the estlmated exlng, I said evidently more tlhan the country penditure for the fiscal year ending Juxie,
is growing. As I thien renarked, flie coun- 30, 1903, together wlth the sums graated
try lias grown from ten or eleven per cent for the financial year endiug June, 1903,
la population. I think thant would be about aad a statemeat showlng the Increase
the utrnost limit that the late census and a or decrease for each service. If you look
fair estirnate of what bas happened since at the other column of figures you ýfind the
the late ceasus was takzen -ould show- expenditure was over fifty-three millions of
a growth of ten or eleven per cent since Sir dollars. That is the statemeat made by nîy
Richard Cartwrighit made that farnous de- hon. friend from Marshfield. Now, you are
claration la 1893 that an expendîture of askfing for supplementary estimates for the
I-on Mr. FERGUSON.

JUJNE 24, 1903

479

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-If there are any
same year, amounting to over five millions
of dollars. That would make it slxty-four very Important amendments we oughit to
, millions of dollars. I do flot know what know.
statement the clerks of the department bave
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT- I do not thiuk there
gîven the Secretary of State, but there Is the are. It ls making It more deflnite and
officiai document.
specillc than before.
(B.C.)-The
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-It would be only
difference between the flfty million and the fair to the House If my hon. friend'would
fit ty-tbree million le this : there are over state *bat are the more Important changes
two millions of dollars for capital account. ln the ian'.
The actual amount, as shown by the Publie
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not really ln a
Accounts of last year, ls $50,757,391, and
when you add some two millions odd spent position to do that, because 1 have not the
on capital account, it makes It over $W3,- various changes ln the Ian' that bave been
000,000. This ls money asked for ln the enacted. This seems to me to be a consolisupplernenthry estimates this year to com- dation.
plete last year's account ; what becornes of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thfle
the surplus of $7,000,000 that the Minister last clause repeals the .&ct of 1896.
of Finance dlaims he had ?
Han. Bir. SCOTT-The Act of 189(0 ls reHon. Mr. BAKER-It disappears.
pealed and some other clauses are repealed.
The. motion was agreed to, and the Bill If It n'hll meet the vlews of the House, n'e
can discuse It more fully ln committee and
n'as read the third time and passed.
let the second reading go now. Then there
SECOND READINGS.
le a penalty for allowlng diseased animaIs
Bill (N) An Act for the relief of Stephen to be at large.
Wllson.-<Han. Mr. Young.)
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Is that a nen' proBill (97) An Act respectlng the Manitoulin vision ?
sud North Shore Railway Company.--(Hon.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I do flot think sa. They
Mr. Dandurand.)
have revlsed It ail. Tbere bave been various
ANIMAL CONTAGIOUS DISEASES BILL. Acts passed tram time ta time, and they
have revised and codlfied tliem. I do not
SECOND READING POSTPONED.*
thlnk there Is anytbing very new ln the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- Bill, 'because, as far as my reading gaes, It
lng of Bill (194) An Act respectlng lnfec- bas aIl been the law of the country.
tiaus or -contaglous diseases affectlng antHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thls
mals. He sald: This ls a Bill ernanatlng
from the Department of Agriculture, the le a very Important Bill and If the bon.
object of wblch is to prevent the spread of gentleman would ask the Department or
infectious and cantagious diseases among Agriculture ta supply hilm n'ltl a precise
animals. Brlefly, It may be stated the &ert sbowIng wbat tbe changes are, tben he
clause imposes a penalty on an owner wbo, n'ould be enabled ta lay tbem befare the
on perceiving the appearance of disease Senate and n'e n'ould be better able ta underamong his herd, rails to give notice to the stand the effet they would have. I am aimost ashamed to keep making these sugminîster, and alsogestions, I bave made them so otten, and
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is thîls a new Bill this grumbling and findlng fault n'ith
or a consolidation of exlstlng Acte ?
the want of knowledge of the minisHon. Mfr. SCOTT-I thlnk it ls a consoli- ter, I amn tired of myseif. If be ls as
tired of it hlmself as I arn, be n'auld see
dation.
ta it that he bad thls Information ln his
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-What are the new bands befare be maved the Bill. I n'ould
provisions of the Bill ?7
suggest that he have the order discharged
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Perhaps we liad better and set It down for second readlng at a later
taký- that up la Cornmittee of the Whole. period and have the information liere, so

480

SNT

that It wilI flot lie necessary to have the
Act of 189 to compare lit with the Bill,
'as we may have to do with the Bill which
he proposes to move the second reading of
shortly-the Customs Act:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We hiave hiad no
change In this law stince the enactinent of
the Revised Statutes, excepting one amendment ln 1896. I have neot referred to It,
but I remenaber It very well, for I bad the
honour of submltting it to this House rnyself on behaîf of the Department of Agriculture. It was princlpally intcnded to bring
the health of borses exported from the country under tbe saine category as cattie. Withi
tbat exception, there lias been practically no
change la the law since 1886. Now, I take
it for granted, that faèt, that the government would not sulimit a consolidation
of the laws en this subject unless there
were some very Important changes to be
made. It it were merely a change of phraseology, they 'wouid scarcely go to the trouble
of presentlng a completely new Bill consolldatlng the Act of 1896 wlth the law as It
stands on the Ilevîsed Statutes. On that
account, 1 think my hon. frIeRd shouid ask
bis colleague Vie Minister of Agriculture,
to give hlm some Information about his
Bill. It -may be found tbat there are some
matters we sbiould understand before proceeding to the committee stage wlth the
Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bad aiready anticipated Vie necessity for the information hon.
gentlemen have- asked for, and the department promised to send It to me. It bas not,
bowever, arrived, and that la why 1 suggested to supply It at the next stage of
the Bill. It cannot be assented to now, and
there la no reason why we should press
It forward and I shaîl be quite wiiling to let
the second readlng stand until Friday.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That ls satisfactory.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move that the o rder
of the day be discharged and the second
readlng of this Bill be made an order for
Friday next.
The motion was agreed to.
CUSTOMS ACT AMENDMENT -BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (174) An Act to amend the OuaHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

toms Act. He said:- This la a Bill made Up
of detaila, no new principie being involved.
It is designed for Vie more simple working of the department as the resuit of experience. The first clause Is to make It clear
Vint Vie surtax ls to be treated as a duty
would be for customs purposes. The next
clause is Io constitute the board of customns,
and the appointment of an assistant coinmissioner is aise provided for.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-MIlIl
the bon. gentleman tell us why thîs additional officer ls required ? That position
waa abolisbed many years ago. When I
first went Into the Customs Department, I
found, after some few years' experience,
that an assistant commissio'ner was net
necessary, and consequently the office was
abolished. M'bat I want te know ls, what
bas arisen since that time to justIfy the
.adding of another officer to the department.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie large increase of
work ls the reason given by the Mînister
o! Customs for the necessity of havlng sucb
an officer. That is the oilly reason lie lias
urged.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there a large lucrease ln the demand for offices ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For Instance, Vie preferential tariff. Involvea a great dent of extra.labour, and other similar points involv-e
an additional staff, aud it la found that
an assistant comnIlasioner lias becoine a
necesslty according, at aIl events, to the
opinion of the Minlater of Customs. Clause
five Is redrafted and amended se that the
declaration ef the board of dustoms as to the
payment of duty wlll flot be applicable to
any_ gooda imported previoua to the tinie
when It comes Into effect. Clause six : the
first change ls to make the invoice lu the
currency of the country Into wlcli the goods
are Imported. This change will be a convenience to importera. Clause seven provides that on any article nlot enu -merated,
mannfactured of two or more materials. tlie
duty shaîl be assesscd at Vie highest rate
at u-bieh it would lie chargeable If the article were composed wholly of the coinponent
material of chie! value. I do net sec xnuch
change ln the Act.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wrotld
fair ?

thlat

bie

JUNE 24, 1903
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They take the Ilighest
Clause eight exteads the limit for
making dlaims as to damaged goods from
ten days to fourteen days. Clause nine extends the time limît for makzing entries.
That bas to be also within fourteen days
ingtead of ten days. The changes are al
of that character. We can dlscuss themn lu
committee.

-value.

Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-There 1s a very
Important change ln clause eleveu.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Clause eleven is a further concession to Importers in regard to
damaged goods, being the same provision
as ini section fifty-Ilve of the present law.
The old law read te the extent of fifty
per cent; uow thîs is for an amount In
excess cf loss of twenty-five per cent on
the whole quantity damaged.
H[on. Mr. MeSWEENEY-In clause six,
subsectien two, it Gays that invoices are
to state the actual prices of goods. What
does that mean 7
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The change ln the
clause is to permit the use of luvoices made
out lu the currency of this country. It is
thouglit the change will be of advantage te
the importera.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
a pity they did flot give the
We cannet understaud It.
hon. frieud has net gîven
mucli attention and study
should have doue.

BOWEL-It la
reasons for that.
1 see that my
the question as
probably as lie

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are only twentyfour heurs In a day, uufortunately.

flot seem te me to bave any force. Au ordinary clerk who understauds figures and
can deduct the thirty-three and a thîrd per
cent from the Invoices of goods importedunder the preferential clause can do the
work Just as well as an assistant commissioner. Hence, the reasen given by the hou.
gentleman lias ne force whatever, and I can
only account for it by assuming that there
la a desire on the part of the minister to appoint somebody la the department te a higher position than he now holda, and give hlm
a larger saiary. A clerk can do ail that Is
necessary te be doue by the a 'ssistant cemmissioner. If the bon. gentleman had said
It was necessàry te have an assistant commissioner te take the place of the commissiener whea he Is absent or sick, then we
could understand it ; but, even ln that case,
It ls net necessary, because any clerk can
perform the duties pertainiug te bis office.
In the fifth clause, lu reference te the board
of custema, there la very littie change, except ln the wording, and fit makes It a littie
clearer and more extensive, giving greater
latitude to the mînister than under the
other. I have not yet been able te compare
with the law the provisions of the second
subsection of clause (3, whlch prevides that
no invelce shahl state any discount other
than sucli as has been actually, allowed to
the Importer. If the lion. gentleman will
refer to the present Customs Act, he will
fInd that the discounts are defined. Will
Ithis clause interfere with the general provisions, which provide that the value for
duty of an article must be the price at whlch
It la seid ln the country frem whence lt la
imported ? For Instance, If au article ili the
United States la purchased by a resident of
the United States for consumptien lu the
United States, and the discount la twentyfive per cent upon it, that twenty-five per cent
weuld be allowed te the Importer cf the same
article Inte Canada, but If the party froin
whom the article la purchased weuld give,
as lie etten dees, a larger discount on
geeds that are exported te another country,
that la nhlo'wed If sold for home consumptien, la that te be allowed under this
clause ?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-That
is net my fault. In clause 3, the provision
changiug the constitution of the board cf
appraisers ls, I think, a very geod one. It
enables the minister and Governer lu Council to censtitute a board of quaiified officiais
Instead cf, as under the present law, censtitutiug the board of certain officiais whe
lire frem Halifax te Vancouver. In that respect II: Is a very good sug-gestion. The
change for whlch I do net particulariy see
the necessity la lu subsection 3 cf clause 3,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, ne.
giving power te appoint an assistant comHeu. Sir 31ACKE-NZIE BOWELL-I don't
missioner. The reasons furnished by the
Secretary cf State for tliat appointment do know.
31

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no; that is quite Canada would then be a free market to
them juet the camue as Ohio would be a free
clear.
market to the state of New York. HowBOWEL-It ever, that Is not the point, and it is only sugHon. Sir MACKENZIE
mnakes the provision that no larger discount gested by my hon. frlend's Interruption.
shall be allowed than le actually allowed to
Hon. Mfr. 6COTT-I know the opinion of
the Importer.
the Minister of Customs on the point, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is only for Infor- that le that the value for duty le the value
mation.
In the country whence It le exported.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It le
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
for much more than that. The manufac- le the law. The only point 1 asked my hon.
turer in the United States, w-len lie sells friend was whether the provision of this
goods to a Canadian, wIll give hlmi a bona. subsection of clause six would not, to a
fIde discount larger than that which he certain extent, override that. In the eleventh
gives when lie sells to a pereon In the United clause there le a material and radical
States for coneumption In the United States, change. Under the present laws no duty
but that discount le flot allowed when the would be refunded unlees the damage done
value of the goode je considered for duty to the goode reached fifty per cent, though
In Canada.
If the articles mentioned In clause fifty-two
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Sometimee he of the Act upon whidh a rebate for damages
ehould be paid, did not reach fifty per cent,
gives a larger diecount-not always.
lie received nothing.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I dld
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ânything In excees of
flot say always. I say they sometimes do It.
the United twenty-five per cent, this clause says.
There are some honest people lu
Statee as well as ln this country, and some
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
dishoneet ones also as well as In this coun- receives It Up to the extent of fifty per cent
try. I know, and so, does every Importer, now, but he could not go beyond that limit.
the practice la that a large number of manu- The amendment provides that any amount
facturers and people who seil goods In the of loss upon these articles, by damage or for
Ulnited States for exportation to Canada, any reason, which le lu excese of twentygive an additional discount to the ex- live per oent shall be refunded, no matter
tent of the duty which they would If it goes up to seventy-five or eighty per
have to pay. No one knows that bet- cent. So that whule It: le a restriction on one
ter than my hon. friend, who Is en- part, it is an extension on the other.
gaged ini the agriculturai implement manuHon. Mr. DANDURAND-More humane.
I have seen statements where
facture.
was read in the Senate of the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- 1 arn
the secedule
United States to show what advantages not talking about bumanity. If we are to
were given to foreignere over those who pur- consider this clause from a humanitarian
chased in tlie United States, and In nearlY etandpoint, you had better make it five per
every case the discount was equal to, the cent, or leave out thie percentage altogether,
duty whicb the foreign purchaser bad to pay and If it le only a quarter per cent, pay It
upon the goods. I argued this question back. The same principle will apply. If
when they were discussing unrestricted re- the hon, gentleman had the difficulties some
ciprocity. The contention of the Conserva- of us have had ln admin.isterîng tliis law, lie
tive party was that if you granted unre- would understand very well what I mean.
stricted recîprocity, you then placed Canada
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Clause twelve ie a
in the came position precisely as If it were widening too.
a state of the Union, and eonsequently the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
prices prevaiing in a state of the Union
would prevail in Canada, and the only dif- extends it to fire. There is very littie differference in thie sellîng- value of the article ence in clause twelve except that it is parwould be the freight added to tbe value of ticularized. which is not the case in the
the article that came Into Canada, because older law, and it says, 'lost by accidentaI
Hon. Sir MACZENZIE BOWELL.

JIJNE 24, 1903

483

That ls by a report from the Customs Department, affirmed by the Treasury Department and then approved by the Governor
ln Council. This goes further and gives
power to reduce the duty upon articles which
are nianufactured in the United States and
brought ln for that purpose. It la extending
the power, and I think it might be very dangeroualy used, or it might flot. My own Impression la that that clause ouglit to be
confined to the Importation of raw material
for the manufacture of articles whlch are
not produced ln thîs country. I do flot
see why an article whIch la completely
manufactured should be lntroduced. To
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Is there any de- give an Illustration of What I meaU, suppartment where there la an Invoice kept pose a man la manutacturing agricultural
-of the contents of these proprietary ar- Implements, would not this clause give
ticles such as pilla, elîxirs, &c.
the Governor lu Coundil power to declare
that the wheels necessary for the binder
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yen.
might be imported free, or at aduty of say
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe ten per cent lnstead of twenty-five per cent.
,difficu1ty lias been that they irnport these I merely throw out the bint for my hon.
articles into the country ln bulk. For In- friend ta consider when lie discusses this
stance, they brIng pilla la by the bushel, question. There ls another point 1 desire
and then they put a dozen or so Into a littie to caîl attention to before I resume my
bottle and seli them for twenty-flve, or fifty seat lu reference to clause five repealing
enats as the case may be, and the actual section nine and substituting another secvalue at which they are entered for duty tion. On reference ta that, It wlll be found
may be the tenth part of a cent or lesa.
that If there la a dispute as to the value
Hon. Mr. .DANDURAND-The Âyer case, of an article for duty, the board o! customs can pass upon that question, and defor Instance.
clare what the duty shall be. If the ImSULLIVAN-Tliat sliould l>e
Hon. Mr.
porter objecta ta the decision of the departlooked into. They do not pay over onement upon that particular question, he can
hundreth part of the duty that sliould lie appeal ta the Governor la Council, and
-collected.
whatever order the Governor ln Coumcil
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That Issues, or whatever decision they may renis what this clause ls intended to caver. der, It gives the same force and value to
My bon. friend mentioned the Âyer case, that decision as If it were passed by parliaIn which there was a very great dlfficulty. ment. That is giving a great deal more
I notice, also, ln subsections T and U It power than the law conferred upon the
ls giving a greater power to the iuinister Customs Department lu the paat. I arn
and the Governor ln Council In reference not so sure that that ls a bad provision
to the remission of dutles. It la givlng after ail, considering the difficulties that
the power to the Governor ln Council to arise, but the question la whether, under
reduce the duty upon an article which Is circumatances of that kind, the decision
imported Into thie country and whicb goes should only be enforced untîl the next parinto the manufacture of a-nother article, liament meets. In the Customs Act as It
whether that article be the raw inaterial stands now, If my recollection serves me
or wbether it be a manufactured article. right, there la a clause which limits the
For instance, the old law gave the Governor operation o! a decision of that character
lu Council power to admit free the Importa- until parliament meets. Then parliament
tion of raw material which entered into the vvould have an opportunity of saying- whemainufacture of any article in this country. ther it should become law or not. I know
fire and other casualty and also when goods
are in transportation.' It wldena the present
law, and I ar n ot prepared to say It is not
properly wldened. Clause fourteen is a
new subsection. Whether it wlll accoinpllsh the object that the Customs Department has ln view, I do flot know. Practice
wlll decide that point It is a very Important one, however, and one that bas
given a very great deal of trouble ln the
administration of the Customs Department
ln the past lni arriving at the value at which
this particular kind of gooda should be
entered for duty.

SENATE
the Customs Act is an arbitrary Act and
must necessarihy lie so ln order to protect
the revenue, but whether you shouhd confer
the full powe.r of parhiament upon the Governor General, or upon the-Treasury Board,
or give It to the Mluister of Oustoms, Is a
question for very serlous consideration. I
have flot gone Into thîs as mlnutely as 1
should like to have doue, hecause I have
not hadl an opportunlty of comparing the
Bill fully wlth the ha'w on the statute-book,
and I am speaklng from my memory of the
haw es It Is. When we go into commIttee,
however, we can dlscuss tJis question more
fully, but on tW'o points of the Bill there
Is a very materlal dîfference and a radical
change fromn the haw as It bas exlsted lu
the past.
Hon. 'Mr. MoSWEENEY-I caxi give the
Hlouse a case which bappened some years
ago lu regard to wahl .paper-two Importations of wall paper, one from B>nghand, the
other from the United States. The EnglIsh had a discount of 50 per cent; the
Amerîcan a discount of 3à per cent. They
allowed tbe discount of 50 per cent on the
Eaglish, but they charged the full duty on
the Importation from the United States.
James Johinson was Commissioner of Customs at that VIne.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Dldn't
they allow the 33à per cent ?
Hon. Mr. MeSWEENEY-No, tbey alhowed the discount on the Englis¶i goods but
not on the goods from the United States.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
miglit be true, and it miglit be sfrictly ln acI thiuk I recolcordance wmth the law.
lect the case to wblch the lioa. gentieman
The larw Is positive and distinct.
refers.
The discount whlch is allowed to the trade
la the country lu wblcb tbe article is purchased must be -allowed, under the law, f0
the importer li thus country, and if the Englisb manufacturer gave 50 per cent discount
if
the Importer here was entitled t0 it.
the United States alloweîd only 33à per cent
the importer in this country was entitled
to no more than 33à per cent.
1%cSWEENEY-But lie did iiot
Hon. M-Nr.
get any. He had f0 pay the full face value
of the invoice, no discount being recogized.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. riERGUSON-I tbink we have,
lu regard to this Bill, to make somewhat
the same complaint as we made so often
with regard to explanations we receive wlth
reference to the contents of government
BilIs. I admit at once that on a measure
relating to the customs my hon. friend the
Secretary of State could not possihly be
expected to discuss It in that masterful way
that my hon. friend to my left (Hou. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell) does. f rom thle fact
that the latter gentleman was so long
Miinister of Oustoms ;but I think the
treated
hon. gentleman was scarcely
properly hy his colleagues when lie was
not equlpped with a brief whlch would
adequately explalu the changes proposed in
goverument measures Nvhich come before
It Is mot necessary to refer
this House.
t0 the clauses In detail to whicb my reMy hon. friend (Hon. Sir
mark relates.
Mackenzie Bowell) lias deait f ully and clearly wlth them, and they can be fu.rt'her deait
wlth la commldttee, but I want to. refer to
one change proposed whlch Io very Important
and wbich bas been very inadequately exIt Is
plained by the Secretary of State.
proposed ln the amenadment- we are ilow
golng to pass, that in the future the deductions for damages to goods shahl fot lie
made unhess the damage exceeds 25 per
cent of the value of the goods, and baving
reacbed that 25 per cent of the value it
,wàll be allowable t0 make any deduction up
Hitherto the deducto the full value.
tion could only lie made to 50 per cent of
the value of the goods. Tou began at a very
10w percentage, but you could not go any
higlier than 50 per cent. My hou. friend
rfrom de Lorimier (Hon. Mr. Dandurand)
lnterjected the remark. that this ameadmnent
had a bumane object la view, but if my
hion. friend were au importer and foua.id
that the rights which lie formerly enjoyed,
of having a deduction up f0 50 per cent
if bis goods were damaged that were taken
away if the damage did flot exceed 25 per
cent, lie would say it was an instance of
man's inbumanity to man, instead of being
a buman measure.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is very bard
to say wbicb is more favourable to the limporter without reading if very choselY.
the damage
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If
shouhd exceed 25 per cent lie migbt be al-

JUNE 25, 1903
lowed tie full aniaunt. There rnay be explanations which wlill outweigh anytlîing
that occurs ta me, but there sbourM be very
good reasons for taing away the right of
the Importer ta payment for damýage ta his
goods when the damage Is under 25 per
cent, and at the sanie time apening the
way for an allowance up ta t;he full value
of the gaods If the damage exceeds 25 per
cent.
lion. Mr. DANDURAND-I sImply lntended sbowing that, wlth such a Bill before us, where each clause needs a techuical explanation, hon. gentlemen ln this
Chamber sbhould flot expeet from the minIster havlng the Bill ln charge explanations
whlch should be properly forthcomlng when
we go Into committee; and as I bave sme
remarks ta make -myself on some clauses of
the Bill, I shall defer them until we go
Into committee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bon. gentleman should estudy that eleventh
clause well.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read the second time.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (73) An Act ta Incorporate the Ontarlo and Quebec Power Company.--(Hon.
Mr. Young.)
Bill (V) An Act for the relief of ElIen
McDlarmld.--(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
The Senate adjourned.

THE SERATE.
Ottawa, Thursday, June 25, 1903.
The SPEAKER tool, the Chair at Three
o7clock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY BILL.
REPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. Sir ALP*HONSE PELLETIER, from
the Commlttee on Railwaym, Telegraphs and
Harbours, reported Bill (145) An Act respecting the Quebec Bridge Company, and
ta change its name ta the Quebec Bridge
and Railw.ay Company.
The report was adopted.

Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-I
more, seconded by Han. Mr. Tessier, that
this Bill be read a third tume to-marrow.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wlsh to give a few
explanations ln relation ta this motion. I
have nothing ta say agalnst the Bil itself.
When the motion for the second reading of
this Bill was proposed on Wednesday last
I was flot asked to second It, but the hon.
promoter of the Bill who movéd the second
readlng placed my name down as seconder
ta the motion and it was carrled. To be
frank, I thought I should havé had charge of
the Bill, as representative of the division o!
Stadacona, but I have not been asked to
do so nor ta second the Bill at ah. I did flot
protest at the time, because I thought It
would be puttlng my hon. frlend ln a bad
position. That Is the only reason I dld not
protest, but ince he thinks fit to-day, after
iîavlng placed my name as seconder of the
motion, ta wlthdraw my name and substitute another name, I do protest agalnst the
action taken.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-The
only explanation I have to. give ta the hon.
gentleman la that 1 bad no Intention ta hurt
his feelings. I do flot know why he should
have had care o! the Bill more than myself.
I belang ta Quebec as well as the han, gentleman, and the Bill relates ta a provincial
bridge ln Quebec.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
does not explain wby, having chomen my
name ta second the motion for the second
readlng, he draps It now, and substitutes
another member's.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIERBecause the hon. Senator Tessier la qualified.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY And I have ceased
ta be qualified ?
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIERThere Is no qualification particularly, but I
thought 1 would give a chance ta, bath gentlemen.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The best chance the
hion, gentleman should have given me, was
ta asic me beforehand.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-It is
a smnall matter.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-A matter of etiquette
and caurtesy.
The motion was agreed ta.

SENATE
I thouglit the 9
ln this Chamber is iveal.
%vas a 0, but tbe moment my bon. friend
beside me saw it, bis eyes being sharper
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
than mine, lie detected the mistalie and
Has Mr. Joseph Edm. Roy, of the town of
the government called my attention to ItL
Lévis, notary, recelved tram
EMPLOYMENT 0F J. E. ROY.
INQUIRY.

any mission whatsoever whlch explains his
Dresent Journey to Europe. or whlch relates
thereto, dlrectly or lndlrectly ?
What la the nature of this mission ?
In sncb case. wbat la the salary pald, or the
lndemnity promlsed. and are the travelling exPenses of this gentleman comprlsed ln elther
the one or the other ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This notice appears for
the first time on the paper now, and I am
unable ta find out anytblng about this gentleman. The question ls a very vague one.
It ls quite Impossible ta say wbo hie la or
what hie ls. The motion wIll have to stand.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Am I ta understand
that I shiah get an answer on some future
day ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I hope so. I bave made
lnqulry and so far bave been unable ta
find any trace tif this mxan.
QUEBEC HARBOUR WORKS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:

Who has been appolnted Inspector of

the

works at the harbour of Quebec, and especially
of the works for whlch. Mr. Etienne Dussault,
of Lévis. bas Just obtalned the icontract ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The work .wIll le under
the superintendence of the resident engineer of thie district
A CORRECTION.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the Orders
of tbe Day are called, I wish to direct the
attention of thie House, and especially of
the hon. Secretary 0f State, ta a sflglit misapprehension whicli occurred yesterday
when we were discussing the Supply Bill.
My bon. friend directed may attention, after

the Hanse rose, to the fact that hie had laadverteatly quoted ta the bouse $50,0OO,000 instead o! $59,000,000, as an amount la
Iast year's estîmates, and ln tliat way there

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
nine looks like a nouglit.

BOWELL-The

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then
agree as to the figures.

wve qulte

THIRD- READING.
31i1 (G) An Act for the relief of Florence
Lee Gray.-(Hon. Mr. MeMullen, ln the absence of Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
EXTRA-JUDICIAL EMPLOYMENT 0F
JUDGES BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being called:
Second readlng Bill (Ul) An Act respecting the
extra judiclal employment of Judges.
Hon. Mr. riERGUSON said : As the House
is golng to take a short adjournment, and
this Bill will probably cail for a somewhat
lengthened discussion whlcli miglit render
It flot possible ta clear our slate of routine
niatter, witli the consent of the House, I
move that the consideration of this Bill le
postponed untIl Thursday, the Mt July.
The motion was agreed to.
KETTLE RIVER VALLEY RAILWAY
COMPANY BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved tbat the 25th
report of the Standing Committee on Standing Orders lie concurred ln.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do iiot see any
necessity for concurring in those reports. I
thlnk if we concur in tbeni we are bound
by the conclusions, and as I intend ralsing
a point of order on one o! the conclusions
brouglit forward by the report itself. I thinL
we sliould not lie asked to concur hl the reports. It should lie Ieft open so that we
sliould have liberty or action wlhen the different Bis affected by these reports are
lironglit before us.

appeared to lie a diserepaney between the
figures qnoted by hlm and by myseif. He
is ln a position to inform the bouse that lie
lias inadvertently quoted the estimates as
$50,000,000 instead of $59,000,000, and whien
The SPEAKER-I thinl, perhaps the bion.
this estimate is corrected w-e substantinhly
gentleman is under a isapprehensiou with
agree.
respect to this particular report. This deals
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The only explanation with an Act respecting the Kettle River
Is, my eyes are a littie aged and the liglit Valley Railway Company, and aîîother Bill
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

JUNE 25, 1903
respecting the Iiatbbn Company. It lias notbing to do with tbe Bill in wbichi the hon.
gentleman bas xnanifested an intcrest.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wbat Bill did I manifest an interest in ? 1 would like ta know.
The Speaker seems ta bie well pasted on
sncb matters.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--We
bad better understand the objection of the
bon. gentleman ta this report. If I understand the character of these reports, it is
that tbey recommend ta the Senate the suspension of certain miles, ta enable the Bis
ta which they refer ta bie proceeded with.
When the question cornes np for the suspension of the mule, tben, it strikes me, would
bie the time for the hon. gentleman to move
bis amendment against it or ta vote ngainst
it. This is merely a recommendation. By
adopting that report we do not adopt the
principle of it, as I understand it.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If the adoption of the
report does not carry with it the adoption
of tbe conclusions ta Which the committee
bas corne, I bave -no objection ta the motion
but I do not want ta bie debamred of my
riglit, aftcr the adoption of the report, ta
raise a question o! order exactly on the subJect 'which is mepoted ta thue Hanse.
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-The
moment this report is accepted, it would bie
necessary for the senator wha is interested
ia the suspension of the miles, ta inake a
motion ta that effect. Then., it strikes, me,
would bie the time for the lion. gentleman ta
take tbe action which hie proposes to take.
Hon. Mr. LÂNI)RY-i uudferstnd that pet.fectly well, but I want ta be consistent with
myseif. If 1 assent ta the adoption o! the
report, bow could I bie consistent If I maised
an objection ta cnrrying out the recoinmendation of the report ? 1 have no objection
to the report being adopted, but it rnnst bie
adopted on division.
The motion was agmeed to on division.
BILLS ASSENTED TO.
The Honoumable Sir Henri E. Tascbereau,
acting as Deputy ta His Excellency tbe
Governlbr General, being seated at the foot
of the Tbmone,
The Honoumable the Speaker commanded
the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod ta
proceed ta the House of Commons and ne-

quaint that House : 1It is the Deputy Govcrnor's desire that they attend him limediateiy in this Hanse.'
Who being corne with their Speaker,
The Clerk of the Crown Ia Obancery read
tbe tities of the Bis to be passed severally,
as follows.
An Act ta amend Chapter 8 af the Statutes af
1900, authorizing the granting af Railway subsidies.
An Act ta amend the Civil Service Superannuatian Act.
An Act ta amend the Act respecting the publicatian af the Statutes.
An Act ta amend the Act relating ta the Custady af .Juvenile Offenders In the province af
New Brunswick.
An Act ta amend the Exprapriatian Act.
An Act respecting the Kaatenay Central Railway Canmpany.
An Act respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Quebec and New Brunswick Railway Campany.
An Act respecting the British Columbia Sauthern Railway Campany.
An Act respecting the Canada National Railway and Transport Company.
An Act ta amend the Yukan Territary Act.
An Act far the relief af William Francis
Schaaley.
An Act re9pectlng the Huron and Ontario
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Niagara Grand Island
Bridge Company.
An Act respecting the Ottawa, Narthern and
Western Railway Company.
An Act ta correct a clericai error ia the Act
ta Incorporate. the Edmonton and Slave Lake
Railway Company.
An Act ta Incorparate the Quebec, Saguenay
and Gulf of St. Lawrence Railway Campany.
An Act ta Incorporate the Coast Yukon Railway Company.
An Act ta incorparate the Koatenay, Cariboo
and Pacifie Railway Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Joliette and Lake
Manuan Calanizatian Rallway Company.
An Act respecting the Great Narth-west Central Railway Company.
An Act respectlng the Grand Trunk Rallway
Company af Canada.
An Act further ta amend the Dominion Controverted Electians Act.
An Act ta amend the Militia Pension Act.
1901.
An Act respecting the Winnipeg Western Land
Corporation, Limited.
An Act respecting the Ontario and Qu'Appelle
Land Company, Limited.
An Act respecting the Mutual Lif e Assurance
Company of Canada.
An Act respecting the Bank of Montreal.
An Act ta incorporate the Shipping Federation of Canada.
An Act respecting the Royal Trust Company.

SENATE
An Act ta amend the Doionion Electians Act.
1900.
An Act respecting the Atlantic, Quebec and
Western Raiiway Company.
An Act respecting the Hudson's Bay and Pacifie Railway Company.
An Act to lncarporate the Père Marquette International Bridge Company.
An Act ta Incorporate the Regina and Hudson's Bay Raiiway Company.
An Act respecting the Nipissing and James
Bay Raiiway Company.
An Act ta Incorporate the Macleod, Cardston
and Montana Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Lindsay, Bobcaygeon
and Pontypoal Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Edmonton-Yukon and
Pacifie Raiiway Company.
An Act respecting the Ottawa Electric Railway Company.
An Act te Incarparate the Nlpissing and Pantiac Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Calgary and Edmontan
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Canadian Narthern
Raiiway Company.
An Act respecting the Alberta Railway and
Coal Conmpany.
An Act respecting the Hamilton and Lake Erie
Power Company, and ta change lis naine ta
the Jardan Ligbt, Heat and Power Company.
An Act respecting the Mexican Light and
Power Campany, Limited.
An Act respecting the Lake Erie and Detrait
River Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Canada North-west
Land Company, Limited.
An Act respecting the Canada Permanent and
Western Canada Martgage Corparation, and ta
change its namne ta the Canada Permanent
Martgage Carparation.
An Act respecting the Eastern Townships
Bank.
An Act ta Incorparate the Sault St. Louis
Light and Power Campany.
An Act ta incorparate the Bank af Winnipeg.
An Act respecting the Daminion Burglary
Guarantee Company, Limited, andi ta change
Its namne ta the Dominion Guarantee Comipany, Limited.
An Act ta Incorparate the Empire Accident
and Surety Company.
An Act respectlng the Crown Bank af Canada.
An Act respecting certain trust funds of the
Diocese af Moosonee.
An Act respecting' the Desjardins Canal.
An Act to amend the Public Works Act.
An Act ta amend the Eiectric Light Inspection Act.
An Act respecting the Niagara-Welland Power Company, Limited, and to change lis naine
ta the Niagara-Welland Pawer Company.
An Act respecting the Canada Atlantic Railwsy Company.
An Act to incorporate the North-west Coal
and Coke Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Alberta Centrai Railway Company.
An Act ta incarporate the Erie Ontario Power
Company.

An Act ta incorporate the Canadian IndustrIal
Corporation, Linited.
An Act ta amend the Weights and Measures
Act.
An Act ta incarparate the Hudsan's Bay and
Occidental Raiiway Campany.
An Act ta Incarporate the City and County
Bank ai Canada.
An Act ta incarporate the Northern Bank.
An Act ta incorparate the Pacific Bank af
Canada.
An Act ta incarporate the Richmond and
Drummond Pire Insurance Company.
An Act respecting the United Empire Lufe Insurance Company.
An Act ta confer an the Cammissioner ai Patents certain powers for the relief of the Standard Car Truck Campany.
An Act ta canter an the Commissianer of Patents certain powers for the relief of the International Railway Appliance Company.
An Xat ta amend the Inland Revenue Act.
An Act respecting the Canadian Order of the
Woodmen of the World.
An Act ta incorparate the Federal 011 Campany.
An Act respecting the Mutual Pire Insurance
Company of the City ai Montreal, and ta change
its naine ta the Mantreal-Canada Fire Insurance Conmpany.
An Act for the relief of William Allen.
An Act far the relief of James Reidi Steele.
An Act ta amend the Criminai Code, 1892.
An Act respecting the Canadian North-west
Irrigation Company.
An Act respecting the Canadian Steel Company.
An Act ta incarporate the Sterling Bank af
Canada.
An Act to incorparate the Huron, Erie and
Buffalo Railway Company.
An Act respecting the St. Mary's River Railway Company.
An Act ta Incorporate the Cardiff Railway
Company.
An Act respectlng the Interprovincial and
James Bay Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Klondike Mines Railway Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Hamultan, Gaît and
Berlin Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Elgin and Havelock
Railway Campany.
An Act ta incorporate the Cansoiidated Trusts
Corporation.
An Act respecting the Gaod Shepherd Reformatory in the city af St. John, New Brunswick.
To these Blills the Roynl Assent was pronaunced by the Cierk of the Senate in the
foliowing words :
In Bis Majesty's name, His Hanour the Deputy af His Excellency the Governar General
doth assent ta these Bis.
Then the Honaurable the Speaker of the
House af Commnons addressed His Honour
the Deputy Governor, ns follows :

JUNE 25, 1903
The Commons of Canada have voted the certain supplies re.quired ta enable the Goverament ta defray the expenees of the public service. In the namo of the Commons, I preeent
ta your honour the follawin g Billi:
An Act for granting ta Ris Mai esty certain
sums o! money mequired for defraying certain
expenses of the public service for the financiai
year ending the 30th June. 1903, ta which I
humbly request yaum Hanour's assent.
Âfter the Clemk of the Crown In ChaIICery
had read the Titie of the Bill,
The Clerk of the Senate, by Hie Honour'e
command, did thereupon say:
In His Majesty's name. hie Honour the Deput,
o! the Governor General, thanks hie loyal subjects, accepte their benevolence, and assents ta
this Bill.
The Deputy Governor was pieaeed to return and
*The Houe of Gommons witbdrew.
The Senate resumed.
KETTLE RIVER VALLEY RAILWAY
COMPANY BILL.
MOTION.
Han. Mr. WATSON moved the suspension
of rule 59 ln so far as It relates ta the Bihl
respecting the Kettle River Valley Itaiiway
Company.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I think the Speaker
made an error ln etating- rue 59. I think It
shauld be mule 54.
The SPEAKER-Yes,

it should be rule

54.
Hon. '-%I. LANDRY-I desire ta eall attention of the Hause ta miles 50 and 54 so
that we may underetand the meaning of
bathi these mules. with refemence ta the Bill
uow before the Hanse.
Hon. Mr. W%ýATSON moved thait Bill (96)
An Act respecting the Kettle River Valley
Raiiway Company, be placed an the Orders
of the Day for second reading- to-morrow.

of the commxttee, and the motion that la
based on that report, states:
That your committee recommend the suspension of the 54th rule in sa far as it relates ta
hose Bis.
The 54tb rule of the Senate reads as
foiiowe
Every private Bill le introduced on petition
and presented to the Senate after the petition
has been favourabiy reported on by the Committee on Standing Orders.
I take it for granted that this House
can flot suspend the rule unless a epeciai
report, or a speciai recommendation. le made
to that effeet by the Standing Orders Caminittee. That ls according to mile 17, which
reads as foilows :
No motion to suspend. modify or amend any
mule or part thereof. shall be In order, except
on one day'. notice. In writing, specifying procisely the rule proposed to be suspended, modified or amended. and the purpose of suoh suspension. But any mule may be suspended withcut notice by the unanimous consent of the
Senate : and the mule proposed to be suspended
shahl be precisely and distinctly stated ; and no
motion for the suspension of the rules upon any
p)etition for a private Bill shall be In ordnr,
unless the same shall have been recommended
by the Committee on Standing Orders.
Ia this case, it will be said that the
Standing Orders Committee. have juet made
that recommendation, but what are the
recommendationh that the Committee on
Standing Orders have the right to make ?
Their jumisdiction ils speclfied at page 17, of
the .book, mule 53, *wlaich. says :
Petitions for prîvate Bis, when received by
the Sonate, are to be taken Into consideration
without special reference, by the Committee on
Standing Orders.
What le; the duty of that committee ? The
duty le :
To report In each case, whethem the mules
with regard ta notice have been complied with;
and In every case where the notice shall prove
to have been Insufficient. either as regards the
rtition as a whole. or any matter themein which
aught ta have been specially mofermed ta In the
notice. the committee ls ta recommend the
course ta be taken In consequonce of such InsuffIciency of notice.
The jurisdiction of the committee la that
sense le only in regard to the notice.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object ta that
Han. '.%r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It ends
motion for the came reason I would abject there.
to the motion ta suspend. I desire ta raise
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And ta repor t on
a paint of arder. I- do nat abject ta the
I wouid allow the motion ta the sufficiency or the lnsufficiency af the
motion itseif.
carry if the point is settled in the way I notice compared wlth the petitian or the
thînk it migbt be settied. I call the atten- Bill. I do not see that the Standing Ordere
tion of the Holuse ta tiîis fact -The repart Comxnittee has qny righit to maike any other

SENATE
recommendatian than those speclfled by this
special rule No. 53. The Standing Orders
Committee cannot, la my opinion, recommend the suspension of a mile, if that committee has flot a special right to so recoinmend by this rule 53. What have the Conimittee on Standing Orders done ? They
have recommended the suspension of rule
59. What Is rule 59 ?
Any private Bis ln the flouse af Commons
<flot being based on a petition which bas aiready been reported on by the Cammittee an
Standing Orders) shall be taken lnto consideratian and reportedl on by the said committee,
ln like manner as a petition, after the firet
readlng of such Bill, and before Its consideratian by any other Standing Committee.
Sa the cornmittee bas no more right ta
act an the Bill than on the petition. The
Bill ls substituted for the petitian, and the
action af the Standing Orders Committee is
jnst the saine on a BIh! that cornes froin tbe
House af Commons as on a petition that
ls brought in this House. But mule 59 gaes
further and says :
Any private Bill tram the flouse af Cammone,
flot beina based on a petitinWhat kind of a petition ?:
-nat being based on a petition which bas aimeady been reparted on by the Cammittee an
Standing Orders.
Wbtdoes the clause ln brackets 'not
bein.- based on a petitian which bas already
been eported on by the Committee on
Standing Orders'1 mean ? I should like to
know the interpretation given ta that 59th
rule by aur Speaker. I sbould Ilke ta
know *how we should understand It. Thie
54th ruie states that na Bill can be introduced ln tis House without being based
on n petition. The 59th ruie relates to
Bis coming from the House of Commons
but it says :'any private Bill froin the
House ai Commons, nat being based on
a petitian which bas already been reported
an by the Committee on Standing Orders.'
Where is that petition which bas already
been reported on by the Committee on
Standing- Orders ? Another argument is
that if this means that a, Bill coming
froin the flouse af Cannions may be
takien hiere without any objection, why. if
we are cornplying with the rule, shouid
a repart be made ta suspend the ruies '
Why suspend muile 54 if we have a riglit
ta dIo thie saine thing by ruie 59 ? It is
because we have ntiat he right of doing
Hon. lUr. LANDRY.

the thing that we ask the suspension of the
mules. This is another argument in addition ta those that I bave advanced. At ail
events, I am asklng for the ruling of the
Speaker on thase particular points, and if
the Speaker ls not ready ta give bis deciîsion
to-<Iay, I amn wllling ta wait until to-morraw.
The SPEAKER-I arn quite ready.
Hon. lim. LANDRY-Then I ask the ruling
of the Speaker.
The SPEAKER-If this were a new question, It rnight requIre sorne turne far considemation, wbich the hon, gentleman was kind
enough ta say he was prepared ta ailow me
ta have. But it Is flot. The question la
whether tbe practice whlch bas existed lu
this Senatue ever since lt was a Senate, shail
be cantinued, or whetber saine new practice
shahl be lntraduced as appears ta, be contE mplated by the lion. «gentleman from Stadacona. The mule 54 is a mile whlch applies ta Sena-te Bis and it pravîdes :
Every private Bill ls Intraduced an petitian,
and presented ta the Senate after the petitian
has been favaumably reparted an by the Camimittee on Standing Orders.
That applies ta Bis whlch are intmoducedwhich originate la the Senate, and lt lu also
applied, apparently, very fmequentiy ta Bis
caming iran the House af Gommons ; but
rule 59 apphies specially ta Bis whicb are
nat intmoduced first in the Senate ; and the
unifarm practice of this Hanse, as long as
I have been a member af it (and I have
been a member naw for twenty-six years)
is that Bis froin the Hanse of Commons
which are not based on petitions which
have already been reported on by the Conmittee an Standing Orders, are taken into,
considemation just as petitions are taken
into considemation and are meported on by
the Committee on Standing Orders. I find
that the practice and mules of this Hanse
have been most carefully and strictly conipiied with lu connection with the Matter
now before the flouse. The repart of the
committee was flot adapted, as is the usual
practice, on its being presented. but at the
instance af the lion, gentleman himself, its
considemation was pastponed until to-day,
and now it canies up as reguiarly as anything could possibly came up.
I-oii. Mr. LANDRY-WouId the bon. gentleman be good enough ta explain. for My

JUNE 25, 1903
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WilI the bou. gentleown satisfaction if not for the satisfaction
of ' wbh i man tell me the meaning of that phrase ln
of the House, wbat ls tbe meaning
bas aiready been reported on by the com- brackets in ruie 59, 'flot based on a petitIon
whlch has aiiready been Treported by by the
mittee' ?
committee' ? What is It wbich bas already
The SPEAKER-Does the hou. gentleman been reported on ?
?
mefer to mule 597
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tbat mens that Do
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes.
petitions bave been presented to this House
The SPEAKER-I thougbt I made myself for these Bis, and therefore the Bisl were
referred to the Standing Orders Commlttee.
clear.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It does.not mean that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not to me.
at ail.
The SPEAKER-I do not know tbiat I
Hon. Mr. MACD)ONALD (B.C.)-Tbere la
eau make the language clearer tha-n It la.
no doubt there is an ambiguity ln this mule.
Tbe rule means what it says: the actual
Tbey have to consider the matter twice.
mule is:
The petition must have aiready been reAny private Bill fromn the House of Commois
havlng been reported on,
(flot being based on a D)etitioi 'which has ai- ported on. After
If It
ready been reDorted on by the Committee 0on the Bill goes back for consideration.
Standing Orders) shahl be taken loto consider- is neyer done, It does not go back to the
reported on by the said commnittee
ation and
la lîke manner as a Detition atter the flrst e ommittee twice. There is certainly amnreading of such Bill. and before Its consider- biguity ln the mule.
ation by any other Standing Comrnittee.
Hon. Mr. VIDÂL-Â good deal bas beeti
If the committee bad already reported oit
I do not
a petîtion for the Bill, it wouid lie quite made of a very trlfling matter.
to report on tbe Bill itsehf. But think English can be more cIeariy expressed
unnecessary
It appears to be
Inasmuch as tbey have Dot reportedl on a tlian it la ln this rule.
for the Bill, tben they report on quite clear and distinct. If a Bill coines
petition
the Bill. If the bon. gentleman proposes fromn the House of Gommons, the mule says
to appeai from my decision hie can do so.
in parenthesis, 'flot being based on a petition which bas already been reported on.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I amn qulte wîliing
a Bill wbich lias corne to us
of His Honour the Now this ls
to accept the decision
from the House of Gominons not based on
Speaker, but theme la no explanation of the
a petition wbich bas been aiready reporteé
words 'not heing based on a petitîon whîch
oni. You cannot even Improve the mule.
bas aiready been reported on.' If it was a
already been reportpetition whicb bas flot
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It says 'flot being
ed on, I could understand it, but it says based on a petîtion which bas already beeià
wbich bas aiready been reported on.' Now, reported on to the House.'
where la the petition which bas aiready been
reported on ?
Some hion. GENTLEMEN-Order,

order.

Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I want an explanatlon.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-For the Information
of the hou. gentleman, I înight be permitted
to say two Bis were referred to the ComIt was exmittee on Standing Orders.
plained and made clear to tbe Standing
Orders Committee that ln botît cases the
petitions bad been misiaid, and under mule
59 we took tbem into consideration without
being so omdered by the House, and the
Bis bave been reported and the committee-

VIDAL-If there la no petition,
be reported on ?
LANDRY-Why Is the Bill
then ?
VIDAL-Because it bas tuot aireported on by petition.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If we bave ai riglit
to bring in tbe Bill, then wby aslz for a
suspension of the mle 7 If we have the
rigbit, by this mule 59, to bring in a Bill,
wby suspend the mule ?

Hon. Mr.
bow cau It
Hon. Mr.
bmought lu,
Hon. Mr.
ready been

Hon. Mr. VIDAL-The ruie la perfectly
clear-if a Bial la brought lii, flot founded
on a petition wbich bas niîeandy been liefore tue comimittee.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But it lias neyer been
douie in this case.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Then there bias been
The Bill Itself
no report on the petition.
goes to the committee then to be deait witb
as a petition.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would understand
the argument of my -bon. friend if lt stood
like this:- 'Not belug based on a petition
which sbould have been reported on, but
But lt
which bas not been reported on.'
does not say so. It says : Being based on
a petition which bas aiready been reported
If it bas been already reported on, I
on.
want to know wbere Is t-he report.
The motion was agreed to.
LUMBERMAN'S FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY BILL.
REPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved the adoption of
the twenty-seventh report of the Standing
Committee on Standing Orders, recommending the suspension of the ruies s0 far as
t'bey relate to the Lumbermnn's Pire Insurance Company Bill.
The motion was agreed to.

be able to show what bas become 0f the
goods entrusted to tbem. Otherwise it leaves
the door open to a great deal of fraud, and,
moreover, it is to the detriment of traders
They carry on business withtbemiselves.
out any knowledge as to whether tbey are
ahead or behlnd in their business, without
knowing how they stand, and that is agamnst
On referring to the
their own interests.
law enacted ln Scotland ln 1880, known as
the Debtoirs Act o! that year, I find the
folilowing :
If being indebted to an amount exceeding
£200 at the date of the presentation of the
petition for sequestration or cessio, as the case
may be, he bas not, for three years next before such date, kept such books or accounts as.
according to the usual course of any trade or
business ln which he may have been engaged,
are necessary to exhibit or explain his transactions.
Ia such cases be is hlable to be lmprisoned for any time flot exceeding two
Hon. gentlemen wili notice that 1
years.
have foilowed, la drafttng this Bill, very
closely the wording of the Englisb Act :
1. Section 368 of the Criminal.Code, 1892, is
amended bY adding the following after paragraph (b) thereof:
(c.) who. being a trader and Indebted to an
amnount exceeding one thousand dollars, Is unable to pay bis creditors in full and has flot,
for five years next before such inability, kept
such books of account as, according to the
usual course of any trade or business ln which
ho may have been engaged, are necessary to
exhibit or explain bis transactions, unless lie
bce able to account for bis losses to the satisfrction of the court or judge and to show that
the absence of such books was not Intended to
defraud bis creditors.
ln fact this Bill is more lenient than the
Engllsb Act.

Hon. Mr. McHUG,1 moved that the resolution of the Senate, passed on the l9tb
Instanit, .givlng a second readlng to Bill (No.
68) intituled -An
Act to lncorporate the
Lumberman's Pire Insurance Company, be
now rescinded and that the said Bill be
piaced on the Order paper for the second
rea ding to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-Five years is a long
The motion was agreed to.
termn.
CRIMINAL CODE AMENDM'NENT

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved the second reading of Bill (T) An Âct to amend the Crimmnal Code of 1892, respecting the PunishHe said:
ment of Fraudulent Debtors.
This Bill is quite short, but is of considerIts ohject, as plainly apable importance.
pears from the reading of It, is to provide

for the keeping of books by traders who
A law of this kind
do business on credit.
exists in several countries, amongst otbers
Traders who purFrance and Scotland.
dbase goods on credit, it seems to me, if
they are unable to pay their creditors, should
Hon. Mr. VIDAL.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The term might be
In
shortened if it Is thouglht desirable.
France, it is well known they have a
law, and have had it for centuries, which Is
much more stringent. Ia France it is an infamy for a trader to become «i bankrupt.
There are two kinds o! bankrupts. Thiere is
wbat Is called the simple bankrupt, and
there Is tbe fraudulent bankrupt. In eltber
case the trader is hiable to imprîsoament
if he fails to keep books, even thoughli e

is considered to be a bankrupt witbout baving committed any fraud. Wbether lie bas
committed fraud or not lie is hiable to iml)risonment, and the books that are to be
kept in France are these :

JUJŽE 25, :1903

493

Article 8. Every trader is bound ta keep a corporate. be held criminally responsible uniess
journal. in which shall be entered day by day they show that the absence of regular books
bis assets and liabilitles, the operations of bis of account was flot for the purpose of defraudbusiness. his negotiations, acceptances or en- Ing their creditors.
dorsements of commercial paper. and genThis resolution was sent to most of the

erally everything that he receives and pays for

any purpose whatsoever ; and which shall. boards of trade ln the country, and bas restate. month by montb. the sumo used for bis ceived the approval of most of those boards

household expensea the whole independentiy
of the other books used ln his business, but of tradte, and especially the Boards of Trade
which' are not Indispensable.
of Montreai, Toronto, Halifax, Fraserville.
Then he ls bound to keep bis letters for Drummondville, Joliette, Prince Albert
Mau.,
a certain number of yenrs. He ls bound to N.W.T., Victoria, Godericli, Morden,
Edmonton and several other places. 'I have
make every year an entry of bis movable
only one more word to add. This law beand Immovable assetu, and bis inventory book
coules the more necessary nowadays that
lias to, be Initlalled elter by the Mfayor, or
mercliants are tempted to go ixito speculabis assistant, or by the judge of the court
tions, buylng stocks, very often ou margîn,
of commerce, and If he fails to comply witb and imperiling the capital which lias been
any of these provisions, then lie ls conentrustedl to their care for the purpose of
sidered a simple bankrupt and liable to im- doing a legitimate business, and If tbey
proved ta, be a vain- have a desire to go Into sucb ventures, the
prisonmient. This bas
able safeguard for trade ln rirance, and 'I
ieast that can be expected of them Is that
have no doubt, for my part that it is noW they will be compelled. to keep such books
opportune that we sbould have, If not pro- of account as will be necessary ta give a
visicns as stringent as these, nt least legis- reasonable account of the losses whicb they
lation on these lunes. This Bill is flot ln- have sustained, and to show that they have
troiuced on my own suggestion ; it is in- flot embezzied any of their assets which are
troduced at the suggestion of boards of trade the common pledge of their creditors.
The question was conln this country.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have heard the
sidered by the Chambre de Commerce iii
Montreal for the last two or three years, observations of my hon. friend Who bas just
and again this year, and petitions were sent introduced this measure, and I arn entirely
I think that it
-ta the goverament asking for legisiation lu la accord with the Bill.
direction. Tlie Chambre de Commerce will be very useful, and I almost wonder
this
that such a provision had not fouud Its
passed this resolution:
way into the Criminal Code ere this. The
Whereas. the fallure to keep regular books of
account is adverse to the interests of those who only suggestion that I would make ls that
invest their capital ln commercial, Industrial the amount miglit be lessened.
ard financiai enterprises by exposing. them ta
endless losses. and is likewise the cause of a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And.the time sliortelied.
great many business failures;
Hon. Mr. FEItGUSOIN-Yes, I think the
Whereas. the absence of books ie also the
cause of embezzlements. or ail manner of Bil miglit properly be made even a little
breaches of confidence, of dishonest manipula- more stringent, and that in this country
tions of funds, of obtaining moneys under false
where there are a great many smali traders,
Pretenses. and. finally, of fraudulent failures;
Whereas. the enactment of a law, obliging lt miglit very properly be made to, apply to
nersons or corporate bodies, doing business, ta
keep books af account, would bave the salutary a trader wlio was indebted to the extent of
effect of cbecking these disbaneet and Iliegal $500.
It seems inconsistent to say that a
vractices;
man whose debt is over $1,000 sbould be
W'hereas. the maklng o! accountancy obligatcry for establishments or enterprises of a considered a criminal under certain circumcertain magnitude, would safeguard the gen- stances, wbile the man wbo owed nine huneral credit and would aid in the advancement
But we have
and development o! trade and o! Industries dred dollars sliould escape.
throughout the wbale of Canada:
to make a limitation somnewhere, and 1 think
Reaolved. that this 'Chambre de Commerce' $500 would be better than $1,000 as a limit,
reiterates its representations to the federal
government. Praying tha introduction, at the as the scope of trading in many parts of
next session. of a Bill obliging ail persans, or Canada Is on a smaiier scale than in Scotbadies corparate. doing business, or wha ob- land to which nay lion. friend lias referred,
tain credit. ta the extent of one thousand dollars and ulpwards. ta keep books sufficient, ln and lie milit also consider whet'her-I arn
cise of failure. ta render an account of their not going to propose an amendrnent-three
operatiana. and that sucli persans or badies

494

SENATE

years would flot be a sufficient period-that
where there is a lack of such a record for
even three years, the debtor rnight corne
within the scope of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-.lhls is a Bill
that perbaps, after ail bas two sides to it.
We K-now perfectly well that the extended
credit that bas prcvalled ln his country has not by any means tended to, the
best Interests of those that have been
in business. This Bill, if passed lnto law,
will afforda ncw rnetbod of collectlng srnall
debts. I amn afrald tbat it wiil be taken
advantage of. My hon. frIend proposes to
reduce the limit to $500, and If books are
flot kept for a period of three years, tben
the trader becomes subject to the provisions
of the Crîmînai Code, and is lhable to, be
Any merchaut
punilhed as a criminal.
who gives credit to a trader wbo knew s0
littie about business and the way to keep
books as ta allow him to run Into debt to
the extent of $500, should be wiliing to
share the risk wlth the debtor. Certainly
If the. marchant bas reason ta belleve, sund
should conclude that tie man to, wbom he
is advancing gaods on oredit -bas not sufficient education ta keep a set of books or
tô conduct business properly, he should flot
give hilm goods on credit. But If he does,
then under tbis measure be bas two mctbods
of co]Iecting bis account, first, the ordinary
method of trying ta get tbe debtor to pay
op, and faiiing that, to subject hlim to
criminal prosecution if be does flot pay the
debt. That gives creditars a double power
I admit that
over debtors af that class.
there is some reason for the Bill. No doubt
menî that are flot capable of keeping books
sbould tiat commence business, and la that
way subject their creditors ta loss of money;
but, on the other baud, mnerchants who give
credit ta men of that stamp encourage theni
ta go into business for whicb tbey are unsuited. Tbey have never learlied bow ta
keep a cash account or a debit and credit acMerchauts should flot
count of business.
credit men of that stainp, but if they do,
and they becorne insolvent and are nat able
ta keep their accounts, this Bill gives the
The Hodse
creditars too large a power.
should carefully conisider the provisions off

the han, gentleman states. The latter part
of the clause provides that If the insoivent
trader cau gîve a satlsfactory account to,
the court, or judge, and show that the failure ta keep books was flot the result of a
frauduient Intention, he would flot corne
wlthln the purview of this A&ct. That is
clear enougb. A person carrylng on business
of Vie character indicated by the bon, gentleman from Wellington, would have only
ta show Vie court that the absence of keepIng sncb books was not donc witb the Intention 0f defraudlng hie creditors, and that
moment hre would flot corne withln the
operations of Vils Bill. It may be quite
true, as the bon. gentleman says, that merchants should mot gîve credit ta, such peopie. That is a matter that they rnay consider tbemselves, but If Viey do give credit,
there should be some means by whlch a
cred!tor couid be protected against the
frauduient acts of a debtor sncb as Indicated by the bon. gentleman wbo bas Introduced bis Bill, and Vie sooner we place somethlng on Vie statute-book to, protect the
creditar against fraudulent debtors the better. It daes flot apply ta any anc except
n trader, and, therefore, the Act, bnvlng
been on the statute-boak. la Scatland for so
many years, and also a much more strîngelit
law being ln farce in France, as iîidicated
by the ban, gentleman who prapased this
measure, surely tbe principle is nat only
applicable ta Vis country, but ln the Interest
of trade ,generally.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Hlear,
hear.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
have na bankrupt Act upon aur statutebooks. I thlnk we sbauld have sucb a law.
It would provide means ta reacb many of
this class of debtars ; but under the present
circumstances, and as there seems ta be a
disiniclination ta -place a general bankrupt
Act upon the statute-book, the bon. gentleman bas taken tbe correct view ta meet a
great many off the reasons which have ind'iced boards of trade and traders generally

:asic for the enactrnent of sucb a law, and

it having met the general appraval of the
trading portion of tuhe couintry, wve shouid
1)e daing an act af justice ta, creditars by
B3ill before passing it.
the
r.reventing, if passible, fraudaient debtars
BOWELL-I frani cbenting thase wlio have placed canSir MACKENZIE
Han.
scarcely tbink the Bill goes to the extent fidence in them.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON,

JUNE 25, 1903

495

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill known that at the time of the late strikes In
was read the second time.
Montreal the public sympatby was strongiy,
especlally an the occasion of the first strike,
CRIMINÂL CODE AMENDMENT BILL. with the workingmen, but by reasan of a
certain class of worklngmen breaklng the
SECOND READING.
peace and commltting acts of violence, they
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE moved the second read- lost that sympathy, ta thelr great disading of Bill (S) A1n Act to amend tbe Criminal vantage. I arn, and have always been of
Code, 1892, respectlng Free Labour. He opinion that trades unions are a necesslty
said : This Bill ray bave appeared rather as nowadays, and that they accornplsh valunew legisiation to smre bon. members of this able results, provlded they keep wlthln the
House, but If we refer ta the Criminal Code, law-provded. they do flot commit acts o!
It wlil be seen that the modifications sought violence snch as occur very aften andi are
to be made by the Bill are flot very great perpetrated, flot by the better dlass I these
By section 79 of the Crirninal Code, it Is associations, but by people who are of evIl
provlded that :
character. Therefore, it seems ta me that
An uniawfui assembly lu an assembly of three dealing with such abnorrnal conditions as
or more persons who, with Intent to carry out
any common purpose. assemble ln such a man- exist at tirnes of strikes, I.t would be Imuer or so conduct themselves when assembleci portant that the police authorities sbauld
as to cause persona ia the neigbbourhood of
such assembly to fear. ou reasonable grounds, be able ta reachi assemblies such as are
that the assembly no assembled wil dlsturb mentioned In the Bill, the moment an act
the peace tumultuously, or wlli by such as- of violence or Intimidation is committed.
sembly needlessiy and wltbout any reasouable
occasion provoke otber persoa ta dlstrub the T-hen, you iih notice that the Bill goes on
pence tumultuously.
a.nd provides tbat If a member of the asTherefore, we bave a provision on our sembly ls able ta show that be was there
statute-book, In tbe crIminal code, that any merely casually, and withant any common
assembly of tbree or more persons, If tbey purpose with the other members of the
give reason to belleve that the peace 15 go- assembly, and that bhe dld not commit any
ing to be disturbed, becames an unlawful act of violence, then the provisions of this
assembly. My abject Ir, introducing this measure will flot apply.
Bill Is ta pravide for cases iu time of strikes.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-He would always
1 take it that In times of itrikes the conshow that.
ditions are altogether abuormal, and that
extraordlnary precautians sbouid be taken
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-We cannot expect
ta preserve tbe peace. We bave had the that they will always be able ta show that,
experience lately, especlaliy in Montreal, and if a law of tb.is kind bad been on the
durlug the late strikes,'five, ten, fffteen, statute-boak at the time of the strike of the
twenty or more persoa assembling and longshoremeu, workingmen would nat bave
assaulting drivers of teams or conductors beesn gatbering at ail tie corners of tbe
of street railway cars, and in such a man- streets andi assauling people who were Iu
uer that the police authorities were unable the exercise of their rilhts In drlving gootis
ta ascertain wbo committed the offence. It from one place ta another. It seems ta me
is perfectly well k-nown tbat wben there 15 we shouiti try and put a stop ta that kinti
an aisembly of fifteen, twenty, or forty of tbing and preveut: tbe peace from
people, a stane may be tbrawn and serious being disturbeti as it ls luvariably dlsturbed
acts of violence may be committed wlthout on sucli occasions. The Bill contains a furpolice officers belng able ta reacli tbe guilty ther provision in clause 2 which is ns folparty. It seems to me that if we were ta lows
adopt, ta add ta the law, es it ls sougbt ta
2. Paragraph
523 of the Cribe done by tbis Bill, the simple provisions minai Code. 1892.(b) of sectionand the followlug
is repealed
bere submitted. that It wauid make it easy ta substituted therefor
(b.) lntimidates sucb othcr persan, or his
reacli the guilty parties un-der sucli circum- wife or children. by threats of using violence
stances, and it wouId be lu the interests or to hlm. ber or any of them, or of lnjurlng his,
insulttrades unions, as weil as in the interests of lier or their property, or bY the use ar ta hlm.
lng or opprobrious language addressed
the community at large. It Is perfectly well * er or any of them :or

SENATE
This, is amending section 523 of the
Crirniiial Code. The addition is a very slight one.
The change is miercly intended to prevent
opprobrious words being used and thereby
Interfering wlth free labour. It is under
our law a criminal offence ta publish a libel.
Surely, If it Is a criminal offence ta publish a
libel, it should be a criminal offence alsa
to use insulting words-words that are niuch
worse than a libel, intended to reflect on the
charac'ter of a man. I arn referring ta the
commun expression 'scab' which is applied
to non-union men in times of strikes. Qne
knows perfectly well that a party ta wbom
these expressions are addressed feels verY
mucb aggrieved as being a reflection on bis
In the interests of pence It
character.
Section 523 of the
should be prevented.
Criminal Code reads as follaws:
Every one is guilty of an indictable offence,
&c.. who wrongfully and wlthout lawful authority. with a view to compel any otiier person
ta abstain tram dolng anythlng which he has
a lawful rlght ta do. or ta do anytbing from
which be bas a lawful right ta abstain,
(a) uses violence ta such other persan, or
bis wlte or children, or Injures bis property, or
(b) Intimidates such other persan or bis wife
or cblîdren. by threats of using violence to
blm. ber, or any of tbem. or of lnJurlng bis
or their property ;or

(c) persistently follo'ws such other persan
about tram place ta place.
And then there are different other paragraphs. The Bill le intended merely ta add
a few words ta subsection (b) : 'intimidates
sncb persan, or his wife or chuidren, by
threats of using violence ta hlm, her, or any
of tbem, or of injuring bis or their property.
That is the old law. The addition there is,
,or by the use af insulting 'or opproblous
language addressed ta hlm, ber, or any of
them.' Tbis is tbe only addition whicb is
sought ta be made by this paragrapb.

trade unionists and their abettars against tbe
farnilies o! non-union warkers would corne
within tbe scope of this clause. It is a term,
I believe, tbat ls very cornmonly used. It lB
very offensive, and would be s0 specially
regarded by tbe wlves and families of persans to-whorn that opprobriaus term wauld
be applied, and it is very well ta widen
the scape of the law so that the use of any
sucb language as that wvould be indîctable
But I cannot
under the Crîrninal Code.
say that 1 arn so much lu agreernent witb
the first arndment, clause anc of the Bill1.
When I read tbat Bill aftcr rny bon. frlend
bad introduced It Ia the House, I certalnly
tbougbt it was golng very far, and I
thought that possibly, wben tbe bon. gentlenan would subrnlt bis Bll ta the Hanuse, be
wonld show that this legislatian was nat
gaing beyond wbat bas been donc in otber
enlighteaed countries. I bave not abserved
that be bas sbawn us that any legislation
going sO far as be proposes to do la this Bill
1
bas been adapted in any otber country.
quite agree with my han. friend, it is desirable that the law shanld be nmadct stringent
in ordei' ta preserve the pence in commuaities dnrlng the pragress af sfrikes, and it le
passible that an arndment can be made
tbat wlll not go quite sa far' as my han.
frlend proposes, that will strengtben the administratiorn of justice under sucli circumstances. But this clause strikes at the rigbt
af public meeting :

If at any tîme wbeo a strike le in progress
three Dersans or marc asaemble for any ipurpose.
It need nlot be lu the irnmenliate vicîaity
of the trouble ; it might be ln a public hall.
It rnight be for a purpose coinpletely remaved fr0 n the question o! labour discusHon. Mr. LANDRY-I would suggest ta sion at ail, yet sorne disarderly or evil-disthe bon. gentleman when we go into com- posed persan migbt enter inta that meeting
rnittee ta extend that a littie more and add and threaten or commit sorne unlawful act,
expression,' because if a persan uses tbe and the moment that is donc, this assembly
ýword 'scab'1 it le not language, but an ex- shaîl b)e beld ta be an unlawfnl assembly
piession. 1 offer the sug-gestion.
tram tbe beginning, and flot only that, butHlon. Mi. FERGUSON-I fully agrcc with
Eacb persan forming part thereof when such
the bon. gentleman iii regard to the second unlawful act is donc or tbreat used, shall be
deemed ta have been. fram the begînning, a
clause af this Bill. I followed his reasons. member o! an unlawful assembly, and shall
and be punishable accordingly (uniss punishable
and 1 think they are very conclusive
thatwe houdth scoe o tht
enarg
asa nteras hereinarter inentianea> even aithatwe enlrge he coPeOf tat
soul
thaghi such persan bas not participated la such
section o! the Criminal Code in the way indi- unlawful act or threat. unless the accused
the court or
ta
cated h)v the Bill -which l5 110w before us. shows be the satisfaction ofthe assemnbly judge
anly
formed part of
that
The use. foi instance, o! the word ' scab ' by casuaîly.
Ho'i. -Mlr. I3EIQUE.

JUNE 25, 1903
I feel thai this provision at the end of the
clause is altogethier inadequate ta relieve ani
Innocent and well-disposed persan under the
circumstances. He must show tat lie form-i
ed part of that assembly only cnasually. I
can conceive of a case where an assembly
miglit have resulted In dlsorderly conduet
on the part of an individual in sucli an asembly, and where a weil-disposed persan
would be arrested, or charged as is proposed
be shah lie charged. where lie ought not to
lie requlred ta show tbat bis attendae c
there was only casual. His attendance there
miglit bave been for a perfectly legitimrate
purpose. He must show, in tbe second place,
thiat lie had îîo cominon purposte wita ailier
persans assembled there. I sulimit it: might
lie possible thiat a well-disposed aud penceable citizen miglit not even be able ta
show that. if arrested at a meeting luinsilety
where a starike is Iu progress lie had nat a
common purpose wltli others. I will mention a case ta illustrate whist I mpaîi. Tbero
miglit lie a ecic election going on, and a
meeting called te, choose candidates for
municipal positions, and at that meeting i
The meeting
dîsorder might spring up.
miglit lie called for any purpase, but sucli
a meeting would corne under the scope of
this Bill.

497

pose witb tbe ailiers wlio forînoed tat meetng. I have no doubt my hon. frlend's 0ohill see that;
Iect ls good, but I think. lcie
J
the Bill as at present drafted 15 one tbat
would be subversive of British liberty, and
would strike at the riglit of assembling in
public meetings at a time when a strike la
on In any place. Law and order, and the
ord1nary business nf ai city tire flot to be
sus pended because a strike la In progress.
i
It miglit be a very Important matter lu that
town, and we knaw that if an electian were
going on, It would be the enslest thIng In
the world for an evil-niinded person ta get
into a meeting, and produce disorder, whlch
would render any citizen present hiable to,
arrest, and lie miglit flot be able ta show
tbat lie was nat doing wrong as defined In
the Bill, and lie wauld be brauglit under the
scopie and penalties of this Bill.
Hon. Mr. SC'OTT-WauVoild Iti nat le wel
ta let the Bill go to the committce ? It would
be easy to modlfy It, and meet the objections
which the hon. gentleman lias raised. If
tis clause were amended lu tliis way : if
wben a strike Is iu progress, &c., 'three persons In sympathy wlth the strike.' That
would meet one part of il, and It Inight be
Improved.

hion. frlend
Hon. Mr. MceMULLEN-MAy
Hon. Mr. MeKÂY (Tiuro)-Tlie.re would
draws an extreme interpretatioîî of the prohave ta lie a strîke on before ht would cone
visions of this Bill. I have no doulit lie
under the law.
does so honestiy, but ta îuy mid the Bill
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn keeping Ibuit pravides that It is ouly in case anl nct of
lu mind. -I understand this could only happen violence or in timidation Is committed that
ln a cii! or town wbere ihere was a strIke lu it would come wltbin the provision of tutus
existence. But surely no one proposes ta sus- Bill. A dozen may assemble if thiey lke,
pend the right o! public mneetinge, ini a city and as long as no act of violence or Intimior tawn dnring the progress of a strike. dation lis commltted, they would lie just as
other things have ta go ou. A strike mny free fromn the operation of tliis clause as
My hon. frlend's object
occur in a city and other meetings naay lie they are now.
hehd for the god goveriiet undoubtediy ls ta deal withi tiiose who
necessary ta lie
of the town, and ai any of tiiosp meetings gather for the purpose o! doing violencesome sucli tbing may occur as 1 hiave point- tarowing stones, or commltting offences of
ed out, and a well-dlsposed citizen wha that klnd. In the recent strike lu Toronito,
went tIere for nny plurpese, migli find hlm- 1 ean well remember, cars were broken,
self arresied, and lie nîiglit. îît lie able Ia stones were tbrown, and tiiere wvas a mob
show amy of those excuses or pallatlons of four or ffive huîîdred people gatlvred. If
provided in the Bill, excePt the Inst ane, and tais Act lad been in force wlhen these people
thnt is tliai lie didl uot couienance n'Y ni'- began ta gather and tue lirst -let of violence
lnwful net or threat. That would liot lie was committed, they mighît lin Te beeîî 8irsufficient ta exonerate hlm ; lie must show rested and the destruction stopped. I quite
lie mvas only casually in the meeting and agree with the lion. Secretii of State tiant
tlint lie ncted witbaflt any common pur- tbis Bill should go ta the commitice, and if

498.

SENATE

there are any suggestions on wliicli a mnodification of the clause slîould bo made. it eau
be done, but the provisions liere ontlined are
fair and just and will tend to, prevent the
destruction of property that takes place
when strikes are under way.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
hon. frieud (Hon. Mr. Ferguson), 1 understand, does mot propose to ask for a division
on the second reading. 1 iinderstand be Is
quite prepared to vote for sending it to tbe
committee lu order to make suggestions, to
avold thxe difficulties be bas polnted out. I
must confess I cannot put the construction
on this Bill that my bon. frleud from Marshfield does. It only applies, so, far as I cau
read it, to acts of violence committed durlng a strike.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Hear, bear.
Hon. Sir MÂICKENZIE BOWELL-And
It Is necessary to bave a strîngent law lu order to uxeet cases of that kind. Whetber thxe
number sbould be restricted to tbree, I amn
mlot prepared to say, but that we recinire a
provision of this kind lu the crîminal law, is
beyond a doubt wben we consider wbat bas
taken place recently. Eitiier the officiais
whose duty it is to maintain pence sud order ln cities. sud towns whiere strikes take
place do flot wish to, performn tbelr duties,
or they are afrald that thc power of the
nxob-for sncb It becomes at tbe tlme-wlll
overpower them, snd tbe people wbo are lu
business dare not do tbat wvhich tbey ought
to do lu order to protect Innocent people.
This Bill provides for the puuisbment of
tbose who commit depredations during the
time of a strike. The Bill rends:
4. If at any Urne when a strike Is lu progreas,
three persons or more assemble for any pur-

or they may say tbey were flot tbere for
that purpose, aud tlxey rnight commit depre*dations. If they commit depredations during a strike or nny other time, they should
be punisbed. Then It says : 'While so assembled.' Tbat Is for auy purpose. They
mny be assembled aud commit any unlawfui act, violence or intimidation, la that
case they will corne within the meaniug of
tîxis Act. Whether the latter clause is sufficieutly broad, or too restrictive, 1 amn not
prepared to say. If It: does not give sufficient scope, or wlde enougb margin, If I
may use that expression, to enable an Innocent man to say 'I was ouly there by accident.' or ' I went there just to see wbat was
golug ou,' I should thiink tbe hon. gentleman Wbo Introduced the mensure would be
willing to give it that scope. I arn fully lu
accord wlth tbe principle of the Bill. Protect an innocent man ns far as you like,
nnd If there la auy doubt of the protection
furnished lu this Bill for an Innocent spectator, wbo may. be for the tlme-belng amnong
the strikers, let hlmi be protected by ail
means, but I go the fullest possible Iength
to prevent a repetltlon of tbe depredatlons
and the murders tbat have taken place.
Hou. Mr. McMlULLEN-Hear, bear.

Hou. Slr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Otberwise we are not living lu n free country.
My hon. friend from Marshfield thinks we
are not living lu a free country If we place
this mensure on the ststute-book. If the
past Is to be Indicative of the future lu the
matter of strikes, those who dare to differ
from the strikers wlill be lu danger of loslng
their Ilves, and will be ln great jeopardy,
and the pence of the country will be destroyed, Innocent people lnjured aud prothese peopose, snd If, wbile tbey are so assembled, any perty destroyed simply hecause
uulawful act of violence or Intimidation Is coin-. pie have a quarrel wlth their employers.
mitted by one or more of sncb persous, or any
uulawful tbreat la used by one or more of them.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I desire to add one
the sald assemblage of persons shall be deemed
word. I may suggest souxe ameudmnts to
to have been au uulawful assembly front the
beginnlg ;sud each person formlug part there- the Bill when it goes to Commlttee o! the
o! wheu sucb unlswful set la doue or threat Whole. The object of the Bill being underused. shahl be deemed to have been. from the
begiuning, a member of au unlawful asembly, stood, we will endeavour to carry it out the
and shahl be puuished accordingly.
best way possible, but I desire to say one
word Ini answer to tbe statement made by
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is not whist
the bon. gentleman from Mýarshfield, that
It says.
it la strilclug at the liberty of the subject,
sould like to draw his attention to secs
lOWELL-Yes,
Hon. Sir MACXE.NZIE
that is tbe clause. That is durîng a strike. tion 79 of the Criminial Code, to wbicb I
We must put lu some provision of that kiud bave already referred, to show that au asHon. Mr. McMULLEN.

JIJNE 25, 1903
sembly of three or more persons becomes bis mmnd, and wbichli e is seeking to reman unlawful assembly from the mere fact edy by this Bill, have generally occurred on
that It gives those lu the neighbourliood the streets ?
reason to believe that there may be a
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE -Oh, yes.
breacli of the peace.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Always ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If they are asHon. Mr.- BEIQUE-Yes. Thie longahoresembied for a common purpose, but here we
inen's strike lasted three or four days, and
are departing altogether from that, and it
there were any number of men on band to
says : *assembied for auy purpose.'
drive teams, aIl that were required, but the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Well, transportation companies would not expose
their lives because there were groups o!
put it a 'common purpose.'
strikers awaiting to nssauit tliem.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUri-They may assemble
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Hea, hear.
for a common purpose, for a legitimate obJect, but the moment some of the members
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Ând the only remedy
of that assenibiy give reasonable ground was to caîl out the troops, and to put eitlier
to fear that the peace is going to be dis- thie government or thie city of Montreal to
turbed, it becomes an uniawful assembiy an expense of some $lS,OOO, aad demoralize
and under section 81 every member of that the whole country. Surely there should
assembiy, wlietlier lie Is able to show that be means of at least trying to prevent sucli
lie lappened to be there only casuaiiy or a state o! affaira.
flot, or whetlier lie Is able to show lie was
flot la common accord witli them, or wlie- Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-In that case wouid
ther lie la able to show that he did flot com- it flot be sufficient to makre the BiII applicmit any act of violence or any unlawful act, able to assemblies on the street. That would
nevertheless Is lhable to be punished from takre a great deal of out o! the objections
the mere fact that lie liappened to be tu the which I made to the Bill, If it 'were s0
ualawful assembly; and, therefore, it seems Iimited. But these things can be consIdered
to me that that section goes beyond the sug- la commlttee.
gestion embodied iln this Bill. But I deHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The hon.
sire to draw attention to the fact that gentleman did not admit that lie wouid protimes of strIke sliould be treated as abnor- pose certain ameudments to the Bill. For
mal times-to certain extent as times of îny part, I would vote against the second
war.
readlng as the Bill stands. The firet clause
reads a7s foliows :
Hon. Mr. PRGUSON-Martial law.
if at any time when a strike le la progress,
three persons or more assemble for any purHon. Mr. BELQUE-Ând that more stmIpose, and If, while they are so assembied, any
gent precautions are to be taken to preserve unlawful &et of violence or Intimidation la comaiitted by one
of
persons,
the law. It is well known that ln Montreal, unlawful threator more by suchor more of or any
Is used
one
them.
couductors of cars were assisted by one, or the said assemblage of persoas shaîl be deemed
at tImes, two policemen, and yet were to have been an uniawful assembly from the beginning ;and each person formiag part thereof
repeatediy nssaulted and beaten aimost to when sucli unlawful act le done or threat used.
-death, by assemblies of ten or fifteen per- shahl be deemed to have been. from the begiaa
sons, and that tlie police authorities were ning, be member of an unlawful assembly, and
shall
punished accordIngly.
lielpiess.
Sureiy we siiouid provide for
Supposing there Is a strIke going on In
cases of that kiad. The arm of the law
Three or
should be long eîîougli to reacli ail guilty tlie western part 0f Iloatreal.
parties, and I have luinii d, ameudments four or five people assemble ln tue eastemn
to suggest for the purpose of inaking this portion of the city, pesrbaps ln commercial
Bill more perfect than it is, but aiways ln niatters. and a quarrel bappens to arise
among them ; according to this, they wil
the Une of tbe chie! object o! the Bill.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Mighit 1 asic the
lion, gentleman if the troubles lie bas ln
32J

lie punished.
But, as my lion. friead lias
said, there may lie ameadments.
-1 shahl
vote for the second reading.

500

SEINATE

CUSTOM'%S ACT AMý%ENDM-NENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Knowtng wbat lias
taken place in Montreai, I should lie disSECOND READING POSTPONED.
posed to vote for tlis Bill, provided soinc
'Thle Order of the Day beiîîg cailed:
amrendment la made to connect the assenibly
Second reading Bill (174) An Act to amead the
wittî the strike. Othuerwlse I thtik it would
Customs Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
be rather n dangerous mnensure to pasa.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The Ministel, of CusHon. Mr. McHUGII-I have listened to toms ts particularly anious this Bill sbauld
the discussion and 1 do nat tbiink nything go tbrough the two Hauses before the 3Orth
bas been sluowa ta us wbichi ta not already of Juiîe, as It wtt! affect -certain payments.
oni the Crimînal Code as a means a! reacb- The Auditor General Is quite satisfied, If
lag people who are asseînbled to commit the Bill passes the twa Houses, ta pay witlthe acta of violence whlci bhave been menu- out the royal asseut. Tbere la nat time to
tloued by the lion, gentleman froin Moîitreai. discuss it now, and ualess the Bitl couid.
In ioolzing aver this measure, I tbilnki I t talce two stages to-morrow, we couid niot
gotng n long wauy wiîen it says 'aun asseau- put It througb before the adjouraiment.
bly of three persons wha have nssembled
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
for nny purpose,' tbat the anus o! siiowiiîg
not see particuiariy the object of rusbingwby tliey were there la ou tbe accused. If
the mumber ta tweaty It ta ail the warae, the Bill ta the Seaate, as suggested, except
because one man may commit an offance Ia it be to eîîable the Mlnlster of Custams to
that assembly, and the ather nineteen may pay some of these officiais that lie ta preThe
knaw aathing about iL, and they are called paring ta, appoint or bas appoiiited.
upon ta prove they wera there innocently. Bilt la nat retroactive, and I cannot for the
I always thaught a man waa called Innocent life 0f me see what object there to la havIt
Ing it rusbed through the commIttee.
tilt proved gultyta more of a domestic character than anyHon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
thing elae, excjept the appointment of an
Han. Mr. McHUGHI-But la this case the addltionai officer and for givtag additlonal
onus of proof la put upon the accusad. The powvers ta the goverumeuit ta reduce the
Secretary of State said the Bilt mîglit be duties upan articles wbtch are tmported for
Ha alsa raferrad manufacturing purposes. That la aIl. There
ameuded ta cammittee.
to the public aympathy belng -with the are Do money proviaions ta this Bill, and I
Very aften a large number of understand fuliy -what the Secreta-ry of
strikars.
.people are ta sympatuy wit the strikera State aaya la reference to the Auditor Genwhea thay are conductlng theniselvas Ia a eral. . If there ta mouey ta lie paid and no
proper ma-uer, and bave a mast grievance. appropriation ta the estimates of laat year,
The bon. gentleman says that iii Mantreai if the Bill passes botli Housea of parliament
tbey huad the sympathy o! the people. This for the payment of moaey, aithougli It may
mensure wauld dany labour organizations not have received the sanction of the Gaverthe riglit to go tatao their lodge rooma and nor Generai, the Auditor Geueral will admeet there durlag a strike. Some men mîglit vance the iuoney on the streugtli of It belig
came la and start a row, ani the whale or- approved by the Goveruor General afterganizatton would bee hable whea they mtght wards. But I do iîot aee aaythlng -in thia
have beea there on business ta refareace to Bill :îifectiug that.
their organization. The first clause of the
Hloi. Mr. SCOTT-Tliere are a inumber of
Bill ta unaaled for and should net be placed officiais l thie department wbo did a great
on the atatute-book. The law of thle country
ta amply sufficient. if It la property enforced,
to see that the lives o! the people and their
property are pratected, juat as mucli as if
The Innocent are
this Bill were passed.
mor-e hable to suifer under the enactmnent
of this Bill than under the present ]aw.
Thie motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tiie.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE.

def!fl ofniglit worlc ta connection wit thVe
railwvays, anid at presetît the ratiways pay
thili anid pay tue ferry coaipany mien doing
niglit duty, auld thie departaient lias allowed
those meni to get a certain amount for extra
service,
Iii tus Bilt it ta proposed that the
delm;rtiiieiit wtt! assume those ltabilttes.
'n'hate%-er extra money the men are entitied
At
to wtt! be paici by the departînent.

JUNE 26, 1903
Windsor or at Montreal, where railways
enter ten or twelve turnes a night, the officer
has to attend.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
clause ls that ?
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-The last clause. It
reads as follows :
(t.) For reguiating and determining what shali
be ut>ecial custom services for which charges
shall be payable to Ris Majesty on account of
the attendance of customa officers on vesselu or
at wharfs. warehouses, stations, or other places,
and the scale or amouat of such charges and
the conditions attaching to such specil services.
An arrangement bas been made by wblch
the department wIll pay them lhereafter.

THIRD READINGS.

Bill (63) An Act respecting the London
and Port Stanley Railway Company.-(Hon.
Sir John Carling.)
Bill (R) An Act respecting the Midway and
Vernon Railway Company. -(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, Victoria.)
Bill (145) An Act respecting the Quebec
Bridge Company, and to change its naine
to the Quebec Bridge and Railway Coinpany.-(Hon. Mr. Casgrain, Windsor, ln absence of Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier.)
Bill (87) An Act respecting the Vancouver
and Coast-Kootenay Rallway Compa-ny.(Hon. Mr. Dobson ln absence of Hon. Mr.
Landerkin.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
Bill (169) An Act to confer on the Comnthere is nothing la that clause giving power missioner of Patents certain powers for the
to the governinent to puy thein.
relief of James S. McDoug.al.-(Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
Kerr, Toronto, la absence of Hon. Mr. GlbBOWEL-4'hat son.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
la only for the purpose of makIng regulaSECOND READING.
tions. Does the bon. gentleman know what
Bill (73) An Act to Incorporate the Ontario
that lnvolves ?
and Quebec Power Company.--(Hoit. Mr.
latter part of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The
Young.)
clause rends -as follows
Provided. that the money received for such ANIMAL CONTAGIQUS DISEASES BILL.
charges may be used for payment of the sal.aries or pay of customs officers for the fiscal
SECOND READING.
year in which the speclal customs service is
verformed. notwithstanding anything la any
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the seconîd rendAct.
ing of Bill (194) An Act respý_:lng infecHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I wll tious or cantaglous diseases affectin.- a-1'not discuss it, but simply say that it cau- mals. He said : The departme'nt ln preparmlot bear the interpretation the hon. Secre- ing this Bill for the changes that fi contains,
tnry of State bas placed upon lt.
has, I think, acted very wisely and reHon. Mr. SCOTT-The officers ought to enacted the law, making the changes in
the Bill itself instead of making amiendkuow theinselves.
ments to the Act, as It caîi be much tmoi e
Hon. Sir MtACKENZIE BOWELL-They inteliigently understood by that .niet.iod.
don't know. If we propose to do that, It It would be very muclh better if other deinvolves an addltional expendîture to the partinents followed ln the saine Iue. The
country of froin fifty to seventy-five thons- main features are to give to the minister
and dollars a year. larger powers. It is found often, where Infectîous or contaglous diseases exist, that
The order was postponed.
the process formerly la vogue is rather slow,
The Senate adjonrned.
and tiierefore tlîls Bill gives to the minister
a nd the inspector more direct powers than
were exercised béfore. If it is the desire
THE SENATE.
of the House, I wlll go over the various
Ottaica, Friday, June 26, 1903.
clauses and refer shortly to the changes.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three Three-fourths of the Act is the saine.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
,o clcck.
would sugg-est, as the Flouse is so thin, that
Prayers and routine proceedings.

SENATE
the hou. mînister should make the explan- services wvere dispensed witb, and no one
ation wben bie moves tbe House in com- wvas appointed in bis place ; but froin 1867
nilttee. Tbe bon. gentleman from Marsli- to lù95 there was an assistant collmissioner.
field (Hon. Mr. Ferguson) takes a very great
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
Interest la this matter.
flot know wbere the bon. gentleman gets
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere are wlnole clauses that information.
of it not toucbed at ail, and In some clauses
only a word is cbanged, so that prnictically
Hou. Mr. POWER-So the statute says.
It will be very mucli better understood wbeu
Hou. Sir NIACKENZIE BOWELL-The
the House Is ln commlttee, If tbant meets the
party to %vhomlie refers, I bave no doulit,
approval of the House.
was a gentleman who was la tbe accountHon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Tlie ant's branch, Mr. Watters. Mr. Watters
explanation could be muade wlien the lion. miever was, so far as 1 bave any recollecminîster moves the House into Commlttee tlou, n assistant commissioner. There ;vas
of the Wliole.
an assistant commissioner, 1 rememiber disThe motion wvas agreed to, and tbe Bill tinctly, whien 1 took cbarge of the Customs
Departaient. 'My memory faits mie altowas read the second tine.
gether If one was ever appointed after the
promotion of '-%r. Parmalee to the commîssioniership. He wvas formnerly assistanut
ItEPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
coimissionier, and as soon as lie became
The House resolved itself into a Coin- comniissioner of custonis, t.iking «MNr.
Johnmlttee of the Whole on Bill (174) An Act son's place, 1 bave no recollection of any

CUSTOM.,S ACT AMEND.MENT BILL.

to amend the Custonus Act.

(In Commlttee.)
On clause 2, subsectlon 3,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wihl
tbe bon. gentleman gîve us some reasoin
wby this nditional official sliould lie appointed ? Fronu my experience, 1 do miot
sec tbe necessity for It.

omme belng appointed to tlint office. 'More
thau ftiat, If there was one, 1 do flot know
any duties flint lie performed or could perforni, other than tliat dîscbarged by any
accountamt. The only reason for it that I
can understand is to, give promotion to some
clerk ln the departmnent, and give bim the
standing of assistant commissioner, witb the
salary attacbed to it. The reason givemi by
the Secretnry of State is, to nîy mind, no
vaih reason, because any ordinary accouintant who can calculate the reductioii of an
invoice by 33à per cent is ail that is necessary to gîve effect to the preference clause.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie lion. gentleman
kuows that the recelpts fronn enstomis have
doubled sînce lie bad charge of the department, and tbe Increase of work muust
lie in proportion to the Increase lu the
duties. The prefereutlal duty bas also giveil
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-What is
addItionaI work, which requires more as- Mr.' McDougall's position ?
sistance. Tbe commîssioner felt for a long
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWNELL-Hle is
time that lie required n assistant. I think
there was one formerly, but the position comimissioner under tbe minister.
was donc away with.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I thouglit
Homi. 'Mr. POWER-I was soniewliat sur- Mr. Parmalee was commissioner.
prised at the remark made by the leader of
Hou. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL-Mr.
the opposition, la vîew ot bis long experiénce
Parima.lee went froni the Customis to the
as Minister of Customs. Duriug the xvlnole
tine tbe hon. gentleman was the hieud of the Trade and Commerce Departnient, and redepartment there was au assistant coin- mains under Sir Richard Cartwriglit now.
missioner. The office wvas abolishied ouly lui Hon. Mr. POWER-lIn the revised statutes,
1895, and then it was I think on accoinut liassed iiD 1S86, we flnd there is provision
of some improper coniduct ou tlic part of for an assistant commissioner. Ini 1895, 1
the assistant comimissiolier of that date. I-is flnd the office was abolislied by statute.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 26, 1903
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-Since
the hon, gentleman bas ralsed the question
again, If it wvns abolished ln 181X5, 1 know
It was nlot filled before that. If it was
abol!shed la 1895 it must have been because sucb au officer was nlot necessary, aud
nothing bas occurred since to make it necessary. When the assistant commissionership ivas nlot filled, we bad the whole of the
tariff that was revised, and wbat was calledl
the national policy zariff put upon the statute-book, and that Involved an immense
amount of work. The only difference tbat la
made at present Is the 3ffr per cent reductiofi
under wbat Is called the preferential clause,
and that certainly can be no good reason for
addîng this expense to tbe department.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 4,
Hoii. Mr. SCOTT-This clause is for the
purpose of autborizlng the minIster to employ temporary officers when hie needs them.
There are two at the samne rate as If tbey
were permanent officers, and no more, and
withln a given time If tbey prove their
fitness for the position they are appolated
by Order la Council.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If I
understand, on reading the debates ln the
othier House, the reason given for the addlag
of this clause, was this : under the Civil
Service Act no one can hoe appolntedl as an
officiai ln the Customa Department unles
lie bas passed the Civil Service exainination
for the lst 2nd and 3rd classes, except ln
the appoiatment of a preveative officer,
and it was not coasidered necessary to ask
a preventive officer to pass an examinatien, partlcularly, as scores of themn were
appointed, especially ln the maritime provinces, and along the frontier, at perbaps,
fifty, seventy-five or a bundred dollars a
year, and It was considered unnecessary for
aiea who were placed ln that position, atmply to prevent smuggllng, thait they sbould
have the qualification of an officer. Wbat
1 have understood tbe Minister of Customs
to say was, that to appoint a preventive
officer, and then place hlm ln another position, that of cierk, or to perform the duties
of a locker or landing waiter, was an evawhich was repugnant to n
sienl of the law%,

man who hiad any ideas of right or wrong.
Now, hie wvants the power to appoint anyone. Ia tliese two classes of officers to
which I have called the attention of the
House, without having any qualification at
ail, aad that he can set thea at any work
hie pleases. So that hoe can appoint a person
ln the samne ciass to do the work whlch It
is necessary now to have a man wbio bas
passed the Civil Service examination, aad
this gives hlm powver to evade the Civil
Service examination to that exteat. I sbould
not use the word 'evade,' because that
wouid not be correct, but to do thait under
this clause, whlch lie could itot do under the
Civil Service Act without vlolatlng the law.
The preseut system of appolntlng men teraporarly cati be done now for a certain
Iength of time, providing you get an Order
la Council to do it, and you caji pay the
mati for the work ho does. Tihis la giving
power to set aside the Civil Service Act in
that respect, and perbaps this is a more
honest way of doing It than to have la every
Bill the words 'notwitbstanding anything
la the Civil Service Act to the contrary.' In
looking over tbe Civil Service appointmrents,
you will find that there is not a single departaient-yes, 1 think there is one-which
bas not violated the law lu that respect,
aad they ask la the estimates whichi are
before the House to-day, for an appropriationî to cover the cases wliere flhe iaw bas
been vlolated. The M.inuister of Customns la
this clause is nsking for tbiat uulimited power. If you want to set aside tlue Civil Service Act, why do it, for in view of the
way It bas been administered of late, yon
bad better set it aside altogether. 1 know
my hon. friend tbrew the taunt across the
tloor of the House the other day, whien discussing titis question, oh, you did the samne
thlng.' 1 admit there were certain circumstances where It Nvas necessary, hinftue appointment of mien of superior ability aad
for special purposes, to insert tbat clause,
but I challengêe my hon. friend to produce
an estimate wbere hoe can find that ia every
departaient it w-as done. However, I shall
talce an opportunity before the House rises,
of placing ahl these cases before the lion.
gentleman aud It -,vill he an interesting document.
The clause w-as adopted.

SENATE
On clause 5,
Honi. Mr. POWER-With respect to subsection 3 of this clause, I was under the impression there was a provision ln the Customs
Act that AIl Orders lu Councl mnade since
parliament had risen, should be laid on the
Table of both Houses witbin a certain nuinber of days after tbe meeting of parllament.

There does not seem to be any sucb provision In the Customs Act. -I thilk there
ought to be a provision of that kind. These

Orders la Counicil really are, substantialiy,
new laws, and oughit to be laid before parliament witbln fifteen days after the opening
of the session.,
Hon. AMr. SCOTT-Any Orders la Council
are publiied aiways ln the statutes of the

followlng year.
- The clause was adopted.
On clause 6,
Hon. ',%r. POWER-l wishi t0 direct the attention of the commlttee t0 the second suibsection. Section 10 of the Customns Act deals
altogether with the currency in whichi the
Invoices are made ont. It lins nothing t0 do
witli nnything else. The first subsection of
the clause before us deais with the currency,
ns yon will see. Lt lnserts certain words
with respect to the currency af fer the word
'lmported' ; but the second subsection dea]s
with a totally different miatter, and it should
flot appear ini the place wliere It is. As I

understand the position, this Is probab]y
tbe resuit of an oversight on the part of
somne clerl. In the Departient of Justice
to wbom the rougli draft of the changes ia
the Customs Law was banded. This subsection 2 really ouglit to be appended

to

section 42 wbicb deais with Invoices.

But
It Is calculated to mislead wbere it is, and
1 submit to the hion. *Secretary of State
that it would be better to biave this transposed and plut under section 42.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But it
bas a much wider significanice than that, un-

less I arn very rnuch mistakien.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn sirnply speakiagof the place where it ought to: be.
Hlon.
Sir
MACKENZIE
BOWýELL-I
calIed attention yesterday to this clanse,
and I asked the lion, gentleman wIiîether
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

it did flot confliet witlî other provisions of
the statute, and hie answ-ered. 'no, no.' I arn
quite convineed that hie did flot consider it
fully. 1 bave been consuiting one of our colleagues, who Is flot bere just now, who Is a
lawyer, and hie takes the saine view of the
clause as 1 do. Ei-en if it does flot go to the
lengtii that 1 tbink It goes, it certainly would
create confusion ani misapprehiension and
lead to a great deal of difficulty.
I w-i
explain wliat I mean. The hon. Speaker and
the House wili notice that it reads this waythat whlle It deals wlth the currency it goes
furtber aud says:
Ail such Involces shall falthfuily exhibit the
transaction between the exporter and the Importer. and contain a true and f ull statement
of the actuai price payable for the goods.
That Is deallng exclusively with the value
of the goods whicb are purchased in a
foreign country to be'exported to Canada.
Then it continues:
Includlng cartons, cases and coverlngs of ail
klnds and ail expenses incident to placing the
goods ia condition, packed ready for shipment
to Canada. and no such Involce shall state any
discount other than such as bas been actually
allowed to the Importer.
'As bas been actuaily aiiowed to the 1111porter.' Now, under that clause, could flot
an Importer dlaim exemption from duty to
the extent of any discrimination wbich
migbt be given hlm ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink flot.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If jiot,
then it is useless. If the bion. gentleman
iil refer to clause 10, of this Bill, and If
lie wiil go furtber, and' rend sections 61, 64
and 65 and others In tbe Act, bie wilI find
the principle upon wblcb ail entries can
be made and the principie of the wbole law,
ijot oniy In tlîis country, but in the United
States and ail counitries where tbey bave
ad valoremn duties, the value of the article
for duty shall be the fair market value of
that article when soid for consumption ln
the country where it is pnrcbased foir exportation. Now, if an article be purclîased
la the United States for borne consumption,
and the purchiaser receives ten, fifteen or
twenty-five per cent discount from the rates
i the invoice, that discount is ailowable
to the person who purchases for import into
Canada. If, îowvever, the person in a foreigan
country, fromi whonï the gonds are purclased, g-ives to the Canadian purchaser
25 per' cent on the article, while bie allows

JUNE 26, 1903
only 15 per cent when sold for home consumption, the addltlonal 10 per cent mnust
be added for duty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is no doubt
about that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Thîs
clause says :
No such Invoice shall state any diseoulit other
than such as bas been actually allowed to the
ImDorter.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It 15 only Information,
nothlng else.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
ido not crystallize a prînciple in a statute for
information merely.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thnt lias been the practice of the departrnent.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
*wlthi ail respect to the hon, gentleman, that
bias not been the practice of the department.
If, according to the reading of this clause,
the person wbo Imports the article Is not
permitted to state any other discount than
that wblcb is actually ailowed. is not the
Inference plain that hie is to be allowed a
deduction from the lnv'olee to the extent
of the discount aliowed ?2 You may depend
upon lt, In carryiag out this law, wbatever
Interpretation may be put upon lt by the
department, you will flnd there will be lanumerable difficulties and trouble arlsing,
and you wlll have iawsuits about It on
accounit of large discounts. If lt bas tbe
meaning that my hon. frlend says it bas,
then lt Is useless, because the law makes lt
,clear what the value for duty shial bie, and
if that Is the case, there la no necessity of
isaying hie shahl fot bie a.llowed any larger
,discount than that which la actunily ailowed.
0f course. you take the responsibility, but I
bave pointed ont the effect which I arn saýtiafied tlia provision In the law wiil have, and
froni a consultation wlth legal gentlemen, I
find tliat they take the same view that I
do. The hon, gentleman ays tis la put
bere for Information. If you go Into any
court, they will take the ivording- of the
Act and flot the Intention.
Honi. 'Mr. SCOTT-But if the Act is very
clear in subsequent clauses of it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If tis
does not overrîde it, then it la useless.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-The p)oint to wilicb
I directed'attention is that tis clause, which

505

we are now considerlng ought to be an
independent clause, and should be added
to section 42, wblch deals wltb Involces.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those wbo prepared
the Bill have taken a great dleal of care Ia
drafting it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-My bon. frlend Is
contlnually uslng that argument whien we
criticise these Bis.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will continue to use
it while L ar nla prliament.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If one critises a departmental Bill, the bon, gentleman tells us
that the clerk who drew that Bill knew
more about w~hat Is needed than the members of parliament.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn perfectly safe in
saying s0.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlîe hon. minister rnay
think so, but It does not follow that the
He ls not Inhon, gentleman la rigit
failible.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not Infallible, but
1 believe ranch more Ia tbe ability of those
%vboprepare the Acts to express what tbey
mean than of any bon, gentleman liere.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I consulted the depnty commissioner of customus about this
clause, and bie recognized that It was not
la the righlt place, so the bon. gentleman
sees hie bias flot only my autborlty, but the
deputy commlssloner's.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the comnisaloner desires the change, I amn quite willing, but not
otberwlse.
Hon. Mr.* POWER-WhaiDt la the purpose
of bringig a mensure before parlament If
tbe minister In charge says 'I will not
under aay circumstances accept anl arnendment' ?
Hoii. Mr. SCOTT-Wliere It la a matter
of principle, I arn wiling alivays to :accept
an amnaiment ; but wbere It la only a rea rrangement of a statute-whlen a statute
bas been carefully prepared by the department after iveeka and weeks of careful
study-I thînk It la untlrnely and unseasonable for a gentleman, wvho rnay not be famillar wvithi it. to get up and propose changes.
Hion. Mr. POWEll-As 1 have stnted, the
1deputy comniasioner admitted this sub-

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I made no comment
section wvas Dot in the right place, sud lie
said the drafting of the Bill w-as flot their cn the hon. gentleman's criticlsm. It was
work--that they liad sent tlie information ta the suggestion of the lion. Speaker that
the Department of Justice. In al] proba- this clause should be placed anywhere else.
bility, the person who Is extolled sa by the It did not seem ta me a fair ground ta take,
Secretary of State, was one of the clerks unless lie gave the autliorlty on which lie
in the Department of Justice.
spoke, because we ail know -that these
Honl. Mr. SCOTT-As the lion, gentleman Bis are prepared wlth great care and unlias given the autbarlty of the deputy coin- less tbere is very strong reasan for It, one
missioner, I have no objection ta make the does flot wish to see them disturbed. So
far as the crlticlsm of the leader of the
change.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn opposition is concerned, I arn always very
sorry ta see the han. Secretary of State glad to hear fram hlm, because lie speaks
take the position lie lias doue. If bis view from long experlence of the Act as Minister
in this
Is correct, ail we have ta do la ta accept the of Customs, and na other member
productions that came fram the de- chamber can speak wltb sucli authority on
crude
partment, and we are of no use. He miglit the subject.
as well abolish parlament altogether. He
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI1
nilglit as well say ta the clerks of the de- should like ta ask the Secretary of State to
partment prepare your Bis ns you like place the Interpretatian an this clause, and
and you shall have them. 1 differ entirely also an the ather clause ta whlch I have
from the doctrine laid down by my lion. called attention, before the Minister of
friend. There are some members of parlia- Justice, and see if lt Is llkely ta lead to
ment just as capable of judging of the wbat I say. If It la found it does not, I
character of this clause and of this Act, have ile furtlier objection ta make.
as Mr. Mc\IDougal or Mr. Paterson, or anylk
H-on. Mir. SCOTT-Well, we can
body else, and I shahl fot surrender my
riglit, as a member of this Hause ta crîti- over that clause and the other to whichi
cise a Bill, fia matter who may bring It the hon, gentleman objected.
The clause was allawed ta stand.
forward, even If it Is the distinguished
gentleman who occupies the position of
On clause 7,
Secretary 0f State. We stand here upon an
Han. Mr. SCOTT-There la nothing new
equal footing. Those Bills are brauglit ta
us ta criticise and amend. There is no in this clause.
politica la this. The Minister of Customs,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oli,
I have fia doubt, desires ta make this Bill yes, there Is. If under the law as it noNv
as effective as possible for the protection stands on the statute-book, a piece of cloth,
of the revenue. He cauld flot bave any for instance, la composed of three or four
other reason, and I take exception alsa ta articles In its manufacture, the rate of duty
the hon. gentleman's statement tliat tliis Is on the whole article must lie placed on the
n mere teclinical objection that I have taken material which bears the higbest duty. I
ta this clause. It le not teclinical. The han. think this proposition Js more equitable than
tlie Speaker lias very justly polnted out the aid law, thougli more difficult to carry
that the clause shauld be placed in another out. Take a piece of west of England broadposition in the Act so that when you are cloth. and 1-ou will find in the selvege, silk
dealing with tliis question you wlll have threads which become part of the manuone -thing concurrent wlth another dealing fac~ture. If the silk hears a higlier duty than
witli the anme subject. Tliat Is only com- the cloth does, then the silki duty miust lie
mon sense, notwithstanding the law clerk exacted.
of the departmeut. This other clause, 1
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The law as it stood
amn convinced, will have the effect I have
pointed out ta my lion. friend. It la not wvas practically the same.
a question of information; it is a question of
Hon. Mr. POWER-I would ask- the leader
law you have ta deal w-ith. and which you of the opposition if lie tbinks that the meniwill find we have ta deal with.
ing of this new clause is perfectly clear.

JUNE 26, 1903
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
15. On any article not enumerated, manufactured of two or more mnatertals. the duty shahl amenda section 52 only.
be assessed at the highest rate at which it
would be chargeable If the article were comHon. Mr. POWEll-lt puis the articles
1)osed wholly of the component material thereof

of chief value. having regard ta the condition meutioned ln section 52 on exactiy the same
of the component materiala as found ln the* footing as the articles mentioned In section
article.

I think It would puzzle the ordinary 55.
lawyer to make out juat what that meana.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I canHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe not possibly see that it appiies to, section
interpretation I sbould put on that la, if an 55, because section 55 deais with another
article Is manUfactured of, say, three mia- ciass of goods aitog-ether, crockery, china,
teniaIs, and one of the three bas greater giassware, &c.
value than the others, then the value for
Hou. Mr. SCOT-It puts thenm iii the
duty miust be applled to that article.
Eame position as those coming under section
by thie
Hon. '.%I. POWEll-I think that la what 55. That is the expianation given
the Intention Is. I waa not satiafied that department, at ail events. It la a further
concession to importers la regard to damit was made as clear as it migbt be.
aged goods, being the saine provision ns ln
The clause was adopted.
section 55.
On clause 11,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL1,-How
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
can that apply to that clause nt ail?ý
clause bas, as I lndlcated yesterday, a restrictive and expansive character. The preHou. Mr. SCOTT-By rendlng section 55,
sent law provides that the amount aliowed the hon, gentleman will see that It appies.
for damage to any goods mnust not exceed 50 [t brings It Up to the same standard.
per cent on certain classes of gooda. This
The clause was adopted.
clause changes the iaw s0 that -an Importer
cannot cliln any rebat. uniess the amount
On clause 12,
of ioss Is la excess of twenty-five per cent, so
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-This is a new clause.
there Is notbing allowed for loss under
twenty-five per cent, but If it reaches twentyHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-It goea
five per cent then you cau pay for the iosa to, the extent of ailowing the damage, If it
to the extent of seventy-five per cent. Tbat is a ioss by accidentai lire, or while la trans1s really the working of it. They get no portation, which was flot ln the oid section.
aiiowance for any detenioration of goods, or [t extends the rlgbt of the Importer to have
Injury to goods, under twenty-five per cent, a refund la case the goods were iost by lire
and ail over twventy-five per cent they get.
or other casuaities, when they are la transThe CHAIRMAN-It waa fty befone.
port, which was flot lnciuded ia the other
Hon. Sir MÂACKENZIE BOWELL-If it one. There Is no objection to it.
were two or three or four per cent, you get
The clause was adopted.
no allowance, but atter It got over 50 per
cent, although It mighit reach 99, you couid
On clause 14,
not get the other 49. Under thîs clause, a
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-1 have
man may lose 241 per cent and gets nothing,
not had tinie to give thls practIcai conbut after It reaches 25, It goes up to, 100.
but 1 thlnk It is an improvement
Hon. Mn. POW%ýEll-I think there la an- sideration,
on the oid law. Medicinni or toilet preother object ln this clause, that It assimiarticles of
lates the sheet-inon, which Is the oniy thing parations are the moat dîfflcuit
importation with.whlch the Customs Dedenît «%-ith in section 52, with other articles
has to, deal, and for that reason I
which are nientioned ln section 55. of tlue partment
thIink this power should be given to tlue
Custonis Act. If the bon. gentleman will
it will work out pracIool. at section 55, h. wilI aee that the ob- department. Whbether
tically or not, 1 cannot sny.
ject is to put sheet-iron on the sanie footing
The clause was adopted.
as the otber articles mentioned thuere.

508

SENATE

On1 clause 15,

iîot use the word 'fraud' la that case-but
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-l'bat clause Is trans- I arn quite clear that there was a wrong
ferred from the T'ariff Act. It Js more for committed. I do flot object ýto g-iving this
power to the mînîster. 1 know what the
the purpose of a refereace.
-difficulties are la this case.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I do flot rlse to make
The clause was adopted.

a teclinIcal objection, or suggest a change
ia the language, but I wlsh to make a
protest agalnst the absolute power wbicb
Is gîven to the Departmnent of Customs.
Tlhese are regulations with respect to molasses and syrup and tbings of that kiud,
and the quantities lmported are generally
large and the cargoes are of great value.
The provision lu the clause rends :

On clause 16,

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
la a good clause, and la Inteaded to meet
this klud o! fraud. Represeatatives lu this
country of a maaufaoturlng Iadustry lu
Germauy purchase goods from the maýnufacturer at the cost of manufacturlng them,
and seli with a sliglit advance upon the
And the decîsion of any officer. to whom 115 manufacturlu g price in that country. They
s0 assizzned the testing of such articles, as to
the duties to whlch they are subject under the wlll cali them their owa goods, and seli
tarit!. shall le final and conclusive, unless, up- thein. This gives power to prevent that.
on appeal to the commnissioner of customns
The clause was adopted.
withln thirty days from the renderlng of sucli
decislon. such decision ls, with the approval of
the Minister of Customns, changed -,and the deOn clause 18,
cision ot the commissioner of customs with
Hou. Mr. SCOTIT-I explalued the other
auch approval shahl le final.
I thlnk lu cases where very large amounts day tnit there are, ail aloag the~ frontier
are lnvolved, dealing witli cargoes of moins- of this country, from Windsor to the marises, for Instance, that there should be an time provinces, custoins officers who bave
and on
appeal to the Governor la Councl, or to beeu paîd for extra duty ut nlit
Suuday. They have been pald from that
some court.
chaunel-the transportation companies-for
Hon. lir. SCOTT-I thiak there Is a gen- being up at niglit and for extra work out
eral appeal.
o! ordinary office hours, and It Is proposed
Hon.
Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-1 now, that the departmeut shahl assume that
charge and puy them, except lu sorne special
thiuk there ls.
cases ivbere tbe amounts may be cousiderHon. Mr. POWER-Thls clause says that,
able. For Instance, a railway crossing the
wrhea approved by tbe miaister the-decislon
fron-tîer, take from Niagara to Montreal,
o! the comissioner Is final. I tbiak that la
passing perhaps at mlduight, the oflicer bas
pretty bard. We had oae case lu Halifax
wbere I always felt that the importer had a to be present at the froutier. That officer
very serlous grlevance, aad lie could flot get may have been on duty aIl day. It la only
any reuiedy from the officers or from the fair and proper, if hie is up ill that bour
minister. There should be a chance to go of the uiglit, that lie should be paid sý)mebeyond the mialster, who is aaturally dis- tbing extra for attending.
Honi. Mr. POWER-He is pald extra now.
posed to bac]. up bis owa officers.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
a vivid recollection of the case to which my
bon. friend refers. I bad the very great
pleasure and privîlege of being pestered for
hours and hours la my room over that case.
I gave it a very great deal o! attention, and
wbile 1 bave no doubt that the importer
Ilimself was quite innocent of any intention
of doing wrong, the facts were against 1dmn
-iot only the facts, but the actions of near
relatives, and those whio biad the miaking of
Ihie entries. Thiat there was wrong-I do
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-By the railwuy coinlianies, and it Is uow proposed tnit the depnrtmnent slbaîl pay hlm.
Hon. Mr. JONES-It la proposed tîjat tlie
department make the -collections, and ont
o! the collections pay the officers. They hiave
larger control thmn before.
Hon.

MINr.
SCOTT-Yes.

Honi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
that flic intention ? That la jiot the expianation given by the lion. Secretary o! State.

JIJNE 26, 1903

509

from one side to the other to pay an extra
charge, which was paid to the government,
end then the goverument paid these offidlaIs for overwork, and la order that they
should not be overworked night and day,
we put on additional men to, do the night
work and paid tbem out of the moneys
which were paid by the railway company.
Hon. Mr. JONES-That is exactly what
is proposied under tbis clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The railways paid the
men directly under the old arrangement.
Hon. Mr. JONES-Ves, tbat bas been the
rule always.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman is haif rigbt and baif wrong.
If hie had paid attention to wbat I sald, hie
would not have interrupted. 1 said that
was the principle, but that at Niagara I
adopted a different principle, and made the
money payable to, the department, and that
we paid the officers. There are Canadw.n
officiaIs ia St. Paul, at Tacoma, Seattle,
and wherever the connections are made,
wbere the goods are sent in bond tbrough
the United States to British Columbia, or
any Britishi port on the Pacific, there are
officers at the points that I have indicated
who silperintend the transference from the
bonded railway car to the vessel. Then they
are iocked up and put in bond until they
get to, Vancouver or some place in British
Columbia. Ail that money is paid by the
railways. the«Grand Trunk, the Canadian
Pacidie Railway, the Micbigan Central, and
others that carry goods that way direct,
the government keeping control of the
officers by pnying theni. So that the bon.
gentleman is not right aitogether when hie
says the otlier principle is involved. When
' I read this clause I put the samne interpretation upon it as the hon. gentleman froni
Toronto, that the government would
charge the railway and the steamboat
owners for the services rendered after
hours.
change the question was dropped, and 1h
Hlon. Mr. JONES-Is that flot wliat is prow-ns dropped for the reason that if these
vessel owners and others reqnired services vided in the clause ?

Hon. Mr. JONES-I think that is the intention.
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE
understand the Secretary of State's expia.
nation to be that it Is to relieve the steamboat owners, and ail raiiway companies froin
paying for the services of men who work
after bours ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-In
the city of Montreal, the'custonis officiais
have to be on duty at ail hours of the
nigbt-not ail bours of the night, but at the
arrivai of trains from the United States,
in order to prevent the smuggiing wbich
might otherwise go on. The examination
of the passengers' baggage, or any goods
that mlight be brought in surreptitiously
by porters and others, and to see that ail
dutiabie goods are placed i bond. The
railways pay for that extra work. The
steamboats in different ports. ln Montreai
ln particular, wben the Ailan liners or any
of tbe steamers arrive, desire to have their
freight unloaded as rapidly as possible, and
consequently tbey have customs officiaIs
watching the dutiable goods ail night, and
they pay so much to the departmnent, or
direct to the officer himself. That involves
an extra charge. If the effect of the clause
is wbat bas been pointe-d out by the hon.
Secretary of State, it invoived an extra
expendîture out of the revenues of f rom
~fty to seventy-flve tbousand dollars a year.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
question came up before the late governnment whien I was administeriug the department, and there was a feeling in favour of
the principle whicb evidently bas been accepted and adopted by the present government, that is, If tlue interpretation put
upon it by the hon Secretary of State is
correct :but when I pointed ont the amount
that would be invo]ved ln malzing this

at other than the legai hours, they should
piy for thein, and uiot the country, because
ih is done for their benefit. At Niagara I
adopted. tiîis princîple, I compelled the railw-ay officials of the Michigan Central and
the Grand Trunk and ail those tiat crossed

Hon. Sir. -NACKE-NZIE BOWELL-The
lion., gentleman says mot.
Hon. Mr. JONES-Read the clause.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
have read the clause. If the hon. gentie-

SENATE
mani from Toronto will read Mr. Paterson's
explanatiorn ia the Lower House, hie wili
find lie gives the saine interpretation precisely as the lion. Secretary of State, so
that they agree. Wbatever the clause
means, they agree that the goverument Is
incurring an expenditure for the benefit exclusively of the railways and the steamboat
owners.
Hon. Mr. POWER-When I first read the
clause. 1 took the same view as the hon.

leader of the opposition, and the hon. Secretary of State, but after reading it over two
or three turnes 1 attacbed the saine meaning to it whicb was given by the bon. gentleman, from Toronto (Hon. Mr. Jones).

these companies eau do is to pay for arrangements which are made for their convenlence.
Hion. M~r. JONES-The section is very
clear, aud 1 understand to soute extent how it ls. As the leader of the opposition bits pointed out, lit the past the
transportation conlpany required to get -an
officer on their own account to, do the services necessary to enabie thein to transact
their business promptly, and the questin of
remuneration rested between the transportation cormpany and lhe officiai.
-Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
Hon. Mr. JONES-Yes.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I beg
bon, gentleman is mistalien. I did not give the lion. gentleman's pardon.
tat interpretation to it. I agreed with the
Hon. Mr. JONES-I knowv lit certain cases
lion, gentleman, but I amn taking the inter- it mas doue. The officiai %vas îiot obiiged
pretation of the two ministers.
to do this service after bours, unless lie was
Hon. Mr. POWER-Probably the Miiiister specially paid for those services by tie
of Customns means to, make the change, but transportation cornpany. The government
if so I do not thiuk. the language of this propose now, throughi the departinent, to
clause Is golug to effect bis objeet. The take charge of these services, and they inake
Governor lu Council may make reguIntions : the charge, let It bie great or sinali. As
rgultin
(t. Fo ad dteminng ha shilbetween tiiem and the transportation combe special customns services for whlch charges panies, the department makcs the charge
shall be payable to His Majesty on account of aad the money is to, be paid directly to the
the attendance of customs officers on'vessels dprmnadte
h
eatetpy
or et wharfs, warehouses, stations, or otherdeatenndhetedeametpy
places. and the scale or amount of such charges the officers such sums as tbey dcem adand the conditions attachlng to such specil vîsabie. Ia that regard, I thîink the proservices.
There iÉ no statenient

pay thein.

tiiere wîio is to posed systein is an Improvemnent, and is
The charges are to bie paid by hikely to bring about better service, and the

the
mporers.remuneration
the
mporers.iîto
Hon. Mr. JONES-By the transportation

wiii be more carefuiiy luuiced

and reguiated tlîan unider the systemi
which, to some extent at ail events, lias
conîpany.
prevaiied in the past.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlien It goes on to proHou. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWLLLI-I
vide :quite

agree withi tbe interpretation tue lion.
Provicled. that the money received for such gentleman lias put upon it. 1 do not kîîow
charges may he used for paymient of the sal- %vhat the practice lias been tue lnst five
aries or pay of custonts officers for the fiscal
Year . I which the specil custoins service is 'eIirs, but I kanow whien I 'was at tlîe lîead
performed. notwithstanding anything In any of the departmient the remuneration paid to
Act.
tue different officers for the wvork was cou1 read the clause ovex' two or three tumes, curred lat by the department, and tlic detind attached the saine meaning to it as is partaient would indicate f0 the raiiway
pliced 0o1 it by the lion, gentleman fr~ont officiais and the steainboat officiais lîow
Toronto. As to the priacipie of it, if any lunch tbey sbonid pay.
Sometimes they
body is f0 pay, it should be the transporta- would get $10 a month extra ; sometîmes
flou compa-ny.
This country lias doue a $20, sornetimes $30, lu accordance wvith the
great deal for transportation com"panies, wvork they did ;but it alw-ays came before
particulariy raiiway companuies, aud gets flic dcpartmeut when 1 had anything to do
very littie iii returu, and I think tlic Ieast w~itii it.
Hou. Sir MACKEMNZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 26, 1903

511

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman is of manufactures. used as materials ln Canadian
manufactures ;and any such materiais speciperfectly correct, as to the practice whicli lied in such Order la Council shall be snbject
bas prevailed Up to the present tiie. 1 ta such reduced duty of customas and no other
for the time and under the conditions thercin
know that myseif, fronm laving occalsionf- Provlded.
ally acted for the Minister of Customs. I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Section 245 authorizes
sent myseif to Mr. MeDougall to get lits
articles ta bie put on the free list. It is
opinion of it, He writes:
held that this clause would not caver a
Section 18. (t.) In the past charges received reduction af duty, and the changes made ta
have been
for extra services of customs officers
paid by the parties accommodated, and sucb enable the duty ta be reduced instcad of
amounts were flot deposited ta the credit o&, tatally repealed. The clause only extends
the Receiver Generai but were deposited to the
credit of the coilector of customs, and hie paici ta gaods ta be used for Canadian manuthe officers 'who performed the extra services. factures.
Naw the g-overnment propose to relieve the
raiiways and steamshlp companies from this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
extra charge by paying the officers for over-time
themseives where necessary. Charges wiii stili question Is wbether this power sbould be
be made for specl services rendered by cus- given ta the Governor ln Council ta reduce
toms officers ln p)articular cases. such as attend- the duty an any article. If we adopt tbis,
lng customs warehouses, &c., and ln some cazs
for services of officers an Sunday. The money 1 tbink the suggestion mnade by tbe Speaker
received for such services ta be avgilable to ougbit certainly ta *be carried out. My repay the office;rs, although deposlted to the credit
collection now is-I arn speaking subject ta
of the Receiver Generai.
an article bas beea
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWrELL-It 15 correction-that wbere
put upoon the free list it remains an the free
just a difference ln book-keepling.
list until the meeting of parliament, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The point 1 have iiot this would be mucb less objectionable If
been able ta make up lits mind ta is, are there were a few words added ta the bottom
they going ta charge a bulk sumn ta the of this clause where It says ' for reducIng
railways and steamsbips, or go Into leta il. the duty an any or aIl articles whetber
1 amn inclined ta think they are going ta natural products or products of manufac(livide the coet, fram wlbat 1 understand of turers, &c.' That is they mlgbt say for six
ît, and reading Mr. McDougall's opinion montbs--tbey might Say for five years, or tbey
.would carry ont that conclusion-that they migbt gay until a change made by parîlament;
will make a fixed charge and psy the officers. but it seems ta me It would bie an ImproveHon. Mr. JONES-It is a matter of ment if my hon. friend would accept It, by
routine lu the office.
adding ' sncb reduction ln duties shall have
tuIl force and effect until tbe meeting of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Altogether.
That w.ould leave parllament
panliament.'
Honi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The ta jndge, -wben it meets, of the prapriety of
opinion the bon. gentleman bas read, carnies the Act wbich had been performed under
out the interpret "tiofl we put upon-the clause. the autbority af this clause. My own view
rlhe onily difference Is the governent iwill was tbis, that wvbere you placed an article
sny directly to the rallway companlcs, If
on the free list ta-day for a special puryou want this mnan for a certain purpose,
pose, we have the power, as*tbe iaw stands,
you have to psy blim a certain sum a month
providing It goes into the manufacture of
extra. But lie pays that to the colleetor, çvho
another article, ta put it on the free list.
pays it ta the Receiver General, and the
In this clause It goes further. It permnits
governient pays the officer. That is nat at
the goverament ta reduce the duty sa that
ail the explanation the bon. gentleman gave
If the manufacturer wants an a-rticle ta
wbich led ta MaIS discussion.
complete the goods bie is manufacturing,
Hon. Mr. JONES-It places the officer even if it la a manufacture la itself, tbey
under the contraI of is department abso- can reduce the dnty.
Now, shauld tbat
lutely.
p.ower bie placed in tbe bands of any goverament longer than the time wbich interThe clause xvas adopted.
venies between the time tbe order is passed
On subsection ul,
by the Treasury Board and the meeting of
(u.) For reducing the duty on any or ail
articles. wbether naturai products or products Parliament 9. I do not tbink It aught; other-

512

SENATE

wise you are divesting parliament of the -will be, and iu that way will be 0f value to,
rigbt to say wbat the duty upon any article an importer as well as a convenience to the
shall be.
department.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Is the bon, gentleman
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This, clause is intendquite certain that where you place an ar- ed as an amendment to 'M.
ticle on the free list you must at the next
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the government
session of parliament introduce an Act coulanve the power to remit tbe duty altogether
firmaing it ?
it is reasonable to give themn power to reHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Tbat ,intce it, and 1 cannot see that this iu itself
is my recollection.
is open to objection.
Hon. Mr. JONES-I do not think that is
the law now. Are flot ail Orders in Council
brought down so that members of the House
at the meeting of parliament would know
what the Orders in Council were ? In that
way tbey would be made aware of au order
of this kind at each session.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
great objection I bave to It is from my protectionist principles again.st ndmittîng anything free into the country that Is a completely manufactured article ln itseif.
Hon. Mr. JONES-This ought to meet
the lion. gentlemiin's views exactly, because heretofore the goverament could taire
ail the duty off and make no report. Now,
if they take off part of it they must report
It to parhiamnent. Thiat would be the view
of the free trader 1 should tbink.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbey
are, provided. there is a clause in the law
compelling the department to do It. In
every case you will find Orders In Council
for advanclng money must be laid before
parliameut within fifteeu days after the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbis
meeting of parliament, but 1 do flot thlnk
there is anything of the kind in the Customs 'clause says any articles of natural product.
Act-at least I bave no recollection of It -The clause was adopted.
at present. Look at subsection 'm'
of
On clause 6,
section 245 of the Act : It says, one of the
powers is for granting drawback. Now,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-AII 1
tbat would cover this clause it seems to me. ask tbe hon. gentleman to do witb this
Hon. Mr. JONES-I do flot think It would. clause is tbat he sbould consult with the
Minister 0f -Justice, and if his interpretaHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Fior tion is the same as the hon. gentleman's, ]et
grantiug a drawback for the whole or part it stand as it is. I do flot wish to dehay
of the duty on an article lmported to be the.passing of tbe Bihl.
used lu Canadian manufacture. Now, this
relieves the government of the trouble of
The clause was adopted.
givilg the drawback by passing an Order
Hon. '.%r. FULFORD, from the committee,
iu Council to say that the duty ou an article
shahl be ten per cent instead of thirty-five reported the Bill iithout ameudment.
per cent.
SECOND READINGS.
Hon. Mr. JONES-It does a good deal
(Bilh 96) An Act respecting the Kettle
more than that. It prevents the necessity
River Valley Raîhway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
of a man paying a large suin for duty and
lyîng out of the money for a long time Watson.)
(Bill 122) An Act respecting the Rathbun
before he gets it back, probably not kuowing tliat hie wili have a refiund until the price Compauiy.-(Hon. '.%r. Kerr, Cobourg.)
of the article miay be clianged and lie may lbe
(Bill 68) An Act to incorporate the
.eriously inconveniienced. Tlhis m-ill enable Luinberman's Fire Insurance Conmpany.lii to know, -wlen it is ii conmbination with (Hon. Mr. McHugh.)
an article -of wliich it is a component part,
-wvhat the cost of the manuiiifac--tireti artiele,
The Senate adjourned.
Hon. Sir MAC KENZIE BOWELL.

JLTLy 71 1903
butterine or other substitute for butter, and
to prevent the Improper înarklng of butter.Ottawva, Triesday, July 7, 1903.
(Hlon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (209) Au Act respecting certain nid
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight
for the extension of the Canadian Northcern
o'clock.
Rtallway.--(Ion. Mr. Scott.)
Prayers and routine proceedings.
SETTLE MENT 0F RAILWAY LABOUR
DISPUTES BILL.
NEW SENATOR.

THE SENÂTE.

Hoîu. HENRY JOSEPH CLORAN was
iîîtroduced and took blis seat.

COMMONS' AMENDMENTS CONSIDERED.

A message was received fr-om the Hlouse
ofe Cominons to return Bill (17) Au Act to
BILLS INTRODUCED.
aid in the settiement of Raûiiway Labour
Bill (40) Ani Act respecting the Kingston Disputes, and to acquaint the Senate that
and Pembroke Rallway Company.-(Hom. Mr. the Commons agreed to tbe first, second and
Macdonald, B.C., In absence of Hon. Mr. fifth amendment to the Bill, amendlng the
third and fourth amendments.
Sulliva n.)
Bill (99) Ali Act respecting the Canada
Central Raiway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Templemau.)
Bill (81) An Act respecting the Brandon
and South-western Railway Compalny.(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Bill (131) An Adt to incorporate the Marcou! Wireless Telegraph Company, of Caniada, Limited.--(H:on. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (150) An Act to Incorporate the Columbia River Improvement Company, Limited.-(Hoin. 'Mr. Watson.)
Bill (156) An Act to Incorporate tbe Montreal and Longueul Bridge Compauy.--(Honi.
Mr. Beique.)
Bill (101) An Act to confer on tie coinmissioner of patents certain powvers for the
relief of the Woolf Valve Gear Company.Landerkin, In the absence of Hou.
(Hlou. M-Nr.
Mr. Edwards.)
Bill1 (165) An Act to lncorporate the AIgonquin Lumber and Power Company, Limited.-(Hon. Mr. McHugh.)
Bill (178) An Act respectling the encouragement of the construction of dry docks.-(Hon.
MNr. Scott.)
Bill (184) An Act to amend tlîe Patent
Scott.)
Act.-(Hon. M.Nr.
Bill (201) An Act to provlde for furtber
advauces to the Harbour Comnîissioners of
Mýonitreal.--(HoiI. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (207) Ani Act to prohibit the importation, manufacture or sale of adulterated,
process or renovated butter, oleomargarine,
.33

Hou. !ilr. SCOTT-I presume the House
wll not insigt upon the amendmnents they
made with reference to the power conferred
upon the chairman to summon wltnesses.
Then, as to the other proposition tbat they
have dissented from, whlch was the subjeet
of discussion here-tbat is, the payment -f
witnesses-they have dlffered from us and
propose to leave that matter to the board.
I mo-ve that this House do not Insist on the
amendments which we made to the Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the House
do not Inslst on the fifth ameudmnent.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I tb.nk
lt 3vould lie"well to consider those amendIments to-morrow or the next d-ay, for the
reason that in the hurried manner ia which
they are read, It la impossible to fully underI do not see any
stand the reasons given.
objiection to the firat amendment, and there
may not be to the second, but perlxaps the
lion, gentleman would postpone the consideration of the amendments until tomorrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then I move that the
p)ortionl of the message whieh deals with
the fifth ameudment lie taken into, consideration to-morrow.
Motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned.

SENATE

514

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, WVedtesday, July 7, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'ciocir.
Prayers and routinc procecdings.
LUMBERMAN'S FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Hlon. Mr. DRUMMOND, froin the Coinmlte on Bankiug and Commerce, rcported
Bill (68) An Act to incorporate t-be Lumberman's Fire Insurance Company, recoinmendlng that the Bill be passcd. He said :
The note appendcd ho the report of the coinmittee deais with the fact that the promoters
of the Bill faiied to give the necessary notices Ili somie of the provinces. Cousiderlng, however, that the Bill was an ordlnary
lusurance Bill, presenting no new featares,
the committee, upon the wboic returned
the Bill to the House wlth the hope tbat
1h woaId be permltted to foliow the nuaai
course, and wouid be passed.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Ini connection
wlth that, I might rcmark that the report
of the Standing Order Commlttce with regard to this Bill seemed to me ho be nt
ieast very unusuai. Thcy rccommend that
the rule be suspcnded, and rccommcnd further that tue Coinittee on Bankîng and
Commerce, to wbom the Bill was referrcd. shouid sec tlîat no intcrcst Is affected, as much as ho say that they migbt pass
the Bill and throw the rcsponsibiity o11 some
other coinmittee. Lt secins to me that the
duty of the Standing Orders Commlttec was
to rccomiend that the ruies be suspendcd,
or that they shouid not be saspended, and
niot to throw aîîy rcsponsibility on any othier
comninittee.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The responsibiify miust rcst somewhcre. The coinmittec make the report and ask the House
ho guard the intemests of the public.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
my viem, xe are altogether too lax in the
enforcement of tlie raies of the House.
This concession was made on the grounds
lntimated by the Chairman, that no particular iaterest wouid be jeopardized by passîng the Bill, but if we adopt that plan lu
ail mnatters aifccting the ruies of the House,
we might just as weli aboiish the raies aitogether. If there is any force in the rule
which requires the advertising I every province ia which the enterprise is to be carricd on, then the parties faiiing ho advertise
shiould suifer the colisequenccs. If it bc ifot
nccessary to advcrtisc i ail the provinces,
and only in one, then we bnd better repeai the ruies of the House nt once. Ia
this particular Instance, îîo lîîterest wouid
be jcopardized, unicss It iniiglit be local
insurance compailies that wantcd to restrict-If they do want ho restrlct-hhe inBut the
troduction of other conlipanies.
coînmittec did not hhilik that of suifficicîît
Importance. If the raie provides for certainî things being donc, sbould tue coinmlttee set that rule aside Ili order to allow
a Bill to go througb ? My own impression
is thcy ought not.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If tue coinmlte is given any discretion, why not exercise it under certain circnuatances ? A
case came under ny notice this session
wbere the Standing Orders Comnmittee ordered that a Bill slhoud be advertiscd
That wvas
throughout ail the provinces.
donc. I heard froin the promnoter thait It bas
cos t hlm $150, an expenditure which is absoiuteiy uselcss, becausc it is an industrial
company, dolng business in Montreal, askýng the right to seil goodÉs tlirougliout the
land, or perbaps to appoint agents in ail
the provinces. Lt -%vs absolutely a useless
expenditure of $150. T1he company wvas
sîmpiy asking power hli the future to iinvade
the other provinces with its wares, and it
seems to me if the committee lias discretioxi
to exercise, it should exercise it one way or
cails for.
Hon. Mr. FEL1GU;n,,'N--But it is the other the other as each case
commiftec shou]d do that.
Hon. Sir MACIKENZIE BOWTELL-That
Hon. INr IMACDONALD (B.C.)-We me- is a very good argumnent in favour of recommuend that the i-uic De suspenided and pealinig the ruie.
give the i-casons for suspending the mule,
Hon. Mr. DANDURANI)-Or iniodi fying
and ask ftic House f0 guard thec interests of
the publie.

JIJLY 8, 1903

515

Hon. Mr. McHUGH moved tbnt the Bill
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Or
xnodifying It. It is no argument for violat- be read the third Urne to-morrow.
Ing the rule.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As a member of the
MISSION 0F JOSEPH EDMOND
committee, It is niy duty to attend all the THE
'ROY.
meetings and 1 arn lu a position to testify
comnlittee have discbnrged
to this, tbat the
INQtIIRY.
tbeir duty to the best or their abllity. The
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC, In the absence of Hon.
eommittee bas to apply a rule of this honolirable House which Is dIfferent from that o! Mr. Landry-inqulred:
the House of Commons. Notice Is requlred
Ras Mr. Josephi Edmond Roy, et the town of
In ail the provinces, whereas la the House Lévis, notary, recelved fromn the government
wblch explains his preor Commons this le not exacted, and as a any mission whatsoever or whiech relates theresent journey to Europe,
consequence a great nuniber of Bills corne to, directly or indlrectly ?
What la the nature of this mission?
before the Committee on Standing Orders
In sucli case, 'what is the saiaiy paid, or the
wben there bas been no compliance wltlx Indamnity promised, and are the travelling exThe committee ba.s, penses of this gentleman comprlsed ln either
tbat ruie of our House.
the other ?
I wiil not say Invariably, but generally lu- the one or
with la
sIsted on the rule being compiied
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I can find out notbing
:spirit, If flot absolutely to the letter, and about Mr. Josephi Roy, nor of bis journey
exacted from the parties evidence that fail- to Europe.
ure to comply witb the raie ivas an over-sight or error on their part and have INSPECTOR 0F WORKS AT THE HÂRsuspended a number of Bills ln order
BOUR 0F QUEBEC.
tbat tbe notices iniglit be given, 50o
INQUIRY.
that I belleve the committee is not open
I
to much criticiin in that respect.
BOLDUC-in the absence of
Hon. Mr.
,deem it my duty to give these explanations Hon. Mr. Landry-inquired:
ln the absence of the Chairman of the
Who has been appolnted inspector of the Works
Committee on Standing Orders. The coin- at the harbour of Quebec, and especially of the
Lévis,
nlittee bas feit also that action wvas being works for which Mr. Etienne Dussault, of 18 the
obtalned the contract, and what
has
taken ln the direction o! harxnonlzlng the mule namnejuet sucli InaDector T
of
of this honourable House wltb that o! tbe
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk 1 answered that
HousQe of Commo-as, and pending that, some
Ieniency inigbt be shown, especially when question some days ago. Paul Mercier is
nio Injury would be done to a-ny one by the the Inspector of harbour works at Qeubec.
action of the committee. T1hat is the reason
why the committee has recornmended ln SALE 0F LAND TO THE SASKATCHEWAN VALLEY LAND COMPANY.
-several Instances ta suspend the rule when
of the mule was cornpiied with.
the spirit
Hon. MLr. FERGUSON-I idid flot criticise froni Wolseley put a question on the Notice
tbe recomimendation of the coiumittee to paper for the 231,d June, askîng for informasuspend the ruie. What 1 did critîcise %vas tion about some sale of lands by the govtbeir recommendation tliat some other coun- ernmeat to the Saskatcbewan Valley Land
mittee sbould make an investigation. 1 Company, or any other company lu the
think the committee did perfeetly riglit to North-west Territories. I suggested tbnt
reconimend the suspension of the mule. That the inquiry wou.ld flot be sufficient to bming
Is a matter for the House, but wbere 1 down the papiers. I now bring down the
thouglit the committee bad made a mistake, papers un-der which tbe land la the neighnot .a very serions one, was linrnnking a bourhood of tHe Qu'Appelle and Long Lake
reconimendation for somfe othier conimittee, Railway Companly weme sold to a syndicate.
as If they hnd sorne doubt ns to the scope 1 suppose that ie tbe sale to whicb he had
reference, two hundred thousand acres.
of their own powers.

SENATE
1IPERIAL AGENCY BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
Hon. 31r. OWENS moved the third reading of Bill (71) An Act to Incorporate the
Imperial Agency, as amended.
Hon. MNr. KERR
ameudment:

(To&couto)

moved

in

That the said Bill le nlot now read a third
time. but that it lie referred to a Committee of
the Whole Bouse, to consider the following
amendments to the said Bil:1. That the flfth clause bie amended by strlkIng out the words * twenty-flve per cent thereon lias been.'
2. That the eighth clause, subsection (c), be
amended by striking out the word 'railways.'
3. That thse eighth clause, subsection
(c), lie
amended by striking out the words after the
word 'contractors' on page 3, line 30.
4. That adding the following clauses
9. The moneys and securities of sucli persan
or corporation for whom this company acts
shahl always lie keDt distinct f rom those of the
company and In separate accounts, and se
marked In the books of the company for each
sucli person or corporation as always to be distinguished f rom any other In the registers and
other books of account kept by the company,
s0 that at no time shall sucli moneys and securities form part of or be mixed with the general assets of the company, and sucob moneys
and securities shall not bie hable for the delita
and obligations of thse company.
5. ' 10. No parcel of land. or interest therein
at any Urne acquired liy the company and nat
required for its actual use and occupation, or
held by the company or by any trustee on Its
behalf f or a longer perlod, shall -be held liy the
company or liy any sucli trustes for a longer
perlod than seven years after the acquisition
thereof, but shail bie absolutely sold and disposed of so that the company shahl no longer
retain any interest therein unless by way of
security, and any sucli parcel. of land or any
Interest therein not within the exceptions hereInafter mentioned, which lias been held by the
company for a longer period than seven years
without being disposed of, shal lie forfeited to
Ris Majesty, provided that the Governor In
Councti may extend the said period from time ta
time not exceeding In the whole twelve years ;
and further provided that no sucli forfeiture
shaîl take effect or lie eaforced until thse expiration of at leas-t six calendar menths a! ter
notice In writing ta the company of the Intention of His MaJesty ta dlaim sucli forfeiture;
and it shall lie the duty of the coxapany ta give
the Minister o! Finance and Receiver General.
when required, a full and correct statement of
ail lands. at the date o! such statement, held
liy the campany or ln trust for tlie company.
and subject ta these provisions.
6. '11. Section 45 of "The Loan Companies
Act, Canada, 1899," shaîl apply ta thse company.
7. '12. Tlie company shaîl not act as agent
or attorney or otherwise carry on business until it lias olitained !rom thse Minister of Finance a certificats perniitting ii, ta do so, and no
application for sucli certificate shaîl lie made
and no certificate shaîl lie given until thse board
of directors lias been elected, as provided In
ta thse
until It lias
Eection 5, and the Minister lieen shownand Resatisfaction of
o! Finance
ceiver General tliat the provisions of the said
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

section have heen coniplied witli, and no sudb
certificate shaîl lie given unless application
therefor lie duly made Witin one year a!ter
tlie passing o! this Act.'
He said-I do nat know bow fur it may be
necessary ta discuss ail the proposed amnendments, because I think probably some
of tbem will be concurred la by tlie promoters. The Bill is a peculiar one nîtogether.
Lt appears ta me it is not one whicli shoruld
be passed by parliament.
If it is what it purports ta be-and I have no doubt it is correct
-it is oxie whichi should be incorporated
under the General Joint Stock Conipziny's
Act, and It la a matter for thse consideration
0f parliament whether thxey will entertain
Bils of a commercial character, whetlier

sucli companies should not be lncorporated
under thse provisions of tIse General Joint

StockCompanies Act. But If they are passed
by parîhament as special Acts it appears to

nie that the safeguaýrds wls ich are thrown
nround thse management and control of con-

panies o! thils description by tIse general
Acts slîould be introduced la 'tIse Bill. TIse
serions point about tîsis Is that by thse clause
whicii is supposed ta be amended, under the
heading a! tise secdnd ameiidment whxich I
have iniiùcated lu thse notice of motion, It
rea)ly is a Bll ta operate a railway company-first ta makie advances, and secondly,
ta enter' into possession af, and thirdly, ta
aperate railways, and that without tIse safeguards whichi are introduced by tIse company Iseing incorporated under thse Railway
Act. That is a perfecthy app)arent proposithon. I will take clause 8 first, because that
is thse Important one, and thse one ta wbicli
I think attention should lie called, altliaugli
It Is not first Ia point of order la tIse amnendments. If we deal with tbis clause first,

there ivill not bo much difficulty lu dealing
with the ather one. Clause 8 rends as foll0ws
The company may<a.) act generally as agent or attorney for
tlie transaction o! business, receiving or callecting any principal, interest, rents, coupons.
mortgages,

delits, divIdends,

delientures,

bills,

notes aud securities or evidences of delit or de-

mand of any nature. and in the purcliase or sale
o! auy real or personal property, and generalhy
lu aIl matters ln thse nature of a general agency;,
(b.) act as agents for thse purpose o! issuing,
countersigning, registering or otherwise a£certaining and certifying ta tIse genuineness of certîficates of stock, bonds. debentures or other
obligations or securities for money of any governrnent. municipal or other corporate body or
society duly authorized to issue and make thse

JULY 81 1903

517

saine. and aCt generally as fiscal or other agent
for such government, society or corporate
body;
(c.) make boans or advances to companies
authorized to construct railways, tramways,
electric light or power plants, water-works,
docks. warehouses and other worlcs, or ta
the contractors for any of the said worke ;
Issue. seli or make loans or advances upon any
of the securities of the saifi companies, or any
of them. or of the said contractors, and otherwise assist the said companies or contractors;
and lu case of default by any of the said coinpanies or contractors ln the repayment of the
said loans or advances, or the failure to carry
out any contracts or agreements by the said
companies or contractors, the company may,
under the authoTity granted to -the said comnx)antes or contractors, continue, complete and
operate the said works lu the naine of any of
the sald companies or contracturs, or ln the
naine of the company, on such ternis and conditions as may be agreed upon with the said
comoanies or contractors.

way company to build or operate a raliway.
Tlien the provisions of the Railway Act
that wuuld goveru persuns lu tliat capa-

An amenduient was Introduced whicli was
Intended to get rid of the trouble in case
of raiiways. whicli amendment reads as
follows

froni a mortgagee. Tliey mwill be lu a position tu operate this rond lu the naine of tite

la case o! a rallway or any section o! a railway, the provisions o! sections 278. 279 and 280
of the Railway Act shall appiy.

apply to it, and the declaration that tliey are
to apply to it, Ia the absence o! wurds

What would be done lu thils case wud
be that a rallway company enterling Into a
contract- witli contractora, the contractors,
on building the road, would become entiUed

to ail the stock and bonds tlie company
wouid issue.

By that cuntract, tlie contrac-

tor iiaving tlîe power to, take possession of
tlîe road and manage It lu tlie namne of the
company, because lie becomes the owner of
the shares, could contract, witli this company. not as an agency company, but as a
company, mahing advances to hlm, by
wrhich this company couid acquire, tlie rights
of the contractor, and become entitled to al

the shaves and bonds of the company, and
s0 ou in case of default, could enter into possession. and as contractura, or as acquiring
tlie title under contractura, own and operate
a railway conipany. Tliat, it seenis tu me,
Is an express provision ia this Blill providing
for the operation o! a railway by a company
professing to be an agency company, which
lias invested money, ioaned money for tliemselves or other peuple tu contractura, for tlie
building of a road-tie contractura maklng
default, the agency company uperates the
railway. If lt la the Intention of paria.
nient to give that authùirity, I have nothing
more to aay about it, but it seenis to me It
i.- a most objectionable forni of eiiabiing peuple to do s0 «mlo are flot autliorized as a rail-

city operating the rond under the coutrac-

tors' cuntract do not appiy. Those restrictions are not Intruduced liere, and f reed
frumn ail tliose conditions and restrictions
whicli the Railway Act Impose, they can
go on and operate the rail'way. The attempt
made to cure that to some extent, by Introducing the tliree sections 0f the Railway
Act, dues not, tu niy mmnd, aiford tliat proIt wlll be seen tliat the oniy
tection.
sections whiclî are Introduced are sections
278, 279 and 280 of thie Railway Act, and
tliese apply tu the cases of înortgagees, but

this company will be ln a different position
coînpany under thîls Act, and therefore flot
being mortgageea, these sections would nul

whicli are not apt-in other words, su as
to re-enact the sections into this Bill-would
create confusion. Discussing thîls matter
tu-day wili tlie lion. senator wlio lias
cliarge of tlie Bill, I feit sorry that the Bill
liad nut been considered iii this way ln coinmlttee, and that these mattera were not
before the Railwny ComnIittce for that purpose, because It la a more convenient way
of discussing It than in tlie House, but tlie
baid proposition I ami presenting liere, la
tliat the word 'ral1lvay' siioult be struck
out su that this conipany caîînot, through
maklug ndvances to contractura constructing ruada, acquire the riglits of contractura
.to operate tlie rond, and su lie free from the
restrictions impoaed by the Itnllw,%ay Act.
important
That la the proposition iiiftic
amiendnicîît. Tue firat amnîdmeîît lu point
o! order on the paper, la almiig at the am-

ount of moîîey. Here we have a company
witl a capital o! $200,000 ndertaking ail
tliis. It cau commence biniess on a subacription for $100,000 anîd twenty-five per
cent thiereof paid up. It appears to me It la
getting down tu very sînail business for
parhiament to autiiorize ail titis tu l)e dune
on sicli, L capitai'Mtiofi as that, and I propose to strike out those ivords and require
thit the whle $100,000 sliould be paid Up.
It lias been suggested that perliaps ai coin-

SENATE
t o take ever the railway so as to secure their
noney, tbey were given powver under the
to
I 111i complete and operate the railway
uintil tbey could be refunded tbeir money.
'J~o meet the conditions of tbe Rallway Act
t lie law clerk of the House of Commons,
vhose opinion 1 arn sure bon. gentlemen
bave great respect for, and the solicitor of
t ;he company were Instructed to draw up
aimendments cevering that, so as to bring
Lt under the Railway Act, and the amendments to-day previde that the provision of
section 278, 2-19 and 280 of the Railway Act
sbaII apply, briuging the B ill under the Railway Act. The bon. gentleman from Torente, who has taken the objection, did nlot
take that view of It. He took the ground
that those sections could net apply te the
Bill. Tc be fully posted ln the matter, 1
conferred wltb other legal gentlemen In the
leuse. I aise went over te the Finance
CommIttee and the chief cf the Finance Department teok it Up witb their law officer,
Mr. Fitzgerald. Re went over the question
Hon. Mr. KERR moved tbat the fifth and lie fully agreed witb the law officer of
clause be amended as follews : By strlking the Senate that these amendments brouglit
eut the words 'twenty-ftve per cent thereen it under the Railway Act. Therefere, 1
bas been.'
think that sbould remove the objections
bon. gentleman wbich have been raised against the Bill this
Hon. Mr. OWENS-The
first
has taken tbe ground tbat tbe Bill Is an afternoon. New ln reference te this
The Bill as it appeared proposed amendaient, ln which it la sought
exceptionai one.
the
hefore tbe committee was purely an agency te increase the stock of the cempany, In
Bill was Introduced ln the Bill It Is provided that as soon as $100,000
Bill. When the
House of Ceaimons It was aise a trust Bill is subscribed and 25 per cent paid on it
It was then tbey can appoint directors te go on with the
as well as an agency Bill.
fully discussed before the Finance Commit- work. Althougli that is as mucli as is retee and the legal gentlemen connected with quired under the Act, 1 arn prepared te
the
it ndvlsed at the time that the trust clause accept the suggestion of the mover of
tbe promoters of the Bill amendaient and strike eut the word
be dropped and
twenty-qdle' and substitute 'fifty' 9 er
acqulesced, s0 that when the Bill came lieof the House of Com- cent. Is that the suggestion of the bon. genfore tbe committee
mens, aIl tie trust clauses connected with tleman that we compromise on that amount?
the Bill were dropped, and It was purely
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-As far as I
an ngency Bill. The matter was dlscussed arn concerned, I arn quite willing te accept
s-ery fully befere the committee of tbe that.
House of Ceaimons and tbe amendments
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I really think that
suggested there were adopted. It came then
we should very carefully consider the pasbefore the Senate Commlttee on Banklng
and Commerce, and was discussed. fully twe sage of Bis of this kind. I have ne desire
heurs. There aise the promoters 0f tbe Bill te threw any obstacle In the way of my
acquiesced lu the suggestions wbich were hon. friend's Bill, but 1 object te authorizmade. The question was raised ln refer- ing a cornpany with tbis very limited capital
ence te railways, that in instances where te do s0 inany things, and giving the presthey advnnce their money te railway cern- tige that an Act of this Dominion will give
panies, and the companies defauit, that the them in the public estimation, while at the
cornpany advancing tbe money w'as obliged bottoin of ail of it tbere la only some
Hon. Mr. KERR.

promise as te tlîat amounit rnight l)e arrived
at by making thie amount $50,000. 1 arn]
net golng Inte that one way or the other,
because that is a matter of offinion as te
what is the rigbt amount ; I tbink that we
wil ail agree that $25,000 is a totally inadequnte amount te lie acquired ns paid up,
ln vlew of the pretensiens of tlis cempany,
te undertake te eperate large works te the
extent proposed. But tbe objection, I bave
la te the Introduction of the Word
'rallway' here, and therefore the second
ground of the amendaient is tbat the word
'railways' sbould be struck. eut, and 1 suppose I sbould be ln order te move that amnendment now. I presume they liad better
be considered separately, as tlîey are distinct
propositions.
The motion was agreed te.
The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whele on the Bill.
(In the Committee.)

JUIY 81 1903

519

think the- bon. gentleman should not ask
sO much of the promoters.
1Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-The hon. gentle-man must remember this la not the House
o! Commons. Bills come up before us, and
'w.e have a rlght to deal witb them as we
id them, no matter how they may filter
through the House of Gommons, where, I
hacknowledge, they are considered by very
Intelligent men. Nevertheless. we are supposed to do cur duty to the public.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
remrks of tbe bon. gentlemnan from Wélligton wili,' I tbink, commend themselves
'to everyý member of the House wbo takes
'an interest in legisiation of this vital charucter. Lt seems to me, however, there la
soi> e miFapprehenalofl atout this Bill. I
'studied It to-day for some littie tîme. Until
tben I thougbt it was of a totally diff erent
character from what it really ls. The
himendment proposed by tbe hon. gentleman
from Toronto would be applicable and
.sbouid be included in the BillIif it wete a
loan company or a trust company. If I
understand it, the intention of the promoters
ýwas originally to make ft both, but the
Hlouse of Gommons decided te eut down aIl
its powers to tbat of a simple agencr, and,
In looking tbrough the whole of the clauses,
I see notbing more la tbem than a simple
Bill to incorporate an ngency coxnpany with
power to do certain tbings. The first amendment .proposed is to increase the deposit
before tbey can commence to do business.
'That bas been accepted by the promoter of
the Bll by doubling it and making it $50,000. The objection is ln refe *rence to railways. If 1 understand the Bill it simpiy
makes this provision : it gives certain
power1s to tblis eomipany-for wliat purpose ?.
Hoil. Mr. TIIIBAUDEAU (de la Vaîl- For tbe purpose of loaning money, and then
Ière)-As originally drnfted and presented 'It lays down the principle as to hoW tbey
in the House of Commons, thle Bihl stated couid secure a repayment of that moneY.
the capital of the company was $500,000) There ls a great deal o! force, bowever,
with power to increase to $5,000,000. It was in the interpretation given to the clause rereduced to $100,000, but that was not our iating to the operating of the railway. If
The Bill bas been through two the Bill were passed as it ls before us
fault.
It was considered by the it wouid enable tbe company to operate
committees.
Finance Committee of the House of Gom- the railway for aIl time to come, and bemons and limited and ainended lu every come de facto a railway company, unlesi
wny, and I do not tbink it is righit to offer tbere was a provision to compel them to
these amendments now at this stage. Every surrender the raiiway to tbe parties to
member hiad an opportiuity, before this wbom tbey bad loaned their money as soon
stage of the Bill, to offer amendments. 1 as they bad been recouped. It seems to

twenty-five or fifty thousand dollars at stake
to protect the public wbo do businless with
the company. In my humble opinion, the
least capital we should have consented to
would be $M0,000, and at ieast $200,000 paid
up In cash. There bas been too mach legislation, both In the local House and in the Dominion parliament, giving an Important
status to companies that are based upon
very littie ln the way of capital, and 1 think
we should caîl a hait. We have been getting lessons ln Ontario recently, very serlous ones, and the Dominion would de well
to carefully consider ail legisiation that bas
for its basis but a very iimited fiimsy
amount of capital. If people come bere asklng to be Incorporated as a company, goizig
out to the world with the prestige of a Dominion Act wbicb supposes them to be In a
position to do business with the worid, we
sbould see that the company is at least upon
a substantiai financial basis, so that the
publie wiUl be safe In doing business witb
tbem. In asking for the passage of tbis
Bill with a mere $25,000 paid Up capital, I
commend most beartiiy the action of the
hon. gentleman from Toronto for the stand
be bas taken. 1 am nlot a lawyer. 1 am
nlot supposed to judge mensures of this
kind as weUl as lawyers and others who are
brougbt Into touch nlmost every day of the
year with companies of very liited financial nbility, where people are perbaps from
time to time cailed upon to suifer the consequences of their limited nbility, stili I
tbink the bon. gentleman bas taken a step
lu the rigbt direction, and we sbould besitate in placing companies in a position of
this kind unless tbey have a substantial
basis on whicb the public can rest If they
do business witb tbem at ail.

520

SE.Ž1LATE

seven,
mte that dlfficulty miglit be met by maklng portant paragraph ' d' ini clause
clauses whieh autliorized tlie cornpany to delegate
laprovision at the end of the railway
'declaring the iength of time the road may be 'their powers to a commlttee. The question
'operated by the parties wlxo had loaned the arose when tixat was under consideratioimoney, and tlxat would be until they were lit was brouglit to the notice of the coinrecouped. the amount they had advauced. miittee by my hon. f riend from WestmoreII speak subjec~t to correction, but If I land-as to whether that wouid flot relieve
lunderstand the clause, it enabies the comn- the directors of the company of ail the re'pany to advance money for certain pur- sponsibility which devolves upon thein
poses, and one of thiese purposes is for uinder the provisions of this Act. After
When a 'considering the question, the Iaw cierk gave
the construction of railways.
carnpany lias constructed a raiiway par- it as lilà opinion that thie objection raised
tially and fails to comipiete It. then by the hon. member from Westmoreiand
Then
this Imperial Agency Cornpany having '%as correct and that it had full force.
amount of rnouey 'the commnittee struck it out.
advanced a certain
Hon. Mr. OWENS-The promoters ac¶0o carry on the work to the extent of which
the company fails to continue It, they couid
uecd
'go on and compiete It. Then they say thatquecd
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýVELL-.Yes,
this company shall have the privilege of
'operating that railway until they get theiri they acquiesced because they s-aid they dld
mnoney back. Whether the wordlng Of thxe flot intend to dlvest themselves of the power.
clause is not wider than they intended. I I would suggest to the Senate that whule
am flot prepared to say, hence when we we want to guard the interests of the pubicorne to that clause, lnstead of taklng the lic to the fuilest possible extent. tliere is no
Urastic measure the hon. gentleman pro- use liampering this Bill wîtli provisions
poses. 1 would suggest to add land in the wbicli are not necessary to protect tlie parLt is simpiy piacing tlie company in
case of a railwny or any section of the rail- ties.
the provisions of section 278, 279 and the position of an individual who lias rnoney
,wny
280 of the Railway Act shall appiy.' Tînt to boan and lie takes sucli security as lie
bwould brlng them wlthin the operation Of, thlnks wvill secure liirn the rep.aynxent of
That is nil that lias to be doue.
the Railway -lct. and if it were necessary that boan.
-and compel them to surrender 1 Lt goes f urther and says If they advance
to go further
the railway after they got the rnoney ad- money on certain securities they shah lhave
vanced paid back to them, I do not see whY the riglit to take possession of the road until
That is the
the House should object to it. I mny state tliey get their rnoney back.
gentleman who interpretation I put upon it, and ufter a
further, as stated by the bon.
has just spoken and the promoter of the Bil. ! good deai of consultation witli tbe lnwyer
¶that tlie clauses whlch my hon. frlend froxu who liad this inatter la charge, and with the
rforonto is desirous of addlng to thîs Bill prornoter of the Bill, I found that is the la'were lu the original Bill, and in their terpretation they placed upon ItL If that
wýisdom the Committee of the Hlouse of jbe correct, is tliere any necessity for re'Jommons struck thern out. There was also înserting in thus Bill clauses whicli the coma clause in the original Bill declaring that mittee in the House of Commons lias struchi
uny properties acquired under the provi- out ? Would it not be vlrtuaily sendîng it
,sions of this Bill should be soid, brînging back to the House of Commons for them
It within the provision of the Loan Com- to repent what tliey have done ? Thougli 1
panies Act, withia seven years, and then, say that, I arn fuily lu accord with the utbn application, in case they could not seli, terances of tlie lion. gentleman from Wel'the market being depressed or for any other ling-ton. We have to consider tliese matters
'tenson, they could appiy to the Minister of upon thieir merits, as we, the Senate, think
'Finance, who could extend the time for are lu the interests of the comnrunity, irre'twelve yenrs. The House ot Commons lu spective altogether of what the bouse of
Its wisdom struck that out also, and in the Commons mnay have doue. If 1 arn wrong
'hnendruent which the Banking Committee lu rny interpretation of the Bill, I shall lie
kbf the Senate struck out was that very iïm- very glad to be set riglit.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

RIJLY 81 1903
.iot
Hon. Mr. KERLI (Toronito)-Two thilngs 1 only make advances of loans to cornhere : I the first place, pmnles, but tbey can do so for other people
are !in evideuice
tbe promoters of this Bill applied for begis- as agents. Under subsection ' c' of clause
lation of an entirely different character from 8, the Company May
that wlich is now before this House. Tbiey
Make loans or advances ta companles authorapplie d apparently, froin what I bave beard lied to construct raibways.
to-day. for Incorporation as a trust comILeave the
Just deal wvltl that alone.
pany, and praperly introduced ail the safe- other inatters out for the present, and they
They may «asslst'1 contractors, and advance these
guards rebatiug to a trust coinpafly.
appeau 'before us now as an agency coin- moneys to contractors, 'and otberwise assIst
pany. askîng for no trust powers nt ail-au the companles or contractars.'
Then ln
ngency company wltb a capital autborlzed case of defauit by contractors, they may,
of $200.000, $25,000 to be pald up before under tbe authorlty grantedl to the sald cointbey commence-flot merely organlze,-but panies or contractars, enter upon the roads
comnince doing business, and asklng for which the contractors bave, and may do
authority not onby to make advmuces, but what 'iComplete and operate'1 a rallway.
to act for otbers wbo may make advances,
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Tlat
wbilb means borrowed money ln another
ls la case of fallure ta pay.
form. trust rnoney under another naine.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Yes, I amn asHou. Sir M-NACKENZIE BOWELL-Loaiisumlug the case we are deallug wltb. Thereed mioney it says.
fore there ls autborlty bere for a Company
Hon. '.%r. KERR (Toronto)-Tbey ask ta wlth $25,000 or $50,000 of paid Up capital,
art as agents for people. Tbey could boan and an autborized capital or $200,000,
your money to a rallway and operate the to make advances to contractors, wbich
road.
or the
may be their own moneys
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes, moneys of other people wbom they
may be acting for, and then, in defauit
If I trust them.
to repay tbem, may
gbad the of the contractors
Hon. Mr. KERIR (Torouto)-I amn
aperate the railway, and there Is no
hon, gentleman put la that qualification. Bo
lumit to the time tbey are to operate the
far as this cornpany Is concerned, It *may
rallway. Then It bas been suggested that
be unfortunate for thein, but Nwe are called
of these words 'and ln tbe case
Bil whicb Is entlrely the addition
upon to deal wlth a
of a railway or any section of a railway,
differeut froin the Bill wlîlch the promoters
provisions -of sections 278, 279 and 280
asked It: shoubd be. Where tbey were pro- tbe
of the Rallway Act ebabi apply '-that that
poslug ta beglu business wlth a respectable
It wll bu seen by
w111 cure the matter.
paid Up capital of $500,000, we bave It cut
reading the sections that tbey do flot apply
down by saine menus to $25,000-to do wbat?
ail, because tbey apply
They alsk authority froin parliament ta say to II, or cure It at
ta the case of a sale by the mortgagees, and
that witlh a paid up capital of $25,000 they
tbey a.ppby to tbe case of a purchaser. Secmay operate a rallway. Now that Is thie
278 reads a-s follows:
first proposition. Of course, if the House tion
If at any Urne any rallway or any section or
and reasonable thing
think.s that is a right
to do, they may so decide, but It ls iny duty any rallway is soldThis road is flot going ta be sold. It is
to cabi attention ta IL.
fIst mendentgaing to bu opernted by tbis carnpany. The
Hon.Mr.OIVES-Te
gives that express authority ta do
OWN-befrtannietstatute
Hou Mrepe. acepted.so.
There is no provision lu the Blill before
is
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-I' amn only
pointing ont the Changes lu the Bibi as It
made it s0 strilcamie before ils, and %vhit
iug- to me that I considered it was out of
place lieue altogether. There is noa question about this. that under the clause wbicb
w'e are iiow considering the companuy may

us under which tbey may go on and sebi.
They may bold under a contract whieh is
xiot before yon, a contract entered luto between the contractors and the raibway coinpany, a contract wbich It is flot intended
shoubd be seen by auybody but the conThey
tractors and tbe agency conipany.

SENATE

522

iay hold under the terras, therefore, of a înay receive the money, se that although
contract authorized by t]fls Bill which la nlot the money might be partly their own money
before you, and the terms of which you and partly some one else's entrusted to them,
bave Do opportunity of critîcising or con- yet the terma on whlch that might be done,
sidering, and there is no limit to the Urne miglit be of the most unlimited character,
tbey can operate. Then there is, no pro- it might be money for the advancement of
vision thiat they can go on and seli, and rallway building.
unless there la some provision ini the contract
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
of the contractors for that purpose, there mronld be a question between the persons
would be no provision for tbe sale at a&Il,who ioaned the money and the ageney.
and there ls no obligation that they shall
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Tbat wouid be
go on and sIl.
Therefore tbay wiii Dot
sell, we wiil asàume, but they wiil operate quite riglit as, betweea those two, but as to
as the statute says they may.
Then the that, aimple capital shouid be provided, but
words ef the statute, section 278, would when it cornes down to a question as between tbemselves and some person who Is
seem flot to apply. That section reads:
behind them who bas entrusted them with
If at any time any railway la sodmoney, are they to be permitted to operate
This Is nlot going to be sold. It proceede: a road and do It without limitation ? That
--sold under the provisions of any deed of mort- is tbe second point. If the word 'railways'
gage thereof.
Is struck out, I have no furtber objection to
There ls no deed of mortgage.
their carrying on the business of a building
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The or construction company, but the ' railway'1
remarks of the bon, gentleman suggested a provisions are the most serious, and it seema
question to my mmnd.
His argument was to me that It Is a very serious proposition
that the company was originaliy to carry to say, that under the name of' a company
on ail the enormous works, and business to wlth a capital like tais, we wiil aliow perwhichbhe bas referred witb a paid up capi- sons to ewpio.v ali unliaiited arnount of
tal of 25 per cent. That is to be lncreased capital, to op4erate a cornpany continuousiy
only to 50 per cent, and tbe objection wil aund permanenitir, under the provisions of a
be just as strong to the 50 pet cent as to mneasure likie this as a speciai A ct, which
the other, because tbey could oniy iend of entirely overrides the Railway Act, for, as I
their own money to the extent of their paid havre just pointed out, the sections of the
to the case at
Up capital, but if an individuai thinks pro- Raiiýway Act do not appiy
ail]. There ls no plrovision in this that the
per to entrust them with $500.000 to carry
on an enterprise sucb as he bas Intimated, raflway must be soid.
they are only giving the power to this company to do tbat which they would bave the
riglt to do themscîves. It is almost analegous to the case of a person dying and appointing a trust company as hais executor.
The trust company would have to do with
that estate what an executor would bave
to do.
This company wouid have to do
for the person who had advanced the money
preciseiy that which lie might do himaself.
Lt wouid be only a question as to the trust
cotnpany with the individual's money, it
would flot be their own capital they would
be investing at ail. I suppose that is pertinent to the question before us.

Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE
cau make It nppiy.

BOWIELL-We

Hon. '.%r. KERR (Toronto)-If the Railway Coimilttee bad wanted to do that, they
could liave diene it, but the matter is before
Those provision$ apply
the House 110w.
to the case of a sale of a railwey under the
provisions of a mortgage, and la the absence of anything of that kind in this Bill,
Tbey do
the words are absoluteiy inapt.
not appiy, under the provisions of the Railway Act tac person vrbo is to operate
But
will be the purchaser of the railwey.
these are not going. to be purchasers. Tbey
are goîng to be agents for the lendArs, or
Honi. 'Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It wili be seen agents for themselves w'ho lu this underthat the agency powers which are gîven are hand way desire to operate a railway.
I
of the widest character, and there is Do think the onily thing to do is to strike out
limitation as to the terms on whvlflc they the word 'railways ' or refer the mnatter back
Hon.

Mir.

KERR

(Toronto).

JULY 81 1903

52a

to the Railwey Oommittee.
1 move that ivould be sold by private sale or go Into
the first amendment be adopted.
tbe banda of the conlpany ln any otber way
The motion iras agreed ta.
for the advances tbat they make upon It
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-I move that but it does state positlvely that those clausthe second amendment of irbicli 1 bave es of the Railway Act sball apply and shail
apply as tbougb the rond had been sold,
given notice be adopted.
îrnd notwithstanding tbe bigh legal opinion
Hon. Mr. OWENS-The bon. mover of the of the hon, gentleman irbo moved the amamendment is laying stress upon the fact endment, ire bave the autbority nlot only,
that, even 110w, only $50,000 of capital la as I said before, of the lair clerk of the
required ta be paid up. That Is te enable Sennte, but o! the lair clerks of tbe otber
the company ta commence business, and difiereat departments, irbo bave certainly
that woixld be commencing business as an had as mucb ta do ln rallway matters as
agency company.
The Blil provides that tbe bon. senator from Toronto, and tbey
the company may Increase its capital ta one have given tbeir opinions since bis opinion
million dollars. Clause 3 reads as follows : bas been known ; and after nll.the ligbt
The company may Increase its capital to one
million dollars by successive Issues of two hua- wbicb bas been tlarown upon it by the bon.
dred thousand dollars at a Urne, after each pro - gentleman, tbey state still tbat It la fully
viaus Issue of two hundred thousand dollars has covered by that amendment.
Tberefore,
been fully subscribed and paid up la cash;, but
the stock shall not be lncreased until a resolu- wbeu ire have authority of tbat klnd, the
tion of the board of directors authorizing such Seaate sbould nlot besitate ta pass this
Increase has been subritted ta and confirmed
by two-thirds in value of the sharehoidera pre- clause, as it positively brings the coinpany,
sent or repreaented by proxy at a specis.l gene- once that company takes possession o! the
ral meeting of the shareholders duly called for
rond, under aIl tbe conditions of the Railthat purpose.
way Act. Tberefore, I trust that the ainOnce this company undertake ta advance
mioney ta contractors, etber for a railway endmeat may not be concurred lu.
or for any other purpose of any Importance,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman
they must increase their capital, wbicb tbey bas failed ta point out any precedent for this
are permitted ta do ta the extent o! one mil- legislation. He cannot show tbat parllalion dollars; and again, remember that It la ment bas ever -givea similar poirers ta any
their own private funds, nlot trust funds. company ta carry out a proposition sucb as
Tlîe hon, gentleman suggests that tbey may la embraced ln tbis omnibus Bill. As iras
use tfleir oîvn funda or trust funds. Tbey made very clear by tbe bon, gentleman froin
have no power under the Bill ta ac- Toronto, the Railway Act does not affect
quire any trust funds. Tbey cannot bar- or laclude cases of this kind. It assumes
roir one dollar and cannot accept a deposit tbere that the only course by wbicb a railof one dollar, and consequentiy it la the way could go into liquidation would be by
company's own prIvate money they are lus- the mortgagees foreclosing. That la tbe
ing for that purpose, and for that Teason we only plan adopted under the Railway Act
tail ta see wby they sbould be restricted ta It Is perfectly unheard of that any agency
tco great an extent, irben it is their ow.n company, by the advance o! money to concapital. Tbey are only asking under this tractora sbould take possession o! a ra.llway.
Bill ta do wbat any private Individual can We are practically giving ta tbese gentledo witb bis own money, so tbat in no sense men a railway churter witbout knowing boir
of tbe word Is it a trust company. Tbere that charter la ta be exerclsed, ln irbat area,
ls Do authorization ta borroir, or ta accept uader irbat condition or cîrcumstances. I
a deposit of oue dollar.
Ia reference ta am quite sure the attention of parliamentthe.raîlways, tliat Inatter ls certainly covered'adIbv
eygo
ubrt
o nwn
by the ameudment passed lu the cominittee tbat-bas flot been called ta this particular
wluicb reads as follors :
point. The bion, gentleman, irbo usually
In case of a rallway. or any section o! a railway. the provisions of the sections 278, 279 andi
280, of the Railway Act shail apply.

notes irbat ls going on ln the otlier House,
assures me that It escaped the attention
It la not stated there wbetlier tbat rond there of those wbo give attention ta tbese
would be sold by the sheriff, irbether lt subjects, and I tbink the Hanse iili be

SENATE
oniy doing its duty to adopt the amendaient

and strike out the word ' railway.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
not a clause of this kzind meet the views of
the lion. gentleman :
And the operation of saiS works.

Hfon. Mr. KERR (Torouto)-I move that
the Sth clause be amended by striking out
tbe words after the word 'contractors' on
piage 3, lune 10.

Hon. Mr. OWENS-Subsectiofl (c) of clause
S rends as fol-lows:
(c.) make lbans or advances to companles
That would apply to any works which authorzed to construet rallways. tramways.
water-works,
mlght fali luto their hands. Or It mlght electric llght or power plant,
docks. warehouses and other works, or te the
:
lsup.
zread ln tlils way
contractors for any of the sald works is
seli or make loans or advances upon any of
To continue until the advances are repaiS.
of the sald companies, or auy of
the securities
Or we mniglt miale It rend thus :
them. or of the sald contractors. and otherwlse
have been assist the sald companies or contractors.
Or until such time as the advances
repaid by the earnlngs of the work, or the usale
Thien yen strike out that portion which
,of the property.
-%vouid enable them to corne ln and secure
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That ls too ebaborate
their money. The remainder of the clause

4iltogether.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronito)-In the first
place, the probablity Is that the xnoneys

rends as foUlows :

And ln case of default by any of the sald comnanlles or contractors lu the repayment of the
sald loans or advances. or the fallure to carry
wouid neyer be repaid.
out any contracte or agreements by the sald
or contractors, the compafly may,
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The companles authorlty granted to the sald comunder the
bon, gentleman ls lnduced to advance that vanies or contracýtors. continue, cozuple-te and
lu the name of any of
argument, I suppose, beenuse o! the pre- oDerate the sald works cUptractors. or ln the
the said companles or
cedent we have lu the case of the Intercol- namne of the company, on such terme and conditions as may be agreed upon wlth the sald
onlal Railway.
compvanles or contractors.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronta)-A great many
They make ail the advances, and after
rallways.
the fallure of the company to carry out the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How- work, you would take from them that por,ever, the compliment paid to the Minister of tion which enables them to go on and finish
Ralbways by the Secretary of State must up the work to secure the money. The
,certainly be appreciated by hlm, that lie work wouid be iess vabuable ln that incom'Would aibow a Bibi of this kind to pass plete shape. and they could not reabize upon
through the House without comment.
It, and what we wish to give to the company
dld nlot naine the is the power to hulld those works se as to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I
be able to realize on them. Under this pro,Mlnlster of Railways.
posed amendment you would take awny
BOWELL-I
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE
that authority from them, and I amn sure
know that, but It appies to hlm, because
hon. gentlemen wlill see that it woubd be

ble bas thîs paTticular brandi under control and it was his duty to look after it.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Probably the
Mllnister of Raiiways wouid be the iast pereon to see this Bill. It wguld have gone to
the Commlttee on Banking and Commerce.
belng a trust company, and it woubd not go
to the llailway Commlttee at ail.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.O.)-Supposbnig
we strike out the word 'rahiway,' then coubd

acting very unfaily.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)--Of course at
the time I drew the amendment 1 was dealin., with the matter ças we have the clause
now. If It will suit the promoters of the Bili
to accept the clause, so far as I amn concerned, this wouid mneet my vîews, if the
word 'operate' were struck out, and aise
the words wbich were added respecting the
case of a raiiway whlch of course would be
the company bend money to a rallway on iiecessary lu consequeuce of striiting out the
efore.
haba
mortgage ?
woi(I '

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it couid not, not
nder this Act.
The motion w-as agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. OWENS-When the 'raiiways'
were struck out, it toolt axvay naturaliy that
Portion froxin it and yoii wouid have no

JULY S, 1903
objection certainly to tlue couupany operaqting other works-for Instance, water-works.
Hou. 3fr. KERR (Toronto)-The words
wbici are added Incorporating three sections of the Railway Act sbould go out
Do0w.

Hon. Mfr. OWENS-Certainly.
Hon. Mr. KERIR (Terolito)-No,% the question is -%vbethier it is reasonabie that an
agency company sbouid be allowed te go
on and complete a contract for %vork iii
respect to whicli they have made advances
eand go oni and operàte IL. Loukl at the
character of the business it eau carry on.
Would you, iii otîxer %vords, incorporate a
cornpany to do these tbings whicli are
grouped ln the Bill, even with the word
l'railways'1 out ? Wouid you incorporate a
compauy to construct and operate tramways, electrie liglit or power plant, waterworks, docks, wvarebhouses and otîter wvorks?
Is it the practice of parliament to authorize
a company to bave ail these differeut powers *? Now, my objection to the word 'operate' is, tbat It la the word iinder whicb ail
tbese different businesses miglit be carried
on. Thîis agency conipany wouid develop
into a company te operate eiectric ligbt
planýt, water-works, docks, warebouses and
other works as nîncl ns tbey like. Now If
the words 'and otber works' were strucc
out auîd the word 'operate' were struck
out, the Bill would be lèss objectionable to
nîy judgment.
Hon. Sir «MACKE NZIE BOWELL-Wbat

would be the practical effeet of carrying
out the suggestion made by the bon, gentleman ? Supposing this company advanced
money for the constructioni of an elevator,
and that the parties wbo induced tbis agency
company to invest their money for that
purpose, failIed to complete the work, wbat
would be tbe position of tbe parties wbo
advanced the mouey If tbe agents could net
collect it uniess they sued and sold tlid property ?
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-If tbey were
adv-ancing their own moncy, or tbe money of
friends for the purpose of aiding tbe contractors or otlîers te build a warebeuse or
an elevator, then they could have their dIaim
for the money-tliey could have their mortgage upon it and enforce their security and

seil the property, b)ut tbey could not carry
on the busines§ of warchousemen at the
saine time. It is a principle of legislation,
as I have always understood it, tbat each
company lncorporated by parliament must
be ciothed with power to transnct oue kind
of business, flot an 'omnibus' business.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-Witb; the word 'railwa3-s' and the raiiway clause struck out,
I do not sec wby tic lion, gentleman sbould
object te the word 'operate.' W7e may define and qualify it by saying, until such tixne
as the advances are refunded but take the
case of au elevator or water-works. The
wvorks may be completed, but ln order to,
give tbem value tbey must be put la operation to enable the company to realize their
money upon them. You may qu-aiby the
word 'operating' If you wili, but 1 stili bold,
and I think the House will agree wlth me,
that there can be no injustice done, now that
the word ' railways' is struck out, by leaving the word 'operate,' and qualify!ng it by
addîug ' until the moncys advanced are refunded.'
Hon. Mr. KERR (Torento)-The only amnencument I eau move Is to strike out ail the
words af ter tbe word ' contractors.' That la
the nature of my motion. If tbe bon. gentlemuan hiad accepted my suggestion, it would
bave answered tue purp.se, wblcb is to
strike out the words ' and other works'1 and
strike out tELe word 1operate.* The only
nmendment 1 can move Is the one of wbich
I have given notice.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-I accept the suggestion of the hou. gentleman, and therefore 1
beg to move tbat clause 'c'1 be amended by
striking out the word 'railways'1 and the
am .endment tbat was made to It in committee in refereace to railways. Is tbat accepted ?
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Yes, that is
satisfactory.
The CHAIRMÂN-Subsectien 'c' wiUl
read as fellows:
(c.> make boans or advances te companles &uthorized te construet tramways, electric light or
power plants, water-works, docks and ware-

bouses, or to the coatractors for anY of the.
said works; issue. seil or maire boans orad
vances upon any of the securities of the sald
companies, or any o! them, or of the said contractors and etherwise assist the said companles or contractors; and ln case of default by

SENATE
-any of the said companies or contractors, ln the
repaymient of the said loans or advances, or the
failure to carry out any contrac-ts or agreevients by the sal cozopanies or conitractors th.
company may, under the authority granted t-o
the said companlies or coitractors, continue and
,complete the said works in the name of any
et the said companies or contractors, or ln the
namne of the company, on such ternis and conditions as may lie agreed upon with the said cornpanies or contractors.
The amiendmlent was agreed to, and the
clause as amended was adopted.

a bank, must it lie deposited to the credit
of that special account, or to the credit of
the companiy ?

non. Mr. KERR (Toroiito)-Tliey should
do it as agent for the owner, so tlhat it would
not bie mixed witli the assets of the coinpany. That Is thie idea I have inii y mind.
Hou. Mr. OWENS-The amendment proposed Is perfectly clear. It will be necessary
in any case to keep their accounts entirely
Hou. 'Ur. KERR (Torouto)-I now beg to separate. The promoters accept the axnendniove the addition to clause 9 of whicli I nient without hesitation.
have -iven notice and whlcli is as follows:
The amendaient was agreed to, and the
9. The moneys and securities of sucli person clause, as amended, was adopted.
ur corporation for whom this company acts
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-I will now
shall always be kept distinct frozo those of
the company and ln separate accounis, and so inove clause 10, whlch Is as follows :
marked ln the books of the company for each
at
No parcel of land or lntereet therein
teli person or corporation as always to lie
the company and flot red4stinguished from any other ln the registers s.ny time acquired byuse and occupation, or held
and other books of account kept by the corn- quired for Its actual any trustee on is lieh8.Lf
company or
:pany. so that at no time shall such moneys and by the longer period.by
shall be held by the comaec.urities fori Part of or be mixed with the for a
for a longer perlod
general assets o! the company, and sucli moneys pany or liy any such trustee acquisition thereof.
and securities shalil not be liable for the delits than seven years after the and disposed of s0
but shahlie abeolutely sold
«nd obligations of the company.
that the company shaHl no longer retain any InTihis conipany is an agency conipany iii terest therein unless by wsy of security, and
such parcel o! land or any Interest tbercia
mnie. It lias autliority to deal witli the any within the exceptions hereinafter mentionnot
of othier persous. Prac- ed. which has been held by the company for a
inoneys and eredits
than sevea years without lieing
tlcally. therefore, It d-es îlot differ lulits longer periodshah lie forfeited to His Majesty,
disposed of.
frozo a trust vrovided that the Governor ln 1jouncli may excharacter and responsibiiy
time
comipany, and therefore 1 thiak the pro- tend the said perio d from time to ;and not exfnrther
lu the whole twelve years
Ln trust .coin- ceeding
v'ision which is inserted
provided. that no such forfeiture shall take
panies' charters providing titat the money effect or lie enforced until the expiration of at
least six calendar inonths after notice la writ-and securities of these persons sliould iag to the coaipany of the intention o! Isl Mabe kept separate and npart froin tlie moneys jesty to dlaini sucli forfelture ;aad It shal lie
company to give the Minister of
of
-o! the comnpany is a proper ' one to insert in the duty andthe
Receiver Generai, when required.
Finance
a Bill of this description, and 1 tîterefore a fulI and correct stateaient o! ail lands, at the
the company or
move the aniendinent as set ont in rny date of sncb st-atement, held by subi ect to these
ln trust for the company, and
notice.
provisions.

KERR (Toronto)-Ili their own
Hou. M-Nr.
books, aud Ili a separate bank account.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
Is the necesslty for this clause when you
have restrlcted their operation, as you have
done ? This was ln the original Bill and
was struck ont by tlie House o! Commons.
I must confess 1 do rot see that It Is applicable.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I can
uinderstand a company, receiving money
froua others to invest would liave necessarîly
to Leep a separate ledger accoiut.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Uuder the
naine o! au ageacy company tliey are really
a trust compiuy, autliorized to invest other
people's 'money la the purcliase or sale of

Hon. Mr. OWENS-I accept that amend:aient.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wliere
-are the accounts to bie Lept ?

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It says so real or personal property.
Lookc at subsecHou. Mr. OWENS-ZNo.
that tliey shll not lie mnixed witli the g-ention (a), and the lion. gentleman> will see that
,eral assets of the company.
BOWLL-up-the company mayHou.SirMACKNZI
Ça.) promote or assist iu promnoting any other
OWEL-SPI-io. Sr MCKEZIE
poseý tliey take the money and deposit it iii copay and for such purpose may subscribe

JULY 8, 1903
for. buy and sell debentures, mortgage debentures or other securities af such other company,
and otherwise may employ the money or credit
of the comuany ln any manner deemed ex_pe4ient for any such purpose, either by actually
emplaying any portion of the moneys of the
company for any such purpose, or by placing
on the market or guaranteeing the Issue of, or
the payment of Interest an, the shares, debentures, martgage debentures, obligations or securulies of such other company ; may purchase
Insolvent estates or any part thereaf, and may
sell or otherwise dispose of the assets thereof,
and wind np the business thereof.
But they cannot use their clients' money
for that purpose. It is oniy the company's
money tbat can bie used for a purchase or a
loan.
They are authorized ta administer
real estate or collect moneys, but It Is flot
permltted, under the Bll, tliat tbey should
use those trust funds for any purpose ot
their own.

Ion. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Sub-clause (a)
H
of the elghth section provides that tbey
may(a.) act generally as agent or attorney for
the transaction of business, receiving or collecting any principal, interest, rente, coupons, mortgages. debts. dividende, debentures, bis, notes
and securities or evidenwes of debt or demand
of any nature, and ln the purchase or sale of
any real or personal property.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-That
own money.

is

with their

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-.No, wltb other
peoples rnoney. Lt Is because that practlcally means they can receive an unlimlted
amount of trust money and Invest it ln
vrarious kiiids ot real and personal securlty,
tbat I thought a clause relating to these
things ln the return should bie added to this
Bill. In otber words, they sbould show the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL-I do separate accounts of the different persoas
mlot see any harmi la the clause, but I do who trust them with money and the investmlot tbink It is applicable.
ments they bave made, and show the total
The clause was adopted.
amount they bave, just as a loan company
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto) moved the ad- or a trust company would.
dition of clause il1
The clause was adopted.
Section forty-five of the Loan Companies Act,
,Canada, 1899. saîal apply ta the company.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It seems to
Hon. M~r. OWENS-Clause il would flot me, havlng regard to the nature of the buslapply to thîs Bill. Tbe tact Is it is the com- mess, that clause 12 shouid bie added. I
pany's own money that la to be used la this. theretore move that clause 12, which ls ex'Ihey are la no sense a trust company. actly taken from section 15 of the Loan
'They canuot use money comlng ln, only Companies' Act, be added :
their own money, and tberetore I think the
12. The company shall not act as agent or
bon. gentleman sbould flot press this a-mend- attorney or otherwIse carry on business until
It bas obtained from the Minister of Finance a
ment. It does flot apply to this Bill ln any certificate permitting it ta do so, and no ap-case. W'e accept ail tbe ameadments which plication for such certîficate shaîl be made, and
untIl the
apply ta the Bill, and wbicb strengtben lt la no certificate shaîl be given as providedboard of
directore bas been elected.
la secany way, but tbis wouhd miot apply In any tion five. and until It has been shown ta the
satisfaction of the Minister of Finance and Reeense.
ceiver General that the provisions of the sald
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-The Idea I section have been complied with, and no such
certificate shall be given unless application
bad la my mmnd in movlng this clause was therefor be duly made wlthin one year after the
that tbis company, as agent, may act for a Passing of thls Act.
large number ot people. Lt may recelve
Tbe clause was adopted.
mnoney ta an unlimited extent, and that
Hon. Mr. FULFORD, from the commlttee,
perhaps Is suother tault la the Bill. They
may therefore, as agents, ta an ualimited reported the Bill wlth amendments.
extent receive money and Invest It ln variCUSTOM~S ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.
ons ways.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-But the company caumot invest nmoaeys ot tbat kind.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the thlrd reading
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Tlie Bibl says of Bill (1-4) An Act ta amend the Customs
Act.
tbey may do lt la a purchase.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unHon. Mr. OWnENS-Their own money, flot
derstood the lion. gentleman to say that hie
,others.

SENATE
would make inquiry ns to the effect of the
words :
Snch invoice shall state any discount other
than such as bas been actually allowed to the

PUNISHMENT 0P FRAUDULENT
DEBTORS BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.

The House resolved ltself Into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (T) An Act to
He was to ascertain whether they wll
Code, 1892, respecting
have the effect that I anticipate, of creat- amend the Criminal
punishmeut of fraudulent debtors.
lng trouble and dlfficulty lu the workiug
out of this Bill. The bon. gentleman will
(In the Commlttee.)
remember that I polnted out the different
clauses of the Customs Act providlng what
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Wlxen this Bill was
discount shaîl be allowed off any luvolce of read the second time It was received very
goode purchased lu a foreigu country. That favourably by the meinbers of this Huse.
confined the discount to the amount which It was, however, suggested by the hon, genwas allowed to any purchaser lu the coun- tleman from Marshfield (H1on. Mr. Ferguson)
try lu whlch the goods were purchased for that the Bill mlght be amended In two direchome consumption. The bon. gentleman Is tions, first substltuting three years for five
no doubt aware that often a large discount years lu !,Iew of maklng the Bill less strinIs allowed to purchasers in the United gent. The Bill as drafted requires that the
States and Germany nnd other countries books be kept for five years previous to the
when the goods are sold for export-some- Inabllty- to pay, and therefore it is more
times to tbe fulIl extent of the duty whlch stringent than if we were to reduee it to
they bave to pay. It seems to me tbat thîs three years. 1 amn qulte wllhlng to submnit
impIies, aithougli It does not actually say to the sense Of this bonourable House, but
so, that any discount, which appears on tlie it seems to nie that the live years
face of the invoice whlch ls tbe actual dis- miglit remnin.
Then the lion, gentlecount allowed to the importer will be ac- man made a suggestion tbat $500 be
cepted. I pointed that out as my Interpre- substituted for I$1,000.
I' have iîo obtation of It. I thluk tbat parties importlug jection to consent to tbe aîneîîdnîent.
will be inclined to demaud under that clause Hlowever, a Ilne must be drawn soinewhiere
the full amnount of discount allowed, and If and It seems to me tbat for the îîresellt anyso, It would be lu direct contravention of way we sbould limit it to $1,000. There is
the practice and provisions of the other a danger that It may be a hurdship to very
clauses.
small traders, and for the present, subject to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I went over to Mr. Mc- amendlng the law lu the future if experiDougali to find out what the interpretation ence shows the amounit should be reduced,
of the departmnent was. He sald it was to 1 would suggest that the Bi11l be accepted
put lu a stutute a practice which for many as drafted.
Importer.

years lad prevalled and which Is lu the
forni of oath that bas been iii use for mnny
yeas-

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I would
cali the attention of the hon. mover of the.
Bill to the case of a man wvho bas not been
That the said invoice exhibits the actual price ln business for the whole tive years. It
or Prices at wblch the said goods were actually would tben flot npply to hlm ut aIl.
rurchased by the owner when exported to Can ada. and that there is included therein the true
value. &c.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tllat
is preeise]y what I poiuted out, but It did
not meet the objection to the clause w-hicb,
I have pointed out. However, if the departmeut and goverument are satisfied with the
clause as it stands, I have no objection.
The motion wvas agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time, and passed.
Hon. Sir MACKENIE BOWELL.

Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-He Is bound to k-eep
books of account accordlng to the usual
course lu the trade or business iu whjch lie
may have been engaged. 0f course if lie bas
not been eugaged lu business for five years
he is not bound to'keep books for the period
duri-ng which lie wàs flot engaged ln business. Tbe five years would merely aply
lu case lie bas 'been il business for five
years or more.

JUJLY 8, 1903
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-WliY to pass, and 1 made the remark at the
sliould if nlot npply f0 tlie case of a person time, that I thouglit the auiount miglit be
reduced. and the terni of years might alse
in business tliree years ?
be cbanged, but 1 did nlot ntend to move
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-It -wlll apply for the any amendment on these Unes, and perhaps
three year*s. It will apply for one year if It is better that it should pass the way
the man lias been lu business only one year. It la than tbat we should inake if applicable
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I think to smaller debtors, or for a less terni of
years. Possibly it la better to pass if in tbe
neot.
form ln which if lias been submitted and
lion. Mr. DANDURAND-Before the Bill
at a later date, wlien the laws are beîng
Is reported, 1 would draw the attention of consolldated, and it lias operated, it will
the House to a procedure whicli Is foIIowýd
then become apparent whetxer It sliould be
in France, whicl is1, i think, an excellent changed in any particular.
safeguard agalnst fraudulent debtors and
against bankrupts. The party who 'wants
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tliere is a great
to sfart in business lias to present Iiis set of deal of force iu the objection made by
books to the clerk of the court, who in- the hon. gentleman from Charlottetown,
itiais every page of the whole set, and and 1 hope the lion. promoter of tlie Bill
the party lias f0 reproduce the saine books will explain wliat the effect of these words
whenever lie fails. So thiat there is a con- to whichi the lion. gentleman referred is.
siderable safeguard against the manipulation The clause reads :
or altering of books, when eacb page of flie
And lias flot for five ,'ears next before sucli
nouks lie lias to keep Is initialled by some Inabillty.
1 mention this to the
proper autborîty.
Does that apply to a trader who lias net
lion. gentleman. thougli I do not think it
would be proper to add it f0 the Crimînal kept any books at ail during the wliole
Code. StilI I higbly commend. the present period of five years, or to one wlio lias nlot
Bill, and think we could perhaps adopt at regularly kept tlie books during that period ?
a later date the same procedure which le Does tlie lion. gentleman mean for and
followed la France on the same line as the during that period ? 1 fhink the lauguage
is susceptible of tlie meaning suggested by
preseut Bill.
tlie lion. gentleman from Charlottetown
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Wlien 1 moved fhe (Hon. Mr. Macdonald), th-at a trader would
second reading of the Bill, I called fthe at- nlot corne under the provisions of this Bill,
tention of the House to tliose provisions if at any time during the period of five
under the Frenchi code, but I followed as years lie liad net kýept the books. That la
closely as possible, in draftlng this Bill, fhe nlot the lion. gentleman's Intention.
Iaw as it lias been in force lu Scotlaud ever
since 1880 ; but It lias occurred to me If
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I did not undersfand
miglit be rafler stringent at the outset to the point made by the lion, gentleman from
require these books to be inltlalled, and, Charlottetown f0 bie fliat. I understood lis
therefore, 1 omifted that part advlsedly. question was whetlier the Bill would apply
We should have the law frained lu sucli a If the trader bad not been a tradIer f or five
way as f0 facilitate as mucli as possible years, and 1 answered the objection by sayits adoption by fhe other House. 1 fhink lng that of course if lie lias not been In trade
it would be a very great safeguard if f115 for five years. flien lie cannot be compe]led to
could be adopted, both lu fhe interest of have kept books for five years. Then as to
traders and of commerce generally, and If tlie other objection, it seems to me fliat It is
we were f00 stringent In the provisions of clear, thougli the lion. Speaker of this House
the law, 1 arn afraid if miglit imperil the is a mudi better sdbolar than I am. and
passing of the Bill.
is a much better judge of that, it seems f0
me that the reading la clear. Thie clauge
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As I remarked at
fhe second reading of fhis Bill, 1 consider if rends:
a very proper one. If struckz me, on lookAnd bas not for five years next before sucli
ing ut it, tliat if was a very proper Bill Inability.

SENATE
It seemis to me it is quite clear, it calls
for the keeping of tiie books contnouslY
for five years if in trade.

and attention the'report of that sub-commit-

tee, and the joint coinmîttee in endorslng
thiat report and iu recommending it to the
attention of the government I arn sure have
The clause was adopted.
discharged a duty which was incumbeut
the commlttee, upon them uîîder the circumstaflces. 1 hope
Hon. Mr. GIBSON, from
and believe tbnt the report now before this
reported the Bill witbout amendment.
House will be heartily concurred lu by every
The Bill was then read the third time, and inember of tuis flouse.
passed.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I quite agree witb the
THIRD READING.
remarks made by the bon. gentleman wbo
this report. 1 draw lu my mind
Bill (91) An Act to incorporate the Do0- Ùioved
somewhat of a distinction between what
minion Gas Improvement Company.-{HIofl.
Mr. Kerr, Toronto.)
LIBRARY 0F PARLIAMENT.

should be doue for Lady Bourinot, ln view
ýof Sir John Bourluot's public service, and
'the purchase of bis library because, so far

as I know-and I have some littIe aequaintatice wlth bis library-it is well
'worth purchiaslng by the people of Canada,
Hon. Mr. BAKER moved concurrence ln on Its merits Inasmucli as it is composed
the second report of the joint Committee of almost wholly, or very largely at any rate,
botb flouses on the Library of Parliament. of books upon particular flues of study whlch
Hie sald : This report was made before the no person could perhaps collect as readily
adjournment, and is entered lu the 41st. as Sir John Bourinot did, or as effectively
number of the 'Minutes of Proceedlngs' at this period ; I thlnk therefore, that upon
of this flouse. Its Important features are Its merits, aside altogether from the suggestbe endorsation made tbereby of the report tions coutained lu the bon. gentleman's
of the sub-commlttee upon the proposition remarks as to Lady Bourinot's position, the
to purcliase the lbrary of the late lament- parliament of Canada, or the goverumnent of
ed Sir John Bourinot, and the appointment Canada, or the people of Canada could very
of a committee composed of the Speakers well purcbase that library and add it to, the
of the two flouses to wait upon the govern- 'parliamentary llbrary.
1 support the proment and present the recommendations made 'position made by the hon. gentleman.
by that sub-committee. 1 amn sure there
. Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I eau
can lie no two opinions iu this flouse iu
'only add my full coucurrence iu the rereference to the important services that
ýmarks made by tbe mover of tbis motion
were rendered to parliament and to the
also by the bon. gentleman wbo bas
country by the late Sir John Bourinot. He und
fromn the quesabove bis fellows Époken. Apart altogether
was a man distiuguished
tion of remuueratiflg tbe family for the
ln the cause of literature, nnd lie rendered
of Sir' John Bourinot, the library,
a service to the country that should not 'services
'as I understand it, Is of that value wbicli
be lightly esteemed. The uuhappy circumto secure it, even
stances iu wbich bis devotion to bis eublic should induce parliameut price, but, as I
If It were at a very large
duty left bis farnily are a matter of coinlie purcbased for nearly
mon report, and there is no use iu our Z1is- 'understand, it can
its actual and lntriusic value. If my
guising the fact thnt it is the intention of 'half
correct, the experts who have
the committee indirectly to permit the gov- Ilnformatiou Is
the library are from the United
erument to do an act of justice to the mem- 'examined
I suppose,
ùry of its distinguislied officer. The library 'States, and are iu negotiation.
aud tbey have valued it at
left by hlm is one that was selected with 'for purchasing,
to sixteen thousand dollars.
the most judicious care. It embraces, as is 'from fifteen
the report, it can lie purshown by thie report of the librarian of par- 'If I understaud
and wliich Ichased for some ten tbousand dollars, and
liament, books that are very rare,
otber reason thari an appreciashould find a place in the library of paria- if we bave no
niern- tion of thie great services rendered to this
ment. 1 have no doubt that every
SECOND REPORT OF JOINT COMMITTEE
ADOPTED.

ber of this flouse lias read witbi interest

lion. Mr. BEIQUE.

country aud to the whole

empire by

the

;4uaieoi2e3 iaiq; Ino Saira 0; 11e; tulà
o;101 eauuxpu SEMm S auom nuU
.xoi ;saia;ul n îq2q ool 2ul;oexa Sq anoq s.ioissiumoa inoqisq aq4 4uq4 2uttnnss,
-n,'q uoiultuoCu qeq; riodi 2aitsodtut eau am .xo paslAâpt tau 1 uosel ou si a.xaql 'opep,
PUB LJI~~
ut ascaeaul ;,ca.i2 aqI tim
apv.1; o4 saauuaqmUnInO IiTAI Çllauxo mouli
SEMU ami Ilttl aapiO UT 'luiuizaOjui JO a.lus ;sa.a;ui ati; Sed o4 paliej jaaaeu oetic SaitL
*peiss aluI 1 TMtli[ -poo2 uaeq sueq ;1po.3 ilaql amlI; ;uesaid atil
aitI lOi LjUO si Il
uollBsc.ioJnT aq;i rl;j auia ali; qsinanj nula o; du PUB -ponssi glus ;eiql sorn4uaqap ali
a;e. lubo ue 2niarOq
i~l4u 4sEoiIi Io
a4n Jo £J.iulaiaa *uoîî Otf sderj.xod 'aallitu
*apum ilaaq 'unome limbe n o spuoq ;uamu.1Oo2a O1k
-uoz aq4 olui sao2 Il uotM
aAe3q qalt[tA soa3UUApeg atp Uo Isaia4tii oit; qim upm Ilsodop gaun luqi si paldopu ami1 qj
;uao4sIquoa 'opefi aq usa SîqIssod 41 su OPexi -sla1eîn2o.1 Iso.ao;ui aq; 1d Saqj, cepisul3C)eo
aoq; o; eAsuadxaul se inoqjeit ;err; O3IuU 4uauOT.iAo2 ait; moil 2uTiooq Io ;iqeaq,
Ill tqO)lq ainseoua Suu .Iaoddns o; Iulod aq; ut uaeq Ise3d sîunoL ua oîe s.ieuoissTmu
saodn
aiL
îeganuon
-PUBIS5 ilexiognu JO0 uoluutnoa e moli sit; moT -îuoo .1noq.1eH
Illu oqmA u3tu I.iaAa Jo Ltlp aiq4 SI Il *auOJ1 laro ;o eav L~ue ePUe 'sioluiaIO 'spaits ola
JO sJaOTSSjR
-me'l -IS atq; Io a3o.iotuo; arg o; snot.Infui aq 'sjoop JO SeAi oq; UT IjIuop
plnom 3looq-a;nluls aili uodn paoeid ji~ u -mo[) inoqiaH~ ail4 Lq ua:ie;japuf uaaq aAeit,
sXiom aq:I a;Idmoa PriE anut;Ooa o;k
LjIunoa aqI Io oarutuoa arr; ui plsaa;ui itotît&
uot;sanb LSo.r saleruop uoilluz aajql J jo aueApu aoq sazýi0tjj
asoit; puei lq2noiq4 Soqi r[airtm
Io Saa.
ples OHl -Iea1IO
sîq; uodn paop4ui aîam ttlM. suif ulieliaa -ne rIta aqj,
4eojap o4 aeueS arn je ;se;d exp UT L;np ern -uolsstrnwioC ixnoqiii3l ain o; saaueipe jiaq:
uaeq s-et Il PUB '£qunOo sjîfl Io apea aq;k -luni .xoi apioid o; ;;v uy (j(O7) 11ta Io 2u;
4ualxa eae&j2 L.1A 'e o; aintuu o; .ieaulue1qa, -pesai puooas aq; paomu LLOCS *.1J4i -uoH
*OMNWIVZ
(NOSE
e jo uaeq suit eaoari '19 ail; JO ue4s£a
a2iqoîîd aqýL *ml5L agIeorîd aÂTsuadxaul
ai
.rIr.IIii
pues paejad 'x[Znoiom e aeq o; si matil
IQO8iYH,
jo ploq aquI. pinoiqs -1IŽCON JO SUROISSIiUÇOD
Io auo pue 'Slsno.io2îÂ
epueoC jo 4uomniJaOSoq; a;eT4 u s2r'tql
o;4 paaoie SEM uor4otu aqj
aelrn .10 O.Ag 0.11 a.ai eq; i i oluido aiR
-;ueA;as zoljqnd elqienlueA Sxaà,
jo uaq 2uoi a.itq 1 *Lqunoi. ern jo apel,
ea ioduue;q pjnom 'Ptita 'apeu aq o; a.îuti e Lq ;q2jz si Ieqm 2ulop Jo 41un.xoddo.
n spioZie pu 's3tooq alqenîe?à L.xaÂ 2uluiel.
p1nom~ xqi. SITIUarLd JxO ssaupalqaPt
£ÂUiTez Luie inoij Liunoa art; JO. sIsaxa;ui elqi, .qo jo Liiunlioddo u si Il *anjuA ini Sil
ni ejqissod se iptIri su peA&Oiti aq PflnOis Ie liq2noq aq plnoqs il -anlleÂ sil ileq ;e Il
.inoq.iegq art; leq;-ueul olaîewO ue su ;uiod Lnq ;ou prnoqs Lait; pue 'Çie.xqll sit; 2ri1.
-pueis moiu le uWoij 'IsflZ I '2utiteads 1o11 -Lnq ni ;riamujIaÂo2 aqj jo ;.ted aiU110 trio
LS o; a.11sap
meu 1 puet-si uolssa1dru uimo SNi TUia;SSu -îU2ert ou aq pmnoits axaiq; ;i
2
teai sfl jo jlieq-auo loi 4q noÂ
*anlv&
Io uotlluoa aq; patu.a; Oaq
liueo art;
uaaq aiîeq eq ueo> Siiql eq; Spuesxpun ail ineq.
XL.îadomdK liq2im uq neqiu papuadxa
*Plom ao ppu
ples sert puaili *uOrt £N~
Io Iuuome
qpt;m slauour .xoi ssaupa;qpUt
uo
I
a2îel E JO Molt; 2uTÂa!1Oz£ LsaIOIstuulO o;. ailsep jsnf 1-Nogi
.1noqiert art; rtum £11e.iaqr. ;meop Loq jamod«
-out;. a~ininj
4uetul.oi a;er aq4 10;je Sivas.
o;ui OMMa
moi eeit u;moril I pues 'ja:;ejit Iert jo ie loi 4nq 4uasaid aq; -loi Lîio Ion '4uauý
paanaas aq
pabopisuo ail SEMu rportm eanaimierI IS art; -emI o siaquieu jo esti at; .xoi
SIo SEM Ilt ;î;eq4 os 'Lieiqli ail; jo anmeA rmnj arn.
UT OAexq am Ieq, .xnoqlveq £,no aip L
a4udo-ie
4, *.xnoq.xert meguone«i v pam; SLiaoid aoL Sed o; 02Let &I;ueiz)ins MUnS ea aDuaue
Sit ith
u
SEM;ert tnm llaeaql £je,&juie pinaqs. -du? o; .ap.1o ut 's0anlO?îo
esnàaq :elq; PUe 'oommoâ
ert; 3[ultit; I ;ip -ni si4 si
epuC jo luemuzaIO
Lq opeum ;.oda.i aq; JO saÂo.1dde,ý
poo,9i&put1 't&î;out;s!p,1 ;î rtt1 ! ;ulodprie;u lvelqrl alp JO LÇlnajzaS *uOi ar;q ; dq
snot;dsa e mq uot;mjdjut sitI ilse ;ou XLinfj a4uIS
uu.
op 1 &.inoq1ertaq4 uodn papuadxa uaeq Lruo ueo, 1 pri 'uay[ods 4snp suit oi
ar; Lq pa4;olpul riaaq seq eit;%
suouo;pe';ouAJ--îuauort
oeq rqtïm
JOi jo ulqil 'Lauaqir stit asuit-3
;Laa-6uiqet
uaq
Lpeoile
loi paaueApe
-mi înoq.ier
ueuroî;ua2 *uOr ait; -ind £Iaidoid Jo eai2ap LJoÂa itUAlqiul
sert ipnm mo sn jja;
O - stiouutfl' Io JO oflH Oi; Jo y[.1o~C a4
5fIZNamoilN is *U0f
iimthir~imof
199

C061 'S .111fl

SENATE
DANDURAND-I arn happy to
Hon. M-Nr.
hear the hou. gentleman from Belleville expressing the opinion that the burden upon
the barbour of Montreal should be made as
Iight as possible. I should hope this alone,
wlth the expectation tbat lu the near future
Montreal will be made a free port, and the
government of Canada tvill take tbe whole
harbour of Montreal under their charge,
and the debt as weli. We are advancing
large sums o! money tbroughout the country lfor the saine purposes that Ibis money
is requlred at the expense o! the country,
In building 'wharfs In divers parts of the
Dominion, and It Is but just tbat Montreal,
whicli is the principal drawver of the foreign
commerce, sliould as soon as possible be
made a free port, more especially after the
canais have been made free. .I arn sorry
not to see tbe Cbairman of the Harbour
Commission in bis seat. I arn quite sure I
amn ecboing bis own desire by endeavouring to persuade as many of tbe bon. gentlemen as will be bere on Saturday to corne
down to Montreal 10 see the great strides
we are making towards improving the port
of Montreal.
Hon. MT. MACDONALD (P.E..)-It is
pleasing 10 see tbat the people of Montreal
are going to treat tbe members of the Hlouse
of Gommons and the senators witb sucb
llberaity. On several occasions sucb tblngs
bave occurred. Tbere Is an Invitation sent
to members o! parliament 10 visit Montreal,

treal. It is frozen Up part of the year,
but Charlottetown 'bas neyer made appli.cation to the extent of one dollar for the
millions thet Montreal bas applied for.
You must remember tbat the wbole Dominion contributes to tbese Improvements
made. to the harbour of Montreal. We expended many millions of dollars for canais
wbicb are .lntended for the benefit of the
great west. Tbat expenditure ai the time of
confederation 'was considered one wibcb
would turn In a very considerable revenue
Now" we bave made
to tbe Dominion.
those canais free and thus placed the
maritime provinces In a very different position from wbat tbey occupied wltb respect
to the revenues of the Dominion when tbese
canals were contributing towards tbat ontlay. We have expended somewhere about
five millions, on the barbour of Montreal.
A few years ago It was stated in eitber the
Senate or tbe House of Commons tbat a
considerable amount bad up 10 Ibat lime
been paid towards tbe barbour of Montreal
and tbey baLd not paid the Interest.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no0, tbat Is not cor1rect.

MACDONALD '(P.E.I.)-Tbey
Ho.Ir
had pssibly paid the interest but bad, not
paid the pr incipal.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-It was not due.
r
(...HnM.MCOAD
a
(PEI)
l.MrMADNL
very glad to hear that It was not From
wbat the bon. Secretary of State bas Infe
1 A
-.
formed nus, tbey are paying the interest by
And it lias occurrred the issulng of bonds, glvlng a bond 10 the
and sumptuously.
witb unfailing regnlarity that about the governmeflt for Interest.
same lime an application cornes la for a
Hon. Mr. FORGET-NO.
grant of a very large sum of money for the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wbat 1 said was tbey
and improvement of the barbour of
support
replaced the different bonds witb bonds
Montreal.
the harbour commissioflers of 'Montreal
Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND--On wblcb tbey of
on whlch the Interest bas been regularly
pay lnterest.
naid and the urincipal tou. when il became
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Tbere due
Is no0 doubt It Is a very fine barbour, and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If my
bas a good many natural facllities, but
the recollection serves me, the barbour of Montthere are a good many other harbours in
wold
Domiionwhic cmpae faourblyreal does flot owe one dollar, principal or
any advances
wltb Montreal in Its natural condition, and interest to the government on
more favourably situated for the made, but bas paid prornptly as it becarne
very mucb
trade of the country during the whole year 'due.
(P.E.I.)-Tbe
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
than Montreal harbour is, for they are open
barbours the whole year round. Charlotte- other staternent was made in parliament
town is ln the sarne category as Mont- sorne time ago.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUTLY S, 1903
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
bon. gentleman may be confounding Montreal witb tbe barbour of Quebec.
Uon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I tbiak
we are treating the barbour of Montreai
witb great llberallty, more liberaliy than
other barbours ln the same position
respecting the provinces ln wblch they
are situated ns Montreal Is with reIf we
spect to the province of Quebec.
expended but a very ilted portion of tbe
amount wbicb we are about to sanction for
Montreai lu 'the harbour of St. Jobn, for
Instance, we wouid place tbat barbour probabIy in as good a position for obtaining a
very large portion of tbe trade of the Dominion as Montreal is. Tbe governnlent bas
not treated tbat barbour In anytbing like
the same manner as It bas tbe barbour of
Montreai.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman la
mistaken.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I do not
see wby tbe Dominion should contribute
generally to that work at Montreal.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe government
Just built an elevator at St John.
a
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (PEI)Is
work whicb sbould be done by tbe province
ln wbicb tbe barbour is situated and not by
the Dominion generaliy. I do not see wby
the people of the Dominion, from tbe Atlantic to tbe Pacific, should contribute to these
improvements -in the barbour of Montreal.
It is situated withia one province and la my
opinion the province sbould sboulder tbat
expense ltself and not come to tbe Dominion.

which the government of Canada bad guaranteed sbould be repaid out of that $2,000,000 loan. That was done s0 that the accounts were squared. Then ln 1898 there
was a boan of $2,000,000 under tbe usuai
terms, the harbour commisssioners of Montreai placing with the Finance Minister
bonds of an equal amount to those placed
on tbe market The Interest on those bonds,
and ail prevlous bonds, was repaid by Montreal. Canada bas not lost a dollar, nor is
tbere any danger of losing it. In May, 1901,
there was a furtber grant of $1,000,000 to
enabie the corporation to construct grain
elevators.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-The government of
Canada was given a firrt mortgage on it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the security is ampie. Witb the amount contained ln the present Bill, $3,000,000, it will total the debt
of the barbour commissioners of Montreal
at $8,000,000. 1 saw a statement issued by
the harbour comniissioners ln wbicb tbey
pointed out that the imports of Montreal,
whielà go over the whole of Canada tbrough
to the Pacifie, assist towards 'the keeping up
of the expenses of running the barbour commission and Interest on tbe debentures, so
that the tai does not corne out of the city
of Montreal at ail except on goods tiiat are
consumed ln that city, but the goods wbicb
go ail over the northern country tbrougb to
Victoria

and down to the Atlantic coast, are

charged up with tbe barbour dues, and
therefore 1 do not think there Is any cause
for criticlsm. 0f course If you were to
make it a free port, 1 couid quite recognize
there would be some advantages attendlng
It, because free ports are aiways popular
with shipping. The captains bave notbing
to pay on entering a port, and tbey feel It
an advantage If tbey are short of money, to
go into a free port, but I neyer beard it
urged as a g-rievance or encumberance on the
trade of 'Montreal. Tbe small amount of
tbe tai on tbe vast amount of goods brougbt
into Montreal, I bave ne-ver beard spoken of
as an embarrassment to the port or as miiitating agalnst the udvantages that tbe port
enjoys.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman is
scarcely fair lu bis crîticism. Tbe barbour
commissioners deserve great credit for tbe
manner la wblcb tbey have bulît up a great
port ut M.Nontreal. Tbey have not asked for
contributions from tbe Dominion treasury,
as bas St. John. If tbe bon. gentleman looks
back ln the public accounts, be wili find tbe
expenditures there bave been considerable
for building docks, elevators and otber
works. In 1896. ail accounts ln connection
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.-I think the hon. gentlewith the barbour o! Montreal were squared
up to then, and the commissioners author- man from Montreai rather alarmed us by
lzed to raise $2,000,000. One of the condi- his statement foiiowing the observations
tions of raising it was tbat ail tbe amounts made by the leader of the opposition. As

SENATE
There Is no
I understand it, hie would vote for this wlth wbole of Canada are free.
the hope, Idea and expectation that eventu- wbarfage or harbour tax Imposed on
them, as 1 understand front the Secreally It would be a charge on the country.
tsry o! State Is the case in Montreal.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did The burden is borne by the people themflot say that.
selves. However, 1 do flot wish to impute
anything as against Montreal, for it is üerDANDURAND-I said that.
Hon. Mr.
tbaln1y*a noble and magnificent city and I
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I only feel bound to come to the rescue of
would go a long way towards IL
my hon. frlend (Hon. M-Nr.Macdonald,
Secretary of State hlmHon. 'Mr. ELLIS-The hon. gentleman P.E.I.), for the
accurscy of bis state'Mr. Dandurand) would vote for It, self douibted the
(Hon.
ment -as regarls St. John, but, the more it
I do him that justice If hie had no
more It will be found to
such hope at ail. The hon. gentleman is examined the
be correcL
from Charlottetown Is pretty nearly right
ln his reference to the port of St. John.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-With regard to
1 qulte agree with the proposai that this the port of Montreal, 1 do not thinlc the
money should be loaned to the port of people of that city can dlaimi that port as
Montreal. We ail know that the merchants their property-neither cau the people of
of that port have made great and coin- Quebec province dlaim il. The port of Montmendable efforts for the benefit of the whole real belongs to this .entire Dominion. It
country to develop their port and to get virtually is the Liverpool of Canada-the
business which has been beneficial to the point from which we export very largely al
country, but when the port of Montreai and our surplus products and the trade o! whieh
gentlemen favourlng Montreal say there has undoubtedly will increase year by year. I
been no expenditure there by the country, am delighted to listen to the statement made
they forget that the whole deepening of the by the Secretary o! State wlth regard to the
St. Lawrence between Quebec to 'Mont- satisfactory condition o! the ,accounts with
real, while It Is an advantsge to the cou!'- that port up to the present time. This Hlouse
try, is a prime advantsge to the port of is doing the country great service in making
Montreal, and that bas not been a charge niecessary a-dvances for improvements at
on Montreal, but Is a large charge on the Montreal to enable that port to handle, the
whole country. Wlth reference to St. John, trade that is growing there every day. 1
t le; quite true the Inercolonial R.allway has entirely approve of the assistance off ered,
bulît an elevator there and also a wharf. and think wve are dolng sometliing in the
I, for one, *ould ilke to see that elevator Interests o! the entire Dominion in building
and wharf used a great deal more than they up that port. Wlth reference to St. John,
are ; but the great exporting business from I have nothlng to say. It le one of the
St. John 15 do-ne through the Canadian Pa- wlnter ports of this country, but after ail,
clfic Railway, and the people of St. John the great exporting point, the point at whieh
have put up the money for that work. The the great trade of the western part of
government bas not, or at any rate bate con- Canada is gathered, is the port o! Montreal,
tributed. very lîttIe. The government of which and 1 am sure we ahl feel proud o! It. I do,
my hon. friend (Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell) as a Canadian.
was a dlstinguished and shlnlng member,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-With due defermade -us psy, for the Carleton bra-ncb railway. We paid the actual cash for it, and ence to my hon. friend from Charlottetownl,
handed it over to the Canadian Pacifie Rail- I do not at aIl sgree with him with referway as part of the development. But 1 ence to the dlaims that the port of Montshould like the House to understatid this, real bas on the people of Canada. It is,
that ail] the expense of the work at St. John, as 'bas been remarked by the hon. gentiesomething- like ei ght or niine bundred tbousand dollars, bas been borne by the citizens
of St. 'John. The goods whieh are exported, and 1 think the goods imported, for the
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

inan from Wellington, our great national
port for the summer season, and it is in that
season that the great bulk o! our produets
must go abroad 10 foreign markets, and it

JULY 8, 1903
is durImg that season the great buik of our
Imnports must be made. 1 know this parliament bas neyer acted niggardly with the
port of Montreal, and I do not think It
shouid do so, and more especialiy as tlie
harbour commissioners of Montreal bave
kept good falth with the government In regard to qany assistance they ever obtained. I
do flot think there Is any 'necessity to raise
comparisons, invidious*or otherwise, as between Montreal and St. John. St. JTohn is,
with due deference to Haifax, and must
be, froni Its situation, the wlnter port of
Canada, and the government of Canada,
when my bon. freind to my ief t was in the
ministry, granted liberal subsidies ln order
to induce wlnter steamers to ply from, the
port of St. John, and the people of St. John
have put their hands deep into their own
pockets in order to give facilities for carrying on that trade. 1 think I arn rlght
ln saying that ail the valuable improvements on the western side of the harbour
which have resulted ln moving ail the
expert trade that Is centered -in the city
of St. John, were altogether fumnished
by the Canadian Pacific Railway and the
people of St. John themselves. These two
ports should have our specisa care. Montreal is the great national port for the summer, when the principal amount of our trade
must be done, and the port of St. John for
the winter season, but ln connection with
this very subject a suggestion arises just
inow that when the government Is ioaning
$3,000,000 to the harbour commissioners at
Montreal for the purpose of effecting Improvements there, we have ln the air a proposition for spending soie $50,000,000 to
carry the trade of the west away past the
clty of Montreal, away beyond the height of
land.

535

is proposed to be done with regard to making the harbour of Montreal a safe and
cheap harbour, s0 that we wilà have an
opportunity of doing our trade ln our own
ports on equal ternis with the ports of the
great republie.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-As 1 understand it,
this ls equal to a guaranteeing of their
bonds.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they get the nioney
and they deposit with the Finance Minister
bonds of a corresponding date and amount
with interest payable at certain dates.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-It Is making use of
the credit of the government to get nioney
cheaply.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They pay the saine laterest.
Hon. Mr. MeGREGOR-It is equivaient to
a guarantee. The goverament is goiug to
get the money at 3 per cent, when the barbour conimissioners conuld flot.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I see
the BIRl provides for the payment of lnIf the goverment
terest at 3 per cent.
car- issue bonds and borrow at 2j or 21 per
cent, would the coîmissioners have to pay
3 per cent ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Our debe ntures, speaking from recollection now, our 3 per cents,
are quoted at one hundred and two. Taking
out commission, It is about par. We do
not desire to niake ony money out 0f the
transaction.

Hon: Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-DominIon debentures, It seenis to me, wouid seil
now at a preniuni. I tbink the last quotation was one bundred and two. Could the
bon. gentleman tell us wbat the ineonie of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It wili
the barbour of Monitreal Is ? If hie bas
cost more than that.
not the figures now, will hie k-iiidly get theî ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn oniy talking
Hon. lir. SCOTT-I understand tbey calof the road fromn Winnipeg to Moncton. dulate the charges on the goods up to au
The proposition Is to carry the trade of the amount whicb will sustain the barbour, the
west away beyond the city of Montreai. necessary expenses of running the docks and
However, we are not discussing that n0w. warehouses and paying interest on the
Perhaps It 18 flot very regular to introduce bonds. Assuming $8,00,000 is the amount,
t.We wiil have enough of it probably be- it would be about $260,000 a year.
fore long. But I wish, as representing part
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-$240,of the east, tô place on record my entire
synipathy with al] that is being doue a-d

SEINATE

536

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is something more new policy, I may say, with regard to railthan the lnterest, because there are ex- ways.
penses also--$250,OO or $260,000 a year.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, Do.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Oli, yes; and It is
was read the second time.
a forerunner of a great deal more lu the
CANADIAN NORTHERN RMIJWAY AID same direction that is approaching us. With
due regard to niy bon. friend's desire that
BILL.
we should advance the Bill another stage,
SECOND READING.
seeîng the Bill Is not on our fileHon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes ; It is on mine.
lng of Bill (209) An Act rspecting certain
aid for the extension of the Canadian NorthHon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-Even
ern Railway. He said : Hon, gentlemen in French.
are a-ware just now, witb the large immiHon. Mr. PERGUSON-It Is flot on my
gration coming into the North-west, it is
Important to furnlsh them file. 1 tbink, ia view of that, and the fact
exceedlngly
wlth rallway accommodation, and the Can- that there are yet some days lnterveiag
adian Northern are constructlng a Une before Frlday, I cannot see why It is so urof railway from whnt is called the pre- gent that we should give this Bill a second
sent terminus, Gilbert Plains, to Edmon- reading wlthout discussing its principles
ton, a distance of six hundred miles. and bavlng a full exp]anation of its detals
They are also building a branch to Prince and seelng Vbe Bill. It is railroading an
Albert of one hundred miles, and the gov- Important Bill through the House in an exernment of Canada propose to advance a traordînary way, wlthout Its being distriloan to the amount of $13,000 per mlle on buted and In the members' hands, and withthis lune, takzing a first mortgage as securlty. out glvlng explanations witb regard to it.
I should be glad if the House would nhlow
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I hope my hon. friend
the second reading to go this evening, for will not take the objection.' Hon, gentlethis reason : at the present time tbe Cana- men alongslde of -me say they have the Bill
dian Northern have a very large force of In both languages, but the House will be
men under their employ, and It Is of the qulte free to discuss the principles of the
utmost Importance that their monetary ar- Bill before going Into committee. With that
rangements should be facilitated. They understanding, I hope the hon, gentleman
wish this Bill to pass througb the House wlll let the second reading go. It may very
promptly. Tt Is quite possible His Excel- seriously embarrass an important matter,
lency may corne down to give bis assent to because It is of the highest consequence thiat
some Bis on Friday, and this should be one this rallway should be pushed on in view
of themn. It Is of the highest Importance of the large immigration that la going into
financially to the companiy, and to the coun- that part of the country. It may be tbrown
try I may add, because the number of men over for a moath if we do not allow it to
they have in their employ Is large, and we go to second reading now.
are serving a double purpose. I will give
full particulars when the House goes Into Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
must be 'with the distinct understanding
commlttee on the Bill.
that when tbe bon. gentleman mnoves the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-We
House into committee the fullest discussion
have not the Bill before us yet. We are will be permitted. We have no copies of the
asked to vote several millions of dollars Bill. and we should have it before us to diswitbout knowing what It is for.
cuss it intelligently. It involves a very imHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have It bere. If the portant princîple.
House will allow the Bill to be read the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That is quite undersecond time to-day, I will see that opporstood.
tunity is furnished for discussion.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We must hiave
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This is really a
vary important measure, and is initiating a those Bis more promptly distributed.
Mon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

537

JULY 81 1903
Hon. Mr.
about It.

SCOTT-I

will

make

inquiry

The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read the second tIme.
BILL INTRODUCED.

whether this governuient lias recoiiiniended
ta the imperiai government tbree persans ta
act for them.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will find ouf and answer to-xnorraw.
The Senate adjourned.

Bill (208) An Act f0 amend the Post Office Act.--(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
LEVELS 0F THE GREAT LAKES.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before tbe House adjaurns, I should like ta
call the attention of the Secretary of State
to a despatch which appeared in the New
York ' Evening Post'1 recently, and ask -wbether the government bave taken any action
on the matter. I brlng if under the notice
of the government now, flot wlth the expectation of getting aa auswer this evening,
but In the hope that the Secretary of State
wlll be able ta give us an answer to-morrow.
DÂMMING THE GREAT LAKES.
(Speclal despatch ta the 'Evenlng Pest.')
Washiagtan.--In the la.st River and Harbaur
Cangress requested the
Appropriation BUi
President ' ta invite the goverament of Great
in the formation of an InterBritain to loin
national commission, ta be composed of thre
memibers from the United States and three who
shall represent the Interees of the Domlnion of
Ca~nada. whose duty it shall be ta investigato
and report upan the conditions and uses af the
waters adjacent ta the boundary lines between
the United 9itates and Canada. Including ail of
the waters af the lakes and rivers whose naturai
outlet Je by the River St. Lawrence ta the Atlantic ocean ,aiso upon the maintenance and
regulation of oultable levels :and also upan th.
effec't upon the shares of these watfra, and
structures therean. and uipon the in!teTests of
navigation. by reason af the diversion of those
waters tram or change In their natural flow ;
and.further, ta report upon the necessary messures ta regulate such diversion, and ta mike
such recommendations for Improvements and
regulations as shail best subserve the Iaterests
of navigation In sald waters.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thursdaz/, July 9, 1903.
The SPEAKER toak the Chair at Three
o'cock.
Pl-ayers and routine proceedings.
RAILWAY LEGISLATION.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) rose ta:
Ask the honourable the Secretary of State,
If the Senate can at an early day be put in possession of the gaverument rallway plcy, and
Inautre if It Is the intention ta canetruct as
goverament workslst. A railway from Quebec ta Moncton, coinpeting witb the Iatercolonlal Rallway.
2nd. A rallway frram Quebee, or tram Montreal. ta Winnipeg, competlng wl*th the Canadian
Pacific Rallway.
He said : Before the House proceeds wlth
the business of the day I should like ta know
If the han, leader of the government in this
Hanse cauid infarm us as ta whaf Important measures wli corne before us this sessIon before they are braught down in crystallized form. The air is full o! rumours
as ta railway schemes-and very important
ones-to be underfaken by the government.
0f that we bave no Information In this
House, and there Is nothing before the
country, and I think before tbe BUis actualIy came before us, we shauld be lnformed
as ta wbat is going f0 be douie. 1 wilI not
go into any lengtbened remnrks an the subJect naw, and xnerely ask the Secretary o!
State If hie can give us the Information I
have asked for.

If Is unaecessary for me ta repent tbe
reasons whlch induced the Washington authorities to take this step. We al] renielber questions arase as ta the lawering of the
level a! Lake Erie by the construction. of
canais and the diversion of water fram the
Han. Mr. SOOTT-I arn not iii a position
lakes. What I shouid 11k-e ta ask tbe hon.
gentleman is whether the gavernmenf have ta give my ban. friend the Information lie
taken any steps towards the appoinfment desires. If bas flot been given ta the othier
o! the tbree who are ta represent this coun- chamber, because tbe pahicy lias nof been
try, or whefhier they have represenfed ta fully matured. I iimy be ini a position,. perthe imperial goverument tbe facf relative liaps to-marraw or Monday. fa give may hon.
ta the action of the Washington autharities, friend a foreshtidowing of what the palicy
asking- them ta make an appaintment. or will be.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-When does rny
bon. friend propose that this Bill shahl be
FIRST READING.
assented to ?
A message was received froi the House
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Either to-rnorrow or
of Commons with Bill (218) An Act for Monday-Moflday probably.
granting to His Majesty certain suins of
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There idoes not
rnoney for the public service for the finanto
cial years ending respectiî'ely 3Oth June, seern to be any necessity, even If It is
be assented to then, for suspending the
3Oth lune, 1904.
1903, and the
rule or passing It to-day. 1 can understand
The Bill was rend the first turne.
the urgency for taklng such steps at the
end of the session, but we have mot yet seeu
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move that rule 41 be this Bill-I suppose there is only the one
suspended so far as It relates to this Bill. copy in this House, and tbat Is in rny hou.
The jroposaIlis to authorize the payrnent of friend's bands. As tbe assent of the Gova sum of $708,179 for the past year, part of ernor General wlll flot be given to It for a
the supplementary estirnates of the past
day or two, the hon. gentleman rnlght aliow
yeur, and the suin of $18,342,669 for the
the second reading to stand tili to-morrow,
current year. The necessity, of course,
put It through the final
being no appropriations we could then
arises froin there
stages.
for the year ending in 19)04, and the practice
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It Nvill, of course, inis sometimes adopted in the House of Commons under similar conditions to grant a volve the House sitting on Monday. A rule
proportion, either a fourtx or a Uifth, I arn adopted sorne littie time ago for the conflot sure wblch. It was orig-inally lntended venlence of our frlends fromn Montreal was
to be a tifth. I do not know ivhether it may that when the House rose on Friday we
bave extended beyond a fifth of thie supplies should not meet until Monday at elght
granted to His Majesty to carry on the pub- o'clock. We can meet on Monday at tbree
lic service. It affects every branch of the o'clock and I will allow tlils' Bill to stand
public service, flot only civil governinent, over until to-morrow. It neyer has been
but works under construction, subsidies. usual for the Supply Bill to stand. It bas
and ail the Items that appear In the ordi- flot been usual to print It ln either House.
nary estimates that are now before parlia- Its passage through the House of Commons
ment.
arnounts to this : Yesterday afternoon Mr.
Fielding presented Bill 218. It was rend the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Are these first and second tirnes, considered in Coinoid subsidies or new ones ?
mittee of the Vhiole, reported without amnHon. Mr. SCOTT-The ordinary old sub- endinent, read the third time, and passed.
There mny be The hon, gentleman wouid cali that railsidies, the ordinary vote.
sorne new ones In It ; I cannot say. Prob- roading, I suppose ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They are different
ably there nrc. but it is a proportion only.
The whole vote before parliarnent is notcae
lotbr
Included in this. I understand the propor-caeatoeer
Hon. Mr. S00TT-Not at ail. The estition originally was one-fifth, but it may be
a larger proportion. It ny be one-fourth. mates have been before this House as well
0f course the whole subject of the niatter ae before the other House. The estimates
referred to here ls still before parliament. are neyer discussed in this House in detail.
because this is only a fraction of what niny We neyer go into comrnittee on the Supply
be expected before parliament rises, iii or- Bi. In rny experience in this House on
der that the public service may be carried the other side, 1 neyer knew the Supply Bi11
on. No payments eau be made for services to corne down until a few minutes before
SUPPLY BILL.

performed in the year.comrnencing let July,
1903, until the authority of parliarneunt is'
obtained, and that authority is contained in
the Supply Bill passed iii the House of Coinmons yesterday.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

prorogation. That bas been the rule, in the
past.« I however, have no desire that the
h
ervd0
budb
lion. gentea
opportunity of critîchsing- the items. He wilh
finid thein in the estimates Nwhicbe have been

JULY 9, 1903
distributed from time to time. I, therefore,
if it is the desire of the House, give notice
that 1 wiIl move that whien the House riseS
to-morrow it stand adjourned until Monday
at three o'ciock, and 1 move the second reading of this Bill for to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot see there
is any necessity for this motion with regard
to the Monday meeting, because there ivil]
be ample time to-morrow to give the Bill its
two remainlng stages, and bave it assented
to to-rnorrow afternoon. There is no difficulty that I can see if the Governor is ready.
My bon. friend the Secretary of State would
almost excite a suspicion in the minds of
bon. gentlemen In this House that he wants
to get this Bill tbrough just as quîetly and
as quickly as possible. He assumes bis
blandest tones and most urgent manner, and
asks us to shut our eyes and open our
mouths and subrnit to the operation gracefully. 1 lcnow what he says about the
Supply Bill fot being printed and belng
given ail Its stages at the one time by
suspending the rule is quite correct, but
there does not appear to be any necessity
for that in the mlddle of the session,
when there is time to give it reasonable
consideration. I cannot see, for rny part,
that the House should 110W change the
ruie that .we made about meeting Monday evening, although I amn not personally
interested In that matter, or for delay In
connection with this Bill, unless the Governor General will not corne down tomorrow to give It bis assent. If he is flot
coming down, there is a strong reason wby
we sbould not give the Bill ail its stages today.
The motion was agreed to.
NATURALIZATION

0F ALIENS BtLL.

COMMONS AMENUMENTS REPORTED.
A message was received f rom the House

of Commons to return Bill (L) An Act to
amend the Act relatîng to naturalization aiid
nlens, with amendments.

be made to the judge in chambers at any
tirne, so, as to facilitate naturalization. The
most important arnendrnent proposed is
this : As hon, gentlemen are nware, a very
large number of Canadians a re returning
to the North-west from the United States.
Many of those bave been living lu the
United States for fitteen or twenty years,
and have taken the oath of allegiance to
tbat country. They are desirous of being
naturalized In Canada again, and, theref ore, the time required for their residence
iii Canada Is not tbree years, as it would be
for an ordinary foreigner, but thrce months.
That change was suggested with- a view of
giving greater facilities for naturalization.
imove that the arndments be taken into
consideration to-rnorrow.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
three rnontbs applies to other than returned
Canadians, does It not ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Only to those British
subjects wbo bave been la the United States
and bave taken the oatb of aflegiance tbere,
aud desire to settie Ia Canada. Tbat Is the
provision of tbe amendmnent, shortening the
time f rom three years to three rnontbs.
The motion was agreed to.
LEVELS 0F THE GREAT LAKES.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In answer to a request
made by rny hon. friend that I should give
the Senate some information in reference
to tbe paragrapb tbat he read from a New
York paper, the stateffient in the main was
correct, ns it appears by a dispatch frorn
London, which refers to wection 4 of the
Act of Congress of the United States approved on the 15th January of tbis year, for
the improvernent of rivers and barbours.
it provîdes for the appointment of an international commission of six members, three
frorn Canada, and three f rom the United
States, to investîgate generally witb reference to these matters. In answer to tbe
question as to what are the views.0f our
ministers, they replied that they would be
very glad to co-operate, and the imperial
government was so advised. The cornmissioners, however, have not yet been
narned.

Hion. Mr. SCOTT-The changes are b)
rendér naturalizathon in the North-west simplier. It was suggested, I thînk by the
Senator frorn Calgary, that the courts only
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B0WELL-I-Has
sat there at distant periods, and it would
be much better to alhow an application to the goverament decided to make the ap-

SENATE
pointment and at an early date ? Lt seems
to me the sooner this question is talzen Up
the better for Canada.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The subjeet wiil be
taken Up probably after parliament rises.
THIRD READING.
Bill (68) An Act to incorporate the Lurnbermen's Fire Insurance Company.-(Hlon.
Mr. McHlugh.)
RAILWAY

LABOUR

DISPUTES

COMMONS AMENDMENTS

BILL.

ÂGREED TO.

-

Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Then the 4th and 5th
are both contained in clause 14. They
struck out the word 'chairman,' as the
referee would decide what witnesses were
necessary, and the 5th amendment *was one
made in clause 21, which reads as' follows :
21. Wbere the difference. whlch le being Inouired into. aff ects a class of employees, it
shall not be necessary for them aill
take part
In the Inquiry. but the class may be represented by some o! their number chosen by a
maJority or by agents other than counsel or
solicitor.

We inserted a limited number instead o!
The Order of the Day being called.
«some of their number'1 and the Huse of
Consideration of the message from the House Commons accepts that amendment.
of Commons. agreelng to the let, 2nd and 51h
amendments made by the Senate to Bill (17)
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I arn quite wihlan Act te aid in the settiement of railway
labour disv)utesi amendlng the 3rd amendment, ing to agree wlth the suggested, change.
and disagreeing to the 4th amendment.
At the same Urne, I have no doubt that we
Hon. Mr. SCOTT said : I think the first will be asked to amend this law. perhnaps
in a year or two. The board will have to
was our amendment. Clause 6 read :
Before such appointment the name of the be called together by the Chairman before
pcrson proposed to be appointed shall be sub- any wltnesses are subpoenaed, and after they
mitted to both D)arties to the differe3ce and have decided what witnesses will be subthere shall be afforded to each of them an opuortunlty flot exceedlng ten days.
poenaed they have either to sit there until
We inserted 'witbin sucb Urne as the the witnesses are subpoenaed and brought
minister may fix.'
The second referred to before them, or else the board bas to adthe Introduction of the words 'Prince Ed- journ until some other day before proceedw'ard Islaund' atter ' the Intercolonial Rail- Ing with the hearing. My object in sugway.'
It m-as thought the term 'I.C.R.' gestlng that the chairman should have the
did not coter the Prince Edward Island power to Issue the suimmons was to avold
r allwny. It Is usually mentioned as a dis- calling the board together, to enable the
tinct railwny, and we ndded Prince Edward chairman to Issue the summonses, and have
the parties that were considered necessary,
Island Railway.
subpoenaed. Then the board would meet
The SPEAKER-That Is our own amendand be constituted, and go on with the case,
ment ?
Under this, It appears witnesses cannot be
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did subpoenaed unless by the joint action o! the
they disagree to that ?
board. The board Jhas to be in session beHon. Mr. SCOTT-No. The amendrnent fore any witnesses can be decided upon as
to which they disagreed was the third riecessary in the case of a dispute, or the
clause.
They struck out 'witness fees' bearing In any trial. I accept the suggested
and gave an emplanation of the reason for amendment at the Minister's request, but I
doing so. The clause originally gave free do flot think it is an improvement.
transportation, and we inserted the words
The SPEAKER.
The question now is
'wItness fees and.' I think under the cirwhether we shall insist on our 4th arnendcumstances we might agree to that. The
ment or not. W%ýe
inserted the words 'witreasons are set fortb in the minutes of the
ness fees' and to that amendment the
House. I think the main reason is that
Commons disagreed.
those witnesses who are sent forward are
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I made that motion
nsually paid by the parties who send them.
1 move that the Senate accept the arnend- some time ago.
ment made by the Commons to the 3rd
The SPEAKER-No, it was the 3rd
amend ment.
amendment. It was moved that the Senate
The motion -%as agreed to.
Hon. Sir MACKE.NZIE BOWELL.

do not insist on the 4th amendment.

JULY 9, 1903
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE LL-The
bon. gentleman f rom Wellington was speaking to that motion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it is another on e.
They struck out the word 'chairman' a*nd
lef t it to the board, and gave it as their
opinion that the chairman should flot assume control or power, but those are the
main reasons whieh I quite agree were
rather weak.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
flot know that it would be advisable for
the Senate to insist upon Its amendments.
Taking the whole Bill f rom beginnlflg to
end, and partlcularly the amendment which
they have made to It, às turnlng the whole
thing into a farce. It neyer was intended
for any practical purpose, and neyer wlll
end In anythlng except expense to the country. We had better let it go as they have
amended it, and make It a stili greater
farce than as It was orlginally àntroduced.
The motion was agreed to.
CANADIAN NORTHERN RAILWAY EXTENSION BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The Order of the Day belng called.
Committee of the Whole House on Bill (209)
An Act respecting certain aid for the extension
of the Canadian Nor.thern Reilway.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT said: Before we go
into committee, I should like the House to
have an opportunity of discussing the principle lnvolved In this Bill, as It was by the
kindness of the House I was enabled to
give the Bill a stage yesterday in view of
Its importance. The line of the Canadiau
Northern Railway is from a point in Manitoba known as Grand View. -The lune runs
to Edmonton, a distance of 620 miles, and
with a branch to Prince Albert of 100 miles,
making a total of 720 miles. The guarantee
on the part of Canada for wblch this authoiity is soughit is for the sum of $13,000 per
mile. The debentures to be issned will run
for fifty years, and wili be a first charge
on the line to be constructed.
Hou. Mr. 31ACDONALD
hundred miles.

The Canadian Northern extends higher up
than Grand View. They originally intended
running towards Hudson Bay. and from the
northern end of the uine, they propose building a line, and are building It now, to Prince
Albert. The distance Is more than one
hundred miles, but th ey have already encumbered a short distance of that line by
boans; and therefore, we oily. guarantee on
a hundred miles-that is the western hund-,
red leading to Prince Albert. We guarantee
that on the same termas as we guarantee
the main Uine.
Hon. Mr. MACDJONALD (B.C.)-Seven
hundred and twenty miles altogether ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, seven hundred and
twenty miles altogether. It runs through a
section of country that le not now served by
any railway. It runs through a section Into wiceh a very consîderable nuniber of
settlErs are now going. It will mun directly
through the Barr colony which came from
TEn.land about six weeks ago. One of the
grea t advantages from the rapîd construction of the road ýril1 be that settlers will be
able to get employment, especlally those of
them who have gone in there this season
and who necessarhly will not be able to cultivate the land nt least for another year.
Nowv, the principle of aiding those lines ln
the North-west is not a new one. The aid
granted by Canada to the *Canadian Pacifie
Railway-wbich was of course an exceptional case. It was the pioneer railwaycannot be taken as a standard by wbichi to
judge the fair proportion of aid to be given
to yther lines. But, apart fromn the Canadian~
Pacifie Railway, we nided very liberally the
line running from Calgary to Edmonton. We
gave it not only an annuity of $80,000 a
year for twenty years, but also gave it a
land subsidy 0f 2,170,000 acres. That land
to-day, 1 presume, is selling at five to seven
dollars an acre. Then thiere '%vas anloflier
brandli of the Canadian Pacifie Railivay
that led to Prince Albert. We are giving
that also an annuity of $80.000 a year.

Ho,,. Sir *MÂCKENZIE BOWELLI-Tbat
i isai consideration of carrying the mails and
(B.C.)-Six
supplies for the Mounted Police, &c.

Hon. 'Mr. SCOT'T-Seveii hundred and
twenty miles. Six hundred and twenty
miles from the present point to Edmonton.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, they were to carry
our mails. 1 &mnafraid the mail matter bas
not been a1 very serious consideration on

SEINATE
the line to Prince Albert.

Thiat lune aiso under this Bill take a lien for the -$13,000
per mile, on not only the road-bed, but aiso"

got 1,625,000 acres of land. The Manitoba
and South-western received a subsidy of

.1,306,000 acres of land. The Manitoba and
North-western recelved 2,918,000 acres, and
other lines have been aided lu proportion
to their distance. We bave also liad the
policy that hias been adopted ln regard to the
older portions of the Dominion, of granting
sul)sidies varying from $3,200 to $6,400 per
mile. ,Now, the advantage, In my judgment, to flow fromn the proposition whlcb I
ain iiow laying before the House Is tbat the
governiment do flot expect to be long called
upofl to pay anything, or tbat they wlll ln
the end bave to pay nny money. It Is believed the roads belng constructed by the
Canadian Northern will pay from their laception. Hon. gentlemen know the line to be
alded Is slmply an extension of a line that
la already over six hundred miles la length.
The Canadian Nortlieti have now un outlet
on Lake Superlor, and last year competed
for tbe carrying of grain froin Manitoba
and will to a larger extent this year. So
tbis extension, wbea finlshed, wlll give lmmediate connection with the water of Lake
Superlor, and it lias that advantage over
an ordlnary Uine that lias to connect witb
another railway.

tle rolling stock aÙd ail the property of the
company on that part of the line. They

alsq receive a second mortgage on the other
line of the company totalling a mileage of
700 miles down to Lake Superior. Tiiere is
just one exception ; for a distance of, I

thialz, flfty miles ln Manitoba there Is aiready an encumbrance of $3,000 per mile,
and the first mortgage would bie limited to
a sum of $10,000 per mile, not the total
amount to bie advanced. It would oaly bie
a lien for $10,000 per mile on that particular
fifty miles.
hon. Mr. PERLEY-Excluslve 0f the $3,000 ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A second mortgage ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A second mortgage out-

side of the $3,000 on that fifty miles. There
are clauses whlch give the Governor in
Council the right to regulate the tolls. They
have also tbe rlght to, give other roads

running powers over the Une. The clause
declares it to be unlawful for, the Canadian
Northern to seli or bease Its Une to, the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. Lt Is be-lon. Mr. PERLEY-Did the hion. gentie- lleved and hoped that the goverament will
maan say Prince Albert or Edmonton was the flot bie called upon to pay a dollar of this
guarantee. Should they be obliged f0, of
terminus ?
course they have the rallway as securlty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Une runs direct
Hon. Mr. PEILLEY-Is there any time
frorn a point in Manitoba known as Grand fixed when the road shaîl be built to EdVlew.
monton ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wbere

is thftt ?

Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-There

may

be under

It is aot referred to here, but the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the bon. gentleman their Act.
understanlding is that they are to put it
viii recollect the location of the Canadian
through as fast as possible. With thiese obNortîjernu. It runs north for a considerable
servations I move that the House go inito
distance to the west of Lake Winnipeg. The
branch leading to Edmonton turnis westward
at right angles about flfty or sixty miles to
the soutb of the present terminus of the
hune running north. It is the line running
north that furnishes the branch to Prince
Albert. The braindi to Prince Albert cornes
off a line already built running north to the
line to Edmonton, cornes off a Iine already
built, but from a point of intersection further soutli and runingii ln a pretty direct
Une to Edmonton througli that northeri)
country. As I said before, the governiment
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

committee on the Bill.
Honi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Will
the bon. gentleman tell us how much the
road from Port Arthur to Winnipeg is encumbered ? As I understand, the government of Canada take additional securlty to
the extent of $13,000 a mile on that portion
alre.fdy built and running from Port Arthur
to Winnipé.
subject, hoeoto
the endurnbrances which axe now upon the line.
Hlon. 31r. SCOTT-I think. it is $20,000 or
$25,000 a mile.

JULY 9, 1903

Han. Sir miACKENZIE BOWELL-And it would be impossible to bave the -tics laid
that Is mortgaged ta tbe Manitoba govern- upon the western end of the road before the
ment much upon the same terins that we ties on the eastern end would ail be rotten.
We -bave lived long enougb ta see that those
are loaning thîs $13,000 per mile ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If I
understand tbe provisions af thîs guarantee,
It la to guarantee flot only the interest,
but tbe principal, ta the extent of $13,000
per mile for seven bu'ndred and twenty
mites, and $10,000 as a second mortg-tge on
tbe fifty miles wltbin the borders of Manitoba.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-So I understand.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
tbe securlty is stIll furtber extended ta the
hune running froin Winnipeg ta Port Arthur,
subject ta a first mortgage of $25,000 per
mile wbich la guaranteed by the goverament
of Manitoba. Taking the proposition aIl' in
ail, from the knowledge I bave of tbe country
and the advantages wblcb, 1 am quite satisfied will accrue ta the whole Dominion, as
one a! the main arterles or outlets a! the
millions a! Increase ln the output of grain
from tbat country, the agreement entered
Into witb tbis coinpany by the government,
sbould not be objected to, but rather 1 thînk
if one of the best that possibly, under tbe
circumstances, could be made ln order ta
provide facilities for the transportation o!
the output of the North-west and a! ManlEverybody bas been
toba in particular.
surprised at tbe marvellous progress ln that
portion o! the Dominion since the construction of tbe Canadian Pacifie Raîlway. Most
of us ean remember wbat a figbt the governuient of tbe day bad lu order to get
through the Bill whilb was passed grinting subsiffies for tbe construction o! the
Canadian Pacific Railway. The prediction
was then made tbat the encumbrance on the
resaurces of this country w'ould ruin us. 'e
ail remember alsa the predictions made by
one aif the leaders of tbe opposition at that
time in the Hause o! Conimons, that that
road could flot be built witli aIl the resources
of the empire at its back witbin the tenl
years provided for in the Act. Anatber ane
said'it would neyer psy for the grease required ta lubricate the axles o! the wbeels.
Anather, a railway man-tbat is Mr. Tboxnpson, the then member for Welland, wbo
built the Canadian Southbern-pred icted that

predictions have flot been fulfilled, and further, we ftnd the Canadian Pacifie Rallway
stock to-day selling at one bundred and
twenty-four and It has been as blgb as one
I take this opbundred and thirty-four.

partunity of expressing my opinion on this
question, that the Canadian Pacifie Railway,
mot ljeing able at the present time to brlng
out the vastly increased product.s of tho
west la 8uffilent time to get tbemr ta the
seaboaird, this Canadian Northern is golng
to be flot so mucb a competlng lune wltb the
other, as an.assistance ta that country, and
ta the whole Dom-inion la bringlng out the
products of the west ta Lake Superior.
There are other advantages also. There are
fine weter powers on Ralny River, wblcb
forms the boundary lilie between Canada
and the United States, and If arrangements
cauld be made ta develop them, a second
Minneapolis miglit spring Up ln aur own
country. I hope ta see the capltallsts of Canada take this matter ln band, and ere long
that we shall see large mills erected at that
particular point utillzlng the immense water
power created, ta a very great extent, by
wbat Is known as the Fort Frances lock,
wbich -we rldlculed so mucb ID years gone
-by, the expenditure upon wblch bas been a
dead loss ta tbe country and will remain a
dead bass unleas the suggestion whlcb I have
made be followed. and a large and prosperous
tawn Is created ln that part of the country. I
think my bon. friend fram Wellington (Hon.
Mr. MeMulleii) wbo lias visited, tbat country,
and knows It better than I do, wIll agree
witb me. My visit ta tbat section of the
country bas made a strong Impression on
my mind that ere long we ougbt ta bave a
second Minneapolis on Rainy River, 50 far
as tbe grinding of wbent into flour and
sbipping it ta the seaboard la concerned,
for it can be done easily and more cbeaply
than at Minneapolis. Flaur milîs lni that
locality would not only utilize the bard
wvbeat of aur own country, but It Is ln sucb
a position as ta be able ta monopolize, ta a
very great extent, tbe output of the farms
of Nortbern Dakota and Northern MinnesoSpeaking for myseif, I cordIally apta.
prove of the assistance wbieb it Is proposed
ta give ta the Canad-ian Northern lune and

SENATE
the manner in which it is to lie given so far perity of this country -will be inereased býy
as Edmoaton, but it is flot going to stop the extension of their road to EdrnontOn4
Those -,vho have flot vislted that part of the
there.
country-and I have travelled frorn EdmnonHon. Mr. TEMPLEIAlN-Hear, hear.
ton to, Prince Albert along the north SasHlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You katchewan mysef-can have no conception
wll find when they get to Edmonton we of the value of tbat portion of the Nortbwill be asked for another very large subsidy west Territories to this Dominion. It will
ln order to extend the lune through Yellow make this cotintry what lt would flot have
Hlead Pass to Port Simpson or sonie other been and could flot have been made, but for
port on the Pacific Ocean. If it should lie the construction of "railways.
bullt to Bute Inlet, theIUne would strike that
(B.C.)-Tbce
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
portion of the cha.nnel between Vancouver
leader of the opposition says it will
Island and the mainland whicb was conbe Urne enough to discuss other schernes
templated as the -western terminus of the
It will be
when they are before us.
Canadian Pacifie Ralway when it was or!After the contract is
too late then.
ginally proposed by the late Mr. Worthingsigned and placed before parliarnent, it will
ton.
There they will cross by Seyrnour
be entirely too late. Whether a good thing
Narrows and go down to Victoia. If they
or a bad thing, It will then be settled as
should go to Port Simpson, they would lie
far as parliament le concerned. If it were
tive or six hundred mlles flearer to Japan
kind were
I do Dlot possible that ail schemes of that
and China thana at Vancouver.
tirst of ail laid before parliament before the'
anticipate at ail, so far as this guarantee
Is concerned, that the country will lie called government entered into a contract, it would
upon to lose one dollar. We mnay, for the be wise and judiclous. Take the Treadgold
corne
first few years, have to make advances, but concession, for Instance. If that bad
If I read the Bill correcî.ly, there is stili before parliament ln advance, It would
to be a lien upon the road, and ultimiately neyer have been granted. The minister took
wve will have that second outiet for the pro- that upon bis own responsibility and grantduets of the great west without costing us ed it, and tells parliament that they have
anything. 1 do not tbInk there is a mau tu to swallow the agreement. If sornetliing of
Canada to-day who bas given the subject that klnd could be done, it would be an
the sllgbtest consideration, and more particu-_ excellent thlng for the government and parlarly those lîke my bon. fniend opposite who Ilament and would relieve the governrnent
is srniling and who gave sncb vehement op- of many responsibllties. With regard to
position to, the scheme of Sir John Macdon- the scheme now before us, I give it rny enald's government to buld the (Janadian Paci- tire approbation. That country ougbit to lie
flc Rallway, who will flot say that the op- opened up by railways. It is a rich counposition of tbat day made a mlstalae then, try for cereals, cattie and dairy products.
and acknowledge that they were ln error, The company that bas this work in hand
as the premier of Ontario bas acknowledged deserves a great deal of praise. They have,
-and hie was one who vigorously opposed witb their own rnoney opened large porthe whole Pacific Railway scherne. We must tions of that country, and this grant will
ail now admit that the construction of that enable them to open up stili larger areas.
road bas been the salvation of this country The responsibllity of the government in this
and made Canada the pr-ide of ourselves as imatter does not arnount to very much. It
well as of the empire to which we belong. is înterest at three per cent on about nine
I cannot say that I arn s0 much enamonred and a baîf millions of dollars, so that if
of other schemes I bave heard foreshadow- the company are not able to meet their
ed. Whether tbey are coming up this ses- bonds, it will only arnount to a matter of
sion or -not I cannot say, but it wlll lie time about $250,000 for the governinent to meet.
enougli to express an opinion when tbey 1 hope the government will neyer be calleýd
are laid before us. In the meantirne, 1 arn upon to pay a dollar of it. I talfe a deep
They ;nterest in this scbeme, for I believe, as rny
glad 4o see this company alded.
bave displayed energ-y and enterprise wbicb bon. friend saN-s, thev will not stol) at Eddeserve recognition, and I amn sure the pros- iflonton-that they will go on to Bute 111](t,
Hon. Sir 'MACKENzrE BOWELL.

JULY 9, 1903
and across to Vancouver Island, and thence
down to Victoria. The province of British
Columbia passed an Act two years ago
gling a grant of $5,000 a mile for a railway from Yeliow Head Pass down to Bute
Inlet-that is over two and a balf millions
of dollars. I have no deulit lt- will be an
inducement te this company to take up that
bonus and build that road.

lease it to a company, tbey would have to
keep the road-bed, the bridges, stations,
&c., la repair. We know It Is the goverument who wlll have ta repair them, and flot
a company, and It would corne to just as
much expense to lease a lune te a company
as If the government worked. the road
themselves, because of the repaire.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I just desire to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbiat add a word te what has been sald by the
is the distance ?
leader of the opposition, and permit me lu
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-About the first Instance te say I amn very glad to
five hundred miles. There is another scheme find that the opposition are disposed to
from Seymour Narrows down te Victoria, heartily enderse the course whlch the govon Vancouver Island, for which another ernment bas taken la granting aid te this
subsidy of! $4.500 a mile was granted, company to build the Canadlan Northern
I bad the pleasure o! travelling
s0 that there Is every hope that tliis coin- road.
pany will not stop at Edmonton, but will over the Canadian Northern Raiiway from
go down te the Pacific coast, and eventually Port Arthur to Winnipeg twice, and 1 cau
have lines of steamers to Japan and China henestIy say that It Is an exceedingly wel
like the Canadian Pacific Railway now has. bulît line. It lias easy grades and very easy
[t is true that to go to Port Simpson would curves, and is a hu-e that I am satisfied
give a shorter route to China. It lias that wlll render admirable service te Manitoba
advantage ' but It lias other disadvantages. and tbe North-west in carrying out the surIt Is a section of country where there plus produce of that extensive country te
With regard to the
Is no trade or population. It la away from navigable waters.
the coul mines, where -steamers must go to remarks made by the hon. leader as
get fuel for their voyages. I would advie to the Canadian Pacific Railway, we
-thougli 1 may be personaliy interested In ail admire the Canadinn Pacifie Railthe matter-any company going to the Paci- way as an Institution that is credîtable
fic coast to have their terminus as far south to Canada and creditable to ltself, and
as possible, for there ail the trade lies, not that has do-ne a great Jeal for the developonly the local trade, but the trade with ment of Manitoba and the North-west.
China and Japan. There are at present no Our impressions of the future of that cou1niess than six oriental lines coming Into that try, when it came lnto the possession of
part of the country from China, and the Canada, were very vague. The reports tbat
custom now Is for large Engiish tramp we reoeived with regard te Its future were
steamers, of from twelve to fifteen thon- very dlscouraging lndeed. Those that had
sand tons burden, to leave England laden been there for years, said that it was a counwith cargo, go arouud by the Red Sea to try that neyer could be an agricuitural disSingapore, China and Japan, thence to Van- trict, tlhat It was only suited for raising
buffalo, and that te take it away from the
couver, and make a circie wilh their
cargo,'
ianding it here and there at different ports. herds of buffalo that had been in occupation
I hiope this company will eventually, and for years, was foolish on the part of Canbefore long, make connection with those ada. We knew that was the report generalsteamers. I give my hearty approval to iy. We know that even the churches, in
this scliere, and I only hope that the otiier some cases, lent their countenance to the
schemes we hear so much about that are report that the North-west could not be
to be laid before us will be, on the saine iooked forward to as a desirable agricullines-that the governent will net build tural district. In view of these reports we
a road themselves, but give a money sub- were disposed to thin'k that tbe construction
sily to some company, so that they wËIl of the Canadian Pacific Railway at tlie time
know just where they rire. Suppose the gev. it was built was premature, and that posernment own a thousand miles of road, and sibly it ight not turn out se satisfactorily
35

or46

SENATE

as we would like to see an institution that
,vas costing the country so much nioney
turn out. We are ail now happy and glad
to see that our anticipations of what might
bappen, and our ideas of the character of
that country, have flot been realized, that It
is turning out to be a most desirable section. Its development year after yenr bas
proved very clearly nnd distinctly that it
will soon become the butt-eud of this entire
Dominion. Wte earnestly hope and wish
It every success. and 1 eau say that I entirely endorse the course the government
have taken in giving the Canadian Northern this assistance. The two men at the
head of tbat conceru deserve credit for the
energy ýýey have shown, and 1 cau say
that the elevators that they have erected
at Port Arthur are creditable to Canada and
to themselves. I saw a steam barge londed to take 100,000 bushels of wheat from
that elevator down to Depot Harbour, and
tbey ioaded that steani barge witb that 100,000 bushels of wheat Iu sometb.lng less thau
four hours. 1 aslced the man int charge
w-bat they got for carrlig wlie.t froin
Port Arthur to Depot Harbour, nnd lie told
me the rate wvns two cents. That la an
1 also agree that
exceedingly 10wv rate,
Port Arthur in the near future will become
the great fodussing centre for the surplus
produce of the North-west, and it is from
there that they will find an outlet to the
sea. Let us eaî-nestly hope that it wvill be
carried, all the way throughi Canada, tlîat
Canada wili retain w'itbiu bierseif and foi
bieiself the trade of that vnst country aud
f roin year to year as it grows, that It will
prove a decided advautage to the older provinces. I agree witb niy hiou. friend, the
leader of the opposition, with regard to
utiiizing the water power along the Rainy
River. There i-; a magniticeut wviter pow.er
at Foirt Fi-ances to which he bas drawn attention. I should like very inucli to see It
developed. 1 think there Is room there for
large mills. 1 believe it would be a very
desirable distributing point for that reglon
and aiso a good point for sliipment of flour.
That water power bas remaiued there for
ai long time undeveioped. I should be glad
to see it dfveloped, aud at no vei-y distant
day I hope it will be, and that Lt will be
turning out a very large amount of flour,
the same as the KCeewatin nîlls, which bave
Han. Mr-. MeMULLEN.

been a decided advantage to Canada. There
are also other water powers iii that region
tlxat can be developed, and 1 shouid likze
to see ail of them f ulIy utilized. Tîmere are
plenty of tbemn on the rivera over whichi
tîme Canadian Nortbern runs, and 1 believe
there la power enough on that line, to grind
one-balf of the entire output f the wbeat
of Manitoba, If it were ouly developed, and
we would be sending forward Canadian
flour to ail portions of Europe and oui- own
coumntry, in place of the wheat. 1 hope to
see developments of timat kind take place
froîn year to year, because power by water
la, after ail, the best, and it cannot be successfully competed with by steaux.
Lion. Mr. FERGUSON-It would have
been quite uaseemly If a mensure of such
great Importance as this bad been pusbed
yesterday afternoou, as suggested by my
hon. friend, the Secretary of State, wlthout
,discussion, and especlally witbout the Bill
havlng been dlstrîbuted to the members of
the House. That was exactly the situation
îast evenlng when the Bill came before us,
and it was flot ti111somne time after the
House opened this afternoon, that 1 was
able to secure a copy of this Bill as it
paased the House of Commons. I am qulte
ln accord with the observations that have
already been addresaed to this House wlth
regard to this Bill. It la a very important,
and, on the whole, a good measure. At the
same t4me, 1 think we ahouîd have more
information, than we have yet received
'before we flnaliy pasa It, or even allow It
to go to commlttee. We have flot tbe advantage, ln discusslng a Bill of this kiud
before this honourabie House, that we have
wlth a private rallway Bill, when we get it
la the Rallway Committee. There we have a
map and the discussion is 0f a conversational chai-acter, and aIl the members of
the commlttee in a short time know exactly
the location of the railroad they are subsidizing or authoriziug. In this case there
la a rather vague Impression in the minds
of most hon. members, who have not been
ln the western country, as to where this
raiiway begins. Weli, it reaches to Winnipeg. That point ia very detinite. But as 1
understand it, the Canadian Northern at
present have a hune extendiug froux Port
Arthur to Erwood, which is near, or in the
direction of the Saskatchewan river, and as

JUIY 9, 1903

1 understand frotu my hion. friend the Sec-

547

6. The rates and tolls to be chàrged for the
passeugers

and carniage of fPeight and
retlLry of State-he wiII correct nie if I arn transfer liues of railway so ajLded aud upon ail
upon the
in error-the rond that we are uow assist- the lunes owned by the Canadian Northern Railof the
wiay Comspany shall
ing by this Bill is one thiat is an extension Goverasor in. GSoil be under the oontrol comor of such authorlty.
of what is called the Gilbert Plains brandi, mission or tribunal as la deslgnated or conparliament of
under
which leaves the line going north, and goes t4titiuted for- the any Act of %heconitr]ol f thé
regulation or
Canada
and we are going froni a point. business of ralway's: Provlded that the rates
westerly,
case
on that road to Edmonton, 'with a branch or toila to be ch'arged shall not lu auy mày be
be
the rates or toIla which
which wfll iead into Prince Albert, and hlgherIa than contract to be made between the
Uine
the
fixed
that the whole amounts to about 720 miles. goverament of Canada and the Cànadian NorthMy hon. friend, the Secretary of State, ern Railway Comnpany under this Act.
I presume this refers to a contract that*
poifnted out as a contrast to the arrangement
tlhat is being made ini support of this rail- is to be made, by which the government
way, what wvas done for other railways. Re Is to get security upon the hunes, and tbis
referred to a contract which a former gov- is, I think. the oniy provision lu the Bill
eriament made with regard to the construc- which relates to the tolis formLng- part o!
tion of the railway frein Calgary to Ed- that contract. It is a verjv important promonton, agreeing to pay $80,000 a year, part vision, but really I would thlnk that that
of which wae to be taken out in carrying contra ct, or tlint part of It, ought to appear
mails and supplies for the mounted police as a seliedule to the Bill, so that we would
and other purposes, but if I recollect ariglit, know really what the government is getting
this very saine compauy, the Canadian witb reg-ard to the charges that are to be èsNorthern, obtained sirnilar assistance with tabiished by the company, aud collected on
regard to a part of this very line that we the business o! that road. I just make that
are now considering from Winnipeg nortb- observation with regard to clause 6, so that
ward towards the Saskcatchewan. I thiuk my hon. frlend rnay have some more exact
there was a payment also o! $S0,000 a year, Information with regard t0 that point when
and precisely the saine conditions as the we go into committee. 1 wlsh also to cail
Calgary and Edmonton line. 1 arn not so the lion. gentleman's attention to clause 8,
clear as to what were the other Important which provides that It shahl be unlawfui
concessions by the goverument of Canada for the cornpauy to sel] any o! their lines,
or by the pravince of Mautoba-I thlnk tbere or any portion thereof, t0 the Canadian
were both-and they are very important Pacific Ilailway, or to pool their eanones lndeed, to this Canadian Northeru iugs with the Canadian Pacific Raliway.
Railway, enabllug It to get to Erwood aud I cau quite uuderstaud the object of that
to this point, Grand View, where we are provision. It is no doubt the desire, and
now taking It in baud. This is a road that the very earnest desire of the people o! the
bas already been very liberally assisted. North-west that ilhese raiways shall not
I notice that we are to have securlty upon get together, and that the competition wbich
the entire line o! the road, and in return it is hoped wl] arise fromn the Inaugurawe are loanlug $13,000 a mile for the most tion of this systern by the Canadian Norof 7.90 miles, and $10,000 on 100 miles. thern in the North-west shall iit he enThat us the way I understand it. 1 do not tirely nuillified as it were, by the companies
understand that we are to have any secur- amalgamating or pooliug their earnings, in
fty upon the land grants wbich the conipany sorne such way as the Canadian Pacifie
are to recelve. Posslbly that is right. It Railway and the Great Northern did af 1er
wouid probably be very awkward for the the goverument of Manitoba had gone to
company to have their lands tied Up In sueh very great expense lu gettiug the Great
a way whleh would not ailow them to Northern to corne into Canada. But It
dispose of them freelv. Possibly there is really seems to me that this clause 8 might
ample security for the goverument without have gone further, and covered aise the
auy lien on the land grant. Thiere is one other rallways that it is proposed to subsipoint te which 1 wisb to cal] the attention dîze, or te construct the niew Trans-Cano! the Secretary of State, in connection with ada Raiiway, for instance, of wbieh we
have heard so much, which is outlined la
clause 6, wliich reads as follows3 11

SENATE
the press as a grand goverument plan for
forming another transcontinental railwaY.
1 do nlot know, but it wouid seem to me
that If public safety requires thiat the Canadian Northern should. not be allowed to
amalgamate witb the Canadian Pacifie
Railway or to pool earnings with the Canadian Pacifie Railway, tbat It would aise be
in the public interest to prevent their arnalgamating or pooling earnings with this other
great corporation It is proposed to create
In the Nortb-west, or any other railway.
I arn just Indicatlng this point at tbis stage.
These are matters of detail that wili coi-ne
up when we go Jnte commrittee. I was lu
this nortli-western country a good many
years ago, and was neot mistaken then as
to what Its future sbould be. 1 formed a
strong conviction at that time thiat we liad
a magnificent country in the Nortlî-west, an
a]miost unlimlted country of. the greatest
agricultural possibilities, and what Is happening In recent years goes to confirm even
the rnost sanguine expectations that were
forrned by men Ilke myseif visiting that
country as far back as texi or twelve years
ag-O. I biave not the slightest doubt if this
road Is as well managed as the Canadian
Pacific Railway bas been mnanaged, that the
security that It Is able to glve the government is ample to proteet the treasury of
Canada, and prevent the governrnent froin
'uitimately having any loss wbatever. A
country of such great resources wiil give
'traffie to this road, If it is well managed,
to snch an extent that no ioss can accrue
'to the country from giving the enterprIse*
this encouragement at the outset. 1 amn
pleased to know that it Is being dlone, and
I think tbis principle is a safer and better
one tban the principle adopted in the past,
of giving land grants. I arn bappy to flnd
that that policy is being abandoned. In the
early stages 0f railway developmnt In the
North-west matters were in a very different
position. The land was estirnated to be, and
it was realiy, practicaliy of no value until
railroads were built and until it was made
valuable by thiat kind of developunent. At
that time, with the resources of the country
-as tlhey were, the public men of the day
did probably what was perfectly righit, iii
view of the circumstances, and in view o!
their knowledge o! the country, when they
gave land grants. However, we know now
whiat the value o! the country is, and we
lion. Mr. rERGUSON.

Iiave no righit to go on giving these coucessions of land grants which would be in
the very near future of a value out of ail
proportion to the cost of the railroad that
we are building or assisting to bulld.
.The motion was agreed to, and the House
resolved Itself into Committee of the Whole
un tbe Bill.
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
nlot know that it Is necessary to read ail the
'clauses. Those who take an Interest in this
'measure bave gonie tbrougli it I suppose.
1 only reoeived the Bill at one .o'clock, aud
was not therefore Ia a position to give it
that consideration- a question o! se mucb
Under the circumimportance deserves.
stances, however, I do neot object in this
particular case, but I tbink tbat tbis system
of radIroading Buis through the House
witbout readlng them carefuliy is vicions lu
principle.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--We will bave auy
tiause read that the hon. gentîenian wishes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
ýsImpIy protesting agalnst the principle. I
caul the attention of the hon, gentleman from
'Victoria to tbe fact that bie misunderstood
me altogether when I said tbat we were
licit to discuss the otber questions that
migbt likely corne before tbe bouse until
tbey were in a concrete forni and contracted for by tbe government. I merely
Ireferred to tbose schernes as prospective
scbemes of tbe goveranient and it was flot
hiecessary, nlot being before us, to discuss
tbem at the present tirne. It wonld be an
abnegation of responslbility of the governýment and of members of the governrnent if
'the governrnent were perrnitted to enter
into contracts and then dnsist upon our acIceptlng It. This House knows. and the
,country knows, that the goverlrnent have
made bargains -in the past and that the
Senate tbougbt they were vicions in principle
'and resisted tbem. 1 rnerely make this exIplanation se as not to be rnisunderstood on
'the record.
* lion. Mr. MACDONALD <P.E.I.)-I should
prefer to bave the different clauses read
'at the Table. This Bill was handed round
to members on this side of the bouse whiei
Wle hiave
the discussion was proceeding.

JULY 9, 1903

549

I am very giad f0 find that
Uiad no opportunity of seeing it, and during the country.
the discussion one -cannot read the clauses the policy of givlng lands to rallway cornWe know
of the Bil wlth any attention so as to get panies le to be discontlnued.
'a thorough understanding. I bave flot bad that many years ago this land was of
If was estimated In the
'the advantage otber hou. gentlemen have very lltt.e value.
had of travelling through that country and early days of the Canadian Pacific Railseeing the wonderful advantages it pos- way that the land was worth fromn 50 cents
Now lf bas gone up until
sesses, and I must say that the appropria- to $1 an acre.
'tion of sncb a large amount of the 'funds if amounts to from-$5'to $7 an acre, and it
lot the Dominion of Canada requires con- is cer.falnly a very mucb better use for the
'siderable attention on the part of members, Dominion to hold If if they contemplate glvýespeclally members of tbe opposition. It ing a cash bonus or guaranteelng the bonds
»apears that tbe Bill bas the sanction of of the rond. I arn pieased, at any rate, thaf
'the ieading membere on both sides of the the pollcy of givlng lands o! the Dominion
House, and it would be presumption in me to companies Is done away wdth.
to express my personal opinion possibly
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear. In estltot sbared In by any other member of the
BHouse, tbat we are proceeding at an ex- mating tbe value of lands my bon. friend
travagant rate la making these appropria- must recoliect thati tbese lands were absoYou could not get a dollar
tions. The bon. Secretary of State told us iutely vaiueless.
nu acre for tbem unfl the railways were
that we bad given something like 6,700,000
acres of land as a bonus to lines which have buiif. That *was the primary stimulation
'been constructed partlaliy on thîs same that gave tbe lande any value, and even
then If was a long time coming. The lune
route.
fromn Calgary to Edmonton bas been bullt
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not on the saine route. many yeare, aud s0 bas the Une f0 Prince
This Is a new Uine altogether, new terrltory, Albert. Neither o! tbem ran through the
the northern Ilne. The two lunes I spoke of very beet country. A map of the ralIway
particularly were branches of the Canadian would really give very littIe Information,
Pacific Railway, one running north to Ed- because between the extreme points In thiaf
monton, and another rnnning f rom the Can- (300 miles, there are oniy two -points that
adian Pacific Railway to Prince Albert are known-that le, points thaf are marked
but tbey do not traverse the country longi- on the map. They are the towns o! Prince
tudinally.
It le a new counAlbert aud Battieford.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.Ed.)-If we try. The best Information one can get .is
had the advantages that members of the thaf if le a hune running almosf due wesf.
Rallway Commlttee have, of seeing those In the flret place, the Canadian Northern
us almost due nortb from Winnipeg before
lines laid down on the map, we would have
a much better understanding and knowiedge turning -west. Fromn Winnipeg It rune eouth
of what the lines were, of the directions In before If turne east to Port Arthur, but the
which they run and what other Unes tbey line from Winnipeg was orlginally intended
cross, or If they interfere witb any other. to run from Hudson Bay, and we bad very
I thînk. the hon. Secretary of State men- many discussions on the firet Une known
It was known
tioned that there were 2,176,000 acres of as the ýCanadien Nortbern.
land granted to one raiiway, something over as the Winnipeg and Hudson Bay Rallway.
2.000,000 f0 another and 2,600,000 to a third. The forty miles my bon. friend referred t0
At any rate, the whole amounted f0 some- was subsidized a good mnany years ago to
where like 7,000,000 acres of land whicb bad heip and support e line the objective point
been granted towards the construction of o! which was on Hudson Bay. When they.
raiiways in that part of the Dominion, and liad reached a point, perhaps a hundred or
the value of that land. was from $5 to $7 a hundred and, fi! ty mniles nortîl. fhey fook
-in acre; so that we have given in land authorify from perliament to buiid branches
bonuses f0 the companies to which hie westerly, and now pra.ctically the western
referred an emount equal to from $35,000,- branch will be the main line. For the pre000l t0 $50.000,000 which bas been g.Iven for sent I mer say that the due niortli line that
the construction of raiiways in thiat part of was to continue f0 Hudson Bay lias been

SEINATE
abandoned. The point of intersection of
the main line-that is the Un1e 6:20 miles
in length to Edmonton- is not the extreme limit of the line runniug nortb
to Hudson Bay. It is a point of inter-section perhaps from fifty to one huadred miles south ef that. The point fr011
whlch the branch will run to Prince .Abert
Is higher up. than the intersection of the
Une that runs to Edmonton, so that it Is not
a branch off the main Une that goes to
Prince Albert but rather a branch of the
lune that origlnally formed part of the Winnipe.- and Hudson Bay Ral-way.

Hou.Mr.MeMLLA-Thec
Hollnes.

wll

e pr-

McILNTeewlep

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I think itl s a1
little furthem nomth than Edmonton, so that
in considering the question of tbe laud
value, we have, of course, to take that into
considemation, that these great values that
are now quoted are only of very recent date.
1 suppose that tea yeams ago the lands that
are to-day selling at five to ten dollars an
acre could. ail be had readily for oîîe dollar
an acre-lu fact some have been sold for
consldemably less tbaii that. The risc la
value sînce Manitoba and. the Nortb-west
have become known to the world bas been
something phenomenal, quite out of the ordinary run, even beyond the graduai rise
of land south of the boundary Une. It Is
due, of course, to a variety of causes, the
main cause, I suppose, being that the wbent
grown in northern latitudes is fluer and
richer lu gluten than wbeat of southeru
climates. Lying lu a cooler climate, and
wlth a icher soul, it gives a larger yield
per acre than land soutb of the lune.

lion. 'Mr. PERGUSON-It
clear.

is iiot

very

Hon. Mr. DAINDURAND-There will be
a first charge to the extent only of tel'
thousand dollars per mile 'but Ehall also
rank on the said portion next after the
charges heretofore created,' and wvill in consequence become second mort.gages. Ther
will rani; as first mortgage up to the extent
of $10,000. Other charges will follow which
have been heretofore created, and then they
will stand as a furtber charge, after those
charges, as second mortgages.
ion. ',%r. FERGUSOX-The $5,000 wil
corne under the charge hereinbefore cmeated.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It arises ln this, way :
they had encumbered that particular part
of the line with $3,000 a mile, so tbey
could. not give us the $13,000 a mile on that
particular fifty miles and, therefome, we get
a second mortgage on that short distance
ranking after the $3,000 per mile.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Would It not be better
to inake It an absolute first mortgnge l)y
paying off the difference ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-In granting a mortgage, they reserve the iglit to grant a first
charge to the extent of $10,000 a mile, and
it is in the exercise of that reserve that this
mortgage would be created. They bave the
right to create a mortgage lu favour of the
goverument to the extent of $10,000 per mile
ns a first cha.rge, and then the mortgage at
present existing ou the road would take
effect, and then the government would bave
a second mortgagc after the charges tl'at
now exist for the balance.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is for $5,000
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I do uot know ltaI 1 more. That is a very probable meaning-,
clearly undemstand the proviso of clause but 1 do not think it ls clearly expressed.
two :
The clause was adopted.
Provided always. that. with respect to that
portion of the said line from the end of the
On clause 6,
Gilbert Plains branch to the westcrly boundary
of Manitoba, the said guaranteed securities shall
be a first charge ho the extent only of ten thousand dollars per milie, but shall also rank on
the said portion next after the charges heretofore created.

Wb at does that latter part nmean ?

Mon. M1r. SCOTI-The hion, gentleman
asked for some explanation witb regard to
clause six. lie sug-gests it would be better
if we hiad the contract nttached to tbis Bill,

but be cau readily see it w)idld be vcry
difficuit .indeed to fix 'the rates by Act of
lion. Mr.
mortgage on tbe main line. The clause parliament, because tuey mîust be cbanged,
gives tbe governînent a second mortgage on uecessarily, from time to time. Rates that
might be fair and reasonable the first year.
the whole system.
SCOTT-It m-ill be a second

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 9, 1903
might, after greater facilities were given,
be unreasonable, and therefore, they are
subjected from time to time to change and
could flot be very well incorporated in the
Bill.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The idea I got
from reading the clause is this: There
is to bie a contract between the company and
the government governing the securlty and
aiso the toits. This is a very incidentai
way of brlnging ln a reference to this contract. One wouid suppose it wouid be set
out cleariy that there was to bie a contract,
and that that contract was ta cantrol the
tolls, but the way It is lnserted in the Bill
is only just a mere incident:
Provlded that the rates or tole ta be charged
shall fot in any case be higher than the rates
or toile whIch may be fixed In the contract t.
be made between the government of Can-ada and
the Canadian Northern Railway Company under
this Act.
That is ail there'is of it. But at the
samne time. I presume the government cmu
Implement it in order to have a contract
which will cover the toits.

551

gaing to run over the sanie section of the
country ? 0f course, if they are taking ail
aitogether different section of the country,
the suggestion wouid have no force or
weight.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO-N-Is

it

niy

hion.

friend's meaning If another transcontinental
Une is built that it should amalgamate wîti
this ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That might bie one of
the possibilities. I couid flot say, of course.
Hon. Mn. FERZGUSOXN-It is a very important consideration, and tihis would bie a
very proper time to *discuss It, because if we
buld a railway, say from Moncton to Winuipeg, at the entlre expense of the goverfiment, and we aid, iii the way we are aiding
aow, anather uine running parallel to it, and
this bas an outiet at Port Arthur on the
lake, and this rond would amalgamate wvith
the new transcontinental rond, lt wouid be
a serious thing for the government owning
that road, because the effect mnight be ta
dlvert the traffic soutbward to the lakes.
The company owning- lnes ln the terriHon. Mr. SCOTT-That wili be the ex- tories would have an Interest In diverting
treme limit. They cannot charge more tlian traffic in that way.
the contract alIorws. The commission ivhic'h
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I understand the obis to be appointed w114 have control of the ject iii singing ont the Canadian Pacific
rates, but in no case can they bie higber Railway is because they are tue oniy coimthan the rates fixed In the contract between pany who are iiot subject, as ta control of
the government and the Canadian Northern. the rates, to the goveriument. A certain
The clause was adopted.
percentage on their stock iniust be earined
before contrai can bie exerclsed, but the rates
On clause S,
of ail1the other railraads are subject ta conHon. Mr. SCOTT-My hion. friend made trol by the government.
That is why I
some allusion to this. The Canadian Pacific take it for granted tie clause is limited ta
Railway is the only existing company and the Canadiau Pacifie Railway Company.
we could liot take cognizance of any other.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Hon. M-Nr.FERGUSON-Would my hion. reason advanced by tue Secretary of State
f riend object to insert af ter the words ' Can- would apply with equaI force to othier roads
adian Pacific Raiiway Company' the words as weil as ta the Canadiani Pacific Raiiway.
ôr any other company' ?
Tiî*' object of preventing an amalgamationl
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes, and 1 will tell wvith the Canadian Pacifie Itailway is, I
the reason wvhy : Suppose another main take it, ta prevent monopiy, and if it is
lune îs built, it would 1weverv muoli better in the interests of the country that there
if it could be arranged that this wili fanm should he competition, there is no reason
part af it. 1 do nat know whethier that is why this comupaîîy siiouid bc permitted ta
possible or feasible. Speakiing for myseif, anilgamate withi anotiier camipaîîy. I catiit would seeni to me ta be a -very wise and nat conceive it possible tbat it would be adprudent proposition. If another main unie visable to amalganiate this unie ivith atiother
-ere constructed, wouid it not bie -%vise ta roacd rnuning iu the sanie direction. I quite
utiiize the Canadian Northern if they are iinderstand, however, tliat a rond froni the

SENATE
terminus of this line rit Edmonton to the
Pacifie Ocean mighit amalgamate with this
road, providing it were built by another
company, but only uuder those circumstances would it be advisable to permit amalgamation wltb another company any more
than with the Cauadian Pacific Rallway.
If the road to wbilh my bion. friend bas
referred, running Yfromn Monétoit to Winnlpeg, la built, I do not sec bow an amalgamation tbat could be made wlh that would
be of any advantage to the country. What
the people of the west want, and wliat the
whole Dominion desires are comî>eting lines,
and that ls wby I take It the goveraiment
bias made this provision. To make It effective, the amendment suggested by the
lion, gentlemanl fromi Marshfied would be tbe
correct one, that is to say, It should be provlded that tbey shial not amalgamate wltb
the Canadiani Pacific Rnllway Company or
any other company. Experlence bas taugbt
me tbiat tbese provisions do flot amount to
anytbing. We put themn on the statutebook, and in a faw years 1h is found to be
to the advantag-e of the company and of the
country to sllow the amalgamation ho take
place, and tbey come to parliament sud the
concession Is made at once. This looks
ail very well for tbe present, and It sounds
well, and It tak-es the car of the -public,
but It ls not w-orth the paper it is written
on.

Tbe clause w-as adopted.

Hon. Sir MACREUZIE BOWELL-That
wouid cover interest and expenses of management even on a debt of $8,00,000.
A very large
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
amount they look to receive from. the elpenditure 15 fromn the warehousing. Tbey
are now erecting very extensive steel warebouses. Hon. gentlemen may bave noticed
in tbe press allusions to the terrible congestion at the docks of M3ontreal, that vessels cannot unload In consequènce of the
docks being already covered wlth goods. and
the difficulties also in getting exporta away.
Il Is now in contemplation tbat part of this
money Is to, build very extensive warebouses,
and fromn tbem a very considerable additionai revenue wili be obtained. I notice the
commissioners were going to fine many of
the merchants of Montreal because they ailowed their goods to remain In the warebouses beyond the stipulated perlod.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
that sum Include elevators as well ?
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
would show that If their Incoine is $326,00
and the Interest upon their bonds $240.000,
tbey wlll have a surplus of $86,000 to meet
the ordlnary expenses of management* That
is a very satisfactory statement.
Hon. '.%r. DANDURAND-According as
the receipts incerease, thec rates are reduced.

on clause 3,
TESSIER, fromn the commîttee,
Hon. MINr.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think lu prereported the Bill without ameudment.
of Montrei the
The Bill w-as then read the third time, and vions boans to the barbour
Acts passed by parliament directed iii what
passed.
way certain portions of thue expenditure
HARBOUR COMMISSIONERS 0F MONT- should be made. 1 am not sure that that
REAL BILL.
was riglit. Péïhaps it Is better to leave
it to the Harbour Commissioners, but iu
THIRD READING.
former cases that-was doue.
The bluse resorved itself mbt Conîmitcee
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was, but very getio! the WNNhole ou Bill (201) An Act to provide for furtlier advances bo the Harbour eraliy. On one occasion a million dollars
n'as advanced for the improvement of
Commissioners ofMote.

wvharfs, structures and other accommodations in the harbour. The only special item;
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I was asked yesterday I recollect was in one of the grants of $750,by the leader of the opposition 10 ascertain 000 whichi was authorized to be spent on a
the revenue of the Harbour Board of Mon- dry dock iii the east end of the city, and 1
tre.il. 1 have A telegraiu f rom the secretary- thiuic authority \vas afterwards talzern bY
treasurer of the harbour stating that the parliament 10 div ert that 10 general îmi(In the Committee.)

revenue for last yenr was $326.190.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

provements.

JULY 9, 1903
Hon. Mr. l'ERGUSON-L
lietter.

The clause was adopted.

553

tluink this js oasually. without having any common purposo
,wlth the other members thereof and tha-t hie dld
not commit or countenance any such unlawful
act or threat.

It wlll be noticed that l the redirftinlg
of the paragraph, the followlng words have
been left out : 'to have been an unlawful
assembly from the beginnlng.' The words
' to have been ' and' the words 'from the
beglnning' have been struck out. 1 have,
ln remodelling this paragraph of the Bill,
FREE LABOUR BILL.
tried to meet the objections which were
IN THE COMMITTEE.
raised against It when it received lts second
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE moved that tlie Speaker reading. I thouglit these objections wou'ld
leave the Chair, and that the H-ouse re- be removed by the additions made, so that
solve itself Into Commlttee o! thxe Wlirle the Bill ls limited to assemblies whIch may
on Bill (S) An, Act to amend the C'imînal reasonably be deemed to be connected with,
or ln sympatby with, a stuike. It muet bie
Code, 1892, respecting free labour.
an act of violence or intimidation which
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I have not had tlie affects free labour, or the employer, mempleasure o! hearing an explanation of this bers of bis iamily, his property or persons
Bill. It ls a very drastlc measure, and 1 making use of sucli property. It île Intended
sliouid lik-e to, hear some reason, before -%veto, cover cases of this klnd. For Instance,
adapt the prînciple of it, why the Bill sliould durlng the strike dlrected agalnst the electric
railway, people riding on the cars were
pass.
JAable to be struck 'wlth atones thrown by
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-We can discuse It ln
the strikers, and that ls why I add the
committee.
words 'or persons maklng us of said pros
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-[ gave an explanation perty.'
at the second readlng.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I was not here when the

Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, from
the comnittee, reported the Bill withoiit
amend ment.
The Bill was then read the third time, and
passed.

The motion waa agreed to, and the House Bill was discussed before. I have a strong
resolved ltself into, Commlttee of tlie Whole feeling against leglslation of this kind. The
on the .ýill.
struggle which ls going on between capital
and labour Is a struggle of vast importance,
(In the Committee.)
a struggle which canmot be suppressed ln
any way by any Act of parliament. Because
On the first clause.
the moment one forai of the struggle ts
Hôn. Mr. BEIQUE moved tliat the clause suppressed, It wll take another form, and
be ameaded to read as follows :
uutil the golden rule la adopted ei-erywhere
4. If at any t4me when a strike is ln progress. there will be such agitations existing, and I
three Dersons or more assemble for any pur- am afraid the end will not lie ln our day.
pose whIch may raonably be deemed counected w.ith. or ln sympathy with such strike. This particular legialation, I l)resume, arises
and If, while they are so assembled, any un- out o! the condition ln Moutreal over the
lawful act e! violence or intimidation is committed by one or more o! s-uch persons, or any strîke there, and the lbon, gentleman having,
unlawful threat is used by one or more o! theai. no doulit, come Ili contact with some littie
the whole ln any way affer-ting !ree labour' or trouble la that way, seeks to meet that parthe employer agaluat whom the atrike ls directed. membera of bis family, his employees. ticular dlfficulty by legisiation which will
bis property or persons making use of said pro- declare an innocent mani gulty, throw uponl
rerty. the said assemblage o! persons shahl be
aeemed an unlawful assembly ;and each person hlm the burden of proof before a court that
forming part thereof when such unlawful art lie 'vas onîr casually present, was not there
is done or tbreat used. shall be deemed to have
heen a member of an unlawftul assembly, and] for any particular purpose ln connection
sbail be punîshable accordingiy (uniess punish- witli tlie strike, and therefore thrust upon
able as a nioter asý hex-inafter mentioned), evexi
although such person bas not partiripated ln hlm a burden iwhic l s an unfaîr burden to
such unlawtul act or threat. unless the aceued throw upon a man wlio may lie entirely inrhows te the satisfaction o! the court or J-udte nocent. I think It was Emerson, or some emithat he for'med part o! the assembly only

S E _%NA
TE

lient philosopher, who said that the.great
mass of men wbho wallk the street 'vere
fevers, bungers and tbirsts, and that is a
correct generalization with regard not only
to strikers, but mea who seek to resist
strikes. Labou~r bas Ité rights. It Is a fair
and just thing for strikes to take place, and
it Is a difficult- tbing to, keep them wlthin
legal limits, but you cannot prevent them.
You cannot preve¶nt the exercise of the
rlgbts the labourers bave of flot working If
they do flot cboose to work, and therefore
w-e sbould be very careful that an unfair
advantage sbould not be taken of a man
wbo înay be qulte witbin the limit of bis
rlgbts as a member of the state, but w-ho, by
such a law as this, can be brought into al
false position, and tbe burden thrown upon
bim of pro-ring before the cour-t tbat he 15
innocent, w-hen from the first be was Innocent. It seems to me it Is an irritating thing,
and ail that would be gained by It w-ould
be notbing, and il w-ould be better for tbe
bon. gentleman to witbdraw-% bis Bill and
not proceed w-lth IL.
FErG'CUSON\-Wheni 1h15 Bill
Hon. M-Nr.
w-as Introduced and received ils second rending. 1 very strongir opposed il. I considered tbat, ln the form in wbicli it w-as then
presenleil. that it w-as a very dangerous Bill
lndeed, nnd sbould not be passed by the
House. However, in the course of discussion It w-as manifest that occasions have
arisen i wbichi it bas been necessary Ibat
very strong pow-ers should be placed ii lte
law-

and w-ieii peop)le vee assentble(l iii little
knots for the purpose of trying to defeat

the object of the law-iiu sncb cases it is
biard to make prosecutions, and It is a very
desirable thing that we should frame the
law so that lb would be possible to get prosecutions in such cases as that. W~e mnust
guard at the same time carefully tbat innocent men are flot prosecuted and sent to
Better that quite a number of
prison.
guilty men should escape, than that one innocent man should suifer, but I thiuuk that if
my hon. friend w-ould make Just otte or tvo
changes In the Bill still further-and be bas
shown a disposition to meet tbe vlew of
the House so far-that for my ow-n part 1
would be lnclined to wltbdraw nny further
opposition to ItL I tblnk that the first line
of the Bihl is not closely enough w-orded.
Lt reads:
If at any time when a strike ls in progress
three persans or more assemble.

In progress la any locality '-it should
read sometblu'g lik-e that, so tlînt If there
wvas trouble or difficully iii nny city. t0w-n
or locality, It would not be possible to connect a mieeting In any other part of the
elty w-itl w-bal would be brought under tbe
bands of the officers of the law. Another
amendiment w-ouhd be In the second Une.
by Insertlng the w-ords 'common purpose.'
iii place of 'any purpose.' It w-ouhd inake
the clause eutirehy symmetrical, and bue
w-ords 'coimon purpose,' w-bich ai-e used
iii the third to last line, w-ould tiien have
a îneaning they wouhd flot olherwise have.
Hon. 31r. POWER-If tbe three pel-sons

Hon. MNr. SCOTT-Hear, hiear.

assemble for a purpose, bow could it be for

FERGUSON-In order 10 meet any other than a common purpose ?
Hon. «MNr.
uprising and disorder, such as bas occurred
Hon. 31r. FERGUSON-Well. anY purin Montreal and Toronto, and I bave looked
pose.
very carefully into tbe amendments thtat
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-It must be a conîmon
the bon. mover of lte Bill now proposes to
insert. and tbink Ihat mainly tbey renlove 'Mil-ose.
the objections Ibaqt 1 lhad 10 the Bil lu
n

h

Hon. '-%. FERGUSON-Tbe w-ords 'comocuin
tth
tions Ihat might stili be made in order to and 1 think it would be bette- that titey
perfect the measure. We must ail admit should be used iii titis part of il. If you
aci0toe
that this is a very draslic measure, and yetusthworsay.urse
at the samne time w-e must recognize that
il i n erv maler ndee 10bav inidividuals iniglit have a diffeî-ent puî-pose.
iffcul

flrst instance.

There are one or two altera Imnprôe'aeue

mv lioit. friend
Hon. «Mr. BEIQUE-If
pi-osecutions wlhen a stale of disorder exists
on the stî-eets, as in Monlî-eal when the' would bear lu mind, 10 meet biis objectioni
street railway sti-ike took place, and Nvbei I pr-opose te add tue definilioui of lthe PlIstones were tbi-owî ont of shops and doors. pose by Ihese wNords
Hon. Mn- ELLIS.

JIJLY 9, 1903
-wbich may be reasonabiy deemed tu be connected with or in sympathy withr such strike.

It defines the purpose.
Hon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-I admit tbat takes
a great deal of force out of my objectio,
but I tbink tbat tbhat expianation is SUCII
that'there cuuld be nu objection to usiflg
the words 'commun purpose' because It
amounts to that, and that wuuld make, plain
w-bat is meant it the end of the clause. I
tbink the other words the bon. gentleman
bias added make It almost equivaient to comnion purpo6e. At ail events the purpose
would require to have some reference to a
strike. It would make the word 'purpose'
at tbe end of the clause more clear. I titink
It would be well tu Insert In the first line
'wben a strike ls in progress In any locality.'
Hon. Mr. POWER-It must be in soune lucality.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It must be connected witb tbe locality of tbe strike.
Hon. 'Mr. DANDURÂND-It must be connected witb. or In sympatby witb the strike.
Hon. '-%r. KERR (Torouto)-They may be
perfectly ]aw-fully there and do no barm, but
nu matter bow Innocently they may come
tog-ether, or bow different their purposes, If
tbey come for a purpose whlcb Is connected witb the strlke, or in sympathy with
tbe strike, and wbile there do sometbing In
addition to being tbere, it Is declared unlawfui.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-No. A person Is
liable tu be arrested altbough he bas dune
nothing, If sumebody else bas dune some-

tbing wrung, and be Is forced to prove a
neg-ative.

criminal laws enacted ? Because there are
abuses. Before abuses crept Iin of a considerable nature, criminal laws would flot be
enacted. In tbe glorious Roman empire
they had twelve tables of law and tbese
sufflced su long as they remained peaceable and virtuous, and -tbey only filled
their statute-books wltb ail sorts of concelvable laws when the iepubllc was corrupt.
I do not admit that titis Canadian country
of ours Is su corrupt that we sbould have
particular laws meeting ail possible emergencies, and meeting cases tbat we will likely enougit neyer bave to face. Let us, I say
again, be cautious In dealing with: titis question of labour. Let us not. forget that for
centuries capital had the upper hand. Let us
flot forget there ls such a tblng as equlillbrlum In this world, and that where abuses
bave crept in and long had their sway,
reactions wilI set In, and ln setting In will
possIbly pass the mark. But sucit thinga as
equilibrium,
necessary reaction, such .as
must of necesslty happen. Now, what ls the
A,%s
state of affairs In our Dominion?
againet the abuse of capital, against wblcb
no laws bave been enacted, because titere
was nu one to enact tbem, there are, I will
admit, some grievances now against labour,
but are those grievances sufficient for us to
pass sucit Draconian Act as titis, the effect
of which would be, If I went to Montreal tomorrow, not knowing there was a strike
titere, and met my bon. friend and another
hon, gentleman and we shook bands, I migbt
be arrested and brought befure the courts.
be delayed un my journey, and bave to prove
that I had noue but lawful motives ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No ; oh, nu.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-That is thte object of
Hon. '-%r. KERR (Torontu)-Whille there, thte Bill. The hion. mover shakes is head,
sometbing must be doue.
and I will not repeat thte anecdote about a
Hon. MNr. POWER-It must be une or certain judge shaking bis head. The clause
rends
more of sucb persuns.
In progress
any time
If
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I submit that this threeatpersons or when a strike isfor any purmore assemble
Bill, and particularly titis clause, wuuld be
mure apprupriate in Turkey, in Persla, or
with some peuple wbo are ruled by a bighi
band. w-ho are semi-freemen, titan in titis
country of ours. Alluw me, bon, gentlemen,
to express my earnest views on tbe quesWe had
tion of our deiing with labour.
better deal with tbat qeustion in a spirit
of prudence, and great prudence. Wby are

Dose-

Tbree persons may assemble to go tu
churcit.
Sume bon. MEINBERS-Read further.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-lt continues:
-and if while they are su assembled. any unlawful act of violence or intimidation is committed by one or more such personýs.

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hou, gentleman bas flot the amendment.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. gentiema-n might read from the ameudment, wbich,
wll be found on the Order paper.

Imen,

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I understand the Bill
bas been amended, but no sufficient amendment wili commeud itself to me. I think
we had better let thls question severely
alone until the abuses are such that we will
be justified in taking action with a strong
hand. The difficulties thnt hav-e arisen ln
Montreal are of a certain grievous nature,
but flot sufficient to warrant this measure,
anid I think that I will a-ppeal to the sense
of this House, If I say 'that public opinion
on tbose matters is micb stronger thait (iny
legisiation we could pnss. I will flot make
any furtber remarks on thus mensure, because I observe thnt I inve been reading
from the Bill as first printed, whici lias
been amended, flot considerably, flot sufficieutiy for me to support it, but I wiil Bay
before resuming My sent that it is preferabie, in My estimation, tint this BUa
should be witbdrawn, and for us senators

as well as other citizens. We had the
experience ln Montreal, and other people
hae m.d the experience in other cities,
whierever qstrikes bave taken place, jhe
peace lias been broken and they have been
unabie to reach the guilty parties, .and it
wli not be disputed that the armi of the law
should be made strong enough and long
enough to reach guilty parties, wbether they
are union men or not. Now, limited as it
is, I ecanuot see the force of the objections
that are offered when the object of the
Meeting is defined, as It is defined ln the
amendment, and wben the object of the
threat or act of violence is also defined, as it
is defiued in the amendment. The hon. gentleman who lias Just spoken deals with this
Bill as if it were a new mensure altogetber.~
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-No, flot qUité. it Is
one of those Buis against associations. which
bas caused more trouble in Europe and the
Old Country than any other BiU excePt
Bille agalnst the free publication of newspapers,--caused, revoluttous, and that sort of
tbing.
-ehvtesai
o.M.BIU

arel per- principie ln our statute-book. luI the Crimicoered leatas mlattdler ns d
pae- ual Code, ln that very section to whicb
diel
ashog
hapsrnted onthoe Houtse
Hus,
hap astheothr athogh e hvethis is being added, we have it. that au
the prîviiege to deal with them, to walt until assembly of tbree or more persons. whntseby
fta
eteoJc
a
abuses of a more severe and more serlous ee
nature have sprung up lu the country, until
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Plor a coMmof
there Is a demand for anythlng like a Bill
purpose.
of suci a Dracontan nature. I wIil vote
p-rancmo
o.M.BIU
against the Bill lu toto. and agalnst this
pose it becomes an unla'wful nssemnbly if it
clause pnrticularly.
tie pence
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not desire to re- gives reason to, apprehieud that
moment tit fiai
peat theexplanation I gave to the House will be disturbed, and the
the person who
when moving the second rending of tlis condition of things arises,
of thal
it is only due to the hon. member becomieS hable as being a inember
Bill, but
unlawful assembly, can be prosecuted
from St. John and the hion. gentleman who
as is intendec t
bas just spokzen, tînt I shonId ndd one word, and hie bas no such recourse
as to give hlm under this mensure, of show
and it ls this fitat I dlaim to recognize
to be guilit
fuiiy as nnybody can do so the right of ing thiat hie neyer intended
It has been stated b~
any offence.
'rvorkingmen to organize nnd proteet them- of
St. John, tha
selves, and ln my estimation it bas been the hon. gentleman from
a new principie f0 put a persoi
and ls a good thing tint tiey should unîlte it was
for tie purpose of protectitig themselves. on his derence. ii tue non. ge
Code. hie will find
TheF have obtained valuable results, and I peruse the Criminal
to Improve there a number of sections where that prinhope they wili continue strlving
I couid refer to 1 Bihl
their condition. I dlaim tint tiere is notiing cipie is applied, and
wlio introduced by the 'Minister of Justice ln
ln tlis Bill directed agaînst union men
thc sanie priticiple
are deshring to protect tiemselveS. 1 claim the otier House, wiere
ls fonnd. It is an amnencment to section
that tic object of the Bill is to proteet union
Hron. Mr. POIRIU-R.

JUIY 9, 1903
704 of the Criminal Code.
as follows:

The Bill reads

5

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN--I sbould like ta
seo IV amended ta some extent

704. Whenever. on the trial of a person
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I do noV want IV
charged with maklng an agreement for the sale
or Purchase of shares, gootls, wares or mer- ta go abroad and be generally admitted that
chandise ln the manner set forth ln section twa this législation la
cnused by the strike that
hundred and one. It la established that the person so-charged has made or slgaed any .such took place ln Montroal, I have wltnessed
contract or agreement af sale or purchaae, or strikes la Ontario. Take for Instance the
has acted. aided or abetted ln the »naking or
signing thereot. the burden of proof of the bona atreet railway strIke ln Toronto. I nover in
fide Intentlon to acquire or to sell such shares, my 12fr wltnessed a more scandalous exhiRoods. wares or merchandise, or to deliver or
to receive delivery thereof, as the case may be. bition of vaadalismshall rest upon the persan s0 cbarged.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLI-Hear,
It Is flot a new principle. I might point hear.
out several sections of the Crîminal Code
Han. Mr.

McMULLEN-than I witnessed
where the anme principle obtahins, and it
seems that it Is a measure more ln the there la the destruction of property, la tîxe
Interest of the labouriag classes, because breaklng of cars-men that valunteered Vo
they are more Intorested ln having tlie pence go and act as drivers on the motors were
preservod, otberwiso It la the occasion of abused, one man was noarly kI.lled by being
their losing the sympathies ta wbich tbey struck on tbe face with a brick. Men that
were wllling ta taire thase cars out and give
are rightly entitled.
tbe public of Toronto necessary accommoHon. Mr. TEMPLEM! -I coafess tbat 1 dation were terrorIzed, driven tram tbeir
sympathize samewhat with the views ex- places and scared from taking charge of tle
preaseil by the hon, gentleman tram St. cars. The abject of this Bill Is not ta InterJobn, but It seems ta me that a defi altian of fore with unions at ail, as my hon. friend
what is meant by free labour, wauld make bas explained. I am qulte willing that artithîs mensure samewhat more Intelligib)le. 1 sans and mechanica shauld have
a perfect
do flot know wbat Is meant by free labour right ta unite for their awa general
advanroferred to in this clause.
tage and improveinent, but when a strike
takes place, If other mon wisli ta step la and
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Freodom of labour.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-If the abject of seil their laboul,, have they noV a riglit ta
the originatar of thia Bill la ta cast a re- be protected as well as the men who belang
flection on the union men of the country, as ta a union ? Certainly Vbey have. The nonIt doos, and ta say that ail la-bour outaide unioa maxi ls a British subject ;be bas a
or union la free labour, I an understand rlbt ta expect, If ho covenants wlth a street
raUlway, or a manufacturer, or any one else,
the meaaing of it.
Hon. Mr.
labour.

BEIQU-It

la

froedom

of

Han. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-That Is quite
Intelligible but that 1a a minor thing. I
tbougbt 1Vwas directed dIstinctly ta where
strIkes of union men taok place, and ta
where the Introduction of non-union labour
was being made and that this was being
aimed exclusively at unions, and as It rends,
that la evIdently the meaning. Howevor,
if it Is cbanged la the way the hon gentleman sug-gests, that would remave the stigma
that otherwlse -wonid attacb ta the ineasure.
It seems to, me IV la, on the wbole, very
drastle legislation. I thInk iV Ia going very
far.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Too far.

for bis labour, tbat tbe law will protect hlm
la tbe service be bas covenated ta roader.
Tbat Is the only abject of thîs Bill, and ta
caîl IV a Bill that would adora the records

o! same country whore they have no responsIble govorament la miscalling the Bill
altogether. If over tbere was a Bill wbich
tonds ta secure ta every man under tîxe
British Crowx bis rigbts, this Is the anly
Bill that bas been Introduced ln this Haouse.
We want to secure every man bis rIgbts.
If I bolong ta a union and choose ta atriko
and stop out of my place, I have no rlgbt ta
dîctate ta my frlend that be shahl not accupy IL. If anather man chooses to came la
aad take my place the law should protect
bim ia his rigbts as a British subject. That
ia the abject of tbe Bill, and it wiil meet the
conditions fully, If iV la passed with the

SENATE
hon. the men who were guilty of uiiaw.%ful ncts
ini the Montreal strike. This Bill, -coming
froum this Hlouse, will be hooked upon hy tbe
lion. Mr. ÇLORAN-I quite agree with labourera 0f this country as au attack on
what tbe Inst speaker bas said about the their liberty and rights.
object of the Bill. Thiere is no doubt tbè
HQn. Mr. MeMULLEN-No, no0.
object is good, but the means which the pronuotor of the Bill takes to attain that object
H-on. -Mr. CLORAN-Il say yes. I know
are not based on what would be proper ln the
wvhereof I speahk. I admit tbe object of this
administration of criinal justice ln this
by tbis House and
cou;îtry. I bave biad some experience ln the Bill should be promoted
by pnrliament, but we already have sufficlent
inatter of criminal justice and its administhat end. That la the
tration and If 1 were du the bencli, I would lu the law to attain
point is this, tbat
not waut that Bill placed in my bauds to first point. The second
I protest i2galnst It as beiug a subversion of
admIister it ln Its present shape. We pass
justice ln Canada.
lawvs easily here ; tbe judges bave great diffi- the principles of British
Under British law and under Its administraculty ln Interpreting and admlnistering them.
man la called up1 find two obstacles 1, this Bill, one, the tion, 1 amn proud to say, no
on to prove hlmsehf innocent before the
lirst provision ln It, tbe object my bon.
guilt. Here we
frlend wants to aiiain, will be attanaed'by Crown bas made proof of his
find a subversion of that principle o! British
It. The law should flot be made a mens of
this Bill, because 1
Injustice. The law shouhd be applied for the justice. 1 cannot accept
think the statutes of oui country already
purpose for wbich àt was drafted :
cover these unlawful acts of violence, intimif at any time when a etrike is ln progres
three persans or more assemble for any pur- Idathon and thîreats. Whether committed in
Posestrike or ont of strike, an unlawful act is
It wny be n legitimate or illegitimate pur- punishable, and it Is the'duty of the officers
pose. WVhy flot put ini the word 'iliegiti- of tbe law to see that such acts are not perpetrated as soon as they are warned tbat
mnate."
thîey may occur. As far as making a man
Hon. Mr. l3EIQUE-Itead further.
guilty nnder any such circumstances is conHon. Mr. CLORAN-It continues:
cerued, I wlll not be a party to sub-verting
-which may reasonabhy be deemed conneoted tbe principles o! British justice lu lts adwlth or ln sympathy with such strike, and If, ministration.
whihe they are so aselembled.
As soon as an unlawful act is conitted
Hon. MNr. BEIQUE-I arn in a position to
It Is a policeman's duty to arrest tbe person.
sny that 1 submltted the Bill to one of tbe
By tbis Bill you want to punisb the cause
judges who is clîarged with the administraand the effect. You wnnt to punisb the
thon of crîminal justice ln Montreal and that
cause, the meni :sseînibing. - Tlîey bave a
approbation,
Bill says tbey the mnensure received bis entire
rlght to*assemble, but the
and havhng had experience of the difficulty
have committed an unlawful act, ln s0
with cases of that kind, It is on
dolng. The very moment tbey commit an of deahing
th.at experience lie expressed to me bis high
unlawful nct tbey are hiable to an arrest for
an unlawf ni act, and thîs Bill wants to apprecifitioni o! the Bill.
punlsh them also for having assembhed.
Hlon. Mr. POIRIER-I shahl demaud a vote
They will be punished twilce practically for
on this Bihl nt ail events. I consider it evil
the same act. It is superfinons. As soon
remhnds me of that
as tbree or more persons are gathered to- legialathon and it simply
law whicb was passed during tbe French
gethier in connection with a strike-tbat Is
les susail covered by the common law or the revoluthon of 1791-3-the Loi contre
It will open a door that it is not
pects.
statutes of this country.
desirable to open, and, as the bon. gentleand sufficiently man says, It ha on the face of It against the
Honi. 11r. POIRIER-Yes,
so.
spirit o! British Institutions. I shahl demand
judges a vote on this question and record my voice
Hon'. 31r. cLoRAN-Our crhmiiiai
ln Montreal needed no such Bill to punish anainst it.
Han. Mr. MeMULLEN.
amendnient

friend.

110w

submitted by my

JULY 10, 190â
Hon. Mr. COFFEY, from the c9mmittee, in the erection of dry-docks. From turne
reported that tliey Iiad made saine progress ta turne the subsidies and the conditions atwith the Bill.
tached have been rather enlarged.
The
first -instance that we have of parliament
BILLS INTRODUCED.
granting a subsidy ta dry-docks, wvas li
Bill (141) An Act respecting the Medicine 1882, Chap. 17. Two per cent was then
Hat and Northern Alberta Railway Coin- authorized ta be paid for twenty years, on
dry-docks, and lu no one year w~as the
pany.--(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (166) An Act ta Incorporate the amount ta be pald to any particular dock,
In 1899 the 2
Gasp4é and Western Rahlway Company.- ta be larger than $10,000.
per cent was revived, and the amaunt was
(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
flot to excred. $20,O0-practically double.
This amendment ta the Act authorizes
SECOND IREADINGS .
a subsidy not exceeding 3 per cent per anBill (46) An Act respecting the Kingston num-that les, Increasing It 1 per cent-on
and Pembroke Raiiway Company.-(Hon. the cost of the wark during twenty years,
Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
provided the subsidy shail not exceed $30,Bill (131) An Act to incorporate the Mar- 000 per annum.
The lmmediate demand
coni Wireless Telegraph Company of Can- for this Increase arase frora the fact that In
ada, Limlted.-(Hon. Mr. Dnndurand.)
the maritime provinces It becaine necessary
Bill (150) An Act to Incorporate the Column- ta erect docks of a larger character, and the
bia River Improvement Company, Limited. city of St. John will contibute towards the
dock ln that city. It wlll be large enough
-(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
ta aliow the largest vessels that corne ta
Bill (156) An Act ta lncorporate the Montreal-Longueul Bridge Company.-(Hon. Mr. Canada ta be repaired in the dry-dock, and
that Is the ontcome of taiis legisiation.
Béique.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
Bill (161) An Act ta confer on the Commissioner of Patents certain powers for the re- there any uit ta the amount ta be paid
lief of the WVoolfe Valve Gear Company. for the construction of these dry-docks ?
-(Hon. M.Nr.
Landerkin.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thlrty thousand dolBill (165) An Act to incorporate the Al- larsgonquin Lumber and Power Company, LimHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unIted.-(Hon. Mr. McHugb.)
derstand that. It says $30,000, -but it miglit
Bill (V) An Act for the relief of Ellen go on for ten years.
MicDermid.-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Oh, yes, twenty years.
The Senate adjourned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
far have they succeeded in the construction
of the dry-dock at St. John ? In wbat state
THE SENATE.
ls the dry-dock atSt. John as ta Jts compleOttawa, Friday, July 10, 1903.

tion ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think It is
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
under construction yet. 1 think they have
o'clock.
slmphy been mnking llnancial arrangements
Prayers and routine proceedings.
for It, and making arrangements w.lth the
ENCOURAGEMENT 0F THE CONSTRUC- city and the local gaverninent for advances and a subsidy.
Perbaps the hon.
TION 0F DRY-DOCKS BILL.
gentleman from St. John will be able ta tell
SECOND READING.
us about ItL
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readHon. Mr. ELLIS-I think the difficulty,
ing 0f Bill (178) An Act respecting the en- up ta the present tîme, bas been ta finance
couragement et the construction of dry- ItL The city, as 1 understand it, bas given
docks. He said: Since 1882 the policy of a site ta the promoters, and also an annual
the governinent of Canada bas been to aid grant for a certain perlod, and the province

SENATE
has been no had no dock to put lier Into, and the cousequeuce was that she became totally destroyed. Talking about using the dry-dock
work.
at Halifax, the Bay of Fundy is an importHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then ant sheet of water and It Is too much
to,
lt simply means thet while the -clty have
expect a clty like St. John to have to send
given i site and an annual grant, the subshlps hundreds of miles to be repalred. The
sidy to be pald by the goverament às not
citizens of St. John are qulte wlIllIng to supsumfcient to enable them to make their finply their portion of the cost of the conanclal arrangements to commence the work.
struction of that dry-dock.
They have
I suppose that is the fact ?
given already a. very valuable site for the
Hon. MIr. -SCOTT-That -is the fact.
dock. The corporation of St. John has
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1 eontributed a certain amount per annum,
know there was a great deal of opposition to and I believe our local legisiature also is
the grantlng of a ýsubsldy for the construc- wlllng to give somethlng. Therefore, 1
tion of a dry-dock at St. John.
At the do trust, Instead of having it hanging year
time It -was represented as belng useless and after year, as it has been for the last three
not requlred Iu that part of the Dominion. or four years, that something definite will
The argument was that the dry-dock iii Hall- be doue soon.
fax was quite sufficient for the purpose ln
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-M-Nay 1 ask my
the maritime provinces. WbVlether that be so hon. frlend, the Secretary of State, how
or not, I amn not prepared tid give an opinion, many harbours have taken advantage of
ÂlI I can say Is that I hope it wlll be more this legisiation ? How many places have
useful and more profitable than the elevator applied for assistance under the Act ?
that has been bulit.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Very few. The onlHon. 3hr. DEV'ER-Thfle citizens of St. oxie I can recali at the moment is CollingJohn ought to be better judgeswood.* I think Kingston also got some assistHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not ance, but nt the next stage of the Bill 1
shaIh be able to give definite information
when we are paylng the money.
as to the docks that have received. this asHon. Mfr. DEV'ER-Whose money are we sistance.
paying ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understood. fromi
Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe the hon, gentleman from St. John that no
has done the saine, but tbere

progress yet made or commencement of the

country's money.

Hon. Mr. DEVER-We do not think it
auy compliment at ail. We see our public mnoney expended by the government on
public works in every portion of the Dominion. We see n bridge across the river
at Ottawa here wbere a large amount of
money bas been given and we want public
improvements at St. John. It is our rigbit.
Though our representation is small, we do
not think it is fair that we should not have
our share of improvements.
Wle want a
dry-dock at St. John and we think the goverament of Canada should hel.p us. We
should not be opposed by memnbers from
otiier portions of the Dominion wbo are
nlways anxious for -every cent they caa
get of public money for tbeir own sections.
The people of St. John think we should
havc. a dry-dock. WTe bad a ship of grent
value, about two years ago, damaged and
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

progress has been made with the workthat lt is not under construction yet ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In my opinion
there must be some other work in view besides the dry-dock at St. John, be:cause thereis another change from wbich one would
imply that It is iutended to make the law
applicable to a dock now in progress.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It may be at Collingwood, wbere they are enlarging the dock.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The

impression

ivas conveyed to the House that this legislation was intended to apply altogether to
the city 0f St. John.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, J said that was the
immediate pressure. Representations were
made that it was absolutely necessary 'to
Provide a larger dock on the Atlantic toast,

JULY 10, 1903
and the city of St. John represented that
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It la not made with couthe city ami the province had aidcd the tractors.
It la made with the owncrs of
work.
the dry-dock.
This la a subsidy granted
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I know what my In aid of the construction of dry-docks, nat
hon. friend sai-d very weiI, and the im- pald ta contractors, but paid to owners who,
pression was conveyed to the House that of course, maire the dry-dock.
Hon. Mr. -DeBOUCHERVILLE-The Bill
this legisiation was entirely in the interests
of St. John ànd the maritime provinces. I says :
If
or body
find In the nlnth and tenth Ilnes of clause by1.the any company Council carpe rate approved
Governor lu
as havlng the abilone, It says ' or to complete a dry-dock now lty to perform the work, enters Into au agreei course of construction, &c.' It is plain ment with His Majesty ta construct a dry dock,
dry dock
to my mind that anc of the main objects or to, complete aahl proper now lu course of construction, wlth
and necessary equlpof this legisiation la to give larger assistance meut, mach inery and plant for the reception
veasels, at a place, aud
to some dry-dock that is lu course of con- and repairing of and specifications approved accardiug to plans
by
struction or otherwIse this change wouid the Governor lu Cauncil on a report by the
not; be made lu the iaw. These are the two Minlater of Public Works as sumicieut for the
requirements of the public at such place, the
materlal changes I find made by the Bill. work to be completed within a time ta be limOne is to increese the amount from two to ited by such agreement, then, provlded the
the work accarding to such
three per cent on the cost, anxd the maximum company performs the satisfaction of the Minagreement and to
expeuditure from $20,000 to $30,000, ami the Ister of Public Warka, under the supervision
work
be doue,
other to make this provision applicable to of whose department the Council shahl authorize
the Gavernor Generai lu
may
a dry-dock now In course of construction, the payment, out of any unapproprlated maneys
whlch cannot men the dry-dock at St. John, forming part of the ConsaIidated Revenue Fuud,
of a subsidy not exceediug three per cent per
as we are told that dry-dock bas not been auuum on the cost of the work, during tweutY
co'mmcnced. 1 wamnt ta say that St. John years framn the time of Its campletian, &c.
probably, wlth the single exception of MontIt seema to me, 'by thîs law, without COnreal, bas doue more at the expense of Its sulting parliament, wlthaut hiavlng the
citizens fer harbour Improvements than auy moncy votcd, the gaverumeut may ask a
other city lu Canada, and I qulte agree with person to construct a dry-dock, and will
my hon. frlend behlnd me that there should have power ta pay so much wlthaut the
not be any very severe critlcism levelled et authorlty of parliament. Is nat that go07
an expenditure of this kInd by the federal
Han. Mr. SGOTT-Ycs.
The principle
goverument for the clty of St. John ; at the
same Uie, I thlnk my han. frlend Is scarcely bias been established for more than twcnty
The first Act passed on the
rlght when hie refers to the steamer whlch years now.
was stranded there, as If the bass waa due subject limited It ta 2 per cent and a maxiThat was lu 1882.
to the want o1l a dry-dock. I do not belleve mumi sum of $10,000.
Since that lme parliament bas enhargcd lt
the 'Lake Superior'1 was floated.
on anc occasion, and this ls a furtber enHon. Mr. DEVER-Yes, she was.
largement.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-I know she was
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If that
not floated for nearly a year after she was lo the anly Information I cun get, I cannot
stranded. 1 do not know if she has been approve of the Bill. It la giving the gaverafloatcd yet. She remaincd aground for a ment a riglit that they should not have.
long time, and therefore It was not the lack They shauhd nsk the antharity of parliament
of a dry-dock that caused Uic boss of the ta spend maney.
vessel.
Hion. Mr. DEVER-It la hardiy fair ta
Han. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Before say nothing bas been donc In St. John with
votlng on this Bill, 1 should like to have reference ta a dry-dock. We have had men
some information from the hon. minister. rcpresenting a dry-dock for thrce yeara, and
As I read thc Bill, if the government agree the company bas becn formed ta construct
with the contractor to bild or to finish a a dry-dock just as soon as they cati go on
dry-dock, the goverument have the power to safely.
AUl the preliminaries bave ibeen
pay go ninch per cent on thec cost ?
arranged.
36 -

562

SENATE

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Conilng as I do froni the
city of St. John, I desire to say tiiis. The
law is a general law ln Its scope, and wIll
apply to other places as well as to St. John.
So far as Cqllingwood ls concerned, I think
Collingwood, struggling to get a. dock,
should have the sanie right.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I found îîo fault
wlth ItL

est in this matter, because It lias a tendency
to encourage transportation from that port.
More than that, I see that soine znoneys
have been expended in St. John, whlch, to
iy mind, are not very wisely spent. I
think when the governent make an expenditure they should see that It ls
They
for a good aad proper purpose.
have an elevator there which bas only
had a feNv bushels of grain ln It,
and which has been running two years
and cost a large subii of mouey. Then
they bult a large warehouBe and wharf
there whlch have been little used. They tell
me thiat hardly a vessel goes there. When
money is expended to open Up and benefit
a port, it sbould be wisely and judiciously
expended for the benefit of the port and
the whole country and not for political and
other purposes.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The goverument should
be fully satlsfied that the place requires a
dry-dock. I do not ask for a dry-dock for
St. John uniess the governiment is satistied
that a dry-dock la necessary there for the
shlpping and business of the place, and that
it wIlU be kept ln such a way as to serve
the purpose for whichi it ls iatended. The
city of St. John itseif Io not directly lnterested In it, except so far as Ilt may be
useful for the shipping of the port, and It
Hom. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Th.is
has shown its lnterest by givlng se muucb
Bill ls simp]y granting a subsidy of $600,000
mouey for a time..
to any port desirous of building a dry-dock.
Hon.- 81r MACKENZIE BOWELLr-Could That is really what It means.
the hon. Secretary of State tell us how
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The government bas to
much these dry-docks are likely to cost ?
*be satisfied that there ls a necessity for It.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It depends on the size;
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unfroni $400,000 Up to a million. The largest
one was calculated to be about a million derstand that. I am looking at tbe Bill as
dollars.
it la presented before us. We are granting
a year for twenty years-$600,OO,
hundred thou- $30,000
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Eight
~Which Io simply a bonus to any port or any
sand.
parties who desire to construct any dryHon. Mr. PEItLEY-There is no port ln dock ln the Dominion.' That ls really what
the Dominion of Canada that a dry-dock it means, and it is only payable in the way
would be such a benefit to as the city of of Intereat so as to enable the parties who
St. John. It ls a port the year round. It Is construct the works to negotiate and finance
mot Ilke Montreal, locked up haif the year the undertaking.
by ice. St. John is a winter port and 1
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It is not neknow the shipping men would be very much
ls
more wllling to bring their vessels to St. cessarily $30,000 for twenty years. That
the maximum amount, the three per cent.
John, If there was a dry-dock at that port se
that vessels could be repaired If injured. It
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-That
la a rIsky thlng for vessels to go Into a port Is three per cent. That is very valuable
like St. John and- know that there la no Information.
chance to get theni repaired, and I think
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The hon. gentleIt: would be a general benefit to the whole of
mnan stated that we were voting to e-xpend
Canada. It ls the port wbere we send our
cattie, grain and varlous products to be $600.
shipped ln the winter season when we eauHlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I say
not ship from Montreal, and thereforç I distinctly that will be the resuit of the passthlulk iL is a wise provision te have a dry- lng of this Bill, and it will enable the pardock at St. John, wbether the company ties at three per cent to borrow a million
rucceed in constructing the work or not. of money. 1 arn not finding fault with ut,
'The government should take a great Inter- 'but that is exactly what It provides. It is
Hon. Mi,. DEVER.

JUIY 10, 1903
ail very well to say a dry-dock may not
cost that amount, and we wiil flot have to
pay it. But it says you wiii pay three per
,cent on the value of the dock If it does flot
exceed $30,000. The dock might cost a
million and a hait and then it would not
cost three per cent.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
SUPPL'Y BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of (Bih -218) An Âct for granting to, Hie
Majesty certain sums of money for the
public service for the financial years ending
respectively the 80th June, 1903, and the
30th June, 1904
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI.-Tbe
hon, gentleman le not going into committee
on this Bill ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
before we proceed there Is one point I
should like ta mention. I deslre to, know,
for the Information of the Senate, the order
ln which these Bille are to bie taken Up.
Ie it at the request of the government or
la the Speaker to, select just what orders hie
pleases ? We have passed over severai
orders and taken up this.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I was very anxious ta
take Up this mesu
lre first and I spoke to,
the Speaker about ItL
Hdn. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
It not be just as well to, speak to the
Senate and not the Speaker, so that we
may ail know what Is going on ? It le
an irregular way of proceedimg wlth business, and the desire ls, apparently, to shove
through measures without an opportunity
of dicussing them. It Is not ln accordance
with our practice and parllamentary usage,
ta, say the least of it and lu the discussion
of every measure eech member should have
the fullest opportunlty of expressing his
opinion, before the Speaker rises and insists
on pushing a matter unduly. 1 draw attention ta this, because I find I have had to,
rise two or three ties, and rise after the
Speaker has risen, which Is flot pleasant to
do, because when the Speaker riscs, the

563

supposition is that the discussion Is over.
1 find that this Bill is for about. $18,000.000.
H on. Mr. SCOTT-I think so, together
with $700,000 odd for the supplementarles
of last year.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thie
total amount la for some $18,000,000, and
the former supplementary was for $5,000,000. That was partialiy for the year ending the SOth June hast, and I see that ln
this Bill there le also a large sum, amountIng to about three quarters of a million, to
meet the expenditure over and above the
appropriation for the year endlng the SOth
of June, and whlle not deslrlng to, discuse
the question fulhy, I want to cahi the attention of the House ta, this Important fact ta
show how completely the government set
solde the Civil Service Act. That Io ail T
desîre to say about ItL 1 find ln the supplementary that we passed, there are no lese
than twenty-two Items that have been paid
ln contravention of the provision of the
Civil Service Act. These Items are accompanied by these words 1
notwlthstanding
anything ln the Civil Service A&ct' Then
ln the supplementaries befQre us, there are
uo lees than thirty-three Items of the samne
character, ma.king over fifty instances, ln
these two supplementaries, of violations of
the Civil Service Act. Then, I hold lnxmy
hand a statement-I do not propose ta read
it at the present moment-o! the number of
times that the Act has been vlolated sInce
1900, Up ta the present time, ln ec departnient. I wili take the opportunity of puttlng
It upon record when the question ls under
discussion at some future time, ln order that
the people may see how littie regard bas
been paid to the provisions o! an Act
solemnhy placed upon the statute-book for
the purpose of preventing irregular Increases of salary, and the payment of moneys
contrary ta that Act. The Items run up ta
thousande and teus o! thousands of dollars.
1 would suggest ta the hon. Secretary of
State as tbese Bills usually came through
his department, that hie should exhibit the
samne consclentlous scruples that bis colleague, the Minister of Customs does. That
lion, gentleman had the Customs Act
changed so as ta permit hlm to make appointments wltbout examizeation, because
lie said his conscience pricked hlm every

SENATE
time he appointed a preventive officer, and
then put him at other work. Preventive
officers can be appointed according to iaw
without an examination. If the iaw lias
been violated. in the manner I have Indicated, to the extent of about fi! ty Items in
these two supplementary estimates, how
much more wiii we find it bas been violated
when we get hold of the estimates. It 'would
be much better to repeai the law altogether,
and let the government have fuli sway, and
~Ucrease salaries, and appoint people just
when and as they please, irrespective of
every consideration.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
passed through Its final stages under suspension of the ruies.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (102) An Act respecting the Red Deer
Valley Haiiway and Coal Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Landerldn.)
Bill (157) An Act to incorporate the Brandon, Saskatchewan and Hudson's Bay Railway Coinpany--(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
Bill (159) An Act to incorporate the Canadian Yukon Western Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (176) An Act to Incorporate the Canadian Transportation and Storage Company.(Hon. Mr. Perley.)

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.)-How will
the slaughter of animais for tuberculosis
be guarded against by municipalities ? Unless the matter Is taken Up and the cattie
are lnspected they may be slaughtered
though suffering from tuberculosis and the
I know there Is
meat; sold to the public.
no protection againet such an abuse ln the
ThIs Bill
province from which I corne.
does not provîde for any case of that kind.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It provides that the
owner ils llabie to be punished.
(B.C.)-The
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
The animal Is
trouble Is to catch hlm.
kiled and the diseased meat is put on the
market.
On clause 2,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-t know there are
some changes made ln subsection 2 o! clause
2.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The changes are slmply
la the placing o! the dIseases ? There are
no diseases added.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There Is one disesse which the hou, gentleman may be able
to tell us the name of, 'contaglosa.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is merely giving
pleuro-pneumonla a larger name, that la ail.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Texas fever le
somethlng we have not had previousiy ln
the law, and I notIce also that splenetlc
fever Ie left out. I know a new llght bas
been taken Int 'o the Department of Agriculturc, Dr. Rutherford, and as new brooms
sweep dlean we ought to know what he le
dolng.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-This Is a very Important Bill, and there is one noticeable omis@ion ln lt, and that Is, you do flot provide
any compensation to the man who loses the
animal. Unlees this is doue you will neyer
be able to successfuily stamp out disease
from the herds o! the country.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, there is comnpensation provlded for.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-The menao. I bave on
my notes bere is that there is no change lu
the diseases enumerated here. The changes,

ANIMAL CONTAGIOUS DISEASES ACT
ALMENDMENT BILL.
IN COMMITTESI.
The House resolved Itaelf into a Commlttee
of the Whoie on Bill (194) An Act respecting infectious or contaglous diseases affecting animaIs.
(In the Comm.ittee.)
Hou. Mir. SCOTT-The main feature of
the Bill is giving more power to the minister. It was found where he had to get
autbority from counci for certain proceedlngs, ln the ineantime harm was being done,
and one of the main features of the Bill is
to give the minister power to act and after
acting, to go to council to confirm bis action.
In the appointment o! dnspectors the same
In the interpretaprincipie wiil prevail.
if any, are in the name.
tion clause there is realiy nothing new. The
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Splenetic fever le
ln the placing
clause is somewbat altered
It
of the varions diseases, but tbere is no par- left out and Texas fever le introduced.
ticular change la subsection '.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEJ..L.

may be the same disease for ail I kniow.

JULY 10, 12Q3

565

or lnHon. Mr. SCOTT-The change le ln the commonly exposed for sale, any clerk market,
spectar, or other officer of the fair or
subsection, which ls new.
or any constable or policeman, or any ather per2. Âny veterlnary surgeon practising ln Canada shahl, lmmediately on ascertainlng that an
animal Io labourlng under an Infections or contaglous disease, give similar notice to the mainIster and ta the neareat veterlnary Inspector.
The clause waz adopted.
On clause 7,
7. Every persan who selle or disposes of, or
pute off, or offers, or exposes for sale, or attempts ta dispose of or put off any animal lnfected wlth or labauring under any infectiaus
or contaglaus disease, or the meat, skmn, bide.
hara, hoofs, or other parts of an animal infected wit.h or labouring under any infectiaus

or cantaginus disease at the time of Its death,

whether such persan la the owner of the animal, or of such meat, skia. hide, borna, hoofs
or other parts of auch an animal, or not, @hall,
for every auch offeace, Inzur a penalty not axceedlng two huadred dollars.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-There le a change ln
The words ' known by hlm
the tWrd Une.
to be infections'1 are struck out. This law

la much more positive and arbItrary. It
was found those wards belng In, everybody
A man knaws
was shlelded practlcally.
very well when an animal la dlseased, and
the wards 'known by hlm ta be affected '
gave hlm an opportunity of denying he
knew nnythlng about It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I thlnk It la quite
possible the owner of an animal mlgbt be
perfectly Innocent of any knawledge of the
Howanimal belng lnfected with disease.
ever, I do not know that I would abject ta
it, because I thInk under any cîrcumstances
he shauld prove he was Innocent ln the Intention.
Han. Mr. PERLEY-It takes a very skilf ul mnn to know whea an animal ha. tubercubasis.
The clause was adapted.
On clause 10,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In this clause ' Governor

o
ln Couaclla atruck out and the word 1 min-

san authorlzed by the mayor or reeve, or by
any justice of tbe peace having jurladiction la
the place, or sny persan autharized or appointed by the Miaister, may seize the animal and

report the neizure to tbe mnayor or reave, or to
aay justice of the peace havlng juriadîctian ln
the place ;and auch mayor, reeve or justice or
persan authorized or appolnted by the miaister,
may, after veterinary exainination and verification, cause the animal, together with any
pens, burdles, tranghs, litter. hay, straw, or
ather articls which be judges ikely to have
been lnfected tbereby, ta ba fortbwith destroyed,
or otherwiae disposed of, ln sucb manner as
ha deema proper, or as la directed, as pravlded
by tbis Act.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The cause le a very
serions one and we have ta take very strîngent measures la cases of this kInd.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 12,
Haon. Mr. SCOTT--Subsection two provides that grade animals shaîl be pald for,
and ln the case of pure-bred animal. sixty
dollars Is allowed.
Haon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
from Wolseley will see It la In thîs clause
that the provision la made for compensation
and It ls a little mare liberal than under the
aid iaw.
12. The Gavernor in Council may order a
compensation ta be paid ta, the awnera of animals alaugb.tered under the provisians of tbls
ACt.
2. When the animal a3laughtered la affected
with infections, or contagions, disease, the compensation, If any, shaîl be ane-third of the
value of the animal before It heoame so0affected,
but shaîl not exceed, la the case of grade animals, twenty dollars, aad la the case of purebred animals, aixty dollars.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It ts a very small
compensation.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes,
than It was.

but larger

The clause was adopted.

On clause 18,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The word 'anspect'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is It flot a little
in this clause Is new.
hard that a man should be under these
penalties merely for a auspicion ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I notice ail
10. if any animal infected wltb or labouring through the Bill It proposes ta allow%
action
under any Infectious or contagions disease, or
disposed ta be taken On suspicion, bath In this clause
suspeeted of being so affected, le; sold,
of, or put off, or la exposed or offered for sale ln eighteen and la others.
any place, or la brought or attempted ta be
brought for the purpose of being exposed or
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-That la the main feataffered for sale ln any market, fair or ather
publie place where ather animale are ure of the Bill.
open or
Ister'1 le substltuted.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That It allows the hon. gentleman suggests. I cannot Imagine an inspector with good menuse and audgproceedings to be taken on suspicion ?~
ment wbo would commit thue error the hon.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
gentleman points out, but If he dlid, either
Mr. FERGUSON-Is there anything the government or the inspector sbould
Hon.
in1 the Bill which makes the inupector or comVeflsate tbe owner.
veterlnary responsîble for the. very serlous
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is more than
damage done to the owner If he unwarrant- ever necesary we should be cauticus, beably makes a report or acte on suspicion. cause 1 heard Dr. Rutherford make this
One can Imagine a case where a man may sweeping declaration, that a large portion of
be ruined ln bis business from the inspector tuberculosis ln the buman fami.ly was due
acting on mere suspicion that a herd le to the milk of the cow. W. know that Dr.
dIseased. We know that ln parts of tbe coun- Koch, the greatest authority on the subject,
try veterinary surgeons bave run simply bas pronounoed the opinion that animal
crazy on Ma subjeet of tuberculosIs. Tbey tuberculosîs la flot capable of being combave been getting back to more sober ground municated to the buman system at ail. That
lately, but some years ago tbey requlred lu Dr. Koch'u opinion after a great deai of
tuberculosis tests ln very many cases. 1 Investigation, witb ail the facilities that
notice in this BII, due I suppose to the In- could be placed at bis disposai by the govfluence of the new official that bas been
ernment of Germany. That being so, and
placed ln charge of these matters ln tbe knowlng the very extreme views that Dr.
Department of Agriculture, there lu a tend- Rutherford bas held on this subject, we
ency to exaît a mure suspicion Into an es- should proceed cautlously. 1 want to speak
tablshed fact. Now, mnppouing a veterin- wîth due respect of the veterlnary prof esary, or an inspector, reports a whole berd sIon but we know that profession does not
as being infected wlth tuberculouls, and al stand on a very hîgb plane in this country.
this proceus o! condemnlng and slaughtering I have no doubt It doeu ln some other counthe berd happens, a man may be over- 'tries. We flnd a tendency among the veteri-wbelmed witb ruis praetically. There le
maries to magnify the danger-that lu ana provision tbat If it found that tbe pro- other way of magnifying their own proceedingu were wrong, be shall be pald uuch f ession. Tii. greateut possible care abould
compensation as tbe Governor ln Council be taken when passing an Act of this kind,
inay settle as the value of thc berd, but insplred as It lu by a gentleman of this
there should be compensation for damage profession wbo le anxious, no doubt, to comdone under such circumutances. I am not mit the government to the very extreme
apeakIng of a matter that is mot llkely to position whicb he himuelf bas taken on this
arise, for we know uucb Incidents have oc- question, and whicb lu unwarranted to-day
curred, and we know by attacbing too mucb by tbe Judgment of tÉe highest scientists
Importance to this tuberculin test animais of the word.
bave been condemned as Infections and
slaughtered wlth serions consequences to *Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the hon. gentleman
the owner. There ought to be some pro- bas followed the controversy on the subvision that the Inspector shouid be beld ject o! the transmission of tuberculosis
responsible, or there sbould be some compen- through the mllk o! the cow, be will find
sation to the owner If It be found that a that more than Dr. Rutherford entertain
valuable herd bas been needlessly destroyed. that vlew. It is a question in dispute among
Not only shouid he be recompensed, but sclentiflc men on the other side of the Atlantic. Those wbo taire an interest in the
damages should be pald.
subject are not yet satlafied whicb. lu the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My bon. friend recog- correct view.
2ulzes the great importance of acting promptHon. Mr. FERGUSON-The stateinent I
W. muet trust
ly wbere disease existe.
to the good sense and the sound judgment mfade was that Dr. Koch, who stands at
o! the officiais ln, charge. A man lu lable the very head of Investigators on this subto make mistakes, but the cases must be ject, put himself on record only a littie
rare where he would commit the indîscretion more than a year ngo as being of the opMon. Mr. SCOTT.

i ULY 10, 1903
inion-lie could flot say it was absoiutely
settied-that tubercuiosis as it exists in the
bovine family 15 flot communicable to tlie
human famiiy. He proved beyond any
doubt, as lie reported, that human tuberculoais was flot communicable to the bovine
famlly. 0f course, he could flot pursue the
same test ta prove the__opposite of that proposition. It would flot be possible to get
human beings ta submit tliemseives ta the
application of a test by baving bovine tubercuiosis communicated to tleir systema lI
any way, and therefore lie could flot corne
to what wouid be calied an absolute conclusion on tlie subject; neverthless, lie
gave a great many reasons whicli led hlm
ta say tliat, in lis opinion there was strong
reason to beieve that It was flot so communicable, and that there was fia absolute
evidence to prove that It was. 1 ouly mention that as Incidentai to this, irnowing, as
I do, tlie extreme position that Dr. Rutherford lias taken upon this question, and
kaowing, as 1 do, that the present Minister
of Agriculture was carrled away some years
ago on tliis subject, so mucli so that he got
lu conflict wltli tlie best men iii Canada
representing the farmers of the country,
among the rest, the Hon, John Dryden, Minister of Agriculture for Ontario, wbo differ.ed entirely from hlm on the subject. Therethere shouid lie great care
fore, I tllk
taken that we do not go too far In allowing herds to be conxlemned on mere suspicion on the part of those veterinaries, or
by the inspectors appoiated by the Minister
of Agriculture.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-it is well knawn that
tlie officiais wlio are cliarged with the enforcement of these laws are very rigid, and
furtlier than that there Is a disposition ta
have ail legisiation so easy that whatever
tliey do they wlI have a law for it. 1 know
something of matters whidh aecurred In New
Brunswick wltli regard ta cattie In that
way, and I think great Injustice was done.
There sliouid be Somle saving clause In tlie
Bill. We have passed the 7th clause: that
was an unjust section, for It daes not give
a man an opportunity ta show wiiether lie
la 'acting properiy or improperly. I would
suggest ta the lion. Secretary of State that,
looking over the whle subjeet, he miglit
find it passible ta get ln the Act somewliere

a saving clause, ta get over the difficulty,
because when the cattie belonging to these
unfartunate people become diseased, they
are subject ta great straits. 'Tlieir cattie
are sacrlflced for the public gaod. I trust
the hon. Secretary of State wiii tliak It
over, at any rate, and see wlietlier there
could not be a saving clause ta pravide for
many of those cases.
The clause was adopted.,
On clause 19,
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-Wlio ia going to
take tlie responaibility of the damage resuiting, even suppaaing no animal lias been
slauglitered, when a man's lierd lias been
improperly deciared ta be affected witli the
disease ? My lion. frlend, the Secretary of
State, can refiect what that meaua ta a
man with a very valuable lierd, wlio depends upon sales ta breeders In ail parts
of tlie country. Suppoaing an unfoundeZI
report la made against his herd, and It Is
afterwards found It was aIl a miatake, tliat
the Inspector was entirely wrong, the most
serious consequences would resuit to that
man, and certainly, as rny lion. friend from
St. Jalin lias pointed out, tliere sliould lie
some pro vision for such cases. 1 know
tliere is a provision that If an animal whicii
Is not infected Is siaughtered, tlie owner
gets the value of tlie animal, but that does
not caver the lass ta breeders of pure-bred
stack, wliere tlie value of animais is up
la the liundreds. wliere tlie suspicion 15
fastened an a man's*herd and the report
goes ail over the country. It means an
absolute suspension of sales by lilm to
other breeders for a considerable tîme.
Wliere sucli a thing as tliat Is done wantonly and lgnorantly, by an inspector, there
sliouid be some remedy, besides paying
liim ait a prîce the minister may fix, which
may not cover haîf tlie value of the particular animai ta him. The mînister couid
*not go up ta the reai price of a higli bred
animal imported from the oid country.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause lias been
in force silice 48-49 Victoria. 1 do nat know
wliy my han. friend aliouid iay sa mucli
stress on IL.
Haon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is made mucli
atronger than it was. Form2rly it lied ta

SENATE
its officers, find out the infected area. It
las ta be described. Where is that description ta be filed, so that the public may
see it ? There should be some specified
place. This Is a vague aud indefinite thing.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It may be one locality
in one towuship, and it may be a different
locality ln another. You cannot lay down
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-That was under an arbitrary or positive rule. It must bej
the local law.
governed by the occasion that arises.
(B.C.)-And
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
Hon. Mr. FERGTJSON-The Infected area
whetber the cattie were dlseased or flot no- will be dlifferent ln one part fr.om another,
body could say.
but there should be some place named where
the description o! the infected place may
The clause was adopted.
be ftled, so that owners of cattie would
On clause 22,
know what was the lnfected place.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This clause reads
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I apprehend
as follows :
the name of the place will lie mentioned
The area of an lnfected place may, ln any case, ln the specificatian-the infected district.
be descrlbed by refereuce ta a mnap or plan de- You could flot name it any more distinctly
posited at sorne speclfied place, or by reference
ta townships, parishes. farms, or otherwlse.
here.
la the old law
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That
Hou. Mr. POWER-If the hon. gentleman
word for word.
will look at clause 21, he will see that It Is
of clause 22
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But an old law la provided for, and the object
le to provIde that the Infected place may lie
not always a right law, and we are flot ta
assume that absolute Infallibllity bas gulded marked on a map.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It seems ta me you
the Department of Agriculture as ta what
parts of the old law should lie amended. could flot get a better description. We do
Sbould there not ibe proviilded. some post not want ta narrow ItL
office, or some speclfic place ? That 15 s0
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Is there no place
Indefinite that It might mean nothing.
in the Bill where this Infected area la ta
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume they will lie described, and the public are ta have
notice 10w far It extends or what herds It
adopt the beat measures possible.
cavera ? I sbould tink that would just
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Sureiy when we lie the place ta have It. I fail ta see what
corne across an expression ln the law s0 Is the abject of declarlng a certain area ta
vague and meaninglesa as that, we 6hould lie described, and the public are ta have
amend it.
descrlbed by reference ta a inap or somethere l8 no provision in the Bill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those who bave had thing, but
of the Act by which that description can be made pubcharge of the administration
lic, so that the people can get the beneflt
say they think it Is flot possible to give
of the Information.
any better description, because they deflne
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The very clause
the actual lot and concession in the townwe are dealing with provides for that.
ship.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I am advised that no
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But difficulty bas ever been found ini deflning
the clause Is optional.
the area. No one bas ever made any comnHon. Mr. SCOTT-If the bon. gentleman plaint.
can make it more definite, 1 should be
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is the hon. gènglad.
tieman sure of that ?
be something more than a suspicion, but
now It may lie done merely on suspicion.
Hon. Mr. MÂCDO>NALD (B.C.)-Â mnan ln
Victoria had forty cattie kflled la a few days
under the local Act. Hle got nothlng but
what the government gave hlm as a matter
of benevolence, and it was a great hardshlp.

H on. Mr. SCOTT-I am told s0 by a gel'Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-First there is ain
lnfected area set ont. The department or tleman ln the department.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JUUI
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I know It le a
subject of heartburn among farmers and
importers of stock. They have been put
to a vaet arnount of unnecessary trouble,
and I tbink there should certainly be nmrething inserted ln the Act, perbapa flot lu tbis
dlause, but In sorne part of the Act, that
when an area, is found to be Infected, and
descrlbed on a map as provided here, there
sbould bie notice given of smre character or
another, so that ail luterested would know
how far that area extended.

10, 1903

569

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Would It bie tbe saine
now dunany two different places ? If you
defined a place that -would suit one locallty,
it rnight flot suit another locality. It wouid
not bie a public place, it rnight bie too remote, or there might bie some objection.
Eàch case muet bie governed by the circurnetances attendlng It.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Suppoeling thie dîsease should, be discovered In
any particular township, what would bie
the hardsblp lu requiriug tbe notification
Hon. Mr. POWER-I muet say 1 cannot to be given du the place where the Infected
se the source of the difficulty. Under clause cattle are located ?
20 the Inspector makes a declaration which
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Certaluly It would bie
constltutes the place an iufected place.
No doubt of it.
Then hie glves the notice to, the parties fin- given there.
Tiien nder seoý Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
medlately interested.
tion 21 the area of the infected pilace, rnay le ail my hou. frlend asked. This clause
ln ail cases, by a declaratiou by the minister, leaves It optional wltb the parties to, select
Include a common field, stable, cowsbed, or the place iu whIch this notice eball 'be given,
other premises lu which Iufections or conta- or advertlsemeut published. If It Is lu Osgious disease bas been fouud to, exIist, and goode; should not the notice bie given there?
such au area as to the minleter rnay seem SupposIng the Mînister of Agriculture
And section 22 ays that the should. decide that the specified place ehould
requisite.
area of an infected place may lu any case bie in Nepean or lu the city of Ottawa, wliat
bie descrlbed by reference to a rnap or plan then-? That la the whole of the point my
deposited at some special specified place or hon. friend bas tried to make, and the arguby refereuce to townships, parishes, feames ment bas been beatIng round the buah.
That la in order to, make
or otherwise.
Hou. Mr. SOOTT-I understa nd the pracIt clearer lu what region or district the farm
tice of the departrnent le that where a fani
ls. Section 21 provides for the description
of the infected place, the field or f arm ; and la lufected, the notice las erved on the owner.
then ln 'order to makte the matter clearer hiniseif, and that where several are aff ected
section 22 says this area niay bie descrlbed It le publlsbed ln aIl the newspapers lu the
That le wbere
by reference to a map or plan, whicb plan or locaiity ln that district.
map, ls to bie deposited lu some specified several farmne are affected.
place, or If not by rnap or plan, then by
Hou. Mr. McGREGOR-Is It the Intention,
refereuce to townships, parishes, ferme or wbere several farmne are lnfected, to, bnlng
otherwise, 1 do not see how we can do tbern ail together Iu one place ?
better than that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, tbis le the anHou. Mr. FERGUSON-Where is the pub- nouncement lu the uewspaper.
Ilcation ?
Hou. Mr. POWER. I suggest to the bon.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It is lu the nevrepapers. Secretary of State that clause 22 slhould bie
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is there any. pub- held over w4th a view to eelectiug nmre
particular place where these notices could
lication at ail ?
As a mule tbere le a post
bie posted up.
The de- office, or scbool-house, not very far from the
Hon. Mr. POWER-Apparentiy.
claration of the minister muet bie mnade pub- residence of auy fermer, and I thluk lt le
lic, I suppose.
womtb whlle conslderlng wbether sorne proHlou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But vision might not be made for the postiug
tbe objection le that it le flot sufficently of the notices for the Information of the
specl-fic as to wbere that notification shall people lu tbe district. Publication lu the
newspapers le expeusive.
bie put up.

SENATE
be the means of
'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If there is any reason, and attending them, may
comxnunicatiflg disease.
I will allow the clause to stand, but I amx
advIsed that there Js no compiaint against
The clause was adopted.
Where a law bas been ln operation
It
on clause 26,
twenty-five or thirty years, some one should
know If it has flot worked satisfactorily.
Hion. Mr. FERGUSON-I just wanted to,
Mr. FERGUSON-I do not know that cai my hon. frlend's attention to this clause,
Hon.
I can point to any Instance of complaint or and to clauses 30 and 39. 1 see no reason
harin arising with regard to this particular whatever why clauses 26 and 30 should not
matter, but I do kno.w that tbe whoie ques- be put into one clause. There is a great
tion of the operation of the Contagious deal of verbiage ln this Bull, and this is an
Diseases Act, and the enforcement of it by Instance of ItL If my hon. friend will look
the government, bas given rIse to a great at clauses 26, 30 and 39, he will see that they
deal o! trouble, and a great deal o! diffi- deal wlth bay, straw, and so forth, and
culty and henrt-burning, and loss of money whlle section 39 may be necessary, because
I know that it provides for the penalty, I see no reason
to the owuers o! live stock.
case, and a great deal of dIffi- why one section should uot cover the whole
bas been the
culty bas been tbrown 4u the way of Im- of ItL Clause 26 reads ae foliows :
portation. That being the case, It is worth
26. Whenever under this Act a place bas been
live animal,
my bon. frlend's while to bold the clause constituted an Infected place, nohair. wool or
nor the flesh, head, hide, skin,
over.
offal of any animal or any part thereof, nor the
any remains of any animal, nor any
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wlll do so. This law caresse, nor
dung of animais, nor any hay, straw, litter or
enforce ln our other tbing commonly uaed for and about anile a most difficuit one to
place,
There ls a kick agaInst It not mals, shaîl be removed out of the Infected
country.
a license eigned by an Inspector aptbe United without as aforesaid, until said place bas been
only ln England, in Germany and
pointed
States, but lni ail parts. It la a difficult law reieased by order of the, minister.
to enforce, because a mani who has a valuTiien clause 30 rends as follows
able herd would run the risk o! suppresslng
time to time.
30.
the knowledge that a disease had got Into make The minister may,as fromhim seem necesto
such regulations
ln the hope that he mlght In some sary for preventing the removal of live anibis herd,
any anior
way recover the animal and flot allow It mals, or the bide, skin, haïr, offal of
any part thereof, the caressa or any
that mals
There ls always
to become public.
remains of any animal, any dung of animais,
d4ffliculty lu euforcing an Act o! this klnd. and any hay, straw. litter or other thingancomlnfor or about animais. out of
It la not peculiar to Canada. Âny one ln- monly used witbout a license signed by an
fected place,
jurlously affected by àt naturally kicks inspector or other officer appolnted as aforesaiS.
against the law.
The one clause provides that this thing
The clause -was allowed to stand.
cannot be doue without the certificate of the
On clause 25,
inspector, and the other provides that the
ls a change minister may make a regulation from time
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There
ln clause 25. The word 'person' was ln- *to trne preventlng Its belng done. The two
troduced as If a person migbt be the meanE clauses are absolutely unnecessary. I do
not know whether clause 39 is Bo absolutely
of communicatixig the 'dUlsease.
unecessary as the others.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-That la so.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No ;39 was ln the law
Hon. Mr. PER43USON-I thougbt for th(
and there le no change. There js
-before,
moment that the word 'person ' -was intro
lu clause 30, and this clause was
duced for the first time, but it ls not so. Il no change
tconsidered necessary to make It complete.
seems strange te me that even whether Il
is ln the old law or flot, the movixig of per
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It may be necessons by raulway or otherwise should be lin -sa7ry to retain clause 39 ; but 30 and 26 are
terfered with.
miere verbiage and not necessary. It would
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-A person hanidliii Sbe easy to make one section whlch would
infected anlimais, who la moving ab.out theu Scover the ground.
Hlon. Mr. P'OWER.

JULY 10, 1903
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
prevents a man from removing straw and
stuif from an Infected animal and burning
It Up.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-He can do that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No;
flot unless he gets a license.

571

An Act respectlng and restricting Chinese
Immigration.
An Act to amend the Customs Act.
An Act to provide for further advances to,
the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal.
An Act respecting certain aid for the extension of the Canadian Northern Railway.
An Act to, Incorporate the Lumberman's

Hon. Mr. BEIQUJE, from the committee, Fire, Insurance Company.
reported that they had made some progress
An Act to aid ln the settiemont of Railwith the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
way Labour disp)utes.
The House adjourned durbng pleasure.
To these Bis the Royal Assent was pronounced by the Cierk of the Sonate In the
BILLS A8SENTED TO.
foliowing words
His Excellency the Right Honourable Sir
In Hifs Excellency's name, Hlis Exceibency the
Gilbert John Elliot, Earl of Minto and Vis- Governor. Generai doth assent ta these Bil.
count Melgund of Melgund, County of ForThen the Honourable the Speaker of the
far, ln the Peerage of the United Kingdom, Hlouse of Commons addressed His ExcelBaron Minto of Minto, County of Roxburgh, lency the Governor General, as foliows
in the Peerage of Great BritaIn, Baronet of
The Commans of Canada
Nova Scotia, KnIght Grand Cross of the tain supplies required ta have vated the cerenable the governMost DistInguished Order of Saint Michael ment ta defray the expenses af the publie serand Saint George, &c., &c., Governor Gen- vice. In the name af the Cammons, I present.
ta Your Exceiiency the tallawing Billi:
eral of Canada, being seated on the Throne,
An Act for grantlng ta His Majesty certain
certain
The Honourable the Speaker commauded sums af maney required far detraying financiai
expenses af the public service for the
the Gentlemen Usher of the Black Rod to years ending respectively 3Oth June. 1903, and
praceod ta the House of Commons and ac- the 3Oth June, 1904, ta which Bill I humbiy request Yaur Excellency's assent.
quaint that Hanse:
Thon, after the Clerk of the Crown ln
It is His Excellency's pleasure they attend
Chanoery had read the TItie of the Bill,
hlm immediately in this House.
The Cierk of the Senato, by His 'ExcelWho being corne with their Speaker,
The Clerk of the Crown ln Chancery read
the Tities of the Bille to be passed severally, as follows:
An Act to incorporate the Home Bank of
Canada.
An Act resjpeeting the Quebec Bridge
Comipany, and ta, change its naine tu the
Quebec Bridge and Rallway Company.
An Act respecting the Vancouver and
Kootenay Rallway Company.
An Âct tu confer on the CommissIoner of
Patents certain powers for the relief of
James S. McDougall.
.An Act respecting the London and Port
Stanley Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Rocky Mountain
Railway and Coal Company.
An Act to Incorporate the New Canadian
Company, Limited.
An Act to amend Chapter 27 of the Re
vised Statutes, rospecting the Department of
Public Printing and Stationery.

lency's command, did thereupon say
In His Msjesty's name. Bis Exceliency the
Governar General, thanks His layai subjects,
accept their bpnevaience, and sssents ta this,
Bili.

His Excoilency was pleased ta retire, and
The Hanose of Commons withdrew.
ANIMAL CONTAGIQUS DISEASES ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
IN -COMMITTEE.
The Ho use resumod la Committee of the
Wholeconsideration 0f Bill (194) An Act re-

specting Infections or contagious diseases
affecting animais.
(In the Committoe.)
On clause 26,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I want ta ask my
hon. friend If lio wouid allow the twonty-

sixtbi, thirtieth and thirty-nlnth clauses to
stand over nnd call the attention af the dopartinent tu the bad drafting of tho Bill?

SENATE
Clause 26 is inserted as a new clause. It
practically, la other language, says the same
thing as clause 30. Surely the department
can give us better work than thUs.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The note I bave le that
tbey consldered it necessary to cover what
is Implied lu the other clause. You see this
ls a reference to 'wherever in thie Act a
place has been constituted an tuf ected place,'
and under the other clause the minister
makes regulations ror other subjects, s0 it
wae deslgnedly put in with a note that they
thought it was necessary.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They both refer
to the Mame character of places, and not
oniy that, but clause 39 could be Incorporated with the other.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Clause 39 is ln the law
as It le, but they thought It would make tbe
law clearer by insertIng clause 26. It was
done after due consideration. Those who.
have the administration of the Act thought
that Rt was necessary.
It involves no
principle. My hon. frIend thinke it je unnecessary-that It ls merea verbiage, but
eurely If those who have the administratiou of the Act thlnk it neceseary, there can
be no objection to ItL

tion, then a section giving the minister power to prevent the thing already prohibited,
and then a section providing a penalty.
It could ail be put in one, and any one turning It up could get at the whole law at
once. Instead of that, we have the three
sections introduced with ail this redundancy,
describing ail? the details, and for no purpose. When we are passing a law, whether
on contagious diseases or anything else, we
should try to have It fairly constructed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have the reputation
of being rather critical, but I do not sec that
thls Bill le open to the criticism of the hon.
gentleman. It le a perfectly proper thing la
the way of legal drafting that you should
set ont the general principle firet that certain things are unlawful ; that then you
should provide that the minister xnay inake
regulations to carry out that prohibition ;
and, fInally, that you should fix the penalty,
as le done ln section 39, for doing those
thinge. These are three independent thinge.
I am prepared to -go this far with the hon.
gentleman, I think it would be more workmanlike if 30 and 39 were made subeectione
of 26.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That le exactly
Hon. Mr. POWER-Section 26 prohibits. what I amn saying.
It saye that whenever a place has been
Hon. Mr. POWER-They can be made subconstituted an Infectious place, no live ani- sections worded as they nre.
mal, &c., &c., shaîl be removed out of the
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-No ; you could
Infectious place without a license. That is a
general prohibition. Then clause 30 saye get rid of ail the verbiage by making them
that the minister mnay make such regula- subsections.
tions as to hlm eeem necessary for preventHon. Mr. POWER-I do flot think it le
ing the removal of Ilve animale, &c.--other- -worth white amending the Bill ln that way.
wise, for carrying out that prohibition. I
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think it is worth
think we could, get along without it, but
it does no harm, and on the whole is a wvhlle, and it would be a wise thing If we
threw these tbree clauses Into one. For the
good provision.
purposes of reference, how clumey lt le to
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It ls doing harin bave to go to
three places ini the Act to get
If you repeat ln one section practicaliy what
one wunts.
what you have In another-the same thingHon. Mr. POWER-Clause 26 ls under the
any verbiage and redundancy you Introduce
tnto the ýstatutes are there for no good. The general heading ' infected places' ; clause
The other
gentlemen administering the department 30 provides for 'regulatione.'
and their officers xnay think this is a farm- heading le '.powers of inspectors.' I do not
er's Bill, and it le good enough for theni, think that the hon. gentleman's criticismn
but I could find many farmers who could le warranted.
construct better sections than these. There
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WTould
le no necessity for alI these three sections. flot that be accomplished as well by stating
Firet we have a section declaring prohibi- at the bottoin of clause 26 that the minister
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 10, 1903
mnay, froin time to time, make regulations 1Tbat power is given to the minister, le
to carry out the provision of thls section ? 1it flot ?
Hon. Mr. POWER-The regulations corne
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yee.
-under the generai heading ' regulations.'
The CHAIRMAN-To the Governor in
Hoh. Mr. FERGUBON-These headings Council.
are arbitrary, and need not be there at ail.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It le for exempt*Hon. Mr. POWER-The object of the re- ing certain contagious and Infections disgulations le to prevent people doing what eases from certain clauses of the BiIh. The
clause twenty-eix eays ehouid flot be done. fact ie the Governor In Council Io takIng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have received what I power to himeîf there to exempt frorn the
think le realiy a satlsfactory explanation. operation of the Act certain diseases wblch
It was necessary to iay down tt positive are enumerated Ia the Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they are minor
rule on a very Important subject. Unles
the departnient felt It was neceesary to diseases. The explanation of the departmake It more complete, It would flot have ment i. that It le to enable the minîster to
been ineerted here, but those who have to deal wlth the more simple and less dangerons diseases by Order la Councîl. That le
adminieter found it neoessary to do so.
1Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-That does not the object.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-Whatever
meet the case at ail.
the
object le, it le a sweeplng power. In the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those wiio administer
the iaw ought to know beet what is re- regulation tbcy wlll speclfy what clause of
the Act and name the disease, but as far
quired.
as that le conceined they have positive powHon. Mr. FERGUSON-If that be so the er to deal this way wlth any disease and
department ought to pase the law the:n w1th any clause of the Âct. In fact, it gives
selves.
thern power to set the whole Act aside, If
they thlnk fit, wlth regard te certain places
Hon. Air. SCOTT-Not at ail.
or certain diseases.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
the hon, gentleman flot thlnk that the
people who raise the cattie know as much has occurred to suggest the enacting of
about the matter ais the officiais of the de- tixis paragraph 7
partment ?
Hon. M r. SCOTT-I have already stated
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I only complain It le to meet simple cases--cases that onght
not to be proceeded with under the A&ctof the slovenly character of the Work.
simple and lese dangerons cases. It le a
The clause wae adopted.
concessio n to the individual. I arn rather
surprised at the hon, gentleman taking exOn clause 28,
ception to that. He has been fightlng for
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This le a new the individual. This is to except cases where
clause.
no injurions consequences can arise from
ItL
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yee.
HMon. Mr. FERGUSON-I thInk It je a
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I bave polnted
very proper one.
ont that it gives the Governor la Council
power, no matter what the disease may be,
The clause was adopted.
to exempt it froma certain clauses of the
On clause 30,
Act. The clauses are not named. They may
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-Subsection 'K' be the most important la the Act. There
should be some limitation, and if it le inile new.
(k.) For exemiptlng certain contagions and la- tended to, meet apparently harmiese diseases,
fections dîseases fromn the operation of certain there should be somi Indication of it In the
sueciled clauses of this Act, and for deallng
wlth the said diseases as may to hlm seemn ne- clause and not leave it applicable to the
rnost serious diseases. It seems to me that
cesseary and adylsabie..

SENATE
so sweeping a clause as that mlght bave decisions of the department In several cases
the effect of very great favouritîsmn being whh have recently corne before the courts.
exercised.
Hon, gentlemen know that the late Dr.
ob-favouritislfl Tach6 was tbe gentleman who admînlstered
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh,
the Act when it was first brougbt into
in a matter of this klnd !
operation, and he formed certain conclusHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Some farmers are ions as to the meaning of tbe Act, and for
very mucb more influential than others are. thirty years, or more, that was acquiesced
A man might be a very important man and In by the patent solicitors, and by tbe permnight be able to get the ear of the authori- sons Who were obtaIning patents.
ties when others could not and Inspectors
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-With regard to
are oaly buman beings and gnvernments
are flot altogether infallible. 1 think there wbat pointI
should be a iess sweeping discretion than
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Tbere were a number
thils.
of points. There was a case recentiy deHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If you cided lu the courts that wbere a Canadian
add tbe words "the ininor diseases," It took out a patent in Canada and also took
would carry out the Idea.
out a patent In a foreiga country, wben tbe
in solDe first period of the patent ia the foreign
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We can put
rqualifying words if It le desired. I tbink country expired he allowed it to drop, and
my hon. frlend migbt trust the discretion the courts beld that dropping it In a foreign
of tbe government. This is a concession in country be dropped it In Canada, wbicb was
tbe direction the bon. gentleman bas been neyer Intended by the Act, but that was the
arguing for. He bas been argulng tbere Is decision wbicb went to the Prlvy Council.
too mucb power given to tbe officiais lu this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Woiild
Act. Now, when we give power to amello- that be wbere the patent wais for a longer
rate the conditions he finds fault witb It. period than five years ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is usual to take it
bon. gentleman asks altogether too much out for five years and renew for five, ln
,When he requests us to place Implicit trust order to save tbe fee, and wbere it was
lu the government and Its officiais. The taken out for ten years or five years, If the
Minister of Agriculture might bave strong
Canadian patentee who biad taken out a
feelings ln one particular direction, and we
foreiga patent, allowed the foreign patent
ail know wben tbe bead of a department
to drop or lapse, and did not renew It, It
makes a suggestion to, bis officiais it ls likely
involved .also the lapsing of bis Canadian
to be acted on.
patent, wbich was, of course, neyer conTbe subsection was aliowed to stand.
templated, because parties supposed the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE, from tbe committee, Canadian patent w-as to, live for the fif teen
reported that tbey had made solDe progrees or elgbteen years of the original terni by
witb the Bill, and asked leave to sit again. renewing It.
PATENT ACT AMENDMENT

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved tbe second readlng of Bill (184) A&n Act to amend tbe Patent Act. He saad : There are flot very many
Important changes in the law as it bas been
interpreted by tbe courts, but there is a
very great change proposed In this Bill in
the practice which bas been followecl in
the department. The necessity for this
measure arises froni the fact that the courts
bave declared illegal certain rullngs and
Mon. Mr. FERGUSON.

Hon. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWELL-Was
that the dlecision of the court that it ceased
to, have any eff ect in Canada?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It dropped In Canada
In consequence of baving lapsed outside.
Tlien there was another decision. The old
Patent Act authorized the ininister to do
certain thlngs. In the absence of the minister, the commissioner of patents used to do
certain thing-s, and in bis absence thie chief
The
clerk acting- for the commissioner.
court held there were no such powers under
the Act, that whatever had to, ha done, mnust

575

JULY 10, 1903
be done by the person named in the statute,
the coxnmissloner of patents. Then another point: In the Patent Act, as hon.
gentlemen ail know, persons taklng out a
patent In Canada are obllged to manufacture
within two years:; the law requires that
unless they manufacture the article ln Canada they lose their right ; that is, a foreigu
patentee taking ont a patent in Canada was
obliged to manufacture w.ithin two years,
aud tbe statute read ' or within much ifurtber
tine as the bead of the department may
order.' It hadl been the practice of the department to extend the Urne for manufacturing for two, years, and the departmeut
construed the Act to mean that a further.
time could be granted after the expiration
of two years. The courts have held that
*wben the commIssioner exercised his power
by allowing the term of two years to expire bis power was gone.

had gone on for so many years, that as far
as possible, they should place the persons
in the position the department desired to
place them under the construction of the
Act Those are the principal features, and
-we wlll have an opportunity of discuseing
tbem ln committee.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SEXÂTE.
Ottawae, Mfon4ay, July 13, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

TRANSPORTATION 0F GRAIN PROM
THE NORTH-WE ST.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
the present Act give the power to the minINQUIRY.
Ister ?
Hon. Mr. PERLEY ciWed the attention
thnk t ges ack
Hou Mr SCTT-o,
f the goverument to the question of transIohn tgosb
thoner liCtt-on
portation and lnquired :
to te oe liitaion
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-That
1. Whether a commission bas been appolnted,
and If not. will one be apvointed to consider
Is wbat It ought to do.
aud report upon the subjeot, and If no, who are
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is rather to cure the commissionere and wh*at la tbeir respective
business occupations ?
cases o! that kind that this Bill bas been
2. Is the government aware that the crop
decisions of prospects lu Manitoba aud -the North-west TerIatroduced, to overcome those
good this year ;also,
the courts, and to allow the department, ln ritoa'ies are exceptlonalay towards preventing. a
are they taking action
cases where no bardship bas arisen, to be block in grain Erhipments similar to that which
placed lu the position that the department has exiated during the past two seasons of
1901 and 1902 ?
intended they sbould. For instance, If a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-An Order lu Council
party allowed the two years to pass over,
and hie then applied to the department for wvas approved on the 19th May, 1903, apan extension of the time to manufacture, pointing a commission for the purpose of
and the department granted hlm an ad- makiug inquiry as to the best means for
ditional two years, and he did not manufac- affording facilities for the transportation
ture.till the second term of two years, un- of tbe -products of the Nortb-west Terrider the decision of the courts be would have tories to the sea-board. The commissioners
iost his right absolutely, altbough the -de- appointed were Sir William Van Horne, of
partment assumed they were giving hlm the city of Montreal, John Bertram, o! the
that extension 'wlthin whlcb to commence city of Toronto, builder of vessels. and
bis manufacture. It wouid be rather a hard otberwlse Interested iu transportation, and
case that a man sbould be deprived of bis Harold Kennedy, agent ln connection with
patent by that decision, and wbere no one shipplng on the Atlantic. Sir William Van
else bas started to manufacture, and no Homne bas since then. signlfied bis inabilty
injurions consequences could arise, it would to tiake part. No successor bas been apseem only right and proper, as the depart- pointed to take bis place, lu tbe hope that
ment ltself was «to biame lu the Interpreta- Sir William Van Horne might be enabled
tion of the law, and that Interpretation to perform the duties assigned to hlm. The

SENATE
government are fully aware of the necessity
for providing facilities for transportation in
that section of the country and bave taken
every means wltbin their power to meet
tbe exigencies. Hon, gentlemen wlll knowI need flot remlnd them-tbat early last
year the government authorized an Increase
ln capital, tbrough parliament, to the Canadian Pacifie Rallway of twenty million
dollars. 0f this twenty million It was stipulated that either ten or eleven million were
to be expended ln rolling stock, englues
sud cars. As hou. kentiemen know, the
Canadian 'Pacific have ransacked the world
and gîven extra prices ln order to obtaîn
botb locomotives and cars, but the sanie
congestion bas exlsted in other parts ot
this continent. 1 notice to-day lu the papers
tbat a complaint ls made ln the city of
Moutreal, where there is go mucb wealth,
that the Importa and the exporta are cougested-that tbere is no space for themthat the wharfs are blocked-tbat there ls
dlfficulty lu gettlng the goods away. We
notice lu the evenlug paper the declaration
that the Dominion Company bave decided
to abandon Montreal If proper accommodation cannot be provided for tbelr vessels.
So there are other parts of the continent
wbere congestion exigts. It ls also a matter
of uotoriety that In the province of Quebec, tbey bave a large quantlty of hay
to seil, wblc'h tbe people of Boston and
New York want to buy, whlcb tbey are unable to forward. The New York Central
bas absolutely declined to carry bay to
New York, because It ls more profitable to
carry other goods and tbey bave flot tbe
locomotives nor the cars to carry that particular article. So that the Nortb-west snd
Manitoba are not pecullarly sltuated lu the
present congestion. There bas been, bappily for this country, a series of magnificent
crops for thiree successive yenrs, aud though
the railway companies bave put forward
berrulean efforts, stili tbey bave been nuable to cope with tbe situation. It la a
matter of seif-interest witb them to carry
tbe freight, but they are unable to do
It. It is a happy tbing to, live lu a country
so blessed witb prosperity that even witb aIl
the mouey at command aIl those large conipanies are unable to meet the demand on
theni for the haulage of the various products of the soit. It is not llmited to wheat
alone. My hou. frlend will know that since
Hon.

Mr. SCOTT.

the last year an additional road bas been
opeued up-the Canadian Northeru, Mackenzie & Manu's hune-to Port Arthur, where
they bave bult a large elevator, and propose to carry thelr portion of the grain. The
Canadian Pacifie Railway bave announced
that tbey hope to be able to cope with the
trafic, because they have put on go many
additional englues and such a large number
of cars. They bave haît cars sent from all
parts of tbe est Into the North-west lu
order to cope with the emergency wblch they
see is arlslng.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbere is not mucb
lu the answer of the bon, gentleman to releve the North-west farmers with respect
to the sblpment of thelr grain. The fact 18,
lu the North-west this year we are likely
to bave n very good crop, thougb probably
not as good as last year, sud It ls also a
fact that every farmer wishes to seil a
portion of bis wheat early iu the season,
because the navigation closes about first of
December snd then there ls a block. Those
wbo have it threshed aud are near the
stations will not bave to watt as tbey eau
get their wheat sbipped, but those who are
at s distance froni the stations will bave to
wait, and sometimes caunot get their grain
shlpped iu the faîl of the year and will suifer
a great deal of loas lu holding it over, or
be obiiged to sell for any price tbey can
obtaîn for It. It is Important that a considerable portion of the grain sbould be
sbipped lu the fait, sud it la Important
there should be proper transportation fadilities in order to get It out sud save loss to
the individual fsrxuer. If l le sold after
navigation closes tbe elevator men get it,
sud- tbey bave to charge for elevator fees,
lusurance aud interest, and there la a
certain abrinkage lu the grain as well,
whicb aniounts to a lons of six or seven
cents a buabel to the farmer in consequence
0f flot being able to shlp out lu the
fait. If -there were more transportation
facîlities afforded lu the early autunin, go
that tbey could get it off hefore navigation
closes, lt would lie a great benefit to that
country, although if they bad to bold over
some of their grain they would not demur
at doing so. It bas to be beld over by
somebody until it la used. Now, I think
it would be very important for the government to take somne active measure towards

1JULY 13, 1903

577

and they would be good members on the
commission, because they would know freim
actual expeieuce what the requirenients
of the country are. The fariuer would be
a valuable acquisition to the commission,
because lie would be directly interested Iu
everything about the business, otlîerwise
you wlll not have a commission wlîo wvll
report lu a manner satisfactory to a large
portion of the settiers o! Canada. 1 did
not know really that ail tiiose commissioners had been appointed, and my object lu
brlnging the matter to the notice o! the
governmnt was that they miglit Le able
to see that justice and fairness cknands
that the farming conimuuity of Canada
should have something to say about the
transportation business as well as railroad
inu, meants and manufacturer& I camne
down on the train wlth a man who Is building elevators at Fort William. Hie pointed
out to me the great importance to Canada
of having dredges to dredge the channel
golug Into Fort William, and !ce breakers
to keep it open late In the season, the saine
He sald they could ship
as at Duluth.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
grain two or three weeks longer every
have
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I find on this comn- season f rom Duluth because they
If the
the !ce.
mission the man who produces most bas dredges there to break
would spend some înoney ut
nothlng to say. You provide for the rail- governinent
and. Port Arthur-if they
way man, for the manufacturer and the Fort William
would take steps to Increase the navigation
merchunt, but the fariner, who produces the
materially aid the transgrain aud bas most to pay lu the matter of faciliti.es It would
portation of the grain of the west. We get
freight, has nothing to say. He does flot
but that is no good
amount to a hi!! of beaus wlth the govern- the wheat luto elevators,
to the fariner, because lîie lias to pay for
meut. It would be wise to appoint a good
ship the wheat to the
fariner as one of the three commissioners. the storage. If we
elevat-or that does not add anything to the
It would do no barrm to increase that commission, because while 1 admit that the farmers' profit, because up to the moument
rallway industry, manufacturiug and mer- It Is shlpped out of Fort William, lie bas to
al of
cantile business are great industries, 1 amn pay insurance, lnterest, storage, &c.,
whlch Is chargeable to the whent. The
nlot prepared to admit that nny of them 18
equal lu Importance and production to the tarmer bas te puy for the whole of ItL
B.)-sthere
Hon. Mr. MAIYONALD
Tbe farming ludustry proagricultural.
duces more wealth for transportation than much ot lust year's crop still to be taken
any other two Industries, and, therefore, out ?
1 think a fariner sbould have been apHon. Mr. PERLEY-I do not think there
1 would ls a great deâl.
pointe~d on that commission.
be satisfied with one, a western man.
Hon. Mr. MAODONALD (B.C.)-Is the
I could pick out hait a dozen good Grit
at the
credit to chief blockade at Fort William
farmers who would be a
elevators ?
that commission, and know as much about
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-No, 1 do not thiak 1t;
it as any one, because they have to
puy for their experience and education uct no w, but there wll be after navigation
lu the higli freights charged on their grain, eloses.
37

band and
seeing that there were cars on 1
sufficient rolling stock to take out a larger
portion of the grain the first two or three
months after ht begins to be marketed, than
they have doue iu the past. We are developing the North-west and learning how 'to
grow wheat. Ten years ago wve did nlot
know how to grow ht. The same condition
of climate to-day wIll produce a good crop
that would not have produced a crop ten
years ago, because the farmers dld nlot understand it then. Now everybody wants to
sel! some wheat iu the fai! of the year.
Those who are near the railway take advantage of It and fill up the elevators, and
If the grain ls flot carried. away, those far
from the stations caunot market thelr grain,
wlthout suffering a severe loss. Tbere ls
another matter : the hon. gentleman referred
to a commission. 1 take It, there is no class
of people in the Dominion of Canada that
are so much luterested lu the transportation
question as the farmers. Agriculture is the
greatest industry, by ail odds, lu Canada
to-day.

578

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The governinent oft ile 1wards the east, but 1 have heen led to under-laie Alex. ,Mackenizie a great many years stand, that there was a greater grievance
a.-o considered that Fort William -was the than the question of transportation, ln the
proper outlet for the grain of the North- minds of tbe people of the North-West,
West, and considerable expenditure was coin- and it is a question of storage faciliIf there were enough elevators
xnenced there which was condemnned by the ties.
opposition of that day, anîd wlhen a change to receive the grain, the great outcry from
of goveruiment took place an effort Was the North-west would be tempered considermade to bulld up Port Arthur. In the lasi ably, but the difficulty Is that the companles,
twelve or fifteen years the aine governament private and public, are nlot fast enough ln
and the present governmeut bave recogaized coplng wltb the demand for storage Capatbat the dredglng to wblcb my lion. friend city. This is the resuit of a systeni wbilh
alludes was a xnost Important thIng, and Is peculiar to the west. In the easi each
every year since that time, for the last fanmer bullds bis own barn to recelve bis
eigbiteen yenrs at ail events, dredglng, lias grain, whlle la the 'vest I understand that
been golng on ln the Knminlstiqtilfl river. the farmer does not. He rushes away the
Prom the peculiar formation of the ground grain as near as posible to the railway to
tbere, every year sult ls brouglit down by bave It stored by private or publie coin1 wonder If there are exceptional
the current and bas tn lie dredged out. There paniffl.
la a dredge nt work there constantly. There dlfflculties ln the way of the Nortb-west
la lu the estimates for tbe present year a farner puttlng up bis own hern and storage
suni of $35,000 for the dredglng nt the inouth taclites on bis own property, lu order to
of the Kaministiqula alone. I may say the wait bis turn at the elevator, or that thfý
blockade at Port Arthnr and Fort William raiîway may be ln a position to carry bis
la due to the went of Canadien trade vessels. grain. This is a question wIlich I suppose
Three years ago, or two years perbaps It tbe -lon. gentleman knows better than
wvas, under very great pressure froin the myself, because ha Is famlier with the
wheat lndustry of Winnipeg and tlîe North- situation ln the Nortb-west, but 1Il-ave
West country, the governmient for a time understood ibat the North-West fanmer
allowed United States bottoms to coule ln, was absoîuteîy beîpless as to the quesand If the bon. gentleman wiIl recollect a tion of storage for bis grain, aud that
Tbe govern- be rushes down t0 the railway and
very great row arose over I.
ment was coudeniied for that action, and there waits until the elevator Is ready te
Will there, in the near
sO silice that peniod al] we could do was to recelve bis grain.
Invite Canadian botioms t0 ha built more future, be a change in storage facilities '?
Tbey were net able to build. theui Can the North-west farmner not taka care
rapidir.
rapidly euougb, and at the end of uiaviga- of bis own grain for a certain time as the
tion last year, I tbink there were five to six eastern fanmer doas with bis own produce ?
million hu-shels of grain in the elevaters on That is a question 'whIch the hon. gentlethe Kaministiqula alene apart trom those ai man could answer.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-If the bon. gentieTbey are building vessels
Port Arthur.
now, I am glad to say, ln Canada at Colling- man knew wbat he was talking about ha
wood, Midlîand, Owen Sound, and at other wonld not bave made the speech lie bas
points, but still tiîey cannot keep up wIth made. I may say that every fermer in the
the deniaud for the trade vessais. The hion. Nortb-west, excepi those living right alonggentleman bas no rigbt to criticise the gi[v- sida the railway, bas ample granaries-not
We do not tise haras as they do
erument on that point, beceuse since tibis barnls.
We use sheds
goverument came Into power every year in other parts of Canada.
there bas.heeni an Item iii the estimate for for our stock, but every farier bas
granaries on bis fanm ln wblchbch puis the
the Kaministiquia elevator.
Ha must bave
gen- grain wlhen it is-threshed.
DANDURAND-Tbe bon.
Hlon. M1NI.
And the elevator does net suppiy
tleman lias retarred to the lack ot transpor- that.
tatIon as beliig the great grievance of the Ilim ai all, because the moment that
Nortb-west tarmer. I kaow that the North- navigation closes witb the elevators full,
west fariner wiil cemplain of the diffi- -hat Is the resuit ? Firsi they cannet huy
cuity in traîîsporting bis grain rapidly te. bis grain, and wlien ha doas ship it te Fort
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

JUiLY 13, 1903
William lie receives elght or ten cents less
We do flot know
per bushel. Thiey say :
Supwhat the market will be next yenr.'
posing wlien navigation closes It is worth
60 cents a bushel, lie caunot buy nt that
price, because lie bias to charge hlm five
months Interests, ftve mouthe storage and
live montlis Insurance, and lie must charge
hlm wltli the loss, because it may be six
or elglit cents less. It amounts to about
ten cents generally. So far as the elevators are concerned, that could flot remedy
the defect at ail. Every farmer lias lis
granarles. On Perley tarin there are granaries to hold ail our grain, only three and
four miles from the town. There are a
large number of farmers wlio have sufficient
granarles. Those living close to the railway
do not have thein. Those farmers join
together and liaul it In as soon as It Is
tlireslied.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does the lion.
gentleman pretend to say that flot more
than live or ten per cent of the North-west
farinera have nio granarles ?

579

my Idea was that as the governinent had
plenty of spending money, they miglit tbemselves invest a couple of million dollars in
rolling stock so that tliey could asslst the
Canadian Pacifie Raiiway and the Canada Northern witli rolling stock and thus
prevent a blockade sucli as we liad in 1901
and 1902.
Hou. Bir. SOOTT-We -could not buy the
rolling stock.
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-I should think we
could.
The Canadian
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-No.
Pacifie Railway paid la many Instances five
thousand dollars more than the ordinary
price of the locomotives that lad been bult
for othier people.
Hon. Bir. PERLEY-Last year and the
year before were extreme tîmes, and niow
the manufacturers of cars and locomotives
have wakened up to the situation, and that
situation wlll not continue.

Hon. 1fr. MeMULLEN-I want to say a
I was la Port
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-Yes, I say thnt. There word upon this question.
are very few of the farmers witbout thein, Arthiur durlng the long adjourimnt of the
and even those close to the railways have Senate, and I an endorse the statement
i
Tliey do flot have barns, but tliey made by the hon. Secretary of State.
thein.
bave sbeds for stock. Every farmer lias a aotlced that there was a dredge at the moutl
.granary and tbresieïs and puts bis grain of the Kamlnlstlquia working -wlen I was
ta It to-day, to-morrow and'tlue next daY, there, and there was another at Port Arthur
and then liauls it to tlie elevator. Every thiat liad beea doing work for the purpose of
fariner would have to have a grauîary to cleaniag ont loth those barbours. Witli rei3tore bis grain, aîîd that fariner wlîo ls the gard to lncrensed accommodation for our
last one tlireshing Einds by tbe time bis friends lu Manitoba and the Nortli-west, I
grain la ready the elevators are fild wivth nam sure I should be glad to see ail the acgrain that should have been sliipped out. commodations that possibly could be given,
But wlien they cannot slip lt ont, the far- but my own candld opinion lsasd I have
nier lias to take eight to teîi cents less, bie- comne to that conîclusion after sltting ln parcause is grain bas to be held over. l do luament for elghteen years-tliat the people
not expect it ail to be takeiî ont iii three of Manitoba and the North-west are the
moatis. We badl to liold over a large most p)ersistent, determined, never-ending
,quantity of our grain last year, because we conapiainers that we could find ia any porThey are ail the
,could not get it shipped ont. The elevators; tion of this Dominion.
were fllled when we stopped threshing. 0f time yelling. Why, bon. gentlemen, I can
course we may have to liold over some this *go back to the period wlien the section of
year too, but it sbould flot be sucb a largE the country I live ln was opened up. I can
quantity. If there liad been greater slip. *remeniber we lad to store our wleat ln laga
The
ping facilities we could have got six oi *and It lay there for tiiree montha.
-seven cents more for our grain. It la hardl.3 *spring storma came and rained upon it, and
rTeasonable to expect any railway compan3 eventually we nearIy loat the whole of our
. to undertake to slip out the whole produci Ewheat. I shipped two car boud-s myseif.
cof a year's production ln txwo or tlre( sustalning the damage caused by the rain
imontîs. It la not reasonable or fair, anc a nd the puying the storage, the insurance,
37ý

580

SEINATE

or
and the freight to Montreal-and we were The mileage tbrough the mountains
paying seventeen cents a bushel for draw- British Columbia la eight or nine huîxdred
ing lt from Guelph to Montreai, 480 miles- miles.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD-Wbere does It
and what is the lion. gentleman paying from
go from the Tete Jaune Cache ?
Winnipeg to Port Arthur ?
the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-DowII
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-We are not living lui
Thompson and Fraser rivers to Vancouver
tbe samne age now.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-That may be, but and New Westminster. It seems to me that
we paid seventeen cents a bushel on my two the charter, as It at present exiats, wouid be
cars of wheat and when I got my return, useless uniess the company were ailowed to
I recelved tbe net sum of $17 on the two buiid tbrougb to tbe Pacifie ocean.
h
oinwsaredtadteBl
cars of wbeat. My bon. friend appears to
t
agree nd to, aec he Bi
to
was
think that the whole resources of thi Dominlon-the whole resources of the rail-waredtescdti.
SECOND READINGS.
ways, as far as cars and everything else
go, sbould be piaced at the7 disposai of ManiBill (141) An Act respecting tbe Medicine
toba and the Nortb-west just as soon as the
and that it must Hat and Northern Alberta Raliway Comwbeat la eut and threshed,
Mr. Landerkin.)
be rushed forward, no matter wbo suifera. pany.-{Hon.
Bill (166) An Act to Incorporate the Gaspé
shouid
While I amn anxlous that Manitoba
Mr.
be faily and generously treated, 1 believe and Western Raiiway Company.-(Hl.
on this continent Fiset.)
If tbere la any one raiiroad
that bas made an bonest and earnest effort
BILLS INTRODUCED.
to meet the conditions of Manitoba and tue
Bill (127) An Act to confer on the ComNorth-west, It is the Canadian Pacific Railway. I bave lnquired Into tbe pricea mussioner of Patents certain powers for the
cbarged on the four different transconti-' relief of George M. Depew.-(Hon. Mr. PernentaIl unes wbich run acrosa the States, Iey.)
Bill (175) An Act respecting the Century
and 1 say that any one wbo will examine
the prices wiil flnd that the rates cbarged Life Insurance Company.--(Hon. Mr. Macby the Canadian Pacific Railway wiii donald, B.C.)
Bill (203) An Act respecting thxe Toronto,
favourably compare witb tbe prices charged
uines. Still we have a Hamilton and Buffalo Rallway Company.on any of those
never-endlng compiaint. 1 hope the Grand (o.Mr. Landerkin.)
Trunk Pacifie and the Canada Northern(H.
wiil render additlonal services, and thnt CiNCOURAGEMENT 0F THE CONSTRUCTION 0F DRY-DOCKS BILL.
our friends ln the North-west, in place of
everlatingly bowling, wiii be patient wben
THIRD READING.
it is prudent to be patient, and not bowl
The Houae resoived itself Into a Coinbefore tbey are burt
mittee of the Whoie on Bill (178) An Act
CANADA _CENTRAL RAILWAY COM- ,especting the encouragement of the construction of dry-docks.
PANY'S BILL.
(In the Committee.)
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When this Bill was
Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the seHon.
1wsskdbagnle
eo teHu
cond reading of Bill (99) An Act respecting
bya gentlet
the Canada Centrai Rni!way Comipany. H-e befnoe the ouhse ns ae
othrsd to say-docs.t subid
said: This Bill la to extend the charter of moen o thei
th Hai-d
o
the Canada Centrai Rallwny Company, a wee onowsbs bein g paid dr-os
teHa
eigpadlat
at year to construat tae driy-dock.
company chartered
a uine from some point on the French river
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the twenty
to Tete Jaune Cacbe ln the Rocky Mionto extend tbat road trora Tete years for which tbe subsidy wias to bave
tains. This la
nothing
Jaune Cache to the Pacific ocean. It la a been pald have expired. There la
short Bill, but a very long raiiwRy. being paid now.
very
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.

JULY 14, 1903

581

ered bis resignation on account of dlfficulties
arleing between bimself aiid bis colleagues
upon the raiiway poiicy of the government.
That there should be dîfferences of opinion is flot at ail surprIsing, and more particulariy wben you consider the expression
of individual opinions by members of the
cabinet on various occasions which bave
to be repudiated by their colleagues afterHon. Mr. P0WER-It la mlot the clty of wards. It la Important that we sbould know
how far the doctrine of respousibie goverfiSt. Jobn ; It Is it prIvate corporation.
Is asslstlng ment, as understood ln the past -and as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The city
and the province also la asslsting. A pri- practlsed ln Engiand, is to prevail ln this
'rate company In St. John ls proniotlng the country. It was oniy the other day In the
enterprise. It ls alleged a larger dock was Railway Committee ln the Rouge of Conirequired tban the existing one at Halifax. mons-and tbis ls oniy one of very many
We ail know that the sîze of vessels bas instances-that we found two ministers
been increasing rapidly of recent years, figbiting, one against the other. The Minisand the necessity of It was urged on that ter of Raiiways, who was conducting a
very Important rallway Bill througb tbe
ground.
commîttee. took one vlew of certain amendHon. Mr. ELLIS-Is not Collingwood gett- ments wbich were proposed, whiie tbe
ing something now 7
Minister of Justice tôok very strong views
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. It wiil after thîs lu opposition to hlm, and It was amusing
Bill passes. Collingwood dock was built to those who bave tbe siigbtest idea of
some years ago, aud tbey agreed if tbey wbat responsibie government means, and
got a subsidy they would eniarge ItL They tbe unlty of action upon ail great quesare enlarging It and they will get aid under tions which sbouid preval lu a cabinet,
to see mInisters differing so publlcly. That
this Bill for the expenditure.
Hon. Mdr. McKAY (Aima), froru the com- they migbt differ ln cabinet is flot at ail
mlttee, reported the Bill without ajnend- surprising, because cabinet meetings are
held for the purpose of dlscussing quesment.
tions and coming to conclusions, but when
The Bill was then read the third time,
those conclusions are arrived at those wbo
and passed.
may differ on minor or Important points,
-The Senate adjourned.
,When tbey leave the council cbaxnber,
are supposed by tbe outside world, to
have but one opinion. 1 might also ask the
THE SENATE.
bon. Secretary of State whbetbier lie feels
Ottawa, Tue8daY, JulIY 14, 1908.
himself la the same position, or rathier
whlether he is to be treated like bis colleague,
The SPEAKER took the Chair st Three
the Hon. Mr. Tarte, wbo expressed strong
O'celock.
views on the trade question some time ago,
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Those opinions, If îiot in accord with the
opinion of bis colleagues, at ieast had flot,
RESIGNATION 0F THE IIINISTER 0F 50 the premier said, been decided by the
RAILWAYS AND CANALS.
cabinet, and consequently Mr. T£irte lîad
INQUIRY.
no right to give expression pubiicly to the
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Be- views whicli he advnnced on that very ilufore the Orders of the Day are called, I portant question. The other day. wheu one
should like to direct the attention of the hon. of the Senators asked a question ns to
Secretary of State to the rumours wbiclî additionil provincial subsîdies that wvere
are floating- about the lobbies of the House, to be granted. the hou. Secretary of State
and also in thue press, as to a ministerial gave bis very decided view, whicli I thlik
crisis, and to ask whetlier it be true that the wvas approved of by the niajority lu this
Minîster of Railways and Canais lias tend- House, if liot the whjole Rouge, against

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wherein Is the
difference between this and the old law ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The dîfference Is three
per cent Is payable now whiie two per cent
was pald before. The old law was limited
The
to $20,000; this la limited to *30,00.
city of St. John proposes to construct a drydock to cost one million dollars or over.

582

SENATE

any sucb dlaimi being acceded to or eveni
entertained. I was very mucb surprised a
few days afterwards to find, iu reading the
report of the debates in the House of Coinmons, that M3r. Lemieux. the member for
Gaspé, asked the question wvhether the Secretary of State bad expressed the opinions
and views of the cabinet. The Prime Minister answered that the Secretary of State
only gave expression to bis own individual
view, and consequently led the House to
understanid tliat tbey were not responsilile
for the views expressed by the Secretary of
State. My hon. frlend beside me (Hon. Mr.
Miller) suggests that be said that matter had
not been decided by the governent, but
was under consideratIon. If a question of
such vital importance to the different provinces was before tbe cabinet and stili under consideration, one cau scarcely conceive
the idea of oîîe of the mînisters expressing
distinct and positive views upon the question whicb bis coîlfagues were discussing
and whilb the Prime M.%inister iii the Flouse
of Commons was obliged to repudiate. It
wouid cause the House, and more particularly myseif, much regret If my bon. friend
should be treated like bis colleague ln the
House of Commons, and we should no longer
bear hlm speaklng for the goverument on
public questions. It might, however, ln that
case not be objectionable to the bon. gentleman wbo sits beside him to bis lef t (Hon.
'.%r. Templeman), who is a non-portfoio gentleman. If bie should be called upon to take
bis place. It wouid he aicceptable to hlm no
doubt. How far It would be acceptable to the
rest of the Dominion is a question for the
future to decide. I notice tbe bon, gentleman
smile and indicate how pleased be would
be if sncb a change took place. 1 am iîot
surprised at that. But, badinage aside, I
call attention to the present state of affairs
and the mode in wbicb the government is
being carried on by what I mnigbt eall iiidividuality, eacb one holding hiis own opiion and expressing it openly and publicly
and having it repudiated by bis collengues
led by the premier. Wbat I should like ta
know and the country would like to know,
Is, if the Secretary of State can give us
any information as to wbetber the Minister of Railwnys bas resigned, and if
so, çvbether the later report is true that
he bas been induced by the premier to
withidraw bis resignation. if it is so. the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

public should know it, and our minds be
relieved of the anxiety whichi prevails just
now on that Important issue ln the cabinet.
I repeat 1 can understand differences ln tbe
cabinet, but I cannot understand members
of the cabinet expressing them indivldually
outside-neltber can I understand a gentleman occupylng the position of the hon. Secretary of State, holding tbe strong views ex:pressed by hlm a short time ago upon a particular questign, retainlng Iris portfolio If a
majority of bis colleagues shouid decide to
accede to the request of the different provinces. Self-respect, and I take It for granted tbe bon. gentleman bas sufficient of that,
would lead hlm to retire from tbe cabinet
nnder sucb circumstances, and as we are
ail initerested ln a question of this kind,
probably the bon. gentleman would give us
soie information.
Hon. 1Mr. SCOTT-So far as the rumour in
the public press is concerned, that Mr~. Blair
tendered bis resignation, the statement la
true, and thiat resignation bas been accepted.
The ininisteriai explanations, wbich bave to
be given wben Mr. Blair bimself Is presexit,
will not be made for a day or two. I thlnk
Tburs-ýday lias been aamed for the day wbeu
explanations 'will be made between the premiý,r and Mr. Blair. 1 do flot care now te
discuss the acadeici questiou of responsibie goverament, or whetber we are conducting It on Its true principles." My frank
and candid statement the other day on the
question of provincial subsidies lii no way
justifies the statement' of the bon. gentleman that it bas been turned down
by my colleagues. At tbe time I made
the statement the matter bad not been
discussed at council, and it was perfectly free fcr every mnemiier of the goverament te express bis views on tbe sul)ject before it came up lu couricil. I bnd candidly
boped the reasons 1 brougbt forward would
bave prevyaiIed with my colleagues. Tbey
may have their weigbt. I do not know bow
tbat wiill be, but that wonld not be a question
on wvbich a gentleman's resignation would
be expected unless he found bis ow-n argument could not influence bis colleag-ues. It
depends altogether upon tbe facts as th',y

develop. At thbe time 1 spoke on the questions to wlîich the lion, gentleman bas referred, the matter bad neyer been dîjscussed
in concil, bad neot been referred to at .ill,

JULY 14, 1903

583

and therefore, 1 was perfectly free to ex- by the hon. Secretary of State, iii repiy to
press the candld opinion I did on the sub- the question that was put by 11he bon. genject. 'rhe answer given by Sir Wilfrid tlemnan froni Victoria iu regard to increased,
Laurier ln no way compromised me. He provincial subsidies, 1 remeniber that I mysaid I spoke my own IndivIdual views.. lie self followved the Secretary of State and
did flot say what is views were. He said expressed the hope that bis views were not
tlie matter bad not been discussed ln coun- those of the cabinet, and lie answered very
cil. He sald the governient bad corne to candidly that tliey were bis own personoi
no conclusion, and until tbey came to Et vlews.
conclusion I was perfectly free to express
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
my own candid and frnnk opinion on thie my lion. friend surely knows that lie had'
subject.
a riglit to, express his individual views,
Hon. Mr. M1ACDONALD) (B.C.)-Tlie lion. havlng no responsibility of government otlier*
Secretary of State knowvs perfectly well tliat than that of an ordinary member. ,There«
wlien any member of this House asks hlm a i&.a vast difierence between thie lion. genquestion, lie la supposed to be asking the tleman -and the Secretary of State, one of
gov-ernment a question and not an iindividual the cabinet. There are other points which,
member of the cabinet, and I do not tliink the lion, gentleman made that are ratlier
It la fair for an hon. member, on such an new doctrine la governing a f ree country,
Important question, to express lits own il- to, wvhicl I shall not refer at present. But
dividual opinion independent of tlie opinion hie la putting himself in a very unenviable
lie makes a stateof tlie government. That is ail I bave to position wlie lie says
lie
on thie subject now. A few days ago ment publicly ln tlie Senate la order th-at
say
oiiglit influence is colleagues wlien tlie'
I sent a number of questions to the lion.
ls a
Secretary of State ln tlie liopes tliot I %vould question came before council. Tliat
new way of advising bis Excellency. I must
receive an answer soon. In regard to the
vacancy ln the cabinet there is an excellent frankly confess.
opportunity now to give my lion. friend
Ho'n. Mr. DEVER-I did not feel that I
froni Victoria (Hon. Mr. Templeman) a port- bad any riglit to express an opinion on tlius
folio. He lins tueen a long timie lu tlie cab- motter, but I cannot lielp tbinking that it,
inet witliout enougli liard wvork to do. H1e ls is very strange that we in Canada sliouid"
fit enougli to do any amount of work, and I be kept to so strict an account witli referhope the premier will not neglect bis claima ence to, difference of opinion ln the cabinet
or overlooli bis abulity to tili tliat portfolio. or outslde the cabinet wlien, according to
1 daresay lie la very modeat, like ail British the public presa of the country, we see tbat
Columbians, and not able to figlit bis own In Great Britain, that old-establlslied counway Into tlie cabinet, but If ie'were a good try, there la a great difference of opinion
lnishnxan lie would do as tlîey bave done ljetweea Chiamberlain and otlier members
ln Dublin-kick thie doors open and get lu of thie cabinet.
someliow. I hope, now that there la an openHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
lng, that the governuient and the premier hetween liim and the premier.
w-ut not neglect to consider bis dlaims to a
Hon. Mr. DEVER-I thouglit so.
portfolio.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-NoIl a
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-Tbere la a point
it.
wlxicli lias not been touclied upon, lu answer
Hion. Mr. DEVER-I think so.
to thie remarka of the lhon. gentleman opof opinion exHon.1 Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Qiuite
posite, ns to the difference
pressed on a government measure b)y the ex- the contrary ; they are ln perfect accord.
M~inister of Railways ai Canais, and the
Hon. Mr. DEVER--He was opposed to
M.inister of Juqtice. I was present wben othermembers of thie cabinet of Great Bnithat difference of, opinion was expressed b3' tain ?
a vote, but- it was in the Railway ConHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
mittee and on a private Bill. Tliere was no
lion. Mr. DEVE R-&fd still lie is ln the
question tliere of public policy or of a govcabinet, and no objection la taken tliat 1
eriiment Bill. Now as to the renmarks made

584

SENATE

There was no criticisin, nt nl
can see.
events publicly made, with regard to bIls
conduet.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
bon, gentleman bas not foliowed the utterances of Lor~d Rosebery.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Yes, I have followed
them, and I thluk there is a great deal of
confusion, but It is apparently n niew question, and I do not know that lt would affect
inatters mucb as long as they are not nt
variance wlth the great fundarnental prîliciples of goverament.
IMPERIAL AGENOY INCORPORATIOn
BILL
THTRD READTNG.
The Order of the Day being calied:
Consideration of amendments made la Coinmlttee of the Whoie Bouse to, (Bill 71) An Act
ta lncorporate the Imperial Agency.
Hon. Mr. OWENS moved concurrence lii
the amendments to the Bill.
The SPEAKER-My attention bias becu
dlrected by the cierk to the tact that there
1.s a sligbt lrregularity lu connection wltli
this matter, whlch would render It desirable
to postpone final action to anothier day. It
appears thiat one of the amendinents made
in the Standing Commlttee on Banking and
Commerce was to bave been resciuded, ani
was not rescinded, and the House is not
ln a position to finaliy deal witb the measure until that amendment bas been rescinded.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-I notice the nîneiicl,ment to clause (b) is practically section 8 of
the Loan Companies Act of 1889, chapter
1 did mlot takei exception to It. It la
41.
In the Bill now.
The SPEAKER-I amn lnformed tliat the
amendiment, to wblch reference bias been
made, is an ameudment to clause S, paragra.ph (c) of the Bill. This ameudment was
made i1ntbe Select Commttee-' la the case
of a raiiway or any section of a ralway,
the provisions of sections 278, 279 and 280
As the
of the Raiiway Act shalI appiy.'
resuit of an amnendment made bere iii Coinnittee of the Whole House, the Bill does
It is clear
not appiy to raiiways at ail.
that tlais ameudment mide in cominittee
was allowed to remain in the Bill thirougli
It would be in order Dow
liiadvertence.
]Uon. Mr. DEVEIL
.

for the lion, gentleman to move that that
amendment be stricken ont.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It was struck
out.
The SPEAKER-It was intended that It
should be struck out, but it la stili bere.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-lt was moved
that that clause should be struck out.
Hon. Mr.' OWENS-That ls an nmendment that was made ln the Senate, and ln
amending the Bill It was moved that the
word 'railways' and the clause referring
to it, ehoiiid be struck out.
Hon. Mr. S4JOTT-Yes, It is quite clear
that that was what was done.
The SPEAKER-Then It wiil be the duty
of tbe clerk to see that that clause Is
stricken out.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was then rend the third tîme, and passed.
RATHIBUN COMPANY BILL.
0F AMENDMENTS POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day belng called:
Consideration of ameadments made by the
Standing Commlttee on Banklng and Commerce
to (Bill 122) An Act respectlng the Rathbun
Company.
Hon. Mr. FEUGUSON-My mnie la connected wlth the Bill simpiy for the reason
that I, as acting chairnian of the committee,
reported It from the coînmittee, and I pre.
anme that I gave notice o! the motion, althougli 1 was not consciona that I was goiug
to get my naine connected wlth the Bill in
that way. I do not k-now what bon, gentleman had charge o! the Bill before that stage
was reached, but I have hiad communication
froi a lega] fir in l the city to the effect
that they desire to have ail opportunlty of
preseutlug atrong objections wbich they entertain to some features of this Bill, and I
notice that my lion. friend from Russell
lias also given notice of au amendment,
probably bearing on the same point. I gave
an assurance this moruing to the firin of
Gemmeli & May, who have the matter lu
baud, tlaat I would have the Bill postponed
tili Thursday. With the consent o! the
House, I move that it be referred back to
committee for !urtber consideration.
The motion was agreed to.
CONSIDERATION

JULY 14, 1903
SECOND READING.
Bill (157) An Act to Incorporate the Brandon, Saskatchewan and Hludsou's Bay Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Kirclihoffer.)
ANIMAL CONTAGIOIUS DISEASES BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resolved*itself Into a Committee of the Whole ou Bill (194) An Act respecting Infections or contaglous diseases
affectlng animais.
(In the Commlttee.)
On clause .22,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There were two clauses
whlch were held over for further consîderathon. The first one was clause 22, as ta the
affected area. I applied to the departmeut
to see whether they could meet the vlews of
hon. gentlemen, but they really do flot see
how they can make any change In it other
than to strike ont the words 'map and plan,'
and make it referable to parishes, townshlps and farms. I asked them to gîve me
a sample of what they dld when a coutaglous
dîsease was dlscovered on a farm, and tfley
have givea me a notice wblch ls used wliere
the contagion exista ouly ou one farm. If It
-embraces more than aone farmi and ls lu a
district, thien they pubIlsh the fact lu ail the
newspapers la that particular district. A
notice ls sent by the luspector. It does not
seem to me, after hearing the explanatlon
given by the departmnent, thuat there is suffidient force la the argument agalnst the description given tbere to warrant us lu maklng a change. I do not see how a change
could be made that woild Improve it, because euch case must be governed by the
peculiar circumstances of the district. I
therefore move tlat clause 2 stand part of
the BIil

nouuced that after discussing the matter
whth the expert
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I flnd liow that
section 32 provides for publication Ili the
'Canada Gazette,' and I have notlcedl thîs,
that muchi of what ls ta be publlshed and
whlch ls authorlzed here ta. be publlshedevery Order lu Councîl prohblbting à.mportation-it ls not an Order Iu Couneil ta do thîs
but a declaration of the minister, and therefore It will be necessary ta nmend clause
32 and tieu the publication wlll f ollow as
a matter of course. But as It ls now, only
the few things that remalu ta be doue under
this Act hy Order la Council wIll be publslied, while a great many thlngs whlch
were due under the old Act by Order lu
Counoil are now done Iby the direction of
the mînister. By introducing tlue wvords
'every Order lu Council a.ud every declarathon of thue minîster, will gîve the publication counplete ; but as the Bill1 stands, you
bave taken a great deal of the operatlon o!
the Act ont of the hauds of the GovernlOr
la Council and put It Iu the handa o! the
mîuister.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 29, subsection (k),
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The departnient cannot
sec their wny ta nuake any change Ilu subclause (k). It musut bie left ta the d1scretion
o! the minister. There lire miný.,r cases
where the extrcme action that ]s taken la
other cases shall not apply. The depnrtnment seem ta think it ls nbsolutely necessary. 1 have asked theni If they could qualify It and they say they really clinniot.
lion. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-I
thoughit the ccminittee decided to add the
* iord ' minor.' Do I iiiderstanid the lion.
gentleman ta say that they object ta adding

that word.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-After the counHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
mittee rose the othier day I noticed-wlÈcli
before and w'hich nmy lion. *The clause was adopted.
I failed ta observe
friend and those who :ire instructing Iiii
reconwitîi regard to it do not seeni to bave ob *Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I waant ta
my hon.
served until iiow-that sulîsection 2 provides sider clause 18 of the Bill. I hope
friend will just -look at this clause and sec
for a publication.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbiit was iiientioned
that it ivas ia a liewspaper wlhen the area
was larger than a farm. 1 distinctly an

what it lavolves.

The first hune o! it la-

troduces a change.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Just one word.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The words added
are 'or suspects.' When that bappens the
inspector makes a declaration and gîves a
copy of It ta the owner of the animai. A
copy Is sent ta the minîster, action is taken
on that and the place is declared infected
and ail we have been tailnlg of goes onnotIce Is published la the 'Gazette,' an Order la Councl Is passed and ail this takes
place under clause 18 and culminates lu
clause 33 whicb provides :
33. An arder of the Gavernor ln Councîl declarîng any market, raiiway yard, stock yard,
peu, wharf, steamshlp, ateam or other vessel,
rallway car or other vehicle ta be lnfected. or
of the tuinister. deciaring a place ta be au lnfected place, or a copy of the deciaratian of the
Inspector certified by hlm, a notice of which
bas been delivered under the eighteeuth aection
al
Act, shahl be eisewhere evîdence ln
'If thls of Justice and conclusive of the existence
courta
of disease aud other matters ta which the order
or declaratian relates.
My lion. frlend will notice that wbat is
provlded is that this suspicion Is ta, be takien
as conclusive evidence in a court of iaw that
the disease existed. My bon. frlend wlll see
that that Is entirely repugnant ta the princîple of this Act rîght througb. It Is a provision that a deciaratian based on a suspicion shall be made conclusive evîdence of
the disease.

tains lt ? There la nothing
friend's contention wbatever.

iu

my

hon-

Hou. Mr. FERG.USON-«MNy hou. friend
must see, If he takes the trouble of looking.
into it, that the Bill, if passed ln its present
form, wouid be a Most ridiculous measure.
Hou. '.%r. SCOTT-The explanation Is as
I gave it. There la no Intention ta take further proceedings uniess the suspicions are
fouuded. I arn referred to clause 10, which
provides:
19. Whenever an Inspector makes auch a deciaration of the existence or suspected existence of infectiou& or contaglaus disease of
animais, he shall, with ail practicabie speed.
send a capy thereof ta the minîster ; and If It
appears that Infectious or contagions disease
exista, the minlater may so deterniine and decI*re, and may Dreacribe the limits of the lnfected vlace
It bas to ex.lst. That Is the necessary
If it does
consequence of the suspicion.
not exist, it ail drops to the ground-io,
further action la taken, as the latter part
of the clause shows,
-but If It appears that it did not exist, the
minister may ao determine and declare, and
thereupon the place comprised in the lnapector's declaration, or affected thereby, shah cease
io be deemed an lufected Dlace.

The law Is perfcctly plain.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I arn quite sure there Is
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This declaration.
no sncb meaning lntended ta be attacbed
provided for in clause eigbteen is a declarata the clause. Wbeu a man suspects that
tian ta, be mnade ou suspicion, and the dethere Is a disease he makes lnquiry.
ciaration is ln existence.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-After he makies
Han. Mr. SCOTT-But It goca ta the Minthe deciaration.
1ister first.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No, before he makes the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Clause nineteen
declaration. A man would nat go on a place
inspector makes a
unleas lic had suspicion the disease pre- shows that wbenever an
and If be found be was wrong declaration as ta the existence, or suspected
vailed there,
disease the minister
lu bis opinion he would flot go any furtber. existence, of Infections
ta carry out takes It up.
The officers are nat disposed
this iaw Is an arbitrary sud dogmatic way
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Thie clause says: 'le
ta cause lnjury to individuals that the hon.'
shalh, witb ail practicabie speed.'
gentleman seems ta suspect. Tlîey bave
noa personal motives.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-Tberc la no other
are flot taik- way it can be brouglit Inta existence; that
Hon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-We
on suspicion, and yet
lng about personai motives but about the declaration la bascd
we bave that suspicion made conclusive
incongruity of the iaw.
evidence in another part of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If a man bas suspicion
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Perfectly proper, beabout the place, lie should bave Uhe authority of iaw ta go and examine lt. Haw is it cause it can auly be donc after it bas been
ta be provedi uniess the inspectar first ascer- established as being-truc.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 14, 1003
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-CouId not a word be
added to that effect-on suspicion proved ta
be well founded lni fact ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand It
la the 'order et the Governor in. Concil that
la ta be evidence ln court and flot necessariiy the declaration made by the Inspeetor.

right ta go on and inake a deciaration. I
presumne this la a stat*utory deciaratian, not
that the disease la suspected, but that it bas
been fauond ta exiat. Hawever, that la my
view ; and I shall brtng the niatter ta a
point and move that the words ' or suspecte'
be struek out of clauae çighteen.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The words are put there
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, It ls the dedeuignedly, because the change has béen
ciaration of the Inspector aiso.
found ta be necessary. This ls done lni the
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-4jertainly the Intereats of the whole community. We know
docuxnentary evIdence referred ta iii clause how rapidiy these diseases spread, and ho.w
tbirt.v-three -would be the Order ln Council- necessary It la that the inspector shahl go
that is the declaration of the goveriiment ln an the premises and examine. He muet have
any case shall be conclusive evidence, and a suspicion before he goes on the preinises.
attached ta tbat would be the evidence an Withaut It a man would have no right ta
which that order was made.
go on a property unti some proaf was obHou. Mr. SCOTT-I shall quality clause tained that there was disease there.
nineteen, If you like, by making it rend
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
'If It appears on satlsfactory evidence that hon. -Secretary of State does not comprebend
contagions or Infectious disease exists, the the objection that i. taken. By the eightminister may se declare, &c.'
eenth clause you give power ta the Inspectar,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But that does flot on suspicion, ta do certain things. If he
makeB a deciaratian on suspicion, an belief
touch the point of my objection.
that the disease exista, then under clause
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then 1 cannot reach thirty-threeItL
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Take clause nineteen:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The point of my that la read with clause eigbteen.
objection ls the declaration, apart tram aInyHan. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Let
thing the minister may do, shaIl be conus take one at a time.
clusive evidence.
Hani. Mr. SCOTT-Quite properly so If It
be faund that the disease exista. It ls only
ln case disease exista.
Hon. Mir. FERGUSON-Is It nat possible
the matter may get Into litigation some
other way ?
Hon. Mr,. SCOTT-The Crown can have
no motive in persecuting peaple.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-I was flot complaining of clause nineteen, but clause eighteen. A copy served an the owner of the
cattie is made conclusive evidence in a court
et justice.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannat sce it as my
han. friend does.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-You must take.clauses
eighteen and nineteen tagether.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
has clause nineteen ta do with It ? The
sanie abjection prevails If you take the
The Inspectar bas the
word 'suspect.'
power, under clause eighteen, ta make a
declaration on suspicion, and under clause
nineteen he makes a declaratian an suspicion, and If he makes the declaration an
suspicion, clause thirty-three makes that
declaratian conclusive evIdence in aIl courts
af justice. That ls the point my han. friend
tram Marshfield takes, and there le no getting over It.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I beg the hon. gentleman's pardon, there la a way af getting Cver
It

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Any persan must
see that is the way It reais. I believe It is
Hon. Sir, MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
ail wrang ta act ani suspicion alone. TJhe
duty of the inspector la ta find out whether daca clause thirty-tbree provide ? It says
the disease exista, or whether lt does not. an arder of the Gavernor ln Council declarIf hie finds tbe dîsease exista, he bas the Ing, &c., or of the minister-that la an order

588

SENATE

of the minister. Then you go down a littie
further 'or the declaration of the lnspector.' Either one of these three becomes
conclusive evidence of the existence of a
dîsease, upon a declaration whlch Is made
upon suspicion. It seems to me that la the
way It reads.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If my hon. friend wili
only read clause nineteen he will find that
the flrat proceedlng after the declaration Is
made la ta submait everything to the minister, and It Is oaly after it bas been finally
other
shown that Infection exista that the
clauses operate, and I was qulte willing to
put ini words to qualify It so that the minIster would take action If It appeared on
satisfactory evidence that contagions disease exlsts. The first thing the inspector
does is ta make a declaration, and it la provlded :
19. Whenever an inspector makes sncb a declaration of the existence or suspected existence of Infections or contagious disease of animais, he shall. with ail praeticahie speed, send
a copy thereof to .thc minister-

That is the first thing be does, send a
copy -to the minister, and then,
-If It appears that lnfectlous or contagions discase exists, the minister may s0 determlae and
declare. and may preacribe the limite of the
lnfectcd place; but If It appeara that it dld
not exiat, the minister may so determine and
declare, and thereupon the place comprlsed la
the laspector's declaration, or affected thereby,
ahaîl cease to be deemned an lnfected vlace.
The first step is the suspicion. The counThe next step is
cil declares suspicion.
£satisfactory ei-idence that the suspicion is
weil founded, so I cannot see how it la possible any injury can arise.
Hon. Mr. POWER-In a case of this kind
action should not be postponed until tbere
is satlsfactory evidence, and it bas been
la
the
this
that
in practice
found
case, because the department corne here
and 2sk to lie allowcd to act on suspicion.
I think lt la a perfectly rigbt and proper
tbing, If the inspector.,bas reason to suspect,
that he should be allowed to act, because,
It ls not always easy to get into baras and
other places where the suspected animais
are to nscertain whether they are actnally
diseased or not, and the only question la
whether thîs suspicion la sufficiently gronnded.
I think with the hon. minister tbat
clause 19 does provide there shall be
no decided action takea until the minister
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

ls satisfled that contagious diseuse exies.
I do not tblnk clause 18 or clause 19 xieeds
any amendment, but I sec the point made
by the bon. gentleman from Marshfield with
It strikes me, ln
respect to clause 33.
respect to that clause, that wbat Is mreant
ls this, that tbe declaration of the minister
decl-arlng a place to be an lnfected place
or a copy of the report of the inspector
certified by hlm-I think the 'hlm' there
should be 'the mInister.' The declaration 0f
the Inspector is mubrnitted to the minister,
and upon the miniater being satisfled by
proper evidence tbat tbls suspicion was
S-ustIfled, he cert-Illes to tbe declaration an-d
that declaration, wben certlfied by the minister, sbould be conclusive evidence ; but
I do not think that a mere declaration by
the Inspector th-nt be bas a suspicion that
there ls disease should be beld to be conclusive evidence. 1 thlnk the hon. gentleman from Marshfield was right there, and
1 would suggest-of course the officers of
the department would kuow how it works
out practlcally-that lnatead of 'hirn' you
put ' the minister.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the bon. minister wIll look a littie dloser at it he will
find the only ameudment whlch will suffice
to clause 33 Is to strike ont all reference'
to the declaration, because - t is the declaraAs
tion In clause 18 that Is referred to.
lt stands lu clause 18 It ls the inspector's
own act whlcb my be based 0o1 the existence of disease or based upon suspicion.
He bas to take action. on it irnrnediately.
He bas to furnish a copy of that declaration
to the owner of the -animal, and clause 33
says tbat declaration shail be conclusive
evidence la all courts of justice. That declaration bas not been reviewed by the minister at ail.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, because it is ln
section 19 tbe intervention of the minister
cornes ln. That section leaves ont the words
which are in the existing statute, that the
minister should make a declaration or an
order on the înspector's declaration. It would
seern by this tlîe ininister ls to corne iu and
Suppose this is a case
make an lnquiry.
or tuberculosis,, or glandera, in Prince Edward Island, and the local liispector maltes
a declaration there on suspicion and sends

J ULY 14, 1903

jit

involves and vitiates the tbing from beIt will take
It to the minister at Ottawa.
winter-pebaps a week or two- ginning to end.
days if in
ipt
OJHE-ihU
r
Hn
to reacb the minister, and the minister bas
basHE
-Wtu ad asputo
on
declaration and his de- n Ht Mr.en
to decide on that
we are
tik
claued h8,
the principeou.
r
cision cannot be arrived at untîl that decla8 1tikw
fcas
luitea-cpe
88,
and lie makes
ration reaches hlmTat et .thestat some
unerIoslng sIgbt of the object of clause
was
quir.
witb the evidence. I
thl e tte cne which deals simply
Tatw butt
theiry.
in tbe tiret inunder this Bill. My hon. friend muet wsudrteImpression Council was the
that the Order In
eadte ny atifacorystance,
sec et t wll
it
only documentary evidence wîtb whicb
any saifatr
eator,
Thel Inot
setet.
vet. denît. But 1 find that It deals witb ail tbe
TheinseCtr,.wboisa
setiemat.
the declaration
tobe acometet niilgoe toother declaratiofla, that is,
and ugb
*ougbt to satisfY bimselt of the minister as well as tbe declaratiofi
the place and be
o f tlie Inspecter In the first place, and I
wlietber the disease exista or net. If le
a
It on bis own skill, he ouglit tbink it deals properly wltlî those to
neot able to do
extent. My hon. friend may posoheran mae is ecara 1llmited
te allInsom
that before
tien, nlot on suspicion, not throwing the re- sibly lose siglit'0f tbe fact
the declaration of the Inspecter reaches the
sponslbility on the minister wbo may' be a
migbt be taken
couple of tbousand miles nway-be ouglit to minister, legal proceedinga
recovering possession of the animal,
make 'bis own report and that report the for
or scheduied ;
minister sbould act upon and proceed upofl lt, wh1ch may have been seized
sometbîng muet come before
as the inspector sbould be a responsîble man. consequently
of seizure
I thlnk It would be a miatake to pass the Bill the court by way of justification
animais. Hence, this clause makea
ln this form, starting the thlng on suspicion. of those
of that declaraYou have no sufficlent remedy lu clause 19 evidence of a certified copy
whlch bas been made by the Inspecter.
tbat the minîster ls te have an effectuai re- tien
to npply to, and
view of this declaration, for before that That la aIl It ls lntended
I fal to see, if you agree to the prInciple
declaration la sent tbe place is declared
and 19 that there
an infected place. Tbe Inspecter bas noti- embodied in clauses 18
anything wrong Iu clause 33, excepting
lied the _owner. *That la ail prôvided la
owner is noti- that the last Une of clause 33 should be
for Iu clause 18. -Tbe
tbat the declarafied and a communication follows witb amended se as to provîde
lt were In British Colum- thon sbould slmply be evidence of whatever
the minîster. If
suspicion
bia, 1 wouder bow long It would takre to fact It sets out, or of wbatever
If It were ln Prince It may set out. Hou. gentlemen wll see
reacli the minister.
to be conclusive
Edward Island, bow long would it take ?that those declaratiofla are
to makre the lnqulry lu Ot- evidence Iu ahl courts of -justice and elseAnd how ls lie
where of the existence of the disease, and
tawa ? la lbe to send some one down ? l
procedure in the case of aotemaerowictbodrorelrthat the proper
acnedeclarato
hites.
Quero
ton raela
contagious diseuse in the cornniunlty, before
ptied t relate O asuspicionl conetithe minister acta ? Surely uny bon. frlend lt te relmete a suspicion sbold euproproas
does not thlnk that la the proper way to
ion
sectpi 83,lro
luatofune
the
viel fry
The proper way la tbat this declaraceed.
declaration of the existence of
o n
ae blye ou te existence. well as the
o thonde
dises se. It should rend: '0f the exahbeiflst exitece tbe
fThe iseer
ny man Istence ef thle disease. or suspicion of tbe
mlht
The nspcto b mitakn.
make a mistake. But lie la not llkely existence of the diseuse.'
miglit
t0 make a mistake. He would cause a sysHon. Mr. pOWER-Yes, I thlnk that
tematic inqulry to be made, and lie would
and havlng meets the case.
take the advice of other parties,
started riglit, everytblig would work rIglit
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My motion is-and
t0 the end. The remedy for this la to strIke
this would not bie necessary at ailont these words that bave bzeen lntroduced then
lu tbe
Inspecter la t0 to strike out the words 'ogr suspects'
into thua law, by whcb the
Une of clause 18.
start bis proceediuig on suspicion, because firat

SENATE
think that
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I
would make the Bill weaker tban the bon.
gentleman desires to make IL. It miglit be
Impossible, when the inspecter was called
ln, to diagnose thie disease, and lience if
action were not taken until a certalnty was
nsgured, thie disease miglit spread to the
whole flock. Tbe strengtlî of this clause
Is ln the fact thiat tliey eau start 'where
suspicion exists that one of thiose contagious
diseases is likely te be engendered, and if
we remove this, we create the greatest danger te the lierd, and tliey are apt to aîllow
It to remain until a certainty is assured,
and tlien perliaps every animal lu the lierdý
will takie the disease. The very moment
thiat the inspecter bas a suspicion that oe
of Iliose diseases Is Iliely te arise, lie reports, and action Is taken and perhaps tie
berd may be saved. But if we remove tie
ýivord 'suspect' we wijeaken he claus-e,
because It Is imipossible, In the early stages,
for tlie inspector, no matter liow skilled lie
may lie, to diagnose tlie case, but If lie lias
a suspicion that one of Iliose cases Is Ilkely to arise, If hie takes action tben lie is very
mucli more ikiely to prevent a sprend of tlie
epidemie than If he waits t111 it is fullY
dereloped. Anybody wlio lias gîven a1nY
attention to this will know that. My lion.
frlend opposite (Hou. Mr. Ferguson) lias
paid a great deal of attention to tlîis suliject, no doubt, and I tlîlnk tliat if lie considers lie will ngree witb me Iliat lie sliould
'wltldraw bis motion and allor tlis clause
to remain as il is. If lre is furîlier taaY,
tlhen thie delay whdli lie seeks to lesseîî is
lncreased. if lie waits for thiree or four
days until the premnonitory stage lins passed
to such n degree tliat lie is abile te diagnose il to a certainty, lie is onlly încereasing
thie danger and tlie delay. I would asz the
bion, gentleman to witlidraw the motion, liecause I tljiink il muakes the clause weak.
It tends t0 create danger. Il tends t0 create
loss, and tends te frustrate wliat lie lias ln
view.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I -would ask my
lion. friend to say wlether lie <loes îîot think
that tlie operation of clause 19 will cause a
great de.M more delay Ilian tliat. The mlinIster living iii Ottîvva, a malter reported 10
hlmii frorn Prinîce Edward Islanid or Britisli
Columubia ;lie lias t0 investigate and niake
lis declaration or bis order-does nlot the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

hon, gentleman see lu tîxat proceedinig a
long delay, more delay tlian if tlie inspecter
were t0 talze a day or two to diagnose tfie
case ?
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Yes, but wliere
Is tle delay ?ý Lt would take onily liaif an
hour te telegrapli tlie facîs Iti Vie niniister,
and lie would reply t0 take every precaution.
The lion. gentleman would not like te have
every officer ia tlie country given power 10
enforce an Act so importanit as Ilis is.
The minister lias 10 lie responsilîle aîîd lie
lias to lie guarded and safeguarded.

Il

would îuot take very long 10 report Iliat
the anima] lias been -lnspected, and then
directions would be given hlmn t0 take every
precaution t0 ascertaîn, at the earlest possible moment, wlietlîer il is one of tiiose
diseases Iliat is mentioned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
ivould bave tci telegral the declaration.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the lion. gentleman from Calgary really lits the blot
muid lie suggests tîxat in tlie latter end of
clause 33 nt hune 45 after 'disease' we
should insert 'or of tue suspicion of sucli
existence.' Il la a perfectly proper tliing
tei make tlie lnspector's*declaration evidence
of lis suspicion of the existence of tle disease. I thinik tliat amendment would nieet
the liou. genîtlemanî's view. I would, therefore, iuove Iliat we insert tlue words 'or of
tlie suspicion of sudl existence.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, if the word
ýsuspect' is t0 lie retaliied.
Hlon. Mr. MýcMULLEN-My

lion. friend

lias given Ibis question a ýgood deal of consideration, but afler all I tliink tle amend-

ment proposed by tle Secretary of State,
if lie considers il carefully, will cover the

ground. The goverament inspecter aI a
certain place comes 10 the conclusion, or
suspects, tliat a disease does exist. What
does the Act require hlm 10 do ? lt requires
hlm 10 cominunicate witli the minister tînt
lie lias reason to suspect Iliat a disease lu a
certain locality exists. Wlien lie forms liat
suspicion lie gives immediate notice 10 those
interested laI lie lias formed tint suspicion,
and immiediately lie gives a copy of the samne
notice 10 lie mninister, will ail expedition.
The mninister immiedialely instructs hlm to

JULY 14, 1903

591

Hon. Mr. POWER-Witb respect to clause
make further Investigation or iustruct somebody. It mnust be made, and when hie does 1.9, it does not seem to me that lt needs any
that and reports to the minister thiat be bas aLmendment. In Une 14 there is the exfound that disease does exlst, then tbe min- p ression 'if it appears that any Infectious
Ister, ou the basis of that evidence, wbien It oir contagious disease exista, the minister
ls sent to hilm as provided by the amend- nay so determine.' The minister would flot
meut proposed by tbe bou. Secretary of ao determine unless bie bad evidence to tbat
State, hie takes action to stamp ont the dis-e ~ffect.
sease. 1 thilk that that could be satisfacHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIl do
tory. You must admit that the inspector
iot ask to strike that out.
must bave some suspicion and some grounds
to, go upon lu the first place. The moment
Hon. Mr. POWER-Perhaps the hon. leadhe hears, by repute or any otber way, that er of the opposition did flot catch wbat the
a disease does exist, bie takes action at once. taon. gentleman from Calgary sald. A suit
The object of takiug action at once is to rnight be brougbt against some man wbo
segregate the whole district, so that be will was acting under the Instructions of the Inpreveut lhe removal of the animais. Re spector. The Inspector acts under suspicion,
will communicate with the minister, and tbe and some man acts on bis Instructions, and
ininister lnstructschim la refereuce to that. that man ls brougbit into court, and the obIf be does that, and bie then reports and the ject of clause 33 is to show that there was
minister ls satisfied tbat the disease does somethiug to go upon, and that he had the
exist, bie gives orders to take steps ta eradi- declaration of the inspector that hie suspectcate ItL
ed that disease existed amongst the animais.
the man's actions under the
Hon. Sir MACIKENZIE BOWELL-There That justifies
orders of the Insipector ; and I move, secondls a great deal of force lu tbe remark made
from Calgary,
by the bon, gentleman. The ameudment ed by tbe hon. gentleman
that after the word ' disease,' In Une 45, we
proposed by the bon. Secretary of State wlll
'or of the suspicion of sncb
improve the clause c9nsiderably, but wbat Inhert the words
disease.' Then tbis declaration will be only
I object to tu this Bill ls making-as clause
the inspector suspects the
83 does-a declaration. of tbe minister on the evidence that
disease, and that Is perfectly rigbt and prosuspicion of the existence of a disease conclusive evidence iu ail courts of justice. It per.
qualifies it by the adjective 'conclusive 1 Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIJL-Tbat
evidelice. -It would Improve the clause con- materlally qualifies It.
7slderably If we adopted the suggestion made
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Some time ago,
by the hion. Secretnry of State and the hon. when we were considering clause 18, 1
gentleman from Calgary, but wbnt objection moved tbnt it be ameuded. 1 tbink tbat
would there be to strike out one of tbe 1unes
motion sbould be put first. 1 shall certainly
aitogether. 1 amn reading clause 33 where
vote for tlue present motion If my own is not
it makes the declaration of tue existence of carried.
disease by the inspector u-nder clause 18
The CHAIRMAIN-The question is on tbe
conclnsive evidence of its absoînte existence.
Snpposing you strike out the words 'or a ameudment proposed by tbe bon. gentlecopy of the declaration of the inspector cer- man from Marshfield.
tified by hlm,' and makze lt read lu this way:
The amendient was lost.
'an order of tbe Goveruor lu Council declar*Hon. Mr. DEVER-As I read clause. 18,
iug,' aud s0 on, or of the minister declaring
of the disease must be a fact before the Inthe place to be an infected place, notice
It says 'wbere a
wbich lias been given 'shall be conclusive spector can take action.
made disease ls found.' It must be foiind. 1 do
evidence.' Of course, tbe declaration
ameudment is requlred. I
by tbe minister Would be upon the evidence not see wivht
this would be bound to accept thie officer's
offered to hlm by the Inspector, but lu
matter, becanse bie mnust b 'e
clause you are making tbe declaration made opinion on this
acompetent maiu. In case Jue makces a misupon mere suspicion conclusive evidence of
take, it enables the owner of the animal ta
*tefact of the existence of disease.

SENATE
Invoke the services o! thse minister, and then
if any inistake has been made by the minIster, thse minister and thse goverament would
be responsible to the man for ny wrong.
Clause 19 also confirms this, so tisat I caxiflot, for the 11fe of me, see how any man
reading the clauses together, could Imagine
that thse sllghtest Injustice Is doue under
any of these clauses.

tious or contagions disease or suspected of being
so affected.

These are the new words there inserted.
Talce clause 12 which follows this uP, and
yon wJIl find that in the last part of subsection 3 of the clause, tise proviso following
tise words one hundred and fifty dollars
provides that:
When it Is ciearly showa that an animal has
been slaughtered on Insufficient grounds, and
Thse CHAIRMAN-Tse question Is on thse that thse slaugister was flot in accordance with,
owner shall
amendment proposed by thse hion. Mr. Power, or justifiable under thks Act, thse full value of
be entitied to compensation at thse
tisat we lnsert tise words 'or o! the suspicion thse animal so slaughtered.
o! suci dlsease.'
Noiv, wvless we had this before the Honse
The amendment was adopted.
before I concluded that thse meaning of it
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I should was that when animais were slauglitered
lke to, call tise attention of thse commlttee and found to be free f rom disease thse owner
to thse fact that In clause 33 we speak o! would be entitled to be paid the fuli value
thse certificate of tise Inspector as belng con- of the animal, but I doubt very mucis on
clusive evidence of tise fact that disease reading clause il as it stands ini tise Bill
exists. In clause 35 thse saine certificate tbat that would be the resuit. That clause
Is stated tisat for thse purpose of tisis Act It sets forth wlsat are the .-rounds for slaughshall be prima facle evidence In ail courts tering an animal, but tise fact tbat an niof justice and elsewisere of tise matter certi- mal was fouuld, after being slauglitered, to
fied. There lB certaIly a. contradiction be- be sound wvould not be considered to be sufittween tisese two clauses o! thse Bill. In onse dient grounds, because thse animal lbad been
tise certificate ls conclusive ; In thse otiser It slauglhtered on suspicion. I do not know
Is only prima fadle evideace.
that 1 have made mysel! as clear as I %vould
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It la flot thse wlsb. An animal mlght be slaughtered
on wisat Is declared to be suspicion, and
saine document.
thse requirements of thse Act might be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No; but 1 am qulte carrled ont thougis thse animal was found
prepared to strike out tise word 'conclusive'
free of ail disease, and thse owner would
andi make It prima fadie.
flot bave any dlaim for compensation. It
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That Is would be extremely doubtfui. indeed to
establisi any dlaim for compensation under
bel ter.
these tw,%o clauses, because it is only wlsen
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In clause 33, Une 44, 1
the slaughter was not muade la accordance
move that thse word 'conclusive' be struck
witls tise provisions of tise Act that comout sad tisat tise words 'prima facie' be
pensation is ahlowed. 1 think it was the
substituted therefor.
intention of the proiuoters of tise Act that
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think that is an tise owner would be entitled to compensaimprovement upon tise Bill.
tion if a perfectly souad animal were
slaughtered.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I mov'e that sections il and 12 be reconsidered.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is not usual, uuless
there are some good reasons given.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-The changes us
tisese sectionis as coaspared witb thse old law
are what causes tihe incongruity is tis part
of tise Bill. Clause il provides:
Tise minister may. from time ta time. cause
to be slaugbtered animais suffering from InfecHon. Mr. DEVER.

Hloa. ?%r. SCOTT-As I rend the Bill, this
is on a inucis more liberal basis than the
old law. I do not think there is any provision la tise law as it stands for compensation.
Hon. Mr. F ERGUSON-The proviso I bave
read is entirely new.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I preceive tise
point made by thse hon. gentleman from

JULY 14, 1903
Hoa. Mr. POWER-The hou. gentleman
should. bear this In mmnd, tbat It is not necessary that the animal shahl be actually diseased to justify the slaughter. If the animal bad been in contact with diseased animais, then It shall be s3laughtered, even
tbough It bas flot developed the disease ItHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me self.
Consequently 1 do not think this
the word 'insufficient'1 sbould be struck amiendment should be accepted.
out.
Hon. Mr. DAND iJRAND-Sbould flot the
Hon. Mr. DANDUIRAND-1 should rather owner be entitled to recover In that case ?
keep It as being more liberal than without
,Hon. Mr. POWER-If an animal bas been,
It.
say, In a herd whIch is diseased, and la
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEIJ-It seems to me It slaugbtered, I do not think the owner of the
should provide wheu the animal was berd should be entitled to full compensaslaughtered and found free from diseuse, tion.
compensation should be made.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That class bas
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We were told been. already deait with.
when ln committee before that that was
Hon. Mr. POWEll-If you strike out ahl
the intention, but I do flot tliink It is fully the words from the word 'ground' In hure
carried out.
down to and including 'Act' In Ue f ortyPOWER-The bon, gentleman three, it wiil suffice. The words omitted
Hon. Mr.
from Marsbfield tbiaks thnt the words 'sus- would be 'and that the slaughter was flot
pected of being affected' sbould be struck Iu accordance with, or justifiable under this
out the eleventh clause.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It la suggested
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, I did not
tbe diffibecause the pelicy of the Bill la that this phraseology might meet
ask tbat,
culty 1provided that In ail other cames of
to retain those acts, but I want to make it
the owuer shali
clear that when an animal which Is -free an animal being slaugbtered
be entitled to compensation,' because we
from disease bas been slaughtered the owner
deal with various cases. We deal withi a
shahl be compensated.
diseaed animal. and with an animal that
nml
oadsae
Hou. Mr. POWER-I direct the atten-bsbe npoiiy
eaiugith ansaeanimal.a
tion of the committee to the tact tbat Nas beeIar
nmlta
iha
eln
r
lu the Act as It stands on the statute-book Nww
animal does not corne under eitber of the classificathe last provision is found 'or an
tions.
suspected'0f being iufected, &c. of disease.'
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the minister Is satisIf an animal is Ia contact witb an animal
In Council may or- fied there was flot sufficient ground for the
suspected, the Governor
der that animal to be slaughtered, go there slaughter, then the owner is compensated.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That raises the
Is ne object in reconsidering clause Il. 'Witb
respect to subelause 3 or clause 12, I think question agai raised by the bon. gentleman
probably It would make it clearer If we f rom Marshfield. You will see that suspicion
struck ont the words ' and the slaughter wàs is consîdered sufficient ground.
not In accordance with or justifiable under
Hon. MIr. SCOTT-That case Is provided
this Act'
for bere. I do xîot think you can improve
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It would be the clause.
o.M.LUIED1tnktecas
clearer, If I understand the bearing of the
r OGEDItiktecas
Hu
clause, that the provision should read as
onc
a
h
nfrnl
emd
it Is clearly 1ol
follows : 'provided that when
shown the animal slaughtered was net 50 out.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Whilt case do yon want
affected the owner shaîl be entitled to comto cover ? As It Is xîow, the departuient
pensation.'

His argument Is that the
MarslifLeld.
slaugbter may be made on insufficient
grounds, but may have been justifiable under this clause, and therefore the owner
would flot be entitled to recover the full
amount of the value of the animal.

SENATE
pays for animais that- are net infected but
havF; l)eeu slaughtered simply because they
have been ln contact with dlseased animais,
and se are siispected. Yen certainly caunet go beyond that, payiug the fuill value
for an animal that is not at ail diseased.

views of members of the House of Colnmous wbo take an interest in it, and tliis
clause was claimed to meet the particular
case.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Te get nt the
point, I will move that ail the words in
subsection three of clause twelve, after the
word 'sl.aughter' in lune forty-two be
stricken out down to the word 'Act' lu Une
forty-three, and that in lieu thereof the
words 'iu error' be inserted. Tbe words
are 'on insufficient grounds, and that the
slaughter was flot in accordance with, or
justifiable under tbis Act!' The object of the
Act Is, If an error bas been made lu slaughtering an animal, full compensation shall
be made.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hou. gentleman does not yet apprehend the point tbat
Is taken. The case mentioned in subsection
3 of clause 12, there provides that compeusation shahl be made whiere the animal bas
been slaughtered on Insuficient grounds, aud
that. the slqiughter was net lu accordance
wlth or justifiable under this .Act. We say
the termi 'Insufficient grounds ' Is ambiguous,
beca use any ground miglit be deemied suffidient, and it opens up what weuld be suffiHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-What Is the
dient grounds. Grounds of suspicion are
difference ?
suificlent grounds.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You make it
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, because the aunimal
.
clear. It ls as cloudy as can be under the
Is pald for In full.
present phraseology.
Hon. Mir. LOUGHEED-My hou. friend
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We are simply goiug to
does flot yet see what we iare aiming at
The Idea, is, and the Intention of the gev- create confusion.
P'rnment evldently Is, that f ull compensaHoia. Mr. DANDURAND-The effect is
tion. should *be paid where an animal is to compensate te the full amount If au
slaughtered that does net corne under the error lu committed. I believe this being
different classes où cases provided for, but the Intention of the Act, that the clause -,s
the ternis employed are ambiguous and clear enough as I Is :
would gîve irise to, coutroversy as te what
Provlded that when it Io clearly shown that
constltuted sufficient grounds for siaugliter. an animal has been ulaughtered on insuffcient
grouinds, and that the slaughter was not la acHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do net know cordance with or justifiable under this Act. &c.
that, and I should like to insist upon my arnThis covers an error.
exidment.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thie goverumeuit
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No,- it would not bas power to slaughter an animal on susdo now.
picion. That ls sufficient greuud for slaughtHon. Mr. DANDURAND-There are three ering the animal. Then eau It bc said to
classes of compensation: WVlhen an animal be on Insufficient grouuds ?
Is slaughtered, though It Is net la Itseif
because
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Ne,
affected, but bas been ln contact with the government can give a certain compendlseased animais. Then, agaln, where It sation for having slaughtered the animal.
bas been shewn the animal was slaughtered
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You are onîy
on InsuffIcient grounds. Then, lu case of a
manifest errer on the part of the officer. givlng one-thýird. We are dealîng with a
Then, by looking at clause six. It is simply class of cases where it is Intended te give
permissive. It gives discretien te the~ au- full compensation.
Se this is a
thorities to compensate.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That was the inspedial class which I thini, is well covered
tention and that 1s. the explanation that was,
by -the proviso.
give'n when we were lu committee, and it
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understand the clause was fwilly approved of. We thougbt we
was very much -discussed lu the other had effected it, and it is very plain that it
House, and was drawn up te meet the is net sufficiently clear te effect that object,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUIY 14, 1903
and It mi ght be shown that a suspicion beIng sufficient ground for slaughiter, there
was no error about it at ail, and the owner
would flot, therefore, be entitled td compensation.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot accept the
amendment..- I prefer to have the language
as expressed there, and that was the desire
of the minister, after the tlxing liad been
thorougbiy threshed out ln the other House,
and the clause changed to meet the views
of members who were Interested.
Hon. Mr. LOUJGHEED-If tliat la sound
doctrine, we had better flot diseuse the Bill
at ail here.
The CHAIRMAN-It is proposed that the
followlng words be struck out :'on
insufficient grounds, and that the slaughter
was not ln accordance wlth, or justifiable
under this Act' and the following words
be added instead: 'ln error.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk the words In
the Bill express the idea better.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Where an animal
ls slaugbtered ln error, where there le no
disease at ail, in fixing the value of that
animal la It under the previous portion of
this clause, either at flfty dollars or one
hundred and Ilfty dollars ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, the full value.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Without reference to, this clause at ail ?
Hon. 1%r. SCOTT-So I understand.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Is that sufficiently clear ? Certainly where an animal
has been slaughtered ln error, the owner ls
entitied to the value of the animal.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-4jertainly.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Tbe clause should
clearly show that, so that any one would
corne to that conclusion at once. If It does
flot, we should amend ItL But If it ls te be
governed by the previous portion of this
clause, flfty dollars, or one hundred and
flfty dollars would be entirely unfaIr.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In this class of
cases it is full compensation Irrespective of
the amount.
Hon. Sir MACICENZIE BOWELL--I
have not heard the Secretary of State give

anelrpianation of how the one clause affect
the other. The eleventh clause declare
Posively that a suspicion of an anima
being affected by disease ls grounds f0
slaughtering. The twelfth clause provide
for the case of an animal slaughtered on ln
suffIcient grounds. Now, the eleventh clausi
declares what are sufficient'grounda, but 1:
an animal be suspected, and It turns ouafterwards that It was not dlseased, tbex
the owner does not get full compensation
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Oh yes, that la the In.
tention of the Act.
Hon. Sir MACKENZ[E BOWELL.-I rni
not taikIng about the intention. I have no
doubt that ls the Intention, but what does
the clause say ? It provides that the ewner
shahl no't receive full compensation unless
the animai la slaughtered on Insufficient
grounds. Now, suspicion, under the eleventh
clause, la a sufficient ground for slaughter,
whether the animal ls diseased or not.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not unless It were
shown afterwards that the suspicion wtxs
well founded.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The amendment proposed by the hon, gentleman from Calgary,
provides only for the case of an animal being elaughtered la error. Supposing the
animal was not slaughtered la error. SupposIng the man who slaugbtered It was actIng mahiciously, and acting ln a spirit of
hostility to the owner of the animal.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbat would be
deait with under the criminal law. The
goverament would be clearly responsible.
The ameadment was declared loat.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I should like to
have the meaning of the clause clearer.
If you take subclause six, of thia clause, you
will see what I mean :
6. If ln any caue the uum received by the goyerament, on the sale of a carcass of an animal

elaughtered under the provisions of this Âct,
exceeds the amount paid for compensation ta
the owner of the animal slaughtered, the excess,
after deduction of reasonable expenses, shall
be paid ta the owner.
If an animal ls slaugbtered lu error-if It
Is a pure-bred animal, a valuable animal,
It is exceedingly unfair to ask the owner
to pay the expense of sienughtering ItL
I
cannot understand the clause. The govern-

SEINATE
metit step lu on suspicion that disease exThey find afterwards it does not exlsts.
lst. They have taken from an innocent man
an animal, free from disease and, lu order
ta satisfy the suspicion of the inspector,
tbey have alaugbtered that animal and find

that no disease exists. I sbould like to sec
hlm get

fully paid

for bis

animal:

tai

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE

BOWELL-Tbe

lion, gentleman from Marsbfield bas called
attention to the fifth and seveuth clauses
dealing with the sale of diseased meat.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That was dlsçussed
when the Bill was Up before, and It 'was
found to be a necessary provision.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I move the reconsideration of clause 7.

ask bim to pay the expenses connected with
the slaughtcring of the animal I thlnk Is entirely unfair. My reason for coming ta the
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-We dlscussed that when
conclusion that fifty dollars, or a liundred the Bill was up before. At'tention was
and fifty dollars, setUles the value of the caled to the fact that the words 'kiown
animal was on account of this subclause. by hlm' 1were struck out, and that is the
The minîster bas the right ta fix tlie value difference between the present Bill and the
Ha will, of course, get cvi- law as It stands, aud that was done deof the animal.
dence as ta the value, but aftar ail, ta say signedly. It was felt to be absolutely nethe owuer must psy for the slauglitering of cessary lu the interests of the public, and
the animal whan It was taken for tua pur- In order to protect the public.
pose of aradicatlug disease, and ta inake
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the House is
hlm the victlma Is, 1 tblnk, unfair.
not going to recousider 11, we need flot disHon. Mr. POWER-Thc provision wblcb cuss It, but If it la to bie reconsldered, I will
the bon. gentleman finda fault 'wlth lins beeil give my reasons, and I think I may as well
on the atatute-baok for twenty years.
state them now. My reasous are that those
some tbree clauses, 5, 6 and 7, deal wlth the same
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-I shiould like
hon, gentleman wlth a very vivid Imagina- conditions. Clause 5 provîdes that:
5. Every person who turne out, keeps or
tion to point out baw thc government could
any animal knowing It te bie infected
salI a diseascd animal and get more than grazesor labourlng under any infectiaus or conwith
the amount of compensation ? I cartainly taglous disease, or te have been exposed to Inany foreat,
or contagion.
faUl to undarstand why thia section was ever fection beach. marsh, In or upofi waste-land, wood,
open
common,
moor,
put In the Act, bacausa 1 do not think sucli field, roadaide. or other undivlded or unena condition of affaira would ever arise as la closed land, shaîl, for every sucli offence, Incur
a penalty flot exceeding two hundred dollars.
provlded for.
Clause 6 provîdes:
Hon. Mr. McHUGHE-I think If the words
6. Every person who brings or attempts te
'and If t'he slaugitar 'was flot justifiabile
bring into any market, fair or other place, any
under the Act' were struck out, it would animal known te hlm to be lnfected wlth or
be satlsfactery ta those wha are trying to labouring under any Infectious or contaglous
shail, for every suri offence, tncur a
promote thia Bill. It would make It clear dîsease, nlot exceeding two hundred dollars.
penalty
that the owncrs wcrc ta be pald at the f ull
Clause 7 reads as follows:
price.
7. Every person who sells or disposes of, or
The CHÂIRMÂN-4Does the hou. gentle- puts off, or offers or exposes for sale, or attempts to dispose of or put off any animal inman make a motion ?
fected with or labouring under any infections
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-I thiuk the lion. or contagions disease, or the meat, skin, bide,
animal
hoofs,
Secretary of State will accept the amend- horns, with or or other parts of an Infections inor
labourlng under any
fected
ment 1 propose ta clause 12 iii the farty- contagious disease et the time of Its death, wheanimal,
third lina showlng that the animal bas been ther such person ls the owner of the hoof s or
or of such meat, akin, hide, horne,
slsughtered on lusufficient grounds.
other parts of such an animal, or net, shall, for
Incur a penalty not exceedHon. Mr. SCOTT-We have disposed of every such offence,
ing two hundred dollars.
Wa were discussing
that clause already.
He Is hiable to a penalty whether lie
subclause 6. As remarked by the hou.
I bold
gentleman from Calgary, no case lias arisen kniows the animal is diseaseO. or not.
been on the statute- that in the case of a man who takes the
undar It though it bas
animal into a market or fair bas far more
book for many years.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

JULY 14, 1903
opportuulty ta know If the animal Is diseased
than the man dealiug with the hide. It MaY
came iunocently into his possession. and be
Is Hiable ta a fine of $200. He may be perfectly Innocent of the animal belng lntected. If the word 'knowlngly' were lu-I
serted ln that clause it would require te
be p'ut ln ln two places.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It could neyer be
preved.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We might make it
rend 'auy animal lcnown by hlm ta be lnfected.'
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-I think these
words wauld be required further down lu
the clause also, and that princîple weuld
apply lu section 7 the same as they do lu 5
and 6. It le very incongruous that we should
make a man, a dealer lu bides for Instance,
Hiable ta a fine of $200 for what he may do
innecently, whlle lu another clause you must
prove that the man who brlngs the animal
inta market knew the animal was Infected.

rou get a piece of dlseased meat in the
mxarket it le a differènt thlng, and It wiIl
be harder for the prosecution to establish
t:he know]edge. If you wisb to prevent the
saie of diseased animais you have to adopt
the most effective meane of dolug It, and I
think the abject of the officers ef the departmuent is to make the law effective, and that
is in the public Interest, and as this was
discussed a good deal at the commlttee
stage I sbould vote againet the motion to
reconsider it.
The motion was lost.

Hou. Mr. BEIQUE, from the committee,
reported the Bill with ameudments which
were concurred in.

THE BUTTER ACT, 1903, BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readiiig of
Bill (207) An Act ta prohîbît the Importation,
manufacture or sale of adulterated, procesB or
renovated butter, oleomargarîne. butterine or
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The department have other substitute forofbutter, and ta prevent the
butter.
lmDroper mnarking
adopted that advisedly. Frauds have been
He said : I wHl explain to the House the
by horse traders aud
constautly commltted
ethers whe seil on the market and bring lu abject In lntroducing this'mea sure. In the
cattie that are iufected, and how can you first place, it was found necessary to prohiiprove that they knew It ? They knew It bit the manufacture of butter known as
really, but you have no way of giving evi- process butter. The grouud for legisiatian
dence of the fact. It Is knawn ta every- nt the present time agalnst the introduction
body that they knew It. Parties whe deal and the manufacture of process butter
wlth those animais are perfectly conversant arises frai» the fact that application hiad
wlth the clrcumastances. If tbey own them been made ta the departmnent by parties
they must be aware of It, because they are tram the United States, luvited hiere by parselling for the reason, and they are shielded ties lu Canada, ta manufacture process butter as made in the United States. Somne
If you strike eut those wards.
vears ugo In the United States parties went
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That Is wvhat oc- into the manufacture of wbat le knowu as
cure In five and six. These horse traders process butter. It was xiot oleomargarine,
must know. But clause seven applies ta but butter of nu Inferior quality, a variety
another class of cases, sucb as the sale of of L-luds of butter that are re-wasbed, beated
bides and boots of animale, &c., and there and the odaurs evaporated tram them, and
the mnan bas not the opportunity of knowlng, re-wasbed, and then cooled and packed as
and still he Is made hiable whether lie knows butter. Havlng been thoroughly wasbed and
or not.
being free tram ail edaurs, tbey are paHan. Mr. POWER-Tbe tact that the de- table enough for a very short time, but as
partment, after a goad deal of experience, the natural animal fat bas been removed
think this change necessary le an argument la the heatiiig process, the butter wauld
iu favour of maklng a change, and then not keep for any Iength oftimre. The United
there le the turther point that there le very States permitted this. It *went on without
littie difficulty la praviug that the farmer any legisîntion for saine time aud the inanuwbo bas the animal and turne hlm out ta facture became s0 general, and it was degraze knaws, or ought ta know, but when preclating the character and quality of Iunit-

SENATE
avilg 4creamery appliances-that would
ed States butter to sucli an extent, that tbey h ave to, be the first consideration, because
to regulate it, hl
lntroduced a law in côngress
know that in the ordinary dalies of the
~e
and compel parties wlio manufacture that 'v
ountry they bave not appliances, and not
sort of butter to take out licenses. It bas c avlng these, with a view to keeping a
been a very serious Injury to the butter trade hroper temperature and handling the proof the.Unlted States, as can be vcry chear- p.uct properly, they cannot possibly tura
ly sbown by the figures.- Whlle our butter dut blgh-class creamery butter, I had thereexport bas been going up, theirs bas been oore thought that If there was a system of
golng dowa. Ia addition to that, the Bill f egistration adopted, every person dlaimprovIdes for a definition of creaînery but- r ng to have creaniery appliances, although
ter ; that is, butter manufactired nt a ne- 1: might have a lesser number of cows,
ie
guhariy organized creamery supportcd bY h~
vould register bis creamery, and then
cows. It is not neccssary, as
at 1e,,t fifty
lbat the departinent sbould send one of
the law stands, that butter should be Mark- -beir Inspectors to visit It and find tbat
ed, but If you mark It as creamery butter, be manufacture was carried on in accordthen It must be butter that comes fromn a t ince with the creamery process and creamregularly organlzed creamery sustained by ery practices, that that dalry or creamery,
at heast tbat number of cows. Tbe opposi- iltbough it mlgbt not bave fifty cows, would
tion to the Bill from certain quarters was ln be allowed to brand the product as creamconsequence of selectlng creamery butteri ery butter, and get the full price prevalllflg
as a butter that could be marked and brand- for creamery butter. 1 notice, however,
cd. 0f course, people are quite at liberty that ln the House of Comnious an amendto mark dairy butter, or any other brand ment was lntroduced to tbe Bill wblcn ivili,
tbey choose, but ln the market creainery to some extent, remove the hardsblp wbicb
butter commands a bigber price. The ar- would occur In*the case of an owner (if say
gument agalnst It Is that dairy butter may less than fifty cows, say forty-eigbt cows
be just as good. That may be quite true, or any lesser number, and who had the
but It Is found that the best butter Is made necessary appilances, and wbo 'was able
[n the langer cr&ameries, better organized, to turu out creamery butter. There Is a
witb at lenst fifty cows. The number fifty provision made ln clause 9 whlcb reads as
ls, of course, arbltrany. There Is no reason follows
why it should not be slxty or forty, other
than that It w-as considered desirable to de9. Nothlng contained in sections 7 and 8 of
ln rolis, prints or
apply to
fine the nuniber of cows that sbould be this Act shali less than butter
twenty-five pounds ln
of
tbe milk to a par- packagesnot intended for export.
sustainlng and furnlshing
welght,
ticular creamery.
Clauses -4 and 8 are the penal clauses
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This Bill Is, on which makes it punishable for an owner
the wbole, a vcry well consldered mensure or manufacturer of butter to put o1n the
as It now stands. 1 think it was consider- word 1creamnery ' unless it is tbe product o!
ably amended lu the House of Commons. As5 fifty cows or over. Tjnder clause 9 of this
My hon. friend the Secretary of State has Bill sncb manufacturer o! butter baving 1ess
polnted out, however, It does seemn reason- than fifty cows, is permitted to miake use Of
able to say, that butter made ln a creamery the word 'creamery'1 on bis butter, provided
from the product of fifty cows, would be en- he puts It up ia packages of less than 25
tltled to be classified as crcamery butter pounds and selis it ln the home market.
while that made fromn a smailer number of That being so, 1 tbink it will remlove to a
cows would be classified as dalry butter, for large extent any unjust application of the
wc know very well la the markets of the law, and as it is so extremely desirahle that
world that a hlgher value is attached to we should get on a sound and sure basis in
ereamery butter tban to dairy butter, and 1 the matter of marketing our butter as dairy
had thougbt tbat lt would be possible for the and creamery butter, so that there would be
department to bave carried out this object no mistaking- it i a foreiga market, 1 think
[n some other way than by fixing the num- the provision is satisfactory and at ail
ber o! cows. For Instance, if it was provlded eveats weil wortbi trying for a time, and if
that every owner o! a dairy or a creamery
Elon. '.%r. SCOTT.

JULY 14, 10
ud we tdok four firat prizes, a sweepstake,
ita operation la flot found aatiafactory, it can
*nd a diploma, and my diploma la hanglng
be chaaged.a
mpat my creamery. We have the experi. Han. Mr. PERLEY-1Ilntended to inake niental tarai down here where they are tryseveral motions for amendments to this Bill, ag te teach people bow to make butter, snd
but having talked to the promoters of thet hey have taught two men who went out to
mes sure, I concluded flot to do so. 1 pos- kustralla and they are mnking better butsibly may move in commlttee an amendmentt er there than over here. This place here
j say a dalry et
to clauses 2 and 9 to which my hon. friend s ouly a amaîl place.
referred as being so applicable anid beneficial ~ertaln dimensions .properly stocked with tlie
The firat utensila to maire butter constitute a creamto the farmers of the country.
object of the Bill Is to secure a better article ery more than the tact that Ilfty or sixty
If 1 bail my way
of butter for export. Weil, we should have cows are la the concern.
as good an article for home use. We should I ahould move that It be enacted that a
eat as gond butter In Canada as they do lu creamery be comprised et two or more
England, and as good butter should be put rooms fltted up to makre creamery butter.
on the Canadian market as Is put on any Theu you put a gond article on the market,
other market. In Wolseley a large quantity because no man would undertake to lât up
of butter cornes In that Is termed ' aie a build-ing to manufacture creamery butter
grease,' which bas no right to he marked unless he had the materlal te makre It. And
But
creamery butter, and yet is aold as such. then make it subject to Inspection.
I the goverunt allow these people to send
I know that from personal experience.
I we.at to butter to England without inspection. One
had a creamery on my farm.
the farm to bring home some butter for eutfit Is dlean and tidy aad the other la
my own use, but forgot It, and wbeu I poor, and they both go to England as creamreached 'home, my wife said : 'Did you ery butter. To my mind it la a perfect
bring the butter la ' and I said ' No.' She f arce. I hold that If you want to give onr
ad 'Yen wIll have to go and get some' butter a standing on the Engliah market,
shipped,
and I went Up towa and they showed me ia it should be inspected before It Is.
1 can
every store butter marked as creamery but- and graded as our wheat is graded.
said to me: 'You seil my wheat on a grade. I get a grade
ter and the merchants
and he
could flot eat it.' I would not takre It. Yet from the laspector la Winnipeg
the privilege ef marklng that grades It one, two and three, and it 1s
they had
article as creauiery butter, and If I had not shipped on those grades ail the way through
Now,
ItL
been living ln that locality, and hnd uot and there Is no question about
te me ln order to paclfy some poor fellow who
been known, they would have sold lt
as ereamery butter, a faise name altogether puts bis parcels up la leas than twenty-five
It creamfor such atuif. Now, fifty cows should flot pound lots, they allow hlm te cail
the
for creamery butter. The qua- ery butter. We bad a creamery out la
be the test
la nmanu- North-west. I went out te the station and
lity ef the butter and the way it
froni the
factured ahould determine what ls creamery saw eome cana brought dowa
I wll creamery to retura to the patrons, because
and what Is flot creamery butter.
to separate
illustiate that point in this way. In 1893 It la custemary for the patrons
iu the the milk froni the cream on the fanm, and
I started. a creamery on mY Own farm
What was
North-west wlth tweflty odd cows. I beught shlp it te the dIffereat factorlea.
and erected the resuit ? Some ef the farmers were doail the appliances for a creamery
exanIlned seme of
a building first for the work. 1 supplied, or ing that, and I weat and
and best the cans and I tell the hou. gentleman that
stocked It, with ail the neceasary
Improved machlnery according to Prof. two breatha of it would knock a horse dowa.
How coud
Robertaoies directions. I went by his d1rec- The stench was outrageons.
entirely. 1 manufactured butter lu any one make butter lu that wny ? They
tions
tbat creamery wlth about twenty-four or had fifty cows and they calledl it crenmery
twenty-five cows, and what waa the result ? butter.
1 hold that butter made In a
I w-ent to the exhibition at Winnipeg. We creamery shonld be made under the perput the butter on exhibition for every one
sonal supervision of a good man, and should
to look at, entered It In the different grades,

SEINATE
be graded according to quality and not accordlng to the number of cows a man bas
One man may bave good
on lis farm.
cows, and another poor cows. The good
cows may be Iess tban fifty and thel poor
ones more, the produce of one would be called creamery butter, the produce of thé other
I consider that allowlng peowould not.
pie to brand their butter as creamnery butter
wben it Is flot such an article at ail, Is an
outrage, and I wouid obliterate that clause
a1together. I wvouldnfot allow itto becalled
creamery butter uniless It Is made In a
creamery. Then you raise the standard of
creamery butter, but ln this Bill the standard
lu flot raised at ail. Every Tom, Dlck and
Harry l8 allowed to make creamery butter.
I wiil move an ameudment to clause 9 whlch
will give people a chance of knowing that
when they buy creamery butter It is good
butter, and 'that Do article will be marked
creamery wblch Is of a poor quality.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was reafi the second time.
POST OFFICE ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN moved the second
readlng of Bill (208) An Act to amend the
Fost Office Act He said : This Bill 1 find,
on a burried readlng of It, is a rather Important one and wll commend ltself to the
judgment of the House Inasmuch as lt Is
an attempt tô imiprove the financial condition
of railway mail clerks, clerks lu post offices
and Inspectors' offices, superintendent of
railway mail service, and also post office
Inspectors. The Bill deals wîtb three classes
of post office officiais, the effect being to
rearrange classifications, to inaugurate a
system of graduai Increases of salaries and
to, increase ln ail three classes the present
salaies of those officiais. In aliiost every
Instance the maximumi salaries to be pald
are Increased under thîs Bill. The details
will be more intelligently discussed In Coinmlttee of the Whole, lnasinuch as It deals
with a variety of officiais and ln somewbnt
different ways. Clause one, however, ls
perhaps the most Important clause ln the
Uuder the law there are three
Bill.
classes of mail cîerks. Under this Bill it Is
proposed to abolish those tbree classes and
constitute but one class. Under the existîng
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

iaw the minimum salary 0f a third ciass
cierk was about $480, and after two years
service the mail clerk recelved $520, increasing after fixe years service to $560, and
ln ten years to $640. That was the third
class. In the second class $600, increaslug
to $800, and in the first class $720, increasIng to $920. Under the proposed amendment to the Post Office Act, the minimum
salary after the probationai period of six
mionths provlded ln this Bill will be $500
a year and thereafter every year an lucrease
of $50 a year until the maximum of $Î,200
lu attalned. In addition to the salaries fixed
under this Bill, as la well knowu, the railway mail cierk recelves a mileage amounting
to some three or four hundred dollars a
year. This wlill give the mail clerks reasonably good salaries, and 1 think, tbey are entltled to this consideratioxi. There are some
other clauses ln reference tg letter carriers,
and ln clause six the clerks In the city post
offices aud Inspectors' offices are reclasslfied
and given an annual lucrease. Tbe samne
wltb respect to post office inspectors. It Is
proposed to bave but one cîass, there beîng
under the preseut law two classes. The
maximum uaiary to be paid under this Bill
being greater than under the present law,
and increasing at a more rapid ratio.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Fronl
casualîy looklng at thîs Bill It appears to
me it applies only to the mail clerlr service
and City post offices. Are tliere any provisions ln it la reference to the towns ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I thiinl, not.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Under
the clrcumstances it seems to me the government ouglit to have considered the position of cîerks in towns 0f 10,000, j2,000 and
15,000 Inhabitants wbose work is just ns
arduous and responsîble as the work of
those lu City post offices, as I kuow fromn
personal experience la the city la which
I live. We were formerly a City office and
no difficulties arose under the management
of that office, but for political reasons the
government reduced the office to what is
calied a town office and la that reduction
dismnissed the postmsster and nppointed another one. What the basîs of payment of
clerks is 1 am scarcely in a position to say
Dow, but this I do kaow, that the office
ever since the change has been conducted iii a

JULY 14, 1903
manner that is not satisfactory to even their
own polîtlcal friends or to anybody aIse, and
it arises more from the fact of tha Inafficiency of the postmaster himself and the
amaîl pay which Is givan. to the clerks.
ÂlI the old clerks of the office, who had
been recelvlng somathing like a fair remuneration, were aither dlsmissed or
superaaauated, aithougb some of them
wera ouly twanty-four or twenty-flve
years of age. New clerks were added to
the staff, and the pay lesso small that they
ramain there a very short tlme-a year or
two and away they go. The result is the
mistakas which are being made are Inexcusable and are continous. If you have a
box lu the office, you do not know haîf the
tima wbathar you get your own mail or not.
Sometimes letters are kept months and
months. 1 attrîbute It to the smali pay
given to the clarks, whlch compels them,
aftar they get a few years older, to look
for other emnploymneat, for thay will flot work
tbere at starvation rates. In this Bill provision Is made for lncreased salaries lu
citias. If there Is any force ln the reason
wblch bas beau advanced for increasing the
salaries ln the city post offices, the sama
reasons exlst for lncreasing the salaries and
having efficient clarks In the post offices
of towas. Whather tha government lntaads
to take that lato coasideration, I do not
knuw. WN'ould the minister wbo bas charge
of this Bill axplain to me what a 'case
examination' Is:

tju1

factory. Perhaps the hou. gentleman ca
expiain it lnteligently.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I amn told, and I
sbhould bave said, it was very much like the
case examination my hon. friend was put
tbrougb some fIfty or sixty years ago, when
his tutor was teaching hlm how to distrîbute
type ln the case. The case examination Is
the examination of a mail clerk ln respect to
bis ability to distribute the mail matter ln
the varions departments on the railway be Io
connected witli. The object is to provide
that the mail clerks may be proficient on the
run.s on wbich tbey are running. Under the
Bill the examination must be passed every
year up to the age of sixty, atter whicli they
get their advance of salary.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
gratifying to know that there is some mnember of the opposition who is able to informi
the minîster what bis Bill provides for.

Hon. Mr. TEIPLEMÂN',\-It w'as a case of
a member of the opposition enliglitening the
leader of the opposition aiso.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
duty of the opposition, as I understand it,
Is to Inquire of the government wviut they
mean wbcn tbey Introduce a Bill. The hon.
gentleman was Ignorant of the matter untii lie was lnstructed. 1 wns Ignorant of It
myseif, and that was why I asked for Information. What 1 want further to ask la, whether It Is the Intention of the goverament to
adhere strictly to the provisions of this Bill,
or whether they will make provision for the
Hlon. '-%r. TEMPLEMÂN-I do not tbink clnss of clerks I have referred to. The case
the case of examination my hon. frlend I have pointed out absolutely exists, and 1
it leý
,%-as used to lu bis youngar days.
presume the same thing occurs lu other
towns whlcb were clty post offices at one
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLz-Thfit
*time. The post office clerics lu Belleville,
may be a very Intelligent answer, but I muSt ,miths ri ais, Brantford and ail1 other towns
confess I arn altogether too dulI of compre- *of that size are Just as mucb entitlcd to
hension to understand what the bon. gentle*consideration as If they lived lu the city of
man meas. Ab, It has dawned on my Intel,
of Ottawa.
lect now. He Is speaking of wben I wa~ Toronto or the city
davil,' and the axamination of th e Hon. Mr. TEM.NPLEM-4.&N-Mrieli wc corne
1printer's
case I supposa, wblch holds the type. I cal to that particular clause ln the 1111 we will
uaderstafld that klnd of examination. I ca, 'be able to dlscuss it.
pass that aven at my aga now, witbout diffi
lon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELI-1 do
H
culty. This provîdes that a clerl. must pas~
e not tblnk there ls auy such clause lu It.
a yearly case examnation and ln subclausR
Hon. Mr. MAÀCDONALD <P.E.I.)-Tlîis Is
'c' of the flrst clause It says that the salarj
1 an important Bill and as a matter of fact,
of a railway mail clark may be reducec
notice as eirly as
w-lien the case axaminations are not satis - lt did not cimxe under my

SENATE
it sliould have done. I should like to have
studied it more than 1 have lad an opportunity o7f doing. I see it makes a very minterlal difference la the salaries which are
allowed to railway mail clerks. The fact,
I suppose, bas dawned on the governuient
tliat these clerks have very important positions ta I aind that it is necessary thiey
ahould recelve somewbat larger remuneration than they receive Iu many cases. The
fact is, lu some provinces they do not get
sufficient remuneration for the important
duties tbey have to dIscliarge. lu that way
the Bill probably lias same good features.
One clause of the Bill reads ns follows : It
is subsection ' f' o! section 1
(f.) Âny persan heretofore appointed ta the
permanent staff of the raiiway mail clerks may
corne under the provisions of this section at
the salary lie Is then receiving, on bis advising
the Postmaster General in writing tliat lie so
desires, but bis riglits and position under The
Civil Service Superannuation Act or The Civil
Service Retirement Act, 1898, shahi not be
thereby afrected.
Now, 1 presume that any persan Who lias
been ln the railway mail service for n goad
many years past would flot desire ta leave
the position whicbh le bias under that Act
and came under the provision o! this Bill,
whIch would place hlm in no better position
respecting bis salary than lie had previously,
and place hlm otherwise, lu my opinion
In a very mucli worse position In respect ta
There are
bis superaunuation alhowauce.
other provisions of the Bill which wiil be
more particularly deait with la committee,
but in glancing over the Bill casualiy, I find
there are otber clauses wbich would flot,
la my opinion, meet the general approval o!
thase -w'o are at present empioyed even ln
I see th-at the differthe city post offices.
eut grades are divlded. Instead of having
first, second and thIrd and fourtii class
clerks, the tbird class clerks on appointment receive a salary o! $700 witb annual
Increases of $50 Up to $800. Then they maire
a second division of third class and say they
shahl receive $800 and an annual Increase up
to $900. 1 should like ta know when a clerk
Is appointed a junior third class clerk and
bas remained in the office long enough
ta entitie hlm ta bis $800, what is bis position then ? Ig he ta remain at bis $800
ail bis life or is it intended be should start
in a niew class ? A persan Who is a third
class clerk, at present, and bis salary bas
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)

gone Up to $500, $600 or $700, is stili kept
in that same class untîl he cornes to the
maximum salary, when lie shouid be promoted to another class.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.>-Under
thls Bill it does flot appear that he will be
entitled to promotion from one class to auother. That is a very considerable change.
I can understand very well that this wiil
work a hiardship to persons who are at present elther third or fourth ciass clerlcs, or
even second class cierks, because the classes
are dlvlded lu sucli a way that a man must
remaîn lu the junior thîrd class, say, for a
certain perlod until he gets up ta $800, then
lie cannot get promoted Immediately ta anather class, to the senior third ciass. He
must serve several years ln that capacity
before he wili be entitled under this Bill to
further promotion. I think that Is scarceiy
what young people expect wben they go into
the post office service iu clty post offices.
They expeet their promotion shall go on
commensurate with their ability according
to the number of years they are there-that
they should nat stop at the conclusion of
five or six years when they have got to the
maximum of the class In which they have
entered. These are matters which can probably be better deait with lu cammittee.
There are some other clauses wbicb 1 thlnk
deserve eagood deal-of consideration, besides
those to which I bave referred.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have had saine
communications wlth regard to this Bill, and
there Is considerabie dissatisfaction among
civil servants of the outside service with
regard ta the second and third classes.
It arises from these classes being divided
The third ciass was
into two sections.
a class complete in itself under the iaw,
but now it is provided that there shall be
a junior and a senior thîrd class, and the
The objecsame with the second class.
tion cornes in this way, as I understand
lt-I arn not very conversant with the
subject, but stili I have endeavoured to
ascertain the point of the objection, and
It is tbis :The third class cierks bavIng- been promoted to that class should be
allowed to go on until they wouid reacli

the maximum of thiat ciass whereas by
îmalzing two stages of it they are hiable ta

JUILY 15, 1903
be held up lin the middle stage, and flot know prevails on the subject in the city post
get promotion into the other section of the offices.
class for a long time, and whatever adTlie motion was agreed to, and the Bill
vantage there is ln the maximum salary
was read the second tume.
being higher than it was before, may
be more than offsetted by the dlilng The Senate adjourned.
of the classes Into two sections ln this way.
Take, for Instance, a third ciasa clerk. On
appointaient he lias $700 a year. That luTmE SE1NATE.
creases Up to $80 under this Bil He may
flot get promotion into the other section of
Ottaiwa, 'Wecineday, Julyi 15, 1903.
that classa for many years, and lie Is held at
The SPEAKER took the Chair nt Three
that $80. When lie does get the promotion
ln two further Increases lie wiil get up ta a'clock.
$900, but lie Is lhable to lie beld up and
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
1 understand
not get tlie promotion.
députations f rom city post office 'clerks
CUSTOIIS AND EXCISE DUTIES IN
waited on the minister and stroug repreNORTH-WEST TERRITORIES.
sentations were made by members of parliaMOTION.
ment and others, and promises werc nmade
Hon. Mr. PERLEY moved:
to, deal In a liberal spirit with thie applicaThat an humble address be presented ta His
tions of this part of tlie civil service. Lt
la worth consideration even yet that tliese ExceIlency the Governar General; praying that
HEs Exeellency wlll cause ta be laid an the
clauses miglit lie rearranged se tliat the Table of the Senate, a retura sbowing the
clerks should get tlieir regular advances. amount of customs and excise duties callected
at the several ports af entry in the North-west
Instead of that they may Dot get to tlie end Territarles for the year eading the SOth June
of tlie junior stage and flot be permitted to last.
enter the senior one, and in that way tliey
The motion was agreed to.
are hiable to be held up and not get the
benefit of tlie increase tliey formeriy had.
THE LATE SENATOR DICKiEY.
The fourth ciass Is a new ciass. I notice
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before the Orders of
there that this objection does flot apply.
I see tiiere, tliey start at $400 and increase the Day are called, I desire to remiad this
that have
annualiy Up to $700. That will enabie theni House of one of those sad events
been occurring recently aIl tao frequentiy,
to reacli tlie maximum of $700 ln seven
in this
years, and there Is an Increase every year. remindlng us what sliadows we are
warld. As we were leaving the Chamber,
Tliere Is no chance of their being biocked lu
the middIe of the periad : but 'when you an the House rlsing last niglit, the melancome to the men who have been longer ln the choly Intelligence of the deatli of Senator
service, and who are surely entitied to as Dickey reached our ears, and althougli
much consideration as the juniors, or fotirth it was not unexpected, stili, the death of
class, the plan of subdlviding the second and one who was for so many years assoclated
third classes bas been adapted, and ln that with this House, briags home to oneseif
way they are Ilable to be heid up and not get how fieeting aur days are ln this world.
their Increases as the fourth ciass gets theni. The hate Mr. Dlckey was called ta the Sen1 hope my hon. friend who lias charge of ate by royal proclamation at the time of
tlie Bill will ndte thase objections. I have confederation. For nearly thirty years, unhad communications, flot f rom my own pro- til his health brake down, lie gave ta this
vince but from another part of Canada, and Chamber and ta the various measures that
the officials feel they are not altogether wel came up for consideration, the benefit of
treated lu that respect. I hope my hon. a Judicial mind, guided by very long exfriend wiil consult the Postmaster Generai. perience aad by a disposition ta do wliat
So when we get inta committee on the Bill ls rlght, aud what was best lu every matlie can see If it is not possible to remedy ter whlch came before him. He was more
this and prevent dissatisfaction whicb 1 of a statesman than a politieiaD. Those

604

SENATE

gentlemen who have been ln the Chamber
for very many years wvlll remember bow
we ail llstened to the observations lie made
on ny question.- He neyer spoke but for
a purpose, and It was to throw liglit on thie
subjeet that happened, for the moment, to,
be occupying the attention of this House.
He was ln every sense a «gentleman wlth a
kindly heart, generous Impulse, and one who
was popular wlth both sides of the House.
1 may say that my relations with him, for
a very long perlod, were of the most lutimate character. Highly refiaed, fond of
music and ahl Innocent pleasures, lie was a
wvelcome guest la every gatbering oa ail
occasions. As I said a few moments ago,
lie gave this House the benefit of al very
ripe judgment, and of a mimd that liad been
carefully trained, guided by a disposition
upon ail occasions to do what was riglit
and best. He lived, of course, to a good
old age. Deatb comes to us ail sooner or
lnter, and to'very few of us is givea the
lengthi of days that the late Senator enjoyed. 1 tbink. he was la bis 92nd year,
hiavlng been bora la 1811. He was one of
the very few of those whio are left now
that were included ln the Queea's proclamation. He stood at the head of our list.
He was eatltled to, the position of precedence la the Senate, standing at the head,
clbronologically, of tue lat of eighty-one
senators. I arn quite sure that those gentlemen whio k-new hlm will feel a deep regret at bis severance and departure from
-this
Chamber at this time.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not think any one will be surprised at the
remarks which bave just fallen from tbe
hon. Secretary of State. The opinion whicli
lie bas expressed of our bite colleague 1
know prevals la the mind of every man who
ever k-new hlm. He was la every sense of
the word a type of tbe gentleman of the old
school. Duriag my acquaintance with hlm
la this Senate, I never heard hlm utter an
unkind word, or a word that bad not been
given, as I coasidered, due consideration
before bie uttered It. He o-ccupied a very
prominent position la bis ownl province before confederation, and tool, a very active,
energetlc and Intelligent part iii the formation of the constitution which now governs
us. It ls true that lie opposed the Quebec
Resolutions wben they were first adopted,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

not because bie was opposed to the union of
the different provinces, but on account of
the financial arrangements .whîch were arrived at thea, believlag, I presume, that bis
own province had mot received that monetary 'consideration to whlch It was eatitled,
and bis forethouglit, based on kaowledge
of the conditions of affaîrs, was ackanowledged afterwards, by the better termus wbich
were gîven to Nova Scotia. I canaot add
anything to that whldb bias been s0 wehl
said by my hon. friend the Secretary of
State. It ls, as lie lias intlmated, sad when
we refleet upon the rapidlty witb which
this Chamber Is becomiag emptied, throughi
death, of the original fathers of confederation. We have, If my recoilection serves me
riglit, but three of the gentlemen wbo took
part la the scheme of coafederation lef t, our
venerable frlead, Mr. Wark, who is now ln
bis huadredtb year, the Hon. J. 0. Aikias,
and My hon. frlend on my left (Hon. Mr.
Miller), who no doubt will have a word to
say on behaîf of the colleague with -wbom
lie bas been so long associated, and comiag.
as lie does, from the samne province. As the
hon. Secretary of State lias said, we are ail
passing an-ay, and that, too, very rapidiy.
Many of us are reaching that age terined
the alloted terni for men-that is, the older
portion of us. There are youuger men
amongst us n-ho wlll soon take our places.
Ail I hope Is that tbey wlll be as true
patriots to their country as the older men
have been, and that n-len we make room
for them they wiil govern the country and
guard is interests to the best off their
abiity, as we ail knon- the old men of
the Senate did ln the past, and no one
more so thani our lamented friend who
lias just departed this life. Mlien I look,
around this Chamber, as I used to do
six or seven years ago, and reflect that since
1896, the time wblen my hoa. friend came
to power, there have been over flfty changes
la thîs Senate, It makes me feel we must
soon make room for others. I only hope
n-len we do pass an-ny we will leave a
naine and character equal to that of the
senator n-ho bas just died.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-As an intimate ac<uuaintance for many years of the late Senator Dickey, and bis colleague ln this Chamber since confederation. I caninot refrain
from adding to the well deserved tributes

JULY 15, 1903
paid te hlm by the two speakers who have
just sat down, my own tribute of respect
te the memory of a departed friend. 1 first
met Senator Dickey ln 1863, when both of us
were members of the Nova Scotia legisiature
-one ln tbe legisiative council and tbe other
ln the bouse of assembly, and soon a triendiy
feeling towards eaeli otber grew Into existence, whlch I amn happy to say wss never Interrupted tili the bour of bis death. A gentleman of tbe olden Urne, as my bon. friend,
the leader of tbe opposition bas aptiy said,
-bis kind and cheerful disposition-bis courtly manners-will net soon be forgotten by
those wbe had socially or politicaliy any
Intercourse with hlm durIng his prolonged
lite. Possessed of mucb abiiity, an effective
speaker, and keen debater, the iste Senater
Dickey bad a distInguisbed public career,
He entered the po1itical arena ln 1858 as a
member et the legisiative concil of bis
native province, and soon became leader
of the Conservative party ln that body. He
was sa meuiber of tbe conterence whicb formulated tbe Quebec scherne of union ln 1864,
and, theretore, was one of tbe fathers of
confederation. He was over thirty yearsbefore tbe Infirmities of age Im*paIred bis
wonderful vitallty and strength-bis mmnd
to tbe last, I learn, was unimpaired-eone
of tbe mnest Industrious and painstaking
men ln tbe Senate, and bis clear intellect
his wide knowledge ef public affars, and bis
assiduous attention te bis pariiamentary
duties, mnade hlm one of Its niost usef ul
members. I arn mucb pieased witb the
trIbutes to bis talents and public services
paid by both tbe hon. leaders of the Senate, wbose sentiments inust be regarded as
more just and Impartial than those ot one
like myseif, more iikely te be biased by a
personal. attachment of many years. Af ter
these justir appreclatIve sentiments ef rny
bon. friends, I do flot think tbat it Is necessary for me to amplity rny remarks on this
occasion furtber tban te say, that I arn sure
tbe expressions of esteem uttered in this
Chamber te day wiil give sucli consolation
te bis bereaved family, and I also arn couvinced they wiii receive tbe endorsation
and approval of aIl wbo ever biadt the piessure cf bis acquaintance.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-I bad the bonour of
knowIng Senator Dickey tbirty-flve years.
Wben I was In the Senate first, Mr. Dickey

waa a comparativeiy young sud a brilliant
From thât dey untIl tbe day be
mail.
became leas active here, I neyer bad asiy
reason te feel tbst lhe was anytbing less
than a tboreugh gentleman. He was most
active In de'bate sed especis>iy ln bis criticiam cf leg'sl questions. I aiways loolced
upon hlm as une of the brighteat minds we
lrad ln the ýSenate, one for the yonnger mernbers mnd those less experienced ln the statutory law of this country, to f ollow as an
exemple. DurIng tbnat long time we bave
bad very otteni disputes amd criticisme ot
escli other, but 1 neyer knew Senator Diclcey
te get ruffied ln the sligbtest degree over
and above wbat a polisbed. kind-besrted
gentleman sbould show ln a dIffereeice ot
opinons. I feel that this Senate bas lest
a member that we bhave -ai reason te regret,
because lie was a man et sncb wide experience. His son was a prominent rnember of the late government, and wben
that governrnent feil, Senster Dickey
was a member of this Cliamber, but
1 neyer knew hlm te express a werd of
bItterness towards a-ny party. I regret exceedingiy te bear et tbe desth of ne distinguisbeda man, and 1 trust that bis good
4ite ln this world wiil be an exemple te
tbose wbe knew bim as Intirnateiy as 1 did.
I was very mucli plessed te bear tbe leader
et tbe government and tbe leader of the oppositionI expressiwig tbemseives se klndly
and tav'curably towxrdls that bon. gentleI teel .that in doing ise tbey exman.
pressed the slnoere feelings of their bearts.
Knowing our late colleague as 1 did, I do
uot thin-k tbey could express tbemselvcs
diff ereintly
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I wouid
snggest te the bon. Secretary et State tbat
It would be a very proper thingi If an addreas ef sympathy were sent te the trieiids
of the late Senator Dickey, and before I resume my seat I wlll ay I arn perfectly
certain tibat every member et this Hense
wbo hs-d the pleasure of knewig that hon.
gentleman will feel tbe deepest regret at
bis death. He w'as always a usefui memnber et this Heuse, a first-class parilamentarian, end as Mny bon. triend tbe Secretary
of State sald, lie neyer spoke excepting
when lie speke witb *sutbority and bad
somnetbing te taik aibout aind always came
te tbe point well prepared, and bis speeches

SEN'ýATE
-were aiways wortb bearing. 1 have known
bim fer tbirty years, and feel bis loss very
4mucb.
He was kind, and courteous and
miiling to he]p young members of this
House, and I think the country's loss ls
very grest, and the ]oa o this House la
very great. If lie were living to-day, and
an active member of this House, I arn sure
bis exnmple would be a very excellent one
for the younger menubers to foiiow. 1
learned with great regret of bis death, and
feel that It la a loss to the country.
The SPEAKER-Perhaps the House will
allow me to add a few words to what
lias been said with respect to the late Senator Dlckey. As the bon. leader of the Senlate said, hie was a most ag-r-eable sud courteous men, a most cheerful, inter3st&ougl irid
genlal companion. He shone lu social Ilfe,
and lie also shone in the Senate, and lie
was iD tact an Ideal senator. If I were
asked to-day to naine the gentleman (;f all
those wbom I bad been üssociated 'witb
since I came here who was nearest to
the Ideal senator, I think I sbouid naine
As bas been
-the late Senator Dickey.
stated, bie neyer bast his temper, i nd althougli be was a very deci.ded Gonservat!ve,
still hie was flot au extreme or unréeasnable
partisan, and on more than one occasion
wben bis reason told hlm that his party
*was zwrong, bie did flot besitate to vote
against bis party ; and furtber, bie was, as
baus been said by the hon. Secretary ot
-State, a man with an admirable legal trainand a judîcial mind, who devoted hlm-Ing,
self to the work ot the Senate with the
utmost patience a.nd perseverance. He caref uliy examIned nearly ail tlue measures tbat
came before this Hjouse, aind tbe work that
hie did In the House, and peiiuaps still more,
the work tbat lie did on the committees of
the House was invaluable. The bon. gentleman fllled for some years; the position of
'cbairman. of thbe Railway Committee, and
ln that capacity did yeoman service. It Is
marvellous to think how active lie was and
-uvbat good work bie did even atter lie bad
attaimed a very great age. In the session
of 1894, 1 tluink it was, -vilen lie was ln bis
eig4ty-tbird year, lie -was a member of aI
committee to which was referred the Insoivency Bill, wbicb the bon, gentleman
'wbo now leads the opposition introduced,
and Mr. Dickey sliowed a quickness of apHon. Mr. MACDONALD.

(B.C.)

prebiensiesu and a fertility of resource in
deaiiing wlth that complicated measure
whleh was reaily extrLordinary.
I have
nothIng more to say, hon, gentlemen, except
to repeat the sentiment with wbicb tbe hon.
I trust
leader of the opposition closed.
that bis example may be a lesson to the
younger members of the Senate, and I hope
that when we go-those ot us who are
bere now--our successors will lie able to
speaik of us in somewbat the sane -way ln
which we speak of the departed senator t0day.
THIRD READINGS.
Bili (96) An Act respecting the Kettie
River Valley Railway Company.-{ýHon. Mfr.
Landerkin.)
Bill (46) An Act respecting the Kingstovn
and Pembroke Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Sullivan.)
Bill <131) An Act to, Incorporate thue Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company of Canada, Limited.--(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (150) An Act to Incorporate the Columbia River Iniprovement Company, Llmited.(Hon. Mr. MeMuilen.)
Bill (165) An Act to incorporate the AIgonquin Lumber and Power Company, Linuited.-(Hon. Mr. McHugb.)
THE COMPÂNIES' ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
Tbe House resumed, ln Committee of the
Whole, consideration of Bibi (K) An Act to
amend the Companies' Act, 1892.
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe first change proposed ln the Bill is to strike out subsection
2 of clause 1 with the addition. The reason
is this. It la urged, and very properly, that
by naming certain purposes and objects
you uecessarily exclude tronu the prerogative of the Act auy other purposes or obJects, inasmucli as you do not namne everything ; aud, of course, there are many purposes and objeta that cannot be referred
to there. The second subsectIon is a necessary addendum If the first were adopted, so
I move to etrike It out also-the whole
clause.

607

JULY 15, 1903
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-The end that
Borne members of thls Ohamber had ln asking that this cluase mhould go ln was met
by the meventh clause, which we wilI corne
to ln a moment.
The motion was agreeti te.
On clause 5,
Hon. Mnr SCOTTf-This Io the clause
wbich relates to fractionai shares. It reada
as follows :
The directors of the company may, at any
time, make a by-law *ubdlvldlng the existlng
sbirezs Into abars of a smiller amount, or,
whenever the par value of the existing sbires la
lets than one hundreti dollars each, make a byiaw consolidm.Ung them Info shire of a larger
amount;. but no such consolldated sbire shall
exceeti the par value of one bundred, dollars.
Buch by-hiw sbiUl dodue the. rules by whioh
fractionai ahares s"ah be deait wlth, andi the
company rnîy purchame for the purposes of this
section fractional sbires no oTeited . provided.
however, thit sbires madie up of fractional
sbires no acquired muet be solti by the company wltbin three monts alter the smn bave
been Purciiaaed.
Hon. 1Mr. LOtTGHEED-Have they power
to buy their own stock ?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I think no.

Counceil extend the trne for the sale of
such properties.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I wanted te relieve the
company from the necesIty of coming te
the goverument at ail.
HEon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bon. gentleman must ses the force of the
position tiken by the hon. gentleman from
Calgary. If tbey cannot soeil this fractional
stock, what position are they ln ? I think
the bon, gentleman had better make the
tirne six months.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGEBED-Ât
months mhould be adopted.

least

six

Hon. 1fr. SOOTT-I have nio objection.
The clause was arnended and adopted.
On clause 6,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause is copied
from the law as It stood. It was dropped
out of the law lat year, by sme accident.
That le; the limitations and restrictions of
the borrowing pôwers shall not apply to,
or Inelude moneys borrowed by a company,
&c.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Âssuming that
tbey cannot oeil those mhates, whiat Would
be the consequence?7

Hon. ',%r. POWER-There la one point
ivith respect te this clause. There should,
be, ln the fIrat place, a- general by-haw,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-One party can asslgn passed by the comnpany, authorizlng the
hls stock to another party.
directors, or such other officers. as they
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-But they are com- please to make, draw, accept, and endorme,
pelled to oell the stock within tbree Inonthe. bille and notes.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-If they do net get rid
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They will bave a genof It la any other way.
1eral by-law, ne doubt.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHERD-But mupposing
Hon. 1fr. POWER-I know that, but wben
they cannot oeil tbe ahares, they subject a compaiiy le formed under tbe Joint Stock
themmseives to the penalty provided by the Companles' 'Act, a good deal depende on
Act, and they have net power to buy their
what the business of the company le, wbeowxj shares.
ther It le desirable that the directore should
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-We have trled te meet have an unlimited power, as given by thie
ail cases ln frarnlng this clause.
clause, te niake bille and notes. There
Hon. Sir MACKEINZIE BOWELL-Tbe oughi te be required, iln the fIrst Instance,
cornpany le autborized to purchase fraction- a general by-law of the company, givlng the
ai shares, but if they do buy they must pawer.
sell them. If there was an option left there
lion. INfr. BEIQUE-As a rule there Ir, a
to appeal to the Secretary of State, who by-law, but very often It Is donc hy mere
would bave the administration of this law, resolution o! tie board, specifying what offifor an extension of the time as their le in cere ehall be authorized te sign.
the- la-w which provides for the sale of proHion. Mfr. SCOTT-They muet have the
perty which le acqulred by boan companles,
thli the governnient could, by Order ln autbority of the company.

SEINATE
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes. Tliey have It
That Ia aIl riglit, but there la no penalty
sometimes by by-law, and sometimes by provideti. The clause does not state what
resolution.
the consequence shahl be.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As a ruIe by by-law.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It Is an Important
matter, and should be by by-law. 1 should
suggest the addition at the end of the clause
of smre words like these : * Under the provisions of a by-law givlng a general power
to make, draw, accept and endorse buils and
notes.'

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The present Act
provides for that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk there Is a Une
dropped out la the printlng of the Blill. A
copy of the Imperial statute was given and
the dratter was Instructeti to copy that ln,
and that portion mnust bave been dropped
from IL.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The present Act
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I should bie afrald to
adopt that wlthout thoroughly exnnining provides that the liability shall be for ail
the Act itself. 1 thlnk we had better let It the debte of the company then existent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, It was to diminisli
go as It Is.
that and limit it to the Immediate couseThe clause was adopted.
quences of declarlng the dividend. We will
have to let that clause stand.
On clause 7,
Hon. Mr. BAKER, from the commlttec,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Some bon. senators
drewv attention to the extreme severlty of reporteti that they had made some progress
the Act in the federal statutes as to the with the Bill, and asked icave to sit again.
Ilability of the directors declaring a dividend
where the-y should really be no dividend.
Under the Ontario statutes a director taklng
part lu authorizing a dividend wben the
financial' position of the company was mlot
sucli as to justify the dlvidend, became
hlable for ail the delits of the conlpany. It
was pointed out tbat this might be donc
inadvertently, and It was making the dlrector hlable for too large an amount, and was
unreasonabie, andi therefore I adopted the
Ontario clause, whicli seemeti to bie a fair
and reasonable one.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whbat
would the liabllity lie under the law ?

SECOND READING.
Bill (127) An Act to confer on the Coinmissioneir of Patents certain powers for the
relief of George M. Depew.-(Hon. Mr.
rerley.)
EXTRA JUDICIAL EMPLOYMENT
JUDGES BILL.

OF

SECOND READING.
The Order of the Day being called.
Second resding Bill (U) An Art respecting the
Extra Judlcial Ernploymerst of Judges.-(Hon.

Mr. Ferguson).

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Wlll the lion. gentleman from Maraliflelti ailow this order to

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The difference la, he stand tili to-morrow ? The hon. gentleman
was hiable for the immediate consequences from Toronto (Hon. Mr. Kerr) desires to lie
of that dividend, andi under tlic federal law present and asked mie to miake the request.
lie was hiable for aIl the debts of the comHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I liat some conpany.
versation over it wlth the lion. gentleman

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This from Toronto, and lie made no such reholds him hiable only for the amount of the qucat to me. I have deferreti the Bill On
dividend.
several occasions, and 1 think that if lie
Hon. Mr. POWER-Ciausc 7 reads as follows :
The directors of the company shal flot declare or pay any dividend when the company is
lnsolvent, or any dividend the payment of which
renders the company insoivent or diminishes
the capital thereof.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

wanted It postponcd lie woulti have made
the request to me. I do not feel like deferring it any longer.
Hon. Mr. TIDMPLEMAN-As
the bon.
gentleman froin Toronto was leavîng Ottawa, lie askcd me to malte the requcst that

JULY 15, 1903
I feel, therefore, that tbis anthority amPlY
sustains the course I took on that occasion, ln making a rather tuiler exposition
than la commanly made at thc tiret readlng
However, I have not had
of a Bill.
much experience
i lntroduclng Bills
ln this House, and I admit frankly that
If I had to do It agaîn, or even if I had
thought of the matter very fully at the time
I wouid have given notice of the Bill, even
aithough notice 'was not cailed for by the
ruies, for ln that case gentlemen wha
entertalned. opposite opinions on the subject,
and wha wanted ta take part in the discussion, would bave a botter oppartuuity
of proparlng themmolves for debate. However, I did not mean ta b. discourteous. I
followed the strict raie of the Hanse and
hItradnced the Bill withont glvlng notice,
and 1 made a speech whlch, accardlng ta
May, I was ln order hi maklng, and was
not responsibie far any irregularlty which
took place I the discussion later on.
.&nother abjection was made, and very
strenuously mado tee, that 1 had chomen a
very Inapportune time ta Introduce the BIU
ta the Hanse, on acconnt of the GameyStratton trouble that was then in progres
lu the legialature of Ontarlo. 1 may toll
hon. gentlemen that long before that matter
was referred ta a commission 1 had been
conslderlng this quiestion, and ut was nat on
account of that Icident that I toolr the matter Into cansideration, but I ami free ta admit that what occurred there etrengthened
a conviction I have held for a very long
time, that legisiation. on this subject was
necessary. I do not think It was Improper
that I should have hail my eye and ears
open ta what was golug on there any more
than other people had ; and, lndeed, 1
notice that sud' matters as labour troubles
and riota are heid ta be proper reasons for
In the House of Lords any peer ls at liberty introducing legislatjon dealing wlth those
ta present a Bill and ta have it laid upon the questions. I had no intention, ln the course
Table, without notice ; but ln the Commonh, a
member must, due notice having been given, of my observations on that case, ta drag, ln
move for leave to bring ln the Bill. In making any shape or farm, the mernteof the Gameythis motion ho may explain the objeet of the
Bill1, and give reasons for its Introduction ; but Stratton transaction into the discussion.
unise the motion be opposed, thîs Is not the Whatever way its merits were brouglit Into
proper time for any lengthened debate upon its
I exmernts. When an Important measure ls offered the discussion, was donc by others.
by a minister or other member, this *Apportunity pressedl no opinion whatever on the merits
ls frequently taken for a fuill exposition of Its af the case, and passed no reflections on the
character and obJect.; but otherwise, debate
should be avoided, et this stage, unless it be judges who were called upon to act as comexpected that the motion will be negatived and missioners ln that matter. Noticlng, as I
that no further occasion will arise for discusdid at the tiret readlng of this Bill, that a
sion.

this measure shouid stand over for one
day.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It la likely that
the discussion shall proceed for another
day, and ho wUl bave an opportunlty of
speaklng on it before the vote lu reached.
LEMN-ut ho ira.
lon. à&r. TUMS
particuiarly anxIous to hear the remarks
of the hon, gentleman tram Marahfieid on
thia Bill.
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-Even wlth that
objeet ln view, I do not thlnk lt la necessary that I shonld postpone It and especially If that appears to be the desire of
the hon. gentleman It wii be quite possible
for hlm to learft wbat I have sald on the
subJeet without belng proeut, sud for thebe
roabons, and lu v10w of the tact that I bave
deferred maklng my motion on several
occasions to suit the convenience .0f
hon, gentlemen, I do flot feel that 1
would be justifled, much as 1 deuire
ta meet the views of the hon. gentleman tram Toranto, ln postponhIg the consideration of the Bill ta-day. When this
Bill was before the Hous and read the tiret
Uie, a serions complaInt wa. made by
nmre bon. -gentlemen ln the Hanse, that 1
had pursued a very unusuai, ln tact a
discourteaus -course, ln havlng made an
ex±ended exposition of the BiiI at that
stage, and it was held, even tram the Chair,
that I was ln a manner responsible for
Irregularities that took pince a littie tnrther
on ln the debate because I had adopted that
course. I feel, therefore, that It la due ta
myseif that 1 should point out ta the Hanse
that I dld not pursne any Irregular course
on that occasion, and that I was nat at ail
responsible for any Irregniarities that ceurred lu the discussion later on. I turn
ta May, page 436, and find these words:

SENATE
very strong objection was entertained to It
lu the mlnds of hon, gentlemen ln tils
House, for whose vlews I have very great
respect on the ground that the Bill was beyond the power of thîs parliament, I feel It
my duty to diseuse that question as well as
I ean at the out9et, because, although that
argument may not be pursued very strenuouhly now, It ls possible some bon. gentlemen
mlght vote agalnst the Bill under the mistaken Impression that It la beyond the powers of this pariament to pas. This subJect of the administration of justice la te
point In regard to which I believe the jurisdiction of the parliament of Canada has
been most encroached on by the provincial
legIslatures since confederation. In proof
of that I have onlY to refer ta the words
of Sir John Thompson, in 1888, in reporting
upon some legialation of the province of
Quebec. He says : (see page 358 Hodgins.)
'The moat remarkable Instance lu whlch provincial legislation ha& overrun the limit of provinical jurisdictlan, has been the legislation In
reference ta the administration of justice. lit
han been commaon for -the provinces ta enset
tram time ta Urne what the qualifications of the
Judges who were to be apjiointed by the Governor Generai should be, although this seems
ta -the underslgned ta be an atA.empt ta control.
by provincial legielatilon, the power vested ln
the Gavernor General by the. British North
Ainerica Act.

It may also be contended that there are on
the statute-books of the varions provinces,
legisiation whlch would seem to support -i
dlaim that the provincial legisiatures have
the power to pass many laws ln relation to
the judges. On that subject aiso Sir John
Thompson made this declaration ln thc same
paper. ile sald : (page 357)
It seems necessary, however, ta cali attention
ta the important misconception which seems to
prevail throughout the reasoning presented l'y
the Order lu Council of the Qnebec goverument
that the allowance of provincial legisîstion, Is
Iu ail cases, an admission of the vsflldity of
such legisiation, aud an admission which has
the effect of deprlvlng the federal authorities
of the rlght or power of disallowing statutes
similar ta those which have been permitted ta
go into operation.
No such inference can properly be drawn. it
is apparent ta any persan conversant with the
subject that many provincial statutes which
have been le! t to their operation contain pro'Visions beyond the powers a! the provincial legisiature, and that many others which have been
le! t to their operation contained provisions o!
verY doubtful vatliclity.
The courts and the Judges of Canada, as
1 understand It, are called Into existence by
different Provisions of thxe British' North
America Act. In many matters we lhave
Hon. Mr. P'ERGUSON.

to find out how the powers of the provincial
leglalatures and the federal parllament have
been dlstrlbuted. We have that duty lu
reference to the organization of the courts,
but wlth regard to the appointment of
judges there la no distribution of powers.
AUl the power ia given to twe federal parlament. The constitution of the courts ls
provided for by section 101 of the British
North Âmerlca Act which gives power tô
appoint a court of appeal and any other
courts that may be necessary for carrylng
ont the laws of the Dominion. Section 101
gives the federal goverument power to create Dominion courts. Subsection 27 of section 91, and subsection 14 of section 92 contain the powers of the provincial and the
tedersi parliaments with regard to the constitution, organization and maintenance of
provincial courts. It la not necessary for me
to read these two sections. Every hon. gentleman, no doubt, le fully conversant with
them. Subsection 27 of section 91 gives
power wlth regard to criminal law to the
federal govenment, and subsection 14 of
section 92 Io the one which provides tbat the
provincial legisiatures shall have control of
the administration of justice in the province,
lncluding the constitution, maintenance and
organization of provincial courts and lncludlng procedure lu criminal matters in
these courts. The words ehould be very
carefnlly xioted, ' the administration of justice lu the province,' &c. Now, that section
I
has recelved a judiclal interpretation.
turn to the lnterpretation of this section,
whlch ls to be found In the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Canada on the Controverted Elections Act, and on page 77 of
vol. 3, S.P.C. Reports, Judge Taschereau
makes this atatement:
1 read subsection 14 of section 92 of the nrltlsh North Amnerica Act as havlng no bearlng
on the jurisdiction of the courts lu the matters
not le! t to the provincial legisiature.
And Judge Henry, at page 67 of the same

report, says :
The 14th section gives local authorlty to deal
with 'administration of Justice ini the province,' whlch I construe to mean the power of
leglslating for the administration of justice ln
the province in regard to the subjects given by
the Act, and, to that extent only, to provide
for ' the constitution, maintenance and orgaulzatlon of provincial courts,' lncluding the procedure necessary for the administration of justice lu reference to those and kindred subjects.
la regard to that subsection-and the point
was brought Up l'y the hon. member for de

J1JLY 15, 1903
Salaberry at the. tist readlng of the Bill--the
Suprerne Court rendored a decision. 1 amn
i2ow tawkng about the. constitution of the.
courts and a decisien wiec wss eonfirined
by 'the. Privy Council, tuat the. foderai.
authc.Ity had power to sdd to the inriadiction of the courts on the subject
under thi"eontroL Bir Oliver Mowat, tiien
Mlnister of Justice ln 1898, reportlng
on the Acte of the leglalature 'of Nova
Scotia, laid down the law very neatiy
lndeed, and polnted ont that the provincial legisiaturea ied power te add to the.
Iuriedlctlon cf the~ courts on ail aubjectu
where they hadt the exclusive control,
and the. ioderai goverument had the me
power with regard te mubjoctu on wilch they
possesed the. Jurludicticn. Be. Hodglns
Provincial Legiuiation 1896-98- page 86. Bo
mucii for the courts. 1 bave mast referred
te tiier ln order te make my contention
clear, that the law and the decisions draw
a sharp and clear liue of distinction between
the courts and the. Judges. The. Judges are,
s we know, apPointed under the sections
of the. British North Âmerlca Act from 96
te 100, and the subjeet-matter of this Bill
la governed by thons sections and by the
Principal section of 91. Section 96 provides
that:
The Governor General shall appoint the jutigez

of the Buperlor, district and county court. lu
acii province, except those of the courts of
probsto luc Nova Scotia andi Now Brunswick.
I find that Mfinistors of Justice have interpreted thls secetion - as applying to al
courts lu the provinces. The. Ministers ef
Justice whe are on record lu that way are
Sir Alexander Carnpbell, whese opinion la
feund on page 186 of Hodglns' volume on
Provincial Legislation, snd Minister of Justice Lafiamme, whose vlews ame found on
Page 1047, and 8ir John Thompson, who
aummarizes the whole situation on page 372
of the same volume. The latter says:
The contention which la madie in the document under revies' witii regard ta the affect of
the provisions of the Britishi North Âmerica
Act as *to ' Superior, district anti county court
jutiges tidons not, in the opinion of the undersigneti, retute the view set forth in bis previous
report (anti Indeeti ln that *particular doe not
50Cm ta undertake s refutation). That view

bas been taken by nearly ail the Ministers of
Justice since the. union of the provinces. via.,
thnt the wards of the British North AMterica Act
juiges af the Superior, district
reterring ta 1
anti county courts' *Include ail classes of *jutiges
like those tiesiguateti anti not xnerely the jutiges
of the particular courts wbicb at the time of

391

611

the passage of the Britishi North America Act
happeneti te bear those. name.

Bfr John Thornpson waa thon reviewiug
the. opinions of Ministers; cf Justice fromn the
Urne of confederation, aud ho gave- his own
as agreong with those who precedod hlm.
among them Bir Alexander Campbell, sud
Hon. Mr. Laffammo. Bo much for section 96.
W. corne now te sections 97 and 98, wIich
provIde for the selection of thie judges, aud
there, as we notice, tiiere la ouly theone restriction placed on the ioderai goverunent,
and that la that ther shall beiong te the.
bar of their respective provinces. In the.
ease of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and
Ontario, tiiey were te b. selected frorn the
bars cf tiioso provinces respectlvely vntil the
laws were assIrnllated, sud lu the case of
Quebec they should be selected from, the. bar
of Quebec. Yet lu the face of thia, rnany
legisiatures have proc.eded te place Acta on
their "statute-books settlng forth qualificstiens for jndgos, but whenever they have

doue se they have been notifled by Ministers
of Justice that thos Acte were nulIties,
sud no attention would be paid te tiiem
wheu maklng appointrnents, as tue only restrictions were that tuey should b. members
of tue bar cf thelr respective provinces.
The. next section ls section 99, of the Âct.
The jutiges of the Suparior court uhall hold,
omlce during gooti behaviaur, but shAll be removabie by the Goveruor General on stidreas of
the Senate sud House of Commons.
It doos seem te me tia.t that section ln
iteelf contera power te pass the Bill that
1 have subrnitted ta tue Houa.. It bas been
iieid-an opinion that i. queted ln Tedd-by
the. law officers of the.arown of Victoria that
the. greater Includes the. leas sud that the
power te remeve, carnies with It the power
However, wbether. that la
te suspend.
accurate or net I do net pretend te aay, but
I do say that section 99 in connection
ivith the. principal clause of section 91
whlch gîves the pewer te make laws for
the peace, order aud good govcrnment of
Canada, clothes thus parliament wlth ample
power te pass a Bill whicii shahl regulate
the. conduct of the Judges witii respect te
extra judicial empleyment or otherwlse.
The argument does nlot rest merely on that
nuthonity alone. Âny hon. gentleman wbo
wMl take the. trouble of rending the chapter
ln Tedd'a Parliamentnry Goverumeut ln thie
Colonies, entltled Judicature, cemmencing at

612

SENATE

page 828 and going on to 850, or thereabouts,
ln which the position of Judges ln the colonies le very fully and clearly discussed, wil
ftnd that It la there laid down moat expiitly,
and a great many cases are cited In support
of the position, that the Iinperiai Act of
1782 la stili ln force ln ail the seif-governIng colonies, an Act which provlded for
the removal of judges holding patents froiD
the Crown without proceeding by address.
The section of the Act Is quoted ln Todd as
foliowNs :
Iln 1782 an imperial êtatate was passed which
contaIne the foliowing provisions --That If any
permon holding an office granted or grantabie
by patent from the Crown shall be wilfully absent from the caiony wherein the sarne ought
to be exerciaed, without a reasonable cause, te,
be aliawed by the Governar and Council of the
colony, or shall neglect the duty of such office
or otherwise misbehave therein, It shall and
may be lawful ta and for such Governor and
Council to remove such persan tram the saId
office; but any persan wha shall think himself
aggrieved by such a decision may appeal ta Hlm
Majesty ln CouneiL.
It wIIl be noticed that the British North
America Act ls sulent as to the removal of
county court 3udges. There la no mention of
that subject withlu the Act but It bas been
held-there are decisions on the aubjeet, and
Todd certainly la clear upon It-that It would
be quite proper *for this parliament to proceed by an address ln the case of county
court judges as well as ln that of Superlor
judges. But this parliament chose' to proceed In another way, snd we paased chapter
138 of the Revlsed Statutes of Canada,
which contains provision for the removal of
county court judges for mtsbehaviour by the
Governor in Councfl and I may remark that
county court judges are also appointed, as
hon. gentlemen are a-ware, by patent to hold
office during good behaviour, just as the
They hold
other judges are appolnted.
Yet we
office during good behaviour.
passed thls Act, providlng a means by
whlch county court judges could be removed
without an address of both Houses of parliament; and I take the ground, although 1
do not think for a moment It will be necessary ln Canada for us to act upon that
point, that we have the samne power, If we
choose to exert It, to pass an Act provldlng for the remoyal of the h!gher judges in
the saine way. Thiere is no question that
le the view that is laid down in Todd, and
most clearly laid down, and decisions are
quoted ln support of that view.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

If, there-

fore, we had this power with regard to
county court judges,. who are appointed to
hold office durlng good behaviour, which la
the saine as other judges are, I do not see
any reason whatever why we should flot, If
we thought proper, paso au Act of a almilar
nature wlth regard ta the Judges ol the
higher courts by which they also should be
remnovable by the Governar ln Council an
lu the old parliaproper procedure.
ment of Canada the removal of the judges,
which was provlded for under the law,
was not to, take effect uniesa their was
an appeal ieft to the Judiclal Committee of
the PrIvy CouncU, but Todd saya that lu
the case of the Dominion af Canada It appears that that appeal does flot exiat and
caunot bie resorted to-that ln Canada the
appointment begins and ends with Canada,
and that we have the power by address
or by the Governor General lu Council
-to rernove judges under the Imperlal
Probably hon. gentlemen
Act of 1872.
will take the trouble to look up the
authorities I cite, and lu reference ta, this
Iu
1 mlght cite the case of Tasmanla.
Tasmania, where they had a constîtutional
Act somewhat uimilar th the British North
Amerlca Act lu this respect that the judges
are appolnted xlurlng good behaviaur and
are removable by address of both Houses
of parliament, the leglalature of Tasmanie,
lu 1857, 1 thlnk, passed a BUi to prohibit te
removal of judges lu that colony except
by addresa. This case of Tasmania -wilI.
be found referred to on page 831 of Todd.
The opinion of Todd is-and hie sustains
It by reference to cases that hied been passed upon by the Judicial CommIttee of te
Prlvy Councl-that that act of the Tasmania legisiature ls null and void as far
as removai goes, tliat the Imperial Act of
1872 confers the power of removing judges,
and that therefore the legislature 0f Tasmania could flot divest itself of a power that

was conferred upon It by an iniperiai
statute. Now I will turn to tee opinion of
Sir Alexander Campbell on this question,
as given on page 186 ln Hodg-ins. This
was a report on legislation of Ontario. He
says:
The uildersigned thinks it doubtful whether
the provincial legisiature can constitutionally
ln this manner appoint judges. who hold office
by commission from Your Excellencý, to other
offices under the provincial government. The

JULY 15, 1903

os
expediency of allowing cOuntY Judges ta actand
reterees and loca masters la questlonable, the.
the ame may ut nmre future Urne require
parliSconsideratian of parliament. Should the suib-.
ment thinlc proper to legimiate upon
Jeot. Il In evident that tii. provision iamt r.ferred ta of the Act now uu4er consideratlon,
would become Inoperative.
There la no question thon that Sir Aloxander Campbell'u opinion wau thut If the
parliarnent of Canada paumedl an Act te
probibit uny judges nppotnted hi them,
whetber judgos of Dominion or provincial
courts, from taklng any other office frorn
tihe provincial goverument of uny klnd whatever, thut these lawm of the provincial logisHis
lature wold become Inoperativo.
clearly that tbls parliament had
opinion wam
absoluto control over tus question.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-MY bon. frleud
will flot dlaim that that makes It legal and
right In the meaning of the British North
America Act. Mfy hon. frlond may be riglit
about this, and Sir Alexander Campbell may
be wrong, but I arn quotif 8fr AluxanIder
Campbell ln an official document, and bon.
gentlemen who are conversant wltb the mubject wfll judge between my bon. frloud and
Sir Alexander CumpbeIL But 1 nlotce that
my hon. friend does flot say tbat Sir Alexander Campbell wvus wrong ln hie judginent
Re ouly maya the rule was disobeyed, that a
different course wam pursued, but ho doos
flot say that Sir Alexander Campbell wam
wrong ln hie opinion, that If this parlusment wam to legialate on the subject, tbe
practice would have to cesse, and the laws
of the province would bocome Inoperative.

Hon. Mfr. 800TT-It Io vory curiaus thut
It was done ln Sir Alexander Cumpbell's
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I muid I wum fumiliar
Urne constantly. It ham been done from with the pructice. Sir Alexander Campbell
tinie ImmemorilL
know It existed. He may bave muid we
could stop it If we lked.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Ho ls referrIng to
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-That is ail 1 wnt
locul masters, sud references, and 8ir AloxwIll be found on to prove, sud ail I arn attèmptiflg to prove,
ander Campbell maya :-It
page 188 of Hodglnsthat the parliament of Canada bâd the powShould parliament think proper ta .iogilate er to mtop It and could do no If they choie.
upon the mubject, It lm evident that the proviHon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not coucede thut,
sions last referred to of the Act now under con-sideration, would become Inoperative.
but tbut is Sir Alexander Campbeil's view.
My hon. f rlend shakos hle beud. No doubi t Hon. Mr. -FERGUSON-This government
ho 1.4very well informed, but I think bon. *bavlng the appointment of judges, having
gentlemen lni this House who reniember Sir the power to remove judges, havlng the reAlexander Campbell and bis greut expor- sponuibi4ty of puylng for the judgee, havlng
lence wil not tbrust hls opinion uside as ail the control that uppears to bo given by
the British North America Act wltb regard
flot entitled to greut consideration.
*to judges, it must be clear thut they have
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I say it iras doue con the untramnielied exercise of that power.
stantly ln Sir Alexander Campbeii's tlme
1 turm to Bourinot, and find that ut page
do flot tbink m~y 130 ho says:
Hlon. 1%1.FERGUSON-l
hou. friend bas uny authorlty for sayinl g The tederal parliament must have free and
exercise of Its powers with respect
that tus purticular thlng wbicb iras don Ounfettered
even
to matters placed under is control, sme
bore was done witb Sir Alexander Camipbell' though such exercise may Interfere with
provincial contraI.
approbation. Wben It iras proposed to be of the powers le! t under the
to
1 do ngt admit that what is proposed
doue under this Act of Ontario, ho point d
flot rigbt,. an d e done ln this Bill Interferes directly or
out In bis opinion tbut It iras
to the
udded that If the fedemul purliament 'woul d ndirectîy with any of the powors left;
possessed, b yprovinces. Hon. gentlemen may be uble.to
exerciso the poirers they
legisluting on the subject, the local laws o fconvince me thut it does, but according to
Ontario would hecome Inoporative. My hoi
the Information 1 bave, and the Investigafriend may be rigbt.
tion I bave made, and the authoritles I bave
e, ,eonsulted, I do not find thiat any such tbing
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wlitbin my knowledg
and the words tbat I bave. just
for forty yeitrs, the local masters have bee n exists,
quoted are the -words of Judge Taschereau
eppointed ln that way.

SENATE

614

irbicli ray be found ln volume 4, page 308,
of the Suprerne Court reports. Todd rnerely
quotes these words and supplements tlier
by a quotation frorn Judge Ritchie ln the
same case, and which are as follows:
The exercise of the powers of the local legislature ln those cases must necessarlly be subject to such regulations as the Dominion may
lawfully prescribe.
,As further evidence that this parliament
kas s. greater pjower than It bas hitherto
exercised with regard ta judges, I would
point te a Bil that ia now o~n the Notice
paper ln the House of Gommons ln the name
of the Minister of Justice, a Bill which proposes te deal with the penmionIng and retirement of judges, and among other things it
provIdes that county court judges, at the age
of 80, shahl be compulsorily retired. I confeus that I have found It a little difficuit ta
flnd authority for that propoeed enactrnent.
It certainly goes beyond the Imperial Act
of 1782, which provides for the compulsory
retirement of judges for cause asaigued,
for rnisbehaving ln their offices, but a ninu
80 years o! age ls to be cornpulsoriiy retired,
under the lIl proposed to be passed by tbe
Minister of Justice-not because of auy misbehaviaur, but because he bas Iived te be too
old. He miglit be ln the complete and perfect enjoyrnent of ail bis faculties, and
stili lie la hlable ta be removed, and flot for
any cause assigned ln the Imperial Act of
1782 nlot for anything that the British North
Amnerica Act ltef can caver, but slrnply because lie bas attalned the age of 80 years.
However, if it shahl be found tbat-the parliament of Canada bas the power whhch the
Minister of Justice evidently thinks It basand which possIbly It bas, I amrn ot denying
It at al-if it bas that power It certainly
must bave the power that I arn asking in
this Bill, ta say that the men that we
appoint and pay sball do oui- wark, work.
they are appointed ta do, sud flot take up
thelr time ln doiug ather people's work.
That simple regulatian I propose does
not go anything like so far as the
Minister of Justice proposes ta go wben
lie says tbat judges ruao reacb a certain age
shall be cornpulsorily retired. I caine now to
section 100, with regard ta the payrnent o!
judg-es, and bere I bave a good deal of authority which I couhd quote. In fact. 1 could
take Up a long tirne in quoting on this poinlt,
Hon. M. PERGUSON.

but 1 will content myseif witb referring ta
a few cases that are the most pointed, aîîd
that orne from what I tbink wfll be admitted ta be very higli authority. I refer, In
the lirat: place, to the opinion of Sir John
Macdonald as Minister o! Justice. But I
tbink before I enter upon that, ln order ta
impress the terme of the Act upon our
minda, 1 must read section 100 o! tbe Britishi
North America Act -whlcb le as followa :
The salaries, allowances and pensions of the
judges of the Superior, district and county
courts (ezcept the courts of probate ln Noya
Scotia and New Brunswick) and of the Âdmircases where the judges thereof
alty for the time being paid by salary, shall be
are courts in
BLxed and providesi by the parliament of Canada.
That la the law and Sir John Macdonald Ie
on record ln this way. 8ee Hodgins, page 83.
On reporting on the Ontario Supply Bill af
1869 lie Baya :
The 6th section of chapter one, being the Supply Bill for 1869, la aise objectionable as by the
96th and lOOtb clauses of the Union Act, It la
providesi that the Governor General shahl appoint the Judges cf the Superior Court, and
the narliament of Canada shall lu and provide
their salaries. allowances, and pensions.
It
would seem that the judges cf tiiese courts
cannot properly andi witbout a breacli of these
provisions receive emoluments of any kinsi from
any but the power which appoints and pays
them the legal salaries attached to their judIcial,
position.
Sir John Macdonald was a! that opinion.
The Supply Bll o! tbat year was re!erred
to the Law Officers of the Orown, and tbey
reported la the sanie direction and that Bill
was disallawed. ,Now, I will turn ta other
opinions. I yull take that a! Judge Fournier, which will be found on page 1082 o!
tbis volume by Hodgins. This ras in reference ta sorne of the hegislation o! the province a! British Columbia. Hie ays:
They further allege 'that that Act la substance confers on the local legisiature power
ta appoint any county court judge for a particular district, a power of appointrnent which
belongs alone ta the Governor General, and that
auy such power and contrai by the local legislature carried with it the power of rewarding
such judges as may be favoured by the miaister
of the day by transferring them ta more agreeable positions or visit diapleasure upon thern by
ordering thern ta the inhospitable districts of
the Interior, ail of which le Incompatible wlth
the continued faithful and uabiassed discliarge
of the county court judges of their judicial
functions.
That bears upon another aspect of the
question.
It would be lu the pawer of
the provincial legislature, if tbey controlled
these judges, ta seud thern ta rernate

JULY 15, 1903
upan
et
or inhospitable districts, anS in that way na be'given effect to in the territories there.
ie establishment of the. Supreme Court
punish thern or visit displeasure upon theni th ipassing the. salaries of the judges of the
In
If they dld flot act satlsfactorlly te the pro- te*.ritarles. parliament, bas granted the. sarne
the province et
lary 'as
vinclal goverurnent, and it was a reason why Manitoba the judges relceive'lu of Nova Scotla
and in the provinces
tint Act should b. dlsaiowed, and It was aind New Brunswick. Tiiere wouid, iiowever.
be no objection to the.
Mllhowed for that reason. 1 turn to page tixe umdersigned tisinkis,as tuis. the sme to form
ollection of sucii a tee
and lind the opinion C< of tbe general revenue of the territories.
1M0 of thse ame book
art
of the Minister of Justice at tint tinse, now
Tint la, bon. gentlemen will see, directly
tie Chalet Justice of Nova Scotia, In whlch
tees or
lie reports upon an Act of the province or aigainst the payment to judges of
Island ln whlch judges were eîmoluments of any klnd, except the salaries
Prince Edward
provided to lie paid for by tees In addition t iat tbey receive from the federal goverfia ient who are their employers. The parliato their salaries. He says.
îent of Canada must bave been of the sanie
The princIple of allawing judges' tee. for m
pinion, for we have the Exchequer Court
rnuch more eb- 0)
part of thiier judicial work ia
jectionable tian ssllowing tiier ta b. paid an nd the Supreme Court Act upon the statutegdditional salary tram the provincial gavern- ook. and I find chapter 135 of the. Revised
ment. Tiie principle of paying judges by tees b
was long ago ton to b. a vicions one, calcu- Statutes of Canada, subsection 4 of section
lated ta interfere witii tiie Independence of the 4 reade as follows :
bencb.
No Judge of the court siiaU hold any other
I am quotlng this to show tint thse judges 0Meie of emolurnent eitber under the governor under the government of
of
of the court ahould receive no emiolurnent Diacut otherCanada
province of Canada.
Dy
wintever from any source except from the a
So tint the principle of my Bill, as far
power tint appoints them, and in tint way
1 a s emoluments, ait ahl events, are concerned,
purciases their services ss Its oifficers.
turn to two opinions on the. subJect by Sûr1 9 already plaoed on thc statute-book of
John Thompson. One wlll b. found at page ( ~anada In regard to the judges of the
1114 of the same volume. H. quotes a SLupreme Court, and when the pariarnt
f Canada the next year after thie revision
Britishi Columbia Act ai fohlows :
The judge mmali be paid the~ sum of $20 for 0 f the Ftatutes, formed the. Exchequer
every day's actual and necessary attendance at 3ourt with one judge, they Inserted the
sucii courts wbulst engageS at the revision 0f ame provision with regard to thie Ex.a;Id Ues. togetiier witii travelling empenses, and 9
So that -the parsucb payrnent. and ail atiier charges <nat otiier- hequer Court judge.
wise hereinatter provided for) necessary ta be lament of Canada muet bave corne to
Incurred In cannection wltii the holding and lie conclusion, as far as the question of the
praper canduct of the business of the court,.
saal b. paiS by the, treasurer of the city upon .*emnneration of judges upon whIcb they
the certilIcate or voucher of the. Judge as ta ver. Ieglslatlng at that trne, la concerned,
the service performed. and In cases otiier than
as ta bis own fees, as ta the. nature of a neces- t bat It was nlot proper tint they should
slty for the. service performed. Tiie under- *ecelve any salary trom any source exsigned deerno It his duty ta malce tiie followitigr ~eptlng the. party wio employa them, the
observations la respect te this Act.
federal government of Canada, anS wiich
And tien he quotes the opinion of Sir condition la plainly set forth In section 100
John A. Macdonald, wici I have already of the British North Amerîca Act. It ls not
rend, and he proceeds to say :
necessary for me to refer to the authority
Section 102 of the New Westminster Act, for the statement I amn now goIng to make,
188, is open ta the. same objection as the. legis- for bon. gentlemen know thnt there la
lation s0 disallowed. inasmuch as the. Judge
therein reterred ta is a county Judge. wiiose no prînciple more thorougbly establisbed
saliary Is payable by the. governrnent of Canada In Great Britain than that judges are not
under the provisions of the. Britishi North
to iie subject to, or dependent upon annual
Arnerica Act.
Their
Supply Bis for their salaries.
Then 1 tura to anotier opinion by Sir salaries are fixeS by statute, and tiiey are
John Thompson, wich will be found at palS In that way and In that way only, and
page 1247 of the same volume, and this la in Canada, I amn free to admit, thnt prialn reference to thse legisîntion of tie North. cipie bas been falrly carried out. There have
west Territorles. H. says :
been a few instances *where judges have
Tii. principle of allowing tees ta judges the. been appointed In advance of the statutory
undersigned thinks is bad, and one whicii should

SENATE

316

provision,. but It bas not been allo'wed to rumain very long la that way. Why was that
princîpie adopted ? It was adopted so that
the judges would be Just as Independent of
the government of the day as they were of
the opposition, and wouid be Independent
financialiy-that no power ln tbe country
shouid be ln a position to keep their salaries
from them, unlesa they rnlsbebaved thernselves and rendered themselves fiable to be
removed by the authority. whlch alone could
caîl them to accoutit. 1 ask bon. gentlemen
to think for onu moment If the practice of
aliowing 3udges to accept and do outside
work for a provincial government or any
other goyerument, for wbIcb they receive
remuneration, Is nlot utterly repugnant to
the principle I have referred to, which ruquires that the 3udges salaries sbould be
fxed by statute, ana that tbey ohould not
be dependent upon tbe government of the
day or on the opposition, or on anybody else
for their remuneration.
Taire the case of judges that are appointed on a commission. I bave t'wo sucb cases
distinctiy ln my mmad at this moment. It is
not necessary I sbould mention them. one
of them was under a Conservative government and the other under a Libural government. I amn not condemnIng eitber, but
placing the full facts before the House. A
member of the administration was accused
In each case of grave misconduct la office.
The goyerument of whlcb be was a member
la each case appointed judgus to Investigate the charges agaiast hlm. Tbey conducted the Investigation, and what was the
state of tbings whiie that Investigation was
going on ? The men who bad buen chosexi
to maku the Investigation, whiiu lt was going on depended for their rumuneration on
one of the parties to the suit, and it was li)
the power of one of the parties to the suit
to make the rernuneration gruater or less ln
proportion as the report would please tixem.
I ask lion, gentlemen to reflect whether that
Is a position la w-ili judgus of this country
should be piaced ? 'Whether they should
be allowed for one day to remaîn lu such
a doubtful position ? I couid relate cases
of judgus in olden times wbere they were
found taklng gif ts, and althougli It could not
be shown that tue gifts affected their judgment in the siightest deg-ree, they liad to
retire from the bencl inl disgrace. I do nlot
Hon.

Mir. FERGUSON.

say that any member of the judiciary ln
Canada bas disgraced himseIf, but tbings
are going on ln a way calculated to bring
the bench Into disrespect and judges, belung
human beiugs, are fiable to be lnfluenced
by this consideratIon, that the amount of
their remuneration whIle they are pursuing
the Investigation is tu the bands of one of
the parties to the suit.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Would the bon. gentleman state the case be Is referring to ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I ivili state the
cases. I arn referring to the charge that
was made In tbe parilament. of Canada
againat Sir Adoiphe Caron-the Edgar
charges, as they are known, as one caseI amn oniy taking this as an Illustrationand 1 arn referring la tbe otber Instances to
tbe charges made against Mr. Stratton la the
Ontario legisiature. I amrnft taking these
two cases as tbe oaly ones, or because they
illustrate my meanlng more strongiy, but
I arn taklng them Up one on each side of
polities. It Is possible 1 may bc told ' Your
own friends were wrong la the case of Sir
Adolphe Caron.' 1 arn not going to dispute
It. My contention Is that they were wrong.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does the bon.
gentleman pretend that the remuneration
of the judges wbo 'were appointed under
those commissioners was nlot fixed beforehand at so mucb per diern for tiieir services ?
Ilon. Mr. FERG4USON-It rnay have lwen
ln the case of Sir Adoiphe Caron, but 1
arn Inforxmed it was nlot 6o-at least the
public dld flot know about it If It was
so-in the case of the Stratton investigation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Was,
it ln the-other case, does the hon. gentie.
inan remember ? M'as the remuneratiotn
fixed ln the Caron case ? I have no recol.
lection of ItL
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-The ordinary
practise ln the issning- of a commission ap*
pointing officiais is to mention tbe remuneratien whenever thére Is remuneration, and
that is why I put the question to the bon.
gentleman.
Hon. 1Mr. FERGUSON-The answer may.
be that the remuneration was la ail sucb
cases fixed. If that la so, It would take

JULY 15, 1903
smre point fron rny argument, but the
prInciple remains stili the sme, because
If jud ges are Ip the market for these commissions, there la a posmiblity of their
being Iiluenced to plonge the ruling power
ln any province, or ln the Dominion, so
tar that their service will lie acceptable on
another occasion. .Hon. gentlemen mnust
agree with me that kt was most improper
that such an inducement as this should
lie ln the hands of the governent of the
day, whether It la a provincial government
or a f ederal goverument, enabltug It to
exert an Influence upon the judielary that
A 1
it la not proper should lie exerted.
rernarked at the ontset when I Introduced
this Bill, 1 did so without notice, and, not
baving given notice lion. gentlemen who
spoke did flot have- the advantage that
perhaps It wam deslrabie they should have ln
discussiug an intricate constitutional question. Possiuy they made no mistake In the
p'iewm they expressed but on the other
hand they rnlght have advantageously deferred their observations until the second
readlng of the Bill, especially on the.constitutional point. Rad notice been given.
no doubt they would have been botter propared. My hmn. friend frorn de Salaberry,
however, took this point, If I understood
hlm right, that lie tbought the BlD would
Interfere with the exclusive powers of the
provincial legimiature In this way-that there
rnay be, ns I amn willing to admit there may
lie, smre subjects flot In thec jurisdiction
of the courts that are within the exclusive
power of the provinces, and that consequentiy a province migbt want so to
attacli it to the courts and that my Bill
would Interfere with. It.- 1 think my hon.
friend will flot adhere to that opinion,
because my Bill does flot interfere with
the free action of the provincial government lu that respect. The provincial governuients are yet free to deal with a
question of that kind ln two -ways.
They can issue a commission, If It Is a legal
question, to legal men who are not members
of the bench, and can have It investigated
In that way. Or they can pass an Act
which wJII attacli that matter to one of
the regular courts, and it will then cease to
be extra judicial and will corne under the
purviéw of the court to wbil i It s atthidied.
There Is no difficulty, no InfrIngernent or Interference with the right of the provinécial

617

legimiature ln aLny respect whatever.
Assuming the matter to be one with regard to
wbich the provincial legislature gias exclusive jurimdictIon, they are yet free to deal
wlth It aftr my BUi la passed ln every respct ns they eau doal witb It uow, with
this exception, they cannot have It adjudlcatedl by judgem as commIssioners. They
are mast prevented froin dolng one thlng,
aud that la frein approaching the servante
of the government of CJanada and entrustiug
them with the duty of maklng an Inquiry
Into such matters ln an extra Judicial capacity. If they wish to Inquire Into any subject wlthont its beiug placed ln tbe Jurisdlctiou of the court they can do It by a royal
commission. If It la a question of commerce
they wifl md experts iu commerce. If It
la a question of manufacture, they will
fidi experte tu manufacturiug. If It 15 a
matter of law, they can mid lawyers who
wli doal with It, but If thoy waut to pursue
another 'curse, to make lt a mattor of Judiclal Investigation, they have one way Of
dolng It now aud wll bave it theu, aud that
la iby passiug a Bill'and attaehIng it as a
duty to oue of the proviniclal courts, and
then the judges wlll do that work as a
strictly judicial duty, and rny Bill will not
affect it to the slightest extent. In thc discussion on the flrmt readlng of the Bill,
my hon. friend f rom de Lorimier (Hon.
Mfr. Dandurand) addressed the Flouse on
the mubject and made smre observations
to which I shall uow very briefly refer.
The flrmt of these I think I have already
discussed sufficiently, and that is that It
was improper on rny part to brlng down
a Bill at that particular turne on account of
the excitement that was prevailing in
Toronto and lu the province of Ontario over
'what is known as the Gamey-Stratton Investigation. I do flot think it is necessarv to discuss that point any f urther now, but be said
that my action on that occasion was slmPlY
the u.pholdkig of Mfr. Whitney's contention.
Mr. Wbituey's contention was that that
question sbould. be settled by the legilature
of Ontario. I did not say one word on that
point at ail. I neyer expressed rny opinion
on it. I con.fined myscîf to the subject of
xny Bill, and that Is, that jndges should inot
have beeti called upon to settle that matter.
If Mfr. Ross bad thought proper to issue a
commisslon to legal or other -gentlemen
outside of parliament. and have the matter

SENATE
inveçstlgated lu tbat way, there could bave tbe trutb than any Investigation 1 am fambeen nu application lu anytbing 1 sald to Muir wltb conducted by a commission of
bis conduct ln the siigbtest degree. My judges. For this reason, tbat judges bound
objection ^was mlot to Mr. Ross refe[,ing tbemnseves by laws of evidence wbile the
that question to a commission instead of to committee uf tbe Senate under my lion.
the legisiature, but my comment was frlendl who was cbairman of It, laid down
entirely restrIcted to bis usIng the'judges of the principles at the very ontet that tbey
Canada -for the purpose of that investiga- were not to be bound by any miles witb retion. which I hold, 1 think on sufficient gard to eviuence but would allow the freest
ground, fot to be rigbt, and something whlcb Investigation to take place, tbe object being
we sbould prevent the repetition of by Mr. that the whole trutb sbould corne out, and
Ross or Mr. Roblin or any other premier of a tbat any question pertinent to tbe subject
province uf Canada, and which we shonld migbt tbe aeked even tbongh It abonld not be
mot leave lu the power uf the goverumnent ln accordance witb the laws of evidence. I
of Canada to do, nu motter what party may may ù1zo vIndicate the House of Gommons
be ln power. 1 shail now say-aitbongh I of Canada to a certain extent from sucb a
did mot do su then, flot witb the view to charge. I remember very well, ln 1891 wben
defend Mr. Whitney or attack Mr. Ross, a serions charge was laid againat a minister
but to vindicate the parliament of Canada- of the Crown, tbe Minister of Justice, Sir
a few words lu reply to somne of the obser- John Thompson, gave every facility that
votions of my bon- friend w'ho said tbat If could be given nder tbe sun to bave
tbat question hadt been investigatedl by a every sbred of evIdence brougbt ont
committee of the legisiatIve assembly of before that committee, aud tbe fullest
Ontario, the committee would resolve Itef sud freest Investigation was had and
Into a bear garden, and there wouid be tbe finding was on the wbole detrinu Investigation tbat wouid be wortby tbe mental to tbe minister wbo was atmame. 1 wllI not bere answer for thxe legis- tacked. So that my bon. friend's statelature of Ontario. That charge may be true. ment ln tbat regard is not warranted as
I do flot say it Is true. 1 do not admit It la tar as this House la concerned, bowtrue, bunt I have this to say, and 1 can appeal ever tmue it may be of tbe legisiature of
to my bon. triend wbo made this remark, Ontario-a body I know notbing about-I
tbnt sncb a statement Is mot true ut this bope It is not true of tbem-but wbcn Judbononrable body of whicb be and I are icial responsibility was cast on those two
proud to be members. We bail an Investiga- occasions on this parliament ln 'this House
tion here mlot long ago--and it is not for the with regard to tbe Cook inquiry and lu the
purpose of ieading off this discussion to House of Commons ln the case of Mcany side Issue but for the purpose of vikdi- Greevy, both Houses acted ln a judicial
catlng this House wbicb was Indirectly as- spirit and pursued the Investigation until
persed by what my bon. friend sald the trutb was completely brougbt out. I am
that I refer to lt-we bad bere two years merely putting my lion. friend from de
ago wbat la called the Cook investi- Lorimier rigbt, because I know lie wlll be
A committee of this House the first to admit that *wbat 1 say with
gation.
I badl the bonour to be a mem- regard to tbe Cook investigation, at ail
Bat.
ber of that commiittee, and mDy bion. friend events, is absolutely right.
sat on tbat conimittee aiso. and 1 appeal
to the bion. gentleman if that investigaHon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I absolutely
tion did degenerate into a bear garden. agree witb my bon. friend as to tbe Cook
ny lbon, Investigation.
Tbat Investigation, on wbicb
friend to my lef t (Hon. Sir MackenziE
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I knew tbat my
Bowell) sat as chairmuan, was conducte-d
lawyerE bon. friend would do su. One other remark
so fairly and justly that the
me to the
representing botb sides passed the ver3 my bon. friend made, leads
tn wbicl belief tbat there is not very mucb difblghest compliment on the mnanner
ît bad been conducted, and 1 say furtber ference of opinion between the bon. gentlethat
that tbe investigation was conducted in f man and myself, 1 notice tbat be said
manner wbicb was better calculated to elicil the would refrain from expressing an
Hou. Mr-. FERGUSON.

JULY 15, 1903
opinion as ta whether a commission, sucli as
was referred ta, the oue tu Toronto reoently,
ahould make a flnding. He thought that a
commission of that kind was the best mens
or getting out the evidence aceording ta
raies of evidence. I do nlot altogether agree
with hlm. I think an Investigation condueted a It was In the Cook charges was better
than any lnquiry before a commission of
judges or Iawyers, because they wouid cortainiy bind themseives by the iaws of evidence. With respect ta other observations of
the bon. gentleman, I amrn ft now going ta
discuas them, but I want ta say a few words
witb regard ta the remarks made on that
occasion by the bon. gentleman fram Wellington (Hon. Mfr. McMullen). 1 tliuk It la
very possible that tiie bon. gentleman
iaboured under the mame disabillty tbat 1
do. .Very of ten when a gentleman, oven
with as god a voice au be has, spoaking:
from, the lower end of the Chamber, la addressing this Hause I fail te catch exactly
the Import cf what he says, and it ls possible my hou. friend labours under a
sîmllar difficulty when I and oilhers -are
speaking at this end of the Chambor.
Whetbor It waa due te tha.t or ta some
other cause, 1 must take the hou. gentleman
ta tank for saying that I had declared that
the judges who investIgated. the Gamey
charges were partisan and had acted lnan
partisan manner, and that 1 hail thrown
odium on them. My observations are found
in the Sonate Debates, and I lhad nlot occasion ta change' many words ln the proof.
1 nover have ta change many words ln the
Debates. 1 do net tblnk I had ta correct
aitogother a dozen or twonty word. ln that
report as it stands at the prosont moment,
and my hon. frlend wiil look In vain for the
Éli.ghtest referonce an my part lu the way
of aceusing those commisaloners of belng
partisani. I pointed ont what I tbought was
undeniable-what every hon. gentleman
must admit, that wbethor these judges were
just tn every respect or fot nevertheless
the painful resuit was that at least one-haif
the community believe thoy were not unblased, and have attributed and continue ta
attribute motives ta them, and I took the
ground tliat it was undesirabi'e tbat our
judges, who sbould be held above and beyond such aspersions, should be drawn into
such an unseemiy contost as was going an at
that time between the twa parties in pol-

619

tics, and made ta play a part lu which aspersions w ere cast agaînst thom and cast
by men who were just as honest ln attributing te thom Impraper conduct as they could
have been ln the administration ef thelr
duties. Wbo wMf doubt for a moment that
Prof. GoldwIn Smith was an -honeut critic,
and that he boiieved every word he uttered.
Who wli believe that Mr. Willisan, cf the
Tarante ' News,' was net honest and beiieved
what he said -with regard te that Investigation ? I say now, la it nlot depiorabie that
we sheuld continue te put the judges of aur
country In a position that not oniy the
political, mud alinger would have a dash nt
thoma, but that the very bout me n lu the
oommunity would be found ta cemment on
tbem, ln a mannor calculated to lower them
in respect of their fellow-ceuntrymen ?
My han. friend frem Wellington (Hon. Mr.
MéMullen) said f urther, that I ahould have
aliowed the. people ef Ontario to settle their
own business In their own way. New, there
i. nobody In the werid more wIling ta allow
the peopleocf Ontario, or any other province,
ta do their own business ln their own way
than 1 arn, but It was nat my Intention ta lntermoddle ln what did nat cencern me, and
it la Impossible ta connect my action ln this
Bill ln any way with an attempt ta Interfere with the free action cf the people of Ontario wlth regard to the Gamey business or
any other business. That was not My obJect and It wIll require a great dea1 of heat
iD any gentleman'. imagination who rends
my remarks carefully to came ta any different conclusion. Since the Introduction of this
Bill ln this honourabie House It ha. received
an unusual amount of discussion in the press
of the country. I have found that very long
and able articles have appeared ln most of
the Ieading newepapers of Canada with
reforence ta IL The strictly governmeflt
newspapera have been silent. They probably
did nlot want ta move until they knew -what
course the Secretary of State and 'hi. friends
Intended ta pursue. They have been courteou. ln this respect that they have nat
passed an adverse comment on my Bill.
I have been unable ta find one single comment of that kind, as far as my reading
of the press of Canàda ls concerned. I
find the opposition press bave very generaliy commented favaurably upan it. Hou.
gentlemen opposite might be disposed ta
say that that was no proof of any par-

620

SENATE

ticular neiet in the Bill. I dare say niy lion.
friend opposite, who smiles so gracefully,
would be lncllned to put forward that
view, but when 1 lind such papers as the
Toronto 'News,' edlted by Mfr. WIU juan, who
until very recently, was the managlag editor of the. Toronto 'Globe,, and wbo stands
very hlgb In jouinallstic Ilfe In Canada-wben
I find such papers as the 1Pa.rmer's Sun' of
Ontario, which Is known to be as free a
lance as you can possibly get In politieswhen you find sucb papers as that discusslng tbls question, and favouring as strongly
as tbey do the passing ot the Bill whlch 1
have the honour of lntroducing, and wicb
I now propose shall be read a second trnewhen you flnd *'Bystander,' wrltten by Prof.
Goldwln Smith, supporting the principle of
tbe Bill, and what Is more Important tban
ail sa far as the press Is concerned, wben
you find the ' Canada Law Journal,' the professional law paper of the countryHon. Mr. SCOTT-Wlth strong Conservative leanings.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
mucb the better.

BOWELL-So

Hon. Mr. FEItGUSON-My bon. friend
says witb strong Conservative leauings. 1
do flot know Mr. O'Brien.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I do.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot know
wbetber lie is a Conservative or flot. I know
the paper is one that is accepted as thie
organ of the legal profession lu the province
of Ontario and that it ia regarded as a very
able and impartially conducted paper. 1
know that is the estimation in wbich it is
held by the Bar on both aides cf politica.
When you find such 'writers as 1 have namet]
Rupporting the Bill you must admit that It
bas at least some menit. On the l5th June
last, the editor uses these words :
This, at least, so far as Ontario la concerned,
Is a day of judicial commissions; also a time
when the High Court bench bas been weakened

by thse ilimess of infirmlty of several of its
judges. Strangely enougb, there Is also a tlsne
when It is sald that there is a necessity to forin
a fourth division of the court and an increase
In the number of Its judges. There seems to
be a little inconsistency in &il this. It does not
require snuch consideration to see that the proposed increase would be unnecesaary If vacancies were promptly filled, If lnfirm judges were
given a proper retlring allowance, If vigorous
men were selected from the front ranks of the
profession, and hast but flot least, if the judges
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

were flot taken from their proper judiclal work
elther to report upon allegations of brlbery in
connection with a political Issue or to, go to the
Yukon ta Inquire Imb the reasonabileness or
The commonotherwlse of sme concessioni.
mense, busineassike way of disposing af the
seema ta be sufftlently obaileged dimfcuhty
vious.
Then lie goes on, and nearly. every word
la so much ta the point and so mucli better
than anytblng I can say that I feel hike rending almost the whole of ItL
There la really no necessity ta add to the
number of High Court Judges. The -questioù of
expense, though a minor one, may be notlced.
The proposed new division will probably add
nmre $20.000 to the yeanly cost of the court.
Ail sorte a! echemes have been lnvented ta supthe present utterly
plement judgem. It would beInadequate salaries
much cheaper ta
of the
give ta each a! the present jesdges an addional
$10,000 per annum. But this la flot the moat
Is It fair ta
Important part of the subi ct.
judges or ta sultans, or desirable as a matter
of publie polcy. that various pious fraude In
the line o! Indirectly increasing judiclal salarles ehould be resonted ta, or that tbey should
have extra pay for outslde work. The Indepeudence o! the bench ls of vital Importance both
ta the public and the professlon-much more
Important thau the benefit resulting from bavIng an occasional lnqulry more satisfactorîly
conducted. There înlght be danger of this Independence belng jeopardized by the growing
practice of taklng judges from their praper
work ta discharge extra duties with extra
Ail these thîngs give occasion ta
emohument.
thse enemy to blaspheme. The consequence ls
just what mlght be expected : unpleasant Temarks are made In reference to the judges, with
thse Inevitable resuit of lessenlng the esteemn lu
which thse bencis of this provInce bas heretafore been hchd. We are on the down grade la
connection with matters affectlng the dîgnity
of the bencis and the respect for It In the public
mmnd.

It is time that more thought were given

ta these matters.

The country cannot afford

The
ta bave the judiclal pedestal lowered.
effort muet be ta ralse lt, for lt is flot wbat It
once was.

It amounts to this, that owing to this and
othen causes, the excbequen of Canada
la bled to a langer extetît than it s1louli
be for the administration of justice. The(n
cornes a more direct reference to the
commission whicb 1 will not read, because
It migbt be hehd that it was introducing -uat
subject that was not necessany, and is not
properly Introduced here unlesa It la to
Illustrate anme feature of the case, and somne
argument upon tIse subject now before thie
House. The article reads:
It may be said that the commissioners exerclsed a very -wise discretion in tbe liberal admission of evidence. though even here coniplaints have heen made, not specially by counseil engaged for the prosecution, but by some of
We bave
those on the jury. Le., the public.
nothing to say to this, nor do we propose to

JUILY 15, 1903
discuse the evidence or to express any opinion
on the finding of the commission, as that would
take us wltbln the arena of politicai. contreversy.
But what we do say--end w. thiak it caniiot
be gairisaid-m that the report wiii net, and
naturaily camnot be expected to meet wlth the
acquiescence of the community at large, for the
simple reason that the Inquiry Invoived party
Politien, ln cennection with an Incident ln a
uomewhat bitter politicai contest.
That lias a direct bcaring as an Illustration ot the evil I have tried te point out
te tifs House as best I can. The article
continues:
This non-acqulescence ieads to evil residitu.
When a judgment la gisea ln a suit between
Individuals or corporation, It ln prima facie
assumed that the finding lu correct, and even
the disappeinted litigant generally acceptis hie
defeat withont calling the judge liard names.
This has liapplly been the habit in the past. It
will be a bad day for the country when people
get eut of this habit ln the future, as we fear
they are beginning ta do:; and it ln mast suci
Inquiries as this which wiii operate la that
direction, ne matter how careful or fair the
judgem may be. For reamons sucli as these
there are rnany whe regret that the services of
meinhers of the benci vere invoked and that
the judges feit It their duty to accept the cali.
Se mucli for the opinions of the Pregs.
I have aise the pîcamure of knowing that the
Bill lias met witli a very rernarkabie degree
of apprevai trem the bar. I have bad
letters on the subject trem gentlemen ln
different provinces whemn I lid neyer met
pcrsonally, but wlie have wrItten to me te
compliment me on liaving lntrodnced thls
Bill, and assured me tliey believed It was
a good one, and they hopcd It would beceme
Hon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-Rcad the letters.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Arid thcy fnrther
more gave nme te understand that thiR opinIon was one that prevalcd exterisiveiy, almost unanimously, ln the legal profession.
I arn speaking lri the hearIng et men wlio
rnay know bctter thari 1 do what the feelings et the members of the bar arc on this
subjct.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-It wonld be very
intcrcsting te know whether my hon.
friend's correspondents were Grits or TorIes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My lion. frlend
seems te have that Idea se thoroughly
groundedin his mmnd, that lie seems te
thluk that nobody cari possibiy corne te a
conclusion on any subjcct witbout bcing
dominated by political feelings. I know rny

hon. friend Is not haif as bad as he would
sometirnes maite the Houme belleve lie l8,
anid perhapm lie miglit be inellned to make
the sme remark with regard to myseif. I
believe my lien. frlend caru le got on ground
where lie cau. rid bimself of theme feelings,
and where lie can see wliether a proposition
la good or bad, regardless of politica.
Hou. Mr. LANDERICIN-Does thle hon.
gentleman ever get on suai ground 7
Hon. Mr. FERGUeON-I hope I do, but
there are Borne gentlemen lni this House
I would have to except. Thece are nlot
very many, but 1 arn afraid 1 would have
to except rny bion. friend who ham just
interrupted me. I think, perhaps, rny hon.
friend 18 too strorig a partisan to forget his
poliltc on any mubject which cornes wlthin
a catching distance of polltics. Yeu might
get hlm at a mate distance, but It wouid lie
pretty board te find 1t. I have boit no conversation with judges on the subject, but
I have been informed on excellent authorty
that sme of the very bemt men on thc bench
ln Canada to-day have hailed the Introduction of my Bill wlth a great deal of pleastire. 1 lied iad tiese names cormnrnncated
to me In confidence, and I do net suppose It
wonld be proper to name them. I have had
this Information, that there Io a very mtrorig
feeling on tuis question on thc bencli, ln the
province of Ontario especlally-notwithstandIng the due respect and regard wbici the
brothers on the bechc fee for each other. It
Is not human nature that mcen can be made
chcerfully to do more of thec judiclal work
than their share whiie others -are drawing
their salaries and drawlng add.itional tees for
outaîde work. I arn told there Is ample ground
for complaint by the judges of Ontario on
that very point-that thcy are made to do
more than their fair share of the judicial
work, bccausc some of their brother judges
arc attcnding to judicial commissions. I
hope hon. gentlemen wi'll look at thus question dispassionately and caret ully, and
tîxat they will admit that constitutionally, and f rom .every 'point of vicw, It
is desirable that we should carry out
what no doubt was the intention ot the
British Northi America Act, that the
judges should be as independent a judiciary as can be found tin any part of the
earth. if they are independent now, al

SENATE
be handed over because they feel the judges
are Inadequately paid. When Mr. Sandfleld.
Macdonald was premier of Ontario, they
actually added $1,000 a year to the salaries
of judges, but the Act ws dlsallowed. Lt
was done as a pions fraud-for that Is ail
It was-ln a subsequent Act, on the plea
that they were to be appointed to adjudicate upon some aasignee or reteree proceedlngs. A nominal duty was lmposed on the
judges of the Courts of Error a.nd Appeal
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-Hear, hear.
and an increase of $1,000 was allowed them.
Sir John Macdonald was of opinion that
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-And that Is a
that Act was ultra. vires because the paymont .unsatisfactory state of thlngs. The
of
rlght method and the economleal method on ment was made by the government
Onta&4o, Instead ot by the government of
the part of the governinent Is te put their
upon.
salaries on a proper plane and not te be Canada. The Act was xiot reported
Sir John, et this tIme, was at death's
helplng thema out individually by glvIng
time forward the
them other employment. The better way door, and from that
province et Onta-ilo b-as been paying that
le te deal idlrectly wlth this question. What
of the
have we found Ia this House ? We have amount of salaries te judges
Superior Courts of the province. I do not
heard the vole of private members pleadindependence of
lng for better remuneration for the judges. say that that affects the
the judges of Ontario. I do not take that
Hon. gentlemen have heard my own
bas been done for 50
They have heard the voice o! ground, because It
volce.
long a time, they ail recelved it, and it Is not
hon. Senator Drummoud ralsed Iu this
any man. But the governmeflt
Heuse, and again and again we have a favour to
of Canada is able to, pay Its own servants,
heard appeals te the government on this
the province or Ontario should. cease
question. I have had letters from judges and
te pay them, so that our judges should
mael!, and I Imagine most of my, hon.
be dependent for their salaries upon
frlends have had letters on the subject uot
aay source other than that descrlbed in the
e! these salaries. Is It satlsfactory that
North America Act. There is just
the judges o! the country should lie se British
(me other subject whlcli does corne incidentpoorly paid, that they should lie put ln
aily within the scope of my Bill, andi that is
the position o! appealing themselves, or
the promotion of judges. I arn told, on
havlng their !rlends appealing to the parliagood authorlty, that when in Eugland au
ment e! Canada ln order to give them a
eminent lawyer-and that Is the klnd of
living 'wage for their 'work ? I say that le
mian they appoint as judge ln Englaudnet proper, and the riglit course is to revise
is appolnted to the bench, lie remains ini
the salaries o! judges-in such a way as will
position, and is not promoted. Lt bas
put a complete stop to this coutinuai appeal that
been heid in England that If the governto the goverument of Canada to lacrease
o! the day bas it ln Its power to prothe salaries of judges, and the country ean ment
mote this judge, andi pass over that one,
afford to Increase the salaries. I L-now that
influence over the
la the Supreme Court of my owu province, they have an improper
iiot exercise It. That
the Judges are allowed tees. It Is doue beach and should
opinion, and lie
under the provincial Act, passed long before was Sir John Macdonald's
many Instances,
confederation, and -whlch is stlU la force acted upon It, la a great
have departed
under section 129 of the Britishi North aithoughlihe may sometimes
That Art remains stili from it. He passed over good judges and
Amerîca Act.
la force, and aithougli these fees ought refused. to promote theni on the ground
to have found their way into the treasury that the judge would have to renain in the
Ia
o! the province, yet. the provincial gov- position to which lie was appointed.
ernment, kaowiug that thie judges should ,Canada we 'have now a differeat practice.
flot receive these fees, allo-w theii to Lt is in the minds of the judges that they are

1 have to say is 'that mny ef them are
resistlng extreme temptation. Anothier matter to which 1 would refer Is the question
of Judges' salaries. whlch la belng bandled
about ln a way that I thlnk Is very unatsfactory. 1 believe that the salaries o!
the judges o! this country are not sufficiently higli, that most of them, or a great
many o! them lndeed, are flot adequateiy
remune.rated.

lion. Mr. PERGt7SON.

JULY 16, 1903
candidates for promotion. 1 cannot think
Ottawa, Thurafday, July 16, 1903.
that that is a good principle. I 'think it 18
bad, end although my Bill does flot reach
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three
It, 1 hope ln practice, as the years go tiy, >'ciock.
that It will flot be centInued. Having pre- ID
rayers and routine proceedings.
sented this Bill to the House and feeling as
de a good measure, a measufe
I do that it
IBSIGNÂTION 0F THE MINISTER 0F
that ought to commend Itself te the good
RAILWÂYS AND CÂNÂLS.
senne and good judgment of hou. gentlemen
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
ln thls House, and feeling as I do that there
public sentiment hebind thist ~he Orders of the Day arecallcd, I shouid
la a strong
BRI, that it: should be made law, I have lke te remInd the hon. Secrctsry ef Stute
ft Ititmy duty, as far as my humble ability of the statement he made the other day
would go, and as far au my Information wvhen I asked. hlm a queston lu reference
tei resignation ot one of his cofleugues.
would rcach, to place thie tacts before the
House. I have tried to do my duty ln the 1 undcrsteod hlm te may the explunatieus
matter. I knew I have donc It: inefffeiently. would tic given te-day.
If my hon. friend to my right, or my hon.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-BSo thcy will-in the
fricnd beblnd me, or nme ef the legal gentle- other Chamber.
men I sec on the other aide of the House, had
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It la
the matter ln band, I knew how much better
usual te give the expianutions ln both ChamIt would tic donc. I arn morry it did mot fali
Inte abler bande. However, according to bers
Heu. Mfr. SOOTT-I thlnk 'met
my abuity I have donc my duty and I hope
and trust that hon. gentlemen'on both sides *Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Ye5, always.
of the House will throw aoide any party
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It my
feeling and ne matter how many injudiclous
whcn I ocmay have been said by mymeif In rccollection serves me rightly,
things
shlow cupicd tic position the bon. gentleman dees,
snpporE of thxe measure will flot
wcrc rcsd'te the Senste
themmelves te be warped lu their judg- thc explanationa
at thc sme Urne thut they wcre given
ment upon this Bill, beesuse Its advocatc
msy have said, somcthing which was not te the Heuse ef Commons..
rigbt or juat : I appeal te hon. gentlemen
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-My hon. fricnd wIll
sides te give it fuir conaideration. riec that thc practice la, wherc a gevernon both
I regard It as one ef the mont Important ment le retjrlng or Ia chsuging its personnel,
Bis that ever came before this country. It mlght tic donc, but whcre a aingle minThe objcct being to elevate the- jud.lary ister retires, ef course, thc explunution must
and put thcm beyond aspersion, and ln that be given ln bis presence ln the purticuhur
way kecp cicar and pure the streams ef Chamber, whethcr thc Senste or Heuse ef
justice ln this Canada ef ours. I move that Commons, ln whlch hc bappeus te be prethis Bill be now read the second time.
sent Otbcrwlse it mlght Icad te very seristaternent made by
tbe ad- eus contradiction. The
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved
the Prime Minister and thc statement made
jurnmcnt ef the debate.
by Hlon. Mr. Blair muet accord iu smc deThe motion was agreed to.
grec, or If there ls a difference ef opinion,
expianatiens muet tic given, and, thcrcfore,
it would tic ranifestly Improper for me te
BILLS INTRODUCED.
make any statement which Hion. Mr. Blair
Bill (135) An Act te Incerporate the Que- might negative or disproe. I loeked up the
bec, New Brunswick and Nova Setia Rail- practice. I knew the practice laid dewn
way Cempany.-(Hloii. Mr. McSwceney.)
in Todd ls that whcre a single minlater reBill (211) An Act respecting Uhc 'Nicola, tires, the expianations are given in the parKamloops and Similkamleef Ceai and Rail- ticular Chamber et wblch he 18a member.
way Company.-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
I have sent fer the authority and will look
it Up.
The Senate adjourned.

SENATE

624

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
gentleman may lie correct, but my
recollection la that ln England, wlien there
Is any change of the klnd, the practice ls
that the explanation la made In both Houses,
and I arn fortfied. ln that by the hon, gentleman to my left (Hon. Mr. Miler) wbose
recollection ls preclsely the sarne as my
own, and hie certaily bas no peer lu this
Chamber as a parllamentary authorlty, and
unless I arn very mucli mistaken, when a
retirement took place In the case of Mr.
Âlkens, who was retired to accept the governorshlp of Manitoba, the sarne explanatlon
was made in both Houses. I cannot coucelve it possible that there would be any
contradiction between the statement of the
hon. Secretary of State here, and that made
by the Prime Minister la the lower House,
because the statements, as a rule, are written, and certalnly must be ln accord, and
then the question would be as to the propriety or Impropriety of dlseasng the
question ln the absence of the minister who
la retlred. 1 may be in error, but 1 arn
fortlfied ln my opinion by the hion, gentleman on my left.
bon.

information whîcli the goverument ought to
be ln a position to communîcate to us at
this moment. We are a co-ordinate branch
of parliament and It seerna extraordinary
that thîs information should be withheld
fromn us while it la freely being made to the
other Chamber, and wblle we have a representative o! the goverament lai #his
House. Surely It cannot lie that the members o! the goverx>mént are afrald to trust
each other to make an explanation, and
tbat one has to keep quiet untIl tbe other
lias made It for f ear they would contraillet
each other. Surely they should be able tu
communîcate exactly the sarne Information
to both branches of parilament

Hon. Mr. SCOT-I am adherlng to the
well understood practice ln England. That
ls, that where a minIster retires the Invariable practice of givlng the explanation
for bis retirement ls to maire It la the House
of whlchlihe is a mesaber.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-By hilmself ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-By hîmsel! and by flhe
It wouid be manlfestiy lmgovernment.
proper to talie any other course. Hon, gentlemen k'noir that Mr. Blair's retirement ls
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOX-I tblnk the course due to disagreement wlth the railway poliCy
that rny hon. frlend la pursulng is not the of the government
That la the only exusual course, and furthermore, 1 do nlot planation to give about It.
thlnk that It Is respect fuI to thîls House
(B.C.)-Should
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
that a gentleman representlng the goverument ln It should not taire the Senate Into not this House know when a new mînister
his confidence at the saine tîme the House la appolnted by, tlie goverument ?
of Commons la taken Into the confidence o!
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes.
the Prime Minister.
If matters nlot what
Hànm Mr.' MACDONA2LD
(BC.-b
the explanation o! the minister wlio bas
should not tlie bouse k!now wlien one reresigned may -be. I know my lion. friend
Is flot responsîble for that explanation and It tires ?
does not matter, se far as the point we are
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la a very delicate
discussing Is coucerned. whether thiere is matter to Iay down the exact language
a contradiction betwneen my lion. frieiid aud whlch ouglit to prevail where a gentleman
tlie minister who lias retired, but the ex- lias a difference of opinion wlth bis colplanation wliicli the Prime Minister la mak-- leagues.
It la manifestly improper that
ing at the other end of tlie building ehould aby explanation should be gîven unless the
be made by the lion. gentleman in this person moat affected by if la present at the
House at the same fime, so that the Senate time.
would be placed in possession of the samne
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I recolleet clearly that
information as the bouse of Gommuons posthe lion. Secretary of State stated the other
sess with reference f0 this resignation. -My
bon. friend shakes his hiead, but hie must give day that an explanaf ion would be given by
some authority for tlie course lie bias faken. the Prime Minister in the other House toI can scarcely imagine the bon, gentleman day.
would contend that this House sbould be
bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW7ELL-Tbat
left unitil to,-morrow f0 receive officially the Is quite frue.
Wili the bou. Secretary of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUJLY 16, 1903

625

I gave notice that I would move that clause
one be amended so as to read as follows:,
4. If at any time when a strike la ln progreas,
tbree persons or more assemble for any purpose
which may reasonably ha deemed connected
with, or in sympatby with such strike, and If,
wblle they are no assembled, any unlawful act
of violence or Intimidation lu coMlnitted by one
or more of such personh, or any unlawful
threat la useil by one or more of them, the
wboie ln aur way affecting free labour. or the
employer agiainst, whom the strike la directeS,
members of hie famlly, bis employees, bis property or personh making use of saIS property,
the saiS assemblage of. persona shall be deemed
an unlawful asembir ; anS each person formlng part thereot when such unlawful acet la dons
or threat used, @hall be deemed to have been
a member of an unlawfui assembly. anS shall
be punishable accordingly (unless punishable
as a floter as hereinatter mentIoned), even aItbough such person bas flot; participated ln such
unlawful act or threat, unless the. accused
shows to the satisfaction of the court -or judge
that he formed part of the assembir onîr casually, without baving any common purpose with
the other member thereot and that be d14 not
commit or countenance any such unlawful act
or threat.
With the permission of this honourable
Houe, I ask leave, at the suggestion or the
hon. gentleman from Toronto (Hon. Mr.
Kerr), to substitute for the words 'free
labour' In the fiUth and slxth lines the words
' freedom of action of 'workmen.' Lt would
be more grammatical and more expressive
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Let us -hear what Todd of the objeet of the Act
saye:
Hon. Mr. DeBOUOHERVILLE-By this
When a single member of the Cabinet re- amendmnent we place on the person accused
tires, until be bas made bis own statemeat la
the Blouse to wbich ho belongs, the govera- an obligation to prove that he ls flot guUty.
ment cannot explain the grouad of bis withdrawal to the other Bouse.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have taken the
Then the anthorities are quote& That la trouble to go over part of the Criminal Code.
and I ean refer to some twenty different
pretty stroag.
sections where the same principle le embodied. One la section 101, another section
THIRD READING.
448, and there are a great number of secBill (16) An Act to confer on the com- tIons w'here the same principle le ejabodied.
nissioner of patents certain poWers for the
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Wbat ls the meaniug
relief of the Woolf Valve Gear Companyof thiat word 1whole,' in liue 6 ?
(Hou. Mr. Dandurand.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would say te
FREE LABOUR BILL.
my lion. friend behind me that prima fadie
there is .a case made ou~t against the acREPORTED FROM COMMIITTEE.
cused on account of hie belng in an unlawThe Bouse resolved itself into aL Cors- fui assembly, an 'd it le simply a ehifting
mittee of the Whole on Bill (S) An Act to o! the onus of proof that the Act provides
amend the Crîminai Code, 1892, respectlng for. He Ie a.lready gullty ln law by reason
free labour.
o! beixig with the assembly complained 0f.
(In the Oommittee.)
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE,-And I might answer
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-When this Bill was further that section 79, as lt le, as
as It
in Committee of the Wbole a short time ago will remain, is much more serions because,

State turn to page 424 o! Bourinot, second
edition.
He will there finit the followl.ng
language:
In case of nilaisteriai changes, explanstions
are generalîr allowed to be made la both Bouses
when the.Orders of the DAY are called by the
Speaker. When the premier, or member leaSing the goyernment ln the Bouse, bas made
such explanation It is usual to permit the
leader of the opposition to make nome remarks
on points arising out of the former's speech.
In tact, considerable latitude i. allowed by Indulgence of the Bouse on such occasions ln the
Colnmons.
lu the English Bous of Cominons It ls Irregular to permit any debate, after the ministerlal statement has been made, unless some
question la formerly proposeS by the Bouse.
The same practice obtains ln the Bouse of
Lords, a motion for adjourument belng made
when a debate lu azpeeted.
If my bon. frlend ls afraid of saying something wblcb w1lI contradiet bis premIer, we
muet accept the Inevitable and show tbe
usuai practice to be vIolated la thie case.
I would mnot, of course, like the hon. gentleman to make a statement whtch would
contra dict the -premier, or the premier to
contradlct the Secretary of State, although
w. have unfortunately bad experience o!
AUl that I wish to
that kind in the past
Impress on the Senate la that -the position 1
have taken la fortlled by the authorities.

SE NATE
as the hon, gentleman trom Calgary says, stop at the twenty, If there be twenty sucb
I remember In 1857, before
It makes the party guiity wîthout glving enactments.
bilm a chance of proving that he la not the slavery agitation lxi the United States
guilty. Section 79, as it stands. deais wlth had reaehed Its culmination, there were
assembies of three or more persans, aud If continuai amendments te, the laws by which
on the occasion of their being assembied, the iigbt of Individuals waa taken away,
ani even If they be perfectiy Innocent, there iutil lânaily ln 1857 the chief justice of
are reasons ta fear that the peace la geing the United States deiivered a decision by
to be disturbed tumuituously, the assembly whicb he declared that a black man had no
That 'was
becomes unlawful snd every person forming rIghts lu the United States.
part of that assembiy may be arrested, and the effect of bis deoisien ln the Dred Scott
tbey have ne chance of proving that tbey case-that a black man had no rights wbich
are net guilty. The Bill, with the amend- a wbite man was bonnd to respect, and that
meuts that 1 propose, la much more lenleut no law couid be passed by the United States
black man any privitowards the accused than section 79. I re- which wouid give a
leges. By a graduai process of sopping,
fer the bon. gentleman ta thec CrIminai
Now, the effect
Code, page 202, section 448, which reade as liberty was endangered.
of this la to go a step further than
foliows :
axiything with regard to property ini Our
Every ane la guiity of an Indictabie offence law and this Bill provides this way as
who seils or exposes or has ln his possession
for sale, for any purpose of trade or manufac- I read It, with aIl Its verbiage dismissed
ture any goods, or things ta which any farged -if
at any time when a etrike je ln
trade mark or false trade description la applicd or ta whlch any trade mark, ar mark soa progresa, three or more persans assemble
nearly rescxnbling a trade mark as ta be cal- for axiy purpose aud whfle assemb led any
culated ta deceive, la falseiy applled, as the net et violence le committed by any one of
case may be, uniess he proves(a) that having taken ail reasanabie precau- theni, or any unlawful threat Is used by
tien agaInst commttling such an offence he lad, any one or more of them affecting free
at the time cf the commission of thc alleged
offence no reason ta suspect the genuineas of labeur, the sald assemblage thereby becomes
the trade mark, mark or trade description
an unlawfui assemblage, and each persan
and
(b) that on demand made by or on behaif of present shail be deemed to be a member
the prosecutar le gave ail the information ln of an uniaw'ful aasembly aitbough they
bis powcr witl respect ta the persons from may have met for a perfectly legitimate
whom he abtalncd sudh goads or things :and
purpase-far the purpose, may be, of healing
(c) that othcrwise he lad acted innoccntiy.
the strlke-and shall be punlshed as such
If the hon. member refers ta section 101 even though the accused bas not parhe wIl find the came princîple, sud as I ticipated lni the unlawful set or threat,
say, I have nated fifteen or twenty dit- unless he shows to the satisfaction of
ferent articles whe.re thec same principie ah- the court that he bas formed part of
tains.
the assemblage casuaily. He may be a
Hon. Mr. DeBOUOHERVILLE-Does tIe perfect]y Innocent maxn, but he wl! have
lion, gentleman believe that wliat he bas to show to the court that he was there
only casually. He may flot have gone
etted applies ta this law ?
there only casualily-he may have gone there
Ho.n. Mfr. BEIQUE-The party Is put on for a perfectly reasonable and honest purhis triai and le is condemned uniess he pose, yet he .must show three thîngs, that
proves his innocence.

he formed part of the assemblage casuaily,
that he bad no common -purpose with the
others, and that he dld not commit the act.
It is an extreme position ta take. It strikes
at the rigît of men to assemble and to disduss any matter whIch may affect themn.
It prevents men from disdussing their grievances together, prlevents them from assembllng ta discuss a remedy for their grlevances and from assembiing to heai the
I think it is as -weli ta grievances, because If they do so the assem-

Honi. Mr. ELLIS-The section which tbc
bon. gentleman read la an entireiy differeut thing, because tbat relates to property
which may be stoien, and the maxi las ta
prove he is Innocent, but in this case the
princile of the Bill strikes at the asseinblag-e of three or more men to discuss a
The hon. gentlemanl says le cau
question.
fiîd. twenty precedents ln the statutes for

this legisiatlon.

Hon. Mr. BEDIQITE.

JIJLY 16, 1903
more of them, the whole in any way affectlng free labour, or the employer against
whom the atrike is directied, 'memblers of his
famlly, &c. These elementa muet enter Isito
what takes place before It couid become an
'offence witbin the meaning of tlie Act.
That la to say, the gatberlng would flot lie
an offence. The discussion would not be
an offence. But If an act of violence takes
place, or any Intimidation takes place which
wouid lead to the consequences ln the section, then tbe offence la committed and any
one there would be Inciuded amongst tbosè
charged with committlng the offence.
It
seems to me If you accept the principle of
Hon. Mfr. SOO!rT-But la not the basis of
It that they muet be ln synipathy wlth the -the Bill, It only wouid lie workable to supstrike ? I nderstood that la the essentiel press Intimidation or acta of violence of that
kind. Otberwtse I fail to see bow you can
element of it.
establish a charge.
Hon. Mfr. DÂVID-Everybody la preaumed
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-I do not accept the printo know the law, so that a man who
la>1ciple of tbe Bill.
present et sncb a 'meeting cannot compili
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHENDD-I am diacussing.
of the application of the law If lie knowa the
lnw. He muet know the law and we muet it from the atandpoint of making the BihI
take that as a fact. Then lie knows that effective. I.do not see bow you can estabIf lie takes part In a public meeting sucti as hIsh a charge except you bold the perRons
that mentioned in the Bill before us, hie who are present.
I am simpiy discussiag
knows that hie takes part ln an unlawful the practiçal carrying out of the Act, not the
meeting, and If there are threats and in- principle.
timidation and acta of violence, and lie perHon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Suppose
aista In remaining ln the assembly, be knows there la a meeting which la not unlawf ail*that lie wlll be considered gullty. Conse- not of three persons, but let -ur. ay, twenty
quentiy, lie lias ouly one thing to do; know- persona4. Tbey bave a right to assemblee
Ing the law. He muet leave tbe assenibly If there.. Unfortunately one pel'ron nîay, anlie does not want to render himseif lhable to der the Influence of liquar, feor instance., do
arreat, and If lie remains lie la hiable to the
an act of violence and the other ni-neteen
application of the law and bas no rIglit to persons wouid lie guilty. Dos the
'lon.
complain of the penalty. If lie bas to blanie gentleman admit that ?
anybody for the operation of the law, he
Hon. Mr. POWER-In order ta appr.'ciate
muet blame himself.
the-position we miglit look at wbat the iaw
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-The lbon. Secretary of now ls. This Bill proposes ta add a saliState aaize me If basis of the law *Is that the section to section 79 of the code. What does
party must be in sympathy under the strike. section 79 say
I direct bis attention to the words ' if three or
An unlawful assembly Is an assembly of three
more persons assemble for purposes connect- or mare persons wha, with intent to carry out
ed with the strike V' I wouhd object to it any cammon purpseeven in that way ; but it is not as the hon.
It daes flot say wbat the purpose la.
gentleman says in-sympatby with the strike. -assemble ln such manner, or so conduct thelnselves when assembhed, as ta cause persans in
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That le mot the the neighbourhoad of such assembly ta fear on
gravamen of the charge. The charge realIy reasonable graunds, that the persan-s ro as-;
will disturb the peace -tumultuousiy.
is If any one is connected.with assemblage, sembled by such assembly needlessly and %vithor elill
and if wbiie they are so assembled any un- out any reasonable occasion pravake other perlawful act of violence or Intimidation ls sons ta disturb the peace tumultuouisly.
conîiltted by one or more of sauch persons,
Under the code as it -stands that is*an u--i
or ainy unlawful threat Is used by one or lawfui assembly, and -those wbo form part:
.404-

blnge la lhable to be converted into an unIt miglit be In the lilawful assembly.
terest of persons on ttce ether aide of the
question to couvert it lnto an unlawful asI cannot follow the refinemnents
sembly.
of the law ln the way my bon. frlend la able
to state tbem, but I have the feeling of a
free man and would want'to attend an assemblage If I chose. I desire to give my
f ellow man the same right, and I do flot
thInk there should lie on the statutes audi
a law as tbis whicb converts a legal assembiy Ixito an lil1egaà one, simply because
one man does a wrong ithlng.

SENATE
of that assembly are lhable to a penalty common purpose with the other mnembers
1 really thereof, and let hlm prove that he did not
provided lu the Bill before us.
do flot see that the Bill goes any rurther commit or countenance any sncb unlawthan the exiatlng law. I assume tbe renson fui act or threst If the accused can esfor introducing the Bill ls to make It per- tabllsh the tact that lie did flot commît the
fectly clear. to the public that this parti-, off ence, that le perhaps going far enougli,
cular kind of asaembly, under these clrcurn- because the meeting may not be a casual
stances, le an offence against the crimînal one. These three men who are lu sympathy
lnw and renders the party tu it hiable to wlth the strîke may meet together, and tallk
the penalties of the law. I sympathize wlth together, and not one of them may have any
what the hon, gentleman from St. John says Intention of breaking the peace or unduly
with respect to the value of freedom. The interfering with the rlghts of other workhou, gentleman himself bas suffered a Ilttie, lngmen or wlth the acte of their employers,
I behleve, or dld suifer at a rather remote and under these cîrcumstances, one of these
perlod, and probably appreclates the value men would not be able to prove that he
of freedorn more than sorne of the rest et formed part of the assembly only casually,
us who have not bad the experlence.
because the men might have gone there toHton. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That gether with Intent beforehand.
was not; for klcking up a row on the streeta
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It could not
and breaklng peuples' heads.
be proved either that they had a common
Hon. Mr. POWER-The question le whe- purpose.
ther this sort of heglalatJon la necessary,
Hou. Mfr. -POWER-No. I submlit it would
and It does seem to me that the recent exbe sufficlent-and I submlt that vlew to the
perlence ln Montreal, when almoat the whole
from De Salaberry-lf the
business lu the most Important commer- bon. gentleman
accused waa able to prove that he dId not
cial and manufacturing centre of thia country was held up three days, largely from commit or countenance any such unlawful
the want of some auch prompt action as le act or threat, wlth that modification, I think
provlded for by thîs measure, we should It would be ail riglit.
hesîtate before we decide not to pass the meaHon. Mfr. McHUGH-I may say tbat 1
sure. I do not see anything ont o! the way arn opposed to leglalation of thîs klnd, emuA the hon, gentleman from anating fromn tbis House. 1 f èel that there
ln this BiI.
Calgary stated, the persona muet be ln sym- le quhte sufficlent on the statutes now to
pathy wlth the strike, and somne one of the pretect the people and the property of the
persona asembled. muet commit an act of public. The hon. Speaker bas said that il
violence or Intimidation before any one le does flot go any further than the general
llable. Wlth respect to the latter portion of law. It gjoes further ln one direction, that it
the clause, whlch requires that the accused is aimed at free labour. It is airned at
shall show to the satisfaction of the court free labour organizations, and that la why
that he was not guilty, I think, as the hon. it meeta with my opposition. 1 amn fullY
gentleman frorn De Salaberry bas shown, la sympathy with labour organizations.
that there are a great many cases under They are lu this country to-day and if we
the Criminai Code where the law contalus are going to make the best use of them, it
a alilar provision. I would suggest, how- 1sntb
asn
ritaylgaainlk
ever, ta the hon, gentleman that this latter this, but by conciliatory measures snch as
part mlght be modified, la sucli a way per- was passed. in the other House by the Posthapa as to meet the views of hon. gentle- master General and the Minister of Trade
men wbo do not go quite as far as the hon. and Commerce. 1 amn fulIy la syrnpathy
gentleman from De Salaberry. It migbt be wlth mannfacturing associations and inamended so as tu read ln this way :
dustrial institutions in this country, and
Unless the acéused shows to the satisfaction thlnk they should receive full justice. They
of the court or judge-

say they do not require any law such as
of the the conciliation law passed in the other
-leaving ont that he formed part
assembly only casually without having any. House, that labour and capital are getting
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JULY 16, 1903
on very well at tbe present time, and are legisiation ln this Chamber, 1 sbould flot
able f0 manage their own business. Now like to see IL
this House steps ln and takes hold of the
Hon. Mfr. SULLI VAN-I sbould like to
labour organizations of the country, and If ait one question. There la no machinery
this Bill pauses the Senate, we are going for arresting a man. Would not you give
to prevent them from meeting in lawful as- the men an opportunIty of diupersing ?
sembly when a strike la on in a elty or
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-No, arrest them ail.
town and at the very time that they wil
require f0 meet They may ineet for legitiH3on. Mfr. SULLIVÂN-Would it requIre
mate.purposes In order to brIng about a a policeman, or would any other man bave
settiement of the strike. Some person may authorlty to arreat them ?
get Into that assembly and cause trouble,
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-It falis under the
and then the whole assembiy would be lIa- common law. This Bill maires It a crime,
bie to be arrested, and put upôn trial until and when a crime le commItted any conthey prove their Innocence. The BUi goes stable would.have authorlty to mreut those
fuily tha't far. I aay hon. gentlemen that taklng part ln the crime.
labour unions have done a great demI of
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-When this Bill wau
good lu this country for the labouring masses o! the people. I recognize tbe right we presented to the House I examined It very
have f0 paus laws which will protect pri- earefully lu the form ln which It was then
vate property everywbere, but the labourer presented, and came to the conclusion that
has a very strong dlaim upon us to see that lu that form It was a very dangerous an d
f ull justice lu done hlm. They are by far drastic measure. I expressed myseif very
the most numerous class of the community, utrongly to the House on the second reading
and I say they have a right to our sym- of the Bill ln that respect, and It was allowpathies, instead o! our trying to pas. a ed to go to committee wlth the understanddrastic measure such as this lu, because It ing expressed by the hon, gentleman who
lu xlirectly aimed at labour organizations as Introduced it, that he would modify Its prowell as other Bis that have been Introduc- visions Iu the committee. TMy hon. friend
ed here. We have had a good demi of light has submitted amendments which have very
materialIy-I wouid say a]most radicallyon the labour organizations from members
of the association In the last !ew weeku. changed the Bill and removed the objection
I say If they want to forni labour unions whicb I entertained to IL I sf111 felt, however, a! ter we went into committee, that It
and tbey think It ls for their mutual advantage f0 have theni international, then might stIli be severe and dangerous, but I
have taken the pains f0 go over the Crimthey shouid have the right to do so. It was
*
pointed out to the commlttee that they did mal Code and compare this legisiation 'with
a great deal of good ln this country. When many other enactments ln that code, and I
the Bill lntroduced by the hon, gentleman have aiso referred to the Englisb stafutes,
!rom Calgary cornes before us, I may have and I findt that we are not at ail going.besomething to say on lt, but I followed up yond what is very usual f0 do ln cases of
wbat unions were doing and I saw where difficuity in getting prosecution, wbere lt is
one organization, the rallway trainmen of Important that prosecutions may be got,
and where circumsfances may render lt diffi.
this country, had paid out of a beneficiary
fund some $592,000 f0o widows and orpbans, cuit to get them. I feel that if nay hon.
and dlsabled members lasf year. We do not friand who bas charge of the Bill thinks
want to throttle that organîzation by leg- it would fot entlrely impair it, and decides
islation. Fifty-four thouisand dollars of that f0 accept the suggestion of His Honour the
money was paid out to relieve distress in Speaker, I shahl be very well satisfied, but
Canada. One of the functions for whicb even without that amendinent I have now
the Senate was created was f0 protect the corne Ifo the conclusion, after very careful
weak against the strong-weak provinces thought, that the Bill ouglit to beconie law.
Hon. Mfr. MclMULLEN-Hear, bear.
against *strong provinces-minorities against
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON--It is not in the inmajorities, and 1 say if you have to nsk the
other Hlouse to proteet labour against chass terests of respectable trades unionists f0

SENATE
have nlote In the country, and I amn sure
that anything that wIll put a stop to riot
and disorder and bloodshed wlll meet with
the approval of niaety-nine ont of every
hundred frades unioniats ln the country, as
wel] as other people, and therefore I inte2nd
to vote for the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-In presentIng the Bil,
as I have had occasion to aay before, I h-ad
no unfriendly feelings against the trades
unions. I amn eatisfled that it Is In their
best lnterests, and there la another principle
whlch must be taken Into consideration,
that those who belang to the trades unions
are not the only parties who have rights.
Those who deern it advisable not to forrn
part of trades.unIons surely should be allowed to work and earn their daily bread.
and this measure la Intended to apply merely
ia tirne of strike as was well stated by the
hon, leader of the opposition on a previous
occasion, at a tirne when the minds of the
people are la a state of excitement, and
when a great rnany people require ta be protected. A large benefit te be derived from
this Bil wIll lie In the fact that it is to be
enforced only ln Urnes o! strike, and therefore It will be announced ta the public and
ta the strikers, and ta ail people lu Urnes of
strikes, that there Is a law which was
enacted for the purpose o! assurIng peace
and preserving order and allowlng people
to have the enjoyrnent o! their full rights
and liberty, and that they must be on their
guard, that If they assemble for a purpose
in sympathy with the strike, and if, while
so assembled, any o! them commit an
iilegal act-because it is surely an illegal
act ta use violence-for an abject in
connection with the strike, the others 'will
be deemed ta have countenanced. the
party who, did commit the Illegal act
by being present in the assembly, and
tbat they will ail be responsible ta the
same extent 'unless they prove sucb and
such things. It seems ta me it is a sound
principle in criminal law and reason. It is
the basis of the criminni law that a party
who caunltenances an act Is considered an
accessory, eitber before or after the fact,
and Is guilty ta the same extent as the party
who commits the act itse]f, and therefore
it is no new principle, but the embodiment
of an aid English principle of crimInai law.
I arn satisfied, from the attention I have
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

given ta the BiII, that it le ln the best interests af trades unions, as well au ln the best
intereste O! patrties who do flot choose ta
belong la trades unions, but who should,
neverthelesa, be entitled ta earn their daily
bread as I have sftated. It bas been suggested by sarne han. members or tMis House
ta rnodify the last portion of thxe Bill, so as
ta give a further chance ta the parties for=Ing the assernbly. For Mny part, I believe
it would be la the beat interests of the public
la allaw the Bill ta rernain as it Is, but I amn
wihhing to aubmit la the sense of hon. gentlemen, and If they think It: should be rnodified ln that wsy-which will, of course, conuiderably nullify the effeet of the BiIB-I
wiU not abject
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-I should like ta ask
the hon. gentleman : In the evexit of a labour
organization having a meeting ln a city or
town where there was a strIke, and they
had met la syrnpathy with the strikers, because they had before that voted for the
stnike, when they assembled there If a row
were ta commence at that meeting, a disturbance arise, wonld they not ail be liable
ta arrest ?
Hon. 1fr. POIRIER-Yes, they would.
Hom. 1fr. BEIQUE-No.
Hon. 1Mr. McHUGH-Does it not do away
with the priviiege o! these men ta meet on
occasions of that kind for fear a disturbance
tnight arise ?
Hon. Mr. MclMULLEN-There must be
same act af violence.
Hon. Mr. MdIHUGH-The act af violence
wiil arise when they assemble.
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-No. The wards are:
And If, while they are s0 assembled, any uniIawtul act of violenice or Intimidation la cammlitted by one or more of such persons, or any
unlawful threat la used by one or more of
them, the whale In any way affecting free labour, or the employer again-st whom the strike
Is directed, membere of his family, his employees, his property or persans maldng use of
said praperty.
Sa that if a persbôn thre%; a, atone, or cofiillitted any other act of violence it would
not make the assembly Illegal.
They wouid
flot fail «uldex' thIe operation of the Act.
They must do it il, cannection -%ith the
strike.
If a strike is flot ln pragress it does
'lot fl'al under the aperntian of the Act at
aI.

JUILY 16, 1903
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-Tbe meetIng le ln
connection wlth the strike.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The meeting may be
lu cannectlon wtth the strIke, but If the
act of violence le flot ln connection with the
strike dirccted against tbe employer or hls
farnlly or agaînst bis property, then this
Act does flot apply. The hon. gentleman
from Kingston askcd me to explain the words
'the whole.'
The words are Intendeci ta
cover acte of violence, threats and Intimidation, so that any of those acts comitted
must bie committedl ln counectlon, wlth the
strike; unless It le so the Âct does îîot apply.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I cat.Icd attention ta
the words 1the whole' because the bon.
gentleman was reviewIng lits Bill wtth a
vlew ta adding ta Its elegauce.
I thaugbt
that the expression 'the whole ' there wns
tuelegant, aud though the Bill is otberwIse,
ln my estimation, obuaxtous, I waut hlm to
shape It ln better forai. The more I look
at this Bil! the more objectionable do I finit
It, not because it le for the represeton of
crirninai acta--I amn ln faveur of that-I betIeve ln represslng what le criminat-but
because tiis BUll opens the door to very
sertous abuses, and because It wlI embrace
the Innocent wlth the guilty. The existlng
law Is weli. enough, and I believe ln the
prîncipte of teavIng wetl enough severety
alone.
The law as it exists-because tlxis
Btll bas mot paseed yet, and I liope it wl!
nlot pase this Hanse, and I am prepared ta
sny it will uiot pase the other House-ts
directed against criminate ouly. and that
is quite proper. This anmend-meîut wiil reacb
the Innocent as well as the criminal. It le
a law very niuch like the law of suspects,
as I mentioned before, whieh %waepassed
at the time of the French rev-otution. by
whtcb enactmnent a man, wbo bad a hatred
towards ather men could go aud nmotest and
Imprison tbem. Under tbis Bil!. if It pisses
-and I hope it will flot pass-bere le ait Instance of what might banppen. There may
be a strIke lu Moutreal. I mat P l i Montreal, a Montreal muan nîyself, i tan' abtdlug
citizen. I may go to two or tliree strikers
for the purpose of eutreating themi ta keep)
the peace.
WMbile I am tryiug ta make
tbem understand that the law sliouid be
respected and no untawfui act coimitted,
If one of the tliree utters au uiilawful threat
affecting a labourer, or the employer against

631

whom the strike Is dlrected, or sme member
of bie famlly, 'each persan forrnlng part
thereof whcn such unlawfui act ta donc or
thrcat used sailU b. deemed ta have been
a member of an- unlawful asscmbly.' That
le, white expostulatIng with tiiese strIkers,
If one of thern ln my presence white a strike
la gaing on ln Montreal or eliewhcre uitters
a threat I arn liable to ho arrestcd. Io that
the spirit of a law dealing with frce mcen? Io
that thc spirit of British liberty? I say na.
This Bill, If It passes, wlll have exactty the
counter effeet of what It proposes ta carry
out and what It proposes to carry out I arn
ln faveur of-the represalon of crime and
strikes.
But If you overdo a thing, you
wIt! uido lit.
Ini thîs case, It muet be distinctly undcrstood that crime le puntehabte,
and this much more muet be hiadt lu vlew,
that Iaw-abiding people muet stand agaînet
crtime; but when the law la so framed that
you canmot at firet efght dittngulab between
the Innocent and Uic culprIt-while the Innocent le as Ilabte ta be arrcsted as tic
culprlt, I say Uic principle or spirit of such
a law le anti-Brltish mnd agaInet the beet
priniples of leglelatIon. This ia anc of the
reasens I arn opposcd to the Bllt.
I arn
flot opposed ta the repression of strIkes or
of crime ln any way, but I arn oppascd to
that spirit and I arn furtber opposed te tlie
Senate levelllng our legislatIQn mare particu!arly at a certain clasa of peaple who
have been so far held under tutelege, but
who, we muet remember, are a great factor
lu the land. The lababirlng classes are apt
ta go aetray posslb'ly.
Members of parliament may go astray and capitaliste aie
may go astray, but wby sbould we single
ont ln thie spirit the labour organizatlons
sud deal wlth them mare severety than
other arganizatone ? I sm convinced that
the most wholesame element of aur poputatienî le the labourlng class.
There are
workers who work as bard ; but the artisans are thc beet educated, the most enlightened arnong the worklng ciass. They are the
chues tbat lu thie country especially I might
say le tDe moet healthy, without disparaging
others. Now because some little disorder was
done ln Montreal are we ta pass such abnoxious legielation for the whale Dominian?
I repeat I amn agaluet.the spirit of this Bilt
-agaluet a special law levelledl at the labour
classes whicb thîs Bill bas ln view.
I protest as far as I iadlvidually can against thia

SENATE

63-2

measure, and, I for one, shall vote agalnst
't.

Hon. Mr. lMeM.%ULLEN-I understand that:
by niutual consent it is agreed that the
discussion upon t'hls Bill shouid stand over
until next week. I therefore move that
the order be discharged and that It be
set down as an order for Tuesday next
and that It be the first order after the
third readings.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have no objection
to acquiesce ln the suggestion to leave out
the words ln the last three lunes :
That lie formed part of the assembly anly
casually wlthout havlng any common purpoafi
wlth the other members thereofTDhe amendment was agreed to and the
The motion was agreed to.
clause as amended was adopted.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE moved NÂTURA.LIZÂTION AND ALIENS ACT
ÂMENDMENT BILL.
that the comniîttee rise.
AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
The Order of the Day belng called:
means that if the motion la carrled the Bill
Canalderation of the amendmenta made by the
le kllled.
House af Commans to Bill (fl An Act ta
The committee dlvided, and tise motion amend the Acte relating ta Naturalizatian and
A-iens.
was reWeted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first amendment
Contents 13 ; non-contents 80.
is mereiy verbal. It changes the titie of the
Hon. Mfr. CLORÂN moved to amend the court In the province of Quebec froni 'cirBill by adding to clause 4, in the second cuit' to 'district' The nçxt amendment is
Une, after the word 'any' thse words 'Il- ln reference to courts In Manitoba whch JI
It would Is malntalned hail not been properly delegal or lllegitîmate purpose.
scrlbed ln the Bill. I move that the Hanse
then read :
a strike la ln progress concur ln these amendments.
If at any time when
three persans or more assemble for any Illegal
The motion was agreed te.
or Illegitîmate purpose.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The next amendmnent
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-The amendment Is
relates to the North-west The effect will
out of order.
be that an application. may be made to a
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.) from the Judge lnstead of to the courti in order to
commlttee reportedl thse Bill witb amend- tacilitate the proceedings.
ments.
Thse motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved that thse amendHon. Mr. SCOTT-The next amendment
ments be concurred ln.
relates to, thse procedure, and ls as follows:
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Several members
the folPage 2,
were not in the House during tihe discussion lowing as line 36.-Afterof '1902 ' insert :
section lia
subsection 5
the fore5. In tihe Nortb-west Territories
o! this Bill, and it is but fair tisat tise
not
amndments sbould be printed so tisat we going provisions of this section shallshall apply,
be as
but ln lieu thereof the procedure

may know what we are voting for.

follows :
(a.) On t.he presentation of the certificate the
Ho*n. 1fr. SCOTT-It is ail fresis in tise iudge shahl cause a copy thereof to be postedf
up in a conspicuous place in thse court-bouse
mintis of bon. g-entlemen, and It would be ln whieh he boida bis chambers, for at least
two weeks.
better to vote on it now.
(b.) At any time atter the sald copy is so
Tise motion was allowved to stand until nosted any one may file with the clerk of thse
court where the said copy has been Dosted a
tomorrow'.
wr.ltten notice of objection to the certificate of
thse
stating
being granted,
naturalization
grounds of sucb objection, on'tbe Wednesday
EXTRA-JUDICIAL EMFLOYMENT 0F
following thse expiration of thse two weeks for
JUDGES BILL.
which thse copy is required to be posted, the
at wbich,
a sitting
DEB3ATE ON SECOND READING POSTPONED. jufige chall bold bas been la chambers,
raised, be shahl direct
if no objection
thse issue of a certificate of naturalization 1.0
The Order of the Day being- ca]led:
tise applicant. and if objection bas been raised,
adjourned deisate on tise motion he sball decide sucb objection in a summary
Resuming tbe
for second reading of Bill (U)1 An Act respect- way. and tbe judge sisail bave power to adlourn tise said bearing from time to time.
ing thse extra-judicial employment of judges.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

JULY 16, 1903

6.3.3

633
JtJLY 16, 1903
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED--I would suggest
Hon. Bir. LOUGHEI )-NN'leire.s even.
to my hon. friend that Inasmuch as the though objection be taken his jurisdiction
conditions in the North-west Territories Is restricted ta sinlply satisfying hiniseif as
have very greatiy led to these amendments, ta the accuracy of the statements made,
and that this amendment is particulariy el- namely, as ta residence and character, and
aborate, the Bill abould be reprinted and presuwaly as ta Identity. Outside of tiiose
we should consider It In Its entlrety and its tbree elemeuts, It seems ta me the judge
application to the conditions wvhichi obtain cannot make iuqulry or give consîderation
In the North-west Territorles. What oc- ta any objections that msy be raised.
curs to me at.the present moment ls this,
Han. 'Mr. SCOTT-No, T think not.
as ta wbat the jurisdiction of the judge ls
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under the cirwhben the application is made before hlm.
Ris jurisdiction, as I have aiready stated, cumatances, 1 see no way of bettering It.
is, to my mind, restricted entireiy under I regret that whiie the goverament is dealsuchi circumnatances as to ainîost ieave hlm ing with the Act of Naturalization, when
without juriediction-that ls to say, certain onie considers the very large proportion of
pirovisions are enacted as ta the right of aliens, and fareigners, and particulariy those
the applicant, after putting ln certain resi- not of aur own race are ln that counidence and belng possessed say of certain try, very wide discretion shouid have
qualifications, to obtain naturalization. That been given ta the judges and courts
ls an absolute rlght of the applIcant. Then as ta iasuing naturalization papers to the
it seeme ta me ta be Idie aimost to file an many thousands of toreigners who are goiug
objection If those provisions have been com- Into that country nt the present tinie. It
plied with. What ls the judge going ta con- la only a question of a very fev years beaider ? To what extent may bis discretion fore they wIll be so overwbelmingly dominbe exercised ? What may be bis Jurisdic- ant In number that it may possibiy be a
I allude ta those
very serions question.
tion ta refuse the application ?
races from Southern Europe, and alens of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-One ground would be that character, who certaily should nat be
that some party appeared who said that thei iiaturalized until they become so closely
applicaut had flot been three years In the Identied and assimilated with aur InstituException migbt be taken ta tions as to make theni good citizens, aud. as
terrItories.
the affidavit, I suppose, that It was not I said before, within three years It is utteri y
The Impossible for foreigners of that kind to
sworn ta before a conimissioner.
ground u-pon which the judge would have became an acquisition ta the country so fer
ta Inquire would be very little indeed. One as good citizenship is concerned.
ground would be as ta the truth of the stateHon. Mr. B.ERNIER-I desire to endorse
ment that hie had been In the territories
the remarks of the hon. gentleman froua
tbree years, becauee he would bave before
hlm the oath of allegiance aud hie wouid Calgary. It ls a very serions mnatter, and
have before bim the applicant's affidavit 1 liope the government wlll look at it very
that he had resided, and where he resided, cars! ully.
and any evidence In support of that whicb
H3Qon. Mr. SCOTT-We have nmade no
might have been got -where lie tool, the change in the general principles of the
aath before the commissioner. It is made Naturahilzation Act except In regard to Ca naas simple as It Is possible ta make It. The dians who desire ta return. Sa far as forjudge can deal with It In a sumnîary way elgners are concerned, the law stands just
In chambers.
As
as It was, except Ia the North-west.
the law stood before, the applicant had ta.
lon. Mr. LOUGHEED-On the face of
appear before the Supreme Court there and
the Bill et first sig-ht it would be made ta
it met only at long interi-als, and it was
nppear that very wide discretion Is given ta
Chamber that greater
the judge as ta the issue of naturalization urged In the other
facilIties ought to be given. and tiiere was
ppers ta the applicant.
no reason why a single judge sitting iii
Hlon. Bir. SCOTT-Only If objection is chambers sbould nat deal witb it rather than
the court when it met at a distant period.
taken.

SENATE
Tliat seerned to be the opinion in the other
Chamber, and I tbink it was a very wîse
conclusion, because if parties remain three
years In tbe territories and desire to become
naturalized, ail facilities should be gîven
them for that purpose.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. ýSCOTT-Tbe next amendment
Is one that refers to Canadianis who desire
to retu[II and takle the uatb of aliegiance
again and that is amending the oid law.
This Is adding to section 18 *except that
residence ln Canada for flot less than tbree
montbs Is sufficient.'
Hon. MNr. LOUGH-EED-What is the position under the present law ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-HEe Is in no better position than a foreigner.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And now be la
permitted to return and become naturallzed
In three months. That is where they bave
become natruraized In anotber country, but
If he has flot been naturallzed lu another
country, of course be does iîot require to be
naturalized here.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-And the Bill permits them to, be naturalized after tbree
montbs' residence ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Tbe uxext is carrying
out that idea and alteurlng the form of oath.
Hon. MNr. LOUCGHEED-The schedule Is
amended to conform with the arnendmnent
reducing the tbree years to three months ?
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Yes.
The awuedment was adopted.
The SPEAKER-I shonld like to ashk the
hon. Secretary of State whether be does not
thinL- that we shonid mal-c a consequentiai
ameudment as the resuit of the amendmnent
which facilitates naturalization in the NorthWest Territories. I do flot see why the procedure for naturalization in other portions
shuldnetbe te sme.
of Ue cunty
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-It applies to ail.
it says
The SPEAKER-No, excuse mue.
'in the North-west Territories '-why sbould
lion. MNr. SCOTT.

not we, in the eastern provinces, bave a
chance to naturalize as readily as in the
North-West ?
Hon. Mr. SCOT-The hon, gentleman
wll find that 5a section 18 of the Naturalizatien Act is bereby amended by addlng
theretoThe SPEAKER-I amn speakinig of the
fourtb amendment.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la an entirely different clause.
Tbe SPEAKER-I arn only asklng wbether the bon. Secretary of State does not
think as a consequentil amendmnet we
should made It npply to ail the provinces ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It says ' lu the NorthWest Territories the foregolng provisions of
This is not a
tbis section shail gpply.'
foregoing provision. This is a subsequent
one.
The SPEAKER-I arn only speaking of
tbîs amendment
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-My bon. frlend is really
in error.
The SPEÂKIDR-I k-now quite weil -wbat
1 amn talklng about.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me
we shouid have those amendments printed s0
that we may see their application. The Bill
bas been so recast that the original Bill has
been practically wiped out. 1 do not wish
to throw any obstacles in the way of putting
the legisiation tbx-ougb as speediiy as possible.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-To make it intelligible,
you have to reprint It Ia the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me tbe
arndments added by the House of Gommons are much more voluminous than the
original Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-3a, section 18, is an independent amendment, -and applies to ail
parts of the Dlominion, and applies to the
North-west as well as the other parts of
the Dominion.
The SPEAKER-I am n ot spealing of that
important one, wbich provides a sumrnary
and simple metbod of naturalization lii the
Nortb-west. I snggested that I thougbt, as
a consequence of that ameadment we

JULY 16, 190I3
should ad9pt the samne rule witb respect to
ail the provinces.
Hom. Mr. SCOTT-Ob, no: we could flot
do tbat. We discussed that before. You
would have to define the different courts,
and the courts meet more frequently ln the
other provinces. It would be alterIng the
wholè scope of the Bill If we dld that. In
the province of Quebec tbey apply to the
district court in the district where the allen
lives, and ln Nova Scotia they appear before
the Supreme Court. The reason for the
change is tbat ln the Nortb-west thxe courts
meet at more distant periods.
The amendment was adopted.
TORONTO, HAMILTON AND BUFFALO
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.

635

(in the Committee.)
On clause 2,
Han. Mr. SCOTT-This is the Interpretation clause. The clause A reads as faiiaws :
Creamery mneans a place where the miik or
creamn of flot less than fifty cows la mnanufactured into butter.
The abject of ti]at clause is ta give character ta a certain grade of butter that now bas
a standing in the English mark-et. The fact
tliat fifty cows bas been specified there does
Ixot indicate that a creamery ivith forty or
thlrty cows may not be equally good, but
It was necessary ta draw the lina somewhere, and from tbe experience of the department, not oniy la Canada, but departmeuith eisewhiere that bave had ta deal wlth
this question, that was considered a fairslzed creamery. I arn advised that the
majority of the creamerles over this country embrace a very much iarger number,
same of them golng up as bigh as 150 and
200 co«%s.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto), in the absence
of Hon. Mr. Landerkin, moyed the second
reading of Bill (203) an Act respectlng the
Hon. '.%r. SULLIVAN-' Creamaery 1 would
Toronto, Hamilton and 'Buffalo RaiIw*ay
not lmpiy anytbing except for the manufacCompany.
ture of butter.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is this
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oniy butter. The value
one of the Bils that will Ilkeiy be contentious-that la, affecting the municipaltles- of baving a standard article ean be very
weil proved sud illustrated by a variety of
,or la It an ordinary ralway Bill ?
Instances. New Zealand adopted a standard
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It is a Bill of that kind and
carrled it out very carethat probably wl! provoke a gaod deal of fully. They adapted by iaw the defiaidiscussion. It Is the Bill that bas beeu op- thon of a creamery at fifty cows, and I bieposed by the city of Taronto, and it bas leve a iaw eista in Manitoba also fixing
largeiy pravoked the discussion orer muni- that number, but lu New Zealand the Dairy
cipal rigbts. Otherwise I may say that It Act was passed ln 1898. Their expart o!
Ia aimply a Bill for the Incorporation of a butter ln 1897 had beau oa]y 75 bundred
company to bie operated by electriclty or welgbt. In 1M9 It lncreased ta 100,000
otherwise, but eiectriclty la the idea, be- pounda. Ia 1900 It was 161,000. In 1902 it
tween Toronto and Hamilton, and there are was 219,000. Now, in Canada tixe butter lnreasons wby it Is properly a worlt for the dustry bas shown marvellous changêes at
general advantage of Canada.
varions times. Sa far back as the years
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill between IS6S and 1880, aur butter industry
was read the second time.
was a very important one.
W7e exported
over three million dollars' wortii of butter.
THE BUTTER ACT BILL.
I will quote now from the trade returns,
page 419, wbere the quantities are given.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resolv'ed Itseif into Committee From 1880 the butter industry fell off very
of the Whale on Bill (207) An Act ta probîbit much untîl ana year, 1889, it had fallen ta
the Importation, manufacture or saie of an extremely 10w figure. It had been up ta
three million for a great mauy years and
aduiterated, procesa or renovated
butter,'
oleomargarine, butterine or other substitute bad failen.
for butter, and ta prevent the improper
Hon. Mr. NMACDONALD (B.C.)--C.1uedl by
marking of butter.
spurious butter ?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, rlvalrv from New~
Zealand, Australia and otlier counitries.
Since that time the introduction of cold
storage and better instructions to those who
had charge of the dairy industry, led to an
increase in the exports. The figures are as
follows

Pounds.
1,000.000

1,200,000

In1892..

1,000,000
697,000
1,000.000
2:000,000
2,000.000
3,700,000
5,172.000
3:395.000

1896.

1897..
1898.
159l

1900..
1901..
1902..

5.660,000

Tbe value also of the butter per pouxîd
had gone up, although It ranks to-day somewhat less tban the New Zealand and Danish
butter. Tberefore it was f elt It became
necessary to adopt the standard that 1 foundf
to prevail ln other countries that have been
successful in placlng their butter Iu the
Engllsh market. I may say the margin
for trade in tbis article is a large onie. AIthough Canada sends $5,000,000 worth of
butter to England, or dld last year, yet lit
is only 6 per cent of the value of the linportation of butter itîto
Great Britaln, so
hon. gentlemen can Imagine the value lt
may ascend to. Our cheese industry canflot be expanded, because at the present
lime we supply nearly ail the importations
of cheese in the Englah market and, as I
am advlsed, of recent years iall they can do
lis to hold lte ground they already possess.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Does the hion. gentleman mean tbat Canadian butter ranks
next to Danisb ia value or grade ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In value.
Hon.

'Mr. SULLIV._N

does it rank '

lu

grade

whicb formerly have occupied tbe foremOst
position ln the markets of Eugland. The
information giveu by the Secretary of
State is very valuable. 1 remeniber when
our exports of dairy products amounted to
about $3,000,000 per annum, white tbose of
the United States went up froin $15,000.000
to $20,000,000. 1 amn very g-lad to know
that although this country lias only (3,000,000 population agaiist' 70,000,W0 on the
souti of the line, we now export to t lie

extent of $15,000,000 or $20,000,000 per annum, white our

neiglibours'

exports bave

fallen to, $4,000,000 or $5,000,000 per annumn.
That may arise froni different causes, but
one thing is certain, Canadiani cheese bias
taken a better position in the Eng-lsît inarket thau the cheese exported at tbc preselît
day from the United States. The falling
off, however, in the exports froiu the United
States may possibly arise froin the greater
home cons umption in sn large a country
as that ls compared wlh ours. Now, it is
only of bate years we have beguni to coinpete at ail lu butter, and tbe figures tvbiel
have been read show a marvellous progreas
in that export as well as in the export of
cheese. But the point under discussion, to
my mmnd, and it Is understood better by
those engaged In that industry, is %,%bat to
me seenis an absurdity, to declare that a
better quality of butter, aud whicb is to
be marked and labelled creamery butter,
cau only be made in a dalry suîplied %vith
the mulk of at least fity cows, white creamnery butter froni forty-elght or forty-nine
cows would be as good. If the idefinition of
butter was described by saying butter mnade

in a creamery should ouly be considered
creamery butter, wheni on inspection it was

sbown that tfre factory had ail tbe machinwhere ery and appliances niecessary to produce tbiat
better quality 0f butter, that would seem to

me a better Interpretation to g-ive 10 'creaniHon. Mr~. SCOTT-The fact la it is quite ery butter.' As the hou. memiber f roin Wolas good, only tbe other bias a more. popular seley (Hon. Mr. Perley) pointed out to the
name.
flouse the other day, witb a creamery esHon. Sir )IACKENZIE I3OWELL-Thiere tabiihed on bis farm, of twenty-ninc Cr
ean be no doubt of tbe itmportance Io the thirty cows, hie bias buildings erected for
country of the subjects witb w-bicliIbis Bill the purpose, and ail tbe appliances for
deals. nor can tbere be an)y doubt of tbe
necessity of baving sncb ena cIments as wi]l
Insure a good quality of an article of produce wheni it goes to the European markets
te coiupete witb Danishi and Irish butter,

nianufactnring the best quality of butter
from bis cows, and be succeeded in carrying off tbe prizes te wbicbi be called atteution of tbe House. Althougb lie niay mialce
just as good and better butter thau any

JULY 16, 1903
other crearnery not haviibg the uecess .ary appliances and consequently not in a position to niake fLs g.;od butter, yet theirs would
be brande] creamery butter under this Bi '1,
while his wotld not. The first necesslty
la absolute cleanliness lu produclng butter.
There must lie nu0foreigu substances iu the
miIk or cream. WVe should bave the purest
possible water, and everything ln connection wlth It should be clean. I bave not
î-isited rnany creamerles, but I bave been
ln a good many cheese factories, bccause
there are a great many In the county lu
ivhicb I reside, and I have found. thut those
factories n-hidi produce the best cheese,
ivhiclh carrnes off the prIzes and bnings the
iargest prices In the Englii market, is
manufactured ln the parts of the country
wbhere the water ls pure and the grass ls
good ; but with ail these advantages. wltbout absolutp cleanliess and the best macbinery lt cannot produce that qushity tliat
this Bill Is designed to promote. It le by
the ninth clause as polnted out by the bon.
gentleman from W'olseley you can manufacture butter, and if I understand it, you
can mark It creamery provlded It 'le flot for
exportation. This, of course, would flot
prevent people from exporting butter of any
kind or quallty. The only objection I have
to tbat-and it seems to me a practical one
-le designating a creamery to be a buildIng In wblcb butter ls manufactured from
fifty cows. I suppose the government wll
carry this Bill, but I feit It my duty to give
expression to my views upon this matter,
and I bave formed tbem from wbat I-have
seen In living lu a large dairy communlty
nearly ail my life. I do flot desire to be
disrespectfui In speaklng of this matter,
but it seenis to me to deciare that good
creamery butter can ouiy be made In a factory, where tbere are fifty coivs la an absurdity. It may uot be compllmentary to those
who have framed this clause, but If the governwent wouid change it and dediaxre that a
factory from whlcb butter ls nmade to be
labelled 'creaniery' should be one that bas ahl
tbe nmodern appliances; for the production of
that article, and only then atter tborougb
inspection had been made by a competent
officer who understood this questlon-such
a man, for instance as Professor Robertson, or some one who bas been under bis
tuition, and know their business-tben It

637

would be a practical clause. Whether that
le the opinion of members of the Senate,
and those who, are more deeply interested
ln it than I arn from a practical standpoint,
1 do flot know. My Interest Is exactly that
of the Secretary of State, and tiiose Who are
placlng the law on the statute-book, that
we shall send to the Euglish market butter
wblcb shall compete with the best In the
whole world, and the .most rigld regulations
that could be made lu order to brig that
about, the Ilouse and the pecople would
readiiy adopt. Whether that sbould lic by
providing that creamery butter should be
the product of a five-cow creanlery or a
fifty-cow creamery, I do flot knov.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I qulte concede, and I
thlnk I did ln my introductory reniarks,
that equaily good butter ' perbajîs better,
cau be nmade In. creamenies with less than
.ftfty cows. 1 have no doubt there are farmers la thîs country where they have less
thau a dozen comrs, -where perbaps tbey
make as good butter or better butter than
la the ordinary creamery; but you bave
to inake provision In a Bill of tis klnd for
what ls beat to develop the trade. Now,
there are betwcen a thousaîîd and two thousand creamerles in this country. It bas been
found by those 'wbo bave a practical knowledge of tbe subject, that the larger the
creamery, the better inachlnery they have,
and there ls an inducement to have the
most recent appliances, to bave the refrlgerating appliances alongside and every
possible fadillty for makiug butter of the
best quality. Those are the creamerles
that tura out the largeet proportion of butter. But Intelligent farmers maire butter
whlcb, ln many cases, ls superior to creamery butter,"but from the causes to which I
have referred, It bas been found that thebest appîlances are in the largest creameries
and they turn out as a rule the most uniform quaiity of butter. They have their
analysis made. Some o! them may have a
chemiat at band to examine the cream froni
tume to Urne to see that It ls up to standard,
It n'as
and greater partlcuiarlty exists.
therefore necessary, in defining a creamery,
to bring It down to wbat n'as considered
the lowest lumit o! the number o! cows that
suppiy the creamery butter that we makre.
[t bas been found, and tbat bas been the
experience ln other countries, that fifty le

SENATE
the low-est number. I bave tbefore nle the
statute of -Manitoba wbich is very much lu
the same termns as this clause. 'The expression creamery mens a butter factory
in which the nîilk of fifty or more cows is
received.'
I have aiso the New Zealand
law here and that is iu the same terras,
strange to say. I am reading now from the
Othicial Gazette ' of New Zeaiand
For the purpose of registration, dainies rre
divided into the following classes :One, creamery or factory. meaning ther2by a dairy the
milk supply of wvhlch is obtainéd from flot iesr
than fifty cows.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wh7lat

other definitions have they ?

bave a difficuity in explaining these words
fiftv 'cows.' If the arnendment suggested
by the leader of the opposition could be
ndopted it wouid lie infinitely better and
would avoid a great deal of trouble If the
government bas power to deciare that creameries shall have those appliances.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-A limit ln weight
wouid be better than limlting the number of
cows, for the reason that in mny sections
there are cows that produce larger quantities
of nîiik and butter than cows iu other places.
1 kuow iu ail the creanieries they test the
inik and some show a large percentage of
creani, and others iess.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I have no other desire than to heip the goverament to perfect
thUs Bill. It is flot a party measure to me
at ail. The bon. leader of the opposition
said the government miglit carry this measure tlîrough, but he wouid offer bis objections. I wili suppose a case to, show how
perfectiy ridlcuious this provision wouid be.
Take a person forty miles froni a railway.
It is unprofitabie for hlm to raise wheat.
He goes into stock raising, and manufactures butter, hauls ini a ioad and gets $100
for IL He has perhaps fifty or sixty cows,
and manufactures bis butter in the crudest
way possible. Its quality is bad, yet lie can
mark It creamery butter and it can lie sold
to a merchant and sent to Enghand as sncb
because lie had fifty cows.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Number two private
dairy, meaning tbereby a dairy the milk
supply whereof is obtained f roui less than
fifty cows.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
word creamery only applies to fit ty cows,
and upwards.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, but they number
up from one bundred to two biundred cows
or perbaps larger than that.
The reason
for selecting fit ty cows is not to leg-isiate
against those wbo have a less number, but
It la brouglit on by the actuai necessity of
hiaving some dlviding line. You may run
too low, and then you wouid flot have the
best appiances, casting no reflection whatever on those wbo happen to have creanierles supplled by a less number than fifty
cows.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no ; it bas to be lnHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The oniy reason spected.
for naming fifty cows is this :Less than
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-No, you have no proftty cows wouid flot pay to fumnish the
vision for that.
creamery with proper macbinery. Irish butHon. Mr. SOOTT-I inquirect speciaily
ter once lieid first rank in the Engiish market. Recent!y the Hou. Mr. Piuukett, mem- about that. They say it is lnspected at
ber for the University of Dublin, took that Montreai before it is exported.
matter up and in a spirit of the greatest
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Not at ail.

patriotism went about encouragiug the farmers. I agree witb the hou. leader of the
opposition, if the goverumneut bas the power
to mnake creamiery mean certain appihances
of certain quaiity, uudoubtedly it is ahead
of providiug thiat fifty cows shahl be the
standard. Fifty cows may be the minimum
number of cow5 %vliieh wll pay to fumuish
a factory with those appliances. w-hatever
they are-thermometers, separators and other
macbinery-but that is the proper way to
do it. A man like me, -tu outsider, wouhd
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I arn so informed by
the gentleman ini charge of that duty.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I ýwas toid by the
tsame gentleman, Mr. Ruddick, that it is
îîot inspected. The lion. gentleman cau ask
hlm now. The point I want to miake is
this :I say that fifty cows is not a proper
deflition of a creamery. You might have
fifty cows, and manufacture butter in the
worst possible manuer.
H-ou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

JULY 16, 1903
Flon. Mr. PERLEY-The bon. gentlemanI
should provide that a creamery shahl have
proper utensils and machinery, and that the
butter shal bie manufactured lu a proper
manner. If the gaverament wili accept my
suggestion, I think the people wll loo0k upon
It with greater favaur.
Hon. Mr. McIILLAN-As coming from
one a! the best dairy countles lu Ontario, I
fully sgree with this Bill, and If I had au
ameudmnent to make, I wouid provîde that
a creamery should be supplied with the
millz of more tbau fifty cows.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-What
that do ?

good will

Hon. Mr. MceMILLAN-For the reasou
that lu districts thst are united for dairy
purposes yon hear of divlding, as they very
often do-quarrelling amougst themselves,
and dividing Into a creamery district and a
In arder to, make
cheese factary district
a success of anything of the kind, It Is wel
to have the support of ahl the patrons you
can passibly reach. Now there are farmers
ln our county that could start a creamery
of that description that have about forty
cows or fifty-five cows themselves. Wauld
yen consider that a creamery ? If they ditsagree wlth the cheese factory, the ûrst thlng
they do la ta keep their mihir and start a
creamery of this description. I do flot wlsh
ta press this view, but I think the number,
aught to be Increased instead of! being decreased. There ls an expression here I do
not understand lu subsection (c) 'or harmiess
I do flot understand what
preservative.'
that Is ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We will come ta that
later; -we are deallng9 with subsection (a)
Dlow.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-I shahl certaînly
support the Bill as It stanuds.
Hon. Mr. POW%ýER-This definition of a
creamery as bas been suggested by hon.
gentlemen opposite, needs some addition. If
bon. gentleman w111 look they wii see that
clause il of the Bill speaks of persans
charged wlth the enforcemnt of this Act,
and clause 15 speaks of the Governor in
Gouncil muaking snch regulations as they
consider Tnecessary to seciire the efficient
enforcement and operation of this Act. So,
cIearly, ther7e are to be officers who are to

639

look after the carrying out of this ujeasure
wheu.àt becomes law., Thierefore, I tbilk
that the Inspection to which the hou. gentleman from Wolseley referred is a practicable thlng, and as that -lon. gentleman
pointed out, the mere tact that the milk of
lfifty caws ls .manufnctured lu a place Is no
guarantee that the butter mnanufactnred
It seems to
there is ot superlor quality.
me, as the department have officers to carry
out this law, no place shouid be called a
creamery wbich had not been inspected. It
is ail right to leave the uiber of cows
as It Is, but no place shouiti bc called a
creamery wblch bas flot been luspected and
licensed by the officers of the govertiment. I
would flot charge anything *for the license.
Then you know you -have tbe niateril and
faclliles at any rate to makze good butter,
and 1 thlnk that every one of these creameries should be inspected at least once a year
ta see that the creamery is kept up to a
proper standard and the license renewed accordIngly. Then tbe marking of 4crea:mery'
on butter would mean something. I wonld
suggest to the Secretary of State wbether,
on consultation wlthbis colleague, the MinIster of Agriculture, lie miglit not think It
well ta, qualify thls definition lu snclb a way
as to, bring ont the tact that a creamery
was a place whici badl been lnspected and
-llcensed.
(P.E.I.)-We
Han. Mr. MACDONALD
have in Prince Edward Island some
They are joint stock
thirty ereamerles.
companies iformed by the farmers within a
certain radius of a particular point. They
er.ect a building of considerabie size f ur-.
nlshed with ail the necessary appliances for
the manufacture ef the best -class of butter.
It wauld flot çpay any settiement to establish
a creamery of that klud unless tley could
supply the miik of -upwards of tfty cows
from the surrounding country, and of a
As
much larger number in many places.
far as 1 remember, speakiug f rom memory,
1
the limit la Prince Edward Is and for the
establishment of a creamery is sixty c0ws.
The creamery must lie under the management and direction of a persan who la
thoroughly posted ln the manufacture of
butter, according to the latest and most approved method. H1e must have served his
apprentlcesbip in a creamery, where he
,%ould learla the latest ind best mode of

640

SENATE

manufacturing butter, before lie would be
liut !in charge of one of those creanieries.
They have beeni «ttended with a good deal
of success thiere. Although noe legisiation of
tbis nature, respecting their management
lias. been la existence they have been
uniformly successful. At certain seasons
of the year, they become, besides creameries, cheose factories ind mai.nueacture
cheese. 1 see, ln a return which is under
my band here. that It dloes not give the production for the last year, but ln 1901 there
1 think the nuniwere tlîirty creameries.
ber bas been somewlhat lIncreaised silice that
period, and they produeed 673,000 pounds
of butter. It does not give the quantity of
cheese which they manufactured during the
senson but the value of the butter made
was $132,792. The description of a creaniery miglit possibly lie lmproved by putting
It otherwis e than by the number of cows,
but that Is a matter that does nlot affect tbe

On suliclause (c),
Hon. Mr. M.NcMýILLAN-What
less preservative' 1

is 'harm-

Hon. 31r. SULLIVÂN--Sait, only don't
put too mucli of It ln.
Hon. Mr. MeMILLÂN-Thls would convey
the idea there was some other preservative.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I would nlot coasider
anything harmiess that went Into butter.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That is ail right.
I thinlc there, is no objection to that._
The subclguse was adopted.
On subclause (f),
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have an observation
to make witb reference to this suliclause:
(fL) ' Renovated butter' or 'process butter'
meane any butter wblch has been me.lted, clari-

fied or refined. and made to resemble butter.
The definition uses the word defined. The
article Is made to resemble soniething whlch
Bull.
It does net. I thlnk it should be made to
would suggest this read 'to resemble butter of a higlier charHon. Mr. PERLEY-I
butter.'
ameudment, whlch 1 hope wilI be acceptable: acter' a *genulne
add the words 'if
At the end of the clause
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Oh, no.
a building properly equl-pped with mnacbHon. Mr. POWER-Âs it stands, 1 do not
Inery for inaking creamery butter.'
see what sense there Is ln ItL
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-That seems reasonable.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is the present law.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I would dispense with
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That is ail right;
the license and everythlng of that kind.
If It Is melted, clarified or refined It la no
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Afld longer the butter tat it was originally.
particularly If you add the suggestion made
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Where a dealer bas
by the -Speaker that there should he a probutter of various brands hie mixes theni toper inspection before a lcense Is granted.
gether and that la what la called renewing
This BiII lays down the principle that good
thein.
creamery butter can ouly be made ln a facHon. Mr. POWER-It says ' to resemble
tory ln whlch the mllk from i fty cows at
Mf the hon. butter.'
least shall be manufactured.
Senator from, Glengarry (Hon. Mr. McMillan)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, and it is not butIs prepared to state that creamery butter ter. The moment butter bas been melted,
fit for exportation shahl only be made lu a it will not solidify and retain the original
dalry of fifty cows, bis argument is very quality. Thiere is an amnount of natural fat
If the hon. Secreta-ry of State wll with it. There are a number of inferior
good.
accept thosé words, I think it would be an qualities of butter melted and put together.
limpovement.
Éon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--When
Hon. Mr. -SCOTT-I do not see any objecbutter that becomes rancid tbey remeit and
tion to the words suggested.
clarify it, and fit it for axie grease.
Hlon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I would
The clause was adopted.
suggest you add aiso machinery and appliOn clause 3,
ances, because there are other appliances
besîdes machlnery.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In England the law is
that it is unlawful to sell butter witb over
The clause was amended and adopted.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.1.)

JULY 16, 1903

641

In our butter, Is liable to imprisoument flot exceeding
as a rule, it does flot exceed il or 12 per twelve months and. flot iess thant turee
cent. It varies f rom eight to thitteen. We monthe. This applies to oleomnargariue, buthave taken the extreme limit as It ls thue ter manufactured from any animal substance. At thue time this. Act wvas passed,
law of England.
In 1886, It was supposel -vegetable substanThe clause was adopted.
ces could not. make butterine, or oleonuargarine. The lngenulty of the age bas found
On clause 4,
that ootton seea ohl could maL-e it. And,
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It would take a
therefore, It became necessary to change
chemlst to understand this clause. There
Act lu that respect, to manufacture It
are certain saits wbilh absorb water. There- the
wholly or In part from any fat The other
fore, I think that that miglit be âmended
referred to animal fats, and, therefare, it
In some way.
was to meet the two experinuents that have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It been made 0f- recent years by whicb they
says lany substance whatever.'
manufacture from vegetable fat. That Is
the object of IL
The clause was adopted.

10 per cent of water in iL

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELL-This
On clause 5,
does not prevent the hion. gentleman dealiuug
Hon. Mr. 24IcGREGOR-This strikes me iu oleomargarine, but be mnust uuot sell It as
as a niost objectionable provision. I thlnk butter.
it Is an Interference wlth trade and private
The clause was adopted.
rlghts. I can flot see why, If I cluoose to buy
or seli oleomargarine or anything else, 50
Hon. Mfr. FULFORD, fronu the comnmittee,
long as 1 know wbat It Is, I ehould flot be reported that they luad made some progress
permitted. to do so.
wlth the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-The hon. gentIeIt being six o'clock, the Speaker lef t the
man mlght seil a polsonous substance.
1Chair.
Hon. Mnr McGREGOR-I mîglit seli a'1
After Recess.
polsonous substance la butter. You mlght
get bad butter from a dlseased cow. You
SECOND READINGS.
mlght get bad butter fronu a creamery, but
(159) un Act to incorporate the CanBill
It la bardly. possible to get dlseased oleoadian Yukon Western Rallway Company.margarine.
(Hon. Mr. Landerkln.)
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-How la fit manuBill (175) -an Act respectiug the Century
factured ?
Life Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr. MacHon. Mr. McGREGOR-I do flot know. donafld, B.C.)
This clause was prepared by 6ome people
Bill (81) an Act respecting the Brandon
who have had their bread buttered ail thetr and South-western Rai lway Comnpany.lives. But there are men wha cannot afford (Hon. Mfr. McHugh.)
ta buy butter, but who can afford to buy
Bill (176) an Act ta incorporate the Canoleomargarine. I cannot see ny hiarm u
Storage CoinIts being sald under that name. It seems adian Transportation and
pany.--(Hon. Mr. Landerkiu.)
to me a restriction of trade and private
rigbts.

COMPANIffS' ACT AMEND'MENT BILL.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Tme present law proREPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
vides that no oleomargarine, butterine or
The House resolved itself into a Commitather substitute for butter, manufactured tee of the Whole on Bill (X) Ail Act ta aniend
from any animal substance other thian mllk, the Companies' Act, 1902.
shall ne manufacturea u Canada or soin
(In the Commiiittec.)
therein, and any persan who contraveues
this Act shahl ineur a penalty uiat exceedîng
Hn Mr. SCOTT-We have gouue through
$400, and not less than ;200, and in default'ail the clauses except the Iast, and it seeni-

642

SENATE

642

SENATE

efi as If the penalty hiad flot been provIded
for there. ln the Ontario Act the damages depend entirely on the pecuniary Ioss.
A party bas to prove what the damage lias
been, but I biave bnd the iaw cierk prepare
an amendment which wii'i heip IL The
clause, as ameneed, will rend as follows :
69. The directors of the company shall not
deciare or pay any dividend when the company
la insolvent. or any dividend the payment of
whlch renders the company insolvent or dimi-

nishes the capital thereof ;but If any director
present when such dividend is declared, forthwith. or If any director then absen~t, within
twenty-four hours atter hie has become aware
theireof and able so to do, enters his wrltten
Protest agiainst the sanie, and withln eight
days thereafter publishes sijch protest ln at
Ieast one newspaper published at the place ln
which the head office or chie! place of business of the comp.iny is situated, ocr If there ta
no newspaper there pubIlshed, then ln the
published nearest thereto, such
newapaper
dIrector may theraby. and not otherwise, exonerate hlmiselt from such liability arlsing out
of sueh declaza<tion or paymnent.

I have added these words at the end of
the clause to make It more defIite.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What Is the extent of it ? Wbat does the 'sucb ' refer
to ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat refers to the liabilhty ln a former part, that Is, declaring a
dividend or paying a divldend. It makes It

thant indirect loss follows from sucli an
action. It 'might cover damages sustained
by reason of the capital being invaded to
that extent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Of course If you choose
you can leave it as It was orlginally, the
.
same as the Ontario Act.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Originally it was
objectionable also. It made the directors
lahIe for ail existing debts of the company.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The lnterpretation,
under the Ontario Act, Is that the party is
liable for the damages arising from the
payment of the dividend. ln tbis Bill it
was the same as ln the Ontario Act. The
House did flot seem to tbink It was definite
or positive enougb, and there was objection
to the section of the federal statute whicii
they thougbt was too large.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It mig-ht be difficuit to, establlsb,' under that clause, the loss
as followlng from the payment of the dividend.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the company paid
a dividend when tbey had made no profits,
tbey wouid certalnly be liable.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
means the company.
more definîte that he Is Ilable for whatever
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The directors.
that ùmount may be. He shahl fot relieve
he bas taken the precaution
himseif unless
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-YoiIr
referred to In the.chause.
proviso, as I understand It, provides tlhat
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He becomes Il- unless a director wbo is absent tales steps
to relieve hlmself of It hie becomes responable for what 1
sible for wbat ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For the loss arising
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For the money loss to
out of the payment of tbe divîdend.
the company by the payment of dividends
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That miglit be
when tbere was no justification for !t.
direct or indlrect. Mbat occurred to mue
was this, If If should not be limited to the

extent to whichi the capital bad been impaired by the payment of the diUvidend.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-To
wbat extent ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe wbole casli ioss
of the dividenfi.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL Tlhen
the pjarties who declared the dividend wouid
be reiieve-d wouid tbey not, and the loss

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Thre doctrine is pretty
weil establishied that dividends are considered proofs of revenue, and the director
incurs the liability to the extent ot the
amount whichi bas been paid.
would fail on the perSonl wio '%vas flot preHon. .Mr. LOUGHEED-That wouid be sent ?
ahi rigbt, but this goes away beyond that.
Honi. Mr. SCOTT-Ob., io, the direcior
who was flot presenit relieves biinseif.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, fo.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, the «liaLt mny be said
bility arising .tberefrom.'
Ilon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
if bie does not ?

BOWELI-But

J UILY 16, 1903
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then they ail Èbare ItL
ýHon. Mr. POWER-We are told how the
directors can get rid of the llability, and
then it says the directors may 'tbereby, but
not otberwise, absolve themselves from sncb
liablty.' The world liabillty has not been
mentloned ln the clause before and liabillty.
la flot defined. The amendment the bon.
gentleman bas suggested would define the
iiabllity. There should be something ln the
clause to define the liabulity.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I sulimit the proposition. It simply strengthens it ln my judgment: 'ei-ery liabillty arisiiig out of such
declaration or paynient.' That is the declaration of the dividend, or payment of the
dlvidend.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
thlnk that meets it.

BOWELL-I

643

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-After tàe word 'export' we should add 'provided tbe said
butter ls manufactured ln a building ttjuipped wlth proper machinery for uxakingcreamery butter.' They cannot mark It
4creamery'1 unless It Is made ln sucb a
building.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This particular clause
was not ln the Bill as Introduced In the
House of Commons. It was brouglit In durlng the progreas of the Bill tbiroiiýh the
House, and I should recommend my bon.
frlend, Instead of moving this ameudment,
to move to strike ont that clause. It does
flot do any good, and It la highly objectionable. 1 thnk the people of the Dominion
should lie protected f romn bad butter masqueradlng under the titie of 'crea rmery
butter' as well as the people of England.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It may lie very gond
The amendment was agreed to, and the butter.
clause, as amended, was adopted.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-But that would deHon. Mr. LÂNDERRIN, from the comn- bar a man from ms.rking bis butter 'cream)mittee, reported the Bill with amendments, ery butter' unlesa he bad fifty cows. A
mani might have forty cows, and lie could
wbicb were concurred ln.
not mark his butter 'èreamery,' but If we
add the words that I bave suggested at
THE BUTTER ACT BILL.
the end of the clause lie wlll be enabled
IN COMMITTEE.
to do go.
The House resumed ln Commlttee of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We miglit say 'equal
Whole consideration of (Bill 207) An. Act to to creamery. butter,' because we have deprohibit the importation, manufacture or fined the meaning of the word 'creamery,'
sale of adulterated, process or renovated and It could flot lie creamery unless lie had
butter, oleomargarine, butterine or otber fIfty cows.
substitute fer butter, and to prevent the
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Âccordlng to the preImproper marklng of butter.-(Rgon. Mr.
cedlng clause, a man could flot maire creamScott.)
ery butter wlth forty-nine cows, but under
On the Dth clause,
this clause lie could, If tbose words were
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I desire to make an lnserted. Under the clause, as It stands, I
addition to thils clause. A party may make cannot make a pound of butter and caîl It
I specify ln my amendment
butter which lie la flot going to export and creamery.
word 1creamery 1 on it, and seli It that It must lie made ln a creamery.
put the
in the North-west, and every other part of
Canada. It does not affect me ln the least,
but I say that no man should lie allowed
to put 'creamery' on bis butter, unless the
butter la made in a creamery with appliances fit to make the butter. We certainly
want as good butter here as we send to
England.

Hon. Mr. POWER-We ail believe ln tliat
kind of protection.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We mighit make It read
In this wey :
ProvIded the saidl butter Is manufactured ln
a building equived with proper appliances for
inaking creamery butter.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbat wiil do very
well. That niakes It s- that any one cau
understand It.
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-Or you couid say *with
1appliances used lu creameries.'

SENATE
Cod2

(Bill 11) An Act to amend thý Griminal
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tes, but the way 1 to
respecting offenccs connected with trade and
breaches of contract.-(Hofl. Sir Mackenzie
have It would be more distinct.
BoweIl).
Hno. Mr. SCOTT-No, bec ause you esHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Bill bas been
tablish a definition of creamery, -and it condiscussed at such lengtb before the commitfilcts wlth that.
tee to which It was referred that 1 bave no
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tben put lt the -way 'Intention to make any observations on it,
the bon. gentleman wisbes.
but simply move concurrence Ini the amndHon. Mr. POWER-Tbat defeats tbe bon. ments made by the committee.
gentleman's objeet, because creamery is deHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I beg to move tbe
ns a place wbere butter ls

fined hI the Bill
amendrnent of which 1 have given notice.
manufactured with nlot less tbani fifty cows.
The clause, as arnendcd by the comrnittee, is
Hon. Mr. hie.NILLAN-You could nlot put as follows:
on, because you bave defined
'crearnery'
524a. Every one is guol'ty of an indictabie
ILoffence and liable to two yeare' irnprisonmsflt
wbo. flot being a British subject. or who, being
SHon. Mr. SCOTT-I would suggest that a British and flot having been continuously domieiled and residcnt in Canada during one ye-ar
the followlng be added to the clause :
next before the coimissi:)n of the act conProvided the said butter s rnanutactured In plained of. does-ln Canada counsel. incite, urge
a building equipped with the appliances us-3d or induce any strilze or any lock-out, or the
continuanceofn any strike or any lock-out.
In creaimeries.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbat will answer.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I arn quite satisfied the clause sbould be amended la that
way. I have bad several complaints 'in
regard to this clause by people engaged
largely In the creamery business. They say
the difficulty tbat would arise would be tbat
the standard would be lowered.

Now, I propose to add tbe foliowing words
to tbis amendnieut, after the word ' lockout'
1. Or a rise or flu lI wieges. or the imposition of additional or differ2nt conditions or
terms of emplayolent, or the impairing the 2x-

ercise of industry, employmnent or labour.

I have a furtber amendmeut to strike out
subclause 2, wbicbi ls as follows:
The clause was amended and adopted.
2. This section shahl fot apply to any person
who. be.ing a duly accredited officer of any inHon. Mr. POWER-Before the Bihl is read tennational organization. cornes Into Canada to
about a settiement of aniy strlke or hockthe third Urne, I hope the hon. gentleman bring
out.
wlll consuit his colleague, the Minister of
It wlll be apparent to lion. memibers, 011
Agriculture, and see if subclause 'f' of the
second clause cannot be improved, and soule readîng thc Bill as'arnended, that it provides

marne substltuted for ' renovated butter.'

rnerely against inciting a strike or lock-out.

the parties contemplated
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is the old clause. Tberefore, nny of
the Bll could corne and do tbe very suis*b3'
It is called 'renovated butter.'
chief wich is ilitended to be guardcd againist
Honu. Mr. POWER-But renovated butter by the Bihl ns if the Bill were îîot passed.
AUl tbey would have to say is tluey do not
is butter.
miglit counisel
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON, from the commit- couiisel any strike, but thiey
the Bill witb ameildmlents, aniything tbat would tend to crente a str-ike,
tee, reported
and nf course tbe men whomi lie -%ould be
whicb were concurred in.
addressing would privately understand mluy
a strike, because they
OFFENCES CONNECTED WITII TRADE lie did nlot counisel
would be prevented froin doiing sO by this
CONTRAUT
AND BREACHES 0F
Therefore, if it is desired to give any
Bih1.
BILL.
effect to the Bill it wou'ld be uiecessary to go
REPORT 0F THE BANKING COMMITTEE further than is sugg-ested by the aimendient
of the committee, and it la for that purpose
CONSIDERED.
I propose to add tlhese words : 1)Does iii CaliThe Order nf the Day being called :
incite, urge or iniduce iiiy
Conaideration of the amendmien*ts made by the ada counisel,
continuance
Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce strike or any lock-out, or the
Wan.

Mr. SCOTT.

645

JULY 17, 1903

of any strike or any lock-out,' and 1 would so much talk is going on that we cannot
add :
Or a rise or tai! ln wages, or the Imposition
of additional or different conditions or terme
of empioyment or the impairing the exercise
of industry. eimployment or labour.
It Is always by means of that kind tbat
strikes or lock-outa are brought about. If
It la desired to give any effect to the Bill,
this should bie added. I merely propose to
add to the clause as reported by the coinmittee the words I bave rend.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-T-!lie
hon, gentleman Is flot deallng with the
amendment made by the committee. He Is
now maklng a motion to add to the original
clause of the Bill.
Hon. M~r. BEIQUE-No.
The SPEAKER-Tlhe question was on the
adoption of the Bi-1 as reported by tlie comnmittee. Now the hon, gentleman la moving
an amendment, of which hie gave notice a
long time ago.
Hon. Sir MACKENZ[E BOIVELL-But
that is lu addition to the original Bill.
Thse SPEAKER-No, to add to the firat
aubsection of the clause as reported by thse
committee.
Tbe ameudment as amended was adopted.
Hon. Mr. LOUGREED -moved thse adoption
of subclause 2.
Hon. Mr. BE*IQIJE moved ln ameudment
that thse subclause be strieken out.
The amendment was adopted.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-There
was a motion made by an hon. gentleman
who Is flot present to add another proviso
to that Bill. As no person lias movèd ln
that matter, I presume it wonld be quite In
order -for me to make a motion to the samne
effect as that of whlch lie gave notice, and
If so, I wIll move in the saine Uine as bis
notice of motion, that the foilowiug bie
ndded at the end of thse first clause:
Provjded always that nothiag herein contained
shail be construed to prevent any duiy accredited officer of any international association
from coming into Canada for thse purpose of
bringlag about a set-lement of any exlatlng
strike or lock-out.
The SPEAKER. That bas been negatived
ztlready.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.1.)-I must
say that motions are put lu this House whea

hear themn ail over thse House. If hon. gentlemen ail round me were attending ta thse
business of the Houae, I mlghit have Ileard
it, but I certakely did flot hear that motion
put.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENÂTE.
Ottawa, Friday, July 17, 1903.

TIse SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedinga.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (97) An Act respecting the Manitoulin
and North Shiore Railway Company.-<H-on.
Mr. Bulis, in thse absence of Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (156) An Act to incorporate the Montreal-Longueul Bridge Company--(Hon. Mr.
Ellis, ln thse absence of Hon. Mr Beique.)
Bill (99) An Act respecting thse Canada
Mr.
Centrai Railway Company.--(Hon.
Templeman.)
Bill (K) An Act to amend the Companies
Act, 1902.-(Hon. 1Mr. Scott.)
Bill (207) An Act to prohibit the importation, manufacture or sale of adulterated,
process or renovated butter, oleomargarine,
butterine or other substitute for butter, and
to prevent thse improper marking of butter.(Hlon. Mr. Scott.)
SECOND READING.
Bill (135) An Act to incorporate the Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia Railway Company-(Hon. Mr. MciSweeney.)
L'OST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
REPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
Thse House resoived ltself into Committee
of thse Wliole on Bill <208) An Act to amend
thse Post Office Act.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
1 should like to know with reference to this
clause is whether the appointment of a mail
clerk and the provision for annuai increases
of fi! ty dollars per annumn la considered the
bargain into which they enter when they

SENATE
become clerks, or whether it w'ouid bie op-j clause (b) are complied NVith, ca n flhe C('lz
riglit ? Thaf is the point.
tional with the minister to withhold these ini- deînand thaf as a
hîad more
creases for any causes during flic period of The Secrefary of State, wbo bas
of State is experience than my hon. friend in charge
service. No doubt thec Secretary
acquainted -with the decision in the case of of this Bill, will know that the law goverinfor an
the postmaster at Winnipeg, who entered an ing the inside civil service provides
againsf the goverament under the annual increment o! $50 per auuim, but
action
If flie
post office law, ciaimiîig the salary wvhicli that resf s entirely with fthe miîîister.
law provided he should receive In case depufy head reports that the clerlc is eîîthe
the receipts of the office amounted to a cer- tifled f0 if, lie flien nsks for the appropriatain suni. As I understand it, the judge tion. If, liowever, ftic depufy bead repo>rts
gave a verdict against the goveriiiiit ini tbaf the clerk's coîiduct bas îlot l>een siicl
that case, and that tiiere is af present a large as f0 jusfify the increase, fheîî lie does not
suni, fifteen thousand dollars, in the est!- gef if. Tliaf is Ii flic discret ion o!flie inimates to meet similar cases of that kind, ister, if I undcrsfand the Civil Service Acf.
that is to pay to those postimasfers and de- Thîis is different. This Is placîng tboe"
puties the suais whichi tbey dlaim thcy clerks lii preciscly flic sanie position-af
should have rcceived under the provisions lea.if if so strilzes me-as fliose f0 xvhioii I
o! the law. 1 sbould like f0 know wbether have refe'rred.
this clause in reference f0 poaf office clerks
Ilon. .\i-. SCOTT-I tbiuik nof. Thuis ilh
would have the saine meaniilg fliat lias beeîî
place lmb on the sanie plane as the ordinary
given by the courts in the case f0 which 1
clerk lu the civil service, fliat is as far as.
bave called attention.
flic payment of the $50 increase is eon.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-If seenis f0 me cern cd.
subsection (b) would readilv answer niy
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL.-I do
lion. friend's question. The subsection is
tiot think so.
as follows
(b.) Railway mail clerks shall pass a yearly
Hou. '.\r. SCOTT-Thit alvays goca as a
case examination ;and, no rallway mail clerk
shall be entltled to an increase of salary In
any year ln which he has not passed a satlsfactory case examination. and no increase shall
be granted except on the report of the deputy
head, concurred In by the head of the department, stating that the clerk is deserving of such
Increase.

mafter of form f0 counchi, and If is only in
tliose cases wliere flic coulicîl lias npproved
In
if if fliat fthc Increases are granfed.
many cases the present government did flot
pass If. Tlicy are doing, if îow. liowever.
Tliey have adopfed flic precedent of former
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thult ycars, and if is always graîîfed, as a mnatdoes fo a certain extent; that Is, be would fer of course, except for cause.
not lie entitled to ftie appointment or the inHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
creases unless lie passed fthe examination.
Af ter appointmenf could he dlaim hiE the option resta with fthc minister.
Increases under fthe law, irrespective o! an3
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-So if does here.
action of the deparfmenf ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I tlîiîk not.
The clause says :
No Increase shahl ti granted except on th(
report of the deputy head, concurred lu by th<
head of the departmenf, staflng that thé donr
le deserving of sucti increase.
The deputy licad supported by fthc min
ister, must approve of fthe additionî; in ofhei
words thaf the clerk is deserving of fthe iii

FHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Suiposiîîg flic clerl; ln flua case complies with
ail the requiremients o! suliclatises (c), (d) and
(e), could lie flien dlaim flic $50 ? Hie would
çnot lie la flic position of a civil servant iin
the inside service, because flua is a different
laNv altogeflier froi flic law governiîig flic
inside service.

Honi. Mr. SCOTT-Hle mnusf have flic apBOWELL-1 proval and recoinmenda tion o!fliceininister.
Sir MACKENZIE
Hon.
if could niot lie legally clainied.
undersfand ail thaf, but stili if does flot meet Witlîout fliaf
The suliclause was adopted.
provisions o! submay point. Supposiîîg flic

'crease.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL.

JULY 17. 1903
On subelause (d),
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wliy
should. we not go a littie furtber than thie
unIverslty ? Sureiy'a person ivho has ac-

quired the titie of B.A. ln an ordinary.
coilege should be quaiified ?
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-We are foilowing the

ut

would depenil altogether on wlo the minister Is. Having no confidence la the present
minristers we sbould be caretul.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 6, subclause 2,
Hon. Sir MACK<ENZIE

BOWELL-Sub-

1clause 2 rends as follows :
wbo,
ln any of
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-I do at 2. Any cierk of this Act, the. aaid offices class.
is ln the third
the passing
flot know that that is a reason. We are shall be deemed tb be a junior third class clerk,
salary until otherwise
changing the iaw to improve, as I under- his the amount which he la ordered continuing to
then enjoying. subject
b.
stand, the clerks ln these particular empliy- to annual Increasea flot exceeding fttty dollars
nients. W'e are mnaking provisions in refer- until it reaches elght hundred dollars a year.
eîîce to qualifications. It does flot follow
What does thnt mean *
tliat, being ln the laNv, therefore it la righit
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-This clause proand should not be extended. 1 nierely throw poses to amend section 15 of the statute of
out the suggestion.
Iast year which pravided for clerks ln c'tY
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlîis university degree post offices es follows : 'Fourth class on
wili dispense with thîe civil service examina- appointinent $400 by annuai Increase of
$50 Up to $600.1' Yeu will observe there is
tion.
an increase of the maximum of $100 there.
The subelause. was adopted.
Under the law there were tbree classes, firat,
second and third. It ils proposed to divide
On clause 4,
the second and third classes Into twoHon. 2dr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Under tint la two grades ln eacb.
The maxitlis clause a person can be appointed to any mum of third class before was $600,
of tbese positions without passing the civil reacbed by annual increase of $40.
We
service examination or the case examina- bave two grades under this Bill with
tions referred to la other portions of the larger maximum salaries. The senior third
Bill. Subclnuse 4 rends as follows:
cîass begins at $«0 and goes up to $900 and
4. The. brobationary period referred to ln tii. se on.
Ia order therefore to apportion the
said section 6 shahl le deemned to, be the period cierks now ln the post offices to the grades
of employmeat ln any capacity in the publie
service prior to thé date of appointraent or cm- under this Bill, It will be observed as there
pioyxnent under tihe Civil Service Act.
are enly third class, second and first clas
Hon. .Ilr. TEMPLEMAN-Tbis refers to clerks it -will be necessary to say whether
the letter-carriers down to the bottoni of third class clerks, for Instance, shaîl be
page 2. Chapter 28 of 1902 refers to mes- senior thirds.or junior thirds and thxe saine
with the second cinss. Subclause two pro'sengers, porters. &c.
vides tint :
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
2. Âny clerk ln any of the sald offices who,
is dolng away to a great extent, 'with many at the passing of this Act. la ln the third class.
provisions of the Civil Service Act. That shahl b. deened to be a junior third clasa clerk,
his salary unthl otherwlse ordered continuing to
seems to, be the tendency of legisîntion, be the. amnount which lie is thea enjoylag, subhowever, tbis session. It was carried te ject to annual increases not exceeding fty dola very great extent ln tlîe Customis Act lars until it reaches eight hundred dollars a
year.
and this ls to a certain citent doing pi'eAil the clerks now lii the second class
cisely the saine thing, plncing more power
wlll be put lnto the senior second clasa under
in the bands of the minister Independent of
this Bill.
the provisions of thc Civil Service Act.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C)-Is there
Hou. _Mr. TEMPLEMAN-That may be any higher rating of letter-carriers under
very proper.
tbls Bill?
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes.
law as

!S.

SENATE
tIc maximum is now $800, no clerhk, being
assigned f0 tbe junior third under this new
iaw, wiii bave any bardship. Wîeni be is l
deservlng cherk, lie will undoubtedly lie
rnoved nt once to the senior third class
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No tbey are divided.
and go by annual increases up to $900.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The question Mny Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The difference
lion. friend lias raised Indicates, as far as I suggest would be that tbese third class
1 eau see, the only weak part of flint sec- cherks now in thie service shiah lie regarded
tion. If seemus f0 nie the third class clerks as senior third class clerks nt the salaries
-and I have liad communications witb re- tliey now receive, but tbey wili lic allowed
gard to this very i)oift-wbo are now tblrd an Iiicrense year by year until tliey reachi
class clerks should bie declared f0 lie senior tbe maximum of their class, $900.
third class clerks, their salaries to remain
ho
Hon. M4r. TEMPLEMÂNIN-Tliose %v
as tbey are, subct f0 be increased until are now at the maximum of third class
they reacli the maximum of tbe class, $900 clerks ?
If is not altogether just to those
a year.
Hon. Mr. FERGTJSON-AII now ini flip
clerlcs that tbey should bie declared to lie
class. I know my bon. friend lias kindly
junior clerks and subject only f0 increases
until they get $800 a year, because wben undertaken f0 make this represenfafion f0
tbeyi corne to tbant point they must bave a the Postmaster Gencral. I hiope ho apprepromotion betore they can go on and reacli liends the point I am mahing-flîaf tiiose
Until promoted from th,- 'who are now ln tlie service should lie hield
the maximum.
junior f0 the senior class, these clerks f0 lie senior third class cierks.
will not be able to reacb the maximum of
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Tbose whvo are
the cinss. Tbat is ail rIglit for tbose coin- now at the maximum ?
Iag iu liereafter. but those who have been
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, tbose wbio are
ln the service for years wll flot lie entitled
ln the service now starting at their present
to recelve tlbelr furtber increases and go on
up f0 the
fo tbe maximum of $900 unless tbey gef pro- salaries and that tliey may go
maximum without having f0 receive proIf my lion. frlead wouid amend
nioted.
eubsection 2 of clause 6 of the Bill ln motion. Take the case of a clerk who lias
flua way, by cbanging the word 'Junior' reaehed the maximum third-class and is
no opporfunity
ini the second Une to ' senior' and mak- getting $800. Tliere lias been
f0 promote hlm. Therè may nof lie, lu the
ing fhe amount $900 instead of $800,
lie would accompliali the object I have In particular office la wlicli lie is, an opporvlew. If would sirnply declare fliat those tunlty tg promofe hlim for years f0 corne,
wbo are now la the service shall be senior, nof hecause lie is inefficient, but liecause
In place of being junior fhird class clerks. tbey have ail the cierks of thaf class
Tlieir salaries would bie wliatever tbey are tlîey can employ in fliat office; The object
at the present fime, 'but it would be open f0 is fliat lie may bie allowed to take lis yearhy
fhiemi to reacb tbe maximumi of tbe Increment until lie reaclies flic maximum
class of $900 wlthouf liaving f0 receive a now fixed at $900, and not bie subject f0
promotion from tbe junior to the senior lie lield up waiting for a promotion. The
brancb of tbe cass. 1 hope my hon. friend onhy changes would lie that flic word
will seriously cousider if. Tbiere is a strong 'junior' at the end of the second Une should
feeling on fbis point, arnong tbose -who have bie etruck ouf and 'senior' inserfed, and
been a long fimie third class cherks, and that that flie word 'eiglit' at the second hast Une
is the only objection f0 fhe Bill fIat 1 knowv of the section lie struclc out and 'ine' inserfed. That would liring about flic change
of.
I arn suggesfing.
TEMPLEMAN-I shiah lie glad
Hou. M-Nr.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-ls flîcie
to make thc representations of imy lion.
friend f0 tbe Postmaster Genceral, but 1 aniy good reason for dividing flhe classes
would iiot undertalze f0 accept bis arnend- into two divisions ? 1 cannlot see anly.
Il seecîns f0 Ie thit as I quite conleur in fthc auîencinient sngment at present.
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-Some post office
clerks rend fhls f0 malce it appear tlint &Il
tlhe third class cierks now shall becotne
junior third class clerks.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

JULY 17, 1903
gested by mY hon. f riend from Marshln
field.
There are certainly cases
whilh a third-class clerk, havlng arrlved
nt the maximum salary of bis chies which
Is at the present Urne $800, should at once
be placed In the position of a. senior thirdcss clerk. He bas been for yeare at $80
and there would be no opportuirnty to Increase bis salary wlthout promotion, and
that promotion le In the bands of the minIster and deputy mînister, wbereas, aithougli the gentleman et the head of tue
office lu whicb bie Is employed may have
recomnîended hlm for promotion for years
past, stIli untîl the Postmaster General,
or the deputy inister, decîdes lie chall
recelve that Increased salary, be wlll not get
It under this Bill, and I thlnk the recomnmendation of the Postmaster, eay of Montreal, Charlottetown, or any large city, the
capital of a province, for lngtance-that the
recommendatIon of the chief postmaster In
the province In the office In 'which the clerk
le employed sbould bave some effect, and
tlîat on bis recommendatIon the minister
should give hlm the Increase of salary to
whlch lie would be entltled If promnoted fromn
the dlace lu whblch he le at present to n
hlgber cass.
.Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thie
dlfficulty bas arîsen ln cubstltuting two
second and two third classes. If you rend
paragrapli three you wll find that It declares that any clark wlio le a second-clas
clerk now slial be consldered a senior class
clerk, wblch enables hlm to recelve hie $50
per annum Increase until lie reachee the
maximum of $1,200. 'If, bowever, tlis were
not the case, hie would remain ln the junior
second-class wlth a saiary of $1,000. You
have made a positive distinction betiveen
the two classes. You declare that a clerk
who le a second-chies clerk now, wlth a
maximum salary of $1,000, shall be considered in the senior dlace entitled to increases until it reaches $1,200, but you
make no provision to treat thîrd- dace
clerks in the camie manner, as pointed
out by my hon. friend from St John, and
the hou. gentleman from Marshfield. Why
shiould niot third-class clerks, who are
worthy, be treated the samie as second-claks
clerks. anîd be considered senior third-class

649

would bave to takze their chance of promnotion to the second dlase ? It would be piaclng the third-css cierks ini precisely the
camie position that you hbave, by the third
paragraph of this clause, placed the secondclace clerks. That lc 'the position taken by
the lion, gentleman from Maa'shfleld and
St. John, and concurred lu by the hon. gentleman from Charlottetown. If the hon.
minîster would consider that, we might let
thîs clause stand and go on and pass the
remalning clauses.
Hon. Mr. TE'MPLEMAN-I am quite wvilllng that this clause shahl stand until 1
subit the suggestion of the hon, gentleman from Marshfield to the Postmaster
General. I can understand, however, why
a second-class clerl., being rather a superlor clase to the third-clase clerk, mîglit
receive the advantage given under thîs
classification. However, we will paes over
clause six for the present.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On clause 9,
Hon. Mr. EILIS-I bave been spokien to
wlth reference to thîs clause :
9. Section 26 of the Post Office Act, as enacted b>' section 3 of chapter 20 of the statutes
of 1898, le amended b>' iDsertlng the followlng
proviso at the end of subsection 1 :
«Provided alwiays that In an>' Case wbaere the
distance ln Canada whlch an>' such newspapers
or perlodîcais are requlred to be transmltted

doee not exceed three hundred miles from thea
place of publication, and such newspapers or
perlodicals (the distance for transmission of
whlch ls limited as aforecald) are not to be dellvered In Canada under the free letter-carrier
delivery system, the sald rate of one-haif of one
cent for each pound or fraction of a pound
welgh shail be reduced to oua-quarter of one

cenit.'
In the first place, I wich to ask doas it
apply uow to se4~-weekhy newspapersi 7
Iiany newepnpers, particularly at the extrames of the country, I presume on the
Pacific, and certainhy iu the east, in view
of the great comipetition to, which they are
subjected by large papers in Moutreal, issue

a weekly paper, particularly in two parts.
W ilh that clause apply ?

I think the hnw

oîîly applies to weekly uewspnpers.

Sup-

posing a newspaper issues a semi-weekly
and it le practicalhy a weakly-wihl that go
free ? And then again, I think this miakes
this addition, that they are not to be declerks. eîiabling tliem to raise in two years livered in Canada under the free letterto thie maximum of $900, and tiien they carrier system. If papers printed ini St.

SEINATE

650

John mail f0 a few subscribers in Mont- actual publication. Ln the city of St. Jobn,
real, or London, or anywhere else, how are for instance, a publisher can go twenty miles
out of St. John and declare that that is the
tbey affecfed ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Section 26 of
the Pest Office Act of 1898 reads as follows :
On and after the lat day of January, 1899,
newspapers and periodicals prlnted and pubIlshed in Canada, maiied by.-the publisher In
the post office at the place where they are publshed, and addressed to regular subscribers; or
newsdealers In Canada. rersldpnts el.3ewhere
than in the place of publication, shall be transrnltted by mail to their respective addresses, as
follows
As to weekly newspapers, the following
goverus :
If they are required to be transmitted by mail
a distance wlthin twenty miles frocn the place
of publication, or within cIrcular area of a diameter flot exiceeding forty miles, and If their
publication, la of no greater frequency than once
a weelc. they ehall be so transanitted free cf
postage wlthin one or other of such areas to be
selected by the publisher la accordance wlth

the regulations Ia that behaîf
by the Postmaster General.

f0

be established

The only objecf of the use of tbe term
'weekly' there ls f0 give them free transmission wlfhln the radius of forfy miles, an
area of twenty miles from the centre. This
proposition la t0 reduce the postage which
ls at present one-haîf a cent, to one-quarter

of a cent, withln the area o! 300 miles from
the point of publication. If is, as I understand, a reduction o! the rates, a concession
ta the newspapers of something like sixty
or sevenfy-flve thousand dollars a year In
postage. If wlll affect ail publications that
publish as frequently, or more frequenfly,
than once a monfli.
Hon.

Sir

MACKENZIE

BOWEL-It

goes a good deal beyond that. Under the
present law there Is a certain rate of postage
0f baîf a cent per pound on newspapers that

are sent beyond the radius of fwenfy miles

point of publication, and take the radius
from that under the present regulation. 1
do not know. whether It was ever taken
advautage of In St. John or nlot, but I know
that In the case of the paper wltb wbich
I have been connected, under that regulatien we take the centre of the county, nearly
twenty miles from the place of publication,
for the reason tbat it is witbbj the county.
If you put down the pack, if 1 may use
that eéxpressin, lu Belleville, you would
bave no area for circulation to the soutb,
because we are on the bay shore, and across
the bay la the cQunty of Prince Edward.
Under the regulation issued by the Pest
Office Departinent we go fifteen or sixteen
miles nortb, and declare that the point of
publication and take the radius from that,
and in doing that we act under the authorlty
of the Postmaster General. It la very bandy
for the country newspapera I must confess,
because we can bring with that radius
If you go
nearly the wbole county.
twenty mlles north and twenty miles
fioùth you Include the clty of Belle-ville. That ls the way the law. is carried
out now, under the regulations issued by
the Pest Office Department. This goes further. This Is adoptlng the principle that
the Postmaaster General tried to adopt When
the Senate defeated the Bill a few years ago.
The Bill which be introduced then struck
a blow at ail the clty newspapers that circulated In different provinces. For instance,
take a St. John paper, if you like. The publisher would bave te pay double postage if
be sent 4t into Quebec, or Nova Scotia or
Prince Edward Island. If the Montreal
'Herald' or 'Gazette' sent their papers
to Ontario tbey would bave to pay double

That is the postage, but the Ontario newspapers could
send t0 Rat Portage, a couple of thousand
the moment
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The radius 0f miles, at half the postage, but
miles only applies f0 weekly news- fhey crossed into Manitoba or Keewatin,
twenfy
they would bave to pay double. Or to put
papers.
a more flagrant case, while the Ottawa
BOWELL-I 'Citizen ' or 'Free Prees,' under that Bill, if
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
know fbat, and the Postmaster General it became law, could send tbeir paper at luiIf
bas some power, I do not know where hie a cent a 'pound as far as Manitoba, but if
ever got it, to allow you, under the regu- they sent it across the river f0 Hull lu the
lations of the departruent, t0 declare the province of Quebec they would have t0 pay
places of publication af a spot witbin the double that. This embodies precisely the
county twenty miles from the place of its samne principle only t0 a limited extent. If
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.
from the place of publication.
present law.

i ULY 17, 1903
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAiN-Miy bon. friend
you go beyond the 300 miles you have to pnY
double postage and that strikes the papers of will admit that It is a great improvement
large circulation, sncb as the 'Globe' 'Mail on the present law. Will rny lion. friend adand Empire,' ' Star,' and other newspapers. mit that ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I inHon. 'Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The law retend to admit what I have already admltted,
mains the saine as to the newspapers circulating wltbout the 300-mlle limit. Surely and, I arn sorry my bon. friend does not
iny bon. friend will admit this is a large understandme. Eitber 1 anm incapable of
lmpartlng to the House what I niean, or rny
concession to newspapers ?
h10:1. friend is Incapable of understanding
Hon. Sir MNACKENZIE BOWELL-I kuow what I say.
tbut, but 1 arn arguing that It does not affect
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Probably a little
the local newspapers.
of botl.
lion. 'Mr. TEMýPLEMAN-It Is glvlng
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
thein a hait rate.
thlnk 1 know f rom practice and theory
Hou. Sir 3MACKENZIE BOWELL-But wbnt 1 mean and what I say. I ask why
tbey do not circulate to the extent that tbe sbould you charge double If you eend a
large newspapers do.
newspaper over tbree bundred miles ? Wby
course tbey do you adopt that principle %vithreference to
Hon. 'Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Of
do not, but they wlll pRy only one-baîf the newspapers when you do not with reference
a
postage tbey now psy wlthin an area of 300 to packages and letters ? If I can send
letter 10,000 miles for two cents, and bave
miles.
to pay as much to send a letter from one
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I place ln a clty to another, wby do you
understand that, but If 1 send It 300 miles flot apply the same rule to newspapers ?
I have to pay double.
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I suppose there
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-1 abould thlnk are somne anomalies and Incongrulties lu
that was qulte proper.
postal matters, and carrylng letters. I do
Éon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tben flot know wby you sbould carry a letter
you are golng back to the old principle 2,000 miles for two cents, and charge the
wblcb prevalled a great nuniber of years same for carrying a letter from here to HUI].
ago. 1 used to write letters from Belleville I do flot know wby that is so, but ln the
to Kingston sud pald four pence ha'penny case of newspapers, tbere Is no0 doubt that
for theni, and lu wrltIng to Montreal, I bad carrylng very large and bulky matter acrosa
to pay nine pence. That ls elghteen cents. the continent la very expensive to the Post
The princîple that applies to letters should office Department, and wblle It Is flot exactapply to newspapers. 1 cau send a letter to ly on the same principle as carrying letters,
Australla for two cents. I can send a news- wblcb are carrled at tbe unlform rate, neyerpaper a certain distance for baîf a cent, but theless there Is a greater justification for
If 1 have to send It a certain distance fur- cbarging bigher postage on newspapers,
wblcb are carried by the carload across the
ther, 1 bave to psy double.
continent for long distances. 1 remember,
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I understand ; I as the bon. gentleman does, when newsarn afrald my bon. frîend does not und&- papers were carried ail over the country
stand the merits of the Bill.
free. I also can remembert the tinie when
we used to p*ay five cents postage per
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI
understand lt perfectly but unfortunately It quarter. There bave been many changes ln
bas littie mernt, sud I say tlat it la a the postal law since then, aud now -wben
direct violation of tbe principle of carrylng the Post Office Department cornes down and
mail matter that exists neurly ail over the offers my bon. friend, wbo is a newspaper
world. It Is attempting to do, ln another publisher, a concession of one-baîf of the
way, wbat the Postmaster General attempt- postal rates be is paying on bis paper. he
i seems to de dissatisfled.
ed to do a few years ugo.

SENZVfE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I said wsth respect to a very large proportion of
nio suci tliiug. I wras findiug fauit with their circulation. If I understand the hion.
gentleman right, this is legisiation levelled
tbe other provision of tise Bill.
at the Montreal 'Star' and a few papers
tise of like character. It gives a reduction to
Hlon. Nir. TEMPLEMAN-Because
governimeut does not go as far as lie tlsinks ail local papers which it <loes not give to
It should.
sucl papers as the M.%ontreal ' Star' and
Hou. Sir 11ACKENZIE BOWELL-I ain perhaps the Toronto ' Globe' and to a cerfinding fiuît because it is adopting a princi- tain extent, one or two other papers 1
miglit mention that liave a l)retty general
pIe whici w-as abandoned years aýgo.
circulation. I presume the Montreal 'Star'
flon. MIr. TEMPLEJMAN-My lion. frieud
has the bulk, of its circulation outside of
sureir mwill admit that after tlîis becomies tlîree lhundred miles.

law, n-ith, thse exception of papers of very
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMIAN-Did the lion.
wide circulation, aud lu those exceptions
to a limited extent, tisere will be no gentleman say the bulk ?
only
newspaper lu Canada which wlll pay more
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think so. The
than a quarter of a cent a pound.
Star' circulates 100,000 copies, and I ia
is out.side of
Hon. Sir )IACICENZIE BOWELL-Nou- satisfied 75 per cent of tat
that zone. 1 may be w-joug-, but I cannot
seulse.
be very far wrong, wbien I say very muclu
Hlon. 'Mr. TEM\PLEMA-N-Tie papers more tlsan 50 per cent of the circulation of
wbicb circulate beyond tbe 300-mile zone the ' Star ' is outside of a zone of 30I miles,
are very few indeed. There are few, If any, and I may say the same of ' La Presse'
papers In Ottawa 'wbich circulate outslde aud 'La Patrie.' I dare say baîf a dozen
the 300-mlle zone to any considerable extent. papers will bie hield at the old rate of taxaThere are f ew papers except tbe large city tion, while thse new and reduced rate wil
papers wbich circulate beyoud the 300 miles. apply to local and snialler papers nil over
Tbey ail bave a portion of eacb Issue golng the country. M.Ny
abject la rising is not to
beyoud that, but they are very lmited lu plead the case of the large papers. for
number. The government is reducing by they are wealthy concerus and money rnakone-baif the postage pald on these papers, ing Is tbeir object, but 1 *waut to say soineand while thse large papers wbicb do cir- tlsing for the agricultural papers. I bave
culate beyond tbe 300-mile lirmit, will pay received a letter from tise publishier of thse
tbe one-haîf cent a pound, uevertheless, 'Farmers' Advocate', of London, Ontario.
thougbh tihe concession to these papers ap- Lt bas two offices of publication, one lu
pears to be so very littie, the Postmaster Winnipeg and one la London, Outario. I
General întimated that It will involve a loss know It cIrculates lu nearly every IntelliIn tise revenue of from fifty to seventy-five gent farmer's bouse lu tbe maritime prothousand dollars, whlch is a clear and ab- vinces, and It is flot gettlng the advantage
solute gain to gentlemen wuvo publlsb news- wbicb is given to publications whiclî are
papers like my lion. frieud and myself.
very mucis less meritorlous than it is.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
Hou. Mr. TEMIPLEM-\AN-It is g-etting
tise bois, gentleman made one error lu bis an advautage just tise saine.
statemeuit.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-What advauitagýe
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-My ,bou. friend is it gettiug ?
lays a great deal of stress on the~ fact tisat
Hon. Mr. TEMNPLEMAN-A reduction of
this change lu tIse law makes a very senhiaîf its postage throughout tise entire prosible î'eductiosi to a class of publications,
vince of Ontârio.
and be eoustends that tisat is tise largest part
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The clause pronewspiper or periodical publication,
of our
and hie lisas goise so for as to say that, with vides:
Provided always that in any case where thse
the exception of tise Moutreal ' Star ' and
distance iu Canada which any such uewspapers
a few papers of thuat kind, ail the otisers or periodicals are required to be transmitted

will corne inside ausd -et tise benefit of tiss
Hon. NMr. TEMPLEMAN.

does flot eiceed three hundred miles from thse

JULY 17, 1903
place of publication. and such newspapers or
periodicais (the distance for the transmission
of which is limited as aforesaid) are flot ta be
delivered in Canada under the free letter-carrier
delivery system. the said rate of one-haif of one
per cent for each pound or fraction of a Pounld
welght shall be reduced to one-quarter of one
cent.

sonietbing !rom the lion. gentlemian, auld
unay bc able to protit by It. My attention
hias been caiied to this provision ' not to be
delivered la Canada under the free carrier
delivery systern.' Take a Toronto p.1per
witb a circulation of say fifty subscribers lu

?
Tlhis does flot provide rnachinery w'here- Ottawa, 1>0w does that apply
of the Montreal ' Star,
by the circulation
Hon. 3fr. TEMPLEMAN-They
for Instance, cau be divided. WiII ail the full rate.
copies that circulate withini thc 300 miles

pay the

lion. Mr. ELLIS-Will iuot thit miale a
good deal o! trouble ?

lirnit get the advantage ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

Hou. 'Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The post ollice

Haln. Mr. FERGUSO.N-Ali the1 lfpCXes
authorities think not. Havlng estabiisied
from that office circulgted within thue 300- the number of papers going to Ottawa atone
mile zone will get the reduction
time, it is only a matter o! cbecklng up froni
Hon. Mr. TEM\PI.E.\AN-YCS.
Hon. 'Mr. F7ERGUSON-AiI outside of it
wvîll be at the old rate ?
Hou. 'Mr. TEMPLEM2\AN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is uuot as bail
as 1 thoulit it was. A pIaper witb a. large

circulation wll get the adi-antage ivithin
the 300-mile zone 'e
Hon. 3fr. TE.%IPIEM-IAN,-Yes. 1 venture
to say that the agricultural paper to -which
nmi hon. friend refers bas 75 per cent of Its
circulation within the 300-ile zone.

day to day, just as in checking up the welght
of new papers. the -%veighît to-day is about tlie
same as it wiil be to-morrow. I also hiave
iearned a trick of the trade froni the leader
o! tlie opposition. I neyer knew before tlhat
a ne-.%spaper manî could establiali the place
of publication at any other point than bis
printing office. I publiai> a paper also along
the seashore, and, taklng a radius of twenty miles frorn that, the southern haîf extends
lnto the ocean. According to the briglit
publishers la the province of Ontario. who
are apt to turn sharp corners sometimes, we
cari go out Into the country sorne 'place and
establisbi the place of publication twenty

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That would per- miles away and take Ia the most populous
baps be the case witb the 'Farmers' Advo- places and save postage. For years I bave
cate,' I arn satisfied, and to that extent it been doing the reverse, and the Post Office
would get the beneflt of the reduction, but Departrnent owes me a large amount that
when you corne to the Montreal ' Star,' the 1 have been paying lrnproperly, or, If flot,
The Montrent some publishers In Ontario are ln'debt to thse
case is entirely different.
'Star' lias a very wide circulation outside Post Office Department.
I an flot sure

of the 300-mile zone, and conseciuently the which wvould be the correct'vlew to take of
greater part of Its circulation w-iil be taxed it. However, badinage aside, I arn quite
at the old postage.

sure my bon. friend considers tbis a very
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Do news- meritorious Bill indeed. 1 wvould, as a newspapers carried on trains for sale pay post- paper mn, be very glad indeed to see niewspaper 1postage entirely aLwlisbed, If the
age ?
Honi. 3r. SCOTT-I tluink uîot.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-No doubt tlîis is quite
an Improvement and wll be a great remis-

sion of duties on newvspapers.

I have learai-

ed a les'son froin the leader of the opposi-

revenues of the post office would permit it,
but as the Post Office Departuient hias becorne alrnost self-sustaining, and w-e may
bave a surplus ini the course of a year or
two, the Postmaster Generali may then sec
bis way to abolishing newspaper postage
altogetiier.

tion, bowever, wlxich is of sonie value, bccause the paper ln whichi 1 amn iiterested is
Hon. Sir MNACKENZIE BOWELL-Il do
printed on the shores o! tbe Bay o! Fundy,
a long distance 1 bave liad no ad- not desire to conitinueýL thue discus-sion further,
and for
vantage froin the zone, but 1 biave learned but 1 take exception to one statement of the

SENATE
hon. gentleman's, that bie bas learned froni
me a trick of the trade. I repudiate tbat. If
it is a trick, it is on the part of the Postinaster
General, wbo issued a circular declaring
w-bat newspaper publishers mlght do. If
the hion. gentleman is so far away froin the
centre of civilizatlon that he did nlot receive
it, or did flot comprebend it when be got
It, the fault Is nlot ours. I arn very glad we
did comprebend its meaning. I do not knowv
wbether the law gave the Postmaster Genlerai the power, but it is not to our advautage
to ignore it and w-e simpiy carried out the
regulation. The bon. gentleman bas tried
to iead the flouse to believe that 1 fouud
fault with tbe reduction on newspaper postage. What I object to is going back to the
old principle of carrying mail matter that
existed fifty years ago, and whicb bas been
abolisbed nearly ail over the worid. Now,
perhiaps it may be niews to my bon. friend
If I tell hlm I disagree with hilm altogether
iu the matter of carrying newspapers free.
1 do nlot thlnk this country sbould carry
newspapers free any more than anything
else. I bave said so ln this flouse aud in
the flouse of Commons, altboughi I was a
member of the goverament when the newspaper postage was aboiished, I ar n ft at
liberty to say wbat course I took in coun4cl
at that Urne, but pubily I said to the Postmaster General and to the Press Association
a moderate charge for carrying newspapers
was a legitimate mode of raislng the revenue. I know the argument is that newspapers are of an educational character and
shouid be carried f ree. I differ from that.
1 have great objection to tbe education whieli
some newspapers give. I dare say my hon.
friend would flot bave a mucli better opinion of the newspaper that was under my
control, but on the broad principie of a
sliglit postage for newspapers I think, it is
a. legitirnate mode of raisin-g a revenue,
and 1 object to going back to the old systen of carrying the mails that existed wben
we were boys. 1 tbink w-e wouid bie retrograding instead of being reformers.
The clause was adopted.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Monday, July 20, 1903.

The SPEAKER took. the chair at eiglit
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
TRIRD READING.
Bill (V) An Act for the relief of Ellen NlcDerinîd-(I-on. MIr. Perley).
The Seitate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Tuesday, July 21, 1903.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o' ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THIRD READING.
Bill (N) An Act for the relief of Stephien
Wilson.--{Hou. Mr. %IldaI, In the absence of
Hon. Mr. Wood.)
EXTRA JUDICIAL' EI[PLOYMENT 014
JUDGES BILL.
DEBATE RESUMED.
The Order of the day being calied
Resumlng the adJour-ned debate on the motion
for second reading of Bill (U) An Act respectIng the extra judiciai ernploymerit of Judges.(Hon. Mr. McMullen.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I had a telegrani froni
Senator McMullen saying he was attending
the funeral of the late Mr. Innes to-day,
and asking that this motion be allowed t0
stand until Thursday. I presumne there wihl
be an abundance of time during the session
to allow the debate to continue. He was
anxious te continue If.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As au adjournment bas been talked of at the end of the
week and this measure bas been a good
deal postponed, I tbink we should proceed.
Mr. McMullen will have an opportunity of
speaking later in the debate. 0f course 1
amn in the hands of the flouse.

TESSIER, from the committee,
lion. M-Nr.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Witb the assurthat they had made sonie progress
reported
anice that fthc Hoa. Mr. McMullen, xlio
with the Bill.
rnoved the adjournrnenf, wili have an opportuuity to express lbis views on fhis Bill, 1
The Senate adjourned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JIJLY 21. 1903
ask the attention of the Hlouse for a few justice, and maintalning and protecting the
moments to express my views où this mea- judiciary agalinst ail undue outside Insure, and before doing so, I may be allowed fluences and asperoIons. Thie only question
to congratulate the lion. gentleman from which, to my mmnd, sliould agitate and move
Marslfield on the elaborate legal argument us ln this present debate, ls the question of
that lie lias given us. It lias been applauded, the opportuneness of thls present Bill. Is it
I may say by ail the legal gentlemen* ln this necessary? Â fter liaving thouglit thie matHouse, who were amazed at tlie lndustry ter over since the lion. gentleman f rom
sbowa and the work so well done and pre- Marslifeld presented the BUi, witli the exse'nted by a Isyman. Nevertbeless, la spite perience I have liait of twenty-five years
of the brilliant argument made by tliat hon. ln public lUe, more or less, I have corne to
gentleman I shall express, and maintain the the conclusion tliat tljis mensure is Inopporexpression of my regret at tlie Inopportune tune.. There are Instances and circumtie
of presenting this Bill durlng tlie pre- stances under whicb I think it is best to
sent session, andunder the circumstances employ judges wlthout Injury to themesîves
whicli prevalled at the time of Its introduc- or to thelr office In holding laquirles wbichî
tion. The lion, gentleman lias dischaimcd are, to my mind, of a certain judiclal charliaving bail any Idea ln is mind of in- acter. We have bad lately-and very llkely
fluencing the debate wbicli was golag 0on lion, gentlemen ln this Clianber can point to
ln another parliament. 0f course, I accept other Instances--inquirles whlch were listibis statement, but still maintain that lt tuted by this very goverrnnent la whicb
would, perliaps, have been better to ad- judges were appolated as conimissioners. I
journ tliis debate until next session. There have tliree just now ln my mind. One was to
is no doubt thiat tlie object whlcli the «B11ilexamine into complaints made hy newslias la view ls a laudable one. The prin- Ipaper owners. of a supposed imper manucîple wliicli ruas tîrougli the Bill, and whicli facturers' combine. An inqulry was delias been developed by the lion. gentleman, manded and held. Justice Taschereau of
la to inaintain the Influence and prestige tlie district of Montreal was appointed;
of tlie bencli unlmpaired. Ali good citizeus witnesses were heard, and arguments ns
mÙst have but one mind on that subject. well, and a deliverance by tlie judge was
We ail are interested la malatalning the ju- made on which tlie governimeat acted, and
diciary as higli as possible la the esteem saresuit of that Inqulry tliey reduced the
of the people of thîs country. We possess duty on paper, I think, by ten per cent.
an exemplary judiciary, wliose history lias Some time thereabouts, another inquiry
been brilliant. and wbo bave done yeoman
the pilotage system of this country was
service ln maintaining justice and order iastituted, ln wliicl another judge was called
in this country. This desire, with which upon to act; wliere wltnesses were beard
we are a I animated, of inalntaining as and R report was made on whlcb the govhigli as possible the standard of impartiality erinmeat acted. Latterly an Inqulry was
governlng our judges, I am sure Is shared made by a judge sitting in the city of
ln by the men wlio are charged witli the Ottawa upon a complaint that a mouopoly of
edministration of justice in this country. the tobacco manufacture and business wis
Ia the representatives of the people ia the being attempted la thîs country. 1 biad the
federal and ini the p)rovinicial Chaiubers, is advantage of representing before thiat comidelegated the sovereignty of the people as mission some of the coniplainants. A long
expressed at the poils, and I amn quite sure inquiry was made la the principal cities
that we must credit ail of them, to wliatever of the Dominion where witnesses were licard
party thiey may be attached, with as great and a thorougli examination of the quesArgument was
s desire as any of us, to maintai uninipaired. tion was gone througli.
the esteem, the influence, and the impartial- beard and a report was made. Now. in ail
ity of the judiciary of this Dominion. We those cases I amn quite sure no better selechave iii the governments of this country, tion could bave been made than the judges
tlie Minister of Justice la this parliament, who sat, garbed in their Impartiality and
and the Attorneys Genieral throughout the thieir independence, to receive evidence and
land in the divers provinces, wbo are speci- report on those divers questions, and I arn
ally charged withi the administration of 1quite sure thiat no fanding of an attorney or

finto

SENATE
a barrister wouid carry the weight attaching to the reports sucli as were made on
those questions by independent judges. The
wind of a judge is absolutely above party
warfare or private interests aud Is surrounded by that atmiospliere of esteem-or,
1 would say, veneration-which the people
have for the judiclary, away from all our
party conflicts. He stands so higli lu the
estimation of the public that a deliverance
froui hini is of much lîigher value and
welght than one which would corne fr011
a practising attorney. 1 wili readlly admit
timat judges sbould only be taken iway from
their ordinary duties ini most exceptionai
cases. In the cases wbich I bave cited,
party passion did flot enter iu the least, and
I suppose that the hon, gentleman f rom
Marshfleld, if he had had in his mind or before bis eye no other inquIrles than those
I have mentioned, would flot bave brought
in the Bill which is now before us for
discussion. Undoubtedly, no harm, has corne
to the judges who were called upon to, sit
ou tiiese commissions, or to the reputation of the judiciary, by requestlng their
hielp in these Instances. The reason for
wbîch the hon. gentleman lias introduced
this Bill Is that there are matters whlch fail
among the controversies of the political parties whlch are surrounded wlth party passions in which the judges should flot be
called upon to, act. The hon. gentlemen
thinaks that ail sncb matters as those pertaining to questions of pub-lic policy should be
decided by parliament, and al Inquiries
of public importance affecting the honour
of parliament, or public questions, shouid
be debated and discussed rather before committees of the legisiatures or of parliament.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. frlend.
will excuse mue for saylug I did not take that
ground. I said my Bill did flot reachl t at
ail. It is open for goveruments, if my
Bill sbould become law, to investigate those
matters as tbey choose. Ail r object to ls
judges undertakiing this work of a semipolitical nature.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I understood
the bon. gentleman thouglit lt xvas preferable in miany instances to have those matters înquired luto by committees of the
House rather than by commissions of judges.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I did flot discuss
that.
H-on. mr. DANDLIRA.ND.

Hon. Mr. DANDURANU-At aIl events,
the question presented Itself to the mlnds
of ail who iistened to, the bon. gentleman
because, possibiy of the c1rcurnstances and
the time he presented bis motion. 1 amn not
ready to say that la ail questions whldh
divide the two political parties in this country It would be opportune to ask the judges
to sit ln judgrnent on accusations whldh
have to be investigated. At the same time,
1 arn fot ready to say that there are mlot
instances when judges should not be called
upon to receive evidence. There are cases
where passions wlll le aroused to sucb a
high pitch tînt It wouid be next to limpossible to get a fair inquiry in any oCher
way than before judges, or the tribunals
of this country. The hon, gentleman mentioned, as an example of a fair investigation
held before a parliamentary committee, the
inquiry by this branch of l)arliament ito
the Cook charges. I know that this inqulry wças conducted with impartiallty and
to the satisfaction, I thlnk, of ail tbose
wbo took part ln It, and of the public wbo
had Its eyes upon our work, but I have had
experlence of contrary resuits. I may say
that aithougli I 'was not ln parliament ln
1891, when the famous McGreevy lnqulry
took place la t4ie other House, I was neyertheiess very near sorne attorneys who had
the conduet of the case, and 1 rernember
sorne of thern declaring that it was very
hard to conduet a case betore such an unwleldy committee as the one they appeared
before, and that tley often, durlng the long
Inquiry before the commlttee, found It hard
to go Into certain kinds of evidence and f oliow it step by step logically as it sbould
be, -witl members of parliarnent intervenlng
and putting questions and breaking tbrougli
the set of questions whicl -were about to
be put to a witness. Besides, we have the
experlence of this last session of the Ontario
legisiature, where we ail know an inquiry
took place, 1 think on the disposai of public
lands, and where parties very neariy came
to blows, if they did flot actually corne to
blows. 1 bave another experience of the
difficulty of appealing for justice to men
who are actuated by passion and prejudice.
I remember a case of some perhaps twenty
years old, coming fromn my own province,
wbere an accusation had been made before
the legfisiature at the end of the session,
and a royal commission was appointed com-

JULY 21, 1903
posed of fixe members of parliainent ta
That comInquire Into that accusation.
mission was composedl of three mlnisterlalIsts and two members of the opposition. I
followed that inquiry from day to day. It
was of vital party interest. Bath parties
were most interested ln the result ta
Issue from the work wbicb devolved upan
that commission, and there I came ta the
coniclusioni that. however, higli men stood In.
the eyes of tbe public and ln publie lite, wba
were given the duty of sitting as judges
on a royal commission ta Investigate certain
charges, unconsciously perhaps tlîey were
partial in their tindings and nnjust lu their
conduct.
Haon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Was
that the case of a legisiative cauncillor wha
was accused of some Improper act ?
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-No, it was nat
I bave flot mentioned the name of the royal
commission or the case, because some of the
gentlemen are stili alive, many ot them are
out of palitics; and I slmply draw attention
ta their conduct for the purpose at my argument, but I prefer flot ta mention names.
However, on that occasion, I remember that
the accused party desired ta go Into a certain
Une of evidence. He bad been confronted
%vitb some very partial decisians by the
majority of that commission, and It was my
good fortune one ev-ening ta be present at a
private discussion ns ta the way that evidence could best be brought before the commission, without the majority preveilting it
tram gaing in. In arder to r.eachi that resuit,
a device was concocted: an objection ta that
very same line of evidence was made on a
aide issue ln order to nall the majority
to a finding which could be used.tbe next
The
day to put ia the desired evidence.
necessary incident arase. The accused and
bis attorneys raised the objection cthat no
evidence courld lie adduced on that point,
and a long and fierce battie toak place on
The
tbe admissibility of that evidence.
majarity decided that the evidence sbonld
go in. The adverse decisian whicb the accused wanted on bis objection was olbtained,
ta bis very great satisfaction indeed, but
bis gratification was of very short duration
wlhen the uext day lie t-ried ta go inta that
v-ery same line of evidence and avail hlmThe gliastiy trap
self of tbat decisian.
appeared ýwide-open ta the majority, and

atter a fierce legal argument these gentlemen, under my own eyes, witlî bawed
heads and sbameful braws decided ta
reverse their decisian of the day before.
This is the justice which one may expect wben prejudice aud political passions
are aroused. I remember that Incident as
tbaugb It were yesterday, and I bave since
then came ta the conclusion that we could
get absolute and certain justice anly tram
an impartial, indepeudeut tribunal respansible to no other power but their owu consciences and tbe Almlgbty-tbe judiciary of
this country. Wheu judges are appoiuted
ta ait and recelve evidence, on wbatever
kind af a commission, for the examinatian
of whatever accusation, I am quite sure
that neyer, lu the bistory of this couutry,
will a case arise parallel ta the one 1 bave
mast mentloned. Even ln cases o! party
warfare, -wbere accusations are of moat vital
Importance, and may have a dire resuit upan
the political lite of a party, I cansider
it *may be of very great importance that
judges sbouid be named as cornmissloflers ta
take evidence. Oixe Is sure that the evidence
will be received Impartially under the powers confided ta tbe co.mmissloners. I would
abstalu, as mancb as possible, tram askitg
tbemn their opinions upon questions 'wblcb
have aroused party passions, but there may
be exceptional cases where it «would mot be
Inopportune ta do so. It bas been stated that
tbe rules o! evidence whicb goveru judges
are not sufficlently elastlc ta at times admit
of aIl tbe necessilry evidence wbicb Nvould
thraw full iigbt upon the matter investig-ated. My own experience at the bar prevents
me from finding any force la tbat argument 1 consider the rules of evidence are
the best safeguard for the liberty of tbe
subi ect and tbe protection of property.
wbile parties may lie bampered sometimes
by the rules of evidence, it is always better
tbat one accused sbould escape tbrougb
that exceptianal case, wbicb I will admit
may exist, than tbat ninety-nine innocent
persans sbouid be liable ta being hesmirched,
bum:iliated and injured by irrelevant or
illegal evidence ibeing addnced lu a fisbing,for-evidence excursion. Tbe bon. gentleman
tram Marsbfield bas stated tbat it was incompatible witb tbe independence of tbe
judiciary that tbeir members sbould be
offered remuneration for outaide worl..
This is the first time I have beard

S E'NA TE
that the question of remuneration for iii consequence, I inove, secondd l>y the
services reiîdered on such commissions 1lon. Mr. Frost,
Tilat this Bill be flot now read the seconid
could la the lenst influence tbe judges.
They stand so liigh, in niy estimaqtion at tiule, but that it be read the second Urne this
months.
ail events, that whatever remunerationi bas day six
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It wis
been offered then bias jiever cut any figure
with the legal fraternity nor wîth the publie flot îny intention to take part in the debate
as to the Influence it could exert UPOfl on this Bill, whlîih may be considered more
My bon. frlend bas spoken a constitutionl question than nny presenttheir flnding.
the injury to the judiciary In tempting ed to this House for some time past. I
of
by notice, however, if 1 anii to judgc frolîl
luiiîpartiality
idependenci, an
tlieir
I tlie remiarkzs wiehl have fallexi foini tlit'
,daaglinig before their eyes promotion.
confess that I arn myseif adverse to pro- lion, gentlemaqn wlîo bas just spoizeîl. thit
inotiîîg a judge froîî o11e court to another, lion, gentlemen opposite, have alialdoned
le lbas not reforred,
and I hold that it would be better, wlien tlat p'lea In toto.
judge accepts a parchmient froîn the gov- eitîjer directly or iiîdiretly, to the riglit of
a
ertnhent, and eleets to sit iipon a bencli of tMis parliamient to pass the BUi wlili is
this country, it sliould be understood .it is nlow under considcration. That is one point
thiinks thiat 0f very great importance, îîot 0iîlY bo thkýn flnality. The lion, gentlemn
sbould be sufficiently paid to pre- Flouse, but to the juilges tinîselves, and
the judges
I 111:y
vent thiem accepting remnuneration for out- more partîcularly to the country.
TIUîs parliamient oives it to it- takze It for granted. theîi, that tlîe le-7al
side work.
self to give thenii adequate remuneration. gentlemen w.bo bave discussed the question.
I bave already on two or tbiree occasions iii a very calm and moderate riannier. whicli
declared that 1 think the judiciary lu the is commendable under the cincumstances.
cithes are flot sufficieîîtly remunierated. and î'ecognîze the soundniess of thie position
I only hiope the goveriilment of the day whîlch was talcen by my lion. friend from
will grapple with that question and g-ive Marshfleld, that this parliament lbad full
to the judiciary of our cities throughout thie authority to pass Acts dealing with tlîis
That is in important
land sufficient remuniieratioîî for tbeir ser- particular subject.
1 have stated thiat I thouglit the point which lias, 1 lake it for granted. been
vices.
Tlîe hon. genltlemnnl's- motion
3udg-es, iii very miany mnatters of public conceded.
iaterest which often agitate and divide par-i for a six montlis' hioist is probably ýwhat
be, under the circuinstances, expected.
ties, could be called upon to act on royal niit
There is no hurn donc to 'If oîîe could draw' any conclusion f rom the
commissions.
any one, to their own influence, or to the reînarks of the hon, gentleman, it wvould
hlgh esteena in which they are beld, by cail- lie tlîat hie 1.9 fully iii accord withî fthe prolng upon themi even in the miost acute crisis visions of this Bill had it been presented f0
in the country surrounided as fhey are -with parliament at any other tinie, and flot, as
thiat veneration, that absolute esteîni in he hinaself designafes it, af an Inopportune
I frankly confess fliaf there inay
wbicb they are lield, to receive and re- moment.
port the evideînce to wliatever pailia- be interpretations placed upoii the course
I have said that I talzen by my hon. friend, arisiiir froni flie
ment is interested.
thouglit, inii most exceptionial cases only, investigations whîich have already talceli
wbich I have not before my cyes but m-hicli place, wvhîch are not, iii fact, justifiable.
înay occur, would I ask tbem to ialze -a WTe heard one gentleman dnring thîis debate
Teport and g-ive their opinion ;but I bave mnale a wild attackc upon inly lion. friend
no doubt that the judges are the best tri- and defending the Ross governinent as lî
bunal f0 receive evidence ind maiiitaii the be fernîed the puresf thaf ever goveriied any
I failed, iii histening to the lîour
decorum and the order wvith which a court country.
Under these civ- and a haîf speech of uy lion. friend frouîî
should be surrounlded.
cunastances, feeling that there are rery M:trshfleld, f0 flnd one single %vord in ail
miany questions wbich should bie delegated bis utterances in conideiiatioii of thiat govto theui-very miany cases whîicli niay bie ernment for wbat it had douie or lîad left
Hence flie inopportune nmomenit
delegated to thein-I thinkl thiat this Bihl uiîdone.
of the bon. gentleman is inopportunle, and, m'as seîzed to make an tta.gk upon nmy
Hon, Mir. DANDURAND.

JULY 21, 190

bon. frienci witbout the sliglîtest grounids
for doing so. H-ad tbis Bill beeil introduced
an. any othier period, ut iniglit not liave received the opposition whicbi it is about
to 'receive, froim this parliament, but be
that as if may, it sliould be treated upon
is merifs and4 fot from any other standpoint. The hon, gentleman paid a higli
tribute f0 'the judges of fuis country. Lt
lias been the boast of Canadianis froi
tiffie ininieinorial thai. the judges ln Caniadla were incorruptible, andl Ilat tlîeir decisions ivere.. wh-elever questions caine before tlîcni, of a cliaracter that inet the approbation of ftic country at large, if flot
la ail cases of particulae suitors. Now, the
obct of this Bill la t0 preserve tiuis repuTherei lie Ils(
fation of flic judiciary.
hidlng this faci., fliat no matter biow consclentious, noe matter liow impartial, judges
appointed to investigate seini-political questions mnay be, elle parfy or the other wîll
Ail we have to do is to
condelun tliem.
look at the resuits of those Investigations
ln fthe pasi., and we ivill hiave no difficulty
lii coming to à conclusion as f0 wliat ftie
resuit lias been upon the public mind. Non,
if may be sald, and very truly, thaf imdivldually 1 am n it gulitless in this respect.
1 belonged to n governient for a numnbcr,
ef years that sent many cases to commissions. I myseif moved flie appolntnment of a
commission fo Investigate the charges made
by the late Mr. Edgar against xny then colBut bon. genMeague, Sir Adolphie Caron.
tlemen must. bear !il mnd fliat in moving
those resolufions, referring these charges
made by the late Mr. Edgar, to the judgcs,
it was nlot for tbe purpose of asking theni
If bion.
to adjudicate upon the subjeet.
gentlemen will read the wliole case, wbich
1 liold in my biand, they will find thiat whaf
was referred f0 tliem was to take the evidence and to report to parliament the result,
not f0 make any fanding 111)01 the question.
It will be remnexbered also thai. not only
were the charges whicbi were made by Mr.
Edgar, but also ail fthe charges, either by
innuendo or tbrough fthe speeches whicli were
made by thie late Hou. Mr. Milîs and other
members of the House of Couinons who
took part in that debate, were included ln
(the resolutions proposcd b)y myseif referNow, while
ring tliem aIl to the judtes.
f haf is tlie frue state of the case, ut must.

iioi. l)e forgotten that thec judges were accused of aIl kinds of partiality, though thcy
The evimnade noe tinding in tlîe case.

deîîce w-as takenl and reported, and there
was notuîing found to sustain tlic personal
charges whichi wcre mnade agains. my tieu
colleague, the ILon. Sir Adolphe Caron. Lt
w-ill be reniemnbered also that wlicn fthc reference was miade f0 tliese judges, Mr.
Edgar. tlie accuser refuscd f0 go before the
judges and prosecuite. fakiiig the< grnnnd.
as aiy olle w-owlll take tlic trouble t0

rcad hlis letters fo the judges w-ill sec, fliat
lie decliined to appear because tlie investig-ation would be s0 narrowed as not to enable
to arrive ai. the actual facts and thie
thi
frutli which they could do w-ere the matter
sent f0 a connii.tee of the House of CoinLf I unlderstood flic lion. gentleMous.
mil <Hlou. -'%r. Dandurand) ariglit, lie lnsi.anced a case iii which lie poini.ed oui. to
flic House fliat a party accused liefore a
committtee of flic House Lad insisted upon
producing certain ev-idence, and that they
liad decided lu favour of producing that
evidence, but flic uext day w-tlidrew flic
riglit.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No. 1 always
regret fIat i. tirne mny imperfci knowledge of the EngIlsli language renders Mny
meaning obscure. Wlihat 1 did say was fliat
fIe accused, desiring f0 put ln a certain kind.
of evidence and fearlng an adverse judgment on flhc admissibility of that evidence,
testcd tlic question on. a side issue fhe day
before by exprcsslng bis conviction flat
such evidence slionld not go lni. But flic
strenuous xvay in whicî lie resisted putfing
in that evidence f0 which lic objcctcd fIat
day scemed to lure flic majority info declaring fliat fIai. evidence sliould go in. He
w-anted ani adverse decision on this point fliai
lie lid raised in order fIat if should avail
hlm flic next day when lie proposcd f0 bring
la flic saule kind of evidence Ilimseif.
After having nalcd fIai. commission, coinposéd of five members of parliament, f0 a
declaration tai. fliat evidence wvas admissible, lie Iet flic evidence continue in order
to fake advantagc thc nexi. day of flicir
judgmcui. f0 put in flic evidence le wantcd;
but wîca flic commission saw fthc nexi. day
thai. tliey liad been entrappcd into niaking
a decision which availcd flic accuscd, fhcy

SEI,,ATE
chianged tbeir ruling. and decided that the
samne kind of evidence that they had allowed the day before should flot go in. Al
this because they saw the importance to'
their pnrty of flot admitting the evidence,
whiclî, on the previous day's finding, should
have gone ID.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-What argument
does that present agalnst my Bill ?
Hon. Mr. DANflTRÀND-It presents this
argument, Ihat the hon, gentleman wants
an inquiry conducted îvith absolute impartiality. If you want 10 ho sure that there
will be absolute, even-handed justice done
bolh parties, you must in very many cases
and instances cati upon the Judges to sit
on sucb commissions, because lhey nre
clothed with absolte independence and remnoved from party factions and prejudices,
and have their own reputation at stake,
wbichi, as judges, lhey value, and I bave îlot
yet seen a judge, la any lnquiry. carrled
away from the ordinary rules of evidence
ln order to benefit one party or the other.
The judges ln their calm surroundlngs are
above party prejudice and passions, remain
garbed with Ibat solemn oath they take of
giving even-handed justice 10 ait conteudlng parties before them, and carry that atmosphere of catmnness and impartlity from
the bench into those inquiries, and I have
no hesilation in saying that in glving evidence before them the parties witl receive
justice lu every case.

certain Uine,

as laid doniii

the law of

evidence, they fait in mai13 cases to rench
thec actuat facts in connection ivitti a case
which would be brouglit ont before a parSo far was that
liamuentary commlttee.
enrried in the investigation as 10 the causes
of the North-west rebellion, upoîî which
committee 1 had the honour of sitting witlî
the HIon. Edward Blake, and the present
Lord Strallicona and soine others, when

certain questions were asked the thpen
Bishop Taclié upon certain points w-lich lie
declinied to answer, lie was conipetled te
answer themn under the ruies anîd regutations which governed the investigation before Ihat coînmiltee. So far w'ns that principle carried that the valet w-ho sat at the
door of the sick chamber of Sir George
Etienne Cartier was compelted, through Honi.
Edward Btake's questions 10 r-epeat tlie conversations which had taken place between
Sir George Etienne Cartier, at a lime wlien
lie was confined ho bis bcd, and the then
Father Richot. I instance those things 10
show bow far you can go in -the investigation of any malter before a parliamentary
committee, -which is restricted wlîeu il apWVe know in the
pears before the judges.
lte case lu Toronto, certain wîlnesses who
could have thrown liglil upon the charges
made against Stralton were rejected by the
judges on the ground that they only told
lhlngs Ihal they heard another party make,
statements which wouid condemn the very
men who were accused of having done wrong.
hlmseif was rebuked by the judges
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I amn Gamey
for, as they lermed il, making a speech
nterested in the second speech
very muchln
lie was trying 10 give bis explanatioli
wlth which the hion, gentleman has nc- when
much lu the samie way limat my hon. friend
companied bis expianation, which nîlght
But if you take the case of
have been conveyed in about a dozen words. did just now.
of Parnell, yen ivili find
What I was about pointing out, when I the investigation
Ihat Michael Davitt 100k no less than seven
calted attention to that portion of the hon.
explanatien. and ýyet, la
gentleman's remarks, Nvas the advantages days to make bis
the case in Toronto, wlîich w-as inivestigated
which accrue to a fuit and lhoronghi inshort tinie age, the princip)al
vestigation befere a pariiamentary commit- but a very
witness tn the case w-as stopped on the
tee, rallier than a commission of judges,
hie was iuaking a speech. New
was the latitude altowed in ail parlialuent- gî-ound Ihat
tihe bon. gentleman referrcd te the advantary commiltees la thiese investigations. I
te the judges, and he inreadily admit that party considerations very ages of reference
stanced a case of the lobacce and time palier
ofteni prevail, but the lion. gentleman knows
combines.. Those were cases w-hicti w-e-e of
that a partiamentiry commnittee, nuder the
judiciat charactei- cases ini w-hicli
British constitution, is not restricted by the a purely
lime stalute lual,% provision that judges
technicalities which prevail in a cour-t of
taw in the examination of witnesses, and shail be appointed te investigate, and, as
when judges restrict, the witnesses 10 a iy lien. fî-iend suggests, tlîey were put
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

JULY 21,.1903
under their jurîsdiction by statute. If my
hon. friend will turn to the Customs Act
passed a fewv years ago, wben the question
of the investigation of combines was provlded for, he wlll find the elghteenth clause
of chapter sixteen of 60-61 Victoria reads
as follows :
Whenever the Governor ln Council lhm reason ta believe that. wlth regard to ani' artic-le
of commerce. there exisa an>' trust, combination. associatilon or agreement of any kind
among manufacturers of suoh article, or dealers therein. to unduly enhance the price of snch
article or in ani' other way te iindu-ly promote
the advantage of the manufacturer or dealer st
the expense of the consumer. the Governer In
Council mai' commission, or empower any judge
of the Suprerne Couet. or Exehequer Court of
Canada, or ani' Superior Court ln ani' province
of Canada. to Inquire ln a au'mmary wai' Into
and report to the Governer ln Council whether
auch trust. combination, aseatbon or agreement exisa.
Here there Is a distinct power given to
the Governor ln Couneil to reter these cases
of cambinations, If sucli exist among the
manufacturera, ta tbe judges to take evidence and to report. Tbese are cases mot
at ail ln point wlth those whlch are almed
at by the Bill before the Hanse.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-But
would be affected by the Bill.

whicb

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not at
aIL Tbey are flot of an extra-judiclal
character, and conseqnently would flot be
affected by the law as it exlsts in reference
to sncb combines. 0f course, I make that
statement as a layman, with ail due deference to -the legal standing of my bon.
friend. The principal and only object of
this Bill Is to remove the power of the
Crown to appoint judges to Investigate extra-judicial cases of a seini-poltical cbaracter. and ilothing more.
I was glad
to bear my bon. friend cite the opinion,
which I have beard, of the late Sir John
M4acdonald, given ma-ny and many a time,
la reference ta the judg-es. Fie laid down
the principle that once a judge accepts
a parcbment from thie Crowîî and takes his
seat on the bencbi, that should be a finalty,
and the reason ho gave, ln discussîng the
question with myseif, n'as the moment a
an accepts a judgeshlp lie should be removed altogether from the possibility of the
idea of promotion while on the bencb, for
fear it might éinterfere with bis judgment,
particularly la cases in which the gaverament af the day, who would bave the power

of making the promotion, mighit have an influence upon bis mind wbich, if be knew
he was totaliy and thoroughly independent
af any goverament, wonld flot be the case,
and would flot bias him one way or anather.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toront)-Is It; flot a fact
that the same rigbht hanourable gentleman ln
Ontario pramated pretty nearly every judge
wham he appointed ta the beach fram one
judicial position to another ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-By
wbom 9
Hiou. -Mr. KERIR (Toronta)-By hlm).
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I am
not prepared ta say yes or no ta that question. I amn, from a layman's standpoint,
appraving of the utterances of the bon.
gentleman who bas just spoken, and I am
repenting what I heard Sir John Macdonald
say over and over again. That I state pasitively from my own knowledge of what took
place.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Preaching la
one thlng; practice la anather.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hion, gentleman may be correct ln one or
two cases, but I am nat prepared to admit
or deny wbat he says. There may have
been, and undanbtedly there were exceptions ta the ruIe; but even If there were exceptions ta the rule, I do flot knaw that
that detracts in the least from the soundness
of the position which the hon. gentleman
(Hon. Mr. Dandurand) bas taken, and I
shall be very giad ta mee it carried ont ia
the future and for the reasons which I have
given. These questions that are suppased
to require a judicial mmnd ta adjudicate
upon cauld be reierred ta eminent lawyers
lnstead of ta the judges. What I desire ta
say, and aIl I intended ta say on this question, Is that experience bas taught me-aIthongh I admit again that I was guilty af
referring sucb matters ta judges la the
past-that the soaner we depart froin that
practice the better. As an Illustration af
it, wben my hon. friend n'as making his
speech tbe han. member for Grey (Han. Mr.
Landerkin) interjected something about the
Pacfiec scanda]. That is tbirty years aid,
yet the action af the judges upan that very
question stili rankies in the breats af those
wlîo were opposed ta tbe government at

SENATE
witli
the time and who believed, and believe to ouglit to consider in colînection
this day, that the judges did flot do their this Bill. Have the judges the lime t0 give
duty, thougli one eminent gentleman who to these investigations ? Is il not a fact
sat on that commission is now a miember that during tbe last 1w-cire monlis somne
of this Flouse whose bonesty and integrlty seven judges iii the province of Ontario have
I do flot thinlc any one wiil impugn. Tiiere had 10 do the work of tweire. judges. That
the Liberal party, as in subsequent cases, some of tbem, of course, wcre unable to
took the ground tbat yeu could iiot get serve on account of iliness, but the prinijustice and could flot reacli the trutli If cipal reason w-as Iliat the ollier judges' lime
you. referred accusation made against a was s0 occupied in investigations outside of
minister to any judge of tlic land, ind if îny their actual judicial duty that tliey couid
recollection serves nie riglit, no one took niot attend 10 the business of 1hie courts.
rlThe mesuit
a stronger position on that point tlîan my Wliat is the resuit of that
opposite (the lion. Seeretary of is that during the late session of the icgishon. f riend
State). At that lime they opposed ill refer- lature of Ontario, tbey passed a law asking
ence to judges. The party with which 1 was for thie establisliment of anotiier court
connected took the other ground. Experience and the appointment or tliree extra
seems 10 bave tauglit tbem that to give 10 .iudges, so that iii future, for that provjudges now, under restrictions. the investiga- ince, tliey wrill have fifteen judges inistead
ion of sucli matters, is the best and most of twreire, w-lien, if ni! information lie
equitabie way to reacli the truth. Ex- correct, seven of the present tweire
perience bas tauglit me, and those witli judges have had to do the work of the
whom 1 act, that the contrary ls the fact, tw-elve during the last year, largely for the
and that honest though the finding of the reason I bave suggested, that their lime
judges may be, the party niaking the was occupied in investigations wbicb miglit
charges will believe that they did flot gel just as weh have been made by eminent
justice. 1 have already referred 10 the lawyers or by committees of the Flouse of
case of Sir Adolphe Caron. We know wlial Assembiy. My lion. frlend opposed the appoinîment of extra judges In the province
the resuil of the investigation by judges Int
the West Elgin case was. We know how the of Quebec a year or 1w-o ago, not because
accusers were restrlcte-d In the mode of in- tbere were flot judges enougli lu tbe provestigation. We know tbat the charges vince, but because of the systemn wbicli preof corruption whlch were laid at the door vails In that province of compeihing judges
of the accused were not 10 be investigated. ho iive in certain localities and perform the
The evidence was restricted 10 criminal acts, judicial dulies arising in tliose iocalities
or acts whlcb were supposed t0 be crimlnal, alone. The premier himself referred 10 the
by the officiais of the governmenl aI the practice la the province of Quebec as antime, and so far dld il go that Conservative tique and out of date. Another member of
lawyers were flot ailowed 10 appear on be- parliament, an eminent lawyer, referred tl&
laf of the prosecution in Ibat case. I amn the tact that some judges liad but ten or
not findig fauit, and I do not desire to 1w-elve cases lu the wliole year and that
be understood as condemning the finding hey were brougbt up 10 assist iu doing- work
on that case of Judge Morgan, wbo was a in Montreal. Anoîlier case w-as that of a
Conservutive judge, appoiluted by a Conser- gentleman w-ho sliould lire at Rimouski, or
vative governmient; but 1 do say tbis, that Gaspé, I forget w-hich, but refused 10 live
thie restrictions whicli were thrown around there. He lived in Quebec, and iiaviiig but
him, and the finding 0f tiat judge niways one case to try, paid the amount invoired
ieft tlie impression upon the minds of those ont of lils ow-u pocket rallier than go down
wvlo desired a more thorougli and rigid ho try IL. I do not give those cases on xny
Investigation, Iliat lie did not act as lie own autliority; they -are 10 lie found lu tlie
wouid have done in that case had lie had * Debates.' but because tue governmnielit
a free liand. I do xîot say that because, xvouid not cliange what thîey admit is au anrestricted as lie w-as. the l)robabiiities tiquated systeni and compei tlie judges to,
are that lie couid not go furtber than take circuits as lbey do in Ontario, Ilie
lie did. There is another point that w-e work was not eveniy distrîbuted.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JILY 21, 1903
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But the Do- Treadgoid investigation wbich lie bas been
minion government cannot do It. Tliat be- appolnted to make ; but when you reflect
tbat but a few montbs ago he was a mernlongs to the provincial power to regulate.
ber of the House of *Gommons, a representaH-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-TbVlere
tive of the people-that lie %vasthec rnouthIs a way of reaching those tbings which my
piece of the goverament upon that very
bon. friend knows as well as Il do. Whlle
question-that lie defended ail tbat tbey bad
that power exists lu the provincial legisiadone la grantlng those concessionis to Treadture, the paying of the salaries rests wlth
gold and others, and declared thiat these
tbis goverument, and If they reduce the salaries to sucli an exteiit that nobody ivould concessions were lu the interest, not only
of the miners, but of the whole country,
take the position, compliance with whnt
does any one suppose that lie accepts that
they are requlred to do could be easlly
position and commences that Investigation
reached. And so It would be with those
wlthout being prejudiced ln bis mind as to
appolntments to commissions. I heard one
the correctness of the course that lie purjudge makze the suggestion that whule he sued wbien la parliament ? If lu maklng
bad doubt as to the constItutionality of the
au Investigation be cornes to tbe conclusion
Bill of my bon. friend, there was an easy
that tbey are not lu the lnterests of the
way of reaching the judges hy reducing
people, tben lie Is to make a report lu direct
their salaries If they attempted to perform
condemnation of bis own statements and
any work other than that whicb should be
action, and the course hie pursued lu pariaperformed la the regular course of their
ment a year and a baîf ago. Wbule flot
duties. lu cases of tlint kind, wviiere judges
inpugning that bon. gentleman's bonesty,
are appointed to perform other duties ontwill the people belleve-that In the point I
side of those wbich pertain to their particuwisb to, make-If lie reports ln accordance
lar office, suitors must of necessity suifer,
with the course that lie pursued la the
and as judges are by law removed from tbe
House of Commons, that lie was Impartial
political arena by belng prevented from
lu coming to that decision? Then, ag-ain, I
vottng at elections, there caxi be no good
nnderstand the reference wblcb Is made to
reason wby tbey should flot be prevented
hlm and the question tbat lie bas to Investifrom accepting positions sucb as have been
gate is as to the character of the concession,
accepted by tbemn ln cases of a semi-political
the eifect which it bas on the iinining Incharacter. WIthout pursulng this subject
dustries and upon tlie people of that counfurther, I venture the assertion that ninetytry, and flot Into the charges -iich were
aine per cent of the people of Ontarlo--I
boidly made i n the House of Gommons
would say, of ail the provinces-are fully
across the floor as to the corruption wbich
ln accord wlth the principle embodied ln the
It la alleged tool, place la the granting Of
BUI now before the House, but there are
these concessions.
reasons, political. and otberwise, whicb lnHon. Mr. DANDURAND-There was no
duce members of this House, and would no
doulit Induce members of the other House, charge made.
to vote against It. Some have asserted tbat
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No
lt la a direct attack upon tbe Ontario provincharge of what ?
cial goverament. That my bon. friend reHon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-Tbere were no
pudiated. Others would vote against It for
charges of corruption made lu the House
the reason tbey have corne to thc conclusion that to pass a Bill of this character, of Gommons. There was no vestige of thema.
at this particular moment, Inopportune as The opposition was defied to bring tbem.
my bon. friend ternis It, would be an InHon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Tbey declined
direct condemnation of the different govern- to make charges. Tbe3- declined the rements wbo have appointed judges to investi- sponsîbility of makling charges.
gate questions of a semi-political character
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW\ELLI-Thierc
whicb have been before parliarnent. I bave
known Judge Britton for many years before was brouglit before the House of Gommons
lie was a judge. 1 do Dot say, nor do I the proceedings of the Liheral organization
Insinuate, that that judge will give any at Dawson in which charges of the grossother than an impartial judgment upon thc est and most flagrant corruption wcre made.

SENATE
If my hon. friend froni Toronto will ex- Treadgold concession. Now, those charg-es
cuse me for making use of the expression, were nlot referred to the judge, and that
matthat is one of those bluffs which inmbers of bringýs me back f0 where I started ; no
ter what bis findîngs may be, It will tend
by exparliament sometimes .atteml)f,
and bis posiclaiming 'moake the charges here sO we to lower the judge's influence
tion In the mlnds of the people, and the ohThat is the
can hiold you responsibie.'
ln asking the Senate
position that w-as taken by the goveru- 3ect of my hon. friend
to pass bis Bill ls to prevent such a resuit.
ment and tbeir supporters wben charges
were piaced in my bands in the Cooic Apart from ail the tecbnicaity-apart.from
statements
I did not inake the accu- the different arguments and
ineestigation.
hon. tric:!d and
knowledge which have been made by mny
sation frein my own pcrsoal
Bill, w-mît we siîould as
that Mr. Cook was asked for $10,000 others against fuis
the
I produced, a parliament endeavour to do is te keep
for a seat in this flouse. \Vhiaf
judges in sucb a position that tbey should
was a letter written by Mr. Cook bimself
oeen for years and
and othier docunientary eviclence and refer- reniain, as they have
years past. above suspicion, and tlie best
red the charges to a committee. If you reway t0 do that is t0 1)revelit thiein
fer to the proceedlngs of the Senate at that possible
froni dabbling ln politica ln any way. Tbey
time you wil flad that my hon. frlend from
to vote ; questions of law
Grey (Hon. Mr. Landerkiîî) illoved a resolu- are not ailowed
are referred te them ; their decisions are
thon to thro,% ont rny motion to refer it te thec
to be, witbout quescommittee unhess I took the responslbility accepted, as they ought
tion, and 1 can only repeat that, so far as
upon myseif of making those charges.
ls concerned ln referNow, that Is precisely the position of thnse my Indîvidual. opinion
ence to these commissions, I bave changed
who wish to have the Treadgoid charges
1 thought at one time that
investIgated. The charges were made, and It completely.
the best way to Investigate sucli matters
one of tbem partlcularly by the present ad-,
tbem t0 judges. The Liberai
ministrator of those territories, Mr. Cong- was te send
party, led by my bon. friend ln this Hlouse,
don, and by the Dawson Lîberai Association.
bis supporters, condemned that principle
The charges in parliament were based upon and
ln the strongest possible language. They,
hon. friend la technically correct
that. M1ýy
have cbanged their views on thls
w'hen he says that the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, however,
question as they have upon very many
member for Montmorency declined te take
1 believe that the time is not far
tbe responsibility on hiluself of makiag tbe others.
distant w.ben even the hou. gentleman wbo
charges ; but I repeat that was only throywn
bias made a speech to-day against this Bill
at hlm la order to place hlm lu the position
will argue as earnestly and iogically in favof b'eing the accuser when he could have
some such legisiation. The day is
no knowiedge of tlic fadas other than those our of
fast approaching when this Iluse will corne
phaccd lu bis -bauds, and which had been
t0 the conclusion that the furtber the parmade by the people of Dawson themselves.
liament of Canada can remove the judges
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If tbc hou. gen- lu the country from the Influences whlch
tleman will aiiow me, 1 draw his atten- may surround tbem ln acting on commistion f0 the difference between bis position sions of thîs kind the better it will be nlot
lu the Cool, matter and bbc position of the only for the judges themselves, but for the
hon. member for Montmorency lu connection country at large. There are eminent lawwith the Treadgold mabter la the other yers who can be selected *wbo understand
House. Iu thc Cook Investigation, the let- the technlcalities of tbe law and tbe iaw of
fer of Mr. Cool, contained an accusation, a evidence, jusf as well as the judg-es tbemcharge sufficiently concise f0 be open to selves. They could be appointed to make
lavestigate, but lu the letter wilcb Mr. these Investigations Insfead of tbe judges,
Casg-rain put before tbe other bouse, there and even if they were accused of partiality,
was no charge whlch could go te any kind it would not have tbat effect upon the pubof jury ln the world.
lic mmnd that the finding of a judge xiill
it be lionest or dishionest.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE POWnELLI-Tiiere have, whether
1 regret that my hon. friend bas moved the
were charges of improper conduct on the
hoist, because I think la bis
part of officiais lu coniuection with that six months'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW.ELL.

JULY 21, 1903

beart hie believes the principle invoived in
the Bil1l is correct, and if it were not for
otiier reasons tlait those wvhich lie bas advanced to-day, lie would vote for the Bill.
Taking It from a party standpoint, I bave
no doulit bis motion -will carry, but you
may depend upon It that that motion wIll
flot lie approved of by tbe people of tbis
country. The people bave been aroused upon this question, and If the goverament appeai to tbem on tbat issue tbey will lie as
overwbelmingly defeated as xvas the Manitoba Liberals yesterday.

665

in a vcry flagrant case, ernployed judges in
a political matter-the eînployment of revising barristers.
Hon.
ber of
wou.ld
not a
tume.

Mr. PERGUSON-I was not
the governuient. If I liad
bave miade a mistake, but,
member of the government

a mnirbeen, I
I was
of that

Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-Because I think that Is
the inost glaring case we bave liad in this
under an Act of parliament,
country, %w-lere,
the government took power to appoint
judges, b:îrristers, notaries public and advocates to prepare the liet upon wbicb that
governaient was to be k-ept In power. Thiat
Is piactlcally the mneanîng of IL Tbey did
The panticular
not appoint ail judges.
In one county a
judges wvere selected.
judge wvas selected, and in another county
a junior judge was selected, and la another
county a notary, and in another county a
barrister of live years' standing. No unifonni
course was adopted, aad the natural inference wvas-although I will flot say they acted
Improîerly-that they appolnted friends of
the administration. Thene la no doulit about
that. Tbe evidence was perfectly dlean. And
that continued for years, and It seemed to
me, wben quotiag opinions of Ministers of
Justice about employiag judges In mattens
la %vlîicl political questions arose, that tbey
did not apply. The necessity of employing
judges lu matters of the klnd thiat bave

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tle arguments for and
against the adoption of tiîis Billi have been
very fully, and I thinlc very fairly placed
before the mnibers of this Ilouse. I must
join in the congratulations that have been
offered to the lion. gentleman froîli MLarshifield for the industry that lie exiîibited lu
getting up lus-shaI 1.call it a case ? It le
worthy of tluat xuame. because certainly, the
bon. gentleman went Into a v-ery deep Investigation of the vrnoua autliorities, that
either nearly or remotely bore upon the
subject. 1 did not ngree wIth is conclusions, and I thouglît In sonie Instances they
were scarcely consistent, particularly wben
bie quoted tbe opinions of the several Ministers of Justice and Attorneys Genieral wbo,
while tiîey consldered tlhat It was qulte proper for tbe federal governnîent to Issue coinmissions to judges, yet denied the sanie
riglit to the provincial governmnents. My
prompted tbe debate to-day-tbat le the apbon. friend sbiales bis bead.
of judges at Toronto ln the
Hon. 3Mr. 1 FERGUSONI-None of thieni did pointient
Gamey Inquîry-was a necessary sequence
tbat.
of the old condition of tbings. I can recolHon. Mr. SCOTT-I thinik lt is very easy lect perfectly well wlîeu controverted electo point to snch cases.
tions were tried by pariament, and a more
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I pointed to no unfortunate systemi couid not bie conceived.
It was only because we ail feit that a
sucli Case.
change was absolutely necessary tbat tbe
Hon. MINr.SCOTT-The lion, gentleman change was made.
condeînned the issue of commissions by the
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Dr whom waa It
provincial governaients. while at the sanie
time the federal g-overnment year by year nmade ?
have been Issuing commissions to judges
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-By the Ma1.ckenzie govfor political1 inquiries. of a sijailar char- ernment, 1 think.
acter.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-By Sir John MacHon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-I condenînied theni donald's government.
ail.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Dutall
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think the lbon, gentle- the appeals in the case of votera' lista bad to
man was a member of- a government which, be decided by the cou nty court judge before

SENATE
the law to wiîich the ligen, gentleman refers
Nvas l)lace(1 on the statute-book.

Boyd, 1 have niever heard the slightest imputation against the thoroughness of any
judgmient lie ever gave, and I think, in
justification of the part taken by the judgcs,
I eau call on no better witness than the
counsel for Gamey. 1 bave under my hand
here the observations made by Mr. Blake
lu winding Up the case, in which hie pointed
out that no evidence had been rejected. I
understood one bon. gentlemanl who Speke-

Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-P.ut the revising barrister nmade Ul) the list. Hie was the party
w-ho real! wvas responsible for the list, but
in formier days, before references to judges,
where election trials were tried by parliamient, it became a perfect farce. There wvas
an oId saying : 'Sliow mue your coimmlttee,
and I will tell you ivhat the resuit will be.'
un,te leader tii unet ujpttiîî't onwa
Tw o w oie e]octed on onue side, and two on I thn
wa drw by der the impression that evidence hiad been
' ,
1e
rejeted. Now, Mr. Blake in bis stheinent
ballot, and it w-as the universal rejnarlc
says
Show mie your chairman. and if you are
I feed sa.bisfied that lt has been a great satfortunate in selecting a chairnian of your
the
isfaction to those that I represent here.
stripe, the decision of the commi t- people of tbis province. that so wide a acope
political
evidence whlzh
tee will be your w-ay,' and it became abso- lias been givetu and that ail the
been tendered lias been recelved by your
lutely necessary to remit those cases to the lias
Lordships.
judges.
Tha t rather contradicts the staternt
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-And whvlîi soine lion, gentleman made, that somne
that was a miistake.
evidence w-as rejected. 0f course, evidence
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-There was no other way of a hearsay character would bave been
rejected by any tribunal. Even a commithee
of gettiug at it.
of parliament Nvould neyer be justified lu
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Except
haking liearsay evidence. The evidence tlîat
by a special court for that purpose.
x-as admitted by the judges was just the
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Unifortunately our con- saine character of evidence tlîat wvould have
dition is suecb, xwben î,olitical feeling gets lu beeii adn-ihed had it beeii a commnittee of
the ascendancy, it is impossible to flnd a the House.
satisfactory tribunal. Even If they desire
Hon. Mr. POIRIFER-Hearsay evidence
to act discreetîr and without bias, one way
or the other, the public %vill nlot give tbem against the party is admitt-d.
credit for ih, because the public believe ln
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
the weakness of humau nature, and there is
evidence
Hon. M1r. POIRIER-Hearsay
no other tribunal, lu my judgment, except
ail admît that against interest is admihhed by, the court.
the judges avillable. and we
in Canada particularly we are blessed with
Hon. Sir ALPHONISE PELLETIER-Oh,
judges of a very liigh character. You have no.
never heard the slîglitest reproach on a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
judge, except recently wlien the judges gave
POIRIER-Oh, yes.
Hon. MINr.
a decision. lu regard to this Gamey matter,
that was not acceptable To one part of the
Hon. MUr.SCOTT-I will rend Mr. Blake's
community. That was a subjeet on wbicli
He
concluding words in the argument.
men were divided. and no matter how
wound up with tliese remnarks:
honesh they miight desire to be, yet they
O)n the part of the people of Ontario, I leave
were open ho that unfortunate suspicion, this m'atter with mu<-h confidence in the hands
that their jidgmeat was prejudiced. Those of the comrnissioners. men known and honoured
hîgli position, for
two judges are men who both stand very in our community for tbedr
their honour and the4r aulity.

1 may s-ay they

They were not known as Liberal are men whom I have companiosied with ail
higli.
judges. They were botli appointees of the my 11f e and I know whereof I speak.
,ate Sir Johin Macdonald, and cerhainly 11o
That is a tribute from the counsel for
main-and I have beeni familiar xwihh the Gamey, who certalinly was net dissatisfied
judges for fifty years-bas stood higher witb witb the attitude of the judges. 1-e Lad
the judiciary of Ontario. than Chancellor the most unlimihed confidence in the judgHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIL.

JIJIY 21, 1903

ment tbeY would give. He feit satisfied
there ivould lie no bias or prejudice, that it
would lie a fair judgment on the evidence
tendered to thein, and therefore, It might
fairir lie conciuded, wben the passions of
the bour bave passed aivay, and men look
back on it, perhaps a year or two hence,
that a great deai of the criticism passed
on the two learned judges who had the adjudication of the case on lîand was unfair
and ninjust. Ccrtaiîîly there wouid be no
other %,%av of trying that case. I as. lbon.
gentlemen, supposing it bad gone to aLcoinmlttee of the House, wbat wouid bave bnppeued ? It would have been a case of five
on one side, and four on the other. Does
any one suppose for a moment that the verdict -%ouid flot have been just tbe saine ?
No doulit about that. As the judges declded lu the w'ay they did, certaily the
committee of the House wouid not have decided the other way. That you may count
upon. Whether that committee -was coinposed of one poiticai party or the other,
who happened to be advocating the vlews of
tbelr own side, their vlews would bave been
tbe sanie. Any man who bas haqd any long
experience of parliamentary life, will admit
that It Is absoluteiy Impossible, when political feeling runs high, to get meni to
weigb the case with the saine lmpartiaiity
as is done by the judges. A good ideal bas
been sald about the inopportune time at
wbich tliis Bill has -been introduced. That
Is quite apparent. Had that Gamey case
flot arisen, my hon. friend wouid flot bave
thougbt of this B-II. It would flot have occurred to hlm, and It la taken as a censure
on the judges and a censure on the Ontario
governinent, and the government nt Ottawa,
because the selection of Justice Britton la

drawn into the controversy and lie ls referred to as haviné somne connection witli
the facts of the Yukon scandai, and a critidasm lias been made on the propriety of bis
being made. So that thîs Bill is a vote of
want of confidence ln the goveranent of
the day, and aiso a vote of censure on the
governinent of Ontario, which, I think, is
very unfortunate and very unseemly, and I
am quite sure .the motion of my bon. friend
who moved the six moutîs' hoist will car-ry.-

667

marks. It bas been aiways considered, in
Ontario especiaiiy, that the judiciary have
been of tbe very highest and most incorruptible order. Botb parties alike bave united lu giving expression on many occasions to that effect. It lias been ai rule tliat
not oniy with this governinent, but ail preceding governments, to cail upon the judiciary to, decide certain questions, and in
askinig two of the most prominent, able and
capable judges In Onîtario to decide iii a
matter where a inember of the governnment
was directly cbarg-ed witbi a crinme, the
goverlîment w-as simply foilowiiîg out w'bat
bas aiways been the usuai rule and îjractice. It bas been sald that Judges have
been restricted, but It can be said in tiuis
particular case, whatever may bave been
done la the past, that the governient at
Toronto gave these judges the w-idest scope
for the taking of evidence, limiting tiîein
to, no point in any particular, but telling
thern ln their commission to take the evidence from, the very broadeat and the widest point of view ; snd we ail k-now, froin
the evidence that was given, that the judges did take the evidence witb the very widest latitude. In that evIdence re find the
man wbo made the charge and who stated
that be badl received a certain sumn of
money froin the minister, two or tbree days
later, after swearing that lie bad recelved
the money, stumplng for bis own party ln
the county of Perth. That certainly did not
look, to any one w-ho w'ouid read tue case,
that he had been brIbed or bouglit by tbe
minister. How could the Judges, ln giving
their opinion, have come to any other deeision than.that '? Then, again, since the
decision bas been given, w-bat do w-e find ?
We find these men îvbo w'ere surrounding
tbe mn who made the charge booming hlmu
in varlous constituencies at tlîe present
time.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
lbon, gentleman is going- to discuss the
Gamey charges, w'e are quite prepared to
go Into it for the next five hours, if it bas
anytbing to do with the question before
the House.

Hon. 'Mr. FROST-I ain offly drawing atHon. Mr. FROST-A§ the seconder of the tention to oxie or tîvo things, simpiy to show
motion, I desire to malze a very few, re- that-

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-That
Gamey was a rascal and Stratton au
angel.

Hon. Mr. FROST-He is to be banquetted
iii Gare Bay sbortly.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I eaul
Hon. '-%r. FROST-That the Bill brought the hiou. gentlenman to order.
lie is flot
Into this House is a direct reflection 0o1 the spealcing to the motion before the House.
judiciary of Ontario.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Did the hon. gentlemian read the evidence iii the Ganîey
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No.
case ? I dld notL
Hon. 'Mr. FROST-Cozning- after the de-'
lion. Sir MACIKENZIE BOWIELL-Tlic
cision of these two judges, this Bill is designed for the purpose of placing the judges lion. gentlemian is not !i order now. ii
outside of any further position on commis- discussing the Gamey investigation.
sions of liiquiry into sucli matters, and it
Hon. Mr. FROST-l aut not discussiug
gives every one to believe that the decision the Gainey investigation. I amn stating that
going unfavourably to a certain party, that this muail Gainey to-day is being lield lup as
it Is time that these judges were reîuoved il paragon of virtue.
from haing any fuither opportuuity of sitHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELLT--l
ii
ting on such cases. Now, at the present
afrald the lion, gentleman is forgetting somnetime, we have this man Gamney exalted al
over the country as against these judges tiîiug.who sat on this case. It is a question to-day
Hon. Mr. FROST-And I coasider It Is
of that man as against the judges, and a natter degrading to the public to do sucit
therefore, thiis evening, ln secoliding the things witlî n man of that stainip.
It is
motion of my bon. friend from Montreal, setting Up that mail as ngainst twvo of the
1 amn only, as an Ontario member of this iiteat lioxtourable judges that ait upoil the
That is tue posîtieuî I im
House, again asserting and testifying my Ontnrio beticli.
belief and my confidence !i the judiciary taklng.
of the province of Ontario, and particuHou. Mr. TEM.%PLEMýAN-Thariýt
is
in
iarly ln the two able and capable mten who order.
sat upon this commission. 1 saw a little
Hon. Mr. FIIOST-Anid If this Sellette tv(re
cllpplng iii a paper a couple of days -ago
te refuse to give tlîis Bill the six ilno.tbis'
which shows whiere the animous coules lni.
hoist, it would simply be support t ng the
They are giving this man Gamey several
contention tîtat tilis man Gamey is a parabanquets. He has been banquetted on two
goni of virtue and that the judges have heelii
or three occasions as though hie had proved
degrading their position and puittiing thteinsoniething against the Ontaro
goverument,' selves la the position of partisans, 'which
as though lie had commltted some really
we know and whicli we feel aîîd believe
creditabie act for which the judges upon
la not.true, flot only of the Judges of Onthe bencb should be coudemnied nOw for not
tario,,but of tîte judges Of any Of the Other
finding iu the saine way, aud yet we find
provinces In this Domînon of Canada.
Gamey to-day enjoying a banquet, 1 tbink
Therefore, I was very happy titis afternon
ln the city of Belleville.
to assist my biont. friend. froin Meittreal by
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-No, seconding tite mtotiont for the si-, iniitlis'
ltoist.
no such tlîing.
lion. '>%r. SULLIVAN-I first desire te
replîdiate, with ail the force antd stretgth
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWFILL-He ivitbiî nty power, the aliegation and cbare
was flot b)aniqietted. I do net say hie vvould wbiclt the hon. gentleman bas made.
No
flot be. I believe hie is mnore lionest than Conservative with aîîy respectabiiity or dethe man lie accused.
cency thmat I know of lias endersed Ga-iley
ou put bim forward iii any way ais a stanîdHon. Mr. FROST-He bas beeni there.
ard, ner desires te do so, neither Nvould any
Honl. MNr. DANDURAND-This is a slur Conservative coule lîtto power oni t]te
on the city ef Belleville.
streîtgtlî ef Garney.
Hon. %Ir. FROST.
Hon. Mr. FROST-A few days ago.

JULY 21, 1903
Hon. Mu-. TEPLEMIAN-Hear, imear.1
Hion. Mr. SULLIVAN-But what they do
He'
say us that lie should have fair-play.
was not asked by the Conservatives ta make
He wvas not put for uvard
these charges.
by them ln any way, and it was as r.uuch
news to theni as JIt was to the Liberal party
when he made bis charges. Howevcr, that
lias nothing to do wvith the Bill before us.
0f course, lt mnay be broughit la as a matter
of Illustration; but to try and fasten on the
Conservative party such a charge as that
Is exceeding]y unfair and unjust, atid tbe
bon. gentleman, ln justice ta myseif and, I
suppose, the dther Conservatives ln this
House, should withdraw bis remark at unce
I did isot lnand apologize for making it.
tend to say a word on this sub)jeceto ut I
tbink the lion. gentleman froin Marshtield
bas rendered good service lu bringiig forTherc can
wnrd a subjeet of this kind.
be no harm -whatever ln discussing it, and
there la no doubt that tie judges have sutfered by being coutamlnated w.ltb these
He that .touchetli pitcbi shahl le detrials.
filed, and tbey cannot be otherwise than defIlei by being mixed up wlth these cases.
There was a great deal of talk ln tbe legislature about the Parnell case, and about
It being the only precedent tbey liad for
That case of Parnell's
these appointmeats.
may be taken ns the arbitrary exercise by
the goverament of this power, becnuse the
London ' Times'1 was the prosecutor In that
case, as hon. gentlemen ail know, and th.e
London 'Times' bas an Immortal hatred of
Irels.nd and ail connected wlth Ireland. One
ef lts first charges agninat Ireiand was long
lbihs speech.
ago, as stated by Lord Russellin
He states that as eariy as the time of LordLieutenant Mulgave wss in Ireland lue made
tbis remark : 'We learn without any daubt
that Lord M.Nulgrave, the Lord-Lieutenant,
bas dined with the raulc and foul-moutbed
villain O'Connell,' and be called ail the
priests of Ireland, probably the nobleat
clergy on earth, 1surpliced ruffians.' Tbe
''rimes ' saîd, la Ireland's dire extremitY,
xvluen disease followed famine. and wvben
they were neglected on the part of the rulers, that they were like rats coming- fr0111
one sblp ta anather acroas a ha-wser. I
mention tbis ta show that the London
'Times' had sucb pawerful Influence with the
goverament as againat the Irish people, that
tluey had fia chance, and Lord Russell, xvbo

was then Charles Russell, who w-as defenuling the prisoner, states that fact, that the
governmen.t refused to prosecute. There is
another point that occurs ln this matter
wbieh seems singular to me, and that la why
It la, If this man Gamey was sucb a complete scoundrel-and he must elther be a
patriot or an Infernal scoundrel, one or the
other, there ls no medium position-If be
bonestly and from patriotie motives took
the course wlch he did to brlng tnis man
to justice-and It seems it is a very difficuit thlng ta do anythlng with these gentlemen ln the Ontario government.
For
thlrty years they have held power ln the
province ot Ontario and how they have exercised that power la on record~Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I do flot know that
there ls any other dynasty that bas held on
except the Chinese-and they are certalnly
not under f ree goveriiment--sucb a length
of time, and It wlll go far to modlfy the
faltb of political economists ln free government If this party ln Ontario can retain
p)ower, practioslng as they do such corruption and perpetrating sucb rascallty as
tbey bave been perpetrating for a long
time.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbey did not
steai that slip from the Ontario Bank.
Han. Mr. SULLIVAN-I do flot know anytbing about slips.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.Ç.)-It Is a
slip 0f the tongue.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Probably the liou.
gentleman tramn de Lorimier can ahswer it.
He is very clever, and no doubt can aliswer
this question: If Gamey was guilty of al
that M.r. Ross and bis associates bave aileged againat the member from Manitoulîn,
why did they flot expel hlmi from the Hlouse?
Why is a man steeped la infamny, as they
dlaim, retained as a colleague ? Mr. Rosa
gives the answer-not to ma-ke a martyr of
him. Tbat is a nice way to deal with a
criminal. That struck me as an exceedingly lame way of treating this man. lie vo-ted, as I understand, afterwards, and I do
flot think there is any other statesman, or
nman pretending to be a statesmau, like Sir
John Abbott, the Hon. David M-Nilis, Sir
Oliver MNowat or Sir John Thompson, who

SENATE
would allow that to go on as Mr. R2oss bas
donc. HOWever, we must flot go too far
into Ontario politics. I simply rose for the
purpose Of COmUPlimenting tile lion, g-entleman who bas introduced tlijs Bill.
Ile
gshowed a great dcal of research and learuIng for a man, w-ho is flot a lawycr. 1 was
struck by the forceful way in wicjh lie
placed bis vicws before this Senate. It may
be that that case in Toronto stimulated
hlm to bring forwaîd this measure. Whctber
this Bill be passed or flot, bie inust get the
credit of wliat be states %vcre bis motives
lu subinitting it to the Senate. Tla'rc is an
old Latin maxiai, ' humanuai est cri-are,'
and judges ni-e flot exempt from that lia'bil!ity to err. There are judges as pure as
any that could be îîominated by any Prime
Ministe-. and thiere are judges nominated
by the Prime Minister wbio, 1 lcnow, ni-e flot
truc to their trust. Tbe passions whicb actuated tbem before tbey became judges actate
theai now on the bencb. How was It
ln thc United States in tbe celebî-ated trial
between Hayes and Tilden before the most
impartial tr-ibunal, tbey dlaim, lu the world,
the Supreme Court of the United Stateslow did they act ? They dli-ided seven to
cigit. One party stood for Hayes and the
other w-as for Tilden, and the state was
nearly bî-ougbt to the verge of civil wvar.
I have kanown myscîf judges who dld flot
nct witb the sublime impartiality we have
lieard so mucb about, and it is possible that
gentlemen may err who are n.ppointed by
the governument as wel as those w-ho may
be elected. I aî-gued that wt.ith a gentleman
one time, and be convinced me thiat elected
judges were the best, and I. to a certain extent, agree witb hlm stilI. You get younger
mea, mor-e responsible to -the p)eople, men
w-ho xvill take care of their reputation.
Sometimes you mnay get a bad one, but he
cau be got rid of. When you get a bad oîîe
nppoiuted la Canada, you cannot dismiss
biai. 1 simply give this as the argument of
the gentleni w-ho sbiowed me many points
ln favoni- of the elective systeai. This unfortunate case that bas occurred iii Ontario bas ci-eated a feeling thiat it w'ould be
a good tbing if tbeî-e wcre any meaus lu
the future te prevent tbe appointaient of
judges on sncb commissions.
The Senate
naigbt agree te pass this ill aad treat it
w'ith tbe g«reatest respect. I ciinnot feel
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

tat it is a want of confidence ii thie goveriiment of the Dominion, or an attack on the
governuient of Ontario. Reinember, Prince
Edward Island is a province suî-ronnded
by the ocean. The atinosphere there, politically as well as morally, la purer, 1 presnme, titan It Is lu Ontario. It miust be very
bad if iL Is as bad as lu Ontario. The political uoî-ality lu Ontario, I think-, I cent safely assert, Is at the 10w-est conditionî it ever
bas reacbed in my time, anîd It is nio-'t desirable that the public moi-alitv of tIiiis
countr-y should be clcvated.
WVe cry lit
v-ain foi- ais- refori if the source of authiority bie not pure, and you w'ill iîot bave pure
judges or anytlîing cIsc until tliere is a
change. Under the principles of frec goveriinicut under wblcb we live, it is iijapossible tlîat a party could be pmure and renmain
peî-petually lu office. It is a shiame tlîat one
party sbould be subjected to notlîing elsc
but defeat and rebuif, secured ln ait unfair
manuer. If IL were tic result of pure edccLions, It wou]d be satlsfactory, but tlue Couservative people of this country, aîîd tiiose
wbo have voted Conservatîve, believe iii their
biearts, and believe firmly, that theu- pau-ty
is kept out of o'ffice by unfair and unijust
means. That Is what rankles. I admire the
greatness and xnagnanimity of thiose old
Conscrvatives-To-ies, If you %vill-w-bo,
meeting wltb defeat after defeat, close up
their ranlis with firaincas and determination
te continue the figbt. They deserve bcttcîtreatment, and I hope they will get it. The
people of Quebcc, baviug a row of chuî-ches
lu front aIl down the River St. Lawrenîce,
and haviug the Lanrentian. range at tlîeir
back, it Is Impossible for the dcvil to get li
thiere. There is just one little place open.
It just occurred to me a moment ago tlhat
th'at one little place is the Baie des Clialeurs.
There Is a possibility of bis Sataici 1mjesty
making a landing there and getting ile
Qnebec lu that way, and bie bas donce so.
When the gi-caL navig-ator liamied it tbe
Bale des Chaleurs it was niot the climate lbe
had iu view, but be spoke lu a pi-opheiic
spir-it. His prophetie viewv bas been verificd.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I only regret
the hion, gentleman bas Dot told us liowmany Consci-vatives lu tbe late provincial
elections in Ontario' were unseated as coi
pared te Liberals.

JULY 21, 1903
Ilon. Sir MCEZIBONVELL-Per- are enjoyed iii matters concerning the adhaps lie -%vould go a littie further, and say unjuiistration of our- OwNV
affairs, or. as I said
bow many were disquaiified. on theclion. before, the existence or good order of Canigentleman's side iu excess of the other, and ada, that art enj<>yed iîy the imiperial parliatien lie iniglit do as the other gentlewan ment ltself. Ia tact, our powers are codîd-try to forget soinething.
equai t0 the powvers of the liniperiai parliaHou. Mr. POlLUER-I dIo uiot propose to ment, and as the powers of the imperial pariufilt anytlîing lîke a speech on tluis honour- liamient growv, ours grow equally. Theretore,
there eau be iio doulît as to our rilit of iegable House. aithougli I intended to speak at
saime lengtli on the subject ;but the ques- islating lu the inatîner llrol)ose(l hy inî hion.
friend froin M\I.irslitieid. WVe
lave autîjorities
tion lias beeuî so thorouguly lîaîtiled and
exhaustetl tîmat 1 disike to i ttenipt uny- directiy to, the point. Maniy authorities have
thing tîjat wvould bie a repetitiou of the been cited. Unfortunately for nie. I did not
liear ail the speeches that wverc delivered
speeches and arguments,
cixl better adit the debate. but 1 shahl cite one cit se hh
vanced than I could possibiy (Io
it unyseîf.«
Hoec.I shall just say a few words certainly covers this point and establishes
heyolid a doulit that this Biii is intra.
toi justify unr vote on this question. The
question resolves itseif iido whether wve vires--or, wvlll bie, if it v'ass. wvithin our jurlahuave the riglit ta pass this legisiation and diction. I rend froua Bouriniot's Parlianientary Procedure and Practice, second edittt the opportuiieness of It. As to the right
tion, page 93, and it wilI lie the oniy auI believe unquestionably that wve bave the
riglit. As a body liaving au existence, we thiority I shahl cite :
ln 18-44. the Dcinion parlianlecai assed an
bave the lnherent riglit of doing anything
Act ImposIng on the Judges of the superlor
tiat is essential to our existence. It Is one courts of the provinces the duty of trying conof the propositions, as you know, of the troverted elections of membera of the flouse
of Commons. The question was ralaed la the
United States and Frenchi independence, but courts whether the Act contî'avenes that parIt Is aiso a proposition w*bich prevails iii ail t.lcular provision of the 92nd section of the
Nor-th Âmerica
bodies that exist. the riglit of existence. Britishl ta the provincial Act whlch exclusively
assigna
leglalaturea the power
That riglit we bave furtiier given us in the of legislatlng for the administration of justice
Act wvhiclh made us a confedieration. that is in the provinces including the constitution, maintenance and organization of provincial courte
in clause 91 of the British North Amertca of civil and criminal. Jurladiction and lncludlng
procedure in civil (flot la criminal) matters ia
Act, wbilh says :
those courts. The question came at last befare
It shall be lawful for the Queen, by and wlth the Supreme Court af Canada, which conthe advice and comsenlt of the Senate and House stltuted as a full court of four judges, unaniof Com-mona. ta make laws for the peace, order moualy held :
That w.hetber the Act establshed a Dominion
and good governmttnt of Canada, ia relation ta
ail matters flot comlng wlthln the classes of court or not the- Dominion parliament bave a
perfect riglit te give ta the superior court o!
subJects by this Act asslgned excluslvely to the
the respective provinces and the .judges thereof,
leialaturez of the provinces.
the power. and Impose upon theni the duty. o!
members of the
That clause, as you are aware, bon. gen- trylng contraverted elections o! flot, la utilizlng
House of Commons, and did
tlemen, especially those amtongst you who exIating judiclal officers and establleh courts
have followed politicai events for niany ta discharge the dutiesasssigned te theza by that
Act la any par-ticular invade the right of the
years, bas been interpreted by ail the lead- local legislatures. That upon the abandonin-g jurists of the Dominion as giving ln- ment by the House o! Commoas of the jurisdiction exerclsed over controverted elections,
deed the very widest scope to the parlia- wlthout express legislation thereon the power
ment of Canada.
We ail remember the of dealing therewlth. wauld fsîl, Ipso facto,
wlthin. the Jurisdictian of
debate that took place here on the question of the provinces by virtuethecf superlor courts
the inherent
of a. Deputy Speaker, and what was then orierlnal jurisdiction of such courts aver civil
rizlits. That the Dominion parlismeat bas a
sal4 by Mr. Angers, and the hon. the pre- rizht ta Interfere with civil rights, when necessent Secretary of State, agreeing with hlm sary for the pur.pose of legislating generally
and other leadiug lighlts of the Dominion, and efieotually in relation te matters canfided
ta the parhiament af Canada.
that by that clause we are indeed given the
Thnt belng appealed to the Privy Counceil
widest and largest power. Now, in additheir lordships expressed these' opinions tion of this clause. there is the imperial
Tha-t there la no doubt about the power of
Act of parliament of 1875 %Nvhielh gives to
the Dominion Darliament to impose new duties
the parlianment of Caniada ail powers that unon the exisiti-ng provincial court or te give

SENATE

thera new powers as to matters w5sich do n'it
corne within the classes of subjects assigned
exclusavely to the legisla-tures ot the provinces.
If we bave the power 10 impose such,
duties upon the judges, we bave certainly
tbe power 10 restrict tbeni. The less is coutaiiied is tbe greater ; tbe greater powel*
carnies witb il limitations of Ibat power,
therefore we undoubtedly can to-day assiga
10 judges of tbe Superior Courts, the Supreme Court of Canada, and otiier courts
of tbe provinces, except peî-lsaps certa in
courts of -New Brunswick and Nova Scotia,
w-bat restrictions w-e tinkî advismhle as 10
the limit of Ibeir jurisdiction. There eaunot, in nsy estimation, be any serious contraThis Bill, if il
diction of that position.
passes, will be intra vires. But the other
question arises, altbougb wve have the power
unquestionably to pnss tbis Bill, is it opportune ?~ That is the question to be discussed. Lt w-as alleged aI tbe beginning 0f
the discussion bere-cbarged, I mnay say,
againsî mýiy bou. friend from M.Narshfield,
Ibat matters -çç-blh recently 100k place in
Ontario caused hlmi to introduce Ibis Bill.
This be denies. The discussion went on
unies wbilh I stated hefore, as 10 our power
10 pass Ibis Bill; but of laIe tbe question
bas been connected with tise Gamey
from
gentleman
bon.
the
by
affaîr
appears
It
(Hon. Mr. Frost).
Leeds
tbe Bill bas been brought about in consequence 0f recent alleged scandais la Ontario. That will permit me to, say just one
word concerning wbat bas taken place.
Criminal Iaws, or laws of any kind, should.
flot be made except 10 defend rights or 10
check evils. This Bill no doubt would not
bave been brought in bad flot occasion for
introducing il arisen. I cannot for a moment think but that tbe receat events i
Ontario bave had sometbing 10 do wilb it.
Now the Coniservatives bave becu aslked
w-hethier Gamcy is, in our cycs, a paragon
of virtue. I do not believe bim 10 be that
but I go further and say veî-y few concernied
w-ith the Gamey charges could be called
Witbout reteri-ing t0
paragons of virtue.
any one la particular, I miay say, it lias beesi
a -id show. I, for one, coiining froiua tise
lIo-%er provinces and baving 'been told- of
the bigli standard 0f vis-tue of Ontariobiaving rcad about tlie superioriîy of thiat
pr-ovince, the goodniess of Toronto, wvas
sbocked t0 finid, by reading the evidencee ini
Hon. Mr. POIRIERL

that case, that the people of Ontario -re
no better than the people of the province of
Quebec, xvere hunian like the people of the
lower provinces. 31y bon. friend from Grey
(Hon. Mr. Landerkin) the other day, ii a
discussion on the Douh-bobors, told us that
an Englishiman ivas equal to tbree nien of
any other nationality. My bon. friend froin
Merner) sbuddercd at bearBerlin (Hou. M-Nr.
inig tbis. Of course my bon. friend meant OIîtario people, because no Englishman dlainis
to be equal to three meni. An Englishinami
The
is satisfied to be equal to the best.
resuit of the investigation iu the Gaxniey:
niatter lends me to believe tisat if an Ontario
man is equal 10 threc other men, it is l taîl
swearing. Since the Gamey case bas heen
brought up, wbat we bave beard of it lis
been of a nature 10 create a deep and<
sad impression, not oiily ln this country,,
l>ut abroad. We rend, two or threc wecks
ago, wh'at a candidate for academic bionours
said about Canada-that il w-as a spot to
which any one could go without needing a
character. That was immediately after tIse
Gamney affair, so Ibat the scandai of tIsat
investigation did pass the boundaries of our
Dominion, and Il Is deeply to be regretted.
Somc bon. speaker bas referred 10 a judge,
a very 'honouraible man-I know hlm 10 be
most honourable-who bas been appolinted
to deal îvitb the Treadgold concession. Mark
titis, that very samne gentleman would today be cballenged for cause on a jury.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Hear, bear.
Hlon. Mr. POIRIER-Hc would indeed be
cballenged. No judge would enipanel him ;
yet bere be is not onlY one juryman
out of twelve, but sits as sole juror and
sole'judge. If that is not a scandai it is
pretty near one. Sudsi inistances bave tictcrmined my lion. friend 10 introduce tuis
Bill1. I will unI charge the present goveruil
ment with baving sinned alone, if sin there
is in Ibis particular uine. I w'ell reinember
when the Canadian Pacifie Railway scandai
wvas tried Nv-bat lise Liberzil papers of that
limie said about the constitution of the court.
The trouble was slarted by the Conservatives, and il haý gone on increasingly
untili it bas culminaled in these Gamey ansd
Treadgold scandais. Wrbat niiglt not be sufficient aI tlic beginning 10 jnstify a law, of
Ibis nature, subsequent developments inay,
and I firmly believe do niowý justify .A r-

JULY 21, 1903
petitioî of such facts is constantly going
on1 wîth resuits of a nîost grievous character. Therefore, although naturally reluctant- f0 have criminal and other laws to
meet every particular case, as dn the case of
the labour question ln Montreal, in this.
case here, as there bas been a repetitlon of
affairs that have been derogatory to the
good name of the country and especially t0
the high standing whicb our courts occupy,
and which tbey sho'uld and must occupy,
1 shall reiuctantly be compelled, by the necessities of the situation, to cast aiy vote ln
faveur of this Bill and ag-ahîst the six
months' hoist.
Hon. MNr. SULLIVA'N-When I rose before,
I lntended to speak of Mr. Justice Britten,
and as I have been acquainted with.bim fol
forty-five years, living in the same town, 1
wlish to explain tbat a great deal of wbat ls
considered partisan about hlm may be mislnterpreted. Judge Britton bas a strenuous
and extraordinary way of dolng anything.
In any court-and I have bad experience
wlth hlm ln many courts and have been
ivith him on many occasions-whatever he
does he does apparently %vithail bis heart,
and a maix looklng at hlm would think he
was a great deal more partisan than a man
w-,ho would be calmer and conceal bis
thoughts. As t0 bis personal character, of
course lt la beyond reproacb, as iny lion.
friend <Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowe1ll knows.
No man bas a hlgher repute ln the clty o!
Kingston than Judge Britton.
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-As the bion. genxtlemen f rom Wellington (Hon. Mr. MeMullen) had a right to speak to-day and was
not able t0 avail himself of if on account of
being absent attending a funeral, I thought
the uxost regular way to proceed would be
that w-e should adjourn the debate and permit the hon. gentleman, as weh as others, to
discuss the question to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no ;w-e lîad better,
finish it now. When I made file sug-gestion
fo ndjourn it w-as opposed. 1 fhougbit the
feeling- of tue House w-as %vehad better gâ
on w-ifh It and get rid of it to-day.
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-I
inlysel! of ftxe privhlege to
discussion bas reached the
sorry the opportunity the

w-ould niot avail
speak untless ftxe
close. I am very
hon, gentleman

from Wellington seeîns to desire la not
afforded hlm.
1Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-We will apologize to hlm.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have tiot x'ery
much f0 reply t0 la the arguments adducec
againat ny -Bill. There have been a good
many fhings said that conte w-ithin the atmosphere of the subjeet, but very fe'v
indeed of the points w hich have beeli presented to the House have any direct beariîîg
against the Bill. Before, lîowever, picking
up one or two of these points, 1 wvant te
deal with the stateaxent made by the lion.
gentleman froin Snîith's Falls (Hlon. 'Mr.
Frost). I am nlot golng f0 follow that hon.
gentleman, or others, itfo a discussion as to
whether Gamey is a demon or Stratton an
angel. I do nlot think these questionîs corne
properly within the discussion of this question, and I have studiously avoided reference to them. But the hon, gentleman from
Smith's Falls made this statement, tbat it
bas heen usual, when a member of parliament ls cbarged witb a crime, t0 refer the
inatter to the Investigation of judges by
commission. x&ll I have tu say ln regard to
that Is tbat wben a man commits a crime,
be he a member of parliament or any one
else, the proper place to send hlm ls to the
courts of bis country-not to send 1dm before a judge ln bis shirt sheeves, but f0 a
court witb all the solemnlty of a court of
justice. That applies to ail meni in this
free country. But w-bat my hon. friend
ineant t0 say wns fliat when members of
parliament, or of the administrationi, are
clîarged w-ifh political misdemeanors, the
usual course was to send tiiose charges
for adjudication f0 judges appoinfed as coinmissioners. I have t0 differ froni my hion.
friend, as It bias been ex-eryting but tie
usual course in Great Britain, and the Stratton case stands alone in that regard in Canada. The usuai course bas been t0 have hlm
tried by bis peers, and in support of that
view I shahI read froni Todd's Parliamentary
governinent in the colonies, lu w-hii flie
emînent author of that book quotes, wlth very
great approval the words of fthe Hon. David
Mills, late Minister of Justice, lu reference
f0 the Edgar-Caron Investigation.
I may be
cxcused for discussing thîs point, as it appeared to be se mudli ini ftic iinds of lion.

S E NAT E

674

illenibers tiiot iny Bill deait wvith sucll ca'ses
.as this and took fronm parliaineut soine righit
H-on. 'Mr. Milis
ossesses.
~ itc nof p)W
inade fuis staternent in parliament in diseussing the Edgar charges
There is not ln the history of England an
Instance where such an investigation bas been
made by commissioners appointed by ministers
of the Crown. A commission be4ng the cresiturc of an administration, is nppointed to mnvestigate tbe conduct of those suhordin-ate to
tite government ;but If called upon to inv'etigate charges against a member of the Treasmxry
Bench. such a person would be in the position
of adviscor as to who should be appointed to
try him. That the sole tribuinal to whom the
ministers of the Crown are responsibie is this
narliament. and when a charge ls made against
a minister of the C'rown an lrvesflgation ought
to he had ln this parliarnent and a report made
as to whether the charge is well founded or
rot.
Tlîît is

fthe

paIiamIt

v w

;it. la id

down by Todd, quoting tbe words of the
Hon. David Milis in support of It. In the
Edgar-Caron case the judges were only empowered te take evidence, but in thxe Stratton case tbey made fandings. The hon.
gentleman fromi de Lorixuiier II-In. -'%r. Dandurand) ln the very interesting speech wblch
hie made to the House, referred to an Inivestigatioxi made by madges under the Customs Act. I do flot tbink my Bill, as at
present drafted, would reter te sucli cases
at ail. If! the hon, gentleman would take
the pains ot looking over our Customs Act,
Railway Acf, Ialand Revenue Act and a
great many other Acts affecting the public
service of Canada, lie -wouid find many
Instances that arise la carrying ont the law
ln regard to ail these departments of the
goverument where questions are proper"ly
submitted f0 the courts. M-\y Bill would net
relate to, sucli matters, because therO is a
proper judicial reference in cases of that
kind. It bas no relation to the behavieur of
a person ia office, and I do net think even as
at preseat draffed, this Bill would reach such
cases. Hlowever, that -would lie a mere matter of detail. In committee we couid consider all these things. 1 freely admit there
are a great many thiugs. ln carrying on
the goverameat of this country, where if
seems desirable f0 have a speeay reference
to the court, flot in ail extra-judiciai
capacity, flot te seffle lieated questions
between two politicai parties, but for
settling- questions of la-w ot fact wbieb arise
!i the administration of tbe governmnlent of
the country. My hon. friend, fhe SecrefarY
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

of State, referred to the case of the revising barristers under the Dominion Elections
Act, and made the statement that lie had
always been very strongly opposed te the
appolntmenf of judges f0 that position and
that a dîfferent course had -been pursued by
the government of fthe day. My recollection.
of that is very distinct, that iny lion friend.
and those nssociated with hlm, were most
anxious that thie reference should be te
judges, and thaf the judges should. be
made revising barristers, and fhey coiplaiued when any other course was pursued.
At any rate, I neyer agreed with fixe action
of the late governinent in appointîng judges
experience witlb
M-%y
as revising barristers.
them, and I lad a good' deal, was fliat they
were not satlsfacfory. Our experience was
that when tlhc saine duty was assigned te
revising barristers, lawyers of geod standing, both parties received fairer treatment, and greater fadilities were given
for getting the work doue expeditlously and
wlth less expense than when it was referred
to a judge. However, If anythlng of fhe
klnd hail to be done agala, I should liec
f0 see my Bill se worded, If -if la nef s0
worded now, fIat if would prevent the
appolntment of judges as revlsing barristers.
With regard f0 confroverted elections, my
BihI does not affect such matters. The
election cases are ±ried by fthe coinstitated
courts of the country, not by a quasi-judiclal body. Ail fthe machinery is there provided l'y Acfs e! this parliament, or of the
provincial legisiatures, and no one calîs it
I arn free te admit, and I
in question.
fumEk many hon, gentlemen will agree
with me, fliat there have arisen occatsions when fthc judges o! flic country
were brouglit into contact with fhelic rst
of our citizens la the administration ef ou
clection laws in ways fliaf dîd nof raise
flic beach la thie estimation o! flhc people
of this country. We have Enlowil instances
%rherethe judgcs, l administering the electien laws, althouglb fhey bave donc if as
a court, have been subjccted te criticismn.
We are free te admit if is the lcss of twý,o

evils and fluat if is better te have sncbl
cases se tricd, net hecause we bave an
efficient and comiplefe administration of the
election law, for we ail know we bave net
if is nef lu ail cases
sncb administration.
fhe fauît of the judges or thie courts.
but there are se inany ways or gctting

JULY 21, 1903
round the haw, and the big cuiprit. %vlio
may have spent $30,000 in an election, may
go scot free, whlle an innocent candidate,
who xnay have rua an electioji honestly,
throngiî the action 0f some agent or some
thoughtless act of bis own, may lose bis
We know
sent aad be otherwise affected.
thàt the Act Is flot perfect iii its administration, but we accept It as the less of two
evils, better than to have an election trial
held as tiefore, by commiittees of parliament. .1 do îiot feel that tiiere lsanny necessity for pursuing this discussion further.
After listening to the objections made to
this Bill by lion. gentlemen - who, I an
aware, lntend to vote agalast It, I corne to
this conclusion, that the one reason bas
been more than aay other the dominant
reason for opposing this Bull, Is not because
they see nythlng dangerous or bad ln it,
but because hon. gentlemen believe lu sorne
w-av or other the enactinent of this Bill
at thîs particuhar tîme would, ln some
way or other, be heid to have a bearing on
some of -these serions troubles that have
ýoccurred in the province of Ontario wlthin
The phrase which
the last three months.
bas been used by aearly ail those gentlemen is this : It la Inopportune. Bellevlng
the Bill to be a good one-bellevlng that It
Is one which wll find Its way, flot perhaps
exactly Ia the forma ln wbichi I -hv submltted lt-lt may be more f uliy and
amply considered-but a Bill on the general Unes It contaîns, will certalnly
before long find its way on the statutebook. I shouhd be loath to do anything
whici -wouid prejudice the full and fair
consideration of such a Bill, now or bereOn that account, ahtboough I know
after.
the Bill would receive at this moment, If
flot a majority of the votes, a very large
number of the votes of thls House-although
I lcnow thiat is the reception it would get

1 will again present the Bill for the consideration of the House, when I hope this
view, which seems nom, so strongly Impressed on the mlnds of saine hon, gentlemen, will have dlsappeared with regard to Its
belng an Inopportune time, and wheu I trust
the Bill wIll recelve the consideration to
With the consent of the House the Bill
was withdrawn.
SAPETY 0F SHIIPS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL
FIRiST READING.

A message was received fromu the House
of Commonq with Bill (1-à9) Au Act to aniend
the Act respecting the safety of sbips.
The Bill was'read the first time.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT moved tbat the Bill be
read the second time to-morrow. He hald :
This 111 enlargeq the seope of chapter 7
of the llevised 5Stitutes of Canada ln reIgard t~b deek-ioads. lneluding a number
of articles besides those mentioned in the
Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
POST OFFICIE AND SAVINGS BANKS
ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message was recelved from the House
of Commons wlth Bill (220) An Act respectlng goverament and post office savings
banks.
The Bill w-as read the irst time.
Hon. MLr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
rend the second turne to-morrow. He said:
This Bill requires that ten per cent shahl be

held for deposits ln the saving-s banks and
post office savings banks, eitliei ini gold or
securities of Canada.
nt present from hon. members. yet feeling
The motion wvas t.greed to.
tlint possibly a good mensure may be lirejudiced iii regard to the future by forcing
DO'MINIO'N NOTES BILL.
a division nt thiis tirne. whlen hion. geiith'*
FIRST READING.
men seem to be iafluenced by fear that it
wouid be taken as la soune way a reiiecA message wvas received frorn the House
tion on the government of Ontario, I shail, of Commons with Bill (22-9) An Act respectwith the permission of the House, asi- ing Dominion Notes.
heave to withdraw the Bill with the deThe Bill was rend the first tirnie.
as
termination. whieh 1 desire to express
firrnly as I possibly cani, tliat at the next
session of parliament, if I hive and arn here,

43ý

Hon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved that the Bill be
rend the second time to-rnorrow. He said :

SENATE
Thiis Bill autiiorizes an addition to the Domiinion notes circulation, rclnîring at the same
turne that 2-5 per cent of the amount in circuflation shahl bc held in gold or equivalent
securities.
It, of course, 15 necessary Vo
enflarge the circulation of the banks. They
require additio.nal circulation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Bill goes further, as I understand. IV requires 25 per oent.up to $30,000,000 and 15
per cent above that. I think the Bill is a
good one and demanded by the country,
especially with te extended trade whîch is
going on and the necessity for larger circulation. The Finance M.%inister bas adopted
a plan which is in the înterests of the country, and will meut wlth general approval.
If I understand it, the Bill does not limit
the amount we can issue.
Hon. -,%r. SCOTT-Yes.

aniend the Act of 1899, respectiiig the city
of Ottawa.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill bu
read 'the second ime Vo-morrow. I-1e said:
Tihis Bill extends the government grant Vo
the city-of Ottawa for ten addltional years,
and allows the commissioners Vo borrow on
that. They may Issue debentures, provided
they are payable at the expiration of the ten
additional years? malcing Vwenty yuars altogether from 1898. IV is Vo enable theni
Vo makie the improvuments lu the next four
or five years. rather than extend thein over
twenty years. Tbey can issue debuntures
on the aggregate of te whole amount, te
debentures, of coarse, Vo, be payable w'itbin
te ine limited.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That inuans we
shahl bave a Washington of the North beru
in four years instead of twenty years ?

Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is 1V
law provides that over the $30,000,000, 15 per
as securîty.1n gold and se- to be governed by commission, te saine as
cent shahl bu held
Washington, and deprlved of municipal
curities of Canada.
powers?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tiie clause is as fol-.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No. 1V is simply an exlows
tension of te Act passed four years ago,
4. T'he Minister of Finance and Recelver Gen- whicit was llnited Vo Ven years. The $60,eral shaîl always hold as securlty for the redemption of Dominion notes Issued and out- 000 a year, witlcit lncluded. the amount of
standing at any one time, up to and includiig $15,000 for water supply, is extended for tua
thirty ml.bon dollars, an amount In go.ld, or in
goid and secur4tles of Canada. the prIncipal or years, amd la, order Vo make the improvelnterest of such seeurities being guaranteed by ments at an earlier date, te commissioners
the government of the United Klngdom, equal
Vo flot less titan twenty-five oer cent of tho are authorized Vo issue debentures on Vbe
amount of su-ch notes so lssued and ouîts±anding. amount Vo be paid witbin the full puriod.
vrovid-ed that the ainouitt sc hehd la gold shall
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
be not less than fifteen per cent of the amount
of such notes sc lssued and_ outistanding, and is by the commission ?
as security for the redemption of Dominion
notes issued In excess of thir.ty million dollars
Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-Yus, with Vhe authority
an amount la gold equal to such excess.
of te Govurnor in Council, of course.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWrEL-That
The motion was agrued Vo.
is correct, but the question I ask is as to
riIRST READINGS.
the extent of issue-for what amount can
they issue, over and above the thirty mnilBill (192) An Act Vo enable te city of
lion, for wýhich the fitteen per cent is held ? Winnipeg Vo utilize the Assinibointe River
waVer power.--(Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
Hon. Mr. SCOI'T-I shahl explain it VoBill (224) Au Act Vo amend the Fisheries
inorrow.
Ac.-(I-on. Mr. Tumpleman.)
The motion was agreed to.
Bill (225) An Act Vo amend the Steamboat
Inspection Act, 1898.-(Hon. Mr. TemupleCITY 0F OTTA)7A IMPROVEMENT
man.)
BILL.
Bill (226) An Act Vo amund the Act reFIRST READING.
specting certificates Vo Masters and Mates of
A message 'was received froi the House Ships.-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
of Commons with Bill
Hon. Mýr. SCOTT.

(223)

An

Act Vo

The Senate adjourned.

JUTLY 22, 1903
THE SENATE.
Oliarwa, W ednesday, Ju4' 22, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THLIRD READINGS.
Bill (203) An Act respecting the Toronto,
Hamiulton and Buffalo Railway Company(Hon. M-Nr.
Kerr, Toronto.)
Bill (159) An Act to incorporate the Canadian Yukon Western Railway Company.(Hou. '-%r. Gibson.)
Bill (S1) An Act respecting the Brandon
and South-western RalIway Company(Hon. Mr. %IcIHugh.)
Bill (194) An Act rcspectlng- Infectious or
Contagious Diseases affecting- Animail.(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
CRIMINAL

CODE AMENDMENT

BILL.

THIRD READING.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED moved the third
reading of Bill (H) An Act to aniend the
Crnlnal Code respectlng off ences connected wlth trade and breaches of contract.
-Hon. 'Mr. ELLIS-I bail fot the opportunity of being present durlng the discussion on this BIII when It came troni the
commlttee, and I desire slmply to say that
1 dissent froni the prInciple of the hon. gentleman's Bill. I arn sorry to detalu the
House now wltb regard to It, but wlll onIy
say a few words. Legislation of this character, It appears to nie, can have no good
effect. It widens the breach between capital and labour. Lt makes labour suspicions.
It puts capital lu a taise position before tue
country. I attended one of the bearings before the Banlinig and Commerce CormlIttee,
but dld flot hear any sound reason urged -wby
the Bi!! should pass. It was not shown
before the comnilttee that there were any
walking delegates. or whatever they are
calied. co n s lin froni
the United
States 'n-ho lu any w:ly ordered strikes,
or compelled strikes in this country.
Ln view~ of ail the conditions whlch
exist betweeiî labour and capital, in view
of the diffeulties Nvwlih are continually
nqrising-. tbe iess la- ive have ou the matter
the better. It is riglit eiioughuI to have iaws

to preserve the peace, and to have iaws
which wlll operate fairly and justly as betwee a n and man, but this Bil! goes mucli
furtber than that. Lt seeks to put upon labour a burden whicba It wouid be impossible
to put upon capital. That is to say, there
le no way that you can leglalate to prevent
capital orgaizing. We have evidence that
between monopoliste In Canada and In the
United States tiiere ts a constant and active
organization-there is a constant union
between theni, while on the othier band,
capitaliste are endeavouring- to prevent an
organization on the part of labour. Lt la
,oing too far. 1 dissent froua that view of
legisiation altogether, and wl! iîot say further than express my dissent froni the Bill.
Hon. '.%r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-T-.his Bill
ls nlot almed lu the least against union labour. Lt le aimed entireiy against the mischief maker froin another country coming
into, this country and doing harm. Whiat do
we find across the border ? We find these
walklng delegates being arrested and put ln
jail day atter day for decelvlng the union
men they are supposed to protect. Thils Bill
does flot touch union labour In any way, but
It gives work-lngmen fsreedoni to labour
wvhen and how they lke, and to join a union
or remaîn. outside of a union, as they please.
I hope the« Bill wl! pass In this, House--I
arn sure It w!!! with a large majorlty. Lt ls
In the lnterests of the union -men thenselves,
and, by Invoklng the aid of outslde people,
they declare theniselves to be lacompetent
foule who cannot manage their own affaire.
Hon. Mn. SULLLVAN-L rise with a great
deal of dîffidence te say a word agalust
what, I suppose, rna be a!most the unanimous opinion of the House, at this late
stage. The reason wby I arn opposed to
this Bil! ls that It Is a coercion law, aud If
any one has a horror of coerclon laws, it Is
one who bas read the history of Ireland for
the last hundred years, and wbIch the rnost
Illustrious of the rnonarchs, I biesitate xîot
te say, who ever st on the throne of Eugland Is now engaged lu settling for ever.
Hlitherto, L thlnk tlîat the spirit of the Canadien law bas been opposed to such measures
as this. The feeling of the age Is fnot of
such a nature that it requires force and
iaw to keep down any improper organizations. I nui sorry that Senator Loughieed
lias not tais nanie afFixed to seme Bil! whlch

SEINATE
lub-dub of the simili drums, 3Mr. Contre did
I could beartily support. The first legisin- d
tion of bis in buis Chamber, 10 which bis i lot shrink. but lield. bis ground. Hie had
naine wili be affixed implerisliaibly, la floto nly one policeman with hlm. The procesone of beneficence, like that 10 irbicia the s ion did not know what lie was doing, and
name of the bon. Secretary of Staite is at- wlien lie was about to read bis document 1
tacbed. I suppose many would consider r emember the drummer fluug hiis druniIbis Bill a beneficial mensure. The gentle- sticks in the air and the musicians seemed
men before the committee who represented to get more vim, and the mayor of the city,
the highier classes of mechanical lab)our ac- t lie majesty of the lawv, and the xvhole Act
qultted thîemselves there with decoruna, and vas swept away like a chip on a torrent
advanced arguments mlîiclî I foîind sbould i nto the pool of oblivion. That is what liais
be listeîîed ho w-itb respect. The law of gentleman did, and the sanie tiîing niay
Canada, I liope, mvill neyer reach a point liappen under Senator Lougheed's Bili. 1
wuiere It ii require al stronjg force, military do flot w-ant anything of the kind to bappeli.
or civil, 10 enforce 11. I trust liant ns bere- 1agree witli everytliing tlîat was snid by the
niow%,
tofore i the history of this counîtry the illustrious Ponliff wbose remailîs are
will obey the lair. We have eîiough lyiîig in state lu the city of the Cosar. and
,people
of lama and lawmnîking 'machines. Froin wlîose last lllness lias nfforded ;uchi n toticli-Never in
the municipality up 10 this flouse, tlîree any- ing spectacle to the xvhole wvorld.
the liistory of buis world lias tucre been sucli
way, are engaged l legisiation, and surely
that miii be suffîcierît. I knom- lis Biii bas a sublime spectacle affordcd as thec w-liole
had the consideration of ail the leg-al acu- Christian world uniting to pay the respect
men of tbis flouse, frona the bon. gentle- 10 piety, talent, toleration and greant wortli,
unan from Calgary down to tbe lion, gentle- and to one whose Influence was always exman fromi Quebec. Ail the legal talent has erted on the aide of peace and for the beniebeen used t0 frame Ibis law, ao as flot mere- fit of humanity. He does so by recomnieudly 10 prevent a coach anid four golng ing the law to look aut for aucli au action,
through, but 10 prevent even a wbeeibarro,% and to be prepared to suppreas sucia firegolng throughi lb. I bave a knowledge of brauds as tbe Bill before us, I presume,
iaws whlcb cannot be enforced. I recollect aima at. That may apply 10 soine states
weii, and soine hon. gentlemen lu Ibis flouse of Europe, but lb does ziot apply t0 this
may recoilect, irben there mas a party pro- great free country-tbls country wbicb I becessions law passed lu Englaîîd, and Lord Ileve bas none other 10 equal it la safegn-ardto
Dufferin, seeing the ýbad ellecta of il, wanted lng lndividual liberty. I ahould be sorry
see that such legislation liad emanated first
10 bave It repealed. Thiere was anotiier
passed lu luis country. I live lii n fromn tbis Chamber-a measure of coercion
sucb law%
city cailed the Derry of Canada, and il la and represalon, a law whicb aima at restrictDoes thie
customiary there for gentlemen of a certain ing the liberty of individuals.
people
organizablon to bave a procession,* on a lion, gentleman mean to say that the
celebrate the of this country are so wanting lu intelligence
memorable day irben they
glorlous, pious and immortar miemory, &c. tlîat they have to be protected like childreni
Tue mayor aI tiant lime w-as an Englishman -that tbey are so innocent and unsophistinamed Contre, and like soniîe Englishimen I cated la the ways of the w-orld that ire are
United
am looking i, was very obstinate and de- afraid some importation from the
tempt
termined to carry out bis miii and compel States would come over here and
tlîem, and they might possibly fall ? I bave
the moat supreme respect for the majesty
as liat.
of the lair. Mr. Contre. lu an cvii houî', went no such opinlôn of my countrymen
I honour tlie sentiments of the genitlemen
t0 arreat Ibis procession. I sair irat ocpass luis
curred ; I did flot talie part u the pro- irbo support Ibis Biii, and it mnay
flouse, but whletheR7 we support il or niot,
cession exactly. but I sair il. His morship
i the
the mayor stood up) mith n document iii bis there is douýbt it will neyer pass
The flouse of Commnis
band and the procession came on. The other flouse.
Thiey
drums struck, up the Britisha Grenadiers, and would flot thiuk of passing such a Bill.
migbt lead
as the procession marcbed along wita drumns date not do 11. Moreover, tliis
If we irere to>
beating and bannera waî-ing and the rub-a- to international difficuities.
Hon. Mr.

SULLIVA.¶N.

3 [JLY 22, 1903
arrest citizens of the United States and 1ng-, and whicb, I tbink, wlll be a very strong
that this
tbrust theni into jail for a breach of this i Ilustration of the dlaim I niale,
aw is framed speciaily for the benefit of
law, what might bappen ? I tbink serlous 1

:apitalists. They speal. about wvaIking delewauld lie ln a worse position than before. 9rates of Worklngmen canuilg f rom the United
raise of ivages, and ta
Rely on my word, conciliation wlll get over States to agitate for a
treate strikes ln Canada, but me bave here
ail this dlfflculty. Labour and capital wll
of the walklng delegate acting
see, tbe necessity for compromise. I amn op- an illustration
for the capîtalists. The extract rends as

difficulties might arise from this, and wec

posed to the greed and to the grinding effortsI
:
o! some af those gentlemen wbo engageI follows
Toronto. June 13.-A special to-nigbt from
labour. There Is no dout there have been
Ohào, says :'Attorney F. Matterhoit, the
Instances o! oppression ; and tiiere is no Akron.
noted combine pramoter of ibis clty. bas effected
donlit eitber that labour shon.ld unite, and a combiniation of ai the ice compantes of Toreffective before
The merger
that they sbould strike occasionally to farce onto. lat. He bas will become
been 11n Toronto tbls week
July
the fear o! God Into men's hearts. They
companies ln
C mpleting the combine.' The big
Lake
field
have no other way ta do It. If there was a eahtrol o! the TorontoEwart at present are .CanaIce Company,
Simcoe Ice Company,
littie trouble in Montreal, let Mantreal iea, Ice Company, Grabam Ice Company, Northsettle lt. In the city o! Toronto, If tbree or ern Ice Company, Crygtal lice Company, Grenaand the Knickerbocker Ice
four men stand nt a corner lu peaceable dier Ice Company
Camnpany. The praposed trust will be ln a
time at present, they are not allowed to re- osit4on ta command tbe product ail over southmain there. A policeman orders them to go ern Ontario.
We have bere a walking delegate deliberon, and If they do not move on, lie wlll soon
put tbem where they wIll bave time to re- ately coming fromn the United States to raise
the price of one o! the necessaries of if e,
fiect.
and this walklng delegate the law will
is coerclon.
Hon. Mfr. BAKER-That
flot touch. On tbe other band, a walking
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It is enforcing the delegate coming fram the United States,
laws o! pollteness. 1 do not thlnk It Is co- representing the workinginau, we waut to
ercion to make men more on and allow put la jail If he cornes to Canada and tells
others to use the streets. I hope 1 bave not the worklngmen tbey are flot getting enough
uttered any sentiments wblcli would lie un- wages. I do flot tblnk this is fair. Let us
wartby o! this House. I knaw tbat It ls a look at the matter for a moment, and see
Chamber wbere sucb sentiments as 1 bave where we are. Take my owa business:
uttered miglit lie consldered ont o! place, -we wlll say that a printer cornes froni Chiand that tbey migbt lie better urged la the- cago or Detroit, or Cincinnati, or some
other House. I tblnk that this Is a coerclve western clty ta Taronto and gets emplaylaw, and I bave a borrar of sncb laws, be- ment, and be bappens to say ta one of bis
cause I knaw the baneful effects of them, fellow worklngmen *1 do not think you
and I know that lt cannot be enforced wlth- are getting enoifgh wages in tbis city. You
out a great deal of trouble and loss of life. ouglit ta agitate for aniincirezise.' This law
will take hold of that manl and1 put hlmi in
I therefore ami opposed ta it.
inclined ta jail for simply making that assertion.
Hon. Iiir. COFFEY-I feel
oppose this law for several reasons. 1 feel,
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Sérves
lu the first place, tbat It goes too far la one hlm right.
direction, and. if I migbt be permitted to say
Hon. Mr. COFFEY-Is tbat flot interso, in anatber it does flot go far enougbi.
If I understand It, thîs Bill is almed at fering witb the liberty of speech. of which
citizens of the United States or Canadians we are so proud in Canada ? Let mue say,
wbo bave been resident for only one year furtbermare, that 1 do miot want to hold any
continuously la Canada. It would be a mis-, brief for tbe anarchist, or bis bal! brother

for
take, indeed, ta put on the statute-book 'a the sociallst, nor will 1 bold any brie!
tlie man who tbrows stones, or is gui]ty of
la,% sncb as this, for the reason principally
law, or wbo
that lt seenis to lie framed specially for the rowdyism or o! -breaking the
wisbes ta promote a strike for the purpose
benefit o! capitalists. I bave before me an
extract wbich I will take the liberty o! rend- of causing trouble. between employer and

SENATE
ernployee iii Canada. The further you sift
the question the more palpable it w-tII becorne to you, that while we may very 0f ten
find, fault with the actions of tbe workingmail-and it is quite truc they bave been
gullty of ma-ny crimes of unreasonableness
in the labour market-we must also find.
Cault wlth rnany capltallsts wbo are unreasonable, and who are actuated by the
spirit of grind, grind, grind, and w-ho are
engaged ln tle furious race for millions.
There are capitalists and capitalists, as there
are workingmen and workingrnen. I know
some w-orkingmen that, it migbt bc said, are
an honour to our country, and the worklngmen o! this class are the great majority
w-ho are happy in the condition o! lite iu
whlch they are never placed. They never
cause any trouble vritis their employers. I
know there are discontented workiug.men,
and if you give tlser a raise of w-ages to-day
tbey îxlll want another te-morrovv, but whlle
you find fauît with the workilinen oùl tbis
point, you must at the saine tine 100k at the
other side. and you will find that enîployers
are guilty of quite as mnany sins agalnst the
peace and harmony and freedons o! this
country. The bon, gentleman w-ho bas just
resumed bis seat made reference to the
the position tbat the Pope bas taken on the
social question, and I w-li ask permission to
read a shorf extract from one of bis encyclicals on1 the labour question, which w-i
be.gr me out iii a good deal 1 bave said. It
reads :
When work people have recourse te a strike it
lis freui.uenitly becauee thle hiours of labour are
too long, or the work too bard, or because they
consider their wages insufficient.
The grave
inconvenlence of this not uncommon occurrence
should be obviated by public rernedial mreasures,
for such paralyzing of labour not only affects
the masters and their werk people alike, but la
extremely Injurious -te trade end te the gesieral
iinterest.s of the public ; mireover, violence and
disorder are geuerally net fer distant, and 'thus
it frequenitiy happens that the public pe-ace Is
insperilied. The iaws sbc.uldý fores-tjall and prevent
sucb troubles frein arising ;tbey sbould leud
their Influenc~e and authority te the rernoval le
good time of the causes wbicb lead toi cenflicts
between employer and employed. Tbe rlcb must
rellglously refrain frein cutting down the workmen's earnings, whetber by force, by fraud, or
by usuricus deaiing, and with ail the greater
.reason because the labouring mnan Is, as a rule,
weak and unDrotected. and because bis siendor
means sbeuld, in proportion te their sçantiness,
be accounted sacred.
I think bon, gentlemen xivill ail agree witb
this principle, and if we bave one illustration which more cornpletely thail another
Hon. .Mir. COFFEY.

bears eut the contention that 1 have mnadu,
it is this :We ail recolleet our experieIc
last w-inter wben ceai was scarce, and w-len
men who ceuld wel afford it teok the opportunity o! putting a price on that necessary article of life, wvbichi rendered it
almost impossible for poor people te obtaini
fuel.
If capitalists combine te raise the
price of the necessaries of life--and wve sec
about us on ail bands trusts for almeost
everytbing tbat gees into daily censumnptien-bew can yen blarne tIse workinigmian
if lie combines to raise the price o! bis labeur
lu order tbat lie înay be enabled te live ? If
we pass this Bill we are geiug altogether tei)
far. WVe are very proud of the freedomi vre
enjoy la Canada, tbe grandest and best
and freest country on tIse face of the eartli
to-day. Let us flot go tee near tbat hune
w-home tyrauny begins. Another thing thât
is wel w-erthy o! consideration la tlils fact:
w-e bave la tbe United States to-day perhaps, bundreds o! tbousands o! workinginen
w-ho are~ Can-adians. What will the United
States people tbiuk of us if we put on our
statnte-books a Iaw whichi will tell them:
' gentlemen, we wllI give our own people
liberty o! speech. We wll give our owni
Canadian people tbe privilege of standing
on tise platform and declaring that w-e are
isot gettlng eneugh w-ages, but If an AmerIcan cornes over here and says snch thing-s
we wl put hlm ia jail.'
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Yes, put
tbem in jail ten times over.
Hou. Mr. COrFEY-That is a mnatter w-cll
WC know Perworthy of consideration.
fectly weh tbat our Canadian youung men
are continually going te the United States.
and if w-e put n law ou oui statute-book
w-hidi la nnifriendly te tise United Stntes.
wve mnust expect that that unfriendlsses, -will
revert on our ow-n people w-heii they go
te the great mepublie.
I oppose this Bill
because I think it will de more liai-n th:un
goed, and unless Nvo inaugurate a spirit et
conciliation, the best w-e can do is to let
matters stand as tbey ar-o. For- miy part.
i believe that conciliation is tise best ceuirsp
w'hich con bo adopted, because the bringing
of beth sides together te talk over inatters
lu dispute, w-ith the object o! arriving at a
iputually satisfactory agreement, is the oll
effective weapon we can use te settie the
labeur question.

JULY 2-,1903
ieIn. Mr. -NcI-iuGH-i feel very kzeeuly bave litre the speech made by Mr. Brock
on titis subject. I feel thîat titis Bill is and the article Mr. WVatsonî read from the
directed against the masses of this country. Globe,' and I say the paragraplis that lie
It Is claimed that the workingmen of Cati- rend. to that cooemittee are la quotations,
ada have flot sufficient, Intelligence to know and quotations from the speech Mr. Brock
their own business and that tbey will leave dellvered In the other *House. It was unfair
ain employer who lias treated theni well to towards -that commlttee for Mr. Watson
foilow a stranger front the United States. .to insinuate that the labour organization
Unless that delegate from the United States bad declared theaiselves to bie sucb unor frein nuy other foreign country ean show lawful characters. I heard la the discusthe 1n1)ourei-s of Canada that it is ln their sion-if I may be permitted to refer tit
best iliterests to quit their employaient, I it-the other nlght oti the Chînese question
do nlot think they wIli do it. It ls an in- the boit, gentleman fromt Victoria say you
suit t(> the Intelligence of our Canadiam cannot control white labour. Tbat Is a nice
workinignei. aud 1 think they are as In- sentiment comlng from, an bon. member
telligent as the workingiten of aiîy coun- of this House. 1 say you can control white
try liu the world. To say tîtat tiiese nien labour, but you cannot coerce It. Tliere
will follow the advice'of soute foreigner In Is a class of people wlio can be coerced,
order to serve lis lnterests and negiect their but tliey are an inferior race, and nlot
There
own Is bardly doing- tluem justice. At tbe the worklng people of Canada.
saine time, I thluk there la an iiiconsistency la coeciot inl this Bill. and It is nnt going
la titis Bfi whicb slîoîld bring- about its to attain «çiuat the lion. pi-ototor thinks it
defeat. It inales it legal for mien to strike, wlll, because you are nt going to coerce
yet inakes It unlawful for a mati from a the white labour of Canada:; but you are
foreign country to tel] bis fellow-crafts- golng te drive Caiiadian labour Into a corman tîtat lie bas a riglit to demand big-her ner, and lîîstead of being able to go out
cannot and dlscuss questions lit the open, pertainwages-tbat one feilow-craftsmai
gay to another that lie bas a riglit to blgber Ing to their on Interests, you are going to
Wlierwages. Utîder sucli a Bill 1 think our 11h- drive tbemi to dîsucss lu secret.
erties are pretty well Invaded. I know a ever drastic legisiatiou of that kind lias
gond deal bas been said about tîte foreign been lmposed on a people, it lias been the
agitator comuîîg into titis country. I lis- parent of aaarcby and sociallsm. We do
tened to the discussion before the Banking niot want atuarcby or socialism. ini this counanfd Commerce Committee of this Rouse on try. We ivant labour to bie as f ret as capithis subject, and I mnust say tltat the de- tal to discuss wliat Is la Its own Interest,
legates fromt the labour orga-nizations re- and for tbat reason x-e slîould vote down
presented there did well atîd lîeld their own this Bill. I kanoxv tliat evils have followed in
nlongslde of the pald counsel of the or- the wake of labour strikes, but wbat good
*gaaized capital of this country. The enm- was ever bequeatbed to man tîtat evil did not
ployers brouglit 'Mr. Ritcliie, of Toronto, ant accompany lt ? Look nt England and the
able lawyer, and Mr. Watson there, aîîd . United States. wlîere labour organizations
cau prove to this House titat they tried to bave been la force for many years, and see
deceive that committee. Mr. Watsotn took ,%liat It bas doue for tîte masses, and then go
. an article front the 'Globe' îîewspaper, if to despotic countries li Europe, xvlere they
the gentlemen n-ho compose thiat conutnittee do not hiave a riglut te discuss questions
t-emember, aîîd rend it as wlîat the labour pertainitîg te their owti interests, aîîd sc
organization of this coutntry said tlîe' tîtein- ltow tliey compare as to intelligence witli
selves xvere-said they had neitîter a body the labourers of Canada, and I say it ouglit
to be kicked nor a soul to bie dauined-that to be sufficient to àsk titis House, for tlat
tliey could shoot froîn beliinid liedges and kilI. alone, to vote don this Bill. The bon.
He said that is wbat the trade tiions of gentleman fromi Victoria said a moment
Toronto had stated tliey were. Rlis atten- ago tliat titis Bihl is not initerfering- with
tion was cniled by Mr. Clarke te the fact labour unions. We luad delegates frotu the
tViat lie ivas quoting- f rom the speech of Mr. lab)our organizations of this country befot-e
1 the committee. Why were they tbeî-e ? BeBrock, the tuetuber for Cetntre Toronîto.

SENATE
were being I Hon. Mif. LOU(IIEED-I bad îîot intended
htcm
to make any observations upon the third
mittee 'where tbeir interests were going to reading of tbis Bill, but owing to misrebe attacked in their insurance organzations. presentations baving been made as to its
Tbey have their Insurance organizations In- effeets, 1 feel I would be placîng myseif in
ternationally, and if we .pass this Bill it a position subject to be niisuuderstood, did
will be Impossible, and the delegates said 1 neot makie a few remarks witib reference to
soe, to carry on tbeir insurance in tbis couin- Its application. In the first place, 1 miglit
Canadians bave some twvo million say that the object of Introducing this Bill,
try.
dollars insurance in tbat International un- wvas not so muchi that it migbt becorne l
'bIlh one receiving
was
ion, and as son as~ ever they see that a as that the subject.
eannai eaine into Canada a great deal of consideratin, botbi lu the
foreiglu offleer
when labour troubles are on, jiist su soofl press and by the g-eneral publie, sibould bc
will our unions bo asked to send ln their discussed by this House and otherwise
and thus possibiy resuit iu the subject
charters, aud w-lien they do so, tbey wl
lose aIl rlgbts !i tbe- funds tbey bave been being dealt xvith more intelligently in the
In the past. Now, 1
paylng iat for twenty or twenty-five years; future than It bas been
unhesitatingly say that the Bill as it stands
aîîd in tbat -way w-e ivili o (loing-an Injustice
degree lu the
to tbose men, aud ln-iîtgiug misery on their at present will lead to a great
Uine of conciliation beiug adopted as the
x-lves and cblidren. See tbe benefit seune of
instead of the
those associations have done lu L:eeping method of settling strikes,
coercive mneasures %viiel heretofore have
rnisery f rom the doors of w-orking-people
and labour.
in tbis country. I biave mentianed one orgn- been resorted to both by capital
Had I been permltted to exercise my discretlzation, the r-ilw-ay trainnien, wbo pnid last
this matter, 1 would, after
year alcue out uf their beneliciary fund to ion to the full ini
the discussion before the committee, bave
wvidows and ux-phans seule $592,000, aîîd
t", -111l, being- f ully satisfied its
$54,000 uf tbat money Nvas paid to widows witbdrawn
object had been attalned by reason of the
and orphans and disabled members in Canpublic discussion wbiclî tool, place upon it;
ada. By legislation of tbis kind you may
but owlng to the reluctance of the commitdestroy that ol-ganization. 1 bave mentiontee, and I apprebend of this Chamber, to
ed one of many. The locomotive engileers
permit It to be wlthdrawn, as I assumed
have been equally benevolent with tbeir
the responsibility o! lntroducing it, of course
fellow-members and tbe unfortunates that
But it is
I abide by that responsibility.
belonged to tbem. If tbis House do their
znanlfest that if foreign, irresponsible agliazloty, tbey will vote downu this measure.
tors-agitators who do not corne wItbin the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I sbould like to have pale of the law, are permltted to corne bite
the promnoter of the Bill explain to tbe House Canada and are permitted by a process of
w'by lie dues not accord te labour the same systematic agitation to stir up that acerbity
rights tbat are accorded ta all other Inter- and bickerlng and 111-feeling between eutests, wbether business, financial, social or ployer and labourer wbich we find to be the
MVill the promoter uf resuit of tbese agitations wbicli bave beeu
political înterests.
tbis Bill explain ta me w-by labour bas nlot carried on beretofore, it is utterly imipostbe same i-ight ta bave organizations tbrough- sible to arriv'e at a satisfactory settlemeut
ont the wnorld tbat capital bas ? Mrill be tell of labour disputes througbl any process of
nie -wby insurance companies are flot pre- conciliation. The two processes w-bich bave
vented from going abroad and seeking aid been freely discussed, that of coercion and
Will that of conciliation, are diamnetrically opdoing business in fox-elgn counties.
tbe promaters of this Bill tell the labour- posed to eacb otber and it is impossible, 1
ing classes ufthiis Dominion w-by their rigbts sablait to this House, to suppress sucb a
are curiailed by tbis bonourable Hanse system of agitation as is resorted toetvbile j.e î-igbis uf aIl other classes uf cept legislation w-ill lu sonie wvay step lu,
socieiy go untraininelled ? Until the pro- or except public opinion will pronounce itmuter uf this Bill1 gives ihese explanations self intelligeutly agaiust sncli methods of
to me, I shaîl bave tu casi my vote against attaining labour objects as beretofore liave
tbe Bill.
beeu resorted to. Now, it is quite manifest
Hon. Mr. NicHUGH.
cause tbey feit their iuterests
attaeked. Tbey pointed ott

JULY 22, 1903
ta this 11anjse, and lion, gentlemen wbo have
spoken to-day on the 11i1 must admit, that
if ive can by any menus wipe out the causes
wiecl have led ta ail those unfortunate conditions whieh bhave beretofore obtained between labour and capital, we will occupy
a much better basis on wbicb ta settle labour disputes. Sorne of my bon. friends who
have spoken agninst tbe Bill bave terrnqd
this a coercive mcasure-tbey have spoken
of oppression-they have spoken against the
desiral'Ility of prornatlng sucb legislation,
but I would point out ta bon, gentlemen, and
particularly ta those gentlemen wbo seem to
be sa orpaosed ta the Bill, that there ls probably no sucli repressian, no sucb coerclon
in publie lif<' to-day ns that whicb ls
resorted ta by rnany labour unions for tlue
purpose of caercing and repressing tbat lud1vidual liberty whicb every subjeet is entitled ta by reason of bis rigbt ta labour
under any conditions he may choose. 'If any
bon. gentleman eau point ta me more mischievaus oppression or coercian than that
ls, I sbould like ta know of It, but I arn nat
aware of any sucb coerclon entering Into
the principles af this Bill as tbat of wbich,
I bave made mention. Anotber misrepresentatian bas been made-not wilfully, I freely
absolve any bon. gentleman from wllfully
maklag any miarepresentation upon the subject ta whlcb I amn about ta refer, but certainîr tbrough the public press, and amangst
the labonring classes, and la tbis Hause, it
bas- been represented that this legislation Is
calculated ta very serlously affect the fluancial Interests o! Canadian workiagmen la
tbe American federatloa of labour, so far as
tbelr Insurance and other funds are concerned. Now, 1 cballenge auy bon, gentleman ta point out %wlthuin the four cornera
o! tbis Bill any interference wbicb can passibîs arise w-itb reference ta tbat subject.
The Bill does not assume for a moment ta
deal wvith the vested interests of Canadian
ivorkinguien, or witb the lnterests of the
American federation of labour. Surely It
cannot be said that the financial luterests
o! the workingmeu, eitber lu the United
States or lu Canada sa far as the Americau
federatian of labour is cancerned, are aled
In amy way ta the agitation wvicbJ this
Bill is calculated ta suppress. If bon, -entlemen eau point out ta me any connection
betweeu the two subject4, 1 will assaine
the responsibility of withdrawing the Bi..

8a far as, 1 arn1 personaily coneerned.
I,
tlierefore. mnust ask this Ilotiqe. and ask
pmublie opinion ta absolve iue entirely !rarn
any snch desîre. and ta pranouice upon the
Bill being absalutely free !roin aur sucb
results.
Hon. M3r. McIHUGH-I tbink the lion. genthleman w-as a memiber of the committee to
wlîiclî tbis Bill was referred and heard the
represen tativses of orga nizcd labour there
state that tlhey lind consulted the best legal
t-lIent they conld get in the eonntry. andl thuit
they w~ere adv-ised tlmat fi the ev-eît <>f tlîis

Bill hecoinig lau-, It %voulliuterfere wh
au international officer coming over lier(,
whben he w-as asked ta participate lu settling
a strike, that they would be calied jupon
ta send blrn their cbarter, and woufl bY
tbat mens lose their riglit as nubers of
tbat International organization, and belng
deprived of tbeir xnembership lu the International organization, tbey wonld ]ose auy
rlgbt ta participate la any insurance benefit
!und, or any other fund belongiug to that
organization.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
could flot do tbat ?

(B.C.)-They

Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-I must disclaimi
having heard aur such statemeut made. I
amn free ta, say this, that If ahy respansible
counsel la tbe Dominion o! Canada bas
givpn an opinion that tbis Bill wanhd la any
way affect the funds to wbicb my bon.
!riend bas referred, o& would bave tbe farreacblng affect whicb he mentions, I certainir wouldnfot romain. tbe sponser of the Bill
for one moment. No sncb statement as thiat
was made before tbe cammitteo. No legal
gentleman uadertoak ta express bis legal
opinion there before the committee, or before tbe public -upan tbat phase a! the Bill.
True, certain delegates uvbo addressed the
committee made referenco ta tbe Bill baving
tbat effeet, but no bon. gentleman on tbe
cammittee, even

amoug- tboso opposed

ta

the Bill, serionsîr accepted the view that
it would bave any sncbi offect. I desire ta
point ont ta my !ion. friend fronu Landau
(Flan. i\r. Coffey) w-ho seemed ta feel very
soriausir aggrieved, coutending that this Bill
jmet a cauditian o! affairs w-hieh. so far as
w-orkingmen are concerned. w- peculiarly unfair. and he ieferred ta an ice combin e and ailier coinbination s af capital hav-

S E NAT E
ing a pernicious effeect u1pon the public will find titat it provides against capitalists
interest and wbicb were flot interferred combiaing to unduly lower the rate of
with.
The very condition of facts men- wages. It bas been so ameîîded by the cointioned by my bon. frieud front London nîittee, and subsequently by the lion. geniIs already provided against in the Crimînal tleman f rom De Salaberry (Hon. -Mr. Béique)
Code.
There are very serious penalties that it meets the case titat ntiy lion. frîend
attacbed to the combinations which hie lias bas called attention to, and 1 do liot know
mentioned, and my bon. frhcnd is per-1 tîtat I sliould have risen to say one word
fectly at liberty to invoke the criminal more upon tbis subject hiad it flot been tlîat
I think tbey are labouring under a niisaplaw to suppress ainy sucli combline. 1 nîýit
furthermore say tliat tijis Bill does flot pos- preiexision as to the character of the Bill
scss the inequalities clîarged against it. It itself. The Bill reads as follows:
bas been so drafted tîtat it meets combines
Every one is guilty of an Indictable offence
of capital as well as agitations of labour. It and hiable to two yýears' Imprisonmient who. not
or whn. belng a British
British
bears equ;îlli. lard uipon hotu. No discrim- being a and flot subject, been contfnuously domihaving
subject
!nation lias beeni drawn eitlier as to capital ciled and resident in Canada during one year
act
the
or labour li tue Bill itself, and m-lierever next before does Incommission of theIncite, cornurge
Canada counsel,
plained of.
capital inay becoiie orgaîîized and invade or ind-uce any strike or any lock-out-

Canada for thie purpose of effecting the purposes whicli tbe Bill is designcd to suppress,
the B3ill wiIl reach tat combine of capital
precisely iii the saine way it would reach
a lik-e condition of labour agitators. Wbichet-er w'ay you lool. at It, you find the Bill so
balanced that It meets both conditions of
the difficulty wbichi tbe committee endeavoured to reacb. Under tbe clrcumstances,
the Bill will flot bave the far-reaching effect
whilh bon, gentlemen who are opposed to
It have pointed ont, but it will have the
salntary effect of dircctlng public attention,
partlcularly In Canada, to the undeslrabhlty
of hrrespoiîsible agitators comlng lnto this
Dominion and widening the brcach whlch
already Is whde cnougb betwcen labour and
capital. If It should pass and cifect that
purpose, It certalnlywill bring about a consummation devoutly to be wished.

Tlbat word 'lock-out' is agaiîîst the capitalist and not against tbe labourer. The
clause of tbe Bill continues:
--or the continuance of any strike or any lockout or a rise or fait In wages.
Tbe hou. gentleman wll sec tbat it
strikes at both tbe employer and tlîe labourTbiat change took place, as the bion.
er.
gentleman nîay remtember, because il 'vas
I)olnted out to Mite comînittee by tbose
wvlîo reprcsented. the labour organlizations
tha;t ant organization existed amnoîg the
capitalists for the purpose of prevcnting
settiements in cases of dispute between the
labourer and the employer, exccpt by an
So that the
agent of such organization.
law Is just as strong against oîîe as the
Tbe extract read front the encyother.
clical of tbe bite Pope wvas quite to the
point, but if iny bon. friend ltad read a.
little furtbier I tbiiuk bie w'ould bave found
in it something wlîich meets tîte case preI talce thte
cisely now before tlie House.
liberty of reading one or two seîitenevs' iii
the letter front whiclî my lion. frieiîd quoted.
I find tbe following passage, dealiug vwitli
the subjcct of employer and labourer:
It is flot an easy matter tu define the relative
rights and mxîtual duties of the rich and of the
pnor, of captital and of labour, and the danger
lies in this :that crafty agitators are intent on
cnaking use of their differences of opinion to,
pervert men's judgment, and to stir up the
People to revoit.
Ho101. Mr'. MACD)ONALD)(.MIer
Ilar.
Hlot). Nir. CLOTIAN-Is t lia t quota tion

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I listeued witli a very great dca! of pleasure to
the first speech of my bout. frieuîd from
London (Hon. Mr. Coffey). and if lie will
permit nie, as it older parliamnentariali titan
himsclf. to comnpliment hlmi on the nanner
in w-hidi lie lias placed lits v'lews before
the House. I will do so -,vitli very great
pleasure. But it strîicklu e tlîat Imotît thie
lioun. gentlemni anîd the senator front Lindisapprclîended
inuhî
say (Hou. Mir.
the character of the Bill altogetlier. Tîtere
is no Iittack uîîon orgaîîized labour in thils
Bill, as lia s iteen poiiited ont 1W the boit.
geuttiemna î fi-oni Ca lgary. If lion. genîtlemîeni
,will take thte troubîle to read tule Bill. they quite correct ?
Hou. -Mr. LOUGHEED.

JULY 22, 190ô3
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I presume so. I amn reading it from a book
withi the titie, 'The Pope and the People:
Select letters and addresses on social questions.'
Hon. «.%r. CLORAN-It disagrees with
wbat 1 have ln niy band.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE 11<1 %-Thi
..
is by His Holiness Pope Leo XIII., and It
was put in my hands a few moments ago
for niy own edification by my lion. friend
who sits opposite, for which I thank him.
Hon. !-%r. CLOP.AN-Thie third ]!ne lin that
paragraph reads :
It In not easy ta define the relative rlghts et
th~e wealthy and the poor, and the danger lies ln
this :that cratty agitators constantly make une
of these disputes and stir up the people ta seditien.

I did flot quite catch it as the lion, gentleman read lt.
Hon. '.%r. COFFEY-Thie words are the
sanie.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I arn
inot responsible for the book.
I do flot
think îny hon. friend. 'kouid put It lu my
Liand If hie did not think lt was authentlc.
I take It for granted that it ls, and tlue
rea son that I quote It Is that, to my mmnd,
it utters sentiments precisely in accord wltli
the provisions of this Bill ; that Is, to strike
at the agitators and nlot the organizers of
labour, not the labour unions who combine
for mutual benefit and advantage to eacb
other.
I do nlot know that language couid
bie found to convey the idea tliat my bon.
frlend must have had. la bis mmnd, wben hie
introduced titis Bill.
What I wanted to
point out was the mlsuinderstanding that
deemus to exist iu the minds of tîmose who
have discussed and opposed the provisions
of tliis Bill. I rernember myself-and those
whio ivere present ou the cormnittee wiIl
remember it-that ivhen it was pointed out
that capitalists had formed a combination
ln whlch there were mIles as obnoxious to
the ideas of freedom as of the labour
organizations which prevent men from earnlng a living wben they ivill uxot work themnselves, and consequently the Bill1 was altered so as to meet both cases. I wl not
refer to the hurnorous renîarks of the lion.
gentleman who sits behind nme (Hlon. Mir.
Sullivanu), wlhen he referred to auxcient his-

tory.
I have a faint recollection of the
passage of the Bill to wbieli he referred
by the then Baldwin-Lafontaine administration, long, long before confederation. I
remtember taklng a littie band lu It myself,
when I was a good deal younger than I am
now, In assletlng to set that law at defiance,
because lt ostracised .a certain clans of peopie. The Secretary of State whIl remenîber
It well.
It prevented a man belug a rpathmaster or sittlng on a jury If lie belonged
to n cer-tain society, and it moade it a penal
offence to exhibit ait orange lily on a certain occasion.
Tîmat was strilcing i hîlow
at liberty that I think my lion. frieià inself would obJect to, and I sny it now, -nd
,with a very great deal of prîde, that one
of the principal statesman who wlped that
Iuiquitous law front the statute-book iras
the late George Etienne Cartier, wirio i'agd
soute regard for the rîghts of the people
ia Canada, whether they were of the Protestant or the Rtoman Gatholle faith, aînd
as a Conservative, believing fully l1» the
liberties of ail classes of the people, he wîas
one of the principal Instruments lu moving
and voting for the repeal of that Act.
1
am n ot goiug to argue that question now ;
It la too old.
We bave learnied to treat
each other with a littie more consideration
than liu the old times years ago.
I hope
that spirit of liberality w'hich r.haracterizes the people of the present ciay will continue to grow ln the future, and thmat we
may learn to respect each other's opinions,
whether they bie politicai, racial or religions, and forget the animosîties timat exlsted a long, long tinie ago.
I have lived
long enougli to adopt that prineipie, anîd I
hope that during tlue remaining portion of
my life, I may continue to carry it out.
lion. Mr. ELLIS-Does the lion. g-exîtieman think that ]s the spirit of this Bill ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes. If
a man cones into this country for the purpose of stirring up people to revoit, as x'eferred to i11 the extracts I have read front
the encyclical letter, the spirit of this 13111
la to piiiishi hlm, and if capitalists combine
to raise the price of an article wbicb goes
int<) consuitption, thie laîv upon the statutel>orlc punishies hîimî and -ives the goverxnment the power to prevent any mian front
incitîng otîmers to do that wliichi ls ivrong.

SEINATE

bly lion1. trieDd

tallcs about turxiîîig out the

militia and the soîdiers to keelp the peace
if this becomes law. Has it net cost the
city of 'Moîtreal some fifteen or sixteen
thousand dollars to suppress wbiat the
provisions of this Bill are lntended to
prevent If possible ? In the city of Toronto
a jike resuit followed. At Valleyfield
the soldiers had to be turned out to keep
tlxe peace, I do not say that w-as the
resuit of agitators, but It w-ns the resuit of
a coînhînation. w-hich arrogated to itsclf the
righit to prevent you and me froui earning
bread for our cblidren because w-e chose
to work w-hile they thouglit proper 10 strike
and refuse to w-ork. Ia that the principle
tlxe hon, gentleman desires to see conitinued
lu tîxîs country ? If lt is, I cannot concur
la his opinion. It Ia not nccording to miy
idea of liberty ln the sense that 1 understand
IL No mari should be perrnitted te corne
int tîxis couxntry and agitate people to do
thai whichi la w-rong. My hon. friend frorn
Lonidon (Hon. '-%r. Coffey) says lie la afrald
that the United States wll enact retaliatory
laws againat our people, hil case w-e put tis
on the statute-book. What have they on the
statute-book to-day ? A labouring maîxi goes
acrosa the uine and asks for ernployrnent,
and what happens ? Sorne officiai deports
hlm-sends hM back to Canada because lie
I have learned
happens to be an' allen.
nnd I arn sure my bon. friend after lie lias
studied this question a littie more, will see,
that the less we frame our legisiatioxî lu the
fear of w-hat the United States w-i do, the
sooner w-e w-i get justice fromn the republic. We have been legislatlng for years
ln a direction fearixîg sonie retaliation fromn
thern, until w-e have given aw-ay everythixg
w-btwe iiiiglit rewe have in retura for
ceive as a mlalter of reciprocity. Let us do
as legisîntors anîd as a people thaI w-ih w-e
believe te be lu tîxe ixîterests of our 0w-i
people irrespective of the United States or
anly otiier country.
lion. Mr. COrrEY-I do ixot thiiîk I nmade

the assertion that I feax-ed tue United States
what I
w-ould exxact retaliatory iaws.
said w-as this-thiat in case this iaw passes,
it w-l create a feelinxg of very g-reat unof the
friendîliesa anxioligst the w-orline
United States againat the Canadians w-ho
are there, and those w-ho rnay go there hiereHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOw-ýELL.

after. I will say also, that in rny experience
of agitators, the worst we have ever had in
this country were returned Canadians.
Hon. Sir IMACKENZIE BOW',ElJ-Hlear,
hear.
H-onl. Mr. COFFEY-Aud the lawv mill ixot
have muchi effect, if lt ls iintended ta strikze
United States people, because tlxey very
rarely coule over hiere. lIn regard to w-bat
my hon. f riend said about lock-outs. I do
not think there is much force in it. for the
reason that we scarceiy ever have one. The
r so w-el able to protect tixeir
caiait
own lniterests that tlîey xîever have any.
Last winter, If bon. gentlemen w-lI renlember-and no doubt they do--a gentleman w-as
arrested l Brantford and tried for hiaving.
w-itli others, exitered Into a conspiracy to
keep up the price of coal. It w-as a combine
of huif n dozen coal dealers ln B3rantford,
and they put ail the other deaiers out of
The other dealers w-ent to
business.
Buffalo to buy coal and found they could
not buy it unless they paid a higher
prîce than the coal was retailing for in
That gentleman was found
Brantford.
gullty of conspiracy, but was neyer pualshed. It was taken trom -one court to
He had unllmited capital. and
another.
the chances are that he will go scot
free. Frorn what I have heard, and know,
I believe that the hon, gentleman fromi Calgary (Hon. Mr. Lougheed) has beeni aixiuated by the highiest and noblest motives in
presentlng this mensure. Stili, I thinL it
is a mistake, and It wlll he one of tixe w-orst

acta w-e ever did If w-e pass such a coercive
mensure simply because a few characterIess scamps corne Into Canada anxd make
speeches on the labour question.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I do flot kinow that 1
should say anythlng, occupying as I do,
perbaps, n different position frominmost lion.
gentlemen in this House, but, 1 know froin
rny observation and experiexîce-havixg beeni
coxxxected with the working classes ail my
life--tîat those w-ho do not employ w-orkîxîgnxen to a large extent seemn to give thein
the rnost of their sympathy, that tîxose w-ho
have had the experience of handling mien
find there is no more difficult thing iîx tixe
world than the settlement of a strike. It is
the sirnflcst thing in the Nvorld te brintr on

JULY 22, 1903
a strike, and it is the inost difficuit ta settie
onc. The whole abject and nim of this Bill,
If I undcrstand the English language and
the Intentions of the bon. gentleman aright,
ls slmply ta preveut people tram comlng lnta
this country ta disturb the peace and barmany between employer and enipînyce.' Under xny band I bave n number. of letters
tram leadlng employers of labour. unsougbt
for, uncalled for. I bave never lfted my
fing-er ini one direction or the otheZ. since
theclion, gentleman introduced tîuis Bill ta
get these letters. I attendcd anc or tivo of
the coiittee meetings, and was struck
wlh the subtlety of those who were presenting their argument against the Bill fram
the labour class, ln bringing forwnrd the
rallway operators, the firenian's union, the
brakesman's union and the ralway engineers' union as represcnting. the trades
unions.
I wish ta bear tcstimony, bcing connccted
witb a railway for tliirty-three years or
longer, that these organizatians are thxe
finest type of labour unionism on the coný
tinent of .&merica, but everything bebind
that was silent and dumb. Not a representative of the other labour unions came here.
Wby sbould they slmply sbleld tbemsolves
beblnd. an organization whicb ls a credit
ta tbe warklIng classes ? Such a thlng as
a strike has nat taken place by the railway men-I refer ta the men operating the
railway trains. These men have been wlsely led. Year after year they go ta the
railway companies wlth their grievances,
but they do not threaten ta strike. Perhaps
for six, eigbt or ten wecks, a representative
is sent froni the different arganizations ta
wait upon the railway companies, nnd they
adjust their grievauces, and came home and
everything ls anxlcably settled. Can any
onc defending labour unions gay that that
ls the way all trades unions and labour
unions are conducted ? Not a bit. I am
nat golng ta enter Inta anything of a controversial character, because I cauld kecp
the House for hours on the subjeet. The
iabouring people do flot give you a moment's
ýwarnlng. Tbeyý tell the foremau tbrouxgh
the day thiat ut six o'clack at nigfit, or'Uic
next day, they will cease work unlcss certain conditions whieli they dcmand are acceded ta. Personally, I bave had them came
ta me befare I was out of bcd, and tell me

057

that before they started work they required
a raise of twenty-tive cents a day to every
man, flot Inquirlng whether I could afford
It or not, and I slmpiy had to submlt ta that
dictum, or let them go on strike. 'Tbat ls
the experience of every employer of labour.
They strike without giving any consideration to the resuits whlch may follow. Men
are easily led, and one evil man ln the
shop or factory can dxsturb the harmony
of five hundred, yea. of five thousand meni.
It is to prevent these paid agitators tram
coming over from the United States to disturb the peace and lxarmony at present existIng between tbe employees and the employers
that this Bill bas been Introduced. I venture ta say that before a walklng delegate
set bis foot ln Canada. there was no dtfFicu.lty ln settling the labour disputes ln our
The trouble is
factorles and workshops.
caused by the walking delegate who cames
over here and gets among the men. He la
well pald and recelves so much a day for
every man wbo joins the union. He organizes a iodge. He goes amongst theni
and says 'If you join the lodge you wil
get your wages raised tbirty, forty or fit ty
per cent' The men take this for granted.
He brings over a charter, and pockets a
large proportion of the tees pald, and then
the trouble begins. The men wcre satisfied
befare tbis agitator came, but hie convmnced
them that If they would start sucli n union
their wages would be Incrcased. The men
sald 'We are perfectly satisfied and perfecetly content' He said : 'Oh, but If you
join the union we will get your wnges increased thirty ta fifty per cent' Then lie
must do samething for this money, s0 hie
advlses the imen ta go on strike. That la
coerclon, and I amn bound to say here, ln
presence of rny fellow-members, and let It
go out ta the warld, thiat the greatest coercionists amang the working class, are the
warking classes themnselves t.-ainst one another. If a man breaks anc of tixeir rules,
they wvill follow hlmi ta the end of the
earth, If nced be, and place a fine upon hlm
that hie cannot escape tram. Warec than
that, these walking delegates corne over
here, not for the purpose of benetiting the
working classes always, but for the purpase
of benefiting themnselves and destroying the
industries of Canada, sa that the like industries on the other side of the lune may

SEINATE
control the mark-ets during the time our industries are tied up. This Is one particular lu which the Bill of the hion, gentleman
from Calgary commends Itself to my judgment. Before I read the letters to the
House, let me show the way these mnen
coerce one another, and how useless It la
to make a bargain witb a trade union. It
is flot worth the paper It Is wrltten on.
You makze a bargain that your owvn men
WINl remain witb you twelve monthis for
$3.50 or $4 a day. If the wages go down
they will remain with you, aud you are ohliged to pay the money, but if the wrages
go up they wiII not strike. Aihul
the
have entered into a bargain, every one wifl
leave you. Wliat benefit Is it to enter into an
agreement with a body of that klnd ? Let
the body becoine incorporated under the
laws of the province wbere these unions
are organized, and then tbey can be ni-de
amenable to the law. As it is now, they
have no orgauization except n international one.
Thiere is nothlng that you can lay
hold upon. Tliey are under no obligation
to carry out any engagement they niay enter Into, and the employer is entirely at
their mercy. Let mie rend one extract fr0111
a labour journal to show you how they
coerce their own men wlth regard'to titeir
duties to the state.
1 suppose that if I
were speaking before a committee of labour
mea that this would be challenged, but
this ta a document sent ont from Washington. where nearly ail these organizations
emanate, and this is what the delegates of
the assembly state. It wns adopted by the
executive board at Washing-ton, District of
Columbia, on January Ist, 1900, and rati-.
fied by the branches April lst, 1903.
Lt
reads as follows:
This association does not aiprove of or sanction any of its members belonging to any volunteer iuilitary organization except on a caîl from
the goyernquent for the defence of tbeir country.
They xvill not allow a maii to, beloîîg to a
volunteer organization foir fear that volunteer organization nmay lie called into use for
the purpose of puttiug dowNv a strice.
It
is only in defence of the country a trades
unionist is allowed to join the voluiiteer
militia. MWe ail hope tlîat is an occasion
ivhichi will not liappen, and that volunteers
îviil never be required for snch a purpose
ui either side of the hune. But tiiese me<n
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

are forbidden to becoine voluutecrs for fear
that they might be takien ont to guird life
and property. One firm bas stated:
The labour unions, have carrled thinga so far
that In some factorles the owners have very
littie to say about the managing of their awn
business, they say wbom he shaîl employ, what
wages to pay, wbat hours they wlll work, what
machines hie can use, and what stock they will
wvork up and what they will not, so practically
the owner la only a figure-head. Many of the
arguments In favour of it are flot true and there
are many reasons why it would be unjust. The
unions have been asklng for and gettinig more
rigbts ail the time, but they are unwllling to
Incorporate the unions to make responsible bodies and accountable for their acts.
I have anothier commnunication ivllii
liere reads as follows:
I saw an article ln the Hamilton ' Herald'
that the Hon. Senator Lougbeed's Bill would
likely be withdrawn, but I do flot tbink that
thls will be the case, as 1 tblnk that the Senate
la a body (rigbtly), flot altogether tied by political exigencies, and therefore any Bill promoted hy them carnies unbiased opinion on a
subict which ls for the benefit of Canada. I
m2ay state In- vindication ef this that I read a
long article in the * Iron Âge 'giving statistics
that at the very most tbe unions in the United
States, aht told, do flot comprise fifteen per cent
of the industrlal population, and Canada without doubt has flot the same, mo that ail this upsetting ef business is brought about by a small
minority and are doing their best to get legislation to keep alive a state of affairs which will
serve well-those paid officiais of the different
unions. Another Important eventuality Is, can
it flot be possible for aur cornpctitors or the
unions whlch to some extent contraI them la
the States, to precipitate a strike here and leave
them an open field. This I only surmise as a
possibility wlth unscrupulous men. However, 1
hope that the unbiased opinion of the Senate
will have a wholesome moral effect on thia
question by the passing of the BIil
I may
atate that ail our mcn seem satisfied and we
bave got a goodly number of Scotch machinists
used to machine tool work, wbich has a good
ecf ct.
Then 1 have another communication
%vlîlch reads as fo4lows:
The parliamentary committee of this association la of the opinion that this would he a very
great mistake. We bave taken two important
deputations to Ottawa, sud have prcsented te
the committee, what, In our opinion, would seem
abundant evidence for the necesaity of the messure. The Banking and Commerce Committee
bave decidcd that the representationa made to
them. have heen sufficient, or wc would bring
even more evideuce to bear uDon the suhject.
Iu any case, we feci that auy apathetie stand
on the part of the committee or the Senate wihl
not only nullify the healthy sentiment which
the discussion o! the Bill bas already created,
but it may even iead to the Impression that the
Senate, like other bodies in Canada, is panderinz to trades unions.
It bas, also been hinted that there sh.ould be
a 'saw-off ' hetweeu the Union Label measure
sud Senator Lougheed's Bill. Iu both cases the
manufacturer feels that bis case is too strong

JULY 22, 1903
and the Issues too Important ta Malte a compromise of any kind wlth irresponsible bodies
whose leaders have littie or nothlng ta lose s0
far as Canada is concerned.
We trust, therefore, that lu the interests of
aIl parties, you wilI lend ail the Influence you*
have towards havlng the Lougheed mesure
prssed thTouch the Senate as socu as possible
durlng the Dresent session.
Bearlng out what I sald a marnent ago wltb
respect ta tbe unreliabllty af moute labour

unions wltb regard ta holding ta their bargain, I have this letter from a firm In Montreal, dated June 6tb.
Sir,-Recently we notlced in the *Pres' that
a labour leader, whlle In Ottawa, stated ail
labour unions had a sacred regard for agreements.
If au opportunlty arise, plesse let your bonourable body lcnow how littile regard the International Stonecutters Association bas for the
agreements of Its branches.
More than a yenr ago we made an agreement
wlth the Crookston. Ontario, branch of this organIzation toecut atone for Niagara Falls, Onta.rie. From the day we began the contract,
the Niagara Falls, New York, bre.nch--<of the
same organizatian)-endeavoured ta maire aur
Crookaton men violate tiieir contraXt with us.
Fanally. befOTe the expiration of the agreement. they aucceeded In foncing aur men ta, quit
work.
Atter sme time. our men wece alloweil te
resume work. for a shorit time only, and then
on condition that they woirld dlsotnue the
use af the most useful tool ; and. further, they
were forcedl ta &sir fifteen per cent more wagen
than tbey had agreed te work for.
Our Crooketon men fought hard, but the
Âxnerlcan branches overruled them.
As a practical man you know the abolishIng
of the stone Ptck would mean thirty psy cent
increase ln cat of cutting.
Tbere you bave a case where another
branch, nearly three hundred miles away,

before allOwlng tbe men ta resume work on
the mates-lal they were formerly cutting,
lnsiatlng that the employeras af labour shauld
pay these men fi!teen per cent more than
tbey bad agreed ta accept. Now, I know
that these men were perfectly aatlsfied ta
resume work. Tbey were diaappalnted that
tbey were laid off, and It waa fortunate
for the men tbat they bad other work ta do.
I want ta bear testimany-I want to be fair
in this matter-that the men belonging ta
the Croolcstawn branch, as I mentloned on a
former occasion, were willing ta work, but
they were prevented by Queenstan who
bave a charter from the United States,
men wbo live between Buffalo and Niagara
Falls came aver to Queenston, Ontario, wlth
this charter In their pocket and set up business for themselves-these men 'would nat
allow tbe Crookaton men ta cut atone and
send It into their district. As 1 sald a

moment ago, the employers bad material
eut golng to the city of Mantreal, and ta
the credit of our French Canadian atonecutters, they allowed the stone eut in Craokston ta be taken dawn ta Montreal, but flot for
months after we.re the men allowed ta resume
the work on the atone golng ta Niagara
Falls, and then anly on an imposition belng
made, flot by the men who were .cutting the
atone, but by the men whose districts the
stone was going Into, forced the employers
of labour ta pay fifteen per oent more. The
Craakston men faught bard against It but
they were overruled. I pald a vislt ta the
quarries and saw two of the leadiiîg men,
citizens of Belleville, wbose word Is undoubted, wha tald me they were perfectly satisfied
ta resume work at the former wages, but
were flot allawed ta do sa by an orgafflzation
whase place waa ln Buffalo and whase beadquartera were lu Washington. Tbey were
flot satlafied ta impose the fitteen per cent
additional on the wages of those men, but
made them abollsh what la known Iu the
trade as the ataxie pick, one of thxe Instruments uaed In stone cuttlng. In order tbat
the work mlgbt be mare eoatly ta the contractor the men were abllged ta follow the
dictum of this ladge In Buffalo, and lay
aside the moat Important toal In that trade,
and li addition ta the fifteen per cent whilh
the emplayera were obliged ta pay, this
cauaed an addition of fifteen per cent ta the
trne in canaequence of tbe removal of this
important toal. Some bon. gentlemen who
have spoken have quated fram an encyclical
lettér of the Pontiff wha bas just passed
away, giving bis views on tbe labour question. I abould like ta say ta those gentlemen wha have spaken, I wauld be delighted,
as a Protestant, ta, know that the labour
unions would Impllcitly follaw the advice
laid down by the great and goqd statesman, because be bas done more ta conciliate
the dfferences between the labouring classes
and emplayers of labour tban any living
mortal, and bis advlce bas bee.n beneficial
ta the warld at large. Every effort he bas
made has been ta establish peace and goodwill between employer and labourer. If o or
men were allowed ta go on ln the even tenor
o! their way i Canada, they would start
a Canadian labour union. 1, for one, bave
always been glad ta employ men connected
witb tbe union-I prefer tbem to non-union
men, but I say tbe time bas arrived in Can-

SENATE
that
ada when we are large enougli, strorxg the rnoney. That was oinly a bugbear
solemn comenoughi and bave ability enougli to carry on waa put up, because there la a
as they
trades unions as Canadian unions wlthouit pact between these men that ns long
long
baving any connection witli the unions pay their dues to that association-so
on the face of as tliat organîzation is able to pay Its dlaims
of any other nationality
fear of
the earth. ,This Bill ls flot axmed at the wlien they fail due, there Is no more
is airned at those men losiug a single dollar than If they
citizens of the United States. It
Life or some
people who corne over here to disturli the were Insured ln the New York
Canada- other first-class lnaurance company in the
tranquility of the tradespeople ln
be afraid on
people who are engaged ln lawful Industries United States. We need not
that score. There la no aim ln thia Bill to
and whose industries are being destroyed
or riglits of any workby men who are paid to create agitation and destroy the property
that ingman ln Canada. The whole object la to
tie up the Industries of our country se
they will nlot be able to ineet competltioll prevent our own people from beingfrorn the other side of the line. I could not
Hon. Mr. LÂN.DERKIN--Gllled.
afford to stand up ln this House and give
Mon. Mtr. GIBSON-I quite agreeý -%ith the
a silent vote on a measure which commenda
word 'gu-fled,' but that is not the word 1
itself to rny judgrnent and the judgment of
Nvanted to use. They are certaiuly gulled
every right-tbinking man ln the Dominion by men who kùow too mucli to work, but
of Canada. 1 care not whether it is carried
kniow enough to wear good olothes and to
in the House of Commons or not; tbank God
apend rnoney at ftrst-class hoteis as if tliey
there is one place ln the legisiature of Canwere princes at large. This mani Gomnpers
ada where men can stand Up and do their
was bere a ýshort tirne ago in Ottawa,
oif fear or faveur, and who
duty irrespective
was quite rneek while lie was ln Canada. In
that is this Senate. Perbaps the Bill la
the city of Montreal, I arn proud to say the
not as complete as It ought to be, but
Catholc Archibishop discouraged a
it la at least a step in the riglit direction and Roman
ithat was called .te disturb the peace,
meeting
wlill commend Itself to the calin judgment
but wlien Mr. Gompers went to Bostonl be
of ùil those wbo wiah for the welfare of Caniand was ln a position
ln amlty with oui nelgbbours waa on f ree grouud,
ada and to live
te say that he was enideavourîng to create
to the soutb of us. We have no quarrel witb
an international union all tbe -labour unions
themn. We do nlot want to disturb thein.
the building tradea on. thLs continent--enOur men do not go there to create a dis- ln
them in one federation
sald that. a delegate deavouring to mass
turbance. Some one
of which he would be the ecnperor. At prefrom Ulnited States capitalists had corne here
sent lie la drawlng, I suppose, ciglit or ten
to create an organization to ralse the price
tbousand dollars a yea.r, and af lie could get
of Ice. There neyer was Ice enoug ina anlie wlsfres, lie would bie
people comlng labour organized as
ada to cool the hot-beaded
ln a position to destroy the building trade of
trorn the United States to create trouble.
aaiy couniry on the face of the eartii. As it
I trust to the Industrioua, Intelligent and
la niow, each labour organization la separate
law-abding! citizens of Canada rather than
may build the ce.]of the line who and distinct The mu-son
to men f roin the other aide
lar wadl but the brlcklayer mzay stop beca use
so far forget tbernselves that they will not
of a strike. After thie walls are up the carallow their fellow-employees to become
ponter may put on the roof, but tbe stieel men
volunteers to preserve the peace àmd prevent
put on the
When may be on strike and will not
the destruction of life and property.
moetal. This mani Gompers, whom reone of
au organization of that kind goes so far, It
our people ln Ottawa iran, after as if lie was
has nlot the riglit to corne before this House
a hero, proposes that lie shaîl have the power
and say that It la belng unfairly dealt with.'
tlac carapent to stop the mnasons, the bricklay-ers,
As far as the money that bas been
penters, -tbe iron «noen, roofers and ail tradesby the Railway Conductors Union la conmen eaigaged ln the construction of a buildcerned, many hon. gentlemen in this House ing. Imagine sucli power put in the hands
bas an insurance policy wlth isorne United
of any man, and tbat lie may lie alo'ed to
States Insurance cornpany, but atill be Is corne to Canada or send bis satellites hiere to
nlot afraid, If the time cornes when that destroy our pence and liarmony. He 6bould
will not get
policy la due, tbat bis his
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

JULY 22, 1903
neyer be allowed te land 111the country if
that is bis intention. Un.der this Bill, If a
man cornes heve with a good. intention ithe
Bill does net apply, but if lie cornes ta destroy the labour Interests of the country, this
Bill woruld be eiifoeed. It wouild be far betéei~ that a dozen or fty men of that chaxacter should be put into jail than that thousands of our workingmen should bée tbrown
out of emipleyment and their wives and cbildmin suifer privation for wanit of the 'necessarles of life.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I was moet pcesent when
the Bill was first discussed, snd I sbould hike
to ask for some Information froni the hon.
gentleman from Calga!ry. The Bill prevides:
524A. Every one ia guiltY of an Indictable
offence and lhable ta t-wo Years' tmprisonmenit
who. being a versai not a Britishi subJect,
wheither residing ln or out cf Canada, dces ln
Canada Incite, urge or Induce worknen, by any
act or means whatsoever, ta quit tny employmene In which they may be engege1, or ta enter
upai acy strike with the abjet of enforcing
addlitional wagea or termu of em.pioyment from
tiheir employer.
.This applies only, -if I nnderstand riglit,

te foreigners and to Britishi subjects flot
domiciled ln Canada. If I understand It,
counselling a strike le net declared an offence. If the thîngs which are mentloned
here do not constitute an offence under our
own laws, how can you malce a discrimination between a Canadian and a foreigner ?
If the thing mentioned ln this BilIla flot
criminal, bow can you make a crirninal of a
man whether a forcigner or not, who commits the act ? It is flot a cimLnal act now ;
how can you make a discrimination and
condemn and punish as a criminal a man
who bas not committed a criminal oifenoe ?
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Pairlialnent can
à.eclare wbatt shaîl conetitute. an. offence. Full
power le vested lu parliament te create a.ny
oifenoe and bring It within the crîminal law.
There is ne doubt at the present time, the
criminal law does not caver an act like this,
but the intentIon of the Bill is t Mialte this
a criminal offence and punish lt under the
eriminal la.w.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I admit there is but
one thing which parliainent camniot do, and
we know wbat It is. But ie it riglit to m-ake
sucli a discrimination ? I want te explaln
my vote, because I have declared I would
vote for the Bili presenîted by the bon, gentleman from De Salabeoery (Hon. Mr. Béique)

concerning tbe freedom of labour. Why ?
Because, while I have always been conGidered -a frlend of the work.ingniamý and bave
sbown It on many occasiens, at the same
tLrne 1 think we muet protect them against
their ow.n Imprudeice and protect society as
well. 'Tbere *may be strIkes which are reasonable. I have known occasions wben the
general sympathy of our population ln Montreal was "vith tbe strikers. 1 would ask the
hon. gentleman from Calgary, suppvsing a
strios' Is a good and bonest one, ordered by
peopý4e with good inteutions or only a desire
to Iniprove their conditions, and if a foreiguer cornes ln and encourages sucb a strike,
though the strike ts flot bad, if it is flot crimIml, how can you declare, that a m'an. who
dees that ls a criminai anid condemn and
punIsb hlim as a criminal ? As te the Bil
presented by the bon, gentleman from De
Salaberry, I veted for the Bill as ainended
because its objeot was te prevent strikes,
trom, belng coniverted in.to Tlotous asseniblies
which m4glit becorne very dangerous ta the
communIty and for the workingmen themselves, but liere there is nothing to connect
what is mentioned ln the Bill with acts or
words of violence. If there was something
te that eifect in it, I should vote for the Bill.
If there was something like this in tbe first
clause, ' or using words or tbreats which
would be conducive to deeda of violence,'
then I think I would vote for the Bill, but
otherwlse, unless the hon. gentleman f rom
Calgary Is able te meet my objection, I do
not see how I can vote for it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The whole object
of the Bill is to prevent foreigners from interfering in Canadian strikes.
Hon. MT'. CLORÂN-This discussion lias
takien a course which is a very serious one
in this country. The labour interest is the
most Important ln Canada.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Order.
Thie hon- gentleman lias -spoken.
Hon. Mr. CLORKN-I anade no speechi hefore on this measure. I asked a question and
got no answer, and 1 rise to ask for that
answer. 1 aân wlling to submit to the rullng et the Speaker.
SHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
le ithe question ?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The question ls tbis:
Will the lbon. the promoter of this Bill prove

SENATE
t0 this bonourable House w-hy theY (Io not
curtail the liberties of financial, rnanufacturing and others as well as labour
lnterests ? That question bas piot been
answered. This debate is assuming proportions of interest to the people of Canada.
As -I aaid, the most Important and valuable
Interest la the country is that of labour.
Labour Is the creator of capital, and capital
must pay respect to labour, and this honourable House and the parliament of Canada
must understand that. Now, I oppose this
Bill because it strikes at organized labour,
notwitbstanding wbat the bon. senator froi.
Belleville bas stated.

if I were to bold thaI lie was out of order iii
speaking now.
lon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not want to question the ruling of the Chair.
If the Speaker decîdes Ibat tbe bon, gentleman bas a rlgbt 10 continue the discussion,
1 arn wllling to subrnit, but I do not pro
pose to take a lecture frorn the Chair xviîen
I caîl a member to order under the mules.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The
was not lecturing any one.

Speaker

The SPEAKER-I did not lecture any one,
and I hold the lion. gentleman Nbo bad the
floor bas tbe igbt to make a speech.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I rise to a point
Hlon. Mr. CLORAN-1 do not un-derstand
of order. 1 want to know whietber this
the motive of the bon, gentleman opposite
discussion Is being conducted in accordance
who wisbed to prevent liglit frorn beizîg
with the miles of tbis House or not ?
thrown on Ibis subjeet. As I bave stated,
o
Hon. Mr. MAGDONALD (..
this question is of supreme importance, not
10 Ibis bonoi.wable House, but to the
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-If not, we sbould only
millions of the labouring classes of tbis Dohave order. The hon. gentleman bas already
minion. The bon. senator from Belleville
addressed the House.
stated tbat this Bill was not an attack diHon. Mr. CLORAN-I addressed the House rected against organized labour. I bold that
ln asklng a question, that Is ail.
it is a direct and fatal attack on organized
labour. If tbis bonoura-ble House cn,î preHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN--On the point of
vent men from outside the limita of Canada
order, we ail know tbat considerable laticoming In 10 assist their brother toilera, wby
tude la allowed in this House to all speakers,
flot declare that the toilera of Quebec shahl
and my hon. frlend from Hawkesbury Is a
be *estained frorn comlng lmb the province
new member of the Senate. He bas bad no
of Ontario ? Wby not localize your organiopportunlty to express bis views on this
zations so, as to make tbem insipid, useles
question, or aI least bas flot avaiied himself
and powerless ? In union there is strengtb,
of any opportunlty, and wben be rose a few
and I say this Bill ha an aîtack on tbe brotbminutes ago he slmply asked a question and
erbood of man. We are supposed to be
sat down. We have lost lots of lime. Tbere
brothers tbrougbout tbis world. Tbeme are
is no necessily for any bon. gentleman, on a
no lines wbich prevent the workingw.ani
of order, to suppress any bon. memquestion
aeeking 10 better Ibeir condition, and I aay
ber, and parîicularly a youug member of
this Bill la a direct attack on organized
to the House to let tbe
Ibis House. I appeal
labour, its value and usefuiness. I bold,
hon. gentleman speak.
more, tbat it bas not been proved here by
The SPEAIER-I understood the bon. the declarations of bon. gentlemen who bave
gentleman who hbas the floor said be was pre- spoken on Ibis BIi tibat Ibere la any necespared to defer to tbe ruiing of tbe Chair. I sity for IL Ras any bon. member named an
take tbe sarne vlew whicb bas been taken instance where an agitatqr bas corne
called
and
'by the hon, gentleman frorn Victoria. The frorn a foreign country
mules are not very igidly enforced. here, and a strike in Ibis country of ours ?
the bon. gentleman fTom Hawkesbury (Hon. I bave it on the best autbority Ihat there is
,Mr. Cioran) bad not made any egular ad- no sucb Instance in- the bi-story of uion
dress 10 the House ;he simply asked on ism in Canada-Ihat Ihere is no one instance
two occasions q~uestions of bon, gentlemen whbere a foreigner bas corne mbt Canada for
who bad tbe floor, and I tbink it would be the purpose of ordering a strike. If that
enforclng the rule in an unjustifiable degree statement cati be contradicted,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

I amn pre-

JULY 22e 1903
upon monpared to accept the contradiction On the time to tîme in being impressed
it In a geneIf it cannot bie contradicted, I say union men, and I slmply used
spot.
of our iaw
ail the arguments that have been made on rai sense, because a large body
to the ground. The lion. sen- is slmply a question of 1Thou shaît not do
that Uine faîl
no attaclc on orator from Lincoln (Hon. Mr. Gibson) bad s0 and so.' I have made
to delegates coming in here. ganized labour or thefr ruies.
an objection
That is a matter of opinion. It is flot a
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I arn giad to know
matter which attacks the principle whlcb that my Information is not well-founded.
underlies tliis Bill or builds It Up. A dele- There is another statement of the hon.
gate can corne bere and forai unions just gentleman frorn Calgary whicb I bave on
ns our delegates go from the I.O.F. to out- Information also. He sald bie was prepared
side countries to form courts for mutual to withdraw the Bill If it couid bie proved
insurance. The question of delegates coin- that tbe property or the interests of labour
ing In here to fori unions I k-now notbing would be injured by its enactiment.
about. I believe tbey do corne, and tbey
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, I said that
corne liere under the protection and for the
If a responsible legal opinion had been subassistance of our Canadian unions. Tbey
mitted to the commlttee that the financial
do flot corne bere and impose theinseives
of organized labour were directly
on our trades unions. If tbey corne, It is bie- interests
In jeopardy tbrougb the passage of this
cause tbey are lnvited. There are gentielegisiation, I would have assumed the remanly instincts amongst the iabouring classsponsibility of wlthdrawing tliis Bill, and
es as well as elsewbere. These delegates
I furthermore sald that during the various
do flot force themseives on our Canadian
sessions of the commlttee no evidence was
labourers, and therefore, that argument of
subxnitted whiatev er, except the Ipse dixit
walking delegates comîng la hiere bas nio
of the various delegates, as to the Indirect
weigbt with me in formlng an opinion on lnjury it would cause to the funds o! the
this Bill. On the contrary, it is necessary association, but no legai opinion, or no
tbat there should bie international action. opinion bearing upon the legal aspect, was
international action mot only between two submltted to which we couid pay any atcountries, but ail over the worid. If inter- tention. in fact mone whatever was subnational action is necessary for the main- mitted.
tenance of peace, why not permit of action
Hon. Mfr. OLORAN-In regard to that
on Internationalilines ail over the world on
of labour, s0 that labour can bie matter, I wouid bave tbis to say, that tbere
behaîf
strong and In its strengtb be wise. Wbere lis not tbe siightest doubt in my mind froin a
labour Is weak labour is not wise. Labour legal point of vlew, tbat if Canadian unions
is liable to commit errors aud grave sins were forced to separate froni headquarters
against the iaws of society, and we are Ih- In the United States or la Great Britain, or
able to err In the statutes that we pass bere, elsewbere, that the funds paid In up to date
and tbe saie witb capital. Wbat we want would be confiscated and remain at headla strong unions, so that tliey wîll bie able quarters. There is no question about that
to take care of their interests. On these wbatever.
grounds, I cannot see thiat this Bill sbould
my hon.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will
pass. And furtber, a document has beer tfriend point out wberein the element o!
placed in my hands reg-arding a statemeni separation is in any way Involved la tbis
made by the bon. senator f rom Calgary legisiation ?
and it la thia: bie asked a question whieL
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This legisiation cuts
1 did not catch myself, but of wbicb I wai
informed. He wanted more drastic rule~ Sat tbe great artery that binds the Canadian
worio, viiethan the union ruies-the ruies that woui< unions witb other unions or tue
ther tbey bie iii Austraia. Engiand, France
used by employers and companies.
be
no
e~
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-'No. Permit mE or the United States. If there can bie
1 active, useful relationship between the two
to say that I said nothing about rules.
bie separated.
siinply instanced in a general way cases o f bodies, then they had better
Canadian inoney is going into United
iIf
repression and coercion which occurred fron

SENATE

694

States channels and United States funds,
and no agîtator, as hie is caiied, or no representative of labour, as I call hlm, can corne
into Canada to settie matters, then the best
thlng they have to do and the only thi-ng
they have to do ls to separate, and the moment they separate, ail the funds which
have been put Into the general fund -wili
remain on the United States side. Tbati Js
my legal opinion. It is rny opinion from
a public point of view, and If the hon. genitleman wishes a further opinion, I arn prepared to wait and give hlm an opportunity
to obtain it so that hie may witlidraw this
Bill. He owes that to parliament. H1e has
made a fair off er, and hie lias made a generous offer of bis principles, to sacrifice them
on the aitar of bis country, and I arn prepared to close the discussion at once If the
hon. gentleman wili undertake to moye the
adjournrnent of the debate and secure that
opinion. But in case hie does flot, I wil
finish rny argument. The hon, leader 0f the
opposition quoted a very Important passage
trom one of the most important documents
ever penned by the band of man on the
question of labour. The hon. senator frorn
Belleville quoted four uines, and frorn what
I can see, aithougli hie said, a few days ago
on the floor of this House, that lie did not
beiong to the legai fraternlty, he wouid
make an excellent iawyer if hie were nt the
bar. Hie quoted suffcient to suit lits on-n
purposes, which coînpeis tlie attorney on the
other side to complete what hie left unread.
This 'hononrable House will remember that
1 interrupted the hon. gentleman when lie
read the extract fromn this encyclical letter
of Pope Leo XIII. 1 was riglit in interrupting birn, because tlie two texts are flot
the sanie. One is publislied by tlie Catliolic
Truth Society, and iite is publishied by the
International Catliolic Trutli Society, going
to show that wli you have an international
base to stand on you are on safer ground.
The Catholie Truth Society pubuishes this
letter and the International Catholie Trutli
Society aiso publishes it.
lion. '. MACDONALD
the truc copy ?
Hon. '.\r.
the sanie.
gentleman is
Pd in this.
Hon. '.\r.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
language ia that document is stronger than
the one I was reading from.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This document reads
as foliows:The Condition of Labour.
The discussion la flot easy, nor lait free from
danger. Ih is flot easy tio defene the relative
righ!ts and the mutual duties of the wealtby
and tbe poor, of capital and of labour, and the
danger lies In this :cratty agltators constantly
make use of these disputes to pervert men's
Judgments and to stir up the people into sedition.
Hon.

-Mr. GIBSON-Hear,

hear.

Hou.

-.
%r. *CLORAN-Tlie

article

con-

tinues :
But ail agree. and there cau, be no qu'eszion
whatever. that sonne reinedy must be i.und,
and quickly found, for the misery and1 wret,.hedne.ss wbich press s0 heavily at this mom-ent on
the large majority of the poor. The ancient
workman's guilda were destroyed in the last
century, and ne other organization took tbeir
place. Public institutions and the laws have
reDuditated the ancient religion. Hence by degrees it bas corne to pass tha-t workingrnen have
been given over isol-ated and defeniceless to the
callousness of employers and the greed cf unresgtralned competition. The evil bas been :.ncreaaed by rapaciaus ugury, wbich, aithougli
more than. once condemned by the church, Ia
nevertheletss under a different forrn, but wlth
tbe samie guilt. stili practised by avaricieus and
grasping men. And to this must be added tbe
custom of working by contract and the concentration of so many branches of trade ia the
bands of a few individuals, sn that a smal
number of very rioh men bave been able to iay
urnon the masses o! the poor a yoke littie better tban slavery ltself.

Tliese are the words of the man who lias
These are the
lived a hoiy and pure life.
words of a man wlio bias governefi, îîot only
one spot in Rorne, In the Vatican, but wliose
counisels have gone over the face of the
These are the words of a man wlio
eartli.
lies to-day dead. but before bis tomb ls
ciosed over bim, I arn proud to have it
ho say, that lion. members on botli qides
of this House. bion. gentlemen on both sîdes
of tliis question, have tliought fit to teacli
this Senate. ibis parliament of Canada. tuéon
Nvhat basis to place this question of labouar.
Look îlot ah one sitie alone, i ook at hoth,
look at labour and weaith. What ls weaith,
(B.C.)-Wlich is only the creature of labour. There is no
wcaltli in tliis worid wltliout labour or

'witliou't toil. It la not the artist wlio adds
He nîqv nid
se e qaiout to the xvealtlî of the world.
CLORAN-Tlie
1h is not the iawyer
I contend the text of the bon. ýto its beauty.
stronger than what is conitin- or the notary wlio adds to the wealtli of
thie world. He ma" add ho the intelligence,
CLORAS.

JULY 22, 19U3
fand sa ail along the Une. The men wbo add
to the wealth of this wor]d-and there is
only one sense ia wbicb wealth can be created-are the farmer who tilis the soUl, the
miner wha digs into the bowels of the earth,
the manufacturer and the fishermali. These
are the four men, and these are the men
you bave ta protect against danger, and
these are the principles laid dowç%n and wbîch
I will be calied upan ta furtber advocate in
connectian with tbe Bill af the bon. gentleman fram De Salaberry when it cames Up.
But here we have sufficient proof that this
Bill shauld flot be accepted by this banourable
W~e have enougli proaf that tbis
Honse.
Bill is a direct attack, against the liberty
and the freedom of action of the warkingI am sarry ta disngr-ee wilh the lion.
manl.
gentleman fromn Lincoln <Hon. '-%r. Gibsan),
when lie states that Canadian waorkmen
sbould remain within their own restricted
NVhy not let the brotherhaod af
limits.
warkzmen extend over the face of this wvorld,
Why
the samne as nny fraternal arder?
restrict the labouring man ta a lacal organizatian w-hen the Independent Order of
Faresters and the Masons, and ail mutual
benefit societies are allow-ed ta stretch thieir
hands ail over the wlde worid? Wby farce
aur poar layai Canadian workingmian ta depend upan his own effarts ? Wby flot allaw
bimi ta have others came in ? They do nat
camne ln ta disturb the peace. No instances
have occurred ln the bistory of strikes wbere
they have been urged on by fareign agitators. Wheni tlhat is dane, -we wll find suffidient in aur statutory lau-s ta put themn bebind the bars, but we bave xîo rîglit ta state
ta labour in this Canada of aurs, 1Your field
Your relationshl Is alone
is simply bere.
here and yau bave îîa right outside.' I say
it is a duty this Senate qhould tiot be called
upon ta perform.

ý;1695

simple one. It isgoad Englisb, easlly understood, painted and direct. If I understand
he Bill, It is nlot almed at the question of
capital and labour. It Is flot almed at the
question of lalbour unions, or unions of
capitaHon.
hear.

Mr.' MACDONALD

(B.C.)-Hear,

Han. Mr. KERR (Cobourg)-I am flot
called upon an this occasion, wbatever 1 may
be ln the near future, to advacate these
questions. As 1 understand 'the BiII-and I
think I do-its sale and anly abject is nlot
to prevent aliens or foreigners coming
into Canada, but ta prevent tbem camlng
Into Canada for the purpose of instigatlng
strikes and lock-outs. I cannat understand
bow tbis Bill does nlot commend ltseif ta
aIl reasonabie men. Do flot misunderstand
me, bon, gentlemen, that I wouid insinuatefar from me-that I tblnk those wibo bave
spaken, and will follow their speeches by
their votes against thus Bill, are nat just as
good and loyal, anid perbaps wlser men than
myself. But I cannat understand the view
tbat ùijey bave taken. I, for one, cannot,
after wbat I have heard, recancile my couscience and remain quiet and xîot say a
word or two from my standpoint. Happily,
or unhappily, 1 am not an employer of
labour or a member of a labour union, but
I want ta say bere naw, la justice ta inyseif,
that If there is one class In the Dominion
of Canada whom I admire and respect mare
'than another It Is the men wbo belong ta
that great band of labourers, s0 ta speak,
the men who helong ta that great army,
' Pull off your coat and rall up your sleeves,'
men who bave made Canada largely what it
Is to-day ; but bon, gentlemen, wbile I entertain that vlew, I am bouxnd ta say that I will
now, and on ahl occasions wben called upoa,
Hon. Mr. KERR ýCobourg)-I shahl nat set my face and voice and vote against men
detain the House long. and only for the dis- coming Into Canada for criminal or maliciaus
cussion this afternoon it wzis nlot my inten- or wlcked purpases. This Bill 15 within the
tion ta do more than give a silent vote on competence of this House ta pass ; there is
the question. Aithougli this Bill bias been no doubt about that. The oniy question we
now for some timie befare the Senate. I stili have ta consider, I take it, is wbether it is
fear. niotwithstaniding the full and able dis- expedient, or in the interests of the welfare
cussion that lias talten place uponi it. bath of this Dominion ta pass thus Bill. I have
bere and in conimittee. that there stili exists heard aa argument used, sounidîng somesaine-no I should say very cansiderable- what strangely ta me, that, forsooth, se
iiisapprebensiail as ta the true nature of people across the Une might takze timbrage,
tis Bill. Ta iny immdit. the Billii ia v em or offence, or consider that it was an un-

SIENATE
friendly act on our part, to pass this Bill.
I do flot anticipate any such reasen, or any
such feeling. I arn very sure thit if a Canadian so far forgot hirnself as t0 cross the
international boundary liue and set f0 worlz
te stir up or incite strikes, or iock-outs, 1
would think the Ujnited States people would
send hinm bakel wlhere lie came from.

crime. Aliens eaui corne bere, British subjects can corne here for peaceable objects,
and they w-il] be jusf as tboroughly and
fuily protected by Our laws as those who
liave lived hiere ail their lives, but they rnust
corne bere for a useful purpose, and use
their presence bere for a conciliafory and
peaceful purpose, and If is only agalnst allen
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-He would agitafors -thaf f bis Bill is aimed. When
be stiot like a dog, and serve hlmii rifflt, f00. I cast my vote in faveur of this Bill
I (Io so as a truc friend of the labour unions.
Hon. M.Nr.
KERRIE (Coiourg-I arni told that I cannot enceive anything tnat wlI array
It was uselcess for us to pass this Bill1, be- the Canadian people andti li capitalisfs of
cause it is sure to receive its quietu, lu the' hotu ciuuîtries against labour unions more
other Charnier, where I believe Buis have thaii agitaters corning in liere te ineddie
sornetirnes te -go. Well, thaf nay l)e. Sonie w'vith union rnein's affairs. Lt is a sad repeople say they do sonie queer things there, flectiouî on the people of Canada that w-e
but I do not knwhwether they do or nof. cannot produce as goed people te settie
Ail 1 want to know and be satisfied about, these questions
here as fhey Lave lu the
is that I give an1 intelligent vote on1 fte United States. The sooner w-e
rely upon
question befoie us, and whven I have doue ourselves for the Settlenment
of oui' labour
thaf. to know tiîat I have disc-harged muY disputes, as w-cIl as fer
the developrnent
dufy, and 1 shalh leave if te those w-ho vote
of our country and the exploitation of our
agaînst it to take their own view of if,
ferritory, the better for us, and this Bill w-ill
either iii this Fleuse or lu the other. The
be a large instaîrnent in faveur ef bringing
queted
lasf speaker, in bis eloquent speech,
about that rnost desirable result. For- these
somne views and sentiments of His I-oliniess.
reasons, as w-cil as rnany ethers w-bich are
Pope Leo. I have the most profound respect
present te rny mind, wich I cannot and w-i
for the w-ords and the wisdom of thaf great
net -Ive, even fbougb hon. gentlemen had
man. I do flot know thiat I can beffer sum
the patience and kinciness te listen te me,
up what I have always fhouglit of Iiim, of
I shahl vote lu faveur of this Bill, and lu
bis great life. than by saying fhat bis long
doing se 1 shail clairn te be as geod a frîend
and useful mission upon the earth was oe
of tbe iabeuring rnan-and these -w-b knew
of peace ou eartb and good-will to mea.
may life frorn rny yeuth up will correborate
But w-hile I say that. if 1 read his views
whaf I say-tbaf I arn as faveurable and as
aright, they ceml)lelely disprove the position
friendly as any man lu this Chamber te the
that the bion. gentleman sought te establisb
by quofing thern. 1 arn satisfied thaf if 1-is labouring man, as any one w-ho bas speken
to-day, and iu voting for this Bill. 1 shil de
Holiness couid hear this discussion. judgiig
frorn bis anfecedents, judging frorn bis hlm a grand service by kceping alleu agitacountry w-ecerne here te
whoie life, judging from his concillatorv dis- fers outfethis
position, I believe he would be hearfhly in Incite strikes and meddle w-itb oui' aifairs.
syrnpatby w-lîtb tbe object of this Bill and
endeavour te prevent men stirring Up strife
and 111-w-ll. Now, do flot let any one go
aw-ay and say that I arn epposed to men
cerning here. This Bill is îîot opposed to
aliens corniug te Canada. Aliens are w-elcorne t0 corne biere, but fbey are not w-elcorne f0 corne bere auid stir ni) strikes and
ieck-oufs arngsf our ow-ii people.
Hon. MIN.CLORAN-Are sfrikcs a cime
Hon. Mi-. KERR (Cobourg)-I have flot
said flîey areý ,a
ths
iii does net Say
tlîey are. blut thie Stirring up1 of tlîern is a
Hoa. Mýi« K ER R

kCoboura

Hon. Mi-. MýeGREGOR-It w-as iof rny intention te have said anytbing lu tbis debafe.
1 intended te g-ive a sulent vote on this Bill.
Au aufhority lias been quoted. lere. but a
grcate- autbeî-ity says *the labourer- is woithv of bis Lîire.* I arn. lu Soule eternt. a n
employer ef labour myseif. If theî-e is anytliing I -'voulîl plunisbi, it is the mlanl N-ho0
w-euld prevent a labourer frem doing as hie
pleases. Wlii
tiiere is a st-ike. anid labourers initerfe-e witli ;111 muan wihvii
is
t)
wo-rl w-e shoiild liav\e law~s as striiii acuit as
111b11te thimen. blt Ibis Bill. as I
11s-1

JULY 22, 1903
understand it, assumes, If there Is a strike
that the strikers are wrong.
HEon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-If the strikers
wish to go to the United States, or to Germamy, or any other place to consuit, why

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It Is to
prevent heavy wood being carried on deck,
1 suppose »

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the words 'te a
height exceeding three feet above the deck'
are struck out. An objection can be taken
should nlot they be allowed to do so ? 1 cau- to any deckload If lt endangers the vessel.
pot see why they should not. This Bill interferes with labour and private rights. I
amn in faveur of private riglits being protected la every form and I shahl vote
against this Bill.
The Senate divided on the motion, which
w-as adupted by the following vote:
Contents
Hon. Messieurs
Macdonald.
Baker.
(Victoria),
Bolduc,
Mack>een.
BoucherviUje. de
McDonald (C.B.),
Bowi1eil
McKay (Truro),
(Sir Mackenzie),
McLaren,
Carling (Sir John),
MeMililan.
Ca-gratn
McMulien.
(de Lanaudière).
Merner.
Chu.rcb.
Miler.
Dever.
Montplalsir,
Dobson.
Owens.
Ferguson.
Pelletier.
Frost,
(Sir Aliphonse),
P'ulford,
Perley.
Gibam.
Power (Speaker).
Godbout,
liobertqon2.
Kerr (Cobourg),
Tessier.
Kerr (Toronito),
Vidal,
Lam-dry,
Wood.--U.
Louprheed,
Macdonald (P.E.I.),
Non-Contelts
Hon. Messieurs
MeHugh,
MeSweeiney,
Scott,
Sulivani.
Temfflernan.
yeo.-13

Coffey.
Oloran.
Dornville.
David,
Ellie.
Fise.
MecGre&or,
The Bill was then read the thîrd time and
passed.
0F SHIPS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. 31r. SCOTT moved the second readlng of Bill (179) An Act to axnend the Act
He said :
respecting the safety of ships.
This Bill slmply enlarges the Act whlch Is
«lready on the statute-book, provldlng for
other material than those mentloned la the
original Act will aise be regarded as in violation of deckload regulations. For instance,
the nexv words added to the 7th clause are:
Or any pitch pine, oak or ehma planks, or any
heavy wood goods.
SAFETY

Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-The amendment prevents the carrying of any deckload
on a voyage to Europe after the Ist of October and before the 16th March. Under the
law as It formerly stood, there waz a certain axnount of tiniber or other cargo that
could be carried on deck, but as the Bill
reads, I thlnk It prevents the carrying of any
heavy deckload during that period of a year.
I presuine it is intended. for the safety of
sblps.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-The words in clause
(c) permit the deckload to be carried three
feet In lheight provlded Lt ls:
Any deals. batteins or other llght wood goods.

The words whlch ihave been struck out of
the oid Act are 'In any space where the
deck of such ship is closed, ln: The three
feet provision is stili there.
provement on the Act.

It

is an im-

The motion was agreeKd to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

QOVERNMENT AND POST OFFICE
SAVINGS BANKS BILL.
SE-COND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read-

lng of Bill (220) An Act respectlng government and post office eavings banks. He
said: This Bill Is only a Bill of seven lines
makiiig provlsiou:
The Minister of Finance and Receiver General
sh-al hoid. for the purpose of securing the repayrment of deposits made In the government.
savings banks and in the post office savlugs
banks. an amounlt in gold, or ln gold ana 0puada securit4es guaranteed by the government
of the United Kiugdoma, equal to net less than
ten ve-r centurn of the total amaount o! such
deposits as such amnount is ascertiaine4i tram
time to tirne.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSONX-Has there hitherto
been any amount held ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk. not.
Hon. Mr. FEEGUSON-It seems an original provision.

SENATE
Hou. Sir MCEZ
BOWELL-Most 1Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The proportions are the
likely it arises from the increased deposits. 1same wbatever the other is.
Hon. -- SCOTT-Yes, and some protec\r.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbey
tion ouglit to be introduced. The amnounts have the additioual power now given tbem
are increasing very largely.
to issue notes to the extent of thirty million
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill dollars, for wbich tbey must keep a reserve
of 25 per cent in the securities frientioned ln
was read the second time.
the clause.

Then the provîso, would lead

At six o'clock, the Speaker lef t the Chair. us to suppose they could Issue any amount
of Dominion notes afterwards, but they must
keep dollar for dollar in gold ta, redeem sucb
Issue, because It says after that portion of
DO'MINION NOTES BILL.
the clause which I bave quoted :
Provided that the amount so held ln gold shall
SECOND READING.
be flot less than fl!teen per cent of the amount
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading- of such notes so Issued and outstandlng, and
the
of Dominion
of Bill (222) An Act respectlng Dominion as security for exceas redemption million dollars
notes issued In
of thlrty
notes. He sald : Thiis Bill la followlng on an amount In gohd equal to, auch excesa.

After Recess.

the lune of former legisiation.
From
time to time there bas been an expansion
of aur currency, necessarily as the business
of the country grows. The last increase, I
tbink, M'as up to twenty millions. This Bill
authorizes an issue of thirty millions witb
the saine proportions-not less than 25 per
cent is to be beld la gold or Its equivalent.
For any excess over the tbirty million dollars, there must be dollar for dollar in gold
beld. As it was before. when the issue was
twenty million dollars. any excess over
twenty million dollars required a reserve of
dollar for dollar. Now it is over tbirty million dollars.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The previous lnw
was any excess over twenty-five million
dollars. Lt w-as increased la 1894 to twentyfive million dollars. and la 185 the limit w-as
renloved as it is la this Bill.

F rom tluis tbey could issue Dominion notes

to the extent of $30,00,OO0 for w'bich tbey
mnust bold 25 per cent in gold. or securîties to,
redeena it, but any amount tbey Issue la
excess of $30,O0,000 tbey must hold dollar

for dollar.

Is not that tbe meanlng ?

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes, it is the same
principle tbat bas prevalled for mauy years.
Hlon.

Mr. FELtGUSO-N-I

find

that the

state of tbe law is just this lai 1894 it was
enncted tbat the amount to be issued was
increased from $20,000,O00 to $25,0O0,000.
The next year, 1895, it was put back again
at the $20,0O,0OO, and no limit upon the
amount, only upon the amount in excess of
$20,00,000 dollar for dçllar must be beld.
Now it is proposed to increase the amnounlt
ta $30,00,000 on the ordinary securlty, and

above that amount there must be dollar for

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There bas been no legis- dollar la gold beld. There is another clause
here, clause 8, which I wisb my hon. friend
lation since iS95.

would explaixi.

Lt provides:

Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then it
S. Provincial notes lssued under the Act of the
would appear that N-batever the amounit tbe hate province of Canada, passed ln the session
yesrs of
goverannent bas power to issue just now, held la the twenty-ninth and thirtleth shahl be
Lier hate Majesty's relgn, chapter 10,

tbey bave under this clause to bold 25 per
cent.

held to be notes o! the Dominion of Canada,
and shall be redeemable la specle on presentatin at Montreal, Toronto, Halifax or St. John,
N.B., and
at one of
4. The Mý%inisier of Finance and Receiver Geai- which they that respectlvely the said places a-,
are
made payable, and
eral shlaal always hold as security for the
re demption of Dominion noteis issued and (,ut- shall be (as provided by the last mentioned Act)
a legal tender except ai the offices at which
standing at any one timle, Up to and including
thirtv million dollars, an amnunt in gohd, or they are respectively made payable.
seourities nf Canada. the principal
ia gold and of such
Wbat does tbat mnean ? Tbat is the first
or interest
securities being guaranted
by the government
of the United Kingdom, tîme sucb a provision bas appeared lu a
eaual to flot lees than twenty-flvýe pier cent of
Tbere must be somnething
the amo-unt of such notes so issued and out- federal statute.
st andin g.
ta explain with regard ta these notes of tlhe
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JUILY 22, 1903

699

The motion *as agreed to, and the Bill
old province of Canada, for provision la now
1was read the second Urne.
made to redeem thern.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere are, as my bon.
frlend knows, notes ef large denorninations,
thousaud dollar notes, used by the banks lu
settling thelr balances.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Were
those Issued by the oid province of Canada?7
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, notes Issued
prior to confederation.
Hon. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-There
are in circulation-I do not know whether
this refers to it or not-a number of wiiat
are termed shinplasters which were issued
by Sir Francis Hincks, when lie was Minister of Finance, In order to meet the requirements of the country at that Urne.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I think In the assumption of the debts of th e provinces at the time
of confederation ail the paper money that
was issued and floating became a debt cf
the Dominion. In later years I saw in the
1Canada Gazette' a statement of the notes
Iu circulation and notes of the province of
Nova Scetia and the province of Canada
were Inclnded as well as the Dominion Issue
ef which the government publlslied an account. I believe the notes of the province of
Nova Scotia were paid off. I arn glad to say
there are noue of New Brunswick In circulation. We always paid In gold.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The Mame prevailed lu Prince Edward Island. The notes
iasued before confederation are redeemabie
by the provincial government. We held ln
tbe provincial treasury an amount~ for the
redemption of those notes,. and a stray one
cornes lu yet. That la thirty years ago, and
a smali amount, $12,000 or $15,000, was held,
and I think It la held yet for the redemption
of. tbese notes, the greater part of whlch
*have net beaun presented.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause 8 was lu the
tirst Act passed, lu 31 Vie. It ls word for
word the same as In this Bill.
lion. Sir MACINZIE B0WELL,-N,,iil
the hon. gentleman Inquire snd give us the
Information iu committee. My own Impression is it covers the Issue ef sblnplasters.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Perhaps it does. 1 know
they have been a long time lu circulation.

CITY 0F OTTAWA IMPROVEMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading'of Bill (223) An Act to amend the Act
of 1899 respectiug the dlty of Ottawa. He
sald: Hon. gentlemen will recollect that Iu
1899 the guo'erument undertook te puy to
the city of Ottawa, for a period ef ten yeurs,
a sum which was then fixed at $60,000 a
year. Now it is proposed te exteud the tixue
for ten years longer from that date, and te
allow the commission to auticipate payuieut
by Issuing debentures, the $60,000 a yesr te
be fuuded te meet the debeutures as they
become due. Instead of extending the work
over the next fifteen or sixteen years, thîs
wIl enabie them to get It doue In four yenrs.
It la provided liere that the debeutures shahl
be redeemable at. the expiration of the time.
BOWEL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
sliould like te eaUl the attention of the bon.
Secretary of State and the goverument to
one of the provisions lu the Bll. As I
understand It, the government are extending
the payment to the city of Ottawa Iu order
te make It the Washington ef the Northi$60,000 per anuum for twenty years Instead
ef $60,000 per annum for ten years as cri.
ginally provided. Iu order te maire the Irnp>rovements that are conternplated, and the
commission which lias been appointed te expend this money ls given power te Issue debentures on the securlty of the annuai payments wbich are to be made, s0 that thxe
geverument could lese nothing under these
circumatances, because the fourth clause
provides that the iuterest upon the debentures and the principal shaîl be paid out of
the Income et the commission. Now the
only lucome which the commission lias, or
can have, la the amount recelved annually
froxu the goverumeut, $W0,000. What I want
te ask is why should the government give
the power te the commîssioners to borrow
meuey at four per cent wlien the money can
be obtaiued by the government itself at
three per cent, thereby losing one per cent
upon whatever amount of bonds tbe cornmissioners issue. Supposing that they issue
to the full extent given them lu this Bill,

SENATE
$250,000, 1 can see no reason why the government should flot advance that money
themseives, belng able to borrow it at a much
less rate than the comniissioners can borrow It, unless the comnilssloners Issue their
debentures wltli the securlty or endorsation
of the governmnent upon them by which they
would save one per cent on $250,000. It
seems to me if I were reeommendlng a Bill
of this kind I should take that position. The
goverument cannot lose anything. It bas this
$60.000 to pay annually for twenty years If
this Bill becomes law. They could just as
well advance the $250,000 whlch they permit
the commIssioners to borrow under this Bill
and save the additional lnterest, or perhaps
they mlght get it at 21 per oent. Perhape
there is some reason for adoptlng this principle. 1 cannot see any good or valid reason
wliy It should flot be done ln the way I suggest. If we are going to aid the city and
give them monley in order to put our capital
in the position that parlianient evidently desires It should be placed, to make It a credit
to the Dominion, we should save ail we eau,
and It mig-ht be doue If the suggestion I
have mnde were acted on.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Possibly It rnay be
done. The iaterest Is not to exceed four
The parties eashlng the debenper cent.
turcs, knowlng the money Is lu the hands of
the government ta meet the debentures, will
leud at a 10w rate of interest, probably flot
more than tbree per cent.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Tie only advantage
the elty would have lu connection with tliat
Is, if tliey were allowed to borrow the mouey
at four per cent under the goveruhent guarantee they wouid get a premiuni. If it Is
at tbree per cent capitalists would be willing
to lend the nioney linowing the government
of Canada are at the back of It.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tiue.
FISHERIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Mr. TEMPLEMAN movd tue second
Hon.
readlng of Bill (224) An Act to aniend the
Fisheries Act. He said :This Is a Bill of
two clauses, the first prov~ides:
6. Every one who hunts or kîlîs fish or marine
animais of any kind, other than seals, porpoises,
whales and walruses, by means of rackets, exHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE nOWELL.

piosive materlals, or explosive projectiles or
shelIs, shall be hiable to a penalty not exceedlng
three huudred dollars and costs, and, lu default
of paymeut, to imprisonment for a terza not
exceeding six months.
The law at present prohibits the takiug
of these marine animais by explosives. I
arn advlsed that the law nt present on the
statute-book bas been regulariy disregarded
and that explosives bave been used in capturing these mnarine animals. It la thought
proper to remove this prohibition and permit
those who desire to engage lii the capture of
whales and walruses to use explosives ln
the capture thereof. The second clause
repeals the law 110W on the statute-bookz prohitlng the use of purse Feines for the capture of fish ln the waters of Canada. The
prohibition lu the past referred to the waters
of the Pacific and Atlantic coasts. This Act
proposes to remove the prohibition lu so far
that the Minister of ?%arine and Fisheries
may Issue a special fishing license for the
use of purse seines In certain waters lii the
province of British Columinba. On the Phdifie coast our fishermen are very greatly
handicapped lii consequence of the 'greater
restrictions imposed upon tue taking or
salmon iii Canadian waters as coxnpared
with the manner of taking fish mast across
the boundary Uine lu Puget Sound. Our
United States- friends have ail kluds of
fishing traps and purse seixies, and ail manner of contrivancea for capturing the salmon,
which very properly beloag to Canada Inasmuch as ail the salmon taken ln the waters
of Puget Sound are salmon makiug their
way to the Fraser river. Our fIshermen
bave been very mucli haîîdicapped la the
paat lu this respect aud It bas been considered wlse by tlîe departnlent here that
the privilege of talzing salmon by means of
purse seines should be tried for a few years
lu British Columbia waters. This law Is
for that purpose.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Th)e governmeut might have taken power to have
traps allowed under certain conditions. As
the bon. gentleman bas said, we are labouring under a great diaadvantage la British
Columbia on account of the United States
fish trapa. It is a most extraordinary thlng
that last year the saimon coming from the
ocean escaped the traps on the United States
side. as if tbey had been tauglit to do it. The
year befUre tlue fishiermen cauglit more than

JUITLY 22, 1903
tliey couid use on the United States side, and
last year tliey escaped the traps and went
I was teiling a fIsherman
around tliem.
ln British Columbia the sme th'ing and
He said :
lie sai 'Tliey are educated.
II baad a net ln a certain river up north,
and the firErt year I cauglit as rnany as 1
could take, and the next year I did flot
The contention miglit hold
catch any.'
good If the sme ftsh were coming back, but
new run whicli cornes every year, and flot
the oid rua. Those that corne to our rivers
one year neyer corne back. It is not known
wlietber a single salmon ever cornes back
that ies up fIve liundred miles to spawn,
wlietlier tliey flont dowa to the ocean again
la a question not yet aettled. I amn very
gad the rninister lias taken power to
give liceases for purse seines, because sornething rnust be done to put us la an equal
position witli the United States fisbernien,
and I shonld Ilke to bave seen power given
to the minister to have traps. I do not like
the narne 'traps,' but it la only a net, and
when you get ail the fiali you can ont of it,
the others are let go and are not hurt. Laat
year on the Fraser river, a boat coming ini
witli perhaps six or seven liundred fish, 200
only would be sold, and the rest were dead
and tlirown Into the river. It la a fearful
waste of food. and the oaly way to'corne at
tliat would be to restrict licensea. Every
yea-, we do net have the sarne nurnber of
fisli. The fourtli year Is a smmi catch.
Having snid that aiucl, 1 would ask the hon.
gentleman If he knows how the question
stands now betweea the province and the
Dominion about the fishery rIglits. There
lias been a contention for some tirne. We
received a arnali portion of the licenmes about
two montlis ago, and the Secretary of State
promised an answer to this question, but
lie has flot givea it yet. Perhaps I can get
that aaswer now-if anything lias been done
to settie the dlaim of the province to certain
riglits lu the fishing licenses.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Iii reply to wliat
rny hon. friead lias said, la regard to traps,
1 would like to rernind hirn that [t la not
neoessary, under tbis law, to take power
to Issue trap licenses. The Minister of M arine and Fishieries lias that power new.
The only reason for legisiating now in regard to purse seines la because there la a
statute probibiting the use of theni. chapter

701

Th.is BIlI re43 of the statutes of 1891.
peals that law and confers power te permit the use of purse seines to a lirnited
exteat ln the waters of Britishi Columbia.
In regard to traps, as I uaderstand, the minIster lias full power now, If lie feels incliaed
to use that power, to authorize and license
the use of trapa ln the waters of Britishi
The lasuance of trap licenses
Columbia.
Is surrounded with a great many difficuities
Our United States
in British Columbia.
frieads have the territory wblch' Is naturaily
adapted to tlie use of traps. No traps,
for Instance, could be used on the
The oxily
mainland of Britishi Columbia.
place wliere traps could be utilzed at ail Is
on the soutli side of tlie Island of Vancouver,
and that oniy to a lirnited extent. As rny
hon. friend furtber knows. the provincial
governent a year or two ago used the
foreshores, which, It is ciairned, tliey have
the riglit to, for the purpose of infiuencing
an election in tlie city of Victoria, and uuder
their flsbery iaws, Issued licenses to aIl wbo
appiied for tiern, to the exteat; of one or
two huadred to tlie foreshore rights al
&long the south coast of Vancouver Island.
They aiso uadertook, witb wliat autlxority
I do not know, to give licenses for the estabIislimen.t of traps la the terrtorl waters adjeining tliose foreshores. I amn afraid that
the governrnent of Britishi Columbia, lu their
eagerness to give traps to political friends
and others, have reaily defeated the object
tliey liad ia view, inasmucli as tliey have
made it Impossible for this goverament to
authorize or license traps whea they bave
practically located ail the foreshores and
ail the territorial waters where traps necessarily would have to be planted. 0f course,
it Is a constitutionai question wlietlier a provincial government lias any riglit to legislate la respect of territorial waters, and
1
that I do not came to discuss.
may say tliat possIbly it la a dispIuted point
wlietlier they have any riglit to fegislate
witli regard to foreshoees. It is at aIl events
a question wlietlier they have any riglit to
Issue licenses te establish traps in the territorial waters. In regard to the larger question, about which mY lion. friend asks the
Secretary of State, I belleve that ln tliat matter, the jurisdiction of the governrnents In
respect to, the Ilslery riglita remais ln statu
quo. Nothing lias been done ince rny lion.

SENATE
to the use of purse seines, I would f eel disposed to utter a word of warning. lu the
matter of fishing ln the Gulf of St. Lawrence,
the result of using purse seines, nlot only
there but on the United States coast, bas
been disastrous :to the mackerel fisheries. It
la a destructive mode of ftshing, Inasmucb as
a great many more fish are klied than are
saved, and it bas actually occurred that
wbere purse seinIng was used on the United
States coast the mackerel were turned away
from the United States coast, and then the
United States fishermen pursued precisely the
saine method in the Gulf of St Lawrence,
wlth the resuit that tbe mackerel were driven
away, and tbe flshery was destroyed for
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The ques- rnany years. That mode of fishing la genertion alluded to by rny hou. frieud about the ally abaudoned now, aud the old metbod of
foreshore ougbt to be settled. If the two book and line resorted to, and the fisb are
goveruments could get together, I tbiuk tbey beginlng to corne back to their old haunts,
could easily do It, sud end the f olly of the and the fIsbery la ln better form than it was.
way the tbing stands now under the decision That bas been the case withiu the last two
I thiuk this la the first
of the Prlvy Council, which la tbat the gov- or three years.
regulations but the tirne thîs departure la to be made ln British
eruneut here can !orm
province can take the flsb sud licenses. Of Columbia. It le now proposed that the
course, the governent here would nlot be Governor ln Council shall have the rlgbt to
bothered wlth flshiug regulations If they authorize tbe use of purse seines ln British
could not control the fisbiug sud Issue the Columbia waters. I sbould, therefore, Ilke
licensea. Lt would nlot be reasonable thut to warn rny liou. frlend, who represents tbat
province Iui the government, who no doubt
they sbouid.
bas a great interest lu It and to assure hlm
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The govemrneut that what has occurred lu the east lu the
bere can take a lîcense !ee.
use of purse seines lu mackerel ftsbing maay
produce a sirnîlar resuit ou the Pacifie coast.
Hon. Mr MNACDONALD (B.C.)-But they Of course tbe methoda pursued witb rnack-must hand over a certain arnounit to the pro- erel and salmoen may be differeut, and
vinces, sud that could be easly settled If tbe the resuits rnay be different, but tbat
govemumeut ma&e up lts mind to settie ît. I certalnly has been the case lu the macksaw the Minister of Marine wbo said hie erel fisbery lu the Gul! o! St. Lawrence
tbought tbey woulu hand over ail the and on the coast of the United States
liceuses to the provinces, tbe question o! tbe and Nova ctia, aud it is very possible tbat
foreshore right should be settled by an the same disastrous resuits migbt occur -wlth
application to the courts, or by tbe two gov- regard to tbe saîrnon fisherles of British
Wbether traps ou the coast Columbia. I notice that my hon. friend exeruments.
of Vancouver Island can Intercept the fisb plained tbat there le another change lu the
o! tbe Fraser river cannot be settled tiil tbe Bill, perrnittiug seals, porpolses, wbales and
trial is 'made. Tbey migbt Intercept sortie. wairuses, to be killed by explosives, whlle
Tbe flow of salmon would- not be se large. Up to this time the use of explosives lu
I thiuk the goverument should settie tbe klllng this klnd of fish was prohibltedmatter as qulckiy as possib)le and not keep My bon. friend says that the prohibition was
it lu dispute, as It la now,, between the two neot euforced, tbat the law bas nlot beeu
governeuts.
regarded, and It Is possible If that is tbe
.Hon. Mr. l<ERGUSON-This la a question case that it was Impossible to enforce the
before
that affects tbe Pacific coast portion o! Can- law as It stood. It was very distinct
but it la a very important one, againat kllling these very same animais.
ada ouly,
and with our eastemn experieuce witb regard The law reads

frlend put is question te the Secretary of
iState. Speaklug for myseif, lu regard to taklng salmon q)y traps, 1 arn certaluly of the
opinion that ultimately it must be couceded.
We bave, o! course, some lu faveur o! that
and some opposed to It lu British Columbia.
The fishermen. wbo engage lu net fisbiug
on tbe sairnon rivers are opposed to the esThe people ou the
tabllsbmeut of trapa.
lu the district o! New Westiniurnand,
ster and Vancouver. Imagine tbat If tmap
liceuses are autborlzed the seat of the Iudustry will be removed somewhat from one
locality to another. 1 do not think tbere la
auy ground for this fear.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

JUIY 22, 1903
Every one who hnnts or l<llls geais, poirpoises,
whales or fish of amy kind by means of rockets.
explosive materials, &c.
And this Bill permits the kiliing 0f these
very fish, *seals, porpolses, whales and
walruses-by the use of explosives.
My
hon. triend wll be able to Inform the Honse
whether there la any International regulation
wlth regard to, taking geais. 1 confess that
I have flot a very lively recollection at this
moment of what the resuit of the Behring
Sea negotiations was lni that respect I
know there was a great deal of negotiation
wlth regard to establishing a close season
and regulating the capturing and taking of
seals, but my hon. frlend wilU be able to
tell me whetber there 15 any International
regulatlou on this subjeet. I suppose there
ls not.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Oh, yes,
there is a very strict one.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I speak subject
to correction, but I think this must have
reference to the foreshore of the Pacific
ocean.
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-It bas reference
to seais, of ail kinda.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-There 19
a modus vivendi between the United States
government and the British government,
and every year two English ships of war
and two United States ships of war g« up
the Behring Sea. and our fishermen cannot
flsh within sixty miles of land and cannot
use guns of any kind. They can use the
harpoon and the lance, and there Is another
Important, and the most foolieh regulation
I ever heard of ln my lite made by sane or
sensible people! the commission In Parie
allowed this to, be done-they allow our
vessels tot go down the coast of California
ln wlnter, meeting the herds.of seal coming
Up to the north when with young, and they
cau kili them up to, the month of May, mast
when there should be a close season. They
are aliowed ta kili them during those four
months.
Hon. Mr. F'>RGUSON-That is flot
affected by this Bill?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-No, that
stops ln May, and then tbere Is a zone fixed
about a hundred miles out ln the Pacific
ocean where tbey can fish nearly ail tbe

703

time, and after June they can go Into
Behring Sea and fish up to the sixty-mile
limit without guns.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I thInk this clause
Is absolute and applies to the killing of
seals, porpoises and whales anywhere ln
Canadian waters.
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I thik
that regulation Is for Hudson boy.
Hon. Mr., 1ERGUSON-I do not suppose
we can, by an Act of parliament of Canada,
makre a regulation or a law with regard to
the killing of seals out la the open at
Behring Sea ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-I suppose that
must be managed by International regulatdon, and any law we would pass here
would flot have any reference to, that, but
It does flot so describe It ln the Bill. It
repeals the A&ct of 1894 ln regard to the
use of explosives, and permits the use
of explosives. That la ail the uiffereuce.
There la another change ln the law. The
words 'catching of fish' Is changed Into
«capturlng' in two places. I think catching
Is just as good Englilh as the other word.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLF)MÂN-I will makre Inquiry ln regard to the application of the Bill
lu respect of seal. I thought when I read
this that It had reference entirely to catchlng seal on the Atlantic ocean. 1 am lnicllned to, tbink that the use of explosive
miterials ani rock-ets would flot be authorIzed for the taking of the valuable fur-seal
of. the Pacific ocean, which already la surrounded wlth very great restriction, In
reference to the remarks of my hon. friend
as to the danger of the use of purse seines
on the Pacific coast, I should like to point
ont to hlm that ln grantlng this prtvllege,
we are dolng it as a means .of self preservation, s0 to, speak. The United States canners
ln Puget Sound have not leas than 200 traps,
and the trap for the taking of salmon 18 a
very large affair.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Are purse seines
and trapa the ame ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-No, I was just
polnting ont the superior advantages that
the Ilshermen and eannery men of the United
States have over our Ilshermen on the Sound,
and It lo not-20 miles away. The Washington

SENATE
State goveramenl have authorized the use
of traps, ind they have over 200 of themn iii
1t1e waters of Boundary Biy, Wh'alcom and
Fairhaven, and for miles up and down the
coast it is aIl covered wlth traps. In additioni to thal, lhey use purse seines. 1 do not
care te, mention the number now, but I
thiffk I nm safe in saying they iicensed last
year over forty purse seines. Now when
you retuember that Iluese contrivances are
used for thle taking of salmon exclusively,
and of salmon w-hlh are on the run 10 the
Fraser river, and for catching the flsh whichl
have been spaw-tned ni) the Fraser and are
returning Ihere 10 spaiva, I thinl, my
hon. friend wili see ive are only lrylng la
proteel our own cannery men and give lhem
more expeditious mens of ealchlng salmon
thait tiuey have now.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Would il nol be
possible 10 enter mbt arrangements with the
United States goverumeal 10 make belter
regulalloas ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-That has been
tried many limes and has failed. As my
hon. friend knows, the fisheries of the United
States are controlied by the states legislalures and the legisialure la some cases
is controiled by the cannery men, and Il has
been Impossible thus far 10 gel the state of
Wnshiiigton, which controls ail the fisheries
on the Sound, te, make the use of lraps IllegaI.
Hon. Sir MjýACKE.ZIE BOWELL-Do 1
understand the flshing ia Puget Sound, as
weii as lu the Fraser river, where lhey use
these trips and the purse seines, Is oulside
of tlue linuit whichi we can control ? Il Is
proposed, if 1 undersland tbis Bill, 10 permil the sa-me means of calehlng salmon
withi our own waters as now preva ils ln
United States waters. Is Il 10 be coaflaed
10 the moulh of the Fraser river, or exteaded 10 the Fraser river ilseif ?
Hon. Mr. TEMYLEMAN--Oh, no ; the Ilcenses la use puuse seines will be îssued
under very strict regulalions. Il would flot
he piossible 10 use a puise seine la the river,
or la the moulh of the river.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-,Then
fl would have 10 be wilhIa the three-mile
lirait b

catch the fish before lhey reached

the moulh of the river, If il mens anything,
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

and you wouid then set the traps, or the
purse seines,, in the same manner that the
United States fishermen do.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-They do
flot flsh on the foreshores at ail. Il is"along
their own shore entlrely.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oni
their own shores they catch the flsh which
have to pa5s their shcres ln order 10 reach
the spawning -rounds on the Fraser river.
Then the setting ,of these purse seines can
only be witluin our own waters to catch the
fisli that have passed tlue United States
The oniy
shores and the purse seines.
ol)ject that 1 can understand, fromn the rendIng of newspaper discussions upon Ibis question, and also discussiiîg the question with
saune Britishu Columbians when I was in

Vancouver, Is to enable them to catch more
filh within our waters la order that they
may have a sufficient quantity on band 10
compete la the outs'de markets wilh the
United States people. That is the only
object of It, I understand. I suppose that Is
really the reason. A difficulty may arise
under the amended Gth clause, because while
exempting the use of explosives for the purpose of catching certain marine animais,
there Is no provision that la the case of
using these explosives if they kili other flsh,
to exempt them from the penalty of going to
mal for six mtontus and $300 fine. 1 suppose
that the decision under 1h15 clause by a
magistrate, wouid be, in ail probability, that
as they were not hunling for other fish and
only for these animais which could be -illed
by explosives, therefore they wouid flot be
brought within the penai clause of the law.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Verdict of accidentai
death.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-You
might, in lhrowing ln an explosive into the
river for the purpose of kiiling a whale or
walrus, kili 100 other fish.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-You would he
sure 10.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
only exemption f rom the penalties of the
law would be the accidentai dealli by explosives of these other flsh. As la the queslion of purse seines, the malter w-as bronglit
under my notice some lime ago. The hon.
gentleman said that the British ColumInha

JULY 22, 1903
goverrament had granted certain coiîcesslons
for political purposes. That may be true,
and I regret to say that political resons Induced the government to permit putting a
saine aIl acrosa tbe Bay of Quinte where I
lîve. If tbat were atopped there would not
ba better sporting grounds for fishing ln
Canada than the Bay of Quinte for basa and
other game f15h. At prasent the bay la actually being depleted of that kind 0f iisb
whicli anglers deiigbt to catch, slmply by
means of the nets wblch are set across the
bay miles la lengtb and scores of them Up
the bay. The governmeat should put a stop
t.> that. I do iot say it affects this government more than another, but ail along that
shore there are a large number of fishermen,
who are votera, and they 'have a great many
friands. and the moment you attempt to put
a stop to the fishing hy the means I have
indicated you lose la an election. It IÉ hIke
dealing with the labour question. You are
afrald of the votera and you do not do justice to the country. You do îlot prevent the
destruction of the fish any more than you do
justice to the industrial pursuits of this
country by pandering to the element you
are afraid of. There ls no use mincing
matters. This la true.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Is that within
the jurisdiction of this goverament at present ?

705

the rivers. It ls utteriy useless. The whole
of the fisherles, outulde of the ocean fisheries,
to my mind, ought to be ln the bands of this
government and flot the local government.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAIN-If you exelude
the maritime provinces, what have you te
say about British Columbia ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I sald
the ocean fisheries. British Columbia stands
ln preciaeiy the same position as the maritime provinces. I mean the sea coast and
sea flshing. As an Illustration of what 1
mean, we -have now a fIshery Inspector
for the Dominion ln our district who
gets $1,200 a year and expenses. Whnt he
does I am at a loss to know. I have nsked
for the regulations once or twice, and my
hon. frIend gave ail the Information hae bac!.
Then we bave an Ontario fishery inspector
drawing $600 or $700 a year. He does certain work for tbe Dominion for whiich lie
receives $200 or $300 ln addition to the saiary he gets from the Ontario goverament.
The whole thing la for no other reason than
to create offces for a number of hangerson of the government and they generally
select men for these offices who have been
defeated at tbe polis. I could give half a
dozen Illustrations. I hope that la the protection of the fisheries ln the different baya
of the provinces, where the Dominion bas
the power, that they wlll enforce the regulations and prevent the depietion of tbese
-waters of the game fIsh which would brIng
thousands of people to that locality for angling wlho would leave thousands of dollars
la tlue country. We know how the wealthy
people from the United States go througfr,
different parts of tbis country and pay very
bigli aums for the sake of securing fiahing
rilhts. That could be done just as well lu
our bays and inland waters as on the rivers
and lakes. This la the fIrat opportunity 1
liave had to call the attention of the minIster to thîs partlcular point. If the bon.
gentleman wiil take the trouble, and If he
agrees witb me to adopt aucb means as to
prevent tbe destruction of the fisberies which
la going on, he wIll do much la the interests
of the people and of the fisbermen as well.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
It la a navigable water. My hon. frlend said
lie could not see why the Dominion goverument desired to keep the regulations of the
ilshing. wîviie the granting of the license to
f15h la withln the provilice of the local govIf you take that right from
ernments.
them, you would deprIve a large number of
men wbo are now raoeivIng large salaries
to ostensibly look after what la calied the
preservation. of the flah. Look at the 115herles report and you wIll find ýthere are two
or tbree of this character of officers on the
Bay of Quinte end to look after the back
lakes. Some of them get $1,200 a year and
some leas, with travelling expenses, horse
bure and aIl sorts of thinga, and ail ln the
-world tbey have to do ls simply to go
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Tbe question la muech
round and look at those lakes and pretend
larger îthan the hon. gentleman states It.
to enforce certain regulations which tiîey
say are put on the statnte-book for the proHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Quite
local laites and ln rigbt.
tection 0f the fisbhlthe
45

SENATE

706

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Aloiig ftxe coast, 1 bave
sympatixized witx tli:q, coast~ fisixermen
agalnst those men wixo would close up the
salmon flshing simply for the sake of men of
wealth who can afford f0 pay liundreds of
dollars for tixe riglit of fising. and wlio
would exclude, If they ixad fixeir way, the
Ilsierman wixo Is living ou thie coast, aud
whose father before him earned bis livelihood ln that way. These must always be
1
-considered lu discusslng this question.
know on our own coast, lu New Brunswick,
lbere are uumbers of men wixo raise large
familles and nre good citizens, and f0 adopt
n pollcy whicb would drive them f rom ftxe
soli or thxe shore would be fatal to the Iest
Inferests of the country. While a max i nay
corne Up witli thousands and buy up pre-serves as they do In the old counfry, 1 do
not look withi faveur on tixat poîicy as
ngainst the Interest of ftxe poor man.
Hon. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWELL-Do
tiiey not do that ln this country, as weli
as ln the oid country ?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Goiiig
back to spenk of fixe provisions of this
Bill, which provide thaf the Minister of
Marine and Fisheries may issue licenses for
the purpose of permiffing purse seines to
be used on the coasf, If we npply f0 tixat
locallty the experience of persons on ftxe
United States coast and ou fixe coast o! tixe.
maritime provinces here wltx respect f0
purse seines, I fixink if will lie fouud f0 lie
very disadvnntageous f0 fthe fishieries Of
Britishx Columbia. Tixe use of purse seines
,On fthe Atlantic coast lias beei fixe mneans
of deplefing fixe fisixeries. Thxe fisi do îîot
frequent fixe waters now as fixey did mafly
years ago before the use of purse s2iixes wOs
permifted. Wifix respect f0 the argument
wixicix was used by the lion. inember fromn
Britishx Columbia, tixat thle use of tixese
seines and appliauces by ftle people of fixe
United States liad driven fixe salmon from
the parficular place ln which fbey were used,
bea vry ogen arum
I thniit houl
agninsf permnit ting fthe use of purse seines
on aîiy part o! fixe coast of Brifisu ColumbNa. So far f romn hein.- a standing benefit
f0 fixe people o! Britisx Columbia if
bene fit fixe people who for fie first timie Put
,down their nets and take any quantity of fisix
in tha first season, or while fhiose tisix are
T

H-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOW ELL.

scixoolin.g in large nunabers, but after that
bas been done for a season or two, the fisi
will leave that particular part of the coast
and go to somne otixer place. Tixat lias been
the experienoe of the fishermen on flic coast
of the maritime provinces, and I expect
It will be tlîe experience on fthe Pacific coast
Dilse.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second Urne.
STEAMBOAT INSPECTION ACT,
AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.

1898,

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the secondZ
reading of Bill (225) An Act fo amend the
Steamboat Inspection Act, 1898. Hle said :
The object of tis Bill is to abolisx dues
and Inspection fees iitherto inxxrosed on
steamboats and to provide for the Inspection
rendered Imperative under the Act. Section
37 of the Act as if now stands is compulsory
ln regard f0 fthe imposition of steaunixoat
Inspection fees and dues, and iii amending
this section f0 agree with fixe objecf of the
Bill, If was thouglit advisabie f0 leave power
ln fthe hands of fixe Governor in Concil
to impose fixe duty at any future fime
shouid if be deemed advisable so to do. That
Is f0 say, ftxe Governor in Council may Impose an Inspection fee witixout waifing for
There Is a
thxe sanction of parlianient.
change with respect f0 fixe gasoline launches
provîded for Inxtixis Bill. It is proposed f0
allow gasoline yachts f0 ply witixout molesfation from fixe Steaxnboat Inspection Acf,
provided fhey do not carry passengers for
iire. It is hoped ln the ixear future fixe pro.
peîîing arrangements for fixaf ciass of vessels will bave been so perfecfed and improved, that the board of steamboat luspecfiou will bave no liesîtation iu gîving fhixe
cerfiflcates of Inspection thle saine as ix the
case of otixer steamers. Tixese are fixe principal changes ln fixe preseuf law.
ln
r MCOADa.C)Tebn
tADO
(BC..ier on.
eL
Mr.t il ko
Hou.ma
fixte whole Dominion of Canada andi Britisli
Columbia ýhave been anxioixs tixat engineers
of smaller vessels sliould pass more strict
examinations. Tixere is îxotiig in fixis Bill
it
bt
tmay rfr
ihfxt
t nefr
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMNAN-I do ixot tiik
so.

JULY 22, 1903
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-They say(
mien who are nlot competent are ailowed to
Petitions
be engineers of those vesseis.
bave comle to the goverament in coanectioli
wlth the matter for some years, and It ls
hoped ta bave It taken up. Before 1 ieft
home there was a meeting of engineersE
and they desired some action taken fl the
inatter.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understood fromi
the hon, gentleman from Victoria that the
object of the Bill was to abolisli fees.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, Inspection
fees.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-I see there la au
entirely new provision which establishes
a system of reciprocity with foreign collatries.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-That is where
the fees are abolished. We at present
charge United States steamiboats fees.
Hon. 3fr. FERGUSON-We give .immunity
to Inspection of vessels of foreiga cauntries
where we are satisfied they have a satisfactory system of Inspection of their own,
and where we obtain similar privileges.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Thls
Bill adopts the principie ivhich our friends
opposite used teoabject to very strongly
many years ago-that Is, governIng by Order
la Councîl. It was a very fertile topic on
whlch to find fault. There ls not a clause
ln thîs Bill that I see without the terni
'Governor ln CouncUl.' I see ft six or seven
times, s0 If yeu introduce one clause ta say
the Governor la Council shial have power
ta do what they please ln reference ta steamboat Inspection, the bon. gentleman mlght
avold ail these clauses. This is another
Illustration of their having leurned somethlng ln the reforms they prolmised se many
years to adopt 1, their legisîntion lu this
country. 1 merely caîl their attention ta the
fa ct, ta point out that this Is another instance
la wbîch they are doiag that which they
used ta abuse in very strong Engiish ternis
when -coue by the late governinent I congratulate them on going further than the old
government ever did la arrogating ta themselves the rlght to govera by Order ln
Counil.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was rend the second time.
45ý

707

TO MASTERS AND
'ERTIFICATES
MATES 0F SHIPS- ACT AM'ENDMENT BILL.
SECO0ND READING.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEÏMAN moved the second readlpg of Bill (226) An Act *ta amend
the Act respecting certificates to masters
and mates of ships. He said: The clause
of this Bill are new. There are two changes
miade In the law, the Introduction of certifientes for home trade voyages and changIng the limite of the coasting trade whlcb,
under the present law, would be ail over
t:he United States coast both on the Atlantic
aud Pacifie ocean. Under this first clause,
subsection (h), the class of home trade voyages is constltuted, the extent of this being
Iimited to voyages on the Atlantic coast as
far south as Portland, and on the Pacifie
coast ta Cape Flattery, 'whlch 18 south of
This Bill amends the
Vancouver Island.
existing law se as to provide for the issue
of this new certificate. The sole object of
this law Is to constitute another class for
which a speclal certificate will be given to
masters and mates.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
applies to the Pacifie ocean as weil as to the
Atlantic ?
Hon. Mr. oeEMPLEMAN-Yes, masters
and mates holding certificates under this
Bill wouid be allowed to navîgate as far
south as Cape Flattery.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Where ls
Cape Spencer ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The southern
point of Alaska.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-What Is the object of
making a new class of certificates ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The objeet is
to create, If I might so descrlbe it, a junior
class of masters and mates for the navigation of vessels ln home waters. It will
nlot require men of such ability, and smal1er vessels may be employed.
Hon. Mr. LOVITT-What kind of examination ls required ?
Hon. MT.
examination
Hon. Sir
examination

TEMPLEMAN-I suppose the
Imposed under the present Act.
MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
under the present Act is much

SENATE

708

more rigid than wiil be required under this
Bill. In otber words, parties wlio obtain,
this certificate are not required to bave the
sanie nautîcal knowledge that other masters.
and mates have.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Quite true.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-What
qualification Is required and wliat fees will
they bave to pay for the purpose of pnssing
this examination ? At present people wlio
are eingaged la this coasting trade-for It
is only the coasting trade this refers tohave had experienee for twenty or thirty
years In following Up the trade to particular
ports which they run, and altbough tliey
may not be able to pass the sanie examinatien as masters and mates of sea-going vessels, still they are qualified for navigatiug
the ships to such ports as they go to, where
perhiaps they niay xiot be out of sighit of
land for more tlani a fewv hours, and I
think it is requirlng these people to takze an
examination and pay a tee mwhichi Is iîot
gohig to be of any practical benefit. Tbey
are probably just as well qualltied before
these examinations as after theni for the
purpose of navigatIng vessels to such ports
as they are la the habit of going to.

The bare principle of the Bill bas been
tated, and probabiy I shall be able to offer
further explanations ln detal whien in comilttee, If my bon. friend wlll permit the Bill
to go there.
'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Tbe exHou. M.%r.
ouglit to be a pilotage examinaamination
tion.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-I cani see wbat
clause two wil accomplisli, but 1 thînk it
wili nlot lie very satisfactory to allow a provision of thiat kind to apply to the whole
twenty-s1x clauses of the Bill. It would
take a good deal of lnquiry to find ont wvhat
the law Is. This expression 'home voyage'
is to come ln ln a great many places ail
It seems te me every
through the Act.
section so nmended oug-ht to be set forth,
because it wiil take a great deal of trouble
and difficulty to get the law Ii that pairticular-so great that tiiere ought alxnost to be a
consolidation.
Hon. M.\r. TEMPLEMAN-I suppose the
reason for nlot doing so is that it wouid
make this Bill unduir long, and as a commission is nov engaged ln consolidating the
laws, I presunle ln a very short time we
wili bave a consolidated 'Masters and Mates
Act.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That was iiot the
case ln the Contaglous Diseases Bill. In
order to get in the word 'suspect,' we had
to change and reprint the whole Bill.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

Hon. Mr. WOOD-Under the provisions of
thls Bill, 1 understand the examination for a
master or mate on a voyage extending on
the eastern coast as far as Portland, and
on the Pacific coast as far as Cape Flattery,
wiil be less rigid than it is at present. Under
the ex:isting- iaw a voyage Including either
0f the voyages mentloned here would be a
The Senate adjourned.
coastlflg voyage, and a certificate would be
the sanie as required for the imaster or mate
of .1 vessel on a coûsting voyage under the
old Act, that is to the West Indies. As 1
THE SENÂTE.
understand the expianatioli of the iniister,
Is to make the examithe objeet of this Bill
Ottawva, Thiirsday, July 23, 1903.
ination less rigld for the navigation of a
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
vessel withln the limits mentioned iii the
o'clock,.
Bill. Is that correct ?
Hon. Mr. TEM\PLEMA-N-1Iinfer that thiat

would be the case, that the examinatioli
would be less rigid, but there is nothing iii
the Bill before us with respect to examiniations. 1 assume it wili be under the Act,
but my knowledge of the Act is not s0 ex-

Prayers and routine proceedings.

THIRD READINGS.
Bill (122) An Act respecting the Ratbbun
Company.-(Hofl. Mr. Kerr, Cobourg.)
Bill (175) An Act respecting the Century
tensive that 1 couid answer the ques- Lite Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr. Maction of my hon. friend opposite or of the donald, Victoria.)
Island.
hon. gentleman from Prince Edward
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MU 23, 1903
Y

709

ect to injustice. It leaves eyery man in
hie service, wlio bas reached bis maximum,
)pen te promotion te the next cluse, which
s the Intention ef the Act. This was net
lhe case witli the man in the second-cluse
clerkship ln the former law. A second-class
cierk on appointment received $900, wltx a
possibility of geing up te $1,200. In the
lunior second-dlais the maximum was only
POST OFFICE ACT ÂMEND3ENT BILL. $1,000. It was a grievance that ail the
present third-class -were placed In the junior
REPORTED FROM OiTE.
lInto a Cern- third and ln the present they are placed in
The Heuse resoived Itself
the senior second. The departmnent, theremittee of tlie Whole on Bill (208) An Act
fore, In view of the appeintees uncler the old
te amend the Post Office Act.
iaw liaving a possibIllty ef geing up te St,(In the Committee.)
200, decided te place them ln this cluse se
ln that ne Injustice would be done. My lion.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-We passed
anything by inaking
committee ail the clauses of this Bill ex- friend weuld net attaîn
was the change lie proposes, because the minilcept subsection 2 cf clause 6, which
this Bill is to be
held over at the request ef the lion. gen- mumi senior third under
eut the samne ns the maximum Junior third at pretleman from Marslifieid, wlie peinted
whetlier le s t the maxion the second reading ef this Bill that the sent, and ne clerk,
mum of tlie junior, or at the minimum salcIerks at present ln clase three shouid be,
third, can get any Increase
under this re-arrangement ef classes, plnced ary of the -senior
except by menit, and even thougli they were
in the senior third, lnstead ef, as lu this
ail placed at the $800 mark, tliey ceuld iiet
clause, in the junior tird.
go beydnd that until tliey were recommendHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-At ed fer promotion by the department Centhe salaries now received or nt the maxi- sequentiy, a clerk who is recelvIng $800 as
mum ?
a maximum la the junior third, ls in just
that tlie au geed a position as te salary, under this
Hon. Mfr. TE3IPLEMAN'-Afld
I BiU, as lie weuld be at the minimum ln tlie
salary should be a maximum ef $900.
that my senior third wlth a salary ef $800.
think, on second consIdenatien,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I was afraid my
hou. fniend f rom Manshfieid wiil see that
Tbe bon. friend did net understand my stig.e,,ste de that
It weuid be quite Improper
post office cierks lu clase thnce will be tien when I made It the ether day, I
placed ln tlie junior tliird at their present notlced that lie did net heur me dIstinctiy.
They do net suifer any and they I suggested exactiy what lie says, but I
salaries.
tliat the sanie
can ail go up te the maximum ef the clase, made the funtlien suggestion
If my hon. fniend's sugges- provision tliat la ln subsection tliree, with
which la $800.
be,
tion were adopted, nil cierks lu the third reference te second-class clerks, sliould
subsectien
cluse on being placed ln the senior third, with modifications, inserted In
clerksweuid be Immedlately lncreased lu salarY, twe with refenence te third-class
something like this would ceme ln lexcept
smre $50, and some $100, inasmucli as those
$800 It shall,
wlio are now gettIng $700 would by beiug that if bis saiary be lesa tlian
until otlierwise ordered, continue to, be thxe
placed lu the senior third, have te get the
I sugminimum salary et that clase. The depant- amount which lie is then enjeying.'
gest that these words, wlidl are iii subment has poiuted eut te me tliat would be an
sheuld be introduced ln subimproper thing te dIo. The memo. furnished section three,
section two. 1 did net mean te suggest fer
me states that the ameunt which any
tlie clenke now ln the
man appointed te a third-ciass clerkship a moment that ail
third-clasa should be held as senior clerks
under the law hitherto, was te recelve $800.
salaries prevlded ln tliis
Therefere, ln nanking hlm now as a junior and have thxe
Bill fer senior clerks. My meaning was
third lie would still have the privilege of
be pald at whatever
geing up te $800 and those wbe are ini the that they sheuld
sub- their present statue la and continue te
enjoyment of It will net in any 'way be

SECOND REÂDINGS.
(102) An Act respectlng the Red Deer
Bill
Valley Ralway and Ceai Company.-(Hon.1
Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (192) An Act te enabie the clty of
Winnipeg to utilise the Assiniboine river
water-power.--(Hon. Mr. Gibson.)

SENATE
I hopep my hon. friend has now
rise.
appreciated my point. My objection, further,
was that by dividing the ciass la two, a
man who may have been at the head of his
class at $800 might bie held there for years
without promotion, flot for lack of menlt,
but because la his office there might -be a
ruie flot to have more thau. a certain number
of senior cierks empioyed in it, and In
that way he -would bie denied a promotion
which he should have long ago, baving reacbed the head of his class. That was my
point, not that these clerks now ln the service should aIl bie piaced now ln point of
saiary as senior clase cierks, but that they
should have the saine advantages as la
subsection three with reference to secondciass clerks, that they 'would start at their
present salary, and be subject to the annual
Increase until they reached the maximum
dlass, which la $900. If my hou. frlend la
not prepared to adopt that ameadment, I
think hie ought at least to agree to tixis suggestion, that ail who are mow at the maximum of their class should be hield to be
third-class seniors.

1n classes above theirs that can bie empioyed
i n the present state of the service, and for
that reason alone:; but =y hon. friend
ivould agree that ail who are at the maximum third class would be regarded as senior
t :hird-class clerks. The advantage to them
wvould be that they would go the other
steps and bie abie to reach the maximum of
their ciass. If we say they belong to the
senior third-class clerks, they 'wouid belong
to it and would undoubtedly get the lnxcrease.
Hon.. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Not unless theY
are recomniended for an increase. If they
are at the maximum of the junior third and
they are entitle .d to an increase, and they are,
cierks of a deservlng character who would
get the recommendation of their superiors
for an Increa se, are they not just as IlkeiY
to get that recommendation for an increase
while the maximum junior third as they
wouid be at the minimum senior third ?

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
If
does flot appreclate -what I amnsyxg
they were lu the senior thtrd they wou'd
advance as a matter of rlght.
Hon. Mr. TEMIPLE MAN-My hon. friand
now asks that those who are enjoying the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMýAN-MNy advice la
maximum salary of the third-ciasa, $800, that for every increase, every year, they
sbould be put ln the senior third, and not bave to bie recommended.
Élhe junior third as proposed by this subHou. Mr. FERGUSON-That ia talking
section; but the maximum salary of the
third Is preclsely the same as the about another thing altogether. 1 uinderjunior
stand tixe departmeut can hiold back tixe luminimum saiary of the senior third, $800.
crease if the clerk Is flot efficient and if
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But my point la there are axxy charges agalust hlm.
he wouid get the promotion.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Certainly.
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-He wlll not get
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Âfld I know tiiis
promotion ln either case, from the junior
third Into the senior third, or $50 a year government have hcld back ail the increnses
when he goes into the senior third, unless froin certain officers, but that poiicy lias
hie does so by menit and on the recommeada- been departed from, and I Inslst on tlils,
tion of his superior officer. He Is just as that If we niake thîs ameadmeat and decînre
well off at the maximuça junior third as hie ail the clerks now ln the service lu the third
would be at the minimum senior third as class and who are at the maximum of thelr
to salary, and with just as reasonable pros- class, to be seniors, they must get the lnpects of promotion If hie deserves it.
crease, unless there is some biack mark
fromn
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-He would become agaînat them. It could be withheld
flot done
senior If hae was made so ln this Bill, and thein If they were faulty and had
a
hon. friend
on the recommendatIon of is senior officer their duty. I may as well tell my
I what I hear, and it is this : It is about six
get his annual increase.
hie would
of governknow of clerks who have been held for or seven yeara since the change
years, who have had these re- ment took place, and there have been clerks,
years and
commendations, simply because there are ai- that have reached the maximum of their
ready employed ln their offices ail the clerks class and have received recommendations,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 23, 1903
frorn their postmasters, and with regard to
whom there are good certificates, wlio cannot get promotion into the class above tliem.
It is about seven years sînce we bave had
a change of goverument, and this pollcy is
belng pursued witli regard to cierks who received their appointments from the late government to a very large extent. There really
Is that complaInt, and If these dierke were
placed by this ameadment to the law as
senior third-class clerks, they would get any
advantage that Is la this Bill, 'whlch was
supposedl to bie an advantage ail round for
meni wbo were meritorlous. Tbey would
get it, and tbey couid not be held back for
the lack of promotion. Tiiere is the right
ln the department, when a man renches the
maximum chas, to liold hlmn no matter wliat
the recommeadations of the officers rnay bie.
The minister has the power to witbliold hlm
fromi promotion for an indefInIte period of
I know It has been done. I do not
tie.
say It lias been done by the government
only. Men have been lield la that way for
good and sufficlent cause, because la the
office ln whlch they are empioyed tiiere are
a large number of men la the dlams above
tbern where tbey would bie entitled to go
ia case of promotion, and tbey cannot tax
the office too lieavlly until vacancles occur,
and the men who are la that position and
are denied promotion must bear it ; but,
tbere are other cases wliere the promotion
miglit go and not meet wlth any difficulty,
wliere It is believed tliey are withlield because they are a class of officers that were
appointed by the late goverament. I notice
that the fourtli-class men la this Bill enter
at four liundred dollars-there is no stage
Intervening-and reacli the maximum of
their dlams. For seven years tbey are ailowed to go on, Increaslng at fifty dollars
per annum, unlema there ls some black mark
Tliey wIll go on and
againat tliem.
get fifty dollars a year for seven years,
until they reacli tlie maximum of the
class. 1 notice wlth regard to the thirddlams clerks there la a block introduced.
The maximum of the chias as a whole bas
been raised to $900, as against $80 l>efore,
but ln the four years wlich It takes to climb
Up through the dîfferent stages of the class
frorn $700 to $900, there is a block Introduced la the middle which enables the minIster to corne down and exercise lits dis-

1

cretion about promoting a man, and that
belng so, lie can hold hlm Up just as long,
as hie likes for good reason, or for what
sme would thlnk was flot good reason. 1'
think my hon. friend wlll see that no Injustice coutl be done by the appolntlng
of ail the men that are ln the third class
now, or at the bead of the clasa, as seniors,
It would slmpiy entitie them to get $W4
Increase la the two comlng years, unles
there was smre report againat them for
lnefficiency ln their office, wben It would be'
quite riglit to, withbold the Increase.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I scarceiy think the
hon, gentleman ls justItied la saying that
partlality has existed, I neyer beard that
complaint. The general complaint against
the Postmaster General is that lie lias been
rather penurious la payment of salaries. It
is very well known to everybody who lias
had any experience with the ernployees of
the Post Office Departmeat that, so far as
salaries are concerned, It is the most unsatisfactory departmnent ln the goverament.
I was mast looking over the number of clerks
who are junior 2nd clams clerks la the office
liere. I find there are about 130 of thern,
and at the head of that dlams are men who
were no doubt appointed at the tîrne of the
Mackenzie administration :
Arthur Wm. Wall, Jaauary 1, 1874 ; Henry
James Harvey Spencer, 1874 ; Henry H. Morden,
1874 -.James Carter, 1877.
I arn takIxig them ail as tliey stand In the
list. Tliey are certaialy appointees of whoever was Postmaster at the time, perhaps
the late D. A. Macdonald. They were appointed by the LIberal goveranent, but yet
there they are stuck at the liead of that
chas for so rnany years and stIll tbey are
there. The promotion la very, very slow ln
the Post Office Departnient.
Hlon. Mr. FER.GUSON-Thls clause relates
to the outside service.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume the same
mIle applies to the other.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Wliat la
the highest pay of a first-class clerk ln the
Post Office Department ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Take Charlottetown.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I neyer heard any
complaints from there.

712

SENATE

many third-class, so many
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I see tbey are later this: they have so
higher salaries second-elass and so many ftrste-class cierks.
appointuients and getting
In class 3, take St. John for Instance;
than those at Ottawa.
om-supposing there are twenty third-cass
Hon.'Mr FERUSO-Noe ofmy
class,
coni clerks who are at the bead of the
rl-oteofn
m CERGS
r.
pln.scm
they cannot be promoted to the second class,
e
ttôn
plcas.
paentso cornefro
the number of cierks alloted to the partironiotbe
are plaes.as
office Is full, the effect of dividing
Han. '.%r. SCOTT-There are about 13o cular city
are
of those at thein into two classes is that when they
junior second class, a number
from the juniors to the seniors,
the head, perhaps one-haif of tbem, getting transferredget an advance of salary wlthin
wiii
$1,000, and othera get $900 and $800 and they,
tlian they have now.
Fromi the very large number In their class greater
$650.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.)-Can the
the inside service, of course the promoa clerk In one
tion is extremely slow, and very few attain hon. Secretary of State say
departmeflt shouid be paid better than a
anything like a position which gives them
Office Departa really good salary. The department seerns third-class clerl. In the Post
nment ?
to be weil conducted on economical prinMr. SCOTT-I was not referrlng to
aparetly.Hon.
cipls,
I wvas referHon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-The point 1 make the higher class of cierks.
of ring to the lower class of cierks.
with regard ta the general treatmletit
officiais I draw largely froin the Bill before
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD <B.C.)-Da they
me ; farours ta the appointeeg of this govget tbe same ?
ernment appear on the face of the Bill ; that
thyaepo.M.SOTWe
Is, that those fourth-c1ass men who are
tey aorema pro
on.d but tssoTwht
of the present goverument,
appointmeiits
lwwrcframnt
ta get $50 a mtd u tI
are ailowed for seven years
ciimb up where there are a number ahead
year Increase, while the older men are not of hlm.
allowed an increase In that way. The block
(B.C.)-The
Hon. Mr. MACDONALI)
is Introduced at the end of two years, and
up for an indefinite period clause reads:
they may be held
Ist class. specific duties -eith lixe'l salaries
1 would ask, on the face of
la that way.
the Postthe fourth ciass divided In each case to be determilucd by less thaa
the Bill, why la flot
na salary
Genertai
master or more than $1500. ta be
$1.200.
into two stages altogether.
Wouid a fIrst-class clerk go beyond $1,500
the
Hon. M.r. TEM-%PLE.MAN-Because
at ail ?
fourth class started. at a very 10w salary.
Hon. '-Nr. FERGUSON-«MNY han. friend
will flot say, considering the eiementary
character of the work which youuger men
can do, that the salaries of those who were
appointed recentiy, sbould be equal ta the
salaries of the aider men. I do flot say
good treatment should nat be given ta those,
but a different treatment ls adopted lu flot
interposing the wiil of the minister, In not
making a promotion In the middle of the
class. I appreciate the suggestion 1 bave
just heard that this, being a money Bill, we
can not ameud it, and we need not bother
our heads any further about ItL
Hon. 'Mr. ELLIS-Since the natter was

of a second-class cierk is $1,200.
(B.C.)-This
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
ta $1,500. Does It remain there ?
goes up
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, that Is the
maximum.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thbe
only fanit I have with the Bill is that It
does flot go far enough. It should provide
for salaries ta clerks In towns equai ta those
that are paid In city post offices. 1 called
Take
atttentlin ta this matter befare.
Brockville, Belleville, and ail places 0f
that kind that do nat camne withiii the
meaning of a city post office, where the
under consideratioli befare, 1 have looked
cierks become civil servants, under iiie
Into it, and corne ta the conclusion that the
They are not provided
A Civil Service Act.
effect of the law wili be beneficial.
principle runs tbrough the Bi, and it is
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON.

for at ail.

I know a

number of young

JULY 23, 1903
men ln the town ln whlcli I live wliere
they have mast as mucli work to do as
the city clerks. They are there as many
hours, and perform just as linDortant duties, and yet tliey are there at $300, $400
and $500 a year, witliout the sliglitest prospect of any Increase or promotion, because
the law makes no provision for If. Under
those clrcumastances, as soon as a young man,
or a lad lu bis teens, goes Into an office and
remains there for a year or two, nifd becornes an adept at the work lie lias to perform. lie finds better employment and away
The resuit Is that changes are
lie goes.
1 know my hon.
continuaily occurrlng.
friend cannot very well Introduce an anendment of the cliaracter to which I refer,
but it Is a pity that other officers, quite as
Important as those that éome under the
name of city officers, are flot provided for. I
agree witli the hon. member for St. John that
the provisions ef this Bill Improve the status
of the city post office cierks and ot the firstWe know very well that it
class clerks.
does not require mucli education-simlly
requires bealtli-to be able to perform the
It reduties of sorters and stampers.
qulres littie education, and the saliiry in
My own
that clasa la qulte hîgli enougli.
view Is that wltli govérnment employees,
ln the position they occupy, they should be
paid the same salary tliey couid ean ln
other occupations la life, or that they could
earn it If they were not lu the service.
It does flot toiiow that because a man or
boy gets a cierkship or situation ln the
post office, that lie ahould be paid double
that whicbhe ecau earn ln any other position of life.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. IMr. McKEEN, from the comlittee,
reported the Bill wlthout amendment.
The Bill was thea rend the third time, and
passed.
]PÂTENT ACT ÂMENDMENT

BILL.

COMMITTEZ STAGE POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being called :
Committee ef the who'le Hou,3e nn Bll (184)
An Act te amend the Patent Act.
Hion. Mr. SCOTT moved tliat the Order of
the Day be discharged and that it be fixed
for Wednesday next.

713

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did I
understand the bon. gentleman to propose
some amendment to that Bill ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is just one formal amendment, but there are other gentlemen ln the House who désire to make
amendments, and I want to see whether the
minîstér wlill consent. So far hé 'bas not
consénted. It ls a technleal Bill and retroactive lu some partîculars, and Is not a Bill
which, on general principles, is désirable,
and It Is oniy thé necéssities of tlie service which justlfy It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has
the hiou. gentleman a copy of thé amendménts which lie could submait to tlie minister, so as to see their effect If accepted?
Hon. lMr. SCOTT-Yes.
Thé motion was agreed to, and the Order
of the Day was postponed.
SAFETY 0F SHIPS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
IN~ COMMITT1E.
The House reaolved ltaelf Into, a Committee of the Whoie on Bill (179) An Act
to amend tlie Act respecting tlie Safety of
Slips.
(In thé Committee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The object of tii Bill
réaliy Is to brlng our law on the subject
of deck-loads Juta confornîlty with tlie Britlsh statute. In 1901 the Act was amended
and lu it tliere was rather an amblguous
Thé authorities lu Great Brisentence.
tain, tlie board of trade, througli tlie colonial office, caléd attention te It and atated
that tbe Inîperial govérumént would net be
calied upon to disailow the Act If, at a
Inter stage, it was amended. The ambiguity, which I will explain when 1 come to
It, was tlie principal motive iii bringlng
forward this Bill. The firat clause slmply
providés that section 7 be repealed and the
That la the fermai
foliowlng substituted.
ameudment.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
that thie amblguity te which the hou. gentleman lias referred, the one wliich was discussed for an hour or two lu this flousp
two years ago wlien the question ef what
would constitute deck-loads was before us.

SEINATE
\r.
Hon. -- FULFORD, fromi the cornmittee,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the same. 1 will
reported the Bill without amendment.
explain that whea we corne ta ItL
The Bill was then read the third trne, and
On subsection (c),
passed.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The law of 1901 reads
as fahlows :1Any deals, battens or other GOVERNMENT POST OFFICE AND SAVllght woods of nny description to a helght
INGS BANK BILL.
flot exoeedlng tbree feet abave the deck,'
THIRD READING.
&c. If bon. gentlemen wll go back to the
last uine lu clause 7 they ýwilh find It reads : The House resolved ltself Into Coiumittee
Shall place, or cause or permit ta be placed of the Wbo]e on Bill (2"0) An Act respector ta remalu upon, any unzovered spact: upon ing government post office and savlngs
the upper deck or ln iny covered space flot ln- banks.
cluded ln the cubîcal * ontents rormlng the reRlstered tonnage of sueh ship.
(ln the Comrnittee.)
1ht wlll be observed subsectian (c) rather
On clause 1,
confllcts with that, inasrnuch as it refers
to the space on the deck of tbe shilp whichi Hon. Mr. FERiGUSO-My lion. friend
will perhaps lnfçrmn the House wbat ls tbe
Is closed ln, that is wbat tbey refer to.
total anaount now held ln these two classes
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thnt
of deposits by tbe gaverlrnent post office
Is the point we fauglit over so long.
savings banks and goverrument savlngs
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat bas ta be struck banks.
out.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot really kuaw. I
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-M-Ny baon. frlend fancy it must be well up to $75,000,000from Westrnoreland and myseif argued for perhaps flot as much as that.
nearly an bour on that point hwo years ago.
Hon. M1r. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-It Is over
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe gentleman who $50,000,000.
drew it Up did flot undershaud ItL
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-lt bas been ilicreaising
Han. Mr. POWER-I arn glad ta hear tlmnt largely during the last year. It bas been
admission fram the han. Secretary of State, because It bas gone up so ligh- that the
hecause we have been told on more than Finance Minîster lias decided on this legisone occasion tbat the persans wbo draw% lation.
these Bis undershand themn hether than
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-It Is n new prowe do. I ask for Information. I notice that vision. We bave neyer held any arnount
lu 1901, as the ban, gentleman says, this
as agalns8t these deposits up ta tbe present
paragraph (c) was enacted la the form which
time.
he bas rnentloned ; but there was a change
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-No.
made la 1901, and I would simply ask
I bave
now wby that change was mande.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I tbink It is very
no doubt there was good cause for it. In good legisiation, but we are provlding, supthe law of 1894, cap. 44, instead of the pose we have $60,000,000, tbat we shall bo]d
words that we bave naw, we biave the $6,000,000. It Is a good deal of money. I
folhawlng words :
notice there 15 no provision as to bow they
Cargo of any other des.ription exrept live are to maintain that deposit. In another
stock.
Bihl which Is to corne before us soon, reNow, wby was the prohibition of carrylng
spectlng Dominion notes, It Is provided that
any other cargo shricken out, and this pro-*
If the amount behd by the government is not
bibitian with respect ta deals, battens and
notes prewoods put in?
sfficent ta edeem the Dominion
sented fo ayment, the Governor ln Counicil
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I really could not hel may ralse a loan to meet tbe demand. In
my bon. friend.
case the amount ln the bands of the gavHon. Mr. FERGUSON-W7e bad a very Terament
should fahi below what is necessflry
long discussion aver that taa.
to be beld, the goverament bave power to
issue a lean inl order to keep that up.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B0WV'Li.

JULY 23, 1903

715

did not convey any positive Idea on the subjeet.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOIN-I suppose my hon.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I believe
have profriend and the Minister of Finance
the banks cannot Issue fours or twos.
vided the means to obtain this securhty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There la no change
Hon. Mr. FJERGUSON-lt would seem to
ascertain how they are to made In this Bill with regard to the denomlme they should
get the money. It Is easy to say they must nation of notes ?
hold so much as securlty, but tbey should
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, noue whatever.
17e empowered In some way to keep that
on. Mr. FERGUSON-The only provision
security.
I Hoy can Issue ten million dollars more.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tfley can take theI
rnoney out of tbe surplus.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Has
any dlfficulty arisen that necessltated this
legisiation ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have heard of nothlng
speclal.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
must be some reason for It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Except the amount was
Increased se largely It was tbought prudent
to do so. It had been growing and as the
responsibility Increased the necessity becarne greater.
The clause was adopted.
Hou. Mr. ELLIS, froni the comrnnttee, ieported the Bill witbout amendîint.
The Bill was then read a thIrd tume,
and passe-d.
DOMINION NOTES BILL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, on the sanie ternis
Ias before.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 7,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-With regard to the redemption of notes, there are outstandlngnotes of the province of Canada to the
amount of some $28,000.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
would Include also, I suppose, the twentyfive cent shinplasters.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-They are not quite sureabout that at the Finance Department, but
they said the total amount was only about
$28,00J0.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
seen, withIn a month or s0, those twentyfive cent shinplasters whlch were quite new.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They were prînted a
great many years ago, and only Issued now.
I go to the bank sometimes to get theni for
change.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
would be included ixnder this, because the
goverament Is as responsible for them as
they are for the one, two and four dollar
bis.
Hon. Mr. SCO'rl?-Yes.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON--At confederation
the Dominion government became responsible for those notes that are to be redeemed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. I find the sanie
provision In the original Act.
The clause was adopted.

THIRD READTN4G.
The House resolved Itself into a Commlttee of the Whole on Bill (222) An Act
respectlng Dominion Notes.
(In the Commlttee.)
On clause 2,
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I suppose the government wlll not lnt3rfer,ýe witb
the chartered banks In the issuinz of live
dollar notes ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was referred tui
the other House, but there was no inswe
given. There was some express!on. of opin
Hon. Mr. FULFORD, froni the commitIon by leadlng niembers of the opposition
tee, reported the Bill without ameudment.
objecting to the fours, and that Introdueed
the third time, and
the question whetber the goveraflelit uugh1 t The Bill was then read
r passed.
.not to Issue fives; but the Finance Mlniste

SENATE

716

CITY 0F OTTAWA EMPROVEM1ENT
BILL.
THIRD RZEADZNG.
The Hlonse resolved ltself Into Commlttee
of the Whole on Bill (223) An Act to amend
the Act of 1899 respecting the city of Otta wn.
(In the Cammlttee.>
On clause 1,
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink we pretty well
dlscussed this Bill at the second reading.
Tiae only change is the addition of ten years
ta the period named ln the statute of 1899,,
under whlcb the government of Canada undertaok ta pay $6,buu ta the Improvement
Commission and now, lu order ta enable the
money to be anticlpated, they are belng autbarlzed ta Issue debentures ta the amout
of $250,00O, all of tbem ta be payable wltbIn the term of twenty years, and the maney,
of course, ta be depasited, $60,000, yenr by
year, ln arder ta tacet the debentures as they
are payable and aIea the lnterest. It bas
been caiculated that is the amount wblcb
can be advanced ut the present marnent. 1
understand tbey bave alsa made an arrangement witb the banik by wbicb they practically wlll get the money at tbree per, cent,
because the $60,000 wauld be depasited tram
time ta time In tbe bank, and there wauld
always be an arrangement ta get interest
on It.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If
tbey can get money at 3 per cent, it wiil
accomplish tbe abject I liad la view yesterday la suggestlng that tie gavernment
pravîde the money. Tbey can lase notbing,
and It would be la the interest of tbe cotamissslaners ta bave as mucb money as passible. Realiy tbe Bill pravides for an
lncrease of $600,O00, for tbe purpose of
beantlfylng tbe capital. That is really what
it pravides for. Tben It gives tbe power ta
borraw upon the strengtb of tbat $600,0OO,
la arder ta do It mare rapIly tban they
cauld do If It were recelved annuaiiy. I
do nat see la the Senate the gentleman wlth wbom I bad the banour and
pleasure of sittiag some years ago la tbe
House of Commons wbo used ta abject vcry
strangly ta the beautifying of Major Hill
Park. We used ta bave hamilies preacbied
ta us of a vcry serious character and the
Hon. 'Mr. FULFORD.

expeaditures denauaced as an outrage, and
upon the
depicted as an Imposition
whole of tbls Dominion because we relleved
tbe city af Ottawa of tbe responslbility
and expense of maintaining tbat park, and
piaced It la a realiy respectable position.
I was nat ln the Senate at the time, and
cannot speak for the ban, gentleman opposite (Hon. Mr. Scott), but being a resident
of Ottawa, I do not suppose lie taok objection ta tbe pecuaiary liabilities that tbe
late goverament assumed, but bere we find
tbey bave gone on, beyand wbatever the
late goverament cantemplated, and It ls nccepted by the gentlemen wbo were par excellence ecanamists ln the iawer Hause, and
wba used to preacb us sermons on ecanomy, and aur extravagance, tak-ing this bait
wlthaut the siigbtest difficulty, and 1 do
ilat find tbat It chokes them iii the least.
I am nat fanding fauit witb tîje Bill, 1 tbink
that this city, as the capital of Canada,
ouglit ta be a credit ta tbe Dominion, as
the capitale of otber countries are, and the
course taken by the ban, gentleman ls onie
tbat, speaking for myself and as a Canadian, I rather commend. It le nat aitogether
$60,000 a year, because tbe aid goverament
appropriated certain sums la asslsting the
city la many respects, but tbey came ta
the conclusion that tbe $60,000 would lic
adequate ta make tbe city the Wasbington
of tbe nortb. They bad better go n iittie
turtber, and If it is ta lie thc Washington
of the north, let tbcm deprive the city of
representation and, let there lie a Joint
committee ta keep it up. Treat Ottawa as
they treat the district of Columbia. I do
flot knaw tbat tbe people of Ottawa would
appreclate the suggestion, but If we were
ta imitate our neiglibours across the line,
wby not go the whoie lengtb, unless It is
thought tbey go too far, and that we should
hait at a certain point. 1 sbould 11k-e very
mucb ta bave calied thc attention of some
bon. gentlemen ln the Senate, If tbey were
present, ta the position they occupied liefore, wben tbey are very readily acceptlng
tbe praposition wbicb is made to theta now
ta quadruple the sums tbey used ta find
fault witb. However, this is an age of
advancement; whether you cail it reforta
or not, I do not k-now, but we wlll accept it
as sucb and trust we will go on and folialw la tbe footsteps of the late goveramnent

717

JULY 23, 1903
ta a greater or less extent than In the past
-and that wIll be somewbat difficult-and
I have no doubt you wIll meet the approbation of the country, and the country, under
sucb circumstances, wlll go on prospering as
lt bas for the lest few years.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think that on patriatic grounds It may be very well to make this
expendIture, and no member of this House
appears to oppose It ; but there la another
point of view : The government of this
country pay ont every year ln the city of
Ottawa, I suppose somewhere between a
million and a haif and two million dollars.
That does flot take place ln any other city
ln the country, and 1 eau understand the
feelings of the inhabitants *of other cities
when they find that, ln addition ta paying
out these very large sums bere, the goverument undertake to pay for the ornamentation and improvement of the city.
However, on the ground that this city Is ln
a sense the 'Washington of the North, and
that it Is aur dnty ta make It look well, I
do flot suppose that any one sbould fairiy
quarrel witb the policy, but there is just
one point, in the llttie speech of the boa.
leader of the opposition, wbich, I tbink,
The hon, gentleman
deserves attention.
spoke of the fact thet some years ago a
gentleman, who Is now a member of this
House, ln another place was fond of criticisIng expenditures made for the benefit of the
city of Ottawa, much smaiier expenditures
then are Involved ln this Bill. Now, lion.
gentlemen, circumstances alter cases. That
wbich wonld be extravagance in a man
whose income la one thousand dollgrs
a year Is not necessarily so If the man's
Income bappens ta be $5,000 a year, and lnasmucli as the Income of tbis country bas
about doubled since the time ta wbichi tbe
hon. leader of the opposition referred, au
expenditure wbicb migbt bave been open
ta crlticIsm at thet date Is not open ta
crltlcism now.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.1.)-We
must bear ln mind that the expenditure of
tbe country Is lncreasing nt even a more
rapid rate then the Income. It la true,
Ottawa bas reeived very liberel treatment
from tbe parliament of Canada, and It is
very diffienît for gentlemen wbo are members of anotber body than this, perbaps, ta
justify ta their constituents tbe very liberal

appropriation wbIcb we are making for the
benefit of the capital of tbe Dominion. They
as bas been aliuded ta by Hie Honsay,
our who addressed you, that there le an Immense amount of the revenue of the Dominion expended directly ln Ottawa, s0 meny
of the civil -servants live here. The ministers, their familles and retinue ail living bere
expend an Immense deal of maney lu the
city of Ottawa, wbich la not expended to
a-nytblng like the same extent. In any of
the capitals of the different provinces, and
wbile it la very well that we shonld beautify tbe city of Ottawa to at least a reasonable extent, I believe we are treating it very
liberally lndeed la approving of the diff erent
amounts wbich have been voted by parliament for that purpase. The city of Ottawa
itself compares now perbapa favourably,
more than favourably with any city of the
same age witbin the Dominion. I think
we mey say that with Its naturel scenery
and tbe parliameut buildings, the improvements made ln the city ltseif within the
lest few years by the commission, whicb
was autborlzed ta expend this money
for the beantlfying of the city, bave
accomplisbed a great deal. The money
whicb tbey bave expended must have
been laid out ta great edvantege, for
I must eay that every persan who bas travelled round the suburba of Ottawa and
througb these different streets must see
that there bas been alreedy a great improvement made ln the appeerance of the
clty, and that It le uow, even ln Its present
state, a credit ta the Dominion.
The clause was adapted.

mest

Han. Mr. LOUGHEED, from tbe committee, reported the Bill withont amendment.
The Bill was then read tbe thIrd time, and
passed.
FISHIERIES ACT

AMENDMENT

BILL.

THIRD READING.
The Hanse resolved ltself imita a Committee of the Wbole on Bill (224)* An Act to
amend tbe Fsberies Act.
(Iu the Committee).
*
On clause 1,
Han. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I bave a amaîl
ameudment ta this clause. On the second
reading of this Bill tbe other day, I thought

718

SENATE

that the wording of the clause woUld include ail seals, as it evidently does. It
reads :
Every one who hunts or kilîs flah, or marine
anImais of any kjad other than seals, whales
or wai.ruses.
This wouid legalize the killng of ail seals,'
porpoises, &c. I think it would be a great
mistake sbouid tbere be any confliet witb
the regulations wlth respect to the kiliing
of the fur-seais ln tbe Pacifie Ocean. Consequentiy, I propose to put la the word
hair'1 before the word 'seals.'

of seals of any kinti, there Is no justification
for tolerating the use of rockets anti explosive materials or explosive projectiles.
These tbiugs are not aecessary wbere the
seals are caught on the ice, as they are on
the coast of Newfoundland. The seais are
slmpiy knocked on the bead wlth clubs ; andi
I do not see.why the barbour seals wblcb
are to be fouad ln the bays about our shores
shouiti be destroyeti witb explosives. Tbey
eau be shot, as it Is, but why rockets and»
explosive projectiles andi shelhs shouid be
useti to kili seais, 1 cannot understand. I
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD, (B.C.)-Tbiat Is thlnk It is a bigbiy objeetionable thing, andi
I hope tbe hon, gentleman wll not limit bis
a very wise precaution.
amendaient to bair seais, but strike out the
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILL-Wbat la word 'seals' aitogether. Otberwise I shall
the meanIng of that *?
feel It my duty to move an amentiment to,
lion. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂIN-Tb.rere Is thin bis ameudment.
hair on tbem iastead of fur. 1 move that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Woulti
lair' be 1utroduced la the second
the word b
there be any confoundlng ln the use of the
Une after the word * tlan' and before the
wortis ' hair seais' i We know that seals,
word 'seais.'
whether they have fur or not, have hais la
Hon. Mr. poWEit-We sbouid ]lave some addition to it, andi the seais that are eaught
furthier 'expianation of the remarkiable in the Pacifie Ocean and those of whîch, we
change of attitude which parliament bias as- have heard so mueb taik, have hair wblch Is
sumied witb respect to these marine animais. plucked from the fur seal. And then the
I shall jast read section six of the Fisheries most valuable fur that is caugt-I forget
.ct for whilh this section is substltuted. what they cail itIt Is as follows
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Sea otter.
Every one wbo huats or kilis whaiea. seala or
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
porpoises by means of rookets, explosive instruments or shela, shall be Ilable to a penalty rau up as bigh as fifty pounds a skia. They
flot exceeding $300, and lu default of payment
to imprisonmeflt for a term flot exceeding six are fur animais. On the Labrador coast and
months.
Newfoundland, I do not thiak there is any
Now, are there any of
Thiat section was repeaied la 1894, and fur on the seals.
another section substituted, wbicb Included that kinti of seais la the Pacifie ?
other marine animais. So up to 1894 the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, there la a
policy of parliament wvas to make this pro- bais seal.
hibition more extensive iastead of lesa exHon. Sis MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
tensive. Now the hon. minister comes here
seen seais in the Gulf of Georgia, but I did
andi asks us, not to increase the protection,
but to strike it out aitogether, take awaY not know whist kinti they were. I do flot
the protection fromn ail tbese animais, objeet to tbe porpoise belng tiestroyeti, bewhiaies, seals, porpolses, andi otbier marine cause porpolses tiestroy Immense quantities
animais. There may be some justification of fish.
for the use of explosives la k-illiag wbaies,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Â point wss made
and of course the wairus is a very formida- by myt hon. frienti last evening at tbe secbie animal whicb cannot be approacbed very ond resdlng of this Bill, whlch 1 thiak was
closeiy without a certain amount of risk for not sufficiently attendeti to.
It is a very
the person who tries to capture hlm, and as bad thlng to authorize the use of explosives
to whiales and walruses, there might be la fisbing-, because you cannot possibly use
somue reasonable defence for tbe change of tbemn forcapturing any of those fish without
attitude, but I think, as regards seals anti tiestroying other fish. Last year I happeneti
porpoises, certainiy as regards the capture to be on the Islandi of Vancouver et the time
Hon. 31r. TEI'%PLF-MAN.

JULY 23, 190?,

719

,of the explosion at Departure Bay. I beard ls done by use of explosives. It may be
s0 mucli about It that a party resolved ta explosive balls or an explosive materlai in
go up there and see what happened. The the harpoon. Parties who purpose estabfIsh were kilied In the bay for f ully a mile ilshing whaling stations on the Âtlain~ice
tram the scene of the explosion by the shock. coast, and I belleve there is also a party
I do not think I arn exaggerating when I on the Pacifie coast In British Columbia
say I thlnk It was possible ta gather Up appiylng to establish a wbaling station there,
schooner loads of herrlng whlch were lying have asked the department ta make this
en the shores and the bottom of Departure change lu the iaw and legalize the use of
Bay as a consequence of the explosion explosives whlch are now used by them IlwhIch took place there. It was a sight sucb iegally as the law stands. There ls a very
as I could not get my Imagination to cou- great difference between the fur seais and
ceive of If I flad flot seen It inyself. I do the hair seais. There ls no dlfficuity at ail
flot thInk It le possible to use explosives suc- in respect ta this matter. In the Behring Sea
cessfully In kulng those fish without in- award, and the legisiation founded thereon,
jurlng ilsh 11f e-tbat ls, If the shock la the whole protection ls ta the fur seal. The
sufficientiy strong ta kîlI these animale In animal known as the hair seai lo the seal
the water, It would kilI fisb that are valu- whicb la cnugbt on the Atlantic coast and
slaughtered In such numbers by .the Newable, and be Injurions ta fish hf e.
foundland sealers.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I do flot
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do
approve of what the bon. gentleman bas
-just stated. You cannot use an explosive they fish for tbem on tbe Pacifie ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Not for the bair
whielh will kili more than a certain class of
animais. The iaw says you can use It only seal, but I understand there are a f ew there.
Mr. Venning of the Marine Department adfor certain animais.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But tbe other Ilsh vises me there are some on the Pacific Coast
but the important seai ls the fur seal. We
are In the same waters,
henyouare ail agreed agalnst the use of explosives
lion Bi. DBOUHERVLLF
the taking of
Huto usr. ButCHERVlLE-then YOtonI n huatlng the fur seal, because
It Bu
mustflo usthee i anthe resonthe. fur seal on the Pacifie ocean is already
for using explosives for seals. On the shore safeguarded under the Behring Sea award.
of Newfoundiand they kill them with sticks, No guns at ail, for instance, can be used In
but In the bay If you fire at a seal and do the Behring Ses seal fisherles; the seals muet
not klll It, It mlght disappear and you cannot be taken witb harpoons or spears. Guns,
get It. If you use balle which expiode In Jiowever, can be ueed along the Pacific coast
the seal yen get It, and that ta wby expio- ln takîng the f ur seal. I do not know
wby the hair seal is included In the
sives are used In killîng seals.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I think permission to slaughter by projectiles, but
explosives migbt be confined to whales ai- 1 do not at ahl Imagine that the use of protogether. There is no use in puttîng vrai- jectiles is for the fishlng tbat my hon. friend
ruses In the Bill, because they are not found from Marshlleld thînka. I do not think
on our coast lu any number. I would con- dynamite would be exploded In the water
fine the wbole thIng to whales. Tbey can- for the purpose of killng halr seals.
flot be killed easliy ivithout something of I assume they are generaily taken on Ice
floes -and on shore, and kIlled passibiy
that kind.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-My Information In the water whth spears and shat; guns. If
ls that the law as It now stands Is alwnys you are gaing ta kili a seal you *Inght as
violated la respect to the taking of wbales, weii kili hlm effectually. In the case of
porpolses, hair seais and walruses-that ex- killing fur seais on the Pacific, one of the
piosives are used, and that there ls fia mod- great grievances of aur United States friends
ern whaiing station ta-day that does nat; use agaînst Canadian sealers was that the seals
The were very often wounded wlth buckshot,
.explosive projectiles of some kzind.
tnklng of whales under the aid method of and In many cases disappeared and were
harpooulng them 'would be unprofitauie, and never recovered. Sa the catch of skins,
ýaIl successful wbaiing of the present day our United States friends said, did not

720

SENATE

whales and walrus are not kiiled anywhere
within the three-mile limit, but I have seen
seals up the River St. John. If a maxi chose
to kili a seal there by using an explosive,
bie would destroy a number of salmon.
Houn. Mr. DOMVILLE-With an explosive.
haIt the diameter of the shock is only fourteen feet. That is a matter of science, Ixot
of opinion. I have been where they shot
at whales and the objeet of firing with exHon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-If thîs plosives was to blow them open. If the
Bill is to bie conflned to the ocean and to explosion is within the animal it caunot
permit the use of explosives ini the oceaxi, do much damage to fish ini the neigliboursoine wlbo,
I presume Uts object would bie a good oxie, hood. I give this information for
but If we permit the use of explosives, as perhaps, may flot know this fact. The
this Bill1 does, within axiy harbours, bays or charge used is so, very small in kiilling. a
waters adjacent to the coast, it Is going to whale that It could not do auy harm to
have a very injurious effect on the flsh that fish. The whale when flred at is on the surfrequent those waters. We know very well face.
tliat the explosion of an ordinary bomb or
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-There miglit be
shell ln the water wiil kilI a quantity of a great many flsh within fourteen f eet of
flsh in the viclnity. I have seen that happen the whale.
on various ocasions. I have seen a war
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-A few
siiip comixig into a harbour, ln order to show
years ago I was down at Sable Island, and
the effect of the ordlnary explosive shel,
round that Island I saw scores of seals
put one into the bay and bave It touched off
floating about. Now, that is a tishing
with an electric battery on the deck of a ship,
ground, and even If it were only in throwanid the consequence was that perhaps for
ing an explosive at one of those seals, and
one hundred yards around where that aboli
of the explosion is only 14 feet,
exploded ail the fish were stunned 50 that the radius
one does flot know what destruction miglit
they floated on top of the water and boats
fish. You might carry
went out and picked them up. If we permit take place amonget
the Idea further, and say uxider pretense of
the use of such explosives within the threeexplosives might be used to
mile limît anywhere, It la going to have an kIlling s.eals,
1.11i fish. I remember wvhen the Canadian
injurions effeet and there ehouid be a probufit from Fort
viso lI this Bill to conflne the use of ex- Pacific Railway was being
William up to Lake of the Woods, when the
plosives to the deep seas beyond the conwould throw a charge
fines of the harbours on the coast. I would meni wanted flsh they
of dynamite into a lake with a wvire atsuggest that a proviso bie added to, the Bill
by ail
making It illegal to use such explosives with- tached and explode it from the shore
was the flh
lin a certain distance of the coast anywhere. electric battery. The resuit
would turn up. I remember very weli as
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Perbaps It would bie a boy we used to go Into our marshes to
better, after the discussion, If the hion, gen- catch pike and wouid carry a guxi with us.
tleman would withdraw the word 'seal' We would flot bit the fish, but the shot
nitogether. 1 know on our coast there are strikixig the water would stun the fish and
large numbers of seal and some meni would it could be caught before It recovered. Tbe
use explosives to kilt these seals, nnd the saine result would follow an attemPt to
resuit would be Injurlous to the flsh. Thiere catch seals in the waters where I have seen
are flot enough seals caughit on the At- them. I think it would be better to strike
iantic coast to make It advisable to logis- out the word ' seal' altogether.
lato with regard to them at prosont. If lt
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I feel disposed
should bie necessary a. yoar or two helice to
permit the use of explosives, the law cxxi be to let the word ' seal' drop out myseif.
amended. With regard t0 what the hon. When the Bill returns to the House of Coingentleman from Prince Edward Island snys, mons with the amendment, If any good reaHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.
at all represent the slaughter of the
seals. The saine thIng no doubt happens
in the taking of the hair seals on the Atlantic
coast. They may ho bit on the head with
a club, as our fur seals on the Pribyioff
Islands are, or they may bie speared, but In
any case If the object of the hunter lu to
kil the ieeai It la far better to Mil hlm effectualiy and get the animal tban It is to wound
hlm and see him disappear under the tce.

JULY 29, 1903
(In the Comniittee.)
son can be shown for retailng the word
On clause 1,
' seal' I presume It wlll corne back to ns
agaîn.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The neoessity for this
ùeaure Is due to the fact tbat It bas been
Hon. Mr. POWER-I move that the wordr
hield-I believe only an ' obtier dictum,' bowseal'1 be struck out
~ver, that has been the decision of one of
The amendment was agreed to, and the ehe judges-that the powers under the Pat ent Act could not be performed by any perHon. Mr. DANDURAND, from the corn- ~on other than the Commissioner of Patents,
mlittee, reported the Bill wlth an amend- ind It had been the practice of the Deputy
Jommissioner of Patents to act and also,
ment, which was concurred lu.
as ls the practice in other departuients,
The Bill was then read the third time, and
for the chie! cierk, when deiegnbed propassed.
perly to do so, but lu consequence of the
The Senate adjourned.
decision of the court-not a decîsion practicalIy, but an opinion expressed by one of
the judges-it became necessary to make
THE SENATE.
this point clear. In the Civil Service Act
the minister bas the power in certain cases,
Ottalwa, Wednesday, Jtdii 29, 1903.
and in other cases it requires a minute of
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three council to authorize the chief clerk to nct
for the deputy.
o'clock.
BOWELLSir MACKENZIE
Hon.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
This clause gives"ful power and authorlty
CERTIFICATES TO MASTERS AND. to the Deputy Commissioner to perform the
It gives hlm full
MATES 0F SHIPS ACT AMENDduties o! the minister.
MENT BILL.
powier to perform ail the functions_ pertaining to the Commissioller o! Patents,
ORDER OF THE DAY POSTPONED.
whether the minister be present or not?
The Order o! the Day being callîed,
Iton. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Committee of the Whole flouse on (BIIl 226)
BOWELLAn Act to amend the Act respecting CertiftHon. Sir MACKENZIE
cales to Masters and Maites of Bhlps.
And lu case o! the absence of the minîster
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN moved that the and the deputy, any clerk may be authorOrder of the Day be dlscharged and placed ized by the minister to act.
on the Orders of the Day for to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wo, le, now the
BOWELLHon. Sir MACKENZIE
CommIsisaofer of Patents ?
Might I ask the bon. gentleman If he bas
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-The minîster himself,
lu contemplation any changes or amendand the deputy minister Is now a barrieter,
mente to this Bill?
Mr. O'H1aUoralI.
Hlon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-4fl postponing
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me
I arn doing
this mensure tili to-morrow,
I that sufficient powers are given lu the Civil
s0 at the request o! an hon. gentleman.
1Iintend Service Act, sections 18 and 14, by wbich
one ameudmaent.
purpose making
be delegated
to move that the limitation of the home the powers of the minîster may
be the city of Boston to the deputy minîster-that is to say, by
trading voyage shahl
an Order in Council.
lnstead o! Portland.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-ToUs duties may
PATENT ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.
be defined whlch are to be delega.tedl to the
REPURT1ED FEOM COMMITTBE,
deputy minister. Now It seems to, me flot good
ltself into a Com- policy that the deputy should be clothed
Tbe Hous resohved
of the mînister. It
mittee of the Whole on BUll (184) Au Act wlth ail the powers
simply gives a ilcense to the mînister, upon
Act.
to am-end the Patent

46

SENATE

722

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Only ln administering
whom the responslbility of administering
is concerned, to, In fact, the Patent Act
that departmnent
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me
tieglect the duties of bis department, to render himself unfamiliar with them, and to no distinction can be drawn between vestrely absoluteiy upon the deputy without ex- ing authority ln the deputy minister for
erclsing that supervision and baving that the administration of the Patent Act more
After a whiie
general knowledge as to the obligations of than for any other power.
lils office wbicb the Civil Service Act ln ail the deputies will be sufficiently ambitious
Migbt I ask to practlcally occupy the position of ministhe firat place contemplated.
rny bon. friend If any good grounds have ters.
arisen wbicb render It conducive to the
Hlon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I should like to
publie lnterest that this should be donc?
know, in the absence or the Commissioner
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Most oertainly.
of Patenits and the Deputy Commissisiofler
Mr. LOUGHEED-In wbat regard?7 of Patents wbo appoints the person who
Hon.
Is
takes the position of eltber of tbemn?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In a matter of tîjis
be appointed under Order ln Council ?
klnd, the deputy would be really the acting
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, under Order tu
In clauses 13 and 14 of the Civil
officer.
Service Act deputies are clothed with that Council.
power. From time Immemorlal the deputy
Th>e clause was adopted.
bias been the officer who bas administered
On the 2nd clause,
this.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I desire to have this
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-3iy contention is
I propose to hand to the
'wIde power Is given under clause stand.
Ibat sufficiently
Secretary of State an amendment to prothe Civil Service Act to permit the Goverthat It shall fot apply to any patent
nor in Council Issuing an order to vide
I should like the
set aside by the courts.
give to the deputy the powers which are
consider the
It seems to me, if hon. Secretary of State to
minister.
vested in the
amendment.
the Governor ln Council choose to exercise
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I suppose it is
discretion ln clothing the deputy wlth
that particular power, the public Interest thie*intention of the government that this
wiil be subserved as weli as if we make clause shall be retroactive ?
a statutory enactmient absolutely giving
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
There
that power to the deputy bead.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Altbough it is
may be cases where It Is not desirable that
not precisely stated to be retroactive, that
power 'should be viested ln the deputy minWhat bas led to this
the Intention.
ister, and it is for the government, la any is
and radical change of policy?
Instance, to exercise their discretIon
say whetber the deputy shahl act ln lieu
Hon. M4r. SCOTT-There are a number of
of the minister.
clauses retroactive.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-From the Institution
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tley
of tbe department It has been the deputy are ail retroactive.
He bas not ln
minister wbo bas acted.
It is partIcularly
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not ail, but several
ahl cases been a lawyer.
desirabie, ln the interpretation of the Pa- of them are. The late Dr. Tache had first
tent A&ct, that the deputy sbould be a bar- to do witb this Patent Act He professed
rister ln good standing, and the present to be very familiar with it, and had practleally exclusive control. He gave judgments
deputy is a barrIster.
would do on questions whicll
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend as a judge
and once lie
in view any parti- came before the department,
must not think I have
gave a judgment, it was acquieseed in.
Mr. O'Halloran, or any
cular individual.
gone on for over tbirty years. It
particular officer, may resign bis office at That has
is somne years since Dr. Tache's time, and
any time, and yet we have on the statutebas only been in recent years that bis
book a clause giving ail the power of the it
decisions have ever been in question, and
minister to the succeeding deputy minister.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JULY 29, 1903
iii several

722

instances tliey have beeu de- the patent lu Canada and the forelgu patent
clared absolutely without the authority of explred, and It ta only fair and riglit that
the statute. In smre Instances the points that should be so, because frorn the first
lie liad settled have been called ini question Inception of the Act, the Impression given
by wliat la known as obiter dicturn of hIdi- by the tlepartrnent and beld by the patent
vidual judges, who, In cases under the Pat- solicitors, was that It was nnnecessary to
ent Act whIch have corne betore them bave continue the lite of the patent in a forelgn
Incidentally referred to points wbicli were country If i was not of essential value.
nlot directly before thern, but involved. In Au a rule patenta are taken out for live
the case before thern. It ta to legalize years,- the full terrn belng fifteen years. In
practically, as far as vested rights are order to save the tee, people* take out a
concerned, the declsion8 of Dr. Tache wliere patent for five years. Before the five years
they have been golng on for a nurnber terrnated they would take it out for anof years. It practlcally givec effect to tiern, other flve and before that 'terrn explred
reserving of course the rlghts of parties they would take It out for the rernaining
that have been acquired by any decision five. But lu rnany Instances, wliere tlie
ln the courts. Now, the arnendnxent pro- patent liad been taken out in a foreign counposed by the hon. gentlemnan frorn Montreal try, it was allowed to drop af ter the first
goes sornewhat turther. There la a clause, five years, and the effect of the decision of
hon. gentlemnen wlll know, at the end of the the Prlvy Council lias been to avold ail
Bi, whlch ta called a saving clause, re- patents, though renewed in Canada, where
serving to parties any rights they bail ac- they hiaé a.llowed the foreign patents to
quired under the decisions of the courts. drop. It Is lu consequence of this decision
It Is aileged, and of course It Is a very diffi- that the proposed arnendrnent of the.hon.
cuit point to determîne eventually, that that gentleman trorn Montreal1 cornes up. There
la not sufficlently wide, and It 18 In order to la a saving clause that a party directly lnsecure the full effect of a ludgrnent that terested ln the manufacture of an article
went to the Suprerne Court on the question. wlio, ln consequence of the judgrnent of tie
Perhaps the lion. gentlernan wlll understand Privy Council, rnay bave lost lia riglits, Is
It botter If I explain it. Forrner-iy, wben protected lu his rnanufacture. I understand
patents were taken ont ln Canada and ln he la fully protected under Vis Bill.
foreign countries, parties would take the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
patent out for fIve years ln eacli country. Ât
mucli further would the arndment sugthe end of the five yearà for smre good reason, perliaps no mnarket or no opportunlty gested by my lion. frlend go than the laist
of getting anything out of the patent, tliey clause ln this Bill ? 1 underatand the last
have allowed the patent ln the foreign coun- clause lu this Bill lias Vie effeet lndlcated
try to drop, thougli the patent baal been re- by the lion. gentleman, that after the explry
newed ln Canada, and that lias gone on. of the patent, should a person have cornLast year a patent that was runnlng con- rnenced manufacturing the article prier te
currently lu Canada and ln a forelga coun- the judgrnent whlclý had been gîven by the
try was the subject of legislation, and the Prlvy Coundil, lie would be protected under
question of Its validlty ln Canada went Vis clause.
tlirough the courts to the Privy Coundil.
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-Yes.
The ground taken by the patentee was this :
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
he alleged that It was not necessary ta conIlow mucli turther would the suggested arntinue the patent ln the forelgu country wlien*
endment go ?
renewlng for the five years la Canada. The
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-He would be protectPrivy Councll holà, on the -contrary, .that
the patents, ln order to be contaued ln Can- ed by Vie last clause so far as manufacturada, rnust be conttaued ln the foreigu coun- lug, but It seerns to rne It does not protect
try. If It once bail lite ln a foreign coun- sufficientiy those wlio have assalled patents
try, the dropping of the patent ln the for- and have succeeded ln havlng the patent deelgn country volded the patent aise In clared vold by the courts of law. What lias
Canada. This measure Is retroactive lu ail gîven rime to Vis Bill ta lîtigation whlch lias
those cases wlierei there was a rene-wai of taken place lu the courts, and which lia*
461

724

SENATE

been carried, to the Privy Concil. I do flot
know the party at ail. He la a stranger to
me, -but it seems to me that, baving lncurred the expense of litigation, and havlng
exhausted the jurlsdiction of ail the courts,
lie is entitied to the benefit of tlie Judgment
which lie lias secured.
Hon. ,Slr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Notwlthstanding thie tact that he bad flot commenced manutacturing..
Hon. Mr. BEI QUE-Notwl tlstandlng the
tact that lie bad flot commenced manufacturIng, lie is entitled to the full benefit of
the judgment, and it seems to me it would
be overriding by legisiation the effects of a
judg-ment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How would the
]itigation have arisen If lie had not invaded
the riglit of the patentee by manufacturing ?
Hlon. -%r. BEIQUE-I am n ot famillar
with tlie tacts of tlie case, but I suppose lie
liad commenced tlie manufacture.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-In the case In point
the party may have commenced manufacturing here, or lie may be shipping into
Canada goods tliat were manufactured elsewliere. In the case ln point mentioned by the
lion. Secretary of State, a case wbich lias
gone tlirougli the dIfferent courts In Canada
to tlie Privy Council, the parties contest,
ing tliat action incurred very considerable
expense. Would It be good policy for us to
pans an Act here that would set aside that
judgment of the higliest court in the empire?
I think the lion. Secretary of State would
agree tliat it would not, and sucli an amendment as is proposed by the hon. Senator
from Montreai (Hon. Mr. Beique) would
qulte cover the ground and would remove
any ambiguity ln connection with tlie saving
clause at the end.

lowed to expire and that theretore the Canadian patent dropped witli ItL Wliile I say
that tlie party wlio succeeded lu the judgment of the Privy Councl should be protected if he is manufacturing those articles, we
should not destroy tlie patent tliat tlie Joues
Company hold absolutely. We can reserve
tlie riglit to the individual who lias coinmenced to manufacture, and who lias succeeded lin the case before the Prlvy Councl,
which foiiows on tlie uine tliat tls House
and parliament had adopted ln other cases.
We have frequentiy cases coming before us
ln whicli patent riglits are discussed, and
wlihere we yieid a point ln favour of the
manufacturer. We limit tlie manufacture,
but we give tlie le of the patent to the
Individual patentee, so far as tlie reat of the
world is concerned. We have always been
caret ni, evea where the natter is under
litigation, that so far as that litigation la
concerned, we would reserve any riglits that
a litigant may acquire, but at the saine turne
wel xnay continue the lite of the patent so
far as tlie rest of tlie world ls concerned,
and I think that tliat is the lune that ouglit
to be taken lu this particular case. I wouid
suggest as a compromise the foliowing
clause :
Nothing in -thus Act con.tained shall affect any
rlght acquired by a par.ty to a suit lu anýy of
His Majesty's courits by the final judgment yendered therein.
That would certainiy save the party
brouglit the case to the Privy CounilI,
to-morrow, wlien we discuss it, I will
mit this as a couniter proposition to
lion. triend's and we will consider ItL

wbo
and
submy

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Suppose under the decision of the cour ts, a
United States manufacturer liad been sending these articles into Canada for sale, and
lie had contested the case lu court, would
lie be permitted to continue, atter the pasHon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is a very 'unusual sage of this Bill, to manufacture ln the
situation, and tlie point that we have now to~ States and send the articles lato Canada
consider la what is really fair under ail the to be sold ?
conditions. Tlie case arose on a suit entered
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If lie was a party to
by wliat Is calied the Joues Furnace Coin- the Privy Councl case.
pany. Parties commenced the manufacture
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If lie
of an article covered by their patent, and was a party
to the Privy Councl case lie
they moved for an Injunction to stay the would 9
manufacture. The case went tlirougli the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think so.
courts, and tliey were defeated on the
ground tliat the toreign patent liad been ai-,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-He shouid be, I thiik..
Hon. M4r. BEIQUE.

JULY 29, 1903
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I very much
doubt the propriety of giving a foreigner the
right to thus corne Into Canada and to place
him in a very much better position than a
Britishi subject would occupy, even though
be may have a judgment from the Privy
He should flot be plaoed In à
Counicil.
better position than a Canadian who is
manufacturing and selling the article whlch
Is patented.
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Suppose we take that'
If we protect him In the riglit lic
case.
acquired under the judgment af the Privy
Council, wauld flot that lie going as far as
we could go, leaving the party who was
successful In the suit to manufacture ?
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, so long as he
manufactures In Canada, but lie sbouid. fot
with impunity be permitted to slip the
article into Canada.
The clause was allo'wed to stand.

725

department ta give only one extension.
Tbiere Is, firat, the limitation of two years
If before the
ta manufacture-the article.
expiration of two years good sud valid
reasons, are given for Inability ta manufacture, the departinent may, lu Its discretion, give an extension, but only one exThat As really the effect of this
tension.
clause.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 6,
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It will be observed that
by subsection (b) o! clause 4, a party can
Import duriug twelve months o! bis patent.
If the Importe after the first twelve montlis,
bis patent Is vaid.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-No, because
under subsectIon (b) the twelve months
rnay mun after the authorized extension.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Thie clause we are now
considerlug gives discretion In thls case ta
On clause 3,
extend the time. There is no change In the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are practlcally no Iaw lu that respect.
changes of any consequence In tbe clauses
The clause was adopted.
referred ta. The change -will. be tu the
On clause 7,
Interpretation put upon them by the deTo give an Illustration of It:
partment.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-This le a new clause
In the language used in the clause, say, aud It .19 adaptiug the principle that lias
whicb givies power to the Commissianer of been adopted ln England and Iu the United
Patents ta extend the time wlthin which States.
There are certain novelties or Inmanufacture may take place, the limitation ventions that It would flot pay a man ta
In the firat Instance, I may say, is for two make-he could not keep tliem In stock. I
In the past a party liavlng the may mention, for Instance, a patent for a
years.
The abject
two years lias been lu the habit of apply- gravlug dock or an elevator.
kng to the department, givlng reasons why of this clause is ta ernpower the commislie could not manufacture, and 1 think the sioner, ta a case o! that kind, ta Issue a
department has extended the Urne, we will lioense ta any party wlio may make an
Before the end of that arrangement wlth the patentee ta consay, for one year.
one year, lie lias made another applica- struct the wark, the commissianer liavl.ng
tion, and If tbey find the reasons sub- Jurisdiction as ta the fair compensation ta
stantial and sufficient in their Judgment be paid. Where a man Invente a gravlng
the department lias made another ex- dock, for Instance, it miglit be three, four
It bas been decided there was na or flve years befare there wauld be any
tension.
power ta do so-that only one lextension can opportuulty of the patent being availed o!
There Is, firet the limitation by anybady.
be granted.
of two years, and then one extension, and
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tliere la nothlng
beyond that the departrnent lias na power under the present law ta preveut a patentee
to go.
!ram enterlng itt an arrangement wlth
He
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thls sme persan ta carry out a contract.
need not personally manu4cture the ardepartment the power.
gives the
ticle.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, At lirnits the exHon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, but there 1s a
ta one year. The courts have put
tension
an Interpretation upon it which obliges the limitation of time, whIch should nat apply.

SENATE
te cases of that sort, because it is neot poosaible to go on and manufacture within tbe
trne.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This evIdently
bas In view an extension of time for tbe
manufacturing of the article. That Is, the
commissioner or deputy commissioner may
go beyond the extensions provided for ln
the precedlng clauses, and grant a license
extending, 1 apprehend, to any party for
Its manufacture. A question arises as
ta whetbier that gives the public the advantage whicb would necessari]y accrue
from the patent ln the absence of a clause
of this kind-that Is te say, It slmply prorides for a limited manufacture of tb.e
patent.

or a part of his or -their or any of their Interest ln the patent, Imports or Import or
caluses or cause to) De lin-parted Into Canada,
the Invention for wh.Ich the patent la Irranted,
such patent shall De vaid as ta the lnterest
of the person or persons eo impor.tlng or causlng ta De Impoated.

Now, I know very many cases where It
was absolutely Impossible ta ask a patente
ta go on sud contlnually manufacture the
article in question, which was lu demand
once every three or four years, and this
clause 7 la a moat welcome amendment nuthorizing any party who wants ta manufacture ta do so under certain conditions
fIxed by the commissioner in place of the
patentee himself.
Hon. Mr'. LOUGHEED-I can quite appreciate the pollcy embodied. ln the clause,
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toranto)-This is really but it seems to me the difficulty lies lu this
an adaptation of the present British Patent Let us assume for a moment that the patLaw, with this exception, the new Patent entee, during the terse required for seau Law of Grecat Britain applies practically to facturlng the article, does not manufacture.
ail cases ln England by which this llmlted At the expiration of that time the patent besystem of licensing may be obtalned-in cames general praperty. Now, lu the meanother words, the public cannot be shut out tîme, thîs thîrd party may step lu and make
f rom the benefit of the patent
Manufac- an application ta tbe minister for a license,
turmrs cannot be held up by reason of unjust which I presume, If granted, would extend
demands for the use of the patent.
The beyand the, terse of the extension provlded
English law bas been amended so as to meet for lu the preceding clause. There Is no
that, and It is an adaptation ef that British Ilinatlan lu thls clause ta show how
law to the exceptional cases whlch are long the license may run. Let us conceive
mentloned in the first subsection of the a case where the terms of the extension bave
clause.
It seems a reasonable thing ln explred, under that Ileuse I apprebend tbe
cases of that klnd that that power should Patent Act will be s0 restrlcted tbat the pubbe exýtended.
lic cannot step lu lu the Interse and take
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Clause 4 gives advantage of It, -although the extensions
the conditions under which the patent shall bave expired. It seems to me tbere sbould
be a restriction'by whlcb, notwlthstanding
exiat. It provides:
4. Every patent granted under the said Act the Issuance of the liceinse, If the patente
shail. unless otherwise ordered by the com- bas mot proceeded wlth the manufacture of
missioner as herelnafter provlded, De subjeet, tbe article during tbe term of the extensions,
and expressed ". be isubjeoit, ta -the followlng
the patent sbanld then cease and the Inven.
conditions:(a.) Snch patent and ail -the rlghts and pri- tion became public property.
Under this
vileges thereby granted shall cease and determine. and the patent shall be null and voa'Id. clause the licensee wauld bave the right ta
at the end of two years fram the date thereaf, manufacture that particular article under
unless the patentee or his legal representa- the patent ta the exclusion of the public.
tives, wlthin that perlodl or an authorized ex-

tension thereaf. commence, snd after such coinmencemenit contlnuously carry an ln Canada,
the construction or manufacture of the Inven.
tion Datented. ln such a masiner that any person deslring ita use It may obtain it, or cause
It ta be made for hlm et a reasonable price, nt
same manufafctory or eotablishment for maklng or constructing It ln Canada;
(b.) If. after the expiration of twelve montas
from the gra.ntlng of a patent, or an authorlzed
extension of such period. the patentee or pa-tentees, or any of t-hem. or his or their or aur
of their legal representatives, for the wbole
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Han. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon. meseber
loses slght of this fact, that ahl patents are
issued for *a(
given term of years, and this
clause la merely ta take the place, lu certain exceptional cases, of subsectian (a) of

clause 4, which makes it incumbent an the
patentee ta preserve bis patent for the terse
mentioned lu tbe patent, whether for teti

or fourteen years, ta manufacture and con-

JULY 29, 1903

tinuousiy manufacture the article patented,
and when it la an abject, as has been ctated,
which la flot supposed to be In demand,
then instead of making the patent subject
ta that obligation of manufacturlug, the
commnissloner of patents would be, under
clause( 7, eutitled ta Issue a patent subject
ta licence.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
misapprehende the difficulty I have pointed
ont. I quite appreciate the benefit he bas
mentloned. The diffcuity I cee la this, that
the licence may be Issued ta a third party
for the manufacture of that article without
ta time. There is no restrictive Ianlitac
guage lu the clause, restricting the minister
to confi1ne the Ilfe of the licence to the term
of the extension which may have been granted under clauses 4, 5 and 6.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It says, 'whiie the
patent continues ln force.' The patent muet
be ln force.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-ÂII that it provides le that the application muet be made
whlle the patent Io ln force. The minister
Issues a lcence and the question arises
for what length of time shaîl he Issue that
license.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Iu a case of that kind
you must have came discretion. It bac been
found ta work well ln Great Britain and
the United States. There lo no country ln
the world w.here they Issue more patents
than lu the United States, and the provision
works well there.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEEED-Let us assume
the hon. gentleman ie commiscioner of patente and I make application for a licence ta
manufacture an article which le patented
but bas flot yet been manufactured. I ask
f or a licence of ten years. What wouid my
hou. friend say ta that ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would depend altogether on the article. I gave an Illustration
of the klnd of articleHon. Mr. LOUGHEl3 D-The article bas
nothlng ta do wlth It
Han. Mr. SCOTT-It bas everything ta do
with It, because If It le an article In general
demand, the commissioner would not issue
a licence.

7eî

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-The commissioner must be satisfied that the reasonable
requirements of the publie bave mot been
satisfieu by reason of the negleet or refusae
of the Inventor ta sell the Invention, before
granting license to manufacture.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I may flot have
made myself clear ; what I eay la thie : the
article bac nothing ta do with it. We are
simply diecueeing the terme of the Iicenee.
le the lcenee to be reetricted to, the extenclan of time that may have been granted by
the minieter ta the patentee-that le to say,
there may be a poesible exteneion of tour
years. Âfter a patent hae been Iecued, an
applic;ttion for an exteneion of tlme may be
'ay extend for
made, and the minleter m
two yeare. Then an application may be
made for another extension of time and two
yeare more given-or four yeare exteneion
altogether ; will thie licence go beyond four
yeare ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It cannot go beyond.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cay It may under this clause. The clause dces flot eay
that the licence chail be restricted to the
11f e of the patent. That should be done.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. member
wiIl bear ln mmnd that the licence wiii be
of nlo use once the article bac become public
property. What would be the use of having
a license ? Under the law a patent la lsuued
for a given number of yeare and it may be
extended for a given time. Âfter that it
becomee public property. It would not be
ln the power of the commissioner of patents
to Issue a licence which wouid remnaîn ini
effect when the article patented had become
public property.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wili the hon.
gentleman show me any provision ln this
clause by which that licence may be liinited
to the life of the patent ? AIl that la requlred ta be doue is that the application
shall be made durlng the life of the patent.
The licence mues on from that application.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-It seems ta me It la
j clearly limited ta the 11f e of the patent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WIII my hon.
friend point that out in the clause.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-By necessary impl$'

ICation.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Oli.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Wbat is the license
issued for ? It Is to give the power to
the lUcensee to manufacture a patented
article wbicb otberwlse be could flot
manufacture. Now, If the patented article
bas become public property, surely hie does
nlot require a license. There would be no
object ln grantmng a license to manufacture
an article, wbich in virtue of the law, hie is
entitled to freely manufacture, and therefore I say that by necessary Implication the
life of the license must end with the life
of the patent.
Hou. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-That is ItL
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This clause giving power to extend the patent Is limited.
It glves power to tbe commissioner te allow
a party to manufacture during the life of
the patent. A man would be non-suited at
once If hie tried to go beyond the date of
the patent, because this is a date antecedent
to the issuing of the license and to the
manufacturing and operating under the
patent. 1 do not believe tbe point the hon.
gentleman Is urging is weil taken.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The whole difficulty witb the Patent Act up to tbe present
tlme bas been one of general intendment.
My bon. friend. the Secretary of State bas
been pointing out that the deputy cernmîssioner of patents bas been makIng iings extending over a perlod of tblrty years,
and that many of these ruings have been
wrong. That Io te say, the deputy commissiener did, like my bon. friend, assume under a cemmon-sense aspect 0f the question,
sucb and sucb would be the construction
placed on tbe Act. Tbe suggestion made by
the bon, gentleman frein Montreai, is reasonabie and possibly weuld be the construction placed on It, but as we are legislating
to cover defects in tbe Patent Act, we bad
better legisiate in the clearest manner possIble.
On clause 12,
12. Secion 47 of the zaid Act Is amended by
adding atter the word .'caveats ' In the second
ulne therecf. the following words: 'and except
those ftled in conneetion with applications for
patents whicb are are stilI pending.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Heretofore the practice
of the department bas been to aiiow everybody to see everything in the patent office,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

and 'It bas been found tbat wbere patents
bave not been Issued tbe public sbouid neot
be permitted to Investigate pending cases.
It takes away from thse public tbe rigbt of
seeing tbe applications of parties wbose
rlgbts bave not been deait with.
Thse clause was adopted.
On clause 13,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is proposed to add
the following amendment te thîs clause :
And no Datent respeoting which sucb application bas been or Is beretofore made accord1ing te the provisions of Mai section «hall be
deemed at a-ny itime to have expired by reason
of thse failure of thse ýpatentee to construct or
manufacture thse patent of Invention before thse
lasit said rnentioned date.
It appears there are ln tbe department
over two bundred applications for time to
manufacture, wbicb bave not been dealt
withi. It Is only fair, as tbey bave not been
dealt witb yet, to give them until thse first
of January neit.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would suggest that
tbis clause witb tbe proposed ameudment
be allowed to stand.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As
that appiies to cases under consideration
you are givlng extended time. Wby should it
stand ? However, I bave no objection to it
standing.
Thse clause and amendment werè allowed
to stand.
On clause 14,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-On examining clause
14, 1 observe that the rigbts of thse parties
were not properly safeguarded, ln my estimation, and I calied thse attention of tbe
Minister of Agriculture to the fact, and
spoke to bis deputy, and I suggested a
clause wbicb migbt come ln as section 15.
But I sbould Dire clause 14 te stand.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I sbould like some
Information upon this. Does It refer to the
riglit of a foreigner te sblp manufactured
goods under a Canadian patent lnto Canada?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The last part of
clause 14 provides for thse revival of contract wbichi bas expired. Surely It would
be very dangerous to revive contracts and
nlot protect parties te tisose contracts who
may have sbaped their business differently
on the faltb of thse lapsing of those con-

JULY 29, 1903
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems ta me If
you do not revive the contract you place
the patentee la an exceptIonally good position, because altbough he bas assigned ail
bis Intereat by contract ln that patent, yet,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Would the bon. gentle- according ta the argument o! my hon. friend
man expli l what third parties are to be opposite, you Ignore the contract and resaved ?
vive the rigbta of the patentee, notwitbis divested
BEIQUE--The Iast portion of standing the tact tbat be
Hon. Mr.
of ahl interest lu Itclause 14 reads:«
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
A.nd ln case any persan has contracted with
the owner of the Patent for the rlght te manu- the revival of these contracts extend befacture. uee or -seil such Invention In Canada,
such contract iehadl be deemed to bave remalned yond tbe lengtb of time that tbe patent lia
ln full force and effedt notwithatandt-ng that the te run ?
patent has becomxe vold as aflores'aid.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It could nlot.
This Bill bas the effect of reviving a great
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Then
number of patents-1Iimagine there are
of that kind-where there were con- If that lie the case, the argument of my bon.
cases
This
tracts for the manufacture of articles un- friend opposite could have no effect.
der patents wbich have lapsed, and those clause seems ta me ta protect any person
contracts may have be-en for the term wbo may bave commenced ta manufacture
as
of two and flve years or any given an article after the expiry of tbe patent
lnterpreted by tbe courts.
time, or on the date of the expiration o! the
patent the parties to those contracts may
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Yes, that Is
have entered Into other contracta for the ail.
manufacture of another article ta take the
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ând
place of!the article patented, and It would lie
little turtber and confirms
ta revive the contracta whicb may then It goes a
dangerous
and makes valid the contract made under
bave lapsed for two or three or four years,
and the man wbo
and allow the party ta that contract ta lie the same circumatances,
bas made a contract wltb the patentee
placed between two fires and ta be exposed
Bill passes, eu continue te manuta a great deal of los. Suppose tbat a party atter this
facture that article during the life of the
te a contract of that klnd, on the faith that
seema ta me ta lie the reading
bis contract bas lapsed, bas sbaped bis patent Tbat
o! the clause.
factory lu order te discontinue tbe manufacture of the article and manufacture other
Hou. Mr. BEIQIIE-I will try to make
articles wbich are intended ta take the place mysel! more plain by stating a case. Supof those articles, would It lie fair, because pose a patent was lsaued say five years ago
we revive the patents, ta revive aise the con- for a term o! 14 years, for a given article,
tract and compel hlm ta manufacture again and that by reason of not manufacturing
an article whlcb be haît ceased ta manu- within the two years, the patent lapsed,
facture for four or five years.
but that before the patent lapsed the patentehé entered Into a contract, with me
Hon. Mr. LOU(GHEED-But If be ls manu- wbereby I bound mysel! ta manufacture
facturIng an article dIfferent from tbe article the pateted1 article during the 14 years,
contemplated by the patent, ln wbat way the lite of the patent, and to manufacture
can the matter corne Ita Issue ?
that ln any quantity, ta supply the whoie
the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Becalise lie waa un- market The patent having lapsed at
for five years, for the lite of expiration of the two years, the contract
der a contract
and
the patent, and oblIged to manufacture the wbicb I bad entered into became nuil
patent and on the of nlo effect, and as a manufacturer I may
article for the life of the
differently on
faith o! the expiry of the patent he bas bave sbaped my business
free fram that contract, the faith of the lapsing o! that patent and
consldered bimself
but If we revive the contract now bis posi- may bave adopted anotber article wbich bas
been patented, and wbiéb was intended ta
tion may lie considerably altered.

tracts, and therefore It seems to me that this
clause 14 shouid lie amended, or shouid be
controlled by an additional clause to save
the rlghts of third parties.

730

SENATE

take the place of this article whicb I agree
to manufacture. By what rigbt and wbere
would the fairness be, because we revive
the patent and corne to the rescue of the
patentee whose patent bas become nuli and
bas lapsed-for be has flot compiied with
the law as It stood-where would be the
fairness of placing myseif as contractor lu
a false position by reviving a contract of
that kind ? It la for that reason that 1
suggeat that we should add a clause to the
foliowiag effeet : Unless the party to the contract had In the meantime, and on the faith
of the lapsing of the patent, materiaily aItered his position and would be exposed to
damages by reviving the coutractHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wby not simpiy
make It permissive as to persons holding
such contract ?.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I was thinking of that.
Hou. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It seems to
me tbe ameudment suggested by the hon.
gentleman from Montreal may lead to a
great deal of Injustice. Consider the matter
for a moment. The patent is issued for fourteen years. Within the flrst year .contracts
are entered Into by at least a dozen parties
by which tbese people have the right to
manufacture this patent, lu tbeir business,
paying a royalty for the life of the patent,
and that would have gone on for fourteen
years but for the misinterpretation that was
put upon the statute, and the mistake that
was made about the'extension. Just take a
case like that. How can any Injustice be
doue to tbat man, who bas eutered Into that
contract by whichb le bas to pay a royalty
for a term of years for this patent wbicb
be holds the right of and wbicb be bas enjoyed for a number o! years, be may yet
be under an obligation for many years to
come-wbat barm can be doue by revivIng
that pateà~ and dèclaring it to be valid,
and protecting him and ail other persous
under It ? The bon, gentleman suggests
that after the decision be may have cbanged
bis position. How long a time did he bave
ln whicb to change bis position ? Practically, if lie bas changed bis position, be
bas doue it with bis eyes open, because
this decision was deiiverexl, 1 thiuk, lu
November last by the Privy Council, at ail
events, some time about that date. If 1
niatake not, in January or February a deputation of a board o! trade waited upon
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

the goverument and received the assurance
that this law would be amended to protect
ail these patenuts, because it was then exciting the wbole commercial community.
Therefore, there would only be the interval
between those two dates la wbich to have
cbanged bis position. The danger of
baving sucb a provision as the bon, gentleman suggests woulù be that lu order to
get rid of royalties for a term of years, the
rights of patentees migbt be destroyed by
bavlng gone Into, and now going into, and
bofore the Act goes Into force going luto
a new contract. I take it that sucli au amnendment as that migbt be fraught with a
great deai o! risk, and I sbould prefer the
clause as It stands, witb tbe amendaient
suggested by the Hou. Secretary o! State,
protectlng, I thlnk, ail wbo ougbt to,
be protected ln this matter, stmply the
patentees who have paid their money
lu the shape of expenses la gettlng
a decisicu iu their favour as to wbat their
rigbts are, protecting ail litigauts wbo bave
obtained a judgmeut. That bas been the
policy o! the law aiways. It !s not new
iaw. It bas been the practice wbicb bas
been adiopted 'witb reference to a great deai
or legislatiou, that those who have been
suitors and bave obtained the judgment
adversely to wbat was previously considered
the law, wbere .what was considered to be
the law was In fact reversed, If one may use
tbat expression, after a terni of years o!
user o! the law on one hune of thougtthose litigants obtain the fruit o! their
judgments by having their riglits protected,
but no one else. Surely this door sbould
not be opened to people wbo have taken advantage of that to get rid of a liability aud
be helped ln doiug ItL
Hon. .Mr. BEIQUE-Suppose a case where
a party to a contract sucb as I have mentio'ned niaterially aitered bis position and
wouid be exposed to ten or fifteen tbousand
dollars damages. He migbt have entered
luto a coutract witb another party wbich
would place hlm lu a false position. It
seems to me that we are able, and we sbould
try to protect the patentee to the full extent,
by revivlng bis patent; and, on the other
baud, of protectiag auybody who bas mater!ally altered bis position because o! the lapsing o! the pate -nt; and the more so, because
section 10 goes pretty far. It revives the

JULY 29. 1903
patent, not only because the perty .has not
manufactured, but ln ail cases whcn the
party, Instcad of manufacturlng, la able ta
show that lie was willing ta allow other parfies to manu'facture, anid therefore It la goIng very far, and It la, as a matter of fect,
rcvivlng a great many patents which have
iapsed. Surely thîrd parties, on the falth
of the lapsing of their patents, who have
changed their position, should -be protcctcd.
I know a case, for instance, of a manufacturer of rubber. I am quite sure bis case
la nat affected by this Bill citber one way
or the other. I had occasion ta prepare contracta for the manufacture Morubber tires
for ail the requirementa of thc trade, and to
aupply the patentee wlth ail those requlrements-moulds had ta be made, preparations
costlng thousands of dollars lied to be undertakzen. Now, If that patent had lapsed,
and If that manufacturer, on the faith of
the lapsing of the patent, should agree ta
manufacture a patented article because
It y1lds a larger profit, if that manufacturer had entcred Into, a contract for anotiier patented article of a sitntlar nature,
another klnd of tire, surely It would lie unf air uow, ýbecause we tcvlvedl the patent,
to revive his former contract and place hlm
b-etween two different contracta whlcb confilct wlth one anotber. It acema, terefore,
tbat'it would be fair to amend that section
ln the wa I have suggested. Let us revive
the patent and the contract, unless the party
to thc contract bas materlally, on the faith
of the lapslng of thc patent, aitercd bis position and become cxposed ta serions danger.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What wouild my
hon. friend do ln the meantime witb the
contract ? *Would lie reassign It to thc
patentee ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It la because thc contract bas lepsed that this Bill declares it
revlved.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-If a case aucli
as thc hon. senator auggests occurrcd lietween the time of the decision >f the PrIvy
Council and the announcement by the government that tbey wou'ld revive that, I can
quite understand there mîglit be same difficulty, but that la a short space of tinie ln
which anythlng could occur, and I have
heard notfilng of such a case. It scema ta
me you would be running a greet deal of

731

rlsk In leaving the contract In force If lie
chooses to taire It, and give hlm the option
of rejecting It if lie wished to get rid of bis
iiability.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It seems to me the
draftaman of the Bill did flot look at thls
question from the samne point of view that
the bon. gentleman from De Salaberry dld.
This clause protects those who ouglit to lie
protected. Clause 14 rends as follows :
Âny persan whe lias, between -the time when
sucli matent became vold or when the ground1
for, suph Impeachment arase, and -the time of
the paselng of this Act, commenced to manufacture, use or oeil ;In Canada the Invention
covered by sucli patent, may -continue ta manufacture, use or sell It ln as full and ample a
measure as If thls Act had flot been passed.

I tblnk that la a riglit axîd proper thing.
I do flot agree wltb the bon. gentleman fro11
Toronto, who seems rather to take the vlew
that, as soon as the Board of Trade of Montreal had memorlalized the gaverument,
every one sbouid lmmedlately desist froni
any effort to manufacture thls article, the
patent of Whlcb bad lapsed.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-I did flot say
that.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe Act protects tlie
rîglita of those persons up to lte time It liecames law, and I think It ts rîglit and proper that those wbo act under the law as5 It
stands should be protected. Miy Impression
la that the draftsman of thîs Bil wished to
go on and protect persons who hunt made
contracta with a patentee before the patent became void ; and I assume It would be
held that the contract nter the patent bad
alîo become vold, and then you would bave
the patentee, after the passing of tbis Act,
ownlng bis patent, whicb bad been revlvcd,
and xiot obllged to curry out bis contract
with the third party, and it was for the
purpose of protecting thc interests of the
third. party who had a contrect wltb the
owner of tbe patent tbat these lest words
were put ln. At the saine time, It mey be
that the case which the hon, gentleman
from De Salaberry refera to was not ln the
contemplation of tbe drnftsman of the BiI,
and It would be wise, under the clrcumstances, to let this clause stand over s0
tbiat the legal advlser of the departmeiit
may bave-time to consider that point. It
la an Important anc.

SEN'1ATE
Hon.

Sir

MACKENZIE

BOWELL-In

considering that, If you declare

patent. It seems to me that at any rate

that the If the models are nlot preserved the descrip-

patent bas not been voided, would net that
carry aise with It the contract ? If a patent
which was granted for a certain xîumber of
years Is declared by tîxis Act nlot te bave
been voided, wouid that not alse carry with
It the validity. and the continuance of the
contract ? In order to provide agalnst the
possibility of another construction 4,eing put
upon the law, they made special provisions
to continue them.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Clause 10 reada lu tiiis
way :
Nor shall such patent be deemed to lapse or
have expired.
Clause 15 1 propose to add. It appears
there is a very large accumulation of models
In the department, snd they are flot now
used. They do not require actual modela In
the department. T-hey have nlot cailed for
any for many years, and they want te get
rid of tbe large accumulation they bave, In
the Patent Office. Tbey do not know what
The proposed clause
to do with tbem.
reada :
15. Whereas the models, and specimens of
compositions of matter and of ingredients thereof, fiied Ia conxiection wlth applications for patente of Invention are of no value after they
have served their immediate purpose ; and the
cost of storlng aud preserving them ia very

tions and drawIngs should be preserved.
Hon. 'Mr. DÂNDURAND-Could flot the
models be kept for a certain space of time,
and. then, before disposing of them iu the
way lndicated, the owner thereof notified
ln order that he sbould bave the privilege
of claiming the property ? We might discuss tbat to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are the property of the department, nlot of the Inventer.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It la true, but
a mani might nlot like tbat bis own mode]
should tail into some other party's bands.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Probably there Is mlot
any model of any existing patent there.
For some fifteen years the department bave
been accepting drawings and descriptions of
inventions. The accumulation of modela became so great it was Impossible to hold them
ln the space awarded te tbem.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
only suggestion made by the hon. gentleman
was that the original owner or manufacturer of the model should have the righit
of taking it If he deslred It, rather than
bave It destroyed.

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I am quite sure the
the commissioner may destroy, selI or other- department would be wIling If they can
wise dispose of ail such models or specimens in find the owners.
considerable, therefore it is hereby enacted that

such manuer as he deems best Iu the public
The amendment was allowed, to stand as
Interest, and that any money arising from the
sale or disposai of such modela or specimeus a notice.
shall be deait with as is provlded by law with
respect to public moneys.
Hou. Mr. TESSIER,' from the commlttee,
16. Notbing la this Act contained shahl affect
auy right acquired by a party to a suit In any reported that they had made some progreas
of Ris Majesty's courts by the final judgment with the Bill.
rendered therelu.

There la an accumulation of them and

FREEDOM 0F LABOUR BILL.

they are very much ln the way, and, of
course, many of tbem were neyer followed
up. A great majority of tlem were only
patents issued and notbing waa done wlth

THIRD READING.
The Order of the Day belng called:

them.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
government migbt erect another building for
tbem.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We bave no space.

Con-sideration of the ameodments made In
Commitrtee of the Whole -on (1341 S) An Act to
amend the Crirninai Code, 1892, respecting Free
Labour.
Hon Mr. BEIQUE moved:

To further amend eubsection four of section
one, by leaving out the word 'unlawful' from
the third line beforeithe word 'aot' ;the same
the
Hon. Mr. POWER-It occurs to me that word from tJhe fourth Une befoee elghth word
Une
'threat' :the eame word from the
a question may arise as te a very valu- before the word * act' ;the sanie word f rom
the twelfth Une before ithe word -'act' ; and
able patent, and these modela may be rethe same word from the sixteenth line before
quired in a suit ln connection wlth the the word '.act.'
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JtTLY 29, 1903

73~3

Wlth leave from tbis honourable -House, t he conditions are mucb better now, and I
making
although tbe notice did not cover it, I would lo flot think we galn anythlng by
t :hese very harsh la'ws.
suggest that the words 'f ree labour' be replaced by tbe words 'freedom of action of
The motion was agreed to.
workmen or affectlng.' It merely makes
Hou. Mr. CLORÂN1 moved:
the Bill clearer by deffnlng the term 'free
That the sald BUI be turther amended, by
-labour.' The object o! striking out the word
nserting the word * uniawfuli befar *e -the word
'nnlawfui'1 le quite plain. It Is unnecessary,
riarpose' ln the seventh Une 'thereof.
and the object of! the Bill itseif la to caver
He sald: Since this Bill bas been before
acta of violance or acts of Intimidation, or
affecting this bonourable House, I have had an opportbreats 'which are made lu a way
tunity, and bave made It my business, to contbe employment of free labour.
suit the various lnterests, both here and elseHon. Mr. ELLIS-I do flot Intend to do any where ln regard to the propriety and necessimore than just call attention to the general ty of this Bill. I may state here that 1 have
progress of this measure. It was ob- not corne across one single individual wbo
I bave
jectionable wben the hon gentleman In- ls' lu favour of this legislation.
froduced It, but be bas gone on amend- cousuited the public press of this country
lng and enlarging It tbrougb tbe wll- and havie faiied up to the present time, to
ligness of tbis bonourable House and find one organ of public opinion to defend
In fact, wbere
the Committee o! the Whoie. Flrst we tbe passage of this Bill.
began by defining certain tbings as -unlaw- public opinion ls expressed It ls, ln botb
fui. Now the bon. gentleman strîkes out languages, against the measure. The press
1unlawful' everywhere, Bo tbat If persons of Montreal, where labour Interests are
assemble for any purpose and any unlaw- large, Is distlnctly and seriously against tbis
fui act ls doue by any member of that as- Bill as unnecessary and as a direct nttack
semblage, ail tbe otbers become parties ta against labour.
that unlawful net. I'polnted out tbe other
Hon. GENTLEMEN-No, no.
day the progress wbich laws of this kind
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It ls very well formake, until human liberty la taken away aitogether and by this Bill, practlcally, If It hon. gentlemen to say 1no, no,' but we have
passes-which may be consldered doubtful- to take the opinion of those wbom the Bill
and can be enforced-whicb ls still more affects, and flot our own opinion, and the
doubtful-the absolute freedom of assembly opinion of thase wbom the Bill affects ls
Tbey look upon
ls put an end to lu regard to strIkes. I agai 'nst this legîsîntian.
We
ta impress on the House, If 1 it as an attack upon their rlghts.
should like
were permltted, the fact that tbere has bave ln our Crlminai Code aIl tbat ts rebeen a great movement of public opinion lu qulred to punish people who assemble for
this country ln favour o! freedom of work- purposes that are ilegai, or who commit
lugmen, and the progress whlch bas been acts wblch are uniawful, and the passage
made ln reference to the wbole question of or thls Bill menus that tbe Sienate wlll go
strikes. Tbere was a time ln England, I on record as being antagonistie to what tbe
do not know wbether It was ever the case people o! this country want-freedom of
lu this country, wben strikes were unlawful, nssembly. Therefore, I propose this amendwhen the very fact that a man struck sub- ment, feeling, as the Bill o! the bon. senaJected hlm to the penalties of the law, and tor from Calgary passed last week, that this
one result was, wben machines were Intro- Bill will also pass, and If It passes 1 hope
duced they -%ere destroyed by the labourera. it will be ln termas whlcb will be easily
It ls easy to
Tbe workingmen saw no other way o! get- interpreted by tbe courts.
dîfficulties whlch surrounded pnss such laws. It ls very hard to put them
ting rld o! the
tbem than to destroy the machlnery. Tbey into execution, and 1 ask this bonourable
were not s0 well educated as they are now, House If it is fair and rlght to place ln the
and the whole system as regards labour wns hands of any common tramp the execution of
a constant embroilment between the em- this law ? If hon. senators were the adminployer and tbe worklngmnn. The progress istrators of this law I would flot be afrald
bave
of time bas softened a great deal of that ; of It, but durIng times of strike we

SENATE
special policemen wbo are sworn ini for 1its passage. Lt Is altog-etier superifuous, unThey are not the firs t cîti- neeessary and dangerous.
the occasion.
zens of the land. They are otten men wboue
,Hou. Mr. McMýULLEN-I do not wish to
characters are not blanieless, and It would
depend on these men to say wbether I and detain the House with any long reply to
two friends meeting on the streets are hold- ny bon. friend, but 1 want to say that I
I Say have had the prîvilege of Sitting ln parliaiIîg an unlawful meeting or not.
it ls puttlng a dangerous weapon luto the ment for eigbteen or twenty years, and lni
bauds of Irresponsible men-men wbo are my humble opinion there neyer was a law
It I5 putting a brought before parliamient tbat Is more nesometimes over-zealous.
dangerous Instrument into the bauds o!. cessary than the one wbicb is now before
Take the experlence of thîs
meiî wlo may bave spite against otbers, this Hlouse.
and this Bill asks common policemen to iu- country for the last two or three years, for
A number of
terpret the rigbts of the people of this coun- the last year partlcularly.
try.
It says 'if at any time when a strike strikes have taken place and men wbo were
is hI progress three persons or more, as- wlulîng to labour where they were wanted
semble for any purpose which may reason- bave been subjected to abuse, Insuit and
nbly seem,' &c.
Who Is to be the judge? injury, their homes aud familles threatened,
The policeman on bis beat, aud he can tbemselves called ' scab,' and every kl-nd of
arrest us. That is a dangerous power to abuse beaped upon tbem. If with this expeIt is putting the liberty of the rieuce for the last twelve montbs there Is not
confer.
subject and the freedom of assembly f00 the most positive evIdence of the necesty
much ln the bands of men who may be for the adoption of just sucb a Bill as this,
over-zealous, wbo may be wlthout char- there neyer bas been necesslty for the passacter, and who may be irresponsible. That age of any Bill ln Canada.
That Is my
is the great danger of this Bill, and, as I private opinion.
I do not want to inJure
stated before, wben you leave It Iu the orgaulzed labour ; I do not want to dictate
bauds of policemen to interpret your rigbts, to organlzed labour. I amn qulte wllling that
it Is going a long way to suppress, as the tbey sbould have every privilege and every
lion. senator from St. John said, that su- right as British subjects that they are enpreme right whicb every British subject tltled to, but when tbey go the length of
edaims, the rlght of free, open meeting. maklug a strike, and goiug out of employUnder these circumstauces, I canuot con- ment and not only golng out themselves, but
sciientiously vote for this Bill.
I kuow preveutlng other persons from taklng their
that men in higb position ln this parlia- place, then I say It le time that tbe law of
ment do not want this Bill passed. I kU'Ow the country should step in and say that
members of parliamnt wbo do not want men who are wllling to render service aud
this Bill passed. I know that ail the are British subjects should be protected lu
labour organîzations of the country do their rlght t0 free labour. Wbat is law
not want this Bill to pass.
I know for If if is not for that ? I must express
tbat men high ln professions do not want my surprise that there are any who oppose
this Bill to pass, aud why this bonourable this Bill. Lt is a necesslty ln every sense
body sbould be urged by the bon. senator of tbe word, and I believe It will do a
from De Salaberry so strong-ly t0 pass lt, ils great deal of good. If people choose to
beyoud my coniprehensiou. As an adminis- strike and leave their employment, tbey
frator of the criminal law iu thîs country, have a perfect right to do that. Tbey are
I say there is sufficient lu the Criminal Code not preveuted from so doing by this Bill.
iii Canada to cover ail that is provided if an organization f0 wblcb 1 belong defor by this Bill.
Lt would be an unfor- mands blgher wages and tbe employer does
tunate tbiug t0 go abroad that this House not consent to give us an increase, we have
is antagouistic to the rigbts of labour, the a perfect rigbt to strlke ; but if other men
rig-bts of free assembly, and the rights o! step in and say, 'we will perform, the work,'
Under these circumstances, 1 wbat right have we to stop them, and to
free men.
think this honourable bouse sbould hiesitate abuse aud bumiliate thein and threateu
before adopting the Bill. The bon. senator their wives aud childreu ? Wbat rigbt bave
-who bas promoted the Bill should Dlot press Itbey to subject their fellow-workmeu to
Hou. Mr. CLORAN.

JU-LY 29, 1903

735

abuse ? 1 thInk this Bill la most necessary. as far as I know the law, that we cannot
and I hope earnestly that, It wlll be carrled dissolve an assemblage of people under tbe
existlng law wlthout reading the Riot Act
by this House.
and forcing them to disperse to their reHon. Mr. CLORÂN-This Bill dues not spective homes. We can force people to
cover those points. It 18 agaInat assemblY. move on la the streets of a city under the
there la another situation
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-I have one word to Vagra-ncy Act, but
may
proposed by which we must reach. The -parties
say againat the amendment
move, but if they move ln a body, or column,
the bion. senator opposite. Its adoption
they cannot be reached as
would destroy entlrely the object of the or procession,
vagrants tbey cannot be forced to separBill.
ste, and we found durlng the lasit strikes
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-That is wliat we ln Montreal tihat It -was absolutely dangerous to public eafety, peace and order
waut to do.
to allow any klnd of assemblage, moving or
Hon. Mr. BEIQTJE-The hion. member, If
standing, in the streets of the city when a
lie wants to attain that object, should niove
strike was golng on. The hon. gentleman
the six moaths' holat, and not niove au
by this Bill Is trylng to cope wlth that situaamendment which would make tlie Bill
tion. We must clothe the aut.borlties with
an absurdity.
kind of
sufficent power to prevent any
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is that already.
assemblages, reunlons or processions when
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-When this Bill bas a strike Is on lu any part of Canada. If we
been voted upon and bas been supported do so, we remove any danger of violence
by a very large majorlty of this House. the whlch may resuit from such an assemblage.
bon. gentleman cau hardly expeet that the Let a body of mnen who would separately be
sime House wlll so axnend the Bill that It sensible men, gatlher together lu a time of
wlll be absurd on the face of ItL What la passion, or strike, whlch is nearly always
suggested by the amendmeut ? That the a time of passion and excitement, and then
Bill affects persons -who meet for au unlaw- we do not know what wihl take place on a
fui purpose. There surely would be no ne- mlnute's notice. In Montreal well-behaved
cessity for a BIIl1 to deal with people o! that motormeu sud conductors durlng the strike,
kind. The laws ou the statute-¶book would wheu lu sufficlent numbers, seelng a car
reach them, and effectually reach themn. movlng wltb men who were wlllng to work,
This Bill la lntended to reach people who as they were free to do, were exclted to
meet for the purpose lndlcated ln the Bill, acta of violence by the shout of -asingle indiwhlch la declared by the Bill to be an un- vidual. In a crowd- those men lost their heads
anod dragged the employees of the Street
lawful purpose.
Railway Company from the cars and desHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Does not troyed property. We want a law whlch will
the law already provide for this case ? 1 prevent any kind of assemblage on the
have read the Criminal Code o! 1892, and I streets of a clty durlng a strike. I amn not
do not think this Bill bringa anything Into prepared to say that this Bill will cope witb
it. WVe have messures of precaution against tliat situation. I do not know but anotber
strikes if they are dangerous. They imme- mode, and perbapa a better one, could be
diately faîl under the criminal 1mw as the adopted to clothe the mayor o! a munici1mw exista. Therefore, for ruy part, I shahl pality with sufficieut power to do effectively,
vote againat the Bill, not because I consider the moment a strike Is ou, what the reading
it bad., but because I consider It useless.
o! the Riot Act dloes when an Illegal asHon. Mr. DANDURÂND-The view o! the semblage has to be dlspersed. He sbould
hou. gentlemau (Hon. Mjr. DeBoucherville) have power to declare that from the moment
who deems the BillIsl uselesa, la uot correct. a strîke Is cn, no assemblage shall be
It la to cope wlth situations whlch are not allowed lu the streets of the munlcipality.
covered by the law. The hou, gentleman I have not given speclal attention to the
has declared that thîs Bill does not lncrease question, and I amn not prepared to say what
the power which society bas to meet dis- la the best remedy.; I arn quite sure that
turbances durin.- strikes. I may tell him, this Bill cannot pass this session, and the

SENATE
discussion whicb bas taken place 'in this
Chanaber will go a long way towards reacbing a proper solution of the difficuity. 1 do
flot tbink that the hon, gentleman (Hon. Mr.
Cloran) should persist wlth bis ameudment,
because It would destroy tbe wbole barmony
of the Bill and inake it ridiculous legislation. He sbould move the six montbs' hoist
if be wants to defeat tbe Bill.

(In, the Committee.)
On clause 1,
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-These amenciments to tbe Steambont Inspection Act are

prlncipally to provide for the removal of the
dues and fees now lmposed under the
steamboat Inspection law on tbe Inspection
of steamboats. It also provides that the
Governor In Councîl may re-establlsh these
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-With the permission fees in the future without waiting for the
of this bonourable Hou.se, I should like to sanction of parliament lu tbe event of it
convey thîs information to bon. members being found necessary to do so. As the
who bave not probably been aware of the House wiil understand, the goverrument
fact. I find that in France, as far back some montb or two ago announced its
as 1864, they adopted legislation bearing on policy of removing the charge of Inspection
the sanie subject matter. I bave translated of stenniboats as n concession to the shlptbe French provision, and it is as follows :
ping Interests of the country. This Bill is
Any person who, with Intent to force a rise
or a faîl in wo.ges. or to impair -the free exercise of lndustry or, labour, by force, violence

to provide and authorize thea to do so.

Hou. Mr. POWER-Tbe bon. gentleman
or frauduient devices. brings about and main- mlight explain wby lie tbought it necessary
tain, or attempte ýto bring about or mahistain
a concerted stoppage of work by labourers, or to exempt tbe vessels propelled by naphtba1.
a coneerted cessation (total or partial) of bis
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Tbey do flot
business operations by any employer of labour.
shall be guilty of an Indictable offence, and on carry passengers for hire. That is the reason.
conviction thereof. shaîl be liable rtc a fine of
The clause was adopted.
not more than fIve thousand francs or n1ot, les
than eixteen francs and to imprisonment for
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, froni the commIttee, renot more (than six montbs. and not leas than
six deys, or the both together.
ported the Bil1 without amendmnent.
I reéfer to tbls legislation to show that this
The Bill was tben read the tbird time, and
Bill is not dealing with any extraordlnary passed.
legislation. In fact, we can find it lu other
BILLS INTRODUCED.

countries, and lu conservative countries, who
Bill (160) An Act to incorporate the
found twenty years ago It was necessary to
adopt legislation of this kind to protect the Stewart River Developnient Company,free exercise of labour. In otber words, (Hon. Mr. Young.)
they found It necessary to protect those 'who
Bill (212) An Act to incorporate tbe Allibave no desire to form part of a union or ance Bank of Canada.-(Hlon. Mr. Doniville.)
to take part ln strikes, and wbo are equally
The Senate adjourned.
entitled to tbe free exercise of their rights
as tbose wbo believe in taking part lu such
strikes.

THE SENATE.

The amndment was declared lost.
THIRD READING.
Bil1 (M) An Act for the relief of Harford
Ashley.-(Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)
STEA'MBOAT INSPECTION ACT AM-

ENDMENT BILL.

Ottawa, 7inrsday, July 30, 1903.

The SPEAKER took the Cbair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers anal routine proceedings.

STEAMBOAT

INSPECTION

ACT

FUR-

THER AMENDMENT BILL.

FIRST READING.
A message was received from tbe House
The House resolved itself into a Cona- of Commons with Bill (W) An Act further
1898.
mittee 0f the Whole on Bill (225) An Act to to amend the Steamboat Inspection Act,
The Bill was read the first time.
amend the Steamboat Inspection Act, 1898.
THIRD READING.

Hon. Mn. DANDURAND.

JULY 30, 1903

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
rend the second time to-morrow. He said:
1 recelved an amendment to the Bill passeil
yesterday, the Steamboat Inspection Act,
and 1 overlooked It, and therefore, will
have to Introduce a separate Bill, and tbey
can be united on the revision of the statutes.
It was an amendment to the Steamboat
Inspection Act, but flot germane ImmediateIy to the amendments we introduced yesterday. The provision was allowing ohl to be
used on certain conditions for fuel. It now
appears ln other countries they are beginning to, use ohl instead of coal, and this Is
to give an opportunity of using oil of a very
higli degree of gravity.

737

18. Notwithstanding anything ln the said Act
contained. ln the case of any application .to the
commissioner made within the time prescribed

by the said Act or by this Act, and pending on
the ninth day of April, one thousand nine hundred and three, or of any such application thereafter made wlthin such time, for an extension
of time ta construct or manufacture a patented
Invention or to Import It Into Canada, the cornmissioner may, until the first day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and four, grant such
extension after the time so prescribed, and any
extension so granted shall have the same effect
as If granted within the time s0 prescribed.

It Is proposed to add the foliowing:
*Ând no patent respecting which such applica-

tion has been, or is hereafter made according ta
the provisions of thîs section shall be deemed
at any time to have expired by reason of the
failure of the patentee to construct or manufacture the patented Invention before said lastly
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That mentioned date.
does not ln any way interfere, I suppose,
The immediate object and effect to lie
with the propelling of small yachts by nccomplished by this clause Is this : Up to
kerosene and naphtha ?
the Mt April hast, under a practice whicli
has preva lied for thirty years ln the departHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
ment, the commissioner or assistant coniThe motion was agreed to.
missioner had been ln the habit of extending the tume for the manufacture on applicaPATENT ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
No very particuhar evidence was
tion.
IN COMMITTEE.
given, and it was granted more as a matThe Ho use resumed ln Committee of the ter of course. One or two, or sometimes
Whole, consideration of Bill (184) An Act to three, applications werè granted. On the
amend the Patent Act.
9tb April, the point came up ln whichi opposition was made to the extension, and
(Ia the Oommittee.)
the Department of Justice hield that Vie
powers of the commissioners had been exOn clause 2,
that this additionah time was conhon. Secretary ceeded,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The
trary to the ternis of the Act. IL was al
of State gave notice that hie 'would move
,decîsion tit of course was at variance with
that clause 16 be added to the Bill, which
the practice that had prevailed for over a1
would read as follows quarter of a century. At that time a very
Nothing in tb4s Act contained shail affect any large number of applications were pendîng
right acquired by a party through &fly of HUs
Majesty's courts by the final .judgment renderefi for extension of tume, and If that decision
therein.
were followed It would cut out ail of theni.
This would satisfy the objection whlch I There were between two and tbree hîunnmade yesterday. But it wouid be neces- dred applications, and hon, gentlemen wilI
say to a:dd the followiug words in clause 2 note that ln the preceding clauses of the
after the word 'issue' in the tbird Iln, para- Bill, if the party desired to. obtain anl extension of tume to manufacture, hoe had to
graph 2 :
ipply three months before the tume exas provided for ln section 16 hereof.
Except
pired. and silice the 9th April It became
with this
That would conneet clause 16
necessary at ail events for the parties to
paragraph.
furnishi good and sufficient reasons by elther
The motion was agreed to.
statutory declarations, or declarations 0o1
.patb as to the tume involved, to eut theni
On clause 13,
out of the opportunity of havilig their cases
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-There was an amend- considered, and It is for the purpose of ennient proposed to clause 13. The clause in abliug the commissioner to deal with that
the Bill reads as follows
class of cases that the clause lias been in-

47

SENATE
troduced.
to date.

Tbey are limited in point of tirne of patents wbichbhave expired five or ten
1years ago rnay be.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I fancy I do flot quite
comprehend the fulIl effect of the ameudment
proposed, but It strlkes me that It would
have the effect of depriving persons wlio
came ln afterwards-and wbo liad a perfect rlght to corne in as the law stoodof the rights they bad acqulred, by
brlnging to life again rîghts which liad
explred before the passing of this Act.
It seerns to me we sbould flot inake this
measure uaduly retroactive. We are golng
far enougli as It Is, but we should ilot Interfere with riglits acquired under the law as it
now stands. The Impression I bave Is tbat
tbis amendment would bave that effect.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-No, a very mucb more
grievous wrong would be done If the amendment were flot adopted, because the department are responsible for this delay. Patent
solicîtors bave assumed ail over the country
that at least two extensions would be
granted wlthout furnishing any evidence.
It bas been tbe practice o! the departrnent
I suppose for over tbirty years, -andtherefore
a rnucb greater wrong would be inflicted
upon Innocent parties wbo would have been
rnisled by the practloe whicb lias prevailed
in the department.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 14,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbie last paragraph 0f
this clause rends as follows :
-and la case any persoa has contracted with
the owner of the patent for the rlght to manufacture, use or seli such invention ln Canada,
such contract shall be deerned to have remained
in fult force and effect notwithstanding that
the patent bas becorne vold as aforesaid.
This lias not been adopted yet. Tbe bon.
senator from M.Nontreal, and rny lion. friend
opposite bad a controversy on that subject.
0f course, iu legislation of this kind, where
we are correcting mistak-es in the past, it
becornes exceedingly embarrassing to avoid
bitting sornebody, and we sbould try to do
the least injury possible to the parties
afiected *by it, andi that bas been the object
in drafting this paragrapb.
Hon. Mi. BEIQIJE-I
sist, but again I draw
bion. Secretary of Staite
Bill lias the effect of
lion. Mr. SCOTT.

regret ta have to in-.
the attention of the
to tlic fact that this
reviving thousands

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ob1, no.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Ob, yes. There is no
lirnit f0 clause 10. A very large number
of patents are revived, and It seems to me
that the suggestion 1 made, that parties who
bave shaped their business dlfferently
sbould be protected, sbould be consldered.
I suggest tbat this last paragrapb be struck.
out. It l. not what Is Intended. «I understand that It Is lntended to cover the royalties whlch bave been paid by parties who
have been maaufacturing under a contract.
If a party bas gone on manufacturing and
paying on the assumption that the contract
was in force, then would be agreeable to favourlng legisiation wbich would prevent
tbiem repeating wbat tbey have pald. But
between this and reviving contracts wbicb
bave lapsed for a numiber of years, and to
the prejudice of and placlng those parties
ta tbe contract la a very false position, ls a
very Ionk way, and I would suggest to tbe
departmeut to consîder serionsly thîls clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In considering tlîîs Iaw,
one has to, remember this, that as early as
1872-probably enriier-the statute was s0
drawn as to allow the life-that is the interpretation given-of a CanSdian patent f0
be continued, notwitbstanding the foreiga
patent bias been allowed to drap. That
lias gone on now foir tbirty years. I tbink
it is unfortunate tliat i these tbirty years
cases sometirnes got to the Pris-y Council
because they overturu aIl tbe ititerpretations
placed on the law durîng thaï long interval.
Wben 1 first rend the judgment of the
Privy Council, I tliouglit tbey had miade n
niistake, and I tbink so still. Their judgment Is that if the life of a foreigu patent
expires, tbe life of the Caindian patent expires aiso. Any one wlio ý%vill
talze up the
statute of IS72 will foirni tbis conclusion,
that that section was only intended to apply wbere n pnrty ln n foreign country- toolz
a patent there first, and then carne f0 Canada and took out n patent prnctically subsidiary f0 the other. If a patent ia a forelga
country, where its borne is practically, were
allowed to expire, Rt seerned a reasonable
conclusion on the part of those drafting tbe
original Bill that the patent in Canaida
sbould also expire ;but it certainly ý%vas

JUIY 3o, 1903
not intended to apply to cases wbere a putent biad been taken out la Canada flrst, and
where the patentee protected bis rights ln
other countries, becanse a very common
practice la the past bas been for Canadia:n
patentees, who thought they bad sometblng
good, to takre out a patent abroad, and they
did not consider It necessary, -nor did the
department In runnlag it over five years,
that the forelga patent should be renewed.
The decision of the Privy Council upsets
that, but any olie reuding tbe Act
of 1872 will came to the conclusion tbat
that is the fair interpretation of what parlhument meant. 1 notice ln the revising
of the Act ln 1886, tbe 7tbi and Sth clauses
of the Act were put Into one by way of
sborteîîing theai, and the effect bas been tn
that way to warrant this decision of the
Privy Council. Ia vlew of the fact that
for thlrty years parties had been acting
under tbe assumption of facts that tlîe
Privy Council bas slinée reversed, one bas
to deal tenderly with the revival of those
rlgbts. It lesail very well to say a patent
bias expired hy a decision of the courts, but
If patentees and those interested had xio
idea tbe case was before the Privy Council,
or that tbe effeet of the decision was to
cancel their patent, we sbouldl protect tbe
parties and put tbem la the position they
supposed tbey were at the time the judgment was rendered iast year.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friend,
1 venture to say, scarcely apprehends the
point made by the bon, gentleman from de
Salaberry. I quite agree witb the objection
lie bas taken to tbe latter part of the clause,
but witb reference to tbe misapprehension
under wbicb tbe department has beeu
labouring on account of tbe misconstruction
they placed on the Act ln the past, it
seems to me to be Indefensible. The Act

at the earliest date at Which any foreign patent
for the same Invention expires.
Now, 1 can quite apprectate the point
made by my hon. friend from de Salaberry.
This Bill should certainly embody in a
clause some particular date back of whlch
it would be Impossible for parties to go.
Clause 14 ciearly revives every patent of the
ciass In question wbicb bas explred, notwithstanding the rigbts or obligations wbich have
been acquired In the interim. Surely my
hon. friend does flot contend that It Is necessary, or good policy, or Ia the public Interest
to go back and revive patents that have expired long ago, and revive contracts and
obligations that have been entered Into,
and which, siuce the expiration of the
patent have been regarded as lapsed,
but certainly, If this clause Is passcd lu lis
present form, It wIll mean a revival of
obligations wbicb, between the parties, have
long since been regarded as termlnated. I
would auggest to my hon. friend from de
Salaberry-because he probably bas some
purticular case In view-that the reviving
of a contract. by reason of the revival of
the patent, sbouidl be made permissive, s0
thut the party to wbom the patent was
assigned, may elect whetber be will treat
the contract as revived or not. On the
other band, If a patent ls revived, and the
assignee of the patent sbould flot take advantage of the revival 0f it, the revival
sbould certainly enure to the advantage of
the patentee. It seenis to me If a provision
embodying that idea were adopted, It would
meet the circumstances of -the case ; but
the party wbo bas entered into tbe contract
sbould certainly be at liberty to say whether he sbould treat the contract as re,Vived or not. If the bon, gentleman wiil
move an amendaient of that kind, I sbould
be happy to support ItL

of 1892 is certainiy as clear as a lunguage can
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave before me the
inake ItL that on the expiration of the foreign Act as originally drafted in 1872. Clause 6
patent the hife of tbe patent ceuses iii Can-

deals witb applications by parties ln CanHow the departinent put sucb a misada for patents in Canada. Clause 7 reads
construction on It Is Inexplicable.
this way :
Hlon. '.\r. SCOTT-Al the patent soliciBut an inventor shall not be entltled to a
ada.

tors ag-ree
partment.

with the 'decision of the de-

patent for his invention, If a patent therefor In
any other country shall have been in existence
in such country more than twelve months
Hlon. 3f.LOUGHEED-I will read the prior to the application for such patent in Canada ;and If during such tweive months any perlatter part of the clause:
son shahl have commenced te manufacture in
And under any circuinstances, If a foreigo Canada the article for whlch such patent is afpatent exists, the Canadian patent shall expire terwards obtained, such person shahl continue
47Î

'140

SETNATE

ta have the right to manufacture and seli such
article, notwlthstandlng such patent ;and under
sny cireumstances, where a fareign patent exlets, the Canadian patent shahl expire at the
earliest date at which any foreign patent for
the same Invention expires.
That was lntended to apply altogether ta
patents taken out la a foreiga country firat,
and If wlthln a year a! ter they took out a
patent In Canada, they allowed the firat
patent ta expire abroad, the Canadian patent also dropped. But ln the redraftlng of
the clause In the consalidated statutes of
1892, whoever drafted It: rau the twa clauses
Intel one, and did *not take lu the Idea.
Our Supreme Court did flot agree wlth the
declln of the Privy Councîl. They aaw
It applied ta the class of patenta I have referred to-that la, patenta taken out first lu
a fareiga country. When that patent was
allowed ta expire, naturally and falrly and
praperly the patent In Canada should expire, but it had no reference ta patenta
first applied for ln Canada and the Ceniadlan pateutee afterwards took out a patent
ln the other countries, becauae my hou.
frientl will notice the words lu the 7th section I have read are word for-ward the aame
as In the clause he read.
LOUGHEED-Btl n tbe Act
Hon. M.Nr.
of 1892 tbe marginal note deals with patenta
taken ont in foreigu countries.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was drawn by the
same parties who are uaw tryiug ta have
the Interpretation 1 have stated put on It.
The case went fram the Exchequer Court
ta the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court
judgment was lu favour o! maintalning
the Canadian patent. Then the parties appealed ta the Prlvy Council, and It was on
the appeal the judgment a! the Supreme
Court was reversed. Our court evidentiy
understoo'd the blstory of the Patent law in
Canada, and put the literpretation the
department biad put on the statute.
BEIQUE-I arn fully in accord
Hon. M-Nr.
witb the abject of tbe Bill so far as reviving these patents which bave lapsed througb
m*sinterpretatiani made by tbe patent office.
The su.gestion I have made does not bear
at ail on tlis. I approve also of reviving
contracts whenever it rnay be fair ta revive tbern. But mbat 1 draw attention ta
la tUs, that the effect of this Bill- wilI be
that a large number a! contracta wbicb exflon. Mr. SCOTT.

pired five or ten years ago will be revived
and parties will be nder the obligation of
coatInulug contracta wheu possibly they
bave very materially altered their position.
and when tbey cannot be made to fulfil these
contracte without, may be,' great damage
ta themselves. 1 must say 1 have no case
ln mmnd, but that seems to be the Inevitable
consequence of leglalation of this klud.
Because the Bill wIil have the effect of *reviving thousands and thousands of patents
which explred may be, five or teu or may
be more yeara ago. Therefore, it seems ta,
me that clause 14 ahould be amended. and
the best ameudment I am able to suggest
at the moment-and I do it la a very ditident way, because 1 bave not had sufficlent
time to fully consider the matter. which 1
thing la a very Important matter-tbe best
suggestion I caa make la to add to the
clause the followlng words :
Unless such person wha has ao contracted withi
such owner can show that ln the meantime by
reasan of, or on the faith of such Invalidity or
lapslng, he has materially altered his pasitiaL
with respect to such Invention, and that the
revival of suchi contract would cause him damage.
Hon. 'Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Would lt
not be sborter to say thls:?
This law wiil not revive the contract.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-But clause 14 la for
the purpose of revlving the contract andt
for my part, I apprave of reviving the contract for certain purposes. I think it is
fair tbat it shouid be revived for certain
purpases, but provided it can be revlved
witbout doing damage to the party who
bas shaped blis position differentiy on the
faith of the lapsiug o! the contract.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Wý%ouid it xiot
ineet tbe circumstances of the case very
iucbl better If you were to provide tbat
tbe contract should be revived on the eiection of the boider of the coutract.
SCOTT-Tbat would make It
Hon. M.Nr.
too broad altogether.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe difficuity 1
see with this proposition la, tbat it places
the onus upon the person holding the coutract to show that bis position bas beebi
changed, or that he may be damnificd.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat is tlhe only justification for it.

JUILY,30, 1903

U41

Hon. MINr.
BEIQUE-I draw the attention
of the lion, gentleman from Calgary to Vils:
that bis suggestion wouid flot uxeet a case
of this kind, where a party to a contract
bas suif ered no damage and bas bad the
benefit of the contract, bas rnanufactured
on a royalty.

time, and a party holding a confract may
not be disposed to go on and manufacture
tbe article. That party cannot say bie bas
been damnified lu the least, and yet the
contract is revived. Wbat would be the
position of parties under that condition of
facts ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It can only be defended
where a preindice exisa. My hon. friend
talks of thousands of patents being revived,
but this Judgrnent has oniy been recently
delivered, and very few beyond the patent
solicitors know anything about It, -and parties are working under contracts that have
existed, wboiiy obiivious of tbe fact they
might void theux. The cases, therefore,
prejudicially affected wIil be comparativeiy
few. If the hou, gentleman could word bis
amendrnt to require any one workiag under
a patent to show that ln consequence of bis
knowledge recently acquired hie bad given
Up tbat particular business, and gone into
something else, that would be a fair and
reasonabie proposition, but It does not seern
to me there would be a baîf dozen people
over the whole Dominion who would be
affected by it, because they have gone on
the assumption that the patents were ln
force. There are tbousands of persons holding patents who believe they are ln force
witbout this legisiation.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There ls no patent revIved that does not corne witbin the category of that judgment.*

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friend
overiooks this class of cases-not one that
would corne witbin the purview ef recent
litigation: but say a patent that bad expired through effluxion of Urne.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It does not affect thein
at ail.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Or say a patent
which had expired wlthout the party baving
made application for renewal.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It wiii not affect those
patents.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, because the
clause is of the widest possible character.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls iirnited to those
eut off by the recent decision of thq Privy
Council.
Hion. Mr. LOUGHEED-It affects expired
patents without Treference to the recent
decision. The ciass of cases to whicb I
refer is wlhere a patent expired say for sorne

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point out
to my hon. friend that the Bill does flot refer to a decision of the Privy Council.
Clause 14 ciearly revives aIl patents of the
class under consideration under the Patent
Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Patents that bave expired by efflux of tirne are not affected by
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-There rnay be
conditions under which a patent expired entireiy Irrespective of the point tbat bas been
raised before the Privy Councl.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Sucb a patent would
not be revived by this Bill.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-What would be
the position of a man wbo bas been paying
a royalty on an article that he bas -been
manufacturing under a patent ? The patent
lapsed ln the United States sorne four
years ago and was stili kept ln force lu tbis
country and the royalty bas been coilected.
Now, under the decision of the court bie la
not hiable for that royalty, but what wili
be bis position with regard to the use of
tbat patent for the last four years when It
was supposed that It was lu force ? Will
be bave a right to turn around and coilect
off the party the moaey that was paid under
the Impression that the patent was stili lu
existence ?
1Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. McM.NULLEN-That decision bas
deciared that the patent hias not been lu existence, that when It lapsed ln the UTnited
States it dropped out of existence here.
Notwithstanding th.at fact, hie bas collected
bis royalty Up to the present tirne. If you
revive the coatract by this Bill, it makes
valid the paymeats that the man bas received on that article for four years.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

SENATE

742

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-If you do not revive tbe patent the question arises, bas the
man who paid over the rnoney on the representation that that patent was in force
the rigbt to recover the money back that
be bas paid on tbe royalty durlng the time
It was flot In force ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He wouid unless we
pass this Act. It would upset ail those
transactions.

go to the law cierk before It is prînted in
the Act. It is not in the regular form.
There Js a preamble 'whereas the models,
and so on.' And then, 'Be it enacted,' &c.
That forrn bas not been used for a great
niany years. I suppose the iaw clerk wil
see tbat it is put la proper shape.
The clause was adopted.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS, froîn the c ommlttee,
reported the Bill wltb arnendments, whicb,
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Wli ail due re- were concurred In.
spect to, the hon. Secretary of State, wbo
BILL INTRODUCED.
no doubt Is anxious to do bis best for ail
parties, I think we are treading on dangerBill (189) An Act to incorporate the Canous grou-nd If we are golng to, revive ail
adian Telephone and Telegraph Company.patents and place parties wbo bad patents
In the past la a position *to enforce con- (Hon. Mr. McMulien).
tracts wblch had explred owing to the
The Senate adjourned.
tact of patents having expired la a foreign
country. The trend of legisIation shouid
flot be for the purpose of building up and
THE SENATE.
perpetuating the rigbts of Individuals In
patents. We bave bad too rnany of tbern.
(Jttaiwa, Friday, July 31, 1903.
I know business Is sbackled In many Unes
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Threcbecause tbe people keep patents In force
by renewal. We do not blaine tbem. 1 do o'clock.
flot tbink, where tbey bappen to drop out
Prayers and routine proceedings.
of existence by lapse of tUme, or sonîetbing
of this kind, that we sbould renew the
THIRD READINGS.
whole of tbern and give parties tbe opBill (127) An Act to confer on the Coinportunity of turning round and extortlng
miissioner of Patents certain powers for the
from people that use tbem the penalties
relief of George 'M. Depew.-Hon. Mr.
of covenants tbey bad entered Into wben
Landry.
tliey got them.
Bill (184) An Act to anmend the Pa tenît
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wbere tbey explred Act.-Hon. Mr. Scott.
by lapse of time, tbey are flot revived by
tliis Bill. This Bill endeavours to -put peoSECOND READINGS.
pie la the position that tbey belleved. tbey
Bil (211) An Act respecting the Nicola,
occupied six rnonths ago, or at the date
of that judgnient-to put-tbem back ln the Kamloops and Similkameen Coal and Railposition tbey beiieved tbey were In, both way Company.-Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B. C.
Bill (212) An Act to incorporate the Althe person who was paylng the royalty and
the one wvho was receiving IL We want liance Bank of Canada.-Hon. -MNr. Dointhem to be placed in thé position tbey be- ville.
Bill (160) An Act to Incorporate the Stewleved they were In-not to disturb the
art River Developrnent Conipany.-Hon. '-%r.
terms and conditions that existed.
Young.
The aniendment was agreed to, and the
clause, as amended, was adopted.
THE GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC RAILWAY PROJECT.
Oit clause 15,
NOTICE OF MOTION.
Hon. 1%r. SCOTT-Clause 15 is as to the
models.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.)-I beg to
lion. Mr. POWER. 1 arn not objecting to gîve notice of a motion which I would have
tiîis, but I suppose this arnendment wiii given notice of before niow had the govHon. Mr. McMULLEN.

JU-LY 31, 1903
ertiment railway policy -been brauglit dowil
ln the flouse at an earlier stage, and as
tbere ls no saylng whiere I may be myseif
*lien the loeuse mueets again, 1 wisb to put
on record my vlews on tbat subjeet. The
motion is as follows:
Resolveli, that this Hanse considers that contracts for importaat public works, involviag a
large expenditure of money, or extensive land
grants, should be placed before parliament for
consideration before ratification, and flot afterwards.
That the system naw la practice dloes aot
afford members of parliament sufficient tîme
for due consideration of public important questions.
That it la exceedingly reprebensible ta bave
the most weighty andi Important measures
placed before parliament in the last days of
the session.
That the Hanse does nat approve of the
Grand Trunk Pacifie Rallway proposition, as
presented by the Premier in the Hanse of
Commoas, and cansider its inceptian incomprebensible, and its fulfilment unnecessary
under existing transportation conditions.
That the entering upon a sche*me of such
gigantic a character as that proposed by the
government, without proper surveys and exploration of the route havlng been first made,
is reckless and unjustîfiable.
That the outlay for the wark.cantemplated Is
more than the country can prudently beur,
together with the annual additions ta borrowed
capital.
That the leasing of the contempiated railway
ta a campany is injudicious, and may be considered a free gift-that the proposed security
ta the country la Insufficient and iliusary, and
stanids ta Increase the public debt.
That la defauît lu lnterest and sinking f und
by the lessees, it is not desirabie, in the public
lnterest, ta attach ralling stock and aperate
the coatemplated railway, when constructed,
as a gaverament railway.
Th.at gavernments do not aperate railways
as ecanamicaliy and wlth the same necessary,
close business capacity as private coinpau les
do.
That the cauntry bas an abject lesson before
It ln the partial failure o! the Intercolonial
Railway.
That this Rause should abject lu the most
unqualified manner ta railways being constructed and operated by goveraments.
That the necessity does not exist for the
goverament proceeding wlth the proposed railway-tbat the contract, as submitted, is entirely an one aide and a sacrifice of public lnterests.
That tbe Canadian Pacific Railway, with Its
excellent transcontinental line, and brnch
lines into the wheat and cattie country o! the
west, tagether witb the rapid construction and
extensian af the Canada Northern Railway. will
la a reasonable time be la a sufficiently advanced position ,ta affard eur agriculturistas the
aecessary transportation facilities.
That the government-with the public treasury
at its command-sbauld consider, and hesitate
before doiag aay act whicb may lessen and
divide traffic on the Intercolanial and Canadian
Pacific railways, or cause competition.
That the ane ls entirely tbe creatian and an
asset of the cauntry.
Tbat the other bas been largely aided in ita
construction by public grants af money and

land, and is filiing a higbly essential place la
the commercial econamy a! the country, and its
usefuineas should flot be lessened.
That tbis House approves the action af the
late Minister of Railways. Mr. Blair, la witbdrawiag bis support from tbe proposed railway,
and la strengthening bis conviction la seaempbatic a manner by resigniag bis partfalia
ratber tban be an unwilling party ta an unwise
and injudiciaus praject.
That the prominence given by the Premier,
.on the introductian a! the National Transcantinental Railway Bill, ta an ali-Canadian route
is nat worthy a! much consideratian. Canada
does not build railways for military, but for
commercial purposes.
That their extension inta a foreiga country
la desirable in the interest of trade, andi bas
little ta fear from the suspension a! the international ' bonding system '-the advantages beIng as much ta one country as ta tbe other.
That tbe Ât.laatic parts, Halifax and St. John,
are now reacbed and available ta the railway
systema of the Intercolonial and Canadian Pacific Railway Company-anytbing sadd to tbe
contrary.
That Port Simpison being naw a Depot Harbaur la a mytb and is the same bleak shore
it was la 1896.
Tbat the surrender of seven years' intereat
an $18,OO,OO-equal to $3,780,OO-will be a
beavy charge on tbe public revenue, ls an unbusinesa-like propositian, and a bass ta tbe
cauntry which cannat be made up on the priaciple of ' free trade as it la la Englaad.'
DELÂYED RETURNS.
Hou. Mr. YOUNG-1 sbould lilke toa sk
tue lion. Secretary of State when tlîe ret*uriî
with reference ta tlie Grain Act and the
correspondence for wbich I moved soxne tîmie
ago wlll be brougbt down.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I shaîl nmake inqulry
and try ta get it down before ive return.
STE-AMBOAT IN SPECTION ACT F URTHER A'MEND'MENT BILL.
SE COND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hlon. '.%r. SCOTT moveci the second reading of Bll (WI) An Ac "tfurther ta amend the
Steamboat Inspection Act, 1898. Hie said:
Thlis Bill contains a praviso that was inteuded ta be added ta the Bll passed ln this

Elouse recently, but was overlaoked.
rends ns follows:

Lt

Provideli. hewever, that ln any case where
ail la used as fuel far the produict.ion of motive
ower on steamboats. ail which will bear aL
test of! twa hundred degrees Fahrenheit witbout taking lire may be accepted If properly
stared witb safe and suitable provisions as ta
safety and ta guard aga-inst fire and explosion
from such cil ta the satisfaction af the steamnbaat iqispector.
The motion was agreed ta. and the Bill
wvas rend the second time, at length at the
Table.

SENATE

744

N.- doubt one objeet 0on the part of those
Hon Mr. >SCOTT moved that mile 41 be
suspended in so far as it relates to this asking for the passage of these three Bis,
Bill, and that the Bill be read the third time ln coming to thîs bouse, was to evade the
application of that law la Ontario, because
presently.
The motion was agrEed to, and the Bill ln coming bere for legisiation, they would
corne under Dominion, rather than under
was read the third time, and passed.
provincial jurisdicton. I have no doubt,
The Senate adjourned.
therefore, that that was their object ln comlng here. The Lord's Day- Act bas been
disallowed, stili the feeling ln the province
THE SENÂTE.
of Ontario ls just as strong to-day ln favour
of the Lord's Day Act as It ever was. That
Ottaiva, Wedne8day, Aiigust 12, 1903.
feeling Is unquestionably very strong, I
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three have no doubt so strong, that an effort
would have been made to have a Bill lao'clock.
trcduced during the present session to tah-e
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the place of the law that bas been disNIAGARA, QUEENSTON AND ST. CATallowed as a provincial Act, but for tbe fact
that the session is so far tbrough that at
ARINES RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
this late hour, It would be perbaps unwise
.THIRD READING.
to press the consideration of sncb a measure;
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN moved the third but they do lntend, I feel satisfied, at a
readlng of Bill (154) An Act to incorporate future session to ask parliameut to pass a
the Niagara, Queenston and St. Catharines Iaw somewhat along the line of the Ontario
Act, and ln doing that we simply want to
Railway Company.
give the promoters of these three Bis and
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Witbi regard to
those that are belng granted the power to
this Bill and the two followlng Bis
stand- operate lunes under them, to understand that
ing on the Order paper for third reading tothey must not seek to evade the application
dey, 1 wish to, offer a tew remarks. I have
of any future Lord's Day Act because they
no intention of interfering with the third
were granted charter powers, before such an
reading of the Bill, but I desire to draw the
Act Is put on the statute-book of this Domattention of the House to the fact that when
inion. 0f course 1 might move to have
those Bis were before the comnîittee, perthese Bis referred back to give these gensons who lntended to oppose them were
tlemen an opportunity to presenit their retaken by surprise. The bouse wiil rememsolutions, but, under ny advice. as well as
ber-at least those that are members of that
the advice of others. they have declded xiot
committee-that n sub,-coinmlttee was apto take that step, but to allow the Bill to
pointed to consider bow far, in vlew of the
pass with the notice that the people îvho
2onstitutional provisions, it was prudent and
are getting these powers must not seek ta
proper on the part of this bouse to give
evade the application of any future lnîv
Eýffect to legisiation of the kind contalned
because they were granted those powers
in these three Bis. Those who were opbefore any Dominion Lord's Day Act was
posing the Bis decided that tbey would
passed. We know perfectly well that legislefer any further action regarding them unlation for the purpose of preserving rest
'il such time as the sub-committee had reon the seventh day i s no new thing. Legisorted. After waiting for some days, the
lation along that uine was introduced iii
,,eneral committee, by a resolution, decided England many years ago-also la Scotland,
.o proceed with the Bill without waiting
and in a great many European countries
'or the sub-committee's report. I might say
:bat iii the interval a decision of the Privy from time to time. We kanow that ln the
Douncil regarding the Lord's Day Act of. relga of Richard III. a very drastic ]aw was
)ntario bas been given adverse to that Act, passed wbich imposed a fine of som-ething
71rtually declaring, if I remnember rightly, like thirty shillings on a mnîn if lie per-bat it was ultra vires of the province of formed manual labour on the Sabbath day.
)ntario to pass such a law.
We know also if lie could show it was not
Hion.

Mr. SCOTT.

AUGUST 12, 1903
of his own choice hie perforrned that labour,
but that lie was forced under the order of
bis miaster to do It, then the fine fell on lits
master, and It was sixty shillings instead of
thlrty shillings, and the employee was free.
In the relgn of Queen Elizabeth, laws were
enacted for the purpose of securing to, the
labourers the Sabbath day, and even went
so far as to require a man to, attend a place
of public worship. We do flot ask for a
law- of that kind now. I do flot thlnk
there Is any Intention of forcing people
to go to church or to, attend any religions
service, but we bave a right to enforce the
provision that the seventh day shaîl be a
day of rest. If a manî chooses to remain at
bis home, or do anything else that bis conscience permits him to do, save and except
labour, we do flot Interfere with hlm. But
I say we slîouid ereserve the day of reat to
ait men iii the interest of our country.
Two of these railway Uines border on the
United States, and If there Is any one thing
In which the United States to-day ta going on
the down grade it is in the open desecration
of the Lord's Day. Any person who bas
travelled that country, as 1 have, nmust have
noticed that If they keep on'la the present
course for twenty-five years more, the Sabbathî day in.the United States wili be a
mockery. We do not want that lu our counitry. We dlaim to be a Christian professIng
people, a people that are not going to permit
ourselves to, he led away by the bnd example of the cities on the other side of the
border. We know that If these two electrle
Ilnes are to, be mun on the Sabbath day,
they will be very largely patroaized by
people from the United States. 1 do' fot
think we should encourage an open desecraton of the Sabbath In that way. I amn personally opposed to It. I would do everything
In iny -powver to prevent it, because 1 thlnk
we shouid have one day in seven, whlch
the labourer and the artisan should be
forced by law to keep as a day of rest.
That is ail we want to do. I hope that at
the next session of this parliament, If we
live to see it. a Bill will be broughit lu which
will, to some extent, guard the seventh day
as a day of rest and I want to emphasize the
point that the promoters of these three Bills,
one of which stands In my naine, must not
expect because those powers. are being
granted before the passage of a Lord's Day
Act that they will not be subject to is

745

provisions. I hope next year, when a Bill
to preserve the seventh day as a day of
rest ls introduced lt will receive the hearty
support of this House that, ln my humble
opinion, it should receive ln the interests
of our country.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I should not
like that the expressions of opinion of the
bon. gentleman should go out through the
Dominion as belng the unanîmous voice of
th-is body. 1 «rn convinced that there la a
majority hli this country that does mot see
exactly eye to eye with the bon. gentleman
on the question on wblcb hie bas spoken
just now. Hle closed hîs remarks by saylng
lie thought the labouriag men should be
forced to keep the seventh day as a day of
rest. I would dissent from the way the
lion. gentleman bas expressed that desire,
The question of runuing electrie railways
on Sunday Is one that would meet, Iu large
cities, and la the neighbourhood of large
cities. with the approval of a vast majority.
People want the day of test, but somnetimes
those who are in a crowded part of tbe city
ivant to, reach a place where they can enjoy
the day better and they do so by using the
tramway. Others from a distance would
like to, attend religions ceremonies and
tbey eau ouly do so by the use of electric
tramways. It is a large question, and we
wili dlsduss it next session, but 1 simply
enter my dissent from the views which the
hion, gentleman expresses as being the views
of the majority of thîs Chamber and the
conntry.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time, and passed.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (171) Au Act to Incorporate the Chatham, Wallaceburg and Lake Erie Railway
Company.-(Hon. 'Mr. Laaderkin.)
Bill (85) An Act te, incorporate the Berlin, Waterloo, Wellesley and Lake Huron
Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. MeMullen.)
Bill (141) An Act respecting the Medicine
Hat aud Northern Alberta Raiiway Company.-(Hon. 'Mr. LanderkIn.)
Bill (157) An Act to Incorporate the Brandon, Saskatchewan and Hudson's Bay Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (102) An Act respecting the Red Deer
Valley Railway and Coal Company.-(FIon.
',%r. Watson.)

746

SENSATE

next. He said :This is a Bill incorporating a railway running from the city of
Vancouver to the Kootenay Pass into the
Territory of Alberta, thence ln a uorthORDER 0F THE DAY POSTPONED.
easterly direction to a point on the HudThe Order of tbe Day being called :
son's Bay about 100 miles north of Fort
Comxnittee of the Whole House on (Bill 226) Churchill. It is flot exactiy a transcontlnAn Act tu amnend the Act respecting Certificates
to Maters and Mate6 of Shipe.-(Hoa. Mr. entai railway, but it is very nenriy that.
Templiman).
Lt is a very large and important entes-prise.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved that the
The motion was agreed to.
Order of the Day be xlischarged and placed
on the Orders of the Day for Monday -next. CHICO UTIMI AND NORTH-EASTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
the bon, gentleman contemplate any change
FIRST READING.
ln this measure ? It Is a very small Bill,
A message was received from the House
provlding for the extension, as 1 understaad
It, of the privileges granted to certain of Commons witb Bill (168) Au Act to lInmasters and mates who bave mot the full corporate the Chicoutimi and North-eastqualification to nav-igate the ocean.
Is il ern Rallway Company.
Tbe Bill wàs read the first tinie.
proposed to extend or restrlct Jts provisions?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved that tbe
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The Bill provides for the establishment of a new order Bill be rend the second tume on Friday
next.
of masters and mates.
Hon. Sir AC NZEBOWELL-Could
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It defines also the terrltory over whlcb tbey may the bon. gentleman Inforni the Huse where
the road begins and wbere It ends ?,
trade.
Hon. Mr. TEM,ýPLEMNAN-It defines the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The custom ibas
destination of the bome trading voyages, been to gîve that explanation when moving
but 1 postpone It at the request of an bion. the second readinig. The hon. promoter of
member of this House who takes some in- this Bill (Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier) will
tereast in the Bill. and bas an arneadment to be bere then and will be able to do so.
propose.
I arn not aware of the nature of
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)that amendment, but 1 understand It wihl
This Bill provides for a railway wbich bemeet the views of the Department of Mar- gins
at Chicoutimi and runs ta the Bay
ine and Fisheries.
of Seven Islands, on the nortb shore.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. 1%r. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-It is entlrely In tbe province of Quebec. It is pureSECOND READING.
Bill (189), Anl Act to incorporate tbe Can- ly a local Bill.
ada Telephone and Telegraph Company.The motion was agreed to.
(Hon. Mr. McMulle-n.)
PUBLIC AND REFORMATORY PRISONS
SOUTHERN CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILACT AMENDMENT BILL.
WAY COMPANY INCORPORATION.
FIRST READING.
BILL.
A message was recelved froni the House
FIRST READING.
of Couinons witb Bill (221) An Act further
A message was received froni the Aouse
to amend the Act respecting Public and
)f Comnmons with Bill (152) An Act to ln- Reformatory
Prisons.
corporate tbe Southern Central Pacific RailThe Bill was rend the first time.
way Company.
CERTIFICATES TO MASTERS AND
MATES 0F SHIPS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This Bill bias only one
The Bill was reid tbe firat tume.
clause. Its object la to provideHou. Mr. TEM-NPLEMIAN moved that the
Wherever the words 'Ontario
Bill be read the second tume on Friday for Boys' o ccur in chapter 183 of Reforrnatory
the Revised
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND.

AUGUST 12, 1903
Statutes. intituled en Act respecting Public or
Reformatory Prisons, or ln any other statute
of Canada. they shall be constirued to apply ta
and inelude ail certifiedt lndustrial achools ln
the province of Ontario. either or any of which
shall be and shall be cansides'ed to, be the Onpurpoees so
tario refar'matory for boys for &IH
far as such statute is applicable, as aoon as the
Lieutenant Governor in Cauncil of the province
of On'tario mosîes an order that no baye are ta
be sentenced ta the naid reformatory.

It also provides for the transfer of boys
now ln the Ontario reformatory to a certifled lndustrial sehool.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (158) An Act to incorporate the St.
Chrysostome Rallway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Younîg.)
Bill (231) An Act to confer ln the Commissioner of Patents certain powers for the
relief af tbe Keller Heater Company of Canada.-<Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)

î47

evade the rai economic question by giviug
a -bounty ta which every taxpayer lu the
country lbas ta cantribute rather than impose
a duty upon foreigu binder twine when it
comes into this country. The fact of the
United States having admitted the taw material into their country free and placing
an export duty an It If it ls sent ta any other
part of the world, places the Canadian manufacturer at a disadvantage, and ln arder ta
avoid that, the government have adopted
this principle of bounties, insteadaof securlng
the market of this country to aur own peopie by the Imposition of a duty sufficlently
higli to protect tbem. We knaw that lu the
past the manufacture of binder twine ln
the penitentiary under the present government bas ta a very g-rat extent been a failure, aud a failure for this reason : That
instead of seliiug the twine ta thase who use
it Iu the different parts of the Dominion
at the actuni cast price, tbey have entared,
If not directly at least indhrectiy, Inta a

Bill (104) An Act to Incorporate the Brockville. Westport and 'Nortb-westeru Raihway combinatian witb the manufacturers and
bave not sald it, as it was intended that
Company.-(Han. Mr. Frost.)
binder twlne maaufncturad lu tbe prisons

BINDER TWINE BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message was received from the House
of Gommons wlth Bill <233) An Act respectIng the manufacture of Binder TwIne ln
Canada.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hon. gentlemen are
aware that the Philippine Islands are now
under the soverehguty af the United States,
and cangress bas enacted a law that wbile
the manilla fibre which cornes from the
Philippine Islands Is free coming ta the
United States, there ls an export duty an It
If it goes ta any other country for the purpose of manufacture. This Bill is to place
Canadian manufacturers of binder twine on
precisely the same plane they were on before that was passed, as it provides for a
baunty equal ta the export duty on manilla
which. Is tbree-eigbtbs of one cent a pouud
on the manihia fibre used lu the manufacture
af binder twine. I mave that the Bill be
read the second time on Friday.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
systemn adopted by the goverument is apparently ta lzeep ais iier as pogsilile to their previous pinIciples of free trade, and sa they

should be sold ta the agriculturists at the
It bas been
actual cost of production.
held back rather than allow it ta came into,
competition with tbe product of factorlas
lu thie different parts of Canada, so that
lu fact the original Intention of the Sir John
Tbompsau's gavernment-because that was
the governmeut that lmposad the duty lu

the first place-bas realhy become a nuliity,
and by a combination-I canmot describe it
iu any ather way-with the manufacturers,

the farmers bave been deprived of the beneflts wbhch It was iutended shauld accrue to

tbem by the manufacture of binder twine
lu the penitentiaries for sale at cost price.
Now wa bave the princîple af protection
evadad by taxiug the whole community, to
nssist tue binder twine manufacturers, instead of taking a course wbicb would not
oniy ba lagitiate, but wouhd be la accordance wltb the economnic principles of trade
and commerce, of putting an adequate duty
upon fareigu binder twiue. That Is the
view I hold on this question, sud I believe
it ls the viaw beld by every one who beIlavas that protection is a nacassity Iu this
country, as It is iu ail uew countries. I bave
takaen this first opportunity ta express my
views upon tbe question. 1 am n ot goiug

SENATE
into ancient history Just now. If I did, I the twine they used, and so the government
So far as
eould eniigbten and amuse some of tbe or the day removed the tax.
younger members of tbe Senate witb a few the product of the penitentiaries le, conItem.
extracts from the utterances of my hon. and cerned, it became a very unimportant
sprung up ail
venerable friend wbo sits ln front of me The manufacture of twine
principles
(H1on. '.,r. Scott) In strong condemnation of over this country under free trade
of tbe binder
the principle underlying this Bill. I question and before long the condition
cbangwbetber be could find anytbing In tbe Eng- twIne Industry ail over this country
made money
language sufFiciently strong to condemn ed, and I arn giad to say tbey
Ilsb
even on free
this species o! robbery, as lt was called and paid handsome dividends
principhe was first Introduced, o! trade prInciples.
wben the
giving a bounty to steel and Iron manufacHon. Mr. McMILLAN-Some hundred per
turers. To a certain extent tbe prInciple cent.
may be correct, but under tbe present govHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe one at Brantford,
ernment It la becoming, to use some of the
I believe, paid at tbat high figure, but now
arguments my bon. friend used to empioy,
struck at us lu
almost a crime upon the community, taxing the United States, having
a way tbat ls wholiy unneigbbourly, we are
largely a ciass of tbe community wbo are not
people who put their
benefited ln any way by the introduction of, bound to stand by tbe
money Into tbese Industries, and say tbat
and the enforcing o! a principie of tbis
tban our
klud. I congratulate my bon. friend on bas'- tbey shall be ln no worse position
neighbours because tbey carry on manufacIng become an Indirect protectioniat, and I
We say to our manufacbope ere long, If he ts to remain ln the ture ln Canada.
not ailow a neigbbouring
be now bolds, tbat be and bis colieag- turers, 'we wiii
position
you to deatb, and we will
ues will go the full iengtb and adopt a cor- country to stab
give you a bounty equal to the export duty
rect princîple of protection to all our Industhe raw materiai.' If
tries, and not try to evade tbe principle that is imposed on
wiIt be the conseln wbicb this Bill and other we do flot do tbat, wbat
la tbe manner
quence ? Why, the concern ln the United
Bis coming before us do, at a coat to the
and our factories would
country of some millions of dollars per an- States la a combine
bceclosed up, and they would put the figures
num. If lie wiii take my advice-and 1 amn
for twlne anywbere tbey pleased.
not cbarging anytbing for lt-I hope be and
bis coileagues wiil take another advance
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
from their oid views, and become, wbat tbey bear.
sbouid be, tbe reai protectors of the IndusHon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls simply to proteet
tries of this country.
the farmers of this country tbat the Bill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman now before us bas been lntroduced.
fails to recognize a prînciffie that Is well
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-TbC
understood by ail statesmen, that tbe conbon. gentleman, witb bis usual tactics, bas
ditions of times change materiaily.
It la true tbe Brantevaded the question.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does ford binder twine factory, wbich was estabthe -bon. gentleman think the conditions o! Iisbed by farmers, took advantage of the
-the time or the men bave changed ?
w-ar in the Philippines to increase the price
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The conditions of the of tbe binder twine manufactured from
binder twine Industry bave become absolute- the raw materiai that had been Imported
ly changed in the hast ten years owing to the into the country before the war, and before
development o! the growth of wbeat la the tbe price raised so enorinously. They took
Nortb-west and of corn and grain ahi over advantage of tbe increased price of raw
We ahi know very well material and cbarged the full prioe ta the
this Dominion.
of the change of govern- farmers, as they wouid have done bad tbey
that at the time
ment there was a ciamour ail over thîs paid the increased price for raw material
That accounted for the large
country from the farming communitY that that year.
it was monstrous they should be taxed for dividends they were enabied to declare. It
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

AUGUST 12, 1903
was flot on account of any free trade prInciple wblcb existed ln this country.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There Is no doubt
wbat the bon. leader of the opposition bas
stated Is correct; the Brantford factory was
fortunate enough to have a large quantlty
of raw materlal on hand, and charged ail
tbey could for their product, but It must be
admitted that the system. adopted by theP
governiment of granting a bounty equal
to the amount of the export duty charged
on the raw material exported front Manilla
placed the Canadian manufacturer exactly
on tbe same footing as the United States
manufacturer.
Hon. Sir MACJiENZIE BOWELL-Who
sald it did not?

749

RETIREMENT 0F JUDGES BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message was received from the House
of Commons wlth Bill (243) An Act to
amend the Supreme and Exchequer Court
Act and the Act respectlng Judges o! Provincial Courts.
The Bill waa read the firat time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move that the Bill
be read the second tinie ou Tuesday next.
It bas been recognlzed for very many years
that there was a weakness lu our Judiclal
systeni, due to the fact that judges declined
to retire after tbey bad arrived at an age
wben their usefuluess was practically gone.
There Nvas no way to force a retirement. A
judge could only be removed for cause, and
of course very rarely occasions arose wben
the sentiment o! this country would induce
parîlament to take tbnt action, and for some
years It bas been lni contemplation tiat
wvhen judges nrrived at a certain age and
after tbey biad served on the bench for a
given number of years, tbey should be retlred on tlieir full allownnce. This Bill
makes provision for that. A judge wbo lias
rencbed the age of seventy-five years-tbnt la
a judge of a bigler court-and continued ln
office as judge of one or more courts for a
period o! twenty yenrs, or bas attained the
age o! seventy years and coutinued in office
as a judge for twenty-five years, shahl be
continued lu office at the sahary thnt lie
theil enjoys. Tliere is a provision also that
if nny judge of the Supreme Court of Canada, or Superior Court of any o! the provinces o! Canada. reshgned, or bas beretofore resigned and accepted the office of
Lieutenant Governor, hie may be retired on
a two-thirds alhowance ; that every county
court judge wbo attaîns eighty years shail
be compulsorilî retired. and- any judge
w-ho lias so retired and inving nttaiued
seveiity-five years. resigncid fils office and
wlio lu eilier case lias contiaued ln office
for twenty-five years or upwards, may be
grnnted. an anuity equal to bis salary.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tben the hon. gentlemain must admit that this Is fair to the
manufacturera, and It la much more fair
to the consumer than If we put a duty on
the binder twine, because then we would
flot have the benefit o! competîtion between
the United States and Canadian manufacWhlle I favour the measure now
turers.
before the House, I would decldedly object to
carrying out the argument advanced by the
leader o! the opposition-placing an lInport
The hon, gentleduty on binder twine.
man must recollect that at one tinie the
farmers of Canada were compelled to pay
three cents a pound for binder twine manufactured in the United States.
Af ter the
establishment was started ln Canada by
Mr. 1'tairs,o0f Halifax, and others, tbey
entered Into a combine with manufacturers
ln the United States, and the result was that
one year, 1 remember, the Cordage Company
were able to declare a dividend on the profits made by the Canadian brandi for manufacturing binder twine. In the United States
tbev bad no dividend, but lu Canada tbey
were able to pay a dividend on the wbole
of the stock of the combine. 1 tbink it Is
riglit and proper for fie goverument to
corne to the relief o! nianufacturers and
place them on an equal footing wlth the
manufacturera lu the United States, who
compete iu our market. If tbey had placed
Hon. MINr.SULLIVAN-Wý,as there any
a duty of two or three cents a pound on
particular reason for bringing in thus
binder twine, as tbey did fornierly, the conBill 9 Because, if there w-as not, I do not
sumer m-ould have to pay the extra price.
see w-bat could 'have indiiced it. If tbe
fanit iad been found witli any of tbe judges,
The motion was agreed to.

SENATE
aiid if there bad. been any cases wberein
age had irnpaired their faculties aay way
that might expiain it, but of course we
know it Is flot age. It miust be some condition, because the hon, gentleman is aware
that there are men eiglity years of age who
are fuliy equal to ail that le required of
thern on the bench. 1 have not heard that
there was any reason for bringing in suchi
a measure and 1 should be iclined. to leave
matters as they are.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is a very delicate
matter giving the names of gentlemen who
are on the bench wbo probably will take
advantage of this or be forced to retire.
Perhaps at the next stage of the Bill 1 may
:Bay something further.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--AII 1
desire to say on the principle of the Bill
at the present tirne, is that there
mav be sorne arguments Iu its favour. Experlence has taught the country
that la some cases It was desirable to retire
judges for various reasons. Without mexitioniag Dxames, as my hon. frlend says, but
durlag Sir John Thompson's administration
a Bill was latroduced by which county
court judges who became lncapacltated froin
mental or physical reasons could beretired
on a pension atter an Investigation had taken
pla8ce by a Superior Court judge and then
retired. The prijiciple laid down in this Bill
Is certainly n departure from the well recognized. principle of the indepeadence of Judges, hy compelling them to be retired. What
1 object to most is the retirement of judges
zapon full pay. 1 caanot understand- why a
judge is entitied to be retired upon fuil
isalary nny more than any other servant who
is working for the goverameat or for the
public. Perhaps I arn somewhat singular
la that view. I rernember very well when
the Superannuation Act was first lntroduced
and supported very strongly by the present
Governor of Britisli Columbia, Sir Henri
41o]y, I took the grounid then, although .9
.voung parliamentarian, that people ia the
civil service sbould act in life as other
Ieop)le do, and Dot become pensioners upon
the cornmunity. 1 know that that idea is not
onir exploded, but the !dei of pensioniag
people eveji for old age, witbout baving
served the country, out of the public funds
is becornug-sbali 1 say prevalent tlirougbont the world ? New Zealand bas adopted
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN.

the principle, and I see Mr. Chamberlain, lu
bis proposition to Introduce a system of preferential trade between the outlying portions of the empire and England, proposes to
utilize the income derived from the imposidon1 of n duty upon articles that wouId be
inported lanto Great Britain from foreign
countries, whlle those from Canada and
other dependeacies should be free, for the

rpurpose

of old age pensions. That is an lim-

ýportant serius problern which 1 do not propose to discuss just Dow, but I merely rise
at this stage of the proceedings to say that.
for myseif ind-ividually, 1 am opposed to
any system which provides for the retirement of any servant, and judges among
others, upon a furIl pension, although 1 fuliy
recognize-and I may ns weii admit it fraakly-the difficuities that have arisen la the
past and rnay posslbly arise in the future

in making vacancles upon the bench in order
to put more vigorous men ia their places.
If men are to, be retired at seventy-five, my
hon. frlend and myseif wlill have to, take a
beck seat very soon. I am vain enough to
believe that nly hon. frîend, and sorne others
that i know, wlthout lncludiag inyseif-because that mlght be coneidered vanity-are
just as capable of traasacting business nhlot-

were at slxty-ilve.
ted to us as -wve
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Better able to.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
hon. f riend says better. 1 thiak for myseif,
from the experience and health which I enjoy, I arn just about as able to, fight the
battles of my country in the line I tbink they

should be taken as I ever was.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Hear, bear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
If my bon. friend is going to retire us upon
full pay we miglit go out to-rnorrow and take

advantage of the law. But unfortunately,
I am not a limb of the law. I was not
broughit up at the bar and consequently
no matter what our services may have been
in the past, if we do retire we will have
to retire upon the little that we bave saved
through our industr3- axxd econorny in the
past. Pe'rbaps that may seern a little facetions. Lt creates a srnile on the faces of
sorne of my bon. friends, but I arn sincere

AUGUSI 12, 1903
In the views that I hold upon the question.
If a judge's salary is flot sufficient I would
support an Increase of salary to tbe judges,
and also to mînisters of the Crown, and men
who occnpy positions wbere they have to
move In certain society that costs a great
deal of money, but I objeet ln toto to retire them on full psy. You will find plenty
of tbem wlll be glad to relieve themielves
of responsibilities the moment they ean retire on the sala.ry they receive, and wblcb
the law provides tbat tbey should bave. I
may bave more to say on tbe second reading of this Bill, or when it goes to committee.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-There is, per]iaps, a reason for this Bill wbich wlll flot
be given by the bon. promoter, but at ail
-events this ls one that I suggest: As a
.certain number of judges ln the country are
paid at starvation rates, It is a question
of bumanity tbat we should not see tbem
-suffer ln their old age. I will flot go into
the merits of tbe Bill now, because I tbink
it Is flot ln tbe shape it was wben first
brought before the House on resolutions.
It was amended, but oui Tuesday we wll
have an opportunIty to cee bow it stands.
The motion was agreed to.
SUPPLY BILL.
FIRST REAING.
A message was received from the Honse
of Commons with Bill (241) An Act for
granting to His Majesty certain sume of
nuoney for the public service' for tbe financial year ending 3Oth June, 1908.
The Bil was rend the firet tirne.
Hon. M~r. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
read the second time to-morrow. He said:
This le providing for rnoneys that should
have been paid iii the past year. It Is
supplemental estimates for the year 1902-3.
The tirne expires very early for the payment of these moneys-tbe 15tb Augutand 1 think. it 'le the intention that Hie
Excellency shall corne down to-morrow and
assent to the Bill. The aniount involved le
$2,977,000, of which $1,334,608 le capit al
accont. and $1,200,000 consolidated funde.

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-We passed $1,384,000
before, and with tliis Bill it wlll be nearly
$5,OOQ,000.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-CouMtbe hon. gentleman tell us how many items
tbere are in this supplementary that violate
tbe Civil Service Act ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think there
are any clerksbips, as far as 1 can sc.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman bas not studied it. He will
find three la the miscellaneous accounts.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, there are three
tîjere, following very .bad. examples set
many years ago.
H-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I must
admit tbat tbe government are very apt
pupils in anything that la wrong. In the
estimates that have corne before us, and
In tbis additional lEt which 1 bave here,
wbicb le very interesting, I find that ln the
firet estimates we had twenty-two Items in
which the Civil Service Act bad been violated ln that respect, In the second, seven, ln
the next, eight, and ln tbe present Bill, three
or four. That means ln tbis session alone,
with the suppiementary estimates for last
year ending SOth June, the last fiscal year
ami the present one, no lese than 39, and
hi a very short time before that a large
number of similar cases, making durlng the
hon. gentleman's tutelage 119 times, and ail
cases dlrectly violating tbe Act placed on
the statute-book to prevent such abuses.
I sbould flot say ail, because there are a
few exceptional cases whicb could not be
avoided, but here le a wholesale system.
Why not repeal the Civil Service Act ahtogether ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
place the whole power in the minister to
do what they like, and when they corne
to parliarnent for approval they can be
npproved or condernned, but thie example
we uafortunately set thern la a few Instances, they have flagrantly abused. During tihe whole tirne 1 was in the government
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What you could not find that number of cases,
'would be the total ernount for hast year and here you have ln a very few years over
119 cases of direct violation of the law.
ending- 3Oth June, with this addition ?

152

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Any one wlio lias given
any thouglit f0 this subject will recognize
wliere fhe dlfficuity ls. It la due to the
Clvil Service Act whlcli was drawn a good
many years ago. It Is absolutely Impossible to get reaily good men and pay tbem
under the Civil Service Acf. Where eau
you get a good clerk, even a fypewrlter
and short Iand writer for $400 a year?
The thlag Is absurd.
Hon. Sir LMACKENZIE BOWELL-There
la -no auch law.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Under the Civil Service
Act tliey enter at $400 wlien tliey are fIrst
put upon tlie l1sf.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
for every optionai subject ln addition f0
that fliere is $50 added, and If for special
services, the provisions of the Act are that
a clerk can put ln ut aniy price.
Hon. Mr. SCOIT-Those of us wlio have
had f0 do with the Act recognize the very
many difficuities, and time and again If lias
been amended by patcliwork, and 1 hope it
will be taken up sîortly. There Is an amendment f0 fix tlie salaries at a higlier rate.
You cannot get men thaf realiy ouglit f0
be la tl.e civii service for the figures pald
to-day. La the higher ciass w-e lose our
beaf men. Oniy a few monflis ago, a gentleman, 'Mr. Ross, was taken from flie Finance Departinent and givea six or seven
tliousnnd dollars a year la another position.
Take fIe men conaected witli the Geographical Survey, those men w-ho have
been drawlng $2,500 are obtalinig positions
eisewliere at $8,000 and $10,000.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjournied.

THE SENATE.
Ottaica, Timrsday, August 13, 1903.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.

Prayers aîîd routine proceediags.
THE LATE SENATOR

COCHRANE.

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Before the Orders of
the Day are calied, 1 desire to refer to
another of those inicidenits that have so
frequentîr happened in the last few months.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BO'WELL.

It will be observed that the flag on the tower
Is at half-mast to-day for an old and valued
member of this body, a gentleman who was
called to the Senate In the fifth year of the
existence of thîs Dominion.
The late S-enator Cochirane hiad been a member of this
body for more than thirty years. These gentlemen who have come into the Chamber ln
the Iast eight or ten years can scaroely be
raid to have known that gentleman as the
older members of this body knew bim in
the earlier years. Wlien he came into the
Chamber ln 1872 hie was a man full of vigour
and life and highly esteemed by inembers
of this body on botli aides of the House.
Thougi lie rarely spolie, lie always took a
very active part Ia committees.
The late
Senator Cochrane liad been very successful
ln business at a very early period, and on
retiring witli a fortune, flot like miost men,
anious to double It by lnvesting in stocks,
lie enlarged the homestead in which lie liad
been bora and brouglit up and made very
extensive Improvements, went Into the breedlng of animais, thiereby doing a very great
He added to the
service to this country.
fair naine of Canada iii those earlier years
by paying thie highest price for animais of
the short-horned breed tliat lad ever been
Those who have
paid in Great Brltaiîî.
given any thouglit or attention to this subject wii recollect the jeaiousy that existed
among the breeders ln Great Britain at see-

ing the most valuable animais carried awa9y
After we acquired the
by Canadians.
North-west, Senator Cochrane eniarged the
scope of the busi-ness by acquiring a ranch

ln the soutli-western part of Alberta, which
Unfortunateiy,
be stocked very heaviiy.
the selection was îiot a wise one. anid lie
sustained a very heavy loas in a storin tInt
occurred fliere, when nearly the whoie herd
was deatroyed. Nothiiig daijnted. lie selected another location, and wve are ail glad to
I-is pioneer
know that lie wqias successfui.
effort there lias been attended n-ith very
great benefit f0 the viiole of Canada, because it lias given evidence tiîat that section of Canada is admiirabiy adapted for
it was a sad thing to those
ranching.
whio have known the iate Senator Cochrane
in bis earlier days to know that last session, wlîen lie aftendçed hiere, be was iliost
totaiiy biind, lîaviing to be led iii and ont

by one of the pages.

It was vei'y sad and

AUGUST 13; 19020

752e

painful, and those of us wbo knew bim long for this sphere of action-; but .let us
intimately nlways felt a deep and lasting ail hope that when we pass aw-ay we May
regret that so enterprislng and bonourable leave as good a record .behind us as the hon.
a man should, at the latter end of bis days, senator wbom we and the -country have
108e bis sigbt and practically bis .Intereat just lest. That is the best wlsh 1 can make
I amn sure 'I voice the feeling for the future of Canada. 1 feel, and ail of
in life.
of -this House when 1 express sympatby us must feel deeply, the loss of so many of
witb the famlly of the late Senator Coch- our old friends, and as they pass away ail
rane.
we can do la to mourn for a short time.
soon forHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do In the marcb of events we are
gotten outside of our own family circles.
not know tbat It Is necessary for me to add
men may occupy In this
many words to those wbicb have already Whatever positions
worid, whether as statesmen, professional
fallen froni the hon. Secretary of State,
six or elght
Those wbo knew the late Senator Cochrane men or private lndividuals,
monthe after they have passed away, to the
wouid re-echo every word the Secretary of
outaide world at least, they are forgotten.
State bas said la reference to the late Senfeel It le a wise dIspensatlon of Providence
ator Cochrane. He was a man with a great I
If lit were flot s0, we
deal of personal magnetlsm, not only lài bis that JI: shouid be so.
should ibecome a nation of mourners, instead
private, but also ia bis public life. He disreaily are, active members of
played a .great deal of that energy and en- of what we
society.. I i-ery inuch regret the loss of
terprise whicb characterize so many of our
Senator Cochrane, and I deeply synipathize
Canadian people. His long services to bis
with bis famiy In their bereavement.
country were decldedly of the character
whicb bas been Intimiited 'by the hon, genFREEDOM 0F LABOUR BILL.
tleman who bas Just spoken. The late senTHIRD R.DADING.
ator was flot a -man of very many words,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved the third rendbut on the committees, more particularly
ing of Bill (S) An Act to amend the Criminal
tbe Hallway Committee, and the Committee
on Banking and Commerce, he took a great Code, 1892, respecting free labour.
deal of Interest, always briuging a matured
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I had occasion
mind to the consideration of the questions to state at one of the last sittings 'of this
wbîch came before those committees. I Uhamber, that sometbing should be done to
deeply regret, wltb my hon. friend opposite, i-ncrease the power whicb municipalities
that the Senate Is becoming depleted, If I ehould have In certain conti-ngencies to mainmight use that expression, of many of the taln peace and order. I have not given
old and ialued members of this body. When sufficient tume or tbought to the matter to
w-e refleet that witbin the last six or seven declare that the present Bill, presented by
years there have been no less than forty- the hon. member for de Saiaberry, would
aine or fifty changes, It really brings to our effectively meet the difficulties we have bad
minds nt once the force of tbe expression to contend with in the past. A Bill on other
'What shadows we are, and w-bat shadows lunes -would perbaps meet the difficulty and
We are ail rapidly passing cover the case as well, and perbaps more
we pursue.'
away, and if tbe next five or six years effectively, and I would suggest, in view of
should be as fatal to tbe members of this the discussion which bas taken place on this
Chamber tus the pat fixe years bave been, Bill, and the considerable comment which
the Senate will be managed and controlled it bias created in the -country, as the Bill
1)7 younger. and let us hope, by wiser cannot pass this session in the lower House,
hends ;but iii ail cases. let me add, wbo- even If carried through this Chamber, tbat
ever Inay queceed nts as members of thîs the hon, gentleman shouid stay bis band
body. 1 hope tliey Mnay be actuated by one and not insist on proceeding with it now,
feeling. and that is. as Canadians, te make in order that, in the time wbich wll interCanada wlint it should be--the brightest vene between now and next session, We
gem of the British Crown. These Rad events May have'occasion to bave a full expression
which are occurring se rnpidly and se often, of opinion from the country, and we mnay
makqle us think that miany of us are flot then act eltber upon those lunes or upon
48

SENATE

754

other lines. I know that the discussion upon
this Bill bas been considerable. I amn quite
sure that the passing of the Bill bere
would flot better its chances of passing the
other House this session, and I would suggest that It ibe withdrawn in order that we
rnay do, what we would be obliged In any
event to do, even If this Bill passed its third
reading here to-day-re-enact lt .'t the next
session.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I regret that the hon.
gentleman from de Lorirnier bas flot taken
the trouble to examine this Bill tboroughly,
because I amn satlsfied that bad be done s0
be would bave corne to the conclusion that,
as worded, it is In the best interests of ail
classes of the communlty. I arn quite sure
that this Bill has not been sufFiciently studled by the bon. gentleman to be properly
appreciated. I bave declared already that
my Intention in framing t'is Bill and in
urging lts passage in this House was flot to
Injure in any way the trades unions or the
labouring classes. On the contrary, I arn
satisfied that it is in the best lnterests of
the labour unions, and workingrnen in ge'ieral. Labour unions will succeed In obtaîning better conditions, only In so far as they
will heip other citizens to preserve peace and
order, and themselves abide by the iaw. The
strongest Influence is public opinion, and
when public opinion is in their favour they
are sure to succeed In commanding fair conditions from their employers; and there is
nothing wbich tends to alienate public opinion so much as going too far and disturbing
As I stated on a former occathe peace.
Blon, we had some experience In Montreal a
tew months ago-we have had three different experiences. We had two strikes of the
Ilontreal Street Railway Company's employees, and we had one strIke of the longshborernen. The city of Montreal during
those strikes was under ea reign of terror,
ind especially during the strike of the long;horemen it was proclaimed to the *world as
eing under the regime, so to speak, of mihitary law. It was announced to the world
-:hat the police authorities were incapable
)f maintaining order, and troops in large
iumbers had to be entrusted with the preiervatlon of peace. They had to, be put ln
ffharge of what is known to be the national
uarbour of thîs Dominion, and for over a
.veek they had to remain in charge of that
H0o2. Mr. DAT4DURAND.

barbour night and day, yet, notwithstanding
that, we had ail kinds of assauîts committed.
It seerns to, me that surely this should be
ample evidence that the law is flot sufficient.
Therefore, it becornes our duty to try to
amend the law in fairness to, aIl parties concerned, in order tbat a repetition of that
state of things may flot occur. It was wlth
that view that 1 prepared this Bill a!nd tliat
1 amn urglng It before the House. I would have
no objection to postponing the BiH if the hou.
member has tnt had sufficient tim.? to, study
Its provisions. Is he under the impressi-n
that he can suggest a measure wbicb will
better accompllsb the object in view ? If
so, I have no desire to press for the tflrd
reading of this Bill to-day. I shahl be very
glad to, give hlm, or to give any otber member of this House, an opportunity of suggesting anything better, but I must say that,
as far as 1 am, concerned, I bave given s0
much thought to the subjeet and the measure, that 1 have no Intention of dropping
the Bill. I know perfectly wel that it wil
flot become law during this session, but I
think that It wili have a good effeet if
passed by this House. It will not become
the law of the land, because the session ls
too far advanced and we cannot expeet that
the other House would have time to discus
it properly; but I desire to put upon the
records of this Hlouse the criminal law as it
stands now on our statute-book In contrast
with this law, In order that it may be better
appreciated by peoplIe wbo tbake the trouble
to consider the measure, and I will take
occasion to draw attention to, whal I consider to, be a defect in section 79 of the
crImInal law, to, which section this Bill Is
proposed as an arnendment.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-His Excellency is to
be here at four o'clock to, sanction certain
Bis, and as there is a Supply Bill on the
Order paper whlch we wisb to, have passed,
and assented to, perbaps the hon. gentleman
could postpone the discussion of this measure for the present. This Bill bas been a
long time before the Senate and several
amendments have been proposed and one or
two adopted. We have only the original
Bill in our hands, and perhaps we should
have this Bill reprinted.
The SPEAKER-Then this measure will
stand tili after His Excellency's departure.

AUGUST 13, 1903
SUPPLY BILL.
SE>COND AN'D TPHIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (241) An Act for granting te His
Majesty certain sumo of money for the publie service of the financial year ending the
3Oth June, 1903. He said :As 1 explained yesterday, this is a supplemental estimate for
the expendiure of the past yeai- terminating
on the 3Oth June .last. Lt is for a sum of
$2,977,053.73, which, in addition to the former
supplemental estimate, makes a total of about
$4700,000--a littie less than five million.
The Items are distributed over almost every
branch of the publie service, including railways and canais, capital account as well
as consôldated revenue account.

covered many years and many of them amnounted to a very considerable number of
liames, and It la only fair that the officiais
should lie paid, and the $6,000 Is ta pay
those accounts.
In regard ta the arcli, my hon. frlend wll
notice that the arcli was worth probably
ten timea more than lIt cost te Canada.
I
had not noticed the amount. I see lt ls
$33,000. 1 thouglit it cost more than $33,000.
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE
oh.

BOW7ELL-Oh,

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tlionght It cost $W0,000. We got off clieaply.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read a second and third time and
passed under a suspension of the rules.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
this Bill la read the second time, 1 have one
or two questions to ask. Can the hou. genBILLS ASSENTED TO.
tleman gîve me any Information as to how
lt happened that the expenses in connection
Tbe House was adjourned durlng pleaswith the Coronation Arch amounted to $33,- ure.
000 ? Would lie aise explain the meanlng
A!ter some time the Senate was resumed.
of this paragraph :
Hia Excellency the Riglit Honourable Sîr
For ail services under the Naturalization Act
of 1902. acrdIng ta the sclredule of rates es- Gilbert John Ehhiot, Eari of Minto and
tablished by Order in Council. 36,000.
Viscount Meigund cf*Melgund, Connty of
Hon: Mr. SCOTT-Answering the last Forfar, in the Peerage of the United EIngquestion first, my hon. frIend will remember dom, Baron Minto, of Minto, County o! Roxthat hast session we passed an Act directlng burgli, ln the Peerage of Great Britain,
that thereafter it should be the duty of the Baronet o! Nova Scotia, Knight Grand Cross
offlers having charge of the papers to make of the Most Dlstinguislied Order of Saintreturus to Ottawa of aIl persans naturaljzed Michael and Sainit *George, &c., &c., GoverIn Canada, In order that there miglit lie at nor General of Canada, belng seated on the
one central point the names of aIl naturalized Throne.
citizens.
The Honourable the Speaker commanded
Inquiries were constantly belng
made as to whetber so-and-so was a natural- the Gentleman Usher of tlie Black Rod ta
ized subJect, and it tended ta very great proceed ta the Hanse of Gommons and
dIfficulty, and In many parts o! tbe Domin- acquaint that House,--' t ls Hîs ExcellenIon returns -were kept very carelessly. Lt cy's pleasure they attend him immedJately
was, therefore, thouglit wiser that hereafter ln this House.
aIl the officers having charge of the naturaliWho being came with their Speaker,
zation service should make a return to -the
The Clerk of the Crawn in Chancery read
Secretary of State, to lie kept on file.
the Tities of the Bills ta lie passed severally,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It le as follow .
mot i'nchuded In the census returns ?
An Act ta Incorporate the Guelph and GeorHon. Mr. SCOTT-No, It lias nothing ta do gian Bay Railway Company.
An Act respecting the encouragement of the
with that. We made an appropriation when construction of Dry Docks.
we passed the Act, and the clerks of the
An Act for the relief of Florence Lee Gray.
peace and other officers remonstrated and
An Act respectlng the Kettle River Valley
said : 'We have been put ta a lot of ex- Rallway Company.
Au Act respectlng
pense in making the returu.' The return Railway Company. the Kingston and Pembroke
ffl

SENATE
An Act to amend the Patent Act.
An Act to incorporate the Marconi Wi reless
Telegraph Company o! Canada, Limited
To these Bis the Royal Assent was proAn Act to incorporate the Algonquin Lumber iounced by the Clerk of the Senate in the
and Power Company, Llmlted.
ollowing -words :
An Act to confer on the Commissioner o! E
Patents certain powers for the relief o! the
In His Majesty's name, His Excellency the
Woolf Valve Gear Company.
'overnor General doth assent to these Bis.
An Act to amend the Acta relating ta NaturaliThen the Honourable the Speaker of the
sation and Aliens.
the Manitoulin and North H1ouie of Commons addressed Hils ExcellenAn Act respectiflg
cy the Governor General, as follows
Shore Railway Company.
An Act respectlflg the Canada Central RailThe Commons of Canada have voted the cerway Companly.
tain supplies required to enable the GavernDominion Gas Im- ment to defray the expenses of the public serAnl Act to Incorporate the
provement Comnpany.
vilce. In the name of the Commons, I present
An Act respectlng the Western Alberta Rail- Lo Your Excellency the followlng Bill:
An Act for granting to His Majesty certain
way Company.
for the Public Service for the
An Act respectling the Midway and Vernon sums of moneyending 3Oth June, 1903. to which
rinancisi year
Rsllway Company.
Bill I huînbly request Your Excellency's assent.
An Act ta Incorporate the Columbia River
Vien, after the Clerk of the Crown lu
Limited.
Inprovement Company,
An Act ta incorporate the Missionary Society Choancery had read the Title of the Bill.
of the Church a! England in Canada.
The Clerk of the Sexiste, by His ExcellenAn Act respecting the Toronto, Hamilton and
ey's command, did thereupoii say :
Buffalo Rallway Company.
An Act to incorporate the Canadian Yukon
In His Majesty's name, His Excellency the
Western Rallway Company.
Governor General thanks His loyal subjects,
An Act respecting the Brandon and South- accept their benevolence, and assents to this
Bill.
western Railway Company.
An Act to amend the Post Office Act.
His ExceUency was pleased to retire, a'nd
An Act to amend the Act respectlng the Safe-The House of Comions %Vltbdrew.
ty o! Shlps.
An Act respectlng Government and Post Office
FREE>OM 0F LABOUR BILL.
Savings Banks.
An Act respecting Domainion Notes.
Hon. ',%r. BEIQUE-When the debate -was
An Act to amend the Act of 1899 respecting adjourned, 1 WaS a1bout to read sectifin -é9
the City of Ottawa.
now on
An Act ta amend the Steamboat Inspection of tue Crimninal Code as it stands
Act, M598.
the statute-book. It reads as follows:
An Act to Incorporate the Citizen's Bank of
An unlawful assembly is an assembly o! three
Canada.
or MOre persons who, with intent to carry out
An Act respecting the Rathbun Company.
any common puo-pose assemble in such a manlAn Act respecting the Century Lif e Insurance ner or so conduct theni.selves wil2n assemibied
as to causepersons i the neighboui<hood of such
Company.
fear. on reasonable grounds, that
An Act ta incorporate the Montreal-Longusuil a»semb~ly to so 'assernbled will disturb the peace
the persona
Bridge Company.
tuinultuouely. or wil'l by uuch assemibly needAn Act respecting Infectious or contaglous lessly and without any rea-sonzbIe occasion
Diseases affecting animais.
provoke other persans to, disturb the pence tuAn Act ta prohibit the importation, manufac- multuously.
2,. Persons lawfualY assembled m-ay became an
or sale of adulterated, praceas or renovture
ated butter, oleomargarine. butterine. or other unlawf c aseembly if they conduct. theméselvLs
substitute o! butter, and ta prevent the im- with a comm-on purpose In such a manner us
proper marking o! butter.
wouId bave made their assenibling uniawful If
they ha-d assembled in that manner for that purAn Act ta arnend the Fisheries Act.
pose,
An Act ta confer on the Commissioner o!
There is a third paragraph which I will
Patents certain powers for the relief o! George
M. Depew.
flot read, as it is flot' speclally connected,
An Act to incorporate the Niagara, Queenston witli the niattel' under discussion. Lt wll
and St. Catharines Railway Company.
is
An Act ta incorporate the Chatham, Wallace- be noticed that the whole of section 79
burg and Lake Erie Railway Company.
absolutely controlled h)y the word ' tumulAn Act ta incorporate the Berlin, Waterloo, tuously,' and unless the assembly bas that
Wellesley and Lake Huron Railway Company.
choaacter the authorities ire powerless.
An Act respecting the Medicine Hat and
They have no righit to interfere, and it is
Alberta Railway Company.
Northern
An Act ta incorporate the Brandon, Saskat- for that reason tlhat the lnxw his heen found
chewan and Hudsoa's Bay Railway Company.
insufficient for the preser\'ing of the peace.
An Act respecting the Red Deer Valley Rail- During thp recent strikes ut Montreal, the
waY and Coal Company.

AUGUSI 13, 1903
gatherings were of this nature, three or four
or fixe or ten persans gathered, sometimes
walking on the street, and threw stones
at passengers who were riding on the cars.
Some of those people thus assembled assaulted the conductor of the car and the constable wbo was supposed to be protecting
the coniluctoT. This was the state of things
which obtained during the strike of employees of the Montreal Street Railway.
During the longshoremen's strike it consisted of gatberings at street corners and
on the wharf s, of five or ten or twenty
persons who were apparently quiet and lawabiding, but aIl of a sudden some of them
would assault the drivers of teams, elther
striking them or throwlng stones at them.
Section 79 Is insufficlent and lias been so
proved on these occasions, because of Its
special wording. Under section 79, what lr,
the sanction ? The sanction is found ln
clause 81, which says:
Every member of an uniawful aseemb>ly Ie

757

when one or more o! the persans thus assembled commit an act of violence or an
act of intimidation-in other wards, when
one or more pensons of those assembled
commit an act o! violence or Intimidation

dlnected againet an employer or agalnst the
freedom o! action of wariringsnen, or against
the property of the employer, or againet hie
What reason is thene for oheniployees.
jecting ta persone wha thus assemble, under
the circumstances defined ln this Bill, being
The objections ta the Bill
prosecuted?
could only arise fram persans who avowedIt cannot be
ly wlsb ta break the law.
contended seriausly that people have a right
to assemble for the purpose of assailing
their neighbaurs, and committlng acte o!
violence. The Bill le only dlrected againet
Section 79 of the law as it
such persans.
Every persan
stands maires no exception.
who forme part of the assembly may be
arrested, and should be candemned, whether guilty or not gullty, whethen the perguilty of an indictable offence and liable ta one san was really connected witb the other
year's lmprisonment.
Under the Bill
pensons assembling or not.
We have It, therefore. on aur statute-book as drafted we give every member of the
that an assembly of three or more pereons assembly this very Important privilege, of
be- escaping punishment by showing merely, ta
menaclng the peace 'tuniultuously'
cornes an unlawfui assembly and the author- the satisfaction of the court or judge, that
Mtes may act. The whole section Is eon- he did not commit or countenance any such
What unlawful act or threat.
trolled by the word 'tumultuously.'
It seems ta me
is the object of the Bill now be! ore the that it je fair ta everybody.
If a persan
House ? It is propased as a fourth para- taires part in an assembiy such as is degraph to section 79 and reads as follows :
scribed ini the Bll and is found connected
4. If at afly time when a strike le ln pro- with pensons who commit an act of viQlence,
gress, three persons or more assemble for any
purpose, whicb .may reasonably be deemed connected with, or in sympathy wltb such strike,
and if, 'while they are sa assembled, any act
of violence or Intimidation je committed by
one or more of such persons, or any threat le
used by one or more of them, the said assiemblage of nersone eherll be deemed ta have been
an unlawful assembly from the begînn ing and
each persan forming part thereof when such
act ie done or threat used, shali be deemed ta
have been, from the beglnning, a member of an
unla-wtul assembly, and sbaîl be punîshable
according (unlese punishable as a nioter as
bereinafter mentiobed) even although such
person bas flot participated ln such act or
threat, unlees the accused shows ta the satisfaction of tbe court or Judge, that be did not
commit or countenance eny such unlawful act
or threat.

there le suflicient presumption against tbat

persan ta put him on hie trial, and the least
that can be expected of hlm is that he wll
show that he did flot himself commit the
If he
act of violence or countenance it.
le unable ta do that, which De can show by
hie own aatb, it seenis ta me he should be
rightly condemned. If we had had an Act
of that kind on oun statute-book last spring.

it would have been sufficient ta prevent the
abuses ta whichi I made an allusion a few
minutes aga, and it would have been In the
intereets of the labour unions. It wouid
have tended ta preserve the sympatby of

Now, I caîl the attention of this House to the public. where it was so necessary ta
the fact. first, that the proposed amend- their welfare. Objection wns taken ta the Bill

ment to the law is intended to taire effect on the graund that it Nwas unfair ta put a
only wliile a strike is In progress, and only member of an assembly of that kind. or a
against persons who assemble ln connection. persan arrested, on hie trial and tbrow on
with 'or in syrnpatby with a strike, and only bim the onus of proving De is not guilty. I

SENATE
bave had occasion to draw attention to a
great number of sections of the Criminal
Code where the samie principhe obtains, and
therefore I had occasion to show that it la
no exceptional iaw, and especlally when we
do It In such a way as to allow the person
himself to effer the nechmry evidenoe, and
when he lias only to show that hie did not
commît any of the unlawful acta described
lu the Bill; It seems to me it is goi!ng as far
as the iaw should go. I repent that 1 arn satisfied that this Bill la in the best interests of
aI parties eneerned, and 1 wouýld be auxiona
to meet, an~d shall try to meet on the first
occasion I cau, wlth the labour unions and
discusa the matter with tbem, and I am
confident that 1 can convince tbem that
Apart
this Bil la isn their beat interest.
from the -labour unions, there are other
people who have righta which must be proIt bas been shown by the statistected.
tics that the members of the labour unions
amount to, only sorne 80 per cent of the
worldng-people in -the United -States. Therefore, they are a rninority, and as a minority
they bave no right, surely, to dictate termis
to those who do not deem It advisabie te
belong to their unions, and tbey have no
rigbt to prevent those wbo desire to work
These acta of
front earning ,their living.
violence are always directed against those
who do not belong to the unions, and who
are anxioua to ean their living, and it
seenis to me, especially when they form the
majority of the workingmen, that tbey are
entitied to be protected and net ieft at the
mercy of people whe, through excitement
or bad counsel, break. the peace and demorallze the business of the whole community

cial law to wbicb the papers and the municipal authorities wii cali the attention of
It la a law
the public in Urne of strike.
to operate only in times of strIke, and
therefore the attention of everybody concerned will be called to the fact that titis
iaw will be etiforced during the Urne of
strike and everybody will be cautioned
against lnfringing ItL We have passed during the present session a very Important
Bill whîch la connected witb that question
-the Bil provldIng for arbitration of labour disputes. Under tbat Bill, which bas
now becore law, labour unions are enabled to ask' for a tribunal of arbitration
for the put-pose of rnaking a speedy inquiry and showing that the demnands of
That
the ment are fair and reasonable.
Is the best thlng which they should do. It la a
Iaw which will have a most valuable resuit,
I have no doubt, for the purpose of eniightening public op)inionl and forming It In the
Wben labour unious debest direction.
sire to cail a strike-which they are justilied In doing, provided they have good
reasons for it-that is the first step they
should take to show the public the fairiiess
o! their dernands, nnd the moment that titis
ls shown, everybody inny be sure that Justice will be doue theim, and It will be doue
to tbem, «especinlly if the pence ls preserved, and every meinher or the coimniniity
is not made to suifer because o! the breaking of the pence.

Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)-I
sitouid like to put myseif straiglit lu titis
inatter. As the Speaker of this House bas
given mny tianme as secoridiiig this Bill, and
of voting for it, I
1 as 1 have no intention
wlthout nny ndvantage to themselves.
being
Bill arises frorn should explain that du. the usual way.
thinuk the bia ngainat the
next to the mover, the Speaker made me
the fact that an impression bas been creseconder, but 1 should flot like it to go out of
ated that the number tbree, as mentioned
that I amrn favour of this meaIn titis Bill, la intreduced for the first trne this Senate
sure. Net having a legal training, I should
by titis Bill. By referrlng to section 79

flot like to, discusa It w-ith the hon. gentleman
who hias spoken s0 eloquently ab)out it. but
it dnies look strange that people wçiil be
arrested on the street and brought before a
object of the mtensure la merely ns to the
j ndge. a nd theil lave to prove their own
application of the law for the purpose o! innioeence. Tliat i's reversixîg the usual orennbling the police or municipal nutherities der of things. Under tîte law as lt is. those
Now, the wlîo iniake an arrest have te prove thiat the
te better preserve the pence.
hast 'enrk whichî I desire to niake on the parties mrrested are guhlty, but under this
subject la titis : te grent benefit of tbis Bihl Bill the parties arrested -ill hav e te ,prove
iihty. It Nvould tahe a good
wiii arise from te fact that it is a spe- theY are îlot
Hon. NMr. BEIQUE.

as the inw now stands, I bave shown that
titis nuniber three bns existed f or a number
The whoie
of yenrs. nnd ia no innovation.

AUGUST 14, 190375
deal o>f trouble for some parties to prove
that they are nlot guilty. There rnlght be
circumstances leading to suspicion of their
guilt, and the policeman rnaking the arrest
wlIi swear they are guilty, because If the
arrested people are nlot guilty, then lIe wll
be fouîîd fault wlth and punished for faise
arrest. So, I belleve with the bon. gentleman frorn de Lorirnier, that It would be
better that this Bill ehouid stand over at
least one year, and the lion. gentleman frorn
de Salaberry, I arn sure, can devise smre way
by which people wbo are arrested will nlot
have to prove their own Innocence, but that
those wbo arrest thern will have to prove
their guilt.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I rnay lnforin the bon.
gentleman tiiot if lie seconds the motion lie
has to vote for it.
Hon. M3r. CASGLtAIN-Txen I decliîne to
second it.
The SPEAKER-I wish to say a word on
the pasition of ibîis 13111 and the question of
order. The hou. gentleman from de Salaberry rnoved the thurd readlng of the Bill.
The bon. gentleman frorn de Lorirnier
asked the hon. gentleman to postpone the
third reading. The bon. gentleman frorn
de Salaberry declined to postpone the third
reading to another sessioji, but he agreed
to postpone it to another day ; and I think
the business-like way is for some bon, gentlemian to move that the debnte be adjourned until that other day ; aind the Bill
can then be discussed. Lt is not properly
under discussion now.

Bill (180) An Act to in«corporate the Maritime Railway and Transportation Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr. Prost.)
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENÂTE.
August 14, 1908.

Ottawa, Friday,

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS
AND PRIVATE BILLS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved that the quorum
of the Comrnittee on Standling Orders and
Private Bills be reduced to three rnernbers.
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-I ruse to a point of
order. The motion cannot be put for two
reasons: first, It cannot be made without'
notice, and second, the recornrendation rnust
corne frorn the cornmittee itseif.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If we rnust have a
meeting of the cornrittee before we reduce
the quorum, we cannot meet egain this
session. If .ry hon. friend objects to rny
motion because of want of notice, I must
give Lt as a notice of rnotion.
BROCKVILLE, WESTPORT AND NORTHW9ESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon..
DANDURANU-1 inove ini amHon. Mr. FROST rnoved the second readendaient to the motion for thue third read- lng'of Bill (104) an Act to incorporate the
Ing of the Bill, that the debate be adjourned Brockville, Westport and Northwestern Railuntil Thursday next.
way Company.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN- I should like to
know where that rond is to run to. I arn
not on thue Railway Committee. I know the
Th'e motion uvas agreed to.
road very weli, and have travelled on it,
but I should like to kuow to what point
BIIAS INTItODUCED.
the road is to be extended-whether to
B-111 (641 An Act to icorporate the Grand James' Bay or to sorne other point In the
Trnnk Pacifie Raiiway Compeiny.-(Hon. province, or te some place outside the province.
Mr. Dandurand.)
lion. Mr. SCOTT-And la the meantime
that the 1111 lie reprinted.

Bill (155) An Act respecting tîje jurisdicHon. Mr. PROST-The road is In operatioil of tlîe E',xchjequer- Court is to railway tien for forty-five miles, and lias been for
a number of years. It is to be extended in
debts.-(Hon. Mr. Bdique.)

SENATE

760

a northwesterly direction until it reaches
Sault Ste. Marie.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
SOUTHIERN CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the second
reading of Bill (152) an Act to incorporate
the Southern Central Pacifie Railway Compauy. He said: This is a Bill incorporating
a comnpany to bulld a road from the clty of
Vancouver to Hudson Bay, via the Kootenay
Pass.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Âny particular
point on Hudson Bay ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-One hundred
miles north of Fort Churchill. It is an extensive road, some 1,500 miles long probably.
The Bill Is of the usual cliaracter.
The motion was .agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second- time.
SECOND READING.

I gave a pretty full explanation of this Bill
when It was before the House for first readlng. Some questions arose as to bow the
institution at Klngston, where binder twine
Is made by the prIsoners, Is to be affected.
I find on Inqulry that, owing to the large
amount of binder twine made la Canada
and Imported, the output at ilngston really
cuts no figure-that It is only three and a
third per cent of the consumption, and tbat
the practice bas been, at aIl events for some
years, to seli It only to the farmers, and as
a ruIe It is a cent or one and a baîf cent
below the ordinary market price. They
endeavour té graduate the price so that
It barely pays the expense--the cost of the
materlal, the estlmated cost of keeplng the
prisoners there and the value of their labour.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
real object of this Bill ls to protect the
Canadian. manufacturer, le It lot ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-To give hlm the benefit,
ln the shape of a bounty, of the extra cost
bie bas to pay on the raw materlal ln consequence of the export duty put on It by
the United States. It le to make It equlvalent to the export duty.

Bill (168) an Act to incorporate the Clii'Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tben
coutimi and North-Eastern Railway Com- It enables hlm to charge more or less, whlch,
pany.--{H-on. Mr. Beique in the absence of for the bînder twine ? The great doctrine
Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
the bon. gentleman bas been advocating for
been
PUBLIC AND REFORMATORY PRISONS the last fifteen or twenty years, bas
the cheapenlng of everytblng used by the
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
farmers. By this Bill he enables the manuSECOND READING.
facturer ln Canada to recelve more for bis
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- binder twlne than bie otherwise would relng of Bill (221) an Act furtber to amend the celve If lie were not given this bounty. Or
Act respecting Public nnd Reformatory If lie does not get the bounty, hle must
Prisons: He said: There are in Ontario. close bis factory and give the wbole of the
what are called certified industrial scbools, Canadian market to the United States. Is
where boys under fourteen years of age, thatthe proper policy according to the doccharged witb minor offences, are sent. This trine of free trade, wbicb the lion. gentleman
Bill provides that boys in the reformatory advocated for a long time ? Wliy should we
prison at present may be sent to the in- do anything to protect those bloated manufacturers ?
dustrIal school.
The motioni was agreed tu, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. EDWý%ARDS-Robbers.
was read the second time.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
only repeating wbat the hon. gentleman opThere is one
posite lias said s0 often.
SECOND READING.
thing 1 can cong-ratulate this Senate upon,
Hon. MNr.SCOTT moved the second read- and that is the faet that the Flouse of Comlng of Bill (233) an Act respecting th'e inanu- mons exported the only lionest, the only
facture of binder twlne in Canada. He sald: outspol-en free trader aniong- its members to
Hou. -Mr. FROST.

BINDER TWINE BOUNTY BILL.

AUGUST 14, 1903
this brancb of parliament, and I have no
doubt, f rom the expression he has just used,
that be wll be just as consistent ln the
advocacy of the doctrines he boldly prodlaims ln this House, as ln the other branch
of tbe legisiature. There ls only this fault
I have to find with hirn: while he advocales the doctrine of free trade, pure and
simple, and looks upon .ail protection glven
to any manufacturer as a plece of robbery,
wben It cornes to a question of votlng, be
bas aiways vôted witb biis .party who were
carrying out tbis protective doctrine. He
preaches one way and votes another. His
preacbing ts In accordance witb bis principles, but is vote ls opposed to tbem. I
hope my bon. frIend, wben It cornes to a
vote, wili act conslstentiy with bis convictions, and vote accordlngiy. 'He wlI not
now bave to go to the people for their approval or disapprovaI. Tbis Bill Is just one
of those evasions of the doctrine of protection
adopted by the present government for the
purpose of being able to say to the people,
'Oh we bold the sarne principles as we
aiways did on this economic question.'
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-For once ln my
11f e I support tbe bon, leader of the opposition. If hie challenges a vote on this occasion. I shall vote with him.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not qaite agree
witb my bon. friend. I regard this from a
very different standpolnt, and I tbink I can
quote the fact that the greatest free trade
country ln the world, Great BritainHon. Mr. EDWARDS-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hlas been In a position
to oppose tbose countries wblcb bave been
acting on. practlcally the Inverse proposition of tbis-paying a bonus to the manufacturers to enable thern to seli to outside
counitries. They bave forced them to, abandon that policy. I may instance tbe sugar
lndustry. In this case we put binder twine
on the free list. We thougbt It was the
rnost Important industry for the farmers,
the largest producing population of tbis
country, and the demand for binder twlne
bas increased extraordinirily.
lu 1897 tbe
number of pounds imported was tbree millions odd. In 1903 fourteen. millions odd. Iu
addition to that, the manufactbrers turned
ont teli millinos. Our manufacturers are being bit by the United States. We are now

.761

powerful enougb to say we wili flot tolerate
this kind of tbing.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Quite
rigbt.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-At the sanie tume, we
would flot be justIfted ln putting a tax on
the people of this country for the blnder
twine, reversing the policy adopted. What
la the proper paternal thing for a government to do ? We will proteet our manufacturera.
This ls a direct unfrlendly act
of a country alongaide of us to muin our
manufacturers.
We will stand by the
manufacturers.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-I sbould like to ask
tbe Secretary of State wbere the bounty
cornes from. Who pays It? Do the people
pay It?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The genemal public pay
't.

Hon. Mr. FROST-Wbile tbe Philippine
Islands were uder tbe jurisdiction of Spain,
sisal and manillea bemp came Into Canada
on tbe sanie ternis as It came Into the United
States. Just as soon as the United States
got control of the Phlippine Islands, they
ievled an export dut-Y against ail other countries of a certain per cent, I thlnk 10 per
cent, on ail bemp unmanufac±ured comlng
Into these countries.
Therefore, as tbe
duty bas been removed froni twlne corning
into Canada, as twine bas been admitted
free, tbe manufacturera of twine were labourlng under a stili furtber burden of a
differentlal duty of 10 per cent on the raw
ma terial.
It ]a slmp]y to put the manufacturers agaln on the sanie footing as their
competitors that this bounty ls placed upon
twlne, and it le perfectiy fair and perfectly
consistent with any f ree trade idea.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Ob, no.
Hon. Mr. FROST-And slmply a matter
of justice to the manufacturers of twine lu
Canada.
Hon. Mr. McMIULLEN-With regard to
the remarks wich bave fallenl froni tbe
bon. leader of the opposition, I bave tbis
to say: that while I many years ago very
strongly opposed the very pronounced pro-

tective policy tliat was introduced by the
governmenit of whici lie was then a iemlber,
great changes bave talcen place since that

SENATE
time.
To-day we are face to face with.a
condition of things, as far as the United
States ls concerned, that js very different
frorn tijat whicb prevalled during the lime
of the government of my bon. friend.
My hon. friend ebakes bis head, but allow
me to explain to hlm.
We have corne
under the operation of a McKiley Bill and
a Dlngley Bill since the Urne he was ln
power. By the passage of these two. Bills,
together wltb tbe Act to wbicb my hon.
friend tbe Secretary of State drew attention, they have struck clearly. and distinctly at Canadian trade.
They have struck
at Canada just as stralgbt as they poslbly
could do by the passing of'those Bille. The
goverument of Canada negotiated with
the governrnent of the United States for
frlendly intercourse 'on trade lines. Tbey
went to, Washington.
They were met
virtually, I presume, with a bIunt refusai.
Under those conditions, Canada je forced
to take an independent course in behalf
of ber own manufacturing Institutions, and
we are bound to see that Institutions that
now hnve an existence in Canada are not
destroyed by a Dingley or a McIKinley
tariff or by the export duty which has
been referred to. To put a duty on
sisal would hamper the manufacturer of
twine ln Canada.
I entirely endorse
the course pursued by the government ln
this matter.
It le the Initiation of a principle that wll teach the United States,
when they niake a move ln the direction
of overtaklng Canadian trade and killlng and
crushing out of existence our Institutions
here. that the goverunent of Canada are
patriotic enough to stand up for their rigbts
and for the intereste of those Institutions
that have a footing in Canada and have a
rlght to expect to prosper.
Froni that
standpoint I entirely endorse the course the
goverurnent have pursued.
My hon. friend
drew attention yesterday to the policy of
granting bounties.
No-w, if there le any
one policy that le commendable on the part
of a government for the production of anything ln the country whlch the conditions
will enable us to, produce, I contend that a
bounty is a proper principle to adopt.
For
instance, take the article of pig-iron. If
you do flot produce it by a bounty you
sjrnply impose a very large increased cost
upon the users of iron, and rny bon. friend
who wears a silkz bat and uses no iron
Hon. Mr. MicMULLEN.

wvould not pay a single farthing of taxation
towards the production of plg-lron; but
when you encourage its production by a
bounty, my hon. friend wIll.pay a certain
percentage on the duty on a silk hat to
produce pig-iron, and It le right, and any
man tbat buye goods wblch are subjeet to
duty contributes bis sbare to the production
of plg-iron, wblcb le a national necesslty.
If there le any policy by which you can fairly assiet institutions, it Is that of granting
a bounty where the treasury of the country
can afford. It. I commend the government'e
course wlth regard to binder twine and
plg-Iron, and -I commend also their course ln
fosterlng any industry for whicb we have
the raw materlal and the essential conditions
to maintain. it, and I commend also their
course ln protectIng our home Industries
I commend theni for
as we have thein.
dolng that, simply because under present
We
conditions we cannot help ourselves.
ive alongeide of a country adjoining ours
for three tbousand miles, which le ready
on any occ~asion, under ail circumetances
and under any pretense, to grind out of existence by competition any Institution In
this country that tbey can overtake and
reach. We as patrlotic people have to depend on Institutions, and wbetber we are protectioniste or free traders, we cannot afford, lu the intereets of this Dominion, to
allow those interests to be crusbed out
I admire my hon. friend's
of existence.
Free trade le a grand
free trade polcy.
policy to live by and act by, If you can get
countries to free trade with you, but wben
tbey wli not free trade wlth you, when tbey
do tbe sanie as the United States bas doue,
when tbey Impose duties on every possible
occasion, we are driven to the neceseity Of
respecting ourselves and standing by our
own institutions and glving theni a chance to
lve.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I arn very glad
Indeed to hear a discussion of this kind
la the Senate. I wish that these discussions occurred every day, because this
House rnight becojue an educational institution ln so far as this country is concerned.
I arn very sorry to see that in recent years
we have not had the discussions that we
formerly bail upon this important question.
Mly hon. friend who has just resumed bis
seat wvas at best only a weak-kneed free

AUGUST 14, 1903
trader at any time; otherwise hie neyer
could bave made the littie speech he has
A free trader la
delivered thia afternoon.
a man who la not concerned about what the
If the United States
other country does.
government wiii crush the people o! the
United States under the heel of tyranny
which exista there ln so far as protection la
conoerned, it la no reason why the Canadian
government sbouid foilow their exainple and
aiso crush theý produoers of the wealth of
the Dominion, as bas been the case ln the
My hon. friend says that
United States.
he la wllllng to protect home Institutions.
I ahould like to aak him If that ls the question now under conaideration, or whether we
are dealing with a product imported f rom
It ls absolutely Ima foreign country.
possible to protect any home lndustry, any
lndustry that ls natural to Canada which
must export lts produce to foreigu countries to be soid-perfectiy Impossible to protect the farmer, the lumberman, the miner
or the fisherman, uniess Indeed you give a
It ls the only way you eau do It.
bounty.
Now, 1 dissent absolutely from the priaciple o! bounty-giviug-, exactly ns I dissent
frorn the principle o! protecting Importa,
through the means of piacing an lmpost
Where does
1 do It, wby?
on Imnports.
the bounty corne frornl The bounty cornes
ln ail] cases from the people.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
hear.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-Just exactly as It
does through the instruméntality of duties-There is no
exactly la the same way.
dIfference whatever. Iu so far as this great
bugbear about what foreiga countries do
lu the way o! protection la concerned, who ls
raîsing that storm in Canada? It is the manufacturers o! Canada. who want the protection. and those w-ho are foolisli enough to
support thein against the best iuterests of
Canada. It is quite true there was a time
when, with our smail population, we couid
not manufacture specialties la thîs country,
and it la true that in that respect the United
States hadl a great advantage over us, but
a change ts corning over the conditions
of Canada, and we are havlng enlarged
population, and will soon bave a very large
population, and la thîs country we will cope
with the manufacturers 0f the United States
I amn not one of those
ln everyv respect.

763

Caniadians who are afraid of the UJnited
States or the peopie. o! any other country.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-Because you are
flot in the trade--not; a manufacturer.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I am n ot a manu1 arn surprised at the hon. genfacturer?
tleman's staternent that I ar n ot a manu1 arn a manufâcturer, and
facturer.
a manufacturer who opposed, ln the
Commons of Canada, when I had a
seat there, on two ur tbree occasions
an Import duty on the article I do manufacTo-day I deaire to ernbark ln pulp
ture.
and paper-making, and I only desire to embark lu it when the duty la taken off the
paper, because 1, as a manufacturer, want
no theft and won't steai anythlng frorn my
I maintain that protectionista
feliow-man.
advocate the meana by which the labour of
Tbat is
one mnan la atolen by another.
I bewhat it menus, and nothing else.
I beileve ln
leve ln freedorn of trade.
each mnan belng on an even keel and enProtection
joying the fruits o! bis labour.
meana nothlng else than that the labour o!
It la legîsone man is stolen by another.
lative thef t.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-LIegilative theft,
and nothing more or less. For that reason,
I oppose the principle of protection ln the
shape of bounties or ln the shape of duties.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE -BUWELL-I want
to congratulate my hon. friend from Wellington. I arn sure the House will thank
me for having uttered some opinions that
have brought forth the speech which has
been delivered by rny whilom. friend. I
have a rather distinct recoilection o! his
utterances on former occasions in the House
o! Commons, when the question o! bounties
was before parliament, but I amn not going
to refer to that now. The hon. Secretary
of State said the other day that things
change as the world progresses.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And s0
do men. My hon. friend from Wellington
(Mr. McMuilen) wouid lead this House to
believe, if they did not know better, that
no efforts were made by the Conservative
party during the seventeen years they were

SEINATE
ln office to obtain reciprocal relations to a
greater or iess extent with the United States.
I remember, and so does lie, when in the
Lower House tbey denounceed the Conservative parfy as being Insincere in their endeavours to obtain reciprocal relations wlth
the United States, andi I remember aise that
they always saiti that our policy was one
of refaliation, which neyer coulti succeeti:
but If the. country gave them the reins of
government, ln less than six months they
would guarantee to the people ail that they
,ever professed we should have.
1 rexnember coming f rom Washington after certain
negotiations, when an hon. gentleman slfttng
opposite me just now, declareti posltlvely
that lie did neot belleve the statements that
were made ln reference to the attitude taken
by the United States towards Canada on this
question. The bon. gentleman's f rientis
wenf to Washington immediately after they
obtained power, andi met witb precisely the
same reception that we received during thie
seventeen'years we were ln power, anti if
taught him at leasf that those who preceded hlm were just as honest as he was,
anti that wbat they said f0 parliament andi
the country was wholly true. He shouli flot
now arrogate to hlmseif anti bis party ail
the credif for having trieti to obtain better
trade relations withl the United States. Personally 1 do not want f0 see any reciprocal
relations with tbe Unitedi States to-day.
Things have changeti.

in that principle. 1 believe a man who receives a benefit frcn any parficular policy
shoulti pay for if, anti 1 shoulti nof be taxeti,
excepf for thec collective benefif cf fihe couint ry. There is the difference between my
bon. frienti anti myseif. The hon. Secretary
of State fells us that we shoulti adopt this
principle because Englanti, a free trade country, Induceti foreign countries f0 remove
tbe bounties from sugar. I remember discusslng that question repeatedly with one
0f our late Governor Generals-tbat is, Lord
Lansdowne-when lie wanted' Canada f0
join With tbe Boards of Trade ln Englanti
f0 urge on Germany, Belgium anti other
countries thaf gave bounties to refiners, f0
repeal tbem. Why ? Becauie the bounties
given by Germany to the producers of the
raw maferial, beet root sugar, hati the effect
of Introducing sugar Into Englanit at so 10w
a price as f0 close most 0f thie sugar refinerles ln Scoflanti andi other parts 0f the
Unitedi Klngdoni. As I salt f His Lordship :
Is net the doctrine of free trade ativocateti
f0 secure f0 the
consumers foodi af the
cheapest possible rate ? Now, how do you
reconcile your theories of free frade wlth
tbe doctrine you are advocaflng ? We are
now giving a bounty f0 the farmers who
are growlng beef root anti manufacturera
who are manufacturlng sugar from the beet
root, ant iIf we join-Baron de Worms was
fben at the beati of flie Boardi of Trade-if
we join ln a crusatie againsf nil fthe others
we wouid have f0 change our own policy.
Hon. '.%r. McIMULLEi\-Hear, hear.
In doing s0, if England secures whaf she
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can- wants, if Is going f0 Increase the price of
ada Is ab]e t0 stand on ber own feet and sugar now consumeti by fthe poorer people
figlit ber own batties now, anti I agree witb in Great Britain. That taxes a necesaary arthe bon. gentleman wberever it is necessary ticle .of footi-nenrly as necesaary an article
t0 encourage an industry by a bounty, when as wlîeat. or flour or RDY othier product.'
if cannot be done otherwise, give it by ail His Lordship coulti not answer thaf. He
means. But I remember when that was said : 'I admit wbat you say is correct,
proposeti by the Conservafive party ln the *but If ia inJuring fbe refiners iii Seotland,
House of Commons no man denounceti it cloaing Up their factories, anti what are
more forcibly tban my bon. frienti from left will be closeti if flua bounfy is nlot
Wellington. Men have changeti as well as abrogafeti.' If is another evidence of the
conditions. My lion. frienti the Secretary absurdify of the doctrine laid tiown by my
of State asks woti lt have been rigut to bon. frienti f rom Rideau (Hon. -Mr. EdImpose a fax on the people in order f0 pro- warda). I helieve the only truc principle
tect the industries of the country. The lion. on whidh t0 govern any country until fbey
gentleman frai *Wellington (Hon. -Mr. «M\c-become as wealthy as Englan is theli p*inMiilleni asks: Wh-lo pays the bonnties? The ciple of protection direct, and there is the
lion. genator fromi 'WVeliin-ton replies 'the difference befween my lion. friend and myman who wears a silk bat ?' I do flot believe self. If you put on a sufficient duty f0
Hon. Sir TMACKENZIE I3OWELL,

AUGUST 14, 1903
protect the manufacturers of binder twine,
the result will be in a year or two yen wlIl
have binder twvine just as cheap as If you
took the duty off. If, however, you take the
duty off binder twine altogether, then you
place Canada in precisely the Mame position
as a state of the union «is lu relation ta
the wbole confederacy. You give tb&United
States thue wboie of our market, and If there
be a monopoiy to produce a certain article,
they can easily crush ont industries lu new
countries. My theory may lie heterodox ta
those who pin their faith ta Adam Snmith
and other political economlists of bis ciass.
However, experience bas taugbt us, and bas
t.-ught my lion. frlend opposite that, situated
ns we are ln regard ta the United States. If
aur neilibours adopt a certain pollcy we
musat -,v-ern ourselves nccordngyt 1 go further than that : I woffld pursue a policy lu
this country Independent of the United States
altogether-no niatter what policy they pursue. If It be to our Interest ti put any
article on tbe free iist, do sa wbether It
affects tbe United States or not. If It lie
necessary to protect an article, I wauld put
a protective duty on It no matter what tbe
United States may do. The bon. gentleman
from Wellington (Hon. Mr. McMuIlen) wouid
lead tbis House and tbose ivbo rend bis remarks to believe tbat' tbere are different
circumstances existing to-day from those
whicli existed wben the national palicy was
introduced lu 1878. It la only a question of
degree, at the most. The sanie doctrine. the same princîple. the ame polîcy
prevailing ln the United States In 1878 prevail to-du y, witli this exception, that in
some articles under the McKinley Bill tbey
raised the tariff still bigher. Whien we went
ta the electors we said : 'Yeu aliaw the
United States te corne ta thîs country and
crusli aur manufacturera out af existence,
while tliey refuse ta let us inta their country.' The sanie tbing prevails to-day. My
lion. frieud bas pragreased ln the direction
of protection, and I hope be will continue
-ta do so. But wbenever he speaks agaîn
on the subject. let hlm lie a littie more fuir
ta those whou lie formerly opposed on this
question, and give theni credit for doing
tben wbat lie la now declaring ta be the
correct and praper course ta pursue. If
be does, lie and I will go hund In band more
lieartily and cordinlly than we would otherwise. I do not abject, upon principle, ta a

765

bounity entixMly.
What 1 would prefer,
however, la a higli duty whicb would gîve
the markets of tlis country ta aur own
,people, independent of the United States,
no matter what their policy Is-let our policy
be sucli that our manufacturera will bave
wlthin themselves the power ta furniali ta
the consumera of this country any andi ail]
articles which nom, came froni tbe United
States.
lion. Mr. WATSON-The argument advanced by the leader of the opposition that
It would lie preferable ta bave a policy of
protection rather than a policy of grantlng
bêquntles, la anc open ta criticîsm. Take tlîîa
one Item alone-I wlll uuot go outalde of It
ta discuss the principle of protection or free
trade-in Canada there must lie about tliirty
million paunds of binder twine used each
year. If the lion. gentleman had bis way,
nnd would put a protecti - e duty on thia linder twine, I venture ta say lie would not
Put it ut leas than one cent a paund. That
would lie an enormous tax, liecause the consumer bus to puy It. Tbere la no question
about that ut ail, and tiiere la îuo doulit If
the government dld nat give a smail liounty
wbicbh I venture ta say will not amount to
more thau ten tbausand dollars a year, the
Cauadian manufacturer could xuot compete
with the United States manufacturer. He
wvould bave no protection. If lie gets the
raw materiai at the sanie lurice as tlie Un[ted States manufacturers, he la then on an
equal footing, and la nat golux ta be crusbed
out ; but If a policy of protection was adoptcd, a duty placcd on the binder twinc imj2arted Into thils country, wliere tlie large
ainunt stated by the Secretary of State la
required, it would lie a heavy tax on the
farme r. WTe know that a few yearsango
%vhena duty was placed an binder twinie as
ili as three cents n Pound, then reduced
a cent and a half, and then furtbcr reduccd,
and afterwards, when the present government came lu, binder twine pliaced on
the free list, we in tlie Nortb-west know
what It coat the farmers. lu every case the
binder twine sald nt the price prevaIing in
the United States plus the duty. The farmer had ta puy the duty. It was a severe
tax. Tallc about a duty of 21 per cent on
agricultural implements. It wis nothing ta
the binder twine tax. If n farmer baught
an agricultural implement, it lasted for
years, but lie liad té biîy bis binder twine

SENATE
every year, and the duty amounted to an
enormou-s tax annually.
The government
are right in assistiug the binder twine
manufacturers to manufacture in Canada
on an equal footing with the manufacturers
In the United States, because a large portion of the binder twine used ln Canada today ia manufactured ln the United States
and there is keen competit-lon. I might just
say, s0 far as the west la concerned, somne
people talk about f ree trade, and dlaimn that
implements ought to be put on the free iist.
We flnd lu the west we have the United
States and Canadian manufacturers competIng for cur trade. I think I amn safe ln sayIng that just now fifty per cent, perhaps,
more, of the Implements sold in Manitoba
and the North-west Territories are of UnWe have the
ited States manufacture.
benelIt of the keen competition between the
CanadIan manufacturer and bis foreigu rivai
ln the prices of their goods, and we bave a
keen competition for the quality of goods,
which Is of just as much Importance to the
farmers in the west as the price. I believe
we are really lu about the best position we
could be, so far as the farmers are concerned,
lu having this keen. competition, and I beIleve the people who are buyers of these
wares are getting the best results. If the
manufacture of binder twine is retained lu
Canada, where it bas assumed large proportions, by putting It on an equal footing
with the United States industry, I believe
the consumers wili get the best results. It
Is much better to give a few thousand dollars-by way of bounty to enabie the Canadian manufacturer te get bis raw materiai
at tbe same prices as the United States
manufacturer, than to pay a large amount,
as tbey would have to do If a duty were
piaced on the manufactured article.

A b unty for the i)urpose of producing a
cornmodity is a very difierent thing, from
my standpoint, from a duty imposed upon
a coinmodity for the purpose of producing
I it. Because If you Impose a duty those that
use the article produced are the oniy people
that contribute to the production ; but if
you pay by a bounty for the protection, ail
contribute-the whole population pay their
proportionate share instead of contributing
oniy on what they buy and consume of dutiable goods. That wili be generaIiy admitted.«
The hon. gentleman chaiienged my
views to-day on this question wben compared with the vîews that I announced wben
I was ln the other chamber. I took very
strong exception to some provisions of the
protective poicy that my hon. friend and
those associated with hlm introduced.
1
was aiways opposed te extreme protection. I
wiii give my hon. friend. an instance : At
one time the government imposed a duty
on cotton. I think my hon. friend wIil remember that the outcome of that Increase
was that the cotton producers of Canada
declared a dividend of no less than 40 per
cent upon the stock of those companies.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Wili the House
ailow me to say a word of explanation in
repiy to the hon, leader of the opposition ?
He bas placed me in rather a faise position
by wbat he said, not intentionally, I fancy,
but If he wiil look up 'Hansard,' he will
ftnd that ln no case did I ever oppose th%
granting of a bounty for the protection of
an article nianufactured lu Canada for
which we have the raw material and which
was largely needed and consumed within
our own country. I have on several-occasiens advocated a bounty aiong that liue.
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Watered stock.
Hon. Mr. McfMULLEN-That
was the
condition the first year.
Afterwards they
watered their stock, and gave to the boider
of every share of one hundred dollars a share
of stock of ten dollars, and on tbat share of
stock they declared a dividend of 10 or 12
per cent. It Is protection of tbat character
that I condemn.
1 say that it is nlot in
the interests of the people of Canada to
build up a protective systemn of that character.
I am in faveur o! adjusting ourt
tariff so as to give our people an incidentai
advantage, to protect thema from being
ground out of business by a country which,
by protection, bas enabied its producers to
seli their commodities to outsiders at lower
prices than they are selling the same articles
Take the article
for in the home market.
that has been referred to by my bon. friend
froma Manitoba-the article of agricultpral
I venture to say, if an invesmachinery.
tig-ation was made to-day, that agricultural
machinery frorn the United States is sold
ln Manitoba cheaper than on the southern
side of the border to the United States farWby do the United States manumers.

AUGUST 14, 1903
facturers do that?
They cau afford to do
It slmply because they have an enormous
protection on their own aide, and they arrange their prices iu such a way that they
charge their own home consumers hlgher
prices for these very machines that tbey
aend over to Canada and sell atreduced
prices. in competition wlth the manufacturera o! simular machines. 1 know that la
a fact lu counection with wind-mills. Wlndmilîs are sold cheaper here than In the
United States, and why? Siuiply because
they have a protective tariff there that
enables them to extort froni the pocketa o!
their own people high prices for those thinga
lI their own country, and tbat protection
enables these to sacrifice their surplus manufactures In forelgn markets at a low price.
I could give many instances of where that
klnd of thiug exista as far as Canada la
conoerned, and also wlth regard to gooda
sent to, England.
Goods manufactured In
the United States are shlpped over to the
British market and aacrlficed there at lower
prices than they commaud in the United
States, slmply because the manufacturera
are forced to find an outiet for their products, and It la better to sacrifice them
'-at 10 per cent of a losa than to shut down
their milîs and mun onhy elght or nine montha
of the year. There was another point that
my hon. friend drew attention to whlch
I want to mention.
He aaid we found
fault because they did not go to Washington for the purpose of gettIng reclprocity
wlth the United States. We dld find fault,
and 1 have told the House what we more
particularly found fauit with, and 1 hope
my hon. friend wlll take note o! what 1
arn going t0 say.
We found fauit with the
government of whlch my hon. frlend was a
member lu going before the people of Canada and aunouncing 10 them that they had
an invitation to go to Washlngton to make
a commercial treaty.
They asked the electors to returu them to power for the purpose of carrying out that treaty, and when
the papers were laid on the Table of parliament there was nothing to prove there
was any truth in that statement.
It waa
put forth for a pohitical purpose.
They
intended ta carry the country on
that plan,'
and they did, and the people o! Canada
said, if you are going to get a reciprocity treaty of a desirable character with
the United States we wihh support you,'- and

they did. But had they an Invitation? They
had none. It was announced for a purpose.
It accotiplishàed its end, and there was no
reciproclty.
That was the reason why we
found fault witb the government of whlch
my hon. friend was a member.
We found
fault with them for flot taklng the people
of Canada Into their confidence, and teliing them the actual fact, ini place of misleading them for a purpose.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
lion, gentleman is ail wrong.
No such
course was ever pursued by the Conservative Party.
H on. Mr. McMULLEN-My bon. friend
says it ia ail wrong.
My recollection ls far
at ses, If it is flot right, and 1 thlnk those
ou this aide of the Hlouse whose recollection
serves them quite as well as mine does, wll
endorse wlnat I say.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The hon, gentleman la qulte right.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-For the sake of
his own reputation and the reputation of
the party to which he belongs, we had better bury the hatchet.
We wlll flot make
anything by going back over the old record,
for, after ail, there bave been changes.
There has been a certain change In my own
case, and I have given my hon. friend the
reason-on account of the Dlngley Bill and
the McKinley Bill. We were forced by these
drastic measures to talee the course we
have taken, and I commend the government
for the manner ia whlch they bave handled
the tariff In the interests of the people of
this country.
I commend the course they
have taken with regard to binder twlne, wlth
regard ta the production of pig-iron, and
ail those things whicb are so essential for
the general interest and development of this
country, and every move they make in that
direction shahl have my support
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Anien.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Is it stated that
the United States impose an export duty
of one cent n Pound on sisal exported froni
that country?
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-The United States,
under its constitution, cannot Impose export duties at ail.

S ENAT E
Hon. -Mr. L.ANDERKIN-They bave vioTbey do that
lated the constitution, tbeîî.
wben they try f0 burt Canada.
Honi. 'Mr. CLORAN-I wisb f0 challenge
the statement made by the bon. leader of
the opposi tion when hie says that tbis country is prosperous because of protection. 1
admire the courage of lis convictions, but
In
tbe wisdom of lits attitude I contest.
the face of the experience of the past seven
years, lie 'sbould bave become a convert
frontî has oli belief, and on accoulît of protection, of wbicb bie is one of the great bigh
priests, hie sbould have put on sackcloth
and ashes, for If Canada did not forge abead
as rapidly under tbe Conservatire regime of
higbi protection It lias g-one on very wvell
under tbe present tariff.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I will
take tire sackclotb, but not tbe asbes.
Honi. 'Mr. CLORAN-I wisx to challenge
the stateinent that tbe prosperity of the
counîtry di'pends on bigh protection. -I
fought fliat priniciple on the liustings of this
country for rnany years. and 1 want to tell
my lion. friend opposite whien lie put tbe
question f0 the lion, gentleman from Rockland- ' lie did not understand tbe question
because bie was nof a manufacturer,' that
that is where protectionisfs bave tbe whole
The people wbo
question upside dowvn.
understand this question lin ail its bearing-s
are not so rnuch the manufacturers, as the
ci, nsuers. and I arn one of them. I interstand tlîe question ail the more because I
am n ot a mîanufacturer. and I say bieie if
I w-ere a matnufacetutrer iiisiired by seltisli
motives, as tlîey are nearîr ail, I would be a
bigl pr, tectionist-niot only a hiigli pî-otectionist, but a prohîibitive protectionist.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
lion, gentleman would nof be bonest.
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-No higb and extreme
protectionist is honest towards the consumer.
1 beliei-e in the statement on priifciple.
Hon. Si' MACKENZIE BOWEL-What
ioes the lion, gentleman think of those who
ire not manuifacturers. but w-ho take the
mure iiem- of protection that the manufacurers do
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Thei- have no rigbt
:o charge nie two dollars for an article that
s wiortlî only one.
Hon. Mr. EDMW-ýRDS.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
the hoit, gentleman says bie 'would be dishoniest if lie were n manufacturer.
flou. 'Mr. CLORAN-Not In tbe sense the
lion, gentleman means.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEI-M-Ny
lion. frîend from W'ellington and the' hont.
gentleman front Hawkesbury are not marnfacturers. We tbink that we should protect oui' industries.
Hou. 'Mir. CLORAN-Wheni a cblp gets into
tue Niagara Falls lt is swept down by the
dui'rent, and there la selfishness in human
inatur'e wliicb sw,%eeps ail hefore It. It is the
tendency of ail manufacturera to Increase
their dlvldends and water theli' stock at
It
la
of the consumer.
the expense
une of the priniciples laid dow'n by the
Conserva tive leader tbat high protection in
Canada Is necessary for the prosperity and
the development of the wealtlî of the counI nm not going f0 discusa tbe Bill
tr'y.
now before us, but I am bere to challenge
the principle of legisiation whicb the hon.
leader of the opposition bas laid before the
Hoîise, aîîd whicb will go to the country,
tîmat bigu protection Is niecessary for the
welfare and developmeîît o! fice counîtry.
I bold that sncbi is not tire case, and oui'
present economie conîditionîs fully pi'ove anîd
Oui this accouaft,
uphold my conîtenîtion.
I amu lri oppositionî f0 the principle. As I
said, I admit tire courage of the lion. geiubie ouglît f0
tlemaîî's convictins *i)ut
uuîderstand thiat this country bas gonie
flîrougli a ivoîderful clîaîuge. anud it iih unidergo a more wonderful change for the
benrefit o! the masses, wben- the tariff la
loweî'ed, and lower we shaîl unake lt-at
least, thle youîuger men of this counîtry will
do as the needs o! tbe masses w'ill î'ecuiî'e
and flre economie conditionîs of flie country
will eltber alter or demand.
Hou. INu'. BEIQUE-1 badl no intention f0
take part ln this debate, but if bas takenl
sucli ait unexpected course, that 1 thinli if
î'iglîf thiaf I should express my opinion ou
one point. The question now before the
House is not at ail a question wbich sbould
m'ase a discussion on the pî'ilciple o! free
The Secretary of
ti-ade and protection.
State bas veî'y properle given a reason,
whlicli slîoild comrnend itself f0 the approv-ai of flic bouse, wby this boîînty should

AUGUST 18, 1903
be granted, but I desire to congratulate rny
hon. friend from Rockland (Hon. Mfr. Bdwards), who, I understand was, in the other
House, the third party, ca having found ln
this bouse a follower In the hon. member
who has just spoken. It le Idie, it seexas
to me, to speak of free trade ln this country, when both parties agree that It le necessary and advisable to have a hlgh tariff,
when that high tariff Is Imposed on a large
line of articles with the approbation of both
parties. The principle of absolute free trade
bas no advocate ln this country. And for
the very simple reasoa that It is flot in the
Interests of this country that absolute free
trade shouid exiet, and it le fnot practical.
It le necessary that we should have a revenue tariff, and the country Is governed by
means of the revenue that ls iev'led ln that
way, and that revenue should be the means
of heiping such industries as' can be establishied ln this country under normal conditions. I arn not one of those who believe
ln going to the extent of adopting the hlgh
tariff which obtains in the United States at
the present Urne. I believe that If the UnIted States are to-day again threatened with
reaction In business, It Is on account of this
high tariff, which le the rneans of creating
too much home competition and destroying
their own lndustry and creatlng trusts aise.
it would be much more injurious ln this
country, where the population Is very much
smaller than It is ln the United States,
where they bave a population of sorne 80,000,000 to draw upon. I happened to Inquire
Into some special Industries ln whlch I was
personally interested, ln which I had lnvested rny rnoney, and I found that those
industries had suiffered more from too hlgh
protection than froxa anything else. But
I wish rnerely to s.ay that we should not i3e
driven into a discussion of the principle of
free trade or the principle of protection. We
are nirnost a unit in this country ln bellevIng that It is advisabie to have a pretty higb
tarif., and that this tariff should be used
for the purpose of helping the creation of
industries.
The motion was. agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Tue8day, Augu8t 18, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
COST 0P DOMINION CENSUS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY rose to
Asic the governrnent. how much It cost to take
the cenaus of Canada ln each of the years 1881,
1891 and 1901 ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In 1881 the cost of the
Dominion census was "45,904.19. In 1891
aine sehedules were distributed with an aggregate of 216 Inquiries, and the cost was
$570,115.54. In 1901 fIfteen sehedules were
distrlbuted, with an aggregate of 62M lnquiries, and the cost was $1,146,050.98.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
le np to the present tirne?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-All the
accounts are nlot in yet ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That le the answer they
gave me. I could not say as to that. Al
the present time we will cail It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I suppose the hon. gentleman could not tell na
what action the government propose to take
la view of the developrnents that took place
before the Publie Accounts Comrnittee ln
the other House, ln which It was shown that
sorne of the enumerators, or commissioners.
or whatever they are called, made charges
that covered expenses which were iiever
iacurred ? Perhaps the hon. gentleman ha&
#
not followed that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I have nlot. 1 suppose lt will be struck off.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELL-But
they have been paid. It le only in the Investigation under oath that these facts have
corne out.

BILL INTRODUCED.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then the money ougbt
Bill (21) An Act to ainend and consoil- to be recovered from thexa. I thiak.
date the law respecting rallways.--(Hon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes, it
Mr. Scott.)
should be, but will it be recovered ?
The Senate adjourned.
49

SEINATE
QUORUM 0F STANDING OUDERS COM- ence ta other committees towards Ille close
.of the session. No hiarrn would arise, and I
MITTEE.
arn sure ail the members of the cornrnttee
MOTION.
would be only too pieased if the cornmittee
Hon. Mr. YOUNG rnoved:
was there iu full strength fo consider the
That the quorum of the Standing Committee remaining business that would corne before
on Standing Orders be reduced ta three mein- lis. As rny hion. friend knows, that coinbcrs.
inittee lbolds its meetings so as not to InterHon. Mr. LANDRY-I maise a point of or- f ere with the work of the larger commitder. I thlnk the quorum of the Standing tees, and if it sbouid happen that we had
Cominlttee on Standing Orders simould be flot a quorum, it would be Impossible to get
reduced ta tbree members oniy on a9report a recommendation fromn the rnajority of the
of the committee to thatt effect. nsking the eominittee, as lie suggests, and the B3ills
Bouse to sanction a resolution tîmat sbould would be delayed to a greater extènt thaii
be passed first of aIl In the conmîttee It- those who are interested in them would like.
self.
Lt Is rnerely ta facilitate the business of tHe
HQn. Mr. SCOTT-But if the cormlttee House : there la no other object in view in
cannot assemble with the requisite number, asking the bouse to pass this motion, which,
what are we going to do ? Are we going to 1 tliink bon. gentlemen will qgree lias workthrow out ail the Bis which corne before f-d very well ln. other years. muid I knaw
very well It TwllI facilitate business on tlîis
the cornmlttee ?
bon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon, gentle- occasion.
man say that the committee is unable to
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I do not say that the
assemble ?
hon. member bas flot good reasons to make
the motion, but what I contend is, that the
bon. Mr. SCOTT-So I arn toid.
motion does not corne up in the proper way.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He was told sa on
The selection by the committee of a quorum
that particular day, on a Frlday, when the [s a question left altogether ta the conimembers were leaving for home.
mlttee ltself.
Hon. %Ir.SCOTT-Yes, that iq thme reason. 1Hn
r
ON-o
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But there is a
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I beg the -lan. genquorum here now.
tleman's pardon. Wben the cammittees are
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-l understand forrned there Is a general rule that the inaj.orlty of the committee ltseif constitutes a
there Is a quorum here now.
day we quorum ; but t-hey ordinariiy fix the iiumHan. '-%r. YOUNG-Tbe ather
report
caiied a meeting of the cornrittee ind cer- ber of the quorum themnselves, and
present. Those accordingiy ta the Hlouse wblch then aptainly there was no quorum
who were present dlscussed lnforrnnlly thîs proves of the report. The quorum of eacbi
notice of motion that I have gîven, and cormlIttee is fixed by resolution of the
tboug-ht It would be wiser, under thie dmr- conittee itself, but what we are now
curnstances, ta provîde that the quorum, asked ta do, without any report froin the
whichi is now five, sbould be reduced to cornrnttee, is ta pass a resalution which in
three, because, as we are drawlng towards fact would destroy thie resolution passeti
the close of the session, we are desirous to by thie cornmittee itseif. The cornnittee are
have ail the work cleared Up as rapidiy as the only judges In the matter, and if they
possible, and if there were a greater number want ta, have theîr quorum reduced, they
present than those indicated, ail the better, shouid make a report, ta that effect to the
but It would facilitate the work of the coin- llouse, whieh would no daubt carry. If
rnittee, wbicb is largely pro forma, and en- the bon. gentleman (ban. Mr. Young) is
able us ta dlean off the siate at any time right in the course lie la taking any member
we chose ta meet. We have precedent for could stand up in bhis place and mave that
it, because in ather years the very saine the camrnittee siîauld lie reduced ; but I concourse bas been followed, not anly with re- tend that tbese things ame left ta the commitference ta this cormlIttee, but witb refer- tees theinseives.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

AUGUST 18, 1903
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I have no doubt the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The bon. gentleman
point is well taken, and the course followed f orgets that tbe Railway Oommittee Is to
by the bon. gentleman opposite is aitogetiier meet to-morrow. The only difference beIncorrect. On first constituting a committee, tween my bon. frlend who bas just spoken
the quorum cousists of an absolute majority, and me, la that be proposes to bave a -meetand then any reduction of the quorum must ing of the committee ta pasa a recommendabe on the recommendation of the commit- tion to reduce the quorum tq three. They
tee, presented to the House by the chair- ean only recommend lt te the House, and
man of the committee. I arn of the opinion the Honse acta finally ; and wbetber the
tbat we should as much as possible, except House acta to-night or next week, It matln cases of absointe urgency, proceed accord- ters not, so long as lt meets the approval
lng to the established rules and usages of of the House to reduce the quorum. I agree
the House.
beartily with the leader of the opposition.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would rail attention
ta the first report of the cornmittee on page
48. T-here was no mention of a quorum
at ail. In several Instances te committees
reported asking that a quorum be fixed by
the Senate, but lu titis case there was no
such demand on the part of the committee;
therefore the committee as a commlttee dld
net act at ail. The autbority rested on mule
81, which has been cited by the hbon. leader
of tbe opposition, and therefore it seeme to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn me to be for tbe Senate to take action ln tbe
rather tnclined to the -opinion that the point matter, on the motion of the bon. gentleman
of order taken is nlot in accordance with from Manitoba.
the rules, and although the hon. gentleman
Ia quite right ln saying ith'as been the prarHon. Mr. POIRIER-Âccording to my iatloe ln the past, ln this case an emergency terpretation of rule 81, a majority of the
bas arisen, and the question arises whether, senators appointed on the commlttee la
under rule 81, the House has not the power mereiy meant for the firat meeting of the
te do what my bon. friend oni my left bas committee. 0f course the power must corne
suggested. The mile says :
originally from the House, and that applies
Every Standing or Special Committee meets. to the quorum. of the fimat committee ; but
If practicable, on the nexct sitting day atter ail subsequent reductiona, I believe, ought
appointment and chooses a chairman ;and the to corne on a recommendation of the rommajority of senators ap"nted on such comHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The whoie Senate
as a body formed this committee.
They
created the committee, and why bas net the
crea-tor of the committee the power to
modlfy a subordinate part of that coInmittee ?~ It seems to me outrageons to say
that thie Senate cannot, ln a mere formai
matter of this kind, at once declare that
one or any other number they thinir proper
shall constitute a quorum.

mittee constitute a quorum, unless it be otherwise ordered.

Now the question la wbether It Is necessary to have a report of the committee
before, the House recommending a reduction
of a quorum, or whetber -we can act on the
IMY impression
motion before the House.
la that we can. On the reading of It, I think
the Senate bas -the power and authorlty
to act on any motion which. may be proposed.
Hon. Mr. McKÂY (Truro)-I do nlot see
-why we sbould bave any trouble ln this
business. There are enough members of the

commlttee present to forrn a quorum. If
we wisb to reduce the quorum,,w-e can pass
a resolution to-morrow to do so.
494

mlttee. It bas been the Invariable rule of
this House. and the true interpretatien of tbis mile.
If I remember well,

that la the practire in the House of Lords
wbere they are not at ail sure of baving a
majority to start work..

In that case the

House of Lords mentions a number lower
than the absolute majority for the romimittee to start ; but afterwards, If the rouimlttee la reduced again, It 1a, 1 believe, done
according to tbe practice that obtains bere-that 1unleas otherwise ordered by the
Senate' applies merely to tbe fIrst meeting
of the committee for startlng the macbinery
to work. I say this with due regard, necessariiy, to the opinions of bon. gentlemen
who possibîs may give a better Interpretatien than I do of rule 81.

SEINATE

172

The SPEAKER-I decided the point of
order was flot well taken.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I refer to page 502
Procedure. If
gen- of Bourinot's Parliamentary
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I fhink the hon,
the hon. Speaker would choose to read It, it
tleman should admit that, as the rule would* be to the advantage of us all. We
reads, If Is in favour of fthe contention I
have ail been taken by surprise.
make, for f bis reason : thxe practice Up to
The motion was agreed to.
,date bas been f0 leave that question fo be
settled by the commiffee Itself.
INCORPORATION 0F BOARDS 0F
Mr. YOUNG-Ob, no ; the House setHon.
TRADE ACT AMI ia\IMENT BILL.
tles if.
F'IRST READING.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The practice up f0
Mr. BEIQUE introduced Bill (X)
Hon.
date bias heen To let the commiftee seffle An Acf to amend the Acf respecting the
fthe matter If self. If the commiftee dhooses. to Incorporation of Boards of Trade.
reduce the quorum fixed by the rules of the
The Bill was read the first Urne.
Houee, If may do so by a resolufion which
not do
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved that the Bill
Ia reporfed to the House. If If does
thaf. und-er the 8Slt rule, if is the majority be read a second time to-morrow. He said:
of fthe members composing fhe commltfee The object of the Bill is merely f0 allow
that form a quorum. The commiffee are at boards of trade t0 renew their councils parIn the law as lt
liberty f0 fake action or nof. If fhey do not tially If they choose.
the rule applies. If fhey takre stands, thiire must be at least eighf meinfake action,
action, fthe report is made f0 the House, an(7 bers of the council, and they have to be
fthe House approves or changes the report ; elected every year, and it 15 f0 allow the
buf here we had no report at ail dhanglng election to be held every year to renew
fthe quorum. I do nof see how the Senate the wbole of the board, or renew thxe board
coulil accept any quorum but fIe one fixed only parfially.
by ifs own miles.
The motion was agreed to.

Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG-Hon. gentlemen must
agree fIat If is the Senate thaf orders the
change of quorum.

TIre SPEAKER-I do not fhink thaf the
point of order ralsed by the hon. gentleman

TO MASTERS
CERTIFICATES
MATES 0F SHIPS BILL.

AND

f rom Stadacona 15 well faken, for the reaTHIRD READING.
sons, amongsf others, given hy the hon.
and the Ion.
House resolved ifself into a CoinThe
gentleman from Kingsfon,
I would suggesf mittee of the W-hole on Bill (226) An Act
leader of the opposition.
f0 the bon. mover of fthe resolufion to add to am-end the Acf respecting Cerfificates f0
fthe words 'for the remainder of the ses- Masters and Mates of Ships.
sion.'
(ln the Commiftee.)
of that, but
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I fbouglit
Hon. Mr. TEM;\PLEMAN-Wlien this Bill
w-e cannot change, by a motion of this kind, was before the House on Ifs second reading,
any standing order of the House except I expiained thnt fhe purporf of the Bill
for the session. because under otber dir- was f0 creafe n iiew class of masters and
cumnstances, if w-e wished to change the mates for what were f0 be called home frade
rule, the House would have f0 be sum- voyages. Thnt was the essenfial ln fhe promoned, so If must le limifed f0 thîs session. posed Bill.
The Bill lins been held over
lere from for some finie, and the departaxent having
Hon. Mr. POIlUER-I have
faken the matter info consîderatiofi, bas
Bourinof-if I may lie pernîied f0 readThe SPEAKER-Does the lion, gentleman pr-opose f0 appeal from the decision of
fhe Chair?
Hon. NIr. POIRIER-I did not hear the
decision.
Hon. Mr. POIRIVIR.

corne f0 the conclusion thaf witb n proper
limitation of whin a coasting voyage is.
or should be, the objecf of fIe Bil would
1)e affained, and if would not be necesI lhave
sary to crente the class proposed.
therefore f0 propose, insfead of clauses 1

AUGUSI 18, 1903
That becomes necessary, from the fact
that the coasting voyage which reaiiy em2. Paragraphs (e) and (g) of the first section braced the coast of America is now Ilimited
of such chapter, as enacted by the second sec- to very narrow bounds, and a master or
tion of chapter 42 of the statutes of 1894. are rp.ealed. and the foilowing paragraphs are sub- mate wbo may have obtalned a certificate
under the present law to enable hlm to sal
stituted therefor:
(e.) That the expression 'sea-golng ship' in- ail round Cape Horn, for that matter, will
cludes every ship empioyed ln trading or going be liited under this provision.
between a port or place ln Canada and a port
or place out of Canada. not being within the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEiL-This
limîts mentloned ln paragraph (g)."
(g.) The expression 'coasting voyage' in- iaw Is simpiy to, affect the coasting trade?
and 2, that the foliowlng shall be substituted:

cludes a voyage between any port or place on
the eastern coast of Canada and any other port
or place on such coast, or ln Newfoundland,

Hon. Mr.
Hon. Sir
Labrador, St. Pierre or Miquelon, or on the
eastern coast of the United States, flot further to provide
state o! North
south than Cape Hatteras, ln the
Carolina, and also includes a voyage between engaged ln
any port or place on the western coast of
Hon. Mr.
Canada and any other -port or place on snch
coast, or on the western coast of the Ulnited
States, not further sonth than the harbour of
Portland, la the state of Oregon, and flot further north than Cape Spencer, ln the territory
of Alaska, or any inlet or bay having lts entrance on the eastera side of the cape.
1. The nlnth, eieventh and fourteenth sections
o! sncb chapter, as enacted respectively by the
flfth, slxth and seventh sections of the said
chapter 42 of the statutes cf 1894, are so
amended as to conform ta tbe next preceding
subsection of thls section.
4. The firmt section of the sald chapter 42 o!
the statutes of 1194 !s repealed.
The effect of the proposed amendment will

be, as I stated, that the proposition to create
a home trading voyage ciass is abandoned,
that the coasting voyage under the law le
iimited to what is purely, after ail, a coast-

lng business.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do you
propose to leave la clauses 2 and 3 ?

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-CIause 3 wii
remain, but clause 2 wil be stricken ont.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
vlrtually a new Bill.

BOWEL-It Is

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-No,

It is jnst

a modification.
The motion w-as agreed to.
Hon. Sir M-NACK,-ENZIE

BOWrELL-WhaZt

Is to be done with clause 2 ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I mean to strike

TEMPLEMAN-Yes.
MACKENZIE BOWELL-It 15
for masters and mates who are
the coasting trade ?
TEMPLEMAN-Yes.

Hon. Sir M%,ACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlîat
wouid flot be around Cape Horn ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes. under the
law. The coasting certificate enabies a
master or mate to sal round Cape Horn,
I suppose, fromi Halifax to the city of Victoria. A literai interpretation of the law
would allow hlm to do that. The objeet o!
this amendment 15 to restriet the coastlng
trade ln the way indicated.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-It
wouid be somewhat interesting to know
why you stop at the mouth of the Columblat
river and go up to Vancouver and afterwards to Victoria. If you go up the Georgia strait wliy should iiot the power be
given to the masters and mates to pursue
tinit voyage whlch is pnreiy internai ? It
is not on the coast o! the ocean proper iintil
you get to the head of' Vancouver Island,
some five hundred miles from Victoria. 1
cannot see why the liberty to exercise
power. which this intends to give thema,
shouid restrlct them to the moutlh 0f the
Columbia river. The hon. gentleman knows
as weIi as I do that that portion of the
eoast is. as much iniand as the Bay of

mast

Quinté, or aimost the Ottawa river.
lion.

M*in;sor.
TEPEANPoabiy
pyisa

It ont and substitute what I bave just read.lonfiedseorpylatait
I move that clause 2 bie stricken ont.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No. 1
-Hon.
*thilnk not.
The motion was agreed to.

Hon. '.%r. TEMPLEMAN-And the foliowing wili be added at th-e end o! the clause.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Tiîe

mointh *of

the Columbia la very far fromn being iniand.

2. Nothing ln this Act shall take away or ira Hon. Sir 3MACKENZIE
pair ar.y right or prlvilege held or enjoyed at
the cimie of its passing, hy any masters or mate, i l t ?

BOWELL-Where

SENATE
is on1 the bably no more difficult or dangerous navigaition l the world than the navigation round
the Horn, and wben the present chairman
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes. of tie Board o! Examiners of masters and
1 know that.
mates came here lie feit that this was not a
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-About five bun- coasting voyage, and that no such examinadred miles soutb of Cape Flattery on the tion as -was required for masters and mates
wide sweep o! the Pacifie ocean. That is o! coasting vessels should allow a master or
mate to taire a vessel round Cape Horn,
the soutbern limit of the coastlng voyage.
and bis first intention was to make the exHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It Is amination for a coasting certificate nearly
South of Seattle.
as difficuit as the present examination for
Hon. Mr. TEMýýPLEMAN-The city of the master or mate of a sea-going slip ; but
Portland ls on the Columbia river, about wlien bie came t0 look at the thing a littie
1,00 miles from Its moutb. This consting more closely lie was satisfied that the better
voyage certificate enables a captain or mate way was not to create a class as hie proposed
to navigate a vesse] to the Columbia river to do at first, this home trading voyage, but
and up to the clty of Portland on the soutb to define a coasting voyage as belng someand to Cape Spencer In Alaska on the nortb, thlug like a coasting voyage, and to preand of course necessarily througb Puget serve the rights of those who now bave certiSound and up througb the straits to Alaska fcates, whîcb are preserved ln the second
-a limit probably of 1,500 or 2,000 miles, clause, wbieb thlion, gentleman ln charge
wblcb Is surely sufficlent for ail purposes o! of the Bill bas just moved ; and I must say
coasting trade and larger than is given to I tblnk tlie lune taken by the department
the captains on the Atlantic ocean.
seems more consistent with convenience and
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--I should like to ask a common sense than the old provision.
The United States people conquestion.
Hon. Mr. ELiIS-I wili not dispute tIe
sider the coasting trade extends f rom the
point any furtler, but I sbould like f0 imnortbern boundary o! the United States, St. press his ; that the United States people
Croix river, up to their limit on the Pacifie. dlaim thaf 'consting voyage' means anyI presume our idea is to allow the coasting wbere 'on fIe United States coasf. Now are
trade f0 go round Cape Horn. It doesn't we nof abandoning something by tbis proseem like coasting, but how are we placed vision ?
witb regard f0 that riglit or privilege or
whatever it may be ?
Hou. Sir' MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
Tbe
Hon. 'Mr. TEM,%PLEMAN-Tbey will be there can be no question about that.
.moufb of fhe Columbia certainly is l the
classed as sea-going.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It
Pacifie ocean.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-But the United States
coaster can go riglit on f0 California ; and
are we putting our men in any different position?
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the bon, gentleman
m-ill' look at the ehapter of the revised
statutes lie will see the expression 'coasting,
wbeni the revised statutes were
voyage
passed included a voyage betwcen Canada
and Newfoundland or the Unitcd States of
America. In tbose days the practice of going round Cape Horn had flot been recognized, but this Acf was amended year after
year so as to extend the limits of the coasting voyage until if got so far tbat a coasting certificat@ would enable a master to take
a vessel around Cape Horn. There is Pr'oHon. Sir MACKENZIE BO'Ç\ELL.

United States.

Wlether f lere are any ports

between the boundary unie tlat divides the
stafe of Washington from British Columbia,
1 ain not prepared at tbis momient to say,
but there cerfainly eau be no coast1lg after
you cross the line inito the United States.
They will not permit it. The other day a
tug was flned $400 in one of the harbours of
Lake Ontario, for moving a tow from one
wharf fo the other, across the harbour. They
do flot allow you to do even that, and fIe
moment you readli fIe United States waters,
wbefhîer it be on sea or flot, it is impossibile
l'or any Britisli vessel f0 do any coasting
iiless they subject thenîselves to the Ina'.
I think there is a great deal cf force in whlaf
flie lion, gentleman says iii reference to qail1 rememiber dising round Cipe Horn.

AUGUST 18, 1903
tinctly wlen I occupied a seat where my hon.
friend does, having this matter forced uipon
the goveraiment at that timie, wlien constant
changes were being made, and 1 think it was
done for the very reason suggested by
the lion. gentleman froni St. John. I do iiot
know much about shipping. It is oniy from
whiat experience I have liad la deaiing wltii
this iaw. 1 amn rather inclîneci t>) thiink that
the provision tlîat is hli the prol)osed mneasure is a good one, because if there is any
plaee at ail whlere a inanl sbould be a thoroughly certificated mariner, it wouid be
going round Cape Horn.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG. froin tbe committee.
reported the Bill with certain amendments.
lion. Mr. TEMNPLEMAN
rence in the amendments.

moved concur-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B0OVEL-Tbe
Bill bas been radicaiiy changed from the
forai !i wbicb it was origlnally introduced,
and If there are an.v mariners ia the Senate
v-ho understand the subjeet tbey shouid
bave an opportunity of seeing it. If thoqe
interested ln saiIing are satisfied, there is
no reason why I sliouid object.
Hon. Mr. TEML'LEMIAN-Tlie aimentmuents can be concurred l miow.'.Lhie Bill
can be reprinted, and If there is aaything to
be said it can be donc on the motion for
third reading.

Secretary of State what is the price
manilla used lu the penitentiary ?

of

Hou. Mr. SOOTT-I canuot tell the cost.
It is a variable price. I asked the price
they ivere selling the twine ait from the
penltentiary, and they saîd it was sold at
about a cent a pound iess than the cost, but
there was no fix'ed price.
Mr. ELLIS. from the committèe, reported
tue Biil wlthout amendinent.
Tie Bill xvas then read the tiîird time, and
passed.
INCOR-PORtATION 0F MINING
PANIES BILL.

COMN-

FIRST READING.
Hon. Mr. P.EIQUE introdueed Biii (Y) An
Act respecting- the Incorporation of MNining
Companies.
The Biil was read the first time.
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE mnoved that the Biil
be rend the second timie on Thursday iiext.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Are
ive to uifderstand this to be a special Bill
for the facilitating of the incorporation of
ming companies-taking tbeni outside of
the Joint Stock Companies Act that wvas
passed the other day by this bluse ?

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The object of the Bill
is to permit companles to be incorporated,
eitlher under tbils Act or under the JIoint
This Biil merely
Stock Comupaulies Act.
provides for the Introduction Into the law
The motion w as agreed to.
o! the Dominion of the provisions whicbi
obtain under the Ontario Act for paid up
THIRD READING.
ishares. It is knowni that the practice in
Bill (221) An Act further to amead the mnining companies is to issue shares paid
Act respecting Public and Reformatory up, or partially paid up, and -under the
Prisoiis.-(Honi. Mr. Scott.)
Joint Stock Comupanies Act it cannot be
done. My object la introducing the Biil
BINDER TWINE DOUNTY BILL.
is to adopt these provisions which are to be
found ia the Ontario Act, and, 1 might say,
THIRD READING.
the laws of Nova Seotia andi other p)roThe House resoived itseif 1into Committee lu
vince6s, providin.- for the issuiing of paid up
of the' Whole on Bill (233i Ali Act respecting
shares, or lnon-assessable stock, and it will
lali~the manufacture of Binder Twinin
be lef t optional to such compauri to orgwuize
ada.
eltimer under this 'Mining Act or under the
(ln the Cominiittee.)
Joint Stock Conpaniies -let. The Bill is
lion. 'Mr. I'EILEY-I saw the other day very short. There are only t-hree or four
in the press the estimiated cost of manilla. -provisions and one of the first clauses proFor the iast tbree years I think it bias beeîî vides that the Joint Stock Comnpanies Act
6i or 7 cents. and the highest xvas 8 cents a shall appiy, except the provision be incompitible wvith the provisions of this Biii.
ponind. I woluld likýe to kno'w ftom11 the lion1.

SENATE
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
hope the bon. gentleman will be able to give
-us good reasons wby this privilege should
be given specially to mining companies and
mlot to ail other meritorlonus enterprIses seeklug incorporation ln this Dominion.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Wediaesday, Âugust 19, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
o'eloek..

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAX-I miglit explain.
tliat the report is ini the hands of the printer. It was made about tliree weeks agoflot more. It le flot more than three months
appointed.
was;
commission
since the
The report Is now In the Printing Bureau
and would have beýen laid on the Table of
parliament before this but for the fact that
the chairman of the commission, ChleÉ Justice Hunter, had wired clown tliat there
were a few corrections he desired to nunke,
and that delayed it a couple of wveeks, but
1 was advîsed by the MInister of Labour the
other day that it would be laid on the Table
of the House this mweek. probably Friday or
Saturday. so that I amn quite sure my lion.
friend cain get it at that tinie.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
GRAND TRUNK PÂOIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY'S BILL.

LABOUR TROUBLES IN BRITISH
CO LU MBIA.

SECOND RIrADING.

MOTION.
Hon. -'%r. LOUGHEED moved:
That an humble address be presented to I-s

Excellency the Governor General ;praying that
His Excellency wjll cause to, be laid on the
Table of the Senate, the evIdence taken, and
report made by the commission appointed to
Inquire into the question of labour troubles or
disputes in the province of British Columbia.
Re sald :Can ini hon. friend the Secretary of State give me any Information wlth
reference to the report whicb 1 have asked
for lu this motion ?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I understand fromn my
bon. colleague that it bas been received. 1
was not aware of it.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand the
commission reported about three months
ago, and that the report is tied up ln the
Printiug Bureau.

Hon. Mr.

SCOTT-I do

flot thini, that can

be so.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If it bas been ln
suspense so long, I think it is tirne it shoulci
be laid on the Table.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ts it .,t the result or
the lnquiry made by Mr. King, who went
over the matter two or three rnonths ago ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe Chief Justice
of British Columbia and Rey. Dr. Rowe
were tue commissioners. I think.
Hon. «M\r.
about it.

SCOTT-I

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

will

find

out

ail

moved the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND
second readlng of Bill (64) An Act to lacorporate the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company. He sald : 1 suppose I arn
not expected to, gîve much of an explanation of the Bill. Its object le to obtain powers to build a railway from a point in New
Brunswick throughi the province of Quebec, touchlng the city of Quebec, to Wlunipeg, and thence to Port Simpson on the
Pacific coast. The company le asking for
these powers, but the Bill provides for the
rîght of the company to lease any part of
the raîlway on that part of the Iine that
wvli be bulit by the governent of Canada.
Practically thîs Bill wlll cover the building
of the western scction from Winnipeg to
Port Sinmpson. As to that part of the road,
I know that already both sides of this
House are comrnitted to the opinion that the
west needs more railways, and the idea bas
been cornnended already in this Chamber
of building n road from Edmonton straiglht
to the Pacifie coast. I shal flot dilate upon
the details of the Bill and the powers asked
I content
f or. They are general powers.
myself merely witb rnoving the second reading'.. :,econded 1v the lion. sir M;1ckýeuzio
Bowell.
The mnotion was declared carried.
I-on. Mr. Me%[MULLEN-Before the second
reading of this Bill. 1 consider it rny 'dnty
and privilege. as a mienber of this House, to

AUGUST 19, 1903
dîscuss the whoie question as regards the that application was made to the United
neceessity for the construction of a uine States for the use of their waterway aud
canais at Sault Ste. Marie, and that that
from Moncton to Port Simpson.
request was denied. We know that la order
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I rise to a point of to send troops and suppliýs to the west we
order. I do nlot wish to interrupt the hon. had to send them overland under very
gentleman, and I should like to hear a good great difficulties. and it was a wonder that
speech, which I amn sure the hon, gentleman the troops got to tbe Red river at ail.
wlll delîver, but we have voted that this In case -of difficulty between Canada and
Bill be read the second time, anti I would the United States, what is our position '?
asi what the lion. gentleman la speaking to? We have a locit at the Sault, but that locit
Hon. Mr. McIMULLEN-I rose Immediately might be destroyed. We do flot know that
before the Speaker put the question, and 1 lt could lie available for us ln the case
thinit I arn entirely within my riglit. WVeof war. We have the Canadian Pacifie Railhave a right to discuss the question of the wvay, but we know that the line hugs the
prudence of constructlng a line of this kind. shore of Lakte Superior for about 150 miles,
I arn entirely within my right to discuss and la lhable to be destroyed at many points
It, and 1 desire to make some remarits upon by a gunboat, and soldiers or supplies could
thîs Bill. We know that a Bill la under not be transported by that route. We know
discussion lu the other House to which 1 that the treaty of 1817 between Britain and
do not intend to mate any reference what- the United States lias been ln force vlrtually
ever. 1 simply refer to the necessity and ever since lt was ratified, only for a short
advlsability of the construction of a new period. Ia 1864 the United States gave
lune of raiiwvay, andi the grantlng of a char- notice of their Intention to abrogate that
ter therefor, from Moncton via Québec and treaty. Owing to the trouble that took place
Winnipeg, to Port Simpson. I have given, on the border of Québec, by the St. Albians
I may say, ln rny humble way, a great deal raiders, the United States got very mucli
of consideration to this question, and have embitered, and gave notice to abrogate the
corne to the conclusion that, from a national treaty of 1817. After the trouble was over,
standpoint, the construction of such a hune the Unitèd States withdrexv that notice,
ls an absolute necessity. I believe that Can- wvith the resuit that the treaty hias been iu
ada caunot have that hune one moment too force tilt the present day. Under that
soon, whether it is constructed under this treat7 no gunboats, no men-of-war are to
charter that w-e are now about to consider, be kept upon any of our flaird laites, saving
or constructed by the government. I thinit and except ou. Lakte Erie, each country la
that that line, as a measure of snfety to permitted to have one ; and on Laite Huron
Taite and Lakte Superior eacli country la perCanada, is an absolute necessity.
the position of the Dominion to-day lu the mitted to have two.
That la the condition of affaire. WVe kinow
case of w-ar. Suppose that we had a coufilict with the United States, which we that the United States bias made application
earnestly hope mnay not occur until the day receniffy for a recast of that wbole treaty.
that the sun rises and sets for the at time For w-bat purpose '!For the purpose of
-we earnestiy hope that wve shahl continue enal'liiîg lier to l)uild iiien-of--war on the lato live on the beat possible relations wlth land laites. She also proposes another tlîing
our frienrds to the souf h of us,-but sup-! that la going to very serious1y interfere wvitlî
pose anything should happen, ln wbat posi the defensive position of Canada. It la
tion is Canada to-day ? Wle itnow from day proposed to widen aud deepen the Erie
to day that incidents do transpire between canai ail the way from Buffalo to Albany.
nations, as w-ell as between individuals, that An application is about to be made for a
bring about a conflict of arma, andi if that grant of one hiundred millions of mnoney for
should occur, what would Canada's posi-i the purpose of deepening and enlarging that
tion be ? We can ail rernber our ex-: canal. so tiîat ber ships of destruction ean
perience at the timie of the Rted river corne up when that canal Is wideuedi
Sllîpoq)ilng
octea il.
the Atia tP
trouble sorne years ago. Me hati a greait frieni
deal of ditticultyý at th.at tirne ili getting the pre-seat treaty rernains as it is,
er ships of wzir could corne up that canal
trosfrr hees f hlis.Weko

SE-NATE
for heu iii the recent Transvaal war. We
believe sUe would-that she looks upon Caîîada as one of tUe brightest geins in tlie
Eîîglishi Crown, and sie bas a riglit to, but
after ai] Canada must begin to look after
lierseif. She must begin f0 feel titat site
is gcttinig out of lier teeils, anîd is attaiiiig
maturlty, and able to maîntain for qurselves
our independence and dignlty and to go forword la the growth and development of
ou country as we hope to do, and also
f0 fake steps in the direction of protecting
Tt Is
ouselves, ou bornes and country.
our riglît to do wlhat we can to faicilitateFlou. 'Mr. FERGUSON-Hear, hear.
inter-communication betweeui the provinces,
Hion. 'Mr. MýcMULLEN-It is a credit to and to meet and belli and assist onali
ter
Canada, and it has brought credit to Canada if auîy difficulty should overtake us.
i
and lias doiue a great deal for it, but un- conteîid that is the duty of Catîadit. «ii d ini
fortunately. as I said before, 150 miles of view o-f that, we canîlot couistruiet tiie r.;ad
iliat rond is rlîrt along the lake shore whlere that is 110w proposed a monment too soan.
It is open to destruction at any moment Theuefore, I arni in favour of givhing the
if the 'United States eho'ýse to invade tls charter that is niow sougUit by nmy lion.
countr y. Tbeni, in titat case our east wouid friend.
The Unîited States, I kuow, is
be conpletely shiut off froui thle west. We veux- auxions for more iinîlitauy anîd naval
could îlot send ilp troops. We could not gi t'y. I uni quite satistied of Élat. 1 have
send aîîy assistance whatever. Now, that travelled tîtrougli that colllitlry. I bave beeii
is îlot a desirable position for Canada to n titeir banqueting halls, I bave niet witlî
occupy. It is a most unfortunate position. th-em, and their soldiers aire full of the
People niay say there is no danger of war glories of their coîîquests iii the receît %var
W'ell, I earnestly with Spain.
with the United States.
1 do flot tbink theY will ever
boi)o there is not. I earnestly hope that I bie satisfied until such tlînie as tlîey bave a
wlll Ilie out tite remainder of my days coufliet with some oflier country, and If
and that every member of this House possible auiotiier vîctouy.
I liave njo doubt
will live out bis days, and I should titat tlîey tlîial they are prepared t0 beat'
see some of them live Eliglid any day, and if taiythiii,- should
bp glad to
to be as old as Mathusela-I ho>pe we arise f0 bring about al conflict, Caniada's
sîttilI ail hv
vout oui- days andi neveu see -ar
soi would be the place wlhere the battle
with the Unîited States. but after ail there would bie foughit.
There is no question
W-e can remnemlber tie about titat.
is a certain danger.
The United States is adding
unfortuniate ditfieulty itetweeii Prance and largi ly to ber navy, spendiîîg eigbty milGerinaiiy lui 181-0-71. that trouble arose hiou dollars a yeau on it, anîd on lier arrny
ont of a clear sky. Thiere was no indication over one iundred millin a year.
SIte is
wliîatever that war was going to take place, spentliiig ou ber îuavy more titan any otiter
but sinipl,, because Prussia. of lieu owîî nation ini thte would except Creat Britain.
1iti Oi. p~laeel a pru l e tii it %vas~
objection- SUe Is making a very strouZ navy and eqluiPable to France on the titroîje of Spain, wvhat piiig lie- aî-my lu thie rnost efficient way.
w-as the resuit ? A most disastrous con- 1She bas 114,354 of a standing army.
tijut between tlhuse two pon erful nationîs, Under those conditions. it is not wlse
and terrible destruction of life and property- ou pirudent for Cainadai f0 sit doNvni and look
On readling
otueý 0f the greatest 'wars Éiat toolt place forw-ard fo 1111iffding peace.
dîîriîn4 the ceîttury wvUicIt itas just pissed. over thte Premnier's speech on the questioni of
xVe (10 uxot kîow wbieît trouble mai- arise th constuctiou of fuis line. I came to thue
coniclusion that. w-len lo sa id i t w-a s inot
beîuttationî--. We cli i to be part ai
c,
btateto
0thil
parcel of a veni imiportanît enmpireand w-eafme
are proud of it. NN'e believe titat Engla 11< somiething of tiîe ideas I now express
1 UiVe
xviii figlit for Ils thec saine as wu have fouglît must have been lu his Mmd(.
Hon. Mr. MCM;\ULLEN.

to Buffalo and ail te way to Lake Superior,
and destroy our lake citles and present railThese dangera
way luter-com muni cation.
stare us iii the face, and under those conditions, I dlaimi that it is wise tliat Canada
should look Io heu future safety. Our presenit
railway service is good-none eau bie better
or more eflicient, and I arn sure there bas
neveu becît a hune constructed (tu titis conltinent that deserves more credit and his
rendered more desirable service to any country or state titan the Canadian Paclici Railway bas doue for Canada.

AUGUST 19, 1903
flot the slightest doubt fliat lie lias
looked over the whoie field and sees tliat
Canada is flot in a desirabie position as a
nation If any trouble should arise, and that
lie lias concluded that the construction of
For my part, I
this rond Is a necessity.
Besides that. the
certaiuly think It la.
Uuitc-d States is flot a country fliat we can
look to as the most higlily civilized and tbe
We know
most law-abiding lu tlie world.
We know
they bave tbeir own troubles.
tliey bave the negro trouble flint thirentens
During the Boer war
tliean every day.
England lost iu soldiers by the use of fireanms and explosives and disease 21,000 men.
During the sanie two years and a baif In
the United States 31,000 people were sent
to an untIrnely grave by lyncli law, by the
murderous use of firearms, and by suicide31,000 persons wvent to mitlmely graves Ini

the 'United States ln the sanie time tliat
England
froni
took
war
the Boer
21,000 of lier men lu thie Transvaal.
If aur person doubts my statenient upon
tlint point, lie eau look up the records for
himsel!, and lie wiii find that It la correct.
That Is the nation alongside of whicli we Uive
That la the condition of' tliings theré, and
I say. under those circunistances, that Canada is perfectly justified lu looklug Into the
future and making sonie provision for any
uufortunate disaster that mlght overtake
lier. As far as Manitoba and the Northwest are concerned, the press of the United
States froni time to tine make remarks
about the enormous resources thene and the
desirabiiity o! securing the trade. They are
full of it. Tliey are desîrous that the trade
of tlint country shouid go to St. Paul and
Chicago instead o! Toronto and Montreni,
and other easteru cîties of Canada. Now,
I thinlc panliameut la justified lu niaking n
nioye to retain the trade o! thant part o!
Cainada for ourselves. I do not look forward ta the uew line o! rallway. when built,
wlmether by the goverlument, or unden the
charter that is now before us for consideratlou. becoining a very important avenue for
the export of the surplus produce o! tlint
section of the country. I bave given the
question some c,usiderable attention. and 1
onopothuulc t1w waterway wvill largelyir
lize the export cf wheat. at least during the
seveut niontls of navigation. No railway,
in iny humble opinion, cau compete mith the
waterway, and la flhnt case I thiak the

creani of the whoie trade of the Northwest will corne down by our great lakes
and canais ; stili tliere may be a very cons1derable trnde to be done nlong the Une
of the railway, and also lu carrying In gupplies ; but wlietlier the rond will pay froni
flint standpoint or flot, or wlietber It sliouid
bec;me a burden on the people of Canada
lu tlic future to maintain it, the sanie ns the
Intercoloniai Raiiway la a burden, we couflot do wltliout If.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Not a burden.
Horn. M~r. 3McMýULLEN-We must have It
mereiy, because we cannot proteet and
defend ourselves as a nation wltbout
It under existlng transport accommodations. Tlierefore, ln my humble opinou-.
rend
I
we muaft ha-ve that road.
witli very great cane and considerabJe
Interest the address of the leader of the
opposition lu the Ilouse of Commnons witli
regard to tlils whle question. Hle suggested
that In place of the construction of tliis line,
the Intercoloniai RaUlway sliould bie continued to, Depot Harbour on the Georgian
Boy, and tliat tlie watenway coulI be used.
le -,Iso suggested tlint the Canadian Pacifie Railway along the north shiore of Lake
Superior, siouid beconie the proporty of the
Dominion and lie used lu c3nijtitction with
tlie Intercolonlal Raiiway. Froni my standpoint, tbat would neyer suit the country. It
would neyer ncconipiisli the purpose that I
have In vlew-tlie sclieme tliat I say Is
necessary on the part o! Canada, Is to
construct a road wliici -will give us Intercommunication between tlie provinces without belng hiable to belng cut off by any
collision between us and the United States.
We know along thie nortb shore of Lake Superior there Is an Immnense rocky range back
to thie nmrth to where the arable land, or
land it ill fit for settiement Is !ouud, over
%vlicliit would be impossible to carry troops
or~ supplies. Thot, of itself, nîay prove of
considlerable advautage to us sonie day, biecause %%-lien tÉlis line is built It wlil be so
reniote froni auy possible attack froni the
United States side, that it will hoe absolntely
and eatirelv safe. 1 do hope, thenefore, thatt
tis Btil -,vill pi'ss, and that the hune wiii be
1 regret that the Moncton section
huilt.
1bas been tacked ou to It. I amn not prepared to say tliat tliat mwas a aecessity. 1
tlul;uký iic comnitry lnîghit be able to get aiong

SENATE
without that, but ln view of the condition
that existe, ln view of the dangers to which
we are subjeet, 1 arn wlling to s-waflow
even the 'Moncton section before I w-lji do
wlthout the rond nt ail. I want the rond
froni Quebec to MWinnipeg If w'e can get It
wlthout the cther section to Moncton, but If
we cannot get It. I arn prepared to take the
wbole route rather flian have noue. 1 would
rather that cur friends ln Nova Scotia would
not press on the goverinent as streniuously
as they bav e the construction of that section. I presume it muet have been wlth
a vie-, to meeting their request that this
Bill Includes a clause for that purpose. But,
after i11,. If we cannot get this interior transcontinental hune without that, then I amn
willing to take the projcct as a whole. I
do uiot wishi to detalii the House furthe,..
1 wanted an opportunity of expressing niy
vlews on the whole question, and I tbink
they are justlfied on the second reading cf
this Bill. I therefore take the opportunlty to
lay iny views before the House. They niay
be l.uugbed. at oz, sneered at, but after ail,
w-e ie justlflcd iii seriously and pruidently
consldering our own position as a nation,
an] w-hile, as I said ln the Introduction of
my remarks, It la to be hoped the day la far
distant %vlie trouble inay arise between us
and the United States, notivitbstanding thnt
fact, we %vill flot be discbnrging our duty
to ourselves and to our homes. and those
wbo will follow us, If we do not take steps
to guard (JUr homes and our country If an
invasion slIoul1 occur, and we would be
respo;-sihie if wve did flot talze this step
to secure the construction of this rond,
whether it la built by the Grand Trinnkl Paci(lc Itailway Company or by the g-overnment.
1 bave honestly and seriously considered the
wliole question and 1 lookc upon it as a
national necessitv.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-In
aeconding the motion of my hon. friend for
the second reading of this Bill, I did noi
lntend to say a word about It. I wisb it to
be understood that in doing s0 1 an flot
committing myseif to ail the provisions 0f
the Bill, iii defence of which my bon. friend
lias made so eloquent a speech. As to the
Bill Itseif I see no objection to it.
'While dissenting froin a portion of the other
Bihl to which my hon. frienil bas ai]uded-that is the government measure-I
Hon. Mr.

MLE.

arn fully ln accord wlth the necessity for
another transcontinental road, and having
said that, 1 compliment my hon. friend on
the loyal speech he bas made. It strongly
reminda me o! speeches I have heard from
ultra-loyal Conservativea and blue-blooded
Tories in the paît. 'x hope he -will continue ln that line, becavse It la a spirit
which ought to actuate every Canadiain.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Beforc the motion
is carried, 1 should Ilke to know If we have
a copy of this Bill ln F'reneb ? It la one o!
the moat Important Bille of the session. and
we should have the French edition o! it before the motion le carried.
The SPEAKER-The question Is on the
motion for the second readIng.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I bave raised an objection that the Bil la nsot printed tu
F'rench.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman ra!aed an objection after the motion was put
and he le too late.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-How could I raIse an
objection to a motion defore the question la
put7
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman has
very often taken an objection before a motion was put, but he did not do so on tlis
occasion.
Hon. Mr. LAINDRY-I want justice to be
done. I have raised the objection that this
Bill la fot prlnted in French, and cannot
be rend the sec îid time to-day.
The SPEAKER-I amn ln the judgmient of
the HouseHon. Mr. LANDRY-I want the House to
understind that xve want to have this Bill
printed iii French, and I do not wanit to he
deprived of my right.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The question was put
by the Chair, and the motion was carried
that the Bill be read the second time. After
that motion was carrîed, the hon. gentleman
from North Wellington rose to address the
Hlouse, and I objgcted to bis speaking at
that time.
ried.

The motion bas reaily been car-

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hon. inember
made a longt speech on the
M7ellington
question. Surelr it is not considered that
for

AUGUST 19, 1903
he spokie atter the question was put ? It
was open for bim to make that speech, and
If it la open for a member to make a speech
on the question, aureiy an bon. meiuber
may mise a point of order.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not see wby the
hon. Speaker sbould bave two conflictlng
rulings.
The SPEÂKER-The hon. meinher bas
spoken already three times on this question
of order, though he bas no rlgbt to do it.
I arn lu the judgrnt of the Honse. This
1s a techaical objection taken by tbe bon.
gentleman from Stadacona. I say the time
to take that objection la before tbe question la put by the Chair, and I amrnii the
judgxnent of the House.

ly appreciate the mlghts o! tbe F<rencb memnbers, to bave sucb a Bill prInted ini French,
yet there ls nothlng else before the House
to-day, and we should make some progrees.
This Bill must go to a Committee of the
Whoie, and it la nnnecessarlly poetponing
the business of the House to defer the
second reafflng on a tecbnical objection.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We wlll have pleaty
o! time to attend to ail the business on
the Order paper. I want the, g,;vernment
to understand tbat when they bring Bills
before this House, tbey must bave tbew
la proper form. I took objection liefore,
and my objection was put aside on the
I
ground that It was not ralsed ln tie.
have taken the point o! order In time .now.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to eall the at- We iih see who -wili gain'by this.
The moti'-n was agreed to.
tention of the Speaker to tbe tact that I do
not think hoe bas a right to call nie to order.
RAILWAY DEBTS BILL.
The House has tbart right, not the Speaker.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The SPEAKER-I arn not golng to discuas the matter witb the lion. gentleman.
The Order o! the Day being called for the
The Speaker, as a member of the House, second reading of Bill (155) An Act respectbas tbe saine rigbt to an opinion on a ques- ing the juriedictlon of the Excbequer Court
tion of order and bas the samne righit to cadi as to Raiiway Debts.
tbe attention o! the House to a question
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the question
of order as any otber member. 1 -'-.lare ls tpnt, I maise the same objection es I did to
the motion carried.
the previous Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-On a axviston.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved that the Order
Tbe Bill was rend the second time.
RAILWAYS

LAW CONSOLIDATION
BILL.

SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The Order o! the Day belng called for
the second reading o! Bill (21) An Act to
amend and consolidate tbe law respecting
rallways.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Before tlie question
Is put, I maise the question that fiais Bill is
not prlnted la French.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the order
be discharged and that it be piaced on
the Order paper for to-morrow.
The motion w-as agreed to.

o! the Day bo discbarged and Ébat It be
[iiaced on the Orders for to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
INCORPORATION 0F BOARtDS
TRADE BILL.

0F

SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The Order o! the Day being called for tbe
second reading of Bill (X) Am Act to
amend the Act respectlng the Incorporation
of Boards of Trade.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the question
is put. I maise tbe samne objection that I did
to the previous Bis. This Bill is flot printed iii Frenchi or in Englii.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved that the Order
of the Day be diseharged and that the Bill
HEon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May 1 say be piaced on the Orders for second readingto my hoa. friend from Stadacona, I think to-morrow.

it is exceedingiy unfortunate that a technicai objection should be raised to an limportant Bill of this kind. Whiie I thorougl-

The motion was agmeed to.
The Sonate adjourned.

SENATE
THE SENATE.
Ottaiwa, Thuirsday, .4ufjust 20. 1903.

FREEDOM-% 0F LABOUR

BILL.

THIRD READING.

The Order of the Day belng called:
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Resumlng the adJourned debate on third reado'clock.
lng (Bill S) An Act ta amend the Criminal Code.
1892, respectlng Free Labour.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURÂND-I had occasion
ta state a couple of Urnes that 1 was someMOTION.
what afrald that the proposed legisiation
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Týhe would not reach the end that the hon, genHouse is aware that a vacancy bas occurred tleman who la promoting this Bill bas ln
VACANCY

ON RAILWAY COMMITTEE.

vlew. The hon, gentleman desires ta prevent the breaklng of the peace lu time of
strike. 1 amn quite sure that we are ail
ln accord ln desiring the same end. The
only weak point that 1 se In the Bill le In
the tact that It has ln view the repression
of an Illegal act, and I have been "aking
myseit If the law could flot have been
tramed to render Impossible the breaking
of peace In time of strikes. The Bill, as It
reads, makes arnenabie ta the penal Iaw,
three or more parties who, being together
ln a tîme of etrike, for a purpose In sympathy with the strîke, If one of them cornmits an offence against the law, It renders
hiable to arrest aUl the parties who are
fact that It la not prlnted ln French, I have presenit and surrounding the offender.
the motion prepared aiso ln French.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I rîse 'ta a point of
Han. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I think the hon. order. The hon. gentleman says 'three or
the motion ln more persans assembled in sympathy wlth
should read
gentleman
the strîke.' As I read the Bill, there ls no
French.
such statement of the tacts.
Several hon. MEMBERS-Read It In
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I arn givIDg
French.
what I understand to be the abject of the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There Bill. As 1 have already stated. the Bill is
is a practice in this Hanse that occasion- repressive, and I thought we could make it
nally mnembers will say 'dispense,' aud I a preventive law. The bon. gentleman prowill take advantage of that.
înotiug this Bill said he was desirous of presenting as perfect a measure as possible ta
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Dispense.
this Honse, aud Invlted criticism, and modiHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I will fications If we had any ta offer. I ar n ot
dispense, and I do It with regret that I ready to affer a Bill in coinplete form as it
amrn ot able ta do Justice ta the French should be presented ta this Chamnber, but 1
language. If there is na objection I make have already mentiolied the fact, that 1
the motion now.
thioug-ht a Bill could be frained to gire power
Hon. MNr. WASNWsthe HTon. 'Mr. ta magistrates. mayors and siierlifs, lu times
of stri-kes, where the strikes and DonCochrane on the Railway Commlttee ?i
strikers are a.pt to corne iii conflict on
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes, I the streets and public places of the City, ta,
would not have made this motion If he had Piohibit tl)e assemblage of more than a cerflot been.
tain number of p)eople, say six or eight. on
the streets of the City. What we bave had
The motion was agreed ta.

on the Railway Commlttee by the la.mented
death of aur f riend the late Senatar Cochrane, and ln arder ta I that vaeancy, wlth
the consent of the House, I move that the
Hon. P. Landry be added ta, the Railway
Committee ln place of the Hon. Mr. Cochrane, deceased. I do that because the hon.
gentleman was a long time on the Railway
Commlttee and was left off either inad1vertently or deslgnedly-it would make very
little difference which. As a committee man,
we always found hlm very useful, and as
the committee meets to-morrow, If the
House consent, I would make the motion
now. If I have ta give notice, lest soine
hon, gentleman should take objection ta the

AUGUST 20, 1903
at present whicli covers the case of men
moving in one direction or the other, and
we can only disperse themn when tbey becorne an uncontroliable and tumultuous asThen, If tliey commit an overt
sernbly.
net-If tliey break the law and become a
danger ta the citizens, the Riot Act can be
read. The f orm of tbat proclamation, which
rend by the mayor or shertif, or justice of
nl this Cliamber liext session 1 msy try is
am
It ta tIge peaôe, is as follows
ta crystallize it Into a Bill and present
Our Soveraigu Lady the Queen charges and
this Chamber-would be ta thus prevent a commanda ail persans being assembled Immea clty diateiy ta disperse and peaceably ta depart ta
meeting of peaple on the streets of
habitations or to their lawful business.
when tbere are certain kluds of strikes, theirt the pain of being gullty of an off ance on
upon
w-hereln contending parties are npt ta corne conviction of wbich they may be sentenced ta
in confit, and where the pence and order lmprisonment for lUe.
God Save the Queen.
of th~e city may be broken by sucb a meetThis lsa fter the iaw bas been braken,
contendlng aud conflicting parties.
ing of the
The abject of sucli a Bill as 1 have suggest- when the people wba bave gatbered are
The ulne upon which 1
ed, an the wbole, produces as coinpiete an beyond controi.
effect as the Bill of my lion. frIend, but sbould like ta work, and wiii, at ail events,
wlmat 1 do feel la that the bon. gentleman's try ta draft a Bill, is that such a proclaBill may be a good Bill to repress a tumul- mation should be made when certain kinds
tuous nssembiy and give certain pawer ta of strike take place ln municipalitles and
the police ta arreat ail thase connected witb clt;es-nat by reading the Riot Act, but
a tuimultuous assemblage, but It seems ta simply by a proclamation issued by the
me It cauid perliapa go In a somewbat dit- magistrates. 1 do not lntend ta dissent
ferent direction and reacb the anme end, more tban to that extent from the Bill of
by preventi ng tbe assembiy of people dur- the hon. gentleman. As I said before, and
iug times of certain strîkes. We have at as lie bas himself stated, It cannot become
present on aur statute-book-aufd I read It law this session, and we will have an opthe tirst time 1 spake on thîs subject-tbe portunity next session to have a friendly
oid Vagrant Act, Incorporated ln the Tliamp- discussion of the question.
son law, wbicli defines a vagrant thua :
Han. Mr. CLORAN-r find this Bill ln
Every one Is a baose, idle or disorderiy per- its present shape-and wording Is stili more
san, or vagrant wha
incomprebensible than it was on ita first
(e)l bitera on any street, raad, highway -r
It lias been shora of many of
public place, and obstructs passengera by stand- drafting.
Its dangerous limbs, but the trunk that Is
ing acros the foatpatb, or by using Insulig
language. or in any other way ;
stili more daugerous than the whoie
(f) causes a disturbance ln or near any street, lef t Is
I would ask my
raad, highway or public place, by screa-ning. body wben It was bora.
swearing or singing. or by being drunk, or by legal confreres in thus Hlouse ta understand
peaceable passenimpeding or incammadlng
the full value and meaning of the worde
gers;
(g) by discharging firearma, or by riatous or of tbis Bill. I heard the hon, leader of
disorderly conduct ln any street or highway,
wantaniy disturba the peace and quiet of the the opposition, at a former stage of this iil,
ininates of any dweiiing-hause nlear auch strect sny that lie couid uot comprebend it, as lie
or highway.
wvas flot a legai authority, but liere are the
a meeting of people on the streets of words :
Sa
If at any time wben a strike la ln progress
t.he city can be dlspersed, but the difficuity
to contend witb bas beeu the assemblag-e of
men, who apparently, were peaceable aud
bent upan doing what was riglit, but comlng
in contact with non-strikers, men wlia
wlsiied to work and were working, broke
the law, and with hue and cry foilowed the
parties who were not lu hnrmony witb tbem
My Idea-and If I
and assaulted them.

we liad ta deal with ln the strike of street
car motermen and conductors lu Montreal,
was that the parties dld not loiter, but werE
mnoving in a procession, apparentiy ln a
peiiceable mauner, untll they came ln contact witb the mioving cars, and then tliey
assnuited the men employed ini runnlng
We bave nathing iu our lan
those cars.

three persans or mare assemble for any purPose, and If whiie they are so asembied any
unlawfui act of violenceHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I rise to a point of

The bon, gentleman lias not the
order.
Bill as it bas been reprinted.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Theu the officeTs of
This Bill bas been
the House are to biame.

S EINAT E
We ail have a riglit to assemble for any
put iniiiy hands as the bon. gentleman's
purpose which is flot unlawullast expression on this matter.
An hon. MEMBER-Read the otlher part.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-I have the Bill as
and reprinted ln Committee of the
amended
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The clause procee6.s:
Wliole.
Wblch may reasonably be dedmed connect,,d
Hon. INr. CLORAN-I sent for the last wthNow, who Is golng to decide whether it
copy of the Bihl, and this is wbat bas been
is reasonably connected witb the strike.
handed to me.
Is It the hon. promoter, or the lion. gentleHou'. Sir )1.4CKENZIE BOWELL-I may man who puts In the objection ? If lie were
state that the Bill In my bands Is exactly on the field of strike 1 should probably allowv
in the wording of tlie Bill read by tlie bon. hlm to be the judge of my actions, but who
gentleman Just uîow. It purports toi be re- Is golng to reasonably deem that 1 amn conprinted as amended In Commlttee of the nected wlth the strike? Is It the policeman
Whole. 1 was following the hon, gentle- or the magistrate ? It is the man who is
man closely, and 1 see thiat my Bill le ex- going to arrest me, and wlio le lie ? By
actly the samne as the one lie le readlng. whom Is hie employed ? Is lie a special conFORGET-I sent for a copy of stable sworn In for the purpose? I say that
Hon. M-Nr.
the Bill a few minutes ago. and the one I this clause ls one that this honourable House
received le exactly the saine as the bon. cannot accept under the circumsttnces. 1
am flot opposed to the object which the hon.
gentleman bas rend IL.
gentleman wilhes to attain by this Bill.
Hon. '.%r. CLORAN-The oflicers of the
on the streets
do not 1 do not want to lie assaulted
Thiey
House mnust be on strike.
during tîmes of strike. I do not want to
carry out the wishes of the promoter of the
made againet me during time
BUi (S) nmarked 'printed as arnended' In have threats
of strike. The law should provide proper
niy bands. 1 shahl not vote for a Bill that
safety of thie person
We are discussing here means whereby the
I bave not seea.
should be maintained and uplseld, but this
a matter of very great importance to citiprovide proper mens. It
zens of the Dominion, and we do not know law does not
le an instrument of tyranny ln the bands
wbat -we are discussing.
of irresponsible mien, of special constables,
BEIQUE-I bave on my file of ordinary constables. Tliey are the men
Hon. M-Nr.
Bill (S) rnarked 'printed as nnieaded lu who are to judge the conduct of myseif and
Commîiittee of the Whole,' and this Bill does two or three friends on the street. There
not read as the lion. gentleman lias comn- is n strike in progrees. There are four or
menced to rend clause 4. The Bill has this five hundred -men viewing the condition of
portion:
tbings as they are passlng la a public place,
4. If at any time whon a strike is in pro- or on the public streets. Take the instance
gress, three persans or more assemble for any of a strike on a street railway line, and wbich
be deerned con-

purpose whicb may reasonably
nected witb, or In sympatby with such strike. le the cause of this Bill. A car cornes down.
and if while they are so assembled, any act of There are four or five bundred people on
violence. &c.
One individual among those
the street.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I accept the inter- four or five hundred throws a stonle, or
pretation of the Bill given by the hon. pro- strikes n blow at the motorman or coniductor,
moter, and I take decided objection to the or utters a thre.9t. 1 happen to corne along
wording of this Bill la behaîf of the liberty innocently witb two friends. I stand on the
of the citizen, not on behaîf of my own per- outskirts of that crowd and thie policemen
solial view-s. I take a decided stand agntnst corne on the scene. They are flot witnesses
this honourable House and this parliament of who committed the crime, but frorn the
putting on the statuites of our country a Bill very fact that an unlawful act was cornwhich is a9 clear infringernent of the liberty initted I arn hable to arrest. 1 arn Hable
of the subject. The clause rends:
to be brougbt to jai, spend miy ev-ening
If at anv time when a strike is in progress there, arise in the morning. send for a lawthree persoans or more assemble for any puryer and witnesses to prove rny good charposeHon. '.\r. CLORAN.

AUGUST 20, 1903
acter, and tbat I was not Iuterested lu the lation could be passed lu regard to ail relastrIke-that I lxad nothlug ta do with the tions which exiat between labour aud capital.
unlawful act. 1 aay that that la au abaurd They would flnd therein lessons relating to
condition of thinga ta place amy citizens ln. the relations between labour and capital.
Four or five bundred people are to be de- They would flnd lessons in regard to the
clared gullty Ipso facto because one drunken duty of the state towards labour aud labour'a
man or one over-zealous man thraws a atone rigbt and labour's duty towards the state.
or bits another man. It is a position that Tbey would find therein the question wbich
thîs House cannot afford ta make the citi- lias troubled my mind, a question upon
zens of thîs country accept. And that la which I waa flot decided, a question of
the resuit of this Bill. We cannot accept labour and fair wages. Let tliem read the
that position. Having bad an opportunity document laid down therein, ln the euta admînister the laws of this country, I cydlcal, and they will find words that wll
say It la flot fair ta place the powers wbich astonish tlîem. Thcy say labour usut be
thia Bill givea in the bauds ai. ordiuary men. free. Certainly labour mnust be free, but
It la not riglit to aur citizeaahip. It la flot labour bas Its riglits and capital bias its
respecting our liberty of aaaembly, and ou duties towards labour. Tbey would find
tiiese grounds I prateat aincerely and earn- al1so therein lessons ln regard to the riglits
'estly againat this measure, flot, as 1 have of association ani of public dealiug. These
said, that I ar nl favour af violence or are points upou which 1 should like ta cail
tlîreats or unlawful means. By no menus, the attention of the Senate for a few minbut, as I stated ta gentlemen ontside of this utes-not that I wish ta communicate my
House, It la dangerous ta enact a general own feelings la the matter, but to give to
law on the streugth of a particular tact. this bonourable House, aud througli this
Laws should flot be general and made ta bonourable House ta the country and to
apply generally because ai a certain act the public and labouring masses of this
which occurred ln a certain tawn, sud thia country, wbat I cousider the best and tile
1Bi1, as bas been suggeated, was boru out scundest doctrine lu regard ta this great
af the reaults of that strike in Mantreal, and question of labour and capital. Take for
It la ta be applied to ail the toliug masses Instance the first point, the relations betlu every part of thxia Dominion, aud not only ween labour and capital, wbat Is said ? The
ta, them, but even ta conimon spectatars pantift *who ls uow dead. wrote as falaws:
The great miatake that ls made ln the matter
wlîo bappen to be with sncb gatherînga of
now under consideration, la to posseas oneseif
men in public places lu our cities sud towns, of the idea that clas Io naturally hostile to
poor are intended
sud on that graund I amn radlcally oppoaed clans ;that rich and wlth one another. by
Sa
nature ta live at war
to It and for .no other reasan. The bou. irrational and no faise ls this view that, the
remarks alluded exact contrary la tbe truth. Just as thxe syrupramoter of this Bil lu bis
the resuit of the
ta the treedam of action of labour. It strlkes metry of the human body laof the body, s0 la
disposition of the niembers
la flot tharoughly a state It la ordalned by nature that these two
me that tbat question
and agreement,
understood even lu this banaurable Hanse. classes should exlst in harmony one anather, su
and should. as it were, fit into
aud capital la as ta maintain the equilibrium of the body
Tbe question of labour
canthe other
Each
the greateat question of the day. Il polltlc. without requires nor labour .capital capiwitbout
labour,
la the study not do
la' accupying the mindsansd
tal. Mutual agreement reauîts in pleasautuass
of great men, af men lu high position, *and good order ;perpetual canfiict necessarily
confusion and outrage. Now. in preaf men 'wbo have nt beart the wel- praduces such strife as thîs. and lu makiug it
ventlng
fare af buman saciety, sud I was proud impassible, the efficacy of Christianity ls maraf aIl,.
and
here, two ar three weeks ago ta hear *vellousmore manifold. Flrst religionthere la no(of. which
powerful than
thing
the'hon. leader af the opposition quote fixe the church la the interpreter and guardian) lu
by reminding
words af the man wha was beat af ail en- *drawlng rlch and ponr togAther, other, sud eseach class af Ite duties ta the
titled ta apeak lu the naine af society the pecially of the duties of justice. Thus religion
late pautiff af illustrious memory, Leo XIII. teaches the labouring man aud the workman ta
If tixis Hause wouid take bis Encyclica icarry out honestly and welltaail equltable agreeInjure capital, for
ment tfreely muade, neor
Letter, entitled 'Rerwm Xavarnm', rend ilt ta outrag the persan af an employer ;never
employ vialence ln representlug hîs awn
aud atudy it, tbey wauld fiud lu it lessaul sta
lu riot and disorder :and
af wisdom, lessons upan which sauud logis -cause,havenor to engage do with men of evil prinnothing to
ta

786

SEINATE

ciples. who 'work upon the people with artful welfarc and th, comfort of the working-people.
promises. and raise foolish hopes which usually or else that law of justice wlll ha violatýd

end ln disaster and ln repentance when too late. which ordairis that each shall have bis due. To
St.
Religion tes.ches the rich man and the employer cite the wise words of wholeThomas of Aquin:
are iu a certain
that their work-people are flot their slaves- As the part and the
man bis dig- sense ldentical. the part may ln some sense
that they muet respect ln. every
whole. Among
nity as a man and as a Christian ;that labour cimln what belongs to therulers who would the
do
in nothing ta be ashamed of, if we listen to niany and grave duties of
people, the first and chie!
right reason and ta Christian philosophy, but tbeir hast for the
la an honourable empîpyment, enabling a man ls ta act with strict justice-with that justice
schools distributive-tote austain bis life ln an upright and creditable which is called in the clans.
way ;and that It ls shameful aud Inhuman ta wards each and every
Blut although aIl citizens, without exception,
treat men like chattels to malte money by, or
common
to look iipon them meraly as so much muscle can and ought to contribute ta that profltably
share Bo
or physical power. Thus, again, religion teaches gond ln which Individuals to, be supposed that
that. as among the workmen's concerne are re- to theniselves, yet i ls not
the
ligion hersaIt. and things spiritual and mental, ail can contributa ln the same way and to may
the employer is bound to see that he has time saine extent. No matter what changes
will
for tha dutias of piaty ;that ha be flot exposed ho made Iu forme of goyernment, there conto corrupting Influences and dangarous occa- aiways bo differences and inequalities of or bie
sions «.and that ha be not led away ta neglect dition ln the state ; ociety cannot axist
be
bis home and family or to equander his wages. cnnceived without them. Some thera muet the
o!
ta
Then, again, the employer must neyer ta% who dedicate themsalves the the work adminlaws. who
bis work-people beyond th>Iir strength. nor Brm- commonwealth. who malte
ploy tham ln work unsuited ta tbeir sex or age. ister justice, whose advice and authority goverfl
defend it in
Hia great and principal obligation is ta give ta the nation ln timas of peaca, andthe foremoat
occupy
every ona that.which is juat. Doubtless before war. Such men clearly should be held ln the
we cau decide whether wagas ara adequate place lu the state. and
foremost estimation, for their work touchAs
many things have ta i
general Intermon and masters ehould remember this-that mont nearly and effectively the who labour rit
te exercise pressure for the sakre o! gain, upon esta of the community. Those
a trade or calling do not promote the general
the Indigent and destitute, and ta maire one's
profit out of the need of-another, ls rondemnefi welfare ln sucb a fashion as this ;but tbey do
by all laws, human and divine. To defraud any In the mont important way banefit the nation,
insisted
one o! wages that are bis due la a crime wbich though legs directly. We have ta make that,
men
cries ta the avenging anger of heaven. Behold, since It le the end o! society
be
the hire of the labourera . . . . wbich by better. the chief good that aociety cati al
Nevertheless, ln
fraud bas been kept back by you, crieth ; ad possassed of tg virtua. It la a by na means unthe cry of them bath entered the Bars o! the well-constitutfid states
bodlly
Lord of the Sabbaoth. Finally, the ricb must Important matter ta provide thasewbicb ls and
nereligiously refrain froni cutting down the work- axternal commodities, the use of ln the proviman's earnings, either by force, by fraud. or hi cessary to virtuous action. And labour o! the
maurions dealing ;and with the more reason be- sion o! materlal well-being. the and the
cause the poor man in weak and uuprotected, poor-the exercine of their akillthe culture emof
and because his glander means should be macred ployment o! their Atrength ln trade-is most
the land and the workshope of
ln proportion ta tbeir scantiness.
Wera these precepta carefully ôbeyed and fol- emlcacious and altogether Indispensable. la Ingo
deed. their co-operation ln this respect
Iowed would not 1atrife die out and cease.
Important that It may the workingman that
expounded. .only by the labour of be truly said that It la
Now, there la the aolid truth
We admit that labour and capital must go states grow rich.
therefore, demande that the Intereats
Jutie
band ln band, and the leglalature of a counofthe poorer population be carefully watched
be called upon ta pasa laws over by the administration, go that they Who
try abould miot
advantage of the
In favour of one section againat the other. rontribute so largaîr to the share in the benecommnnity may th2-mselves
tbey should be made fits tbey creata-that being housed, clothefi, and
Wlueu lawa are passed
'ta apply geuerally and univeraly, andl I enabled to support life, they xnay find their exfolles hard and more endurable.
eoîîendthattheIawunde coaideatinlatencethat whatever shaîl appear to be It conrontud tat
he lw uder onsderaionlows
of those who work
violates one of the conditions whicb Is ne- ductive ta the well-being
favourabla consideration. Let it
eessary for goipd legislation, the rlght lni r- sbould receive that solicitude of this kind wili
not ha feared
ference ta the duty a! the state. 'The poil- Injure any intpeat a n the contrary. It will te
to the advantage of all for i cannot but b.c
tiff wrate ns follows
good for the commonwealth ta secura from
Thcre is another and a deeper consideratlon niisery those on whom it So largely dependa.
whlch muet not be lorst aight of.
stefudtoteol
hr
Nw
Ta the state the interests o! aIl are eciual.
he n7.
furdin
lth
ote
whethar high or 10w. The poor are members of
community equally with the rir.b; wîse, true toundation. on wblch ta biuild oui.
the national
they are real component parts, living parts. laws-justice towards .a1l, privileges to
which make up, tbraugh the family. the living
it.
body ; ad it nead hardly ha said that they are nouie, dlstributed justice, as lie calls
by far the majarity. It would be irrational to Tlhen as far as labour, M-here wi.ges are
negîect ana portion a! the citizens and to «favour
another ;sad therefare the public administra- coierxxed, this doctrinie ny astonishi inany,
,tion must duly and solicitaualy provide for thu but let me give it ta this honourable House
Hon. Mr. CIIORAN.

AUGLTST 20, 1903

787

and the country. This Is what he. says on they strike iu the interests of their
children and their homes, and It la proposed
the rlg.ht of the labourer to fair wages :
that the arm of the law, by concealed efforts,
Employers' moral obligation ta pay fair vages.
we nov approach a subject of very great Im- such as are attempted by the promoter of
portance and one on which. If extremes are to this Bill, shall strike them down. In face
be avoided, right ideas are absolutely necesesrY of this document, I stand here and tell this
Wages, we are told. are fixed hi free consent
and, therefore, the employer, when he pays Sonate it cannot be doue. On the right of
vhat was agreed upon, bas doue bis part, and ls association I quote to you whnt the late
not called upon for anything further. The only
way, it Io said, In which Injustice could happan, pontiff wrote
would b. If the master refused to pay the whole
Civil society existe for the common gaod, and,
of the vages, or the workman would flot complate the work undertaken ;when this happeni therefore, ia concerned with the intereata of ail
the state ahould Intervene. to aee that each oh- ln general, and wlth the Individual IntereasIt la
la
tains his own, but not under any other circum- their due place and proportion. Hoe,
called publie society, because by is mens, as
stances.
'Men communicate.
This mode of reasoning is by fia meana con- St. Thomas of Aquin says,
comvincing ta a fair-minded man, for thera are Im- with one another ln the aetting Up of a formportant considerations which it leaves out of monwealth.' But the societles which are
view altogethar. To labour la ta axert onaas self ed In the boeom of the state are called prîvata,
for the sake of pracuriug what is necessary for and justly oc, because their Immediate purposa
Now,
the purposes of lhfe, and most of ail for self- la the private advantage of the associatas. la one
preservation. In the sweat of thy brow thou a private society, maya St. Thomas again,
carrylng
saol oat hread. Theref are, a man's labour bas which la formed for the purpose of or three
tva notes or characters. First of ail, it ls out private business ; as when two of trading
personal ;for the exertion of individual power enter into partfiership with the view
aibelangs ta the Individuel who puts It forth, etc- In conjunction. Particular socleties, thon.each
ploying this power for that personal profit for though thay saint within the atate, and are proba
vwhich it vas given. Secondly, man's labour la a part of the atata, neverthelaas cannotas mach.
mecessary ;for wîthout the resulta o! labour a hibited by the state absolutely and
of thia kind le the
man cannot live ;and self-conservation la a law For to enter Into ' aociety'
of nature, which it is wrong to disobey. Nov, if natural right o! man ; and the atate muet prow. were ta, consider labour merely so far as it tect natural righta, not destroy them ; and If It
la personal, doubtless It would be within the forbids Utn citizans to forta associations, It conli ovn
vworkmaa's right ta accept any rate o! vages tradicts the very principle of virtue o!existence;
ezist
whatever , for In the same way he ta free ta for both they and it naturalIn propenaity the aame
o! man
principle, viz., the
vwork or not, oc he is free ta accept a amal
remuneration or even nane at ail. But thia to live in society.
There are times, no doubt, vhen it la rlght
labour
le a moe abstract supposition ;the
to prevent
of the workingman la not only hia per- that the law shouid Interfere together for assosenaI attribute, but it la neceasary , and thit ciations ,as when men join bad, unjust,puror
moas ail tha difference. The preaarvation of poses whlch are evidently
In such cases the publite is the bounden duty of each and ail, and ta dangerous to the otate. forbid the formation of
fail therein ia a crime. It fallava that each lic authorlty may justly
-one has a right ta procure vhat la required ln associations, and may disaolve thêtm vhen they
precaution ahould be
order ta live ; and the poor eau procure it ln already exist. But every rlghta of Individuals,
taken not ta violate the
'no other vay thon by vork and wagea.
Let it be granted, then, timat, as a raie, and not ta make unreasonable regulations under
laws only
workman and employer sbould make free agree- the pretense of public benefit. For wlth rIght
menta, and In particular abould freely agree as bind when they are in accordance
vlth the eternal
ta vages ;nevertheleaa, tbere la a dictate of reamon, and thereforethe state watch overlaw o!
thae
Let
mature more imperiaua and more ancient than God * 0*
lu the axunited
:auy bargain hetween man and man, that the societies of citizena ;but lettogetherthrust Itsel!
it not
-reMuneration muat be enough ta support the ercise of their rightconcerna and their organisavage-earner ln reasanable and frugal comfort. into their peculiar
withmove and live by
If through uecessity or fear of a wora. evil, tion;' for thingathey may be killed the soul graap
by the
the vorkman accepta harder conditions because ln thera, and
an employer or contractor vili give blm no of a hand frot vithout.
botter, he la the victim of force and Injuatice.
Tie hon. gentleman (Mr. Belque) intim-In these and slmilar queations, however-auch
-as, for example, the houra of labour In different ated hîmeel! that the House of Comtrades, the aanitary pracautions ta be obaerved
would not pass this Bill. Then
'In factorisa and varkahops, &c.-In order ta mous
-supersede undue Interference on the part of tbe why ask this body to stand In a position of
atate, especially as circumatances, Urnes and Ia- antagonista to the rigbts of labour ? We do
calities differ no wldely, itlai advisable that recourse he had ta societies or boards guch a va flot want crime committed eltmer by labourshaîl mention preseatly, or ta nome other me- ers or capitalists, but this Bill Is taken as
thod of safeguarding the Intereate of wagarlghts
-earners ;the state ta be asked for approva] j au expression of animoslty against the
and prîvileges of labour. As I stated in
7and protection.
remarks I made a week ago, there 19
Men strike, flot beeause they want tc isome
do violence or injury ta society ; t b e, not a single organ of public opinion in the
Dominion that has come eut and eudorsed
In the iuterests ýo! humanity
£strlke
50i

788
the han. gentleman's Bill.

SENATE
1 have here on

my desk many argans of public opinion denounelng thîs Bill, not only as a bad one,
but as iniiqultous. From Vancouver to Halltax, the voice o! the masses, as expressed
through their organizatians, is against thîs
Bill, and the hon. gentleman bas flot been
able ta show us that public opinion, or the
needs or the requirements o! public sa!ety,
demand the passage ot this Bill. On the
contrary, the public feeling o! this country
Is against it, and I hold, under the clrcumstances, the bon. gentleman ought ta -withdraw it, and give bis colleague, the hon.
gentleman fromi De Lorimier (Hon. Mr. Dandurand), a chance to draft a Bill which wi'll
meet the exigencies ot the situation-that
wili meet the exigencies of a crowd gathered together for the purpose of committing a
crime-as lie said, a measure preventing
crime, flot through repression, which leads
to the arrest o! the Innocent and guilty together. There may be 500 persans In an assembly, 499 of whom are agaînst any crimiual nct, and because one drunken or crazy

and whio, for the last twenty years lias devoted bis entire energy, and I may say, the
best part of bis Ilie to the study of labour
questions. 1 refer ta a book which bas
heen pubiisbed under the titie ot Social Unrest, written by John Graham Brooks..
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Where is lie frow?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The United States.
Without quoting extensively trom this book,
I abail take the trouble of.reading three or
four short passages wbich embody the true
doctrine, and which wili show in what
spirit this question, la my humble opinion,
should be approached. The author refers
at the outset of the book to the Gospel of
Wealth publlshed by Ândrew Carnegie,
from whlch he cites this passage:

The right of the workingmen ta combine aud
ta form trade unions Is no iess sacred than
the right of the manufacturer to enter Into
associations and confereoces with his fellows,
and it must sooner or later bie conceded. Indeed, It gives one but a poor opinion of the
American workman If hie permaits himseif ta be
deprived of a rlght which his fellow in England
long since conquered for blmself. My experlence bas been that trade unions, upon the
Individual commits -an Illegal act, they are wiiole. are beneficial both ta labour and ta capital. They certainly educate the workinguicn
ail ta be held guilty aud hiable ta be brouglit and give them a truer conception of the relabefore the courts of the country and requir- tionis of capital and labour than they couli
The ablest and best workinen
ed to establish their Innocence. That posi- otherwise form. ta the front. In these -)rginiaeventually corne
tion I am radically opposed ta, and I hope tions.
tbat the hon. promoter of the Bill will accept the advice of the hon, gentleman tram
De Lorimier, and heave the matter over for
turther coasideratlon, and draft a Bihl whlch
wil be mare la accordance with the condition o! things la this country.

Now, these are the very opinions whicb 1
bil the lionour to express when I lntrod uced this Bill, and 1I fnd la the same book
an approval of the other opinion whichi I
had the lionour to express, that nothing is
so detrimeatal to the welfare of trades
Hau. Mr. BEIQUE-I shahl trouble the unions as the breaking of the peace, and
House only a tew minutes ta say that I arn I rend tram the samne book, page 10:,
sarry this Bill is the occasion of somewliat
-Not oaly socialists but many of aur most Inexcltiag the hon. memiber who bas just fluential trades union leaders, have growa into
opinions than they can yet enforce upa
spoken. H1e may have bis own wfly 0f np- larger followers. Tbey are as a unit upon the
their
preciating mensures that came before this
hionourable House, but it seenis to me hie
sbould not deny an equal right ta other
Without folioxving the hon.
members.

meniber on the grounds over which he bas
travelled, w-hichi are very foreiga ta this
Bill, I have hiad occasion aiready ta state
in what spirit the ineasure was presented.
I desire to refer toa boo>0k which 1 read a
few days aga with wiîich I ara in entire
accord, a book publishied witbin the hast
two or three ionths by a man Who lias
been conniected withi one of tHe leading
United States universities for tlîirty years,
Hon. Mr. CIXIRAN.

importance of keeping every contract their
unions sign with employers. They are as a
ulnit against ail violence against non-union
men. They are otten helpless before the lipulsive action of some local union, but their
uinquestioned policy ls ta strengthen their organization at tbese wesker points.

Then, on page 149, 1 find the followlng:
auuiot
Labour leaders bave learned that thiey .and oiight not ta succeed by personal savagory
I have never
against property or p)ersans.
heard more honest and passionate pleadings for
law a nd order than froin trade union officiais
addressing their own men in turne Of strikzes.
At sncb a moment John Mitchell said to his
minArs :'If you want ta spoil yaur own cause
and lose ev'ery sacrifice you have made for yourselves and vaur famnilies, give way ta yaur tom-

AUGUST 20, 1903
Just- a few
per and commit same violence.
outbreaks like this and the public g.adwill,
ta which we must look ifl last resort, wl fail
us. and we shahl deserve ta lace it.' 'ihese
wards w~ere net spoken for outside use, but tu
bis own men la council. Nor are they exceptional amang the more disciplined leaders ln
this country.

Then. on page 356, 1 find the following:
The sin and the weakness of the trade union
bas been (1) In is attitude toward the nonunion man (2) la its sulien aversion ta new
(3) ln its tao willing accent ta
Inventions
cbeck the output of wc'rk ;(4) In its tendancy
to dîscourage the best endeavour amoag the better and stranger workers ;(5) ln its tue fres
use of the sympathetic strike :(6) Ia a far tue
reckiess use of the boycott. The worst of our
unions are guiity or every one of these cotints
against them. The average union le guiity In
the case of part of them. but the best and
strongest unions have aiready rîsen pretty
clearly and cieaniy abave them ail.

Then on page 359 the author quotea from
a paper publislied by the labour unions,
Noveniber 22. 1902, contaiaing- the f olhowing words:
Browbeating or violence on theîr part cannot be defended. Where tiiat is resorted ta the
ethical purpose of the movement becomes obscure and hatreds are engendered that offset
the brotberiy spirit upon which It la fouaded.
No matter how serlous the evils te be c')mbatted, barbarism cannot be overcome by mare
barbarism. If the benelits of the union cannot
be made apparent to the non-member, and If
the influence which they can exert colle.2tively
lis Insufficient, ta induce hlm ta Join, then their
cause has littie strength.

7Sf:

liiat this measure is the most moderate and
preventative that I arn able to devise. In
times of strîke, when violence has taken
place, the labour unions bave disclaimed beThey
ing the authors of that violence.
have repeatedly asserted that the acts of
violence were commltted by persons who
did flot beiong to their organization, by evildisposed persons who Interfered merely for
the purpose of breaking the peace. Therefore, they are interested when an assemb>lage such as la descrlbed la the Bill takes
place, and 'when it is for the purpose
mnentioaed ln the Bill, and when acts of
violence are committed-as are also mentioned ln the Bill, and as are necessary to brlIng
It; within the four corners of the Bill-they
are Interested to have the guilty parties
prosecuted ln order that the; inay be an
example to others, and Ia order that the
peace may be better preserved. The lion.
member for De Lorimier has expressed the
Intention o! trying to draft a better Bill
tîxan mine-a Bill wbich wl.ll better attain
the object la view. He will be at liberty to
do so. He has already had sme time to do
It, but so far he bas not presented sucb a
Bill. It Ia .ouiy when we have a draft of
the measure tbat we can compare it with
the one which Is under discussion, but I
have flot heard anything which, In my
humble opinmion, should Induce aie to assent
to the request wbich bas been made by the
bon. member for Victoria, to witbdraw the
Bill. I Insiat on the motion for the third
reading.

The hast reference to which I desire to
caîl attention Is on page 374, where the
author sams up bis opinion on the question
ln the following words :
On the need afI ndustrial reconstruction ;on
the defects af the wage system ,on the- need af
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I thought the hon.
extending legal reguhation, there ls aow a very
remarkabhe consensus of opinion among able gentleman would have acceded to the rewriters. economists. business men, labour lead- quest made to hlm, to, postpone this measure
ers and socialists trained by experlence. This
ince lie has flot
general acquiescence does not, of course, extead untIl next session, but
ta details or ta methods. It gives us, n-iver- doae eo, as I Iatend to, vote agaiast the
thehess, s0 broad a ground of common sympathy Bill, I wish to, explain why 1 should do
and understanding, that It should be made the
basis of a nev educationai and experimental so. The hon, gentleman has given us some
ac tivit y.
reason, and bas triEd to explain the spirit
It was Inspired by those doctrines, which In whlch he bas Introduced this Bill. We
la nxy humblie opinion are sound doc- are flot very much concerned about the
trines, thait I came ta the conclusion that spirit ; there ls nobody who thinks the hon.
nothing would be so nmmcli iii the interests gentleman meana m.Ischiet, but the Bill must
of labour unions as to protect theiu agaiust be consldered on Its merits. There Is noviolenee and against the excitetuent under body In tbis House, or outaide of this House,
whicli they uatarally labour in tumes of that would cûi.nteilance violence Ia time
stritze. -Notwitbstanding tue crlticisms that of strike, but really this Bill seemns to go too
I have heard. and ta whichi 1 have paid at- far. Ia the first place, as drafted. there
tention. and after the full consideration I are soine difficulties of construction about
have given the subjeet, I ninat coixfess it. Leaving tbat aside, however, It seema

SENATE
principles aîssemibled had to be îîotified, the Bill wouid
Britishî 1)e withour effect. The Bill is not diconsubjeets. Fir,.t. it is an excessive cur- r*eçtedl aginst five or six p)erý:oin
meetinýg. ,regating on the street at a time Of strike.
righlt
of
the
tailment of
British subjects, under British Institu- People cannot be prevented from doing that,
tions, have that righit of meeting, andh but whlat Is to be guarded against Is nets
it is considercd one of their niost sacred of violence commltted ln tixnes of strike,
rlghts. I say the Bill is an excessive cur- and people should be warned to be careful
tailment of that ri.ght. In the second place. not to associate with persons who commit
ln the administration of the crîminal law, acts ot violence. I direct the attention of
any one who maltes an accusation must hon. members to this fact, that the Bill
establish his charge. The onus of proof la nakes it the duity of ail persons assemiblingupon hlm. Here lt is the reverse. You in connection witiî a strike, to see that
oblige a man to establish bis Innocence those with whorn they are meeting keep
before the courts. That is a reversai of a the peace. Tliat seenis to lie a reasonable
general princîple la our crIminal law, ani rtnd right priniciple of legîslitioii.
should not be countenanced.
Honl. Mr. McHUGH-I have spokien a
Hoi. '.Ir. l)eBOUCHElIVILLE-Tue Bill1 couple of times on this subject already,_
provides. in ease of a iot at a meeting, it antI I rise now mereiy to put inyseif un
becomes an unlawful assembly. That Is ai- rEcord as being opposed to the proposet
ready provided for in tHe Oriminai Code. legisiation. To my mInd, lt deprives the
But there is another objection. Under the labour unions ln towns and cities of the
law, people attendlng sucli a meeting, who right of assemblng at a time, when thiey
do flot take any part ln tbe generai tumuit, have most need to meet to transact legitiare Informed by the mayor that thiey must mateir the business for when tbey are out
disperse before tbey are hiable to, arrest. on strike-meeting togetîler perbaps to bring
Why does not tHie lion. member make the about a settiement wlth their employerssame provision herel A person may be at îîerhaps lnvlting their employers to come
a meeting with the best Intentions, and stili to It. Somie evil dlisposed l)erson, flot belie may become a member of an uniawful loliging to the oirganiiz«ttioii, muay get
assembhy under this Bill, and throughi that into an assembly of that kînti and create a
fact, be subject to arrest. It Is strange thit disturbance and ail at the meeting become
people shiould not be iformed before arrest hiable to arrfst and Imprisoament until they
that they must disperse. Will the bon. gen- establish their innocence. I do not think
tleman tell us why lie did not pnt such a anY one can say this Bill does not go tiat
clause li tHie Bil-that the parties ln the far. If there is any tiffe wben labour orassembly should be Informed that the as. ganizatiozîs require te iieet. and meet for legitiniate purposes. l)eri1apý to bring arouîzd a
sembly is urflawful ?
settlement of a strike, It is at the time the
Hon. Mr, BEIQUE-I understand thatthie strike Is on. There is no difficulty ln an
hion. member asks why, lu f ramlng the Bill, 1officer of the law assumlng that people who
I did not provide for notice to be given toi ineet are lxi sympathy with. the strike, and
1 if some evil-disposed person g-ets ln and
the people liot te assemble.
Hon _\Ir. DeBOUCHEIIVILLE-No, but creates trouble lie will get the whole assembly arrested. 1 do not think It is the
to -disperse.
Intention of the promoter of the Bihl to
Hon. -Mr. BEIQUE-I have tried the best hring about a ny3thing of that klnd.
11w
I could to frame a law which would have 1bon. gentleman says he is ln sympatby wvitl
a praetical effect, aud It is designed to deal' labour. The very book he quoted from -laid
wlth assemblies of a kind that we have bad labour organizations are ln this country to
some experience of-in the case of the long.' stayv-that Eillanid had been a long wa%'Y
shioremeis strike, for instance. At tliat in advance of tbis country in that direction.
lune ten or fifteen persons ivould assemble., 1 believe thery have doue a great deal of
and the police authorities could not be every- good. They liave dloue harm aiso. Evils
where aI one lime. If lUe parties thus have followed strikes, but we muiist consider
to mie
wihei

the

Bill

are saere(l

vio]ite-

two

prmnceiles

Hon. Mr. BERNIER.

with

AUGUST 20, 1903
the good tbey have done to labour, and If
evils have foliowed lu their trend it Is our
duty to encourage the organizatioîîs to reform those abuses, instead of trying to
crusli out that which bas been o! ndvantage
to the labouring classes. There bas neyer
been any good bequeatbed to man that
evils did flot follow lulits train. The duty
of tbis country Is to elevate the labouriîîg
classes to n higber standard, and ivhen they
commit nets of violence to point out to
tbemn that It: la only by keeping witbin the
law that tbey are going to bave the sympatby of thie community, and that It la only
ln that way they can succeed ln obtainlng
their just demands fromn organized capital.
The bon. gentleman, tbe promoter of tbis
Bill, said a moment ago tbat It was not bis
Intention to Injure labour organizations. 1
sny that this Bill goes as far as I bave
stated-that it Is goig to destroy the riglit
of meeting. People mny be meeting for n
legitimate purpose, to brlug about a settlement, but If this Bill la euforced, it will
deter tiin froni meeting lu the open and
Ilbey will bave resort to secret meetings.
It la better to meet these people and discuss their grievances witb them ln the
open than bave tbem meet ln secret. We
ought to encourage them lnstead of passing
nrbitrary legisiation sucb as bas been before this House on more than one occasion
this session.

Hon. '-%r. ELLIS-Tbe bon. gentlemnan wbo
Is promoting this mçasure, and wbo will flot
withdraw, or let It stand over for a trne,
rcad to us from a book, 'The Social Unrest,'
a numb-r of quotations with regard to labour unions. whîieb agny lion, gentleman
would approve of. and wblch, if lie addressed theni to labour unions, would be iooked
The firat extract
upon as sound advice.
w-hich the lhon, gentleman read was ndvice
to unions to keep within the law, but the
bon. gentleman is proceeding- to inake the
law, so bard that it will be next to Impossible
for labour unions to kHeî

withuîî the law,

or for any private person wbo niay be, at
the tinme, withiin the radius or iniluence of
a strike. Tlîe prineiple of bis Bill is objeý:tionable, and I quite agrce wlth the lion.
gentleman fromi Manitoba (Hon. Mr. Bernicir) that .it gops much fuirtber than anny
lav on the statute-book to curtail the rigbt
of B3ritishi subjects To assemble.

791

Hon. '.%r. McMULLEN-I did not intend
to say a word upon this Bill, simply because 1 bail expressed iny views upon a
previous occasion, but the lion. member who
lias brougbt it before this House deserves
not only the tbanks of this Chamber, but the
thaniks of thc Inw-abiding and peace-lovin,
cltizeîîs of thîla Dominion. We ail know
whnt exhibitions of rowdyisrn bave taken
andi
place during strikes both In 'ntreal
Toronto. I arn quite sure rny lion. frlend's
objeet bas becîl to frame a Bill to put
a stop to sueli outrages, and he bas
bestowed bis ability upon IL. abiiity tbat
la recognized and respected, 1 believe, by
every member o! this House. H1e lias given
lits time and abiiity to prepare this Bill and
put It; Iu sncb shape tbat it would meet
siniliar conditions, If they sbould ever occur,
lu Toronto, or Montreal, or auy oCher city or
town ln this Dominion. My bon. friend
renlizes as weli as 1 do, and as well as any
otiier members of this House, that exhibitions of rowdylsm, abuse and destruction
of property that bave taken place sbould
flot be tolerated ln this law-abidlug country.
I bave neyer seen a more coutemptible exhibition of rowdyisrn and destruction of property lu rny life tbau I wituessed ln Toronto
at the time of tbe street car strike. In Montreal, a friend of mine, wbom I kuow well,
n manx lu good standing and reputation, toid
me lie had. witneaaed lu Moutreal the most
disgraceful exhibition of rowdylarn be had
ever known, and that even those that were
brougbt lu fromn tbe outaide for the purpose
of belpiug to carry ou tbe business o! that
large commercial city were foilowed by boys
and others crying out 'scab' and uaing language of the rnost offensive and diagraceful
character. If any one eau put a law upon
our statute-book that will put a stop to ail
tlîat kind of tbing, It ia a most commendabie
net. We do not waut tradea union outragea
bere. We know very well that tbey belong
to the other side largeiy, and tbe evils that
bave resulted we can aee every day by the
public press of the United States. Lives
are sacrificed by aliowing sncb lawlessiîess aud roNvdylsm to prevail. W7e do
not want it bere. I am sure the labour
aiganizations do not want to be brougbt
huîto diarepute by people makiug use o!
atones and brickbats as the only arguments
tlîey bave to back up the oause tbey clain

SENATE
The House divided on the motion, whicli
tbey wanit to defend. If there are those
wlbo are in sympatby with the use of Stones was agreed to on the followiag division:
and brickbats, we want the law to go so
CONTENTS:
far as to lay hold of them and prevent
Hon. Messieurs
that. My hon. friend bebind me (Hon. Mr. Baker,
Landry,
McHIugb) says it will stop ail gatherlngs for Beique,
Lougheed,
Lovitt,
Bolduc,
the purpose of discussIng and trying ta settle
McMillan,
Bowell,
when tbey occur. 1 cannot see how
strikes
MeMullen,
(Sir Mackenzie),
McLaren,
nny sensible man can corne to such a con- Carling (Sir John),
MacKeen,
(Windsor),
clusion. It only declares that wiîere two Casgraln
MeKay (Truro),
Dever,
or three are assembled for a purpose, and If Dobson,
Merner,
Owens,
whIle they are assembled, an act of violence Edwards,
Forget,
Power (Speaker),
Is conirnitted, they are hiable to he arrested. Fulford,
Pelletier.
(Sir Alphonse),
Frost,
Does my lion. friend meanto say that there
Robertson,
Is danger that mien on strike, whule as- Ferguson,
Godbout,
vidai,
Wood.-31.
sernbled in a hall, wili incur risk of arrest, Kerr (Toronto),
Kerr (Cobourg),
that one will commit an nct of violence
agalnst anotber ? If he did, uader the preigNON-CONTENTS:
ent law, lie would be hiable to be arrested.
Hon. Messrs.
My hon. friend from Montreal (Hon. Mr. Bernier,
Landerkini,
Legris,
Dandurand) bas suggested that the Bill Bouchervilie, de
McDonaid (C.B.),
Casgrain
shiould be withdrawn and left: over tîli next
(de Lanaudière),
McGregor,
McHugh,
yea r. and tbat next session a Bill milbt be Coffey,
Chureh,
Poirier,
Introduced for the purpose of preventing Cioran,
Scott,
Templeman,
nets of violence and destruction of property. Dandurand,
Watson,
Dniviile,
Witb aIl due respect to the legal mmnd of Ellis,
Yeo.-20.
my hon. friend, you cannot franie a Bill Fiset,
that will prevent murder or steallag. You
The Bill was then read tbe third time. and
cau prepare a measure tbat will visit certain passed.
punishrnent upon men proved gullty of certain tblngs, but you cannot frame a Bill that
THIRD READINGS.
lai the first place wlll preclude the possiblhlty
Bill (192) An Act to enable the clty of
of meii committing these offences. If mny WViinilpeg to utilize the Assiniboine River
hon. friend likes, during tbe recess, to exer- water power.-(Hlon. Mr. Watson.)
cise bis legal ability-and I confess he Is
Bill (160) An Act to incorporate the Stewpossessed of a large amount of lt-la lmprovart River Development Comipany.--(Hon. Mr.
Ing this Bill of my hon. friend, thiere ls
If he Young.)
nothing to prevent hlm doing so.
thinks this Bill does not corne up to the
standard be considers necessary to mieet the MINING COMPANIES INCORPORATION
BILL.
condition of tblngs to wbich %,e bave been
SECOND READING.
subjected, then let im Improve the Bill and
Introduce lt next year. But 1 think the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved the seconîd
meinbeî', of this House are doing themn- reading of Bihl <Y) An Act respectinig the
selves an honour. and rendering a ser- incor-pora;tioni of Miniing Companies.
He
and
peace- sid : As will be seen, this Bill cousists of
the iaw--abidirig
vice to
loving coiiniiunity of ibis Dominion, when onily six clauses. Onie of the first* briuilS
tbey show by their votes and by their acts into thpe Bill ail the provisions of the Cointbat they approve 0f any legislation tbat will paniles' -%,t of 1892. except sucli portions
put a stop to rowdyism. the throwing of thereof qs are l confilet with the provisi(ons
Stones and brickbats and the destruction of
property sucb as bas been witnessed ln
In
Montreail. Toronto and other places.
passing such legisiation tbei- are doing a
duity to tbis country and an honour to thls
Hlouse.
ion. Nfr. NIeNULLEN";

of tlîis ineasure. The object of the Bihl is
ay
conîpaîîies. whichi
to permit nîiîiugi
lie iulcor-porated iiuder tule Colmpanies' Act,
to be inicorporated limier thiq Bill. auid to
shares partly
ob)taqil tuýe 1niglt of issii
paid uip-lui other words. to sell shares at a1

AUGUST 20, 1903
discount. Aiiybody w-ho lias given attention to mining miatters can testify to tiuis,
that the value of a mine ls always uncertain,
and mining praperties are, as a rule, dealt
wilh by means of large capitalization dlvlded Into very smali shares-one dollar shares ;
and as there is a great deal of risk iuvoived
In sucli enterprIses, as a rule, there is a corresponding benefit by lssuing shares paid
up or partlaily paid up. In framing tItis
Bill, I have follawed and borrowed the provim!oils of tlie law ln Ontario. A similar
law exlsts ln the province of British Columbia. The scrlp for the shares miust be
mnarked lni order to protect the public, and lt
is to be made plain and prominent that there
is ito personal liabillty on the shares, and
tîtat the shares are flot assessable. It appears ta me that it wauid be a good provision ta put on our statute-book. Our mining weaith hii titis country is very Inmport.ant. and the developinent of it siîauld be
encourag-ed. provided w-e adopt praper
safeguards. I think we shouid encourage
the formation of companies. I know a numtber of compaies that are iîicorporated lu
the United States, or tîmier the iaw or
Ontario, under the Britisli Calumbia Act,
or ln England under the Companles' Act, because they cannt find on aur statute-book
rnaciniery hiaving sufficient eiasticity ta
permit their arg-aiuzing lu such a way as
thîey miay l)e enabled ta enlist the co-operation. of capitalists. Thagt ls the abject I
have in view In submiitting thîs Bill ta the
Hanse.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- 1 wisb
ta asic the g-overnment how frîr this 11111
interferes witlt the Act already n the
s[attite-uootc, grantîng patents t.a Coilipaities
-m

nn

-

-il

nêln,

nnn,

the government accept titis as
ment ta their Act

:tian

îend-

Hait. Mr. SCOTT-So fat-, no niing cainpany lias soughlt Incor-poration under the
Canupanies' Act outside of campailies fram
Englanid or the United States, xvho, under
another Act, came ln and obtain licenses
ta carr-y ont the powers contained lu thte
or!iial charter-s. Tbe Bill lu no way distut-bs the Compaffies' Act other tItan It: wili
îaw liimit the Conmpaniles' Act, lu dealing
w-itbi zining- camlpaies. ta the provisions
coiitaiited lu this Bill. 0f cour-se, liereafte-,
if a mining Company applies, ail the clauses

793

of the Campaies' Act will apply except
tiiose set fortli ln this Bill. That ls, they
will he allowed ta Issue paid Up stack at
onie dollar per share-allowed ta seil tîteir
shares at such a discount as tbey pleaseail those peculiar featurês that usually
nccompany the incorparatian af rnining companles.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-While I amrn ot
l)repared ta say that I emphatically appose
the principle of the Bill, yet I must say
tîtat I amn greatly ln daubt as ta the prol)riety of passlng this leg-isiatian. It seeins
ta tue, iii the first place, unnecessary ta
p!iss It, Inasmucb as there 15 legisiatian an
the statute-baok af mast of the provinces,
samewlîat of the character embadled ln titis
Bill, If that Is the case, It seerns ta me
that sufficient facility bas been afoarded ta
îiiiig enterprises under pravinical Acts
for the Issuance of that class af stock which
lias been referred ta by the han, gentleman
who lias lntroduced this BIIH. This class af
legisiation Is scarcely germane ta thte Dominion Joint Stock Companies' Act, Inasmuch
as mining enterprises are îlot pectiliarly af a
federal or Dominion character. They are
provincial enterprises, whlch are virtually
run and may be provided for under provincial legisiatbou, and -a 1 biave nlready
stated, legislation Is ta be faund an most of
the provincial statute-books ln the DaminIan relating ta this subject. I daubt very
much the wlsdom or goad pallcy af passing
further legIsiatian to assist lu the avercapitalîzatlon of sucli mining enterprises.
My abservation Is that notwitbstandlng the
facilitles that have been affarded under
provincial legialation ta permit of the
Issua nce of paid up stock, when the stock
actually bas nat been pald up-that that fact
bas flot lnrgely, or ta auy substantil extent, côntribnted ta salid or satisfacto-y
mining development. Tbe Trbole trouble of
to-day, not onily lu the mining xvorld, but iii
the commercial and finatîclal world, is largely, If tiot entiî-ely. due to the aver-capitalizatiait of compafnies assisted by this klnd
of legisiatian. My hion. friend lias referreci
to the facilities w-hidi bave obtained lu New
Jersey wbereby companies cati readily secure aIl the macbinery for this cîass of businiess. We know very wel that the 'State of
New Jersey lbas beeau able ta realize a -eî-y
substantial sunui froua applicants throughint

SEN"ATE
the wle of tixe Ainerlcan continent by rea- been made by the bon. gentleman froin Calson of the elasti!tv of tbeir legisiation in gary. 1 l)elieve, as lie does, that over-capiraltixis direction. The unsatisfactory state or iz.ation bas been a great source of trouble in
the stock market ln the United States to day, the United States, and slîould be prcvenitedl
owing te the combines and trusts -whlch have as inxuch as Possible. 1 an of opinion that
been formed there. is almost entlrely due to our Conipinies* Act should be rather more
the facilities whicb bave been given t0 tic- strict thixaî it is. Aithougli suchl s rny
tltious enterprises and fictitious capitaflists opinion lxx connection with ordinary entertbrough tbis class of legisiation. I say with- prises, 1 ncvertbeless believe that iniiing
ont bositation. that elasticity of corporate properties are an exception, for tbis renson,
law ixot only in tbe state of New Jersey. 'that the value of .a mining property cnnlot
but ln the other states of the Union, and to be iscertained beforebiand. Evex'ybody who
soîne extexît ini the Dominion or Canada, gocs iuto a iinining venture necessarily ' oes
b aanbixvetr,1acranebas contributed very largely to t e s1lup
which bas taken place lu the stock mairket tent, because lt is Impossible to aseertalin.
and the stag-nation wivbcl we find !i the until a property lins been developed to sonie
financial world to-day. If there Is any class extent-I may say to a considerable extent
of enterprise which should be sateguarded -wlint tîxere is ln the mine. We have seoil
by legisiatlon, and to w1hlcb the parliarnent mining properties that I could ixanie, n-bleu
of Canada sbouldl appîr Its best attention. lt wlere believed to be wortx millions, an1d
ls tbe protection of the publie ia:ilist thxe millionis of dollars, but on a suddoxî thxe
inany fictitious iiinig enterlirises which îuilleralized veinl was lost and the property
are placed upon tbe market, and -tvthiclî arc became valueivass. Tberefore, tixere being
simlpir flotation semiles, and ~vihyicld so niuch risic involved l dealing wîtli tliCs0
al very lairge Profit to the promoters withont properties, it la necessnry to eiiliSt the eCa
tîxeir risking anything la the first instance. operatlon of capitallsts te adopt the meains
1 doubt If there is îlny class of en lrprise, embodled la tbis Bill that are adopted ini
that appeals so readily to the gambling- in- France, in Eng-land and everywhere la dlealstincts of tbe investor. or tbe simaîl fian- in- wlth mining properties. and tbat ks tbe
l mnan, as a nining enterprise. There reason wvny I have prepared this Bill. The
lis no enterprise that can be painted bon. gentleman from Calgary knows tbat la
with so rnany roseate hues and sucli satis- 1898 tbe Nortb-west Territories passed a law
factory returns la tbe embryo state of of the verv same nature as tbis, In 1897. tbe
development as mining enterprises, and province of British Columbia passed a Bill
there bas been no class of enterprîse la Ca- of the saine kind. lIn the saine year thxe
ada for years past lu whicbi sncb enormous province of Ontario also passed legislation of
inounts bave been spent to put Into a hiole the samue nature, after a mature study of
l tbe groulid and into the pockets of pro- the question ;and wlth tbc experience thiat
inoters w-ho neyer spend a dollar la the en- tbey have been enabled to acquire la rnining
terprise, as this particular class. It seeins to miatters, 1 bave come t0 the conclusion
mie thîs Bill migbt lie intituled an Adt for that legishation of this kiîxd is advisahde.
assisting tbe proinoter, instead of the in- The bon. ineiexber stated that lie considleredl
vestor la xiniing enterprises, and until 1 arn the provincial Acta sufficient for tbe requireconviaced that the hegisiation which la to inents of the country. Ia the provinice o!
be found on the statute-books of the pro- Quebec, anxd la some o! the otlier provinces
vince, bas niot reacbed a desirable state to tbere is no sncb law. 0f course, Ibis Bill
assist mining enterprises, 1 nui itot prepared cau oiîly be availed of by coxopaixies de:xling
to say tbat tbe Dominion parliament sliould wvitli properties !i more tban one province.
extend its legisiation l a simillar wiy to If a uulnpaily la fornxed inerely for the piirm'bat the prov inces bave done, witb, 1 arn pIose of de:xling w-lti a property sitnated ini
satîsfied, ibie saine unsatisfactory results. 1 one0 provine it eannot talze ativanbaze of
tbjerefore regret to say tbat I cannot view~ tbis law ;bat I knlow of comlpaxi i
tl:xt
the necessity of tbis legislation la the sainle owvi niiiling propeiuies lu several pinoNixes,
way ns my hon. friend frein Montreal.
thîey sbould1( bue <011ailid I flu to sec '%Vbvý
lion. Mr. BEIQUE-I an considerably la pelled to orzaîxize undler a foreigui l:xw. ou
ethie reinarks tbat bave go ro the expense of asklng for a si)veixl
acecord m-iîx soui o
Hoii. 'Mr. LOUGHLtED.

AUGUST 20, 1903
sires to provide for in case of a Dominion
charter. Is that advlsable ?7 The fourtb
clause says distinctly tbat no liability ln
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I wonid cali the lion. ex.cess of the payment paid, or agreed to
gentleman's attention to this fnct: 'Mines bie paid te the campany, for shares therein
ln différent provinces do not stand, ln re- shahl attacli ta any hoider ef sucli shares,
gard ta législation, ln the saine position as aud then it goes an to provide lu subsecil railway. A raiiway wbiciî runis tlirougli tion 2 that tbey shaîl not be subject ta any
twa or more provinces ls a federal enter- cali for any purpose. Every one wbo seeks
prise: but the proprietor of mines la proprie- subacription for shares knaws that tbey
tor of the lands on whlîi they are found, will la many cases offer yau nny number of
and for the purpose of iaw, the proprietor shares at ten cents on tbe dollar and sanie
ls a land owner lu eacbi province wbiere bis as 10w as five cents on the dollar. 'You pay
mine le situnted, and: there ls notblng te the five or ten cents for a share purporting
conneet the Interests hie holda ln the different to be worth one dollar, but you will not
provinces. I do not tbink we shouid lu this under ibis Bihl le held for any furtber
parliament pass such legislation, and I liabilIty. Under thîs Bill, no matter what
shauld like, before the Bill is rend the delits may bie Incurred by the company
second time. tliat the hou. ny>ver satisfy ou tbe supposed value of the property,
us that w-e are viinthe limiits of our or the naines of those wba constitute the
jurisdiction.
compauy, there ls no security for them.
BEIQUE-Thie objection w-bich We ail know furtber that tbe present LieutHon. Mr.
the lion. icînher raises, mniglit lie ralsed enant Governor of Britishi Columbia, Sir
ngainst the Joint Stock Companies' Act. The Henri Joîr, pubhisbed a letter that lie had
Joint Stock Companies' Act is for the pur- recélved an offer of some fifty thousand
pose of incorporating and deals with and dollars of stock lu one of these mining comnppiles to commuercial coinpanies and com- pales, for the use of bis namne, whiclh he
panies of ail kinds ; but they must, w-lien iudignantly refused ta accept. He la not
tbey Incorparate, lu order to gis-e jurisdic- the oniy one wbo bas bad offers of that
tien to the parliamient of Canada, declare kind, I bave had gentlemen come from
tlieir Intention of carrying on their opera- Britishi Columbia sud offer me the greatest
tiens la more than one province. Otiieru-ise inducements If 1 would only give my naine
it would flot bie within the power of the ta the prospectus, lu order that tbey migbt
lion. Secretary of State to issue the letteTN -seil the stock on the strength of my naine
patent. It wl be the sane with this Bill. and other names whlcb bave some reputaIt wil apply onlly to Sncbl companies as iii- tion ln the Dominion. Every one comm.ended
tend to carry on their operations lu more Lieutenant Governor Joly for what lie had
done-that Is, every one ivho bad no desire
than one province.
te enter Into these fraudulent arrangements.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But there miglit be The present stagnation lu the mining latlîis dîfference: one applies to commerce dustry ln Britishi Columbia bas amisen, I
and the other to property la a province.
belleve, as mucli from the resoens whicb
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tbat difference does 1 bave given as anything else. It la true
the labour difficuities bave liad something
ixot arise.
ta do witb it. As a mule I believe It la
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELLI-Is not
the duty of this parliameut ta set its. face
this Bill franied for the purpose of euabling
agaînqt any sncb flotations as that to whiclî
these mining corporations to issue and sell
I bave called the attention of the Hanse.
their shares at a nominal sum, aud then, 1 bave no doubt there are a number of
no inatter what delits the coinpany may lupublic men ln this country wbo have oceur tbereafter, the creditors would have lio cupied pramineut positions, and who are
claim whatever againat the sîjareliolders.
well known, w-hase naines are being used
Hon. Mr. MeKAY (Turo)-Tl.nt is the la the mauner I bave indicated they desired
i-ay tlîey are now lu eacb province.
ta use the naine of Sir Henri Joly, w-bom
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Thant is not only everyhody respects but every one
'what 1 understanid the hon, gentleman de- w-1'c' knows blm believes ta be a tboroughiy

Act of parliamnent tu enabie them te proî,eriy organlize to carry on their busintss.

SEINATE
more thanl coînpensate
for nny extra fee that the different provinces mnight Impose upon tbem when theY
attempt to carry on business lu a province.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I slhould like to draw
the attention of the bon. leader of the opposition to this fact; that the safeguard
whichL exIsts under the Companies' Act,
whereby any company is prevenited fromn
comrnencing operations before a sum of
ten per cent of the authorized capital bas
been subscrlbed and paid up to an extent
of $30,000, will apply to this Bill, wbiclh
maltes it mucli more conservative than the
local Act to which hie bas referred.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would my lion.
friend explain under section three of the
Act how bie takes telegraph and telephone
ccmpaflies ont of section five of the Joint
Stock Companies' Act, so far as the provisions of this Bill are concerned ? It does iîot
seem to me that telegrapb and telephoiie
coînpanies are ln any sense germnane to the
subject of this Bill, and yet a very radical
change is proposed to be made la the iaw
dealing with tramway, telegrapb andi teleWhetheu It Is constitutional or not, I amniîot phone compa nies.
prepared to say, but I anai almnost inieti
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-I shonîti like to aslt
to think that the lion. Secretauy of State my hon. friend this question : Under lils
ing
concurs lu the views 1 have put before this Interpretation of this Bill, does a
House. You obtain a charter under the companry desiring to bie incorporated i neDominion Conmpany's Act for carrying on cessarily come under this measure ?
business la the province of Ontario. WlheHon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-No.
ther tbat applies to Quebec I arn not sure,
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I refuse to incorporate
but 1 know the province of Ontario insists on
*coinpanies unless under certain ternis tlîat
the payment of a fee for permission to carry
really flot named ln the Companies' Act.
oa business, andi you have to malte a re- *are
Where a company liati a capital of $100,000.
turn and puy an atiditional fee tu the.proto allow the shares to lie less tlîiîl
vince lu order to carry on your business I objected
$100. Where tbey were $50,000 and under
thongh you bave a charter from the Do
1 allowed the shares to be $50,
miîmion whichi gives you the rig-lit andi powei *$100,000,
and Nvhere the amount was less thani $50,to carry on business iii any portion of tlit
7
them to make the shares $25.
Dom'iniom. W hetlmer that is constitutional oî r000. 1 allowed
I madie thiat a rnie. I thouglit It was a1
îlot, 1 would have to leave to the hiw1yera
very good iule to lny down, because in col"to decitie. But tbey justify the tax on the
8paies where they hiat srnil shares, tue
grourid that the Confederation Act give
for gambllnig prevaiied to a
them the poNver to levy taxes for certali 1opp-rtunity
scînhiance of
purposes, andi they caîl thiat, 1 thik, unide r very great extent under the
*a reilly lionest mining comnpanY.
the law an extra-judicial patent of incorpo
Hoii. Mr. BEIQUE-Aiisweriing tue qluesration, or sonmething of timat kiid, andi con
tion of the hon. Secretary of State first, I
sequently they tax yon for it. I-Iowever
that is a nmaitter for niinig conapaimies t 0 think it is quite plain under tlîis Bill ti:t
coulti either ask to be incorporateti
consitier for theniselves if tlîis becomnes lawv '*parties

honest, straightforward, lionourable man in thein would mnucb

bis private andi la bis business if e. Lt is
that kind of tbing, I believe, this Bill Is
intended to encourage, and the resuits of
which have been so welh, pertinently, and
forcibly pointed out by my hon. friend f rom
Calgnry. I hope the hon, gentleman wlio
bas Introduceti this Bill will furnish some
better reasons tban any hie bas advanced
before hie asks us to adopt It. 1 have watched
the operations of these companies a grent
deal, from the fact of the peusonal applications which have been made to muyseif, andi
I kinow to others, for no othier purpose tbail
to Impose on the community witbout a
shndow of a prospect 0f .getting- anything
out of tbe minesý they weue attemptiilg to
exploit. I tbink It is our duty to stop sncb
n practice as far as we possibly can. The
Companies' Act Is none too strict or too
severe, and I earnestly urge, for the reasons
1 bave advanced, that no furtbeu concessions bie ruade In this respect.
There Is this about It ; If you pass tis
Bill andi a mining company is operating ln
eaclh province, they wlll have tu pay an
extra tax. H-owever, that is their business.

but the ativantag-e which this would giv
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

under the Joint Stock Companies' Act or ilit-

.&UGUST 20, 1903
der this Act, and of course the bon. Secretary of State migbt adopt ruies to whicb the
applicant wouid have to submit. To answer the question of the bon. gentleman from
Calgary, I wiil eall bis attention to the
fact tbat It la tramway, telegrapli and telephone Uines for the purpose of the cornpany
oniy.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On their own property.
I-1I1). 3fr. I3EIQUE-Ycs. It la to Iiniit
them.
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
wws reani the second tiine.
RAILWAYS LAW CONSOLIDATION BILL.
SECOND READING.
Mr. SCOTT moved the second readHon.
oing of Bill (21) An Act to amend and consolidate tbe law respecting Railways. He
sald :The voluininous pamphlet hion. gentlemen see before tbem, entithed the Railway Act, la a Bill to revise, amend and
consolidate the Railway Acta that stand
upon the statute-book. The Railway Act
was hast consolidated In 1888 and since that
time very considerabie changes have taken
place, and froin year to year amendments
have been made. Those ameadments are
revised and soniewhat improved In the consolidation now before the Senate. The important featuire.'bawever, cf the Bill la the
transference of tbe work at present peTformed by tbe Railway Committee of the
Privy Counl to a new board called the
Raiiway Board of Commissioners. Hon.
gentlemen i-ii probably be aware that for
some years past there bas been a conalderable agitation to cbange the tribunal tbat
sbould bave cognizance of the varions disputes tbat arise 411regard to the operation of
railwaya, and ast session a Bill was brouglht
ln. It went mo fixrtber than the House of
Commons and w-as dropped. The Important
changes in reference to the transterence of
tbe business formerly performed by the
Railway Committee of tbe Privy Council to
the new tribunal was the resuit of lnquiry
and of a report made by Mfr. McLean, w'bo
was said to be an expert ln such matters
and wbo examined the systems of other
countries, more particularly tbat o! the
United States, and a good many of tbe suggestions conuected witb the formation of
the new. tribunal are due to lils report.

791

Similar changes bave taken place ln otber
countries. In Engiand, as far back as 1873,
the control, and management of the railways
wvas vested In a board, and the powers conferred ca that board were very largely Increased ln 1888, wben two commîssloners
were named, with salaries of £3,0O0 sterling,
to deal with ail questions arising out of the
operation o! rallwaya. The two commissioners were aided by a judge of the Hlgh
Court ln the reahm. Where a question arose
la Enghand it was an Englsh judge. Wbere
it arose ln Scotland It was a judge of the
hlgbest court lu Scothand, and tbe saine
witb Ireland. This judge became associThe
ated wlth the two commissioniera.
operation of the Act bas been very succeasfui In Engiand, but of course the cIrcumstances there are very znucb more circumscribed than here, and questions tbat arise
la Canada do not come to tbe surface la
Great Britain. There also bas been ln
operatloa ln the United States for many
yeara a board said to have the control o! the
operations of rallways. The centrai board
Is khown as the Interstate Commerce Commission, whicb bas its beadquarters ln the
city o! Washington. Each Individual state
also bas a state board. I may say the
systemn there bas been somewhat of a
failure, due probably to two causes. In the
formation of the board a very great couflict
arose between two raihway companies wbo
are very powerfuh la the United States, and
those lnterested ln the transportation of tbe
products, and s0 the powers aiiott ed under
the statute to thls board of commissioners
bave been so circumscrlbed practlcaiiy auby the decîsions of the courts that have over
ridden tbem, as to render their worI
wlll -not say valueleas-but minimlzIng the
resuit that liad been expected, to a very
10w degree. One of the causes la the United
States, probabiy, was the fact tbat tbe comStrange to
niasioners w-ere underpaid.
say, ln a country Ilke the United States
wbere the mileage la greater than that ln
ail Europe, and wbere the work is of a
very heavy character, the pa o! the conimissioners of the' Interstate Commerce Commission la $7,500 a year. Considering that
there are raihway presidents la the United
States receiving $50,000 and $75,000 a year,
one can quite conceive tbe temptation-perbaps tenîptation is too strong a word to

SEINATE
use-but the inadequacy of placing men .ln
80 important a position wlth such a smail
I the state board, of course the
salary.
pay Is In many Instances even very much
Iess, and that is described as one of the
causes wby the operation of the law bas
not been attended wlth that success that
Was anticipated. The present Bill proposes
to place ail rallways lu Canada under the
controi of this board of ralway commissioners except the littercolonial Railway, whielh
15 a governent railway. That Is excluded,
and the Canadian Pacific Railway to the
extent of the question of tolls, because, as
bon. gentlemen wlU remember, under thelr
charter they are entiled to a tariff on their
uine proper which would yld thern up to
ten per cent before their tola can bie
restricted by any tribunal, tbat la, by the
Rallway Cornrnttee or any board we may
conatitute. Outside of that, of course the
operation of the rood, lu regard to the classification of freights and discrilinatlng rates,
and the varlety of subjects that corne before
a tribunal of that klnd, would corne witbln
their jurîsdlction even lu regard to the
Canadlan Pacific Railway. The board will
consist of tbree persons, appointed for a
terni of ten years, aud only removable, as
Lieutenant Governors of provinces are removable, for cause. Their decîsiona on al
matters of fact will be final. 1 find that
unoder the English law a sirnilar provision
prevals. The declalon la regard to juriédiction, bowever, will be appealable to the
Supreme Court. The pa of the commisaloners wlll be as foilows ; the chlef coinmiasioner f0 receive $10,000 a year, and the
two commiasioners of the board $8,000 a
year. The aecretary will recelve a salary
jurladiction of
not exceeding $,0.The
course wlll be very large. ln clause 25
there is a short enurneration of some of the
powers to be confided to this tribunal. The
board may make orders and regulations
limltlng the rate of speed of the railway
traîns in cîties and towns, the use of ateam
wblstles, passlng from car to car, coupllng
of cars, slheltering of employees, tire protection generally, ail matters relating to
tariffs and tolls, the classification of frelght
rates, the question of the long and short
hau!, the question of rates whiere there are
rival Unes and whiere water carrnage cornes
in competition with the rails, and every
Hon.

Mir. SCOTT.

possible question nrlslng ln connection wlth
the operation. of a railway will be vested in
thîs board. There wlll be au appeal from
the board ln ail matters except matters of
fact, of wblch tlmey are to bie the sole judges,
to the Governor ln Councl. The matters
embraced lu 'the Rallway Act are conaiderable-in reference to the insolvency of
rallway companies, and bow raiiways rnay
be sold that bave becorne embarrassed, and
how proceedinga are to bie taken against
them. That forma a chapter. ln a volume.
The Bill, of course, outslde of the Important
changea to which I bave adverted ls iargely
a matter of detail. A great deal of the Bill
Is inatter whlch lis aimpiy re-enacted.
Portions of the Act bave been arnended.
The Bill before the Senate very clearly
shows the clauses to wbich amendments
are made. In sorne Instances the axxendmenta are clerical and a rearrangement,
sud ln some Instances Important changes
bave been made whilch cau be polnted ont
to tbe House ln committee. I regret very
mucb that the Bill bad flot been prlnted in
Frencb, but on lnqulry I found tbe fault
was due entlrely to tbe tranalators lu the
other House. The Bill wIll be dlstrIbuted
ln Frenchi to-rnorrow, and I wlill name Tuesday a suitable day for tbe House to gôÔ
lu cornmittee and consider ail the details. In
a Bill of this magnitude, hon, gentlemen are
qulte free to take any action tbey choose
lu reference to the BIUl ln the committee
stage.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Does the Bill cover
electric tramways also?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, except where they
cross a rallwny under tuje control of the
parliament of Canada at points of intersection, where they come together. There the
board wonld bave power to Interfere and
regniate the modes of crossing, but only
to, that extent.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-The passing of the
Bill wl! put the Railway Committee of the
Privy Council out of existence.
Hon. '.%I. SCOTT-Oh. yes -,they go out
of existence altogýether.
The motion ivas agreed to, and the Bill
wvas rend the second time.

AUGUST 20, 1903
the honour of
Hon. bir. SCOTT moved that the Bill be fi îily considered. Wlien I bad
îtroducing a Bankruptcy law, a Bill of
referred to a Committee of the Whoie Rouse Il
)me two or tbree hundred. clauses, after
5<
on Tuesday next.
111 discussion upon the second readlng, I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Asf >0k the responsibiiity of referring It to
t
bas been lndicated by the bon. Secretary
le Committee on Banking and Commerce,
of State, tbis Bill is of more tban ordinary
rhere we had tbe advantage of the eximportance. It Is *a consolidation of the erlence of managers and cashiers and preslwbole of the Raiiway Act, wltb tbe addl- Pents of the dîfferent banking Institutions
tion to it of tbe appointment of a rallway ilf the country, and tbe effect was a number
commission for tbe purpose of settling ail O changes and amendments and changes
f
disputes and difficulties tbat may arise in .0ihicb would not otberwlse have been made
connection with the running of rallways. n the Bill If it ha-d been conflned to the
As the hon, gentleman indicated, it being onsideration of the House Itself. 1 have
a combination of tbe dIfferent laws In exist- c .o desire to cast reflections upon any of the
ence In tbe different portions of the world, n aembers of the House by inslnuatlng tha.t
I understand and believe that It contains bey do not fully know wbar the effect of
clauses that are not In any Ralway Actt bis legislation would be upon the railways,
eitber In Engiand or the United States. 1I >ut 1 tbink I am speakîng withIn tbe mark
want It; to be understooù that I arn notb vben I say tbat the most of us-Il know I
complainlng of the consolidation of the Act, an say so for myseif--do not xxnderstand
nor arn I compiaining of the appointmieiit e
vhat affect certain clauses in this Bill would
of a commission. Speaking for myseif, 1 îave upon the operation of the railways.
amn rather lu favour of that, and there are t has beau suggasted that tbe non-contena large number of clauses in tbis Bill to tous clauses mlbt be passad In scommittee
whlch littie or no objection would be taken f the House, reservlng those wbich we do
and It mlght go tbrougb the Senate much< not thoroughly understand to be considered
more rapldly tban It passed tbrough the by the Railway Committea. I tbink tbat
other House ; but there are contentions would ba a most unusual course to pursue
clauses lu It. There may be members of -the referrlng of certain clauses to the
the House wbo can apprehend the actuai Railway CommIttae, while the House itseif
meaning of some of these clauses, and bow in Commlttee of the Wbola adopted the
tbey wlIU affect corporations that are In' otbers. If tbe hon. gentleman bas no
existence, and I should have been much arions objection, or If ha thinka it would
better pleased, and 1 tblnk it would be much not uxupede the passage of thîs Bill, 1 would
more satlsfactory, If the bon. gentleman respectfully suggast that ha sbould. allow
would have allowed tbis Bill to be referred it to go to tha <Jommîttee on Ralways and
to the Railway Committee, where we could Canais. I tblnk we will get tbrough the
bear for our own Information the opinions Bill mucb more satisfactorily than we otharof tbe raiiway experts wbo really understand wlsa would. Thera Is ona clause In the
wbat the effect of some of these clauses Bill wbicb we wil ail undarstand, and that
would be upon tbe worklng of the railways. is where lt compais raîlways to giva passes
Here we may discuss it for ourselves, and to membars. I tbink that is a most obunless we bave some experlenced railway jectionable clause.
men among us, or unless the bon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hlear, hear.
himself couid expiain what eff ect certain
would bave upon tbe companies, or
clauses
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE .BOWELL-And If
the operation of the railways, we ought to %ny word of mine, or atiy motion, could
be Iu a position to caîl upon those wbo
strike out that clause, it wiil be strickan out.
realiy know wbat the affect of enactments
I am n ot; arguing -that question now, but I
of this klnd would be upon their companles,
merely glve lt as an Illustration. It Is a
1 understafld very well that the practice is
vicions p)rovison to be placed. ln aIIy Bill.
for government measures to be referred to a
and for one 1 sball not be prapared to acConimiittee of tbe Whole Hlouse, but it very
cept that clause.' -I bave no desîre, ln malroften happeus 'that important:Bis are rethese rearks.-and. I wlIt the lion.
ferredý to standing committees, to be more ing

SENATE

800

Secretary of State t0 understand that distinctly-,to Impede the progress of the Bill
througb the House, I make tbe suggestion
because I thInk It Is ln the Interests of the
Bill Itself and of those who are affected
by if.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I fully appreclate the
spirit In whlch tbe observations bave been
made by my bon. frlend opposite. Wben
it was considered Ia tbe other House it was
not referred to a committee. Had It been
considered necessary wben the Minister of
Rallways wns present hlmself. w-ho of
course w-as mucb more familiar than I clin
be w-lth tbe various clauses, that course
migbt be taken. I amn qulte wIlling f0 adopt
the suggestion that w-e sbouid go tbroughi
the non-contentious clauses ait flrst, and any
hion. gentleman desiring a clause t0 stand
over for future consideration, that clause
oan stand. We w-i probably get rid of 95
per cent, or a larger proportion, of the Bill
witbout ana serlous discussion, because I
tbink the changes as to 95 per cent of the
Bill can be readily p3lnted out. The change
of jnrlsdiction from the present tribunal to
an Independeat tribunal wholly apart from
the government-to gentlemen of the bighiest standing, necessarily, that could be selected, w-ould meet w-ith generai favour, and
theretlDre, that particular cind Important
change would not meet w-itlh very serions
discussion ; but 1 quite recognize that the
liug-e Interests that are affected by If ought
certaiaiy f0 bave a voice. I bave Do doubt
flirougli certain channeis, both la the other
Chamber and la this Chaniber, they w-i be
able to explaha their views la regard f0 the
varions questions that corne up, and ail the
members of the Senate whll therefore bave
an opportunity of heariag the views 'of the
riilway companies. 1 have no desire, ln the
slightest degree, flint they shonld be prejudiced. Ou the contrary, w-e are ail
ziaxious that this Bill should be fair, both
f0 the public and f0 the companies theniselves. The teadency, no doubt, ls la the
direction of gettiag the most we clin ont of
the railw-ay companies, but there is such
a thing ais killing the goose that lavs the
golden egg, and therefore one bas f0 be
miost cautions and careful l legislating on a
snhject of this -ind. The railways aire for
the benefit of the public, but ait the saine
time w-e have to recognize that the raihways
Hon.

Sir MACKENZIE

BOWELL.

must recelve sucb remneratioa for their
services as wili enable them f0 give the
public that fair and reasonable service that
we ail bave a right f0 expect. I have no
doubt w-e will be able to have the whole
subject thorougbiy discussed la a committee of this Obamber, particularly as I beIheve the confenflous clauses w-i be reduced
to a very narrow limit.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Couhd we not get
expert Information ln a Commlftee cf the
Whole as wel as ln the Railway Ceinmittee?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I have no doubf the
raîlway companhes wll be able f0 find w-ays
aud menus of puttiag thaf Information before us in papers thaf may be printed.
Hon. Mir. SULLIVAN-If the questions
whichi are of a scientiflo nature, and not s0
easily understood by ahl the members of the
cominittee, w-ere put aside, it w-ould fake
a short finie to have these thoroughly examlned afterw-ards.
Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have suggestedl
thiaf some of the clauses thaf the railway
companies have taken most objection t0
should be discussed la a factumi published
by thle interested party, and distrIbuted f0
inembers of the Iluse, w-ho w-ill all be
equally luformed as f0 the nature and value
After w-e have gone
of the objections.
thropgli the rnost, or 95 per cent of the
clauses, wvheu we corne to those clauses
which are more èspecinlly debatable, theni
if, ais the lion. leader of the opposition suggests, it shouhd be found impossible f0 refer
tiiose questions f0 a special comrnittee once
w-e aire lu Comrnittee of tHe Whiole bouse,
w-e lit ail eveuts could do w-bat the 'Minîster
of Railw-ays did lu the otlie bouse, and
instead of delegating a certain number of
represeatatives f0 this ChCrnber f0 listen
to anl argument, w-e conld perhips -ive i
few sittings hnformally to the gentlemen
represeating tlie diverse iiuterests !l a coinmiftee room, w-hen w-e bave no other coinmiittee ineetin.gs, and hear the arguments
pro and con on these four or five important
clauses. 1 do flot thhak there w-i lie more.
So flint when w-e reach that stage of our
proceedings, we oaa perhaps sug-gest a mefhod.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is this differeace between this body and

AUGUST 21, 1903
the iowver House upon that question. In
this matter tbeý~ did flot refer the Bill ta
the Raiiway Committee, but the Minister
c)f Railways and Canais, who consolidated
this iaw and who was, I may say, the
fatiier of it. had Its clauses nt bis tlngers'
ends, and when It was desirable ta diseuse
any cf these contentious clauses with the
officiais of the rallway -companles, he
gave them audience and wsthen enabled
to convey it to the flouse. If the bon.
Secretary of State would take that responslbiiity-he Informed us that lie was nlot
mucli better acquainted with the details
than seme cf the rest cf us-we would be
placed ln precisely the same position as
the lower House. 1 understund the Secretary cf State ta say that the clauses upon
whlch xlebates may arise couid be postponed
and consIdered, but they wouid have ta
be considered at an adjournment cf the
committee, where those affected by It would
net have an opportunity of addressing the
meeting. The object ln referring those
clauses,' I suppose, weuld be te enable the
members of the Holuse te consuit with those
affeeted by tiieni in order to arrive at a
decision, as ta whether they were correct
or net. I presume that is the abject of
the suggestion made-by the hon. Secretary
.of State. 1,' think the other suggestion
would be better, but If lie thInks net, we
wili have te act upon ls suggestion.
Hon. Mfr. BERNIER-It might be weli te
refer the Bill to a committee. But there is
this difficulty ; these who are net members
of the Raiiway Committee wouid net be
able te avail themselves of the Information
given by the experts.

801

aud for the purpose of continuity cf acting,
they propose to renew the board each year,
and the abject cf the Bill le te enabie theni
te make up a number equal te that of the
eutgoing conciliars.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was resd the second time.
The Sonate adjourned.

TmE SENÂTE.
Ottawa. Fiiday, Augisi 21, 1903.

The SPEAKER tock the Chair at Three
a'leck.
Prayers and routine preeedinga.
Â QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE.
Han. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I risc te a question
cf privilege. I gave a notice yesterday
which read as fellows:
That ln view of the Important effeet which
the construction of the praposed transcontinental railway will. have upan the futurs cf Canada : that an humble address be sent ta the
Premier. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Lc.
Semebody teck upen himseif ta correct
the motion I made, and te substItute the
fohlowing :
That an humble address be presented ta is
Excellency the Governor General * praying that
is Excellency will cause ta be laid upon the
Table of the Senate, copies ef ail letters received by hlm. trom. senators, protesting against
or approving of the government policy lu re
the construction of said National Transcontinental Railway.

As a matter of fact, that was net the
werding cf my notice of motion, and I want
the necessar corrections made, se that my
notice of motion wIll be ln the f orm ln
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They which I presented It ; and I desire that It
ceuld attend.
should be stated that ncbody ln this Hause,
er outeide cf It, bas any riglit ta alter a
The motion was agreed te.
notice which I give. I want that matter te
INCORPORATION 0F BOARDS 0F
be decided.
TRADE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-I arn net acSECOND READING.
curately -posted .In the . ruies of this
Hon. MP.r. BEIQUE moved the second floue-net se mucli so as I was in the
reading of Bill (X) An Act te amend the miles of the ether flouse, but I knaw that
Act respectiuig the incorporatiGin of Boards where notices of motion or questions were
of Trade. He said :This is a very short put lu, they were always corrected se as te
Bill. 1 hiave introduced it at the request of corne before the HEouse ln eroper ferm. If
the Chamber ef Commerce ef Montreai. it le a question regarding some document
They have organized under the General Act, ln the pessession cf the gevernment, It cerand their board consise ef 24 members, tainly sheuld be addressed te His Ex51

SENATE
ceiiency. In every case we adopted that
course, and 1 preeume whoever made the
ai-teratioli here foiiowed that course, and I
fancy that wouid be the rule here, because
that is the rule in the. other House, that
wherever any returu is asked for that affecta
a departmnent, or any document In the bands
or possession of the government It ls usuaiJy
done by an address to His Excellency for a
retflrn.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-B ut I thlnk I ougbt
to know better than the bon, gentleman
what I was asking. for. I ouglit to know
who has the- document I referred to, and
It was for thiat reàson I put ln my motion
that an address be presented to the hon.
Premier,, asking hlm to be kind exiougli to
iay It on the Table. If be refuses, ail rIght.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
practice mentioniexi by the hon. gentleman
from Wellington neyer was carried. so far
as to change the meaning of a mcxtion on
If there were any teclinicaiity,
the paper.
or a word were improperiy used, the Clerk
wouid aiways -put it rigbtý- But In this
case, the motion of the bion. gentleman was
askiug the Premier to iay on the Table of
the House *correspondence whicli be miglit
havie received-if he had any-from any
member of the Senate ln reference to the
But It bas been
transcontinental railway.
materially changed, and makes the address
to the Governor General praylng that His
Exceilency wiii iay on the Table of the
House copies of correspondence lie may have
The House wll at
hadl on. tlis subject.
once see the two motions are totally dlfferent The Speaker sliouid communicate witb
the Cierk to ascertain wlio It le tbat takes
on bimseif the responeibiiity of cbanging
the whole meaning of a motion, of wbich
If
notice lias been given In the House.
a motion be irregular-if It lie disrespectfui,
then'the attention of the House ls cailed to
it and It is set aside ; but tliis is a
vastly different tbing. In this case, the
hion. member read a notice asking for
certain Information from tlie Premier.
Of course, the representatîve of the government couid say lie has no Information of
tbe kind, or If ie lias it ls private, or wliether it is private or not, tliat lie wouId not
give it; but liere Is a motion deiiberately
clianged, makîng It a motion for an address
to thie Governor Generai, whîchi the lion.
Han. Mr. MeMULLEN.

gentleman says lie neyer intended, flot supposing or thinking tbat the Governor Generai had any sncb corespondence.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not beiieve lie
bad any.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Does my lion. triend
renimber, In bis long parIiameutary practice, that a motion bas ever been carried
In eitber brandi of, parliament. caliing on
any minIster to produce a letter addressed
to bum 7 I have neyer known a case simiThis notice is in the form.
iar to tliat.
Lt le usual to point
that le aiways used.
out some particular paper or document that
tlie mover of the address believes is avaliable, and In that way it le reaclied; but
letters or papers addressed to Sir Wilfrid
Laurier, tliat do flot go to the Councîl, are
not papers tliat this House bas a riglit to,
It le oniy lettera of an officiai
demand.
character.- Certainiy private correspondence is nA~ brouglit down on an address.
I may say I bave neyer beard of any sucli
correspoindence. There miglit have been
without my knowing ItL I ighould be very glad
to make the inquiry.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If tlie Premier la
wiiling to produce the correspondence, arn
Wbat ls the
I forbidden to ask for It ?
rule?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls asked for tu tlie ordinary way.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-At ail events, the
motion lias heen clianged. 1 rose to a question of priviiege, tliat my motion lias been
changed. I want it to appear as I gave it.
We wiii discuse the other point another day.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The explanation
given by the lion. Secretary of State miglit
be a good explanation, or an answer wben
my bon. friend's motion ls presented; but
that does not toucli the point before us.
The lion. gentieman bas raised a question
of priviiege, tliat lis motion lias beeni chian-

geIt so as to entireiy alter its meauing-, and
make It perfectiy valuelese for the purpose
lie lias In view. It le tlie clianging of a
motion tliat is before us, mot wlietiîer the
motion of the lion. gentleman was ln tbe
usuai form or tlie best way of reaching the
object lie lias ln view, or wlietlier It was lu
the power of the government to answer it.
The

question

is,

wliy

was

this

motion

AUGUST 21, 1903
changed in such a way as to radlcally alter
the Import o! lt.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For the reason, I presume, that in the way it was firet written
out, It would-hé absoluteiy valueless.
Hon. Mr.' FERGUSON-It would be te
hon. g'etlèman's- place to point that out,
but not to change my hon. frIend's motion.
It would -put the Secretary of State te -a
good position to say that tbe motion was
Irregular, If it was such a weak motion as
that. but why bas it been changed wlthout
notice to the hon. gentleman who gave it?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-When the hon.
from Stadacona asked for
gentleman
some- Information, be was supposed te gîve
notice in the usual way. No officer te this
House could possibly put an ordor on the
paper askteg practicaliy for Sir Wllfrid Laurier's prîvate correspondence, and hie would
naturally say there must haYe been Boue
cot-respondence addressed to Sir Wilfrid
Laurier, as Premier, on Uic transcontinental
rallway question, which Uic -hon, gentleman
désires, and hoe would naturally set lt properly on the Order paper.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Who dld that ?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I do not know, but
there la no offIcer 'who la famnilier wlth Uic
miles o! thé House who. would put ;on the
paper a motion asking for priva-te correspondence of Uic Premier. I do not thInk any
one evor beard of such a proposition bolng
made bof ore. We might as well ask for
private corrospondence, addressed to te
leader o! the opposition, or any private member o! this House. Lt seems to me it would
be !oliy to- place an order on the 7paper
asking for letters addressed to Sir Wilfrid
Laurier or any member of parliament.
Hon. Mr. FFIRGUSON-The aîm of the
hon. gentleman from Stadacona was to ask
Lt
for letters addreeeed to the Premier.
la changed so as to cail for lettere addressed
to Hie Excellency.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-No. no.
Lt Io
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Oh, yes.
1lettere received 'by hil -tbat Is, by His
Exceilency, when the hon. gentleman's requet and object wae to get letters addressThe motion has been
ed to the Premier.
s0 radically changed that it defeats the
514

803

entire oDbject of the hon. gentleman's n'otice.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-This point ls rather
serions, flot that there may. be' anything 111
the question put-lt may be absolutely out of
order. I amrnfot dlscusslng that, point but
I serloualy cali the attention of the powers
that be to the tact that somebody la assumlng that motions should flot ho' placed on
the orders except In a certain way. I conaider lt an Impertinence, slmply an Impertinence, to have acted ln that way. There
le a mode of procédure which obtains among
gentlemen. assembled together, elther ln a
club or ln the House of Gommons, or ln the
Senate. If there was anything ln that motion that should flot appear, the party who
lmpertinently altered It should have consulted the mover and polnted ont to hlm
the irregularity and have the matter properly arrenged ; but for any one, either an
employee or senator, whoever hie may be,
to take upon. hlmself to change a motion,
to assume that ho knows what Ie wanted
better than the one who gave the notice-to
take upon himmelf the changing of a motion
wlthout havlng the courtesy to consnît the
party who read it, I say la a breach ot
privilege. Such assumptions by parties have
been made during this session. I wili flot
make any complaînt myseif, but I have
been treted here au If I was uimply a thîrdclass clerk ln the service of the Sonate. We
have prlvlegea, and If we allow any mem-'
ber to be treated the way the hon. gentleman
bas been treated ln this Instance, any of us-the Speaker, the leader of the government
or the leader of thc oppoaltion-may be
treated in the same Nvay. Wc arc ail litre Gn
a par, and I aay when a motion la Irregular,
Jri-elevant or mot in proper form, the attention
of the mover should bie called to lt, and no
one, whcther hoe be a senator or not, should
take it.upon himsel! to change it, as bas
been donc li this case.
Hon. M r. VIDÂL-It muet be remembered
that a very similar question wae bofore us
the early pa:rt of the session, or last session,
and it must surely bie remembered by all
present that a speclal order was given that
any iember giving. a notice or motion
sbould read that motion in.the Ilouse. Now.
did mot the hon. gentleman froni Stadacona
comply wlth-that rule ?
EHon. Mifr. LÂNDRY-Henr, bear.' I did.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. VIDAI-He read that motion,
and surely If lt was flot In proper form, that
wvas tbe time that objection should bave been
taken, and If an error had been committed,
It should have been corrected. lt la sureiy
very unwise and Improper that a document,
furnlshed 4~y a member, ehould be nitered by anybody without the sanction
of the Honse. An opportunity was given
lia the reading of it ;wlby was no objection
taken then ? Was flot that the Urne when,
If It was wrong, the error could bave been
pointed out and corrected ? I hold the hon.
gentlemapi bas a perfect right to charge
that a breacb of prîvilege has been committed on this occasion.

of, the government policy in re the construction
of said national transcontinental railway.
There

Is

nothing

discourteous

ln

that

motion. It le very courteously written, If
I understand the Englsh language, and It
*ould be a question for the hon. Secretary
of State, If be thinks otherwise, when the
motion was made, ta say that It was an improper motion ; or, If the Premier has reeived letters he could say, tbat is bis business and not ours. That motion bas been
changed te read as foliows :
That ln view of the important effect which
the construction of the proPosed national
transcontinental railway will have unon the
future of Canada :

That an humble addreus be presented to His
Excellency the Governor General ;praying that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-l His Excellency wili cause ta l>e laid sipon the
Senate, copies of ail letteru remerely want to cali attention to the remark Table of the from senators. protesting against
ceived by him
made by the hon, gentleman from Portage or approving of the government policy in re
la Prairie. 1 hope tils House will not for the construction of said national transcontinental railway.

a moment accept the doctrine laid down, that
the Cierk of this House, or any other officiai has a right to change a motion whlch
a senator may make. It is not only preposterons, but an outrage upon the privileges of parliament. The bon. Secretary of
1
Statte has made a very lame defence.
do not say that, when the motion was put
before the House, that defence wouid not
be proper and legitimate, but that Io flot the
question hefore us just now. The question
migbt arise, wben the motion of'whicb my
bon. friend from Stadacona gave notice was
read, wbether it_ was of a character that
would justify an answer, or wbetber It was
of an improper character. I have obtained
the original. wbicb I boid ln my band, and
The original
we wlll see tbe difference
reads

This la a motion asking the Governor
General te iay upon the Table letters re-

ceived by bim upon the question.
Hon. Mr. MeMTJLLEN-Does that net Includ1e bis cabinet?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
Hom. Mr. McMUILLEN-Yes, it does. MvIy
hon. frlend should know It dces.
Hon. Bir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I know
better.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I know it does.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIl understand the English linguage. If I were
putting a motion of that kind upon the
paper, for documents received by the govshould sa word ItL This motion
In view of the Important effect whicb the ernment, I

construction of the proposed transcontinental says 'received by bim' in the miatter, and
rallway wlll have upon the future of Canada, surely tihe long experience of my lion. friend
that an humble address be presented to the
from Wellington should teach hlm that the
Premier. &c.
piosition hie takes Is flot only irrelevant alid alSurely no one will say that a mem ber
together-I was going to say nonsensicalof tiiis House, or any lndividual, bas ixot a
but I will not do that, because that would
right ta make that request If he pleases.
We want ta know wbo
be disrespectful.
It is for the Senate to say If it ls improper,
took upon himself tbe responsibility of malsand the .majority could rule It out of orlder.
ing tbat cbange.

The notice continues :

Presented to the Premier respectfully
questing hlm-Not the Governor Generai.

re-

-to cause ta bo laid upon the Table of the
House, copies of ail letters received lby bim
from senatorr protesting sgainst, or approving
Hon. Mr. VIDAL.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-That is the question.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Perhaps in the nieantime it will relleve the situation If I say
to my bon. friend that If be sends me tbe
notice I will sc Sir Wilfrid and ascertain

AUGUST 21, 1903

805

If be has any document which can. be laid
before parliament.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That wouId be a very
cheap way of getting ont of the present
difficulty. But I decline to accept the proposaI. I want my motion put ln the form
I gave It.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-We are ioalng vaiuable time.
Hon. Mr. MCMULLEN-In repiy to the
hon, leader of the opposition, I certainly
thInk that when the Governor G.eneral la
requested to lay on the Table of the- House
any official document which may be In hia
possession as Governor General, It includea
bis cabinet ais weil as himoeu. Then, ln
regard to the resolutIon, notice of whIch
my hon. frlend givea, It la a mandate to the
Premier of this Dominion to bring before
this House certain prIvate correapouxience
of his own for the Inspection of, the members of this ahamber. I do not know who
changed the resolution.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
la not a word ln it about prIvate, correapondence.

dressed to the Governor Generai. That li
qui-te correct and there la no objection t(
anything Of that kind, but you might jusi
as weii aek thia Houae to paso a resolutior
that the' communications that passed between Lady Laurier and Sir Wilfrid Laurez
should be placed on the Table.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave been Informed
that thia change was made by a junior clerk
ln the Senate, anxl flot by one ln authorlty,
and I preaume he dld It unwittingly. I confeas since it has been read It la flot yet ln
the proper form, even If It were intended
to be put ln official form ; but we have discusaed It to a aufficient degree, I thlnk, now,
and mlght attend to Borne other business.
I would be very giad to make the Inquiries,
and If there are any papers that could be
laid before pariament they wiil be brought
idown.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
wilI do.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That ends the
Inatter.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWBLL.- hope
it is understoodj now that tbe Speaken
or the Clerk of the House, will give those
clerks Instructions that they are flot; to tamper with any motion read before the House.
It Is flot for a junior clerk to do It ; It la
for the Speaker or the Clerk.
The SPEAKER-I have been made aware
;Ince thls discuaaiop began that none of the
c~lerks at the Table
Intertered. with the
notion of the hon, gentleman, but with reipect to the junior clerk wbo did make the
ehange, I think
It oniy
can readUly understand fair to say that 1
how the clerk abould
nake the change ; because I do not tbink
t bat there Ia
any precedent ln the records
of either House
for aueh an address. The
address should
be to His ExceIlency, and
t]bat address migbt
have gone on and prayed
t]bat Hie Exceiiency
cause to be laid on
o ur Table copies,
and so on. Wbex the
bon. gentleman
read the notice, 1 did not
ci

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-..4orrespondenoe
addreaseed to himaelf by any member of thia
House on a certain aubjeet
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How doea the hon.
gentleman know It Io prlvate ?
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-WXen it la aid-a
dresaed to himaelf, It l. certatly private.
When that notice was read by my hon.
triend, it waa open for any member o! thia
Honse to take exception to it. It had to
come before the Speaker, and those who are
snppoacd to exercise supervision and have,
owing to their position, a corrective power
vested ln them, are aupposed to place the
motion ln aucli a shape as WiIl bring It
within the rules of this Honse. I Say that
a command from this Hanse to Sir Whlfrid
Laurier to bring down vIrtualiy bis private
icorrespondence le flot a motion that sbonîd
be passed by this House. I do not sec Why
we should command-because it la a commnand- nd whoever revlsed the resolution
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I think the next
t
me I will be obliged to read It in French.
came to that conclsioù, and In order to put
It in proper form to bring it witbin the purread that one ln English.
view of this House properiy, they naide It
THE SENATE RESTAURANT.
an address to the Governor Generai, askîng
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the Orders
for copies of any letters that bad been ad- o
fthe Day are proceeded with I wouid like

SE1NATE
to direct the attention of the Senate to a
report which lias been circuiated flot oniy
An the press of Ottawa, but throughout the
,press of-the Dominion witb reference to the
It wLil
ceonduct of the Senate restaurant.
*have been observed by bon. gèntiemen that
the 'keeper of the restaurant bas been fined
-by the Ottawa police magistrate for selllng
Ilquor without a license within the precinets
of tbis flouse. It seems to nme to, be consistent with the dlgnity of thls body that
some steps should be taken to properly regulate the Senate restaqrant, and more particuiarly to prevent a recurrence of anything
of the character which lias just liappened.
[t Is aileged that strangers bave the rilht
of entry to the Senate restaurant througi
the corridors of this flouse, that they drink
witb Iinpunity lu the precinets.ot the Senate,
and that ail this Io done without a license.
The obtaining o! a licenise ls ont of the
question, but It seems to me If the keeper
of the Senaté restaurant 15 selling Uiquor to
strangers, proceedings should be taien to
preveat the privileges of the Senate from beIng dragged Into the police court, as It bas
been done on this particular occasion. The
conduct o! the Senate restaurant for a long
Urnme, bas been anythiag but satisfaetory
to members of the Senate, and It certain]y
bas not been in harmony with the tradiWe know It bas been
tions o! our body.
open to and run for the public instead of
being for the use of the members of this
body, as was lntended. These privileges
are nrow as open to the publie as to members
o! parliament, the members of this body
mlght as wveii go lito a public hiotel and
seek to exercise the priviieges of the travelling- public as to go into the restaurant and
endeavour to enjoy any exclusive privileges
lit thiat institution. Thie.regulationi of the
.Senate restaurant by the Restaurant Coinmittee bas' flot been satisfactory. At onie
time, I uaderstand the restaurant w-as adminlstered by the Contingent Committee,
and although I for a number o! years was
on the Restaurant Comniittee, yet w-e fouud
it almost impossible to regulate the restaurant in accordance not only with our
own wisbes but wlth the w'islies of tlie
Senate. Financiai and ctber difficuities

Senlate or for the Contingent Commlttee to
take Up this question and deal with It In
a practical way. A considerabie amount o!
money 1s"spent year after year la maintainlng the equlpment and appointmeats
of the restaurant, and oertainiy no carresponding advantage lu derived by members
from that expenditure., 1 hope the Sens te
will see some way of solvlng this dlfficulty
and preventing a repetition o! -what bas
aiready appearecd In the newspapers.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I entirely concur la the
views expressed by the bon. senator for
Calgary, and feel somewhat Inortified at the
unhnppy incidentwhlch bas been descrlbed
la the public press. A similar incident ocdurred some elght or ten years ago, and a
good deal o! Indignation w-as expressed by
the Senate that the bar w-as so abused that
strang-ers were admltted freely. Lt bas becorne, in reoent years, lik-e an ordinary taproom la any part of the city, bçcause I bave
frequently seen strangers entering the corridors and going through tbere as a 'matter
of right. Under these conditions, it Io ônily
the natural and necessary sequence tbat
this unfortunate Incident shouid be brougblt
up in the police court, teading to discredit
the character o! the Senate very much. 1
ghouid fhope 'that the .eommltlee having
charge of the restaurant w-i seè that hereafter strangers are not admltted, and tbat

the restaurant Is there for the convenlence
of the Senate alonie, and if the privllege is
abused, it is only proper that it sbouid be
,exposed.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-There Is no doubt,
as the law stands at present, the police
magîstrate w-ho fined the restaurant keeper
w-as -right, but it seems to me an anomaly
tbat the provincial authorities should be

able to run through and coatrol the preWe
cincts o! the parliament of Canada.
shouid be able to control our 0w-n business
here. The Incident lu suggestive of another

question.

.

We know that la the United

States, the seat of gov erament is a separate
district by itself, under the operation and
control of the federal autborities. If mnigbt
be a good thiag- to see if w-e could Dol adopt
the saine system bere-erect this Into the
came up and we found it difficuit to arriv-e district of Ottawa, the parliament of Canat a happy solution of the difflcuity. 1 do adai f0 hav-e conitrol over thieir ownv busiflot tbink it would be out of plaice for tuie ness.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

AUGUST 21, 1903
Hon. Mr. WATSON. A short tfme ago,
some hon. menibers may have seen criticlam of the notice put on the entrance to
the Senate. 1 may say the Oierk put that
notice there for the very purpose of trying
to restrain the public from coming In and
making a thoroughfare of our corridors and
golng down lnto the restaurant.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink the man at the
bar of the Senate restaurant ought to be
dismilssed. If there la any earnestness or
aincerity In the matter, that man ought to
be dismlssed promptly.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-In
the absence of the chairman cf the Restaurant Committee, being a member of the commlttee fiyself, 1 think I owe some explanation. This morning the comnilttee met and
stepa have been taken to Inforni the caterer
that the rule must be cbserved that no outsiders can bave lquor ln the restaurant. In
-this
unfortunate case* the caterer la not se
much to blame as appears. Two waiters,
whose conduct had been se bad that he was
obllgéd to dismiss theni, out of revenge went
t.here purposely and got liquor, and denounc'ed the caterer. It is an unfortunate
Incident which wlll not occur apaln, and
this mornlng the Restaurant Comxnittee met
for the purpose of reminding the caterer
that only members should have liquor at the
restaurant.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (226) An Act te amend the Act respecting Certificates te Masters and Mates
of Ships.-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
Bill (212) An Act to incorporate the Alliance Bank of Canada.--(Hon. Mr. Doniville.)
Bill (X) An Act to amend the Act respecting the Incorporation of Boards of Trade.(Hou. Mr. Béique.)
SECOND READING.
Bill (158) An Act to incorporate the St.
Chrysostôme Rallway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Young.)
KELLER

HEATER COMPANY'S

BILL.
*
SECOND READING.
Honi. Mr. WATSON, in the absence of
Hon. Mr. Dandurand, moved the second
reading of Bil (231) An Act to conter on the

801,

Commissioner of Patents certain powers for
the relief of the Keller Heater Company of
Canada, Limited.
Hon. M.r. FERGUSON-I thlnk we ougbt
te have an explanation of aBlllof this
kind. We have deait with the Patent Act,
and bave corne In a general way te the releif of almost anybody and everybody ln
Canada who bas any dlsablity witb regard
te patents.- There may be odds and ends
omltted ln the relievlng by tbat general law
passed this session, but we ought te know
what tbey are. 1 think It la due te the
House we should -have some explanation cf
why we are proposlng to legislate a patent
into new life after li bas expired, by ordinary Vrocess of law. It le net altogether
rlght that gentlemen, ln the course of their
legal practice, wbereve- a difficulty of thia
kind may arise, should. <cme to parlIament
te get relief. Whenever a case arises ln professional practice they tbink It la ail rlght,
and it may be ail .right, but this House
should look carefully Into measures, of thia
klnd, and see that we are net overriding,
ln a whelesale manner, a general law.
Hon. M[r. YOUNG-This question came up
befere the Committee on Standing Orders.
This la a Bill wbich was presented te the
committee wltbout any notice or compliance
with the usual forma, and the explanation
given was this, that a patent which -bad
issued some time ago, and wblcb hadt been
soId te other parties, had been allowed te,
lapse seme five days before the purcbasers
were aware of It. The parties who, seld
were the cnes wbe sheuld. have protected
the extension, cf tbe patent and tbey bad
neglected te do so. The amount Involved
ln the extension was only some twenty dollars. The emergency bas arisen ouly recently, and It la a case te whlch I think the
consideration of the Heuse mlght fairly be
given on account ef the very recent discovery of the patent baving lapsed. Application was at once made te palilament for the
relief proposed by this Bill. In another
place it was censidered s0 reasenable and
fair that although the time for receiving petitions for Private Bis had expired, the
House recpened the way fer the Introduction of this Bill anld aflowed it te proceed.
I agree with the hon, gentleman from
Prince Edward Island that we should net
be called upon te legialate ln every case of

SENATE
this kind. but this happens to be a case li
whicbl Inustice would be doue to holders of
patents if this BIi11 were net paseed, and n'o
Injustice could be doue to others, because
Immediately ou notlcing that the time had
Iapeed, the holders 0f ¶he patent took steps
to procure legisiation, and the Bill provides
that no Party shall suifer tbrough this measure. I think this la one of the exceptions"
which the House wllH readlly recognize.
Hon. Mir. FERGUSON-I have noticed
since the hon. gentleman rose that only live
daya elapsed atter the expiration of the
patent until their notice was called to it
and then tbey acted promptly.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
JURISDICTION 0F THE EXCHIEQUER
COURT AS TO RAILWÂY DEBTS
BILL.
SECOND READ)ING.
BEIQUE moved the second
readlng of Bill (155) An Act respecting the
jurisdiction of the Exchequer Court as te
railway debts. He saîd: Railway companles have Important obligations to fulfil
towards the public, and it seems to me It
la Important that machlnery be prepared
and adopted for the purpose of compelIng
t.he carrylng out of such obligations. As5 it
le. the sale of a raiiway in case of lusolvency is very disastrous to the parties Interested. It bas to be doue In such a cumbrous way, and thle sharebolders and bondthe boudbolders-are
holders-especilly
very much interested. The object of this
Bill is to adopt such macbinery as will facilItate the avoiding of those objections and
provide for the appolntment of receivers,
and give power, under the authority and
direction of the court, to the receiver to protect the rallway and bring the railway to a
sale, if necessary, ini the interests of the
partie-s interested.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)At this stage of the Bill I slmply wish to
draw the attention of the hou. gentlemen of the Senate to the very wide
difference between this Bihl and the
This
Act it is intended to replace.
Bill is itended to repeal an Acý,t respecting the jurisdiction of the Exciiequer
Court as to railwav debts passed in 1899,
Hou. Mr.

Hrrn. Mr. YOUNG.

and In that Act, very properly, the bondholders are the oniy persous that I can. see
who can apply to have their mort-gage foreclosed, sud who are vested wlth the road.
By this Bill, not onhy the bond.holders, but
the stockholders, to my mmnd, appear to be
forgotten altogether-inot as the Bill was
orlglnally drafted, but owing to au ameudment to clause 6 of the Bi1l1. However, there
are s0 many objectionable clauses In this Bill
that If It Is to become Iaw It should receive
the very close attention of this houourable
House. At the ývery outset, in clause one,
under this Bill every railway In auy province
can be brought under the operation of this
measure by simply declaring it to the general
Cousequently, ail
advautage of Canada.
rallways would faîl under the operation of
this Bill. Its provisions are very severe in
many respects. Iu subsection A of claie
one, it says at the instance of the Minister
of Railways and Canalis, or of any creditor
of auy persou, &c. I should thtnk this would
require a great deai of explanation. Tixen,
in tîhe same clause, wlthout specifying whatever may be the reason, action may be
taken, If the operation of the road Is suspended In any portion thereof for ten days. Lt
la well knoNwn that the breaklng down of even
one bridge iWould render a railway, uuder
this Bill, hiable to forechosure. If this Bill
becomes law, I wouhd probably suggest that
the time be extended to at leaat thlrty days.
It would be a very short time, indeed. This
spring the Great Northeru Railway bhad
the niisfortuue to have had one of the
woodeu approaches of its bridge over the
St. Maurice river burued, and the iron
bridge coIlapsed, and It was some four
*weeks before that road was open to trattic.
Consequently, under the operation of this
Bill, as I understand it, the company could
be brought before the Exichequer Court on
an application to close the road. Then in
clause 8 concurrent jurisdiction is giventhat la to say, the parties may apply to the
Provincial Court or to the Exchequer Court,
I have beeu iuquiring from some hawyers
promoting tbis Bill and bave failed to get

one good reason why the laws in force
in the various provinces do not give satis-.
faction. and why these cases sbould be taken
from the provincial courts and bronght before the Exchequer Court. Lt bas been also
alleged by the hou. gentleman fromi de

AUGUST 21, 1903
Salaberry that new machinery must be
created. I understand the machlnery Is now
ini operatlon and bas been lu operation for
a long Urne, but I amn lnformed that this
legisiation lias lu view some gpeclal and
private case-eorne special road, and If that
le the case, it would be mucli better, and
If I amn perrnltted to eay so, dt would be
more frank, to corne before pariarent and
mention the road that Is almed at by this
Bill. 1 wish ta cal] the attention of the
Senate also to another fact. We have before us a Rallway Bill wlth 311 clauses. We
are actually conalderlng that Bill. The luigenuity of the lawyers of the Rallway Departrnent lias been applled to that measure
ail througb the long monthe of the winter
to try and cover ail cases which may arise.
I really belleve we have enougli clauses
already, or clauses enough could be put
Into the General Railway Act ta deal
This Io a most
witb this very question.
unfortunate Urne to Introduce such a BU]l
when we are actually eugaged iu the conelderation of the Raiiway Act. I would
also draw thse attention of the Hanse to
clause 6 of this Bill, whlcb provides that
thse rallway may be put under sections 5 and
6 of the Wlnding-up Act, and subsection 2
cf section 1 of the Winding-up Act provides that thse Act does not apply to rallways.
AIl those who bave bad any experience wlth
the railway companles, know the ditficultles
and annoyance that railway cornpanles are
subi ected to, and for rny part I must say
I believe it was wise to exclude rallways
frorn the operations of thse Wlnding-up Act
Notwithslanding that, according to this legisîstion the Windlng-up, Act would be applied to railways. Tben again, I mxgbt draw
more especlally the attention of thîs bonourable House to hunes 43 and 44 of clause 8
on the second page o! tis Bill, whlch read
as follows :

a flrst lien on the road. They are specially
protected, and 1 do flot know really what
their position would lie In thse case of a
tranefer to thse trustees. Bonds are lesued
and lt je provlded tisat they muet be
deposited in thie Department of thse Secretary of State. In that trust deed the naomes
of the trustees are rnentloned, and those ame
the only persons entitled to deal wlth the
railway If the railway le lu defàuit in the
payrnent of interest on those bonde, and
It le a guarantee. The bondisolders, bowever, often live at a great diistauoe frose
where the road la operated. When tisis Act
becomes ln force, tisey would require to keep
legal. gentlemen constautly employed to
watch tiseir Interest, flot knowlng at what
trne they mîglit hie brouglit before the Excisequer Court and thefr Intereste and thelr
rigis sacrlficed. I abject ta this Bill in toto,
and I rnay say I would object most
etrougly to, baving thie Bill not exclude euch
transfers to trustees from the provieions of
the Rallway Act. 1 muet say thse Bill, lu
its preet shape, contradicte Itsel!, because
In subsection (B) of clauee 1 It lo provlded
that nothlng herein contained shall in any
way affect the provisions of sections 94, 95
and 96 of the Rallway Act; and at the othier
end theie ie an ameudment tacked on, as
follows
But such transfers ta trustees shaîl not ex-

But such transfers to trustees shall fot exelude such raiiway from the provisions of this
Act.

the effect of rendering the bondholders
generally very diffident about putting their

clude such railway tram the provision af the
Act.

Consequently, there la a direct contradiction. T know It was flot drafted that way.
Those are the hunes that are supposed to,
affect any epeclal case, and therefore 1 caîl
special attention to tisis Bill, which le rathier
a lengthy one, compared with the Act repealed, and covering sometbing like 15 or 20
hlipes ut the outside, the very beet guarantee ta people with forelgu capital inveeted lu thîs country, because sucli legislation
as this, in rny humble opinion, wvould have

money into any ralhway enterprise that
The roads are transferred. as ev-ery one could be brought under the operation of the
knows, according to the provisions of sec- Winding-up Act for a mere paltry debt,
tions 94, 95 and 96 o! the Rnllway Act. The and wby should railway debts be looked
Iu
whole machilery is there provlded very after more than any othier debts ?
plainly ln order to give a positire guarantee couiparison, what immense amounts of
1 do
to the bondholders. The section recites that nney are expended on railways.
under certain conditions bonds shahl be le- not. think there Is any other business iu
sued, and those bonds are protected and are Canada, or elsewhere, lu which people have

SENATE

810

lost so little lu proportion as those who have
The
had debte to colleet from railways.
rallway le a permanent affair, established
airnost forever, and those wbo bave dlaims
againet railways-I amrn ot; speaking of railway promoters or sharebolders-those that
bavse s-uppiled material and so on, are generally well protected, and better than other
people wbo bave debts to collect agalnst
Therefore, 1 do flot
othiex Institutions.
think speclal legislation sbould be passed
as to railway debts.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-It seerne to me
this Bill does violence to a well-establlshed
principle, namely priority of dlaim by creditors, and le calculated to dlsturb -very
seriously the financlal market wltb reference to the fiotation of small railways.
This principle Is Introduoed Into the Bil
that the first bondilolders of a road can be
set aside at the instance of a subeequent
çredltor, and their admistration of a road
ousted, and the road placed ln the bands of
a reoelver or-an officiai of tbe court There
is no protection whatever for prlorlty of
dlaim by the bondbolder In admlnIsterlng
the roadý One ean very readlly conceive
of the bondbolders of eitber a ernaîl or a
large railway entering into possession. of
that road, and relylng absolutely upon a proper admnistration of its operation by comnThey are at once propetent officiais.
If there
ceeded against under thie Bill.
sbould be a subsequent creditor, tbat creditor, no matter wbether hie le a small or a
large creditor, would apparently, under this
Bill, so far as 1 have been able to read It
burrledly, bave tbe rigbt to corne lu and
lnvoke the authority of the Excbequer
Proceedings would be s3et lu mioCourt.
tion; the administration of the road by the
bondilolders ousted; thle road possibly put
ln thle bauds of incompetent officiais, and
thus the whole property would- be sacrificed. It seems to me if the law is put ln
that condition, it will be next to impossible
f0 finance a railway in the Dominion of Canada, because we know tilat capital is aiways sensitive to the law dealing wltb its
protection, aud if it becomes self-evident
from a perusal of the law tbat their administration o! tbe road, wbîcb up f0 tbe
present time bas been regarded. I migbt
say, as sacred, iii the event of their obligaitions not being met, can be ousted by corne
Hon.

Mr. OASGRAIN.

court officiai, or some interested party,
then I eay It would be Impossible to succeed
Tbe
in financlng -sucil an undertaklng.
miechief, it seerne f0 me, wblih would be
pexrpetrated by ibis dlase of leglelation would
lie ln tile: that emali creditora, or a group
of creditore, for the purpose of gettlng possession of the road, might readlly sacrifice tbe
interests of that -road by ousting file bondilolders, by puttlng ln their own recelvers,
and eventually selng the road at a sacrifice, cutfing down tbe value o! file boude to
It seeme to me tis
a very greaf exteuf.
Bill le capable of permltting sucil miscilief
to be carrl'ed. out and unfil I.can le rn. f rom
rny bioi. friend some abuses tilat have
arlsen, and tilat have not been reaclbed by
the present law, I -will sf111 remain somewbat unconvinced that ibis change in the
law le necessary.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. memnber for
Calgary will notice that by subsection (B)
section 94, 95 and 96 of the Railway Act
It le
are to remaifi lu full operatcYn.
there stated that notbing berein contained shall ln any way affect the 'Provisions of sections 94, 95 and 96 of the
Rallway Act Tiese provisions provIde fer
the lssuing of bonds, and for the appointment of trustees who are enfrusted with the
protection o! the Interest o! thle bondbolders. Sections 95 aund 96 provide that certain rights must flot be exerclsed by the
promotors, but muet be exercised by thle
trustees and in tbe namne o! the trustees.
Therefore, it amounts f0 tuis, that the bondholdere are freated as a -clase. They are
treated as shareholders ln the company,
and they bave to. deal conjoinfly lu fthe
naine of the trustees, and it ls for that 1'eason that these provisions are respected by
thle firet section of file Bill. The hon, gentleman says that this Bill may be openi to
abuse, because It migbf interfere with tbe
protection of bondilolders. For my part, 1
arn prepared to recog-nize tbe luterest of
bondholders ln thle rallway companies, but
tbey are flot the only interests wbicb sloulcl
be protected. Thle Interests of the public
sbould also be protected, and my hon. friend
asked me If 1 had la mmnd such linterests as
cannot be protected by the present law. 1
have lu mmnd two rallways that bave been
lu the bande o! insolvent promotors, wbo
have allowed fthe railways to be closed, to

AUGUST 21-, 190381
the detriment of the public, and they bave
kept the priviieged debtors, to the amount
-of balf a million-and more, from being pàid
a cent and there la no macbinery to reacb
them. There bas been a law of tus kInd
un the statutes of Qnoebec for a number of
years, but from the fact that ncst of the
provincial railways have been transferred to
the jurisdiction of the Dominion parllament, the question is raised now as to
whetber this law can reach those railways
whlch, altbougb bulît originaiiy under tbe
jurisdictiou of the province, have been declared to be lu the generai Intereste of Canada ; and therefore, this BIll'ls intended to
provIde the necessary maclainery, for the
holders to foreclose the rond. But under
our liw In Quebec, tbey bave to seli
the road, and In the meantime the road
bis to be in the bands of the sherliff, and
lihere is no officiai properiy vested. witb
proper authority to protect the road In an
efficient way and keep it In operation In the
Intereste of the public. As to. wbether there
are some provisions wbich uhôuid be amnended In the lnterests of bondholdersi or In
the Interests o! other parties, these are
questions whicbi wlll arise In committee.
The hon. gentleman from de Lannudière is,
Iarn afraid, under the Impression that be
'represents a lame company, .and this lame
company le intended to be reached by this
Bill. eI amn quite satlsfied that the Bill wll
not reach bis company. The last part of sectien 6 cannot overrIde tbe special provision
to wvhicb 1 havLa referred at tbe end of %ubsection (b) o! clause 1. Tben be bas referred
to matters of detaîl wbicb sbould corne up
onIy when the House Is In <Jomrittee of
the Whoie. The princIpie of the Bill ls yet
to be adopted. I will eall the attention o!
the bon, gentleman to the discussion whicb
took place in t'he House of Commons. It was
on tbe 74th August, and .te very provision
to wbiclî ny lion. friend takes exception,
subsection 2 o! clause 1, was introduced
at the request o! tbe leader o! the opposition in the Hlouse o! Gommons, because be
ihougbt, véry properiy, that tbe provincial
courts should not be ousted of any jurisdiction whicb might beiong to them. This
clause wvas discussed nt iengthi by the

of a report of the debate In Vie Honse of
Gommons, his Bill bias received vcry serions
consideration In that House, nlot only on tbe
7th Âugust but aIse on a subsequent day.
Certain clauses of! the Bill were reserved
for the purpose of belng specially examined
by the Mlnister ef Justice, and amendments
were proposed at a subsequent aitting. This
Bill was Introduced by a private member,
the member for St. John and Iberville, but
wau taken up as a government measure by
Sir Wilfrid Laurier, wbo moved, on thé 7th
,Âugust, I think, that the Bill be trans!erred
from the. Private. Orders te' the Uovernment Orders, and he bîmmeif moved for the
second reading of the Bill. The oniy thing
1 bave to say la that the roads referred to
by my bon. friend are quasi public corporations. Tbey bave obligaticns to perform
ta the public. One of the obligations ts te
keep tbeir road ln operation for Vie service
of Vie public, and when they are unabip to
do It, there should be machinery whereby
a receiver will be appolnted to see that
the Interests of Vie public wHi be protected.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I sbould like to asic,
with regard to tbe subsection of clause 1,
wbicb gives tbe federal court jurisdiction In
Vie province- whicb It bad not before, what
Is the effect o! tbat ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Exchequer Court
will bave juriediction under the Raiiway
Act In cases o! that kind.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This Bill le confined,
as wlll be seen from the firet 'paragraph of
the. clause. to rallways whicb are under the
Jurisdlction o! the federal parllament.
Therefore. rallways ithat are exclueively
under the .iurisdlction o! any of the provincial legîsiatures are excluded from the operation o! the Bill, and It was only because
there was a doubt as to whether the provincial court bail not some powers over
Viese railways tbat the amendmnent, which
bas become subsection 2, bas been adopted
at the suggestion o! the hon, leader o! the
opposition lu thue Commnons.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not lntend to
discuse the Bill at tbis stage. The salient
points, I tbink, bave been very well discussed by hon. gentlemen, and I presume It
bon. leader of the opposition and a nuni- is not Proposed to oppose tbe second readber o! other members o! Vie flouse of G3om- ing of tbe Bill. but to aiiow It to go into
mons, and as wii be seen froxn a reading committee. 1 wisb, however, to cal the at-

SENATE
teatian of the han. gentleman who bas lntroduced it ta wbat 1 think is an Inaccuracy
ln the titie. The Bihll i ntituled ' An Act
respecting the Jurladictlon af the Exchequer Court as to railway debts.' The Bill
le more than that. The principal part ai
clause 1 deale wlth the Juriediction af the
Exehequer Court generaily, extends it, flot
with regard ta rallway debts, but witb regard to rallways generally, and I think my
hon. frlend wilI notice that ln order to
make t.he iltle of the Bill harmonize with
Its contents. same littie change wiii be necesssr-' wheni we get ita committee.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. He haçI na officiai
correspondence ta bring down. He bad no
côrrespandence, practicahly, he said, that
cauld be braught down.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL]L-T!.hat
wauld be brought dawn ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That could be brought
dawn.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
'wauld' la the better word.

THIRD READINGS.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
BiR (135) An Act ta incarparate the Quewas read the second time.
bec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia RailThe Senate adjaurned.
way Company.-(Hon. Mr. McSweeney.)
BIRl (189) An Act ta Incarparate the Canadian Telephone and Telegraph Company.(Hon. Mr. Ferguson, la the absence af Hon.

THE SERÂTE.
Ottawa, Manday, Augu8t 24, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight
o'ciack.
Prayers and routine praoeedings.
CORRESPONDENCE RE NATIONAL
TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY.
MOTION.
Han. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That ia view of the important effect which
the construction of the proposed aational transcoatinental railway will have upon the future
of Canada:
That aa humble address be presented ta the
Premier. respectfully requesting hlm ta cause
fo be laid upon the Table of the Senate copies
of ail letters received by hlm from senators,
pratestiag agaiast or approvlng of the gaverameat policy la re the construction of said
national transcontinental rallway.
Hon. Mr. SCOT'J?-1 spok-e ta the Premier
to-day and asked hlm whether he had any
correspondence he could lay an the Table,
and he said be bad not.

RAILWA.YS LAW CONSOLIDATION
BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The Hause resoived Itself inta a Cammittee of the Whole on Bill (21) An Act ta
amend and consahidate the law respecting
railways.
(In the Committee.)

Haa. Mr. SCOTT-As this Bill ls somewhat voluminous, I do nat suppose it will
be required that the chairman af the cammnittee shall read every clause. I shall be
glad ta cail attention ta any new clauses af
the Bill and any materiai alteratians fram
the law as It is to-day. Large portions af
the Bill are, of course, taken fromn the Riailway Act, and la some Instances the changes
are only verbal; in other Instances they are
material. As I mentianed on the second
reading af the Bill, I propose that the
clauses whîch are known as coatraversial
Hon Mr. LANDRY-He had none ta lay clauses shahl stand over. and this eveningon the Table ?
we wlll only take sucli clauses as there may
carre- be no abjection ta. 0f course, any senatar
Han. Mr. SCOTT-He had no officiai
wishing a clause ta stand over, may say so,
spondence.
and it wi]l be allowed ta stand.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unH7on. Mr. LANDRY-Why are flot tlie
derstand the answer is that lie had no otticial
letter ta lay on the Table. Is that the new clauses printed in sucli a mnanner that
we 'wauld know that they are new ?
answer *
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

AUGUST 24, 1903
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would be a matter
of exceeding difficulty to do so; some of the
changes are merely verbal.

clcarly d£pends upon the contents of the
Bill. which we bave not yet reached.

lion. Mr. YOUNG-Wonld not a municipal counell be bound by the Municipal Act
On subclause (b) of clause 2,
in so far as the by-laws allowing rallwaye
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-On reading the Bill to encroach on the highways are concerned?
hurrledly I nkoticed that the expression 'byThe interpretation clauses were allowed to
law' 1is used to include resolutions ln ail
cases. and I think it should nlot be so. 1 stand.
would ask to bave this subelause stand
On clause 3,
over. because I propose to mnove an amend3. This Act shall apply to ail persons, comment. I find that later on ln the Bill there panies and railways (other than government
are references to by-iaws of municipal rallways) withln the. legisiative authorlty of the
and shahl be lncorporated
bodies grauting privileges to a railway com- parliament of Canada, Act, with the Special Act,
and construed. as one
in the streets of a town or subjeet as- hereia provlded.
pany to operate
city. Surely it ls not intended to grant a
Hou. Mr. WOOD-Before this clause i.
power of that kind by a simple resolution
passed. I should like at least to express tbe
of a munlclpality, and therefore there
regret wbich I feel tbat it exempts from
should be an exception made.
the operation of thus Act government railHou. Mr. LOUGHEED-I presumne any ways. This. of course, eniy aupplies to the
hon. member wou*ld have the riglit to ask Intercolonial Railway. I sbould be glad If
for the reconsideration of any clause If It the bon. leader of the House could give us
becomes, necessary to discuss the applica- iuny reason why the Intercolonital Railway
tion of a prior clause to a succeeding one. shou'id be exempted from the operation of
tbis Act. From wtiat consideratlon 1 have
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Oh, yes.
been able to give, I really eau see no good
Hoiu. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think that wll rea son why this, Act sbould flot appiy to
the Intercalonial Raflway or any other govlie granted by the Cha-mber.
erament railway, as well as to any. other
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-What railway of the Dominion. The provisions
struck me when I heard it rend was, how o! thls Act. wbicb are applicable t0 ahl
far the word 'resointion' should be con- raiiways, relate gen.eraliy to tCe safety o!
strued to mean a by-law. Under the Acts the empiojees and of the travelling publie
governing companies of tuis and other upon the raiiway. Tbey al-so relate to the
kind.s, you bave to Propose a distinct by- regulation of traffic and afford a tribunal
iaw and pass it sometîmes by a mere ma- by which disputes aru'sing between differaority. and other times by a majority of the ent rn.ilway companles, or between raiiway
stock. or whatever it may be. Unaer this companies and their patrons, can be cbeapclause. would any ordinary resolution autho- ly and easily and satisfatorLly adjusted.
rizing the appointment of any servant or R-,ally, I can see no reason why, If a comautliorizing the secr-etary or tlue manager mission is necessary or desiralyle ln the case
to do a cc.rtain act, be construed lnto a by- of any railways, it should not be equally
law. as if formalir passed la that shape 9 desirable aud advantageous as far as a
Would that flot lie the effect of the clause goveramefit raiilvay la concerned. I am
as It stands ?
aware thât under the Act hitherto in force,
railways have not been includHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We cannot tell govcrnment
we have had
suggest that the ed, but urp to the present time
tili we reach IL. I would
to commission, and the only tribunal which
intervretation clause shouid stand until we
as a court of appeal from the railgo through the Bill. As a matter of fact served
*way authorities was the Railway Committhe interpretation clause shouid follow a
Privy Council, and 1 can see that
Bill, altbough it precedes it, because we are tee of the
*there wouid be some reason in excluding
discussing matters now as to the applica.
of that Act a governtien of w.hich we have no knowledge. Th( from the operatiofi
application of the interpretation claue* ment railway. because the Minister of Rail-

SENATE
wiih they couid appeai and present their
grievances, and have a fair and Impartial
bearing. It appears to me that this is a
very strong reason why the Intercolontal
liaiiway shouid be Inciuded. with ail the
raiiways of the Dominion, and corne within
tile provisions of thislBihl. It appears to.
lue too, that it wouid be an advantage from
aitother point of view; that is, frorn the
governmnent's point of view. If the miles and
regulations establisbed by the Raiiway Commissloners were applicable to the government
raliway, eveil tlie minister imself would
have no power to vary from those ruies, or
to give any one exceptional advantages.
The officiais of the Intercolonlal Rallway
would, be obiged to conform to the rules
the same as the officiais of a.ny other railwaya, and in that way the Mlnlster of Railways would b>e relieved If very influentiai friends were disposed to brnng any
undue pressure to obtain auy privilege, or
faveur, or unfair advantage over any of
their competitors. These are the reasons
whicb have influenced rny mind and led
lue ta the conclusion that In making this
niew departure, in estabishing this new
tribunal, it was most Important that, if it
was to be a useful tribunal-as 1 hople it
wili be, If the -men that are appointed to tli
tliese offices are the mnen best qualified ta
discharge the duties wbicb fali upon tilerathe government ralways, as weil as ail other
raUlways, shouid be inciuded la the provisions of the Bill, should be subject to aay
atatut'ory regulations whlch this Bill Imposes. I anticîpate that the hon. leader o!
the House rnay be reluctant to make anY
changes, especlally an important change of
til klnd, In the BIuli t this stage, but I
sbouid hople it le fnot altogether too late, and
that we might .take this matter up and give
It consideratlon. If they will do so, I sbould
be very glad If this clause of the Bill could
stand.* That, however, will rest with the
leader of the House. If he is willing- to
takze up the matter and give It the consideratien wblch I thlnk it requires, 1 stiould like
cumestances, they bave no redress, and it to see the clause stand.
appears to me-and one o! the reasons Why
Hon. Mr. SCOTTJ-The matter bas been
1 feit strongiy lu faveur o! this measure
those Who are patronizing the 1discussed, I may say, to some extent, and 1
was thiat
quite prepared to combat aIl the
Intercolonial Railway under these circum. am n ft
brouglit wlthin the provi- reasons my hon. friend bas urged, but the
stances, if it was
adopted for
slons of the Act, would bave a tribunal to principal item was originally

ways and the chlief suiperintendent, or chie'!
engineer at Ottawa, are the leading spirits
of the Rallway Commlttee of the Prlvy
Concil., and It would only be appea.ling
from the minîster to the minIster hlrnself
and his calleagues ; but where we have
taken a new departure and have appointed a
specil tribunal to deal with these matters, it
does appear to me that, if It le an advantage
in regard to any rallway It Is o! the same
advantage ln the case of governinent
There appear to be some
railways.
special advantages In the case o! a government raiiway which would nlot apWhether
ply to an ordlnary ralW~ay.
the opinion bias any just grounds for existing or not, there undonbtediy Is, ln the
portion of the country through which the
Intercolonial Rallway passes, a feeling more
or iess prevalent that certain persons who
have Influence with the governnent-any
governrnent which may be ln power at any
particular time-may be able to obtain
speciai advantages on the Intercoloniai Railway. Some tblnk that advantages as to
rates, and priviieges wltb regard to cars,
and a variety o! faveurs o! this klnd are
often granted by the party lu power to their
!riends who inay be patrons of the railway.
I amn not saying whether ail these grounds
of suspicion have sornethIng mouid te rest
upon or not, nor arn I saying that they exist
any more uiider one governent than they
do under anotber, but that such feelings do
preval le a fact whicb, I think, no one
wbo has lived in the maritime provinces wili
deny. At tbe present Urne a person who
bas any grievance, or feels that he bas any
grievance of thîs klnd, bas no tribunal to,
which he can appeal. People can refer their
cases to the mlnister, but they are not likely
to get very much redress If it le a political
matter. If the favour le given tea aren
because he le a politicai frlend, the person
who feels that be hias a grievance will not
be iikely to get auy redress by appealing to
the person who bas granted tbe faveur for
that reason. Therefore, under present cir-

Hou. Mr. WOOD.

AUGUST 24, 1903

b 1.

The
Le general advantàge of Canada.
declaratlon was made ln the Act passed ln
1M8 that ail rallways crosslng or connectlng wlth government rallways, or with
the Canadian Pacifie Railway or the
Grand Trunk Rallway-ralwaye- declared
to be for the general advantage of Canacla-that from the mere fact that they
cross these rallways or connect witli any
et these rallways -tliey become Ipso facto
works for the general advantage of Canadu. Whein we corne te dlscuss this provision, I shall be able te show that there are
provislous ln ti*is clause whlch would be
ultra vires of thls parliament. The British
North Ârnerlca, Act states what la necessary to give jurlsdlctlon te thîs parliameut
If the work la a local wôrk. Aud under
clause 5, wltliout declarlng It Is a worl, for
the general advantage cf Canada, the proviralway crosses
sin la that beause. nethe legisiative auanother It wl]. fail under
thorlty of the parlament of Canada. SureOn clause 5,
Iy that would not be sufftclent te gîve au5. AU the provisions of this Act relatlng te thorlty to tlis parliament, and nioreover,
wlthîa Oie leglalatîve
any subject or matter
authorlty, or the parlament of Canada, and for It seems te me we sliould limit the operagreater certalnty, but net se as te restrlct the tiens of the Act on local werks te suchi
generality ef the feregolng ternis, ail provisions
relatlng te railway crossinge and junctions, thîngs as are necessary for the good werkhlghway crossings, throngh trs.ffic, offences, Ing cf the railways, whicb are for the geiipenalties and statîstcu, shahl apply ta ail per1 arn ready* te
sons. companles and railways, whetber other- eral luterest of Canada.
wise wîthin the leglslatîve authorîty ef parla- acknowledge, that as far as crosslngs are
ment or net. 51 V.. c. 29, s. 4, Arn.
concerned-as far as the connections are
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Clauses 5, 6 and 7 concernied, and ail works pertalnîng te these
raise the question of municipal rlghts. I amn thînga, they should fail under flua Act; but,
aware that the Rallway Âct dîd the sanie it dces net fellow that «Il the works of the
thîng, te a cousîderable extent, but because local company sbould fail under the Act.
ihis parliament has lu the paet encroached
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la OnlY wlth referen provincial rlghts that 1a no reason ence te crossiuga or traffic. If they beconie
we should, ln passing thîs BIhI, fellow the carriers they nmust be under the jurlsdlctlon
saine course. It Is my Intention te move of the board. They surely must -bave that
that clauses 5 and 7 be struck eut, and that ceutrol ever all crossings, mere partlcularly
clause 6 be ameuded. I propose that the wliere. traffic Is carried.
firat Une of clause 6 be struck eut and te
Hon. Mîr. POWER-I move.that clauses 5,
add after the words 'every railway~1In the
6 -and 7 stand.
second Ue the following werds:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Auy propesed umeudSteani or electrîe street rallways and tram-

the reason that It was thought that the triblanal of the Mîniater er Railways hlmself and the government of the country was a faîrer eue; nothing more fair
could be adepted, and I presume the clause
bas been continued, as It bas been from tbe
beginning, rather eut cf deference te our
frienda frem the maritime provinces. If
they are quite prepared te allow the Intercolonial Railway te be handed over to the
Railway CommIssion-I amn net speaking for
the goverrument, but simply speaking fer
myself-I sheuld net hesîtate te make that
change. The clause must go ln the meanUie, unies. my hon. frlend wlshes it te
stand. I de net think there will be any
change made at present. I shall be very
glad Indeed te submlt the views expressed
by my hon. friend on the subject te my
colleagiies.
The fiast subsectlen was allowed te stand.

ways.

mgeni sbnuld L-o on the Order Paper.

By addlng at the end of the clause the folHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Might I ask my
lowing words :
lion. friend the mea'niug eft fle clause. In
In respect only te such connection, or cross'ail the provisions cf
iag, or te through traffic thereon, or anything the first hune It says
pertaining thereto, and this Act ssall apphY.
this Act,' and lu the fourth hune ' ail provisIons relatlng. te rallway crossinga, &c.' It
The object of the amendment would be te
wonId appear rit first the Intention was te
luImt the provision cf thîs Act under clause
ail tlue provisions of tlue Act te this
4 te al railwnys declared te be worked for apply

SENATE
Then the clause goes on :
class of railways, and then the iimiting
clause je put ln the fourtb Une, enumerating
Each commissioner. on the expiration of his
the class te which kt sball apply. Ie it term of offce, shall be elîgible for reappointment.
meant te be a restrictive clause ?
Thaf would apply to a man wbo bas
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They have copled a part reached seventy-five as well as the rest.
of It from the old. Act, and tliey bave put lu
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Oh, no.
detite restrictive words. 1 think kt le
Hon. Mr. POWER-I thlnk a portion et
clear enougli what le the Intention.
that clause sbould be redrafted.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-But If you pass a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I confees the clause
general clause, aud afterwards qualify It
by a clause of limitation, as bas been doue le net lu the beet language, but It could not
be plainer than It Ie.
ln this clause, It wll lead to confiict.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There Is no provision
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le limaited to cetain authorlzlng the resignation of a commissubjects.
sioner.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is flot necessary.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There cannot be
any doubt as to wliat claes of rallways may Any cominissioner can resign when he
corne wltbin the legislative autbority o! the wiehes.
Dominion of Canada. That belng decided,
The clause was adopfed.
the Act goes on to say, ail the provisions of
On clause 10,
the Act shall apply, and la the next breath
10. Not lesa than two cemmîselonere shall
the application.
by Implication restriets
attend at the hearing of every case, and the
present, shall precommissioner,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It seems to me whiere chie! and bis opinion when any question, which
upon
aIde.
no conflict has arisen for twenty years un- ln the opinion o! the commîssionere le a quescase
shall prevail. In
der a statute, it le better flot te change it. tion of law.opposlng party, and any notice where
to be
no
there le no
I have neyer beard any dissent from the ln- gîven te any Interested party, any one commissioner may &et alane for the board.
terpretation o! thîs clause. 1 thlnk If le
better to adhere to the law where it lias not
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Thie le a remarkbeeu open to any objection.
able clause. 1 have nof been able to see
anythlng ln the Bill whlch provides thaf
Clauses 5, 6 and 7 were allowed to stand.
the chairman shall be a lawyer; but this
clause Indicates that If le evldently meant
On clause 8,
that be shall be a member of the legal proHon. Mr. POWER-I submlt that there le fession.'
a sort of awkwardness in the wording of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbaf was the Intention.
thîs clause, beglnning at Uine 81.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-If deciares that
Each commaiseloner shall hold office during
good behavlaur for a period of ten years from the opinion of the chairman on a question
the date of his appaintment.
of law shaîl overrule tbat of his two col1 tliînk it would be a better way to say leagues. Surely kt meane net only fliat thie
lie should be appointed for a p.eriod of fen chairman shall be a lawyer, but a very greaf
years, dependlng on his good behaviour. lawyer. I thinhc If wouhd be very mucli betThen, nfter saylng tlie commissioner shahl ter te deciare preclseiy ln the Bill tbat tbe
lhoid office f(,r a period of ten years, ftle chairman of the board shail be a lnwyer,
b)ecause that le evldenthy what thjis clause
clause goes on f0 say
points to. Iu may humble opinion, it le very
mucli more important that the chairman of
tlie board shahl be a tiret-duess raiîway exThat le inconsîstent. Then it goes on te pert. The question must be determined f0
Say :
lie a point of law by fthc commissioners;
two may overrule
And shall cease to hold office upon reaching ln that case, tlie otber
the clinirman, nnd if they want to prevent
the age of eeventy-five years.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.
But may be removed at any tîme by the Governor in Council for cause.

AIJGUST 24, 1903
hîs having the supreme . ceutrel over this
question, the two wouid agree, and declare lt la net a point of law, and take
It eut cf his jurladicticu. This clause ehould
stand ever for further ceusideratien, because it la a meat extracrdiuary provision.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When this Bill was belug Intreduced, it was the-Intention that the
chief commisslcner was te b. a lawyer--a
raiiway lawyer, If possible.
Hon. Mr. POWER-These announcements
should be inserted in the Act

817

Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I hope the bon.
gentleman la flot serions lu suggesting that
on a question cf law the legai member of
the commission should be overruled by two,
laymen.
Hon. Mr. CILORÂN-Âs the clause stands,
the two isymen can overrule the iawyer.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Ycu may be siure
the laymen wiil show due deference to the
lawyer's opinion ou a peint cf law. I hope
that ne board wiil b. coustituted under this
Act of men who will not b. able te grapple
commis- with a question cf law, aud that the Iaymen
H on. Mr. PERLEY-Have the
appointed will b. competent te deal wlth ail
sioners beeu appointed yet ?
questions as weIl as a lawyer. If a man of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. This la really a flrst-class ability la placed.on it, though lie
formai clause. I meutioned wheu the Bill may net be traiued as a iawyer, he wlll
wss introduced that the chief cemmissioner accu be able te grapple with legal questions,.
was te b. a railway lawyer.
and his opinion eught te b. entltled te equai
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-But It le not se welgbt wlth the opinion of the chairman.
stated ln the Bill. The clause should stand
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHEED-The clause la
over.
qulte clear, that the two cemmissîcuers
la a question
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-The clause should mnuet agree that the question
of iaw. That la te say, If the chief commisstand over4, because If lt is ,going te imply
that the question la a questhat the commissioners should ail be law- sioner proposes
tien of law, It lo net a question of law exyers. I want a farmer on the cemmission.
cept thxe other two commissioners, agree wlth
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Consequeutly, If any one commishlm.
sioner sheuid hold that it la a question of
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-Why?
Iaw, and anether disagree, it la net a quesHon. Mfr. PERLEY-I want a farmer on tion of lar. Whether tbey are farmers or
the commission. The faimer la the man lawyers, or rallway -men, tbey muet al
whe paya meat cf the expenses, snd why agree.
sheuld net a farmer be on the commission Yt
Heu. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Suppcse
Heu. Mfr. DÂNDURÂND-I heard lu the two commIssicuers decide lt le net a quesctber Houa. the auuncement that eue e! tion of iaw?7
should be conthe three commIssieners
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then it la net a
versant with farmlng even If lie la a lawquestion cf law.
yer.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Â majority of the
Hen. Mfr. BEIQUE-I would suggest te
commIssioners must agree upen the fact
Introduce lu the third -Une the werds, 1;f that it la a question of law.
the chief cemmissiener be a lawyer, lits
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, net the maopinion, &e.'
jerity, but the wheie of them.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If that ls ail that la
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Well, the wbele cf
ueeded, 1 have ne objection.
them, but after they have agreed It la a
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-I understand tbere question cf fact. As te what wouid b. the
wiil b. eue lawyer, one fermer and oe effect, the question will have te be decided
The by the chie! commlssloner.
railway man en the commission.
chances are that the la-%yer would have the
Hon. ULr. LOUGHEED-We have net
fermer or the railway man with hlm. Why corne te that yet.
not leave the decisien te the majerlty cf the
The clause was allowed te stand.
commission ?

si8

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There wouid be no objection to that.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I sbould like ta draw
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-That would prevent
attention ta this fact ; that It Is stated In this
that Intereet or affinity shall not dis- a railway man aeoeving on the commission.
clause
quaiify any of the commissionems. I have
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Yen.
very strong doubts as ta wbether It la adHon. Mr. YOUNG-The commissioner
visable that a commissioner be not disquali- might bave stock in some company when he
bis Interest may be. Supfied, however slight
was appointed, and he would have ta divest
pose the commissionerl' I the brother, or the
of It.
parties laterested, he hîmseif
father, of one of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
is not disqflalified. We are creating a tribunal of judges'to pass judgment upon very
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Dld I not understand
Important questions, and I draw the atten- that the government had asked Sir William
tion of hon. gentlemen ta the question as ta Van Horne to act as commissioner ?
wbether It ls advIsable ta go as far as that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Heam, hear.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-That was the transHon. Mr. CLORÂN-I do not thiak there portation commission..
la any objection ta this clause. .It ls a wtse
The amendment was adopted, and the
provision. We bave It Ia aur provinces, and
clause was allowed to stand.
judges who are lnterested by reason of kmn,
muet step, aside and aliow others ta take
On clause 12,
their plaee.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂ&ND-What necessity
Hon. Mr. POWER-This clause Is the re- Is there ta requIre the commissioners ta reverse of that.
aide at the capital ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQtTE-The clause provides
Hon. Mr. POWER-We do not want ta
that he ls ta be replaced oniy if he applies, have them living at Montreal, because they
and if he chooses ta oit, although Inter- would nlot do any business on Monday.
ested, he would not be disquallfted.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I thought this
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The clause reads ' upon was Monday, and that we were working
the application ot such commissioner or here ?
otherwise.'
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-He is going to be
requlred ta work for more than three days
The clause was aliowed ta stand.
In the week.
On subclause 2.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-The answer
2. No commissioner shaîl hold, purchase' take given by the Speaker ls not a satisfactomy
or become interested in, for his own behaîf.
any stock, share, bond, debenture or other se- one, because I wouid like the commission
curity, of any railway campany subject ta this teasit Ia Montreal and work six days a
Act, nor shall, directly or indlrectly have any
Iaterest in any device, applance, machine, pat- week.
On clause 11,

ente'd process or article, or any part thereof,
which may be required or used as a part of the
equipment of railways, or of any rolliag stack
to be used thereon ;and, If any such stock,
share, bond or other security, device, appliance,
machine, patented process or article, or any
part thereof. or any interest therein, shall camne
ta or vest in any such commissianer by wiii
or succession, for his own benefit, he shall,
within three caiendar months after the same
shall so corne to or vest in hlm, absolutely sell
and dispose o! the same or his interest therein.

Hon. Mm. POIRIER-I would suggest that
Inalune 30 after the word sbail, the womds
'directly or indirectiy' be lnserted, because
otherwise there is a loophole, and the
commIssioner may be Indirectly interested.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe objection which
I have ta this clause is different from the
abjection of my hon. friend f rom de Lorimier. The clause says 'or within such distance as the gavemnor Ia courrcil at any time
determines.' Suppose the govemnor In council came ta appoint this commission, and
looking round for a really good lawyer ta
act as chairman of this commission, selected
the bon. gentleman who sits beside me as
that lawyer.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-They would make a
mistake.

AUGUST 24, 1903
Hon. Mr. POWER-knd then they would
alter this regulation so that the commissioner would live ln Montreai and the difficuity
would arise again.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-Might I Inquire
what is the meaning of the expression ' consistent with this section.'
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-It will permit
thern to sleep occasionaliy.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Does not that clause
mean twenty-four heure a day ? Wby not
let thern have smre Urne to sieep ?
The clause was adopted.
On clause 16,
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-It seerna to 'me there
ia smre contradiction ln this clause. They
rnay ait separately and the quorum fa fixed,
at two ; 1 fail to see how a board, the
quorum of whicb ls two, can oit separately
when the board ls composed only of three
members.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-There ls a provision
that In unimportant matters one party rnay
set.
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-The commissioners
themmelves decide that they may sit separately.
Hon. Mfr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)Later on ln the Bill tiiere are rnany things
which con be done by one commissioner.
Hon. Mfr. F'ERGUSON-What ls to happeu In case a question of law arises where
there ls only a bare quorum present and the
chief ls net one of them ?
Hon. Mfr. POWER-The last two lhues
read as follows:
17. There shail be a secretary of the board,
who shall be appointed by the Governor lu
Councîl, shall hold office durlng pleasure, and
shall resîde lu the clty of Ottawa. It shall be
the duty of the secretary ta attend ail sessions
of the board, to keep a record of ail proceediugs conducted before the board or any commissioner under thîs Act, ta have the-custody
and care of ail records and documents belonsing or appertaining thereto, or filed lu hlm
office, and ta obey ail rules and directions
whlcb may be made or or gîven by the board
touching his duties or the governance of his
office. Sub. for Si V., c. 29. s. 9.
No vacancy lu their body shall Impair the
rlght of the remaluing commissioners tea 8ct.

819

On clause 17,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the commissioners
ait separately I want ta know how the
secretary could keep a record of ail. the proceedinga before the board 7
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-I hope rny hon. friend
la not reaily serious. I have sent for the
Flnglih Act. The duties are ail descrlbed
in twelve or fifteen paragraphe, because
they bave been too particular in drawing
up the Âct, and it seerns te have been the
cause of severe crltlcismn. It la to be presurned the men wlill be men of common
ense and will perforrn their duties ln a
senible way as sensible rnen.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.>-I do not
see how one secretary cou record the proceedings of three separate courts whIch the
commIssioners hold.
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-They would have the
power to appoint ternporary assistance at
any Urne. The only offigers, appolnted by
the Governor hn Council are the commissioners and the secretary. They wouid of
course have stenographere and other offiers,
depending on thelr duties as they arise frorn
tirne to tirne. At first it -Ywl be a aimple
body, but I have no doubt It wlil grow and
be a considerable staff. They wHIl have the
appointment of any officiais, with those
narned here, wlth full power to carry out
the law.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
there any authority given ln the Bill to
appoint clerks ?
Hou. Mfr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)They can appoint ail the officeus needed
under the Act.

Hon. 1fr. MACDONALD (PEI)Ithink
we should have smre idea of what It la
golug to coat the country. As we go on we
find that the officers rnentioned ln the Act
are 'not ail that may be requlred. There
others required to maire (it
will be rny
work satisfactorily. I belleve myself that
It is a retrograde step, that we mlght botter
remain as we are*and let the Privy Council
act as they have been doing heretofore, and
Under the Interpretation clause If two that we should mot speud an Immense
commissioners dled, one wouid have ahi the arnou.nt of rnoney lu order to bring -this Bill
powPrs of the whole commission.
Into effect when the sme thing can be doue
The clause -was allowed ta stand.
by the itailway Comrnittoe of the Prlvy

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Any
Councîl wItbout any assistance from the
one wbo bas paid much attention te human
country.
nature, wlll cerne te the conclusion that the
Hon. Mr.* SCOTT-If my hon. friend had
man who could be tempted at $10,000 would
any experience ef proceedings before the be ternpted at $20,000.
RalIway Committee of the Prlvy Council,
he would find they are really flot adequate
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Outslde et the questo the work. Wholly apart from the Inter- tion et temptat Ion altegether, I do net becolonial Rallway, we have about 14,000 miles Ileve It would be possible for the governof railway, and very Intricate questions are ment te get men of experlence and ability
arislng which have to be disposed of. Take that should compose this board. The Canthe classification et treIght-long and short adian Pacific Railway and the Grand Trunk
hauls, raiiway crossings, and fit ty ether Railway pay now $50,000 a year te their
things ef tbat sort-the Railway Committee president. As tar as Sîr William Van Homne
Io flot really ln a position te master every Is concemned, he was cheap at that. I de
case-they have not the same experience. net think It will be possible te get a man
They had te appoint commissioners ln Eng- fit te MIîthe position specified on -this board
land and ln the United States. The cost this for the arnount mentioned ln the BilI. It
year le estimated approximately at $100,000. seems te me that thls is a very Important
That amount Io put in the estimate te meet measure, and If the expectations of parîlathe expenses. Whether It be that or net, 1 ment lni passing it are to be realized, the gendo net know, but that is the estimated cost. tlemen coinposing this board will be worth
a great deal more te the people of Canada
Tbe clause was adopted.
thon the sumo here previded for. We must
On clause 20,
secure the best talent that can be found lu
20. The chief commissioner sball be pald au Canada, and 1 sheuld think at least double
annual salary of ten thousand dollars, and th" tbe salaries mentioned h'ere would be meother two commissioners shall be pald each the
annual salary ef elght thousand dollars. The quired te secure men of abillty te fill the
secretary shall recelve a salary te be fixed by position.
the Governor ln Council, not less than twentyfive hundred dollars and flot more than thirtyHon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman
Ilve hundred dollars. annually. Snch salaries
shal! be paid monthly out of the unapproprlated has been a member of the Heuse of Cerntunds in the hands of the Receiver General for mens, and I suppose he knews the opinion
Canada.
et the majority ef the members et tbat
Hou. Mr. POWER-Of course, we cannot House ln regard to salaries. It bas been
alter this clause, but I qulte agree with some recognlzed. fer rnany years that many of our
hon, gentlemen in my neighbeurboed who most Important officiais, judges and ethers,
thiuk the salaries are tee small for the duties have net been adequately pald, yet no prime
whlch have te be performed. These cern- minister, frem tbe tirne ef Sir Jehn Macmissioners will hâve te deal wlth great rail- donald dewn, bas been able te induce the
way companles who contre! vast sumo ef Heuse et Commens te Increase the judges'
money and exert a great deal ef Influence ; salaries, and the salaries of ether officiais.
and I think the salaries ought te be sncb as, I quite agree with the sentiments wblch
in the first place, will enable tbe country te bave been expressed, but had higher figures
secure the best talent, and in the next place, been decIded upen, It la very questienable If
will put the comniissieners eut ef reacli of the Heuse ef Cemmens weuld have passed
temptation. I knew some hon, gentlemen tbem.
may say that the premier ef Canada Is
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We might save
paid a smaller salary tliat the chlef commissioner under this Bill will receive. Al the time spent In discussing this question, beI have te say is that the premier of Canada cause clearly we cannet arnend tbe clause.
and bis colleagues sheuld receive more res- It is net a work et administratien these
pectable salaries tban they do. Th(. difflulty men are called upen te perferm. but rather
is, ln this country, when we get a salary te adjudicate. The gevernment does net look
fixed it is so bard te increase it-that !S, for sucb men as Mr. Hayes or Sir Thomas
provided it Is net the indemnity of members. IShaughn-essy. They are net the sert et men
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.1.)

AUGUST 24, 1903

-821

who are wanted ; certainly they could notj Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This is te provîde a
board who shall deai wlth ail these matbe got for sucb a salary.
ters la a direct, simple, cheap and easy
The clause was adopted.
wny. Our great trouble at present le, tbat
an ardlnary individual canuot afford te go
2,
On clause 23, subsection
te law wltb a railway company. They may
2. The decisian jf the board upan any questhe Privy Councl If It suite
tion of tact, and as ta whether any compad7, takre hlma te
munlcipality or person la, or la flot, a party them. I arn la faveur et glvlag extraordilnterested within the meaning of this section, nary powers la declding questions of-this
shall be binding and conclusive upan aIl com- kind, and stop the dragging of cases from,
panies and persons, and lu ail courts. Sub.
for 51 V., c. 29, a. Il.
court te court. No one, unies lie Io a
millionaire, le able ta cope wltb a rallwny
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems ta me
campany or a big corporation. Get the rigbt
a most extraordinary power ta give this
men an thîs board, give tbern ail the power
court that their fanding on a fact shall passible, and shut off appeale, so far as It
be abeolutely conclusive. While the find- can be reasonabiy doue, sa that .tluelr deing of facte made by a Jury Ie regarded cisiens wili be final, and tben a1mau, wben
by most courts, or acoeptedl as conclusive he does get Into a dispute with a railway
In a sense, yet the rigbt Is reserved to a campany, wiil know bow far they can go.
court ta Investigate the evideace, and If tbey
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Eiaborate provisee the evidence does nat bear out the conthe Jury, they sions are made for appeals trom thîs triclusion on the facts found by
can ilad otherwlse. That le a well estab- bunal« , but you are placiag ln the bande of
lisbed prInciple of iaw, la tact runnlng tbree men, wbo posslbly unay net be as qualifrem the hlghest courts ef the realm down te fied ta weigb questions et tact as a court
the lewest, and te depart from that principle may be, the power te find concluslvely on
witb reference ta thus particular tribunal every tfact with whlcb tbey bave te deal.
seerne rather unreaspnabie to my judgment. Tbat may involve the public on very serious
considerations. It seems te me that wbea
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But this la only on a an appeal lies te the appelate courts, those
very immaterial point.
courts sbauld exercîse tbe same rigbte or
be a very the same powers as tbey would in tbe meet
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It rnay
materlal tact Involilg posuibly large sumo Important lîtîgation whlcb cornes before
of rnaney, and yet there le no posslbllity them.
of revlewing the evîdence taken by these
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Wbat goed wlll tbe
cormisslaflers by au appelate court.
commission be If sucb appeals are ailowed ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le whether a party
Han. Mr. POWER-Ae tbere le a marked
making a complaint bas sufficlent interest la dîfference et opinion wltb retereuce ta thie
the matter ta warrant them taking It up or subclause, we bsd better let It stand.
bot.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I agree witb the hon.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-It la upon qules- gentleman trra Klllarney (Han. Mr. Young)
tione ot law as weiI as upon ail questions et that on ail matters af tact there slxould be
ne appeal. Take clause 41, the came princifact.
pIe applies.

I, for one, arn prepared ta stand

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le to be read wlth by tluat princîple, and let the decisien et the
the limitation and qualification la the laet commission be final on ail questions of tact.
twe lines. Hon, gentlemen wilI find a clause
The clause was adopted.
further on providing that whien this quesappeal
tion af tact cornes up tiiere is an
On clause 24,
frorn the board.
24. The board may, of its awn motion, or
upan the request of the minister, inquire
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. frlend shall, hear and determine any matter or thing
inte,
will observe the clause deals with the juris- which, under this Act, it rnay inquire tt, bear
or complaint,
diction ef the board. The clause is suffi- and determine upon application have and rnay
and with respect thereto shahl
a find- exercise the sarne pawers as, upon any applicacientiy comprehiensive to embrace
tion or complaint, are vesteti la it by this Aot.
Ing on any question ef tact.

822 -

SENATE

822
SENA.TE
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudièrè)- It la, as the hon. Secretary of State says, left
These complaints sbould be made on oatb. wlthln the Powers of the judges to decide
How la a board going to proceed on a verbal wbat cases they shahl admit or reject, that
or written complaint if nobody la ready to state of thlngg Is wholly unsatisfactory to
substantiate it with an oath. A rallway me. Those men may be partisans, and I do
company, against which a complaint may flot see why we sbould give tbem power,
bave been made, would bave to employ a if 1 go before tbem, to say 1No, we will not
iawyer to defend tbemselves at an expense bear your case,' while another person, with
of several hundred dollars, perhaps for a perbaps a trlfiing cause of action, *wlll be
groundiess complaint. I beUleve ail complaints received and bis caie heard. Tbere is someshould be under oath, so that the person who tblng unsatisfactory ln that state o! thIngs,
makes the complaint shaîl be amenable and I should hIke tbe clause to stand.
to the law If 'lie makres a taise statement.
Hon. Mr. FROST-Would tbey flot still
Hon. Mr~. SCOTT-Does the bon. gentle- have recourse t0
the courts If they werp
mani suppose these men will taire Up every turned out
by the commission ?
application wbich shall be made to tbem,
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I do not know how
whietber any grounds for It are -shown or
tbat would be. The point I object to is,
flot ?
after the explanation we have had from the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELL-The hon. minister,
that It ls left wlth the commiscommissioners may be of the character the sioners tbemselves
to accept or reject a
hon. gentleman suggests, but this clause la
cause. That is too much discretion. In the
imperative. It says any complaint made
Supreme Court the judges cannot reject a
shail bie lnvestigated In a certain way. The
cause of action If the amount Is large enough
point ls, whether a frIvolous complaint made
and the proper procedure bas been followed;
verbally would compel the commissioners
but here, we are glving this board, besides
under this clause to investigate.
the priviiege o! judgIng finally on facts, the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT'-No.
power to accept or reject, as they tbink fit,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- I see any cause brougbt before tbem.
no power given them to decide wbat Is to be
Hon. Mr. FROST-But If a case ls reconsidered a legitimate or illegitimate com- jected by this commission, the parties
plaint. It ought certainly to be ln some sggrieved stili bave recourse t0 the courts
shape or other to Justify the action of the qof law.
commissioners.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-But can the courts
Hon. Mr. DANDURAN'D-As 1 read It, force the commissioners to acf on their
it seems to me the board shaîl only act at decision ?
the request of the minister himself.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe hon, genHon. Mr. YOUNG-This clause deals tleman does flot suppose tbîs Bill wlll take
entirely with the board acting on Its own from the courts of the land the riglit to try a
Information, or Information whicb the min- suit against a railway ! This commission
ister may give. Therefore, I tbink it is simply discharges the duty beretofore dissafe to say the board wlll not act on any charged by the Railway Committee of the
frivolous complaint, nor wiIl the ininister Privy Council.
request tbem to do so.
Hon.
Mr. POIRIER-Nofwifbstanding
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-There is somethiug that,
we are g.iving this board the option o!
unsatisfactory lix this arrangement. Here acting on their own will
or fancy, in such
w.e create a board which bas as mucb power a way, as I said before,
as is to me wholiy
and authority as the Supreme Court, and lu unsatisfactory.
sonie respects more, and its finding is
The clause was adopted.
final. On]y certain cases, as we aIl know,
On clause 25. subclause 3,
cau go to certain courts-the cause of action
must amount to large sums-but here we
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think the words 'or
have the possibility off any onîe goiîig to this companv ' sbouid be added in the second
court on any futile or baseless pretext. If uine after the word 'person,' and the saine
Hon. Mr'. ELLIS.

AUGUST 24, 1903

823

clause goes on to say : ' or to any compauy,
municipality, co-partnerahip firm or mndlvidual.' The lirmt ' company'1 ought to be
mtrickeni out, and It mhonld be ' any notice
required to be given to any eompany.' I
suppose the mistake bas arlsen from the
fact that tht. long clause wam taken ont of
4,
On subclause
a particular
may revlew, rescind, change, a previous Act whicb dealt with
4. The board
alter or vary any *rule, regulation, order or de- company. This la a general Act and dealm
cislon made by it, whether previoumiy publimh- wlth ail morts of companies and corporatilons.
ed or flot. 51 V., c. 29, a. 18, Am.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The expression 1cornslI a sweeping
Hon. Mr. POWER-Thle
pany 1 means the railwny company, aud lnauthority. I tblnk there should be some
to coulimit. This was Intended to appiy to the cindes any person havIng authority
struct or operate a railwvny.
RaIIway Committee of the Privy Council.
The new tribunal Is simply a board, and it
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
would be an awkward thing If, when a case bas not tbrown much additional llght upon
was under conaideration, morne regulation the mubjeet. I bave looked at the defluition,
was altered witbout notice.
and the definition does not throw any Ilgbt
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There would be very on the àubject. The expression 1company'1
mucli more uuiformity under the commis- means a rallroad company; it doe net say
thc railroed company.
sion than under the Railway Committee.
Hon. Mr. DANDUIiAND-There Ie no
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thec railroad. coinpany
court of'law that bas not the rlght to recali means any raiirond cornpany.
or resclnd its regulations. It Imflot to be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The terrn «or any
supposed this board will act otherwlme than
company' migbit menu some compauy flot a
according to common sense. Tbey mumt
combave the power to rescind the law and modi- railroad compauy, but a joint stock
pany.
fy their regulations.
Hon. Mr. POWER-' A compauy' 1is deHon. Mr,. CLORÂN-Supposing tbey decided lu my favour to-day, and waut to filed, and It meaus a railway compafly.
decide otherwise the day after, what arn I
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It is the particular railto do ?
way company you are deallng with at the
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-It ls to be au- tîme.
mcd the government wiil appoint men
Hon. Mr. POWER-There'is no particular
with common sense.
railway cornpauy mentioued at the time.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I arn strongly of
Horr Mr. LOUGHEED-Look at subsccopinion that the board ought to have power
to regulate the running of trains; that le, tion (c.) There le a distinction drawn bethe time carde for making connection with tween the company, meaning a railway company, and any compauy other than a raildîffereut railways.
rond company.
The clause was adopted.
Hou. Mr. POWER-I move that that
On clause 28,
clause stand. It neede to be gene over cure28. Any notice required to be glren ta the tully.
compafly, or to any company, municipallty, corporation, co-partnership, firm or individual rna3
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The sanie expression
be, and shall be deemed to be sufflciently giver
or served hy delivering the sme, or a copi le used ail tbrouglî the Bill.
thereof.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I neyer saw a
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-It seems to me thal clause more explicit than 28, defluing the
the language of this clause neede Improve notices to be scrved on ail k-inds of comment. It enys 'anyý notice required ti panies, municipalities and corporations.
be given to the company.' We are not deai
The clause was allowed to stand.
Th<
ing with any particular. comfpanhy.

The Act deals with a
compqny or person lu certain clauses. 1
move that the clause be amended ln that
way.
The amendment was agreed to.

lu the last lune.

824

SENAT.E

On clause 34,
34. Notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of
the said 'The Railway Act,' and amending Acta,
aIl orders of the Rallway Committee of the
Privy Councl In torce at the lime of the passage hereof, may be made rules or orders of the
Exchequer Court, or of any Superior Court of
any province In Canada, and rnay be enforced
In ail respects, as near as rnay be, la the sarne
manner as provided by this Act In the case of
eimilar ordeTs by the board ;and ail penalties

forfeitures and liabilitisa attaching, under this

Act, to the violation of any regulation, or disobedience to any order of the board, shall apply and attach to any violation of, or disobedience to, any regulation or order of the Railway Coinmittee of the Privy Council occurrlng
afte.r the passage of buis Act, In ail respects,
as near as may be, as If the saine were a
regulation or order of the board.
Hon. Mi. LOUGHEED-Wby may flot il
be made an order of tbe Supreme Court as
well as of the Exchequer Court or Superior
Court ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe Supreine Court Is
The Supreme Court of
tbe territorles would corne in as a Supreme

a court of appeal.
Court

Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I refer 10 the Supreme Court of Canada.

forceable li the samne manner as If the regulations had been. made by the board. I
think If we struck out these words some
question might arise wbetlier the penalty
could be enforced. I do flot see that auy
harm cau arise from leaving them lI.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon. gentleman
does flot understand the point that 1 amn
making. It Is this : tbe ruies that are now
Iu foi-ce, adopted by the Railway Committee
of the Prlvy Council, may give mise to violations of these rules, and wbether the violation is committed before the passage, or
attar the passage of tbis Bill, should make
no difference, and therefore we should flot
keep tbese words In ; because If we keep
them I, the board will be unable to deal
with violations committed a day. or five
days, before the passage of thîs Act, because It is limiting II:to1 violations occurring
after its passage. 1I move tbat the words
' occurring after thé. passage of this Act' be
struck out.
The clause was allowed to stand.

Tn clause 42,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave an amendment
Hon. 'Mli-. BEIQUE-I would draw attention t1o this point-wbether we should strike 10 subsection 3 of this clause :
out the words 'occurring after the passage
The finding or determination of the board
of this Act.' This commission Is 10 takze the upon any question of fact within its exclusive
place of the Railway Cammrittee of the
Privy Council. and is vested with ail the
rigbts beretofore applying to that Railway
Committee, and It seerns 10 me the penalties
under tbis Act should apply t0 ahl violations
whether they occur before the passage of
this Adt or not.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRÂIN (de Lanaudière)There may be regulations of the Railway
Cornrittee of the Privy Council stili iii
force.
Hon. Mr'. BEIQUE-There is a provision
In this Bill 10otis effect, that aIl the rules
are 10 rernain In force until they are changed as if they bad been passed by the board
under this Act The board wouid have no
authorlty to pass on violations committed
before the passage of this Bill.

jurlsdiction which cannot form the subject of
an appeal, shall be binding and conclusive upon
ail courts.
As tbey liad lt originally it was absolute.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If that
stands for consideration, we might also refer
back to clause 23, subseetion 2. That subsection, I understood, was aliowed 10 -stand,
so irt considering the one we can consider
the other.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie lawyems of the rail-

way compAnies tookz îo exception to that,
and they considered It very critically.
Hon. Mr~. BEIQUE-Tlie principle Involved
la the first pamagraphi of clause 42 is very

different from the principle involved in the
tlîiril subsection, and is mucli more objectionable. 10 my mmnd, because it is wipilng
A
away aIl the autbority of chose jugé.
provides suit may take place betweeîî a raiiway corn-

Hon. Mr. POWER-Clause 33
a trial will be
that these regulations made by the Raiiway paniy and an individuali
Commlttee 0f the Privy Council shiah con- had and judgement rendered, and the railtinue ln force until. rel)ealed. Tlîen clause way cornpany, let us suppose, wins its case:
34 provides that the penalty shahl be en- the saine questiou wiil cerne up before tbis
Hon. Mr DANDURAND.

AUGUST 24, 1903
board. aud the judgrnt will avall oniy as
a prima fadle case as far as facts are concerned, and it will be open to the
board to render a decision entirely contrary
to the decision rendered by the court. It
meema f0 me it le contrary to ail principles
aud for ny part I shall surely object to
that principle being applied.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It ls not intended to
override the judgme4~ of the court. The
board will not override the decislons of the
court.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If the hon. Secretary
of Staté will read the first part of the clause
he -wlll mca:
42. In determiuiug any question of tact, the
board ehall not be concl1uded by the fluding or.
Judameut of any other court, ln aur suit, prosecution or proceeding, Involving the determination of such tact, but such finding or judgment
shall, ln proceedings before the board, be prima
fadle evidence ouly.
Therefore I say it la clearly wipiug out
the effect of the judgmeut, because it la a
decision on a question of fact.
Hion. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Itseema to reinforce subsectilou 3 of clause 23, In which
their finding i. not ouly on a question of
fact, but they are able f0 set aaide the findIng of a eburt. If seemi gou extraordlnary
power f0 give a court f0 make Its decimions
conclusive on ahl questions of fact-that
they may Ignore the finding of the higher
courts of the Dominion, composed «of judges
more capable of weighing questions of fact
than any other tribunal that could possibly
be establiahed.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Âs I understaud, the
hon. Secretary of State wishes this clause to
stand.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wlsh to have clauses
42, 43 and 44 stand.
Hon. Mfr. POWrER-I understand the
counsel who represented the different railway companies, have distrlbuted t0 sme
members of the Senate, fypewritten, or
priuted documents showing the clauses to
which they object and the reasons for their
objection. If such documents bave been
distributed, the distribution should be
general, s0 that every member et the commIftee should ho able to read them before
the comniittee meet again, and to judge for
bimself as to their value. I do Dot think.

825

it la fair that the distribution should be
confined to certain members of the committee.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The gentlemen who
represent the several rallways of Cancada
were very anxrous indeed that this Bill
should go to the Railway Cormilttee, or
smre special commlttee. 1 did flot feel that
I could concur lu that, because there were
many senators who wlshed to bear the
discussion, and for that reaso'n I did mot
moud the Bill to the Railway Committee.
It did not go to the Railway Committee of
the House ot Commons. The sme resuit
might be attal-ned, If the senators were
present at a meeting at which these varlous
clauses could be discussed by the representatIves of the raUlway companies. It
wou]d be informai. They sa-id they would
like to have an opportunity to address the
Senate, and they asked that these three
clauses be reserved, and on sme convenient
day they would be glad to meet the Senate
In the Railway Commlttee of the House of
Commons, and give their reasons why they
object to particular clauses." There are probably ten or twelvê clauses objected to. .I
maid : 'If you give me a memorandum of
the clauses and your views on thern, I will
faclitate your bavlng an opportunity of
tating to the Senate your reasons for
objectlng to the clauses ln the shape ln
which they are.' I asked them to band me
their reasons, at ai events.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
suggestion thrown out by the Speaker is flot
only correct, but It ls advisable that the
course he suggests should be followed. The
parties representing the rallways have made
certain suggestions, and there ls no reason
why they should not be printed, as they
have been furnished to sme members of
thls House and circulated arnong the senators, and every one could then corne to a
betteÈ conclusion than by having the Ideas
thrown out by those who approve of the
suggestions made, or who rnight object to
thern. 1 would suggest to the hon. gentleman the proprigty of having them printed
and circulated.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-A representatIve of one of the railways, if not of alI the
iailwoys, acted on rny suggestion that a
factum should be printed nnd -distributed

826

SEINATE

to members, so that we could lie on an equal chamber ln the forenoon. We couid hear
footing. A promise was made to me that a veiy mucli better.
factum should be printed and distributed
The clauses were allowed to stand.
before Tuesday.
On clause 4S,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-What about the other
48. The board may appoint or direct any peran inquiry and report upon any
Interests ? Will they havé the same privi- son to inakecompiaint or dispute
application,
pending before
lege ?
auch board, or any matter or thing over which
the board bas Juriadiction under this or the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Certalnly.
Special Act. 51 V., c. 29, s. 1,2, Arn.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do nlot feel clear as
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That need not
retard our work at ail. We could hold over to the desirability ef giving this unqualified
the contentions clauses until the printing is power to the board. This is one case where
the provision which appiied to the Railway
done.
Conîmittee of the Privy Council Isý. applied
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We bave only now
te the present board, and the cases are
corne te the clauses to whlcb they object,
somewhat different. The commission will
and I have drawn attention to themn and
have the machinery for making these lnbave asked that these particular clauses be
quiries and will have a staff. Tbey cau apheld over. I said I thought I could remove
point experts to do things. Now, this clause
the objection the railways had to one
clause. gives themn general power to direct any one
I read my amendment to the counsel of one
to make an inquiry. There should be some
of the railway companies, and lie quite
restriction upon that.
If the board have
approved of it
men la their own employ, members ef the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If regular staff who can make an inquiry,
these reasons are prInted and circuiated, these are the persons who should do It and
then those who are opposed to their vlews outsiders should not be called in at their
wIll understand the objections they have to discretion.
meet.
Hon. Mr. CASGRÂIN (de Lanaudière)Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I anm afrald you These inquiries may be made at a very great
wlill have a practical dimfculty. The print- distance from Ottawa. It may be a small
Ing of these amendments would have te be matter, and they may employ some one in
British Columbia, for Instance, or the maridone ln a way to make them Intelligible.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂ,,D-The lrallway time proyluces, to Inquire whether the gate
comipanies could simply say, 'we objeet to of a rallway fence Is a substantial one, or
sucli a clause,' mentloning the number with- some other mere mattber of detail. and that
out printing the clause, and give their rea- Is wby the board should diQlegate its powers
to make an inquîry at a distance.
sons.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-The hon. gentleHon. Mr. SCOTT-The object of asklng man dees nlot answer the objection of the
thse senators to meet them was for the very Speaker, who says that the inquiry sliould
purpose of giving tîjeir reasons on these lie made by a member of the staff, if posparticular clauses.
They really do not sible ;but the bon, gentleman forgets that
amiount te more than seven or eight, and even an engineer, or surveyor may lie rethey ask that they mîglit have the oppor- quired, and I do net suppose th-e board will
tuuity of representing to the senators their have a complete staff of engineers.
resens for objecting te these clauses, and
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This clause is a genfor making certain suggestions.
erai clause,

ant

seems

a

very

P.Upc.tl- -

Hon. Mr. POW'ER-I weuld suggest that The inqulry may bave to lie made in Europe
-no worse place could possibly lie selected -outside of the country altogether.
for the hearing than the R.ailway Committee
The clause was adopted.
of the House of Commons. The acoustic
Hon. Mr. FULFORD, from the committee,
properties of that roomn are the werst I
know of, and it would lie very mucli better.
If the ceunsel are te address the, members
of the Senate, that we'should meet in tbis
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

reported that they had made some progress
with the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
The Senate adjourned.

AUGUST 25, 1903

.THE SENATE.

827

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Hear, hear.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And it la quite impossible to give my hon. friend the distance
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Ttiree bere, because that wouMx depend on the
o'eclock.
1
survey.
Ottawa, Tueadav, August 25, 1903.

Prayera and routine proceedings.
TRANSPORTATION 0F CROP 0F
NORTH-WEST TERRITORIIES.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Hear, hear..
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Hear, hear.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hon, gentleINQUIRY.
man does flot kneow a good many other
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I desire to ask the things about IL.
bon. Secretary of State whether any of least
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
yeara' crop of cereais ln the North-west says It wiil leave the City of Quebec.
TerrItories and Manitoba has been detained
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
for want of shipment Has there been any
.congestion, so-cailed, or blockaIe? Â nd If
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That la one point,
so, where has that exIated ?
but where wii the other point be ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have seen the lnforHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Moicmation-it la open to every hon, gentlemanthat the wheat has ahl been taken out-1 ton.
understood so-some time ago. I have not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot say tili a surheard o! any coiplaint to the contrary.
vey la made.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-My reason for askHon. Mr. LANDRY-The bon, gentleman
ing was that severai times ln conversation, sald a moment ago that the line will start
and especiaily with a gentleman who la ln from Quebec.
a high position as a clergyman In this counHon. Mfr. SCOTT-It wIll cross over on
try, It was stated that noue of the crop of
hast year-or very little- had been taken the Quebec bridge.
out at ail.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But that ls flot ln
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That la quite wrong. the City of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. SUlLLIVAN-And that is my
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I stated it wouid go to
reason for asking.
the City, of Quebec.
LOCATION

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But the bridge I. nt
0F TRANSCONTINENTAL
a point between Three Rivers and Quebec.
RAIL WAY.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If I know anYthing
of the topography of the country, the bridge
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
eight miles west of Quebec.
What.js the precise place ln the province of la about
Quebec whence the railway will start which
Hon. Mr. THI13AUDEAU (Rigaud)-No;
the goverument wishes to build froni Quebec to
Moncton ln order to make part of the chain of two or three miles.
the national transcontinental rallway, and at
what place ln the province of Québec will this
road leave that provinice ta penetrate the province o! New Brunswick ?
What distance lu miles will th'- road be between these two places ?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My hon. friend is entireiy mistaken.
RAILWýVAYS LAW CONSOLIDATED.
BILL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The place iu the province of Quebec where the raiiway wiii
(In the Comrnittee.)
start froni will be the City of Quebec. I
The House resumed in Committee of the
arn unable to define the place that It wili
Whole consideration of Bill (21) -n -let
leave the province of Quebec and cross into
the law respecting
New Brunswick, because the Uine bas not to arnend and consolidate
rail wfys.
been surveyed.

828

SENATE

On clause 52,
52. The head office of the company shall be
tn the place designated ln the Special Act, but
the company may. by by-law, from time to
time, change the location of lts head office ta
any place ln Canada. The directors of the
company may establish one or more offices ln
other places ln Canada or elsewhere. 51 V., c.
29. s. 32. Arn.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I slîauld like the Sec-

retary of State ta give the reason for the
change iii this clause. The change Is ' but
the coinpany rnay, by by-law frorn time ta
tie,
change the location of is head office
to any place in Canada.' Iu the special Act
sme place la given as the place for tlie
head office of the company. It seexus ta nie
that if a railway comnpany select sonie place

On clause 53,
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Instead of arnendlng this clause I would suggest that when
we carne ta clause 73 we amend kt by simply
praviding ftr directors (,r pravistanal directors.
The clause w-as adopted.
On clause 58,
68. Municipal corporations in any province
ln Canada duiy empowered so tado by the laws
of the province, and subject ta thbe limitations
and restrictions ln such laws prescribed, may
subscribe for any numb-r af shares ln the capital stock of the compilny: and the mayor, wardeni, reeve or other head officer o! any such corporation holding stock ta the amount of twenty
tllousand dollars or upwards, shahl be ex-officia
ane of the directors o! the company in addition ta the number af directors authorized by
the SDecial Act, unless ln such Special Act provision la made for the representation o! such
corporation on the directorate thereof. 51 V.,
c. 29. 8. 38. Arn.

by their Act of incorporation ta be thir
head-quarters, that that should continue so
until parliament alters It.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-If rny bon. friend ivill
refer ta the special Acts of 'Incorporation
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The 01113 change iii this
of rallways, lie wlll find that the, coznpany clause is that the board Ia substltuted for
is ernpowered by by-law ta change the place the directoate. It is clearly a mibtake.
of head-quarters.
Hon. Mr. POWER-With respect ta tLis
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-There should lie addclause, take the case of a great railway
ed 'notice thereof ta be given ta tlîe secrelike the Cnnadian Pacific, it dces not seern
tary of the board who sliall keep a register syxurnetrical that a rnunicipal corporation
for the purpose.' There should be a record which subscribes $20,0O0 shouMK be entltled
to show w.here the bead-quarters are if by this law to appoint a director of the cornchialged by by-law.
pany. Where the capital of the cornpany la
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I should like ta s0 immense, and the number af directors
caîl the attention of the Seniate ta clause 5.9 cornparatively few, I thlnk it Is out o! proporconcernlng provisional dîrectars. Mly atten- tion that f or the $20,00O the corporation
tion la drawn ta the fact thait tixere is no shîould receive this director.
suchi provision for replacing pravisionai
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliey
directors in case of death, absenxce or rewould have a represeuitatihýe if they only
signation, as there Is ta replace permanent
directars, or annual directors by clause 73, liad teîî dollars.
The clause w-as adoptcd.
The point would appear ta be somiewhat
unusual, because a provisional board of
On clause 61,
directors should ijot be quîckly replaced;
61. At least four weeks public notice o! any
but we have had this sess4rni ta pass a BID meeting .iball be given by advertisement pubinainly to al]ow the replacing o! provisianal liched in the. ' Canada Gazette,' and in at least
newspaper published ln the
directo-s who had died since incorpar.tioan. one head office is situate, ia whlch place where
notice shall
the
Apparently they had not hurried up lu le specified the place and day and the bour of
;aIl
organlzing, but perliaps it would be well meeting and a such notices shaîl be 'publlshed
copy Df such 'Gazette contain'weekly,
to incorparate the provision of clause 73 ing sudh notice shall. on production thereof,
be sufficient evidence of such notice having
In clause 53.
been given. 51 V., c. 29, s. 41. Han. Mr. BEIQUE -maved that clause 52
Haon. Mr. BEIQUE-The fIrst part of the
be auiended by adding :14 the end of tlie
first sentence the wards:
Notice thereof to be given to the secretary o!
the board. wbo sbahl keep a register for the
vurpose.
Thc clause as amnded was adopted.

clause pravides for the publication of te
notice in the 'Canada Gazette,' and la one
newspaper in the place where the head
office is situated. And the latter part of the
clause says that ail such notices shaîl be

AUGUST 25, 1903
published weekly and a copy of suchi
'Gazette' shail, on production, lie sufficient
evidence of such notice bavIng been given.
1 think we sliould add the words * sucli
"Gazette"I and newspaper.'
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-We do not
want to encumber the records of the company If they glve the notice. Exception
could be taken that the notice was not given
ln another paper. The record In the ' Gazette'1 would be sufficient.

2

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Can any one Bay that
thls clause bas creetedl the alightest inconrenience in thirty years ?I If it bas not, It
would be better to leave it alone.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 64,

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This clause gives the
torm of proxy which Io for a general meeting. I would suggest that ln Une 41 the
foilowing words lie added ' or at sa given
Hon. Mr. POWER-It sometimes happens meeting,' so as to, permit the limiting of the
that some unexpected occurrence renders It proxy to one speclal meeting.
desirable that a meeting should lie held at
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat i. entireiy a matperhaps shorter notice, and would It net ter for the party himself. He ls not bound.
be possible to make some provision for by that form of proxy. He can give any
cases of urgency *0 that a special meeting proxy lie lîkes. He need flot follow It word
could be held without this long notice ?
for word.
applies to a great
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Surely a sharevariety of cases, and ln many of them the holder would have the right to limit his
shareholders are ln Europe.
proxy to axiy partîcular meeting ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BUWELL-lf
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Bo lie caîî.
seems to me the suggestion of the hon. genThe clause was adopted.
tlemian from De Salaberry Io the correct one.
how it is going to encumber
I do ziot see
On clause 73,
the records. If that amendment lie flot
73. In case of the death. absence or resignamade, it may posslbly occur that no notice tion of any of the directors, others may, unless
will lie given ln a newspaper In the county otherwise Prescribed by the- by-laws, be appointed..ln their stead by the remaiaing direcor part of the province which would lie tors ,and. ln casse such remainlng directors do
niost lnterested in the construction of the not constitute a quorum, then by the sharspecial meeting fo be called for
work. The evidence before the commission holders at a ;but if such appointment ls not
that purpose
should lie that the notice provideti In this made. such death, absence or resignation, shal
of
section had been published in the locality r.ot invalidatec.thi acts51. the remaining diree29. s.
tors. 51 V..
affected as well 'as in tbe 'Canada Gazette.'
move tbat
Hon. M-r. LOUGHEED-I
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-The hon, gen- after thec word ' directors ' ln the second
tleman, I think, misses the point. If you Ilne, the words 'or provisional directors, as
are taklng any proceeding where it is neces- the case may be,' lie Inserted.
sary to prove the regularity of your meetHon. Mr. McMULLEN-I think it is a
ing, the 'Canada Gazette' will lie prima
mIstake to amend the clause as suggested.
fadie evidence. The newspaper ln the particular locality miglit soon go out of ex- The sooxier you get rid of the provisional
istence, but the 'Canada Gazette' can ai- diiiectors the better.
ways lie bad.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-I agree with
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think this' clause the hon, gentleman fro'm Wellington.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbere le a change ln
61 should make it permissable to the company by by-law to provide for shorter tlis clause from the exlstlng law.
The
added words are 'and lui case such remainnotices.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It bas to lie !ng directors do flot constitute a quorum,
the-n by the sharebolders nt a special meetfour weeks.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the suggestion Ing to lie called for that purpose.'
Hon. Mr. LOU(GHEED-There miglit lie
made by the hon. gentleman froni Toronto
is a good one, that instead of belng sufficient a vacancy on the board which would reevidence it should be prima facie evidence. qulre special legisiation unless provision is

SENATE

made for it; I quite agree as to the undesirabflity of continuing provisional directors,
but tliere is a necessIty for them until the
regular board eau be appointed. It bas
been suggested we might include the amexidment ln the Interpretation clause for directors.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-That la always
a dangerous thing to do.
The committee divided on the amendinent,
'which was rejected, and the clause was
adopted.
On clause 91,
91. The directors may, with the sanction of
the shareholders of the company, at a general
meeting. declare a dividend to be pald out of
the net profits of the unfiertaking. 51 V., c. 29,
a. 69. Arn.
2. Snch dividend shall be at and alter the
rate o! so much per share upon the several
shares held by the sharehoiders ln the stock
of the cornpany. 61 V.. c. 29, s. 70. Arn.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There 1s n shlight change
ln this clause, In the existing law the
dividends are declared at the annual meeting. Under this clause the dividende may
be deciared at a general meeting.

to know what the dividend la going to be,
where it is not convenieut to call a meeting,
and If the directors understood. their business they would flot declare a divideud
unlees they knew that they had the moÙey
te pay.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 105,
105. The directors may seli, either by public
auctin. or private Bale, any shares so declared
ta be forfeited. upon authority theretor having
been first given by the shareholders etther at
the general meeting. at whch such shares were
declared to be torfelted or at any subsequent
general meeting; andi any shareholder may purchase any forfeited share so sold. 51 V., c. 29,
s. 83. Arn.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There le a change
there. I simply rise to ask for informatlon.
I am not familliar with the working of joint
stock companles, and certain words have
been lef t out. The clause says :
The directors may Bell either by public auction or private Bale any shares 50 declared ta
be forfeltefi.
In the existing iaw these words follow t
Or any unisBued shares.

1 just ask why these words nre left out.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-That
ln every case delay the declaration I assume there le good reason for ItL As
the law stands now, tihe directors eau sel]
dividends.
Mr. SCOTT-I think the old iaw la unissued shares which are, I suppose, what
they cail treasury stock, and this clause
only deals with shares wvhich have been deHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The clared tc be forfeited.
law provides that if the company pay a dilHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seeme to mie if
dend that bas flot been earned, each director
would be hiable for the amount.
This they are going te declare a forfelture they
clause prevente the directors from declar- will issue the stock and seli It. They canIng. a dividend until they have received the irot very well sell what lias flot bee-n issued.
sanction of the sharehoidere.
There la a True there ls a right or equity to have the
very great difference. The directors would shares issued, but it seems to me It Is
bave to corne to the nnnual meeting and better to omit these words.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I draw attention to the
make a report to the sharebolders showing
exactly what had been earned, and that faet that the hast Jine is nltogether unneeesthey 'were justified lu recommending a divi- sary, as it is provided fer in tîse sarne terîns
dend, and then it would be for the share- in the following section. So that lt wiii be
holders te) ;uthorize the payment b3f a better to strike out those words.
dividend. If tbis be not doue, the directors
Hon. Mr. POWER-Wbat harmn will it do
cannot do so. This may be a greater prote leave the words lu? The existig law
tection for the shareholders, but it wouid
provides that the directors rnay sell either
delay the deciaratUon of the dividend.
by public auction or by privite sale, and*
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-Would It flot be in sucli manumer anod on such terms as to
better te make it read that the directors them may seem meet, any shares so declared
shouid have tlue power te declare a dividend to be ferfeited. - Then ln the existilig hawm
when It la ratified by the shareholdere. It we have the words 'or any unissued shares.'
lea sometimes important for the sharebolders If shares have net been apportioned, under
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.
Hon.
would
of the
Hon.
better.

AUGUST 25, 1903
the law as It stands the directors can oel
those shares. Under the Bill before us,
they have not that power any longer, and
I simply ask why It is taken away.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It sbould flot be given
to shareholders ezcept at a general meeting
of shareholders. It is treasury stock, and it
la left there s;.metinies for mnny y-ears, and
It is only by the authorlty of the shareholders that it sbouid be allowed to be
sold.

and forfeited, and I think the clause 18 properly drafted ; but for any shares which
have neyer been issued by the compaDy, it
should flot be lef t to the power of the directors, who have a more intimate knowledge
of the company's affairs than the shnreholders, to subscribe those shares thcmselves
without authority' froni the sharehoiders,
and without the shareliolders being afforded the same privilege as tbemselves.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That* is an entirely differeut subjeet.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbere le thîs provision
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-They have provided
at te en :
ýa new clause for that.
Provided that authority for such sale and for
the Issue -of the stock shouid be firat given at
Hon. Mr. LOU GHEED-That Is a differa special general meeting of the stockhoiders ent subject and ls ln ne sense germane, but
for the purpose.
that senseless provision was embodied lu
So that tlig director. cannot do a9nything the old Act. I do not doubt the propriety
wrong. They have to act under the direction of my bon. friend's suggestion, but It Is lu
of the shareholders. 1 want to kiiow why ne way akin to this clause.
tis power was taken away. I suppose
Hon. Mr. POWER-The present clause Is
there is some good reason for it, but I bave
better drafted. but as the hon. gentleman
flot heard It yet.
from De Saiaberry says, there should be
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-The princîple whicli some provision made te meet tbe case wbich
is en.bodied ln the tFection Is nnt con-necteci the existiug iaw undertook to meet about
iwith the forfeited shares, therefore the the unissued shares.
It eau be done later.
clause as It stltnds la properly drafted, but
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But there cannot
I think thait we sbould insert ln this Bill
the eame provision as existed ln the old be a forfeiture of unallotted stock.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I supIaw, because otberwiqe it la givlng power to
the directors to go and subacribe shares pose a sharehoider had 100 shares, and was
themselves If they are flot issued, and It a defaulter, but tbat previous to the defauit
seems to me It was a good provision another 100 shares, or a proportion of the
whilch had the effect of preventing directors shares, had been alloted te the present holdfrom taking advantage of subscriblng for ers of ihares, a!nd these shares were then
such shares without authority f rom the at the time at a premium, whnt would become of the share which had been alloted ?
sharebolders.
Did net the eid law make provision to meet
Hon. M!r. LOUGHEED-I think it Is en- a case of that kind, so that lu selling the
that such a provision shares upon which there was a default they
tirely unnecessary
should exlst. If a shareholder maires de- could also, under the old law, sell the shares
fault lu the payment of shares, the company which had been alioted to the defaulter,
shouid seil those shares. Hlavlng doue that, sud they being nt a preinium, he,
lu that
there Is nio necessity to invoke any other
case, 1 suppose, would get the benefit of it,
power ; such a power as mentioned by the
but It strikes me that must have been the
hon. Speaker would not be invoked. It eaureason for«the provision lu the old law. That
flot be subject te any abuse as it is, but as Is what suggests itself te me. I think the
it stood before It was certainiy mystIfied
proposed law Is better.
by reason of shares flot having been lssued
The CHAIRMAN-A man is net going to
whieh should have been Issued. Wby flot
defauit If the shares are at a premium.
just leave it as it ia ?
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon, gentleman
does net seem 'to understand the point that
On clause 109,
I have been trying to make. We have beeii
109. Ail sharehelders in the company, whedealing wlth shares which have been îssued ther British subiects or 5.liens, or residents ln

SENATE
Canada or elsewhere, shall have equal rights
ta hold stock in the cornpany, and to vote on
the same. and shall be eligible to office in the
company. fil V.. c. 29, s. 87.

charges and Incumbrances upon the whole of
such property, assets. rents and revenues o!

the cornpany, present or future, or both, as
are described therein ;but such property, assets. rents and revenues shall be subject. In
Hon. Mfr. POWER-In somue speciai acte the first Instance, ta, the payment of any penthere is a provision that the majority of the alty then or thereafter imposed upon the oompany for non-compliance wlth the requiremeuts
directors should be British subi ects. Under o! this Act. and next. ta the payment of the
this clause, uniess there was some special working expenditure of the railway.
provision In the Act, the majorIty of the
Han. Mfr. BEIQUE-This clause shouid
directors may be aliens.
provide, 1 think, for the payment of muniHon. Mfr. SCOTT-No.
cipal taxes, as being a lirat charge upon
Hon. Mfr. POWER-As the clause reads, the property. It Is weUl knewn that In the
United States municipal taxes for large
a majorlty of the directors may be aiens.
amounts are collected from railway comHon. Mfr. SCOTT-That Interpretation has panies, and no doubt la years ta corne rallnot been given IL
way property wili be taxed ha this country
more heavily than It bas been In the past
The clause was adopted.
Anyway, ta whatever extent It may be
On clause 111, subsection 4,
taxed, It seems ta me the m'onicipai tax
4. The power of Issuing bonds conferred upon shonld be a prefereuce charge.
the cornpany hereby, or under the Speclal Act,
shall not be construed as being exhausted by
such Issue .but such powýer may be exercised
frorn tirne to tine, upon the bonds constituting
such Issue being withdrawn or pald off and
duiy cancelied ;but the limif ta the amount
of securities fixed In the Spectal Act shall not
be exceeded: Provided that no power ta Issue
or dispose of any such securities under any
Special Act of the provincial legisiature, lu
connection with a railway coming under the
legislative authority of the parliament of Canada. shall be subsequently exercised without
the sanction of the Governor in Council. 51
V.. c. 29, s. 93, Amn. by 55-56 V., c. 27, s. 4, Arn.

Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I desire to cail attention to a judgnient which plaeed on this
subsection -a construction whlch, ta My
inmd, Is nat the proper construction. As
I read the section, It means thls, that the
bonds may lýe lssued from time to Urne.
For Instance, the company Is authorized
ta Issue bonds ta the extent of say $20,000
a mile, and they issue only $10,000 a mile.
A second issue of $10,000 a mile may be
made wlthout withdrawing the fIrst Issue.
0f course, the second Issue migbt be oniy
a second martgage, but the judgment I bave
in mimd heid that in a case of that kind,
the first issue had ta be witbdrawn. It
might be better to adapt another wording
ta make the clause perfectiy clear, and flot
open ta any construction of that kind. I,
therefore, suggest that this subsection 4 be
aiiowed ta stand.
The subsection was allowed ta stand.
On clause 112,
by a rnortgage deed creating such rnortiages:
The CHAIRMAN.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It ls now.
Hon. Mfr. McMILLAN-It Is sa Iu Ontario.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Wouid the federai parlament have authorlty In any way
ta Interfere with the rlghts of property In
regard ta municipal taxes?1 In ne sense
would legisiation we would pass here affect
thase rights.
Hou. Mfr. BÂKER-Even If we had, the
right, would It be proper ta Impair the value
of bonds by stating that on the face of
them ?
Hiou. Mi. BEIQUE-The whohe Bi.h ls
.dealing with property which Is declared property for the generai advantage of Canada.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Only sa far as
this parliament can legisiate.
Hou. Mfr. BEIQUE-This parliameut says
what should be the first charge upon the
property, and It raises the question as ta
wbether this parîhament, Iu the exercise of
its power, cauld not override the Municipal
Act. There may be cansiderable daubt. Why

xiat make It clear ?
Han. Mr. POWER-I
had better stand. -

thiuk that clause

Han. Mfr. SCOTT-For what reason ?
Hani. 1fr. POWER-Because just nt the
present marnent this very question of railroads and municipal taxation is excitiflg a

AUJGUST 25, 1903
great deal of interest, and the question
ralsed by the bon. gentleman froua de Salaberry may be, in the near future, a very
Important one. It may be that a local legislature ean tai a rallway whicb cornes under the Jurladiction of this parliament, but
at present there ls some doubt about it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no, I neyer heard
a doubt e--pressed.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thls is only a
domestic matter s0 far as the railway 18
concerned.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amrn ot expressing
any strong opinion about the matter, one
way or the other, but I simply say the
question ralsed by the bon. gentleman froua
de Salaberry Is a very Important une, and
we had better be sure It is settied In the
wlsest way. It bas. been stated that we
couid flot do anything to oust provincial
Jurisdlctlon. 1 direct the attention of thte
commlttee to subsection 4, uf tItis clause :
Such mortgage, deed or other Instrument
need not be registered under the provisions of
any law respectlng registration of Instruments
affectlng real or personal property.
Here tItis very same clause undertakres to
oust the provincial jurisdlction.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But we have flot;
got doyrn to that yet.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot think the
lion. gentleman froin Calgary is quite as
duli of apprebiension as hie pretenda tu be.
Ir we cannot oust the jurisdiction of the
local legislature under the first subsection,
cati we under the fourth subsection
The clause was adopted.
On subclause 4,
4. Every such mortgage deed and every as-

signment thereof or other Instrument in any
way affectlng such xnortgage or security shall
be deposited in the office of the Secretary of
State of Canada. of which deposit notice shalh
forthwith be given la the 'Canada Gazette.',
Such mortgage deed or other instrument need
uiot be registered under the provisions of any
iuw respecting registration of instruments
affectlng real or personal property.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I agree with Hlis
E{onour, the Speaker as to that subsection.
i doubt the power of this parliament to
enact it. There is the otîter conisiderationi,
a s to whether the thousands of encuinlîrances on a railway sbould not be on record
in the registry offices, so that purchasers of

53

property should know wbetber they are
getting a clear titie or not. This clause requires mature consideration.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-UnIess tItis
provision be adupted, the effect would be
that a mortgage, for Instance, on the Grand
TIrunk RalIway, would have to be reglstered
Ia every county on the lines uf that railway lIt the province at an enormous expense, wbereas every one knows that mortgages of this character are reglstered by one
Instrument lu the Secretary of State's office.
[t sureiy seems a convenient way of dealiug
with the matter.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-A

centrai re-

gistry office is fixed- by this law, and the

whule public is aware of ItL Instead of runnIng round from office to, office, there is a
centrai one.
Hoit. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbat I bad ln
view ws this tact, tbat In the Northwest many small rallway companies have
obtained very large tracts of ]and. They
sehI their town sites and lands f0 the public.
TIhue registry office, therefore, wiii show no
record of wbat encumbrances may be against
te pruperty. Of course, I observe that
provision is made for an examination uf the
tltle Ia the Secretary ot State's office.

The

question arises, bowever, as to wbether the
public sbouId be lnconvenienced to tbat extent.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-L)oes
the law in the-Nortb-west Terrifories differ

froni tbat la Ontario ? If a person bas a
deed ut a property tbat is not registered,
and another person examines tbe registry
office and finds tbe titie sf111, s0 far as the
record is concerned, is with te.persoa froni
whoni lie is buying, and bie gets bis deed and
registers It flrst, lie hoids the properfy.
'i'Jiat is the Ontario law..
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is tItis furter difficuify, inasmucli as the governmenf
insures the tifle to persons in tbe territories,
tiUtt is upon te issuance of a cerfiticate of
titie, I scarcely see Itow tItis uaacbinery is
going to be ivorked out. excepf some provision is made for registration tbroughout
lte territories.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Lt may be some luicoiîvenience for the raiiways to register ini
fie counities, but if is certainly for the con-

SEINATE
venience of the people residing in the counlies, and for my part I would rather have
the railway companies put to that trouble
and register In every county. I do flot see
why they should be exempt from a law which
obliges every other person and company to
register lxi every county where they hold
mortgaged property.

Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-L would call the attention of the committee to gubclause 3, which
rends as follows.
3. The company xnay except from the operation of any such mortgage deed any assets,
.property, rents or revenue of the company. and
many declare and provide therein that such
niortgage shall only apply to and affect certain
sections of portions of the railway or property
nf the company ;but wh3re any such exception
is made the company shall in such mortgage
deed expressly speclfy and describe, with suilicdent partlcluarity to identlfy the saine, the
assets. property, rents or revenue of the company, or the section or portions of the railwny. not Intended to be included therein (or
re<nveyed thereby.

Hou. Mir. POWER-There might possibly
be a distinction made between the lands
used by the company for right of way and
stations, and lands held by the company for
sale, as indlcated by the hion, gentleman
This clause mlght open the door to a
from Calgary, and It Is worth whIle consome provision might not great deal of abuse and fraud. Railways
sidering whether
muust be sold, and treated as one property,
be made wlth respect to these lands.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does the hion.
gentleman from Calgary menu to say that
a general blanket mortgage can be gtven
on lands conceded to a railway company
before the land is vested in the company
and registered ?i
Hon. Mr. LOUGIEED-No, I do not say
that, but the case 1 have Ia vaew is this:.
let us assume for a moment the goveraiment
Issue a titie t0 land and the company puts
the mortgage on those lands, and that mortgage does flot appear in the registry office
In that district; whea that land is retransferred, cau the government insure the titie
to the purchaser if the encumbrance does not
appear on the titie.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It la a clear
title to the company.
Hon. Mr. LOIJGHEED-Uhe company
may file with the Secretary of State their
xnortgage, without notice beiug given, after
the registrati.on of a sale.

and by divertlng part of the railway, as Is
provided for In this new subsection, If would
open the éoor to these frauds flînt in glving
security f0 a. creditor by leaving out some
of the property, formilng part of the railwvay, a rallway whilh would be foreclosed

under the-security, would bc di.9mantied.
Thais clause should be carefully guarded to
provide against anything- of the kind--Iis-

iraiitllng a railway.
Hon. MNr. LOUGHEED-It is absolutely
csseatial f0 a railway that tiîey should liaNe
power to niortgage portions of their properfy anîd exenipt others. I nhiigbit inýstance
flae case of railways owning lands -in the
territories. Tlhey might desire f0 place a
morfgage on their road-bed, leaving themselves früe f0 soul fheir lands. If is only
riglit fiant this power sbould be given fhem.
Parties lending the money sbould examine
the securities fhey get ; consequently, I
see no abuse to arise from thig.

sublHon. Mr'. KERR (Torointu)-The
section flae hani. gentleman is leferring to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If a fraud of that kind ia one realiy la aid of the creditor. It is for
were perpetrated in thle Nortb-west, the gov- flic purpose of prot-cctùag thc credifor. The
ernment would be the loser. The individual clause which provides for the giving of at
:nortgage provides fiant the rnortgage siall
would not lose.
describe wIant is enicunibereti; but iii order
Hon. Mr LOUGHEED-That la what 1,
tbat the cý,nipantiv may not create fte inipointed out.
pression that that is ail their property, if
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is scarcely likely a tlaey jjnne nnjy exception tliey miust desrailway corporation would commit a de- cribe it. It is reahly a protection to the
lib-erate fraud by selling property tley biad ci editor jîistend of to bis detainient.
no po-wer f0 sell.
lifon. Mr. BRýIQUE'-Tlie lion, gentleman
Hon. Mi'r. LOUGHEED-Tiîey would have
power to sell.
The subclatise n as adopted.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

lai quite riglat.
Hlon. iMr. MeMý'ýULLEN-Thie lion. gentleortgage would have f0 recite
li
man says fh

AUGtTST 25, 1903
the property iatended tc, be covcred by the
mortgage, and It would have to recite aliso
the property exempted, but these provisions
are flot in the bond. 0f course, if a person wanted to find ont really what îi'as the
founidation of the security lie would bave
to examine the mortgage.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT--Tbiey always do.
Hon. Mr. 2icMLýULLEN-Does every niai
buying and selling stock la a railway coinpnny always go and examine the mortgage
to see what It covers ?

835

Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN (de Lanaudière)Theve Is no object lu tîtat.
Hon. Mr. I'OWER-It lias beeil the law
for 30 years and no one bias ever found
fault with II, and that ouglit to be. wvIth
the Secretary of State, a verS powerful
argument.
lion. lir. SCOTT-If the conîpany owes
$95 It.Feems to ni rit mig-ht as -well give n
rote for that amo-ant, asj if it was a bundred
dollars.
The clause was adopted.

Hou. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It la the practice every day.

On dlanse 118, subelause (c),
118. The company may, for the purposes of
The CHAlUMAN-The unîçersal practice. the undertaking, aubject to the provisions In
this and the Special Act contained Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-It Is th-e prac<c.) purchase, take and hold of and from any
person. any lands or other property necessary
tice %%itbi regard to every corporation.
for the construction, maintenance and operation of the raihway. and also alienate, seil or
The clause was adopted.
dispose of. any lande or property o! the company which, for any reason have become not
On clause 116,
necessary for the purposes of the rallway.
116. The company may, for the purposes of
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)the undertaking. borrow money by overdraft or
upon promlssory note, warehouse recelpt, bill It often bappens that rallways expropriate
of exchange or otherwise upon the credit of the
coznpany and become party to prnmlssory notes property, and after dolng so find tbat they
and bills of exehange ;.and every such note or do flot need It. I submlt thîs clause might
bill made. drawn, accepted or lndorsed, by the
president or vice-president of the company, stand so that an amendment couhd be drawn
or other officer authorized by the by-laws of provding that the original owner should
the company. and countersigued by the secre- have the preferenoe of recoverlng back hîs
tary of the company, shahl be blndlng on the
company . and every such note or bill of ex- property on refunding the money recelved
change so made, drawn, accepted or lndoraed tromn the company.
It has happened that
shahl be presumed tn have been made, drawn.
accepted or lndorsed wlth proper authorlty, the company bas proflted by the acqulring
until the contrary la shown ;and ln no case of this property, and meelllng It.
So the
shall It, be necessary to have the seal of the
frompany affixed to mach promissory note or bill original owner should have the preference
of exehange, nor shahl the preldent or vlc',- of recelvlng back ls land If the company
president or secrctary or other officer of the
company, s0 authioriz*îd be lndivldually res-, do flot want ItL
vou2sible for the saine, unlese such promissory
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This does flot
note or bill of exchange has been lssued wlthIf the oriout proper authorlty ; but iLothlng lu this sec- compel them to seli the land.
tion shall be construed to authorIze the com- ginal owner wouhd give thlem a larger price
pany to issue any note or bill payable to bearer. or intended to be circulated as money or than any other person tbey would be glad to
as the note or bill of a banc. 51 V.. c. 29, s. sellILit
118.Amn.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-There ls no
lion. Mr. POWER-There is a change ln limitation about the time.
The land may
titis clause w-hidi I think la not desirable. be takea to-day, and it may be 25 years
The company may become part3 to bis before It la sold, and the whole character
et exchnange and promissory notes, and there of the property may be so entlrely changed
is no limuitation to the arnount. I think. that to give It back to tbe: original bolder
thiere shouhl be snme limitation. It shouhd at th e price> he reeelved for it might be
not be for less than $100.
entlrely Inadequate.
I do not fiee how
Hon.
M-Nr. KERR
(Toronto)-Thiat
Is you could quallfy lt.
covered by clause 111.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-And it *would
lion. ',%r. POWEII-That is a different
inatter. No bill or note should be for less
thaît $100.

53ý

be inopportune, eveu if tbe sug.-ested
change were advisable, to Insert It In this
clause.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN\-I would suggest
tbat If the company do not put the property
to Borne specifie use withln, say three or
five years from tbe lime It was exproprlabed, the owner sbould bave the privilege of recovering It back.
Suppose they
expropriate five, acres of land for a gravel
pit, out of which they are going to supply
ballast.
Lt may be a town site, or close
to It, and tbat property may incerease largély
ln value.
I hold tbat If the man from
whom they took that property by valuation
chooses to dlaim It back nfter they have
made use of It and taken the gravel out of
It, tbey sbould be compelled to sell It to
hlm.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It would be difficult
to, carryý It out.
1 tbink, as g~ general
thlng, railway companies pay more than
the market value for land, and If the owner
of the land; sold to one of bis neighbours
Instead of to the company, lie wouid mlot
dnelam of saying that If the neigbbour dld
flot require the wbole of tue lanîd the onigilai owner sbould get It back cbeaper than
anybody else.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
you are applylng a different principle altogether lu this law. An Act whlch we passed during thîs session made provision that
If the government expropriated. land from a
private party and did flot require portions
of It afterwards, you could compel hlm to
Lake It back at any time before the money
passed.
In this case, It is qulte difierent.
The rallways expropriate the land and pay
for It, and as the Speaker bas properly
said, as a ruie tbey pay more than a pnivate
individýual would psy, and tbey bave tHe
right, If tbey do mot require It, to sel! It
afterwards. The party from wbom It was
purchased certaînly would have no rigbt
to, daim any advantages from the cons-truction of the road, or tbe purposee for wbicb
a portion of the land expropriated was
atllized.
If you adopt that principle, you
;hould go furtber, and declare that if the
property deteriorates ia value, you should
compel hlm to take It back and refund the
rooney. But wby a diff ereat priaciple should
ipply in the niatter of railways and tbe gov0f
muaient I ain unable to understand.
ýourse, those who were present at the passige of the Act k-now very wvell that some of

is took objection to it.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

I knlow that 1 did,

and two or tbree years ago we defeated
a BiIh of that kind because we tbought it
was an injustice that xnigbt be pempetrated
agaiast the owners of land, but sucb an Act
was passed durIng the present session, and
It is diametrlcally opposed to the principle
as laid down ln his law.
Hon. Mr. McMILLÂN-Would mot the original owner 0f the land bave a preference? Wou]d flot the situation give hlm a
preference?

Hon. Mr. KCERR (Toronto)-Quite so.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
bie slould have no preference in price ?
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-Because when be sold the land he obtalnied
froin the railway conipany the fui! value of
ItL
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-But the preference,
ln situation would give hlm a preference la
price.
The subelause was adopted.
On clause J,
(J.) FelI or remove any trees which stand
withln one hundrod feet from either aide of
the rlght of way of the railway, or which are
lhable ta fail acroas any railway traclr.
Hou. Mr. POWER-Tbat Is an extraordin-

ary power.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The

danger of trees
blowing down makes it dangerous for tra-

velling.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-But this is without any reference to the property of tbe
railway. The tree might be ten feet higbi
and one hundred feet awvay.
Hou. Mn. KERR (Toronto)-It would be a
growing evil.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-I neyer beard of
sny abuse unden the section, but It is capable of abuse. Tbe employees migbt go in
and cut down trees and injure a man's property.
Hlon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)We migbt put it within 100 feet on either
side of the nigbt of way.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-But the track
mighit bave to go up close to the luiiit of
tlie property lii sonie cases.

AUGUJST 25, 1903
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I thiuk 'we shouldj

serioiialy consider this clause. I quite agreej
with the bon. gentleman fromn Marshlield iii
hia remark. There are tîmes wheu officiais
want to show their aijtbority and possibly
a quarrel would arise between an officiai ou the part of the raiiraad and some
parties residing lu the neigbbourbood, and
hie might veut bis spleen by saylng: 'I wlll
eut down your wbole orchard. The trees
are witbin one huudred feet of the Ulne.
They are apt ta stop the anaw or samething.' There ls no provision bere ta remove auy trees which stand witbin 100 f eet
of etber aide o! the Une o! railway. If you
say 'witbin 100 feet of the railway and
fiable ta fail across the railway,' that would
cover It. Nobody could bave any objectilon to that. But It says :
PeU or remove any trees which stand within
100 feet of eitber aide of the right of way of
the railway. or whlch are hiable ta fai acros
sny railway track.
If you take out Vie words 1or whicb'1 and
subatitute ' and are,' it would anawer the
purpose.
Han. Mr. POIRIER-I think it would be
better ta strike out -'or.!

On clause 122,
1.22. The company shall make a plan, profile
The
and book of reference of the ratlway.
plan shall show the right of way, with lengtlîs
of sections in miles, the namps of terminal
point%. the station grounds. the property Unes,
c.wner's namnes. the ariase and length and wldth
of lands proposed to be taken, In figures (evory
change of widtb being given), and the beariugi%,
also ail open drains, watercourses, highways
and railways proposed to be crossed or affectedl.
The profile shall show the grades,, curves,
highway and rallway crossings, open drains and
water courses. The book of. reference sb.all
describe the portion of land proposed to ho
taken In each lot to be traversed, giving numbers of the lots, and the ares, length and
width of the aorti-3n thereof proposed to be
taken. and naines of owners and occupiers go
fair as they eu bc ascertaitied. The board maY
require aur additioflal Information for the
proper underatan-liOS of thle plan and profile.
2. The pl.in, profile and book of reference
rnay be o! a section or sections o! the railwaY.
03-64 V., c. 23, s. 6-part, Arn.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This clause provMÊle
for the making of plans and books of reference. We have In the province of Quebec our official plans, and the property la
described by numbers on the official, plans,
and In ail documents the mention of the
officiai number la a sufficient description of
the property. I would suggest that the tiret
paragrapb of clause 122 be amended by addiug the foilowing words :

would do.

The portion of the railway comprised Iu
each county shahl be Indicated on the plan and
Hon. Mfr. KERR (Toronto)-If you had a book o! reference by a separate number or
numbers.
tree wbich was more than 100 feet from
be just as dangerous ta
Hn. Mr,. SCOTT-As a matter of practhe track It migbt
the public travelling en the railway and *tice Iu Quebee, do tbey flot give the cadastral number ?i I think they do.
you would have fia power ta cut it down.
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN-That

Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I cuill the attention
o! the bon. gentleman ta clause 1-90 o! this
Bill, whicb provides, or wbich Is Intended
ta provide, for the paying of damages
caused by the exercise of those pawers.
do not know that Vie clause is properl~
dratted, but I cail attention ta it. They will
not cut amy trees unlesa they require to.

Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-No, It bas been quite
puzziing for me as to wbat was the effect
*of this book of refereuce In the province of
Quebec. The olù law was as It Is drafted
Iu this Bill, but the book of reference, as
prepared by the Crowu Commissioner, la
the book of reference wbicli gavernsiu ail mortgages on real estate, and I
It clear that
o Lthink It le mucb better to make
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They bave ta pay
1 the book o! reference, as far as the railway
good price for it. The clause bas been wel' is coucerned, wiii taire the place o! ail other
considered, and there can be na injury t(
books a! reference and provide for the
any person. Compensation must be given
Snumbering of rallway property. It is very
and It Ia ahi In the interest of the traveihinf
easy to assign to the portion of Vie railway
public.
in each separate parlsh a separate number.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I thin< clause 124 Lt may be more Vian one number.
cavera IL.
age doue.

They have ta pay for any dam

The subclause was adapted.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Taront'o)-Ls flot the
number sufficieut as It la ?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The clause is properly drafted as far as the clause la concerned, but It la for the purpose of registerlng and describing the property. I bave had
to bring to sale ràilway property, and the
description had to be published in the official 'Gazette' and ln the papers, and It
extended over one hu-ndred pages of foolscap, because we hadl to, describe under our
Iaw ln the province of Quebe. If the property la not known by officiai number, It
bas to be descrlbed by the abutting property
-metes and bounds-and I haùI to prepare
that in a speclal case, the Montreal, Portland
and Boston Rai.lway, where the description
covered more than a hundred pages of foolscap paper. Surely we should guard against
that ; but It was not the oniy case, and,
therefore, It la very easy to add thant a number shall be talien for the officiai number.
I suggest that the paragraph stand.

be ecrtificd and signed by the president or
engineer of the campany ;and any book of reference. reiuired ta be sa deposited, shall be
prepared ta the satisfaction of the board. Ualess and until such plan, profile and book ref
reference Is sa muaIc satisfactory to the board,
the board may refuse ta sanction the same,
or ta allow the samne ta be deposited wlth the
board within the meanlng of this Act.
Hon. Sir 3NIACKENZIE BOWEL-It bas
been suggested that tbis clause requires
amendment. The Senate will see that the

clause confines this d.uty exclusively ta the
president, and it bas been suggested after
the word

'presideut'

to

insert

' general

manager, engineer or other executive officer'
of the company. One can easily see the delay wbich would arise if you confine the
duty of signing the document exclusively
to the president.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbînk the suggestion
Is a very good one, but would It flot be better
ta read signed by the president or vioe-preHon. Mr. SCOTT-It will be limlted to, sident or general manager, and also by the
Quebec ?
engineer. It sbould have the signature of
the engineer.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
The clause was so amended and adopted.
Hon. Mr. McMULLE.N-It Is provIded that
the profile shall show the grades and curves
On clause 134, subsection 2,
of the hlgbway aud ralway crossing. Wbat
of
2.
la a hlghway ? Is *It a travelled road ? Is land The extent of the public beach. orriver the
or
cavered with the waters of any
a surveyed line supposed to, be a higbwny
lake ln Canada. takea for the railway, shall
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Every concession Une
la a higbway.
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-Whether opened
or not ?

flot exceed the quantity hereinafter liniited la
the case a! lands which may be taken wlthout
the consent af the awner. 51 V., c. 29, s. 105,
Amn.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This section raises a
very important question, it applies ta ail
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As a matter of prac- rivers, lakes and streams. It would appiy,

tice, they do not enforce It against the
rallway companies until the road is opened,
but when It la opened tbey have to do that
The profile can only be establisbed when the
road Is graded, and the company must conform ta the grade. It can only deviate an
Inch from the grade of the road.

very, rightly, ta navigable rivera. The provinces have been held ta be the owners o!
1 do flot know if it
the beds of rivera.
shauld ilot be limi*ted ta lands under the

jurlsdiction of the government.

Hon. Mr. SCOTTr-The construction put
upon it la tbat it applies to lands oivned by
Hon. Mfr. DÂNDURAND-Tbe bion. gen- the Crown as represented by tbe Dominion.
tleman will find ln clause 1 of the InterHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I should like to have
pretation Act the meaning of the word
this clause stand. 1 have flot suiliciently
highway.
considered it.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On clause 121),
129. Ail plans and profiles required by law ta
be deposited by thie company with the board,

Hon.

Mr. LOUGHEED-That

would be

perfectly riglit with reference to, lands in

The beds of the rivers
the territories.
shall be drawn to such scale, with such detail, there are vested in the Crown. Supposing
upon such niaterials, and of such character, as there should be a case in wbicb the federaI
thie bnard may. eitber by general regulatian.
or. in any case. require or sanction, and shalH authority would dispose of the bed 0f a
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto).

AUGTJST 25, 1903
river in the province, why shoul tlîey not
do so ? It does not Invade the rigbt of the
province; It only gives the right tlie federal
autborlty bas to alienate that property.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-They would have to
pay for It If the province inslsted on ItL
The clause was adopted.
On clause 138,
138. The lands whlch may be taken without
the consent of the owner :
For the right of way shall not exceed one
hundred feet ln breadth, except ln places where
the rail-level la. or la proposed to be, more
than fiye feet above or below the surface of
the adjacent lands, when such additlonal width
may be taken as shahl suffice to accommodate
the slape and aide dîtchea
For atations, depota and yards, with the
freight sheds, warehouses, wharfs, ehevators
and other structures for the accommodation of
traflic incidental thereto. shahl n ot exceed one
mile ln length by fiye hundred feet ln breadth,
Including the wldth o! the right of way. 51 V.,
c. 29, S. 103, Arn.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-As the haw stood, the
rlgbt of way shouhd not exceed thirty-three
yards. Here It Is 100 feet, and the land the
company was entitled. to take for stations,
&c., under the law as lt stood, was bBO
yards lu hength by 100 yards lu breadth.
To get any further land they had to apply
to the Minîster of Rallways.
11on. Mr. YOUNG-Is not this an excessive himit that ls provhded for in thîs
clause ? Who is to be the judge of the quantity of laud required ?

839

to sucb abuse as a company buylng, under
the pretext of using the land for stations
and yards, and the next day selllng it for
town lots.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-They could nlot do that
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would suggest to
amend the last paragraph, by addlng atter
the word 'for' the words ' use oniy,' confinlng it to land used for railway purposes.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-What advantage would be gained ? Under the word
'use'1 they could extend It as they please.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As It ls, the moment
tbey want land for stations they bave the
riglit to expropriate, and then they can do
what they choose wlth 1t; but If we add
these words I bave suggested I arn qulte
sure they would nlot bave the right to hold
the land if they did not use It for railway
purposes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We are really only giving them 200 feet extra la breadth.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But It Is a mile In
Iength.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It could not be used for
any other purpose.
The clause was adopted.
It belng six o'clock, the coxmlittee rose for
recess.

After Reo ess.

The House resuned. ln Commlttee of the
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It bias been fouud lu
the enlargement of our ralhway system, that Whole consideration of Bill (21) An Act
tbey have bad constantly to get increased to amend and consolîdate the law respectlag
land for sidinga. The sidlugs now are very rallways.
mnuch longer than originahly contemplated.
On clause 122,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved that the folHon. Mr. CÂSGRÂIN (de Lanaudiere)The Grand Trunk, Rallway of Canada bas lowlng be lnserted as subclause 3:
In the province.of Quebec the portion of the
Just expropriated outside the city of Montreal, baîf n mile lu wldth by a mlle Ilh rallway comprised ln each munlcipality shall
be lndicated on tbe plan and bock of reference
length. So I tbink this ls not enougli.
bv separate number or numbers.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUG--I can hardly see the
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-I would suggest that
tbe words ' for the purposes of the railway 1 necessity of sucb. an ame'ndment, because ln
be inchuded there, s0 that If they requlre the clause 122 It says: the plan shaîl show the
whole of it, they should have ahI the power right of way, the names of terminal points,
the stations round the property lines, ownthey need.
'er's naine, the areas and length and wldth
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The Bill specifically. of lands proposed to be taken. 'I think that
states what It la to be taken for.
covers the whole ground just as well lu
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I do not object to the the province of Quebec as in the other pcvextent, provided it does not open the door vinces.

840

SENATE

lion. Mr. BELQUE_-erliaps tiait lon1.
gentleman %ias not present before the adjonrnment wlien 1 gave the reasoni. 1 stated
that in my own experience the Montreal,
Portland and Boston road was caused to lie
seized and the description of the property
covered more than 100 pages of foolscap,
because there %v«-s flot an officiai number on
the property and each separate piece of
iand bad to be descrlbed separately ; and It
la to avoid the repetition of that, that I
suggest suel ian nmiendinent, 1 have liad
occasion to describe railway property in
that way, and it Is much more couvenient
If the comnpany wants to niortgage the property. [t is an easy way to describe the
property. Theai it la described merely by
officiai numbers. wbicli are cadastral nunbers.
The timeudment was adopted.
On clause 149,
149. Any contract or agreement made by any
narson autborized by this Act to convey lands,
eithnr before the deposit of the plan, profile
and book of reference. or before the settlng
out and ascert.alning of the lands required for
the rallway. shall be binding at the price
azreed upon for thc saine lands, If they are
afterwards so set out and ascertained within
one year froui the date of the contract or
agreement, and although such land has, In the
nîeantirne become the property of a third person ;and possession of the land may lie taken,
and the agreement and pries may be dea!t
wlth. as If such price bad been fixed by an
award of arbitrators as hereinafter provided,
and the agreemnent shall be Ini the place of an
award. 51 V., c. 29, s. 141, Arn.

frein the date of the contra et or agreement,

and altbough sucli land bas In the meantime
become the property of a third person. It
is there stated that It shall &e binding on
the purchaser of the property, and it doles
not provIde -for any registration. I thlnk
we sbould provide for the registration of
that agreenment.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I believe the lion.
gentleman la right, that this clause ou-ht to
lie amended.
lu the province of Quebec,
as lie bas remarked, ahI deeds must be registered, but this clause Is so specifie thnt
1 believe that even If there was no registration, the right o! the company would remain good.
The party who acquired the
piece of land wbich the company wouid bave
by tis clause a rîglit to enter, would have
surely recourse against the seller, but ln
case the seller should not be good for the
losa sustalaed by the purchaser, tbe purchaser would surely lie losing in that matter,
and 1 believe the clause should stand so
that the hion. member from De Salaberry
could prepare an amendment tol apply to
the province of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Have you ever beard of
a case of the kind ? Recause this clause bas
been In the statute-booka for thlrty years or
more.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-And it would
not deprive the party of the remedy as between the parties.
The vendor and the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think this clause purchaser would have their remedies for
should be amended.
It is dealing with the protection of the purchaser lu that rereai estate, and gives effect to a mere agree- spect.
ment made witb one party wlth the owner
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But we bave a regisof the land before the property is taken try office for tbe purpose of showing the
over by the company and before the railway statua of the land, and 1 see no reaaon why
Is built. It seenis to m'e it sbould provide -it is as easy In this case as ln any other
for the registration o! that agreement, otber- cases-if a railway company buya property
The and makes an agreement for a plece of land,
wise, third parties are not protected.
There is nothing to that it should not be disclosed.
land may be sold.
show that any sucli agreement bas been
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I admit that
entered into.
the clause at firat appeared to me very exHon. Mr. SCOTT-It wiIl be subject to traordinary.
1 had goule over tbe Railway
the law o! the province-no question about Act before, but here la a railway company
that.
that makes an agreement for the purebase
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It does not say so. of a property for, say $500, gets a written
The ternis of the clause are very express. document, and later on the venidor fanda that
It shaîl be binding on the owner for the there is to be a railway expropriation for
price.agreed upon for.the saine lands if they a station ground, and there is a boom.
He
are set out aad ascertained within one year selis for $2,000 to a man who cornes in, a
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC.

AUGUSI 25, 1903
third party, and the railway bas twelve
months during which to offer the $500, the
amount originally mentloned between him
and the first vendor, and would rob the third
Party of $1,500, the difference.
This is as
we find It in this law. It is true the bon.
Secretary of State says If bas operated for
tbirty years or more, and we bave heard of
no Injuries, but If I can read the clause, and
It seems very clear, that would be the eff ect.

841

ment. Under the Land Tilles Act only transfers o! land and mortgages may be regîstered. For Instance, If such an amexidment
were made as suggested by my hon. friend,
It would flot apply to the territorles, where
there are tbonsands of those tran"isactions,
and yet witbin my professlonal experlence
1 bave not seen one case wbere such a condition o! thIngs -bas arisen as bas been
pointed out.

Hlon. Mr. KERRI (Toronto)-Another dîffiHon. Mr. SCOTT-I doubt very mucb If culty occurs to me at the moment, and It ia
It would oterride the registry laws of the this. A man who had contracted. to seil
province of Ontario.
to the rallway at a price and afterwards
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe amendinent sug- learned tbat his neiglbbotr Iiad got a biglier
gested by the bon. gentleman.from De gala- price, would slmply sell the property to anberry is a very simple one, and as we are other person, and then you would bave a
amending the Bill, I do flot see why we new owner on whom that contract would
should flot adopt If.
I tbink about three flot be blndlng, and ail kinds of frauda
words would do It.
In line 82, Instead of 'vould be attempted lu order to ralse the
saying 'shall be binding,' It should read, price on tbe railway company.
'shall, if duly reglstered, be binding.'
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not see how thot
could halppen.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-The objection,
one can easily see, would corne from the
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Notblng simprailway companies.
In buylng a rlght of 1er. I make my contract at the beginnlr.g
way they make Individual contracts, and of an enterprise, wlshlng to get the rallroad
suppose In some cases tbey were, as it were, near my property. My neigbbour la getting
lield Up and badl to pay a high price. and tour times the price for bis land tbat I amn,
tben suppose tbey had to regîster It In the and after the company bave settled their
registry office, tbe result would be that the location, I could make a transfer of my
prIces ail along the 1111e would be unfalrly i ig-ht to nty friend wlho worî:d tiien become
and unduly advanced, because, as is weil tbe owner. The contract would not be
known, the railway companles bave to pay blnding on hlm, because it was not registhe hlghest price for any land they get for tered, and he would re the price.
sucb a purpose.
In buylng a rlgbt of way
Hon. Air. BOLDUC-All they would have
I tblnk, If this contract bad to be registered,
to do ls to megister.
that they mlght be exposedl to a great deal
Tbe clause was ndopted.
more coft than would be necessary Ini the
purchase of an ordinary rigbt of way.
On clause 154,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It Is only to give ef154. The notice served upon tbe party sball
fect to the agreenment as far as the third containA
ta be
party la concerned.
Without the re- or (a.) the description of thetalandsexercisedtaken,
of
powers intended
be
witb
gistration the agreement wlI b>e good be- regard ta any lands, and descrlbing the
tween the vendor and the*company, but it Is lands;
(b.)
declaration
some
to, make the agreement blnding upon the certainA sum or ment, ofasreadiness ta pay be, as
the case may
third party that the registration la requlred. compensation for sucb lands or for such
Hon. Mr. LOUGREED-I will point out
tbnt while on the face of It it might be
subject to the abuses mentioned. yet in the
North-west Terrltory, wbere probnbly more
land bas been conveyed of late years tlian
In any other part of the Dominion, if would
be Impossible to register a contract or agree-

damages.

51l V.. c. 29, s. 146, Amn.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe systeni of arbitra-

tion Is changed and that accounts for the
change In this particular clause. As it la
now, the judge names the arbitra-tor, but on
appeal by any party each may name one.
The clause was adopted.

SENATE
On clause 163, subsection 2,
of State might be seriously abused, and Il
2. Such arbitrator or arbitrators shall have is well to, make the ameudment.
and may exercise with respect to such arbitration ail the Dowers mnentioned in section 49 or
this Act, and section 50 of this Act shail apply
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-For niy part I do
to Persans attendlng and qiviug evidence at flot see Inuch objection
to, the arbItratore
£flY 8uch arbitration.
bavlng power te caîl wltnesses, because they
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)- may require evidence toi properly enlIghten
The arbitrators should flot, of tbeir own their conselence, but I desire to cal] attenmotion, eall wltnesses. If the parties choose tion to this : I have haù some experience
10 bring witnesses, well and good, but the In expropriation matters, and the cashs are
aibitrators themselves should flot have the ruinous to, the campany. It bas been the
power ta coul witnesses and increase the cost experlence of ail famillar wlth arbitrutions,
of arbitration. I a suit. The arbitrators that the costs amount lnvarlably ta $600,
should know the value of property thein- or $800, and that Is sa In ail cases, even
selves.
when the compensation Is a paltry sum o!
$300, $40, or $500.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Suppose they are not
satlsfled wlt-b the wituesses of either party?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Sometlmes less than
Hon. M~r. CASGRAIN--Theii they sbould $100.
decide an tîjeir awn judgment.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-&nd as the developHon. Mr. SCOTT-A large ainount, of ex- ment of the country Is promoted considerpense might be entailed, and surely the ably by ruhlways, lt seems ta me that raill arties lnterested are the parti*s ta call the way colupanles should be proteeted ta a
certain extent
This abuse arises malnly
witnesses.
on accaunt o! the fact that parties muke lt
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-It would be as
unseemly for the arbàtrators to cal] wit- a profession to aet on arbitrations for expropriation proceedings as expert wltnesses,
nesses, as it would be for a court to ceuh
and tbey drag the proceedl 'ngs, and bave
wi tnesses.
twenty sittlngs when the matter could be
Hou. Mr. POWER-I do flot sec thut the settled lu one or two sittlngs ; and
they
wltnesses are caled by the arbitratars.
aiso get tndemnlfled by the owners accordHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-TbIs subsection lng to, the umount whicb tbey succeed la
Introducee ail the provisions of clause 49, obtalnlng !rom the company. Il seems ho,
and subsection <c) of clause 49 provides for me that we should consider that question
the ealllng of wltnesses, and by exceptlng and try to put an end ta the abuse.
that clause the arbItrutors would not bave
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-lf we look
the powâer. -I move that the words 'ex- at section 49, and subs ection (c), thut bas
ceptlng subsection (c)'1 be lnserted ufler the been referred ta, they provide for the atword 'Act.'
tendance of ail such persons as may be
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not see why they called. It Is the only power 1 see In this
should not have the power ta call wltnesses. Bih] for arbitrators ta, summan witnesses.
Hon.
LOUGHEED-Look ut subHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-you mlght as section 2,Mr. the
of
same clause.
well say the court should caul w1tnesss.
I
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Very often the Hon. )Ir. KERR (Toronto)-It is anly
under (c) that they can be called by
court does caîl wltnesses.
the arbitrators.
A witness might fluot
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe objection lu tbis cure ta be called by elther
party, and the
case Is that urbitrators very often take urbitrators are empowered
under thîs clause
longer lime and put the parties to greater ta require hlm ta attend.
I want a certain
expense tbun they sbould. If they had the nuniber o! witnesses,
and the only way I
excuse of cal.lng witnesses, they could cun get them is ta get
summonses requlring
postpane a settiement unthl doomsday.
tbem ta, attend.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-1 eau easily see
Hon. Mr. POWER-Look ut subsection 2,
that the point touched on by the Secretury of clause 49.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

AUGUST 25, 190.1
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-I bad overlooked that.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The inatter to which
attention bas been cs.lled by the hon, gentleman from De Salaberry is one that well
deserves the consideration of thse goverument. I do -not know very much about tse se
expropriations, In a professional way, as
tihe hon, gentleman does, but I know that
thse government were called upon some twenty-three years ago to expropriate a considerable quantity of barren, almost worthless
land, between St. Charles and the town of
Lévis. The riglit of way for souse fourteený
mâles c'ost, I thlnk, fully $1,400,000. Tise bon.
gentlenman bas polnted out that there are
ln the province of Quebec, and I diaresay
tisere are ln other provinces, people who
make a profession of being expert witnesses
in such suits.
HEon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon, gentleman lias forgotten the fact that
the value of the land acquired for the Une
between St. Charles and Lévis was. not declded by arbitration, but by tbe Exchequer
Court. Thse prîces put on thse land to which
the hion, gentleman refers were of sucb an
exorbitant character that thse then Minister
of Railways and Canais, thse Hon. Mr. Pope,
refused to psy them, and he did not pay one
cent until tise prices had been fixed by the
Excisequer Court. When thse survey was
made for buliding that portion of the rond,
It was not supposed It would cost over bal!
as much as had to be pald for thse riglit of
way alone, after the decision of the
Excisequer Court hadl been rendered.
I do not know that the term used
by thse hon. Speaker, tisat thse land was
vaiueless, is quite correct, but It was valueless so far as any returu ta thse owners
was concerned. However, tise moment the
government wanted to build thse raliway,
the prices rose enormously, nlot only ln thse
province of Quebec Is this thse case,
but over most. of the road. Tisere are
gentlemen isere from Quebec wiso remew.ber thse incident very weli, and
tisey, perhaps, can gîve us an idea, If
it be necessary to do so, as to thse real value
of tIse land. I know that thse Impression ln
the minds of the public was, that thse government was oMilged to pay after It isad
gone tbrough thse courts, because tise evldence tisat was given before thse judge o! the

843

Excisequer Court was o! sucis a charucter
that lie had to decide ln that way, and thse
government pald thse awards. Now, In reference to this matter before thse commlttee,
If hon, gentlemen refer ta clause 49, thse
power te examine wItnesses la given to thse
board and to the minister ln case he
deems It necessary ln any cases of this
klnd. The clause undç'r discussion provides
that thse arbitrator or arbitrators shall have
the same power as the board and thse mInIster. Thse amendment made by the hon.
gentleman from Calgary la ta except paragraps (c> of clause 49--that is, taking from
thse arbitrators the power whlch Is given to
thse minister and tise board ln subsection 3
of clause 41. Tise question is, should tbey
have that power. If It la necessary to have
any otiser witnesses tsa-n those who are beIng examine# by th >e parties Interested,
tisen ail the arbitrator would have -ta do
would be te apply ta the minister. I thinli
It would be Just as well tisat thse power
given te tise arbîtrators In this clause shouid_
be struck out.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-It deprives tisem of

thse power to compel thse attendauce of wItnesses ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.

Suiscianse

(c) and suisciause 2 deal wlth an entireiy different matter.
Thse clause was amended and adopted.
On clause 167,
167. Thse person offered or appointeci as val-

uator. or as sole arbitrator, shall fot be dis-

ciualifled because lie la professionally empioyed
bv either party, or has previously expressed an
opinion as ta the amount o! compensation, or
because lie Is related or of kmn to any sharohoider of the company, If lie Is not himself
personally Interested ln the amouat of the
compensation ;and no cause of disqualification shahI lie urged against any arbitrator appointed by the judge ai ter his appointment.
but thse objection sbail be made before the appointment and its valldity or invalidity shall
be summarily determined by thé judge. 51 V..
c. 29, s. 159.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have some doubt as
to wisether the arbitrator sisould not be disquallfled ln this case.
M r. CASGRAIN
(de Lanaudière)-Tiss
question lias arisen very often.
You
couid not find arbitrators if you did not have
this clause. For instance, lawyers are often
employed as arbitrators, and tisey have very
fpequentiy been employed by tise company.

844

SIENATE

This provision bas been in force for verY
many years. and Is supposed to be perfectly
rlgbt; otherwise you would find great difticulty to secure arbitrators wbo are flot coinmitted in any 'way. They would know very
littie of what tbey were requlred to do.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbat would be ail very
well If the arbitrators were selected by the
parties, but this Is a party appointed sole
arbitrator.
Hon. Mr. CASGRÂIN-Tbere is a sole
arbitrator, or tbree, as the parties wish.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-Clauge 148 provides that the company shall not be responsible for the disposition of any purchase
money for lands taken by It for its purposes
If pald to the owner of the land, or Into
court for bis benefit. Now, 'supposing the
company takes part 0f a lot wortb five hundred dollars or a tbousand dollars, and the
value ls ftxed by the arbitrators ; tbey pay
over the money to the owner, and It Is
subject to a mortgage. Where will the. mortgagee be-wbat will bis right be ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The'company will have
to pay It over again.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They will lookc
after tbat.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the mortgage Is on
record.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-But tbis clause declares If the company pay the money to the
owner tbey are not responsible.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They pay It at their
perîl.

way operated or to be operated as a street
raiiway or tramway, along any highway which
la within the limits of any city or incorporated
town. until the company bas firot obtained
consent therefor by a by-law of the municipal
authority of such city or incorporated town,
ZNo obstruction of such highway wlth the
morks shaîl be made without turning the highway sa as ta leave an open and gaod passage
for carntages, and, on completion of the works,
restoring the highway ta a good condition, as
nearly as possible, as it was originaiiy.
3. Nothlng ln this section shall depnive any
such company of rights conferred upon It by
any special Act of the panliament of Canada,
or amendment thereof, pass-ed prior ta the prosent session of palilament
4. Every company which violates the provisions of this ilection shall Incur a penalty of
flot less than forty dollars for each such vialation. 51 V., c. 29, s. 183. An.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I ask that tbis clause
stand, because I shall be able to sbow that
it should be amended, and lt sbould be taken
ln connection wltb clauses 5, 6 and -Î. It
refers to some of tbe same mattiers.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-On wbat Uines
does the bon. gentleman propose to amend,
go that we may ponder over It ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Under the clause as
drafted, firat of ail, consent may be given
ýby by-law of tbe rnuniclpalty, and 'bylaw'1 as defined ln the Interpretation clause,
Thea the moment
includes a resolution.
that the company bas obtalned consent, It
would have tbat consent for ail turne to
I think thiat the clause sbould be
corne.
8o amended tbat tbe consent may be given
on such terms and conditions as shahl be
prescribed la the by-law.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat Is go flow, and
that will be so under tbis clause. Tbey
could flot get a by-law exoept under certain terms and conditions.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The clause says
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Tbey will not
the company shahl not be responsible for the give a. consent unless it is on such ternis and
disposition of any of the purchase money conditions.
for lands taken, &c.
the interpreHon. Mr. SCOTT-He was flot the owner
of the land at the turne.

Hon. '.%r. POWER-But in
tatioiî clause 'by-Iaw ' includes resolution.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Would not the better

Hon. Mr. POWER-That is intended to way be to amend the Interpretation clause
cover the case of a party wbo is acting as and strike out 'resolution 1 bere ?
trustee.
The clause was allowed to stand.

On clause 184,
184. The railway may be carried upon, along
or across an existing highway upon leave

therefor having beeil firat obtained from the
board as herginafter provided. but the board
shail not grant leave t.o any company to carry
any street railway or tramway, or any raillion. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière).

On clause 186, subclause 2,
2. When the application la for the construction of the railway upin. aiong or across an
existing highway, aIl the provisions of iaw at
such ticic applicable ta the taking o! land by
the company, *o its valuation and sale and con-

AUGUST 25, 1903
veyance to the company, and to the compensati<.n til .4or. sh-ili apply to the land required for che proper carrying out of any order
n'ade by the board.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRÂIN (de LanaudIère)This is thle first time there bas ever been
any compensation asked for crossiug bigh-

Tile truth Is, that up to the present time

barsbly.

t ry if tiley ilad ta pay for filese crossings.

the raiiway companies bave been 'enfants
gafês' in Canada, and It Is time they paid
their way.

Hon. Mr. DÂVID-Does -not the committee think thaf, as the muiipality Is rnuch
I interested In the manner In which the railways or occupying parts of ilighways.
do flot sec wbere that compensation should way shall be consfructed on an exIsting
It would go tbrougb a munici- highway, a notice should be sent ta them.
corne in.
pality, and the rnunicipallfy Is supposed ta
Hon. Mr. KERR <Toronto)-They cannot
be benefited by the construction of rail- go there wlthouf having a by-law.
ways.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The deposit of the
Hou. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Not always.
plans provides for that. The plans are deHou. Mr. SCOTT-The clause is flot pro- posited some thirfyý dav's before, and filet
In the Sth lune, instead of la equlvaient to notice.
perly worded.
saying 'shall apply ta fthe land acquired,' if
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Putting Iii the word
sbould rend 'fa any additional land requir- 'addltional ' will lirit fthe section altogether
ed,' and 1 move that It be so am.ended.
to whafever addltional land may be taken,
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-You have a street In wlthout regard to file existlng conditions,
a village or town and tile railway takes when ftle ralroad cornes in. If lion. gentletilaf land. Why shouid fliey flot only build men look af file 4til section tlîey wll se
up fthe street but psy for fthe land as weli ? that fthe wbole section contemplates Inportant changes In file highwaya. Ail fthe
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-They cannot buiid along municipality wll get wili be simply paya highway.
ment for the additional lands taken. But if
Hon. '-%r. ELLIS-' Along or across a you leave the section as It-Is, aIl file candihighway.'
fions wlll be the sarne when tilat land Is
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN <de Lanaudière)- faken withouf file use of file word laddiIt Is provided for In another part of the tional.' I fbink if is a very Improper addiIt is provided thaf the level must tion fa fthe proposed law.
.Act.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tiîe law as it
be kepf at a certain beigbt and the fences
stands now, does not require railway coinso and so.
panles fa pay for fthe land on file higilway
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn doubtfui about
hon. crossing.
some of fliose things of which some
Hon. Mr. POWER-But if silould.
The
gentlemen seem f0 be very certain.
subsection reads as foilows :
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey could flot buiid
2. Then the application is for the construc- a railway in this country If they liad f0.
tion of the railway upon, along or acroas an
Qxisting highway. ail the provisi3fls of law at
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The municipaities build
aech tirna applicable ta the taking o! land by tilr
roads at consIderable expense and
and sale and
the company, ta its valuation
couveyance ta the conlpany, aud to fhe com- file people are faxed for fhem. They are
pensation therefor, shaîl apply to fthe land re- good roads. When. fte raiiway company
ciuired for the proper carrying out of any order
cornes fa filat land if bas a rigilt ta conmade by thle board.
sider that: municipality an lindividual and
As I understand if, file board iakes orders
treaf if as an individual. 1 think f is an
is
under ftle first subsection, aud ftle idea
inferference wifî file riglits of the inunicititat the company shahl pay for the recon- palifies to fake away file land wiici filey
struction. 1 should suppose, of thle liigh- have improved without g-Iving f 11m compenway. I assume filaf Is what this clause sation.
means, that fthe raIlwçay conîpiny wiIi lic
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tlie lion. gentleman
obliged fa pay for wbatever land is iiecesmust understand if: would be absolutely !iThe lion.
sary to relocafe ftle iliway.
gentleman froni De Saiaberry thinils Nwe have possib)le to build any raiilvny i lilfs counbeen

treating

ftle railwiy

very

846

SÉKATE

Because If you go through a county you bave
to pass over tifty crossings and the townships would bold up the railway. Railways
have the rIght to cross a highway, but they
have flot the rlght toi proceed along the bigh'way wlthout a by-law, or wlthout paying
for it, but the law is absolutely clear ln regard to, the other, and that word 1additional' Is there to provîde for where, ln
the crossing of a highway, they require to
carry thue railway over the lhighway; then
they must take sometbing more than the
right of way.
Ho.n. Mr. POIRIER-The point raised' by
the bon. gentleman from St. John is met by
clause 184, which says that on completion
of the work the company shahl restore the
highway to a good condition as nearly as
possible as It was originally. That meets
the objection.
The clause was amended and adopted.
On subclause 2,
2. ProviiJed that wheýre the company cannot
obtain such consent from such municipal council or other authority, the company may apply
ta thi' board for leave ta exercise such powers,
and upon such application shahl submit ta the
board a plan of such highway, square, or ather
publie place, showlng the proposed location of
such Unes. wlres, and pal3s, and the board may
grant such application, in wvhole or in part,
and may change or fix the route of such lin 's,

w ires or pales, and may by order Impose any
terms. coaditions or limitations in respect
thereof that it decms expedient, having due
rcgard to aIl praper lnterests ;and upon such
order belaig made the company may exerciae
such powers in accardance with such order,
and shahl ln the performance and execution
thereot, or la the repalring, renewing or maintaining of scb Unes, wires or pales, conformn
ta and be subject tu the provisions of subsection one of this section, as if consent had been
obtalned fram snch municipal cauncil or other
authority, except ln sa far as the sald provisions are expressly varied by order of the
board. 62-63 V., c.. 37, s. 1, Am.
Hon. 'Mr. POW7ER-Thils subsection Is one
-liat I thinik miglit stand over for conisideraion. 1'here should lie sone provision that
lie municipal authorities should lie notified
)f the application. The company perhaps
tr not able to make ternis witu the counchil,
nd tdieu tluey apply ta this board -and ahege tbey cannot make arranugenments wvith
lie municipal corporation. Theni the board
Lre empowered. witliaut aotifyinig the cororation. to grant the request of the comnýau . Wlille the board waould uatura]ly try,
o s ,nue exteuit, to, prateet tbe interests of
hie municipalitv. as a niatter of fair-play
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

the municipal authorities ouglit to be heard
before cominig to a decision.
Hon. '-%r. CASG1IAIN (de Lanaudière>Clause 31 seems to caver the notice luentioned by the Speaker.
Hon. M~r. POWER-That refers
other matter altogether.

to an-

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The board lias
power to pass regulations, and surely they
wlU flot exercise arbitrary powers witbout
bringlug ail the parties before tbeni.
.Mon. Mr. POWER-That is wbat 1 aem
asking-that that shall be made clear.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I shall propose thdt a
third subsection b(- added to this clause.
On referring to the first paragrapli of clause
195, it wlll be noticed that when the compîyis eaipowered' by, a special Act to conistruct and operate Unes of telegrapli and
telephone, and for the conveyance of lieat,
liglit or power by electrlcity, the company
may, with the consent of the mnunlcipality,
exercise those powers. By subsection 2, It Is
provlded that If the company cannot obtain
the power from the munîcipality, then the
board will grant leave to the company ta do
so. 1 see no0 objection to that belng done, provided it bie llmlted to the requirelueuts of
the company for their owil business. For
instance, If they require to carry tlieir polbs
througl nny city or town, the coinpaiiy
i.lîould obtain that power, either fronut tie
rnuniclpallty, or from the board, if the
rnunlclpality la flot willing to grant tue
1ower. But 1 propose to add a third subc:ause ini the following words:
Nothing contalned ln thiis section shahl be
deemed ta authorize the company exercising
the vower therein mentioned for the purpoF!e
of selling or distributlng llght, heat, power, or
electrlclty in cities, towns, or villages, withou t the company having first obtalned the consent therefor by by-law of the rnunicipality.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is nio objection to
thit.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Subsection
clause provides as followvs:

(g) of this

(c~.) In case efficient means are dc.vised for
carrying ay siuch lines or m-ires underground,
no Act of parliamcmt reqlîiring the company
to adopt such means. and abrogating the riglit
given by this section to carry lines on poles.
shall be dýemed an iringeinent of the privileges granted by this Act, nor shall the cornvany b,-, eotitled to damiages in respect thereof.

847

AUGUST 26, 1903
Tliat means no Act of the p.arliarnelnt of
Canada, but ln the case of Montreal, the
city of Montreal was authorlzed by the local
legisiature to compel the con.spany to put
their wlres underground. le It flot possible
to say that no Act of parliament chall be
deemed an Infringenient of the privileges
granted by that Act, bcause if that le flot
added, the Act passed by the- local legisla-'
ture of Quebec would have no effect. I
tlîlnk, to give effeet to, that local Act, we
ouglit to have somne sucli words ndded.

DAMAGE TO MONTMÂGNY
OFFICE.

POST

INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquired1. Has the goverament been informed that
the Montmagny post offIce was severely damaged ln the course of last wlnter, the whole
roof of the building being crushed under the
welght of fnow, thus exposlng te the four
wlnds of heaven andl ta ail the lnclemency of
the seasons the apartments especlally reserved
ta the town council of the tôwn of Montmagny T
2. Has the goverament furnlshed the council
of the town of Montmagny another place for
the regular holding o! its slttings whlat wattHon. Mr. SCOTT-I tlîink tlie intention lng for the repaire of the present post office ?
3. What arrangements bas the government
of the Act Is ln the direction tbe lion, genmade In-this matter ?
tleman snys : even If the company were
4. Is it the case that the Department of Pubgranted this privîlege, If afterwards th.e lic Works (or the Post Office Department) bas
put a temporary awning ln the place of the
municipallty wisbes to have the wIres 1-ut roof whlch has disappeared, and appointed a
underground, tuie company wvould have to guardian to watch over this awnlng and prevent
It from being carrled away by the wind ?
conforrn.
5. What le the name of this guardlan ? How
niuch a day bas hie, and since when bas hie been
1-1on. Mr. DAVID-The clause says 'an
recelvlng bis salary ?
Act of parliarnent,' and tliat menus an Act
6. Is It tbe Intention of the government ta
of the parliament of Canada. This section make the necessary repaire ta the present post
office or ta build a new ane ?
does not cover an Act of the local legisîs7. Wben will the works be commenced ?
ture.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The anewer ta the first
Hon). Mr. DANDURAND-It does not cur- question ie yes; to the second, no; to, the
third, noue; to the fourth and fifth, no; to
tail the poivers of the local legisînture.
well the sixtb and ceventh, the matter le under
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-The point le
consideration.
taken. Thae pnwer le giveii here in a genHon. Mr. LANDRY-There le one quescral wvay. Power le gîven to, lay wlres ln
the streets of cities, and It le provided that, tion whicb bas not been answered, 1 thinkwhen an Act of this parliament le passed le It the case that the Department of Public
compelllng them to place their wires under- Works or the Post Office Department bas
ground, they shahi have to do s0 witbout put up a temporftry awning, &c. *?

iny compensation. and the point raised by
the hon. senator frorn Mille Isle Ie this :If
an Act of the came nature le passed by the
provincial legislature, it would have no
effect ; and It ceeme to me these words
should be added :
No Act of this parliam.,at or of the local
legisiature.
Subsection (g) was allowed to stand.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG, fromi the comniittee
reported that thiey bad mnade corne progrese,
and ncked leave to sit again.
The Senate adjournea.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, 'Weclnesday, August 26, 1903.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thiree
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedinge.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I answered no to, that.
THE TREADGOLD COMMISSION.
INQuilly.
Hon. Mr.

FERGUSON rose to ack

the

govermfent-

Whether the commission recently lssued ta
Judge Britten and Mr. Bell ta investigate the
Treadgold concession contains a provision fixing the amount of remuneration. ta be pald ta
the commissioners. If not, bas the remuneration been otberwise settled, and in eltber case,
how mucb does It amount to ?
He caid : I wish to state, ln maklng this
inquiry, that I have been told on good authority that the Treadgold Comnpany, or the
governmnent, I arn not cure which, have re-

tained almost ail the lawyers lu the Yukoa.
Mýy hon. friend, the Secretary of State, wi'l
be able to tell me whethier the govemument
lias hiad any hand in it or not, but 1 bave

SENATE
been told, on wbat I thinik very good authority, that a very large proportion of the
lawyers lu the Yukon bad been retained in
the Treadgold inquiry. A telegram appear'ed ln the Ottawa 'Free Press,' on Mionday
last, la whlcb these head lines appeared:
The Treadgold commission.
Judge Britton severely rebukes the notorlous
Joseph Clarke for dlsrespectful conduet.

each voyage in the holds or between the decks
of steamers equlpped ln terms of the sald parllamentary appropriation.
Also, a statement showlng the comparative
results in the transportation of apples between
steamers equlpped as above descrlbed and
steamers wltbout any speclal means of ventilation.
And also, a statemeat glving the names and
owners o! steamers, whlch It ls proposed ta
equlp as aforesald, for the present season. and
glving the port o! departure from Canada of
such eteamers as well as those already equlpped as aforesald.

And then I find tbe latter part of the telegram declares that Mr. Clarke was acting
He said : I may explain to tbe Hou-se, this
rougbly or rudely, and tbat Judge Brittou
bad to severeiy rebuke him, and that lie motion is for almost precisely the sanie instrnck back. at the commissioner, and so on. formation and papers that I moved for last
1 want nierely to cail attention to this lii year, and the object of the motion Is to brlng
connection witb ail tbe rest of the informa- the Information, wbicb was brougbt down
tion we bave witb regard to this subject, at the very close of last session, to date, or
and the inanner ln whlcb it is being bandled from April 1, 1902, to the present time,
wltb respect. to this question of the transby the government.
portation of cheese, apples and otber perHon. Mr. SCOTT-Perbaps the lion. gen- labable products. Witb that explanation, I
tleman will allow the question to stand. I inove the address, and I bope the lion. Secwas not really able to get the Information. retary of State wlll try to brlng down the
I called for tbe commission and examlned Information before the close of the session.
It, and the question of remuneration was not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I asked In advance, exset forth ln the commission.
pressing tbe bope *that tbey would take
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But the other part measures to get It ready as qulckly as possiof the Information-wbetber tbere was any ble, seelng It was a long address and would
allowance or remuneration settled.
taire time.
Hon. Mi. SCOTT-I wlll let the bion, gendepartment
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tbe
tleman know to-morrow.
will find tbat It only calîs for papers since
COLD STORAGE ON STEAM1SHLPS.
MOTION.
Hon, Mfr. PERGUSON moved:
That an humble address be presented to His
Excelieacy tbe Governor General ;praying that'
Rlis Excellency will cause to be laid upon the
Table of the Senate ail correspondeace whicb
bas taken place since the Ist of April, 1902,
between the government of Canada, or any
department or officer thereof, and any steamship company or agent of such company, engaged ln the transportation of the produce of
Canada fromn any port la Canada to Europe,
regarding the ventilation of space on steamships used for storage during transportation
o! perishable products, such as apples and
cheese.
Also, copies of aIl clauses in contracts with
steamship companies relating ta the ventilation of the holds or spaces between the decks
of steamers esnpioyed as aforesaid.
Aiso, a statement giving the naines o! ail
steamnships, and the owners thereof, which have
been equipped wlth means of generating cold
air and distributing the samne through their
holds and between decks, in termis of the appropriation made for such purpose during the
session of 1901, or subsequently, giving the cost
to the government in the case o! each steamer.'
Also, a statement showing the daily minimum
and maximum temperatures maintained during
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

last year-a continuation of the sanie infor'nation.
The motion was agreed to.
RAILWAYS LAW CONSOLIDATION
BILL.
AGAIN IN COMMITTEE.
The bouse resumed in Çomniittee of the
Wbole consideration of Blill (21) An Act to
amend and consolidate the law respecting
railways.
Hion. 1%1. SCOTT-This Bill bas been
changed so mucli in the drafting froni the

law as it stood, and also the Bill, since it
was introduced to the bouse of Commons,
that it bas been very difficult, indeed, to
follow it. My attention was recently called
to the fact that subsection 2 o! clause 186
was flot at all clear and I was asked to put
in additional words, and I so suggested to
the House ; but after carefully examining it,
I thinik the additionial words rather confuse
it, and the clause would lie better as it

AUGUST 26, 193
stood. The point was this : uuder the law
as It stood railways wvere allowed to cross
highways, but were flot allowed to run along
a bighway. It was said that this extra land
that was required, was for the purpose of
building abutments in case of overbead
crossings.
I do flot draw tîsat deduction
from It, and on reading the clause, I fiuid It
bas more general application than that, and
I think it is safer to leave the clause as it
appears in tise printed Bill. The clause reads
as follows:
2. When the application is for the construction of the railway upon, along or across an

Its valuation and
company, and ta
shall apply ta thse
per carrying out
board.

I do nat agree with the opinion that the
extra land would be required for the crossing, and I therefore more to strike out the
words I added yesterday.

perfectly clear the iaw does not contenspiate

existing highway, ail the provisions of law at
such time applicable to the taking of land by
the company, to its valuation and sale and
conveyance to the company, and to the compensation therefor, shail apply ta the land
required for the proper carrying out of any
order made by the board.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Rallways in the past have crossed bighways,
and do so at the preseut moment, wlthout
having to pay anything for the right of way.
If that be the case how far does this clause
impose a penalty of payment for railway
crossings ? Lt was isever iateaded, I amn
sure. by the campilers of this Bill, that railway s should be subject to pay for crossing
public roads ;if that be the case, why Is the
question of reasuneration referred ta la this
clause, unless it be for additional property
which may be required to enable them to
cross a railway ? If the railroad is building
w-bat we caîl a high level, it may be necessary to acquire the private property alongside the raad, lu order to essable tbem to
build abutasents, or somnething on which ta
construct their approacli. Ia that case they
should pay for the propcrty, isecause it
would be an infrisîgement upois the private
rigbts of the propcrty-bolders alongside of
the road. 'What would tbey have ta pay
under thsis clause as it stands ? Lt says:
Wheu thse application la for thse construction
of a railway upon, along or acroas an existing highway.

sale and conveyance ta thethse compensation therefor.
land required for thse proof any order made by the-

Is that luteaded to apply ta the case ta
which I have referred, that is, the taking of
addltional land, or does It compel tbem ta
1
pay for crossing the blgbway-because
know that is the view talcen of it by rail-

way solîcîtors, and those who have been consnected with rallway construction and Interpretlng tbe Acts of parliament applying ta
malways. That is w-bat 1 should lilce to
know before we strike it ont. If it does siot
Impose any additional charge upon the coinpainy tbaa that which they have had ta pay
in the past, tbe position takea by the bons.
Secretary of State would be ail rigbt.
Hous. Mr. SCOTT-I tliink nat; I think it is
their payîag for the crossing. That bas ilways been a recogaized law~, but, for instance,
if they were ta run over a highiway diagonally-take along a street for some distancetheme it would be only fair, because it would

be an inconvenience, probably, that tbey
shauld pay for any diversion that would be
necessary of the bighwýay.
The highway
might have ta be cbanged in the country
parts. If the diagonal lune rau from right ta
lefi, they migbt bave ta widen it and therefore It wauld be only reasonable the company
sbould pay. But whether the wvords are ini,
or whetber they are flot in, they w-ould lisvalve na obligation on the company other
tîsan they are obliged ta perforas, and 1
tboughit tihe clause w-ns freer witboui tîsose
words. It did flot seemn to me the additionssl
wvords carried with tbem any penalty on the
compaay-that tbey would be equalîr respo.sible whether the -words were there'or
were not, and themefore I týhaught It safer,
because I see the clause was changed lu the
House of Cammons from the original draft.
IIoa. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-%Vllst
was the original draft ?

Hais. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tbre original draft w'as
v.ery muchi like tise law as it stands siow.
Clause 84 in the original draft reid as fol'%Ne kssow they have no riglit ta build along iows :
a bhighway, unless tbey get speciai permisThse railway shal flot be carried upon, along
sion froas the mnssniicipality tlirough wbsich or across an existing highway until leave bas
been obtained from thse board.
it muns, and hbave to comp]y with
Forinerly leave lsad ta be obtaisscd fromi
Ail thse provisions of law ai such tlixe appli Tise plan lmad ta
cable ta thse taking of land by thse coxnpany, ta0 tise llailway Conmittee.

54

SENATE
be ffied, and on the filing of the plan, as far
as the crossing was concerned, the Rallway
Committee always gave the order, but not
so lu regard to where the hune struck the
hlgbway and followed along the higbway
There it res0 as to lnterfei\e with It.
quired other proceedings to be taken, and
If the hiighway had been in any way Injured, It had to be deflected, and therefore
It is much safer to leave the language as
It la lu the draft prepared lu the House of
Commons. 1 do flot think it injures the railway at ail.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I may just say, in
regard to thc rcmark of thec hon. Secretary
of State, in my connection wvith a railway
company we dropped- Into a difficulty exactly o! the character that lie bas been
Our hune diagonally crossed the
describing.
The result was we were called upon
road.
to provide land at ecd side of the crossing
The mîunito facilitate a proper crossing.
cipality did not want to do it, and. tlîcy

called upon the railway to provide an cxtended crossing, and the resuit was that,
unider the Expropriation Act, we lîad iîot
the power, 'we could not take the land because It was not for railway purposes. The
result was that lu order to get a settICinent
we had to deviate the lune and strike a portion of property owned hy a mani we could
deal with, because the man who owîîed the
portion where we were going straîglît acros
We could not force lil
would not seli.
to sdil, because it was not for railway purposes.
Under this clause as it stanîds, the
company can force a sale.
Tlîey can lîîsist
that the land is wanted for the purpose of
carrying out the object lu view, and the
owner will have to sdil, and I thiik it la
a iood provision for that purpose.

tlîeir liue ruuning in that way, and I tlink
that is wbat la mneant. A rallway might run
obliquely across a highway and the board
might flot be inclined to permit that. They
would make an order that the company
should run lu such n way across tbat highway that the publie would not suifer.
I
tbink it would-enable the company to expropriate the land necessary to make the
straighit croseing ln place of the oblique
crossing-, and in that case I thlk the words
'any additional ' are better in the Act.
Lt
is flot pretended that this clause is to authorize the paymient for crossîng a road if
it is crossed in accordance witli the orders
of the board.
If tbey cross in accordance
with the orders given by the board. and the
public interests have been guarded, it la not
lintended that compensation should h-e paid
to the municipality, or to anybody.
But
it certainly would be ln the power of the
board to insist that a crossing should be
made lu a way that would flot impede or
injure the public interest. and for tlîat purpose it might be necessary to take additional power. My vlew la that the words
are put ln for that purpose.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the clause was limitcd to making provision for the crossing,
tlien 1 could quite understanrd my hon.
friend's contention, but there la more ini the
clause than that, because it says:
When the application is for the construction
of the rallway upon, along or across an existing highway.

So that It covers more than a crosslng,
and I feel that it might be an indication
that some part of the highway outside of
the right angle crossing should be taken by
the railway free, and tbat It was something
beyond and addltional to that they would
Hon. Mr. PELIGUSON-I ngree witlî the have to pay for, and, therefore, I thouglit
I It very much safer that we sbould leave the
lion. gentleman from Wellingtonî, iim
tindcrstand hlm to say that thiese words, clause as it stood as the Bill came uip froin
the House of Gommons.
any additional,' should be restored.
Houx.
Mr.
Me'-\ULIEN-No,
Mlat thc clause remain ns it la.

1 suggest

Hlon. Mr. FERGIJSON-Suppose a railway lu Its natural hune would ruii diagonally
across a highway in such a way that the
board could flot permit it to run, they would
-ive orders that the uine must eross more
dhrectly, and the icompany would have to acquire land on both sides iii order to adjust
Han. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Does flot the hon.
gentleman think that if the clause is left
as it is it will compel the paymnent of compensation for a road ?

Hon. Mr. ESCOTT Oli. no.
H-on. Mr. FERGUSON-I thinl. it will
be held thiat tîxat is the meaniing- of it.
lion.

Mr. 1SCOTT-Olî.

no.

AUGUST 26, 1903
Hou. Mr. POWER-The case that this
is intended chiefly to provide for is a case
where a railway runs along a highway, and
the board, when the application is made to
them, order that the railway company shall
provide a new highway in place of the
highway which tbey have occupied wlth their
rails ; and tUs clause Is lnte.nded to provIde
for the taking of such land as may be necessary to make that new highway. There
is really no change i the law. If any
lion, gentleman will look at section 186 of
the present Railway Act he will finti this
language:
And ahl the provisions of law at any time

Hlouse have their minds fully made Up on
this subjeet. It has been f ully dîscussed
In the Senate. I do not know rwhy we should
flot go through ît, and at heasyt discuss lit i1>
our own way wlthout bearing from the railway companles, except through the circulars
placed i our hands. I know my own mind
Is made up, and 1 daresay others are ready
to vote upon It.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understood that a tacit
understanding existed that the representatîves of the rallway companles should have
an opportunlty of laying their views before
the senators lnformally. .We could flot refer the Bill to a committee beciuse many
applicable to the taking af land by such comand conveyance ta the han. gentlemen here wished ta be present
pany. and Its valuation
company, and to the compensation therefar, when the discussion went on, and a certain
shall apphy ta the case of any land required
for the proper carrying out of the require-- number of clauses were named as those that
ments af the Railway Committee under this they desired specially to, express their views
section.
upon. I understood that was tacitly apIt will be now the requirements of the proved of by the House, and 1 understood
board.
further that Frlday morning bad heen named
Hon. Sir MACKE'NZIE BOWELL,-The as the time when those views were ta be
I think we should carry ont
law pros-ides for the case mentloned by the expressed.
hion. Speaker at present. 1 know that in that agreement, and any clause that it has
the city In which 1 live tlie road was ex- been decided shonld stand, ta het it stand.

propriated by the Grand Trunk Rallway
Sir MACKENZIE BOWTEL-It
Hon.
only a few years ago, and they purchased was declded also that thase w-ho support
land adjolning it and dîverted the hunes two the other view, should be given an oppor-

or three rods to, the south. 0f course, they tunlty to be heard.
had to pay the owner for the land tbey
the hon.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If
required, but before they had the authorhty
or power ta do It, they had to apply to the gentleman from Marsiifield has mnade Up bis
municipality of the township of Thurlow mind ixpon this question, there are somnefor permission, and the council passed a I speak for myseif, at ahl events-wha know
by-law granting tbem permission to, divert very littie about the dîfficulties ta be enthe concession line. They bail to, pay for countered lu the rural -parts of the countrY
that, and so they would under any cir- upu'n this question.
cumstances. My own impression is that the
Hon. Mr. BAKER-T-here are xnany luemwords 'any additional' whlch have been bers here who bave flot had the advantage
suggested by the railway solicitors would of hearing the discussions which bave taken
be mucb better retained in the Bill. How- place ini this Hanse upon the subject ini
ex-er, it is suggested by the Secretary of tîmes past.
State that it shouhd stand uniti we can
Han. Mr. %IecULLEN-If thxere is îanY
consider the nmatter.
understand-ng that the railway people are ta
The clause was ahlowed to, stand.
be heard wîth regard ta these clauses, it Is
On clause 197,
well we sbould keep faitb with them and
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-This is the clause relating to drainage proceedings under the'
î>oviieial At-t. We hadt( better let it stand
for the present.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I sec no reason
why w-e should let this clause stand ; 1
1uenibers of this
think it is very likely

give t.hem an oppartunity ta b-e beard. Passlbly there are somne who are interested in
m.aintaining the clauses as they are. and

they alsa should have an oppartujnity 'ta be
heard.
lion.

Sir

.ICNI-

OELi

w-as understood w-hen tîxis informai discus-

SENATE
sion took place, that: as our own room migbt
be foco small and the acoustie properties of
the Railway Committee room of the other
House were bad, it would be better to meet
here in the morning or ia the old Railway
Cominîttee room, and notice of the mneeting sbould be given.
The clause was allowed to stand.

that the gate is ope,, he bas no recoursýe
against the company if the cattie are killed.

On clause 200,
200. The persans for whose use farm cr05sings are furnisbed shall keep the gates at
each aide af the railway closed when flot in
use ;and no persan, any of whose cattle are

Hon. Mr. licMILLAN-But this entails
ou bim the responsibility of keeping the
gates shut ail the time.

killed or injured by any train, owing to the
non-observance of this section, shall have any
right of action against any company in respect to the sanie being killed or injured. 51 V.,
c. 29, s. 198.

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I desire to caîl the
attention of the committee to the want of
security for the landowners under this
clause.
In many instances tlit lanclow-ner
does flot live near the farm crossiug. If
I rend the clause correctly, the gates must
lpe kept closed by the landowiier. au(d in
razses w-here the landow-ner lires two or
three miles from the farm, it is hard on
hlm, If a stranger passing througb his farim
sbould forget to shut the gates, and cattle
get out on the track and are killed. According to my reading of the clause, I do
flot thilk there Is aniy recourse agaiust -the
company under such
circumstances.
I
sbould like to have the opinion -of legni
gentlemen as to w-hether rny view is correct or flot.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under the law as
It Is to-day, if the cattie of the owner withln inclosed premises should get out on the
highway, and commit damage, be wou]d
be hiable la any event. This clause slmply
leaves the liabllity as it bas alwa3's heen.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-To escape liabiity bie wou]d have to keep bis gate shut.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This is the law whicbi
bas been in force for a consîderable uumber of years..
Hou. Mr. McMe!NILLAN-Aud( froiii wbicli
the farmers bave suffered.
Hon. -Mr. POWER-There is oue chiange
lu the clause, and tbat is lu farour of the
owner. It provîdes that hie shahl be coinpensated for cattie wbicb are injured. Under
the existing iaw the compenîsation is liixuited
to cattle that are killed. The railw-ay coinpany are obliged to go to a good <leal of
expense ia erecting tbese fariiu crossiugs.
and they are put there for the coureuteuce
of the farmer w-bose land abuts oit tbe rillway, and surely the least lie cati do is to
take the trouble to keep tbe gates closed.

Hon. Mr. McGREGOIt I kuow great
bardsbip bas existed under tîtat clause. A
Hou. Mr. McfMILLAN-I take the same storm may hlow down a feuce or openi a
aysce
view of it as the hon, gentleman does. Un- gate and tbe sectionmiei passing
less it is tbrough the neglect of the land- It and flot notify the owner. The rallway
owner the gates are left epen, you caninot company should be obliged eiter to notity
hold hlm responsible.
I would offer an the owner or close the gate.
ameadment to this clause to render the owuHon. Mr. BOLDUC-It is tulle titis bas
er flable only lu case of negiect on bis part. been tbe lnw for some time, and tîtat is the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That w-ould be impos- reason. wby I wisbi to bave it clianged. 1
sible.
know last year some strangers left a gate
Hou. '.%r. McMNILLAN-I mean iu case openi on a farm near Nvbere I lire. anîd two
jr i., nl(t the fauîr of the laudowner tlhat or tlîree cattle were Izilled withouit aur
fault o! tbe 0w-uer, aud bie bad no reeoui-se
the gates are left open.
against tbe railway comnpany.
WVe kî
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The company have notbing more to do with It than my bon. friend that farmers, wbose farms are crossed by
railways, suifer great incourenience. and it
bas.
is flot fair to throw the burdeu on thiei o!
Hon. Mr. lNcMILLAN Thie man's cattle keeping tbe gates closed if tlîey nmay be
may be in the adjoiniug field, and pass out opeued by outsiders. The ameudmient proon the track tbrougb an openi gate. Althougli posed by tbe hou, gentlemani frolît GlenIt mýay be thrungh no fa-uit of the owner garry ougbt to be adopted.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

AUGUST 26, 190.'j
lion . Mr.
%cLLE-just saY
vouId
ln reply to my lion. friend, that these gates
are lef t entirely in the possession and under
the control of the farmer hlrnself. If there
is any risk, or if he thinks that lie runs any
risk by strangers leaving, those gates openIf it is a way in whichi people cross the railway for a short cut or any other purpose,
and lie is afraid of the gates being left
open, lie can put locks on tliem and then
strangers cannot open tbem. The clause
as il -sran<s is suife andl prflper, and if we lnterfere with it we will make it worse than
ever.
The clause was adopted.
On subsection 4 of clause 202,
4. Every company shall Incur a penalty flot
exceeding fifty dollars for each day of wilful
negleet, omisaion or refusai to obey the provisions of thjs section. 51 V., c. 29, s. 192, Arn.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)This clause should he arnended by adding
after the words 'every coinpanyv,' the words
or owner.'
Flou. 'Mr. KERRIT
(Toroiito)-WT ould you
makze the owner Hiable for tIse neglect of the
company ?

H1on. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If the
owner is liot the railway cornpany, wit
business lias the railway with that bridge 11
Hlon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)-It
Is in case a farmer bas built a bridge over
a railway, and that bridge is not higb
enougli, the order is made by the board
to the farmer to raise the bridge.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Does the
hon, gentleman know of any case wliere a
farmer lias bult a bridge over a railway ?
Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tnke the case
of a municipality.
Honi. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-W ha t
lias the owner to do witli this ? It is the
company that does the work. It does flot
say tliat the board shall impose on thse owner
the expense of raising or altering a bridge.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It allows the coinîpany to go in and do thie wvork witliout the
vonsent of the owaer.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOM7ELL-flen
it provides that the company shall incur a
penalty if they do usot carry out tlie order
0f the board. The object is evidently to
protect the public.

Hon. Mr. DANDUIIAND-Tý'llere is someHon.
--1r. LOUGHEED-Suppose
the
owner refuses to obey the order of the thing very queer about the conclusion the
Here is a comboard'! The object of the penalty is evi- lion, gentleman reaclies.
dently to punish the owner if lie refuses to pany which desires to have some improvements made to a bridge. The owvner reobey.
fuses. The company cites the owner before
Honi. 31r. FEIZGUSON-ihis could only the board, an order goes out, and tben there
arise in operating the railway.
la a penalty against the company for
refusing to obey an order tliat the cornHlon. Mr. DANDUIIIND-But ivhat about
the owner wlio is not inclnded ln the inter- pany lias soug-lit itself. Is not the penalty
pretation clause. and xvlio miglit be cited directed more especially against tlie party
wlio refuses to do a certain thing that the
before the commission for refusing to obey
company wants done ?
an order ?
Hon. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-Tit
H7on. Mr. KERRL (Toronito)-Tlie owner
miglit be so, but this clause does not say
ixtiglit be made liable for the fault of the
90.
company by this pliraseology.
.Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let me cite the
Hlon. MNr. LOUGHEED-Let mne cite the Instance of the interprovincial bridge liere.
case of the owner of a bridge who is brouglit Assuming the top of that bridge was too
before the board at the instance of the coin- 10w, the board would usot have authority
pany, say for making improvements iii the to instruct the railway conlpany to raise
bridge, or making repairs. He is ordered that bridge. Tliey must have jurisdiction
to makze the inmprovements and refuses to over the owners, tlie company, to do it,
comply.
The order must be enforced in and if the company does not obey, it is subsome way. The order of the board will ject to tlie penalties of the clause. Let us
specify who shl1 inake the improvements. assume the railway company wanted to

SENATE
the owner refuses to give his consent to
do, and then, after giving that order, It
provides that the company shall ineur a
penalty If It does nlot carry out the order.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think. it throws The owner -bas nothlflg to do witb that.

enter upon a work where thse board had no
authorlty to order tise improvements, thse
order could not be carried out.

the obligation to make ail these changes
Hon. Mr. BAKER-Supposing the owner
upon thse railway company, and if they
still insists ln spîte of the order of the board,
use a bridge they have to make thse bridge
conform wlth the order of thse board. If be Is subject to a penalty.
the owner of the bridge refuses his consent,
Hon. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWLà.t-No, be

and they cannot do it, they have to go to Is nlot.
the board and the board overrules thse reHon. Mr. BAKER-Well, that is the intenfusaI of thse owner. Then, armed with the
tion of the clause.
power the board .-Ivés thein, they are calle'd
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-He ouglit to be.
upon to do it, and I think we are riglit
in retaining the clause exactly as It is,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I take
because they are given thse power by. the It that If the owner attempted to obstruct
board to do it without thse consent of tise the company ln carrying out the orders of
owner.
the board, lie would subject himseif to the
Mr. POWER-Does not the hon. common law, of the country, just the saine
Hon.
gentleman froin Mýarshfield think that if as he would if any oie was repairing a
tise owner of the land refuses to allow the roadway and the man through whose farm
railway compauy to alter the bridge lie it went tried to obstruct the work. We kflow
la a case of that kind what the penalty
should be subject to some penalty ?
would lie. The la.w provides for that. but
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
I think putting ia the word 'owner' would
Hon. 'Mr. POW'ER-I thiiuk so decldedly; flot only be superfluous, but improper.
otherwise, the owner may persist iii the refusai and obstruct the company, notwithstanding tise order o! the board.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It will wealcen- it
Once the
if you insert the word 'owner.'
board gives the order, that setties it.
Hon. Mr. BAKER-La that case lie should
Hon. Mr. KERR (Torouito)-L think it
be lhable to a penalty.
must be so. If hon, gentlemen will look
see that it must
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-The hon, gentleman at subsection 2, they will
2 reads as follows:
froin Belleville has referred only to sub- be so. Subsection
section 2, but the flrst paragrapli of the
section does not even name tise company.
Lt Is worded generally. Thse first part o!
the section covers every bridge whether it
be owned by tise company or by some person else, sucis a bridge as would belong to
a municlpality and passing over tise Uine of
a railway, and, therefore, the order wtieih
may he given may apply to the company,
or it.may appir to thse owner, and it is necessary that tise clause sbould be amended.

2. If, ln any case, It is necessary to raise,
reconstruct 0f alter any bridge, tunnel, erection or structure not owned by the comnpany,
and the owner of the samne refuses to consent

to such necessary changes.
Who is to make that '? The owner refusing, he does flot do It. It is because if
it is necessary to do it, tbe company is tbe
oaly person who can do it. It throws the
obligation on the company to see that the
bridges are riglit.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let me point out
BOWELL-I do this case: assuming the bridge is a very

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
The clause, to my
not tisink so at aIl.
mind simply makes this provision : that If
it be necessary to reconstruct or alter any
bridge, tunnel, erection, or structure nlot
owned by the railw%ýay, tbey can do it, and
if the owner of tise structure refuses to
give his consent, then the company applies
to the huard for authority to do that whlch
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED.

expensive one, and that the railway coinpany is payîng very large tells for tise use

of the bridge, and it is nlot adapted foir the
public traffie or requirements, will the company be at the expense o! practically reconstructing that bridge and paying thse
toîls Nbich they may bie subject to by
either statute or contract, and bave no

AUGUST 26, 1903
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-My own construction
means of reimbursing themselves for that
of subsection 2 Is exactly in accord wltb
expendîture ?
the contention of the hon. gentleman from
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Look at the Calgary, but leave aside subsection 2, then
last two or three lunes--'upon such termas subsection 4 applies equally to the first
and conditions.'
paragraph o! clause 202.
That first paraHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let us assume the graph may affect the owner or inay affect
bridge Is heavily bonded, the board bas flot the company, and therefore it seems. perany power to step ln and lnterfere with fectly clear that if you want to have the
the mortgage or the rights of the bond- law complete, If you want to reacli ail parholders.
ties lnterested, you *must add the words 'or
(Toronto)-Surely It bas. owner.' To save time, it seems to me tbat ln
Hou. Mr. KERR
The rigbt to build the bridge is subject to matters o! this kind, It should be sufficient
al] the rights of the public under the Rail- at the outset to cail the attention of the
hon. Secretary of State, and let the matter
way Act.
be referred to tbe Law Clerk.
Hou. '-%r. LOUGHEED-I very inuchi
Sir -MACKE~NZIE
BOWELLHon.
This simply deais with It.
doubt that.
It says they may make an order for its re- Would tbe bon. gentleman explain to the
construction, but no provision is muade for cominittee upon wbat conditions tbe owner
dealing with the bonds or charges which sauld have the penalty imposed upon him?
may be against that bridge, and the railway What is he to negleet or refuse to do to incompanies may have to do it at their own cur that penalty?
expense.
Hon. Mr. Me:MILLAN-Wi'o
that bridge ?

ia to build

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
Company.
Hon. '-%r. McMe.ýILLAN-Is It the owner or
the conipany w-ho bas to reconstruet il ?
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-I say, the pollcy
of the law should be to make the owner do

It.
Hon. Mr. DANDUItAND-Suppose the
owner of the bridge bas decided to reconstruet, but is stopped by the railway company w-ho observe that be 15 not doing Wt
properly, and he ia cited before the board
because of the nianner of reconstrrnflion,
cannot tbe board give an order to that owner to build according to certain lines and
according to iaw, and if be refuses to do
so, should lie uîot be amenable to law and
be fined according to law under this clause?
Hon. Sir MIACKENIE~

~BWEtLL-h-IiC

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have stated alrendy
that the first paragrapli o! section 202 Is
wlde enough to cover a bridge belonging to
a municipality or belonging to a9 private
party or belonging to an electric railway
coxnpany and passing over the property of
the rallway. Suppose a bridge Is too '*eak,
or too low, or for other reasons requires to
be reconstrue.ted. and an order la given by
the board to tbe owner o! that bridge, it does
nlot co'ncern the company. The company is
nlot affected by the order, and if you do
not add the -words 'or owner,' then the
board would niot be able to, accomplis-h the
object.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tliis clause substantlally re-enacts subeection of section 192 of
the Rallway Act That section provides
that If the work la to be done by somebody
It must lie doue.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The old law la
precisely the saine as we have it here wlthout the word 'owner.'

Is no snch provision as that la the clause. IHon. Mr. SCOTT-I will snbmit it to the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why is the owner
The clause was allowed to stand.
cited before the Railway Board ?
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Because lie is the owner.
Hou. 31r. LOUGHEED-If some obligation la not to be thrown upon hlm, why Is
be cited before tbe board ?

On clause 205,
205. In every case ln which the parliament or
Canada votes financial aid by way of subsldy
or guaranftee towards the cost of railway construction, ail mnechanies, labourers or other
persons wbo performn labour la such construction shahl be paid such wages as are generaily

SE-NATE
accepted as current for competent wirkinen in
the district ini which the work is being per formed ;and if there Is no0 current rate la snch
district. then a fair and reasonable rate ;and
ln the ev~ent of a dispute arislng as te what
13 the current or fair and reasonable rate, il
sbahl be determined by the minister, whose
decision shall be final.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I move thiat after the
26th line of this clause the followlng be
added :
Notwithstanding any coatract previously entered ite.
W7e bave had diffictilty ln British Columbia. wliere con tractors inakqle contracts
with msen and bring thiem ijito these dis~tricts at lower wages than the government
This question lias been raised
are ptying.
ln the courts, and 1 thi)îk. as tlîe goverinment is desirous tîxat workzinien sioiot d
get fair and full wages, that this addition
should be put in.

Hon. Msl. SCOTT-If bon. gentlemen
would refiect, they would see that ail the
coniraets that are entered into now contain what is called the fair-wage clausethat the fair-wages in the locality shall be
paid to the labourer. Lt is pretty well
guarded.

ing trouble on that point. The government
are anxious the M-orkmen sliould get fair
wag-es. The contractors are able to make
.contracts outside, either la the United
States or ia foreigs counitries. and bring
the workmen into Canada and pay less
wages than tbe government want to pay
tieni.
Hon. MsIr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-There is
also the case where workmen are brougbt lns
by contractors and are îlot paid at ail. I
,ca cite a case where 100 Italians were employed by a man who paid them nothing.
Lt ivas under the Mercier government, and
the goverulment took upon theniselves to
pay theni.
I do not know that they liad
the right to do so. Lt is very bard to have
thiose poor people working for weelîs and
getting nothing.

under the late goverament-and I t1iinl :t
-bas been carried out under the present goverinenit-that wbiere a road bas been subsidized by fibe goverrament, and die contractor bas failed to pay, tbey have witlbbeld
the bonus until those wdiom the contracter
lias falled to pay were paid. The lprinciple
prevailed in the ca-nal system. That is a
provision that migiht be madýe in this lamthat where aid is given by the country for'
the construction of a road that ail bonuses
should be withbeld until those employed la
the construction of tbe road were paid. and
that Is as far as you can go.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
is contracts e'ntered into, by
not in ail cases of private
Nvould ratber be a stretcb

BOWELL-Tbat
the governînent,
contracts, but It
of authority if
we were to pass a law 110W to annul coutracts which were made before the passage
of this BIII. There would be no safety for
a man who would take a contract under
the circumstances, and on no account ought
we to pass a retroactive clause of the ki.nd
sug-gested by the bon. gentleman. There
is no possible means of reacbing the case
that is cited by my bon. friend froin MoniHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlsat tarville,
where the contractor is thle emwould niot be fair.
p)loyer. If he cheats the emiployee there is
Hon. Msli. CLORAN-The Minister of Jus- no means; of compelling Lim to pay unless
tice and tise courts of tlie country are liav- bie snes him for It. I know the pracfice was,

Hon. M-Nr.
SCOTT-I think the last sentence of tbe clause covers It:
And ln the event of a dispute arising as to
what Is the current or fair and reasonable
rate, it shall be deternsined by the minister.
whose dtcision shall be final.
Hou. '-%r. DeBOUCHERVILLE-But the
eompany will say they are inot bound to
carry out the contractor's bargain, and 1
think there should be sonsetliing iii t l aw%,
that If tbey do not pay in a certain nuniber
of days tbey should be punished.
Honi. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHEIIVILLE-Does the
bon. Secretary of State approve of what
the hon. gentleman says ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It bas been thse practice, but I prefer not puttîng it ln ain Act of
parliament.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERV'ILLE-WhIere
do you put lt ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-ln every contract.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-But w-ly
not say they shahl put that in tbe coatract ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You cannot
liard and fast line like tbat.

dr-aw

a

'AUGUSI 26, 1903
Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It is bard
to' see 100 men working- for a month and
flot receiving a cent.
The clause was adopted.
On subsection 6 of clause 207,
6. The board, upon being satisfied 'that public convenience will be served thereby, may,
atter obtaining a report of an Inspecting engineer, ailow the company to carry freight traffir
over any portion of the railway flot opened for
the carniage of traffic ln accordance with the
preceding provisions of this section.

5

thougbt we miglit use the term 'with dite
care and diligence,' or ' witli reasonable diIligence.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why
without unreasonable delay.'

îiot

say

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I confess I like the
words as they are la the clause.
Hon.

Mr. SCOTT-Tiiat is perernptory.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I know a road, the
EKingston and Pembrokce Itailway. whicb
sbould be put in proper condition without
delay.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This is a departure
frorn the old law and, I tbink, a very wise
one. Before a road is opened for carrying
lion. '.%r. FERGUSO.N-Pleopie often sufpassengers, tbey rnay aiiow freiglit to be- fer heavy loss by reason of these deinys and
you caanot make the law too stringent.
carried.
The clause wvas adopted.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This year tue traffie
was so hea'ry that there was a congestion o!
On subsection (c) of clause 211.
freight on nearly every railway uine on the
(c) To securely couple and conneet the cars continent. It would not be fair to mnale
conlprising the train, and to attach the engine
f0 such train with couplers which couple the railways responsible for the consequenautomatically by impact, and which tan be un-_ ves when money couici iot buy sufficient
coupled without the necessity of men going in rolling stock.
between the ends of the cars.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVA'N-Does that oniy appiy to passenger trains ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In the oid iaw it referred oniy to passenger trains, but this Includes ail trains.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I miove to add the
word 'unreasonable' belote the word 'delay.'

Hon. Mr. POWýNER-I arn disposed to âigree
with the hou. gentleman frorn Mrled
because ' without delay ' m-ould be construed
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It should appiy to naturally as meaning without inreasonable
ail trains. Autornatic coupiings are applîed delay. If a company
were able t0 show
to ail trains in the United States. It is only that the delay was unavoidiable. no court
la Canada that cars are Nvithout them.
wvould hold -them lia ble ; but il yon say
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first part of this 1without unreasonable delay.' then yon
clause applies exciusively to passenger ternpt them into delay and they would have
trains, but I find the provision refers to ail various reasons to show wli) thcre Nvas deIay, whUe the burden of proving the delay
trains.
unreasenable would be placed on the other
The clause was adopted.
party. I think the better way is to leave the
clause as it is.
On clause 21.4, subclause 3,
3. Every person aggrieved by any neglect or
refusai in the premises shall, subject to this
Art, bave an action tberefor againat the company, trom which action the company shall not
be relieved by any notice, condition or deciaration, If the damage arises from any negligence or omission of the company or o! its
servant.
Hon. Mr~. SOOTT-There is an objection
to th's. The objection is the use o! the terw ithont delay.' It is urg-ed that at times,
wlien tiiere is heavy traffie, the railway
companies mnust give precedence to perishable g-oods. and the company inighit be subjeet to n penalty undrr tliese wvords. 1

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thinît lot. The beiter
wnay is to take the ]a\v as if is.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BWL-Tknow
what the judges decide lin custonis mnatters.
They take the wording of -the law. not ivhat
we nsiglit suppose wa a resonable construction of it.
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-Will
not the
niatters deait with in this clause, as iveii
as ail the others, be under the supervision
of the board, and wiil they flot mnale regulations to cover the modus operandi of the

coxnpany ?

SENATE
noan. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I hope tliat change
will not be made. Railway companies do
take aIl the adrantages they caxi in delayîng freight.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Is it ta thir advantage to delay trafflec?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-It is certainly ta the
disadvantage of their customers if they
delay freight. Take last year, for instance :
the difference in price between wheat in
elevator in Manitoba and wheat on car
was seven cents per bushel, wlxich was a
direct loss ta the farmer. The coinpany
say : 'We have so much raliing stock, and
we will not provide any more, because with
it we cau carry out this crop by the time
the next crop cornes in,' and the grain remains iu the country at a loss of millions
of dollars ta the farmers in the North-west.
Raîlway companies are supposed, and have
been supposed in the past, ta take care of
the freight and forward it w'itliout dielay,
and we hope that the commissioners under
this Act will see that the railway companies
furnish sufficient accommodation ta take
care of the traffic of the country. That is
what we expect from the aperation of this
Act, and we do nat want ta put anything in
the Act that will give the railway company
any excuse uixder this Act. If we are going
ta fix up this Bill ta suit the raiiway companies, and leave it ta the discretion of the
board, then the board %viii not be of much
use ta the publie.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The board lias nat contrai over that. Lt is a matter for the courts.
the court
Hon. Mr. WTO-hn
shauld compel the railway companies ta furnish rollîng stock for the traffic. They are
common carriers, and have had large subsidies, and I think the board should have
wide powers ta campel these railway campaniles ta furnish sufficient accommodation
on their rends.
Hon. Mr. EDWýARDS-I ara nat one of
those lnterested in a-ny raiiiway corporation,
but I arn largely interested as one having
a great deal for railways ta carry, and I
must say that, in my opinion, the railways
are being very considerably hampered by this
ki•nd of legisiation. What were the candiHan.

MIr. DANDURAND.

tions last year ? The conditions last year
ln the east were that shippers bad ta wait
for somne three or four mon-ths for cars-I
myseif, la fact, asked for cars in August
and they were neot supplied until 'March
this year. Now, I would have exactly the
same complaint to make, but what were the
conditions ? The conditions were tixat ail
thxe cars 'were absorbed ln the carrying of
frelght from the west Gentlemen who wish
to Impose on railways suc.h encrons conditions are very unfair. 'What ýis the condition so far as the west Is coxxcerned ? 'Simply this : An abnormal crop is raised there,
and tliey desire ta Impose a condition by
wbich rallways are compelled to carry that
crop out of thxe country in two or three
montbs' trne. In the best lnterests of tixe
people ln the North-west tbemselves the
sooner they niake provision whereby they
can store tixeir crop for a certain period ot
time, not forcing the carryîng of It out et
the country speedlly, the better for the
North-west. They force their grain upon
the market Ia a very short space of time,
and depress the market. lit is mucli more in
their Interests ta do exactly as we do in this
portion of thxe country, store their grain for
a time, and seil It as the market requires.
But these gentlemen in the west force It
on fixe market ; nlot only do they disturb
the whole traffic of the country, but they disturb everythlng ln the carrying trade for
the beixefit of one section of the counxtry.
These conditions are not fair. Railway cornpanles are ln just the same position as manutacturers, or the farmers themnselves. They
cannot ixndertake te do an abnorinal and impossible thing. They cau only do what is
possible, and the conditions desired by a
number of our North-west friends-and they
have my sympathy and best wishes-are inipracticable and sbould flot be însisted upon.
Railway corporation shouid have fair-play.
and conditions should not be iinposed on
them which are impracticable.
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-This is a very impertant clause bath ta the railway companles
and the people at large, and it slould he
deait with oniy after very serious cansideratien. To xny mmnd, intraducing -inta this
clause the word ' unduiy,' or 'unr(,asoniable,'
or 'unnecessary' would be ta defeat ftxe ahject of the clause. Lt should stand as it is,
but a proviso sbould be added, giving power

AUGUSI 26, 1902
to the board under speciai circurnstances
to relax the ruies to some extent. That
proviso, of course, should be worded wlth a
great deai of eare, so as to do justice to the
rallways and to tbe public.
Rt is weiI'
knrown, as bas been stated, tbat at times
there ls sucb an accumulation of trafflc that
tixe rallway compaTiies cannot cope wltb
It. They are simply unabie to, carry it at
once, and tbey shouid flot be ieft at the
mercy of the public and exposed to ail sorts
of suits for damages ;but. on the other
band, tbe rules should be such that unles
relaxed by the board the public would be
guaran-teed that their goods would be carried prornptly, and therefore tbat tbe ohject of the first portion of the clause would
be secured. I suggest that the clause be
alIowed to stand.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I have
no objection to It standing, but it seems to
me the suggestion of the lion. gentleman Is
about as impracticable a one as you could
put in the law. A glut of traffic arises at a
particular time. How is the bo-ard to decide
whether it sbould relax this regulation or
not ? Tbe board is at Ottawa; the difficulty
arises at Winnipeg or Calgary ; ow can the
board deai witb It ? We should either nuie
It Imperative, as it is in the Bill, or give
reasonable fine for carrying it out. ' Witxout unureasonable delay' is clear enough, or
'wlthout unnecessary delay,' whicbever
word you wish to use. The word 'unireasonable? or the word *unîîeces."ry ' with the
words whlch follow, would be qulte sufficient, and witb tbe words used further on in
tbe clause, 'witb due care and diligence,' 1
thlnk we are imposlng on tbe railways al
that Is necessary for the protection of the
public. The fourth subelause, to whlcb my
attention lias been called, meets another
case altogether. It says :
4. If ln any case such accommodation la not,
ln the opinion of the board, furnished by the
cornpany, the board may order the cornpany to
furnish the sarne withîn such Urne or during
such period as the board deems expedient, havîng regard to ail proper Interests. 51 V., c. 29,
s. 246, part Arn.
I take It that means if a certain number of
cars are flot avallabie at the time, or tliey
have not sufficient cars to carry the freigbt
offered to them, then the board cornes l
and orders the companiy to furniali the cars
and do the work.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe phrase
that follows the one that we are speaking
about, ' and shahl wi-thout delay and wlth
due care and diligence,' sufficie-ntly qualifies the expression ' witbout delay,' because
If the company acts with due care and diligence I think fi will do Its duty under this
clause.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-W.bo is goixxg to
determine that ?
tlîis
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Witb
quaification I do not know .wha.t harm
there would be to add ' without uudue deIay.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This refera Io two
things. The delay is with reference to the
forwarding of gouds, the due care refera
to the handling. I tbink the words * witbiout delay,' on full consideration, would be
better qualified as bas been suggested.
There are differeat kinds of freigbt, and
railway companies have a riglit to recognlze the difference between goods which
are perishable, and goods whichi are not
perishable, an-d they sbould bave some discretion in giving a preference to perishable
goods. If you put la the word 'unirea soiiable,' It would meet that case.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-The clause as it
stands meets the case fully. 1 endorse the
remarks made by the lion. gentleman from
Rocklancl (Hon. Mr. Edwards). Tbe railway in our section last year couid flot furnlsb
cars to shippers for several weeks, and tile
general reply was, that duriiig the fail s0
many cars had to be sent to the Nortb-west
to meet the demand of Manitoba, that shippers ln our section bad to walt. That was
tbe general answer given to applications
for cars. Railways are auxious to forward
ail the freight given to thern, juat as quickly
as they can. It Is a loss to n railway to
keep a car on the track loaded. Railways
wlll ean more rnoney by rusbing forward
their f relght, and utilizing their rolling stock
when traffic la abundant, tlhan by le avixig
their cars standing on the sidinga. 1 thinlc
some of the complaints of our hon. friends
from the w-est are unwarranted. 1 believe
honestly the Canadian Pacific Railway bave
done everything la their power to xneet tile
enormous Increase l traffic lu the last two
years. Tbey virtually have bad three crops
to bandle ln two years. The eoinpany fur-

SENATE
nisied. ail the rolling stock thc'y could, anîd
,did everytbing in) tîteir power to relieve lthe
congestion. Our friends in the west shouid
be gratefu! wben they know tliat shippers
in the east were left %vithîout cars foi,
months, in order to ineet irUe deînands of
the North-west. 1 knlow Cases iu wihicb
goods were iost for want of cars, and the
reason given 'vas that the cars liad 10 bc
sent to the North-west. We sbouid itot iiiterfere witli this clause. Il is drastic enougli
as it is, and if we atteinpt to inake it monre
so, tve wvill only injure it.

delay.'

The lbon, gentleman from Rockliind
(Hon. Mr. Edwards) tells us somnethmng
about the abuormai condition Of tbinlgS last
year in the North-west.
Without dealing
with abuormal conditions, I sltould like 10
give lthe hion. gentleman a littie experience
wve liad lu
the iower provinces, particuiariy before tue Drunmmonid County
road was acquired by the goverument, at
the timie wbien freight had 10 be landled by
the Grand Truuk Railway, as well as by the
Intercolonial Raiiway. Forty-eight hiours is
sutticient lime lu whichi 10 carry freiglit
fronti Moutreai 10 Halifax, but instead. of
Hon. M.Nr.SULLI VAN-Witî -due dlerthat, the freight usually took a fortnight.
ence to the hon. gentlemnan fril WVellington,
1 take a different view froi bis on tis
Hon. M7%r.
FERGUSON-It takes lthat yet.
question.
Tihis clause dops not refer to
Hou. Mr. POWER-Thie Grand Trunk
cars ; it only refers to the proper piacingltailway allowved theit' cars intended foir lte
of freiglit Iu storehouses, and facilities for
Intercolonial Itailway to stand on a sîding
receiving and despatclting freiglit. Lt lias
at Rlichmnond. and forwarded their ow-,n Cars
no reference to cars. As to the reinarIz of
10 Portland, allowing te freiglit inteitded
the bon. gentleman from Itockiand (lion.
for the lower provinces 10 remain standing
Mir. Edwards), the information 1 have from
dit lthe sidings. We have a kind of apple la
the hon, gentleman from Wolseley (Lion.
Nova Scotia which is very muci prized bore
Mr. Periey) is quite different. I-le says tne
lu the west, but there is a risk lu atleaîipti-ag
farmlers of Manitoba and the North- ývest
10 seitd them here it te faîl, because tiîey
do utot rush titeir grain 10 the trains. Tliey
aire Iiable 10 be detaitîed en route foir days,
have granaries, la wnlich the store tîxeir
and spoiled. This clause, no doubt, bas beeît
grain.
The farmners of Manitoba <are far
v'ery cni'efully coîîsidered ia lthe otiter
more intelligent and. possess more foresiglit
1-buse ;w-e oalu trust the raiiwazy comlpatil
tItan. the bon. gentleman from- Ottawa creditles 10 take care of tteiselves, and ive should
ed tltem with. Only yesterday the hiLt geuutake cure of the public.
tiemail fromi Moiseley wvent ovei tite wlrf.le
Hou. Mr. EDW7ARDS-I disagree absolutesubject with mie.
The farmers gel rnoney
v
front the banks anîd understand lîow 10 take iy -. ith my lion. friend fromi Kingstont, and
care of thteir crops, and keop tîteli' grain ais.) with lte hou. the Speaker. Cars are
until they get facilities foir siplient to1 pur- nanied liere, but freigitt is omtiy carrîed by
eltasers. If tbis clause refers to baving the car, and tItis clause certainiy deais with the
proper applialices at eachi statioln wilere ca ir3'ing of freiglît. Il is not sinîpiy the cargoods are receiv'ed, and lias no reference at imtg for, and deiivering; it is deiivering by
ail t0 the cars, thil I cousider a great deal car' that is mneant. I amn ot fully conversanit
Of Ibis discussion bas been quite unneces- witlt te cules of the House, aîtd I do not
kttow lte extemîl 10 which si-e cati î'efer 10
sary.
ntattrs w'hicl are deîlt wlt lu inthe otîter
Hon. Mr. POWElllThe hon. gentleman Chamber, but last year Ibis malter w-as very
from Kingston is quite rigit
lThe clause fully discussed. ltote antd demnds wero
gays :
mtado wisicb %ere, lu my, jndgiuent. ridicuShall without delay and wjth due care and Ions. Tiiero is no doubt there was ait euordiligence, receive, carry and deliver ail such mtous crop last ye-ar. Itl bad riseît very mntraffic. and shall furnish and use ail preper
tei!iniiv over lime crops of former years. amtd
appliances, &c.
the demnaitd was made titat cars sbouid be
The point is titis :il is stot 10 carry alonie. sttiplied ut ontce 10 earry the grainti 1lthe
but 10 receive, and carry and deliver sea-board. Witat wore lte conditionts ! lThe
after il reaches tue terminal point. We liad contditionts -ere that ail over lthe Cotinent
better not do anytltig to quaiifY ' witbioit of America railways were taxed to tibeir fuiHon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

AJJGUST 26, 1903
lest exteîît because of the great commercethe great industry everywhere. Trains were
packeil to tlieir utabost and the building of
cais iras being earried on as rapidly as
possible. The various raiiway companies had
built a large number of cars. The Canadiaxi
Pacific Railway and Canada Atlantic Railway and other roads had ail they believed
to be requisite, but they were found not to be
sufficient to inîcet the demond of tiiese genîtlemen. The argument I mode there, and
the argument 1 make here niow. is this :If
raili-ay compaffies are forced to supply an
abinormali numb)er of cars at one time for
carrying any quantity of freiglit, and these
cars are to lie i(le at another period of the
year. it creates a condition whereby the
shipper pays a great penalty for the keeping of these cars idie, for the reason that the
traffic lias to lie crowded into two, or three,
or four inolitlis. ivIiclî slîould extend over
fen or twelv-e miontlis. ond thaf condition !iposes a very great Ioss to the shipper becatis@ lie is the mail wiio lias te pay for if
in flie enîd. 1 renieiber the argument used
there very distinctly, thaf tue railways shouid
suPI)pY cars alid supily tli
at once. If
w1as askIi1ig for ait utter impossîbîiity. Our
raiiways want to do ail the business they
can do, just as w-e as ladividuals want to
do ail w-e conl do. but f0 ask for an impossibulity is, to my mind, an absurdify.
Hon. 'Mr. ROBEIITSQN-There connot be
any doubt about that.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Of course my free
trode views prevail alwoys, and I do thlnk
that a clause like this, instead of being ln
the Bill, should be sfricken out enfirely.
Our railways are enterprises for the purpose of making nmoney, if possible, for the
stockholders, and thîey do not desire to negiect their business any more thaî ive desire
to îîegiect oui business, and I f or one am
unuile to see wlîv conditions shouid lie made
to surround raiiw-ays that do îîot surround
uther elîteriprises ii this country. Soine dlaim
tliat these restrictions are jusfitied becouse
the raiiways ie subsidized-weii. whiy is a
railway subsidized lu Canmada ? A railwoy
is subsidized in Canada because oui' populotdon is sa) sparse thiat it is perfectiv imipossible to liid 1rivate capital to Iuild railva y s until Claais very mnucli ii re denseiy popiulated fliaji if is to-day.
Now the

subsidy tbat is given is a subsidy whiel,
should be commensurate with the requirements, and flot a subsidy which means that
the raiiway company is to pay back the
Canadian people anythlng at ail. The railway should only get such a subsidy as is
right, and it shouid be under no obligation
to, pay back to anybody anything, and I
dissent absolutely from the condition whereby the rates are fixed for raiiways by tue
government or any other tribunal iii Canlada. The proper condition, and the only
true and soiind condieo'n is thrnt competition
shouid rule iii ail these thiujgs.. That Is the
oniy ti'ue and sound position, and there
are besiçles this clause, a great niany
clauses la this Bill hampering tix, iailways,
placing them under unfair <:-o-adition.s. The
railways should be f ree agents, juiýt exactly
as manufacturers and commer.-ifil mnen are
free agents. We have no right to iegisiate
the rates for which raiiways shahl carry
freights any more than we have the rîght
to legisiate the price of wlieat or anything
else.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I just wisli to say a
few wvords, and 1 do niot need to apologize
for sayiug them after the remarks we have
heard with regard to the west. My hon.
friend from Rockiand tells us that railways
are subsidized, and why ? Because the settiemeîît of the country is sparse, and the
goveriiment have to subsidize railways to
secuire the service required by the people la
the country. For. that reason, we expect to
get a service, because our railways are subsidized. The hon, gentleman from Wellington saya we expect unreasonable thinga in
the west. I wish to inform the bon. gentiemnaî that iast fou, wlien w-e xvere askin)g
for cars, w-e were toid they were required
for Ontario and we could not get thenh.
Last year the Canadian Paciflc I<aiiway
piaccd ail the cars tlîey couid at the disposai
of the farmers for whent. Tiiere was soine
littie deiay liu the threshing season, and wlien
they were liolding the cars for wheat the
Blritishi Columbia lumbermen compiained,
and tue resuit was the Britîshi Columnbia luniberinen sent down a deputatioxi here anîd
got a preference on cars for Britislh Columhi:î lumiber, id tue cars w'ere rushied over
there. It got late in the season, and a cry
ivas riised that peop)le werc' goilig to freeze
if tlîey couid not get coal, and thie prefer-

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
ence was giveil for coal and lumber, and
had to stand stili. That was the was flot connected with that.
wheat
n
o
nw
o.M.WTO -1d
condition of things. Lt was flot so much
a sbortage oft cars as of locomotives. The
indepenare flot dolng business
cars were strewn along the tracks for weeks these men
dently. Tbey bave a lumber combine.
of locomotives.
for wvant
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbat
Hlon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It was an abnorhas that to do wlth this ?
mal crop.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-And tbey force up
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Wbat about the crop the price of lumber two or three dollars a
the previons year? The saine condition ex- thousand. I will say this about the Canadiafi
Isted.
Paciflc Railway, that they reduced the
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It was abnormal freight on lumber from British Columbia,
too. It ran froin fifteen bushels an acre but the lumberinen rise the price oft lumber
up to forty. No railway could foresee that. to the diff erence ia the extra f reight, and let
the farmers suifer. I think this clause should
Hon. Mm. WATSON-The crops had been stand. I do flot thlnk any board wlll meabnormal for the last ten years.
quire anything unreasonable of a railway
the bon. corporation. It is very Important tbat the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Could
the North-west sbouid get their
gentleman tell us what eff eet the ten mil- farmers of
bas crop to markets es qul'ckly as possible. Lt
lion that was provided for rolling stock
requires about 62 per cent of the receipts oft
had ?
the crop to pay expenses, and the fariner
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I can say tbat It surely knows is own business. Last yeam
will be mequired, and more. 1 amn satisfied on &accountoft the fibortage oft roUing stock
that in the next four or five years tbere f or getting the grain to Port Arthur ln suffiwill be two bundred million bushels of dent lime to go by water to the east, some
wbeat to move out oft that western country, tive or six million bughels of wbent were
and you bave to provide for it, and you bave shipped ail rail at 19 cents a bushel from
to provide by your legisiation that these there to Montreal. That sbould flot be, and
railroad corporations, which are supposed the fariner knowe bis own byusiness. 1 vento furnish accommodation for the public ture to say tbat 50 per cent oft the grain
do furnish that accommodation, and possess grown in Ontario sold in the faîl montbs
The hon. gentlemn
the rolling stock.
before the lst Janu-ary. The people in the
from Rockland asks why should you ex- w-est want to participate in the market. The
pect mailroad companies to furnish cars that best season to dispose oft the grain Is in the
they wouid bave to use only three or four fail, and we want to get our grain to marmonths In the year and bave thein standing het. I trust the comnilttee will see fit to
idie the remain-der oft the year ? He mlght let this clause stand as it is, s0 that the
as well ask why bas a fariner to use bis commission -wlll bave al power possible to
binder only a few days in the year force tbe companies to furnish rolling stock
and have it lying idle the rest of the time. for the transportation of goods.
The rates charged for the service are suffiHon. Mr. PERGUSON-Befome any bon.
cient to pay for that short season. and as long
are charged the company could gentleman rises to reply to the exhaustive
ns the rates
froin Portage
afford to furnish the rolling stock. We ex- speech of tbe bon. gentleman
wlll compel thein to la Prairie, I should like to suggest to the
pect this commission
the leader of the
furnish that rollîng stock and accommoda- lion. Secretary of State and
from Rockland says opposition whether they cannot make an artion. The hon. member
week to
ho is a free trader, and that competition rangement as to the time xiext
I do flot know -liave a vote taken on this clause.
should regulate everything.
if sueh a thing exists here or flot, but at the
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto) -Railway coinîpresent turne we have a lumber combine in
panies liave great privileges la Canada.
the North-wfflt-lumbermen and saw-mill
Thiey have the monopoly of being the coinmen.
WATqON.
Hon. M.Nr,

*AUGUST 26, 1903
mon carriers of this country, and 1 should
like to know why they oehould not be
treated like any other white men and
be responsible for deiay. A cotmmon carrier
wouid be responsible for delay ln deiiveving
goods, and if hie would be respansible, why
shonid flot a raiiway compauy be heid responsibie. aiso ? That la ail airsrt from the
question of whether 'the goods are ta lbe
brouglit from the west to the eat or the
(e.tst to the west. It is a proposition which
Is a good one, I think, everywhere, and
MwhICbI seems to me to solve the w-hole pro.
biem. Treat these common carriers wlio
have the monopoiy the saine as those w-hio
haive 120t.
Hou. Mr. EDWÂRDS-I arn not speaking
for railway companies; I amn on the other
side, but I want to deal fairly wltb railway
conîpanies ; the raiiway companies bave
one single advantage, and that alone, and
that is the right of expropriation. Beyond
that tbey have nothine. I want to answer
my bon. friend on the lumber question.
T
desire to tell hlm that in this part of
the country there Is not to-day, and there
neyer bas been, and I do not think there ever
wiil be, a combination among lumbermen ii
sa far as affectingé the price of lumber.

few moments after the hion, gentleman from'
blarsbfieid had subsided, to occupy the tîme
of this House, and 1 sbouid say, so far as
tbe bon. gentleman front Rockiand Is concerned, that bis last reference to the west
is very unfair. I should like to ask the bon.
gentleman wbere any member front the west
bas suggested anything unfair or unreasonable. These clauses bave been carefully
cansidered ln tbe House, and carefully
discussed by the mInister who introduced
tbem, and I consider that it waa front the
experience the ex-Minister of Railways bias
bad, and the experience of the inembers of
the House of Gommons bave had with these
carriers in the west, that tbey prepared
that clause, believing they were giving a
power to titis commission tbat the west bas
been denîanding for years witi the expeetation that thiey wouid give sorte rell-cf ùit
the matter of transportation.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tiîe
han, gentleman ought ta know, wliether lie
does or not, that the Minister of Railways
was averruled ln very many of these provisions, that be is flot at ail in accord with
many of these clauses t<bat the han, gentleman la now advocating with so much vigour
and vimt.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn speaking of the
Han. Mr. WATSON-The minIster wns in
west. I do not k-now anjytlnnig about the
favour of this clause.
east.
Hlon. Mr. EDWARDS-I have no doubt
in the w-est a great rnany wroiig things prevail, and good ns they are and great things
as they are doing for Canada, tbey wlsb to
Impose upon many parts of the country
other tbings that are wroug.

Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-The
bon. gentleman instanced the ex-Minister
of Rnilways and Canais and his experleace
to Justify aur accepting this law as it Is iaow
befane us. My repiy to that is that the 'MiniIster of Railways was flot in accord w*ith
tnany of- these clauses as shon by the discussion ln the Hanse, and if he were that
la no reason why we sbouid accept it.
As to my bon. friend from Toronto, If w-bat
lie contends is correct, that the raiiway
companies are common carriers and the coinmon carriers are punishable for any nelect
of duty, then there 4s no0 necessIty for thtis
provision, because as common carriers they
tire subject ta the law wbicb gaverns coutmon carriers aud would bave to abide by
the penalty.

Han. Mr. BEIQUE-Wben I mlade n few
remarks a short tinte ago, I liîd itot read
paragraph 4 of this clause, aud 1 fin'd it
is amply sufficient. It answers the very purpose which I lad lin view. It seemns to me
the clause should stand as It is. Under
subsection 4 the board lias ail the necessary
power ta provide for abnormai conditions,
and unless there are abnormal conditions
the cornpany should be compelled to comply.
Hlon. Mr. WATSON-I just wisli to say
that I bave no apology to malze for the time
1 occupied, and with respect to the suggesHan. Mr. FERGUSON--The ainendinent
tion made by the lion. gentlemuan front suggested by the lion, gentleman from CalM.Narshifield. thiat the leaders on both sides gary should meet tbe views of the House.
should consuit. I took the opportunity. a I do not think we cati get ,tiytlliing better

SENATE
tliani inserting the word - unreasonable
tw'ven 'that' and ' delay.'

be-

Hon. Mr. POWER-ThýPlat la the hon. gentleman's opinion ;but we shall let tue vote
decide.

Hoii. Mr. POMWEL-Tlie hon, gentleman
de Salaberry asked mie ta iove au
amendmnent on bis behaîf, to insert before
the word ' notice' ia tbe l3th line the w-ord
contract.'

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE is,
...
,Ys
and lie bas as good a riglit to it as the lion.
Speaker bas to bis.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know whiat
the effect of that would be. 1 wXould itot
lik-e to consent to that.

'

The House divided on the arnendment,
whicli was lost on the following division
Contents, 20 ;non-contents, 13.

froin

Hon. Mr. POWELl-I do not thinik the
managers of raîlwny companies should lie
allowed to vote on tbese questions.

Hon. Sir MACIJxENZIE BOWýELL-As
The clause wns adopted.
there is a division in the cabinet, the SecreOn clause 220,
tary of State voting one way and his colleague (Hon..Mr. Templeman) the otiter. I
220. A check shail bie affixed by the companiy
should like to ask the hon. Secretary of State ta .every.piarcel of baggage, baving a handle,
utable means for
'opo
what course be intends to tak-e ou this very thereupon. delivered by a attaching ata check
passenger
the
company for transport, and a duplicate of such
important question ?
check shaîl be given ta the passenger deliverHon. M\ui.TEMPLEMAN-We will taIke a ing the saine. 51 V.. c. 250. Amn.
2. In the case of excess baggage the comrecesa.
pany shall be entitled ta collect fromn the pasHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELI,-We senger. before aftlxing any such check, the toil
authorlzed under this Act.
know dîfficulties bave arisen iii tlie past,
3. If such check Is lmproperly refosed on dean(l twa or tbree tesignations have taLen mand. the company shail be liable ta such passenger
plnce on account of differences of opinion. shall befor the sum of aeight dollars, which
recoverable In
civil action. 51 V.,
What are we to expect under the preseuit c. 29. s. 251, Arn.
circumstauces.
I hope the Secretary of
Hon. Sir .MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whiat
State will retaln bis position as It will be
Is the meanlng of 'lImproperly refused '
no loss particularly to the other bon. gentleman if lie Jases bis position, because tbere
Hani. Mr. POWER-It la the ahiiaw
is ni: saliary attachied to it.
Hon. Mi-. FERGUSON-How la the e'Ps.s
Hon. Mr. SCOTT Tlie Secretary or State of baggage ta bie determnined ? la tliiit left
intends ta take a reasonable view of the ta the will of every eomp.aniy ?
sýituation.

The subclause was adopted.
On clause 214, subclause 3,
214. The company shall, according ta lis
powers, furnlsh, at the place of starting, and
at the Junction of the railway with other railways, and at ail stopping places established
for such purpose, adequate and suitable accomruodation for tbe receiving and loading of
ai traffic offered for carniage upon the railway,-and shall furnish adequate and suitabi"
accommodation for the carrying, unloading and
Jelivering of ail such trafllc,-and shaîl, wxthDut delay, and with due care and diligence, receive. carry and deliver ail such traffic, and
shall furnish and use aIl 15roper appliances, ac,omniodation and meana necessary therefor.
2. Such traffic shaîl bo taken. carried to and
'roms, and delivered at such places, on the due
)ayment of the toîl lawfully payable therefoý.
3. Every person aggrieved by any neglcct
)r refusai in the premises shall, subject to this
à,ct. have an action therefor against the com)any, from which action the companý' shaxll
iot be relieved by any notice, condition or de,Iaration. if the damnage arises from any negli,ence or omission of thec company or of ils
;erva nt.
Honi. Mr. FERGUSON.

Han. Mr. SCOTT-No,

thiere are regula-

tions.

Hait. Mr. FERGUSON-But
amotunt of b.aggage ?

wvhunt is the

I-on .
SCOTT-I do not tlhuilz tîjere is
an3- statutory provision an tIse subject.
lon. Mi-. ]FERGUSON
board have jurisdictin ?
lIon.

Mi-. SCOTT-I

Shiould

utot

the

assume tlhey woldf

hiave.

Haut. Mr. FERGUSON Sa thaýt
%vould lie uniformity in that respect?

tixe

Han. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Haut. Mr. YOUNG-Tlie board hiave Io lix
the toîl, sa they would regulate that.
Hon. Mt. DANDURAND-Subcliiuse 2
spealzs 0f excess baggage. Wrhat is tlu:ît
excess baggage 9

AUGTTST 26, 1903
Hon. M.\r. CASGR.AýIN (de Lanaudière)One huadred and fi! ty pounds.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Is l mentioned
in the Act ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlere
mnust be a provision somewhere.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-While we are on
the question o! baggage, I think there should
lie some provision !in this Act tliat wouid
enable the boara to require raiiway coinpanies to put up ln 'each baggage car a set
of miles directing how baggage is to be
lîandled by the porters ln and around stations. There is an immense quantity of
truiks and biggage absoIutely rined by
reckiess handling-. I arn sure the rafiwa3cornpany '%ouid Dot sanction such destruction
if they w-e-e oiy witnesses to it or kuew it
was douie. The board sliould have power
to direct that sorne mile should be liung up
ln eadh baggage car pointing ont the duty
of baggage liandiers, how tliey shouid handIe
baggage, and that a trunk should inot be
throtn out on a plat!orm mecklessly. 1
have seen trunks liurled dlean out o! the
car and broken, nd their contents turned
ont on the plat!orrn, tlirougli sheer carelessness and because the baggageman wvas not
cornpeiled to liaudie the baggage carefully.
I say a trunk. should not be aiiowed to fail
on al platforrn furtber than tweive Inches.
The railway company's eîhployees should
carry it that distance before dropping it,
but w-here trunks are thrown on a piatforrn
many o! them are ruined and their owners
ar-e put to very great inconvenience. I do
flot believe the rallwav companies are aware
of the destruction of baggage that takes
place. I do not thlnk they would encourage
ht, and I !ancy tliey wo-aid be qulte willing
to agree to any reasonable set o! miles that
wvould prevent reckless destruction of property.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-ls it
flot well thiat w-e shouid settie w'hat t11e practice should be when a Cornînittee of the
Whole rises at recess, with the intention of
resuming after recess? In the House of
Commons the practice was when we were
ln commlittee and there was no arrangement
to proceed with other business, the chairman of the committee rose, the Speaker toolk
the chair and said 6 o'ciock, and left the
chair, and then the commoners retired.
When the House reassernb1ed nt eighit the
Speaker took tbe chair and vacated it and
the chairman resumed bis duty ia committee. That lias been the practice l the Coinmons and we carried that out to a certain
extent last niglit, but a differeut practice is
Wle propose to go on at
foilowed 110w.
once, but remember it is the same sittiug.
We are continulng tils present sittîng. The
chairman lias reported to the Speaker that
the committee rises, reports progress and
asks leave to sit agalu. The Speaker says
when,' and the Secretary o! State auswers
as soon as we reassemble.' This is neither
in accord witli practice or rule.

Hon. Mr. DANDURANL)-At eighit o'clock.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-But
thaI is a continuation of the same session,
and It seems to me the practice that bas
previled lu -the other Flouse ouglit to prevail here. I sec no renîson why It shouid
not. I an not findl,îg fauit withi w-bat lias
been doue, but I thiink lt is w-el that we
sbouid have It distluctiy settied. My lion.
friend fromi tllarney bias becî Speaker of
the House in Manitoba. I do not know
what the practîce was there, but 1 sbouid
judge froin the approvai lie is giving by the
shake of lits head the practice I have described prevails lit Mauitobai.
Hon. MNr. YOUNG-The lion. g1entleinan is
quite correct.
Hn .\Ir. LOUGH-EED-Does rny lion.
At six o'clock, the Speaker left the chair.
friend fancy that if the railw-ay company
After Recess.
i)ut up a notice of tînt kind it would bave
the effect of preventing reckless liandiing
The House resumed ln, Comnmittee of the
of baggnge ?
'Whole, consideration of Bill (21) Aui Act to
The clause w-as adopted.
amend and consolidate tbe law respecting
railways.
Hou. MmIl.
FULIiORD, fromi the commlttee,
On clause 224,
sorne progmess
reported that hhey had made
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is a change lii
wivl the Bill, and asked leave ho sit again
the law there. As the iaw stands the engiafter recess.

SENATE

866

neer is obflg'ed te either sound the whistle
or ring tie bell before coming to a railway
ecrssig. 1 sec in this clause lie înust do

both.
Hon. Mr. MeM-\ILLAN-It is a wise provision.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thce railway people have
some observations to make on this, and we
had better let It stand.
Hlon. Mr. MeMILLAN-They generally
ring the bell and sound the whistle.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-They cannot takýe too
much precsaution in cressing hîghways.

head office receives Information they must
give It te the board.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 238,
238. Every cempany shall cause thisties and
ail nexiens weeds growing on the right et way
and ever land ef the cempany adjoining thp
railWay to be cut dowa or te be rooted eut
each year befere the plants 'uave sufficieatly
matured te seed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is an 'improvement in this. Railway, cempanies are only
required under the present law te destroy
weds on their riglit of w-ay w-bore the line
runis through a cleared country.

lion. 'Mr. YOUNG-It -would be just as
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is a question
if they wvhistle -whether the bell cau 1)0 weh if they xvere required te destroy, by
buirning or seme other w-ny, these foui w-eeds
heard.
aqfter reeting tbem eut, because w-e know
Hlrnl. Mr. YOUNG The whistle is of short
they îuay net
duration and the bell is 17ept continually that certain plants, although
be spread and
riaiging until the train bias crossed the bighi hiave seeded, can by tue roots
do as mucli harm ns thougbi tliey w-cnt te
way.
seefi.
Hon. *Mr. McM'\ILLAN-Tliere ire tw-o
lien. Mr. LOUGIHEED)-Th17ere is a subinl
crossingS Det far frein my resideuîc
"equent clause -hichi provides fer the disw-hen trains are passing they both ring and
pesai of inflammable material on the right
wlîistle. I thinkl it w-euld be w-cil te iiisist
eof w-ny, and 1 ipprebiend that w-ould cover
on liaving hoth.
the difficulty pei-nted eut.
The clause was allowed te stand.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We mnight malze it
On clause 227,
reoted out and destroyed.'
lIen. 'Mi. SCOTT Thiere are new features
lion. Mr. F ERGUSON-If w-eeds are
about tlîis clause. As the law iiow stands ,octed ont any time before the seeds iuata train cannoift pass tlîrougli any thiekly- ire, tha1 shou2d be ample.
pepulated portioni of a city a t a speed
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-We bave a w-ced in
grenIer tlîan six miles an heur. Ia the Bill, Ma.,nitob;a genieraliy known as Frenchi w-eed.
that is increased te texi miles, and iii eine Lt is given that uiame, I behieve, on acceunt
The
cases they mnay even exceed tlîat.
et, its being se prolific. Lt is a w-eed that
board bas power ever it.
actually
wvil1 bloom in the fall and wl
Hon. Mr. McSWnEENEY-Where tie tritck rîpen the seed in the spring. You can pull
Is preperly fenced they can go at any speed that weed w-hcn lt is la bloom and lna' it
dowvn and time seed will mature. There is
tbey ie.
ne w-ay te destroy it except by hurning.
Hon. '.%r. LOUGIIEEI) The boiird can
The company shouhd, w-lien they cnt er pull
afterwards limit it.
these weeds, humn them.
The clause w-ais adepted.
Ilen. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WiII
this îîot meet the case - t says they must hc
On clause 235,
destroyed.before they go te seed.
MNr. SCOTT There is a very
Heu.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tbe w-eed le w-hidi
great Improveinent in this clause wvhicli will
be welcomne, I fancy. Hon. gentlemen have I refer Is seeding from the spring unitil the
aeticed, w-heil accidents occurred on rail- fail. It Is a very boxions weed and shoulcl
ways the officiais ef the cempaiiy are dumb. be destroyed. No farmer in the w-est tliinks
As the law stood, the cemnpaiiy wec net of' cutting or uproeting themn wiitheut bnriirequired ta give particulars except withili ing tbem.
The clause was amended and adopted.
forty-elght beurs, and now as seen as the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

867

AUGUST 26, 1903
'On clause 241,
Hlou. Mr. POWER-Tbe bon, gentleman
froin De Salaberry cailed attention to the
tact tbat there should be some time lirait
ln the appointaient of a constable-that the
constable sbould not be appointed Indefixîtely-tbat lie sbould be appointed for some
flxed period. I bring tCe matter to the notice
of the cammittee. It seems a reasonable
proposition.
Hon. Mi'r. LOUGHEED-Then at the expiration of blis tirne, whlen possibly soine
i'ery serious diflicuity niay arise necessitatig the presence of a constable, they may
forget to reappoint hlm. 1 think lie should
continue ta nct until dismissed.
Hlon. Mr. FELIGUSON-There is provision
in the fourth subsection of 'this clause for
lils dismissal.
Mon. Mr. ELIAS-I notice tliere are ta lie
two jurusdictions in New~ Bruns11wick. in
rnalýing these appointrnents. .1 thiuk it
sliauld be couiflned ta thxe justice of the
pen ce.
The clause w-as adopted.
On clause 8,
Iarn sari! I was
li.
Mr. McUL
flot in the Flouse w-lienl tîxis Clause -vas
jîassed. I wvas Sauth saue two years ago.
and I found that lu the state of Texas tbey
have a railway Commission board. J. Il.
Regan, w-lia w-as Postmaster Genieralinl Jeif
Davis' cabinet during the rebellioni, is chairman. of tliaqt board. le is a very aged ni,
and Texas being strangly deînocratic bias
.always clectcd hlmu ta thiat position. 1 was
iuquiring inta the rates tkere, aud found
tbat it cost 34 cents ta carry 100 pGuds
of agricultural impîcueneuts 200 miles !in that
state, wvlhen it aly cost IS cenîts ta carry
the sanie quanltity 200 miles ln Geargia. I
Iuquired Wby there w-as 'sucb a discrepaucy
in the rates charged lu Georgia w-len compared w-ith the rates charged lu Texas, and
I learned that J. H. Regan, w-ho w-as cbairman of tlle board, had no less tlian seven
relations 0f his ow-n ln the employmenit of
difereut railw-ays at very higli salaries, and
the result w-as that lie gave the rail-ways,
in the matter of rittes, w-bat tbey wanted,
and they gave hlm in return the appointments that bie w-anted for bis friends. I do
earnestly hope that natbing of this kind *ll

occur here. I arn sure tbe Governor l Council, ln appointing comniissioners, w'ill take
care tbat men 0f good *reputation and
h1gba standing w-ill lie appointed ta the board.
But If the public are ta reap ans benefit under tCils Act, it should contalu a provision
tUnit auy member of the boar'd tluat applied
ta a rallway company for auîy favour oui
behaîf of himself or uny relation, should
.forfeit his office. 1 merely give you the experience of w-hat they do soutb. I do ijot say
tîxat it w-ll corne ta lie the expcrience 0f
peopule hiere ;but w-e are justified l guarding against sncb abuses lu r country. It*
is deplorable ta think- that by the influence
w-lidh railw-ays exercise aver sucli mn, the
publie have ta pay w'batever rates tlîey maY
think lit ta charge.
HIon.
r.DANDURAND-gorne Of rnY calleagues w-ltbl w-bom I discussed the clause
froni tirne ta tirne feel very mucli -as if
wve -should arnend it, alîd -hei it camnes ta
a1 Inter stage, very lilcely I sliah nove ani
anieuduiient.
SCOTT-Tlie clause w-as DlHon. M-Nr.
low-ed ta staliîd w-lien it carnle before us.

ilon. Nlr.

DA'NDURAND-I

propose ta

disqualify a comniissioner fram sitting an
questions w-bere lie is iuterested.
Hion. Sir MjAcxENZIE BOW -ELL-Tbfle
suggestion w-as adapted before the clause
w-as allow-ed ta stanîd over. tliat 110 cominIss'uaîmer siloiod directly ai' indirectly lie !iterested.
Ou clause 255,
lon. hir. DANDURAND-Tlie compaiuies
is clause lie allow-ed ta stand.
asic tînt
Thiere w-as ami addition made ln the otlier
Chamber ta subelause 3, and the couipanies
asic that the tbree list hiles lie. struclc out,
and I uuderstaud tliat the clause is ta lie
allawed ta stand.
The clause w-as allowed ta stand.
On clause 25S,
In ail cases a fraction of a miile in the distance over which traffic is carried on the railway shall le considered as a whole mile, In
estimatlag the weight of any goods in an2y one
single shlpment on which the toll amounts ta
more than the minimum, or -smalls - tell, any
fraction of five pounds shall be walved by the
company, and any fraction above five and up
to ten uounds shall hue deemned ten .pounds by
the company .and la estimating the tolls ta
_ie charged la passenger tariffs, any fraction of

SENATE
five cents less than two and a haif cents shall be considered as 5. This mnakes 2J cents
Se waived by the company, and ahove two and considered as 5.
a hait cents shal) be considered as five cents
by the conipany. 51 V., c. 29, s. 229 Arn.
Honi. Mr. DANDIJRAIND-We are givlng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is au axnendment 2J cents to the coînpany.
ta be made ta this clause in lune 44, ta lnThe clause was amended and adopted.
sert ' five pounds or.'
Haon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
means any quantity less than 5 pounds, and
any above 5 pounds and Up ta 10 pounds
is a fraction of 10 pounds, sa that if you
have more than one-lf of 10 paunds you
charge for 10 and if you have less you do
,not charge at aIl.

on clause 268, subsecti.on 2,

2. Any goods carried or being carried fram
Canada through a foreign cauntry Iuto Canada. ln violation of this section, shahl, before
being admitted loto Canada, Se subject ta customs duties. as if such gonds were of foreign
production and coming iota Canada for the
first time. and, in case such goods are of a
kind which would nlot otherwise Se suhject to
any customns duties hereunder, shall Se subject
ta a customns duty of thirty per centuma of tho
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I think if the wvord value thereof :and if any sucS duty is paid
by the consignor or consignee of such goods,
quantity,' instead of the word 'fraction'
the same shall be repald to the persans so
was used, it would make the case very paylng, an demand, Sy the Canadian company
law ta
nauch clearer and avaid the difficulty which or companles. Any amended the sa cantrary ls
in
far as Is
hereby repealed or
hon, gentlemen are referring- ta. Any qun- necessary La give effect to this section.
tity less than 5 pound-a should be w'aived
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot underby the company and any quantity above stand this clause. It seems ta be a customns
5 and up ta 10 should be 10 pounds.
regulation.

Hon. '.Ir. SCOTT-Supposing there was
5 pauads, there ls no provision at ail for it.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I suppose this ls a
regular rallroad. regulation and we hiad better leave it as It ls.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-It is a guarantee that
the railway conipany will bond the goads.
Tîte railway company. of course, if they
travel through a portion of a fareignl coUnitry, must bond the goods.

Hon. Mr. POWER-One effect which this
amendment wilI have will be this :under
the clause as lt stands here, 5 pounds would
flot be anything, and under the amendment
5 paunds would Se the same as 10 pounds.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I think this is a penalty lmposed an tbe raîlway compansY for
flot filng its tariff, that is ail. If they do
flot file the general tariff, then tliey have ta
pay duty on the goods.

Han. Mr. FERGUSON-I think that the
amendment suggested by the rallwny peopie ls perfectly right, that any fraction shail
be waived by the company, and 5 pounds
and any fraction above 5 up to 10 shall be
deemed,10 pounds.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-The amendment which
bas been made causes 5 paunds ta Se deait
wlth as 10, -and the Bill as it stands causes
5 pounds ta, be treated as nothing.
The amendment was adopted.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There semns ta be
a contradiction tbere.
Hlon. Mr. POWEll-If goods w-ere Sli!ppe(
fram Canada ta -Manitoba, throughi the
United States, this would apply.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSOIN-It would :î1pplY ta
goods passlng fram the maritime provinces
through the state of Maine, ta the province
of Quebec, but wlîy should this penalty be
imposed ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This refers ta two
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have an amnend- or more campanles carrying goo:ds.
ment ta propose in the second last uine of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Ilîis
the clause. Strike out the word ' above' penalty Is ta be imposed unless the Company
and make It read 'two and one-haîf cents file with the board a joint tariff. A great
or mare shall be consldered as five cents.'
deal of goods go tram MNontreal ta British
Hlon. Mr. POWEll-I assume the coma- Columbia through the United States. This
mittee understand this Is another change clause Imposes a customs duty of 30 per cent
in favofir of the company. Under the Bill as a penalty for flot filing a joint tariff, and
as printed 2J cents wauld be considered It provides it may be paid back again.
The clause was adopted.
as nothing and above 2ý cents would
Han. Mr. DANDURAND.

AUGUST 26, 1903
On clause 275,
275. No contract. condition, by-law, regulation. declaration or notice made or given by
the company impalrlng, restricting or limiting
fts liability in respect of the carniage of any
tralffc. shaîl relieve the company from such
liability, excapt as herelnafter provided, unless
such class of contraet. condition, by-Iaw, regulation, declaration or notice shaîl have been
first authorized or approved by order or regulation of the board.
Hon. bIr. '-'COTT-Tlîe companles wish to
add after the words 'any traffic' the words
f0t whuich this Act applies.' It was pointed
out t0 me that it wvas not intended, where
goods were shipped froua Europe, that that
portion of the contract outside of Canada
should be affected.
Hon. 'Mr. DANDUItAND-I suppose the
bon. Secretary of State could tell us what
is the traffic f0 which tliis does not apply ?
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-As I sid before, wluere
goods are conhing froni a foneigun country,
this Act would xuot apply f0 that portion o!
it affected by flue ocean route. Take flue
case of tnansmsnissiàii of goods, to Liverpool
frain Toronto or M\oiîeal-we do uuot take
coguiizance of that.
Hon. '.%I. lýFEt -UÎO-N-But lia ving come
in an ocean slîip froni a foreign country,
as '0oo1 as it cornles w-iflîiu the jurisdictlon
o! Canîada fuis Act will apply to it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes,
trafic within Canada.

If applies to ail

Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON-Is the lion: gentleman sure, ln the case of goods couning from
a foreign country, tlîat this woruld uuot entirely except it froni the provisions ?
Hon. '%I. SCOTT--It applies f0 ail traffic
ln Canada, wbetlier if orIginiates lu Canada
or outslde.
The clause was ameuuded auid adopted.
01n subsection 3,
3. Nothîng in ibis Act shahl be construed ta
prevent the carniage, storage or handling of
iraffic free or at reduced rates for the Dominion. or any provincial or municipal gavernment,
or for charitable purpases, or to or from fairs
and expositions for exhibition thereat, or the
carniage, free or at reduced rates, of destitute
or homeless persans, transported by charitable
sacieties, and the necessary agencies emplayed
in such transportation ;nor ta prevent the issuance of enileage, excursion or commutation
passenger tickets, or the carrnage at reduced
rates, of immigrants or settlers and tbeir gond-s
or effects, when comlng from foreign cauntries,
or any member o! any organized association of

commercial travellers wi th his baggage ;nor
to prevent railways from glving free carniage
or reduced rates ta their own officers and employees, or their familles, or for their gooda and
effects, or ta members of the provincial leglsiatures or of the press ;nor ta prevent the principal officers of any railway, or any rallway or
transportation company, froma excbanging passes, or free tickets with other rallways, or railway or transportation companies, for their officers and emloyees and their familles, or their
goods and effects ;provided that the carniage
of traffic by the company under this subsection
may, ln any particular case or by gencral regulation, be restricted, limited or qualifled by the
board.
Hon. Mr. POWEIR-Wnould the United
Kingdom be classed among the foreign countries ? Recause, if lt is uiot, tiiere Is no
power to, exempt tlîe emigrants front the
United Kingdom.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot think- It would
be construed that way.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I slîould say coming
fromi the United Kingdom or forcigun coun
tries.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Could the lion.
leader of the opposition tell us wlietlier ini
the Customs Act the expression ' foreigrn
country' does flot luclude Great Britain ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELL-Iii the
tariff and custonms regulations Great Bnitain is treated as a foreign Country.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We rnight put Ini
the Interpretatoîi Act that foreign countries mean anytbing outside of Canada.
The clause was nllowed to stand.
On subclause 5,
5. The campany shaîl furnish free transportation upon any of its trains, for members o! the
Senate and House of Commons of Canada and
for any of the members of the board, and for
such oficers and staff of the board as the board
may determine, with their baggage and eciuipment, and shahl also, wben required, haul free
o! charge any car provided for the use o! the
board.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The
railway
companies desire to have this subclause
stand over. I tliink the companh*s lnsist
upon adding- ' members of the Ilouse of
Commons and Senate and their familles l'
Hon. Sir MACKENZ[E BOWELL-Tben
If you make that provision you sbould saY
If tbey travel by nîiglit they should have a
pullman, and If tîxe journey exceeds six
bours, tbey shall furnilh breakfast, dinner

SENATE
1)oint than the one takea by tbe lion. genlemnan. If tbe railways were built altogether
vlth private money tbe companles would unHon. Mr. WATSON-Night and day and loubtediy have a right to say : 'You cannioi
private car.
exact privileges from us,' but 1 should lîkE
the hon. gentleman to point me to one coinHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
pany that bias flot corne to parliament for
when you are travelling with your family.
hivy subsidies, double subsidies in very
I do not knDow *what other lion. gentlemen
mny instances ;so that w-e can say that
thinl, about it, but unless it is proposed to
if parliament bad, froin the inceptioxi of ail
let this clause stand, I shahl move that the
thQse railways, Imposedi a condition tbat
following words be struck ont : ' For mcmshould carry members of parliameiît
and House of Commons they
bers of the Senate
free, tbey would have accepted thec obligaof Canada.'
tion in exchange for the subsidies and houanHou). -Mir. McKAY (Truro)-Cali tue lion. dies g-iven to them. To-day, lion. gentlemen
gentleman get a seconder ?
rnay tell me that no sucb obligation bas been
imposed upon tbem, but everyhody kno-s
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
tiiere is hardly a company-and especially the
not know ;if it is not tested in couîmuittce,
large companies-that bas not lhad cecasioli
1 shiah test it iu tue Ilouse. With respect
to corne and ask, for privileg-es. bonuises.
to the mnemlbers of the commission, I thiink
subsidies and so on, for hunes and extensions.
that is a very reasonable provision. Tiiose
and whicli will appear agalu fir pliw-ho have the wvholc maniagelienit of the rail50o
vileges of one kind ou another.
w-ays under tlîcir charge slîould have frcee
that we are xîot in the, position of parties
transportation. I hiave 110 objection to that,
hlolinig nup railwav.y coiupanies and f riilig
but 1 do ihiulk, for thc credit of pienibers
thcmn. because of tlic power wc 110o(l, to
and 0f tlie Senate iii partiof pri anît
I ami simply discussiîig
to be made grant privileges.
cular, w- s1îould iîot alhomw this
tlîis academie question, for we ail hnow we
that it is said
the law of ilic land. I know%
coinaiwa
receive yearly passes frcm
*why, you acccpt passes ' ;so dces oîîc geilpanies. We are not legislatinig for to-day
tiemian accept a1 lunich fr-omi another. Tlîat
only ;we are legislatiug for thec future. 1
is a iiiztter betwveen a geiitiemni.wbo inîvites
know tlat there is cousiderable 0f a seîitimiut
ani a genîtlem~an m-ho acccpts, and if the
in the country, more especialir lu Ontario and
rlwvcouipzaliies thilk prcper to cxteud
in Toronto, where somie newspapcrs bold
a c nrtesy tu auy one, w-hether hie is a mcemthat members of parliament should îlot reber of l)arliainelit or not, it is for thec onle
ceive passes and should not be uîîde. aiîY
to Nvlw>nm the canîtesy is cxtendled to reIs this
kind of obligation to -railways.
ceive it or reject it. I think lu thiat respect
proposed legislation niot a compflete a1nyou shonhd no inore ask a cumipany, or a
mnembers
swer to the argument that
body of mcin w-ho have investcd their capital
of parliament" sbould not be under a
in the construction of a railway, to carry
to a railway even for a pass?
members of l)arlianicnt free any more thaîx compliment
to enter- It seeins to me tlîis question ean be exaiyou should compel an individual
tala certain persous at bis home. That is the ined froin two sides. Just now, I mnay soY,
view I bl.d. and 1 hope the 'Sonate will se- tili 1 hiear the represeiltatives of the railrionshy consider the matter. 'My own inten- w-ays on tbis question, that my inclination
tion is. if the comimittcc do liot strike out this is to urge settling the question once and for
clause, to taIre the course I have alrcady ail, not for to-day only, but for the
indicated. and if that is defeaited, I shahl future. There will be an immense expantake occasion to move that it shahl îîot ap- sion iii this country. Railwvays will be built
ply to senators, actiug, as I consider, lu acWVe will soon have a
through the land.
cord w-itb the dignity of this Ilouse. The
second transcontinental railway, and a third
othier House can take what views on the
one if we live 20 years, and wc wvill sec railquestion thiey plea se.
ways runniag througbl to the Pacifie and uip
thiuk thils
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-I
to Hudson Bay, and it is as well to impose
question eau be examiucd fromn a lîigbcr
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.
and supper. because if we are to bave a free
rideý we miglit as w-cil bave mneals free.t

AUGUST 26, 1903
on ail companies for the future, the obligatien of carrying members free.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-The address of
the lion. gentleman is admirable, but hie
miglit extend it a littie further. The moneys
whichi tliese companies have received are
public mioneys, not contrlbuted by members
of parliament but by the %vholecountry ;
just extend the argument furthier, and you
will have obliged the railways to furnisb
passes, neot oaiy to inembers, but to every
taxpayer in the Dominion, and there you
are. 1 think Lt is ignoiniffons to put on the
statutes a provision that miembers of parliament are to be carried free by the rallways.
Lt certainiy should do awvay with the mileage allowances now given to members, and
If the hion. gentleman persista in lis vlew,
1 shiah move as an amendnient tllat a taxpayer m-ho bas contributed tow-ards the coustruction of any railway be inciuded in the
free paIss arrangeament.
Mr. Mci\ULLEN-I differ from my hion.
friend (Hon. Mr. Dandurand) although I sit
on the saine sie of the House with hiim.
I do not thini: the basis on wbichî lie places
bis argument for free passes for inembers is
one that 1 could defend on a public platform;
that is, that because ive give these railways
subsidies and subventions of one klnd and
another, they iii returai shiould treat member-3 so generousiy as to carry theai ail over
the country free. I thiak we should not do
that. Every one will admit that thiere is no
country lu the worid in îvhicli railways obtain legisiation chiper than they do in
Canada. WVe knwthat it costs about ns
much to obtain a charter iii Eng-land as to
bulld a short rond hiere. They pay members of certain conîmittees a f ee for every
comimittee they attend-I think it is a guinea
for eacb atteadance. That is not the case
la this country.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Does the lion. gentleman mean to say that the members of
committees in Engiand are pald by promoters for their services ?

Bis very reasonably.
or nothlng.

871
It costs them little

Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-Therefore, they
ought to carry the members.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-And in past years
the members o! parliament have not been
overpald. The indemnlty which bhas been
granted tbem I can honestly say-and I sat
ln the House of ComniQns for twenty years
-taking one year withi another, bas flot enabied memibers to save very much. It would
not count even Into hundreds, out of the
sessional lndemnity, wben they attended to
ail the iluties devoiving upon them, unless
it was a very short session. This year's
session is the Iong-est session heid la Canada
for twenty years, and I do flot think any
one wiii go home with a decent surplus in
bis pocket. We are putting through a very
large amount of legisiation, and the railway companies are getting a very respectable share of It. I qnite agree with the
bon, leader of the opposition, that it is
humiliatlng for us to put a clause in a Bill
eaying that raiiways mnust give us free
passes, and I shall vote to strike ont the
clause. In the past raiiways have deait
generousiy witb myseif personaiiy. Every
year I received compiimentary passes from
the -Canadian Pacific Riiway and Grand
Trunk Ralway as a member of the House
of Commons. Since I have been la the Senate, I have received the sanie, but I say
that for me to sit here and vote for a Bill
that will force them to concede as a right
what is now granted to me as a compliment, wouid be humiliating and I ai îîot
prepared to vote for'it. 1 say -to my lion.
friend the leader of the opposition that if
hie will move to strike out this clause and
cannot get any other member to second bis
motion, I shall do so. I do net see why
we should force the railway companies to
give us free passes, although I qulte admit that they get froni the pariament o!
Canada 1-egisiation cheaper than lu any
other country la the -worid. For that
they have treated members of parliament
Hon. Mr. McMNULLE.N-Yes.
very generously. They have given us passes
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-And it is so under- from year- to year. Now, what more do we
stood ?
want ? If they do nlot like to continue
it, ail rlght. Then there is another feature
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
Hon. Mr. McfMULLEN-And I say that ln of it whilh 1 qulte agree with, and that is,
to receive
thîs country raiiways generally obtain thieir if members are golng to continue

SENATE
free passes, and we are going to establish
it as a rigbit by Act of parliament, if we
are holnest to our country we sliould cut
off the mileage. It is nlot riglit to have on
the statutes of this country a provision ln
the law that a member 0f parliament Is to
bie carried free by the railWays, and at the
same time that he shall recelve mileage for
comlng here to attend parliament. If we are
going -to pass this Bill we had better dock
the mileage ; if we are not going to pass
the law, leave the mulleage as it ls.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I call a bribe anytliing that we receive as a present from
persons who are seeking legisiation froin
parliament.
Hbun. Mr. SULLIVAN-Do not say that.

Hlon. Mr. POIRIER-I do xîot think the
lion, gentleman is immaculate ln that respect. We receive passes, which are equivalent to bribes. I bave myseif, on many
occasions, found myseif ln an e!mbarrassing
position wlien two companies were liere
before us, one of whichi had given nie a pass
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause wvas to and the otlier lad not, and I lad to consider
stand. We had better flot go ilto a dis- legisiation affecting themn botli. It made
cussion of lt Dow.
me refiect whether I was nlot biased by
the tact tînt I held a pass from one of thcm,
Mr. SULLIVAN-Tlie wliole Senate
Hon.
and I went this far, that for two or three
should pass on this.
years I refused passes from railway coinHon. Mr. ELLIS-We ouglit to settie this pallies.
ourselves. We ought not to allow the railHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Quite
way people to corne liere and assigui reasonis riglit.
îvhy this sbould be struck out or k-ept lu.
Hoii. Mr. POIRIER-Because 1 tliouglit
Lt ivould be humiliating to -ns under any
do lu rny conscience I could not give in indecircumstances. Whatever we do, let us
it on our owu judgment and let the railway pendent vote as betweeli a conipany w-ldh
people have nothing to do witli the matter. lîad xîot brlbed nie witli a pass and the
company whldli had. I found Ili ail cases
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I understand that is I was Ieaning towards the cornpany wliose
what the rallway people propose to do. Sub- pass I lad in mny pocket. 1 say, therefore,
section 4 was the only portion of this clause to be logical we should pass an amendînent
they wished to be heard on. Lt ls an un- forbiddiug memibers of parliarnent froii
grammatical expression to whicbi they caîl receivlng passes f rom compaules whidli corne
before us, or excînde us fromi sitting as
attention.
judges as between companies, some of whidli
Hou. Mr. POWER-The lion. gentleman Is have given us passes aud some of whicli
mistaken. Tlhere is a wliole page covered have given noue. Consideriug wliat lias
with objections dealing w-ith this railway been doue Ilu England-cousiderîug tuis as
pass question.
a matter of policy not only for us but for
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I am not very par- the country at large, and for the higher'
ticular about discussing this point, but it independence 0f both Houses, I would vote
lias caused me to reflect before to-day.1 for retaining this clause aud making it
Listening to the argument of the lion, gen- obligatory for ail companies to provide memitleman opposite (Hou. Mr. McMullen), I bers of both House with passes. We are
wish to say, to be logical we should not re-" neot, perliaps, s0 mudli affected as the other
ceive free passes. I arn strongly of that House ; we must bear la mind that memopinion. It is more humiliating to be under bers of the other House have very often
an obligation to a compauy than 'to pass. to corne during recess to Ottawa-they have
legislation sudh as exists iu many countries to travel on public business and are put te
of Eurôpe, making It obligatory on the rail- gTeat expense. They, more than seators,
way companles to carry miembers of botli have a reason for being grauted free trans[bouses fýree for ail time to coule. We portationl upon ail raliways. I repeat, If we
stand liere la many instances as judges, and strike ont this clause, I would. vote for an
aimenduient probibiting members of eitlier
wve receive bribes.
House from accepting a pass from any railHon. GENTLEMEN-Oh.
rond. Let us bie logical and have the courlon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

AL'GUST 26ý 1903

873

parliamient should acquaint
themselves withi ail portions of the Dominion
of Canada, and we are flot ail millionaireswe cannat ail afford to take a private car,
or go off for a tliree or four Nveeks trip at
the expense that travelling involves in this
country, thiougli it would be a good tiîing
that meinhers of parliament shouid acquaint
themseives with all portions of the Dominion. A great many of us have to vote
on questions that come before us witliout
local knowledge of the country tliroiiali
which new lines are to lie built. If ive could
travel at the iowest possible cost, Nve wouid
no0 doubt travel and learn more about tHe
country, and for that reason I arn in favour
of every member having free transportation.
It hias been suggested thiat the nilleage be
struck ont. I do not know whether the mileage was iatended to pay our transportation
or not ; but I know this, the gentlemen ýwlo
receive passes wliere others do not, draw
tlîeh inileage. The man wlîo is living lu
Montreail, or~ even Toronto, is not in the saine
position as the man wlîo cornes from Britisli
Columbia or M%,anitoba or the Nortli-west
Territories. The additîonal mileage received
for travelling to and froni the capital does
flot recompense hlm- hie is out of pocket
mucli more than tliose wlio live ln Ottawa
and draw no mlleage. The Inconvenlence
of belng nway from home for montbs Is
very considerable. I venture to say the hion.
gentleman from Calgary, for instance, could
flot; go home and retura for less thani $40
even when travelling on pnss. For that reason I am ln favour of the mileage being
retained, and also in favour of the clause of
this Bill which provides that members of
parliament should have free transportation
on ail rnllwnys in Canada.

age of the convictions that Nve ail, more or inembers of
Iess, have la our liearts. We aIl Ile to
have free passes. 1 do not believe there is
any one, excepting tue hon. gentlemnan froni
Kingston (Hon. Mr. Sullivan) wlio does not
like to travel on free passes. If that is the
case, and if we are in the future to travel
on passes, let ns have it in the ian-. As for
the niileage nllowance, I slîonld like to nsk
my lion. friend, wlio admits that lie lias a
free pass, what ground lie lias for claiming
mileage if ie actually travels free ? Let
us keep this clause ia the Bll, and miaie it
obligatory for railroads ail over the Dominion to give ns friee transportation.
Mon. Mr. WATSON-In replying to the
staternent nmade by the lion. geiitleinan from
Monitreal (Hon. Mr. Drummond) a good
nya ýyears ago iii tîme Hanse of Commons,
I advmocated exnctiy what is in this Bill,
tîmat ineniers of parliainent should lie provided witli free passes. Railway companies
have made it a mIle to g-rant free passes,
particularly ta their frîends wlîo supported
tlîeir legisîntioxi. I have a pass, and I lad
the experiemîce of being one of tliree iii thie
House of Coninmons wlio were refused passes for a nunîber of years because we did flot
support legislation for a certain corporation.
I dû ixot thinir any miember of pirliament
should lie placed lu a po.sition to not receive
the sane privileges that other members do,
and I for one advocated thien, and I»advocnte
îîow, that wbat the rnilway companies do
in practice, they should be required to do
by law. I know iii thie country a great many
people say tliat inembers of parliament are influenced iii the stand they taire on legisiation
affecting railways by favours granted tbeni
by railway corporations. Tlînt would lie iernovecl enitirely if we eniacted that miembers
of parliament sliould lie illowed ta travel
on raln-ys iii Canada free, as we do travel
to-day. The lion. gentleman froîn Montreal
stated tlîat. to lie logical, we onglit to go further and mnove tlîat ail the ratepayers lie allowed to travel f ree because the subsidies to
ralways have been paid ont of tlie taxes of
the people. The representatives of tlie peopie are eutirely different froni the intepayers.
The representatives are required to Jenve
their business and attend ta the public business liere. I thinir they do It falrly wel,
and tlîey do not stand iii the saine position
as theîr constituents. Lt is Important that

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I honour the sentiment of the bon. gentleman froni Belleville
in moving to, stnike out this clause. I beIleve lie acted from the best of motives and
the finest sense of lionour, and I give liii
credit for IL. If there Is anybody in this
country who, beyond othiers, lias a rîglit to
get a pass on any rond from one end of the
country to the other, It is Sir Mackenzie
Bowell.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Why ?
Hlon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Because lie does
more work than any other member of this

874

SENATE

To require them to furnish free
jureti.
transportation to members of parliament is
flot like takzing money from any one.
It does no injury to any one ; lt is
conceded as a rlgbt, andi passes are being
takeil by every member of both Ibouses.
Lt is 100 late lu tbe day now to oppose a
practice wbicb is universal, and the manly,
straigbitforward way is to do It openiy and
take the conisequences. If the members of
the board think lt is ivrong for menîbers
to accept passes, I shall tbrow the passes
back iii their faces. I feel that the railwayu
give passes, flot witb the object of bribing
anY olle. 110w can tbey bribe 9 Mll thus
I lhave tweiity oi
î-ailvnys give passes.
Lt nevei
I neyer use but omie.
tlîiîty.
s
affects niiy vote andi I do not sec hiow thi
affect any man':
miere favour of a pass cau
vote. I give tlîeu back ail the miiey. M;
y
ý,vife travels Nvitl ime, anîd unless slie wo
graiited a similar favour, it ivould ho ver;s
littie benefit to mue. 1 shoulti like if tUer
was amy otber way of gettiîîg i-id of thi
I tbink the mileage slîotld b
11on. Mr- POIRIER-I sent b:ick nîy qluestion.
passes for several years, lîtt bati associa1- douie away witb, because it does iîot hec]
right to accept a pass andi collect unileage y
tions prevalleti.
of my hon. friends
Hoiu. Mr. SULLIVAN-Auiy mail Nvio is 1 honour tbe sentiments
mnlust Senator Drummnond andi Sir Mackenzie Bow
so easily affecteti by a hati exaxuple
o
rn
hyaeatn
elv
WVe are el
bave a migbty poor« conscience.
andi I scientious andi bonourable mnotives, but
taking passes ycar after year
tbat this is the better wii
thouglit il was rallier an ugly ivay to be gel- seems 10 me.
qnalms to deal witb the question.
ting tranlsportatioui, andi I feit some
The motion was agrecd to.
of conîscienice about takiîîg this iilloge, but
I would rallier Laîve luis, on îny word of
Hon. Mr. FULFORD, from lUe coinniitte
lionour, than to he gettiîig passes and the
is
progres
Public not k-now il. Let the Public kno10-v reported thal they Uad made somue
leave to sit agai
it, anti that we gel it as a right. Tlîink witli the Bill, and asked
of tUe labours the. î-ailroads impose 0o1
BlLL INTRODUCED.
Nilieteîî-twcnitieths of Vlîe
parliameît
Bill (147) An Act 10 incorporate thue Toro:
legisiation of this session is for rilwys,
and w-ould Dlot a railway seîd ia free pass 10 andHmlo Railway Company.-(Ho

House-because he bas exanîined more critically into tble legisiation connected wýYtb
railways, and above ail bas takzen more care
atout railway legislation and spent more
lîours in the committee room and iii this
Fluse looklng into sucb legîsiation, than
ainy other member. There are relative degrees of menit lu the Senate, as there are
relative degrees of lionour. This lias been
drawn from me by the hoit, gentleman saying what be did. I consider Sir MaL-ckzenzie
Bowell is facile princeeps so for as bcllig
entitiedti 1 honour. Tliat is enougli on Iliat
point. Wbien tbe lion, gentleman on my left
.'Hou. Mr. Poirier) talks about bis conscience,
it really amuses me. 1 couinot go so for as
It is astoîiishing to mie tilit tîîis
that.
lièni. g-entleman, a moral aund pions geahlemnii o donht, lias yeoir ifter year takýeii
tliese lasses and time andi agaiii voteti on
railway legislation, andi neyer saiti a word
about It. At least, I neyer heard lmn say a
Word about lt unitil now.

to any man 10 come downi anti attend 10 'r
er Trmt.
their business ? Is it not proper that rail-MrKeTont.
The Senate adjourned.
ways should pay a mani wbo comnes to look
aftEr their businîess ?
Hon. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWELL,,-Tbecountry gives us au indemaity for tUat.

THE SENATE.
Hlon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Yes, but the ordiThursday, August 27, 1903.
'Ottawa,
nary individual is initerestcd ini legisîntioui,
TUe ralroatis
only in a general way.
e
Tbe SPEAKER 100k the Chair at Thi
know
we
anti
bodies,
corporate
ai-e
that corporations have no souls 10 be ç)'ciock.
Prayers and routine procecding-ssaved, and somôi say no bodies to be lnHon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

AUGUST 2î, 1903
THE

TREADGOLD

COMMISSION.

INQUIRY.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON inquired:
Whether the commission recently issued to
Judge Britton and Mr. Bell to Investigate the
Treadgold concession contains a provision fixIng the ameount of remuneration to lie paid
to the commissioners. If flot, lias the remuaeration been otherwise sattled, and la eithcr
case, how much does it amount to ?
He said : Yesterday, wlien this eider
wns cnlled I made some observations l
reference to an unseemly occurrence which
the iicwsl)pers liad reportcd froin Dawson
i cennectien ivitl the sitthîg of the Treadgold Commission.
I find iii yesterday's
niewspaper there is anotiier incident of the
sanie cliaracter, sbowing conclusively that
titis investigation is not sbedding ainy lustre upon the bencli ef Canada iniasmucli as
one ef the memibers ef the bench is a mentber ef that commission. The report off the
Ottawa 'Free Press 'is as follows:
Grahamn Campbiell offercd a most flagrant inisult to Commissiener Br.itton. The latter hacd
refused to order the production. of certain
pariera at the suggestion of Mr. Campbell, saylng lie had no autherity to do se. 'You have
ne authority ' Campbell insolently observedl,
' What authority have you.' ' I have the autherity' replied Mlr. Britton, 'to commit yotu
for contempU
t'
I have shovn ne contempt'
Campbell muttered, 'I have considered yen beneath contempt.'
Commissioner Bell heard
ýhe sotte vece insuit, and Campbell was callefi
-back and given a verbal castigatien. Hre wonld
have been cemmitted but for the Intervention
of Judge Britton.

875

the 'tact thiat a manî named Campbll litsulted Ilm?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This is reported
frein an unfriendly source te Mr. Campbell,
and when Mr. Campbell aslced wlîat autherity the commissioner bad, it was bis place
te explain bis autherity and net te have teld
lilm :' I have autherity to commit yen for
contempt.' I tbi-nk if -n-as the place of the
cemmissioner te make that explanafion.
Hon. Mr. TE MPLKMAN-Wlîat explanatien ? Explain bis commission te a mnan
nanied Campbell?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Cerfainly.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I have the aclvanjtage ef aiy hon. friend inisaincli as I
knowv Graliai Campbell.

Hon. MNr. FELtGUSON--it is tlche
siiî
%vltl somne people, if' iiiody differs frini
tlieiii, te implugi tlieini at onicp. I (Io n -,t
sav îîîv lion. frieiid dees tliat alwavs. lt
tliat is tlic view that lis runlning- fireugli
is interruption.
'Mr. Clarke-the noterions Josephi Clarke as lie is called iii tlîe
telegrantis te tIc 'Fiee Pres.' Wý1S ;1 e:11didate lia the last election for fthc Ytukoni.
It is cemmea for some newspapers te (letract frein fIe respectabiiity ef a man mbo
differs frein tbeini .and say at once lie is
noferieus, and that lie is îîot tue
ni lie
oitîght te be. My vi-ew is that if w-as the
dnty of flie commissiosier te have nmade
As that is reported, it does neot add aiiy- ant explaîîafien te Mr. Campbiell. and
LiIng to Judge Brittoîî's credit.
net te
have flung
bis authority
lin
Honi. Mr. DANDURAND-Whiat lias that lus face tat lie ceuld commit hum fc- couite de witli the question the boit. gentleman tcinpt. I onîr meiitiý.a inl tîis ct>iiiiCti0ii
te show tîxat if is uîiseeinlv tliat a jxîdge
bas put ?
should le pl:iced iii a positionî of that kiiid.
Hon. Mr. L"ERGUSON-It lias to do witli
wvherc lie is beconîînig eibroiledl w-iti fihe
the Treadgeld Commission. 1 ain quite free,
citizeas of tue Yukonî. My questions. lo-,-v
in connectien with tlîat, to refer te the
ever, bears incidentally ont thîis, aiid fliereTrendgold concession and boiv thc investifore I have a riglit te refer te f. Eveii if
gatiosi of it lias beeni proceeding. 1 amn asic1I ind not given titis notice, if wvculd nef
iug a question with regard te that subject
have beeîî eut ef erder te malce tis refeiand calling attention te these occurrences
ence to fIe incident. My quecstion liezirs oit
that are almest daily reported in the papers
axiotmer point, aîîd it is tlîis: I w-ant te asia despatches frein the Yukon, sbowing that
certainî the remnuierntioiî fint Judge Britthe judgc is gettiîîg inte collision witlî
ton and Mr. Bell are te receive fer their
people tiiere.
services. 1 amn anxious te ascertain tlîat
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEIMAN-Migbit 1 asiz frein fhIs view: These genîtlemen arc sent
my bon. friend te point out wlîerein tlîat there te. adjudicate on n question between
detracts frein Justice Brittonls position or the geverament of Canîada and their ophis fitness tg adjudicate on the case? Where- ponients, and between the Treadgold conla dees that detract froin Judge Britton- cessionaires and the ewn-ers ef certain rightfs

SENATE
in the Yukon and with regard to the Impoicy or good policy of issuing that Treadgold concession. After ail that bas occurred, and the public opinion asserted on this
question, I canniot think It %Vise If the gevernment have placed a judge in the position
of coriiiig. in to decide on a miatter affecting
the policy of the governnment, as betveeni
the government and their opponents, and
holding the rernuneration over with the
possibility tijat it sbould be made Iiigli or
low just in proportion ns the report wouid
be pleasing or the reverse to the goveriiment I thiak that is wrong and cannot be
The governrnent should have
justified.
fixed the amount of remuneration before the
nppointrnent was made. Possibiy tlîat rnay
be rny answer ; if se, I amn satisfied.
H-ou. Mr. SCOTT-I arn so)rrv my heon.
friend indulged lu the renuarks lie did hofore receiving a r-ePIV te bis iIuiI-Y. The
rernuneration to Judge Britton is $2,000,
besides ail bis expýenses. a specifie SUm. Hie
wili be a rnonth travellingbalwrsau
forwards at ail events.
Hloi. Me lERGUSON- i oes the 1bon. gentlemnan think it is seely jiuat a judge siîouid
be conceded that large sum iii addition to
bis salary runiniig on as a
lus salary ',Is
judge ?
auY
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. and I tiik
fair-rninded public man -will flot draw the deduction rny hou. friend bas drawn ; but, on
the contrary, that they would rather think
that $2,OO0 is probably under the mark for a
mrni going to that place for twvo or three
iuontbs. Two thousanti dollars is not too
mnuclu for him. With regard to Mr. Bell,
1 amrn ot able to give the desired informration. There was no0 Order in Council about
it. I think tbe arrangements were made by
the Department of tbe Intr!or, and Mr.
'-ifton heing away, 1 w-as uniabie to get Thie
facts. 1 was, therefore. only able te give
rny bon, friend the amount paid to Judge
Britton.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I arn sor-y n1y
hon. friend should take advantage of the
fact of a judge going to tbe Yukon to make
a report, and of the Incident of a witness
being saucy to hlm, a judge of the H-ig1b
Court of Justice of Ontario. to cast refiections on hlm. If lt plensed tbe bon. gentieHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

man to go into the judicial records through
oui' courts from the Atlantic to the Pacifie,
and pick up sucbi reports of encouniters hotw-eeni judges and wvitnesses. and between
judges and lawyers, he would find plenty
of such incidents, but, lie would need to
have somietbing more than tbe simple fact
that there was sucbi an enceuniter. to say
it was discreditable to tbe judge. Hlere is
a judge charged with the power te investigate a case, a wltness mahes a disp.araguutg
te
remlark---peaks in an unbecomiiug %vay the
commissioner-be the party a v-ituess or
iawyer,--does the hou. gentleman think a
inember of this Senate m-ouid ho justified lu
saying that the judge's action as reported
was disparaging to the b,2neh ? Tbe discipline is In the bauds of the courts, and
that discipline must be rnaintainied by the
'nupreune anithority of the judge. Lt miatters
vers- littie wbiat reports couie liere te tht'
press, 1 tbink it is unw-ortby of the situation
that the bon, gentleman fromi MaIýrsbfieid oocui)ies to take a simple telegraphic report
iii the press, comning froin a Place tbonsalids
of miles from bere, and say: ' Here is how a
judge is acting,' and 1 suppose we arcecxpected te draw the conclusion that the judge
should flot bave been sent to the Yukon.
Before a member of this Senate brnngs anything before the House about a judges condnct in the courts, Le sbouid verify the
tacts, and Nvait uintil at Ieast lie bas somne
oral ou %vritteui evidence about it. The lion.
gentleman bas simply taken advantage of a
pnbliied in the newspapers. te
telegrarnti
try and discredit a judge of a Higb Court
et Justice iii Canada.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I would state lui
repiy te tbe hon, gentleman that 1 have
niot made any attack on a judge of this
country acting in bis capacity as a judge.
If 1 bad done so, and the circumstance te
w'bicb I referred bad happened in any court
wvbere that judge had proper -jurisdiction,
and wvhere be was -discharging the duties
beionging te a judge of the courts of the
,county, I wouid be doing wrong--; but
w'ben the goverument of tbe country place
a judge in another position alt-bougb. niaking hlm a commissioner to inveý,ti.-ate a

semi-political question, be is just as open te
criticism as any man in tbe community and
1 shall net besitate te avail myseif of the
right te discuss bis conduct.

877

AUGUSI 2î, 1903

sioner sbould refuse to produce It to, those
wbo are acting on bebialf of the opponents
the hou. gentleman from de Lorimier of the Tr-eadgold concession I cannot Ima(Hon. Mr. Dandurand) and the display of gine.
temper from my bon. frien-d from BrItHon. Mr. SCOTT-I hiave heard ilotblng
Ish Columbia (Hon. Mr. Templeman), 1 of the receipt of a telegram except wbat I
from saw lu to-day's papier. I read It ln the
tbe bon. gentleman
compliment
Marshfield for baving aroused titis lu-. ' Citizen,' and have beard no more about It.
dignation for once. The bon. gentleman Knowin-g Judge Britton as I do, I m-ust say
from Victoria (Hon. Mr. Templemfan) bas bie ivill be slow to witlhold any paper
bitherto enjoycd tbe reputation of being whicb shouid be open to everybody.
0f
the most inoffensive senator in the House, course, ail papers in connection with the lnbut on tbiis occasion, wbien the name of Mr. quiry are public property, and 1 have no
Campbell was mentioned, lhe fired up as If doubt lie exercised a proper discretion ln
a little fdynamite bad be"ni placqed uxuler bim. the course lie bas taken.
1 attacb very
I arn glad to find the hion, gentleman bas little Importance la the telegrams from
some temper, and that lie can show it wvlîcî
Dawson. People are excitable there, and
lie thinks it is îiecessary. Notwitlistnding somnetimes say more than they are warrantthe indignation of the lion. gentlenmanu vho ed lu saying. If I get anny more informasits bebind bim (Hon. Mr. Dandurand), 1 tion on the subjeet I shall be glad to give
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B0WE~LL- Notwlthstandlng the dlsplay of indigna tion of

propose ta cail the attention of the Secretary of State to a telegrama received by the
leader oif the cpposition iii thie loNver Ihanse
(-Mr. Borden, Halifax) and to ask hiim wbether be bas any Information on this subject
that be can give ta the Seniate. The Hon.

Mr. Borden received this teiegram
Dawson la Euxcited.
Mr. Borden asked the attention or time government ta the following teiegram hie had recelved
Dawson, August 26.
Commission refuses the peopfie's solicitor acceas ta concession filies brouglit from Ottawa
by special officiai. Put question iii House. Asi<
that commissioners be instructed by wire ta
produce them as the inquiry is baullced. A
mass meeting was held here to-night and the
people are greathy excited.
(Sgd.) W. A. BEDOE.

it ta the House.

Illi. Sir MACKENZIE B0WTELL-1I bave
liad as long an acquaintance withi the coinmissioner-I will fot use the word 'judge'
for fear 1 shall be accused of attacking the
judge-as my bon. friend, and my opinion
of hum as to bis excitability and bis cbaracter aitogether differs from tbat of the bon.
gentleman.
TRANS.ATLANTIC

MAIL BOATS.

INQUIRY.

Hou. Mr. LANDXtY inquircd
Has the government lately been or is it in
negotiation with any one whomsoever for the
establishment of a fast line of transatiantic
mail boats ?
If the answer is in tbe affirmative, with whom
reply was that lie bad no lias It been or is it in negotiation ?
Mr. I'ielding's
in the negotiations, past, present or future,
pei'sonai knowledge of the matter, but
what speed bas been demanded or will be deta be made. I shiould rnanded by the governmcnt from the mail boats
would cause inquiries
ie ta know whethier inquiry lias been of the fast line ?
what ports is this oceanic service
made, or wbetlier the lion. gentleman bas toBetween ?
bemade
any knowiedge of it, and if be lias not, If
When is It ta bie inaugurated, approximately?
lie wiIl acquaint himseIf with the fact and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbhis motion bad really
informn the Ebuse ? I need scarcely say a escaped my attention, but 1 arn not aware
charge of the kind made agaiîst the com- thait there is any recent information witb
missioner, who bappens to be a judge-and regard to, the fast Une. Certaily, tbere is
I say it witb a great deal of cautionx, after no iminediate action being taken wlth rethe lecture to whicb we bave just listened- gard to the fast lune. However, I shail make
that lie refuses information which 1 thinit furtber inquiry, and if there is any addi-

should be at the disposai of every one, is tional information to, be bad, I will give it
rather %a serious matter. If my recolIection to my bon. friend to-morrow.
serves me riglit, the conditions oui wbicb the
non. Mr. LANDRY-We wiil let the moTreadgold concession was made bave been
tion stand until to-morrow.
laid before the Flouse,. and why the commis-

SENATE
THIRD READING.
Bill (152) An Act 10 Incorporate th3e Southcrun Central Pacifie Rallway Company.(Hlon. 'Mr. Tempiernan.)
RAILWAYS LAW CONSOLIDATION
BILL.
AGAIN IN COMMITTEE.
The House resumed in Committee of the
Whole consideration of Bill (21) An Act to
amend and consolidate the law respecting
raiiways.
On clause 275, subsoction 5,
Honi. 'Mr. MLcMILLAN-W, lin this subsection cornes up I wisli to move an nmendmient in the following ýwords:
Provided, however, that the Comnpany shail
flot be liable for any injury that the person
so travelling may sustaifi whilec travelling on
said railway.
Thiat is thec provision ve have iii the passes that are issued 10 us at preseat, and if
we are going to force the railways to carry
niembers of parliament ail over Ibis eounitry
free, they ouglit to b3e pretected thein as
Ihey are uow wben tliey grant us passes.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW\ELL-The
bon, gentleman should add to th3e notice that
the companies sbould pay membors $10 a
dar 10 cover expenses travelling.The clause m-as allowed to stand.

Hon. Mr. POWrEItT3e same care shlit
be exercised wbere steamsbip uines on Lake
Superl,.r, for instance, connect with rallways
at botb ends. There should be th3e samne protection afforded passengers on vessols as on
trains. Witb respect to touls, there is no,
reason why the same rule should flot apply
10 the touls for iroight on board those vessels
as 10 th3e freigbt on trains ; and th3e clause
says 'only so far as they are applicable.' I
do iiot see 130w thal is going 10 do any ianm,
and, furtber, 1 have tbis feeling :that monsure bas corne up fron thé Flouse of Coininons where Il w-as considerod. carefully,
and where th3e interests of the public were
probably considered rather more tlian th3e
il
initerosts of rallway companies -,and
it Is our duty 10 see fair-play, we can trust
th3e railway companies, as a rule, to take
fairiy good care of their owýn interests w-hue
il is th3e duty of t13e parlianient 10 loei
after th3e interosts of t13e public.
objection
Hou. Mnr. LOUGHEED-T30
tliaI bas beon raisod is not the~ one referred
10 by my lion. friend, but it is taIt t13e touls
sliould extend 10 t13e vessels. The object is
thaI th3e touls should extend 10 th3e traffie
on vesseis just in the saine wvny is the toHas
extenld 10 t13e freighit carried by t13e cr
The touls do niot extend 10 113e cars, and thoy
should not extond to 1t3e vessels. The touls
should 13e made applicable simply 10 th3e
traffic.

On clause 276,
276. When the Company- OWL5, charters, uses,
nizintains or wvorks, or is a party to any arrangement for using, maintaining or working
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It did seoni 10 me th3e
vessels for carryilg traffit, by sca or by water
other was th3e common-sense reading of it.
between any places or ports in Canada, the,
provisions of this Act in respect of toila shall,
se far as they are applicable, e xtend to sucb
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýELL--It is
vessels and te the traffia carried there-by.
rofresliing to hear 1the lion. Speaker pay so
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It n'as requested Ihat inucli deference and respect 10 t13e Bill as
tîlis clause should be aliowied ta stand, but lt came froni the House of Coînmons, parti1 tbink the point takeni is a trifling one and cularly wlien we ioolz aI th3e Ordor paper nnd
possibly w-e mîglt coîîsider w-bether we find that 13e hiniseif lias given notice 10
could accept the arndment. It -wiil be arnend 0one or two clauses. Porsons wbo
on thils
iioted Ibat it bas reference to transport froni talie a different vien' fron im
points within Canada, but part of the trans- particlar question miglit. I think, with ail
port by sea. It is very xvell known that due deforence to otlier memlbers, bave an
there are vessols that sali fromi Montreal oi)portuiity 10 express their views.
Thefor points on t13e other side of th3e Atlantic objection taken to Ibis clause bas not been
and eall at Quebec and other points en route, fuliy pointed ont. The objection is, wvill il
a nd tiierefore it miglit rend botter if th3e iast noýt be lnterpreted 10 affect 1the tolîs and
lino referrod 10 the traffic only and not 10 freigbt upon vessels leaving a Canadian
vessels. It does îîot seei 10 mie it is port, say Montreai or Quobec for Europe.
th3e
veaily wvorth considering further. 1 do niot
Hon. Mr. !,OUGHIEED No, il is betw'een
thinit there shouId be any objection to the
;
,
any places lu .Caniada.
a mendmnent.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

AUGUST 27, 1903
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
k-now that, but the objection is taken to the
clause for the rea son 1 have suggested. The
interpretation put upon It by those who 'are
interested in the traffie is that it miglit
possibly be construed to convey a different
meaning and have a fuller force than parliament intended It should.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On clause 279, subclnuse 7,

81l9

You cannot do anytbing until you obtain tihe
consent of the board.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. MeIMULLEN-T.hese two clauses
tie matters Up and you cannot do anything
until you obtain the consent of the board.
I do flot really see that it Is a prudent enactmnent. It is golng a step too far charglng
the board with -an amount of onerous duties
which I think It should flot be burdened

with.
279. The company or any director or offIcer
thereof. or any receiver, trustee, lessee, agent
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Shoiild flot the
or personl, acting for or emiployed by the company. who. alone or with any other company last parngraph, subclause 7, stand, with
or person, shall wilfully do or cause to be tise suggestion that the hon. Secretary of
done. or shall willing-ly suifer to ho done any
net, matter or thing, contrary to the provisions State would examine into the economy of
of or to any order, direction , decision or "e- this clause and tell us what prompted the
gulation of the board mal-, or given under this
this clause ?
Act in respect of tolls, or who shall aid or abet drafter of it to prepare
therein. or shall wilfully omit or fail to do
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-We have alrendy
any act, matter, or thing therehy required to,
1)0 done. or shall cause or willingly suifer or passed a similar clause to subsection 7,
permit any act, matter or thing, so directed with reference to the institution of actions
or required thereby te be donc, not to be so
done. or shall nid or abt any omission or against tIse company for other breaches of
!allure. or shall be guilty of any infraction of the provisions of this Bill, whereby it wvas
any such ordý'r, diir.,ctio-i. (hivcsion or regulation. o" any of suc'h provisions of this Act, provided an action sbould flot lie instituted
or shall aid or abet theDrein, shall for eacb without first obtaining permission of the
oiffence be liabi" t0 a penalty of flot more

tl'an one thmnusand dollars, nor less than ons
hundrcd dollars. 51 V.. c. 2ý, s. 241, Am.
7. No prosecution shal lie had or instituted
for any penalty provided under tis section, no"r
shaîl any action lie commenced for any treble
damages under tbis section without the leavo
if the board first boing obtained.

board.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But we know
that this is flot an exclusive jurisdiction
I have only burriedly
tisat the board bas.
rend part of this clause; is it to apply to
ail actions generally ?
lon. «-\c. POWýEll-Tlils is a new clause
a principle involved which deand there is
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-This deals with
-Under this the question of deinys. In the event of the
sonme consideration.
serves
clause. no maitter liow great a wvrong bas company not comnplying witb subsection 5,
been done to a9 shipper, he could not bring a proseclitiofi misy le brouglit against the
an action unless with the concurrence of the company and treble damages aivnrded, leave
board. ' the consent of tIse board first had first lsaving been given by the board.

and ob)taqined.' A person -wlose riglits have
Hon. Mr. FEItGUSON-I think i is very
lbeýn initerfered wlth may lie living in Prince
Edward Island or British Columliia, the Yu- much ln the interests of persons prosecutkon. or any otiser renmote part of the coun- ing to come before the board, because the
try, ind it ny not lie eàsy to get at tîme board would use its judgmcnt in flot allowlie having Ing thena to get into deep water, which tbey
Tse board iy
commission.
Iana would be very apt to do.
holiday. or soinethling of thalt sort.
a
flot saying that tlils provWson Is wrong, but
The subelause -was adopted.
it is an important one, and a. very serions
On clause 303,
limitation of the riglits of the pîwrson who
m2ay have heen dainified, and tise commiittee
Hon. Mr. POWER-Under the Act of 188S
should not pass it witlsout understanding it. returns are to be made to the min;Ister, and
Hon. 'Mr. McMULLEN-I re.nhly thinkz this
clause should receive very serions considerIt
ation at the bands of this cominittee.
completely ties up any action being talien
untîl the consent of the board is obtained.

the same provision is contained in these
clauses. Tihe returns are ail to be made to
the minister. It seems -to me, ina8mucb. as
the board of commissioners bas been substituted for the minIster to a:very consides'

880

SENATE

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-Tbat is quite
able extent, that the returns sbould lie
made to, the board as weIl as to the minis- apart from the minister. This is informater.
tion for the board-quite different froni the
Information for the minister.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wby?
Hon. Mr. FORGET-If I wanted to kniow
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Because the board what the board bas beard on a certain day,
bas to deal witb the railway business.
does tbe hon. Secretary of State say that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But tbe mindster could not give me the informathe minister bas flot to deai witb the returns. tion ? Is thbe board not responsIble to parTie return 1 take It to lie simply an accur- liament ?
ate account of the business of the year as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ohi, yes. Any Informaprovided in the scbedule, and the reason tion acquired by the board would be ohfor sending tiiem directly to the minister is taîned just in the samne wvay froni the minthat lie could -ba've them Included In-the de- ister.
partmnental reports.
Hon. Sir MÂACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbere
at [s no question-that parliament is paramount
and overrides anything of this kind. If1
parliament ordered information to bie given,
Hon. '.\r. LOUGHEED-The object is to even tbougb it were privileged as provided
lay the returns before parlianient.
in this clause, the minister would bave to
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-Besides,
the bring It diown. Tbere is no iaw paramount
board sits in Ottawa, and cati very eas!ly to parliament.
acquire the Information.
Hon. Mr. SULLLVAN-I suppose it woulti
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-Tbat is flot the wiiole be wise to suppress a-ny false returni or inistory. If the bon. gentleman wlll 100k. at formation.
clause 804 lie will see that provisioqn is
Tbe subclause was adopted.
made for weekly returns. Those do not apOn clause 810,
pear In the annual report of the minister.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-They
once.

are printed

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I rather agree -with the
Speaker that the board sbould bie In possession of the returns. The commissioneirs lu
the United States -have got sucli information.
TPhe board apparentiy, have nothing to do
with this at ail. I think it ls a defect.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 309, subsection 5,
5. Any information furaished to the board
by any suc'1 return, or any evidence taken )y
the board in connection therewith, shal flot
be open to the public, or published, but shall
bc for the information of the board only ;andi
If any officiai or servait af the board. or ary
perEon baving access to or knowlcdge of, any
saicb return or evidenc,3 shall,
wlthout the
authority of the board first obtained, publish
or make known any Information, having ohtained tb3 saine. or knowing the same to have
been derived. from sucb return or evidence,
be shal! be liable. on conviction, to a penalty
flot exceeding five hundred dollars for each
offence. and to irnprjsonment flot exceedlng six
inonths In the common jail in the county where
sucli conviction Is bad.

Hon. Mr. FORGET-Does tis mean tbat
-was asked for in the
flouse the minister could flot give it ?
Hon. Mr. POWER.
If the Information

310. The followîng Acts of the parliament of
Canada are bereby repealed
Obapter 29 of 51 Victoria ;-the whole, exeept section 306.
Chapter 28 of 53 Victoria ;-the whole.
Chapter 51.-of 54-55 Victoria ;-tbe whole.
Chapter 27 of 55-56 Victoria ;-tbe wbole.
Chapter 27 of 56 Victoria ;-the wbole.
Chapter 53 of 57-58 Victoria *-the whole.

Chapter 9 of 59 Victoria ;-the wbole, except
section 2.

Chapter 22 of 61 Victoria ;-the whole.
Chapter
Cbapter
Chapter
Chapter

37
23
31
32

Hou. Mfr.

of
of
of
of

62-63 Victoria ;-the whole.
61-64 Victoria ;-the whole.
1 Edward VII ;-tbe whole.
1 Edward VII ;-the whole.

POWER-There

Is

one

point

to wbich it is well to direct attention. This
clause provides that certain Acts of tbe parliament of Canada bie repealed. It states
that chapter 29 of 51 Victoria shal lie repealed-tbe wbole except section 306. Now
306 reads as follows :
The Intercolonial Rallway, the Grand Trunk
Railway. North Shore Railway, the Northern
Railway, the Hamilton
and North-western
Railway, the Canada Sou.thern Railway, the
Great Western Railway, the Credit Valley Railway. tbe Ontario and Quebec Railway. and the
Canadian Pacific Railway, are bereby declared
tc, bo works for the gý_ncraI advantage of Canada.

AUGUST 27, 1903
Of that much of it there can be no question. Then the section proceeds :
And each and every branch line of rallway
oow or hereafter connectlng with, or crosng
the sald Unes of rallway. or any of them, le
a work for the general advantage of Canada.
The tendency of the pollcy today is to
say that a railway sball flot be deemed to
be a work for tbe general advantage of
Canada simply because it crosses one * f
these railways, and the House ought to
know that ln passing this clause It is ratifylng that provision. A road which is
cbartered by a province, whichi runs fromn
one point to another ln a province and bas
no other connection with one of these roadâ
except that of crossing it, is under this provision a work for the general advantage of
Canada. 1 tbink that Is an important question.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The whole o! this
clause should be reserved, because wve can
pass upon it only after we have finally
passed the previnus clauses.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The lion, gentleman from De Salaberry bas a notice of
amendment which would cover the case
mentioned by bis honour the Speaker.
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-Wý%e are repealing
the whole Railway Act, a law many times
amended, and we are letting tVils one section stand; why should you flot embody
that clause ln the present Bill and wipe It
out of the statute-book, particularly as we
are consolidating the statutes, and the other
one also whlch deals with resolutions, bylaws &-c. ?

It bas built with moneys coming from tbe
Ontario treasury, and It would be advlsable
for som *e legal gentleman who takes an
lnterest ln the consolidation of this Rallway
Act to draft a clause by whlch roads
would only be declared for the general advantage of Canada wlth the consent of tbe
législature wblch bas subsidized tbese same
railways.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The -dlfficulty I
see la amending the law as lt at present
stands Is this: How will the board bave
jurisdlction over rallway crossings and over
traffic rates where you bave, for instance,
a continuous lune of railway, a provincial
road jolnlng a federal rond ? We have
made provision, ln this Bill for traffic rates
Clearly tbere
along that continuous line.
would bave to be some understanding between the provinces and the federal goverament by which the province would abdicate a certain aniount of Its fanctions so
as to permit tbe federal authority to exerThe
cise jurlsdiction in that direction.
same would apply to crossings, but would
you make a crossing o! a provincial rond
over a Dominion rond without the intervention o! the federal authority ?

Hon. Mr. DAVID-AII these questions
will be dîscussed with clause 6. Amendments bave been prepared to that effect.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I bave gîven notice
of an ameadment which covers It.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I tbouglit the
suggestion of thue bon, gentleman who raised
this question would be that the federal government should not declare that a provincial
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN ((le Lanaudière)- railway iiI benceforth become a federal
While we are discussing railways declared railway without previously reimburslng the
to be for tbe general advantage of Canada, provinces thé amount of the subsidies they
It bas been suggested to me by some one bave voted those rallways.
in the legislature that railways whicb bave
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why sliould you
received subsidies, and iii some cases large
The province gets the advansubsidies, fromi the legislature should not do that ?
be declared railways for the general advan- tage of the railway.
tage of Canada without the consent of the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I know; the
Thiis
législature whicb bas su'bsidlzed thein. lion. gentleman did not state that.
Take the rond that Is being bulît from North [s a question of public pollcy which caup3ay by the Ontario goverament northward not be lncorporated into this. Act.:but the
It bas-alwaYs
at an expense of three million dollars, by question Is now before us.
a stroke of the peu that rond miglit be been a quandary to me to .see that the fededeclared for the general advantage of Can- rai parliament could lay, Its, supreine band
ada, and thereby tbe Ontario goverament upon a work that basbeýen. stubsldized'.and
would lose ail control over that road whicb built by provincial money wlthdut -couipen.

SENATE
be, foliowing on the hune of what bas been
said heretofore, as to taking over flue control
of roads which have been subsidized, there
should be a very clear line of demarcation
where the province buiids and owns its rond
tbrougb Its own territory, where It operates
the lune ltself or leases it. That Is certainly
a ciass of cases in whicb there should be an
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tue miiiiepa- exception made to this Act.
lîties have been directly inte&rested iii the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I did not intend to
building of the railways for their owvn advantage, but the provinces have advanced draw the attention of this House to the
money for the building of those railways, nmendment of which 1 have given notice,
substituting tbemselves for the federail but as the hon, gentleman from. Calgary bas
powers and attending to federal duties. If brought up the question f0 some extent, I
seems to me the federai goverinment sbouldi inay explain the object that 1 have in view
bave buhît ait those raiiways. The provinces' ln suggesting the amendmeat to clauses 5,
feIt tbey should help certain needed rail- 6i and 7 of the Bil. The question as f0 wbeways, and if seemns to me wlen the federal ther the wholp of the raflway system la the
government cornes in and declares that pro- Domninion should be made to fali under the
vincial work is for the generni advantage jurisdiction of the Dom inion-parlia ment is,
of Canada, the province should i)e reinu- of e.ourse. a very large question and a question of poiicy for the goverament which
bursed.
cannot be properly coasidered by us la dealHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbat Is entirely Ing witli this Bill. In tact, the local legiscontradictory to the position the lion. genu- latures have been incorporating railway
tleman and the hon. meniber for De Sala- comparly affer railway compnny and
berry have tak-en; that la. that the province nobody bas ever attempted to question
should reserve to itself the righlt to bud their right to do so. Therefore, the Dominand regulate their own railways and to ion goverament and the local governments
exercîse exclusive jurisdiction over th-eir bave been proceeding under the assumption
railways within the boundaries of the pro- that when It la exclusively a local road the
It seems to me if would be muct) power beIongs to the local pariament, and
vince.
better that la the Dominion of Canada thiere the jurisdlction of the Dominion parliament:
sbould be only one rallway governing body. extends to that road only when the I)ominHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I am îuot In- ion parliament declares it althougb a local
viting the faderai govarnment f0 taka that work, to be a work for the generai advanstand and f0 tak-e jurisdiction over ail the tage of Canada. Now, if seems to me that
rnilways, but when they do so I wvaut to Ia discussing this Bill we are not ready to
know wby the province sbould not be ra- discuss that very broad prInciple. I repent
it Is a question of poiicy which should be
Imbursed.
fuly considered, If It is to be consldered at
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudiêre)- ail, ,1jointiy by the Dominion governI did not say one word about reimburslng ment and by *the local goverrnments.
auy money, but whnt I did say was that Now we bave oniy f0 apply, as I underwluen the province bas subsidized n rond stand it, the spirit of the constitution
very heavily if bas certainly a moral lien in deahing wlth the present Bill, and
on that road, and ha common justice, that if seems to me that would be dealing witb if
rond sbould flot ba taken fromn its jurisdic- witbin the spirit of the constitution bY
tiou without its consent.
amending clauses 5, 6 and 7, as I have subHon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-There are two mitted, and as I wiil presently show. We
classes of cases, if seems f0 me, f0 be con- should be ready to admit the powers of the
sldered In connection with this matter. One Dominion goverament and the powers of the
Ia where the province builds and owns the local leg-isiatures to tbe extent that I have
road ; the othar Is, -whara tbey bave subsi- mentloned, and therefore If we admit, as bas
dlzad a rond. Wbiataver question there may been admitted ail along, that the local legîs-

sating the province for the amnount spent
by that province.
BOWVELLSir NIACKENZIE
Honu.
Carry the priaciple a lIttie furtber and go to
the municipalities -as weII, and reimburse
the municipalities whicli bave given money
ln aid of railways.

Hon. Mr.

DANDURAND.

8S3

AUGUSI 27, 1903
latures have jurisdiction over local rallways,
then they should flot be ousted of that jurisdiction by a stroke of the pen except for
very good reason, and w-e should, on the other
hiand, extend the power of the Dominion
parliament to a reasonable measure, andi
therefore as far as crosslngs and as far as
connections of local railways wlth railways
that are under the exclusive jurlsdictlon ot
the Dominion parliament are concerned, it
seems to me that the jurlsdlction of the Dominion parliament should control those
crossings and connections, because It would
not be practicable to have such matters left
under the control of the board under this
Bill, and to leave it also under the authority
of the Rallway committees of the local legislatures, because the two powers mlght clash
and It would not be worlcable. We must
decide either for one or the other, and aithouglhinl favour of provincial rlghts, 1
thlnk that In a matter o! this kind It is the
Dominion power whlch should prevahi. I
th<,refore propose, when the Flouse is agai
ln Committee o« the Whoie, to move that
sections 5, 6 and -4 be struck out and replaced by the folio wing 5. Every rallway, steam or electrlc street railway or tramway, the construction or operation
of whlch Is authorized by a speciai Act passed
by the Legisiature of any province, now or hereafter connecting with or crossing a railway
which, at the time of such connection or crosslng, Is eubject to the legislative authorlty of
the parliament of Canada, ýls hereb' declared
tobe a work for the general advanýtage of Canada in respect only to such connection or crossIng or through traffic thereon or anything appertaining thereto, and this Act shall apply.
This would be adopting the -principle that
As far as any crossings of that klnd, or any
connections of that kind, or tbrough traffic
on those local railways are concerned, the
works would be considereti a work for the
g-eneral advantage of Canada, and would
'fait under the exclusive jurlsdlctlon o! the
Dominion parliament or o! the board.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That wlll be ln lieu of
the notice the hon. gentleman has placed on
the Order paper ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You would propose bringing the company wlthin the control o! the board, so far as the enfo;cement
,o! penalties Is concerned ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In reference to ail matfers pertalning to crosslngs ?
56ý

Hon. Mýr. LOUGHEED-And traffic ?
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-If the hon. gentleman
ivili notice, to be sure that everything wil]
be covered, I say :
In respect onlY to such connection or crossing or through traMel thereon, or anything appertalntng thereto.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
wvould that affect local traffic ?
Hon. Mir. BEIQUE-It wonld flot affect
local traffic. Local traffic shouid remain
under the jurisdictiou of the local legisiature.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Does that mean that
the whole line wiil not corne under the jurisdiction o! this pariament, but simply the
restrictions that I understand are mentloned
here ? It seéms Jiazy to me.
Hon. Mr. McIMULLEN-I do not lÉnow
that It is necessary to extend th-is discussion
very far. In the first place, I iargely agree
wlth what the hon. gentleman from Calgary
sald.
The CHAIRMAN-The discussion Is entlrely out of order. We were discusslng
clause 310. Shall that clause stand ?
The clause was ailowed to stand.
The CHAIRMÂN-Shall
rise and report progress ?

the conimittee

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I wlsh
to cail the attention of the hon. Secretary of
State to clause 268, the clause wlth reference to traffic passlng from Canada through
another country and enterlng Canada. This
clause provides that the joint tariff must be
agreeti upon by the different companles, anti
must be flied wlth the board. It goes on,
under the subsection :
Any goode carrled, or being carrled from
Canada through a foreign country lnto Canada
ln violation o! this sectionThat would be fallure to file their joint
tariff. It proceeds :
-shall. before being admitted Into Canada, be
subject to customs duties as If such goods were
of foreigu production and comlng Into Canada for the first timeIf 1this joint tariff had net been agreed
upon and flled wlth the board, the goods
would be subject to duty as If they were
forelgu goods. Then It goes on :
-and ln case such -goods are o! a kind which
would not otherwlse be subject to any customs

884

SENATE

duties liereunder, shall be ýuubje£,t ta a customn
duty of thirty per centum o! the value thereNow follows wbat I want to cal] attention
to :
-and If any such duty la paid by the consignor
or consignee of such gonds zhe same shall be
cepaid to the persons so paying, on demand
by the Canadian company or companies. Any
law to the contrary le hereby repealed or
amended ln so far as Is necessary to give
effeet to this section.
Now, tbere is no provision bere as to bow
the party who bas violated tbe conditions
ls to get tbe money back, but there is a de-

claration tbat this joint tariff must be flled
witb the board, and If it is flot filed, then
the goods, tbough tbey are Canadian, are
subject to a custoins duty ; even if tbey
are free goods, tbey have te pay 30 per cent
duty. Then it provides that on demand for
refund of that money, it shbal be given
Wbat is the value of that clause as it
stands? It only makes the mnan pay the
money to-day-and be may deinand it back
to-morrow, tbough be may have violated
the iaw. It Is of no value unless as a
penalty imipesed upon the conipany.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is a unique
penalty, and a very substantial on1e.

The OHAIRMAN-There are thirty-seven
clauses reserved, eitber ln part or in whole.
Does any one wish to go back te thein ?
Hon.

Mr. POWER-I

think it

was the

general opinion that these clauses ceu]d be
better considered at a later day, when the
amendinents will be in print, and we have
heard from tbe representatives 0f the railway companies.
Son. Mr. FERGUSO2N-A large number
ef those were beld over, flot'for reference
to the representatives o! the railway coinpany, but simply at the request of meinbers who wished to consider thein more
fully. If we could take up some of those,
and get thein disposed of, we could advnnce
the work.
Hlon. Mr: McMULLEN-I want te give
I understand
notice o! an amendinent.
clauses 10 and il were reserved. I want
to give notice o! an amendinent which wihll
be subsection 3 of clause 11. It is as follews:

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The government
of the board
collect tbe duty, then the company bave to orAny memberhiinself, or any accepting orany gift
favour for
relation
friend,
Ilot provided for in this Act, or exercising bis
repay ItL
any relative or friend.
influence on behaif of
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)- with any railway comapany or officer for any
position or favour, shall thereby forfeit bis
The company is out of pocket by It.
seat as a member of the board.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe gevernment
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Might met the hon.
collect the duty the saine as If the goods gentleman at tVhe saine turne give us ani inwere dutiable ln1 the first place. Then the terpretation of the -word ' friend.' and put
governinent, bavlng coUlected tbe duty, the it in the interpretation clause. Lt is a x-ervcompany, evidently froin this section, could vague expression.
flot recover the duty back froin tbe governHon. Mr. BEIQUE-There is a matter of
ment, but bave te pay it theniselves.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)Tbe conipany pay tbe duty as a penalty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is by ne menas dlent.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I tak-e it te menu this:
The duty, 1 assume, is collected, flot froin
the company lni the first place, but frein the
consignee or consignor of the goods, and
afterble bas paid lt, the company are ebliged to refuad it to the consignee or consignor.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And the gevernment is abead the 30 per cent.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And the 30 per
cent ls collected even thougli the goods
would be otherwise admitted free of duty.
Hon. SIr MACKENZIE BOWELL.

very considerable Importance wJaich the hon.

gentleman froin Killarney called my attentien to, and I know that dhe lntended te
bring it before the House. hljder this Bilh
the railway companies are prehîbited frei
gîving passes in ordÈr that they rnay net

discriminate or give any advantage te certain persons over others. Lt is well knewn
that railway companies give facilities which
For instanuce.
tend to .help cohonization.
they carry freight at considerable reduced
rates for colonization parties, or parties -wbe
visit the Nortb-west for the purpose o! gaining valuable Information. These are matters wbicb tend considerably te bhelp the develepinent e! the North-west, and the
country in general, and it seems te me we

AUGUST 27, 1903
to inake such a provision.
should try to provide for cases of thaît kind, it is good policy
It cannot be said in the Issuance of a pass
deal with the Bill finally.
before we
that it is a discrimination ; yet it seems to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is me the Act is so framed that it operates ln
flot that provided for by subsection (c) of that way.
clause 275 ?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudire)-It
Hon. Mr. WATSON-One word mlgbt be ls a great relief to railway companies to
added to the clause to cover the ground. be able to point to the Iaw when they are
Ia the ninth line of that subsection. Insert asked to issue passes. aud say, ' we are
the word 'extended.' They might get per- sorry, but the law forblds us.'
missim~ from the board. Take, for Instance,
mlgbt also
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-It
the congress of the Chambers of Commerce
eom- bamper them ln a very great degree. Many
held. in Moatreal the other day ; If the
pany wished to extend the courtesy of the railway companles have large tracts of land
road to them, tbey could nlot do so under for settiement and their desire nnd object
la to get them settled. I know it Is the
the wordlng of this clause.
custom ia the Nortb-west for the Can-adian
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The suggested Pacifie Rail-way to give passes to large paramendment would only apply to the clnsa ties fromn the United States and fromi the
of reduced tickets or passes qiready de- older provinces of Canada in order to induce
scribed ln the clause. This is a dîfferent people to visit the North-west to examine
class of cases, and I think it la desirable the lands and report to others. Now, 1 do
something shouid he done to make some flot thinh- tihere Is anyth'Ing iu the clause
sncb provision as lias been suggested.
wbich would cover that, and meroly introHon. Mr. WÂTSON-Tiie object Is, thiat duclng the word« 'extended,' as suggested
the board la theïr discretion mighit extend by the hon. member, would tiot create a new
theý right to rallroad. companles to give class as desired.
passes.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The wvord ' qualiHon. Mr. FERGUSON-That would ouly fied' would cover ItL
extend wlhat la already described ; but têts
Hon. Mr. FULFORD, fromn the committee,
is a new clause.
reported. tihat tbey .had made some progreas
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I would xîot make It; with the Bill. and asked leave to sit again.
a clause at ail. Give the board permission, MARITIME RAILWÂY AND) TRANSPORas I bhave suggested.
TATION COIIPANY'S BILL.
Hou. '-,r. BEIQUE-I bad no time to draw
SECOND R~EADING.
that clause clearly. I merely direct the atthe House to the subject ln order
tention of
Hon. Mr. FROST moved the second readthat they may be better prepared to deal lng of Bill (180) Au Act to incorporate the
wlth it whien we meet again.
Maritime Railway and Transportation Com(de Lanaudière)-It pany.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN
Hon. Mi-. YEO-Before thit, Bill is read a
Is a pity to let the clause stand for jnst
adding one word. Give them power to ap- second timie. 1 think the lion, gentleman iii
ply to the board. Supposing they wished to charge of it shiuld give somne information
take immigration agents fromn the old couin- iii regard to it. It seems to nie the Bill cais
try over their line, they could npply to tic for- large powers, particularly with reference
board and get permission to give these peo. to steamsllip transportation. 0f course, if
the bon. gentleman intends that the steamiple froe transportationi.
pîr between Cape Bre'-%r. LOUGHEED-Under what prin shlp company slîould
Hon.
r ton and New Brunswick and Great Britain
cIple are -we legislating to provent rallwa3
that rnight
companies from lssuing passes to wvhomso -or any other part of the world,
* ho ail rlght, but If it la intended to ply beever they wish ? Hou. gentlemen must con
Prince Edward Island and the mainaider the fact that this Bill actually pre trween
Lland, we should certa.inly have sonie excludes a railway company from issuing ý
of this Ilouse
pass except to partîcular classes enumer - planation. Hon. gentlemen
rwho have been here for some time illh
ated in clause 275. The question is whethei

SENAT E
kxiow that the question of winter communication between Prince Edward Island and
the malnland Is a very Important matter
At
for the people of that province.
the time that prowvince entered Into confederation wlth the Dominion, it was one of
the stipulations that the Dominion should
give Prince Edward Island communication,
-wvdnter. aud summer. With respect to surnmer communication, I do not think w-e have
very much to complain of, but w've cannot
say quite so much w'ith regard to our -viuter
comm unication. Although the Dom inioni
goverumen-t bas done a great Geai to imipr6ve that service, a great deal remains yet
to be doue. Soon after w-e entered int confederation, the then Dominion government,
led by Alexander M,,aclzenzie, provided a
steamer to navigate the straits of Northumberland. The old 'Northern Light1 w-as
put on that service and did a great deal of
service and demonstrated that the straits
of Northumberland might be navigated
in w-Inter. The governmeut whieb succeeded Alexauder Mackenzie, the goA.
Macdonald,
ernment of Sir John
built the ' Stanley, and put ber on tlîat
service, and she bas doue remarkably w-cil,
and rendered good service, and the present
government have provided anothier steamier,
so that ut the, present
the 'Minto,'
for
steamsbips
tîme
w-e have two
that service. Althougb they have. rendered very good service, stili, w-e cannot say that it is anything like perfect.
Durlng the past winter there was a good
Geai of interruption, and consequently a
gaod deai of lo>ss w-as entailed, partlcularly
For some w-eeks
wlth perishable freight.
the service w-as lnterrupted, and the
shippers were put to serious loss. For mary
years the principal route w-as between Pictou, Nova Scotia, and Georgetown, Prince
Edward Island,, and that route gave fair
satisfaction, but in the w-estern part of
Prince Edward Island we are always contendiug that a better route mighit be ohtalned by Cape Tormentine, New Brunswick,
to Summerside, or, failing Summerside, Cape
Traverse. There are many advantages in
counection wlth the western route. Between Summerside and Cape Tormentine,
It Is only a littie more than one-fourth of the
distance between Pictou and Georgetown.
Summerside is the second town of importsuce we have iu Prince Edw-ard Island.
Hon. Mr. YEO.

It is a town where a great deal of business
is done and ln which there are business
establishments second to none ln the mariThe people are very
time provinces.
anxious to give the route for Cape Tormentine a trial. During the winter of
1902, the Minister of Marine and Fisheries
sent the ship ' Stanley ' there. She w-as
put on and it always takes some tirne
to get things thoroughly established. but
after she got fairly under way she rendered good service. Last winter she w-as put
on the same route ggain. She w-as late in
getting theTe ;navigation had clos-ed two
or three weeks before she w-as put on the
route, and she was at a g-reat disadvantage,
because the freight that had accuniulated
there had to' be sent through other channiels, so that wben she got there she
started under unfavourable circcumstances.
A very severe winter set in. Hon. gentiemen will remember that last winter In, the
east was one of the most severe winters we
bave had for several years. Perbaps partly
ft-om anl error in judgment of those ia
charge, aud perhaps partly o-wing to the
sev-ere winter, the sel-vice wvas flot satisfactory, but 1 do not think that should e;ýndenmn the route, because If she bad been
on the other route between Pictou and
Georgetown, there would have been a stoppage for sorne considerable time. Now tlie
western route should have a fair trial. If it
is founid imlpracticable, it nleed flot be continued. Summnerside hias a good natural barbour, and there Is a break-water there in
course of construction. For solie ronson or
other, the parties w-ho had the contract have
nDt gone on -withi the work. Iloweve-, 1
bave no doubt that in the course of a short
time that work will be gone on w-li
and completed, and by conflning the
water ln the chanmel. it may consieay
help the navigation in the
winter. If it is not found practicable to
make Sulmerside the winter port, it is
thought that Cape Traverse, on the Prince
Edward Island side, and Cape Tormentine,
on the New Br-unsw-ick side, w'nuld be certainly good. The distance is only some eight
miles between the two provinces, and there
%s a great advantage iii making this the
winter route, because tbe old ice boat service is conducted between these two points,
and if at any Urne the winter steamer should
be caught ln the ice and unable to performa

AUGUST 27, 1903
the service, the boats would be there
It
passengers.
to carry mails and
la tbougbt to be a very feasible route.
1 have uiiderstot;d tlïut oue object of the
Bill is to endeavour ta perforrn this service,
but any one acquainted wltb it knows that
It is impossible for anly coxupaiuy ta perforai the work. It is i work requiring a
large outl.iy and it is ariscy uuclertaking.
There would require ta be an expensîve
pier built, and no cornpany would unThat rnust be done
dertake the work.
by the governaient and the goveruiment
For this, and miany other reaalone.
sons the people of Prince Edward
Island' do not feel that this work should.
be taken bald of by any but the garernment. Hon. gentlemen may ask :'Wfly
nlot let the cornpaniy go on ? If they do not
perform the service no barai will be done.'
But the harrn will be doue in this way, If
the Company iuicorp)orated ta do the work
makes a beginning. even if the beginuing
be very small, and let It stand, they
could say ta the governinent :'You have
given us this charter and we have started
to perform the service, and ire do nlot tbink
you sbould corne In and do the work we are
golng ta do.' 0f course, the people of
Prince Edward Island look to the goveriument ta see that this service Is properiy
carried ont. The service bias been Improved
and we look for furtber iniproveuient. We
hope that as eacb year passes, tbe goveriiment will buprove tlie service and make it
better than tbey have ever given biefore. Hon. gentlemen who are living on
the minanland, who bave the advantage of
the same communication surnaer and
winter, cau scarcely realize wbat a disadvantage It Is ta live on. an Island where
we are sixrrounded by Ice, perbaps baîf or
Thbey
one-third of the year at least.
can scarcely understand the grent disadvantages wbilb we labour under, and therefore I will ask theui ta. take this niatter hâte
consideration, and nat to treat thîs subject as tbey would dealing wltb the other
provinces. This is perbaps the nîost liportant thing wbiclb Prince Edward lslauid
bas ta deal wîtb. In suraier ive cau get
along very well, wbiie navigation is open.
We have the steamers, and tbey reuder gond
service, but It Is very diff erent In winter. We
lu Prince Edward Island are strongly opposed to interference on the part of any coai-

887

pany. We do not want a company ta pretend
ta do the work wbich sbould be performed by
the goverrument. I do not wisbi ta say one
disrespectfnl word in regard ta tbe gentlemen wbosc naines are menitioned iii the
Act of Incorporation. Tbey are respectable
men so far as I know. One of tbern is an
bon. member of thîs Hanse. I do not tbink
there Is any one df theai wbo would like ta
put any money into this project, and of
course, this work requires a large outlay.
I sbould bie -lad ta bear an explanation froni
rny bon. friend f rua Smitb's F<alls. 1 do
flot .wisb ta interfere -nith theý Bill lu any
way, except In sO far as it applies ta the
service between the mainland and lrince
Edward Island.
Hon. Mr. FROST-I migbit just say Ia explanation that I ar n ft the pramoter of
the Bill. My naine only stands on the Bill
at the request of a friend lu tbe Hanse of
Commons. I bave nîo interest in the Bill
furtber tban that. I arn sorry ta be found
la opposition to aiy bon. friend wbo bas just
resumed bis seat, a gentleman for w1bom I
bave the very big-best regard and respect.
I did flot k-now, until I bieard bis exwas
Company
this
that
pianation,
very serlousiy
se
golig to confilt
witb the service already lu operation bietween the ainland and the island. Tberefore, bon, gentlemen will kindly nnderstand
wbat mny position is in regard ta this Bill
wbich stands in aiy name.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink we ail fully
appreciate the difficulties Prince Edward
Iuland labours under dnrlng tbe wlnter season, and the obstacles wbicb interfere wlth
rapid transit between the rnainland and the
Bath the present governaient and
Island.
the goverament wbicb preceded it, bave
made pretty active efforts ta keep the navigation open, but even wvltb modern appliances they found tbemnselves une<iual ta
cape whth the difficulties wbicb preva lIed
last winter. I do flot thInk my hon. frieud
iieed fear that the Incorporation of this
coaipany Is In any way galng ta dlsturb exIt Is a very serions
isting arrangements.
undertaking, and uniess tbey are prepa red
to offer something very much better than
is afforded now, It is nat at ail passible ibat
We
any serious progress wiii ba made.
are nccustomed ta find companies incarparated bere from tume to tiaie. and incorpor-

888

SENATE

ation is tbe iast we hear of them, and posBibly that may be tbe case witb the present
one.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Well, Monday.
Hon. Mr. FERGtJSON-And a vast number of clauses were nlot discussed at the
meeting this morning.

Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-We do nlot like
to rlsk tbat in this case.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The amendments
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But It wiil nlot place the proposed by the bon. gentleman from De
Island In a worse position If the Bill passes. Saiaberry wiIl take a da-y or t-wo if ive go
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This Bill is one te Jnte tbem.
The motion was agreed to.
whichi the people of Prince Edward Island,
1 think I cau say are almost universaily
INCORPORATION 0F MINING COopposed. Tbey do nlot want this IncorporaPANIES BILL.
tion at ail. I have soine reasons to present
to the House In opposition to the Bill, and
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
In support of the view taken by my bon.
The House resoived Itself into a Commitfrîend -wbo bas just spoken, and I move tee of the Whoie on Bill (Y) An Act rethat tbe debate be adjourned.
specting the Incorporation of Min ing Coinpanies.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adJourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday, August 28, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair nt Tbree

o'ciock.
Prayers aud routine proceedings.
THIIRD READING.

(In the Coýumittee.)
Hon. Mr. POWER-There was sorue discussion ut the previous stage of this Bill,
and there seemed to be a feeling that the
Bill might laterfere in some m-ay with the

rights of the provinces.
I thlnk we ufiglit
aniend this first clause by adding to it something to this effect-tbat the Acf should
apply onl1y to companies witbin the exclusive jurisdiction of the parliameîît of Cariada.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-What companies tire
Bill (158) An Act t0 incorporate the
St.
Chrysestônie Raiiway Comipany.-Hoî. '.%r. withln the exclusive jurisdiction 0f the parhumient of Canada ? The objecf 0f the Bill,
Young.as I have explained, Is f0 facilitate xuiinîn1g

RAILWAYS LAW CONSOLIDATION BILL comupanies being lncorporated by lettmrs
patent of the Dominion, insfead of tbeir bePOSTPONED.
ing incorporated Iu foreign countries, wben
Tbe Order of the Day being called,
fhey offer no0 guaranfee wbafever.
I cali
House again ln Commlttee of the Whole on affentoon f0 the fact thaf under clause 2 of
(Bill 21) An Act to amend and consolidate thc the Bill if Is stated :
iaw respecting Railways.
The Drovisions of the
H-on. Mr. SCOTT-It was understood that as2.amended by chapter Companles Act, 1902.
of the statutes
this order wouid be discbarged and stand of 1903. skiait be considered as lncorporated iu
this Act. except such portions thereof as are
over nutil the report of the proceedings this In conflict
with the provisions bereof.
We caniiot
morning biad been printed.
Wben a comnpany J.s lncorporated ln virtue
make uny hiendway until hon. gentlemen
have bad an opportunlty of consideinîg it. of this Bill, if if passes, the forin of the
stock certIficate has f0 disclose that there
We could take It UP 0o1 Tuesday.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Why îiot Mbnday ?
BOWý%ELLHoln
Sir MACKENZIE
Surely niembers wbo iisteîied to the disculssion this morning do itot wânt f0 rend a
report of it.
Hoa. Mr. SCOTT.

Is no0 liability, or If there be a liability, whaf
The written notices
is the amnount of if.

-in faet, ail the Ilterature of the compauY
-letter headings and other papers, have f0
beagr these words, 'n0 personal liability.'
I cali special attention f0 clause 5. Under
the Companies Act it is incumbent on ail

AUGUST 28, 1903
companies to make certain returais, but 1
thought it would be important, as far as
mining companies are concerned, thiat tiiese
returns be more complete than they are, and
therefore I have suggested this as clause 5:
6. In addition ta the tacts to be stated in the
returns- mentioned In the section. 89 of the
Companies Act, 1902, every mining company
Incorporated under this Act shall state the
number of shares. If any, lssued totally or
vartially unasses.3able and ta what extent.
Then, I cali more especial attention ta
clause 6
6. If any person in any returu, report, certificate. balance-sheet or other document reQuired by or for the purposes of this Act, wilfully maltes a statement false In any material
Particular. be shall be hiable on conviction on
indictment ta Imprisanment for a term flot
exceeding six months, with or without harà
labour, or on summary conviction ta Imprisanment flot exceeding three montbs, with or
without bard labour. and in either case ta a
fine of one hundred dollars In lieu of or In
addition to such imprisoament as atoresaid.
AU these provisions, except clause 5, have
been borrowed tra>m the Mining Act of Ontario, and it seeme ta me that tbey are execeptionally good provisions, and tliat If this
Bill is passed it -wlll offer a much better
guarantee ta the public than exists ln the ab,sence of It. A great number of companies lncorporated under the law of New Jersey and
other states of the neiglibouring country, do
business here without affordtig any securlty ta the public. Il seemns ta n.e we should
facilitate the incorporation of inlng conipanies in Canada In order teanvoid, as far
as possible, incorporation under foreiga law,
and we shiould endenvour ta get f rom the
companies doing- business in Canada, proper
I hope that the lion. member
guarautees.
wiil nlot insist on his ameudmnent. Lt
would entireiy nuliify the abject of the
Bill. Under the constitution this legisîntion
can operate only as far as companies are
lncorporated for the purpose of carrying on
If
business ln more than one province.
It is mereiy for local purposes. it should
incorporate -under the provisions of t1k,
provincial law.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGH-EED-Uponi the second
reading of this Bill I toak the liberty of
making- some rather extended observations
with reference ta the principie emliodied
in the Bill. I certainly have net changed
my mmnd since witii reference ta the subThe objection wbicli 1 see ta tiîis
ject.
Bill lies in the facilities it affords ta the

889

capitaiization of fictitiaus companies.
Lt
admits of the lssuanoe of paid-up non-assessable stock ta parties wba have nat contributed In any sense whatever ta the capital
o! the company, and It Is a mischlef which
I took the liberty o! polnting out the other
I taire no second place ta my han.
day.
frlend In my desire ta see the development
of aur mining resources throughout the
Dominion, and yet at the sanie tume, I arm
bound ta point out that much of the difficulty, in fact, much of the depression whichi
to-day exists in mlning enterprises is very
largely due ta the exploiters of mnining projects, who, in the first Instance, get hold of
a mlnlng property, capitalize It at a very
large amount beyond its value, Issue stock
pald up and non-assessable. under the Provincial laws, and then expeet the public ta contribute a small sum compared
ith the amount whlch should be contributed to the openlng up of mining enThis belng the case, we find
terprise.
the mine lu most cases crippled, and those
wha have subscribed for stock hiable for
calîs, flnally wlped out by reason a! thýe
financial difficulties wich inevitably arise
That 15
under that condition of affairs.
the case throughout British Columbia nnd
the North-west Territories, and lu tact
throughout aIl the provinces o! the Dominion
where mlnlng Is carrled on ta a large extent.
Lt Is desirable that people going into mmning enterprises should face the obligation
whlch must -necessarily contrant then in
the proper development of the industry
whlch they have In vlew, and If part a! the
sharehiolders, or a very large section of the
sharehalders, are able ta issue ta themselves
pald-up stock wlthout the assumptian of any
llabilty, and eniploy a very small proportion
of the capital which is paid lu towards
indlfferently opening up the mine, the consequence Is bound ta be as I have pointed
out. Another consIderation. which might be
given ta this Bill lies ln thîs tact: that there
are very few mining enterprises o! a tederai character-thiit is to say, the laws of
the province afford ail the tacilities necessary, ln iny judgment, for the openlng Up
a! any ining entery*vse le.the Dominion,
and It is very seldoni you find a înining
company ownlng mining property ln more
than one province. If they do, the laws
o! that province are sufficiently wide, it

SEIN7ATE
seems to me, to permit of tbe investmnent
of capital and the operation of such schemes
as we bave in view In tbis Bill.
Hon. Mr. BIEIQUE-Tlo carry out the ob.
ject the lion. gentleman front Calgary bas
in view, the laws of Ontario, Britishi Columbia and the Narth-west Territaries would
bave ta be repealed, because lie wvill admit
that t.he laws lit titese two provinces and
in thle Nortb-west Territaries are exactly
in the direction mentioned ln the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do niot dispute
thut.
BEIQUE-And titese provinces
Haou.
are thle provinces whicli are mostly interested lit minlnug enterprises. Neverthieless'
lt has been considered advisabhe In tliose
provinoes-and I think by nimast unanimous
consent-that uit order to facilitate tbe warking of miniing comnpanies, oit account of the
risk tbiat there is uit tat kind of enterprise,
it Is inecessary f0 aller thase inducements.
I itave no desire to agalît state tite retîsons
I urged ont tbe secontd reading of the Bill
ln tbat respect. It would be necessary also
to close the door to any comnpanies comlng
here and carrying on business la the Dominlitn whien they are inicorporated lit England
or lit the United States, or under tue laws
of any other country permitting pald-up
shares ta be issued. It bas been tbe pollcy
af tbe Dontinion parliament, ns weli as ai
the provinces, ta permit fareign corporations
to carry ait thieir operations lit this Dominion, and It ls a well-knawa fact that we
biave nny number of campanles who are lacorparated la tbe States whao corne and carry
on business bere. Anybady can obtalu lit
the state of Newt Jersey or several af the
athier states, letters of Incorporation wbicht
will give the very sane powers ýtbat are
mentioned la tbtis Bill witbaut any of the
guarantees. Therefore, I fail ta see what
abjection there can be, Sa long as tiiere exIsts local legisiation on tite matter, and so
long as we do not deein It advisable ta close
the door to fareiga corporations being lncorporated witbi thase powers ta carry at
ýbu5àlness bere. And I cannai see what
objection there. can be ta having companles
-wbicb are lnterested in more thian one province obtaining those powers. i do not
tbill it la necessary-it arises front tbe coltstitution-but I see no objection ta state
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

tlhat It shial apply only to coîPailes that
carry on business in more titan. one province.
The clause was adopted.
Hon Mr. BEIQUE-I propose ta add the
followlng clause at the end of the Bill
This Act shail apply only to companies operatlng or ownlng property In more than one
province of the Dominion.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-ibat
clause would enabie tlbem to carry ont tlheir
operatians If tbiey owned property lit any
othier portion of the Dominion witlbout workling It. Ail they would have to do would be
to own a property in Quebec, and tbey
could carry on their works In Brltlh Columbia or Ontario or any otiter province.
I do not see the value of such a provision.
If you buy ten feet of land lu one province
it would enable them to carry on operations
in anotber province.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Owning and operating
-woîîld be the better expression.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Ownlng and operating minlng property, I wili amend the proposed cl ause to read In that way.
The clause was amended and adopied.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the commîttee, reported the Bihl wlh an nmendment, wlicb
was concurred In.
The Senate then adjournied.

THE SENATE.
Ottaica, Monciay, August 31, 1903.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eigbht
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THIRD READING.
(231) An Act to confer on the ComumisBill
sioner of Patents certain powers for the
relief of the Keller Heater PoNver Company,
Limlted.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
RAILWAYS

LAW CONSOLIDATION
BILL.

HOUSE AGAIN IN COMMITTEE.
The Honse resumied lit Committee of the
Whole consideration of Bill (21) An Act

AUGUST 31, 1903

891.

.Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn very glad to
hear the Secretary of State express himself
ln that way. As I understood the hon. gen(In the Committee.)
tleman from De Salaberry the other day,
On clause 2,
hie entertained very mucli the saine opinion
Hoei. Mr. SCOTT-Au amieudment was as has been expressed by the hon. mînîster
genmoved by an hon. senator lu refereuce to [n charge of the Bill. The bon.
tleman fromn De Salaberry thought tbat lie
sulisection (b). The subsection rends:
would mInîmIze the evil by the addition
The expression by-iaw includes a resolution. which hie proposed, but If hon. gentlemen
The proposai n'as to make it rend:
look at clause 80, they will find that Is
Except when referring to municipal bodies really the ouly place In the Bill ln which
the expression by-iaw Includes resolution.
resolutions are referred to
1 do net know who sng-gested tlîis amendThe directors may make by-laws or pass rement, but It do es not commeud. Itself to my solutions fromn time to time for the following
judgment. A by-iaw and a resolution are purposes.
attended with very different ceremony and
There la no necessity for Introducing *reTery different consîderation.
solutions'1 Into the luterpretation clause, and
,naking them equivaleut to by-laws on neHon. Mr. POWER-Hear, hiear.
icou-nt of that clause ; but If lion, gentleHon. Mr. SCOTT-A by-law is a preceed- men look at the heading on page 80, 1byIng by a cornpany that Is not passed on the Iaws, rules and regulations'1 they wiii ftn4l
mere motion of the mover or seconder, but that by-ILaws, rules and regulations are
ordinarily receives perhaps a second read- treated as somethIng different fromn resoluing, and ut nIl events It has to have the tiens there, and I thlnk the making of a
nanie of the president, or vice-president, or resolution equlvalent to a by-lawv wili sImply
oue of the heada of the corporation, aud iead to confusion. 1 arn glnd the hon.
usually the' secretnry, and It must bave a Secretary ot State proposes to strike out thia
seal. A. resolution ia more a hap-hazard pro- paragraph (b). It la caiculated to do nothposition comxnitted to a biody o! meni and ls iug but harm.
carried yea, or nay, and does not receive
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWý%ELL-Wlhnt
that solidity of thought or judgnient that a
limitations does the hon. gentleman propose
by-law does.
to makre?
Hou. Mr. BEIQU-It wss I who 'made
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As this clause (b>
the motion.
reands, the expression 1by-iaw'1 ineludes reHou. Mr. SCOTT-My proposition would solutions. 1 gave notice that I wouid ask
that It bie amended by substitutiug for that
lie to exclude resolutions altogether.
clause <b) the foliowiug:
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hear. hear.
Except when referring to municipal bodies,
Houi. Mr. SÇOTT-Lecnuse wliere it la the expression 'by-law' *includes 'resolutioni.'
defined that an Act o! a conmpany must lie
But 1 quite agree with the suggestion of
mnrked by the ccremony o! n lir-lan', it the hon. S.ecretary of State, and tbink it
would lie golng too far to say tbnt If they wouid be much better to strike out this
passed a resolution it would have the sane paragrapli altogether.
virtue and the anme force as a by-law. 1
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Th17ere
do nlot coucur la that vien' and 1 do not
thiuk It la a wise provision, and therefore I seems to lie but oue opinion ou this quneswould lie disposed to faveur the proposai tion, partlcularly with those who have liad
of my hou. frieud as far as It goes. He said any experieuce at boards. In striking
it shahl not refer to Acta by a municipal ont that suliclause, it would be weii alse
body, but I would go further and say that to strike out the few words lu clause 80,
even as far as railway companies are con- becanse tbose who have been on those
cerued, a resolution ouglit not to lie attended boards kuow you eau o! ten get a snap rewitih the samne weight and force ns a liy-law. solution passed, which miglit lie of very great

to amend and consolidate the law respecting
raiiways.

SENATE

892

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is the saine as the
lrùportance, and as clause 80 provldea for
the isauing o! stock, and different other law la now.
Important mattera, we shouid at once strike
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is the old lawv.
out the word 'resolution' in that clause, In
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-It is only where
order flot to give power which are taking
there la no specific provision in the Act, and
from the interpretation clause.
that wll only bie for something that cannot
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Should not there be an- be foreseen.
other meaning altogether ? Would not one
The clause was adopted.
object be to prevent those companies acting
On clause 3,
by resolutions when they should have bylaws ?

Hon. Mr. WOOD moved:

That section 3 be amended by strikHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I underatand we are
ing out the words ' other than ' and substitutflot dealing with clause 80 at present.
ing the word 'including' in lieu thereof, in
the second Une of the flrst clause thereof.

The amendment was agreed to.

The effect of this aniendmeut is to brinig

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I had a memo. op- the Intercolonial Ralway and other governposite clause (f):
The expression « court ' means a superlor
court of the province or district.
I do not know whether any one wishes
to make a change in Vint ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is the law
as It Is at present. It has neyer been subject to nny objection.
The clause was adopted.
On subelause (r),
The expression ' legisiature of any province.
or «provincial hegisature ' means and includes
any legisuative body other than the parliament
of Canada.
Hou. Mr. POWER-I suppose there ls
no doubt about the meaning of this, but the
question la whether this expression mlght
not Include a town council, for Instance.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
does that affect the North-west Territories '?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are a leglalative body. They pasa haws.
The clause wns adopted.
On subelause (c),
Hon. Mr. POWER-At the end of that

paragraph it says:
And generally aIl sucb charges. If any,

not

abave otherwýise specifled, as in ail cases of
Engllsh railway companies. are usually carrled
to the debit of revenue as distinguished from
capital account.

ment rallways under the provisions of titis

Bill.

1 have looked througlh the Bill and

also through the Act respectîng government
railways, and I think that this simple amnenciment will bring the goverinmient railways
under the provisions of this lnw, and wvill
nlot in any way interfere. as far as I cati
understand, wîth the operation of the government railways under the autbority of the
Tt will
minister ns they are now ruanaged.
be observed that this change does trot linterfere with the administration of the affairs of the Intercolonial Railway or othier
governmient railways by the Minister of
Ralways as the affairs o! these railTîrere
administered.
now
are
ways
wvill be no change so far as tie engagement
of employees or frnming the tariff, and the
general management of the raiiway are couProm my study o! tire Act, tue
cerned.
and
the chie!
of Rallways
Minister
superintendent will h~ave the sane powers
and performi the sane duties as the
president and board o! directors o! a private
Prom my study of tItis Bill and
railway.
o! the Act respectlng gov-ernment railways,
I do not aee that this change wiil interfere
in any respect with the management o! the
They stili reuiain
government raihwnys.
under Vie control of the Minister of Rlailpresent
the
they are at
as
waya
The Minister of Railways and
time.

his

officiais

occupy

the

anme

position,

so far as government rail-ways are concerned, and performi, I 'believe, preciseThat will involve considerabie knowledge Iy aimilar duties as a presîd-ent and direcof Engllsh practice on the part of the coin- tors o! an ordinary railway company. Tbey
li the nifairs
have the administration o!
missioners.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

AUGUST 31, 1903
of the raiiway, and the effect of this amexidment Is only f0 liring those raiiwnys uuder
the provisions of this law, so far as relates
f0 the duties of the new commission, which
in flue remarks wbielh
Is to lie appointed.
I made the other day, when this subi ect was
up, 1 pointed ont the advantages which,
it appeared to me, wonld resuit from this
change. There is Ia those provinces through
wbich the Intercolonial Railway mus sonie
feeling-in some cases, no doubt, there ls
reason for the feeling, and perhaps lu the
mnjority of cases there is no good ground
for the feeing-existing-, that under the present system friends of the governmuent,
what-ever governmient lappens to bc iii
power, are receiviag certain advanfages, or
enjoy privileges which the generai public
do not enjoy to the saune extent. It would.
have the effecf, if this amendmienf were
raiiwaýys
adopted and the goveruninemi
brouglit under the provisions of this Act,
of Femoving any feelings of that kind which
If wonid, at
exist at flie present time.
ail events, give any one who lias aniy coinpltient f0 maL-e, so far as unfair treatient
fa.¶ourifism or discrimination is concerîied.
an opportunity of presenting their case f0
tlie tribunal whîchli as heen created f0 liear
H1aving the
nnd determine such cases.
evidence subiffted f0 f ils tribunal, the
whole matter wonId lie made public anid,
no doubf, If flîey lad a good cause of coinplaint if would be correcfed, and if fhey had
not, the public would lcnow aiid fliey woifld
no doubf be convinced theuiselves that they
Thiat ls
lad no just cause of compiaiîît.
on-e very important advantage wvhich wvould
result from hringing the raiiways under
Prom n govthe provisions of this Bill.
ernient sfandpoinf, if I were a member of
the governinent or responsîble for ftie maniagemrent of the raiiwnys, I should certinily
feel if a very great advantngc to have the
railways brouglit under flhe provisions of
If would place flue Miister of
this Bill.
Railways and the officiais of these
rallwsys In a position that if a friend
unduly pressed for any favour or umivilege,
the matter wonld necessarily have f0 lie
referred f0 tbis commission and deait wlth
by them, and If would be a greaf relief f0
the Minister of Railways and f0 ahl who
are responsible for the management of the
governmenf railways. So far eus flic commission dea]s with thc appliances which

893

are f0 lie provided by the different railways for the safety of passengers and the
safety of employees, I see no rea son why
the saine appliances which are useful
and proper on other railways should niot lie
Inadopted by the government rallways.
deed, If appears to me from every point of
view very desirable tbat the government
rallways should lie inceluded under the provisions of this Bill, and I -%vas glad to note,
after the remarks whicli I made the other
day, that the Secretary of State intimfated
that It was a subject to whicli lie woulid
give serious consideration, and at the time
lie did Dot see any objection to bringing
the government raflways under the pr oviI hope this amendaient
sions 0f the Bill.
may commend itself to fthe favourable consideration of the House, and that the govcrament will consent to have this change
made and our governuient rail-ways brouglit
under the provisions of tlue Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman
is quite correct in saying that the bringing of governuient railways under the
control of fthe commission would Dot in any
way change the proprletory riglits the governinent Dow have. They would stand in
the same position towards the governiient
railways that fthe board of directors stands
to the ordinary raiiways of the country.
I presume the reason why the governuient
railways have flot heen brouglit under the
Bill is that the governuients are paternai.
They want to do 'what is fair and riglit
and just, and It Is supposed they should be
trusted to carry out the very hest principles that would lie fair to ail, aad on that
basis it was flot thouglit at ail proper or
necessary that the goverilment railways
should lie lncluded. 0f course, there are
very many questions that arise that are
In a sense teclinicai and have f0 be disposed of under present conditions by the
head of the departuient. As years go on,
no doulit there will be more eomples: questions arising, suci as the hanlage by other
roads over the IatercoIoDial Raiiway, or the
Intercolonial Railwày hauling over other
roads holding different positions. I dare
say there is a good deal of interchange
of freiglit now, and as years go on no doubt
there wll be a good defil more of IL. The
fair distribution of toill between the Intercolonial Rtailway and the other roads
that connect with lt, and ail those ques-

SENATE

894

tiens, are noe doubt quite important and if
the ralw~ay were nlot directly under the
control of the commission no doubt the
government would be able to avail itself of
the judgment and views of the commission.
It is for lion. senators to express their
vlews on the subjeet, and we are ail free
to do as we please ln the matter.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
reasons advanced by the lion. Se-cretary 0f
State are, to my mind, somle of tlie strongest reasons for adopting the amendment.
The lion, gentleman says that teclinical
questions may arise ln the management of
the road affectlng freiglits and other matters, -witli whicli experts ln railway inatters
alone could deal. It is nlot to be expected
that the minister would be as well fitted
to perform that duty as a board appointed
for'that purpose, and wbose special duty
would be to institute an lnquiry Into the
effeet of any traffic arrangements which
miglit be necessary in order to carry out
the proper exchange of freiglit.to the different roads to which the lion. Secretary of
State lias called attention. Then. as lias
been very properly remarked by tlie mover
of the amendment, it would relieve the goverament and political head of the department of responsibilities whleh It 'would be
mucli better that they sliould not exercise
than to keep It wlthin their powers. Wlien
the lion. gentleman spoke upon this question
before, lie said tlie maritime province members objected to bringing tliis rond under
the management of the board. The suggestion, 1 thlnk, whlch would be carrled to
the mind1s of every one would be that thie
maritime province people feared tliat tliere
miglit be some Interference wltli the freiglit
rates whlcli wouid be to their disadvantage. Now, If we want to relieve tlie country of tlie Incubus wliicli the Initercolonial
Railway lias been ln tlie past uponi the
revenues of the country, the sooner It is
placed upon n business basis the better for
the country, the better for tlie road, and tlie
better for those w*ho live upon tliis line
and who seek to take alIvantage of it. From
my short experlence ln the Railways and
Canais Department, 1 shouid look upon this
as a very great boon, to be relieved of this
particular part of thie duties w'lich pertain
to the minIster for the time being-. The
pressure which is brouglit upon the minister from political friends. more than from
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

political enemies, Is that wblch lie lins to
figlit agaiast, and much more strongiy and
determinedly tlian the pressure from the
otlier side. It bas been well pointed out by
tlie hon. senator from Westmoreland that
it will not Interfere wltli the power,
authority and responsibility of tlie government. It wiIl relileve tliem of that teclinicai
duty, as it lias been termed by the Secretary of State, whi-ch obtains ln tlie management of tlie road. It will be ini the interests of the country, as well as !i the iiiterests of ths departmsnt and the goverament tbemselves, if tliey could see their
way clear to accept tlie amendment piacing
ail raiiwnys under tlie conitrol and maniagemenft of the board. If tlie board is to be
of any advantage to the country, it should
relieve g-overament ownership of roads
from the difficulties which surround it now
in tlie proper management of tlie railway,
partlcularly in tlie interchange of freight
and atlier matters. Unless there are political reasons-and wliich I fear very machi
are the reasons whicli have lnfiluenced tlie
goverament in the course tliey have taken
in this matter, to justify the goveramrent
lu tlie course that they will pursue
la reference to governmnent railways.
I would urge thsm ln their own interest,
as well as lit thé interest of the public. to
accept the amiendmeat and bring ahl railways, whetber owned by the people tlirough
the government or by private companies,
under the provisions of this Bill.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Laniaudière).There ssems to be a misapprehension l tlils
matter. Does the hon. gentleman from Westmoreiand menu by the ameadment, that the
Intercolonal Railway wouhd lie run by the
Railway Commission ?
Hon. Mr. WOOD-No.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Simply that the
samne ruies would apply to nil railways ?
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Yes.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-But the administration of the government raiiway would
stili l>e lef t wlth the Minister of Railways
and Canais ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON--Yes, !l just the
saie w'ay.
Hon. Mr. WOOI)-As I understand, the
government railways w-ouid lie la the saine

AUGUST 31, 1903
pýosition as any railway incorporated under
a special Act. For, Instance, the Grand
Trunl, Pacifie Railway, wbieb ive are now
lncorporating, would be in the saine position as tie Intercoloniial Raiiwny. Tliat Is,
the iniiister and bis officiais would have ail
tbe management of the governument railway, -as the president and directors of the
Grand Trunk. Pacifie Rallway would have
of their line. They wouid engage ail the
employees ; they would make out their rules
and rates for freight and passengers, and
these would be approved by the board of
commissioners, and enforced. TXbe only
difference, so far as freight rates and passenger rates go, as far as I can understand
by a study of the Bill, would be, if It came
under thé provisions of tbis nieasure, publicity would be given to those rates. The
new Iaw requires that ail tariffs shal bie
submitted to the board of commissioners,
and approved, and that then tbey shall be
posted up in public places about the
stations so that every one can have acces
to them, and know what the tariffs are.
That -would bie the oniy change, so far as
the tariffs are concerned. The Minister of
Rallways would frame bis tariff, so far as
the government rallways are concerned,
just as be does at the present time, and Just
as the president or directors of any coinpany would frame the tariff of tbeir road.
Hon. Mr. CASGRÂIN-Under one clause
of this Bill, the Governor General iu Council
lias a rlht to revise anytling done by the
board.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLI-Anythiug ?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-App.arently, as I
read the Bill, there Is an appeal to the
Governor lu CounilI.
Hlon. Mr. WOOD-There is the rlght of
appeal, but not to revise.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-If tbere is a rigbt
to appeal, it surely must carry the rlgbt ta
revise. Subsection 2 of clause 44 provides
2. The Governor ln Cauncil may, at any time,
ln lits discretion, elther upon petition of any
party, person or company interested, or of is
own motion and without any petition or application theretor, vary, change or rescind any
order. decisian. ruie or regulation of the board,
whether such order or decisian be made Interpartes or otherwise, and whether such regulation be general or limlted la its scope and application *.andany order which the Governor

895

ln Council may make wlth respect thereto shahl
be blnding on the board and ail parties.
3. An appeal shahl lie tram the board ta the
Supreme Court of Canada upon a question of
jurisdiction. but such appeal shall mfot lie uniess the saine is allawed by a judge of the sald
court upoa application and hearing the parties
and the board ;the costs o! such application
shall be la the dIs.cration of the judge.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIlL-Tbat
would keep the road more cleariy under the
contrai of the government then.
Hon. Mr. FELIGUSON-But the mninister
couid stili administer the road as a coinpany eould.
Hon. '.%r. LÂNDERKIN-As tbere bas
been a considerable change ini tbe establishment of a board, however, desirable the
ameadment bon, gentlemen w'lsb, wouhd
It flot bie better to wait until we see
tbe resuit of tbe Railway Commission
lu operation for a year or two before w-e
take sueli a drastie step as tbis ? It may
bie well ta ascertain bow beneficiai or otherwlse the change tbat bas been made wiil
bie upon railways, and would it not be weii
for this House when the Bill bas corne ta
us la this forni, and wbien it was not adjudged wise to take aitogether tbis drastie
step to allow it to rernain until w-e
profit by the expérience of the board for a
year, or perbaps two years, and then, if it
bie a proper time, and a judiciaus thing fer
Ibis body ta move, If the experience of that
board is beneficlal ln the conduet and
management of railways, a change could be
made.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I agree wltb much
of wbat bas been sald by my hon. friend
fromn Westmoreiand, as ta the many advantages whlch would certalnly arise froni the
government railways coming under tbe
jurisdiction o! this board, the saine as
other railways of Canada. 1 fear, bowever,
that there would require ta bie a good deal
of careful consideration of the whoie Bihl
to find ivhether Its provisions wouid exactly fit Into that state o! thlngs. The suggestion that bas been made about the power
given ta the Governor In Council, under
clause 44, 1 do not tbink would bie at ail
fatal ; 'but it Is necessary If sucb an Important change as 'this Is made, for the Department of Railways and the government ta go
over the wbole Bill carefuliy, and see whether some other consequential changes wouhd
not have to be made. It la -well thîs proposai

SE-NATE

896

of my bon. friend from Westmoreland basj
been made, because it seems to me, from
looking at tbe clauses 266 and 267, that a
Iack af application of tbis Bill to the Intercolonial Railway is going to interpose somewbat serions obstacles la tbe way af efficiently carrylng ont the work of the board
If bon. gentlemen will look at clause
Itself.
266 they will find It provides for joint
tariffs bein.- agreed to by different rillway
campanies, wbere there is a continuons route
over two or more railways, and then 267
reads this way:
267. In the event of fallure by such comnpanies
ta agree upon any such joint tariff as pro-

in the maritime Provinces, where I can
see tbese provisions af tbe law wauld be
Inoperative, because the government railway interposes, and the board has no contraI aver the government railway. It Is
possible there may be otber difficulties, practical ones like tbis standing in the way of
tbe operation of this rallway law, witb the
government rallway left ont. It seems ta
me, from the casual thougbt which I have
given to it, that It Is very desirable that
the gaverament railways sbonld be included. There seemis ta be no substantiai rtason
why tbey shonld flot be inclnded. The garernment *wauld stand under this Act-If it
were s0 arranged-as an owner, in the same
position as a company wonld stand in relation ta a private raad, and the board would
came ln wltb ahl the antbority ln connection
wltb the gavernment road that it possesses

vided ln the next preceding section, 4be board
on the application of any campany or persan
deslring ta forward traffic aver any such contlnuaus route. which the board cansiders a reasonable and practicable route, or any portion
thereaf, mnay require such campantes, wlthin a
prescribed time, ta agree upan and file ln like
manner a joint tariff far such continuaus route, over other roads, and it would relieve the
satisfsctory ta the board, or may, by order,
deal af diffidetermine the route, fix the toli or tolls and government itself of a great
apportion the same amang the campantes In- culty. There would be this difficulty I bave
terested. and, rnay determine the date when the pointed out ta the Hause, where the IntertaXi or toIts sa fixed shall come into effect. and
traffie shall be carrl3d by the campantes ln ac- colonial Railway interposes between a railcordance therewith.
way ln Nova Scotia and railways in the
I wisb ta make is, wbere the Iwest if it ls not brought under the jurisdicThe point
government railway cornes in betweeil two or tian af tbe Act.
mare railways between wham it is desirons
Han. Mr. POWER-At flrst siglit tbere
the board shonld enforce a joint tariff. and
having no power over the govern- 15 a great deal ta be said in favour af the
the board
ment railways, wbat are they going ta do ? ameadment proposed by the hon, gentleman
Where is* the applicability af this Act in from Westmoreland. One af the strongest
s-ba aeas that-and that applies ta near- arguments which can bc urged in favour af
ly ahi the railways la the lower provinces ?It is that whicb bas just heen stated by the
The Intercolonial Railway is the only con- hon, gentleman from Mnrshfield. but I do
necting link between the railways of Nova not tbink that the difficulty witb respec~t ta
Scatia and some af thase in New Brunswick joint tariffs is a very serions aile. Ixiasand the railways of the rest af Canada, and much as the freigbt tariff on the IntercalIt is flot in the power of the board ta enfarce onial Railway is a 10w one, tbere is iever
a througb rate, say over the Grand Trunk, gaing ta be any serions difficulty la arrang1 am
the Intercolonial and the Windsor and Anna- ing joint tariffs witb other roads.
which Iimagine it wanld be nat aware that there bas ever been any
polis Railway,
very dlesirable tbat this board sbould bave serions difficulty on the part af the IntertUe power ta do. Its power could flot be colonial Railway ln the past, and I do flot
operated fram the tact that it wauhd have no tbink, there is likely ta be in the future.
contraI over the Intercolonial, the link con- We are flot bere as legisiatars ta consider
necting tbe Windsor and Annapolis Railway the comfort and ease of the government la
and the Grand Trnnk or any other western general and the Minister af Railways ln
system-tbe Intercolonial Railw-ay would particular. The sympatby wbich bas been
interpose, and tUe antharity af the board sbown ta the gaverament and tbe 'Minwould not operate la tbe way of enfarcing Ister af Railways is quite gratifying, but
a through rate over those lines. Lt seems after al we are flot considering them 50
ta me there are several roads ta whicb tbis mucb. it Is a fact that the adoption of
difflculty applies, I bave only mentioned the amendment sngg-ested by the ban. genone af tbem, but tbere are other ronds tieman from Westmaorehand, wonld r.elieve
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

AUGUST 31, 1903
the government and the Minister of Railways toi a certain extent. This commission
'would be a kind of buffer between the minister and the public who might have reason
to compla of the way in which the Intercolonial Ra-ilway was operated. Whfle that
would be true, It would flot diminish, as far
as I can see, la any way, the control of the
governm-ent and the minister over the railway. The rates, iinder certain limitations,
the appointment of the employees of the rond
-these things would still be In the hands
of the government, and the change would
mlot take the railway out of polities. If you
couid effectually take the Intercolonial
railway out of politces It would be a good
thing; but the fact of glving this commission certain rights to deal writh the Intercolonial Railway wou]d not have that
effect A very serious difficulty is indicated by the hou. gentleman from de Lanaudière. The Minister of RaIlw9ys ie given
a certain control over the commission, and
the effect, I think of bringing the Intercolonial Railway under the control, or su.pposed control, of the commission, would be
to introduce ýthe -political element Into the
commission, and that would be a very undesirable thing. These commissioners would.
he appointed by the goverament, a.nd If
they undertook to interfere with the government la the management of the Intercolonial Railway, you would immediately brIng
about the danger of -friction and difficuity
betweea the government and the commission, and the commission would go to the
wall as a matter o! course. There would
be a further tendency, I think, on the part
of the goverument to, be careful that the
commIssioners were men not liicely to Interfere wlth -the government management
of the Intercolonlal, Rallway. MNy
own impression Is that lnluding the Intercolonl
Rallway under the operation o! this third
clause, 'wouid do serious mischief to the
efficlency of the commission, and wouid not.
very much benefit the Intercolonial Railway. That le the feeling I have. If the Intercolonial Railway were taken out o! politics
altogether, and If the management and confr01 of the Intercolonial Railway were pla4ced
lu the ha.nds of the commission, thea
that would be a different proposition, and
one for -whlch a great deal could be said;
but I honestly do flot thlnk the ameadment

57

897

moved by the hon. gentleman from Westmoreland would do very much good, and It
would be calculated, by produclng confilct
and friction between the government and
the commission to do a good deal of harm.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I presume there
le no question attracting s0 much public attention to-day as the nationalization ef ail
public utilities, and .partlcularly o! raiiways.
It seems to me the consideration of this
f eature of the case might well be Imported
I suppose a more opinto this question.
portune time was neyer given to tise govcrament of Canada to make a practical
experimeat of the worklng Out of this important question, than through the Introduetion Into this Bill of some provision by
which there should be a different adminis-.
We
tration of the Intercolonlal Railway.
very weli k!now that the pressure o! party
influence brought to -bear on the administration o! the Intercolonial Rallway, as it
is under the present goveramuent and as It
was under the late government, prevents
it from beiag a business enterprise, and wiUl
continue so, and If anything operates against
the popuiarity of the question of the nationalization of railways or of ail public utilities,
it ls tbe actual exhibition, such as we have
ann-ually before -us, of deficits which arise
from. time to time with referenoe to the
working of the government rnilways. Now,
while I a-m fully aware that lncluding the
IntercolonlaI Railway in this clause would
flot -satisfa:ctorily work out the question o!
the nationalization of that road, yet it certainly would have a very Important bearing -upon It; and would lead te an economical
administration of the road by the government. If the control or litigation of tariffs
and toila would lie with the board, It therefore muet necessarily fafl on the government
of the day admlnlsterlng that rond, to administer It la' the -most economical way, s0
that the same ruies or prinýciples which
would be applicable to other roads o! the
country which are rua on a business basis
would be equally applicable to, the Intercolonial Raflway. At the present time there
Is no such pressure'brought to -bear on the
administration of the rond as cou]d ,be
brought to bear on It by this commission.
I thInk the experiment 1§ one that would
be watched wlth very great Interest by the

898

SENATE

people of Canada, and It might lead, in the
course of a very short time, to the Intercolonial Railway being placed under a comnmission. There bas been an opinion on the
part of 'business men in the Dominion-in
fact on the part of the public of tbe Dominion-that the Intercolonial Railway
should long age have been placed In commission and. administered absolutely
independent of the goverfiment, of the day ;
and until that is done we cannot hope for
satisfactory resuits froin a financial standpoint. 'So long as the Intercolonial Railwaiy,
the largest and most important public work
that we have In Canada to-day, administered by the government, is administereti
in the very unsatisfactory way In wblcb it
has been with financîi deficits piling up
year a-fter year, so long will there be a
postponement of the nationalization of ai
public utilities. I very much regret that tlhe
governinent did not make this experiment
ti lntroducing this Bn], because it would
have been watched with very great lnterest
by the people of Canada.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I do flot think the
maritime provinces are looking for any sucb
experiment as that suggested 'by my hon.
friend froin Calgary. The Intercolonial Railway was built, if ýmy hon. friend will
remember, at a turne when it was considered
to be an imperial road. It was mun north
of New Brunswick because it would be out
of the way of danger from foreign invasion
and the Britisb government guaranteed part
of our debt. Wben we went into confederatien, It was witb the idea that it was to be
a governinent road, and to place it in the
bands of a commission would be far frorn
what was intended, and would not satlsfy
the maritime provinces. In ail the speeches
whicb have been muade here, we bave been
led to understand that the government development Is in the North-west. We are
ail aware that the 'North-west is a great
country. We have bad ocular demonstration that It Is going to be perhaps the
greatest country on earth. It bas produced
some -of the greatest -men; but at the saine
time we In the maritime provinces have sent
you np the very best Intellects you have had.
I could go back to the days of Joe Howe,
Tupper and Tilley. They were in the van,
if flot the vanguard. My hon. friend froin
W9estmoreland wbo moved the amendment is
Hon. Mr. LOUGIHEED.

talklng, perbaps, to please eome of his
friendswbom I do xiot know nytbing about.
I do mot tblnk he Is talklng to please humself. He is Interested dn a sinaîl railway
clown there. Its lnterests are dependent on
the Intercolonal Railway. If bis views were
carried out--and I arn net prepared to say
tbey are his views--woul be band the littie
railway over to the Intercoclonial Railway? I
think there is a Bill coming up ini the other
House which is advo-cating, in the long run,
that It shail be part of the Intercolonial
Railway. It Is called a transportation coinpany. But if you can get underneath and
look below, you wil see it Is to join witb
and to gain lÈs prosperlty froin the prosperlty of the Intercolonial. If I uaderstand
the question he advocates, that the Intercolonial Rallway sbould be banded to the
commission, as a representative froin the
province of New Brunswick, I say that the
ýmaritime provinces will neyer subinit tc that
golng Into a commission. If It was buiît,
as It was, for an Imperia] road, if it was
built ln order that the maritime provinces
mlgbt throw their part Into the Dominion,
that they might be recognîzed. -whein they
came Into confederation as an iritegral part
of the Dominion and that this road was te
bind and make thein one, they neyer contemplated that at this hour of the day the
road should *be placed under a commission
to be administered by some party-I do flot
care whether It is Conservative or Liberal
-that their interests sbould be jeopardized,
If I may put lÉ that Way, that their Interests should be placed in the hands of a
commission, to buffet themn around and do
as tbey like. The suggestion should flot be
considered at aIl. The rond should be
worked under the terms of confederation
when tbat was an Imperial road, and that,
I tbink, is where we should stand to-day.
The committee divided on the amendment,
whlcb was lost on the following division:
contents, 15; non-contents, 26.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 10,
10. Not less than two commissioners shall attend at the hearing of every case, and the chief
commissioner, when present, shall preside, and
bis opinion upon any question, which in the
opinion of the commlssioners is a question of
law, shahl prevail. In any case where there is
no opposing party, and no notice to be given
to aniy interestod party. any one commissioner
may act alone for the board.

AUGUST

Hon.

Mr. BEIQUE-This was borrowed

froin the Engllsb Act, and under the English
A&ct, one commissioner Is called the ex-OffIClo
commissioner. He bas to be a judge, and
therefare the Act is quite logiceai, but clause
10 should be amended by adding In the
third line ifter the word 'and' the followlug: 'if the chlef commissioner is a lawyer.'

31, 1903

899

(2) The terni of office of a commissioner shall
be ten years, but a commissioner may be removed by the Governor in Council for cause
before the expiration of such terni. A comreappoinirnent
missioner shall be eligible for office :provided
on the expiration of bis termi of
that no commnissioner shall be capable of hohling office after attainlng thre age of 75 years.
Te
ueas
ol
ea
olw
Thnsbaue3wudeasfiw:
(2) One of such commissioners shall be a barrister of nlot less than ten years' standing, shall
be aPpointed by the Governor In Counil, and

Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-There would bie
nothing in the -Act to prevent the goverument appointing two iawyers-in fact tbey as long as he continues a member af the
Lawyers Aflother of such comçnissioners shall be
nilht appoint tbree lawyers.
seven years'
not
engineer
manage to squeeze themselves in if tîtere îs way ;and theaf third less than
commissioner shall
ing

board.
a railstandbe an

iny position lilce this, and it would nlot experienced farmer, or business man. One of
surprise nie a mreet dent to find tlîree law- such two last mentianed commissianers shall
yesappointed. In that event, what would puty chairman of the board.
be supreme ou al
we haeOewould
1 thiflk 'chief commissioner' ici a clumsy
questions of law and yet the other two
If that change Is made in clause
.expression.
might lie kbetter iawyers than hie was.
hon. gentleman
Hon.'-Nr.
LORN-SppoingthelawerS then the a'mendment the
suggests to clause 10 would be unnecessary,
ar
N-upsite
Hon. far.ine
ta cail hlm the chairman instead of
was farnerexcept
case we tHie chief comxnissianer. An additionai proFERGIJSON-In that
Hon..
,wouid nlot give hlm credit for being a very position is ta strike out the words ' chief
good fariner. If the chief commissioner la camimissioner, wherever they occur and
ta lie a lawyer. let the Act say sa distinctly substitute the word 'chairman.'
Hon. Mr. KCERR (Toronto)-If we made
.and then that bis opinion shalh carry on
that change in this clause we would have ta
points of law.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I talce the saine view change severai clauses.
as the hon, gentleman f rom 3Marshfield. The
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Could not my
rules of the Senate allow us ta reconsider a
hon. friend be persuaded ta make one af
clause whlch has been adopted. I am n ft
ta asic the comimittee ta reconsider those a railway man ?
going
Hon. Mr. POWER-I might have said
it now. but I asic ta lie ailowed ta subinit
my own Idea as ta the way la which this 'raîîway engineer.' A rallway engineer LQ
particul-ir difficulty and seine other diffi- generally a civil engîneer. Witb respect ta
culties might be got over. When we were
made by the bon. gentleman
dealing 'with clause S in the committee bie- the suggestion as ta the teri chief commishatI tiouhtfýram Toronto
I'alld
foratenionte
sioner occurrîng In a great many places, as
wa In thgh
for e caleatnita
ma tter of fact It ouly occurs in a couple
siplya
laue
the ben raftd, nd
hd
atr
h
oigi
e
lue.Ia
have made a rough draft of what I thlnk o

should lie la that clause and the committee
niight cansider It ait saine future turne. The
fllow :-tien
claue. radsas

The haon. Secretary of State says that thîs
clause bas been passed. 1 took the precanta say, beforè 1 made the suggestion,

S. The Rallway Committee of the Privy Council Is hereby abolshed and, la lieu thereof,
there shali be a commission, ta be known as the
*Board oi Railway Cammissioners for Canada,'
consisting of three members who shahl be appolnted by the Governar in Council, at any time

that under aur ruies any clause couid lie
reconsldered befare the Bll bas been reported.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There

ta
aiter the passing of this Act, and tramn is one serions abjection fram the proposition
De Saiaberry.
time ta time as vacancies occur. Suc cam- of the hon. gentleman
igtbmission shall be a court af record, and have anTeclaraaihscomson fti
omsinmgtle
Tecara
noticed.

offIcial seal. whicb shahl be judlcially
ord Intheand it seems ta me It wauld be mach better
ut
I shuldstrke ll he
mn
atlesodbaprcilrlra
clause after 'noticed.' and insert the folHon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hiear.
lawing:

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
to my mind, a young man who bas risen
Erdm the Iower ranks in railway employ untii lie bas acquired a position which would
justify the government ln appointing lm to
this commission would lie intlnitely superior
to a lawyer, thougi lie miglit have bad ten
He miglit
years' experience at the bar.
have had teu years' experience, and miglit
stand number one at the bar, and stili miglit
neyer ha-ve had any railway experience. If
he is to be a lawyer simply for the purpose
of giving bis opinion as to whether the question under discussion in the commission is a
question of law, then my hon. friend's position, It strikes me, niight lie correct, but
there are other duties whidh Nvouid pertain
to the chairman. other than that of dealing
wlth questions of law.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-MNudhi more important.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Miich
more Important, as my hon. friend says,
and a railway rn who bad giveni study
to this question would of necessity, If lie
was fit for the position, have a thorougli
knowledge of what the railway law Is, and
it is only the railway law and tue effect of It
on the transportation that lie would have to
deal wlth. A moment's reflection will suggest to the bon. gentleman that there are
ather qualities besîdes a knowledge of the
provisions of the law to lie considereci ii the
appointinent of these commissioners. The
suggestion made by the lion. Speaker, It
seems to me, would destroy the whole effects
of the Bill. The dhanging of the wording
miglit lie ail riglit enougli, but whel lie cornes
to select the parties who are ta constitute
the board, lie leaves out the qualities that
are necessary ta make that board of any
service whatever, and that is a thorougli
knowledpe of transportation, and of railway
manageaient. and how to settie litile difficulties in matters of tariff and interchange of
traffic. Thnt is the way it strilzes nie, aitbougli not n railway mni'.

affinity to any persan lnterested la any matter
before the board ;but wbenever any commissioner is lnterested, or of kin or affialty ta any
sucb persan, the Gavernor ln Counil may elther,
upon the application of such cammnissioner or
otherwlse, appoint somne disinterested person
to act as corn-mlssioner pro 1&ac vice.
Tliere appareatly, unless the commissioner hl-mself applies ta lie relieved, or
unless the Governor ln Cauncil act on their
own motion, if the comniasioner, or bis
brother or sister or cousin oil nunt wvas interested ln the matter comlng before hlm,
lie would lie capable of sittlng. If two or
three words were inserted after tlue word
' commissioner ' la the b.eginnlng af huie 26,
You
that difficulty miglit be got over.
miglt sny ' on the application of sudb coinmissioner or any other person.'
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-W7ill the coinmittee accept the principle embodied la the
first part of the clause ? I move that the
first two lines lie struck, out s0 that the
clause may begin with the words ' whenever
amy commisslolier.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Does it make any ditference in the sense ?
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-It says tînt a
commîssianer who is laterested in a case
may ait ln that case. Tint is cantrary ta
the Priuciples -which gavera aur judiciary
in the provinces.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-ln certain cases
wouid compel some one cIse ta act.

yotu

Han. Mr. LOUGHIEED-It would lie
optional with the Governor lin Cauncil ta
permit, or not permit, the commissionei'
ta act la sucli cases. If it were unimportant,
I presume tic commissiaxier miglit act.
should
Mr. D.INDUýRAN-,D-We
Hon.
affirm that lie should lie disqunlified by
reason of interest, but I s'hould. leave the
remainder of the clause whidh .-ives discretion ta the Governor la Coiicil ta appoint another commnissioXier.

Hon. '-\r. BEIQUE-The prînciple involved la the clause seemed ta me very
extraordinary, but on further examinaOn clause i1,
affected only
tion I noticed that it
Hon. '-\r. POWER--I do not tlîink thal1 thle raiiway company. It is in favour
»laure sliould be carried in uts presetit lorm. of any of the ailier parties excepi the
The first paragrapli reads lis follows:
because -under sulirail wa y conupafly,
11. No comimissiofler shall be disqualifled tc *clause two of the samne clause it is pro-

The clause was adopted.

act,

by reason of interest, or of kindred
Hon. Mr. SCO3TT.

01

AUGUST 31, 1903

IU

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-That is specially prolnanny railway company, and there- vlded for In the Bill.
ested
fore tbe parties, in proceeding before the
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Tls Is a very wlde
commission, are protected to that extent, clause, and is initended to give wide discretbat no commîssioner can lie interested ln tion.
a. railway cempany, and tbe railway comHon. Mr. BEIQUE-This clause is contrapallies wbo have scrutlnized tbis Bill
not ralsed any objection dictory la terins, boecause Il is stated la
tboroughly bave
to Ibis clause. If itlis 10 be amended, II: the sa-me clause, any two niembers of the
will bave 10 be redrafted, and we would board shial constitute a quorumi.
cided that no commissioner shahl le inter-

have 10 defiae the degree of L-indred or
âffinlty wblcb would disquallfy-

Hon. Mr. POWER-Clause 10 says so too.

Hlon. 'Mr. XERR (Toronto)-Tbat bias reference to any complaint made wbich lias
to be deterinied lu o)peu court. That Is,
ail open court sitting whici nîust consist
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Otberwise w-e cannot
two.
wvay-either adopt of Dot less thani
leave lt lu an indefinite
lt tlhat w-ny or detine w-bat il sliall lie.
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-But a conimissioner
mnay lie required Io a<judicate on a unatter
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)- to wliceh both parties consent. By arrangeI think the clause sbould lie adopted in Ibis ment tbe parties many lie satistied.
One
w-ny. Itlis always open 10 an3- party 10 commnissioner inay go down 10 a jiarticular
object 10 at commissioner if lie thlnks 'lie is iocality and settie a dispute. 1 would not
The bon. gentleman from de like to narrow It.
interested.
Lormier (Hon. Mr. Dandurand) would make
The clause wzis adopted.
il imperative upon the Governior la Councl
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I"irst cousin, or second
cousin.

disqualify bim lu tbese cases. Tberefore
1 would mnove tbat the clause lie adopted as
Il stands.,
10

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-A great -many
-of tbe acta of the comimissioners may lie
quite perfunctory and mere formai matters
and as to these hI wouid lie a malter of
indifference w-betber tiere was relationsbip,
but wbere il comies to a malter of substance,
eltber party can ask that tbe cominissioner
,do Dlot sit
The clause was adopted.
On clause 10,

On claus

a5,

Hou. 'Mr. POWER-H-oiî. gentlemen wvill
remember that representatives of the rail-

way companies laid a great deal of stress
on the side and end ladder question. The
point I wish to miake Dow is this, that under
this clause the commissiouiers liave power
to deal with that matter, paragrapli (f),
provides:
(f) With respect to the rolling stock, apsignais,
cattie-guards, appliances,
paratus,
methods, devices, structures and works, to be
to provide means
used upon the railway so as
for the due protection of property, the employees of the company, and the publie.

Hou. Bir. WOOD-Also under paragraph

Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-I unove that the
words 'together, or separately or eitlher,' (c).
ln line 18 and 19 lie struck out, liecause as
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, probably.
It stands it is contradictory lu terms. Il is
The clause n'as adopted.
stated tlhat tbiey mnay sit separately, and
On clause 111, subsectlon 4,
it la stated also that the quorum of tbe
board shahli e constituted of 1w-o iembers.
4. The power of issuing bonds conferred upon
Iu another clause, tbere are certain tbiugs the company hereby. or under the speclal Act,
as
wibh can lie attended to liy one commis- shall fot be construedpowerbeing exhausted by
may be exercised
such issue ;but such
sioner, so I move that tbese words 'tog-ether f rom time to time, upon the bonds constltuting
such issue being withdrawn or paid off and duly
or separately' lie struck, out.
cancelled ;but the limit to the amount of seflot
special Act
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tliey ar-e simaîl matters curities fixed la the that no power shal Issue bie
or
to
exceeded :Provided
that a single coninuiissioner ny adjudicate dispose of any such securities under any speclal
Act of the provincial legislature, ia connectîi
en.

902
with a

railway corning under

SENATE
the legislative

authorlty of the parliament of Canada, shahl
be subsequently cxerciscd without the sanction
of the Governor lni Council. 51 V., c. 29, s. 93,
Amn. by 55-56 V., c. 27, s. 4, Amn.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would suggcsf that
thec une
upon the bonds constltuting sucli Issue being
withdrawn or paid off and duly cancelled,'
be sfruck ouf. The reason is thaf, under
a judgmenf if has been held that w.hen
" company liad commenccd f0 exercise
fthe power, they could flot continue f0
exercise flien
withouf withdrawing flic
bonds, or paying off flic first bonds issued, although flic po%-er had not been
exhausfed. For rny part, I could flot
reconcile myseif f0 thaf opinion,- and,
if we werc f0 pnss this Bihl aftcr fliat
Judgmeîîf lad been î-cndeî-ed, it would lie
taken as n judicial uîtcrpretation fo which
we had agi-ccd. Tue woî-ds are iiot îîecessary, and flic clause would be inucli cleaîer.
Hon. Mi-. SCOTT-But if one class of
securities may be witlhdrawni froî flic mariket, whîy should flot fbe coîîîpany have tue
riguîft f0 Issue others ?i
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Tliis would îîot affect
fliaf right.
Hon. Mr. KERRI (Toronto)-You issue 'the
new bonîds foi- flc puî-pose of takiiig up flic
old bonds.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tlîey must caîiccl or
wifhdraw fthc old oxies before fhcey issue
îîew ones.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toroîîfo)-As it is biere,
if is fthc converse of that. Tue phrascology
of fuis clause may lic iîîfeîpî-ced f0 mean
flînt you cannot issue iiew'v securt-iies until
you have paid off and duly caîîcelled 111 flic
old ones, wbci-eas the issue may lie foi- flic
purpose o! faqkiiig tiin up and payiîig flîcîn
off.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbat is sufficieiif protection.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Even tiîoughi they
issue a part of the securities, tbey can, at
any finie, Issue the remainder. I tlîink the
hon. gentleman froni De Salaberry is rigit ;
the words lni the clause are misleading.
Thie words I have read fully explain It.
The conimittee divided on the amendment, -wbicb was adopted : contents, 20;
non-contents, 10.
Hon. '.%r. WOOD-If appears to me, froni
reading this clause a second, tilue, thaf the
meaning o!f tie words used here is that the
direct ois may, ln the flrst place, issue securitfs to the full amoujît that they ni-e authorized to issue under fthc special Act. and fliat
this clause 4 is lntended to convey this idea
-affer they have issued the full amount of
secuýrities permittcd by the special Acf, their
power f0 issue securities shiah îlot l)e conisidered f0 be exhausfed, but they caii reissue securities f0 flie ainount aufho-ized hy
the Act, on the fi-sf secuirities l)eig wiflîdrawn.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Thaf

is flie intfention.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronfto)-Thie clause as
if îîow stands amended, surely meaxis eýxactly
thaf.
The clause as anieîded was adopted.
On clause 130,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-1 suggested fliat: fis
clause slibuld stand, be~cause 1 flînglit it
miglif be necessary f0 have a paragraph, or
subsection, f0 say fiaf flic plan, as thins
nîodified on account of dev-iafioîîs, ýwoxuld he
deposifed as provided iii clause 12S.
Tue clause was adopfed.
On clause 149,

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This would îlot violafe
thaf principle. If could lie donc pari passuone bond paying off fthc othe-.

Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-There ai-e certain
articles of the Code of flie province off Quebec wnhich should be added f0 fhis clause.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toiîoitô)-The bonds
bave f0 be issued befoî-e fbey can lic made
use o! and sold.

Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-Why flot say thé~
lnws of the province of Quebec ?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe 31sf and 32nd
Unes explain if
Biut the lirnit to the amnount of the eecuritieî
fixcd in the special Acf shaîl nof lic excecded.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

Hon. 'Mi-. BEIQUE-Uiider tlhe law off
registration if is î-equircd fliaf docuentns
of a certain nature l)e reg-istered iii a cerftain
way and other documents iii anotiier way.
It states also thaf a registration mnay hiave

AUGUST 31, 1903
such and sucli effcct according to tbe-article,
se I refer to the articles advisedly.
Hon. Mr. lýOUGH-EEiD-If tîtat is pertinent to the province o! Queb-ec, why not provide similarly for registration In the otlier
provinces ? This clause does not deal witb
the subject of regfistration ; then, wly specifically provide for registration ln the province of Quebec ?

903

Hon. Mr. POWEll-I should like to asic
the hon. gentleman why he proposes to
make the amendmedlt in subsection 2. As
I understand, the hon. gentleman's amendments are Intended to affect the province of
Quebec alone.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But there is no necessity of having these words le! t In subsection 2, -because my amendaient provides
for it fully.

Hon. Mr. POWEL-lt is just this. There
Hon. Mr. POWEll-It only provides for
was some objection made to mccepting tue
bon. gentleman's amendaient genera lly, and the province of Quebec, and when the lands
he wislbed to provide for bis own province. are situated elsewliere. than in the province
of Quebec, you do îîot want to ineddle with
Hon. -',r.LOUGHEED-The lion, gentle- tiein.
man miglit as well say, accordîng to chapter
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It woul be better te
so and s0 0f the province of Ontario, and
section so and seo0f some other province, leave subsection 2 as it is, because you
and go over the whole of the provinces in would disturli the other provinces.
that way. If it is good for the province of
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do flot insîst an
Quebec, it should bie equally good for the amending subsection 2.
other provinces.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think. it is a great
mistakze îîot to leave the clause as it stands.
It is going to embarrass very ranch the building of railways. We know tlîat wvlen plans
are fIled, the price '0f land goes Up very
much. The only way to do is to go and
make your barg-ains quietly witti the Individuais, and you bave a chance to get right

of way for a reasonabie priee. If yuu do
not, the prioe of land goes s-y lîigh, and It
la well known it is better to pay excessive
prices than to go to arbitration.
The clause w-as mmexîded and adopted.
On clause 174,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have given notice
of the following amendaient to this clause:

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I, fer one, must
object to the fori of amendaiient, introducing specific articles of a provincial code

!it a general iaw. There is no precedent
for it. I doubt if yen can, la the whole
o! our statutes, fnd any precedent of tai.*
character. Ia the first place, the provincial
statute ay be repealed or amended from
tirne to time, nnd tiiose sections may, after
a trme, not be applicable iii the sIightest
deg-ree as they purport to lie to-day. Iii
the next place, persons perusing the statutes
of the Dominion wiil k-now nothing of the
specific provisions of the law of the province of Quebec, and so far ns this Ilouse
knows to-day, they niay net i)e applicable
in the sliightest degree. 1-1w are we to
kuow, sitting as a coaimittee, without these
sections tp which my lion. friend refers
before us, that tiiey are ini any wvmy applcable to this clause ? 1 do not doulit for a
moment the accuracy of my lion. friend's
argument in their faveur ; but at the same
time, we are golng It biind-we are swaliowing those sections witlout knowing wlîetber
they apply to this clause. On the brond
ground, I ob*eet to introducing any specific
sections of a provincial Act, unless w'e bave
the statutes befor*e us and know what wa
are deallng wlth.

That subsection 2 of section 174 lie reconsidered, and that the said subsection be amended
by striklng out the tollowlng 'words:
'Where the lands are situated p1sewhere than
la the province of Quebec,' in the first and second lines thereof.
That subsection 3 of the sald section i74 be
struck out and replaced by the following : 3. Where the lands are situatec in the province of Quebec, the notice shaîl lie pub1!ih:sd
as requlred by article 10,69 o! the Code of Cvil
Procedure ;and the provisions o! articles 1072
and 1073 of Eaid code shaîl also apply.'
That subsection 4 of said sectLion be alzo reconsidered, and amended by adding, in thý airst
line thereof, after the words 'aI siich claims.
filed,' the following words :-' and (in the pirHon. Mr. DÂNDU1IAND-lf the generai
vince of Quebec) ail other dlaimns app'iar'ng
from the registrar's certîfIcate,' and that sald 1mw cavers ail the provinces of tbe Dominsubsection 4 lie further arnended by strî"V'a.ý ion, tbere is one speciai p)rovinlce wlîere
out the words or judgxnent of oi:sali

SENATE
the law Is supposed to be soniewhat ditNow, ivlien we
ferent from the others.
corne to this law which affects the provîncef
of Quebec, ls It not nmore log-ical to hie pre.
cise about lt, and wben we lind that a certain- clause of the Bill, of a general nature,
aiffects adversely, or does not reachi its end
xvhen It affects tbe province of Quebec,
should it flot then be amnended iii order to
fit into, the local conditions and thei law of
the province of Quebec ? Non', the lion.
gentleman objects to a special article of' our
pro(vincial code, or statules. being încntioned
in this clause. becauise lie lias uîot got it
Sliould lie fot trust to the
hefore him.
fact tbat the members from the province of
Quebec agr-ee t0 the ainendinent ?
Hlon. Mr. LOUGREEL) If îun' lion. frieuîd
ivill say 'accordiing to Ian' ii the province
oh Qiiebec,' n-ve knomw tînt the ldiciai'Y Of
the provinee of Quohbec w~ill sec Ihuat the lawv
is interpreted according to the law~ of Qilebec ; but wben we select speciflc articles
of the code, two or tliree hon. genitlemeni
of tlue House înay ilisciuss 'tue application
of tiiese sections withotit onu' kno-nving :1ny3thing about them.

to us, a-ad there Is clear evidence here, as
far as tliis section is concerned, tlîat tlie
drauglitsmnan did flot know anything ablout
the law of Quebec. Lt is stated iii tlîis
clause that the law of confirmation of tities
shial aIp13'. The law of confirmation of
tîties ho the province of Quehec uieus
this :that
whien a propertv is sold. and
if the titie is to bie conflrmed, notice
is given that on a given day application ivili
be inide that the title shall be conliriied,
and ainy one interested elther as inortgagee
or otherwise. or, as creditor of tiw d'h)tor,
may be present, and bld over nny price niieîîtioned in the titie.
Surely it is not the
intention that the railway conîpaîîy shahl
be made to pay a larger price than the
The intention of the
price agreed upon.
Bill is that the parties be called uplon to file
thieir cia im, and that ail parties iîîlcrestcd
be prol)erly notified.
Nom-, we lia v-e the
R<egistration Law~ iii the province of Quebec NvIichl exacts that certain notices shahl
be given, so that aIl parties interested niay
1rotect thîcir rigbits.
We have aliso luis,
that if dlaimis appear, fi-on] the registrars*«
certificate. the court is obliged to lalce cognizance of those claims, and to collocate
them, and it Is for that reason that, as a
matter of necesslty. I suggest the references
to the code that 1 bave mnentioned. I could
refer my hon. friend to the code whicb 1
bave under îny baud, wbere he can see for
himself the articles wbich are referred to,
aad Nvhere be -will see that these articles are
prCl)QIly ipplied te the case iii (liiestiai.

lion. 24r. BEIQUE The lion. gentleman
takes exception to tlue course wluicl I suggest liecause lie is iiot failili:ur ivith the
system of codification. When we doal with
a code of laws. we deal witu a systein of
laws which al)llies, as fat' as puoceduire is
conceraed, special remedies for different
classes of things, and if the suggestions of
my bon. friend were follon ed, it n ould flot
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It would seena to
coavey anything at ail applicable t0 the laws me, fr001 the exception that is made with
of the province of Quebec it would bave no regard to the province of Quebec, that it
meaaing-.. I would defy any barrister in is recognized there is a necessity for a protlue province of Quebec to understaud what vision being- made for Quebec different
it would mean. or any jiidgc to give effect froîn the other provinces, and it is very
ho it. The boa. gentleman says that this probable that mi, lion. friend is riglit tliat
is exceptional legishation. 1 can îlot quote the clause as priuted is not the best that
a precedenit at the moment, but wvill under- could be drafted, and that a better one
talce to-morrow to cite a good inuauy cases mîglit be put iii tbe Bill, and I thinl, that is
in the statutes where, as a necessity, refer- whiat should be done. M,%y
hon. friend would
ences aire made to tbe laws of the province have nio dlfficulty iii drawing a clause which
of Quebec, and I can make it niov-niot a wotuld cover the case, and w~e alîould eîîact
law lu existence at present, but if yon refer wlîat should nom- be tlue l
to the old Inisolvenit Act, you Nvill -se tliat
Hon. Mr. POWIER-That is wbat my bon.
thuere are specifie references made to the
frîend bas done.
Civil Code, and tlue Code of Civil Procedure
Hlon. Mr. F ERGUSON I think 1 underiii tbe province of Quebec as of iiecessity.
We have to take this Bill as ib is presented stand what he proposes, whicb is tlîat somne
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

AUGUST 31, 1903l
articles in the Quebec code shall govern! In
this matter. Is that flot It 9
.Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Mereir wvben the property taken Is In the province of Quebec.
Honm 'Mr. FERGUSON-I think I a-n
rlght. The hon, gentleman wishes certain
articles In the code of the province of Quebec enacted as the law of the Dominion,
simply describing tbem by the nuniber they
bear lu the code of Quebert. Lt seenis to Ile
that is quite dangerons, because sonie changes in the legisiation migbIt be had in the
province of Quebec behind the bnck o!
the Departrnent of Ltailways, auid somne
persons might move there for an amnendment to tiiese clauses to carry out some
particular object i view, and it is the
handing over of the power to legîslate
on this particular niatter froin this parliament to the provincial legislature that is
objectionable. It seemas to me the safe
course to pursue would bc for the lion, -entleman to draft a clause which wvould. be the
law ln the p)rovince of Quebec, and not take
the code, whichi is liable to be aiuended by
the legislnture of the province at any tiîne,
without that consideration which un ainendment to the ltailway Act would involve if
attempted in this House. When a question
is raised ia tbis House of an amendaient to
this Act, attention would be called to It and
everybody would know about it. I do not
know that there is any danger, but it seems
to me It la open to the danger of soine change
being made in the legisiature of Quebec
wlthout auy consideration of the point
whlch would seriously affect Doinion law

Here Is a provision which is mnade exceptlonally for the province of Ontario, and
we have to deal w-ith a matter for whîcb
a separate provision should be made for
Quebee.
Hou. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-The case is
not parallel. The exception taken there. Is
only to the case of people -who are mnerely
life tenants o! the property, and therefore
a notice to them would not 'ho notice to
those who are benicial owvners of the
property. It is only saylug tbat in Ontario
the real beneficlal ow-ner shaîl ho notitied
and not the person in possession.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The law mnakes
provision for 'this class of cases, and 1
apprebend If there had been any grievance
under the old law w-e w-ould have heard
of It. 1 would point out iu v'indication
of the Bill, whlch we on this side of the
House seem called upon to defendt, tlîat the
application o! the section as it is at present
drafted la the Bill seeins to ho quite clear,

bdcause be at once selects the articles of
the code which are î>eculiarly applicable to
this clause of the Bill. Then if iny hon.
frlead, as a member o! the bar of Quebec
can do that, sureiy the judiciary of Quebec

can do It equally well.

I thinit that la one

of the clearest arguments that tbe clause is
sufficiently clear to dispense witb tlîe xecessity of mentioning nny articles la the code.

Hon. Mr. KERR-These specific articles
o! the code mny be set out literally or lu
off oct.
The clause was allowod to stand.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hion,. genOn clause 184,
tleman would like that the p~rovisions referHon. Mr. DAVID-I inove that snbfclause
red to ia the hon. gentlemnan's amndment
3 o! clause 184, which deals ivith railiways
would be iacorporated.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLi-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I niay ho nllowed tt
refer to clause 146 whichi reads as followvs
146. The powers, by the last two preceding
usections.conferred upon rectors la possession of
.'glebe lands In the province of Ontario, ecclesjastic-al and other corporations. trustees o! land
'for church or school purposes, executors appointed by wllls 'under which they are flot invested with any power over the real property
of the testator, administrators of persans dying
Iatestate, but at their death seized of real pro-

on hlghways and the consent of the mnunicipality, be struck out. The sbelanse rends
as follows:
3. Nothing in this section shall deprive any
such company of rights con!errod upon it ')y
any speciaJ Act o! the parliament o! Canada.
or amendment thereof. passod prior to the present session o! parliamont.

1 should like to know the reason for the
Insertion of that subsection. Whether It ia
thero or flot makes no difference. There la
perty, shall only extend and lee exercised with some pleial reason, sorne subtle desig,respect to any of such lands actually required
for the use and occupation of the coiLpafly. 51 which 1 do not kanow. I do not see why
V., c. 29, s. 138, Am.
that clause sbould romain la the Bill. No

SEINATE
company would be deprived of the rigbt
whicb it will bave to acquire, iii virtue ofi
this clause, even if that subclause is not
there. That subelause adds notbing te the
rigbts of the company. If they bave obtnined the consent of the municipality, they
are in possession of that consent, and this
clause will have no retroactive effect, and
wlll not deprive the conipany of the rigbts
wblcb they may bave acquîred, s0 1 do not
see why tbis subsection is bere more than
in fifty other places. If there is a reason to
put it here, there is a reason to put it in
two bundred other clauses of the Bill.
LOUGLIEED-I recaîl our goîng
Hon. M-Nr.
througb a clause providing tbat tbe general
act would previll notwithstanding anytbing

lu the special act, unless lt was speciallY
I tbink
provided for in the special act.
there is a clause of that character in tbe Bill
and it migbt possib]y be to meet that condition of affairs that this subclause is introduced.
BOWEIL-It
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
seems to me that there miust be some reason
for this subsection being included in tbis
clause. There must be a special reason for

it ;and if there is any company that lias
riglits whicb bas been conferred upon them,
either by special act of the parliament of
Canada or amendments thereof. surely there
can be ne objection to the retesîtion of this
clause in order to preserve those rigbts. If
there were no danger of tbe rights hein.interfered witb, this clause wonld flot bave
been placed bece, and if there are any rights
existing conferred upon any company, tbey
certainly ougbt to be preserved. We are net
supposed to interfere w'itb wbat, as I would
infer, this clause provides for, the retention
of vested rigbts, and it ouglit to remain. If

the interpretation put upon the g-eneral law
by the bon. gentleman who bas moved tbe
ameadmeat be correct, then tbe retention of

it ean do nie barm. and if there is no doubt
as to the provisions of tbe whele Bill as to
the preservation of vested rigbts, it ougbt to
be In.

wvays and so on. They had the power under
the General Railway Act and 1 understand
this clause was put in because subelause 1 of
clause 184 took away the rlghts provided for
in the Railway Act, and for that reason,
after taking them away, tbey put iii subclause three to say that nothing i this
section shall deprive the subject who had
rights before.
The subclanse was adopted.
On clause 193,
193. Whenever any municips.lity. or corporation bas autbority to construet, operate and
maintain a telephonic system in any distri£t.
and is desirous of obtaining telepbonic connection or communication with or within any
station or premises of the company, in suchi
district, and cannot agree with the company
with respect thereto, such municipality or corporation may apply to the board for leave therefor, and the board may order the compafly to
provide for such connection or communication
upon such terma as to compensation as the
board deems juat and expedient, and mnay order
and direct hos, when, where, by whom and
upon what termns and conditions such telephotiic
connection or communication shall be construCted, operatedi aud maintained.
Hou. '.%r. P.ELQUE-This clause provides
for telephone system connections witb the
stations on sncb t(rnis as the board may
direct. I miore that the first line be made

to read as follows:
Whenever aay municipality, corporation, or
incorporated compsny bas authority to construct.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tbere is no objection
to that.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If a capitalist wanited

to establish a telephone company, be wonld
not bave the rig-bt to do so under this clause.
KERRt (Turontbo)-Ainy indiHon. '-\I.

vidual who started a company woul require to have a telephone station.
The clause was anieîdcd and adopted.
On clause 195, subclause (g),
(g) Ia case efficient means are devised for
carrying any such uines or wires underground,
no Act of parliameat requiring the company to
adopt such means, and abrogating the right given
by this section to carry uines on poles, shall
ha deemed an infringement of the privileges
granted by this Act, nor shall the compsny be
entitled to damages in respect thereof.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I understand this
matter was discussed freely In the Hbuse
DAVID-I niove thiat after the
Hon. McNI.
of Commons, and that the provisions con- words 'parliament of Canada ' the followiflg
tained in clause 184 are taking away the Nvords be added :
rights and that the General Railway Act
Or of the local legislature.
gave power at that time te coastruct traiHon. Mr. DAVID.

AUGUST 31, 1903
1 'gave the reasons for this tbe other day.
If these words are flot added, the inference
will bie that an Act î,assed by the local
legisiature will bie an inifring-ement of the
rights granted by tbis parliamient. It will
mean the parliament of Canada will have
the right to oblige a company to put Its
wires underground, but the local legisiature
will flot have'thie saine riglit. The corporation of M.%ontreal bias been authorized by the
legisiature of Quebec tu conipel the telephone coinlanies lu Montreal to put their
wires underground. If this subclause is
passed as àt is, and if the city of 'Montreal,
by virtue of the power granted to it by the
provincial legislature, try to conipel the
telephone companies to put tbeir wires
underground, the company -would have a
riglit to say no ; subsection (g), section 195.
of the Railway Act applies to Acts of the
parlianieîit of Canada, but not to ait Act
passed by the local legisiature. Thiere la no
restriction to the power w-hidi wve have.
You canuiot do away witli the geuueral power
which we have to lay our unDes where we;
like and oblige us to put ail w-ires underground. Tbat requires an Acet of the parliament of Canada.
Hon.
r.SCOTT-I do îîot tliink we can
very w-ell repeal a statute of tie province
of Quebec by an Act of the parliamient of
Canada. Under this Bill no Act of the parliament of Canada would interfere, supposing an order wvere gîven to put ail telegrapb. telephonie and electric light and
pow-er wlres underground. I do uîot thînk
it ivould be wise for us to disturb anv arrangement between any inunicihiality and
the province of Quebec.

9011

the local legislature ?

I suggest that this
paragraph bie made to rend as follows ý
No Act of the parliament of Canada or of any
of the provinces, or by-law passed by any clty,
town or lncorporated villages requiring the
company to adopt such means and abrogating
the rlght, &c.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-That is golng
pretty far, to, say that after the people have
establlshed their systei a by-law may bie
passed which shaîl compel thein to change
it. Thiat Is giving a great deal of puower

to the munlcipality.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What is my lion.

frlend's interpretation of that clause '?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Let us take the first
paragraph :
195. When the company ls empowered by the
special Act of the parlianient of Canada to
construct, operate and maintain lines of telegraph, telephone, or for the conveyance of ligbt,
heat, power or electricity, the company may
iwith the consent of the municipal counicîl or
other authority having jurisdiction over any
highway, square, or other public place, enter
tbereon for the purpose o! exercising the said
powers, and, as often as the company thiaks
proper, may break up and open any hiignway,
square or other publie place, subject, however,
to the followlng provisions
Then It provides that the consent of the
municipallty for the erection of poles and
wires shaîl be obtained.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But we are dis-

cussing subclause (g>.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Suliclause (g) provides

for this, that aithougi this consent has beeni
givea by the municlpality, if w-e pass an
Act of parliament requlrlng that the wires
lie put underground, then it will not be
taken as an infrlngement of thîs Act and
the company wll not be entitled to aniy
compensation.
If there la any occasion to
Hon. '.%r. CLORAN-I quite agree with
provide for that Ia case an Act of parliathe bioa. Senator that a local Act should
ment ia passed, t seems to nie there is an
have effect on municipal bodies, but this
equal reason to provide for it in case an
clause does niot destroy the p)ower of a
Act be passed by a local legislature. Suplocal legîsînture to pass aa Act. Lt simply
pose we leaTe It as lt la, will not the lasays that if parliament pass au Act to
ference lie, from the fact that It -was necesforce the wires underground, tbere would
sary to provide for the case o! au Act of
for damag-es.
be no action
parliament belng passed, that If It was flot
an Act o! the parliament o! Canada, then
Hon. Nir. BEIQUE-I agree with the sugIt could not lie effective, it would be taken
gestion made by the lion, gentleman froin
as Interfering wlth this Act of the parliaIf It la necessary to make proVictoria.
ment of Canada.
vision for the case of an Act of the parliaHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under the British
ment of Canada bein.- passed. is it not
equally necessary to provide for an Act of North America Act, the building o! tele-

SEINATE
graph lines is exclusively wltbin the author- serions obstacles ln the streets of large
ity of tbe federal parliament. I understand cities. They become so numerous that tbey
my bon. friend to say, and, of course, lie are dangerous to the public safety, and Il is
concedes thls parliament eau legislate so as important, ln the public Interest, that they
to prevent or preclude rallway companles be placed underground.
It bas been done
from taking advantage of this clause-that ln the United States in ail the large citles ;
is to say, If an Act of this parliament of il bas been doue in London aud Paris and
Canada is hereafter pnssed, the raiîwa3 other large cltles lu Europe, and wby should
companies must comply with thie provisions we mot make a provision that would assist
of that Act.
large municipalities to do likewise and proHon.Mr.SCOT-Ad bae n clinifortect the streets by requiring coxnpanies to
They
o place their wires underground ?
odi
Honge. M.SOTAdbv
damages.should
not be enabled to single out any
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand my, individual corporation, but pass a general
hon. friendto cbntend that provincial le.gis- l by-Iaw requiring ail sucli comipanies to
latures and municipalilies and other smnller place their wires underground.
Railway
bodies should be placed in the saine position 'companies,
Ilie other corporate bodies,
of being able to legisînte railway cou- shouid be required to submit to any sucli
panies out of whatever riglit they miglit! by-law.
have under this Bill as the parliament of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As a i-ule, lu receut
Canada -would have.
That Is -what il
amounts to. My boa. friend can scarceîy yerl
ligcatr
otlgal
u
serousy eîec uhsrib tosnc
usto
atelephone companies, we have invariably
propousition as tht
ec
usrb
osc
plaoed lhem under the jurisdiclion. so far
as wires and pôles were concerued, oftheb
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do, and I do it muuicipalities.
There may, however, be
advisedly. The reason why I support the' cases-I camnot see any aI present-ilu w'hich
hou, gentleman from Mille Lies is this :we, this parliamnent mny have to give exclusive
canuot contemplate thiat a matter of this powers to a particular company.
If we
kind wlll be regulated by an Act of this have, It is for Ibis parliament to revokie the
parliameut.
Lt is a lluing wbich will be' Irivilege thal we have given, and Ibis
donc by large cities. and ziot even hi- Act of clause makes it «pparent that whenever il
the provincial legislature.
Lt is a matter has been satisfactorily establishecl that the
whlch is being doue by large cities. Theý wires can be placed underground, that then
city of M1ontreal is actuallv coasideriag this parliament can repeal the privilege
the advisability of passing a by-law adopt-' hieretofore granted them wiîhout their
Iug a provision by which the wires, -whicbi having any dlaim on the miumicipality for
are slrung ahl over bbe city, shall be compensation. I think that is as far as we
placed underground, aud if the city of Mont- eau go ;we are treading on dangerous
real passes a býy-law of tîbat kind, why grouud if we go any furtber.
should mot auy railwny, 10 -wbich power
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is ail a uîîatter
lias been granted by the parliameut or
the comCanada to p)lace poles lu tbe streets of the of contracl anyway bet-ween
opn
h
uiiaiis
h
n
,eity for the purpose of carrying thieir wires pn
-why should niot these railway companies' caunot, even iînder tbis clause of the Bill,
uiiaiywtotetrn
no.
be reached as w-el as anv other compauuues 1g
ae te
whih ceatonsof he oca leis-11mnt a coutract, and of course ivili have 10
te
whih ceatons0f he oca leîs subseribe 10 any termis the muuicipalitv may
ae
latures or other bodies ? It seeins to me
we houd
nt cnleplae
tat
n A
0f impose. Consequcntly, tbe remedy is easy.
municipality eau compel bbec(onipany
b psse fo te prpoeThe
pariamntwoud
parlamet wuldbe fr Te prpoe,
assd
compiy with any subsequent Act.
but lb w-I be 10 the advantage of cilles!
which may pass by-laws requiriug ivires;I 1
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-It is îuot nibe placcd underground, aud what is taking il-aeys a malter of coutract, because I hiave
place lu 'Montreal to-day w-ll probably soon lzuown cases wlbere corporations have overtakie place lu the city of Toronto also. It ridden tbe municipal power by obtaining
Is known that these 'poles and w-ires are from the legishature extraordinary powers
Hom.

Mr. LOUGHEED.

AUGUST 31, 1903
and the right to do practically as they
pleased 'wlth the sfreets of a large city like
Montreal.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Do I understand that
tLiis clause gives power to override a municipal by-law ? I would vote for wires
going underground, and I cannot for a moment see that this clause wlll prer ont any
munlcipality froin forcing companles to put
tlîeir wlres underground.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-This will not apply to any conditions which at presoîit exist
iu cities, so far as poles are coucerned.
Hon. Dir. CASGRAIN (de
Yes.

Lanaudière)-

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Would tbey be
bound to rernove their poles and wvires ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-If by an Act of the
parliaxuent of Canada these poles are required to be moved. thon they will have no
dlaim for damages because la former years
we gave tiiex that rîght. We can at any
time tako It away frosm them. If a particular case cornes up, It will be proper to
consider It, 'but I do not like these lcaps ln
the dark, passing a clause In a general way.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-I do not see wvhy wo
should bo so very tender as to the risk of
Inteeferlng with theso railway companies.
Under this Bill, 'company' means a rallway
company. As lt Is at present, these railwayq
companies have their wires on poles, and
lu a city or a large town.i thfit Is a very
objectionable condition of thiings. It would
Oe much better that the wires sbould be
underground. Now ive say liore tinit this
comp auy, which has been creited by parliament, shaîl not have a r1lht to sue for
daniages If the parliament declares tliat the
wires shall be put underground; and I
really do not see any reason why wve nay
not go a littie further, and say if a local
legisiature passes a general Act requiring
telegrapb and telephonew-ires to ho put
underground that it shaîl niot give the cernpaxiy grýouad for bringing a suit for (lainages. I should be disposed to go that far,
to Insert after the word ' parliament' 'o
by the provincial legisliatire.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEliLL-Wiai
ls the object of having divided autiioritia a matter of tUis kind ?

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-These quaiifying
words would stili romainIa case efficient means are devlsed for carrylng any such lines or wlres underground.
We mighit have this : the parliarnent of
Canada might not think efficient mens badl
been round, an~d the municipallty night determine they had efficient mens, and the
provincial legisiature rnighit corne to another decision, and ail acting differently:
whose law was te, prevail ?
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Whichever acted
first.
Hon. 3fr. BEIQUE-Honi. gentlemen %vill
readily understnnd thiat lt is xiot Ilikel.y an
Act of this parliament or an Adt of the
legisînture will be passedl to goveriu these
thlngs. AIl that the Act wiil do will be to,
authorize mnicipalities to tnke action, as
was done by the local legisînture of the pr~owas an Act of the
vince of Quebec :it
province which authorized the city of Montreal to provide means to compel aIl the coxapanles havlag poles and wires Ia the streets,
to rernovo their poles and place their wires
underground ; but lt is not the Act ltself
wlich coampels, because the Act wouid be
a general Act affecting the -whole province.
An Act of the Dominion parliamient wvould
WVe caninot
affect the whole Dominion.
contemplate that an Act of the kind wll
ho passed. What will ho done will ho a
by-law, and really, what Is Important to provide for Is, not for the passlag of anu Act,
but for the passing of a by-law *by a city.
Exception is taken to rny first suggestion,
I acknowledge with sorne reason, that It
should not ho extended to iacorporated
villages, or even to towns ; I have, therefore, restricted the wording of my ameadIment to cities. But It seems to me, as thus
restricted, that the amendrnent shouid ho
adopted.
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-I %vould suggest au
amnendment Ia case efficient ineans aire dovised for carrying the wires underground,
no Act of the parliament of Canada shahl laterfere withi municipal or provincial logisîn.
tion requiring the company to adopt such
mens.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-In wimat wvny
would the prov-ince pass legislation limposing on n railway cornpany provisions of this
klyd ? Such an Act wouid certniiily bo

SENATE
must be respected even at the expense of our
dignity lu parliament, and that is why 1 suggested the amendment to apply to Unes of ail
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is because 1 realize kiuds.
that, It wouid flot be within the province of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Who
the local legislature, or of the municipallty,
which exercises only delegated power fromi is to be the judge of the efficiency ?
the legislature, to pass any sucb by-law,
lion. Mr. CLORAN-Common sense and
flint 1 suggest we provide for it.
the safety of the publie.
beyond the competence of the provincial
legislature.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How are we to
provide for It ? Does my hon. friend contend we an delegate authority ta the provincial leg-isiature ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Surely it cainat be
seriously contended that ihis parliament is
encroaching upon municipal rîgbts-because
this parlianient, I dlaim, Is encroaching on
provincial rights when it pro'rides for the
dolng of such and snch things lu cities,
or lu streets or lu public places in sncb
cities-when this parliamient encroaches
upon these municipal rights, is iii not open
to this parliament to say. 'You shall do
so and so respecting a by-law?' You have
Wbat
It lu every clause of the Bill.
does this clause say ? It shall be done
with tbe consent of the muuicipality. Is
that delegating pawers ? It is not delegating powers, but it is recagnizing the
powers of the municlpality. and therefore it seems to me that 15 perfectly within
the power of this parlianient ta say that Nve
recogize by this clause. the powers of al
railway companies whicb are under thie
jurisdiction of the parliament of Canada to
do such aud such things-to place pales and
wires Iu streets of cities and tawns, but in
case any Iiicorporated city find thiat efficient
meins have been diseovered ta place the
wires underground, and direct that they shahl
be placed underground, then. it shail not be
consldered as an Infringement of this Act.

Hon. Sir MÂCFENZIE BOWELL--Tbaý-t
is what many do flot possess.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I think we do flot go
too far in saying Iu case efficient means are
found, no Act of parliameut shall interfere
with the muuicipaiity or the provincial legislature, requiring a comnpany to adopt sucb
means and abrogatlng the right given by
this section to, carry lines on poles, and no
such action shall be deemed an infringement. 1 think you are safeguarding municipal rights. Municipal corporations to-day
can force a company to place is pales wbere
they think. proper.
lion. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-N\o, they cannot.
They put them where they like.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-They eau force the
company to regulate the height of pales. If
the municipal corporations can regulate al
these things, wby cannot the mnunicipal
corporations be allo-wed the right ta regulate the putting of wires underground ? I
ar n favotir of that provision.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It may be considered very great presumptian for a layman to give un opinion on a question of
thUs kzind, which Is renlly a constitutional
question, but 1 really thînk. fram the examintion that we have given the subjeet, that
if we pass this ameudment and the parliament of Canada were flot to legisiate upon
it, ln the direction Indicated, any action by
a muuicipality, or by a province, would
flot stand, because we must be the supreine
jud-es wheu this condition of things arises,
that is the devising of m-eans for puttîng
lunes underground, and suppasing we legisiated adversely to what the province would
do, I arn sure, under sncb circumstances
as that, the Act of the province would not
p re va il.

liou. Mr. CLORAN-Thie hou, gentleman
nientioned that telegraphs are under the exclusive jurisdictian of parliament. What
about wires which carry electricîty for heat
.and power and other purposes ?
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-This applies only
to Unes of railway companies.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-But the railway coinpanies may have such wires, and causeHou. Mr. LOUGHEED-I appreciate the
quentiy we have a mixed question. 1 ar n
who seek to pre- !iecessity of preserving the integrity of tbe
accord with hon. senators
serve municipal rights, and municipal rights inunicipality and their hein.- permitted to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

AUGUST 31, 1903
exercise their rights qulte as freely as this
parliament, but the question that runs
through the whole of our policy ls that with
respect to rullwa, and telegraph Unes ;
tbere must be one exclusive governlng body
and there cannot be more. That principle
la found throughout the British North Amnerica Act, and it lu found ln the Bull we are
discusslng and there is no departure from
It. The hon. gentleman from De Salaberry
taiks about parllament encroaching upon
the rights of municlpalities. 1 point out to
my bon. friend that a municipality la as
9overeiga, so to speak, in the exercise of Its
rlghts, as this parliament la ln the exercise
of its r1ghts. tinder the British North
America Act, power ira given 'to the provinces to legisiate with reference to municipalities and nothing that this parllament
can do, If it sat from the lst of January to
the 31st of December, could detract one
Iota from the rights which may be exercIsed
by raunicipalties as given them by the
provinces. My hon. friends talked about
our encroachlng upon the rigbts of munlipalities. They have flot serlously consldered
the terms which they have used. 1 say this
parliament could flot encroacli upon the
rIghts of munIcipalities ;they are as soverelgn as we are in the rights which pertain
to them under the law which has created
them, and as far as this section is concerned,
It seems to -me it would do violence to a
well established princIple which ruas from
beglnning to end of the Bill, namely, that
there must be one governing body with respect to railways, and that body this parliament
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I thlnk the amendment should be -more carefully drafted.
Power sbould be given, ln my humble opinIon, to incorporated cities as suggested,
but provided, it be flot open to themn to
single out any company, provided the bylaw la a general by-]aw, and If 1 may be
aliowed to add Juat one word, the hon.
gentleman from Calgary says that this parlament shal 'not Interfere with the rights
of the iuunlcipality. I can refer hlm to the
discussion which took place la the other
House aud to the opinion expressed by the
Minister of Justice whlen lie supported the
doctrine that this parliament could interfere
«wlth the rights of munlcipalities; but you
have 1h in this very Act. 1 could point ont

911

several clauses where the rights of municipalities are lnterfered with.
When this
parliament authorizes a raiiway to pass
aiong the streets of a municipallty, whether
they consent or not, la flot this parliament
Intei'ferlng with the rIglits oft the municipatlity ?
Hon. M. LOUeHEEïD-Because we ha-ve
the power to do it.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Surely this parîlament wlthin Its Jurisdietio-n la supreme, and
when this parlament legislates within Its
jurisdicti-on, whether It la an encroacliment
on municipal riglits or not, the Act takes
eftect, and It ia because these provisions
are encroacliments lipon municipal riglits
that I suggest municipal rlghts lie protected
to a reasonable extent.
Hon. SIr 'MACKENZIE BOWELL - If
there ls a rai'lway company existing created by this parliament, why should you
have a divided authoràty as to its management betweeni the local and municipal
authorities ? If you go on legislating ln
this style, yo-u 'wll find no person who wIlI
Invest money ln anythiag of th.e kInd. The
Confederationi Act places the coutrol of the
granting of charters for the ereclion of
telegraph 11ues under the jurlsdiction of this
parliament. If I uaderstand the propozition, It 4s this: that thougli the authority
be la this parliament, It la desired to give
certain power and authorihy, not only to the
provincial legisiature, 'but also to the municipalîties, to declare what shail be doue,
whlch may be In contravention of the pro-visons of this Act. This clause provides
that If It ibe shown to the government that
efficient means have been found to place
these wîres underground, then they wi]l
give the authority ho place them underground, and the. companies shall have no
clakmn upon the municipalities or any one
else for damages which accrue to them.
That is what it Implies, and It does seem to
me that, ln dealing with questions of this
kind, that authority should. lie left in the
parliameat that grants them. the power, and
flot divide It .between two or three 'bodies.
This would not Interfere with municipal
riglits. Municipal riglits are those w-hidi
are conferred by the provincial parliaments
lu their incorporation.
There Ia a general
law, I suppose, ln Quebec as I know there

912

SENATE

Is in Ontario, that where you erect a municipallty, a village or a town or a city, and
they have ail the powers thereby conferred,
This parliament cannot interfere with them
and we neyer would think of interferlng
with them.
In this case, the clause had
better stand. as It is, both in the intcrest of
of
municipa]ities,
and
the
interests
those who have i nvested their money in
these enterprises.

An Act to Incorporate the Grand Truink
Pacific Raflway Company is moved,-.I will
move that we insert the words 'Governor
in Council'1before the words 'as to the
locat Ion on -Lake Superior.' The object Is
for the ,government to have contro] of the
terminais on Lake Superior.
Hom. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - I
thought that proposition was made In cornjnittee and rejected.

The clause was allowed to stand.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No.
Homn. Mr. FULFORD. from the comHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I know
mlttee, reported that they had made some
the hon, gentleman froin Marquette proprogress with the Bill, and asked ]eave to
.posed it, but whether he withdrewY It or
sit again.
flot, I do flot remnember.
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC INCORPORHon. Mr. DANDURAND-It was flot
ATION BILL.
taken into consideration.
The hon, gentleman thought it passed with my amendinent,
NOTICE Or AME\NDNiENT.
Hon. '.%r. WATSON-I beg to give notice but it did. nat.
that when the third reading of Bill (64)

The ýSenate adjourned.

