DEBATES

THE

SENATE
0F THE

DOMINION OF CANADA
1901
REPORTED AND EDITED BY

HOLLAND

BROS.

Official Reporters oj the Seiate of Canada

FIRST SESSION-NINTH PARLIAMENT

O T T A WA
PRINTED BY S. E. DAWSON, PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST
EXCELLENT MAJESTY

1901

SENATOIRS OF CANADA,
ALPHABETICAL

LIST

let SESSION, 9th PARLIAMENT,

let EDWARD VII

1901
POST OFFICE ADDRESS.

DESIGNATION.

SENATORS.

The Honourable
AIKINS, JAIMEs Cox. ý......... ..... ...........
....

ALLAN, GEORGE WILLIAM ...................

ARMAND, JOSEPH F........................
BAIRD, GEORGE T ..........................
BAKER, GEORGE B ..........................
BERNIER, THOMAS ALFRED ......................
BOLDUC, JOSEPH ................................

BOUCHERVILLE, BOUCHER DE C. E., C.M.G...
BOWELI, SIR MACKENZIE. K.C.M.G ...........
CARLING, SIR JOHN, K.C.M.G ...............
CARMICHAEL, JAMES W .....................
CASGRAIN, JOSEPH P. B ....................
CASGRAIN, CHARLES EUSÈBE..... ...............
.........
CLEMOW, FRANCIS................ .....
........
COCHRANE, MATTREW HENRY .........

Coi, GEORGE A ...........................
DANDURAND,

RAOUL ........................

DEOHENE, A. M-...........................
.. ....................

DEvicR, JAMES. .......-.

DICRET, ROBERT B..........................
DoBsoN,

JOHN..........

........................

..........
FERGusoN, DONALD..................
FxSIC, JEAN BAPTISTE ROMUALD ................

.........

FULFORD, GEORGE TAYLOR .................

GILLMOR, ARTHUR H........ .............
GODBOUT, J................................
GOWAN, JAMES ROBERT, C.M.G...............
HINGSTON, SIR WILLIAM H., Kt ..............
JONES, L. M...............................
KERR, WILLIAM ......................

KING, GEORGE GERALD ........................
KIRCHOFFER, JOHN NESBrT ..................
.......................
LANDERKIN, G .......

LANDRT, A. C. P.............

Lauzon ..........
Montarville...
...
Hastings.
London .........

..............

LOIJGHEED, JAMES ALEXANDER.................
.... ...................
Lovrr'r, JOHN ........
................
MACDONALD, ANDREW A ......
MACDONALD, WILLIAM JOHN ................
MAcKzEN, DAvID ............................
MASSON, Louis FnA1Nçois RODRIGUE ..........

Toronto.

Toronto.
Montreal.

Perth Centre, N.B.
Sweetsburg, Que.
St. Boniface, Manitoba.
St. Victor de Tring, Que.
Boucherville, Que:
Belleville, Ont.

London, Ont.
New Glasgow, N.S.
Montreal.

DcLanaudière..
Windsor, Ont.
Windsor .........
Rideau ..... ...... Ottawa.
Hillhurst, Que.
Wellington......
Toronto, Ont.
De Lorimier... Montreal.
De la Durantaye .... St. Roch des Aulnaies, Que.
Sr. M. St. John .. St. John, N.B.
Amherst, N. S.
Amherst........
Lindsay, Ont.
Lindsay.:.,:...
Montreal.

Kennebec......

DRUMMOND, GEORGE A......................
ELLIS, J. V...............................

FORGET, Louis J..................

Home ............
York... .. ý.........
Repentigny ...
Victoria...........
Bedford ............
St. Boniface...

St. John.. *.......
Queen's ...-.......
Gulf .............
Sorel ............

St. John, N.B.
*

Charlottetown, F.E. I.
Rimouski, Que.
Montreal.

Brockville, Ont.
St. George, N.B.
.. St. François, Beauee, Que.
La salle ........
Barrie, Ont.
Barrie ...........
Montreal.
* Toronto, Ont.
Toronto ...........
Northumberland, O.. Cobourg, Ont.
Queen's .... .... .... Chipman, N.B.
Brandon, Manitoba.
Selkirk ...........
Hanover, Ont.
Grey, S.R..
Notre Dame de Quebec, Que.
Stadacona ...
Calgary, N.W.T.
Calgary ... ........
Yarmouth, N. S.
Yarmouth ....
... Charlottetown, P. E.1I.
Charlottetown
Victoria, B.C... Victoria., B.C.
. Halifax, N.S.
Cape Breton .
Mille Isles .... .... Terrebonne, Que.

SENATOItS 0F CANADA.

iv

SENATORS.

I

POST OFFICE ADDRESS.

DESIONATION.

The Honourabie
MCCALLUM, LACELAN .................
..................
...
MCDONALD, WILLIAM ....

Monck.. ý...........Stromness, Ont.
Lttle Glace Bay, N. S.
Cap Breton ....

........

...

McHuoH, G ..... .........................

Lindsay, Ont.

'Victoria, O ........

Tur. ............
........ Aima..............
MARAR.....................
Perth ......... ....
................
MCLAREN, PETER................
...... ..... Alexandria .........
McMILLAN, DONALD...............
................ Northumberland
McSWEENEY, PETER ...........
McKÂY,

THOMAS ....

MERNER, SAMUEL. ...

...............

...........

......

..... ...

...........

MILLER, WILLIAM.............................!Richmond...........
... ............
MILLs, DAVID ................
.....
MoNrPLAÂSîa, HIPPOLYTTL.......

..

O'BRIEN, JAMEcS.........................

O'DONOHOE, JOHN ........

...

..............

...
OWENS, WILLIAM..................
PELLETIER, SiR ALPHONSE, C.C.M.G ...........

...

Berlin, Ont.
Arichat, N.S.

... Ottawa, Ont.
I&Bthwelli.......
Three Hivers, Que.
IShawinegan ...
Victoria.... .. ... Montreal.
re.......Toronto.
Iýý
Enker uan ........... Montreal.
Quebec.
Wolseley, N.W.T.
Acadie ............. Shediac, N.ýB.
Halifax, N.S.
Halifax ............
Pictou, N.S.
Pictou .......
Grandville...-.. ..
Wolseley

PERLEY, WILLIAM DELL ........................
.......................
POIRIER, PASCAL ......

Powxa, LAURENCE GEOFFIRY (Speaker).....
PRIMEOSE, CLARENCE ..........

New Hamburg

Truro, N. S.
Montreal.
Perth, Ont.
Alexandria, Ont.
.Moncton, N. B.

..............

PMOWSE, SAMUEL ........... ..................
.........
............
REM, JAMES ...........
SOTT RICHARDn WILLIAM ...... ...............
SHEHxN, JOSEPH..............................

......

Murray Harbour, P.E.I.

Kinig's.............

Caribou ........... Quesnelle, B. C.
-Ottaw.
O0ttawa ............
Laurentides.

...

Quebe.

.....

Chathami........... Chatham, N.B.

........ *
SUILLIVAN, MICHAEL ................
TEMPLEMAN, WILLIAM.........................
THIEAUDEAu, ÂLFRED AÀ....................
..
THIBAUDEAU. JOSEPH ROSAIRE ...............
..........
VIDASL, ALEXANDER ................

Kington, Ont.
Kingston ..........
New Westminster ... Victoria, B. C.

SNOWBALL, JABEZ B .................

Montreal.
Dela Vallière...
Montreal.
Rigaud .... ........
Srnia..........Sarnia, Ont.
Montreal.
.... ..... De Salaberry ...
VILLENEUVE, JOSEPH O ...........
. ... Fredericton......Fredericton, N.B.
WARK, DAVID ...........-................
.Portage la Prairie ... Portage la Prairie, Manitoba.
WATSON, ROBERT ............................
Wetlnoland.....Sackville, N. B.
WOOn, JOsLAR................................
... *Hamilton, Ont.
amtn.......
WOOD, A. T ..........................
Port Hill, P. E.I.
East Prince ....
Yso, JOHN..... ..............................
Killarney, Manitoba.
......
FINDIAT M.......................Killarney ....
YOUCNO;,

THIE DEBATES
0F TIIE

SENATE OF CANADA
IN TUIE

FIR.ST SESSION 0F TH-E NINTH PARLIAMENT 0F CANADA, APPOINTED TO MEET
FOR THE DESPATCH 0F BUSINESS ON WEDNESDAY, THE SIXTH DAY
0F FEBRUARY, IN THE FIRST YEAR 0F THE REIGN 0F

HIS

MAJESTY

KING

Ottawa, Wedne8daz,, Feb. 6, 1901.

PRAYERS.

VII.

After some time the House was resumed.

THE SENATE.
The Senate met at 2.30 p.m.

EDWARD

The Honourable John Wellington Gwynne,
one of the Justices of the Supreme Court of
Canada, Deputy Governor, being seated at
the foot of the Throne,

The Honourable the Speaker commanded
The unembers of the Senate were informed
that a Commission under the Great Seal the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to
had been issued, appolnting the Honourabie proceed to the House of -Commons and acLawrence Geoffrey Power to be the Speaker quaint that House,
of the Senate.
It is the Deputy Governor's desire that they
attend hlm immedlately in this House.
The said Commission was then read by
the Clerk.
Who being corne,
NEW SENATORS.
The f ollowing newly-appointed
were introduced:

The Speaker said,
Honourable Gentlemen of thre Senate
SenatorsGentlemen of the Hou8e of Oommon8

1 have It in command to let you know that Hia
Hon. ANDnREw TREW WOOD, of the city of ExcelIency the Governor General does
flot ose
Hamilton, Ont.
fit ta declare the causes of his suxnoning the
Hon. LYMAN MELVIN JoNE-s, of the city of xresent Parliament of Canada until the Speakar
of the House of Commons shall have been chosen
Toronto, Ont.
according ta law ;but, to-morrow, at the hour
HOn. GIEORGE MCHUGH, Of the eounty Of of tbree o'clock in the afternoon, Hia Excellency
wvilI declare the causes o! hi. calllng this ParVictoria, Ont.
liament.
HOn. ROBERT MACKAY, Of the city of
Montreai, Que.
The Deputy Governor was pleased to retire, and the House of 'Commons withdrew.
The House was adjourned during plensure.
The Senate then adjourned.

[SENAT E'

confides in the duty and attachment of the
House af Commons ta Bis Majesty's person and
Ottaiva, Thursdai,, Feb. 7, 1901.
government ;and not doubtlng that ttheir proceedings wili be conducted with wlsdom, temper
l7Tîe Speaker taak the Chair at 2.30 p.m.
and prudence, he grants, and upon ail occasions
wviil recognize and aiiow their constitutionai
_?RA YERS.
privileges. I amn commanded also to, assure you,
NEW SENÂTOR.
that the Commons shall have ready access ta
liOn. JOHN VALENTIXE ELLIS, Of the city Ris Exceiiency upon ail seasonable occasions,
'of St. John, N.B., was lntroduced and took and that their proceedlngs, as weli as your
words and actions, will constantiy receive fram
is sent.
him the most favGurabie construction.
The Senate was adjaurined during pieasure.
THE SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.

THE SENATE.

Âfter saine turne the Senate %vas resumed.
His Excelleuicy the Riglit Trusty ai
Rlght WelI-Beloved Cousin the Rigbt Hanourable Sir Gilbert John Elliat, Earl of
Minto and Viscount Mielguud of Melgund,
Couiity of Farfar, iu the Peerage of the
United IÇingdonm, Baron Minito of Minta.
County of Raxburgh, iii the Peerage of
Great Britain, Baronet of Nava Scotia,
Knight Grand Cross of Our Most Dlstinguisied Order ai Saint Michael îand Saint
Georg-e, &c., &c.. Governor General af Canada, being seated on the Throne,
The Speaker comnmanded the Gentleman
Ushier of the Black Rad ta proceed ta the
Blouse af Cammionis and acquaint that
Blouse,
ht is His Excelieney's pleasure thay attend
hlm immediately in this House.
Wha beig carne with their Speaker,
The Han. Louis Philippe Brodeur said:MAY IT PLEASE YOURn EXCELLENCY
The Bouse ai Commons have aiected me as
their Speaker, though I arn but littie able ta
fulfil the important duties thus asslgned ta me.
If in the performance of thase duties, I shauld
at any time fail into error, I pray tbat the fault
may be imputed ta me, and not ta the Cainimans, whosa servant I am, and who, through
me, the better ta enabie tham ta discharge their
duty ta their King and country, humhly dlaim
ail their undoubted rlghts and privileges, espe,clally that thay may bave fraadom af speech In
their debates. accass ta Your Excellency's persan
at ail seasanabie times, and that their proceedIngs may recail-a from 'Your Excellency the most
favourabie interpretation.

His Exceliency the Governor General was
then pieased ta opeli the Session by a
Gracioub Speech ta bath Blouses
ilotoirable Gentlemen of the Scnate:
Geullemeai af the bousc af Cantmaris
Since aur last meeting the empire has been
caiied on tD liment the demise af ber late MaThe universal regret
jesty Queen Victoria.
and sympathy with which the tldlngs afilier
decease have been received thraughout the entire clvilized warid. afford the hast testlmany
ta the mannel in whlch she has, at ail times,
disehargeci ber duties. bath as a waman and a
sovereign, thraughaut her unprecedentedly long
and giariaus relgn. and I will venture ta add
that in no portian af ber vast territories were
thase sentiments more profoundly fait than tn
the Dominion of Canada.
Yau wili, 1 arn sure, take early action ta
express yaur sympathy with the Royal Famiiy
In their bereavement and your loyalty ta the
new sovarelgn.
The Canadian contingents ta South Africa have
neariy ail returned, and it affords me a verY
great gratification ta he able ta assure you
that the valaur and good canduct af aur Canadian saldiers hava calied forth the highast encomiums from the severai commanders under
whom tbay have servad during the arduous
contest.

The uni-n af the several provinces of Australia into ane canfederation, upon lines closeiy
resemhllng those on whicb aur own Daminion
bas been astahllshed, marks another Important
step tawards the consolidation of the outiying
partions af the empire, and, 1 arn well assured,
will cali forth your most sincere congratulations
ta the new commonwealth.
Acting on the advice of my ministers, I had,
praviously ta the great grief which has fallen
The Hanaurable the Speaker of the Sen- upan the nation, tandared an invitation on your
ate then said:bebaîf ta Bis Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwall and York ta conclude bis intended visit ta
Mr. SPEAKER:
I am commanded by Bis Excellency the Gov- Austraiasia hy ana ta the Dominion of Canada,
ernor General ta declare ta you that be fuiiy and I arn glad ta be able ta iniform you that Ris

[FEBRUARY 1l, 1901J

3

Royal Highness bas been pleased to signify bis
Gentiemen of thse House of Commons:
acceptance of the same. I stili hope that that
The accounts for the past year will be laid
visit may nlot be considered Impossible. I have
before yau.
no doubt of the warmth of the welcome with
The Estimates for the succeeding year will
which he will be received.
likewise bo placed upan the Table at an early
My goverament bas learned with great satis- date.
faction of the progreas being made vith the
Pacifie cable scheme, and I trust that nothlng Honourable Gentleme of thse Onate:
may cccur to delay Its early completian.
Gentiemen of thse Rouse of C'omnmne
Last slumer, I made a tour through Canada
se far as Dawson City, and was everywhere
received with unqualified proofs o f devotion and
loyalty. During my Journey, I was, from perBanal observation, much impressed with the
great acivity displayed ta the development of
the mining and agricultural industries of the
country, and with the substantial increase ln
its population.
The thrift, energy and lawabiding character of the Immigrants are a subject of much congratulation, and afford ample
proof of their usefuiness as citizens of the Dominion.

I commend ta your earnest conaideration the
mensures ta be submItted ta you, Invoking the
Divine blessings upon the impartant labours on
which you are again entering.

It gives mie great pleasure ta note the excellent display made by Canada at the Universal Exposition ln Paris.
The fine quality and
varied character af Canadian natural and tudustrial praducts la evidenced by the number
of amarils won ln nearly every clasa of the
competition.
It la a remarkable testimony ta
the effectiveness of aur cald starage transportation facilities, that fresh. fruit grawn ln Canada
secured a large number of the highest awards.
It i. extremely gratifying ta observe that, as
a result af the diaplay af Canadian resources,
considerable foreign capital bas found Its way
ta Canada for lnvestment and large arders tram
foreign countries have bean recelied for Canadian goods.

THE SENATE.

The ImProvement of the St. Lawrence route
continues to engage the very careful attention
of my government. During the past year ship
channels have been widened and deepened, addltional lights and buoys bave been provided and,
ln a short time, there will be telegraph and
cabie communication with Belle Iole.
These addItional securities will tend to make mater and
more efficient than ever aur great waterway between the lakes andi the Atlantic.
I am glad ta observe that the revenue and
the general volume of tradte continue undiminished, and even show a moderate Increase over
the very large figures attained during the past
year.

Hie Excellency the Governor General was
pleased ta retire, and the House of Gommons withdrew.
The Senate adjourned.

Ottawa, Monday, Februarij 11, 1901.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
DELÂYED RETURNS.
Hon.
Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
should like ta ask the hon. Secretary of
State If there ls any probability this session
of my receiving the final returu ta the
motion made ln 1899, as ta the sale of the
achool lande ln Manitoba, the amount received fromn them, the amount on hand, the
amount of Interest, &c. I aek this early ln
the session, because I have seen ln thxe
newspapers that the government of -Manitoba have been Interviewing the ministers
as ta a claim, either ta secure to that province the lande or whatever amount of

money may be on band, and If we are ta
deal with that question during the present
session, it le Important that we should have
the particulars referred ta Iu the motion
carried by the House. The hon. Secretary
of State will remember that a returu was
partially made out, and sent back ta be
completed up ta the present time. It would
be easy ta have the return, s0 prepared,
up to the present date. Will the hon, gentleman caîl the attention of the Minieter of

Measures will be submitted ta you for the
better supervision of the expert trade ln food
products, and aie ln connection with the Post
Office, the Pacifie cable and varjous other subjecta.
the Interior ta the matter ?

[SEN AIE 1
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I will cal the attention of the Minister of the Interior to, the
subjeet, and endeavour to have the return
here. I presume a good deal of It will bie
In the minister's report. I have flot examined It.
THIE ADDRESS.
MOTION.

The Order 0f the Day having been called:
Consideration of His Excellency the Governor
General's speech on the opening of the firat
session of the ninth parliament.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS sald : Permit me to, ask
your kind consîderation while I proceed
witb the task, the pleasant task wbich I
have undertaken to perform bere to-day,
that of rnoving an address of tbanks to HIs
Excellency the Governor General for the
speech with whicb bie was pleased to open
this session 0f parliament. 1 arn the more
emboldened to ask that favour from the
fact that 1 know great consideration is
sbown to members of this House who
make their appearance bere for the first
time, and also there rnay be sympathetie
recollections ln the rninds of bon. gentlemen of thieir own feelings, when they
for the flrst time lifted Up their voice ln
this Chamber, wben the sound of their
speech. seemed strange to thern, and when
tbey struggled to give utterance to their
sentiments. I can scarcely plead youth and
inexperience, but I can plead the Inexperience of whicb the years make us s0 con2sclous, when we enter for the first lime
upon the discbarge o! new duties and try
untrodden paths. Before I make the formal motion, I sbould like to refer to one or
two paragraphs in the speech of His Excellency. The first paragrapb announces tbe
death of the sovereign. 1 do not propose to
enter upon any lengtby discussion o! the
sovereign as a constitutional ruler, because
I arn quite satisfied tbat that will be discussed on another occasion by gentlemen ln
this House wlio are mueh more capable of
speakIng upon those constitutional questions
tban I arn. But it is impossible to refrain
frorn raking one or two observations with
reference to the long reign wbîcb is now
ended, undoubtedly the rnost glorlous reIgn
in the annals of England.
The Queen bas
outlived two or three generations of statesHon. Sir MACKEN71IE BOWELL.

men.
Shie carne to, tbe Throne at a lme
when there was a great-I would flot perhaps use sucb a strong word as dissatisfaction-a great deal of agitation In England, and when some men thougbt that the
period was ln sight when the Crown might
cease to, be one of the estates of the realm.
The Queen has passed away. The Crown
is stronger ln the affections of the people
than it ever was.
There Is no question
whatever as to the advisabllity of continuIng the Crown and as to Its remaining one
of the great factors of the goverument 0f
the country. I desire more especially to,
make reference to the sovereign berseif as
an Individual, as one exercising power
througb ber Influence, rather than from the
fact tbat she possessed authority. The
1Queen, during bier reign, has endeared berself to bier people, not only by bier constitutional mile, not only by the fact tliat she
recognized tbe men wbom she Belected as
lier advisers, but also because she entered
into ail the joys and Into the spirit o! lier
people in aIl the great matters which bave
s0 developed la the United Kingdom In the
last sixty odd years. She was not only a
sagaclous and far-seelng monarcb, but ber
judgments were strengthened by unparalleled experience.
Sbe was constantly
strengthened by a strict sense of duty. Tbe
sirnplicity 0f ber life, wben sbe unbent lierself In bier dornestie circle, appealed to the
hearts 0f ail, because every happy home in
England and the world over recognized tbat
the Queen, as an individual person, bad the
feelings of common bumanlty, and that she
was, just in bier own way, and ln ber own
11f e, sucb a person as we mlgbt take to, our
own bearts, and as the people 0f England
did take to, tbeir bearts. Her words o! consolation, bier messages o! pity and tenderness, bier expressions of kindly feeling for
sufferlng people everywbere, bound ber to,
countless bearts.
Her sense of duty so
bigh ;bler i-nIe so beneficial to the world,
bier good sense s0 potential, she will stand
ont always as a great ruler, and bier influence will be felt for ages. It is difficnit for us, I tbink, to realize tbe struggles
whicb tbe soverelgn rnay make for a quiet
borne-for sucb a life as we are able to,
lead ln our own dornestic circles. Shakespeare describes Ilenry V. ou the battiefield of Agincourt, tbe nlght before tbe bat-

[FEBRUAiRY 11, l1901J

5

the eharacter of the Queen, as I have
tbought of the age ln wbicb she lived, that
wben the Incidents of this time shall have
passed Into dim forgetfulness-when bistory and tradition shall be so mixed Up that
It will be difficult to say whicb la wbicb,
tbe poets of that distant lime will turn
back to this age-turn to ber life for the
toundation of Idyls, as Tennyson d1d, wben
lie turned to thbe times o~f King A&rthur.
Hier greatness as a monarcb, ber genleness
as a woman, ber kindness to the poor ln ber
Highl.and retreat, will furnisb incidents
And as the discussion proceeded he said which wlU point the morale o! a future lime.
witb even greater pathos :
Tbere is one other remark wit regard to
The
hearts ease must kings negiect tbis wbicb 1 sbould like to make.
What Infinite
times, of course, were propitious to sucb a
that private men enjoy.
Queen, and she tool. advantage of tbem and
So the Queen of England, while filled at helped them. Neyer in the bistory of Engtimes witb sorrow, while rarely, in the land, it seems to me, bas England produced
latter years of ber 11f e, experiencing what sucb statesmen as surrounded the Queen.
we might consider great joy, yet nevertbe- I tbink in the Victorien age we bave
less, was constantly attentive to ber duties, reacbed the vei-y higbest rank of men who
-and she constantly grew ln the affections of deslred to do tbeir duty faitbfuliy and well,
ber people, because she was attentive to that the statesmen of the Victorien age
duty, and she passed away witb the affec- appear to be tbe most conscious of the bigb
tion, not oniy of ber own people, but with state to wbich statesmen sbould reacb.
the affection and regret of ail humanity, s0
Tbey are the bighest product, some 0f them.
f ar at any rate as It can be reacbed by our
of civilization, since civilization began. I
civilization. Tbere ls one tbIng, it seems will not mention any names bere.
There
to me, ln the Queen's lit e, or rather ln ber
were, I tbink, ten Prime Ministers in the
later years, that was particularly striking,
tlme o! Queen Victoria. There were other
the way ln which she carried herseif
who Bat around ber council board
years. Sometimes It rnay be statesmen
tbrougb those
and gave ber good advice. Mfter ail, wbiie
that age grows selfish. 1 know that is the
it may be a bigb position to be the Prime
opinion of some who discuss age, and comof England, or to sit at the council
pare age with generous youtb, but 1 amn Minister
rate wben that
say of the Queen that ln ber board, there is a limit at any
sure we can
position is reacbed, and no ambition and no
messages to ber people, ln ber visite to the
carry men furtber tban that.
bedside of ber soldiers, In ber messages of plotting can
Tbe statesmen 0f this time laid down their
sympatby to the suffering, whether to the
as that goes,
,widowed mother or to tbe parents wbo ambition and ideas so far
and I tbink English history wili place them
bad lost their chiIdren, she spoke from
the ripe experience of years-sbe spoke from on the very bigbest pinnacle wbicb clviliother
the knowledge that this life is a good life, zation bas erected. Then there is one
If people belp eacb otber tbrough lt, and s matter. We can sum up ail the glories of
1 think, bon, gentlemen, tbat wben the last the Victorian age, Its great discoveries, the
moments came to ber and sbe had to lay vast benefits wbieb It has conferred, its
down ber lite, she passed away like one moral opportunities, anid what greater thingwho goes to sleep, like one wbo, ln the ever occurred, or wliat event ever occurred
well-known words of an American poet, in tbe world like the deatb and buial of
wraps the drapery of bis coucb about hlm, the Queen. Wben the Queen was crowned
and lies down to pleasant dreame. She bas on tbe deatb of the former monarcb, It took
lef t a legacy to the people of ber own coun- some time to get the Information to the
try which will not be forgotten. I bave people of Canada. Now, the progress of
sometimes thought, as I have considered civilization and Its Inventions bave been so
le, when he went out among bis soldiers
to ascertain If possible the temper of his
people towards hlm, and wbile discusslng
with some soldiers the conditions, he gives
expression to the words whicb the great
dramatic writer of England bas put In tht.
form :
For, though 1 speak It to you, I think the
'King is but a man as 1 arn, the violet amelîs
to hlm as It doth to me, ail bis senses have but
human conditions, and thougb his affections are
bigher mounted than ours, yet when they stoop,
they stoop witb like wing.

[S ENATEj

great, tbat simuitaneously the world knew
the world
It ail, and simultaneously
mourned on the death of the sovereign and
On the
on the occasion of ber funerai.
equator, withia the Arctic circle, beueatli
the Southera Cross, and wlierever the word
couid reacli manklnd, tliey ail sorrowed
for bier, and the sorrow was sincere,
because people feit flot only tliat a
great monarcli bad passed away, but onc,
had gone who bad exercised a good iiifluence on mankind. 1 do flot think I ueed
proceed furtber on that point. I amn quite
sure that when the time cornes we wih
express in proper phrase our sorrow at tue
death of the Queen; also to tbe new monarcli our wishes that lis reign may be long
and prosperous. I f eel, of course, that ai
eulogy of the rnonarch rnight seem hilte
criticism, and I wiil oaly express the belie
that, baving been trained as hie lias been
tralned, accustomed to the public ee-emouils of the nation as lie lias been, discharging the duties w'hich hie bas discharged, very often under great dificulties, bie wiIi proceed with the work whieh
was begun under bis inother, and that the
Engiish rnonarcby wili know no difference,
that the liappiness of the people wiii be
extended, aud tliat ail the joyous anticipations wbich we have of the extension, not
ouly of public liberty, but of public virtue,
wiil proceed under Edward VIL. Another
paragrapli in the address to wblch 1 desire
to call attention bas reference to the Canadian contingents lu South Africa. His Exceliency says that they have ail returned.
and that it affords inucli gratification to
assure you of the valour and good conduct of
our soidiers. We have ail been participants
Iu the work of dispatching the soldiers I0
South Africa, and we have ail lad a liearty
welcome for thern on their return. I bave
iistened to rnany speeches which have been
delivered with regard to their brave conduct
ou the field, and also with reference to the
spirit whici moved theni to go. Lt seemis
tu me, sometimes, that we miss the real
spirit w-hicli animated our people iii the
movement wlich they made on Sonth
Africa. Lt is a suflicient forin of wordis to
say that heanse they thouglit the Queeil
and tue Crown and the authority of the
empire w-eie lu danger, they undertook
the arduous tnsk of goiug across the ocean
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

to South Africa, and the more arduous
and difficuit and stili more painful task of
traversing the soit of that country. But it
seemis to me that what moved them w-as
somiething more thani that. The people sain the attack which was madie upon the
authority 0f Britain in South Africa an
impeachment of the principles of British
liberty itseif, and they rose, not because
they thought there Was dange ,r, so mucli as
because it became an undoubted duty to
stand by those privileges and to show that
we %v-ho -were bonil andi bred under the
British authority, w-e w'ho camne here fromi
the British nation, ive wiîo enjoyed the
benefits of the Canadian constitution aiid
the liberty of Canada, w-ere fully aware of
wliat those blessiugs were to us. and that
in w-hatever part of the world they w-ere
assailed by mnen w-ho owed allegiance to
Britain, it '%vas our dnty to coine to the
front and to take Up armis and stand by the~
Imperial autbority. Thierefore, I need flot
say that in ail parts of the country. w-e hia e
welcomed bnck our men. We have been
deiighted with the work tbey have performed, and we feel that if the occasion
should arise-Il hope It neyer may-that man
for mani w-e can liold our own against the
world. Another paragraph in the address
refers to the commonwealth of Australia.
1 trust that the government will see its way
clear, at the Inauguaration of the commonwealth of Australia, to have Caniada represeuted in such way thiat the people of
Australia will feel that w-e are in entire
sympatliy with them. I hiope before parliameut prorogues that it will seem good
to the goverument to send an address to, the
Australian people, expressive of our satisfaction and gratification at the work they
Our Dominion camo
have accomplished.
into existence about eighty years or
thereabouts after the Amierican revoîntion.
after the United States liad sprung inito
existence, a descendant of Britain, a country
which framned lier constitution to a very
large extent upon the British lines. modified
no doubt by the feeling -%hich -%vas created
ia consequence of the unfortunate division
whieh took place betxeeni the people, Iargely
affected by the stubbornniess of the king,
They
still thev were a British people.
formed thieir institutions uponi hles whlich
w-erc

intended

to

perpetuate

liberty

il,

[FE'BRUARY Il. 1901 j
1 think it is Longfellowv who ideas which prevail among the middle
America.
speaks of the lient in which the constitutioni, classes of England and among the classes
symbolized under the namne of the ship 0f of England which bave flot reached the
state, was f orged; In what a fire and what lghest position in tbat country, tbe great
a heat it was framed. So afterwards Ideas of democracy, of the public weal, have
was the Dominion of Canada estab- strongly permeated the Australian systemn
lshed, and we too, in the formation of the theory and the practice of government
In thelr
our constitution, were influenced, flot by In the Australian colonies.
but by internai op- arrangements for age pensions and in other
external operations,
erations, and our constitution bas a cast, ways they are far ahiead of any other counlias a direction from the conditions try to-day lIn legisîntion for the amneliorawhicli existed wlien that constitution was tion of the condition of mankind. WVe caîxadopted. Stili, it is weDI to remnember that not look with any other. feeling thanti one
whulle, to a certain extent, wve bave remnine<l of profound interest on a colony wbicb bas
attacbed to tbe Crown of England, we are a sprung into existence in tbat mnanner. Tbe
self-governing people; and now the coloflV late Queen sent to tbem for Governor Genof Australia bas framied a constitution tob, eral of their new commonwealtb a gentieand that constitution in its formi differs Imaxi wlio will ruie well, Lord Hopetoiin. and
from ours and from the constitution of the I tbink there openis before the wvorld-I will
United States from the fact that tixere are

not say n British depeadency, but a British

no difficuit questions, there are no great commonwealth which will carry out ail
problems lnvolved In uniting tbe common- those great ideas of advancemient whicb the
wealth of Australia at ail. It is simply a English people bave been seeking to estabbusiness transaction, arising out of the lish for tbe benefit of tbiemselves and for
growtiî of tbose colonies, out of tbeir desire ithe benefit of mianklad generally. Therefore
for a united form of self-government, and I think wve sbould express to tbem our stroup,
they have adopted a constitution which the hope that they will succeed. I will not go
mother country sat down witb tbemi to into the political question. 1 observe that
make, and wbicb I amn sure will be a con- H is Excellency tbe Governior General says
stitution wbiclx will afford a pattern at least, ibat the w~istitlition1 ot the comminonwealth
for others wbîch may follow, because we of Australia is largely founded upon our
own. That Is so. At the samne time, if
expect to see a greater developmnent yet.
I may hon, gentlemen desire to look inito tbe matNow, there are three nations-and
use that form of expression-whicbh bave 1ter more closely, tbey will find tlhat tbe
gone out from the mother country withln a !constitution of the Senate of Australia
century or thereabouts. When the colonies materially differs froni that of the Domninof Australla were first establlshed, the coun- ion of Canada. I wlll not say that It Is
try of course was known to British sailors any improvement on ours, but at any rate
who biad landed on the coast. The Queen it Is a material advance along certain uines,
of Eagland was just a chld-was just born. and 1 have no doubt tiiere ire gentlemen
ln the sixty years which have elapsed under in this Chamber wbio would approve of the
hier reign, the Australian colonies bave Australiafi systeni. However, w-e send tbem
grown until tbey are over four millions of our best %vishes and our bopes for 1 great
people. They occupy a splendid country, future. W'e hope ail their ideas will be
and bave a uceh larger trade than we realized, and that on that island continent
have. I think in 1897 their trade with the may be the bomes of many people who
mother country and the world amounted to will develop not only their own land, but
five hundred and sixty millions of dollars, ail those soutberii lands wbicb bave reand tbey bave started on a career tbe 1quired so inucb of tbe finishing toucli of
limitations 0f wbich no man can at tbis civilization,.
I wîll pass to another matter. Anlother
moment imagine, because, being an island
continent, they must bave a navy. Tbey paragrapli in the speech refers to the probhave eight tbousand miles of sea-coast, and able visit liere of the Duke of Cornwall and
There appears to be information
they will control the soutb Pacifie seas. York.
Further than that, aIl those democratie 'conveyed iii the paragrapb that it may not

[SENATE]

be possible to carry that out in consequence
of the death of the Queen. I hope, however,
that it will be accornplished. 1 hope that
wlien the Royal Prince who now stands
next to the Throne makes lits visit to Austraita, which I understand lie Intends to do,
hie wiil be able aiso to visit Canada.
1 am sure we would give hlm the heartlest welcome. No forrn of words could express the desire we would have that the
Prince should come here. We ail remember
wlth special pleasure that Edward VIIL,
now on the Throue, when he -was a youth,
vlsited this country. I remember hlm myself as a ruddy-cheeked lad, who saw ail
that could be seen In Canada wlth great
enjoyment, and I have no doubt even now
wlth cares of state around hlm, lie may
revert with pleasure to bis experience lu
Canada. But bis visit had the effect of lnteresting us !l the mother country, and in
rnaking us feel that the people of England
thouglit kindly of us. 1 need not say that
the visit of the Duke of Cornwall would
be an Intense gratification te ail our people.
I pass over the reference to the Pacific
cable. I have do doubt that wlll be dealt
with lu good tIme. We are ail anxious that
there should be a Pacific cable, but the matter takes on se rnany phases, I am not
quite sure as to whether I arn lnformed as
to what the present phase Is.
His Excellency aiso refers to bis visit to
Dawson. He says :
Last summer, I made a tour through Canada
as far as Dawson City and was everywhere re-

ceived with unqualified proofs of devotion and
loyalty. During my journey, I was, frorn personal observation, much ilmpressed with the
great activity displayed in the development of'
the mining and agricultural industries of the
country, and with the substantial increase In
Its population.
The thrlf t, energy and lawabiding character of the immigrants are a sub.lect of rnuch congratulation and afford ample
proof ef their usefuines as citizens of the Dominion.

It is no doulit a great satisfaction to the
people of the country that His Excellency
has been able to make a visit of that kind,
and to know that hie saw the developrnent
of the rnining industry of which lie could
speak from personal observation. We are
ail deeply interested lu the development of
We hope for a great
British Columbia.
deal from that country, because it appears
to open up to us new and different pathis
ýof enterprise freim those which we have'
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

in the east. Ris Excellency makes sorne
observation with regard to the character of
the immigrants whom hie saw there. 1 presume bis remarks refer to the immigrants
in British Columbia. At another time there
may, perhaps, be an opportunity to speak
on the general question of imnmigration.
No doubt it Is a difficuit question, because
we do not now find It as easy to draw
people to Canada from the United Kingdorn
as we did In years gone by. The fields have
se extended and enlarged that people do
nlot corne to us ia the nu.mbers that tbey
did years ago, but we mnust be gratlfied at
the presence on our land of men of industry,
of men of character, partlcularly of men
who from whatever land they comne, endeavour here to found happy homes and becorne permanent residents of the country,
and we must aiso feel gratified that His
Exceliency saw proof of their fitness to be
citîzens of the Dominion.
There is a paragraph in the speech with
reference to the display at Paris-thiat the
people of Europe hiad an opportunity to see
sorne of our manufactures, and aise the
fruits which we produce. Many of the
hou. gentlemen here may neyer have had
the opportunlty of seeing sorne of the fruitgrowlng districts of Nova Scotia. There is
no part of the world for Its size, except it
may be Tasmania, where sucli beautiful
fruit is grown. It can be produced in unlirnited quantities. The mnarket for our
fruit is being enlarged, and cold storage
appliances have enabled us to carry our
fruit to Enropean markets rnuch more
easiiy than we did years ago, and we must
ail wish the greatest possible success to
the efforts 0f the Minister of Agriculture to
increase the establishment of cold storage
facilities, s0 far at any rate as they apply
to those products wbich uve are able to sel
abroad.
With regard to the improvernent of the
St. Lawrence canais, to whieh His Excellency referred, we ail fully recognize the
Importance of that route. As the interior
of the country Is settled, as the population
mvound the great lakes and upper regions
0f the St. Lawrence increases, the necessity
is the greater for an incerease Olso of the
facilities to be given to the p)eople to place
their produce within easy reacli of the buyer
No doubt
ini the markets of the world.

FEBRUARY Il. 19011
It Is au expensîve operatlon whlch requires was 190000 an increase of $67,700,000,
both money and the hlghest euglueerlug, lthe ten years, that ls of the total Import.
.skîli, but we are maklng progress lu that The total value of imports entered for com-direction. Whether we are keeplng pace sumption ln Canada ln 1890 was $112,700,with the progress o! the couutry I arn un- 000, and ln 1900 lt had lncreaeed to $180,able to say, but at any rate we are ail de- 800,000, au lucrease lu that perlod of $68,sîrous to help forward the desires and de- 000,000 of dollars. Separatlug the dutiable
sigus of the goverumeut' lu the establish- and the free Importe, 1 find that lu 1890 the
total value of the dutiable Importe was $86.meut of that object.
'Hie Excellency also makes an observation 200,000. In 1900 It had lncreased to $112,The
wvith regard to the revenue, and the general 900,00, an Increase of $26,600,000.
volume of trade in the country. 'I do not free Importa had gone up from $35,50J0,000
propose to occupy mnucli further tîme, but I lu 1890, to $76,600,000 lu 1900, an Increase of
The total value of dutiable
trust I do not violate auy tradition or prac- $41,000,M00.
tice of this House If I make the observation goode entered for consumption wae $77,100,thut since parliament last aseembled there 000 lu 1890, and ln 1900 it amounted to $104,The
was an election lu the country, and that the 000,000, an increase of $27,200,000.
gentlemen who had carrled on the adminis- total free goods entered for consuniption lu
tration o! the affaire of Canada during the 1890 was $35,600,000; lu 1900 it had gone up
preceding four years wvere continued lu to $76,400,000, an increase in that particular
Iu regard to the exporte,
p)ower, aud not only lias the expression of of $40,700,000.
popular approval, been the expression of lu 1890 they amounted to $90,700,000; lu
npproval of the administration as a whole, 1900 they reachied $191,8W0,000, an increase
The exporte of home pro.but also the expression of approval of every of $105,000,000.
individual minister, who was obliged to go duce lncreased from $87,600,000 lu 1890 to
to the people. There le no question that $170,600,000 lu 1900, an Increase of $83,thut le a fact of considerable importance, 000,000. The exports of forelgn produce luand it le a fact whlch the country cannot creased from $9,000,000 lu 1890, to $21,000,f ail to recognize, aud whlch I suppose we 000 iu 1900, an Increase of $12,000,000. The
canuot fail to recognize here. We can ouly aggregate trade of the country li 1890, was
In 1900 It had gone up to
hope that, with the continuance of power $218,600,000.
entrusted to the goverument, wlth the con- $385500,000, an Increase o! $162,900,000.
fidence the people repose lu them, they will The aggregate trade ou the baste of home
prove themselves wortby of the positions products exported and goods irnported for
they occupy, and will continue to diseharge cousu mption bad goue from $203,400,000 to
the..pubic duties entrusted to them lu a $351,400,000, an increase of $150,900,000. The
nnner.to meet the approval o! parlament. revenue f rom aîl sources had increased from
As reference bas been made to the trade of $39,800,000 ln 1890, to $51,031,000 ln 1900.
I reler to these figures to show that there
the country, I should like to cali the attention of the House te souie figures, not for le a irapid Increase ln the general trade conany political purpose, but for the simple ditious o! the country, and tîxat we uîay feel
pul-pose of show-lng how great our trade bias exceedingly gratified at this increase, showbeen for the past ten yeax-s. I have taken ing that our country le iuaking considerable
the figures for 1890 aud 1900. I do uot pre- progress, and that we ny be falrly satistend to dlaim for thc administration that fied wlth the progress which we have
they deserve any particular credit for al mnade.
His Excelleucy le good euough to close hie
this great lucrease, because there le the
natural growth and increase lu the country, speech wlth a reference to the fact that he
and upon that feature we may dwell with conveys to our consideration the measures
pleasure, but at any rate the goverument he submits to us. It seeme to me that we
o! the day have doue their share ln assiet- are met here at a notable and a noteworthy
iug lu the development of trade, and to that period. We have just placed our feet upou
extent at least we may give them credit. In the threshold of the twentieth century in
the yeaî- 1890 the total value o! the importe wichi w-e hope to see coutinued with ever
of Canada was $121.800,000. ini round num- expanding force the material blessinge, the
in 1900, the value of the Imports moral opportunîties, which se rapldly debears.

[SENATIEj

veloped in the century just closed. We
meet under the mile 0f a monarcli whose
reign bas scarcely begun, but under whose
sway we hope to see the glories of tic
Victorian age enlarged and increased and
extended until ail mankind may recognize
the advantages whlch we enjoy; and we are
here a new pàrlîameat assembled for the
first time to discliarge those duties Nvhich
are ours to discharge for this portion of the
great empire Nwhich is immediately our own.
A new century, a new king and a aew
In what hopes may we
parliament !
flot ladulge of a future for our country
in whlch we shahl perform an Important
part la eniarging the field of enterprise,
In widening the bounds of freedom, la
addlng to the sum o! human happiness ,
In glving effect to the aspirations of
our people that ail life in this land mnay be
truthful, patriotic and noble. WNe may differ
to somie extent, w-e no doubt ivill differ to a
considerable extent, as to the way la wvhich
our hlghest Ideais may lie reaiized; but in
those differences, nay w-e neyer forget that
we have high ideals, that wve are aniniated
by pure motives, and that the many races
and creeds m-hich enijoy the benefits and
blessings of Ca9nadian 11f e have one common
object-to make this country a land of happy
homes, a land of pence, a land of toicrance.
a land of liberty ln whicb, what we were,
what our ancestors %vere,what tiiey quarrelled over lu the past, shall be remembered
only ln s0 far as they are helpful to enable
us to iive hiappily together non- and to strive
la pleasant unison or in friendly rivalry, for
the successfui deveiopmneat of those sterling
virtues which corne to us througii aUl the
races froni which wc have sprung, and uponl
whichi, we hiope to build the strong walls
of the national edifice.
In this Senate, removed to a coasiderable
extent from the influence of popular passion
aad prejudice, but animated by à sincere
desire to properly interpret and express the
best Judgmeat of the Canadian people, we
uiay reasonably give effect to tiiese sentituents and i this spirit. Mr. Speaker, 1
have the honour to move.

To His Excellency the Right Honourable Sir
Gilbert John Elliot, Earl of Minto and Viscount
Melgund of Melgund, County of Forfair, in the
Peerage of the United Kingdom, Baron Minto
of Minto, County of Roxburgh, In the Peerage
cf Great Brîtain, Baronet o! Nova Scotia,
Knlght Grand Cross o! Our Most Distinguished
Order of Saint Michael and Saint George, &c.,
&c., Governor General of Canada.
MAY

IT PLEÂSE TOUR EXCELLIENCY:

We, His Majesty's most dutiful and loyal sulijects, the Senate o! Canada In Parliament asrembled, heg leave to offer our humble thanks
to Yoor Excellency for the gracions Speech
which Ycur Exceliency has addressed to both
Houses of parliament.

Hon. Mn. JONF>S-In rising to second the
address wblch bas been moved by the hon.
gentleman from St. John, 1 wouid ask the
indulgence of the House, whlch 1 amn sure
wi11 be gîven to a young member, or rather,
i should say, a new member of this House,
and whlle I cannot ask it, as the inover did,
on the ground of youth, 1 can certalnly asic
it on the ground of.iaexperience, and 1 amn
sure It: wili lie granted. 1 could have wislhed that this duty had devolved on some one
other than myseîf, but I appreciate the
honour donc nie la allowing me to second
1 have llstened with great
the address.
pleasure to the speech of the hon. the moyen,
and 1 arn pleased to see that he seems to
have left me but littie to add to what lie
bas sald In nîaklng the motion. I hesitate
to make any considerable remarks, knowlag that 1 arn speaklng lu the presence of
learned gentlemen accustomed to public
speaking, and who could so well have
said wbat should lie said on an occaspeech from
sion of this kind. 'The
the Throne, to whichi we are replying,
differs from any prevlous speech la the
hlstory of Canada, especially on account
of Its official announcement to this bluse
of the death of Her Majesty the Queca.
With reference to this, I wlll not, I arn
sure, be misundcrstood If I do not add at
any length to the remnrks which have aiready f allen from the mover, and the
speeches which bave been made over the
country on varions occasions that have off ered, aad the splendid address delivered in
the bouse of Commons on Frlday last by
the hion. the prime minister, Sir Wilfrid
That the following address be pnesented to
and so ably secondcd and conHis Excellency the Governon General, to offer Laurier,
ia by the leader of the oppothe humble thanks of this House to His Excel- curred
loncy for the gracious Speech which hie has been sition.
The address itself ladicates the
pleased to make to both House of Parliament.
great sorrow that bias fallea upon us, and
namely :
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

[FEBRUARY 11, 19011
tbe trappings around and about us remind
us of our great loss, and that we have no
longer the Queen-a name familiar to us
from childbood has been removed, and this
House bas, for tbe first time, met wlthout
a message from Her Majesty's representatIve. But she has given lier name to a
great age, and the Victorlan era wiiI neyer
be forgotten so long as men sball speak.
It bas been truly said that If anything bas
dimmed the tbrone during all that long
reign, it bas been the briiiiancy and spiendour only of ber own Individuality. History bas turned two Important leaves-the
Victorian era and the nineteentb century,
that
running alrnost concurrently-and
wortby, that good, tbat beautiful 11fe ei no
more. Her brilliant career is endptl, but
Uts usefulness In tbe British Empire and
over the wbole earth Is feit now even as
It bas neyer been heretofore.
May we not look forward confldently ln
the belief that the Influence of that splendid life, wbich bas shed such lustre upon
the British Empire for so many years, will
continue to live lu tbe world's memory,
and from tbat greater beiglit shine even
more directly upon and ever exert its splendid Influence over tbe people of tbe whole
world.
Even ln our sadness we rejoice that we
bave ber son for our King. King Edward
VII., now a man of mature years, grown
into manhood under the direct personal Influence of his Queen mother, we cannot but
believe tbat lie will be greatly Influenced by
bis late motber.
He bas already said that lie will follow
closely ln ber footsteps. And tben too, we
bave still a Queen, the KIng's Queen, our
Queen, a noble woman greatly endeared to
tbe people of the whole empire, second only
ln the bearts of tbe nation to tbe late great
Queen berseif. Truly we are greatly blessed, and with hèartfelt tbankfuiness we
pledge our loyalty to King Edward VII.
We may hope that our relationshlp witb
foreign nations may by ber deatb be made
even more permanently satisfactory. This
great sorrow brings the peoffle of the great
German Empire and tbe British Empire
1 could wisb they
very close together.
would as between themseives agree that all
dIfferences sbould for ail time be settled by
arbitration, without force of arme, and If

to these miglit be added tbe great nation
to the south of us, and possibly others also,
and that together tbey wouid agree to act
on tbe offensive or defensive, ln so far as
may lie necessary to preserve the peace of
the world, possibiy the great army and the
tremendous navy now found necessary to
imaintain the supremnacy and Insure peaice.
miglit be lessened and combined with eacli
other and thereby practicaliy ensure the
peace of the world for ail time to
come. Reference bas been made to Canadian contingents ln South Africa. We
are reminded that most of our men
wbo went to, South Africa bave returned. We are indeed proud of the men
wbo went the're. We are glad to, know tbat
tbey did their full duty. Glad to know that
baving gone, they took their full share In
bardships, In tbe long marches, and ln tbe
greatly rebatties that were fought. W%%e
gret tbat so many of tbem can neyer returu. Tbe severe ioss of Ilfe at Paardeberg
alone, wbere more tban 10 per cent of the
contingent were killed or wounded, le tu
lie greatiy regretted. But we are proud to
know that tbere, on tbe veldt, side by side,
Canadian Scotcbman, Canadian 'Eng-lshman, Frenchi Canadian, and Irish Canadian,
fought for Queen and country, and this f act
ouglit to, Indicate to us, and tell us ln the
plainest terme tbat Canada as a nation,
made up as It le of varions peoples, is stili
entireiy Canadian, and that no questions
should arise as to the loyalty of any of our
people. It bas also brought out tbe fact
that the women of Canada bave done a
splendid work la tbe absence of tbe contingent la looking after the Interests and
wants of the varions companies that went
to tbe war, and the frlends at home have
done a noble work. Reference bas aiso been
made by tbe mover to that clause referrlng
to the consolidation of the provinces of
Australla. It is very gratifying to Canadians
to know that Australia, divided as It bas
been Into five colonies, I think, ln the past,
is about to be consolidated and become oe
commonwealth. I bave reason to know that
there will be great advantages in trading
with Australia under these altered conditions. There bave been great difficulties lu
the past becanse of the varions colonies
differIng la many Important respects. Each
colony had its own raiiway system, se that

[SENATE]
the near future, become an accomplisbed
fact. Reference has also ibeen -made to the
f act that His Royal Higness, the Duke
of Cornwall and York, lntends golng to
Australla to be present and open the
ELrst parliament. I have understood by the
newspapers that, notwithstanding bis bereavement, he wlll stili go. 1 hope that lie
wlll, and I trust that the invitation that has
been extended to him from Canada to corne
this way on his return will be accepted, and
that lie may see Canada, as lie would have
an excellent opportunity of doing, coming
from the west and passing througb to the
east, from ocean to ocean. Lt is gratlfying
to know that in a visit of this klnd the
Duke of York wlll find It necessary to go
aIl the way round the world. The British
chain of colonies and possessions, ancbored
In Great Britain, will have reaclied the
entire distance, and it is pleasing to know.
that Canada Is one of the lnks, lu fact
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear, the largest link In the British chain.
hear.
Let us hope that in the near future the
Hon. Mr. JONES-I bope that they will Duke of York may have an opportunity
give that preference to Great Britaîn that of paylng a visit to South Africa, there to
Canada bas seen fit to concede. I hope also consolidate the several provinces or colonies
that that preference will extend to Canada, Into one grand commonwealth, whose people
and I arn glad that we have already on our will be as bappy and contented under the
statute-books a law eaabling the Canadian new conditions as Canada is, and as Austragovernment to extend to Australla the saine lia will be. Reference is also made to the
preferential advantages that we now offer Paris exposition, and 1 arn very pleased to
to Great Britain and some of the other say that, from personal knowledge, I have
British colonies. Ia fact, at present, 1 think no doulit that that lias been of great benefit
In the case of the colony of New South to the rnanufacturing interests of Canada.
Wales, the preferential tariff is already in I know that great advantages have acforce. New South Wales, I rnay say, is crued to Canadians frorn the exhibit made
practically a f ree trade colony. I under- there, and I think hon, gentlemen who
stand that an invitation has been given to visited It found from Canada, not only ini
Canada to send representatives there. I the natural products, in the fruits and grain,
sincerely trust that Canada will take advan- but ln the manufactures, a very creditable
tage of this opportunlty and do so, and I display as compared witb the surrounding
hope Sir WViJfrid Laurier, the prime min- displays. lu this connection I amn pleased
Ister, will see bis way clear to repre- to know that the goverament intend exsent Canada la connection with the open- hîbiting at the Glasgow exhibition, an exhiiag of the firat parliarnent of the commonl- bition to open within two or three months,
wealth. It will be greatly in the inter- which will niford another excellent opportuests of Canada if hie will lie able to do so. nity for the display of Canadian products,
We congratulate Australia on its consolida- and will lie greatly for the benefit of Cantion, and on its, to sorne extent, copying ada. Reference is made to Ris Excellency's
the Canadian parliarnt in its consolida- visit to the Yukon and Nortii-west Territion. -I greatly hope, as is iadicated in the tories, and seeing a large part of Canadian
speech frorn the Throne, that the Pacifie territory. It is gratifying to kniow that we
cable, a aecessary link in the carrying on of have made very considerable progress in ail
trade aud commerce with Australia, wili, iii the west, in mining as well as agriculture.

it Is practically Impossible, If not actUally
impossible, for the railways connectlng the
-different colonies, to carry frelght snd passengers, and have through shlpments as we
are enabled to do In Canada. On account of
-the differences In gauge and system, they
have to transfer the goods and passengers
at the border of each colony, and It bas been
very difficuit to do business under these
conditions. I bave no doulit the creation of
the commonwealth wlll lead to the consolidation of the tariff, and the adoption of a
unlforin gauge for the rallways, and ivili
-develop their own trade greatly, glving the
facilities for tbe development of trade between Canada and Âustralla, from whlch
we will benefit largely. No doulit, from
present indications, tbere will be, early la
the 11f e of the new commonwealth, a genleral tariff, probably not dlffering materially
from the Canadian tariff.

Hon. Mr. JONES.

LFEBRUARY 11, 1901]
British Columbia bas certainiy grown veryj
rapily, and the Nortb-west bas developedi
in a way that ls at ieast reasonably satlsfactory. I find that ln the returns for the five
years from 1874 to 1879, there was an average of about thlrty-six hundred entries per
year for homesteads taken in Manitoba. For
the ten years from 1880 to 1889, there was
an average of about 23,000, and from 1890 to
1899, about 26,500, sbowing a fairly rapld
Increase ln the growth of settiement ln that
province.
In the last year I believe the
Immigration Into Manitoba and the Northwest Territorles alone reached about 45,000
people. A very large number of these, onethird at ieast, came from the United States.
It must be very gratlfying to membera
of this House to know that so large a
number of immnigrants are comiug to Canada, many of them returning to Canada
wbo bave been in the United States for a
greater or less number of years. Rapid advancemeut; bas aiso been made ln northern
Ontario, as weil as ln the eastern provinces,
ln mining and agriculture.
Reference is
also made to tbe St. Lawrence river !improvements. This brings prominentiy before
us the question of transportation. To my
mind there Is no question of greater ImPortance to tbe people of Canada than this.
Much bas been sald in the iast f ew years
ln this direction, and last autumn we were
enabled to use, for the first time, a canal
system affording a deptb of water of 14
feet througb the vatrious canais of the St.
Lawrence for the accommodation of larger
vessels for transportation purposes.
It la
unfortunate that ln past years s0 laifge
a percentage of the exporth 0f Canada have
found their way across the ocean, not fromn
Oanadian ports, but from United States
ports. As an illustration of this, J1 might
point to the exports of a manufacturing institution of whlch I know something, and I
Eind, lu lookîng up the figures, that only
about 15 per cent of the exports, amounting
to several tbousand cars, have goine out by
Canadian ports. Golng out by United States
ports, the Canadian railways lose the advantage of the long baul to the seaboard,
and our seaports lose the advantage of the
export, and Canada the advautage of the
credit of tîjat export, while the United
States gains thereby, because It adds to
their export trade returus. I hope that

13

the deepenlng of the canal system wili
prevent largely, If flot entirely, the exports of our produets at ieast by
United States routes. Wltb the enormous lnland lake system, reachlng tweive
to fifteen hundred miles up Into the
heart of the country, and this wlth
comparatlvely littie obstruction lu that
long distance, lt seems to me it ought: to be
possible for us to bave a canal system adequate, flot oniy for the carrying of the produets of Canada, but for the carrying of
the large amounts of products trlbutary to
these waters from the other side, and that the
exports passlng down through the lake system should be reversed and go out over and
through the St. Lawrence route largely, lnstead of via United States ports. I notice that
the exports of grain and wheat alone f roim
Manitoba and the ýNortb-west for the four
years beginning with 1886 and endîng with
1889, averaged 5,750,000 bushels per annumn.
From 1890 to 1894 Inclusive, the average
was 13,300,000 bushels per annum, and from
1895 to 1899, the last five years, except
1900, whlch I bave not got, the average was
24,750,000 bushels, about four times the
average per annum in the prevlous five
years.
If we can expect no more rapid
Increase ln the future than we have bad ln
the past, we must expect that at least one
bundred million bushels per- annurn of
wheat from Manitoba and the North-west
alone wiil be exported within five years,
and It Is hoped that our own route
wlll be so lmproved as to enable ail
of that to go tbrough Canadian channels,
lnstead of througb a foreign country. I do
flot know wbetber the depth of canal is
sufficient for that or not, but it does seeni
to me that this question may again have to
be considered with a view of having suffidient depth and iengtb to our canais and
locks to permit ocean vessels to corne up
Into the lakes and load their grain, their
iron and their steel, at Toronto, HamIlton, Detroit, and ail the ports to Fort
William, because the products of the various
tron and steel companies that are growlng up
ln the country wlll, in addition to the
natural products, ln the very near future
form a very large export trade ln themselves. The trou and steel trade with Great
Britain bias falien off ln the iast f ew years
trernendously. Ought not Canada to supply

SENATEJ
the deficiency in Great Britaini ? Is it flot botit sies of a political question on which
situated better titan any other country to they mlght diff er, and do diff er, in the study
Bupply that deficiency ? I thlnk, %vithin of political economy. However, be that as
comparatlvely f ew years, It will be able to it may, I arn sure, from the remarks wbicb
do so. Il see no reason wity Canada-there the seconder made, that hie hias a deep incan be no reason wýhy-ocated as easterll terest in tite manufacturing interests of tilis
Canada ls, at least one-third nearer to country, an~d very properly so, because
Great Britain titan the principal ports of under that policy, which some of us had
the United States, should not afford trans- the honour and privilege of lnauguratlng In
portation, and Canada can produce the Iron titis country, the particular lndustry withi
and steel as cbeaply and as readly ns any which hie is connected lias flourisited to a
o! the United States makers, and If so, we wonderful extent-to such an extent that
have reason to belleve that thte faiiing off that wblch barely exlsted in 1878 hias 110w
in trade In Great Britain wili, in the very become one of the largest exporting
near future, be entlrely supplied by the branches of the trade of the country. 1 conenormous increase ln titis trade from gratulate the present goverlment on flot
Canada. Mr. Speaker, I have the lionour hiavlng lnterfered wlth the protective policy
to second the motion for the adoption o! tite of the old goverîment, so as flot materially
to interfere witit tite progress and advanceaddress.
ment of thiat particular industry as xvell as
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn with others. 1 shall fot at the present
qulte sure that every one who bias listened moment refer at any length to the tirst porto the two speeches whlch have just been tion of the speech from the Titrone, %whicit
dellvered by the mover and seconder of the speake of the deatit o! Her Majesty the
address, wili, with myseif, congratulate the Queen. That duty for a short time wlll deHouse upon the valuabie acquisitions to It. volve upon me no doubt when the Minister
I iisteined with a great deai of pleasure and of Justice submlts a motion of condolence
interest to the speech made by the mover. to the Royal Family and of congratulation
It was terse, dignified, and generally, to the to His Majesty Edward VII., on bis accespoint. As an old Liberal, supporting a semi- sion to the Tirone. Hence, I do not deem
protectîonist government. tite hon. member it appropriate to say 110w, that which I pro!rom St. John (Mr. Ellis) can be excused for pose to say when that question arises. It
a few of his utterances on titis occasion. would be only a repetition of wbat I shall
-N'iitllout wishing to appear egotistical, per- then have to say.
init mue to congratulate thte House on the
I amn fully In accord with the reference
fact o! having anotiter addition to It from made to the
valour o! the Canadians who
the fourth estate, for whom personally.
were sent to Southt Africa. It Is true that
and otiterwise, I have very great respect.
we. were flot the first, but the last o! the
The seconder of the address occupies a
colonies who offered that assistance.
Be
somewlhat different position to that of the
titat as lt may, the Canadian volunteers who
inover. He is wbat might hie termed a representative of the manufacturing class of went to South Africa have proved thiat the
the coimnunity, a very important one, more saine blood which coursed titrougit the veins
of their forefatiers courses ia theirs, and
partîcularly from the standpoint o! the late
government whio introduced a protective that wherever they were sent to do battie
polic3- inito the country, and I presumne I with tite foe, they did it with credit to tbemshahl liot be offensive if I designate him a selves and to the country from which they
Liberai of the old scitool, o! free trade opini- camne. Lt is a pleasant thoughit to ail of uls
ions, but of strong protectionist ideas. He that at Paardeberg, one of the severest
seems to occupy a somiewhat incongruous batties fouglit during the war, a battie
position, but stili in this age, when some fougbt on the annlversary of that blot oïl
parties are obiiged to nccept witen in power the escutcheon o! British Ihistory, the surtbat which they opposed vehemently whcn render at Majuba Hill, they wiped out that
in opposition, there is a gratification in blot on the bistory of our country and estaitknowing that tbe mmid o! man is so con- lishied for theniselves a namne lu history that
stituted that hie can bring within its folds Nvill neyer be forgotten.
I congratulate
Hon. Mr. JONES.

[FEBRUARY il,
tbemn; and, speaking for my own section of
tbe country, it is a still greater pleasure to
know that, tbougb there was no one part
of Canada whicb sent a greater number of
volunteers to iSouth Africa than did that portion of Ontario ln which I live, every one of
thein wltb the exception of one or two
who were sllghtly wounded, returned to
tbelr homes as healthy as when tbey left.
It Is aise a inatter of regret that many of the
Canadian contingent lest their lives either
tbrougbi sickuess or tbroughi wounds recelved in battie. 1 congratulate our late
Speaker on the valour displayed by his son
when under fire. I sympathize deeply wltb
the Mlfnlster of MIilitia In the loss of a son
,wdom everybody, se far as I knowv, respected.
He was represented te be a fine soldier,
unequalled by any of those by whom lie was
surrounded, and 1 syînpathize withi the Minister of %ilitia in the loss lie sustainied of
lits only son. Others came home wounded,
and It will be a long time before we forget
the valour of our Canadianl boys.
They
showed the saine spirit which actuated our
people in wars goue by, wheu this country
was attacked by a foreiga foe, that they
were ready to lay down their lives lu defence of Queen and country. MUy lion.
friend referred to the commnonwealth of
Australia, the advance which bas been made
In wbat I mniglit terni the consolidation of
tbe empire. It was miy good fortune some
years ago to visit Australia wlien this question of confederation was uppermost lu
the minds of ail Australlan statesmezi. At
that tie,
whenever It fell to my lot to address a publie meeting, or a board of trade,
or a chamber ef commerce, the first intimation 1 would receive would be frein tbe
present premier of that country, Mr. Barton,
to be sure and say something about confederation. 'Yeu in Canada bave experlenced
lts benefits,' hie would say, 'yeu know wbat
it i8 to have thue whiole of thue different provinces Joined together, tell us souietblng
about 11.' Iu a very humble way 1
attempted to do so. 1 peinted ont. te tliem the
difficuities wbich presented themnslvesu to
Canadian statesnien at the time whien tbey
were considering the question of confederating the different colonies, difficulties wblcb
did not exist in Australia.
Thiey had no
race difficulty lu tbat country. They were
not separated as we are in Canada. While
we hiave a vast extent of country lying bie-

1901]

là

tween the maritime provinces and Quebec
and Ontario, and five or six hundred miles to
the west of us which rendered it impossible
to reacb the eastern sections of the country
durlng the wlnter seasons; they, wlth their
five colonies laid close together, witb nothiing but lmaginar lines dîviding tbem except lu the case of Tasmania, whlch required but a couple of days' sal on the
sea to reach it. As the bon. gentlemail (Mr. Joues) bas pointed eut,
strange as It may seem to us, there were
tive different tariffs in force lu Australia.
Until lately New South Wales was a free
trade country under Premier Rteid. Victoria
bad a higli protective tariff; Western Anstralla bad another tariff; South Australia
another; Queensland another, and Tasmania
anotber. What was more singular was to
flnd that the rallways la Queensland were

of a narrow gauge.
la New Soutb
Wales, the raîlways werc of the standard
gauge. Passing on to Victoria they hiad the
old wlde gauge, se that lu travelling froia
on1e colony to anotheý, one liad to change
thiree or four times both freiglit and passexigers. I bave no doubt they wlll adopt lu
a very short time tbe policy wbilh we
adopted when we came into confederation
when we chnged the gauge of the Grand
Trunk. and adopted tbe standard gauge of
the continent. Singular as ft may appear,
the constitution given to the Australn
colonies prevented any province from
giving a tariff concession 'to another, wlthout glving it to the wbole world. In other
words, Victoria could not put au article upon
the free Elst fromn any of the colonies witbout doing the samne for the whole world.
That -Jadmît bas been changed, but when I
was there dlscusslng tbis question wltb
them. 1 found tbe constitution provided that
auy concession made to Canada ia tbe way
of reciprocal trade. had to be given to the
United States and to the wvhole world.
1
pointed out that we wanted reciprocal trade
witb them, on tbe question of flsb and of
lumber ia particular, but if we gave them
reciprecal advantages lu Canada, or if we
admitted the fruits and other products of
their colonies Into Canada lu cousideration
of free entry of fish and lumber by them. we
would have te compete with the United
States, because the Australians were obliged
to give the saine terms t0 aIl othier contries.
Our neiglibours, wlio liave the saine varieties

[SENATE]
of fish and lumber on their western coast
that we have ln British Columbia, would be
put on the sarne footing as ourselves.
1
said to tbem, 'you can readily understand
that would be no advantage to us; we
should be glvlng you free trade ln these
articles in Canada, while you, in extending
reciprocity to us, would have to give it also
to a forelgn country, and until you petition
the Imperlal goverament to so amend your
constitution aato give you the rlght 0f enterlng Into reciprocal relations with your sister
colonies, further negotiations are useiess.'
It ls true they dld take action, and ail these
difficulties were wiped out during the
Queen's jubilee, and what bas followed bas
been the union of the colonies so as to
enable them n the future to do that wbich
we have been endeavouring to accornplish iii
the past-have reciprocýal relations between
the sister colonies for the free excbiange of
our products. That is a policy whichi 1 tbink
would suggest ltself as belng beneficial to ail
classes of the communlty.
The tariff, I
notice by n speech made a short trne ago by
the premier of that colony, is to be of a
somewhat modified character. It will be, 1
amn qulte satistied, to a greater or less extent
of a protective character.
He has aiso announced the fact that he is la favour of preferential trade with England, and hopes the
Urne is flot far distant wbcn England wlill
arrive at the conclusion that it is necessary
to bind the colonies more ciosely to the
empire by givlng them some concessions ln
consideration of the preferences which we
give them, and la that respect he takes the
sarne uine that some of the statesmen take
ln this country. I amrn ot one of those who
belleve that Engiland is so wedded to her
free trade system as to refuse any concession to the colonies. Every year shows that
the trade of other countries is making inroads upon that of England and she wîll be
obliged ere long to adopt some other policy
than that wbich has governed ber for years
past, and surely we as Canadians cannot object to having some concessions made to us
wben they arrive at that stage. The hn.
the niover of the address intimated that the
confederation of the different colonies of the
empire bad estabiished what he might ternu
tbree distinct nations ;that is, the United
States, Canada and the Australian colonies.
I frankly confess that 1 do not like the expression, different nations. The confederaHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

tion of the different colonies, to Iny mind,
instead of estabishing what we migbt terni
independant nations, is only bringing the
whole British Empire dloser together, unitIng dloser the mother country with her peopie in the colonies, and not as establisbing
separate or distinct nationaities. We havc
arrived at a period when we have ail the
privleges which can possibly he granted to
a people under one sovereiga, and the longer
we live the dloser we will be united together by this system of confederatioi.
I
hope to live long enough to sec the South
African colonies combined under one gos'crament similar to that wluich exists in thîs
country, and in the Australian colonies, and
then we shall have, not another nation, but
another confederacy bound dIoser to the
mother country than ever before.
Hlon. Mr. ELLIS-The thought la my mmnd
was rather a swarm from the bive, carrylng out those great principles of British
liberty and British ideas ln the foundlng of
nations.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I aecept that interpretation of the hon. gentleman's language, but bis utterance conveyed
a different ides. I have heard so often of
late, and particularly by the premier of this
country, whenever he has made a speech,
of our baving created a nation and iooklng
forward to the time, la the not very distant
future, when we shall occupy a very different position to that whicb we now occupy towards the mother country. I have
no sympathy with that feeling dlrectly or
Indirectiy. The older I grow the more 1 arn
convinced that we ought, ln our own luterests, ln the interests of lilberty and
humanlty, to be dloser bound to the mother
country than ever ln the past, until the time
arrives when la speaklng of a British subject in any of the colonies, we do not refer
to him as a colonist, carrying the ldea that
he occupies an inferior position iii the empire. It will be quite sufficlent to know
that we are British subjects, and that these
words alone are sufficient to convey the
idea that we are a part and parcel of the
greatest empire that ever existed, enjoying the same rights and privileges in Canada and Australla as if to the manor born.
That is what I hope to sec ultimately.
Sorne of US, youngsters, like the mover of

[FEIJAIR-Y 11, 1901]
the address and myseif, may not live to see
ail this, but we can iay the foundation at
least for that wbicb we hope to sec accompiisbed. It bas been my good fortune
to lve under no hesa than four sovereigns.
1 do not expect to hive long enough to uee
another soverelga; but there are some in
this Hlouse, who bave lived long enough to
lie under George III., George IV., William
I oniy hope
IV., Victoria and Edward.
that the venerabie member of the House
(Mr. Wark) whom I hope soon to see presont may hive to take bis seat wben lie ls
beyond tbe century la age.
The Duke of Cornwall, or Ia f act any
member of the Royal Famiiy, will be welcorne to Canada. I hope lie may corne. As
the heir-apparent to the Tbrone now, the
lime may corne-la ail probability it wiil
come-when lie wiil have to assume the
position bis father now occupies, and notbing wili so tend to expand bis Ideas as
to the importance and magnitude of the
empire over which lie may bie caiied to
rule, as travelling througb the different portions of It. Going round the world, seeing
Australla, comIng home by way of Canada
through the great North-west 'wiii give hlm
an Idea of this Dominion and of Australia
that canont lie gained by readlag or study.
I speak from experience, wben I say that
no man can have any conception of what
the empire la until lie bas vislted a large
portion of it, and nothing wili tend to expand the mind of the heir-apparent ia that
direction so much as going through the
Austrailan colonies and Britishi North America.
The Pacific cabie la referred to In the
1 conf eas that a few days ago,
speech.
when I saw a teiegram purporting te have
been sent by the Colonial Secretary to the
Austraflan statesmen and goveraments, that
delay was occurring owing to the further
consideration of the subject by the Canadian goverament.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is entirely wrong.
There was no autbority for that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I am
very glad to hear It, because I look upon
that cabie as a very Important work ln the
Interests of the empire.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTI-Hear, bear.
2

17

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I look
upon that as a corollary, if I may s0 term
it, of confederation. A cabie round the
wor'id through Britishi terrltory la abaolutely
necessary for the protection of lIaperial lntereats at the present day, and every day
There Is one
makes It more Important.
thing, however, to lie considered ln conneclion with thia great scheme, and that Is that
it bas been delayed too long.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
deiay Is causing a further expenditure ln
Its construction, reacbing, if I mistake not
Into millions over and above tbat for wblch
It was offered to lie bult wben the late
goverament. after the colonial conference,
caiied for tenders. I do net boid the present government altogether biameless la connection with that delay. 1 do not tbink
they pushed It with the vigour they should
have shown at the time, but havlng taken
the matter up and adopted the policy of
the late government in connection wlth this
cable, tbey have done, 1 believe, all they
possibly could, more particuiarly wben 'we
consider the obstruction that was tbrown
in the way by the Eastern Extension Company, througb the influence wbich tbey had
ln England. I sec that a Bill Is to be introduced by the Postmaster General cbanging
the law whicb is now upon the statutebook, and which, I presume, bas for its oùject tbe Increased cost. wbich we will bave
to pay owlng to tbe extra expense that wili
lie Incurred. in laying tbis cabie. Tbe bon.
gentleman noda bis bead, I suppose la
acquiescence. 1 regret that the contract ls
la the bands of tbe parties to wbom It bas
been awarded. 1 think It would bave been
rnuch better, In the Interests of tbe cable,
and of the empire. If the laying of tbat cabie
bad been la the banda of independent contractora of whom there are either three or
tour quite capable of doiag It, in Engiand,
than in the bands of the construction company whicb Ia a part and parcel of the
Eastern Extension Company, who bave obstructed and prevented the completing of
tbat Une for the hast fifteen or twenty
years. However, if they bave signed tbe
contract 1 take It for granted that the commission whlcb wiii be appolnted by tbe Imperl, tbe 4janadian, and the Austrailan

[SRENAT Ej

governments, will have sufficient force of
-eharacter to hold the contractors to their
agreement, and compel them to fulfil Its
terms. I amrn ot socialistic enough to adopt
ail the theories that have been advanced
wlth reference to the ownership by government of rallways, telegraphs and other couveniences of that klnd, but I must make
an exception 0f this cabie. The reason why
1 think it should be owned by the government is, that it will be of inestimable valup
If difficulties should occur between Great
Britain and other countries. They should
have full possession of it in order to prevent, as far as possible, any Information
being given to others than those to whom It
Is sent. Had the cable to South Africa
been in possession of the Imperial government during the last year, I venture the
assertion that they would have saved
enough money, in the cablIng done, to have
almost paid for the laying of a new cable.
Governments have adopted thap principle.
which, I think, Is the correct 0ne, for the
reasons I have given, and I hope It will be
successful.
I am very glad to know that Mis Exceliency the Governor General has vlsited the
North-west. It Is not the flrst time that
His Excellency lias been there. He was
In the North-west with General Middleton,
when the difficulties arose there, and did bis
duty as a soldier. Hlis visit to the Yukon
must have been a benefit, not only to hlmself, but to the government. We have nothing, however, ln the address which Indicates there was any dissatisfaction with
the mode of governlng that country when
His Excellency was there, nor are we told
that lie was presented with a bill of grievProbably we may, before parliaances.
ment rises, know what has been done to remove those grievances, and to dispel the
,dlssatisfaction which he found to exist In
±hat country, as represented by the addresses
-whlch were presented to hlm. We can scar,cely expect, however, and perhaps it would
be too much for me~ to ask If that matter
lias been considered. We shaîl Ilnd that
out before the session ends, In ahi probabillty. Be tbat as It may, it is gratifying to
know that the outcome of the weahth of
that country Is growing larger every day,
and as people become acquainited with the
mode and manner'cf extracting the wealth
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

from the soli, just Se In proportion will they
succeed and just se far will It be gratifyIng to those in the older provinces.

I shahl say very little about the Paris exposition. Most of us will lie better prepared, when the Auditor General's Report
Is before us, to disceuas the subject. The question will arise then as to whether the cost
iii connection with that exposition 15 commensurate with the benefit which we are
to receive. With reference to the St. Lawrence route~, I can only infer, from what
the address says about it, that they intend
to assist In the development of trade by
that route by subsidizing steamers, by adding to the cold storage accommodation by
which our goods can lie taken to the old
country In a safer and more perfect state.
1 cao only repeat here what 1 had the
pleasure of stating at a county fair In
the province of Quebec in the county of the
hon. Minister of Agriculture himsehf. 1
congratulated hlm on what he was doing,
and I do so now, and 1 told his people there
-it might have been considered perhaps n
little interference-that just so long as he
adhered te and carrled. ont the policy Inaugurated by the late government In establishing and extending the cold storage, just
so long would he be legislating Inthe interests of the country. And not only that, but
many other thinge In which they have followed In the wake of their predecessors ;
and as long as they adhere to that, of
course we must congratulate them, and that
accounts In a great measure for the progress and prosperlty of the country at the
present day. 1 shail net Indulge In any
remarks about the figur~es which my hon.
friend has given. 1 have a somewhat vivid
and distinct recohiection, however, that In
1878, when the Conservative party came Into power and trade began to boom and
surpluses followed year after year, that
we were condemned In unmeasured terms
for collecting more from the people than
the actual requirements of the, country, and
that we should act ini accordance with the
principles which had been laid down and
which governed English statesmen when
they had a surplus, to eut down the taxes.
Every paper that we pick up and read, and
every speech that we hear from the head
of the government to their supporters, is
a boast of the great surpluses which they

-n

[VEBRUARY il,

are enjoying. I do flot objeet to that, providing the money is properiy expended, but
when -I look at the other Item in the address to which the hon, gentleman did flot
refer, that the estimates wouid be laid before parliament, I noticed that there was an
-omission. A statement which ls nsually
contained In the address from the Throne
has been omitted, and that statenient was
-that the estimates were prepared with a
-due regard to economy, and would be laid
before parliarnent for their approval. I do
not know but that the gentleman who prepared that address bad ln bis mind's eye
the declaration made by the Miaister of
Public Works. wvhen he was accused and
the government were accused of expendlng
too lavishiy the money of the country.
'Ah' be said, lit is true we have been expendlng rnoney, but wait tili you see us
next year.' The year bas passed, and the
,elections have given them another lease of
power, and whien the estimates are brought
-down I suppose we shall corne to the conclusion that the gentlemen opposite were
serious In leaving out the stereotyped phrase
that the estimates had been prepared with
-a due regard to economy. The hon, gentleman who moved the address very properly
aid that he did not give the government
credit for ail the prosperity and extension
of trade whichbhad taken place during the
last decade, or the lest five years. He was
then piaying the part o! the gentleman who
used to condemn the former goverument for
having surpinses and wben they used to
-bôast o! the trade Increasing througb the
national policy which had been placed upon
the statute-book, and a poiicy ivhich we beIleve, and I believe still, did more to add
to the progress of this country than anything else ; we were then told we had
nothing to do with lt. AlI the worid was
prospering Just as weil as Canada. So It
Is to-day.
While Canada bas advanced
marvellously In ber trade In all portions of
the country, she bas been exceedingly lucky,
If I may use the expression-fortunate
would perbaps be better-in baving, until
'Iast year. first-ciass harvests. If bon. gentlemen iook. at the figures of the United
States tbey will see that tbcir trade lias
inereased, proportionately to ours, In a
mnucb greater degree than bas tbat In Canada, but none of us attribute that to the

1<J01]

1q

administrative abillty (if the United States
statesmen.
There are cycles of time,
every ten or ftteen years as Urne roUle
round, ivhen trade booms, and at otiier
times it becomes depressed.
The hon.
gentlemen were In exactly 'the same fortuate position when they came Into
power and the tide of trade began to
turn, as it did with the Conservatives in
1878. Tbey had been In power sorne years
and times changed and depression of trade
set In, not oniy ln Canada but In every section of the worid, and when the hon, gentlemen succeeded to power that trade turned
again and trade boomed as the hon gentleman frorn St. John bas stated to the
House, and I can only hope that it may
continue. 1 have no hope tbat, for tbe
salie of turning tbem out of power, we shail
have such a depression o! trade as existed
la 1874, 1875 and 1876, and which existed
In 189"-C. Every Canadian muet rejoice
at the prosperity. which has taken place of
Inte, and can only hope that It may continue. Tbe mensures referred to in the
speech from the Throne. are very few
In number.
What they Intend to do
wlth the post office we are not told. The
bon. gentlemen who moved and seconded
the address wouid have done well If they
had asked sorne Information upon that very
Important point-so that they could have
lut ormed the House what they lntend
to do, and what the reference to the post
office indicates. Are we to have an extenion of the dellvery system, In the rural districts of the country, the same as It exists
that
la1England ? If i t be so, the deficit ln
department 1 arn quite sure wili be much
larger than it bas ever been before, for the
reason tbat the country is flot sufficiently
populated to justify a postal delivery la
the rural sections o! the country-at ieast
that ls the vlew whlch I boid upon that
question-or wbether they intend to extend
the cent postage to cîties, towns and
villages. If you post a letter and It goes
to the other sîde o! the city you bave 1eo
pay double that whlch you do for a drop
letter to be taken out of the same post
office. Or are we to have a.repetîtion of
the old Act wblch chiarged more for carrying a letter from Ottawa to Hull than for
carrylng a letter from Ottawa to Rlat Portage In the one province ? Are we to have

[SENATE]
discrimination as indlcnted and provlded
for lu the late Bill lu the matter of charging for postage bet'ween the different provWe have a penny
I hope not.
inces ?
postage. Let lt be absolute. Let us have
no discrimination. Perhaps my bon. frlend
wbo sits opposite will be able to gîve that
Information whien be rises to address the
the House. 1 have occupled the time of the
Bouse mucli longer than 1Iintended dolng.
I have run over ln as cursory a manner as
possible the different points referred to lu
the address. I congratulate the hion, gentleman opposite on prepaxing an address,
wlth wblch no one could find fault I neyer
saw a longer address wlth leas la it. There
is no question about that.
Hon. Mr. LANDJRY-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Wbat
it is famous and notable for, is what it does
flot contamn. Does the bon. gentleman tell
us If there ls any truth ln the statement a
few days ago lu the papers-I hope It is true
-that our astronomers had been maklng a survey of the boundary hune bet'ween Canada and Alaska ? If it be true
It will be grntifylng to every man-that is,
that Skagway and Dyea and Pyramld Harbour are lu Canada, aud that we shall have
the best possible Inlet to the great gold fields
of that section of the country, excluslveiy
1 hope tbat
tlirough Canadla n territory.
that Is true. That lias been our contention.
That, 1 thinli, Is the contention of the hou.
Minister of Justice, a gentleman who bas
given more attention and more study, I
hesitate not to say, to the question of
boundarles between Canacia and the United
States and Russia than any other man lu
Canada. If that be true the action of this
Elouse la Its rejection of that Teslu Lake
and Stikîne railway route will 'have a
justification stronger thau ever.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is also another omission to which I caîl the
attention of the hon. gentleman, and I hope
that lie will be able to give us some information upon it. We have been endeavouring for a great number of years to
have established what is termed a f ast
steam service between Canada aud Great
Britain, s0 as to be enabled to compete wlth
the trade that is 110w carried from New York
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI.

to Europe. We know that the merchants Of
Montreal, nearly ail who are doing business with England at the present time,
wlien lime is of any coulsequence, go to the
United States, and take the steamers there
to go to England. What 1 bave been lookiug for and lioplng for, as most Canadians.
are boplng for, is that we should have a
liue by whicb ive can successfully compete
with those lunes runnlng from United States
ports. But the late governmeut, of whlch
1 wvas flot a member at the time, liad an
agreement made with Canadians and their
associates ln the old country to estabiish a
line of that character. The hon, gentlemen
opposite thought they could make a better
They annulled that of their prebargain.
decessors, and entered into another arrangement with Petersen & Co., of Eugland, at,
they boasted, some haif a million less of a
subsidy. I remember distlnctiy that whenl
the premier was addresslng a meeting of the
board of trade ln Toronto, lie received-I
wlll flot say premedltated ; that would be
accusiug hlm too mucli-le received a telegram announeing the tact that they liad entered lnto au arrangement with Petersen &
Co., by whicb tbey were to save haîf a million dollars lu money ln the contract, ani,
furthermore, that they liad made a deposit
as a guarantee of their bona fides ln carrylng It out. We know that another gentleman 0f the cabinet, wbo ls a non-portfolio>
member-a gentleman of wliom the hon.
premier stated, in the eastern townships,
when be was addressing a meeting there,
that lie liad taken Into bis cabinet on
account of bis business ability, flot for any
other reason, aithougli le was an old Tory.
I suppose in adoptiug hlm lie thouglit lie
must bave some abîlity fltted for that
part of the work. Hle bas been gailivanting between Canada and Eagland
every year, once or twice, 1 tliink, since he
lias been ln the government, and now lie
acknowledges the wliole thing Is a failure.
When are we to have this lune ? When are
bis bottle-nosed, non-sinkable shlps to be
establisbed between Canada and Englald ?
We know that Is bis beau Ideal of what we
should have, and perhaps that wlll come in
the sweet by and by, but 1 hope the bon.
gentlemen xvlll flot delay it any longer thau
they can possibiy help-tliat is, unless they
have changed their minds as to the necessllY

[FEBRUARY 1l, 1901]
anti acvantages of a fast lune between Canada andi Great Britain.
I amn very glad to know that the population of Manitoba andi the North-west is lncreasing. I would ranch rather, however,
that it wns settieti by diliferent classes of
people. I arn also pleaseti to know, If it
be correct-andi 1 have no reason to doubt
froin what the hon, gentleman says, that a
large number of those who went to the
Unitedi States are coming back, anti 1 arn
more pleaseti to know that It bais been
the pollcy of the Conservative party to
assist to the fuilest possible extent ln
bringing bacic those who weat to the
I arn more gratifieti
United States.
than, ever to know that lu no instance,
either witb the public man or with
the public press supporting the Conservative
party, have we ever tienounceed that country
anti saiti that it was unfit for settiement, as
dld the lion, gentlemen when we were governing the country, and endeavouring to
settle It with the best class of people. We
never helti up Kansas as superior to the
North-west.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Nelther diti we.
Hon. Sir MAICKENZIE BOWEL-It
wouid be just as well If the hion, gentleman
had not contraticted me. because 'It may
possibly lead me to speak nt more length
than I lntentied. Does the hon, gentleman
pretend to say that the Uniteti States railways titi fot circulate extracts fromn the
Hon. Edward Biake's speech with his pictureHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Hlear, hear; 1 have
one of them hiere.
Hon. Sir MACKEiNZIE BOWELL-Upon
their show*bilis, andi send It through Europe,
in which) Kansis was extolled as far
superior for settiement tu the North-west
Territories. Does bie not remember that the
late Alexander Mackenzie denouneed that
country as unfit for settlement, and does bie
not -now that It was obliterated fromi the
Hansard after consitieration, kinowing the
effeet It would have upon the country, andi
the settlement of that province. I have been
ln parliarnent a number of years; I have a
tolerably gooti memory, aLnd I remember
distinctiy the speeches that these gentlemen
matie, anti the denunciations wbich were
hurleti at the Conservative party for spead-

21

ing money whichi would have the effect of
opening up anti developlng that country.
The Canadian Pacific Railway systein was
contiemned inl the saine manner by these
They declared tbat it wouid
gentlemen.
neyer pay for the grease that wouid bie
necessary to oul the wheels. They tieclared
further that the ties of the eastern section
would bie worn out anti rotten before you
coulti iay the tdes at the western section of
the country. It was tieclared to be the ruinatton of the wbole country. Lt was declared
that the whole wealth of Englanti coulti not;
build the road within the timie iii which the
1
governinent had contracteti to bult It
amn glati to know that ail these prophecles
have proved false and of no aval. The great
safety of the west, the knitting together
of the tiliferent provinces, bas been tione
through the means of the Intercolonlal anti
the Canadian Pacific Railways.
In other
words, British Columbia wouid have been a
mere appendage of the Unitedi States to-day,
insteati of belng an integral part, andi one of
the rnost valuable, of the Dominion of Oaaadla. The whiole policy 0f the governineut
wvas, at that time, a profession or a belief,
Viat what the Conservative government was
tioing was Inimical to the Interest 0f the
country, but when they came Into power
they were obliged to adopt, to a greater or
iess extent, the poiicy of their predecessors,
for which, I repent, as I tilt somne time ago.
1 compliment them. I compliment them ln
the interests of the country, but not on the
I meintegrlty of their party professions.
peat, I hope the country wIll go on prospering Just as it bas been prosperlng ln the
past, no matter who govemus the country,
anti as long as we have atidresses as unobjectionable as tliis ojie, I do not know
that we have any great cause of complaint.
We are met togethier nt- tle present turne.
as indicateti by the bon. gentleman, la the
beginnlng of a new ceutury, under a new%
The
sovereigu, anti after a new election.
hon, gentleman referreti to the mesult of the
electIon. That Is a prollfic subject, a very
Important subject-the mode anti manner by
whlch that election was carried, 1 shall say
nothlng about, other opportunities will present theinselves. 1 congratulate myself,
however, upon the fact that the people ln
the province in whlch I live were actuateti
by principle and not by race cry or anything

LSENATE]
else, other than the conduct of the goverfiment and the resuit was that we turned a
majority against us of sixteen into a majorIty of about twenty ln our favour. Whatever may have been the cause of the goverilment's success in other sections, is a
question I shall fot deal wlth at the
Preseut moment. However, I think 1 can
give a reason for It, as I can give a reason
for the reaction lu the province of Ontario.
Be that as it may, we live ln a countryand I tbauk God for lt-mn whlch we can
differ ln opinion with the greatest freedom ln the world, we cari tlflnk as
we please upon trade questions and
upon religions questions, and It Is our duty
as free men, living ln a free country such
as we live ln, to learu to live and let live,
respecting the opinions of every one who
may dîffer from ourselves, so long as he
does not attempt to control and Influence
us ln our opinions. It is the duty of every
one, however, to try and educate the populace, as 1 hope we mny live long enough to
do lu connection wlth the maladmlnistration
of affairs by the hou. gentlemen. H0wever, If the people of the country will allo,
themn to continue ln power as long as the
Conservatives were la pow'er, we must humubly submit, because the people have the
right to select their representatives. They
must be the judge of who should represent
them, and the resuit Is, w-e find the strougest
protectlonists ln the country supportlng tlue
free trade government, and wlieu you ask
them wby they do it, they will give YOu
the strongest reason wby. They wlll sny,
* Oh, weIl, they are flot golng to interfere
wIth our industry. Tbey may condemu the
givlng of bonuses and then Increase thei'
Talk about bow tuie people are ground dowu
by manufacturers, as niy lion. friend froin
St. John remaî-ked;- wby, the goverument do
not toucb the tarif,. but they increase the
protection w-bich the manufacturers bad.
Tbey leave the duty w-here it was on the
manufactured article and reduce considerably the duty on the r-aw material whîch
enters into their manufacture. -I do not obJect to that at ail, so long as the raw
material is not manufactured in Canada.
They go further than w-e do in the matter
o! protection, and so long as they continue
as they are doing, just so long wvill this
country prosper.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. MILLS--I arn sure that every

one in tiiis House llstened with plea-sure to
the very Interesttng and beautiful address
which was delivered by my hon. friend from
St. John (Mr. Ellis) in movlng the reply to
the speech from the Throne, and to the very
interesting and Instructive speech that was
made by the hon. gentleman from Toronto>
(Mr. Jones). I was going to congratulate-I
hioped that I would have au opportunity of
congratulating my bon. friend opposite, the
leader of the opposition, on bis great moderation ln the discussion of this address,
and my hon. friend exercised a great deal
of restraint in the early portion o! his
speech, in fact until wlthln the last few
minutes of its conclusionHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
the hon. muinister interrupted me.
Hon. M.Nr.'MILLS-and then my hion.
friend got into a somewhat intense strain
and spoke o! the govcrnment as being scarceîy qualifled for the discharge of their
duties. and havhng stolen the clothes that
belonged to their political opponents which
they declared were quite unfit to be worn.
I do not knowv whether my hion. friend lntended this as a sort o! good-humoured jest,
or whether he w-as really serious in the
observations which he addressed to the
Ilouse. My bon. friend rather surprised mie
by repeatlng a sornewhat oid statement, a
charge that was over and over again repudiatedl by 'Mr. Mackenzie, aud w'hich was also
repudiated by -Mr. Blake w-heu both w-ere
niembers or the House of Commons. 'My
lion. friend no doubt bas forgotten the discussion thit bas taken place on moi-e than
one occasion with reference to those observ-tious-tbat '-\r. Mackcenzie, w-Iu&desired to
a1cquit-e the North-west Territo-les. wluo lhad
the rnost ulibouuuded confidence in thc resour-ces of Iluat country, w%-ho put forward
every possible effort when lie was leading
the opposition to secure the possession 0f
the terrltory, should, years after it wvas
acquired, and after it hiad become a part o!
Canada, have declared lt utterly unfit for
settlement, and worthless, and recommended
to go to Kansas is a somewhat
-people
astounding matter. My hon. friend bas referred to the speech o! the Hon. Edward

Blake. 1 remember 1\r. Blake's observations. 1 remember very well the pamphlets

[FEBRUARY 11, 1901]
that were got out, that*were published as
campaign literature, flot by the railway
companies of the United States, but by an
organizatlon which, I do flot kxxow how far
my bon. friend was connected wlth It, but
at ail events an organization eupporting the
government of wblch he was for many
years a prominent member. What dld Mr.
Mackenzie eay witb regard to the territory
of the United States ? Some bon, gentleman
who was supporting the government on that
occasion-Sir John Macdonald was then at
the bead of public affairs-espoke of the
United States lands baving ail been taken
up, not that any ln Canada were unfit for
settlement, but they said that people from
abroad and people on this continent had
now only Hobson's choice; they muet go to
thxe North-west Territories or they could not
acquire lands at ail. And wbat was Mr.
Blake's statement ? Why, that there were
some lands still ln Kansas and ln Texas
tbat were open for eettlement, eo that It
was quite beside thxe question, and quite fiproper for the people to rely on the statement th at there were no lands outside the
North-west Territories fit for settlement.
Was that decrying the North-west lands ?
Was that saying- anything againet the fertility of our soul and the salubrity of u
climate beyond the boundaries of ManiNot nt ail. Not a word was said
toba?
againet the fituess of that country for settlement. Not a word was eaid against the
propriety of people going to that country for
settlement, but tlxerc were words spoken
against the policy pursued by the government, to wbich my bon. friend objected.
We pointed out tbat fihe course pursued by
that administration wae calculated to turfi
settiement from the country, and these bon.
gentlemen said ' they cannot be turned
away, for tbey have no other place to go.'
That le the point to wbicb we objected.
Mr. Blake pointed this out many a time, and
I ain surprised that lion, gentlemen sbould
brIng It up to-day.
I amn not going to say one word on this
occasion wlth regard to the great loss that
not only the British Empire, but the world
bas sustained ln the death of Queen Victoria, tbe most splendid sovereign tbat bas
ever reigned over the British Empire, and
one of the Ideal sovereigus of the whole
world, durlng the wbole perlod of ber reign.

23

An opportunity wIll occur for the. discussion of fihe reign of Her late Majesty at a
very early period, and I need say nothlng
witb regard to that.
My bon, friends who moved and eeconded
this addrese expressedl their pleasure ln
finding another great confederation being
establisbed to the soutb of fihe equator, and
my bon. friend blmself (Sir Mackenzie
Bowell>, who once visited that counTbat
try, bas, referred to It also.
speech
fihe
subject le discussed ln
fromn the Throne. The Australian confederation Ie a source of great gratification to us, because we see that the British
Empire le by degrees belng brought together;
important political centres are being formed, and ail tbese steps are preliminary to a
larger measure of unity. I do not know
wbiat form it may assume-but a larger
measure of unity than bas yet existed, for
the purpose of holding together tbe people
whicb constitute the population of Mie
The bon. members
Majeety's dominions.
It
hiave referred to that comnxonwealtb.
Ie ln some respects different froin our own.
We were formed into a confederation immediately after the war with the United
States. Some of our people were or tbe
opinion that the United States were divided and rent asunder by the civil war,
owing to want of strengtb in the central
autbority. I thought that was a mistaken
opinion. I need not enter Into a discussion
of it at the present moment, but fixe effect
of that wns that we gave a greater measure of power to the central organization
tban would bave been given If our union
bad been framed without sncb a war upon
our immediate border. The people of Anstraita bave not been subjected to any sncb
pressure. They bave not been tbreatened
by the danger of a powerful neighbonr, and
have not lxad the experience tixat grew ont of
that civil contest immediately before their
1 think that we acted wisely in
eyes.
adopting the constitution wbicb we bave,
our geographical position is, perbape, not
quite s0 advantageous as that of our fellow
They are more
countrymien lu Australin.
compact tbaon we are. Our provinces are
not s0 weIl situated for tbe formation of a
compact cnnfederation as are the provinces
of Australia, but we bave formed a government, I tbink, the best snited to our

[SE NATE]
clrcumstances, and there is this common mav diffiuise knowledge; you may raise the
feature botli of the Australian and Cana- iutellectu al standard of the communlty; YOu
dian confederations-the central autlioritY. mnay best 0w upoU them ail the opportunities
The executive is one, the Crown Is repre- for progr ess and iinprovement, and the acsented botli in the local and the federal quisition of wealtb that it is in your power
establishments, and botb governmenta, ai- to bestoi' y, but if there Is wanting the moral
thougli tliey may not have drawn the dlvid- fibre wbi cil Is necessary to give a people
lng hune between provincial and Dominion jmutual ionfidence In each other, they are
autbority just lit tlie saine point, have thils wanting the most essential element to
common feature, that the central authority hiuman progress, and nIl otiiers, no matter
Is paramount, and that you have parliamen- %vhant thiey mny bie, wlthout this element,
1
>ndemn us to certain failure.
tary govemnmient, a goverrumeut siinilar ln ivould c<
in the United Kingdom, thinik uu en that question there will lie no
priniciple to tlhat
both In Australia and in Canada. 1 believe differene e of opinion, and. I therefore reEx- cognize the great and Important services
that we have botli acted wisely.
perlence nîay point out defects In our systeml whichl thîe Queen of England lias rendered
exl)erience may point out defects in theirs, to the lx~op1e, flot only of the United Kingand there is ain opportunity of correctlng dom, bult to every portion, of the British
any weakiiess or imperfection that may lie Empire in thie splendid examnple and bigla
suggested by experience in the one or tbe îîîoral to ne of the life %vhieh slic made comother. 1 rejoice to see the people of Aus- mlon to those who wvere associated with
tralia beiug formed Into one great coui- lier.
Mîy 1ou 1l. friend lins referred to the subJect
federation, as 1 nm proud to think we have
um,
He is not quite content
gration.
formed a great British confederation in tle 0f
i
h e cliaracter of the immigrants we
Ili hotU
northern part of tis continent.
cases we are in a better position to co- iire getti ng. 1 bave tlîis to sny îvitl regard
to limmi ,'rationi; 1 ann myself of the opinion,
operate witli the miother country for tu
maintenance of the riglits of British free- iotwltius tnnding the views put forîvard by
men In every part of the globe, where NMr. Dar' in and those wlio sympathize with
British freemen may, go, and that there is bina, thia t lifter ail, the hiiuan races are of
a greater opportunity of maiutainlng the one bloo d, and that there are mnerely physiIndependence and lutegrity of the empire cal caus es for the differences Nvhîchi exist
by thiese unions than thiere would be If we amongst uis, and If you liring people from
remaincd disjointed and broken fragments. the cont tuent of Europe, from the republic
My lion. friend recurred to the bigla Ideals of the inited States and from the British
which we ought to formi and tue Importance Islands, and from the provinces of this
of rislng above petty bickerings and petty Dominio n and piace tliem in the North-west
quarrels nnd I entirely sympathize with tliat Territori les, engaged lri industriai pursuits
expression. Magnaninaity is an Important iinder tii le same influenccs, readiug thc saine
eleineuit iu the goverrument, and the laiglier literatur e, liaving their thouglits turued ln
and more emilted view thiat tlie conamunity the sain e chianneis, that iu the course of a
take of their political responsibilities and generati on or two you wlll niot lie able to
The man %Vho
thieir j)olitical aspirations, the Iiiglier are distingu lsli between tliem.
they likely to vise, and the more rapid thieir spokze Gnelic when hie came liere and could
o
progress is likely to lie. I agree with the spealz n~ other language; the one 'who spoke
vicws that have been expressed ns to the German when lie came hiere and could speal.
importanit %vorkthat Her Mýajesty lias doue no other language, would soon be succeeded
lu tue pure l! e and spotless cliaracter tliat by fami lies that would speak the common
the sovereign o! tijis great empire bas pre- Ilnguage of the country, and we will be
sentcd for more tban sixty years to the peo- scarvceir able to distinguish the descendants
pie under lier jurisdiction and sway. I re- of thae Llighlandman and the descendants
cogniize, as 1 hiope every man ini public life o! tbe German.
does in this country, and every man in priHon. Mir. McICALLUM-Wliat about the
vate life, how important laigh moral excelof any people. bYu Frencli
lence is to the progress
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[FEBRUARY 11, 1901]
Hon. Mr. MILLS-When we have people
,cornig here from tbe continent of *Europe
who bave been subjected ta disabilities
there, wbose opportunities bave been less
than aur own bath for political pragress and
material progress, who are anxious ta get on
iu the warld, and who are willing ta remain
ln the territaries and cultivate the sal, 1
have no doubt whatever that these people
wili ultimately prove ta be very satisfactory
settlers.
The man wbo le willing ta earn
bis bread by the swe.at 0f bis brow, whether
be cornes fram the British Islands or tram
the continent of Europe, or fromthe United
States, wiil ln tirne becomie a Canadian ID
the Nartb-west Territaries, and I bave every
,confidence, when 1 look nt the pragrees thnt
bas been made ID the neilhbauring republic wvith the men drawn from every country
In Europe, from the Mediterranean ta the
North Sea, that what they have accomplished under their institutions we shall be
able ta accarnpiish under the Institutions
which we have establlsbed hiere, for I amn
flot willing ta adrnit tbat the races wbich
bave taken possession of the United States,
or the institutions under whicb they are
governed, are cuperior ta aur people or ta
cur Institutions. I believe that we are quite
their equals, and that aur Institutions are
vastly superior ta thase whicb they adopted.
Tbey are a hundred years ar mare later ID
point of tirne. They present the accumulated experience of a great empire gaverning a great variety of races. Tbey have
kept progress with the times constantly, and
there le nothing of that sort ta be found ln
the canstitutional systern of aur nelghbaurs.
That conetitutianal systemi le, I thlnk, lnferiar ta our own in every respect ln whicb
It differs froni aur own. My hon. friend
cangratulated us on tbe adoption of a protective policy. I think I have heard my hon.
friend's congratulations ou that subject before.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A
goad thing cannat be repeated tao often.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say this, that ID
s0 far as It is a goad thing, I agree witfl
him. But we have dane this.
My han.
friend and carne of thase assaciated witli
hlm said ta men wha had lnvested large
surne of money ln Industrial. establishrnents
lu this country, 'if you will let aur pabitical
appanents juta office they will averturn

2

everytblng, revolutianize everything ; they
-wlll raze your Industrial Institutions ta the
ground, and you will bave notbing left on
which ta subsist.
You 'will became lke
Bedouins or Indian wanderers over the
earth, and tbe wealtb you were permitted
ta accumulate under our regime will wholly
disappear.' My hon. friend falled largely
on bis Imagination.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
we relled upon your hionesty.
Han. Mr. MILLS-My lion. friend says
Certalnly,
they relied upan aur banesty.
but tbey dld flot reiy upon aur common
They assense. Tbey may be mistaken.
sumed tbat we must overturu, according ta
aur vlews af the political situation, everythlng upon wbicb we did nat agree with
tbern. I da nat subscribe ta tixat doctrine.
I never did. 1 maintain we must laak«at
tbings as they are. We must have sorne
respect for what has been done by thase
who preceded ils ln affice; we must have
sorne regard for contlnulty ln goverinent.
We rnay regret the Iuvestrnent of maney ln
Industries we thaught unprofitable, and
wblcb miglit not be profitable for years ta
corne, but we had ta consider the question
of two evile, whetber we should undertake
ta negleet what bad been doue, and ta Injure persans wba, upon tbe faith of government representations, bad invested their
rnoney ln Important enterprises, or whetber we should respect thase and undertnke
ta reetrain and limit the principles on whlch
aur predecessors bad acted, and endeavour
ta create a mare stable state of things and
greater reliance and confidence in those who
administer the gavernent thnn existed beWe
fare. We adapted the latter course.
have eut down tue tariff and given the peopie very great reforme ln the adoption of
the I)referential provisions of our tariff. We
have given ta the people of England a very
great deai of satisfaction lu what we bave
done. W"e have Interested the capitalistÉ of
the United Kingdam and the l)roducers of
manufactured goods lu a way thant aur opponents neyer succeeded la Interesting tbem.
The people of the United Kingdom 'were
Indifferent. Except the men who wanted ta
lend money to us, there was no one wha
took any interest. ln the progress of this
country. Tbey regarded us as a sort of

26

[SENATE]

lean-to, built against the United States, that
would become the possession of our neighbours when a favourable opportunlty occurred. That notion bas gone; a differelit
state of thlngs prevals. Greater confidence
ln our future exists in the United Kingdom than before. The people of the mother
country are taklng an Interest lni the progress of this country, and we have secured
very considerable Immigration from there,
from the United States, and from the continent of Europe, and we are giving to the
manufacturera a home market for a larger
number of articles produced in this country
where their market was very inadequate
before.
1 say that the addition of one
hundred thousand a year to our population
la of more consequence to our manufacturers than an advance of 5 per cent to or
tariff, and ail over thîs country we are makIng those advances, and we have created a
confidence in the people of the country ln
Its future that had no existence before we
came into office. My hion. friend reminds
me of a story told by Mr. Canning, of a gentleman ln Engiand who ciaimed to have
made some important Invention, and It dld
flot matter what it waa that was presented
as new, hie wouid say, 'that was my discovery.' Every change that we have made,
and every step we have taken forward,
every inhlabitant we have added to the
population by our poiicy my hion. frlend
says: 'Oh, that was ours. We did that. It
Is true It did flot happen until after you
got ln, but after aIl it was done by us.'
Let me cali my hon. friend's attention to
this fact, that whiie they did tiiese wonderfui thlngs, If you look at the commerce of
the country-If you look at the growth of
the trade of the country-If you look at the
settiement of the Nortb-west Territorles and
Manitoba and other portions of the Dominion, you will see that there is a large addition to our commerce and to our population. My hon. friend, it is true, spent a
very considerable amount on Immigration
and on'the building of railways, but the
lands along those railways were solltary;
there wvere no inhabitants, and of what use
wns the railway *? The money spent fl
securîng immigration was money thrown
away, because it turned out, after aIl, when
the census came to be takeîî, that the population hiad not increaqsed, and that the men
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

who had settled down to-day on the Ca-nadian aide of the border were on the United
States aide a few days after. That la not
the condition now. Look at the growth of
the city of Vancouver, at the growth of
Winnipeg. Look at the Immense areas of
land broken Up and brought into cultivation. Look at the thousands of people who
have gone there ln the last four years, and
my hon. frlend. can hardly say It was the
policy lie adopted and pursued that led to
these Important and beneficial changes. All
these have occurred-all these are occurrlngail these are contrlbuting and givlng strength
and stability to our country. Our people feel
more power for self-reliance and have les
and leas a feeling o! absolute dependence
upon those along our border. Your mines
have been developed, your resources have
been brought into active operation ;you have
a town, I am told, in Cape Breton wlth a
population four years ago of lesa than five
thousand, that bas to-day thirteen thonsand. My hon, friends adopted their pollcy
ln 1879. How did It happen that the city
of Sydney remalned stationary for eighteen
years, and that suddenly lt sprang Into life
and activîty after we came Into office ? It
Nvas not by what my hon. friend or the
government witb whlch he was assoclated
dld ; It was through what bas been done
by the present administration, and the confidence of the public ln the present administration was shown only recently.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Did the present
administration give greater inducements to
enterprises ln Cape Breton ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-They gave such lnducements ns led to actIvity.
Hon.
better.

Mr.

FERGUSON-They

were not

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, better, every way
Better by the resuits that have
better.
been sbown; better by tue development of
Industries; better hy the increase of population recently settled there, and the increaSe
of population expected ln the immediate
future.
It being six o'clock the dehate was adJourned.
The Senate adjourned.

[FEBRUARY 12, 1901]

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Tuesdaiî, February 12, 1901.
The, Speaker took the. Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayersand routin, proceedinga.
MANITOBA SOHOOL LANDS.
INQUIRT.

THE DEATH 0F QUEEIN VICTORIA.
RESOLUTION.
The. Order of the, Day being called,
Conslderatlon of the Message from the House
of Gommons that an address be prenented to
Hie Most Excellent Majesty the King expressing the deep and heartfelt sorrow of thus House
at the demis. of our late Sovereign Lady Queen
Victoria, and requestlng that the. Senate wiil
unite with the House of Commons in the. said
address..

-Hon. Mr. MILLS said : It ls my duty, ln
moving thus address, to refer to the. long
and distinguished reign of Her late Majesty
Queen Victoria. Her reign was the longest
and muet Important ln the annais of England. Ber Majesty was emlnently a constUBefore she came tu the.
tutional ruler.
Thron,, the principles of parllamentary gurerument and of ministerlal responslbillty, as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No report has 80 far we now understand them, had become fairly
been r.celved from Judge Prendergast, the. well settled.
There were occasional Incommissioner appolnt.dl to Investigate the. stances ln which royal authority had made
a.lleged Irregularities ln connection witii the. Inroade into the settled practices of the.
The only constitution, but they were of short duraachool lands sales In June lst.
Information we have le a letter from Judge dion, and the. current had set ln so strongly
Pr.ndergast, dat.d December 10 st, copy ln favour of ministerial.responsibllty and
hrewith, ln reply tu, une trom the. depart- ministerial control, baaed upon the supremment asking hlm whthr It would not b. acy of the House of Communs, that It was
possible for hlm to report on the resuit of Impossible to overturn the. system, whlCh
his Investigations ln regard to the. sales at now rested upon secure foundations.
.ach place as soon as it was concluded
There have been other reigns ln which
-wlthout walting until he had finished his great mllltary operationh were carried on and
Investigation of the twenty-two different great victories achleved, but there has been
auction sales thruughout tbe province. He nu other relgn ln the, annals of England ln
states that he caunot do su for the reasons whlch the. well-bing of the. peuple was so
given in is letter, but will say thnt at elgut carefully considred, and ln which It conpoints 0f sale, namly : Minnedosa, Birtie, stantly remained paramount. WIthln the
Rapld City, Gladston,, Portage la Prairie, closing years of the relgu of George II., and
McGrgur, Carberry and Virden, at which in the beginnlng of that of George III., the
pointa h. held sittings nu complaiate were British Empire had been greatly expanded,
made. Judge Prendergast's report le ex- and the British Islands had become one of
pected very shortly and a copy o! it wll the muet powerful states In Christendom.
b, laid upon the Table of the. Senate.
A large portion of the continent o! North
America was« under the jurlediction o! the
COMMITTEE 0F SELECTION.
Crown ln parliament.
That condition of
thlngs, whlch had been brought about by
MOTION.
the active «co-operation of the colonial
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved:
authorities with the parent state, was overThat pursuant ta Rule 79j the fullowlng sens- thrown. The Imperlal government did flot
tors be appointed a committee of selection, ta
nominate the senators ta serve on the several deiga to Invite the co-operation o! the
standing comznittees, namely :-The Hionourable North American colonies, la meeting tiie
Messieurs Pelletier, Sir Mackenzie Bowell, Bolduc, Lougheed, Miller, Ferguson, King, Scott, new burdens whlch the recent wars had
and the mover; and ta report with ahl convenient occasloned, but the lmmediate subordinaspeed the names cf the senators so nomlnated.
tion of the colonies was asserted, and the
The motion was agreed ta.
right of the Imperial parliament to deterHon. Sir M'ACKENZIE BOWELL lnqulred :
If the. commlssioners appolnted by
the. goverument to investigate and Inquire Into the. irregularities and fraude alleged to have been committed ln connection vlth the sale by public
auction o! school lsnds in the. province of Manitoba, ln the year 1900, have made their final
or partial report. If so. wlIl it be laid upon
the Table o! the Senste, and when?

[SEN ATE]

mine xvhat the colonial portion of the burden should be, and how it should be raised,
was claimed and acted upon. At the very
time that able statesmen miglit bave taken
a step In the direction of the closer union
of the different parts of the empire, the
rulers of the perlod adopted a policy whlcb
rent the empire asunder; and so, Great
Britain hnd to begin, at the close of the
eighteenth century, the work of laying anew
the fouudations of empire.
The great European wars, wbicb spruflg
from the French revolution, afforded to the
United Kingdom an opportunity of territorial expansion and commercial growth;
but the foundations of the new empire were
only well secured, and Its prosperity only
well assured, when Fier late ýMajesty came
to the Tbrone. Duriug the sixty-four years
of Fier MNajesty's reign, there lias been continuous growtb, and in spite of the efforts
to restrain further acquisitions, contlnuous
expansion. There was during the whole
period of Queen Victorin's reign. no serlous
Impediments put In the way of the empire's
progress. The area of the empire bas been
greatly enlarged, 'and the population eutbraced wltbin It, enormously lncreased. At
the demise of Fier Majesty, one-fourtb of
the eartb's surface. and au least one-fourtb
of its population, acknowledged. ber soverelgnty.
The government of the British Empire.
under the late Queen, was conducted witb
great moderation, great prudence, and a
strong desire everywbere to administer justice in mercy. Care bas, for the niost part,
been taken, not to off end the susceptiblities
of any of the races brouglit under the jurisdiction of the sovereign. There neyer bas
been a government that more cordlally reeognized the principle, that governments
exist for the welfare of the governed, than
that wbich bolds sway over the vast territories of tUe British Empire. From the sovereign down to the bumblest executive oflicer, the principle bas, tbrougbout the whole
period of Fier Majesty's reigu, been recognized. that government is a great trust, to
be exercised solely for the well-being of
those under its autbority ;and no sovereign,
in any period of the world's bistory, bas
ever souglit to fulfil the duties wbich the
office 0f chief magistrate imposes witb a
greater anxiety to fulfil tbose duties to tUe
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

utmost, than did FIer Late Nlajesty Queen
Victoria.
The Queen came to the Throne, wben a
very young woman, as the successor to lier
uncle William IV. She was surrounded by
conscientious and capable men, who realized
the Importance of lier bigb trust under the
constitution, and wbo, faithfully undertook
to f ulfil the important obligations restlng
upon them. The first Prime Minister upon
whom these important duties devolved was
Lord 1Meibourne, and those wbo have
studied witb care the mnanner in whicb he
dlscharged the duties whicb hie owed to the
sovereign, and to the country, will not
deny to hlm that meed of praise to which,
under the circumstances, hie was justiy entltled. Lord Melbourne neyer subordinated
is duty, as the political tutor of Her
Majesty, to bis position ns the leader of a
great party in the state, and as Prime MinIster of the United Kingdomn. Fie was most
anxlous that Fier Majesty sbould become
thorougbly imbued with those constitutional doctrines upon the careful observance of wbich, bie believed, bier success
in the dlscbarge of lier functions, as the
soverelgn lady of the British Empire, depended.
Not long after Hler Majesty's accession to
the Tbrone, she married lier cousin. Mis
Royal Highness Prince Albert of Cobourg.
A more happy union, perlbaps, was never
brouglit about, and the story of their
domestlc relations presents notbing wbicb
does flot indicate tbe mutual affection
wbicb existed between tbem. Ris Royal
Hlighness, from the outset, marked out for
bimself a course of public usefulness wbicb
would enable him to confer Important services upon tbe nation, witbout any encroachment, eitber on the sovereignty of
the Queen, upon the one side, or on tbe
rigbts of bier constitutional advisers upon
the otber. His whole lîfe was cbaracterized
by eminent good sense, and lie devoted hlmiself, wlthout stint, to the consideration of
educational and social problems, in whicb
lie miglit find a spbere of useful activity
without, ln any way, encroacblng upon the
duties wbicb belonged to Her Majesty, as
sovereign of the British Empire, or upon the
advlsers of the Crown, wbo were responsible
to parlinuient for the proper management
of public affairs.

[FEBRUARY 12, 19011
During the period of the Âmerican war,
there was very great distress in the districts of Engiand In whicli the cotton menufactories were situated, and in wbich that
branch of industry was being carried. on.
But there was also profound sorrow, at the
The
same Urne, ln the royal household.
people of Lancashire were suffering greatly
In consequence of lack of empioymrent, and
fromn the distress wbicb their failure to obtain work produced; but tbey also knew that
there was distress in tbe palace, for the
Queen was, at the same time, deploring the
loas of Her Royal Consort, who had been
very dear to her, and In whose society she
had enjoyed great happiness, and tbey knew
weli that ber afflictions were even greater
than their own.
Her Majesty's efforts, during the whole
period of ber reign, were aiways directed
towards the preservation of peace, consistent witb the just rights and tbe bonour of
the great empire of wbicb she was the bead.
Her great Influence, ber good senne, and
ber patience, were aiways turned to account
for the preservation of peace, and the prevention "of the horrors Incident to war.
During the civil war In tbe neighbouring republic, our neigbbours were not unfrequently mistaken In their views as to the rigbts
aud duties o! otber states, nder the circumstances, and were not always reasonable
In their demande. Doctrines wbich were
at one Urne recognized by tbem as well
settled principles of International law, were
tbrown aside wben tbey Interfered witb the
lnterests o! the moment When war arose
between two sections o! the republlc, tbose
wbo were In charge of the affairs of the
north were disposed to maintain that there
was no wax, althougb tbey Insisted upon
exercising the rlghts wbich belong to a
beligerent, and wblcb, unless war existed,
tbey couid not dlaim. Her Majesty aud
ber advisers were most slxitons that notbIng sbould be done Inconsistent with the
duties that pertained to the United Kingdom
as a neutral state. Where blockades were
established, and where a right of searcb
arose, their desire was that these sbould be
respected, and that nothing should be done
to wbich the president and his advisers
could reasonabiy take exception. But the
proclamation o! the Queen wbicb was Intended to secure from British subjects proper . respect for the dlaim to belligerent

9

rights on the part o! the north, was con'plained of, as If It were an unfriendly act,
con! erring upon the revoiutionary governmeut, powers which otherwise they could
not claim. It was flot unnatural that those
upon wbom the active duties of administration devolved, should be Irritated at this
unreasonable course; but Her Majesty's
great patience, snd her great toleration for
those wbo were placed Iu circumstances that
were entireiy novel to them, and wbo were
greatly annoyed by unlooked for divisions
and conflicta amonget their own people, did
not a little towards preserving the peace,
and maintaining, on the whoie, a condition
of mutual good-will, between the goverumeute of tbe two great Anglo-Saxon States.
During Her Majesty's reign, British
autbority was extended and consolidaWben the Sepoy rebelion
ted ln India.
arose, the deeds of barbarity that were con'mitted by those who led that rebellous
movemeut, excited the deepest horror, and
the fiercest resentment In the mlnds of the
people in every other part of the empire ;
and there was a demand for vengeance
upon those who had perpetrated the most
sbocking crueities known In modern warfare; and Her Majesty alone, o! ail those
havxug the supreme direction of affaire, preserved her self-control, and ber desire, by
bumane meaus, to win back tuose who had
gone so far aatray, and by ber moderation,
she did much to secure the affections of
those wbo, It was supposed, were iu symIt was propatby witb that movement.
posed on that occasion to proclaim the Act
of August, 1858. and tbe principles upon
wbich India was thereafter to be governed.
A draft of tbat proclamation was prepared,
under the direction of Lord Derby, aud was
trausmitted to the Queen, wbo was then on
a vIsit to the continent. Her Majesty was
of the opinion that it was not conceived In
tbe splrit or clotbed In tbe lauguage appropriate to a state paper of great Importance,
and s0 ber objections were written out In
detail for the consideration of Lord Derby.
She lnformed His Lordsbip: 1The Queen
would be glad, If Lord Derby would write
it out himself, In bis excellent lauguage,
beariug In mind that It la a female novereign wbo speaks to more than. 100,000,000 of
eastern people, on assuming tbe direct government over tbem, and after a bloody civil
war, giving tbem pledges which ber future

[SEN ATE]

reign Is to redeem, and explaining the principies of her government. Such a «ocument
shouid breathe feelings of generoslty, benevoience, ani religlous toleration, and point
out the privileg-es whieb the Indians wIll. receive lu belng placed on an equallty with
the subjects of the British Crown, and the
prosperity foiiowing ln the train of civilizationi.'
The draft proclamation spoke of the
power which tbe British government possessed for the undermining of the native
religions customs. Her Majesty dlsapproved of the expression wbich declared that
she had sncb power. The draft aiso alluded to the relief of poverty as one of the
government's endeavours, and the Queen
thought the idea shouid be expanded, so as
to Indicate the hope that the future prosperity of India migbt be assured by the
building of railways, canais, and telegraphs
-the utility of wbich polcy bas been demonstrated to the populations of that country during the recent period of famine, ln
the employment of the needy and the starvIng on public works. Her Majesty's sugTbey were the
gestions were accepted.
Inspiration of ber own tender womanly
heart. They were words of wisdom, and
assisted ln the restoration of peace, whlch
bas ever since contlnued. The words of a
Christian toieration found ln that proclamation were worthy of so great and good
a sovereign. Her Majesty sald : 'Frily
relying ourselves on Vie truth of ChristianIty, and acknowiedglng with gratitude
Vie solace of religion, we dlsciaim alike the
rlght and the desire to Impose our convicWe
tions on any of our own subi ects.
deciare it to be our royal will and pleasure
that none be in any wise favoured, noue
molested or disquieted by reason of their
religions faith or observances, but that al
shahl enjoy alike the equal an d impartial
protection of the iaw , and we do strictly
,charge and enjoin ail those wbo may be ln
autbority under us that they abstain from
ail Interference with the religious belief or
worsbip of any of our subjects, on pain
of our blgbest dispieasure,' and so Queen
Victoria became entbroned ln the bearts of
ber Hindoo subjects.
After the Sepoy rebeilion bad been snppressed, and the sovereignty of the Qneen
once more clearly established, British auHon.

Mr. MILLS

tbority was both extended and consoldated
in India. The politicai functions of the
East India Company came to an end, ami
the government of the Crown over the
whole vast empire of India was directly
established.
Durlng tbe reigin of Queen Victoria, British autbority assumed, a much more tangible shape ln Mfrica than before. For many
years, the English government exerclsed,
throug4 consuls and other offlcers, a great
Influence over the chiefs and Sultans on
many parts of the coast, ail the way from
the Cameroons, on the west, to Aden. on
the east. M.Nany British statesmen bad come
to the conclusion that, at no distant day,
the principies of free trade wouid be genernlly recognized by the great nations of
Lt was beiieved that no
Chnistendom.
matter into whose bands ternitories might
fail, the commercial door would remain
open, and no barrier would be placed by
one state in Vie way of the commerce of
another extending Into territories wbich
were not colonized by settiement, but
whlch had been brought under clvllzed
jurisdlctlon. This Illusion was dlspelled by
the Berlin conference ln 1884, after wbicbi
It became evident that ternitories acqulred
by a state would be treated as a commercial preserve, and the Inhabitants wouid
flot be able to trade with those of any otber
country Vian the one under wbose jurisdiction it had been brought. This led, flot
only to a complete change ln the policy of
Vie mother country, but It aitered the relations ini wbicb Great Britain stood to the
semi-nomadic population of those states
that had been formed forth of Cape Colony, by the descendants of the Dutch, wbo
had gone Into Vie interior of the continent,
for Vie purpose of enjoying an Immunlty
from aIl legal control. The mistaken
notions, formed by British statesmen durIng the early portion of Her Majesty's
relgn, undoubtediy led to the war wblcb
was, lu ail probabiiity, a source of anxlety
to ber, at its close.,
The British Empire, it was tbougbt by
statesmen of a former generation, was composed of seif-governing communities that
must, as soon as they acquired ability to
stand alone, assume the responsibility of
setting up Independent states on tbeir own
account. This notion bas entireiy disap-

[FEBRUARY 12, 1901]

31

peared. Great confederations of British col- British sçvereign, there le a social influence
onies have been formed, and are assuming 1whîcb a wise and virtuous sovereign is
definite shape. Imperial interests, instead capable of exercising, that is even greater,
of remaining disjointed And broken, and and which exerts a wide and beneficial inthrealened at any Urne with dissolution, fluence ln channels, into which ordinary
are gradually being consolldated. A spirit law and legal authority, do not extend.
of mutual trust and confidence, in the future The British sovereign, under the modern
of the empire, among Its members le taking constitution, is wholly exempt from perthe place of a spirit of indifference. The sonal responsibility. The ministers are an
people of ail the outlying settiements of efficient force la government. Upon them
the British Empire are flot actuated by any falie the praise or the blame necessariiy
prodigal disposition to escape beyond the associated with the direction of public
bounds of parental authority. During Her affairs, and as long as tbey are sustained
Majesty's reign the lnhabits.nts of the empire by the House of Gommons, they must exhave begun to realize that the empire bas ercise paramount authority through the
The sovereign is, under the
an Important future before lt; that it bas sovereign.
In the modern constitution, neyer personally idenan Important mission to perform
progrese and civilization of the worid; that tified with a party. She represents the
It has Important self-sacrifices to make In embodiment of the wbole state. She bas
order to give security, unity and perma- constitutional duties to perform, whlch are
nency to ail the various parts; that the discbarged In conformity with settled princivilized world bas during her late ciples and usages, and Is capable, without
Majesty's reign undergone great political In the aligbtest degree encroaching upon
changes ; that new states have arisen, of the constitutional rights of ministers, of exgreat power and distinction ; and that new. ercising great and beneficiai Influence. She
Interests have sprung up, wbich make cer- may discourage vice and encourage virtue.
tain Uines of action, that at one Urne migbt She may tbrow her Influence in tbe scale
be regarded with Indifference, of vital conse& In favour of truth and goodness. Her Majesty possessed close personal relations
quence In our day.
.One peculiarity of the circumstances con- with other ruling familles, and s0 had the
nected witb the government of the United power, unofficially and privately, to do
K.ingdom, Is the growtb of royal influence. much to ailay irritation, to smooth down
The influence of the sovereign ln public obstacles which might give rise to friction
affaira, which was marked by weakness at in International relations.
Under our beneficlent constitutional systhe accession of Queen Victoria, grew in
poitical Importance during the wbole of tem the sovereign le the formai source of
Her Majesty's reigu, and was neyer s0 power. Pariaments are cafled to aid ber
great as ln the ciosing years of her ruie. by their advlce. Parliainenta are constantHer Majesty's connection with the govern- ly changing, witb the changed circumment was marked by great lndustry, great. stances of the population, and the varying
moderation, snd great respect for the set- conditions of public opinion. Tbey are makThe ing and unmaking ministries wbom the
tied doctrines of the constitution.
British sovereign is always associated witb eoverelgn called to ber aid, in conformity
the administrative government, and so the with the wlshes of parlianient, but the
k-nowledge which the eovereign possesses sovereign ever remains the head of the
of the conduct of public affairs, le not state, wbich, froni one point of view, may
evanescent or lmperfect, like that possessed be regarded as one great family. Tbey take
by a public minieter, but is continuous. a special intereet in ber as their head, and
The knowiedge of the most Industrious out of this domestic Idea tflere springs a
mlnisteé le, with regard to many Important strong feeling of personal attacbment. As
But it Is not so a great family, tbey ebare with ber in ber
matters, .fragmentary.
witb the knowledge possessed by su indus- greatnees, and they are proud of the lustre
trious and palnstaking sovereign. But. be- which she shed upon the nation. Tbey meaidethat Influence -wblib close application joiced at the succees wbicb attended ber
and a tborougb acquaintance wltb tbe govemnment, and they lament the mieforaif airs of state necessarily secures to a tunes and failures which may have over-

f[SENATE]
taken it. The sovereigu is the personifica- 1during the sixty-four years of Uer Majesty's
tion of the power and the glory of the rule, the court of Queen Victoria was îtself
state, and stands apart fromn and above a great factor in Englisb history that operail the members of the community of wbich ated in favour of what was good.
7
Under the Englisb parliamentary sy stem,
she Is the bead ; and su to the ordinary
person It la an event ln bis 11f e to have the goverument itself is brougbt Into close
been admitted to an interview with the -contact witb the vital forces of society. It
Is Inseparably lnterwoven wlth themn. As
soverelgn.
Englisb soclety bias, ln our day, under- 1society, ltself, is improved, the government
gune many Important changes. English Is made better, ani some things wblcb ln
wealth bias enormously lncreased, and be- un ge were passed over wlth Indifference
came very widely diffused during the 11f e at a later period become objec'ts of condemnaof Queen Victoria. The resuit of tb!s 1tion; and s0 the right Is respected, and men
change in the pecuniary circurnatances of adhere more closely to the rigbt patb, in
so vast a number of the population, inakes wblcb good feeling and sound murais reIt impossible that wealtb can any longer quire they sbould tread. The work of adsatisfy those cravlngs for distinction which ministration does flot rest witb the soverare natural to the heart of man. people In elgu, but wltb the ministers. There are
every age and condition, and under ail great and Important social functions wblcb
forms of governmeilt, struggle for marks of the sovereign discbarges, and wbicb are so
distinction. Tbey are ever striving to rise closely lnterwoven with the business 0f
fromn one social grade to another that is goverument, and unite so closely public
stili bigber, and whlcb broadens that circle conduct and prIvate wortb, that tbey exerwlth wblcb they are for the time belng Cise an immense influence outside of law,
assoclated. This constant aspiration is it- >and It Is one uf the glories of our system
self a powerful element of progress, and of government, that there is room for sucb
wlthout It no great and permanent progress Influence to uperate in support of tbe rigbt,
lu the present condition of the world, and wltbuut, In the smnallest degree, lnterferlng
wlth the present aspirations of men, could wltb the ordinary duties tbat pertain to
continue. And su Uer Majesty's influence those ln autbority.
The mile of Queen Victoria is at an end.
upon the aspirations of men, to move more
where sbe stood, Tbe story of bier reign is clused for ever.
clusely tu the emInence
lnduced themn to conformn to those murai There la notblng furtber that can be added.
obligations upon wbich a Christian society She bias perfurmed ber duties as the soverreposes. Tbus, you bave, under the British elgn of tbe greatest empire the world lias
constitutional system, wltb a great and goud knowu, lu a way that is flot open to critisoverelgu at the head, Influences operatlng clsm, and that bas neyer been approacbed
lu favour of promoting wbat le just, and by any of thuse wbo preceded ber lu office.
wbat Is humane, wbat la charitable, and She rests from ber labours which bave been
wbat la pure, tbat cannot operate wbere royally performed. Tbe duties tbat Provithere Is wanting a great social bead, sucb dence, lu the government of tbe world, lmas our constitutional systemi provides. Un- posed upon bier, bave been discbarged, and
der the Englisb social system, tbe force of there can be nu doubt of tbis, that bier lnexample is very great. Public opinion la fluence bas been always put forward on the
listened to with respect, and for the most aide of wbat was at once just and merciful,
part obeyed without question; but tbls is su, and that be wbo takes up the sceptre tbat
because the sovemeign head used the gra bas f allen from bier bands, wben bier day
power wblcb sovereigu trust bestowed, lu ended, and suber evenlng came, will be
the igbt way. Under the English constitu- enabled to perform bis duties witb greater
tion, example teaches. It Is a great force success, and with greater ease, and witb
lu the persun of the sovereign, and durlng a more noble aim, bY meason of wbat she
the wbole periud of Uer Majesty's reîgn, dld, and, stili mure, by meason 0f wbat she
it was made the greater by discountenanc- was. I move :
to His
That an
ing wrong and upholding rlgbt, by being a Excellency humble Address be presented foluwthe Governor General lu the
and a frîend to virtue. And su, ing words
fue to vice
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

3

[FEBRUTARY 1-2, 1901]
To Bis Excellency- tbe Rlght Honourable Sir
Gilbert John Elliot. Banl of Minto and Viscount Melgund of Melgund. County of Kortar,
ln the Peerage of the United Kingdom, Baron
Minto of Minto, County of Roxburgh, ln the
Peerage of Great Britain. Baronet of Nova
Scotia, Knight Grand Cross of Our Most Distlnguisbed Order of Saint Michael and Saint
George, &c_. &c., Governor General of Canada.
MAY IT PLEASE YoURl

We. the Senate snd

EXCELLENOT :

of Canada, ln

Parliament assembled, have agreed to an Address to His Most Excellent Majesty the King.
expressing the deep and beartfelt sorrow of this
Bouse at the demise of our late Sovereign Lady
Qusen Victoria, and respectfully request Your
Excellency will be pieased to transmit the said
Âddress in sucb a way as Your Excellency may
see lit, ln order that It may be laid at the foot
of the Throne.
Hon. Sir MÂCKE.NZIE BOWELL-In
secondlng the motion for tbe adoption of
the address of condoience to His MaJesty
King Edward VII., and to the Royal
Family, on tbe deatb of Hie Majesty's
Royal mother, Queen Victoria, and of congratulation to tbe King on bis accession to
the Tbrone, I might with proprlety content myself witb echoing, to a great extent, the sentiments of the bon. the
Minister 0f Justice, wben moving the
motion now before the House; sentiments
wbicb, I amn confident, every member of the
Senate beartily and sincerely approves, and
I may add every loyal subject ln the Do.minion. Were I to indulge ln giving voice
to the thougbte wbicb are uppermost ln my
mind, In reference to the character and
reign of Victoria tbe good, I fear I sbould
only be repeating wbat bas already been
I may,
well eaid and written by othere.
bowever, be permitted to add that notbing
too mucli bas been said or written in praise
of Her late Majesty Queen Victoria, not
only by ber own subjecte, but by the peopie of the wboie civillzed world. Ber reign
bas been one whicbh bas tended to the elevation of the human race, in the spread of
Cbristianity, and ahl that fiows therefrom.
Sbe succeeded ln barmonizing government
under a limited monarcby witb that of
democracy, until any serions confiiet between King and people bas been rendered
almost Impossible. Ia a word, Queen Victoria was an Ideal constitutional ruler. I
need only add, that in the death of one so
beloved, the empire bas to moura the loss
of a Soverelga of wbom It may be truthfully said she possessed ail the qualities of
a good woman, an affectionate wife, a 10v3

ing mother, and the astuteness and firmness requlsite in a constitutional ruler.
That Edward VII., wbo ascends the Tbrone,
wilI prove a wortby successor to bis noble
mother, there can be no doubt. One wbo
bas sbown himself, through a long and
eventful life, a loving and devoted son,
cannot but be possessed of tbose quaities
which will endear hlm to bis subjects.
The tact that bis fIrst public utterance was
a deciaration tbat the policy and actions
lof bis mother were the model wbieh be
lwould adopt in governing and ruiing over
a free people, la the best possible assurance
tbat be wll reiga in the affection of bis
people, wbo wiIl ever beartlly sing 'God
Save the King.' 'Long may be Reign.'
The motion was agreed to.
THE ADDRESS.
DEBATE CONCLUDED.
The Order of the Day belng called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the consideration of Hia Exceilency the Governor General's speech on the opening of the flrst session
of the nintb pariiament.--(Hon. Mr. Mills.)
Hon. Mr. MILLS said : I was speaking
yesterday wben tIhe House adjourned, and
I bad sometbing further to say. 'Wbat It
was I do not remember at this moment,
and I beg to say to my bon. friends that
I sball consider my speech on tbe subJeci
of the address concluded by wbat I sald
yesterday.
Hlon. Mr. MeDONÂLD (Cape Breton)-l
rise tot say tbat I dissent from a certain
dlaim made by the bon. Minister of Justice
yesterday as to the cause of prosperity ln
ibis country, and especially ln tbe Island
of Cape Breton. Wben the bon, gentleman
was lnterrupted by some bon, gentleman
on tbe other aide, he asked the question,
1Wbere was the proeperity of Sydney until
tbe present government came Into powerT'
Let me ask the bon. member wbere was
tbe South Âfrican war until tbe present
government came into power ? One question migbt be asked witb as much reason
as tbe other. I dissent altogether from the
proposition that the proeperlty existing ln
this Dominion at the present time, and
especlally ln the Island of Cape Breton, is
due to the present goverament. Wbat are
the facts ln connection with the prosperity

[SENATE]
exlstlng lu Cape Breton to-day ? In 1878
the great coal lndustry of this Dominion
was la a dyiug state, and the polley of the
Conservative party In 1879 revlved that Inidustry. I well remember the last year of
the government that preceded the government of 1879, that the local leglature of
the province of Nova Scotia was obllged
to send 500 barrels of corn meal on New
Year's Day, 1878, to prevent the mlners
from starving. After tbe adoption of the
national policy, they were able to get work
to keep them lu bread and butter, and from
that day to this the prosperity of the coal
mines bas been lncreasing steadlly.
Lt
bas attained Its majority now, and I beIleve that ludustry is indepeadent.
That
policy of protection of coal was maîntained by the great Conservative party against
all the powerful opposition that they could
receive from the Liberal party, of wbich
my hou. friend the Minister of Justice was
a member.
The next step towards tbe
present prosperity la Cape Breton was the
building of the Cape Breton railway.
Tbat rallway in Cape Breton helped to
add to the prosperlty whlch the. national
policy
gave
to
the coal
lndustry.
Lt enabled people from abroad, possessed
of wealth and capital, to see the resources
of Cape Breton, and that also was obtalned against ail the powerful opposition
the Liberal party could tbrow against It In
the House of Commons. 1 bad the bonour
to occupy a seat in that bouse at the Urne,
and one of the leading opponents of that
policy wvas the present Prime Minister of
Ontario, who ridiculed the Idea of building
a raiiway in Cape Breton parallel with the
Intercolonial Railway to take the freiglit
from It. The building of that railway was
one of the elemients that contributed to the
present prosperity lu Sydney.
The next
was the policy of the Conservative party
ln granting a bounty on iron and steel.
That policy was for a certain number of
years, and when that number of years was
about to expire, the Liberal-Conservative
party renewed it for a term of years, expiring in 1902.
When the Liberal party
came into power lu 1896 application was
made to them by the great Iron ore industries of Canada for a continuation of the
law which euabled them to grant a bounty
to iron and steel, but I uuderstand It was reHon. Mr. MeDONALD (Cape Breton).

fused ln 1897 and lu 1898, and in refusing
the continuation of that bounty then, it delayed for a year the prosperity which now
exists In Cape Breton. It was only the following year, the year preceding the expected
election, that the former pollcy was contlnued la the. statutes, but lu a mutllated
form.
The Liberal party continued the
bounty on a graduated scale until 1907,
when lt: will altogether disappear.
Now,
these are the three great poicies orlginated
by the Conservatîve party, which resulted
lui the prosperity which exists.to-day In the
Island of Cape Breton lu ail Its Industries
It would only be common honesty for the
leader of the Liberal party lu this House to
admit that. Common sense is common
honesty-I cannot see any difference.
My
hion. friend yesterday admitted that they
had abandoned the principles which they
professed ln opposition, and that only common sense induced them to adopt the Liberal Conservative pollcy now. Lt was a
slip of the tongue.
He had flot Urne
to consider, I suppose, what words lie
should use.
1 do Dot see aiiy difference
between common honesty and common
sense. 1 rose to enter my protest agalnst
the dlaim of the present party that they are
entitled to ail the credit for that prosperity.
I amn prepared to share the credit wlth them
for what they deserve, that is, for contilulng for five years longer the policy of
their predecessors, thougli on a graduated
scale termînating lu five years.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-I rise to say that I
arn much pleased to see around me the
many familiar faces of those 1 have
known for so many years gone by. Lt
Is true there are two faces missing-that
of the Hon. Mr. MacLunes, of Hamilton,
and that of the Hou. Sir Frank Smith, of
Toronto, two gentlemen whose Dames, 1
feel, when mentioned ln this Senate wll
evolze most klndly feelings in every member
of this Chamber.
I admit they had long
and happy lives, and thiat what bappened
to themn will happen to aIl miaakind, that
Is to die, at a ripe old age, as did our great
and gracions Queen, surrouaded as she was
with ah lier magnificence. And here I feel
dlsposed to welcome to this Senate the successors of these gentlemen I have mentloned,
as being weil worthy to takie their places
and help on the legisiation of this Dominion

[FEBRUARY 12, 19011
wlth Its unbounded weaith of f ruit and f ood,
s0 that we may he able te f eed the hungry
people of less favoured lands as well as
those of our own. In passing on, I wish te
express my satisfaction aise at the appointment of the present Speaker of the Senate,
he being a gentleman, not showy, but
weil worthy the position he hoida from
his lndustrious habits and long support of
his party, and aise for hie education and
moral character. I trust he wili live te
enjoy the full term of his office, and leave
It a credit te bis government. I wish te
say a word or two aise about the mover
and seconder of the address in reply te the
Mfy colleague
speech from the Throne.
from St. John, the Hon. Mr. Ellis, I knew as
a public man for at least forty years. Before he made bis present speech I vas aware
he was well informed on ail public questions
affecting this Dominion, and, therefore, I
make no wonder that he acquitted
be a
He will
weil.
se
himself
debating
the
to
acquisition
great
I trust
Chamber.
this
of
talent
he wll always be feund as good a
Liberal as he bas been la the paat. He Is
the description of man we want In the
legialative halls of this young country, s0
that peace and happiness may enter the
poor man's cottage as well as the rich man's
mansion. We ail love this country and to
make It a happy home we sheuld net speak
malilously of each ether, a.nd this proper
policy can only be found, in my humble
I
opinion, In the hearts of true Llberals.
sincerely rejoice with hon. gentlemen on the
prosperity of the country and upon the way
the people stood by the government at the
last generai election. It Is quite clear that
the people of this country know a good thing
when they see it, for there was a general
sweep from one end of this Dominion to the
other, and as with a dlean broorn aIl those
mlschief makers that attempted to do s0
much harm and divide the people of our
country, have been completely unborsed and
driven from power, in a manner which looks
as If the hand of Providence had done It.
I should like to speak upon tbe subject of
the South Mfrican war, and other matters,
but I really cannot trust inyseif further
than te say that I think we are tee boastful
and prone te point our great weapons of
war at other people's faces. God Is a jealous
-God, and It is wise te remember the death

3

of Herod, who did nlot first give glory to
In My
God above ail mundane power.
opinion, our wealth and our pride to a large
extent made ns believe that we were nlot
in duty bound te consider other peoples'
feelings in the manner that Christian men
should, and te a very large extent 1, for
one, arn wiiling te accept the unfortunate
position that we are in as a warning
to ail the present 'generation, that we
sheuld henceferth consider other peoples'
feelings and other nations' feelings as well
as our own. This disposition, In my humble
opinion, wiil Increase, and In future there
wlU be more unity among us than. In the
past, for unless we are united we can neyer
be a great people, and whilst we are bickerlng and holding unnecessary feelings cf
contempt, and, perhaps, hatred against cach
other, we cannot have that loyalty and love
of horne whlch Is essential, and which the
British Empire expects. I f eel tbat other
hon. gentlemen have as deep an Interest in
the country as I have, and therefore 1 will
resume my seat and allow other hon. gentlemen te give expression to their opinions,
because after ail when we express our
opinions te each other, we can understand each other, and I think It Is necessary we should understand each other and
build each other up, and be one common
unlted people-I was going te say British
family, and I thlnk that Is the correct word.
If we are united and true te each other, and
respect each other's feelings, 1 thlnk we
will prosper. I know we will prosper, because we have ail the terrltory we want,
we have ail the food we want, we have ahl
the elements required fer supporting millions of people, and we should be most
anious te get them, te settie in our
great Dominion. It Is enly necessary that
we should make the people of other ceuntries understand that we have perfect freedom and happiness and security for Uife
and property, that our laws are equal, If
net better than the iaws of any other nation
of the world. I trust that as we are In the
beginning of a new era, and are under a
new king, a king who has had a vast experience under a wise and beneficent
mother, that he wiil be a wise and good
man. He has passed through that portion
of his existence where allowance Is made,
te a large extent, for the actions of al
young men and people. He is now a man

[SENATE]
As a
of wlde and extensive knowledge ; lie deeply as a personal friend.
deathi as a
lias travelled and liad intercourse with public man, I regard biis
like
the greatest statesmen in tlie world ; lie great loss to the community. Thougli,
many others lu this uew Dominion, lie
must see tliat nlot only must lie be equal
wlicl eduto bis motlier, but, If possible, luasmucli as liad flot those early advantages
cation gives to those placed lu better cirlie bas had the training of lis niotber, that
difficulties
bie wlll show to the people tliat lie can come cumstances, hi, overcame the
wlich did nlot jiresent themselves to others
down te the humblest ludividual ln bis
them from
realm, and bie tlie common father to 'the ln that respe-t. Fie overcame
fact tliat lie possessed a clear knowlthe
whole people of bis empire.
of wliat was riglit and avolded that
ws ageedte.edge
The otin
was wrong. He was a successful
The ageedto.whlch
ws otin
business man ln every seuse of the word.
DECEASED SENATORS.
e rose to au eminence lu the financlal
Hon.SirMACKNZI BOELL- thnk
AOKEZIE OWEL-I tinkas well as in tlie commercial world that
Hon.Sir
It ls due to the memory of members auy and ail of us miglit envy. Fie is a
of the Bouse who bave recently de- loss to the communlty. 1 do not thinli I
parted this life, to say a word or need say more thian to agalu express my
two, as lias been tlie practice lu tle regret that we have lest so many valupast, and 1 deslre to do so and follow my hon. able men wlio occupled seats lu this Bouse.
friend wlio lias just spoken lu reference to It is also a painfui duty to refer to the
some members with whom it was our good loss, whicb I believe occurred to-day, ot one
fortune, not only to be acquainted, but to of the oldest members of the Bouse, a man
be associated lu this House for a number of of Indomltable energy and great iudustry.
years. I question whethier there are a.fy Lt is true, lie was a strong party man, like
members of the House, or any citizens of mauy of the rest of us, whien deallug witli
the Dominion, who will be more mlssed party subjects, but we shall miss hlm very
froni the famlly circle, and lu the commer- mucii. I refer uow to the Bon. Mr. Mccial and financial world than some members Kindsey, who was a member of the Senate
who formerly occupied seats lu tlie Senate for a great number of years, and whlle 1
of Canada. 1 refer partlcularly to our late eau congratulate tiiose who have been
esteemed friend, Sir Frank Smith, and aise appoiuted to succeed tliem, we shall ail
to our frlend wlio occupled a seat iust be- long remember the good qualities of those
hiud me, the Hon. Mr. Maclnnes, whose who have passed away and the benefit
early life was spent lu commercial pursuits, tliey conferred on the country lu the past.
wlbo was at one tume, within my recollec- Ail wlll regret the loss of so many of those
tion, oue of the merchaut princes of Ontario, wio, formerly occupled promineut positions
lu
a man of euergy, a man with more thiaf lu the country, and Influential positions
House, but as my hon. frlend said a
ordiuary ability. Fie conducted bis business, this
until misfortuife overtook hlm, lu a manuel' f ew moments ago, It is the lot of ail of us.
that met the approval of those with whom It comes at some period of 11f e, and as we
Every one wltli wliom advance lu years, we may look forward, I
lie was acquainted.
lie came lu contact kuows that bis mind suppose, to tiiat period when we shall join
was clear and practical upon any question the great majority. I eau only hope that
which was before this Chamber, or lu con- when we do depart this if e, we may leave
nection with the varlous enterprises ln Can- belud us records as good as those of our
ada wlth whlcli lie was connected. Be was colleagues wlio have gone before us.
respected by ail. Be was a gentleman lu
Hou. Mr. MILLS-My bon. friend oppoevery sense of the word. Wlien 1 refer to
lion.
Smithi, with whom it was iny msite (Sir Mackienzie Bowell) and my
Sir Frank
I friend beside me (.Mr. Scott) have been
good fortune to bie on as intimate termis,
very mucli longer
thlnk as any man wliom I ever knew, I eau members of this Bouse
man- Ithan I have been, ain' they are personally
say that lu lis private life and lu lis
and better qualified
uer of treating lis fellows, in every sense better acquainted witli
to speak wlth regard to the hon. gentlemen
of the word, lie was a prince of a man
I deplore bis loss who have recently departed than I arn.
in every respect.
flou. Mr. DEVER

IFEBRUJARY 12, 19011
Sir Pirank Smith was well known througbout ail Canada, and especially throughout
the province of Ontario. There le no businese man who, stood higher in public
eeteem than Sir Frank Smith. Everybody
had the greatest respect for hlm, recognlzed
his business ability, and, above ail, recognlzed hie very great Integrity. No one that
I have met ever spoke In other termis than
that Sir Frank Smitb was a man of the
very bigbest character. I regret very mucli
his ceaslng to be a member of tbis House.
I remember wlhen hie came liera for the purpose of supportlng a measure 'whlch the
government liad brougbt f orward, and In
whlch bis friends Messrs. MacKenzle &
Mann were interested. He was very 111at
that time, and I belleve fromn that IlIness
hie neyer recovered. He bas lived on for a
long period of time. There is but one
opinion in ail the province of Ontario,
wbicb lie represented as a senator, and
that Is, that lie was not only a man of very
great business ability, but, as a citizen, hae
was a man of the very bigliest integrity.
Senator McKindsey, 1 d1d flot know as
wall. Mr. McKlndsey seemed to me to be
My bon. friend
a very estimable man.
speaks about his political bias, andhie devotion to, the principles of bis party. Well,
that remark applies to aIl of us. In fact,
If we were to say a man was tbe
less to be regarded because of bis
to bis party convictions, 1
devotion
suppose we would ail be lowered In
the scale of this House, but 1 bave neyer
heard any otbier tban a most favourable
opinion of Mr. McKindsey. Mr. MacInnes
was a man wbo stood high In business
circles for many years. In the latter part
of bis life, after lie became a senator, 1
believe bie bad, to a large extent, abandoned
hie business pursuits, but I met bim always
In a most cordial friendship, and 1 had
I
formed of hlm a very higli opinion.
knew thiat hae was flot of my political faitb,
but that Is no reason wby I should esteena
him any the lacs as a man, and I am sure
as a gentleman we shall ahl sincerely regret
that bie is no longer witli us.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-It was my good fortune to know the late Sir Frank Smith for
I think corne thirty
very many years.
years ago, wban a vacancy occurred ia the
Senate, it so liappened 1 bad an opportunity

3,

of expresslng an opinion as to the gentlemanx wbo should ba selected to 1111 posithe
tion, and 1 had then very great pleasure In
communicatlng wlth the then head of the
goverumant, although at the, time I haed, no
dlaim upon hlm, asklng that Frank Smith
be appointed to I thxe vace.ucy. I have
had no reason to regret It. Âltbough Sir
Frank Smith and I dld flot; mn lu poltical
Unes at ail times, stlll lie was a man for
wliom 1 bad a great admiration. He was
a very warm personal frlend. To tbose to
wbom lie was attached .lie was warmly
attached. Ha was a man of greater breadtb
o! mind than most people knew. At a very
important Urne In the history of tbis country, at a urne wlien thxe great enterprîse la
whicli the govarument were so deeply Interested miglit be wrecked, witli great force
of cliaracter, courage and knowledge of tlie
future Sir Frank Smith grasped the situation. Tbe views that bie andeavoured to
press on hie colleaguas were at flrst very
reluctantly recelved. FinaUly tbey admitted
that ies judgmant was sound, and subsequent evante provad the correctness of tbat
opinion. My bon. friend. opposite wll
recollect tbe circumstances to whicli I
rofer.
Hion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Quite
correct.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As bas been already
observed, bis financial ability was far above
tbe average. His success was, of course,
His financial
the best evidence of that.
skill was sucli that lie was sougbt after by
every financial Institution witli which lie
was connacted to take a place on the board,
as lion, gentleman very well know, and,
therefore, witliout any besitation, one can
say is death Is really a loss to Canada and
The late senator from
to tbe Senate.
Hamilton 1 dld flot know until lie becanie
a member of this House. He was a charming man, witli the qualities and disposition
tbat one Is forced to like-genial, kind, con,siderata, neyer aggressive ln ,iny sense, ahways polita If you differed frona lim, a
man wbo won bis way in tlie opinions of
members o! thie Senate. Mr. Maclnnes was
really ail that bas been represented, a man
wlio was liiglxly tliouglit o! by nîl those
witli wliom lie came la contact. Our friend,
wliose deatli bas been reported to-day frona
Halton, 1 did not know as welh. The inter-

[SE SATE]
his death. No more upriglit, stralghtforward, honourable man ever conducted business ln this Dominion. Ail those who did
business with hlm respected hlm, and knew
hlm to be everything that a British merchant should be-a straightforward business
man. I regret his absence from tbis flouse,
as I do the absence of Mr. Macînnes,
though I would flot have been here If Mr.
MacInnes had been to the fore. I should
have been perfectly deiglited to see my oid
frlend stili occupying his seat here to-day.
Mr. McKindsey, of course, 1 have known
somewhat, but flot very intimately. I do not
f eel as though I could say what I reaily
wish of Mr. MacInnes, but having said this
much I shail simply add that 1 am pieased
to hear his colleagues ln this flouse express
Hon. Mr. WOOD <fiamilton)-As a new such kind encomlums on him as they have
member of the flouse, permit me to say a donc.
f ew ivords in addition to w-bat las been
The Senate adjourned.
said, about the gentleman whose place I
have been appointed to fill. I know quite
well 1 shaîl not possess the ability to fill
It as lie did. At the saine time, 1 arn
pleased to hear sncb kindly statements
mnade about Mr. Maeinnes, a gentleman
THE SENATE.
whom I have known for nearly fifty years.
Ottawa, «Wedneday, February1S, 1901.
In business lie w-as one of our most upriglit,
honourable, straightforward men to be
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
found ln the w-hoie Dominion, and lie did
o'clock.
a very extensive business from one end
of tbe country to the other. fis customers
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ail liked and respected him, and were aiways
Circumglad to do business witli hlm.
THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
stances occurred with hlm, as with many
Hon. Mr. SCOTT, from the Committee on
others, which led to bis retirement from
Selection, presented their report, which was
the business, and finally he ieft our city to
ive ln Toronto, after lie became somewhat read by the clerk as follows
THE SENÂTE.
lnfirm in healtl, but lie stili entertained the
COMMITTEE Room, No. 2,
greatest affection and interest for the city
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 13, 1901.
in which lie first commenced, and ln whidh
The Committee of Selection appointed to nomilie lad a v-ery long career. The people of nate the senators to serve on the several standHamilton respected Mr. M\acInnes as they ing committees for the present session, have
followlng
honour
respected, I migît aimost say, no other manl the senators to report herewith the serve on llsts
eadh
selected by them to
of
in tle city. fie w-as, one of the pioneers of the said standing committees, namely :
The Joint Committee on the Library of Parof business in the w-est, and ail over the
liament.-The Hon. the Speaker, and the Hon.
west le w-as universally respecte~d and well Messrs. Allan, Ahnon, Baker, Boucherville, de,
known. Sir Frank Smith I, perhaps, have C.M.G., Casgrain <de Lanaudière), Drummond,
C.M.G., Hingston, Sir W.. Kt., Masson,
known longer than any other gentleman lu Cowan, Pelletier. Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Poirier,
Miller,

course 1 had With him was necessarily
somewhat limited, although he las been a
member of the House, I think, since 1884.
The longer I knew hlm, the more I thought
of hlm. fie was, no doubt, a very bitter
party man, but, apart altogether from lis
political feelings, he was a pleasant, genial
You
companion, frank, open and candid.
knew what his vlews were. There w-as no
deception or attempt to conceal. fie was
the kind of a man we must always respect,
because he w-as candid and frank, and whst
lie appeared to be. No doubt, the Senate has
lost severely by the death of these gentlemen. As my hon. friend has said, it is the
future of ail of us, and time alone wlll tell
when the end wlll come.

w-as a

Ross, Scott, Wood (Westmoreland), Young.-17.
The Joint Commlttee on the Printing of Parliament.-The Hon. Messrs. Bernier, Carling, Sir
John, R.C.M.G., Cochrane, Dever, Dobson, Elîls,
Ferguson. Fiset, King, Macdonald (P.E.I.), M4acKeen, Mackay .(Alma), Merner, O'Donohoe, PelI w-as intimate with Sir Frank Smith from letier, Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Primrose, Reid,
the time le left Hiamilton unitil the time 0 Shehyn, Templeman, Wark, Watsoa.-21.

this

flouse.

1 knew

hlm wheu

lie

clerk next door to me in Hamilton, where
lie first commenced as a clerk for a Mr.
Logan, and, inter, w-len he went to London.
Hom2. Mr. SCOTT.

[F.EBRUARY 13, 1901]
The Commlttee on Standing Orders.-The Hon.
MLessrs. Carling, Sir John, K. C. M. G., Clemow,
Gilimor, Macdonald (P.E.L), Macdonald (Victoria),
McKay (Truro), Prowse, Yeo, Young.-9.
The Committee on Banking and CommerceThe Hon. MLessrs. Aikins, Ailan, Bowell, Sir
asagrain
Carmnichael,
K.C.M.G.,
Mackenzie,
(Windsor), Clemow, Coz, Dandurand, Drummond,
Ferguson, Forget, Hingoton, Sir William, Kt.,
Kerr, Lougheed, Mackey (Aima), McDonaid
(Cape Breton), McCalium, McMiilan, McSweeney,
Miller, O'Brien, Perley, ,Prlmrose, Scott, Shehyn,
Villeneuve, Wark, Wood (Westmoreiand), Wood
(Hamilton), 'Yeo.-30.
The Committe on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours.-The Hon. Messrs. Allan, Baird,
Baker, Bolduc, Bowell, Sir Mackenzie, K.C.M.G.,
Clemow, Cochrane, Cox, Dickey, Drummond, Ferguison, Forget, Jones, Kerr, King, Kirchhoffer,
Landry, Lougheed, Lovitt, Macdonald (Victoria),
Mackay (Aima), MacKeen, McCallum, McDonaid
(Cape Breton), McKay (Truro), McLaren, MoMilian. Miller, Milis, Owens, Pelletier, Sir Alphonse,
K.C.M.G., Poirier, Prowse, Scott, Snowball, Sullivan, Tempieman, Vidai, Villeneuve, Wood (Hamllton).-40.
The Committee on Miscellaneous Private Bis.
-The Hon. Messrs. Armand, Baird, Boucherville,
de. C.M.G.. Carmichaei, Casgrain (de Lanaudière),
Dandurand, Dever, Dobson, Fiset, Gillmor,
Gowan, C.M.G., Hingston, Sir William, KCt., Landry, McHugh, McSweeney, Merner, Mille, Montplaisir. O'Brien, O'Donohoe, Reid, Shehyn, Snowhall, Sullivan. Young.-25.
The Ccmmittee on Internai Economy and Contingent Âccounts.-The Hon. Messrs. Bernier,
Bolduc, Bjwell, Sir Mackenzie, K.C.M.G., Casgrain (Windsor), Fiset. King, Kirchhoffer, Landry, Lougheed, Lovitt. Macdonald (Victoria), McCalium, McDonaid (Cape Breton), McLaren,
Miller, Montplaislr, Owens, Pelletier, Sir Aiphonse, K.C.M.G., Perley, Prowse, Scott, Vidai,
Villeneuve, Watson, Wood (Westmoreland).-25.
The Committee on Debates and Reporting.The Hlon. Messrs. Bernier, Ellis, Ferguson,
'Kerr, Landry, Macdonald (P.E.I.), McCallum,
Tempieman, Vldai.-9.
The Committee on Divorce-The Hon. Messrs.
Baker, Gowan, C.M.G., Kerr, Kirchhoffer, Lougheed, Milîs, Primrose, Templeman, Wood (Westmoreland).-9.
The Commlttee on the Restaurant.-ThIe Hon.
the Speaker, and the Hlon. Messrs. Bolduc,
Lougheed, McKay (Truro), McMilian,. Miller,
Pelletier, Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G.-7.

Ail whlch is respectfuiiy submitted.
R. W. SCOTT,
Chairman.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that ruie 13 be
muspended, so far as regards the report of
the Striking Committee.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I for one wouid like
to bave an opportunity of iooklng over the
list of names. It appears to me that a nurober of members of this House, who wouid
like to be on some of the comniittees, are
debarred from servlng on them. I understand the reason for putting on some of
the members is that they have served on
those comlttees for years, and the Strik-

3i

lng Commlttee does not like to drop them.
if so, It ls a farceThe SPEÂKER-If the hon, gentleman
objecta to the lmmediate adoption of the
report, lt must stand until to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Then I object.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon, gentleman cen raise hIs objections after the
standing rule le suspended, when the report
The motion
comes up for consideration.
now le to suspend the rule so that the House
can take Into coneideration the report of the
commlttee. The hon, gentleman cau diseues the point after the ruies are suspended.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I want an opportunity to look over the names.
Hon. Mm. LOUGHEED-Do I underetand
that the hon, gentleman intends to Insist
upon hie contention and keep the Hlouse
here another extra day ?
HEon. Mr. WAT SON-I do net know what
the resulta wiil be.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The hon. gentleman
wlll not gain by lt
The report was allowed to stand until tomormow.
HILLSBOROUGH RIVER B3RIDGE.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON Inquired of the gorernment 1. Has any contract been let for the construction of the whoie or any*portion of the proposed
bridge over the Hiilsboroxigh river at Charlottetown. P.E.I. ?
2. If so, to whom has the contract been g~n
what la the nature of the work contracted for;
when is the work to be commnenced, and when
compieted, and what Is the amount to be pald
therefor?
3. Has the lime of the proposed railway from
Charlottetown to Murray Harbour been finally
located beyond the liret ten miles nearest the
proposed bridge?
4. Has amy other comtract, except for the ten
miles aforesald. been awarded for any part of
the said railway?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-In reply to my hon.
frlend's firet question, a contract bas beeti
let for the substructure of the proposed
bridge over the Hilisborough river at
Charlottetown, P.E.1. 2. The contract bas
been awarded to Mr. M. J. Haney; the
nature o! the work contracted for is, elevell
tone and concrete piers on the site of the
%

[SENAT E]

principle which hie liys down. There is a
certain amnount of respect, at least, due to
old mnembers of the Senate, who have beenl
on certain committees for a great many
years, and 1 think, after an examination of the report itself, which bas
been made by the Secretary of State,
lt will be found that the new memnbers of the Senate have been placed
on committees wbich the Standing Coinmittee thought they were most fitted
We have had prominent gentlemen
for.
appointed to the Senate, who have bad
large commercial and financial experience.
They have been put on some of the prinTHE PROPOSED CHANGES IN THE cipal committees, and for the reason that
STANDING COMMI.NITTEES.
The Secretary of State
1 bave Indicated.
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS moved that when the niigbt read to the House the changes whichi
House adjourus to-day it stand adjourneca bave been made, or 1 conld do it if lie deuntil to-morrow at eleven o'clock. He sald : sires it, for I have them ail ia the book
That will give time to consider the report before mne--but as chairman of the commitwlth respect to the organization of commit- tee hie should do It. I arn under the imprestees, and we can meet tit three o'clock againi sion thnt not only the old members of the
as usual, and have a second sitting. That House, but the new members ivbo tiave
wlll enable us to get through wlh every- just talen their seats, will find that they
thing before us to-morrow in the afternoon. have been treated liberally in placing them
upon certain committees. If we are to disIf the Honse agrees to that.
the question as to whether a gentleHion. )Ir. DeBOUCHEIIVILLE-We do cuss
man who may happen to be 111 to-day and
not gain anything by that.
flot lkely, perhaps, to be here for a week
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, we gain a day, so or two weeks, Is to be, 1 might say,
that our adjourament may take place to- ignomlnlously expelled from a commlttee, I
niorrow for a perlod, without meeting the am not prepared to adopt that principle,
day following.
xîor do I think any one wlio bas any feeling
are for bis fellow man would suggest such a
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-We
ln the hon.
obliged to suspend the rule ln any case, and thing. There ls an Implication
suspend it now as to-mor- gentleman's remarks that too mucb leniency
we may as well
and inrow. At eleven o'cloch- we will flot bave lind been sbown to some members,
Justice done to certain new members. Most
this report.
hiad time to consider
iuleil>ers of theo Committee on Selectionl
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-'I wlll see that it is
aicted
~ve.te old iembers of the Senate, and
printed in good time.
i. lie interest of the Senate. and witb due
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIEL-lIt wiII respect to tbeir fellow senators Nvitli whoiLi
not talce five minutes for any member of tlîoy hanve heeni associated so long.
the committee to point out to the House:ý
Hion. Mr. WATSON-I hiave the list here.
where the changes whicli have been made,
the new mem- and looking it over, 1 find that wbalt ocand upon what commiittees
bers of the Senate have been phaced. The curred last session will occur this session.
question raised by the lion. gentleman f ront It wzi fournd necessary last session to add
Marquette (-.%r. Wratson) is the continuation 1certaini inembners bo the corninittees to get a
stand
of memibers on the committeýs. who, lie, guornmii. 1 fear, as file committees
says, do niot attend very often. while othxer" lii bis report. the sinie thixg wvill occur tLhis
ihve grent respect for old age;
members, himself, I presime. axnong biessso.

bridge, ai-d approaches to the brige of solid
earth emnbankmeflt. The work to be coinmencedj atter date of contract, October,
To be completed April, 1892. Lt is
1900.
a scliedule contract and the amount to be
pald depends on the quantity of work done.
8. No, it bas flot been finaliy located. 4.
No other contract bas yet been awarded,
but there need be no delay la prosecutlflg
the work as soon as the location Is éettled,
as the work is identical la character wltb
the first section, and the tenders received
were for scîtedule prices for that work.

number, desire to be placed on certain coin

neverthee

there is a tinie wben xnerbers

uis0
h
mibtees. The Comnmittee on Selection did cannot attend regniarîttl
not feel inclined to adopt bo any extent the active committee work, and my idea is that
Hon. Mdr. MILLS.

[FEBRUARY 13, 1901]
the men who are bere constantly, and actively interested lu the legislation before
the committees, sbould be selected to take
part ln the deliberations of those committees. The bon, leader of the opposition has
just stated that I probably would like to be
on a committee. There ls one, and I wished
to be on it last session, but being a nev
member 1 took the position that was assigned to me. I refer to the Railway Committee. The bon. gentleman alongside of
me (Mr. Casgrain) would aiso like to serve
We think we know
on that cornmittee.
sornething about railways and the legisiation wbicb cornes before tbat commlttee.
As a western man I arn interested in the
railway legisiation before this House, because most of it affects our Nortb-west
For that reason I bave raised the objection to the adoption of this report
to-day.
W%ýith ail due respect to the ol]
members of tbe committees, I submait to
the House that men wbo are bere constantly, and ln a position to attend actively
to the duties of the position should be
placed on those committees. it is no disrespect to old members to leave tbem off
those committees and place them on others
wbere their presence would flot be of s0
much Importance.
Tbat ls why I raised
My objection. I bave given my reasons,
and I tbink they wiil commend themselves
to the majority of tbe Honse.
Hon. ýMr. SCOTT-Tbe policy adopted by
the comrnittee appointed by this House to
namne the various standing committees, bas
been tbe one that bas been foilowed since
tbe Senate was inaugurated. 1 have been
ln the Senate twenty-seven years, on botb
sides of the House, and the practice bas
beeu to mnake the changes as new members
carne in, and as v'acancies arose frorn tinie
to tirne.
I quite appreciate the reason
urged by the lion, gentleman in opposition
to that view. but, as it is a new departure,
lt would bave to be started witb the fuil
knowledge of the intention to change the
basis of the organization of committees.
The practice rnay iiot lie «i good one, but
oivitg
f time on its
ls bas ut least the
side, and n concurrence Iroin year to year.
I do not think I bave lieard the report 0f
the Conittee n Selection ehallenged on
more tiian one or two occasions in a long
term. It is a delicate and difficuit task to

41

select the members of the committees, because, naturally, tbere are some committees
that a majority of the members wisb to
be on, and It is quite Impossible, witb tbe
limitations we bave, to s0 arrange the committees as to meet tbe views of every bon.
We desire to do so as far as
gentleman.
is practicable. 1 wili now read the cbanges
tbat bave been made. On tbe Joint Comrnlttee on the Library and on other committees the ex-Speaker bas been substituted
Wherever the
for the present Speaker.
present Speaker was on a cornrittee the exSpeaker is put on in bis place.
Mr. MacInnes, of Harnilton, is replaced by
Mr. Wood, of Hamilton. On the Joint Comimittee on Printing, there were tbree vacancdes. Mr. Ellis, of St. John, wbo Is a practical newspaper man and printer, takes the
place of the late Mr. McKindsey, of Halton;
Mr. McKay, of Aima, takes the place of
Senator Ogilvie, who resigned, and the exSpeaker takes the place of the present
Speaker. On tbe Standing Orders Committee, Mr. Shebyn takes the place of Mr.
McDonald, 0f ,Cape Breton. On the Committee on Banklng and Commerce, Mr.
M1tcKay, of Aima, takes the place of Senator
Burpee, Mr. McDonald, of, Cape Breton,
takes tbe place of Mr. Fulford, who, It is
reported, wlll not be bere for, at ail events,
the greater part of tbe session. In severai
Instances where we knew tbat senators
would be absent for at least the greater part
of the session, we decided that if, on their
return, tbey desired to do so, they could
take the places of the gentlemen we bave
named. Senator Lougbeed, takes the place
of tbc late 'Mr. Lewin, and Mr. McCaliurn,
Mr.
M;Naclunes.
the place of the late M.Nr.
Wood, of Hamilton. takes the place of the
late Sir Frank Smith. Mr. Speaker had replaced Mr. Lewin ternporarîly last session.
On the Comrnittee on Railways, Telegraplis
and Harbours, Mr. Wood, of Hamilton,
takes the pince of Mr. Almon. until the
latter return to the Chamber ; Senator
Sullivan, takes the place of the late Senator
Maclnnes, by arrangement, Senator Bolduc,
takes the place of Senator Masson, and. I
presume, If Mr. Masson, sbould returu to
the Chamber. bis ixame will be substituted
for that of Mr. Bolduc, '.%r. Prowse. takes
the place of the late Senator MeKindsey.
Senator MacKay, of Aima, tubes the place
of Senator Ross, who is absent, but, if the

[SENATE
latter should returni he can resurne bis place
on the comrnittee. Senator Jones, takes the
place of the late Sir Frank Smith. On the
Committee on Private Bills, Mr. Shehyn, of
Quebec, takes the place of Senator Bolduc,
by arrangement; Mr. Young, takes the place
of Mr. Lougheed, and Mr. McHugh takes
the place of Senator Ogilvie, resigned; Senator Gilîmor takes the place of Senator
Prowse.
Ou the Committee on Internai
Econorny and Contingent Accounts, there
were two vacancies besides the Speaker's
vacancy: Mr. Bolduc takes the place of Mr.
Forget, who is likely to be absent for a
good part of the session, and Mr. Lougheed
the place of the late Mr. McIKindsey.
On
the Committee on Debates and Reporting,
Mr. Landry takes the place of Mr. Bolduc,
and Mdr. Ellis the place of Sir Mackenzie
Bowell, who desired to withdraw and give
Mr. Ellis an opportunity of serving on that
commnittee. There is no change in the Cornrnittee on Divorce. The only change on the
Restaurant Committee is the substitution of
Senator Miller for Senator 'MacKeen, and
Sir Alphonse Pelletier takes the place of
Senator Almon until bis returu. Those are
the changes. It is a very delicate task for
the cornmittee because it 15 well known, as
I have explained, tbat there is a considerable desire on the part of bon, gentlemen to
be appointed to certain comiittees.
It is
flot an easy matter to allot the list so as to
please everybody-it Is quite impossible to
please all.
The report was allowed to stand.
The Senate adjourned.

J

C.M.G., Hingston, Sir W., Kt.. Masson, Miller,
Pelletier, Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Poirier, Ross,
Scott, Wood (Westrnoreland), Young.-17.

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Is not this
committee appointed to assist the Speaker ?
I do not think the Speaker is named on the
comrnittee hlrnself.
The SPEAKER-I amn really flot prepared
to answer the question of my hon. frlend,
from Montarville. As I understand It, the
Speaker of this House Is simply the member
who occupies the Chair, and he would flot be
a member of the committee unless he was
specially mentioned. Our rules do not aay
that the Speaker shall be ex-officlo a memnber of any committee. Consequently, as at
present advised, my opinion Is that the Commlttee of Selection acted properly in Including the Speaker among the members of the
coxnmittee.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Does Hlis
Honour decide that I arn not correct ?
The SPEAKER-I have not looked Into
the question, and amn not prepared to give a
positive decision. I simply give the impression on my mind at the moment.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Could not
this question stand until the other committees are named, and I will look into It
In the meantime. There can be no objection
to that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
only rule applying to this is the SOth, where
it says :
The standing committees shaU. be as follows
(1) The Joint Cornrittee on the Library of
Parliament, whereto there shall
seiventeen senators.

be appolnted

It has been the practice heretofore, In ap-

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thur8dai, February 14, 1901.

polnting the committee, on ail occasions, to
include the Speaker.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We are following the
practice. The Speaker is put at the head

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven of the list.
o'clock, a.m.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The cornmittee have
always been appointed to assist Mr. Speaker,
Prayers and routine proceedings.
and the Speakers alternate-the Speaker of
THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
the House of Commons is chairman of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the follow- Joint Committee at one time, and at another
ing senators be appointed to the joint Com- it is the Speaker of the Senate, but I do not
mIttee on the Library of Parliament :

recollect the ruie by which that proceeding
bas been heretofore adopted.

The Hon. the Speaker, and the Hon. Messrs.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Why
Allan, Almon, Baker, Boucherville, de, C.M.G.,
Casgrain (de Lanaudjêre), Drummond, Gowan, let the matter stand ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

not

LFEBRUARY 14, 19011

43

representation, and, ln proportion to its
numbers, sbould have forty per cent of the
representation at least. 1 .find on the Railway Committee the Liberals have twelve
and the Conservatives twenty-eight. They
should be sixteen to twenty-four, If we fol10w the mile which prevails ln the House Of
PRINTING COMMITTEE.
THE
Commons. In ail cases ln the House of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the followlng Commons, the minority, no matter what
political party they belong to, have a faim
seatos be apponted o the int:Crepresentation. according to their proporPrntin
mitte o th 0fPariarent
Bernier, Caring, Sir John, tion lu the representatioli of the House. I
The Hlon. Messrs.
K.C.M.G., Cochrane, Dever, Dobson, Ellis, FerIn ail the coinguson, Fiset, King, Macdonald (..I),Mac: find the same thing prevails the Internai
Keen, Mackay (Alma), Merner, O'Donohoe, Pel- mittees. Take, for Instance,
letier, Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Prlinrose, Reid, Economy and Contingent Accounts Conimittee : the Liberals ought to have ten on
Shehyn, Templeman, Wark, Watson.-2L.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Wben this report was that commIttee, the majority lifteen. 1 find,
made yesterday It seemed to nme, from the however, tbey have six, as against nineteen
reading of it, that the composition of those Conservatives, certainly a very unfair procommittees was not f air to members of this portion. As 1 said yesterday, iast session a
House. For that reason, I objected to the large number of absentees were ieft on the
adoption of the report yesterday. I find, on committee. 1 sec that this session, the Colnlooking over the list of the standing com- mittee of Selection havé substituted otbers
mittees, that I was right ln my contention for those wbo are not here, but ln case the
at that turne. The distribution of the mern- absentees corne, tbey are to resumxe their
bers on the several committees, to my mInd, places. In every Instance, it Increases the
is certainly very unfair. Witb the expert- voting power on one aide. Yesterday we
ence I bave bad here and elsewhere, I have were told that the committee did not see fit
always found that the goverument, or the to drop the names of members who have
special commrittee striking the standing been on the comrnittee for a long tirne; notcommittees, bave always considered the witbstanding that, I find those changes bave
relative strength of the aeverai parties. I been made, and were reported yesterday. 1
find, ln looking over this list, tbat that bave ail due respect for the old members of
principle bas been entirely Ignored ln this the Senate. Tbey have bad a longer expericase. True, there are several committees, ence than I have bad; at the sarne tume, so
sucll as the one we are discussing now, far as responsibillty la .concerned, new mernwbere the political proclivities of their mem- bers bave the sanie responsibility ln this
bers can have very little effect. On the House as the older members who have been
Printing Comrnittee the other chamber has bere for years. 1 find active business men
a large majority and could swarnp the vote lu this Senate are entirely ignored. Some
of the Senate. Consequentiy, the member- are on one committee, Some on two, whiie
ship of the Printing Cornrittee is of no the older members are on as many as five
political consequence, s0 far as this House committees. I bave looked over the list, and
Is concerned. I find that on that commIttee I find there are five members of the Senate
there are eleven Liberals and ten Conserva- who are entireiy ignored-wbo are not on
tives, wbere it wIll bave llttle effect. Fur- any comrnittee at ail. In tbat five are inther on, 1 find on committees 'whicb deal cluded some of the most enterprising buaiwith questions more or less of a political ness men of Canada. 1 find that eight menicharacter, the mlnority of this House cer- bers of the Senate nre on oniy one coniTake, mittee; thirty-two on two committees;
tainly have not f air representatioli.
Instance, the Cornrittee on Railways. twenty-five on tbree committees; seven on
for
That is a very Important cornrittee-ln fact, four co)mmittees, and three on five cointhe most important comrnittee ln this House, mittees. 1 do not think any person will Say
as it is in the House of Commons. On that that I was wrong Ini iy contention yestercommIttee the party representing the gov- jday and to-day, that the conimittee should
&erurnent lu this Obamber sbould have a f--air revise their work, and make a very mucb

Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I canliot see any reason
for It. We are simply followlng the rule
whlcb prevalled in other years. Hlowever, 1
have no objections to let It stand.
The motion was allowed to stand.

LSE NATE]
better striking of committees than appears
ln this report. 1 do flot purpose to make
any motion on this question at ail. 1 can
quite see thiat If the mai ority ln this House
persist in the adoption of this report, It can
be carried. I bave directed sufficlent attention to the composition of the coin-,
mittees, to the number of men wbo are left
off the commlttee altogether, to the number on one commlttee, to the fact that some
are on live committees, and leave It to the
judgment of the members of this House to,
refer the report back to the commlttee to
see If a better adjustment can not be mnade.
I can quite understand that a number of
members of this House, because of their
pecullar adaptabIity for committee work,
might; be on every committee. I can understand that the minority migbt be on every
commlttee of this Hlouse, and then have
only their fair representation. The members
of the mlnority, as a rule, are on more coinmittees than the members of the majority,
because they are fewer ln numbers, and If
tbey are to have any representation at ail,
they must serve on more committees tban
their opponents. That Is the experlence 1
have had ln parllamentary work, and ln
strIing committees and givlng representation to the minority. 1 submit this statement of facts: the figures are accurate, for
1 have checked tbem out. If the majorlty
of this House lnslst on tbe committees belng
composed as reported, for the time being
the minorlty wlll have to, submit; but 1 do
flot thlnk, it is wise on the part of the
majority to act in this manner on.the striklng of committees. I do flot think it ls fair
or riglit, and I submit the statement to the
House, trustmng that the majority may see
it to reconsider the composition of these
committees.

Harbours, Mr. McKay, from Montreal, who
is not a 'Conservatîve, was chosen to take
the place o! 'Mr. Ross, who was a good Conservative.
Nobody took exception to the
choice made, because Mr. Ross, as hon. gentlemen are aware, Is very 111 and seldom
comes to the Senate, and I bad no objection,
for my part, to, the cholce wben Mr. MeKay's namne was suggested.
I complied
wltb tbe request with great pleasure. My
attention was also called to the fact that
Mr. Shehyn's name-was on one or two comnmittees, and I bad no objection to substitute
Mr. Sbebyn's naine for mine on the comnmittee. I thlnk those instances will furnish
evidence that the cboice made by the coinmittee did not indicate politîcal feeling on
the part o! any members of this Huse.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I would like to ask
the hon, gentleman why some namnes were
left off at ail.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-We were not aware
of that. As soon as somebody's namne was
mentloned, it was accepted on one side or
the other.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tbat Is tbe renson
wby I think, the report should be referred
back.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wbile lt is perfectly
clear that on ail questions of poncy this
Hlouse is pretty well divlded politically,
and the uines are well defined, yet I am free
to sny that in the committees of the House
poUitics have not been carried, and in the
formation of committees political alliances
have not been prominently regarded.
As
far as my recollection goes, tbe effort in the
formation of ail those commîttees bas been
that the different parts 0f the Dominion
should be represented fairly.
If you had
that object in view, It would be quite imHon. '.%r. BOLDUC-As 1 said yesterday, possible to regard the otber objects. It is,
It is verv seldom the report of the Coin- as my hon. friend explained, unfortunate
mittee of Selection is questioned. I have that one political party bas a great preserved on that committee for the last two dominanceý in tbe formation of tbe comyears, and have never heard a word of the mittees. It arises in a very natural way,
political OPinions of the inembers chosen tu from a disposition not to dispiace gentleserve on the standing comnmittees. My bon. men wbo bave fairly well discbarged their
friend from Marquette is of the opinion that duties in times past, and who express a
the political opinions of the members whbn desire to remain on the ommittee. The
are chosen to serve on those committees committees which bave attracted mnost athave flot been overlooked; but, as evidence tention in the Senate are the Railways and
o! the contrary, I mnay tell hlm that on the Canais and Banking and Commerce, and in
Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and Iorder to meet tbe pressure of members,
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

1FEBRIJARY 14, 1901]
those two committees have, frern time to that it Is under-represented. Ontario, with
Urne, been enlarged. In 1872 the 'two corn-j twenty-four, would be entitied to a third,
mittees of Banking and Commerce and Rail- say fourteen, and it has fourteen on thc
ways ani Canais ernbraced oniy twenty- cormlttee. So that, ou the principie wbich
four members each. Since that lime sorne bias influenced the commIttee in the past,
two or three members have been added, the proportions coming frorn different; probut at the lime I speak of, Prince Edwar<i vinces wouid seem to be erninently fair.
Island had corne In, came in about 1872, It Is Impossible to se gradunte and regulate
and British Columbia was in. Tbose two the formation of a cornmittee as to reprecommittees now number seventy. The ln- sent each particular ioeaiity. I quite recogcrease Is due entireiy to the pressure by nize the fairness of many of the observagentlemen who desire to be added to those tions of ny hion. friend opposite, whero
committees, and so they have grown to gentlemen have been left off altogether. The
what, ln iny judgrnent, 1s rather an undue principie that bas guided the Committee of
and large proportion. In the arrangement Selebtion since the formation of the Senate
on the Cornrittee on Railways, which prac- bas been that the newer members were not
tically Ia the committee on whlch sorne given as Important places un the committee
bon. gentlemen desire to be narned, I have. as the older members, and It did seem te me
ln a basty way, just run over the propor- that precedence by priority Is the oniy printions that are on that committee from the cipie which shouid guide, and it bas been the
Prince guiding one in the past under aIl gevera>
different parts of the Dominion.
The
lias four senators, and wouid ments, both Liberal and Conservative.
Edward Island
hon. gentleman referred to one committee
be entitled in a rough way to one-twentieth.
Committee on ContingenShe bas bier proportion ; she bas two gentle- in particular, the
dies. 1 have found that some of my Liberai
British Columbia
men on the cornrnttee.
as
bas three senators. She la flot entitied to two. friends have been quite as extravagant
the Tories on the committee. I begged of
Her proportion wouid be something over one,
If we
but she has two, se that, perhaps, she iii them several Urnes te cail a hait, and
do net cail a hait we shall get inte disgrace,
over-represented. Manitoba having four, is
entitled to one-twentietb, and there is only because the extravagance of the cornrnttee
one senator from Manitoba on that commit- bas been cornmented on oiùtside. The additee. The principie that guided us ln former tiens last year were ln the neighbourbood
years, altbough it bas not been foliowed ln of $3,000, which was extremely uncalied for,
the iast three or four years. was that 1 do net hesitate to say se, because officiais
locality, rather than political colour, should who oniy work here for three months and
be regarded by the members of that cern- occupy Inferior positions are paid bigher
mittee. 1 rnay rernlnd my hon. friend that sums than officers ln other departments of
If I had, a f ew years ago, raised that ques- the government who are occupied tll flve
tion, the Liberal party would net; have been or six ln the evening, and sornetimes have
represented on any commxittee. The North- te corne back at nigbt, and draw less comwest Territories have two senaters, and pensation than the officers ln this Chamber.
would be entitied to one member. It bas 1 have heard the voice of the bon. gentleNova man from Amherst (Mr. Dickey) raised
one member on that committee.
Scotia, baving ten senators, weuld be en- against it severai Urnes. I think he ieft
I arn sorry
titled to an eighth, perhaps a fraction over. the committee ln disgust.
I rernerThat proportion would be five, perbaps a he is net now in his place.
ber cailing bis attention te the condition of
fraction over. It is over-represeated, because It bas seven. New Brunswick, hav- things at confederation, and the professions
ing ten senators, would aiso be entitled that were made then. The Senate was te
to five ; Its representatien is less than five, be managed as a fairly prudent, econernical
year by year the
s0 that it is under-represented on the basis body, and to his regret
Quebec baving expenses of the administration of the Senate
referred te.
that 1 have
I bave beard
twenty-four senators would be entitled te had enorrnously Increased.
eue polsomething over one-third, over fourteen, per- other gentlemen, net cenfined te
tical party or the other, make similar comSe
haps net fi.fteen. It bas Oniy eleven.

[SENATE]
ments. There has been wire-pulling, and it
bas influenced gentlemen on both sides.
Perhaps this is a littie outside the question,
but it la an Incident which naturally arises
when one la discussing the internai, economy
and the formation of those committees, and
1 thought, perhaps, lt was better, having a
pretty large experlence ln those matters,
that 1 should give my frank and unblasscd
opinion.
Questions of government policy
are not referred te these comrnittees ;they
are referred to a Committee of the Whole
House, where every gentleman can be preseut. The Banklng Commlttee, the Rallway
Committee and the Private Bis Commlttee
have only to do with private enterprises,
promoted by parties of both political sîdes,
and thiere is a good deal of lobbylng on
these occasions, but 1 cannot see what poltical question cau arise on the Banking and
'Commerce Çommittee. It does not seem to
me possible, because it is conducted entirely
by gentlemen who desire to see the financial
affaira of thîs country managed on a safe
and prudent basis. The Committee on Railways Is an important committee, In whlcb
there Is, no doubt, a good deal of canvassing
and lobbying, but my opinion is that lt
rarely divides politically. I cannot now recaîl to my mmnd an occasion where a poltical member of either aide sought to Induce
those who were la aympathy with hlm to
see eye to eye wlth hlm. It bas not been
on political grounds, but rather on the personal desire to secure a majority In faveur
of the Bill or to defeat the measure. One
can hardly conceive a case where any polticai question can arise ln those two committees to which I have referred. On the
broad principle of whlch my hon. frlend
speaks, there ought to be a fair representatien. and I think hon, gentlemen of the
House would be disposed to recoguize that
prin ciple If attention were called to It, but
la my judgment the more Important point
lu the formation of those committees is that
the provinces should be fairly represented
on the commîttees lu proportion to their
number.
It cannot be supposed for a'
moment that a gentleman, representlng the
Lîberal party, If he saw a measure was
affecting the province from which he came.
whidli he considered was injurious and detrimental to the public interests, would, for
political interests, faveur a measure not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

otherwise entîtled to consideration. I beleve the members of this body rise superior
to any action of that kind, and se far as
private bill legisiation is concerned, they
are guided by other influences than political
questions.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-I understand
this Chamber may adjourn to-day for a
couple of weeks, and I would ask hon, gentlemen If there is any great haste in adopting the report of this committee when we
are just about adjourning, and if there Is,
In the mmnd of some of our colleagues, a
belief tbat a grievance exists in the formation of this committee whbich has had but
about an hour or so to go through ail these
committees and make rearrangements, could
we not properly consider the situation
and the dlaims of some of the younger members of this House, who thinl, they have
not been well treated ? I do not intend to
supplement the remarks of the hon, gentleman from Marquette In bis dlaim that the
minority should have fairer representation
on some of those committees, but I thluk
that the minority should have a fair proportion. I have not gone into the namea
that are on fhe lists and do not know how
the list stands. 1 will only remark to the
hon. Secretary of State that the minority
is somewhat Interested at times lu those
committees from the experlence I had last
year in the Rallway Committee, when
the majority rejected the petition of
the Short Line Gaspé Railway, where
the Conservative party stood a unit
lu favour of 'Mr. .rmstrong's
desire
to balk the people
in that neighbourhood In their desire to have a new railway company.
These are the aupplementary reasons which sbould actuate us lu
seeing that a fair representation is given
to the Ininority. I do not say anything as
to the present formation of the committees,
but as I see that there is lu the minds of
some of my hon. friend's a feeling that
there can be a better readjustment, why not
adjourn the consideration of the report and
allow this committee to reconsider its work
and see if it could uot do better ?
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I would just point
out to the hon, gentleman (Mr. Dandurand)
that In referring to the Baie Des Chaleurs
question, he is speaking under a misappre-

[FEBRUARY 14, 1901]

I tbink It was
bension.
tbrown out by both Parties.

unanimously

H3on. Mr. DANDURAND-So bopeless was
th1e minority ln Its endeavours.
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-I! my bon. friend
le so anxious tbat tbose wbo share his opinIon la pohitics sbould be placed on tbat committee, I am sure If be brings It before us,
the goverament and the Senate want to act
faIrly and squarely ln tbe matter, and tbey
can add a member at any tinie. Tbere can
be an amendment after the committee ls
struck, and we can add n member or two
at any time. It ls not Ilke the laws of the
Medes and Persians. Otberwise the wbole
o! the business will be delayed. 1 understand tbat the object le to strike the committees and bave tbem get to 'work wben
we come back. I amn on qulte a number
o! committees, and I would not care very
mucb If I was struck off some o! tbem. If
anybody wants to take my place 1 amn willIng be should bave It for the sake of pence.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I do
flot propose to continue th1e discussion further than to supplement wbat bas been said
by tbe bon. gentleman .from Lauzon (Mr.
Bolduc). He knows, and s0 does thue committee, that 1 objected to be on some of
the committees for wbicb I bad been named,
and I moved tbe striking off of my own
name, substituting ln every case aLibemal
tbat I tbougbt eminently fitted to serve
on tbese committees. And, I stated thena.ltbougb we shouid not refer to proceedinga
in th1e committees-wbat th1e Secretary o!
State bas properly sald, tbat wblle I bave
been on that commIttee, since 1893, 1 bave
neyer beard the question of polltics mooted
untIl tbis time, and I suppose the western
atmosphere bas bad sncb wonderful effect
upon tbe political views o! the bon, gentleman tbat be fendles tbe Interests of the
western country wiil be lgnored unless be
occuples some position of Importance on
tbose commIttees. The Secretary o! State
has laid down tbe principle 'whlch bas guided
Wbere one province
us on all occasions.
bas bad an undue proportion, it bas resulted from tbe fact tbat tbey tbougbt tbat
tbe persons wbo were piaced upon those
committees were better fltted for the position tban some others. That their avocation la hf e was sucli as fltted theni for

sucli positions, and that is really the reasofi.
1 regret, myseif, that the question bas ever
arisen. 1 know that on one of tbose comimittees, a prominent Liberal, our present
Speaker, was as active and energetic, and 1
think exercised as mucb, If flot more, Influence ln the formation of committees and
ln the appointments recommended by the
Committee on Internai Economy as any
otber member of tbe House, but 1 neyer
beard bis appointment ciaimed on that
He was an active and energetie
ground.
nman, and on ail occasions exercised his
I regret that this discussion bas
rigbt.
come up. The names of those thiat are left
off ail the committees, I confess, escaped my
attention, and probably the attention of
otbers. 'I asked tbe bon. gentleman for tbem
and be very courteously sent nme the list.
I wlll not mention tbem, but tbey are beTbey are members wbo neyer
fore me.
come bere except perbaps when brougbt by
Some of tbem. bave been bere
teiegrapb.
perbaps one day during tbe session, wbile
Conservative members, wbo bave been left
off tbe committee, and Liberals substituted
ln their place, were men wbo were physically unable to come. In those cases we
did not stop to ask wbetber tbey were
IAberals or not. That bas been the spirit
wblcb bas actuated the Committee o! Selection in the striklag of tbose committees.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I tbink the suggestion
made would perbaps be a satisfactory one,
that tbe report migbt be adopted and
amended. If there are members wbo bave
been left off, It la proper that tbey sbould
be on some of tbe committees. As far as
we can we wlsh to put members on the
committees that tbey desire to serve on,
and ln respect to whicb business ia whlch
tbey take an lnterest wll come up. The
mode of proceeding was not, to my mmnd,
entirely satisfactory. I would have preferred
a different mode of strIking committees.
it seemed to be the mile whlch bad been
adopted beretofore to continue as members
of the committees those wbo bad been upon
the same committees in previous parliaments. I do not know that that ls a desirable tbing. I shall certalnly feel mysel!
free, another session, to act upon the
assumption tbat we are not bound by the
past, or wbat bas been done ln tbe past,
and that when we meet for tbe purpose o!

48

[SENATE]

striking the committees again, we shall
undertake to give to the two great parties
ln the state-because there are two great
parties, and tbey are represented in this
If a partY
Hlouse-fair representation.
shouid, ln the process of lime, become a
smail mlnorlty In the House, then It is
most desirable that that minorlty should be
fuliy represented on ail the committees.
You want to give to the party, even tbougb
It is in the mlnority, an opportunity of adequately expressing Its opinions on ail pubDc questions ln the committee as well as on
the floor of the House, and tbat you do by
seeing that the minority are falrly represented on every committee, but we cannot
Ignore the tact that the party at this
moment ln whose bands the executive government happens to be, ls in the miuority
ln this House, and it should flot be lu the
public interest,. npart from the question of
fairness, to gfive to it on the committees off
this Hlouse a smaller representation than
It mlgbt be entitled to, because it is most
desirable that the business off the country
sbould be fairly carried on. I think, therefore, the suggestion made by the bon, gentleman from Monck (Mr. McCallum) is a
good suggestion, that the report shouid be
adopted, and there is a disposition on the
part off the House, I tbink, to meet the suggestions made by the hou. senator from
Marquette, and to see that fair representalion is given to both parties on the committee. I have no doubt there are some
men on committees that they do not care
to be on, and there are others who are desirous off taking their place. That can be
voluntarily arranged after the committees
are struck, and we may from lime to time
amend the committees ln this Hlouse iu that
way.
Hou. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe tenor of the
discussion bas been of such a character as
to indicate to memnbers of this Chamber,
who were not present at the slttlng of the
Striking Committee, that a spirit off partisaflship operated ln the minds off the majority off that committee lu appolntlng 9Àmajority off Conservatives on the varlous commIttees.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, no.
Hon. M-Nr.LOUGHIEEED-MNy hon. ffriend
ironically says 'no, no.' Reflection bas been
Hcn. Mr. MILLS.

cast on tue majority off the members of the
committee by the remarks off soine lion.
gentlemen. I might say, and I tbiffk I can
wltli confidence, on the part off those who
are upon the same side of politics as myself, that If my hon. friend opposite had
come down to the commlttee with a proposition such as he bas just enunciated, and
wlth a list of names glvlng an entirely different representalion than that shown lu the
report, the committee would have been prepared to give the fairest possible consideration to such a proposition. But there was
no suggestion off a definite character made
by gentlemen representing the Liberal side
off politlcs that was not entertained by the
committee at lts sittlng. 1 know It is not
the etiquette of committees to disclose wbat
may have taken place on the inside. but
tiiere lias always been that disposition to
entertain auy proposal to grant fair-play
anid lproper representation of any partîcular
group lu this Chamber by the Striking Oommittee. I would point out that this littie discussion, and the acrlmony that bas resulted
from It, bas arisen from a misapprebension
on the part off the hon, gentleman from Marquette. He seems to thlnk that the same
feeling is dlsplayed here as ln the House of
Commons. When tbe Liberal party was at its
lowest, the party, so far as representation
on the committees was concerned, had more
than it could dlaim on tbe basis off its
numerical strengtb. If my bon. friend will
look ut the names on the committees duri ng the ten years when the Liberal party
had Its smallest numbers here, be will find.
that the members of that party were represented in their entirety on the committees,
and there bas not; been a disposition to
adhere to polltical Unes ln striklng the commnittees. Tbere is a certain sentiment wblch
must animate a commlttee off that charueter. We cannot, wbere members bave been
lu the Hlouse for many years, and bave been
active members of certain committees,
strike their names off beartlessly wltbout
glving some reason for dolng so, and put ln
their places members recently appolnted.
That seutiment bas run throughi the pollcy
wbich bas animatèd the Strikiug Committee
in the past. It may not be lu accordance
with party spirit, or party zeal, or the Ideas
expressed by the bon, gentleman from Marquette, but that bas been largely the senti-

[FEBRUARY 14, 1901]
ment that bias governed the Strlklng Cernmittee ln makIng Up their report. If it does
flot meet the approval of this House, it 15
easy to depart from It. I can say, on biehaif of the Conservative members of that
committee, that no partisan spirit animates
them.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I brouglit this matter upHon MEMBERS-Spoke ! spoie!
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Then I move the
adjourument of the House.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-T£he
hon. gentleman cannot himself move the adjourament of the House for thý purpose of
speaklng.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If the hon. leader of
the opposition wlll flot allow me te make an
explanation whlch will not occupy three
minutesHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWý%ELL-I
choose to adhere to the rules of the Hlouse
as the hon. gentleman dld yeÉterday. He
bas no riglit to complaIn.
The motion was agreed to.
THE COMMITTEE ON STANDING
ORDERS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the followIng gentlemen compose the Commlttee on
Standing Orders:
The Hon. Messrs. Carling, Sir J., K.C.M.G.,
Clemow, Glilmor, Macdonald oe.E.I.), Macdonald
(Victoria), MciKay (Truro), Prowse, Yeo, Young.
-9.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-In bringing Up this
matter I thouglit that I was perfectly wlthIn my riglits. 1 do net think any one ln thls
honourable body wlll doubt that. I can quite
understand that If ail the members of this
Heuse were free from party bias, as the
hon, leader of the opposition and myseif
are, everything would be done fairly. With
regard te the crltlcisms on the remarlis 1
have made by the several gentlemen who
have spoken, I have neyer understood that
we should have a percentage of representatives on committees by provinces, as set
forth by the hon. Secretary cf State, liecause If a province is amail and lias but one
senater, it would practically have ne representation at ail. I understand that senators
are appeinted for the purpose of giving re4

presentation te every portion oi the Dominion. The hon, leader of the opposition says
that I have probably breuglit tbUs matter Up
because I wlsh for an Important position on
some of these committees, lie is entirely
mistaken.
I wishi te have a fair share ln
the proceedings of this Heuse whule I am a
member of 1t, but I have ne desire to have
any greater share of It, nor do I dlaim te
possess any larger knowledge cf the subWets comlng befere these committees, than
other members. The hon, gentleman says
that the western air lias imbued me wlth a
partisan spirit; I do ceme from a province
that, ln my opinion and ln the opinion of a
great mary people In that province, bas
suffered at the harde of the Senate cf Canada, and fer that reason I f eel warmly on
the subject. Whea a majority of the peeple's represeatatives ia parliament approved
of certain legfislatien and sent it te this
Chamber, that legisiation was defeated by a
body net respensible te the electorate of
Canada. For that reason, along with others,
I belleve that the mlnority ln this House,
who represent the vlews of the mai ority of
the electors lni Canada, ouglit te have at
least fair representation. The hon, gentleman
from Calgary says that, in striklng those
committees, ne attention is pald te the polIt lias been
tical views of any member.
said by others that there le ne politica iii
those committees. I happea to know, from
my own personal knewledge, that two or
three Bills were tbrowa eut in the Railway Commlttee here as a resuit of a straiglit
canvass on party lines. In one case I heard
the carvass made on this ground-tliat if
the Bill were thrown eut it would defeat
the member in the House of Gemmons whe
had lntroduced It there. The Bull was defeated and that member was defeated; the
threat was riglit that time. Ne argument
can lie used ln this H3ouse to show that
party Influence dees not affect the decisiens
The hon, gentleman said
of committees.
that a few years ago, whenl the Liberals
were weakest here, it would lie found that
they were on almost every committee cf
this House. That Is what I said at the eutset; they must necessarily be there te have
representatien at ail. I was a member of
a government and a party ln Manitoba
where the opposition had only seme seven
members, and every one of those seven
members was on almost every committee in

[SEN ATE]j
that legisiature. It mnust necessarily be s0.
1 admit that principle; it is always carried
out, and that le whiat I amn contending for
here. 1 dlaim that we ouglit to have fair
representation. We have flot fair representation now. I asked the indulgence of the
House to make these few remarks on thc
last motion, for the purpose of showlng that
the suggestion made by the lion. gentleman
from Monck could flot very well be carrled
out, because those committees are governed
by rules.
Those committees have fixed
numbers, under the rules of the House.
Hon. «MNr.
LANDRY-Tbe hon, gentleman
does not understand the point yet.

bie rejected by his constituency,
that hie was rejected.
!Ioil. Mr. WATSON-He was.

and

Hon. Sir MACKLNZIE BOWELL-Tliat
gentleman wvas not rejected by bis constituency. The hon, gentleman should study
curreat history and know that hie is talking
about. The gentleman to w-bom lie refers
lef t the constituency which hie had represented for a number of years, and tackled
anotiier constituencey which had given Conservative miajorities of seven to eiglit hundred. He liappened to be deleated there,
and It served hlmn righit.

If lie liad kept

la bis omn constituency, 1 have no doubt
Hon. 31r. WATSON-I understand that a hie would have been elected.
committee canniot be increased in the way
The motion w-as agreed to.
suggested by the hon, gentleman from
Monck.
BANKING AND COMM\:NERCE COM.\MITTEE.
Hon). Mr. McCALLUM%-I said by the conH-on. -Mr. SCOTT moyeU that the followsent of the House and the governrnent. 1
have seen it done In the House of Commons ing members forrn the Committee on Bankand 1 have seen it done here. 1 know ing and Commerce :
The Hon. Messrs. Aikins, Allan. Boweli, Sir
whereof 1 speak.
Hon. 'Mr. IVAT SON-To my mmnd, It is
much better done before the cornmittee le
struck at aIl. There can then be a readaustment of the whole conmlttee, and that
Is my reason for bringlng the matter Up and
maklng my rernarks before adopting the
report.
However, the majority of this
House, have apparently, corne to, the conclusion that the committees are as they wish
them, and, so far as rny rernarks are concerned, they will have no effect.
I find
that the niembers who are entitled to greater
representation on the committees, who have
had experience in legislation, are left on
only one committee. So far as I amn personally concerned, I shail have to submit to
the majority of this House, trusting that a
time may corne -when we will have fair
representation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I wish
to, correct one remark of the hion. gentleman, and I may add hie was equally inaccurate in ahl bis statements. He made a
staternent that a threat hiad been uttered
here, in the case of a certain Bill introduced and passed in the other House and
sent to the Senate, that if it could be rejeted here the gentleman who had introduced it in the Hlouse of Commons would
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

Mackenzie,
K.C.M.G.,
Carmichael,
Casgraln
(Windsor), Clemow, Cox, Dandurand, Drummond,
Ferguson, Forget, Hingston, Sir William, Kt.,
Kerr, Louigheed, Mackay (AIma), Mcflonald (Cape
Breton), McCallum, McMillan, McSweeney, Miller,
O'Brien, Perley, Prlmrose, Scott, Shehyn, Villeneuve, Wark, Wood (Westmoreland), Wood
(Hamilton). Yeo.-3O.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
THE COMMITTEE 0F RAILWAYS, TELEGRAPHS AND HARBOURS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved that the following members constitute the Cornmittee on
Rallways, Telegraphs and Harbours :
The Hon. Messrs. Allan, Baird, Baker, Bolduc,
Bowell, Sir Mackenzie, K.C.M.G., Clemow,
Cochrane, Cox, Dlckey, Drummond, Ferguson,
Forget, Jones, Kerr, King. Kirchhoffer, Landry,
Lougheed, Lovltt, Macdonald (Victoria), Mackay
(Alma), MacKeen, McCallum. McDonald (CaoDe
Breton), McKay (Truro). McLaren, MeMillan,
Miller, Milis, Owens, Pelletier, Sir Alphonse,
K.C.M.G., Poirier, Prowse, Scott, Snowball, Sullivan, Tempieman, Vidai, Villeneuve, Wood (Hamiilton).-40.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
PRIVATE BILLS COIMMITTEE.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved that the followîng
members form the Committee on Miscellaneous Private Bille :
The Hon. Messrs. Armand, Baird, Boucherville
de, C.M.G, Carmlchael, Casgrain (de Lanau-

1FEBRUARY 14, 19011

51

THE LIBRARY COMMITTEE.
dière>, Dandurand, Dever, Dobson, Fiset, Gilmor. Gowan, C.M.G., Hingston. Sir William. Kt.,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We now corne back to
Landry, McHugh, MeSweeney, Merner, Mille.
O'Brien, O'Donohoe, Reid, Shehyn, the Llbrary Commlttee.
Montplaisir,
Snowball, Sullivan, Young.-25.
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman from
H3on. Mr. FERGUSON-I wish to cati the Montarville asked a question: ln reply, I
attention of the hion. gentleman fr011
may say, tbat up to 189, the wording of the
Marquette to the fact that the minority ln
this House have a majorlty on that coinmittee.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I observed ln my
opening remarka that the Liberals were put
on the least Important committees.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It ls
one of the moat Important committees of
the House.
Hon. 1fr. 'DÂNDURÂND-I rise to proteat
againat the majorlty being unfairly treated
in the appointments to tliis committee.
The motion agreed to.

report appolnting the Joint Committee on
the Library gave the names of aixteen members 'to asslst the Hon. the Speaker ln the
management of the Library.' Since 1895, the
report lias tncluded the Speaker as one of
the committee.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It seeme
to me that as the Speaker, either of the
Senate or of the House of Commona, la exofficlo chairman of this committee, lt shows
that it la flot necessary for him to, be named.
The old way of putting It was to my mind
better.
The motion was agreed to.

CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved that the Conimittee on Internai Economy and Contingent
Accounts constat of the followlng members :
The Hon. Messrs. Bernier, Bolduc, Bowell, Sir
Mackenzie, K.C.M.G., Caegrain (Windsor), Fluet,
King, Kirchhoffer, Landry, Lougheed, Lovitt,
Macdonald (Victoria), McCallum, McDonald (Cape
Breton). McLaren, Miller, Montplaisir, Owens,
Pelletier, Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Perley, Prowae,
Scott, Vidai, Villeneuve, Watson. Wood (Westmoreland).-25.
The motion waa agreed to on a division.
THE DEBÂTES COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved that the Coinrnittee on Debates and Reporting constat of:
The Hon. Messrs. Bernier, Elle, Fergueon,
Kerr, Landry, Macdonald (.E.I.), MlcCallum,
'Templeman. VidaL.-9.
The motion was agreed to.
RESTAURANT COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Committee on the Restaurant constat of:The Hon. the Speaker. and the Hon. Mesers.
Bolduc, Lougheed, McKay (Truro), McMillan,
Miller, Pelletier, Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G.-7.
The motion waa agreed to.
THE DIVORCE COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved that the Coinmittee on Divorce constst of:
The Hon. Messrs. Baker, Gowan, C.M.G.,
Kerr, Kirchhoffer. Lougheed, Milis, Primrose,
Templeman, Wood (Westmoreland).-9.
The motion wae agreed to on a division.

4j

THE LIBRÂRY 0F PÂRLIÂMENT.
REPORT ADOPTED.
HEon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER moved
the adoption of the report of the Joint
Librarians of Pariament for 1900. He sald:
I hope hon. gentlemen have had time to
examine this report. Many suggestions are
made whlch are Important, but the most
Important ls the one calling attention to the
want of a suitable building. This concerna
the Public Works Department, and there ls
no0 reason why. the report should not be
adopted now.
The motion waa agreed to.
AN ÂDJOURNMENT.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
Hon.
it not be well, before adjourning, If the hon.
Minister of Justice would indicate what
adjournment hie proposes, and that hie s3hould
give a notice of It, because some hon. member might take advantage of the rule a.nd
say that no notice had been given.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I thought of suggesting
an adjournment for a fortnight from next
Tuesday to meet at eight o'clock ln the evening. I do not think the House of Commons
will have made such progresa by that tiine
that we cannot overtake the work.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is it
proposed by the government to Introduce

[SENAIE]
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Then 1 will move that
any important governaient measures in this
It
Uhamber? If so, 1 would suggest the pro- when 'the flouse adjourns this afternoon
theai prlnted so that we do stand adjourned until Wedniesday, the
priet y of haviug
can give theai the consideration which their 6th Marchi, at three p.m.
importance demands. During the last rec#uss
THE LIBIIARY COMMITTEE.
even the Torouto Globe found fault with the
Hon. Mr. DelIOUCHERVILLE-When we
a certain Crow's Nest
Senate for allowlng
fteCmite0
Rallway Bill to pass the Blouse wlthout any aotdterpr
which, of course, as us ual, ISelection, I bad flot before me at the time
consideration,
Voe and Proceedings of the Flouse of
was not correct. But It w-as qulte truoa the ih
wlth reference to w-hich I desire
three-quarters of Como
Bill w-as introduced'about
an hour before the adjournaient. «My hon.omaesermasitefouewH
strongs speechoue
Masfil
fren fro made aom
adea
frind romMarhfild sron spechpermit me. I do not suppose anybody would
agalnst It. I throw out as a suggestion that: like If this flouse should clash w-ith the
there should be some littie regard paid to! fouse of Comnmons in the manner of apthis flouse In preparing legisiation, and that pointing our representatîves on those Joint
the government sbould, as far as pa~ssible, Committees-the Joint Committee, for explace these Bis bef ore us lit order that we I ample, on the Library of Parliament. 1 read
b
may give theai fair consideration Instead of' frmteVtsadPoedns0
galloping through theai as w-e bave been Ilouseo0f Commions, as follows s.ý On motion of Sir Wilfrld Laurier, a select
Messrs. so-and-so, was
MILLS-We think of suggesting1 1 committee, tocoaiposed of Speaker.
Hon. Mr.
assist Mr.
9 appoiated
-.
doing

certain amendments w-flch experience snows
are required in the Election Law. Thiey are
very f ew, and perhaps there w-i be somne
alteration in the compensation to the judges
of the Superior Courts in the diff erent provinces.

It Is true w-e dld flot pass the samne
motion here, because nobody thought of It,
but would it not be better to bave the samne
motion made here? In the Commofis they
acknowledge that the .Speaker Is ex-officlo a
member of that commlttee.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-It Is proper to, say
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
'to assist the Speaker.'
would flot be lntroduced here.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-But we
We
Hou. Mr. MILLS-They mnight be.
passed a resolution appolnting Mr. Speaker
could priat the salaries In brackets.
a member of the commlttee. Until the year
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Would It make any dit- 1894, w-e appointed the committee to asslst
ference if the adjournment w-ere made to Mr. Speaker, but after 1894 It was put la
Wednesday, the slxth. This is an exceedlngly the other form. Could the flouse flot resclnd
stormy winter. In comlng to Ottawa I w-as this motion if hon. gentlemen tbink It worth
seventeen hours la a snowdrlft. Hon, gen- w-hile '
tlemen la the maritimes provinces cannot
reach here In time by leaving borne on Mon-

day.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I left
home on Monday night and did not reach
Ottawa until the follow-lng Friday, though
I w-as travelling contlnuously, etther across

the straît, or by the Intercolonlal Railway,

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
could It not be cha.nged la the report ?
Fon. Mr. MILLS--For the last seven years
H
w-e have been following the present mode,
1although I thlnk the former phraseology w-as
quite proper.

w-ill
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-1
We w-ere flot detalned by a
te, Ottawa.
this w-ay,
snow-storm,.but had a very Inefficlent engine move that the motion be put, ln

to draw the train and w-ere delayed a long 'to assist Mr. Speaker.!

This might be

consent.
time on the road. Wednesday w-ould suit us carried, I suppose, by unanimous
SPEAKER-If I may be allow-ed to
better.The
of
many Quebec, say a word, I think that, since the rules
Hon. Mr. FISET-A great
revised ln 1SS5, a new
w-ere
members could not get here tili Wedaesday. this flouse
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[MAIiCIpractice bas prevailed, and 1 doubt- whetber
It would be wise to, rescind this resolution
without glving tume to look Into the question.
The subjeet was dropped.

53

6, 1901]

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
there any provision ln the rule for extension
for any particular trne ? I must confess
that I have flot iooked at 1t. The motion
before the Senate la for an indellnite Urne.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I think there has neyer
been any Urne specified. It Io a conurtesy
extended to the members. A senator may
flot be here at the opening of the session
and wbenever he cornes there ls an opporThe motion was agreed to.
tunity for hlm to taire the deciaration. I do
flot think there bas been any specific Urne
The Senate adjourned.
ever rnentioned within which it must be
made.
SECOND SITTING.
The motion was agreed to.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
o'clock.
THE QUEBEC LOCAL ELECTION
Routine proceedings.
0F 1900.
The Senate adjourned.

Hou. Mr. MILLS-I move that when this
House adjourna tbis afternoon It do stand
adjourned until Wednesday, the 6th Mardi,
at three o'ciock ln the fternoon.

INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to Inquire of the
governent :
1. Whether, previaus to the Issuing of the

THE SENATE.

writs for the legislative elections held ln the
province of Quebec ln 1890, any correspondence
relating to said elections
The Speaker took the Chair et Three or negotiations the Federal goverument and took
Hia
place between
.0 dlock.
Honour the Lieutenant Governor of the said
province of Quebec, or between any member of
the Federai cabinet and the said Lieutenant
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Governor directly or through any of bis advisers
relatlng to the holding of such elections ?
NEW SENATOR.
2. If so, what was the nature of sncb correspondence or negotiations?
Hanover, Ont.,
Hon. GEO. LÂ.NDEEKIN, of
3. Who were the parties through whorn sucb
correspondence or negotiations were carried on?
was introduced and took bis seat.

Ottawa., «Wedne4dav, Mat-eh 6, 1901.

-CANADA EVIDENCE ÂCT AMENDMENTI Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Is that date, 1890, correct ?
BILL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, It should be 1900.
FIRST READING.
It is a clerical error.
*An

Hon. Mr. MILLS Introduced Bill (A)
Act further to amend the Canada Evidence
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thouglit it was an
Act. 1893.' He said: The Bill is a very error. I made the Inquiry and ascertained
brief one. The objeet is to grant the sanie tint there waa no correspondence wiatever.
Immunities to a witness wbo ls caiied upon
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Nor negotiations 7
to give testimony whicb may Incriminate
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nor negotiations.
hlm in any provincial proceeding, that he
has under the statute o! tie Dominion for
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Wben ln 1892
proceedings taken under tiat authority.
the constitution was violated by the LieutenThe Bill was read the first Urne.
PROPERTY

QUALIFICATIONS
SENATORS.
MOTION.

0F

ant Governor of Quebec, who refused to cali
a session during the tweive montis following
the preceding session, I should like to know
If tiere was any correspondence between the
Federal government and the tben Lieutenant
Governor of Quebec.

Hon. Mr. MILLS moved tiat the time for
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I beg to cail the hon.
filing declarations of property qualifications
gentlemns attention to misrepresentations
by senators be extended.

[SENATE]
Senator Almon belonged to one of the
of fact. He says the constitution was viooldest familles of Halifax, and was of dislated ; that Is nlot so.
tingulshed lineage. His grandfather, on the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Absolutely se.
paternal aide, served as a surgeon ln the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. gentleman British army ln the war of the American
revolution, and came to Halifax after the
knoivs well that it was neot violated.
old colonies had acbleved their IndeHon. Mr. MILLS-He knows that It was.
pendence. where he practlsed bis profession
]Elo. M. LNDR-Andwhe th bo. 1until his deatb. Hia father, the Hon. W.
Minister of Justice one day came here and iAlmon, aise a medical man, was a member
said that the government bad acted upoll of the'old legislatIve councîl of Nova Scotia
no authority to postIpone for a year the meet- before the Introduction of responsible goving of the legislature of the province of Que- erninent. On the maternai side he was conbec, I took the pains to searcli ail the docu- nected witb several New England familles
ments, and 1 brouglit forward tbe opinion of not unknown to history, In the days of the
The deceased senator was
Bourinot who had been consulted previously Iold colonies.
by the Lieutenant-Goverlor on that questin.' born at Halifax over eigbty-five years ago,
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-There wiIl be no0 and during bis long 11f e occupied nearly
opinion that wIll prevail against the written every position of honour, socially, politically
and professionally, that bis native city could
constitution of Canada.
in the city of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The constitution of Ibestow upon hlm. His name
was a synonym for personal InCanada gives to the Crown the riglit to dis- Halifax
true patriotmiss the legisînture at any tIme, and It ls teg-rity, professional eminence,
as geniife
this prerogative, which is not limîted by Ism and public spirit, as well
exercised klndness of heart. In bis professional career
time, that the Lieutenant-Governor
the poor, wbo
on the advice of bis ministers. 1 know a1l le was known as the friend of
case, and I arn not could always command bis services without
the circumstanceS of the
as readily
f
myseif, nor ls lie so ignorant as the hon.. the prospect oIn fee or reward,
the land.
as the richest
gentleman suggests.
The lamented senator was a man of mucli
THE LATE SENATOR ALMON.
ability, and possessed a mind well stored
witb the most InterHon. Mr. MILLER-As there is no further by reading and study
to
I beg to remind esting information. He was mucli given
business on our Minutes.
antiquarian researchi, bad a large fund of
bon. gentlemen that since the occasion of
and was a most entertaining comour last meeting, we have lost one of our anecdote,
panion. In his own province lie bas left no
most respected colleagues, the venerable
with an equal knowledge
senator from Halifax, the late Dr. Almon. one behind him
of its early personal and political hlstory.
This House possessed no more uprigbt and
founder of the Historical Society
honourable member than the lamented sena- He was the
0f Nova Scotia. Hie deatb bas removed one
tor, whose distinguished and creditable
landmarks of the city
career bas been brouglit to a close. Senator of the oldest public
of Halifax, and In fact bis name was a
Almon was a gentleman of the old school, a
the province of
stauncli but not a bitter party man-a man bousebold word tlirougbout
Nova Scotia.
of strong convictions who always had the
Previously to being called to this Chamber,
courage of those convictions, and whose conduct was invariably regulated by a sense of Senator Almon was elected by the constItuduty, and a desire to do what be considered ency of Halifax to the House of Commons,
riglit. He was a warm and sincere friend. where lie sat for a short time. During the
and was beloved and esteemed by ail whio twenty-one years he was a member of the
bad the pleasure of knowing him lntimately, Senate, lie was assiduous Iu tbe discliarge
to wbîcb number I happened to belong. I of bis duties, both in the House and on
believe nothlng could induce liim to lie guilty committees. He was rarely absent from bis
0f a mean or dishonourable action or any- eat, and took a lively interest iu the prothing lie thouglit inconsistent with the strict- ceedings of the Senate, and frequently participated lu its debates. His remarks were
est code of lionour and fair-play.
Hon. Itýt

TANflRY.

1,NARCH 7, 1901]
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
always purgent and to the point, and bis
Indignation was easily aroused by Injustice so fully in accord with every sentiment
or oppression. By temperament he would which bas fallen from the hon, gentleman
sooner espouse the cause of the weak than from Richmond and also from the Minister
that of the strong, and this it was, I believe, of Justie, that it would be unnecesthat made hlm an enthusiastie supporter of sary for me to say one word ln addition.
the Southern States during the great rebel- Whatever the peculiarities of the hon. gentleman were-no matter how strong his conlion
Such a man, sucb a character, such an victions were upon any and ail questions--no
honourable record as the late Dr. Âlrnon's, matter what his likes and dislikes were,
even hie opponents mnuet respect, and his there can be no question ln the mmnd of any
friends, 1 arn sure, will long clierlsh bis one who knew the hon, gentleman, that he
mernory with affection and esteem, while was honest ln his convictions, fearless ln
the expression of them, and one of the kinddeepiy sorrowing for bis bas. (Âpplause.)
est hearted men ln the 13enate. I deeply
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I arn sure tbat this deplore, with the House, the loss whlcb the
House will concur ln everything tbat bas Senate and the country have sustained
been said by the hon. senator froma Richi- through the death of Dr. Almon.
Death
mond. 1 remember, from my ftrst entering has been niaking sad inroads on the nerninto parliament, Dr. Almon. He sat lu the bersbip of this House, but such is the course
House of Commons before he became a muema- of nature to which we muet ail subniit. I
ber of the Senate. 1 have frequently met do not desire to enter into a biographical
hlm ln the library and often had long con- sketch of the -hon. gentleman's lite. ThIat has
He was lntirnately been well done by the hon, gentleman frorn
versations with hlm.
acquainted with the early bistory of his own Richmond. 1 can only re-echo ail that lias
province, and took a special Interest lu every- been said in favour of our late Iainented
thing relating to the varlous familles who colleague. <Applause.)
settled there at an eariy perlod ln its hisThe Senate adjourned.
tory. I arn sure that every hon. inember of
this House, as well as every gentleman wbo
bas corne in contact 'with Dr. Almon, bas
formed a high opinion of his Information,
TE SENATE.
of bis general ability, and of his integrity.
Ottawa, ThurisdaU, March 7, 1901.
I do not suppose that acy hou, gentleman
House, or bas sat lu the House,
sits ln this
The Speaker took the Chair at Three
who had a stronger feeling against what bej o'clock.
thought wrong or unjust thian Dr. Almon.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
He had strong feelings lu favour of bis own
He was a
political views and opinions.
man of very strong convictions, and PACIFIO CABLE CORRESPONDENCE.
although I aud those who belong to the
NOTICE 0F MOTION.
Reforrn party could not agree with many
Mon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL gave
of the opinions which he expressed, politi- notice:.
caily, I arn sure I had never any doubt as
That an humble Address be presented to
to the lionesty of bis convictions, or the His Excellency the Governor General ;praying
sincerity with which he beld those opinions that Hia Exceliency wili cause to be laid icn
tenders
the Senate.
which he advocated, and I arn sure that the Tableforof the laying of copies of ailcable bean eiectric
received
whatever views we may entertain with
regard to those political opinions or views,
no one can doubt this, that one witb the
feelings and sentiments o! Dr. Aimon cannot be other than a7highiy honourable man
who may be snfely trusted witb any Important public duties that the country or
the Crown rnay see proper to commit to
bim. (Applause.)

tween Canada and Australia ; a copy of the
contract entered loto fer the construction and
iaying of said cabie *,together with a copy of
ail correspondence and documents reiating to
the nationalization' of the telegraphics of the
empire, to Include papers not already laid before the House.

He said : My object in putting this notice upon the paper is that iu a few daYs
we shahl have a BIHI from the other House

56

[SENATE]

Dr. Horsey aise. stated that he liad been appraached by Mr. Cook and requested ta uise bis
influence In gettlng Mr. Cook a senatorshlp.
Mr. Cook telegrapbed Mr. Tucker, ID reply ta a
telephone message, the fallowing wards :
'Re yaur question I neyer asked Dr. Harsey
ta assiat me in getting a senatorship. I have
no confidence In the man and knew he liad no
Influence. I was an applicant for a senatorship,
but when It was offered ta me the price was
toa high.
H. H. COOK.,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I ina3' say that we have
nlot copies of the tenders, but only a referLast night at Narth Keppel Dr. Harsey denied
ence to them, glving tue figures and the that Mr. Cook liad neyer named any members
result of a conversation
firms, nor have we a copy of the contract. of the cabinet, and as aMr. Cook'telegraphed Mr.
aver the phone to-day,
I think It bias nlot been sent out.
Tucker In the tallawing words :
'Price demanded tram me for a senatarshlp
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1 was was $10, 000.
H. H. COOK.,
nnder the Impression, in reading the reports of the other House, that the contract, From the Montreal Herald af October 15, 1900.
or the conditions contained in the contract.
The Gazette this marning publishes the foiwere laid upon the Table. That is my re- lowing letter tram Sir Wil!rid Laurier t
collection.
To the Editor a! the Gazette:
Sir,-In the Gazette of this morning there
Han. '.%r. SCOTT-The lion, gentleman
appearg a telegraphlc repart af a meeting held
Mnay be riglit. My bon. colicagne lnforms at Owen Soundi, Ontario, in which the tollowing
me that lie thlnks the Postmaster General statement occurs.
'During Mr. Tucker's address reterence was
lias recelved It. 1 have flot seen It.
made ta the manifesta of Mr. H. H. Caok, and
Hon. Mr. MILLS--I thlnkz lie lias recelved in reply Dr. Harsey claimed that Mr. Cook had
left bis party because he lied been refused a
It and sent It to me fer an opinion.
senatorshlp.
'Mr. Tucker afterwards telephaned Mr. Cook,
and learned tram hlm that the reason he had
INDEPENDENCE 0F SENATE-T-.HE
iett his party was that Sir Wilfrid Laurier and
COOR 'CASE.
other members ot the cabinet, through an agent
who was sent specially ta Taranto ta interview
Mr. Cook, offered Mr. Cook a senatorship. and
MOTION POSTPONED.
stated that, awlng ta bis long and useful career
In the Liberal party, hae wauld recelve It upan
Tlie Order of the Day biIng called,
payment of $10,000.'
By the Honourable Sir Mackenzie Bowell,
Cammenting upon the above, yau say editK.C.M.G..
crlally
' Mr. Cook was an aid. praminent and bardThat he will caîl the attention of the Senate
wais ta get bis seat at a
ta certain telegrams, letters and an affidavit worklng Liberal, and What did the unknawns
$10,000.
whlch appearefi ini a number af newspapers bargain, for was ta get Mr. Caak's $10,000, and
pay ? Who
published ln Canada during the month of Octo- what was ta be doue with it ? These are quesber, 1900, as foliaws :muet answer perSir
From the Montreal Gazette of October 13, 1900. tiens thatHe is Wllfrid Laurier government tbat
the
Owen Sound, Ont-, Octaber 12.-At the openlng scnally. the senatars.head of the
He persanally advised the
ranied
meeting af the Liberal campalgu in North Grey, Gavernar General when senators were appointed.
Dr. E. H. Horsey, the Lîberai candidate, spolce He cannat go ta the country an polling day wltb
at Annan, when he was opposed by Mr. H. G. thîs charge unanswered. andi with the senatarial
Tucker.
unpunished.'
unexposed
During Mr. Tucker's address reference was tafl takernat prepared and admit that a Man ln
ta
1 arn
made to the manifesta af Mr. H. H. Cook, and public lite should be answerable for charges of
In reply Dr. Horsey clalmed that Mr. Cok had thîs character, unless they are supported by
leit his party because he had been refused a seine klnd of evidencýe wbicb wauld give them
senatorshlp..
waive the right
Mr. Tucker afterwards telephoned Mr. Cook colour at tiret sigbt. 1, hawever, and I here and
sncb an accusation,
and iearned from hiru -hat the reason he bad of ignoring the statement for myseif aend cny colnaw make
left his party was that Sir Wilfrid Laurier and leagues, that there is nat a sbadaw cf foundaether members af the cabinet, througb an agent tien la the charge of Mr. Cook ;that I neyer,
wha was sent specially to Toronto ta interview
Mr. Cook, offered Mr. Cook a senatorship. and dîrcctiy or !ndlrectly, thrcugh an agent or otherwIse, made any demand upon hlm for any sum
stated that, owlng to bis long and usefui career cf maney, big or small, ar for anything else.
In the Liberal party, he would receive It upon
Igive the whole charge the niost unqualified
payment of $10.000.
and emphatic denial, and 1 challenge the proof
Mr. Cook refused the position under tbe cir- of' the sarne.
cumstances, anid stated that he would do ail ln
.
bis power ta oust those who were guilty of sucli
'W FRDLUI
Montreal, October 13.
baretaced, acte o! corruption.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.
dealing with the subject, and I think that
the House wouild like to have wliatever
documents relatlng to this subject that May
be lu the possession of the government laid
upon the Table previous to the discussion.
Perliaps Lt would be well to add to the motion ail papers net already laid before the
House.

1,NMARCH 7, 19011

From the Toronto Worlti. October 16, 1900.
In an Interview with a representative of the
World yesterday, Mr. Il. H. Cook said :
II have reati the statement made by Sir Wilfrid Laurier, by way of dental that he or any
agent of his tiemandeti fram me any sum of
money, &c. Sir Wilfrid Laurier ia to apeak In
Toronto to-morrow night, anti I shall wait ta,
ace what lie may have ta say then upan this
subject. In the meantime, I say that the statement already matie by me to Mr. Tucker la
abaolutely truc, andi 1 shall very shortly make
a fuil statement of the whole transaction, or
what woulti have been a transaction, hadl I
consenteti ta be bled. Possibly Sir Wilfrid may
be willing ta rscape responsibil!ty by denying
the agency of the parties. There were two of
them who approached me, but no such pretense
will avait them. The connection of these gentlemen with the mexnbers of the government la
known ta every one, and ha will simply not lie
able ta deceive any one by pretending that they
did not corne ta, me directly fromi the government,
or that the proposition they madie was flot matie
by authority.'
Prom the Mail-Empire of October 31, 1900.
Âffidavit of H. H. Cook In reply ta Sir Wilfrid'a
denial.-Has documents andi witnesses.-Ia
wiiling ta place evidence before a royal commission.
Having madie a atatement ta the effect that I
hati been askcd by a persan acting on behalf
of the presant Dominion cabinet, or certain of
them. ta pay a sum of ten thousanti dollars In
consideration of my heing appointed a member
of the Sonate o! Canada, anti thia having been
,cailed In question, I deem It my tiuty ta make a
plain statement ta the public o! the transaction.
or attempted transaction. I am the more convinced tbat It la my duty ta do this because the
]Prime Mînister, Riglit Honourable Sir Wilfriti
Laurier, lias, I am informeti, madie a statement
which lie evitiently desirea the public ta accept
as a dental. or authoritattv2 contradiction, o!
the aforesaiti statament made by me.
I, therafore, say that the facts In connaction
with this matter ara as follows :
I was a candidate for eiectlan as the representative In the Dominion House of Commons of
the. east riding of the county of Simcoe In the
year 1896, anti in that contait was supported
by Sir Wilfriti Laurier anti other members of
the cabinet as the candidate o! the Libaral
Failing o! election for the east riding
party.
o! Simcoe, I matie application ta be appointeti
ta, a position in the Senate of Canada, theu
vacant. In conneetion with this application 1
haed Interviews with members of the cabinet
anti othars. anti wrote anti receiveti letters from
them, the~ originals or copies of whicb I have
kept.
After these negotiations hati proceetierl for a
,considerabie length of time I receiveti a teiegram
from Ottawa, from one of the ieatiing Reform
members known ta possees the confidence of
the Laurier goveroment, requesting me ta meet
I did
him at the Union stati'.n in Toronto.
meet him as raquesteti. and lie then showed me
a lett'er whicli hati been written to hlm hy ona
ef the members o! the cabinet (for the purpose,
as he saiti. o! bcing shawn ta me), In whici lie
was authorizeti ta in!orm me tbat I coulti have
the position 1 hati appîleti for, provideti I woulti
' do something.' I thereupon asked him what

this expression was Intentiet ta mean, anti what
was the ' something' I was asked or expected
ta I'do.'
He tIen Informeti me that I woulti le requireti
or expecteti to pay a smn af ten thausanti dollars.
I tolti him very empliatically tbat I woulti not
pay that or any other smn. He thereupon saiti
that he woulti fot; aocept my answer as final,
but woulti ses me again after 1 ahoulti have hail
tUme ta give the matter furtber consideration.
Later I again met him In Toronto, when he
again tolti me that he was authorized ta say
positively that If I woulti pay the sum lie hati
formerly namnet, that la, tan thousanti dollars,
I would be appainteti a senator. I again refuseti
to pay any suma o! money.
I further aay that 1 bave lu my possession a
large number of lattera written hy mambers of
the goverfiment anti persans acting on behaîf
of one or more of such members, anti copies of
some lettons, the originals of whidh I was requesteti ta return aftar perusal, anti iti return;
also copies of -letters writtan by me In reply
ta, lattera no receiveti, anti that these letters
and copias o! lattera bear corroborative avidence
in support o! the statement aboya matie by me.
Anti I further say anti promise that ahoulti an
Investigation lie matie by a competent and Impartial non-partisan commission iote the whole
matter of Uic sale or attempteti sale o!
aenatorships, as it lias heen recently intimateti
by the Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell may ha matie,
I will appear before such commission anti give
evitience, anti produce the correspontience snti
copies of correspondance whidli 1 bave in my
possession, anti will aiso furnish the namea of
witneaaes who can corrohorate my statements.
Dominion of Canada,
Province o! Ontario,
County o! 'York
I. Herman Henry Cook, of the city of
Toronto, In Uic county of Yank, lumber marchant,
Do aolemnly tieclare that aht the foregoing
statamenta are truc In substance anti In tact.
Anti I makte this solemu deciaration conacientiously baliaving.it to lie true anti knowIng that
Il is of the sonme force anti effect as If mnade
untier oatb anti by virtue of 'The Canada E vitience Act, 1S9V.
H. H. COOK.
Declareti before me' at the city
of Toronto, In the county of
Yank. this IOth day of Octaber, A.D. 1900.
H. Gordon,
Notary Public, Ontario.
Seal.
From. the Toronto Globe of October 31, 1900.
Sir Wilfridi Laurier's reply ta the !tatemnent O!
Mr. Cook.
Montreal, Oct. 3.-* lu answer to Mr. H. H.
Cook's last statement. I neiterate my tiental,
alreatiy publisheti. I neyer autliorized anybotiy,
aither dtrectly or Intiirectly ta Interview Mr.
Cook on behaîf of the gaverriment. Nobody biad
my authority. either written or verbal tram me
ta appnoach hlm. and I characterize the wbole
accusation as a fouI slander.
WILFRID LAURIER.'

iSE-NAT E'
And nove the foilowiflg resolution, seconded IHon. Mr. !%cCALLUM-N-We will set.
by Han. Mr. Landry, That in view of the gravitY
£Ion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I ireof the statements and aliegatians contained In
the foregoing quoted telegrams, letters anld ferred to what was charged as frauds. and
affidavit, reflecting as they do upon the priviwas conceruleges and dlgnlty- af the Senate, a Special Com- as far as the characterization
mittee be appolnted to inquire into the truth ed, 1 have no hesitation ln saying that they
of the statements and ailegations made In said %verefrauds.
telegrains. letters and affidavit , wlth power ta
The motion was allowed to stand.
%end for persoa and papors, ta administer oaths,
employ shorthand reporters, and, If deemed
The Senate adjourned.
advisabie, engage counsel ;and ta report tram
time to time. said cammlttee to consist of the
Han. Messrs. Baker, Pelletier, Ferguson, EXis.
Landry, Cor, Klrchhoffer, King, Lougheed,
Young, Wood af Westmoreiand., and the nover.

THE SENTATE.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I have
been requested by the bon. Miriisteir of JusOttawa, Friday, Marchl 8, 1901.
t!ce ta delay this motion tili Tuesday nexi
for same reasons which the bon. gentleman
The Speaker took the Chair at Three
has. I shouid 11k-e to have a day set for it. o'clock.
because I want ta get il off my bauds.
Hon.Mr.MILS-Ihav

ben vry

Prayers and routine proceeding-s.

AT
ACCO'MMODATION
HARBOUR
sir-ce 1 returned to the city, and have nol
PICTOU.
bad an apportunity of iooking Into, the iaw
an the subject. 1 have a pretty strong view
NOTICE 0F INQUIRY.
az ta what that lau' la. i sbouid 11k-e. howHan. Mr. ]?RIMROSE gave the faiiowiU g
ever, to look Into it before my hon. frieud
makes his motion, and If lie lixes it for notice :
That he wlll inquire whether it is the inten
Tuesday, with certainty of going on nt tbat
tino. that will be quite satisfactory t0 me. tion of the Goverument ta, provide, at an earl
date, for much needed terminal facilities in Ih
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-At the shape af an eniarged statibn house, additioni
as well as Increase
request of the hion. 'Minister of Justice i yard, and freight shed roon,
whairfs, fo
at the
wiU .lla
ths noiceto sand ~ Wuldberth accommodationunloadingrallway at the Po~
cargi
wuldvessels lcadlng and
otie t stnd.1
willallw
tis
hlm that if lie wants to take a of Pictou, Nova Scotia ?
suggest ta
lie said : This, at first blush, seems ta b r
lîttie trouble and ascertalu what the iaw
th15 subjeet. lie should a pretty extensive proposition, but on close
of parlament Is upon
t
refer ta the action of the House 0f Commons examination it wili flot be found s0 formî
ta the able after ail. Pictou is a sea port towl
ane or twa sessions ago, lu reference
emergeicy food case, and also with refer- Some memnbers of this hon. House are pe
ence ta the aiieged frauds In East Elgin haba not aware of that fact, but it is r
and West Huron. and pcrhaps a little more sea port town of very considerable impor
Information mniglt lie obtained If we re- ance. It Is very f avourably situated, s
ferred to the charge whicli the late Speaker far as trade is concerned, as a distribuln
ai the House of Commnons madle againsi centre, receivîng large amounts af wate
myseif. charg-inz me withl somne dereliction borne freiglit by steamers and vesseis an
ai duty, In wbich the lau' of parliament Is aiso receiving a large amount of freigi 't
by rail to be carried. by sea ta dîff ere'
pretty weli laid down.
There is a very larg
n pretty clear parts af the world.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have
Edw'ar
recoliection of ail tboqe ficts and circum- tirade caried an between Prince
friend op- Island and Pictou, especiaily Iu the sprin
stances. aud I daresay my ban.
Navigation last yeý'r
posIte will refer to thon at tbe proper aud and fail of the year.
le
1 shall le closed earlier than for years previously. TI
ccnvonieut time, sud If lie does
to and fr0: m
prepared, 1 tiiink. t0 give a satisfactory an- result wvas that all the traffle
[y
swer, and 1 do flot think tbat the character- Prince Edward Island was carried by waai
iaz'tion whi<.h the lion gentleman lias lusi of Pictou. and, owing to the lack of termin
etc.. it was
now given ln some of theso matters w.ili lie facilities, yard-room, shed-room,
ver.v bard to move the freiglit, the delay
warranted by the f acts.
Hon. Sir MACKENVZTE

IOWELL.

[MARCH 8, 1901]
under the same old arrangements, withamounting lu most cases to frorn two, to
The
additional facilities to speak of.
tbree weeks. Gentlemen engaged iii activ~e ont
was station-bouse is a perfect disgrace to any
business will know how detrimental It
even to a village lni a country place,
to trade to bave sucb a deiay. There are town,
who can not to speak of a town sa Important as
several hon. gentlemen bere to-day
Pictou, the terminus of the Intercolonial
confirm what 1 say as to the absolute neces1 have Raiiway at that point, as I bave a.lready
slty for Improvement ln the direction
yard-room needs to be very
lndlcated. At the time of the congestion of mentioned. The
Island last faîl. much enlarged and lmproved, also the
trade from Prince Edward
sheds. The stationthe block of frelght was so great that on wharfs and freiglit
and ln sidings any- bouse la entireiy lnadequate ln every
ail sides of the station
requirements.
where within reach there was a large accu- particular for tbe present
very railroad which canneets. At the wharf the bertb accommodamula,tlan, the
an too small a scale,
the Capper Crown Iron Company wltb the tion Is altogether
loss to
proper was filled up with laaded causlng mucb detention and
rallroad
vessels trading to the port, and it la
freiglit cars dawn to the works. The sheds
captains
were overburdened-filled to the full, nat- %vlthlnmy personal knowledge that
of vessels, who bave been subjected to these
wlthstanding the capacity whielb tbey had.
aisabllties, bave warned otber captains not
So great was the congestion af trade that
account to accept chiarters to load
the superintendent of the easterul division on any
at Picton. Tliat condition sbould not exlst
liad ta corne persoually from New Glasgow
in tbls modern day, and if we wan't to enand superintend the worl, birnself, to see if
trade we should give every facilit could xiot be disentangled. Tbey worked courage
ity to those engaged ln it. 1 trust, after
every day of the week, including Sunday,
mornlng, 11001 and niglit. aind still it was the remarks I bave made, that the Minister
Secretary of State will
some time before the congestion was re- of Justice and the
leived.
I may mention a circumstance, be able so to brlng this to the notice of
which accurred wltbln my own personal their colleagues, as that a speedy remedy
knowledge, whicb will lllustrate the dlfficulty may be applied.
Of the situation. I met at the station a friend CANADA EVIDENCE ACT AMENDMENT
wbo was engaged in lobster packing. ne
BILL.
had a suppiy of cans on a car, which lie
SECOND READING.
was assured by the Officiai at the station,
had corne ta band, but tbey couid flot tel]
Hon. Mr. -.
NILLS maved the second readwhere it was, aithougli they examuined from in7g of Bill (A» 'An Act furtber ta anend
one end of tbe track to the other, and he the Canada Evidence Act, 1893.' He sald
f
ttdbîfyteajc themese
began to suspect tInt the contents o! b
car bad been sent to Prince Edward Island. when i lntroduced It. In 1898 we amended
After a considerable time the car was dis- tbe Canada Evidence Act, which was an
covered, but the loss of timue and detention jAct of 1893, by providlng as follows :
was a very great detriment and harmn ta
No witness shall be excused from answerlng
httease
pntegon
hlm, as lu fthe Interval bis biands wereayqeto
hm owr
the
standing idle. During the last two years tanscl question mayn gnd t riat
civil
liabllity to
the traffie bas increased rapidly, and hiasimay tend ta establish bis of the Crawna or of
I proceedlng at the instance
been bandled witb sligbt change by tbe iany persan; provided, however, that If wlth reaid facilities whîcb have been tbere for spect to any question the witness objects to
ow
and hicbareot o!dateandanswer upon the ground that bis answer may
years, an
heiaenwoto
aeadtend
ta criminate him or may tend to
entirely iniadequate. I liad the banour of establish bis llablhity ta a civil praceedor of any
being chairmaja of the Railway Camm1ttee lng at the instance of the Crown the wItness
persan. and If but for this section
of tbe town at tbe tiine the road was wouid therefore have been excused fram answerbrouglit inta Pictou, and I asserted tIen lng such question, then, although the wltness
be compelled ta answer, yet the answer
no ony
tba te
thatnotonl satin-buseitslfbutshall
th sttionboue isel, bt 1sa given shall nat'be used or deceivable ln evithe yard-rooni, was wholly inadequate 'dence against bit" ln auly crirminal trial or other
for tbe trade as it existed at that day. criminal praceeding against him thereafter takplace other than a
n
olue
The o!trad isnowcarred O :nggiving sucb evidence. prosecution for perjury
in
is ow arrid
olum
Tbe oftrae

L.SEN ATEIl
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Perbaps this notice would flot cover the papers
referred to by the hon. Secretary of State.
It says 'ail contracts.' I understood the
Secretary of State to say there were no contracts, but that there was a paper relatlng
to the contracts. If I arn permltted to add
the words 'ail contracts or documents relatlng thereto,' It wIll cover the ground.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. The paper I was
referring to was an agreement wlth the
Eastern Extension Company, and a copy of
that bas been brought down. Ail papers
can get control of
So that by the amendment wbich 1 pro- connected wlth It that we
same immunity and protection will wlll be produced.
pose, the
The motion was agreed to.
be given to a witness in respect to any matNow, that is an exemption from prosecu-

tlon for any testimony that a witness is
compelled to give under a statute of Canada.
By the Bill now before the House, I propose
to add a second subsection to this section 5,
In the words of the Bill:
2. The proviso to subsection 1 o! this section
shall in like msnner apply to the answer of a
wltness to any question whieh pursuant to an
enactment of the legisiature o! a province such
wltness Is compelled to answer after having
objected sO to do upon any ground mentioned
An the saAd subsactioai, and whlch, but for that
enactmnent, he would upon such ground have been
exdused froîn answering.

ter arlslng under a provincial statute, that

lie now bas under a statute o! the Domn- SALARIES
Ion. This seeuis to me a reasonable proposition. It bas been suggested to us that
such an amendment should be made.

The motion was ngreed to, and the Bill
wNas rend the second tîme.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawra, Monda y, March 11, 1901.

0F JUDGES IN
COLUMBIA.

BRITISH

INQUIRY.
Hon. '-%r. MACDONALD , (B.C.) lnquired:
If the hon. Minister of Justice bas consldered
the propriety of placlng the pulané judges of
British Columbia in the same position as the
judges of Ontario and Quebec wlth regard to
salaries and travelling allowances-and whether
the minister As favourably lnclined to the substance of tne resolutions passed iast August by
the legisiature of British Columbia on this subjeet; and, If so, is It the intention to take action
in this matter during the present session of
parliament?
He sald :I suppose the Minister of Justice

bas seen the memorl, or petition, from the

Three legilsiature of British Columbia to the Governor General In Council about the salaries
of Judges In British Columbia, whlch furPrayers and routine proceedlngs.
nishes the reason for asklng for an Increase
on account of the work thrown on the
PACIFIC CÂBLE.
THE
judges. Tbey have to consider a great many
MOTION.
heavy cases on account of mlnlng disputes
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved: and settiement of dlaims, and they think
That an humble Address be presented to His they ouglit to be placed on the same footExcellency the Governor General, praylng that ing as Judges In Ontario and Quebec, who
His Excellency will cause te be laid on the occupy corresponding positions, and do simiTable o! the Senate copies o! ail tenders received for the laying of an electric cable between lar work.
Canada and Australia; a copy of the -contract
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have consldered the
entered into for the construction and laylng o!
said cable; together with a copy of ail corre- subject cf the salaries of judges of the
spondence and documents relating te the na1
tionalization o! the tèlegraphies of the empire, Superior Courts In ai the provinces.
to include papers ,,ot already laid before the have prepared a Bill, and submitted It to
House.
It
my colleagues for their consideration.
He said : I explained, when I gave notice is before them, and I cannot say what
of this motion, the object I had in view In action they will take.
moviug for this return.
Ilon. 'Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.-C.)-NOtling
lias yet been decided in the inatter ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbere is no objection
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-No.
to it.
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

The Speaker
o dlock.

tool, the

Chair at

[MARCH 11, 1901]
CANADA EVIDENCE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whoie on Bill (à) 'An Act further to aniend the Canada Evidence Act,
1893.'
(In the Committee.)

minion statutes is a good one, and la the
rIght direction, whlch I thîak le the case,
then thîs further extension is also la the
rlght direction. Ia fact, I cannot understand wby, unleas it was a mere overslght;
or lnadvertency, the iaw was not appled in
the first Instance to provincial as well as Dominion statutes. It Is simply to correct that
oversight that the present Bill le Introduced.
As the hon. minister ays, eveir under the
provincial statutes, the provincial goverament would not have the power to regulate
the penal offences la any way whatever.
Therefore, it ls necess*ary for this parîlament
whlch.bas the power to deal wlth crimînal
offences to legislate as the Bill aow contemplates. I think the Bill le not open to any
objection whatever.

Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It bas
been suggested by a lawyer to me that thîs
is a matter whlch cornes wlthln the jurisdiction of the provinces.
However, as a
laynian 1 differ from hlm on that question.
We have to deal with matters whicb partaire to any extent of a criminal character,
and this would be of that character.
If
the person refused to give evidence, be
might be prosecuted, or if he dld gîve the
Mon. Mr. SNOWBÀLL, from the commitevidence be would be subject to a prosecu- tee, reported the Bill without amendaient.
tion If be brought himself within tbe crimiThe Bill was then read the third time and
nal law.
passed.
Hon. MNr. MILLS-So far as actions under
the autbority of tbis government are conAPPOINTMENTS TO THE SENATE.
cerned, we have already made the iaw ns
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Before the House adwe propose to make It la this section.
Wbere -the party is compelled to, testlfy la jouras, as we do not appear to have very
a way that would, apart from any specal mucb business on hand to-day, there la a
legisiation, lacriminate hlm, and subject him matter of some Importance, not only to the
to a criminal prosecutIon, he ls exempt from goverament but to the wbole country, that
suob prosecution, except It mlght be for per- I wisb to bring before the notice of the govjury, upon any false statement that he m-igbt; eranmeat, and I thlnk -that Ibis la a flttlng
make.
The local goverament have no tîme. I propose to refer to the appointmeat
authority to exempt the party from criminal of farmers to tbe position of Senators la
prosecutlon, because the criminel jurlsdlc- the Dominion of Canada. I notice, la refertion ls wlth us, If a party ls called upon to ring to the original liat of senators, that
give testimony under the local law. They when we went into con! edera.tion there were
desire to make their law In this respect the over twenty farmers la a Senate of seventysme as that of the Dominion, la order to tw o members, so that the agricultural class
protect the party f rom criminal prosecution was then fairly well represented la the apfor the testimony which be is compeiled to pointaients to the Senate; but I find ince
give under the local law.
That requires that time that tbe percentage bas been
legislation on our part, and that le precisely gradually dwindlIng down, tîlI now there are
what we are dolng here. We gîve to hlm, offly five or six menibers who can make any
wbere he la compelled to testify, under the dlaim or preteasion to belng farmiers. The
local statute, the same protection that he agricultural lndustry o! Canada Is, no doubt,
has now under the Dominion statute. It the greateat industry o! the country, and
being a crimInal matter the jurlsdiction le should bave a reasonable and fair representation on the floor o! this Chamber. I noexclusIvely wlth us.
tice that the present government, durIng
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I thiak the Minister their tenure o! office at this time, bave only
of Justice has made the matter so plain that been pleased to appoint one fariner to the
It ls hardiy aecessary to gay allother word In position o! senator. That gentleman la from
regard to it. If the amendment of the law Prince Edward Island, and be is a very
la the firet Instance la reference to the Do- creditable and worthy representative. But

1SE-NATE]
1 do nlot tbink lie was appointed on bis agri- Nova Scotia Is net represented by any farrncultural qualifications, because lie is a gentleman largelly engaged ln other business besides agriculture, and I find to-day there are
only two se-nators on the floor of this Chamnber that can prupe-rly claim to be farmers.
There are only two wbo have reglstered
themselves as fariners. The rest of tbern
are Iargely gentleman farmers. They own
farms. One hon, gentleman bas his as a
toy ; atili lie is a very good farmer. I find
la the great province of Ontario, the banner province, perhýaps, ln Canada, at le-ast the
great agiicultural province of Canada, the-re
ls on±ly one farmer la this Chamber. Surely
the agricultural interests of Ontario are entitled to a greater proportion of repre-sentatien than one ln twe-nty-four. While there
ls only one senator frorn Ontario who can
dlaim to be a farmer, thiere are six or se-yen
lawyers, somie doctors and se-veral business
men. I have no fault to find wlth any hon.
member of the Se-nate, but 1 rise to eall attention to the injustice done to the great agricultural class of Canada la the matter of
appolntrnents to this Chiamber. The late
Mackenzie goveranment, I tblnk, appointed
two farmers. This gove-rnment bas appolnted
but one. I arn not fanding fault wlth any
one goverame-at miore than another. The
Conservative party did net trent the agricultural class as tbey should be treated.
The represeatatives of the agricultural class
la this Senate are creditable me-n and show
that there are, in the agricultural cmurnaty
0f Canada, men competent to fil1 the position,
and I hope that when the governmenît makes
the ne-lt appointinent to this Senate there
wmIll be found a farmer la the Re-forrn party
of sufficlent Intelligence and abllity to be appolated. The two farmers from Que-bec are
e-minent men In the agricultural line, both
have magnificent farrns, but ue of them
says hie keeps It as a play-thing, and I tbIak
two farne 'ra froin that gre-at province of
Que-bec are hardly sufficient to re-pre-seat
the agriculturnil interests of the province.
Then we corne to Nova Scotia. FrDnm that
great province 'there are no farinera at ail.
It ls true that province is well and cre-ditably represented la the Se-nate, and I daresay If any of those gentlemen should hâve
'their se-at vacated other me-n In the sarnie
line of business could le founid lit to fil the
position. But the gre-at agrlcultural lntereat of
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

e-r, snd ce-rtainly there are large agricultural inte-rests there. I know that a Tory
would net get it, but I arn satisfied that
arnong -the fariners of Nova Scotia, there Is
rnany a Lîbe-ral compe-tent and able to MI1
the position, 'and àt Is due te the farmers of Nova Scotia that sorne of their
aumber should be appointed to the Seate. It Is a position la the giift of the
goveranent ; and I hope that when the ne-xt
appointuient le made-and there la a vacancy
now-they will give It to a fariner. We
corne next to the province of Ne-w Brunswick. There is no real fariner be-re frorn
that province. There Is one gentleman who
makes eome prete-nalons to being a fariner,
but lie does not register hlrnself as a farrne-r, thougi lie Is largely lnterested la farrnmng. ~I
thlnk Ne-w Brunswick sbould have a
representative ln the Senate frorn the farinlng comrnunity. It ls quite true we dld have
one re-cently. He was jobbed ln the Senate
and jubbcd out of it, andi while 1 have nu
fauit to fiad with the gentleman who 'took
bis place, It ls nelther fair aur riglit to the
agrîcultural jute-resta of New Brunswick that
tbey ehould net bave one repre-sentative la
this Cliamber. The Hon. Mr. Burpee was a
competent man la every respect and a large
fariner, and was a repre-seatative fariner la
thîs Chamber.
I arn sorry that the gove-rrnent could not
find It la kee-plng wlth tbeir de-sire to retain a farmer ln the Senate, altbougb I
have no fauît to find withi the gentleman
who succeeded him-perhaps there Is no
gentleman froin Ne-w Brunswick that I
would rather see la the Senate.
We corne
to the province of Prince Edward Island.
Two of the four repre-seatatives are farrners. They are competent me-a, but Prince
Edward Island, is an agricultural province
-agriculture la the greatest lndustry ot the
province, and aithougli I cannot complain
siace hli of the repre-sentatIves are fariners, stili I thlak the agrîcultural. lnterest
should have a larger re-pre-se-atation.
We
corne now to the province of Manitoba. No
one wull question that Manitoba Is a great
agrîcultural province. Agriculture Is the
great lndustry of that province, and yet we
have no farmer from that province la tbe
Se-nate. The agrIcultural lnte-rests uf Manitoba are not properly looL-ed atter, since no

63

LM1ARCH 11, 1901]
farmers are appointed. In the North-west
Territories, we are equally repreaented-the
legal Interest and the agrIcuitural Intereat.
No doubt 'whlen the census is taken, it wifl be
found the North-west Territorlea ahould have
anather aenator, and 1 hope when one is
British
appoInted he will be a farmner.
Columbia Io the next province. There are
no farinera froin that province. It la true
it la a great mlnlng and farmlng province.
Stili there la a large area of It devoted to
agriculture, and 1 think when an appointment is made froin that province a fariner
should get ItL A farmner should have been
appointed lait Urne, but a newapaper man
was appointed inatead. No doubt the
newspaper intereat la a large one, but the
agricultural intereat la greater. We atarted
wlth twenty-twa farinera In tbe Senate,
when only baif the provinces were In the
confederation. We have now only five or
six. It is bardly fair to the agricultural
Interests of the country that thla should be
the case. It la but reaîonable and fair tbat
If farinera can be found who are intelligent
enough In the Reforin party, they abould be
aPpointed. I do not agree with the idea
that defeated men ahould not be appointed
to the Senate. I think Juat as good men
are defeated as those who are elected, and
Reformera bave been defeated In Ontario
who are mast ai fairiy entitled to be appointI
ed ai thoae who have been appointed.
have brought thia matter to the notice of
the governinent, becauae I do not heaitate
to iay that while there are fifteen or aixteen
lawyers and only four or live farinera In
thia Senate, the distribution of ieats la flot
fair, aa repreaenting the great Interests of
the country. I bring thii matter to the
notice of the governinent In the hope that
In future they wili do Juatice to the great
At Vie
agricultural induatry of Canada.
next electlon it niay be a campaign cr
.againat the party In power that they ap-pointed no farinera. I hope there will ha
no ground for that
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-I do flot know who my
*hon. frlend ineana ai being the only fariner
froni Ontario. If rny bon. friand meanHon. Mr. PERLEY-I inean the hon.
Senator froin Monck. (Mr. McCalium.)
Hon. Mr. MILLS--I think we recently ap*pointed an hon, gentleman froni Victoria
- who la a fariner.

HIon. Mr. PERLEY-No, he la not.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Much ai 1 respect the
observation -and atateinent of my hon.
friend on a question of that sort, 1 would
raVier takre the word of Mny hon. friend
who liai recantly been appointed, and he
affirma Viat he la a fariner. I do flot knaw
what niy hon. friand opposite meana by a
fariner; but I lam to be a fariner mysalf.
I do a good deal of farxnlng. Most af Vie
proparty whlch I poaiesi la in farin lands,
and I exercIse a certain auparintandence
over farrning oparationa, and s'o far ai iny
knawladge of practIcal farniing la concerned, I 'wIlU nat take a back aaat to my hon.
friand opposite. Farinera, I think, are content ta accept me ai a reprasentative of
thair dlais, and I hope I ar n ot doing thein
any diacredIt In thia Houîe ai thair rapresentativa.
There are niany other gentlemen, beside the partiea he bai namad, who
are carrying on farming operationa, and I
thinli they have-as their property la iargely
In real eatate-ai mucli Intereat In Vie succeai a! farniing operationa ai Vioîa who
are engagad In Viat business and nothing
aise. My hon. friand inay do, as he aaya,
a good service to nme by bringing Vis inatter forward, but I neyer aupposed that It
waa necesaary to undertaka ta give apecIfic
repraientation ta a particular ciaaa of Vie
connnunIty,

and ta dI"lda the coinmunity up

Into classes and sections In order Viat repreaentation niay be had. The agriculturlats
of Vis country have not acted on that
ground, and aur legislation la not baaed on
the Vieory which Vie hon, gentleman hai
put forward. In the electioni in a conitituency,Vie inechanica and the profeasionai mien,
Vie inercanitila clasaea and Vie agriculturiats
ail vote together, and vote for the îame
candidates. They neyer have called on parlianient ta separate aociety up into distinct
classes, and ta give ta aach dlais Vie prIvilege of voting for representativea of their
own classanmd no other. If the viewa of iny
bon. friend were acted an, and carried out,
that would be the systein that we would ha
obiigad to adopt.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-That la done in ail
oVier respecta except ta Vie agriculturIata
-the lawyers, the doctors and manufacturera are ail repraiented.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-They are flot representad specially ai a dlais. I waa flot appointed

SENATE]

a member of tbis House because 1. was a
member of the bar. My lion. friend wlio
sIts opposite me (Sir Mackenzie Bowell) was
nlot appointed to this flouse because lie
was the proprietor and editor of a newspaper. 1 do flot thlnk any hion, gentleman
lias a t3eat la this House because lie belongs to a particular calling or prof ession.
He undertakes, as a member of the House,
to brlng the knowledge lie possesses of
public affaira to the solution of Important
questions that are submltted for consideration la this House. There are mnen of every
calllng and clasa la the community la parliament, and pariament ls made more perfect by reason of that than It would be If
there was any one Important ciass whlly
consldered. We have found very great advantage often la having men engaged la
mercantile pursuits, lu carryig on trade
wltli foreigia countries, sitting lu one flouse
or the other. They briag to the solution
of Important public questions a practical
acquaintance wilh affaira, that enables us
to avold mistakes and leg-Islate wltli greater
Intelligence than we otberwlse could. I do
flot thinki that there ls any agricultural luterest tbat lias ever suffered la titis parliament because It was sald tbat the agricultural classes are flot aufficientiy represented la this flouse. There la no lion, gentleman here that would undertake to adopt
a pollcy that lie thouglit would antagonise
the most numerous and powerful clasa of
the people of thia country. The moat numerOua body of the communlty la always pretty
certain to bie treated wltli great consideration and respect. No one wislies to place
bimmseif la antagonism to, sucli, and so I
say my hon. frlend miglit have brought the
subject lie dld under the attention of thîs
flouse If lie couid have sliown that any
great agricultural intereat liad suffered by
reason of the constitution of the flouse.
That xny bon. friend lias flot attempted, and
so I sny tliat hie lias brouglit forward a
question bere, the discussion of whicli, can
The agribe of no possible advantage.
classes of thia community-tlie peo-cultural
ple of Canada will aiways be adequately
represented botl inl this flouse. and ln tlie
flouse of Commons. Ia fact tbeir numbers
ln tlie flouse of Commons are necessarily
very great. Tliey form a vast majorîty of
the people of titis country, and so it may
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

be aecessary, and 1 suppose, lias iin sonie
cases been found necessary, to gh-e to certain industries of the country a represeatation la the Second Cliamber because tliey
were not adequately represented, on account
of tbe pauclty of tlieir aumbers, ln the
So, taking the .two
flouse of Commons.
flouses together, we endeavour to make it
an emlaeatly fair representation of the
thouglits, opinions and feelings of the entire commualty. That la the great object
of our system of parliamentary government
That, I thlnk, bas been
to accompliali.
falrly weii accompliahed, both by ourselves
and by those who preceded us, la this matter, and I do not thlak that by auy discussion we can engage ln here, while we
appeal to real or fancled prejudices, we can
iake the two flouses of pariameut iii titis
respect more satlafactory tian they are at
Élie present time.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn plensed to
Iind that the position of farinera with regard to representatlon ln this flouse is itot
quite as bad as I was given to understand
It was some time ago, from an article whlcli
1 read la a Toronto paper, wrltten by a
%vell-kaown wrlter ln Canada, and a very
lively crltic of this flouie, who signa bims~elf 'Bystander.'
He condemned the appointments to this flouse on the ground
that the farmIng communlty, which represents a vast majorlty of the people, a large
proportion of the wealth of the country, and
wltlcl supplies more exporta than ail tlie
üthier Industries put together, waa flot properly represented. Hie states that tliere was
only one solitary farmer la the Upper
Cliamber of tbe parlament of Canada. I
could not Imagine who lie meant, unless It
was thie hon, gentleman who lias brouglit
I was
thia subject before the flouse.
coasclous of being a fariner myseif, but I
had not said a great deal about It, and I
thouglit my bon. friend (Mr. Perley), from
talking a good deal on the aubject, liad
cauglit tlie eye of ' Bystander,' and that lie
was tlie only farmer Ia thîs flouse besîde
myseif. flowever. I find there are five or
six. 1 cannot agree witli tlie leader of tlie
flouse wben lie takes the view tliat the
n.gricultural lnterests are well iooked after
i n this flouse-tliat tlie Interests of tlie
farmer are as well cared for by professional
mn as tliey wouid lie by farmers tliem-

[MARCII 11, 1901]

6

exact number of farmers ln this House, but
he Is net far astray, and I take this position,
that a larger proportion shouid be selected
frein the f armulng class to fsp seaits ln this
House than are being selected. I say the
It
saine of the practice of both parties.
inay be asked, why are flot a larger
proportion of farmers selected as candidates for the House of Commons?
The proportion is larger there than la
this House, but stili not as large as
the number of farmers 'would entitie tiiemf
te. The reason, 1 daresay, wliy farmers are
net as largely appoluted to this House as
tliey ought to be, is that tliey have net got
the pull. A fariner whlo followms his business
has not a ledger, lias not clients. He may
have the brains and education and training
to fit hlm for parliament, but he has no
clients, no .patienits. He lias net a ledger at
his disposal, and the consequences is, lie is
nlot often regarded by tlie politicai. managers
as the man who will poil the mnost votes.
There le a greater freedorn ef action with
regard to the appointinent of members to
tlie Senate of Canada, but I arn afraid tlie
reason why farmers are nlot mere largely
appointed to thâ~s House is to be found in
the reason why a larger number are not
candidates for thie lower House-they have
not got the pull. The man wlio has the
largeat arnount of Influence froin poitical
life and services and professional services
catches the eye of the leader of the governrnent more readily than the man who,
Cincinnatus-like, is quietly working at the
plougli-wliose only Influence Is for good
among lmt neiglibours, and has no pretensiens beyond that. 1 think my lion. friend
bas done well to bring this subject up ; I
arn not pushing It iln an aggressive way. 1
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-And the profession admit that superlor training, on the whoie,
of medicine.
0f the professions for political 11f e, but 1
know that among the ranlis of the farmers
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The profession of -1 speali especialiy of Ontario--whom I
medicine wlll always furnish mený of 'wide have met in agricultural gatlierings and
Intelligence and close mympathy with every know their ability and training, and iwhen
industry ln the country. 1 ar n ft ait ail
only a couple of farmers represent that great
jealous of those who belong to the profesprovince ln this House, 1 say It Is not riglit,
sions. I know their value. I knew the valu- because ln tliat; province they have an abunable training that the etudy 0f those pro- dant; supply of men well qualified for seats
fessions gives a man, and the use- ln the Senate.
fulness of such a man to the counHon. Mr. McHUGH-The great fam.ng
try when he has received that trainMy hon. friend froin Wolesley (Mr. community nmust be indebted to the hon.
ing.
Perley) may not be qulte right about the gentleman who has brouglit this subject

selves. 1 have no doubt my hon, frlend
thlnks s0, but the farmers of Canada as a
dlams wIll nlot aitogether agree witli hlm. I
have myseif observed that when questions
relatlng to farrnlng corne Up ln this House,
smre lawyers ln the Senate dlaim to know.
more -about farrning that I do. Nevertheless, as a fariner, I arn lnclined to belleve
that farmers as a dlams eau furnlsh mien to
the parliament of the country wbo understand questions reiating to that great Industry better even than members of the
legal profession, or other professions that
furnisli such a large proportion of the
members of the Senate. I notice tliat my
hon. frieiUd the leader of the House has
rather clianged bis own position on this
question. It Is withln my recollection that
when lie fllled a different position before
the country, when he was a critie of tlie
House, and not Its leader-lie tooli the very
ground that 'Bystander' did, and my hon.
friend frorn Wolseley takes, and that was,
that representatives of the great agricultural interestm of the country should be
appointed to this House, and net defeated
candidates and broken-down politicians,
and people of that kind. That was the vlew
lie held away bacli when he was the crltic
of this House. Now he thInks dIfI arn qulte free to admit that
ferently.
there is a certain arnount of Information that Is esmentiai and necessary ln
legisiation that gentlemen of morne of the
iearned prof essions possess, especially of
the legal profession, ln a greater degree than
the farmers of the country. The study of
law, Is a. very Important step in the matter
of rnaking laws and deallng with legisiation In every respect.

[SENATE]

e6

As a question bas arisen here whichi Institution. But wben be said these thlngs
la sornewhat personal, I think 1 will be probably there was sorne aggravation. That
permitted to make a stmternent. I ciass ny- is the time he was publishing the 'Liberal'
self as a farmmr, I bave neyer had any other newspaper, be and Mr. Blake. Mr. George
biusiness. Any littie propeity qualification Brown, with tbe Globe, crushed out the ' L1b-1 have for this Chamber ls out of my fanm- eral,' and said that when Mr. Milis, now Minl.and, as I have no other property except Ister of Justice, and leader of this Chamber,
agnIcultural land. 1 thlnk I can fairly be made bis speech be had a fit of midsummrer
oalled a farmer. 1 was classed as such, I rnadness wben he spoke about the Senate.
tbink, ln the Parliaxnentary Companlofi, But 1 arn glad to see every member that
whien 1 was a member of thbe House of Corn- cornes bere, and wlll shake bis hand and
meons, and I tbink I will be classed as such welcorne bum. That ls wbere I stand, benow. Whien I ran rny eleetion 1 ran it as a cause 1 feel satisfled that no government
farmer. Sorne lands I have rented, and of this country, no matter on what aide of
sorne 1 îrn worklng rnyself, and 1 ar n ot politica they are, wHll brlng rnen to this
engaged In auy other business than that of Senate wbo are nlot men of intelligence
farming. Tha.t Is not, however, the basis and above the commron. I could scarcely
to entitie a mian to a seat ln this House. belleve that I beard correctly wben I beard
I ar n ft golng to find f'ault with the goverfl- the M.Ninister of Justice, the bistorian, telling
ment for selecting menibers froni any class us tbat be was a fanmer. He neyer exif It pected to corne beire when he made those
of tihe cornrunity for this Senate.
carne to rny notice that the governert Te- remrnaks about the Senate. That is a reason
1
fused to appoint a mian to this House, or why we should not say things we do not
to any other position ln the governnnent, be- want to hear afterwards, because chickens
cause he was a fanmer, I would stand up corne borne to noost, and. I say now, and I
and condenin an action of that kfind. Let say it froni tbe bottoni of rny beart, that
men be appolnted to those positions on their 1 arn glad to see the new Senatons, no miatmerits and not on account of the clnes to ter who cornes bere, wbether they be
whicb 'they belong, and 1 thlnk no person lawyens or doctors. Tbey are aIl rny friends,
will have any cause of complaInt If that no niatter what their politics are. I arn a
1 Just arose to make friend of eveny man, and no mnan's enerny.
course is followed.
this explanation. Tbe senior rnerber froni
The Senate adjourned.
Victoria, I think, wlll bear me out that i
have always 'been engaged In farrnlng in
THE SENATE.
our country, and have nlot been enga-ged ln
up.

auy tberoccuatio.

Hon. Mn. McCALLUMU-I arn here as a
fanmer. 1 arn perfectly wllling that the
governent of the country sbould select
whoeven they choose, or whoever tbey tbink
la qualified for the position. I shall be glad
to meet theni ai-meet thern on an equal
'footing. But, at the sanie tirne, I tbink nîy
hon. frlend froin Wolseley (Mr. Perley) la
rather hard on the Miniater of Justice, because he mnust know, If be bas read bis
former speeches in neference to tbis institution, that this Is no place for farniens.

1Ottawa,

Tuesday, Mardi 12, 1901.

The Speaker took the Chair at Thnee
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
INDEPENDENCE 0F THE SENATETHE COOK CASE.

MOTIO*N.
Hon. Sir MMEQKENZIE !BOWELL rose, in
accordance witlh a notice be bad given, to
cali the attention of the Senate to certain
telegrarna, letters and an affidavit which appeared ln a nurnber of newspapers publisbed
hear.
Hon. '.nI. SULLIVAN-Hear,
un Canada during the rnonth of October,
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-It la an asyluni for 1900. as follows :
broken-down politicians, and I arn sunprlsed (Froni the Montreal Gazette of the l3th Octoat rny hou. friend, the Minister of Jusber. 1900.)
bonest fanmer.
tice, if be be a good
Owen Sound, Ont., Oct. 12.-At the openlng
corning here and acceptlng a position lu this mneeting of the Liberai carnpalgn in North Grey,
Hon. Mr. McIHUGH.

[MARC-H 12, 1901]

67

Dr. E. H. Horsey, the Lîberal candidate, spoke Governor General when senators were appointeti.
at Annan, when he was opposed by Mr. H. G. He cannot go ta the country on polling day with
Tucker.
this charge unanswered, andi wlth the senatorial
During Mr. Tucker's atidress, reference was tolltaker unexposed andi Umpunished.'
made to the manifesta of Mr. Hl. H. Cook, andi
I am n ft
prepareti ta admit that a man
ln reply Dr. Horsey claimeti that Mr. Cook hati publie lite should be answerable for charges ln
of
lef t his party because he hall been refuseti a thia character. uflless they are supported by
Meatr. ukr
fewadieepoe
M.00
some kinfi of evidence wbich. woulti give
Mr. uckr
aterard telphoed
r. ookcolour at first sight. I, however, waive the thern
andi learneti frorn him that the reaison he hall of ignoring such an accusation, and I hereright
and
left hlm party was tlîat Sir Wilfrid Laurier and nov make the staternent for myseif anti my colother members of the cabinet, through an agent, lMagues, that there ls nlot a shadow of fountiawha vas sent specially ta Toronto ta Interview tien la the charge of Mr. Cook; that I neyer,
Mr. Cook, offereti Mr. Cook a senatorship, and tiirectly or Indirectly, through an agent or otherstateti that, owing ta his long and useful career wise, matie any tiemanti upon hIma for any smm
ln the Liberal party, he would receive It upoU of noney, big or amaîl. or for anything cIme.
payxnent of $10,000.
1 give the whole charge the most unqualilleti
Mr. Cook refuseti the position untier the cir- anti emphatic denial, anti I challenge the proof
cumatances. and stateti that he woulti do nil o h
ae
ln his pawer ta oust those who were gilty of 0fteWILFRID
LAURIER.
such barefaceti acts of corruption.
Montreal, October 13.
Dr. Hars-ey aisa stated that he hati been approacheti by Mr. (look anti requested ta use his
(rmteTrnoWmlOtbr1,10.
Influence ln getting Mr. Cook a senatormhip.
(ro
thTrntWrl.ctbr1,90)
Mr. Cook telegrapheti Mr. Tucker, ln reply ta a
lu an Interview with a representatîve of the
telephone message, the following words :Worlti yesterday, Mr. H. H. Cook saiti:
'Re your question, I neyer asked Dr. Horsey
' I have rend the statement matie by Sir Wilta assist me ln getting a senatarship.
I have frid Laurier by way of denial that ho or any
na confidence ln the man. andi knew he hati no agent of bis demandcd from me any sume o!
Influence. I was an applicant for a senatorship, maney, &c.
Sir Wilfridi is ta speak ln Toronto
but when it was offered ta me the price was to-morrav night, and I shalh wait ta sce what
too high.
H.H
0K'
be may have ta say thea upon this mubject. In
H. H.
OOK.,
the meantime, I say that the statement already
Last aight at North Keppel Dr. Horsey tienieti made by me ta Mr. Tucker la absolutely true,
eve naed ay mmber ofand I shall very shortly make a full statement of
thatMr.Cookbai
aebe
ol
rwa
the cabinet. and as a result o! a conversation tewoetascin
overthephoe
t-da, M. Cak elerapetia transaction. hadl I consented to be bled. Pasvr tucer
'pon tfollowin rdsoktlerpe
M
sibly Sir Wilfrid rnay be willing ta escape the
Mr. uckeolloingword :-responsibility
lnthe
by denylng the agency of the par«Price tiomnted fram me for a menatorship. ties. There were two of them who approacheti
was. $10,000.
H..00K'
me. but no such pretense viii avail them. The
IILCOK.,
.
cannection o! these gentlemen vith the menbers of the goverament la known ta every one,
(Prom the Montreal Heralti of the l6th Octo- andi he will simply not be able ta deceive any
ber. 1900.)
one by pretentiing that they tiid not corne ta mie
The Gazette tbîs morning publishes the fol- directly trcm the governmcnt, or that the pro1wn
.é+f-...
04.
mXil. CA - .... 1.
position they matie was net matie biy authority.'
To the Editor of the Gazette :
Sir,-In the Gazette of thm morning there appears a telcgraphic report of a meeting hcld at
Owen Sound, Ontario, in which the fallowing
statement occurs :
*Durlng Mr. Tucker's adtiress reference was
made ta the manifesta of Mr. H. H. Cook, anti
In reply Dr. Horsey claimeti that Mr. Cook had
lef t him party because he hadl been refumeti a
senatorship.
Mr. Tueker afterwards telephancti Mr. C ok,
anti learned tram hlm that the reason he %ad
lett his party was that Sir Wilfriti Laurier anti
ether members of the cabinet, through an agent
who vas sent specially ta Toronto tÔ Interview
Mr. Cook, offered Mr. Cook a senatorshlp, anti
stated that, owing ta his long anti useful carcer
tui the Liberal party, he waulti receive It upon
payment of $10,000.
Commenting upon the above, yau say etiltorlalIy _
' Mr. Cook vas an aId, prominent and hartiworking Liberal, anti was ta get hlm seat at a
bargnin. for $10,000.
What titi the unkno*ins
pay? Who was ta get Mr. Cook's $10,000. and
what vas ta be donc with tt? Tbcsc arc questions that Sir Wllfrid Laurier must answcr personally.
He le the heati of the gaverament that
namnct the senators. He persanally adviscd the

(Prom. thc Mail-Empire of Slst October, 1900.)
Affidavit of H. H. 0ook la reply ta Sir Wiltrii'm
Dcnial.-Has documezits anti vitnesses.
-la williog ta place evidence
before a royal commission.
Having matie a statement ta the effect that I
had been asketi by a persan acting an behalf
of tbe mcmbcrs of the present Dominion cabinet,
or certain o! thcm, ta pay a auma of $10,000 la
consitieration of my being appointeti a member
o! the Senate of Canada, anti this having been
called inl question, I tieem It my tiuty te make
a plain statemcnt ta the public of the transaction or attempteti transaction. 1 arn the more
conviaceti that it la my duty ta do this. because
the Prime Minister, Rlght Bon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, bas, I arn Intormeti, madie a statement which
he evidently desires the public ta accept as a
denial, or authoritative contradiction, of the
afaresalid statement matie by me.
1, therefore, say that the tacts tn connection
vlth this matter are as follows :
I vas a candidate for electIan as the representative la the Domninion Hause of Co)mmons
af the east ritiing of the caunty of SMces In
the year 1396, and ln that cantest vas supported
by Sir WllfrlId Laurier and other members o!
tecbntas the candidate of the Liberal party.
Faiin eectonfor the east ridlng af Simcee
oe

[SENATE]

I made application to be appolnted to a position
in the Senate of Canada. then vcant.
In connection with this application 1 had interviews
with members of the cabinet and others, and
wrote andi received letters from them, the ornginais or copies o! 'which I have kept.
After these negotiations had proceeded for
a considerabie length of time I received a telegram from Ottawa, from one of the ieading
Reform members, known to, possess the confidence of the Laurier government. requesting me
to meet hlm at the Union station ln Toronto.
1 did meet hlmi as requested, and he then showed me a letter whlch had heen written to hlm
by one of the members of the cabinet (for the
purpose, as lie said, of being shown to me), in
which he was authorized to inform me that I
could have the position 1 had applied for, proI thereupon
vlded 1 wouid 'do something.'
asked hlm what this expression was Intended
to mean, and what was the 'somethlng ' 1 was
asked or expected to ' do.'
He then informed me tliat I would be required or expected to pay a suin o! $10,000.
1 told him very emphaticaliy that 1 would not
Hfe thereupon said
psy that or nny other sum.
that he would not accept my answer as final,
atter I should have had
but would see me again
tirne to give the matter further consideration.
Later 1 again met binm ln Toronto, when he
agaîn told me that he was authorlzed to say
positively that If 1 would pay the sum lie had
!ormerly nsxned, that Io, $10.000, 1 would lie appointed a senator. I again refused to pay any
sum ot money.
I further say that 1 have In my possession
a large number cf letters wrltten by members
o! the goveroment and persons acting on behalf
of one or more sucli members, and copies o!
some letters, the originals o! which I was requested to returu after perusal, and did returu:
also copies of letters wnitten by me lu repiy
to letters so received. and that these letters
and copies o! letters hear corroborative evidence la support o! the statement above made
by me.
And I !urtbcr say and promise that should an
Investigation be made by a competent and Impartial non-partisan commission Into the whole
matter of the sale or attempted sale of senatoralips, as It lias been recently lntimated by the
Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell may be made, I wIll
appear before such commission and give evidence, and produce the correspondence and copies
of correspondence which 1 have in my possession, and will also furnieli the names o! witnesses who can corroborate my statements.

(Prom the Toronto Globe of Octoher 31, 1900.)
Sir Wilfrid Laurler's Reply to-the Statement of
Mr. Cook.
Montreal, Oct. 31-*In answer to Mr. H. H.
Cook's last statement. I relterate my denlal,
already published. I neyer autliorized anyhody,
either directly or Indirectiy, to Interview Mr.
Nobody
Cook on behaif o! the government.
hadl my authority, eitlier written or verbal, from
me to approach hlm, and 1 cliaracterîze the whole
accusation as a foui siander.

'W'ILFRID LAURIER.»
And move the followlng resolution, seconded
hy Hon. Mr. Landry, that lu view o! the gravlty
o! the statements and allegations contalned lu
thie foregoing quoted telegrams, letters and affidavit, reflecting as they do upon thie privileges
and dignlty o! the Senate, a speclal committee
lie appointed to Inquire Into the truth o! the
statements and allegations made lu sald telegrams, letters and affidavit, with power to send
for persons and papers, to administer oaths,
employ shorthand reporters, and, If deemed advisable, engage counsel; and to report !romn
time to time. saifi càmmittee to consist o!
the Hoa. Messrs. Baker, Sir Alphonse Pelletier,
Ferguson, Ellis, Landry, Cox, Kirchhoffer, King,
Lougheed, Young, Wood of Westmoreland, and
the mover.

He sald : In rising to make this motion, I
duiy appreciate its importance, being as it is
of a character affectlng the honour, the
privileges and the dig-nlty of this House. I
therefore shall confine niyself principally to
a recital of the facts as they have been laid
before the public, without cornrentiug uponl
the accuracy elther of the gentleman wbo
makes the charges, or the premier who
denies them. I shall, however, endeavour to
show that lu the course 1 arn pursuing 1 arn

following the precedent of the House of
Commons. I am flot awflre that we have had.
any case similar or analgous to the one
which I arn now bringing under the notice
of hon. gentlemen present. Lt will be remembered that during the last contest lu the
county 0f Grey, one of the candidates reterred to a manifesto which had been issued

Dominion o! Canada,
by Mr. Hiram Henry Cook, explining why
Province of Ontario,
County o! York.
le was at the time opposlng the present
I, Herman Henry Cook, o! the city of Toronto, governmellt. It was stated on the part of
ln the county o! York, lumber merchant,
Do solemnly declare that ail the foregoing the ministerial candidate at that time, tliat
statements are true In substance and lu fact.
Mr. Cook's opposition to the government and
And 1 make this solemn deciaration conscientiousiv, believing It to lie true and knowing bis manifesto was the result of a refusai
Iliat lt is of tlie same force and effeot as If made on the part of tle government to appoint
under oath and by virtue of the Canada Evihlm to a seat in the Senate of Canada. Mr.
dence Act, 1893.
Tuoker, who was the Conservatlve candiH. H. COOK.
Declared before me at the city o! Toronto, lu date, at once wired to Mr. Cook, who resided
the counity o! York, thîs SOtli day of Octo- ln Toronto, asking hlm If lis stateifent that
ber, A.D 1900.
a seat iu the Senate lad been offered 10 hlm

H. GORDON,

Notary Public, Ontario.
rSeal.]
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

for a conslderation
Oook's reply was

was
that

correct ?
it was

Mr.
true,

[MAROH 12, 1901]
that he had been off ered a seat in the Ihere were two of them who approached me,
pretense will avail them.
Senate for a certain consideration. That but no auch these gentlemen with the The conmembers
noction. of
was repeated at another public meeting' cf the governinent is known to every one, and
deceive
flot
hie
held in that riding, and again denied by Mr. iby will simply that bie able to flot corneany one
to me
they did
pretendlng
Horsey, the Liberal candidate. Mr. Tucker 1directly tram the government, or that the prothey made was flot made by authority.
again 'phoned Mr. Cook, In Toronto, asking position
him to gîte the particulars of the offer
Sir Wilfrid Laurier dId address a very
which had been*made to hlm. M1r. CoolC's large audience'in the Massey Hall the folreply was 'The price demanded from me lowing day, but he did not reter to any of
ws$10,000.' That having been publisbed thre statements which had been made by
in the different newspapers of thre Dominion. Mr. Ceok, In his speech on thiLt occasion.
the premier, Sir Wilfrid Laurier, thouglt'~That being the case, on the 31st of October
o! sufficient importance to warrant hlm In of the ame year, Mr. Cook published ini
departing frem the course usually pursuedteTontpprsattmet!wath
by public men. of flot paying any attention Itermis the tacts ini connection wlth the case.
te newspaper attacks or attacks by politl - 1 s hitll net read the whole o! tbat affidavit,
clans during au eleetion contest, and I fuUly but give the enlient points, which refer
concur ini the introductory remarks of the !more particularly te, the question now betore
letter he published when lie stated thiat t the Senate. He says that he was a candiwas net the habit of public men te notice date for parliamentary honours In 189(j ini
attacks e! that character. He added, how- the nortb riding e! -thecounty of Slmcee; tha-t
ever, that lie deemned this one of sufficient at that tim'e lie was the candidate of the
importance to warrant hl
ndprigLiberal party ; that he received the suptroni tbat course and then eaid:
-port of Sir Wilfrld Laurier and the party
1, however. waive the right of Ignoring sucli geuerally ;that lie failed ln that election,
an accusation, and I here and now marethe
statement for mnyseif and My colleagues, that and then hie made application fer the vacant
thtre [P not a shadow eftfoundatian In the charge seat lu the Senate, basing his dlaim upon
of Mr. Cook; that 1 never, directly or IndirectW,
througb an agent or otberwise, made any demand upz:n him for any aura of money, big or
smail, or fDr anythlng else.
I gîve the whole charge the most unquallied
and emphaiic dental, and 1 challenge the proaf
of the same.
That, signed by Sir Wilfrid Laurier, was
publiehed in the Montreal Herald on OcteThis dental living
ber 15tb ef last year.
been publlsled aise in the Toronto papers,
the Werld sent one et its reporters to Interview Mr. Cook, and ask hlm whether he
had seen the dental et Mr. Laurier, and
The
what he had te, say In reply thereto.
Interview was publehed Ini the Toronte
World on the l6th of Octeber, the day after
the publication et Sir Wilfrid Laurier's letter In the Montreal Herald. Mr. Coek sald,
In answer te, the question et the interviewer.
I have read the statement made by Sir Wilfrid
Laurier, by way of dental that ho or any agent
of is demanded fram me any sum. of money. &c.
Sir Wilfrid Laurier Is te speak In 'Tarante temorrow night, and I shahl watt ta me what hoe
may have ta say then upon this subjeot. in the
meantime, 1 say that the statement ahready made
by me to Mr. Tucker lu absolutely true, and I
shaîl very shortly make a full statement of the
whole transaction, or what would bave been a
transaction, liad I conuented te hoebled. Passily Sir Wilfrid may hoe willing ta escape respansibility by denying the agency o! the parties.

hi

party fideiity for many years, In tact

during bis whole lfe. That, hewever, he
as
a
eedhmxcpuonteers
ywsdnedhmectupnteers
He then adds
of a payment ef $10,000.
those werde--and I desire the Heuse te, underehand that: I propose readlng !rom that
whlh is tantamouut te an affidavlt, a solmande before a nlotary
ernu declaration
public ini the province et Ontario, whlcl,
under the provisions ef the law, la equal
te. a swern affidavit and rendering hlm
hiable for any mlestatement, In the same
manner as If he liad committed perjur-y
uuder any ether circumstances. Hie eavs :
Atter these negotiations (that le negotiations
for a seat In the Senate) had proceeded a for a
toleconsiderable length of time I received
gram fram Ottawa, from one of the leading
reform members known to possese the confidence of the Laurier goverciment, requesting me
ta meet him. at the Union station la Toronto. 1
did meet him as requested, and hie then shawed
me a letter which had been wrltten ta hlm by
one of the members of the Cabinet (for the purpose, hie said, of belng shown ta me), In which
he was authorized ta infarm me that I could
have the position I hadl applied for, providefi I
would. 'do something.' I thereupon asked hlm
what this expression was Intended to mean, and
what was the 'something' I was asked or expected ta 'do.'
He thea Intormed me that I would be required
or expected ta paY a sum of ten thousand dollars.

70

[SEZATE]

II

have gone through the charges and the
I told hlm very emphatically that I would flot
pay that or any other sum. lie thereupon said deia.1d
nteml
lhrpuet
ee
tete
rdn
that hie would flot accept my answer as finaldna.Iddfo
but would see me again after I shouid have had or fair to place upon the records of the
Urne ta give the matter further consideratlon.
Senate the accusation of Mr. Cook as to the
Later I again met him. ln Toronto, when hae
again toid me that hae was authorlzed to sa attempt to extract from him $10,000 for a
positlvely thLat If I wouid pay the sum hie had seat ln this House, without at the same timie
forrneriy nained, that ta, ten thousand dollars,
upon record the declaration made
1 would be appointed a Senator. I again reIby the premier as ta its truth or falsehoad.
fused to pay any sum of maney.
I further say that 1 have In my possession a Ithink it is due, flot aniy to the premier,
large number of letters wrltten by members of
the government and persans acting on behaif of hut ta this House, and I think it ta due
one or more of such members, and copies of ta posterity, that both staternents should be
nme lettera. the originals of whlch I w as requested to return after perusal, and did return ;placed on record. Lt wiil be for Mr. Cook,
also copias of letters written by me ln repiy te 'if this committee is appointed, to prove the
letters no receivad. and that these iatters and stt
ments which hie made ln that declaracopies of latters bear corraborative evidence ln st
tian.
Lt may also be true that the statesupport of the statement aboya made by me.
And I further say and promise that r;hould an ments made by the premier are corinvestigation hae made by a campatent and Impartial non-partisan commission into the whole rect. He may neyer -have, either by hlmself
mattar of the sale or attemptefi sale af senatar- or through others, instructed any one to
u
hl
htmyb
hsofr
ships, as it hafi been recentiy intimated by the Imk
btwiethtmyb
fe
hi
aHou. Sir Mackenzie Bowell may ba made, 1 wlll
appear before sucb commission and gîve evi- true, it does flot foilow that Mr. Cook's statedance. and produce the correspondence and ments may flot be equafly true, that he
copies oif correspondance whlch I hava in my passas sion. and will aiso furnish the namnes of wît- was approached by somebody representing
lilmself as acting on the authority of the
nasses wbo cau corroborate my %tatements.
To this statement he makes the followlng goverament.
These are questions, hawever,
to be shown when the evidence 18 taken
declaration :
jbefore the comrnittee, If such a committee
Dominion of Canada,
Province of Ontario,
be appointed.
Now, who ts It that makes
County of Yorkt.
Mr. Cook iS
serions charge ?
I, Herman Henry Cook, of the city o! Toronto, this very
k-nown ta have beeu, during the time that
county of York, lumber marchant,
Do solernnly daclare that ail the foragoing I have had any knowledge of the poiitics
statements ara true in substance and ln fact. .'-n
l-ti sfc c
eyln
eyin
And I malte this solemn deciaration cunscien- of tlis countryadtc
tiausly beliaving It ta hae true and knowtng that time-a member of the Lîberal party, a
It la of the saine force and affect as If mada under oath and by virtua of ' The Canada Evidance trusted member, a respected member, a
member in wbom the Liberai pary had
Act, 1893.»
HI. H. COOK.
placed the most unbounded confidence. The
Daclared befora me at the clty of Toronto, In tha
county of 'York, this 8Oth day of Octaber, A.D. farnlly ta which he belongsi, and from which
1900.
hie sprang, is of precisely the sarne cliaracH. GORDON,
His eidest brother, Wm. Cook, repreter.
Notary Public, Ontario.
sented a number of years ago the county
That declaration having been made lni public
in the aid parliarnent of Canada
on the 3lst day of October, six days before of Dundas,
His brother, Simon
before confederation.
the election, the premier considered It of
a younger brother, represented the
sufficient importance ta write another let- Cook,
Dundas for a number of years
ter denying the truth of Mr. Oook's deciara- county of
in the province of
and his latter was published la the in the local legisiature
'Lion,
Mr. Cook
Ontario, atter confederation.
Toronto Globe of the Slst of October, the
was considered flot only 0f great imsame day, or the day after, the appearance
portance, but the party had sufficient cani0f the declaration ta which I have called
the attention of the Senate. The premier dence ln Simon Cook ta appoint him ta one
of the most Important offices ln the couuity
writes as foilows:
of Dundas. He was, untîl he dled, registrar
Montreal, Oct 31.-Lu answar to Mr. H. H.
Mr. H. H.L Cook, the genCook's last statemant, I relterata my dental, of that county.
already pubiished, I neyer authorlzad anybody, tleman who has made these charges, repreeither directly or indlractly to Interv7iew Mr.
Cook on behaîf of the government. 'Nobody liait sented the county of Simcoe for a number
my autborlty, eithar writtan or verbal from ,me of years, defeatlng upon one or two occato approach hlm, and I characterize the whola
sions the late Dalton MýcCartby for the
accusation as a fouI slandar.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

IPlacing

[MARCH 1ý,, 1901]

7

Hlouse of Commons, and hie was then the graph ln the Globe, ln a nutsheil.
Mr.
trusted member of the party. Be bad their Cook made a serious charge agailet meconfidence ln every particular. Certain con- ione ln hlgb authorlty, or the crime bail
cessions were made to hirn when the Mac- been represented to hlm as having been
kenzie goverilment of 18-18 left power. It authorlzed by some onie ln hlgb authorlty,
Io flot necessary that I should refer to, tbese and If that be true, then, ln tbe language of
particular concessions, but they were made the Globe, that person has commltted a
to that gentleman, and by the party to flagrant abuse of hls trust. If it be flot
which lie belonged and whlch bie had served true, then Mr. Cook should bear the confor so mauy years. This Is the character demnation of the wbole country for haflng
0f Mr. Cook and the position wblch hie hias made an accusation of this klnd without
held lu the cornrnunity lu the province Of belng able to mustain it. That Is tbe poolOntario. The press bas been very urgent'tion I take upon this point, and whlch 1
for smre time past ln pressing upon 31r. tbink tbe people of tbe country -wlllJuâtlfy.
Cook not only the propriety but tbe absolute It may be said, and bas been said by the
niecesty of provlng lml statements, to put goverument organ ln this clty, that Sir WIl]ilrself lu sucb a position as to enable those' frld Laurier having denled the charge, the
whorn he bas cbarged with what I consider matter should drop.
That would lmply
a very serious political crime, to anmwer bis that Mr. Cook had cornritted perjury ln bis
charge. I have quite a number of extracts declaration. As I bave already stated, both
from the different Liberal papers in On- parties rnay have been perfectly correct.
tario, and also lu Quebec. 1 shali not weary, The premier xnay have- been correct lu biis
the Bouse by reading them. I shall, how- denlal ; he ruy flot have given authority
ever, rend one extract from the Torontu; to others or expressed a desire to others,
Globe whicbh is supposed at Ieast to speak, elther directly or lndlrectiy, that Mr. Cook
and does, 1 believe, speak, the éseutinents should be approached; and Mr. Cook may
of the goverunent upon matters o! this be equally correct lu saylng that some percharacter.
I may add that it le very sel- sou approached hlm and told hlm bie could
dom 1 rend an editorial lu the Globe, to recelve a sest provlded hie would pay the
whicbi 1 give iy full concurrence and ap- amount of rnoney hie bas mentloned. I have
proval, but lu this case 1 thînk tbey bave gone as carefully and as joucclnctly as I
taken the correct course. The Globe lu a could over the charges. I need scarcely sny
short editorial sme Urne ago said:
that it ls of sufficieut Importance for this
It mnuet not be torgotten that Mr. H. H. Cook Hlouse to investigate and ascertain where
owes an Important duty to the people of this the tru-th lies. It Is a refle<Îtion, not only
country. Juat before the elections he publicly upou the Bouse, but upon the public men
made a charge that he had been azked by a certain person acting for a minister of the. CrowXI o! this country, and wben we consider for
to pay $10.000 for a position lu the Senate of a moment the expressions wbicb have been
Canada, and he declared that he was ready to
prove his charge. It ls hardly necessary to O use
by men lu bigb positions ln refereuce
tliat it la a charge of a mont sericus character. to the character of this Second Chamber, It
If it ls sustained, sme persans ln high positions Is time that we should, ln our own defence,
have been guilty of flagrant abuse of their trust.
If It la not sustaiued, Mr. Cook le the gullty wlpe ont, If we can, any stain of that charparty. He caunot afford ta leave the matter ln~ acter. I was forcily impressed wlth the
doubt. Hlm charge was made just before tbe
elections. when It was caloulated to prejudice remark made by one of the members of the
the public mind against the goverument, and local leglslature lu the province of Ontario,
wheu Investigation was Impossible. The only 'Wbhbd
I
letdt
etl I
a laely be
enlctdoasa
way lu which he cau prove that his abject was
ta diecover the truth and do a public duty, andi one o! the Waterloos, ln 'whlch, lu calllng
not merely to Injure the government, la to fur- attention to this ohmarge o! Mr. Cook, hie
nlsh the country wlth proof of the truth of hie
charges. The. country ls waltlng ta hear fram used this expression
him.I
There are a number of other extracts o!
a similar character, smre of thern ridicullng
hlm for the charges whicb hie bas made,
but I shall neither refer to nor read them.
The whole case is piaced, ln that para-,

arn lu faveur of an elective upper House lu
order ta do away wlth the trafficklug of seats In
the Senate..
If seats lu this Bouse are to be purcbased
like beasts of the field, I wvll join that gentiernan at once lu sayiug that the system

[SENATE]
notice upon the paper, that he would
should be reformed, and that the people this
take objection to, the course which I have
should have the selection of sen«Ltors lu
beiiýg strictly in accord with
*order to prevent public men, or any one, pursued aé flot
parliamentary precedents and parliamenspeculatlug In seats In this House. lt 18
I shall be pleased to hear
a point that I thini, of sufficient im- tary practice.
what he bas tg say on that subject. I may
portance for every maxn In the Sexiste
mention that 1 have studled this question
to, take home to hurnsetf, and ask
a littie, and he will find. or he bas found
Limself If It Ir, fot derogatory to, the
one or
whicb he holds, now, no doubt, that in reference to
,dignity of the position
two cases Iu which the individuai character
and a direct violation of the privileges of
and political reputation of a member of the
this House, for any one, whether lie be .9
Lower House was at stake, the grave charges
xninister or one acting on their behaif, or whicli they made upon information whvIich
representing
oue acting on bis own behaif,
liad been given to them, aud as members
hîiseif to be acting for the miuister, to go
to another of the House of Conimons, that they hefroni one part of the country
Jîeved that if the coînmittee were giveîi to
when a vacaacy occurs off ering a seat lu
consider- them that they could prove the statemients.
the Senate for a certain monetary
ation. 1 scarcely believe that there is a
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear. hear.
single man, eitber in tlîis House or in the
country, who will not agree witli the posi- 1 Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
ion that I have taken upon thisquestion. thouglit I knewv the position the hon. gentieThese are the facts that 1 propose the com- rnanewns taing, and the hon. Secretary of
mittee shall luvestigate. Lt is for the coin- State emphasîzes It by saylng 'hear, bear.'
mittee to say, after investigation, whether IWby dld be who made the charge do that li
the statements made by Mr. Cook bave been Simply because he had no possible evidence
substantiated. Mr. Cool, says ' Glve me to îay before the House of Cominons. esR1e
h
ttmnsl
eti
a commnittee and I will prove It.' lie makes la ae
papers, and from Information received froni
that assertion upon a statement that 1 made
in a public speech iu the county of Prince Parties who thought that I had been the
Edward, in which, referring to this matter, gulty party, aud lie professed to believe
I sald very much lu the language used by the statement-that is the late Speaker
the premier, that it was of such a grave of the House of Commons be.leved the
character that I tbought, lu justice to this statements wiceh had been made with reirst that 1 had a sonHouse, the Senators s'hould, when the House ference to myseif.
1 do. flot know that it was bis
again met, ask for a committee to investi- in-îaw.
gate tbe charges, and lie quotes the lan- business if I lad. Second tbat I w-ns in
That was not true,
guage, almost the words that I used upon business with hlm.
that occasion. 1 did flot say that 1 would either directly or iadirectly. Thirdly, tlîat
was dabbling lu the North-west lands,
move for an investigation, but I said 1I
thought-which I repeat agaiu-4hat the usiag my position as a Minister of the Crowu,charg-e was of a sufficiently grave dharac- lu order to profit thereby. H1e had nothing
ter to justlfy an Investigation lusto the to base that charge on except information
Sir Wilfrid Laurier denies which lie lad received froni certain parties,
whole matter.
the charge on bis behaif, as I have already but lie thouglit be could strike a political
That wlll go before the committee, blow at anl opponent on these grounds. That
said.
and it will be for Mr. Cook to substantiate iras in 1886. Then, followed another prebis declaration, and If lie bas these doeu- cedent of a somnewliat similar cliaracter,
ments, which he declares are lu his pos- in which the saine gentleman made a similar
session, they will be laid before the coin- charge against the Postmaster General (Sir
mittee. If he has amy corroborativie evi- Adolphe Caron), lu 1892. 11e stated ini ihat
dence, let it be laid before the commit- declaration that, as a member of the House
tee, aud it will be for those wiho are 0f Commons, lie believed, froni information
I whc lie had received, he cou]d prove that
accused to show how far le is riglit.
should judge, froni a remark whîch feuI
froin the Minister of Justice wlen I placedI
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

the then Postinaster Genieral, Siu Adolphie
Caron, lad profited by bonuses whichi had

[MARCH 12, 1901]

73

been given for the construction of the Lake his statemeut in connection with those cases
St. John Railway and other railways. The to whiCh 1 bave referred, ln precisely the
same course was followed as ln my own same manner that 1 have laid the tacts of
case. A that time the goverument of the this case before the Senate, as the basis
day thought the truth could be arrlved at upon whicb I ask for this Investigation, the
mucli better by referrlng It to judges than premier rose ln bis place and sald that the
to send It to a poit1cal committee of the hon. meinher for Halifax bad made out a
House of Gommons. I moved an ameadment sufficiently strong case to justlfy the House
to that motion, not to prevent an investiga- ln referring it to the Committee of Privileges
tion ta king place, but to refer it to a commis- and Elections. We have no snch committee
sion of judges to be appointed to make a here, and consequently, so far as that goes,
thorongh Investigation into the whole of It would flot be correct or lu order to refer a
the charges contained ia the arraigament of charge of this kind to a conimuittee that did
MNr. Edgar, and 1 went further, 1 copied the flot exiet; but hiere, 1 repeat, is a case prestatement of my hon. frlend the Minister of cisely similar to that wblcb 1 bave brouglit
1 copied from before the Honse, and the premier nt that
Justice on that question.
and copied lu extenso the time, by bis act, by bis acceptance of the
'Hansard'
charges and language of the present Min- statemeat made by Mr. Borden, declared
ister of Trade and Commerce (Sir Richard that It wouId flot be necessary for hlm to
Cartwright) and some others, and then re- make the statement on bis own authority
ferred the charges, which were of a much or to take the responsibility as a memiber of
more serions character than the charges the House of Gommons. Now, 1 am lu preMr. Edgar hlmself had made-because Mr. cisely the same position here. If I were to
Edgar was then, upon bis reputation as a make a statement similar to tbe one made.
member of the House of Gommons, making by Mr. Monk, who had no otber tacts than
certain references to whxch be would be those wbich be gleaned from outside sources,
held before any commissioners appointed to had no statements or affidavits to lay before
mnake the Investigation. The inember for the House, other than bis own statement-if
Bothwell (now the lion. Miaister of Justice) 1 were to assume the position I have taken
and Sir Richard Cartwrlght at that time on my responsi-bility as a member of this
made mucli more serions charges, as any House, and to say that I believe I conld
one, who will read the debate on that occa- prove the statements made by Mr. Cook, it
sion, w-i lie able to ascertain, and they would lie tantamount to saying that the
were embodied in it and sent to a commis- Prime Minister of this country had told a
sion. The charge made agalnst the Militia falsebood iu the statement which lie had
Department by Mr. Monk la coanection with made. If I admitted the correctness of the
the emergency food investigation w~as of a statement made by Sir Wllfrid Laurier, it
similar character to the two charges to which wonld be tantamount to saylng that Mr.
1 have referred, and he, Mr. M~'onk, made Cook bad committed perjury. I do not prothe statement ln the same manner as dld pose to put myseif lu either of thosc posiMr. Edgar whea he made charges against tions. I repent what I have already stated:.
the then Minister of Customs in 18Si6, and charges have been made of a serions charagainst the Postinaster General ln 1892. The acter, which, If true, in the language of the
precedent to which I shahl now refer is of a 'Globe' would prove that certain parties
character analogous to the one now before have serlonsly abused the position they hold.
this House, aad upon preciseiy the same If not true, then Mr. Cook bas been guilty
lines. Mr. Borden, the member for Halifax. of tbat which should recelve the coademnalaid before the House of Comnions certain tion of tbe whole country. I desîre to emcharges, certain affidavits and other pro- phasize thls point as strongly as possible.
ceediags la connection with what were that I neither accuse Mr. Cook of stating a1
termedI irregularities and frauds lu the West falsehood. nor do I accuse the premier of
Huron and Brockville elections. He made even prevaricatiofi. Wbat 1 say is, Mr. Cook,
no statement on bis own anthorIty, assumed bas made a serions charge. I have laid
no responsibulity as to the truth of those that charge in the shape of bis affidavit lieaffidavits, .or charges, aad after lie lhad made fore the Senate. 1 bave laid the denial of

[SENATE]
Sir Wllfrid Laurier before the Senate, and 1oldest miembers of the House, and has as
1 ask the Senate to investigate the charges good a knowledge, if nlot better, than any of
whlch have been made and ascertain whe- us of its privileges. Doas the Minister of
ther Mr. Cook is in a position to prove the Justice accept that ?
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-No. 1 think the hon.
truth of his charges. It is in the lntarest of
ihu
aehsmto
the governiment, just as much as It 15 in the gnlmnsol
interest of this bouse, in vindication 0f its naming the mambers. I objeet to the memown honour to consent to the appointmeflt of bers being namad.
this commlttee, and have this matter fully
have
lnvestigated. As long as ît remains uninvest- 1bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
the
Igated, yeu will find plenty of people ln tbis the right to make the motion xwitbout
that Mr. Cook bas n1ames or wlth them, just as 1 please.
country who will say
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS-I object to the motion
told the truth-what 1 should like to see
established, if Mr. Cook had told the truth' in that foini. 1 think lf is the right of the
-and I arn not prepared to say thiat hie has bouse, where a committee of this sort is
not-is that the approach to buy hlmi was being appointed, to namie its own committea,
not upon the authorlty of any gentlemen and my hon. friend's motion ougbt to stop
standing high in the political world in this' with the words -From Urne to time,' and if
country, and more particularly that ha had' he crin carry that motion, than the members
no authority froin a Ministar of the Çro'wn. of the commnittea can be appointed by thec
That is the position that I should like to bouse. I take that to be the rule. If cersee proven iri this investigation for the tainly Is the rule in the bouse of Gommons,
bonour of the public men of this country, and, 1 take if, should be the mile here.
and to put a stop in the future to any one
p
-fteSne
Ho.M.',IALU
attempting to traffic in seats In this bouse,
of any one ipoints the committea, I do not see but the
on their own behiaîf or on behalf
o h
hemmesvt
LI
else. I look upon this as a very serions,;Huede
most i motion as if is, 1 think that Is appointing the
question, one that should have the
pon
careful consideration of every one who has! omte.Hwaeyugigtany other way 9
in the Senafe. a commlftee in
the honour of holding a seat
Hlon., MNr. MILLS-MNy hon. friend wHll see
1 could repeat the utterances of public men,
who should know better, sneering at memn- 1that where a committee Is appointed for a
bers of this blouse for want of nbility, for purpose like this, the House names the memof the committee. Each memiber can
being actuated by strong partisan motives, ,bers
in the bead and weak In the vote for. one membar of tha commitfee, but
for 'being weak
legs, for not being worth the rope that he cannot vote for any more, and so each
would hang them, but I shall not troubl sîde appoint those they think proper, ani
the Hlouse with thase quotations. I sRY the In proportion to their numbers. That is the
lime has arrlved when the Senate should R-- rule in the bouse of Gommons, and I think
sent its own dignity and maintain Its OwII that is the rule in this bouse as well.
character and raputation, and even If thera
BOWIEL-I reHon.
were no precedent to justify the course titat, ,member Sir MACKENZIE pursued once in
seeing that course
1woud
I hve ake, asum th poitin
and only once. In
tliat, lt baing a direct violation of the prîi. the bouse of Gommons,
have beau named
of this bouse, neither mule nor prece- this bouse the committees
leges
jby the member maklng the motion, and I
dent should stand in the way of investigation.
there is any authorI should like, with the consent of the Bouse, have yet to learn that
this ity which says this Is out of order. I think
to add the Hon. Mr. Miller's name to
lay down
committee, and any other gentleman that You will find that the authorities
the doctrine that the names of the committhe hon. Minister of Justice, or the Secretary
In the motion thaf the
.of State may suggest. I should have put tee can be mentioned
the hon. gentleman objecfs to, I have no doubt
Senator Miller's name in this motion in
out.
first place had hae been in the city when if they will drop
MILLS-In the motion to apbon. Mr.
was drafted, but I was nof aware &f the
time that hie was coming. H1e is one of tha point a committee for the purpose 0f inlHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[MARCU 12, 1901]
quirlng into the Edgar charges, the commlttee was flot named in the motion of Mr.
Edgar, and the same rule prevals here, I
take it, that prevails In the House of ComHEon. Mr. McCALLUM-WIll the hon, gentleman please quote the rule ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I arn referrlng to the
practice, the well-settled practice of parliament.
Hon. Mr. MoCALLUM-Not In the Senatc.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-If any member objecta
to the constitution of a commlttee sucli as
this, then the committee must be named by
the House, and each member of the House
can vote for but one member of the committee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW%,ELL-That
was flot the course pursued by the Senate
when it appolnted the committee to investigate the Bale de Chaleurs matter.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No one asked for it.
Hion. Sàr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Nor Is
It anniogous to compare this House wlth the
House of Commons. Mr. Edgar's motion
was sent to the Standing Coenmittee, and
every one knew who composed that committee, and so were the otheirs, exeept in the
case of the Emergency Food Ration Comnfittee. There was a charge made against
the Departxnent of Miaitia in that case for
dereliction ot duty. That comniittee was
named In the motion made by Mr. Monk
hlmself, and agreed to by the goverament,
and s0 It has been In every case, except one,
in the whole of my thlrty years' experlence.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-There bave been several
such cases in the House of Commons, and
it is a rule whlch prevals in both Houses.
If any one objecta to the constitution of the
committee, then the cormlittee must be
named by the House, and no member bas
more than one vote-be can vote for but
one member.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I think there is no
doubt as to the practice In the House of
Commons. It is 'as stated by the hon. ,,tlnThat practice, however,
Ister of Justice.
Is sustained by precedent ln that House, and
Is Invarlably followed when committees of
this klnd are to be stricken, but I think It

75

Is Incumbent on the Miniater of Justice to
show that that practice has prevailed in
this House or In the House of Lords. We
have no rule upon the question ourselves,
and the last of our standing orders provides
that where our rules are silent wlth regard
to any parllamentary proceedinga, then we
are guided by the practice and precedents
There can be no
of the House of Lords.
doubt that the practice of this House bas
been that adopted by the leader of the opposition, that the House bas not only passed
the resolution, but invariably nameci the
comimittee also, in the resolution. I amrn ot
aware 0f any single exception to that practice lu this House, but I can recollect frequent instances of where the course pursued by the hon, gentleman has been followed on motions of this kind. I do not
think that the case of the Bale des Chaleurs
Railw ay is relevant, ln fact it is not a prezcedent, because the Investigation in counection with that subject took place before
the Standing Rallway Commlttee of this
House, If I remember eorrectly. But I do
not know of anythlng In our miles, or the
rules of the House of Lords, or the precedents of parlament, that can be quoted to
sustain the contention of the Minister of
Justice.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I thlnk the prînciple is
one whlch la well understood. If the contention of my hon. friend opposite were
sound, It would be in hîs power to appoint
the members of the committee from the
majorlty altogether. Now, It Is for the purpose of glvlng to both sides of the House
representation upon the commlttee la proportion to their strength that the rule exists.
That is the princîple, la order that a meinber who la charged wlth some offence, whether lmpliedly or dlrectlyHon. Mr. MILLER-Does not the motion
give a full representation to both aides ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It may do so, but he
mnight disregard the rule If the principle la
such as my hon. frlend contends for. The
commlttee might be named of persons entirely on the side of the opposition. Now,
when an lnqulry la being made Into accusations againat a public man, or a member
0f the goverament, the protection la, that
the side of the party accused may find mepresentation on the commlttee, and that re-

[SE-NATE]

presentation Is found by giving to the party
the power to appoint ix> proportion to their
Mybon
stregth frendsay tht tere

Hon. Mr. MILLS-That is my contention.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-May, dealing with this
lruest',o'ý says:
have been cases in the Flouse of Commons
In speclal cases, the lords have appointed
where commîttees have been appolnteil select committees by ballot.
wituout the adptino
uhapeee
Hon. Sir' MACKENZIE BOWELL-In selor the followlng of sucb a mile. That is etn h
ebr
ftecmite
d
tgtemmbr0fhecmieeIaperfectly true, If tbe person does flot choose
I possibly could to the
If be chooses hered as nearly as
to stand upon bis rights.
to waive bis rlght, be may consider tbat principles that have been laid down, that
is by representlng the relative strengtb of
the committee Is sufficiently fair as ltsl
ay lotinsst, parties, and I think I have gone a littie
nd
e mde,
propsedto
namte
upntergtwhicb the mules of parîla- beyond that, uIt should by thisftiSenateldbe
do not thiuk
uponthe ightI
ment give hlm, but the mule of parliament elwi
opulyar
guns
does give the rigbt, whetber the questiondetwibopueyarygods
is to be tried In this Hlouse, or by a coin- 1Hon. Mr. MILLS-Then you do flot objeet
mittee of the Hlouse of Commous, that the to giving the majority to the goverfiment.
committee shall be coDstituted fairly, and
o
BOWELL-I
NIACKENZIE
to constitute it fairly every member who s 'Ho.Sir
present may vote for one member of the would not object if the bon. minister would
committee, and only one. The motion de-: allow mie to select the gentlemen on his side
cîdes wbat the number of the commlttee of the Hlouse. I have sufficient confidence
shall be, and then my bon. frieud, and thiose lu tbe members 1 bave selected that they
who are associnted with him, will have an w-ould flot do an improper tbing, which the
omte
uiutsti
opportunity of electiug their due proportion o.mnse
of the committee. Wboevem we may choose would do, ibecause there bappens to be two
they have nothing to say about, and who I of a majority againet the government.
ever tbey choose we are flot at liberty to
Hon. MIr. MILLS-No.
object to. Bac'h side chooses members to
Hn i
AKNI
O EL1hv
repeset i
Inthecomitte, o Iquie ltosufficient confidence In miost of the gentiethe charges made against the govemument or mnwoocp
et
nta
ieo
h
a meniber of the Flouse, lu proportion to Felooucpyseatno
os onlthtl
sidter afnd
their strengtb. That is a well-settled rule. House.
iforisnotesr
ao lle fr
ithern
It bas been f ollowed lu the Imperial parîla- sasifi i necesr
e
omfrt
iue
vdne
ment, and If there is no modern precedent- t
Notice should be properly given of ail motions
I am not sure, I have not looked at the
1eet committees ; but it is not the invarifo
practice of the Flouse of Lords-lt is slmply ables'practice of the Senate to include In the
because there bas been no0 member of the motinthnaeso the members, which may
the House
be givenheby
Hlouse agalnst wbom a charge of this sort motion is duly consent of But no0 doubtwhen the
it le the
proposed.
And so, before I discuss more convenlent and regular course to Include
bas been made.
the merits of the hon. gentleman's motion, the names in the notice of motion.
I take exception, Mm. Speaker, to the mem- That Is just preclsely wbat I have doue.
bers of the coxumittee beiug uamed lu the Bourinot proceeds :
motion. If the hon, gentleman then carrnes
itle~ usual for the mover of a select committee
bis motion without a committee belng to, be one of Its membems.
uiamed, the Flouse will pmoceed to constiThat Is under mIle 95. This lays down the
tute the coimIttee.
rule very clearly, and it states what the
stegh

My

o..

fren

say

thtt

Hlon. Mr. FEHGUSON-I bave here the
authomity of Sir John Bourinot with regard
to the matter. I will quote f rom page 496 :
Notice should be properly given of ai motions
for select conmîttees ,but It le not the lnvari-

practice bas been lu the past, just as bas
been stated by the bon. senator froin Richmoud. This question, so far as my recolnteSn
lcinsrenvrwsrie
ate before, aud I can ouly look upon tbe po-

able practice In the Senate to include in tue mu0ton the names of tbe members, which may lie as a refiection upon the gentlemen wbo bave
given by consent of the House when the mobeen selected. I ludividually am quite pretion is duly proposed.
Hion. Mr. MILLS.

[MAIRCH 12, 1901]
pared to allow the hon. Minîster of Justice
to objeet to any member being on the cornmlttee. If lie objects to my belng on the
committee, 1 shall retire and let some one
else be named. This la the course pursued
by the. Senate in the past, and we lave the
authorlty, nlot only of Bourinot, but the
autliorlty of the lion. senator from Richimond (Mr. Miller), who lias occupled a seat
In this House ever since tliere lias been a
Senate, and who certalnly knows as mucli,
or more, of the rules as any -member of this
House. In taking tlis course, I amn dolng
wliat I tliought could nlot by any posslbllity
be objected to, and I was mudli surprlsed
at the position taken by the hon. Minister
of Justice. If lie wants to defeat the motion, let hlm say so, and then the country
wlll know, and we wlll know exactly what
position they take.
Hon. Mr. MLLLS-I ask for a ruling upon
the question.
Tlie SPEAKER-I regret, hon. gentlemen,
that I sliould be called upon to rule upon s0
important a question so soon after taklng
the Chair. My opinion is asked now, and
I give It wlth a good deai of liesitation and
diffidence. I think that the principle laid
down by the lion. Minister of Justice appeals
te one's senae of fair-play aud justice. Substanitially, by the resolution of the hon. leader of the opposition, If the allegations made
by Mr. Cooki sliould turu ont to be true, the
premier of thus country is convicted, or the
government are convicted, o! a very serious
off ence. The government are In the position
of accused parties. I do not say that the
lion, leader of the opposition lias any sympathy witli the accusera, but stili lie brings
the matter up, to a certain extent, on behaif
of the person who lias made the charge.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, I
take exception to that.
The SPEAKER-I did not say that the
hon. leader of the opposition ldentified himself witli that person.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWFILL-The
lion. Speaker sald I made the motion on beha-If of the gentleman who made the charge.
I repudiate that statement.
Tlie SPEDAKER-I said to a certain ex-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
net to any extent.
The SPEAKER-I do flot Nvish te say that
the lion, leader of the opposition sympathizes witli the charges. I say substantially
that there la a charge agalnst the goverument involved ln the matter whlcli Is referred to the committee. I put it lu that
way, that there is a charge againat the government lnvolved In the nitter which is
referred to the conmIttee, and I thinli the
principle laid down by the hon. Minister
of Justice, that the hion. member who brlngs
the charge before the House should not
name the whole commlttee, Is a reasonable
one. I may say that I do net thlnk
there is so mucli dIfference between the
hon. leader o! the opposition and the hon.
Minister of Justice as miglit appear at
fIrst siglit. The lion. leader of the opposition lias named seven membera of the
House who habitually vote witli the opposition, and lie lias named five gentlemen who
I
habltually vote witli the govern-ment.
think that In the matter of the relative proportions of the two parties the hon, gentleman lias given fair-play. The only point
where I think the bon. gentleman lias gone
.a little too far la ln naming the members
wlio are to act on behaîf of the government
on the committee, and I regret that tile hon.
gentleman lias nlot thought fit to concur lu
the sug-gestion made by the lion. Minister
of Justice that the government side of the
House aliould be allowed to nomniate the
gentlemen wliom they wlsh to ait on the
committee. That Is what strikes me as a
matter of common sense and fair-play. It
bas been atated that we are not bound by
the precedents of the House o! Gommons
and tînt we are to be governed b7 our own
precedents. It happens that In the House
o! ýCommons tiere have been various cases,
substantlally like this, where charges have
been made against a government, or agaiinat
members of a goverument, a.nd it will
be found that, ln nearly aIl those cases
where a committee lias been asked for, and
a committee lias been granted, a committee which la lntended to try a charge o!
this klnd is, lu the House of Gommons, selected in the manner indicated by the hon.
Minister of Justice. As the ion. meniber
from Richimonid very properly pointed out,
ln the case of tie Bale des Chaleurs Rail-

[SENATE]

way there wvas no special committee chosen.
The Bill with respect to the Baie des Chaleurs Rallway was in the hands of the
Standing Committee on Railways, Telegrapbs and Harbours, and it was allowed
to rernain there. The committee were giveil
certain additional powers, and the Investigalion was conducted before that commlttee.
1 bave been some cousiderable time a member of the Senate 'now, and I do not, durlng
ail that trne, recail any case wbere a charge
sinihlar to this has been miade in this House.
There were, in the sessions of 1877 and 1878,
committees appolnted. There -was a conmittee appointed In the session of 1877 for
the purpose of lnquiring Into the route of
the Canadian Pacific Itaîlway, west of Lake
Superlor, but when the commilttee wfi5
moved for there were no charges nmade
agalnst the goveramnent or against any member of the government. There appeared to
be a doubt as to the wlsdomn of the choice of
route made by the governinent, and afterwards the Neebing Hotel inatter came out of
the InquIrles of tbat commlttee. But I do not
think that we have bad amy case similar lu
principle to the case now before the Senate. Not bavlng any precedent of our own,
I thlnk that we should naturally be governed by the precedents of the other Huse.
and that tbe pracstice of the other House
1a consistent with our Ideas of justice
and comnion sense ; and, as I say, 1
thlnk It is to 'be regretted that there should
be any marked difference of opinion on the
subi ect here, because substantially there Is
very littie difference between the proposai
made by the hon. Minister of Justice and
the proposai made by the bon. leader of the
opposition. 1 think that the bon. leader of
the opposition cannot see any serious objection to allowing the five gentlemen who
are to represent the government side of the
House to be chosen by the government side
of the bouse, and if 1 arn asked to rule now,
I shahl feel obliged to, rie that the objection to the constitution of the commlttee is
well taken.
do
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE L-I
not know bow far 1 arn at liberty to discuss
the bon. Speaker's rullng. He bas given us
a speech ln defence of the govemnment and
the course taken by the government. rather
than what I would cal] an Impartial course
by a Speaker ln giving bis decision. He
The SPIDAKER.

accused me farst of being bere on behaif
of Mr. Cook. That I repudiate in most eniphatic terras. Then be says if 1 had any
ldea of rîght, justice and equity, I would
accept the suggestion of the bon. Minister
of Justice. I take It that the Speaker's duty
Is sirnply to rule whether the objection taken by the hion. Minister of Justice Is correct
or not, and not to read me a lecture as to
the course I should pursue, elther upon this
or any other occasion. Wble I respect very
highly the hon, gentleman who occuples the
Chair, I shahl not submit to bis reading me
a lecture upon my duties In thîs House.
bon. Mr. MILLS--My hon. frlend Is not ln
order.
bon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
la oi-der, and I propose to discuss the matter.
Hon. '-%r. MILLS-M-Ny hon. friend is not
lu order in discussing the decision of the
Speaker.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
have liad no decision. There is nothing in
the books which says that 1 arn to accept
the dictuni of the President of this Chamber
as to what course I should pursue In this
matter. The precedents In this bouse are
directly and positively against It. I hold
one lu my hand, to whlch Bourinot refera,
In wbich tbe commlttee la speclally named In
connection with It. In justification of the
lrnplied charges made against me by the
Speaker of the.bouse, for the course 1 have
pumsued, I shall appeal, even If 1 stand
alone, against that decision, and 1 do so upon the grounds of precedents laid down in
the joumnals of the Senate directly contrary
to the position wblch the Speaker bas taken,
and If 1 arn to understand, atter the remarks wbich I bave made-because the
Speaker ln this House fortunately-I say
fortunately-ls In a position to step down
fmom the Chair and discuss questions juat
as fmeely as we are. He Is not confined to
rnerely glving bis opinion, as la the Speaker
ln the Rouse of Gommons, and it Is for that
reason that I bave taken the present course
ln repudiating the Insinuations wbich have
been made agaInst myseif indivàdually In
this matter. I have affirined already that my
Intention la to arrive at tbe truth In connection with tbis matter. My Intention is to
vindicatte, so far as 1 can, the character and

[MARCH 12, 1901]
I have
reputation of the Bouse in .whichi
the honour to hold a seat. 1 think 1 *have
stated my position very clearly. If I arn to
understand the Speairer's ruling to be that
I arn out of order In the course I have pursued, 1 shall move that that rullng be flot
concurred lu by the House.
The SPEÂKER-I thlnk: ry ruling was
qulte, distinct. I said If a decision was Inststed. upon, that the objection of the hon.
Minister of Justice was welI taken.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have been some
twenty-seven years a member of tlis body,
and I must say that In ail that time 1 neyer
heard any hon, gentleman rise In bis place
and comment on the decision of the Speaker.
Hou. Mr. McCALLUM-Did the Speaker
give us a lecture.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie Speaker simpiy
gave the reason on whicli bis decision was
based. I say lie was perfectiy rlght iu gi ylng his reasons.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did
the hon. Secretary of State ever hear the
Speaker read a Senator a lecture.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He was called upon to,
give a decision. Rad he simply declded that
the proposition made by the hon. Minister
of Justice was the correct one, the House
would have been in Ignorance of the reasons
on which he based It. It was oniy fair to,
the party accused to, have some voice Iu the
selection of the jury by whom they were
to be tried. That is a principie that a fair
judgrnent would recognize, and 1 think It
would be eztremely unfortunate If any attack should be rnade upon a Speaker who
18 powerless to make any observations. It
ls the fIrst Urne in twenty-seven years that
I have heard any critlclsm of that kind by
any member.

79

duty to talle any particular course, I would
concur precisely Iu bis views. I have no
objection wliutever to obliterate the five
narnes of goverument supporters that are
rntloned lu my rnotion, and allow the hon.
Miuister of Justice to, select wliatever hon.
members lie pleases, and If lie wants six, I
arn qulte wIIhIng that lie shouid have thern;
and even If we are obllged to go througli the
Intricate process of electing a cornrittee as
suggested -by the lion. Mlnister of Justice,
we would have just 0he sanie represeutation
by both parties.
Hon. Mr. MILLS--I imay say to rny lion.
frlend that I arn not objectlng to bis suggestion at aIl that we sbould narne our own
members. My suggestion la rnade In perfect good faitli, and I thouglit In great moderation, that rny bon. friend sliould leave
the naming of the memibers out of has motion altogether, and If lis motion carnles, I
do not objeet to meet witb my lion. frlend
and state who 1 think on our aide should be
uamed on the committee, aud lie can do the
sarne on lis aide. I arn sure my hon. friend
and I could agree as to whom the hou. nernbers of the committee should be, and If the
motion la put without the names and does
not; carry. there is an end of It, but If It
does carry, as it probably will, tiien I tbink
lie and I couid agree witliout any trouble.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
view of the mc>derate toue Iu which the hon.
gentieman lias made that suggestion, I have
n objection to accept It. He dos not object to the numerical strengtli of both parties upon the cormittee, and I have no objections wliatever, and I had mucli rather
take that course than the one of placlng a
*motion upon the paper In opposition to .tlie
Speaker's ruling. But I feit s0 strongly upou the matter that I was forced to, takre that
position. My reason for adopting thua course
ls to avoid tlie uecessity of havlng a vote
taken Iu this House against the ruling of
the Speaker. I understand my lion. friend
wlthdraws bis point of order and the Spealer's rulng is also, witlidrawn and the motion la to be carrled.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Under
the circurnstances, I shall take the liberty,
whicli every member 'lias, of rnoving. seconded by the hon. member frorn Mýarsbfield,
that the ruing of the Speaker be not concurred In by the Bouse. I arn fully ln accord with the sentiments uttered by the hon.
gentleman (Hon. Mr. Scott), and If he had
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Then the motion stands
gone further and said that In his twenty- without the narnes.
seven years' experience lu this Blouse he
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIDLL-Yes,
had neyer heard. the Speaker read a lecture
to an hon. member who tliougbt it bis providlng there is no ruling.

[SENATE]
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I do not see lîow wve tbe House of Commons. The rule followed
can go on lu the present condition of things. in England, and tbe rule followed ln tbis
1 think the Speaker should withdraw bis coun.try is that wbere charges are being made
ruling, because the I{ouse is bound by the wbich affect the conduct of a representative
of the people or a member of the bouse
rullng.
of Lords-bere a member of the SenateHon. Mr. McCALLUM-The Speaker cau- that tbe member wbo makes such charges
flot withdraw bis ruling.
shal flot bring tbem forward lightly. They
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the are not brougbt forward for the purpose of
bon. gentleman bas withdrawn bis point of gratlfying any personal. disllke, nor for the
order the ruling drops.
purpose of securing a party triumphi, but
men
The SPEAKER-I sbould like to, say a in order to vindicate the bonour of
engaged ia the public service wbether ns
word before the matter is dropped. 1 regret thiat the bon. leader of the opposition advîsers of the Crown, or as representatives
bring
seeins to thinl. I had undertaken to read lin>u of the people, and so, parties who
a lecture. Nothing on1 earth was further forward sucb charges are required by the
fromn my tbougbts, and speaking without law of parliament to affirin that tbey bave
Now, in order
any preparation I -may not have expressed been 'credibly informed.'
tînt a party may lie credibly Infornied, lie
just wvbat I ivished to say, but I bave a
very distinct remembrance tbat wben tlie must lie informed by some one wbo, in bis
and that lic
bon. gentleman oYbjected to the phrase 1 opinion, is wortliy of credit
that 1 did flot verily believes. His belief is founded upon
used, I witlidrew it and said
and character
mean to say that bis sentiments were as lie bis opinion of the reputation
tbey Nvere, and 1 of the party froin wbom lie bas obtalned
appeared to think I said
credibly iaregret that I sbould have had this unplea- bis information. He bas been
of tbe formed and verily believes tînt If granted
saut experience witb the hon, leader
w'bicb lie is a
opposition on tbe first question of order a commlttee ln the House of
member, lie will be enabled to establish
whlcb bas corne Up.
certain facts. Now, niy bon. friend snys 'I
Hon. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWELL-Tben want a committee for the purpose of lathe motion is to be put witbout tbe naines quiring wbether certain allegations which
and the ruling Is witbdrawn.
bave been made affecting the character of
Tbe SPEAKER-Tbe point of order taken the government, If they were true, are well
by tbe bon. Minister of Justice is withdrawn founded, and 1 want to assume the responsibility of saylng. tbat tbey are well foundand the ruling goes wltli ItL
ed. I will engage ln a fisbing expedition
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-I do not under- for the purpose of seeing wbat I can make
stand It yet. Is it understood that tbe bon. out of thus inqulry.' 1 say sucb a proceeding
Minister of Justice and the leader of the Is wbolly at variance witb tlie principles of
opposition are to select tbe comnilttee thein- parliamentary government and witb the
selves, or is lt coming back to this bluse rules and precedents wblch govern proceedagain ?
lngs ln parliament. Public men ougît- not
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It to lie attacked ligbtly. Public men, so far
as their cliaracter Is concerned, ouglit not to
must corne back to, the House of course.
bave charges brouglit agalnst them, witbout
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My bon. frlend takes a
careful consideration. and without the aslittie different view from that wivh I en- sumption tbat tbe party who ýbrings thein up
tertained wlth regard to bis responsibility for consideration for the purpose of bavlng
to tbe House ln making a motion of this inquiry made with regard to thein bolds
sort. I takre It tliat tbe responsibulity of a himself responsible that these charges are
member -of this Senate in bringing what are well founded. That is the rule recognlzed
practically cbarges against public men,
in the House of Commons, and I take It that
which, if true, would sbow tliat they are
my bon. friend opposite cannot relieve hlmunwortby to advise the Crown, or to con)trol the affairs of this country, is quite as self froin the responsibillty whlch attaches
serious in tbe Senate Chambers as it is in to bis conduct if bis motion is granted, by
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[A1ARCH 12, 1901]
undertaking te afhfrm thnt he will assunlie ne
responslbility [n the matter. His responsibility la such that the law of parlia-ment attaches
te one who makes a motion ef this kind. le
knows how serious this motion would be te
some member ef the goverfiment, or te more
than one, If It could be shown that this attempt nit the sale of a seat -in the Senate was
estabiished. My hon. f riend has referred to
what has been done in other places, and
there can be no doubt what the right and
duty of the House of Gommons is where
charges of tîjis sort are made, where oe
will affirm that he has been credibly lnformed, and that he believes the statements that
have been made te hlm, and that if a cernmittee is granted to hum, he will be able te
estabii his case. There was, a few years
ago, [n 1892, a charge somewhat like that
which the lion. gentleman proposes new
te have investigated, but very much stronger, against a inember ef the government in
the House ef Gemmons. The late Speaker,
,Mr. Edgar, whien a private member of the
House, preposed a resolution by wvhlch he
asked the lieuse te Inquire inte the conduct of the Pestmaster General. lie assumed the responsiblIty of the inqulry
which he seught. Hie said that he had been
credibly informed and he verily believed
that If a cemmittee were granted te hlm he
weuld be able te establish, by evidence ef
witnesses taken on oath, that a large sum
of inoney, which liad been veted by parliament for the purpose ef aîdîng ln the construction ef certain railways, lad been di-'
verted frein its original object by arrangements made between the Postmaster General
at that turne and oe of the promoters of the
rond, and that that money, Instead of gelng
towards aiding the construction of railways,
had been used for the purpose of securing
the election of certain friends of the Pestmaster General, in the province of Quebec.
NoW, that was a very clear and specific
charge. It was made in the lieuse ef Gommons. It affected the public revenue. If
there is any subject upon which the lieuse
of Gemmons have the right te exercise paramount authority, It is with regard te the
use made ef the money appropriated by the
vote of the Hous for the public service,
and se the lieuse ef Gommons was entirely
withln Its rights when [t proposed an Inquiry by the leuse itself fer the purpose ef
6

81

ascertaling whether there was nny foundation for the charges or not. My hon. friend
was a member ef the government at the
time, and the party against whomn the accusations were nmade, was also a member cf
that administration. That motion did flot
carry. It was put ln the usual parliamentary form ; lt was supported by very cogent
arguments. There was a èolemn declaration
that the truthfuiness of the aliegations made
ln the motion would be established by evidence taken on oath, but that committee was
net granted. Ou the contrary, almnost every
member of the government having seats ln
the House cf Gommons opposed the motion
and succeeded ln voting it down. My hon.
f riend himseif voted against the inquiry. He
deciared, or his leader did, that the House
of Gommons was net the proper tribunal
for the purpese of protecting public righits
[n the public revenues. Sir John Thompson
on that occasion made these observations :
Another observation which 1 wouid venture te
make is that when accusations of Improper conduct are made even against members of parliament as such, we ought to consider mont cars
tully whether [t le imperatiie upon the House
te exermine [ts judicial functions, whlch we s0
rareiy liks te exercise, and whlch we no rarely
exeamine weli, consldering the diveralty of feelings, of Interes and even of political passion@
which are apt to prevail [n an assembiy like
this. We bave te consider whether the accusatie.ns which. are brought forward are accusations
which some better quaified tribunal ln this
country la not clothed wlth powers to determine.
He further sald:
But the government la flot before a committee,
and It la unconstitutional that a commlttee
shouid ait te try the government'of the day. 1.
have only te conclude by the statemeint that of
ail the accusations which have been made la
this Hous, even the accusations whlch the
House declned te entertain at the close of hastý
session, this accusation lo the vaguest that I
have been able te mid, and [t ln one which. 1
t1ink: the Heuse ought flot to entertain in i
present shape.
Âlthough the charge was made against a
member, made lu exceedingly explicit ianguage, and the declaratien was also made
that If a cemmittee was grantedl the charges
would be proved by evidence taken on oath,
yet the governinent at that Urne refused te
consent to the appointment of such a cernmittee. I have ne doubt ln my mind-I amn
thoroughly convlnced, and if lt were necessary to argue the question it could be estabIlshed beyend «Il reom for controversy-that
the course then takien by Mr. Edgar ln the
Hlouse ef Gommons was the preper course.

[SENATEI
under the circurristances. An appropriation gîven a committee, hie will lie ab)le to show
had been ruade by the House, and it was have offcred a seat la the Senate for a peundoulitedly the riglit of the House of Cotu- cuniary consideration, to Mr. Cook, or anymons, and 'the riglit of no one else to as body else, hie xaay thus name, but unless lie
certain wvlat use bad beeni made of tlire is prepared to do that lie ought flot to asic
mney it liad appropriated for certain spe- for an inquiry of this sort. Any one might
cille purposes, and whiether those mnoneys to-morrow decide to bring a charge against
liad been devoted to other purposes than haif tlie memibers of the Sernate. He miglit
those for whicbi they Lad been granted. On say thiat if a committee were granted hie
that occasion the goverrument reslsted this would be able to show that the members
proposai ;tbey liad the mnatter referred to wbo were appointed to the Sonate when my
a commfissionl appointed by the goverlument lion. friend was at the head of affairs, were
That is, one of the mien ngainst appointed for a pecunlary consîderation,
Itself.
wboin the accusation was made, deterniuaed that tbey had boughit their way Into the
wlio it w-as thiat shouid sit in judgxnent upon Sonate, and asic for a comnîîttee here for
bis conduct ; %vbo if was that sbouid be the purpose of ascertaining what suai had
appointed for the purpose of trying wliether been paid, or whether there was any ioualie was guiity or flot gniity. 1 thinlc that dation for the statement or not. Now, 1
was a most improper proceeding, and I say say that my lion. frlend ouglit flot to found
to muy ho0n. f riend now. if lie wii stand 1-p a motion on a statement of that sort. I
iu this House and sny that lie believes the saY again, if lie is prepared to declare that
charges '%hichi he assumles to have bee !lin hiis opinion Mr. Cookc was off ered a et
made hy Mr. Cool la this soienin declara- lui tire Sonate for a pecuaiary consideration,
tion, are true, that if lie is giveai a commit- 1that It was proposed to sol liim a senatortee lie wili prove that those aliegations are ship, and If given a committee lie will estalitiiîe, and that hoe wiii be enabled to show, 1lisI' tliat fact, tlien 1Isay bis motion ouglit
eithier tha1t the wvhoie goverament or thaý,t f0t carry lu tliis House. That sort of proBut, my
certain members of the governipent, whom, ceeding ouglit to lie denounced.
lie oughit to name iii bis motion, are per- bon. friend, If lie will appeni to memibers of
sons agaiuist wbomn lie will lie able to e-ta.ù- this House, and thiere liave been maay
llsb Lis accusationis-if lie says that, tilen 1 brought in here since the present adminissay hie is eatifled to a committee, but I say tration came in, will find a good deai of diffilie is not entîtled to a committee w-heu lie culty to get any member to stand up and
wiil assume no respoasibility, wlien lie xviiî say that tlie governient aslced from hlm,
say aotbiag lu respect to any memb-2r of or suggested to hlm, that lie sbouid give
the admiaistration, and when lio will mlot some pecuaiary consideration for the seat
say whietber hie believos any one is gullty or ihe biolds la tliis House. 1 suppose the seat
flot guilty of the cliarges. Wbat Is tlie ob- referred f0 Ii this solema declar-ation of
Ir.
ject of the inquiry ? Is it for the purpose M Cook is the one to wblcli I was apof besmirchlng or biackenlng tbe dliaracter poiated. I understood that lie desired the
of some public man ? Is It for the purpose appointment at that time. The goveraiment
of tryiag f0 dama, liy bringing Mr. Cook did flot appoint hiai; they appointed me.
here, the reputation of some meaiber of the I know riglit well this, that It was neyer
administration ? That is not the object of suggested to me that I should give some
fthe law of parlamient la grantiag an inquirv pecuniary coasideration for a seat la the
of fliat kind. The Intention of parliameut Senate. I hiad a very great deal of reluctis to bring to punîshaient parties wbo are ance la comlng bore, and 1 dare say many
guilty of corrupt acts. But my lion. friend other inembers bave feit la tlie samne way.
ouglit to be able to say tliat in bis opinion I iLad been a long time in flie I-use of
there are membors of the admuinistration Commos-tbirty years. I fook au interest
tlie proceeding-s of tliat bouse. Tliey
inthl
gulIty of some offeace la connection
this matter ; that there are members of this were more congenial f0 me tliaa I bclleved
administration who bave undertakea to fraf- fhe work of flie Senate would lie, and s0
fie la seats ia fthe Sonate ; tlînt thiere are mv opinion and feeling was f0 go liack to
members of thie administration wbo, If lie s ith-e House again. I came bore because I
Hon. Mr. -MILLS.

[MARCH 12, 1901]
,thouglit I miglit lie of some service to MnY gain some advantage by It, and do someparty, or to the country. Since I have beexi thing which will serve to assist them In seliere xnany senators have corne, and I amn curing the seat. But I do flot know what
perfectly sure that no0 member of the ad- aome private party may have said to Mr.
ministration lias suggested to any man Who Cok. There may have beenl badinage.
sits here that lie sliould pay Into the public Some mani may have teased hlim. Mr. Cook
treasnry, or pay into a private fund for is a very passionate man. So far as 1 am
party purposes, a sum of money lin consIder- concerned, I was auxious, wlien lits name
ation off the seat lie liolds la this House. %vas lirst mentioned, to see hilm obtain a
If tliere is sucli a man, I should like hlm seat la the Senate, because lie had been for
1 a long timie an active member of the House
to stand up, and announce the fact.
shouid like Ihim to appear before this coin- off Commons, and had fouglit many a liard
mittec, if sucli a committee is appointed, liglit in a very ditficuit eonstituencey. I canfor the purpose off secing whether there was ilot tell wliat may have beeni said to hlm
any foundation, lin lits estimation, for such by %vay off badgering hlm, but 1 do know
a charge. I know it is a calnmuny upon the tlhis, thiat no member of the administration
administration, and a caluinny upon every ever said, directly or indirectly, to Mr. Cook,
gentleman whio sits la this House uponi a that lie was to obtain a seat In this House
patent ffromn the Crown, fouaded upon the by purdliase.
ndvice off the Priune Minister, and those asHon. Mr. MAIzCDONA;ýLD (C.B.)-Can the
socîated witli lia. My lion. f riend speaks iniister account for tlie hallucination of
about parties buying their way into the
MNr. Cook if bis statements are ail falseSenate. Hie know's riglit weli tliat tliey are
lioods?
recommended to the Orown by the Prime
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I canniot say whethier
Minister; they are flot recommended by any
The Prime Minister acts Mr. Cool was labouring under a hallucinaother minister.
for ail Wbo are associated with lm, and tion or flot. Ali I appreliend is, Mr. Cook
is the organi of the government for the ivas disappointed when lie was flot made a
purpose of submitting to the Crown the senator, and lie may have* been vcrY éngry.
namne of the partY who is about to lie ap- 1 k-uow hie is a very passionate man, and
pointed to the Seniate. So if the charges of ivliat lie may have said in is passion, 1
Mr. Cool, la this matter pointed to any one cannot say. I have heard on one or two
they pointed to the Prime Minister, and we occasions of persons badgering Mr. Cook
have here the explicit dental, the explicit aud telling hila lie ouglit to get a position
declaration off the Prime Minister that thiere: clieap, that if a mani were opposed to the
Is not a particle off foundation for thé charge government lie miglit expeet to pay
thiat lias been made. Does my bon. friend hiandsomely for lits seat, but a man Wlio liad
want a committee to ascertain whether the been a friend of the administration and
Prime Minister lias stated what is untrue in! supporting It, ouglit to get a seat ln the
this matter, that lie is to be put upon his jSenate at a lower figure. 1 heard of people
trial, lu fact, flot for tlie purpose of vin-1i saying thiat to Mr. Cook and badgering lm,
catlng liimself from the charge off guilt, but but 1 neyer supposed for a moment that
for the purpose of establishing that lie Is Mr. Cook wouid believe anything of the
Innocent, and that wliat Mr. CooL lias s:Lid sort. 1 do flot belleve that lie did, and I amn
lu this communication Is a statement wii perfectly sure of this, that no member off
at ail events does not apply to hlm ? My the administration ever said anything of
lion. friend refers to the discussion which that sort to Mr. Cook, or suggested tînt it
took place In Mr. Horsey's élection and what should be said by anyhody else. What the
Mr. Tucker said and wliat Mr. Cook tele- Prime Minîster said Is this : 'I am not pregraplied to Mr. Tucker. We have that ail pared to admit that a man in public life
spread ont upon the proceedings liere.
1 shiould lie answerable to charges of this
do not attacli very runch Importance to what character unless tliey are supported by some
Mr. Tucker said during an election.
Sorne kind off evidence which would gîve, them
men go very far In wliat they say lu an elec- colour at first sîglit.'
Is there any evition contest, where tliey suppose they rnay dence whidli wonid give this colour at first

84

4[SEN _T El

sigit ? Will my lion. friend say that lie
belleves that any member of the administration, eitlier directly or Indirectly, off ered
Mr. Cook a seat lu the Senate for a peduniary consideration ? If he does not, wliy
does lie wish to have an inquiry ? Why!
does lie want to waste the lime of the'
.Senate in calling witnesses here, and expending large sums of money to brlng parties here for the purpose of degradtng parliament by sliowing that men occupylng
the first positions as advlsors of thie Crown
are flot wortliy to be treated as gentlemen,
that they are disposed to adopt a veual.
course and traffic in positions that are of
great public trust. Sir Wilfrid said:
I, however, waive the right of lgnoring such.
an accusation, and I hers and now make the
statement for myself and my colleagues, that
there Is not a shadow o! foundation In the
charge of Mr. Cook; that I never, dlrectly or
indirectly, through an agent or otherwise, made
any demnand upon him for any sumn of moneyl,
big or smail, or for anything else.
That is explicit enougli. There could flot
be any doubt with regard to that statement.
[s there any hon, gentlemian here wflo will
say lie does flot believe the declaration of
the Prime Minister, but demands an inquiry to find out wliether the Prime Minister
stated.what is untrue or not, wliether lie is
corrupt or not, and wliether lie is prepared to
traffic in seats in this House ? The
Senate Cliamber, by adopting a policy of
moderation and fairness, by applying tliemselves to the consideration of public questions free f rom that unreasonable pressure
that may exist sometimes In tlie case of a
particular member in the House of Comýnons, would be able to render great and
Important service to tlie State. I have neyer
been of tlie view that one Cliamber ls suffi,dent I liave always lield that the public
interest required, and the permanency and
stability of our institutions required, tliat
tliere should be two Houses, and [ think it is
'well tliat one In its origln and constitution
Eliould be, as the Senate is, not a party Conservatlve body, but a conservative, body ln
its constitution, so tliat it mny give greater
stabllity and security to the Institutions of
the State. In order tlint wve may discliarge
our functions properly and well, wve require
to give special consideration to tlie Important questions witli whicl i e are cailed upon
to deal. We require to examine them witb
caxe, and to take, In respect of thein, a
broad and statesmanlike-view ; but to enter
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

Into the most odious cliiss Of Public questons, to attaék tlie cliaracter of public men,
to make those attacks the more savage in
proportion as the place is more exalted, la
not tlie way to conserve tlie well being of
the state under our constitutional system.
My lion. friend is not doing that wlicl la
In tlie best Interests of the State or beat for
the Senate when lie proposes a motion such
as that now before us. If lie will not say
that lie believes that the government or some
member of tlie government lias'trafllcked In
publlc places, If lie wlll not declare tliat If
given a committee lie wiil establisli 'tbat
fact, tlien I isay lie lias no ri,&lit to ask for
a committee at -aIl. He lias no riglit to ask
for a committee In a matter of this klnd.
The time of tlie House ougflit niot to lie so
wasted. Tlie public mind ouglit not to be
so perverted and tlie moral sease of the
community ouglit not to De so degraded as
It is by accusations against public mien that
are only justified wlien tlie party wlio bringa
tliem forward believes thiey are well founded and ýbelleves lt ia lu tlie public iuterest
that tlie wrong whli lias beenl done should
be exposed. No sucli stateirieut la mxade lu
this case, and In my opinion my lion. friend
ls not conserving the public Interest, is not
doing that whicli Is best for the well-belng
any party of the country, wlien lie rfr
to soene statement made by iMr. Cook and
asks that a committee be appointed to laquire Into It. Does Mr. Cook say lu titis
affidavit who the party was ? it was easy
to name ]iim if so disposed. Whio was the
party with whom hie had a confereuce ?
Who was the mInister who wrote tlie letter
that was read to liim by ithat party ? Wlio
are tlie parties upon whloni lie wvishies to
fasten tlie guilt ?

Iof

Hon. Mr. McCALLUM%-Tlhat la ivlat ive
w1sli to find out.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tlîen tlie lion, gentleman sliould have gone to Mr. Cook. The
lion, leader o! the opposition aliculd not corne
Into court, as lie proposes, to fiali. He shiould
have gone to Mdr. -Cook. If I beiieved thiat
Mr. «Coolr's statement had any foundation of
tact I would have gone to Mr. Cook. I
would liave asked hlm wlio îny colleague
was wlio wrote, the letter. I would have
asked liim wliat tliq correspondexice wvas,
and. wbo, thq, pzarty xvas that presented that

[MARCU 12, 1901]
letter. I Would have got ail the information
freim hlm I could. Â man would flot have
gone into court on is own account the
way my liou. frlend bas gone into this matter. *My hon. friend bas not made thé declaration the Iaw requires to lie made to bring
this matter before us, and lie bas not got
the Information whicb would enable hM
to Bay lie bas been credibly Informed and
verdly believes. He bas no Information of
that sort. He Is flot able to make tbat declaratlon, and lie ouglit flot to corne liere aud
ask thîs House to engage witbi hlm lu a
lÉhing expediltion of thîs klnud. Wbat ls
the objeet of this ? We can make a better
use of our time *ian ln undertaking to show
that human nature ls more degraded than
the public at large supposed It to lie.
1
trust that the House will nlot adopt my hon.
frlend's motion. I tell hlm again tlîat if lie
la prepared to make the necessary declaration and assume thea~ecessary responsibulity
as a leading man of this House, lie ls entitled to have his lnqulry. If bie is nlot prepared to make tlint declaraton, then bie
qouglt nlot to take up the time of the Bouse
-ln thIsd way. He mîglit Just as well go outaide and, hearing ail sorte of charges and
calumnies repeated about public =nen privately, then corne and ask for a commlttee
In regard to them. That is not the most
exalted use we can make of our time, and Il
le nlot the way our time ouglit to bie em*
ployed. I bave no disposition and no Inclination to undertake to esta-blish charges
agalnst those wbo are politically opposed to
me. If I thouglit they biad done any great
wrong I would bie prepared to Makte my
etatement o! what Il was specifically. I would
try -and ascertain that it was well founded
before I would bring it Into parliainent at
ail, and, lni addition to that, I would ask myself thie question wbiat -public use can It
serve, even If true, before I woulq undertaie to ask for an Inquiry, and waste time
witli respect to It. -My hon. friend opposite does not attacli mucli Importanoe to
tis question bimself, except oas a matter of
tactîcal advantage, party advantage, biecause lie puts himself ln tliis position ; If
I do not prove anything, wliy I amrn ot'hurt,
because I am flot undertaking to prove anything, I have not promised to prove anything. I have not said I belleved any of the
statements, and therefore there ls Do res-

ponsibility attaching to me in respect to
tliem. I say that is nlot a position lie Is
entitled to takze. That is the position the
Iaw o! parliarnent did nlot !»tend lie should
take, and It is -because there js no suc l ntention ln the practice of pwrliamcDt that lie
la requlred. to mnake the declaration whlch
lie lias mot made that lie lias been credibly
Informed and verily believes. He bas not
been IDformed at ail except by wliat lie lias
seefi in the newspapers. He -bas Dot gone
to the party for the purpose of ascertaining
wbat are the facta upon whicb lie bases this
statement. He proposes Io brlng hilm bere
at the public expense for the purpose of
finding out, after lie bas brouglit hlm here.
what lie ouglit to have found out before lie
brings the 'charge. He lias flot done se. I
say then, that being the case, 1 trust the
Bouse will fot entertain the proposition of
My hon. friend uDiess lie is prepared to take
a bolder position and greater respousibility
In respect of lt thon lie bas ventured to take
up to tihis moment.
Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON-I do nlot tbiflk It
is neeasary to discuss thia question at any
gteat lengtli, especlally ln diew of the speech
of the hon, leader of the Bouse to whicli we
have just llBtened, for I muet say that the
speechi lie lias juêt made is flot one that Is
calculated to conviDce hon. gentlemen tliat
this motion sliould not be adopted by the
.8enate. The ground whIchi the bon, gentleman takes ls tliat my lion. friend lias flot
aasumed sufficeDet responsibility. That Is
the whole of bis speech. Ail the words
that lie lias used, are simply elaborating
that one Idea. that my lion. frlend lias flot
asaumed sufficient responsibility in nak-ing
hie motion. Witb regard to that question,
we know very well thiat my lion. friend, the
leader of the opposition, does not mean to
divest thimself o! that responsibllity whicli
devolvea upon hlm as a member of this
Bouse and of wliicli I know lie lias tlie
keenest possible sense, and that lie bas
made lis motion wlth the full sense of the
responsibility lie owes to this House and to
the counitry. That Is a matter w1lec may
bie very well left to my bon. frlend bimself.
Bis cliaracter as a member of this House,
as a -public man o! this counitry serving ln
the other braxich of parliament as well as
here, 19 not one that would lead any hon.
gentleman to conclude that lie would ma.ke

[SENATE]
the motion liglitlY and would witliout &de-' clavits are true or flot, but tbey are the affiquate reasons take up tbe Urne of the davits of roputablo citizens.' Tdiey were
House or pervert the judgment of the not affidavits of men wbo, bad filled the imcountry.
1 submit that tbe practice portant position lield by Mr. Cook, wbo had
of this House bas flot been to reqilire been a member o! tbe parliament of this
any such solemni and empliatic declara- country, wlio liad been a trusted friond
tion as miy hon. friend, the Minister of o! membors of Rie administration, and
niakes an affidavit
Justice, says is the law of parliament. I have who
that these
flot been here a great niany years, but I bave charges are true. Yot, lu Rie fnceof0 the
beeu liere to take part ln the deliberations of stateinent of! Mr. Borden, that lie dld not
this House. On one occasion when my know tbat tlie statements were true, Sir
hon. frieud from Richmond (Mr. Miller), Wllfrid Laurier rose and sald, 'The hon.
wliom every one knows to lie one of gentleman bias macle a prima facie case,'
thie ablest parliamientarians ln Canada, and lie agreed to grant tlie committee asked
made n motion ln tbis House witb for. 1 do not asic bon. gentlemen to attacli
regard to the Drummond County Rallway undue Importance to, what took pince at pubtransactIon. My 'bon. f riend madle bis mo- lic meetings andi telegrams back and fortion and surrounided it w'ith the state- ward for political purposes, but Mr. Cook
mient tliat lie dhU flot know the facts sat clown befome a notamy and madle a soibimseif, tliat statements were macle c.barg- emu declaration, andl lie conld not lielp
lu.g corruption and maladministration ln kuowing tliat lie was mesponsible for every
connection witb tbat Drummond Railway word lu that afficlavit, and that If lie stated
concera. He said absolutely tbat lie dcl not anlything wbicli was untrue lie was limbue to
That is the affilinow thec trutli of tbose statements of bis bcie ndicted for perjury.
own know.ledge. Hie made the motion. Hie davit on wbicb niy bion. friencl makes a
addressed, on the otlier side of tbe Huse, motion to this House and I think tlie gmound
one of the ablest parliamen tari ans In Can- ls amply taken. My bon. friond, standing In
ada, Sir Oliver Mowat, wlio led tbe govern- Rils House, Is responsible as a public man
ment ln tbis House. We dcl not find hlm baslng bis motion on this affidav-lt of Mr.
rlsîng and lecturing the bon, gentleman H. H. COOL. I tlink If over there wns a
from Richimond because hie did not assume motion for an inquiry before auy parliament
greater responsibuity. He bad more ground that 1 amn aware of, sufficiontly backed Up,
to do it thli tbe ,Minister of Justice has on this Is tbe one. My hon. frlond refors to
the preseat occasion, because my lion. friend some badgoring conversations in wliich lie
from Richmond was more guarded tban my says Mr. Cook liad talien part. Wbien this inbon. .friend, tbe leader of the opposition, bas vestigation is lielti these badgering conversabeen to day in not assuming responsibulity tions may lie.brouglit out, and lt may lie
for the trutb of the chiarges that were macle found that -iI. Cook was made Rie subject
witli regard to the Drummond County Rail- of a pmactical joke. I arn sure the members
way. Then, again, I tum -to the transactions of the governînent will lie delighted if that
I bave liad no is so. Mr. Cook did not tliink they woro
of tbe bouse of Commons.
time to look up tbe cases. 1 neyer supposed liadgerlng. He is not an idiot. I bave flot an
thlat sncb a ground as tbls would be taken. oxtended acquaintance w-ith bhin. but from
I referred to the motion. ln the House of the positions lie lias lield in this country, and
Commons when tbe present leader of the from my sliglit ucquainitance w-ith buîin, I do
opposition, Mr. Robert L. Borden, of Hall- not thlnk hie would lie so easily imposocl upon
fax, xnoved for a committeè to lnvestigate as tliat. Thore are grave reasons wliy we
irregularities in connection with the elections sboulcl taire up tbe question. It soomod to
Ia West Huron and Brockville. Wliat dld Sir W4lfrld Laurier and to thie members o!
lie do ? He rend a number of affidavits. the bouse of Commons that wvben affidaivits
prlncipally o! the residents of West Huron. were reacl ly '-%r. Borden, having meference
Tbey were mon Riat were flot known to to Irregularities andi frautis la the West
the members of Rhe bouse of Commons. Huron and Brock-ville elections, that the
Ail thnt was known was that tbey were lionour and dignity of tlie Flouse of Coincitizens ln this country. Hle made the state- mious demandeti an lnquimy into these affiment, 'l do not know wiietber these affi- davits and allegations to kanow wliethor tbey
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

[MARCH 12, 1901]
were true or not. What do we find lies underneath the affidavit of Mr. Cook ? We find
the charge lnvolved. in that affidavit strikes
at the dignity of this Bouse. It strikes.
probably, more severely, if it were possible,
at this House and the honour of this Bouse,
than It docs at the go-between whom Mr.
Caok charges with the base offer or the
mefaber of the goveraiment said to be linplicated, a.nd I tbink the House would
be neglectful of Its duty If lt did flot
loak carefully Into the mat-ter, and 1 may
say, apart from what is contalned ln this
affidavit of Mr. Cook, many tblngs have occurred lni this country which have been calcul-ated to gîTe more Importance ta this matter than otberwise would have heen attached
I refer especially to declaratiaus
f0 It.
made in New Brunswick, and published ln
gavernment newspapers as haviug been
made by a member of the govern ment. 1 ref er
to the speech made at Fredericton Junction
ln New Brunswick ln 1896U, by Mr. Blair,
the Minister of Raiiways, and I will read an
extract from It, as it appeared some tbree
or four days after Its dellvery In the St.
John Telegraph. He was on that occasion
appealiag, havlag accepted the office of MinIster 0f Rallways, to, the coustltuency of
Sunbury aad Queen's for election, the seat

having been made vacant by the resignation If the boa. member for Queea's, wbo Is
nowv la this Chamber. He sald:
What Mr. King bas sald ta you la absolutely
and entirely true. I was and contlnued to be

dec.idedly averse ta agreeing toa sny proposition
that Mr. King sbould vacate his seat as the
representative for these unlted counties, and
tbat we should lose bis vainable services as a
representative ln the parliament of Canada. My
own lndividual desire was, as be bas stated, to
have made a temporary arrangement for a seat
ln the Senate. A friend of mine was perfectly
willlng, there belng na vacancy, ta have loaned
me. so ta speak. bis seat ln the Upper Chainher
for the short, and, as I thlak, the unlmportant
session now comlng.

87

Hou. gentlemen will rememiber there were
some weeks lost ln endeavourlng to get
some member of the Bouse of Gommone la
New Brunswick ta retire ln order ta get a
seat for Mr. Blair, and there were rumors
that some Conservative member was teo be
lnduced ta Tetire. He further said:
As a matter of tact, be waa nat ln sucb a dilemma. There was noa uch stauncb feeling of
loyalty to the defunct party as they would try
ta make out. The reason be had flot gat a seat
elsewbere was that be feit tbere was ue a
tlking as giving taa blgb a price. He feit lt bebooved thcý Liberal party ta see the Senate was
nt Illied up wlth mien whose views did not

agree wlth the vlsws of the LIberal party.

la ather words, Mr. Blair was quite wllliiig
ta give some price ta some mem ber of the
Bouse of Goumnons ta get a seat, but he

thoughit the givlag of a seat in the Senate
ta a Conservative would cost too bigh a
price, not because the transaction was Immoral, but because the Liherals were weak
in the upper Chamber, and because it was
undesirable that it should be filled Up witb
men adverse ta the administration. I refer
ta these twa statements casually, ta show
that there bias been traffilkng-, at least, with
regard to seats ln this Bouse, and la the
minds of mluis'ters, and lt may possibly bel do net kna'w-tbat the same gentleman
who, was quite wflling ta give a prIce, as
he sald himself, ta a CanservatIve member
of the Hanse of Commons Ia New Brunswick, If he would retire and give hlm a seat,
but not willlng to give so bîgli a price as a
seat lu the Senate and tbought it was quite
right ta leuil a seat in the Sente for a short
period-it axay *be the same gentleman hias
[ils band la this transaction; I do flot know.
8'ut, at any rate, these matters I have referred ta bave the effect or disturbing the
public mmnd la regard ta, trafficking la seats
la this Bouse, aud whea the affidavit of Mr.
Cool. was made public, 1 wondered that the
gentlemen in the government tbeuiselves
were not eager and anxious that an Investigatlon sbauld take place whicb would settie

I refer ta this to show at least tbat oue.
member of the administration thoug-ht so
llghtly of a seat ln this House, that lie re- tis question eatlrely and completely, as ta
garded it as an article of traffic or as gaods wbetber there has been aay sucb trafficking
and chattels, which might be loaned about! as bas been iadicated by Mr. Cool. lu regard
fram one man ta axnther. The same bon. ta a seat la tbe Senate of Canada.
gentleman, speaklng an the same occasion,
Ban. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe Illustrations that
made tbe further statemeat:
the hon. senatar who bas just spoken bas
It was beld be could not get a seat fram tbe, given of the character aof this motion af the
Conservative party, and must of necesslty turu
jblin. leader of the opposition are scarcely
ta the Liberals.

[SENATE]
w'ell chosen. He lias quoted the fact that that at the tume Mr. Cook was Pressing
ln the House of Cojumons, when.a' motion his dlaims there were eighteeu or twenty
was made to inquire into the West Huron gentlemen Pressing their dlaims. All could
election, It was flot necessary for a gen- flot be accommodated, et the time. My bon.
tleman to risc in his place and say be friend on my left (Mr. Milis) got the sealt
Ibelleved that the statements made ID the to which Mr. Cook refers la his statemeut.
That ls a fact, I do say that the proposai contalned ln the
newspapers were true.
but thc question of the seat of West Huron motion is without a parallel ln the hilstory
was one pertinent to the House of Commons of constitutional goverument, that the menito Inquire Into. Thiat seat was ln doubt. bers of the governient should be al
There is no parallel bere whatever to the charged with a very serious offence-1 was
There the sitting goiag to say a crime, and probabiy It would
ease -of West Huron.
member was attacked, and it was only pro- niot be too strong a word-and nt the saine
per the matter should be inquircd inito. tiîne they are to be kept lu entire Ignorance
Theii the otiier instance thiat the hion. geni- of ail the particulars connected with the
tienin alluded to was the iuiquiry made by chnrge. Mr. Cook, s0 far bacc as October
this House into the Drummond County last, whien challenged for the particulars
Railroad. That, in the samne way, was be- said :
fore a conimittee. The company were asicI shall very shortly malie a f ull statement of
lzng for certain privileg-es and advantages. the whole transaction.
It was a proper question to inquire wrhcther
Now, Mr. Cook bas never made a statement
these privileges should be granted to theni. of the whole transaction. Unitil Mr. Cook
Tbey wanted certain amendments to their is prepared to make a statement of that
charter. Lt wvas proper, before grnntlng the transaction I thtnk It would be very cxprlvileges asked for. that the charges made traordinary, and due lu my judgmnent entireagainst theni should be examiaed under ly to political feeling, If the miembers of
oath. That Is no parallel to this case. Here this House were to put the members of the
Is a charge made by n person whio Is entire- govcrnment on trial, more particularly when
]y ontside of this House, who lias accused thc members of! the government absolutely,
minmbers of the government of a corrupt as gentlemen and -men of honour, state that
The hon. leader of the oppo- there Is no truth ln the statement of Mr.
transaction.
sitlon, ln mahkiug this charge, spolce of meni- Cook. I think I would have heard of it,
bers of the government as heing the accused If there.was any foundation for the charge,
parties. We ail know that where a Party because 1 was one of those whio favoured
Is accused, even the greatest criminal. the Mr. Cool. coming Into the Senate.
charge must bc laid, the facts must hel
stated. If the charge is made agalnst an
Hion. Mr. PRO WSE-Why does not the
ludividual, even for the sniallest offence, mInister prosecute Mir. Cook for perjury ?
thc Incident of It, the names of the parties,
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-Because It would not
must be given to the magistrate and grand
jury before it goes on for trial and Investi- be proper. If you touch piteh you will be
gation, yet this House Is called upon to say detiled. If you corne ln contact with men
that fifteen members, comprislng the ad- of that character you cannot fail to be deministration, are gullty of a corrupt act. graded. Mr. Cool. bas been cailed on over
They decline to say through whiat channel and over again to substantiate bis charge.
They Why does hie not do It lik-e a man ? Why
that corrupt act was performed.
decline to say to the party making thos does hie not say such a man made an overcharges: ' You must naine the mnember 0 turc to me ? In bis document hie does not
the government that was gullty, or the say thiat a mnember o! the goveriiment made
o'rp'it that was employed.' They say: '%Ve It, but It was throughl an agent that a letter
wilI get a committee and spring the char- was shown to hlm, addressed to this agent,
Why
I have known Mr. that was lntended for Mr. Cook.
ges on the accused.'
Cookc for many years. and have recognized does flot Mr. Cool, produce that, or tell us
hlm as being a leading Liberal ln his time, who the agent was ? Why Is this House
and one that might some day fairly dlaimi called upon to name a committee to probe
a seat ln the Senate, but It s0 happened Into charges that are not definitely made ?
Hoei. Mr. SCOTT.

[MIÂROH 12, 1901]

89

the Hlse should maire such au iuqulY.
fie said :
Trhe House had un undoubted rlght at any
timne ta inquire after the expenditure of public maneys by the departinents of goverumeat,
or by Cthers ehitrusted. with the expenditure.
But usuch a clase af cases waa altogether aoide
tram the present ane, as la these charges there
was njo reference to any complaint af that character, no allegation of any publie money havIng been mîsapproprlatedl or maladministered.
If there «Yras any maladmainistration ln the
department, or misappropriatlon o! the public funds, It would be a proper thlng to Inquire into. Mr. Cook dld not get a seat ; no
money was pald iby Mr. Cook. It is alleged
that somebody sald to somebody else that If
Mr. Cook would contribute $10,000 he would
get a seat. It ls on that vague, Indefinite
and uncertain testimony that the goverament of this 'counrtry 'Is to be placed on Its
trial lnx the face o! thxe aJbsolute statement
of 61r Wiifrid Laurier that there Is flot ani
atom o! truth ln It. I etate here, as a member of -the government, 'that 1 neyer heard
the thing alluded to ln fixe most remote
degree.
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-We take that for
granted.
-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have sme regard for
my own -word as a gentleman. I say that 1
.No ranguage could be stronger than that of neyer beard a scintilla of it until 1 saw it
Sir John Thompson, even whiere Mr. Edgar la fixe public press. 0f course, It ls witlxln
went fully Into the fact that Sir Adolphe the bounda o! possibility that smre member
had received $100,000 froin Mr. Iloss, who of thxe government may have done If. I do
was a member of a construction committee flot belleve if could be so, but If If was,
who were building the Lake St. John Rail- ,why should flot the name Le brought forway. Hie went Into ail the details, gave ward ? Are fiteex gentlemen to stand bethe disposition o! the money used for ec- fore this country, purt on their trial by a
There was no dispute ou cammlttee of the iSenate lu order that Mr.
tion purposes.
that point, yet we find thxe leader of the. CJook inay keep the public In the meafltlme
Couservative party on that occasion warn- advlsed thât écome terrible scandai bail been
ing the House that they oughit to be cftutlous perpetrated by the Laurier administrationx
about entering on an inÏluiry of that kl-nd, I do flot think that la fair. I do flot thlnk I
a.ttacklng the character and reputation o! deserve, or any colleague of mine deserves
au Iludividual, without smre more substan- to be placed ln that position. The very tact
Yet ail the of this Hanse granting that commlttee la atn
tial proof being furnlshed.
faets were galle luta on that occasion. The Imputation that tixere lasme foundation
It was not for the charge, and any gentleman who
figure was named, $100,000.
denied tbat Sir Adolphe Caron got $1(>,000J votes for It votes with the belle! lu hls mlnd
froin Ross. but It n'as saîd that 1 think It that there ls foundation for Mr. Cook makwas $25,000 was a gîft from Ross, and was lng bis charge.
flot couuected with the money voted by
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Whft nbout those
parliameit for the building of the railway
who vote against It ?
froin Quebec ta Lake St. John. Yet, in the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those who vote ag-alnst
face of ail tlit, Sir John Thornpsaux tooli
the ground tîxat it was v-ery iunproper that It belleve that this flouse bas notbing what-

Tite prInciple 15 certalnly laid down VerY
clearly ln ail the books, that eny gentleman
maklng an accusation agalnst a uxember of
Senate, or a member of thxe governflx5nt, ls
The
bound to assume thxe responsiblllty.
bon. gentleman from Marshfleld saykLitlrnt
the bon, leader of the opposition does asume thxe responslbility. Let: hlm say ta.
Let hlmn rise ln bis place and say, justas
Mr. Edgar did ln the case ulluded to agalust
Sir Adolphe Caron, that he is credlbly luformed, and believes that the charge can
be establlhed by satisfactory evideuce.
Evexi on that statement, the flouse of Coinmous refused to grant a commlttee and xny
bon. friend himself voted against kt even
on thnt sta-tement. Let us read wbat Sir
John Thompson says about charges made
without due consideration and without the
evideuce belng first piaced before the accused. Hie says :
It rested wlth the House to carefuliy consider
how far it should accede to the request or a
member, ln preferrlng charges agalnst the personal character of another, in entertainlng andi
inveaUgatlng such charges. That in nodolng
the Hause undertook to aot in a judiclal capaclty towards a fellow-member, and ought ta be
cautions as ta the character and classaof charges
with respect ta which It would undertake to ex,ercise such judicil functions.

[SENATE]
ever to do with it. No seat Is affected in
this House. It is an ile charge outslde of
this bouse, I will not say arising fr11 political feeling, but the public outside mnay
draw their own inferences from it, ln order
to niake a temporary attack'oâ the government, and put them on their trial for a short
Urne. I believe there Is a higlier feeling lu11uenclng this bouse. There la nothlng before the Senate to justify sucli a course.
As I have said, the mennest criminal could
nlot be put on lis trial on a charge of that
kind. A man would have to go to a magîs-trate and disclose ahl the facts. Me would
have to give the narnes of the persons and
witnesses that have to be called before a man
could be put on his trial at ahl, and yet It is
proposed bore to constitute a court to examine Into this matter to see If they cannot
get something to fasten a charge on the goverament and cast upon them some base Imputation that would be unworthy a Mînister
of the Crown la the face of the statement
made by the premier of this country.
bon. Mr. McMILLAN-Is not the spirit of
the motion more to preserve the dignlty of
this House than to try the ministers ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There la no question'of
the dignifty of this House unless the bouse
believes the minister ls guilty of the charge.
The people outslde do not believe the charge.
If this bouse la ready to support the party
newspapers that cast niud at the government, lt la an unworthy position for the
Senate to occupy. Of course, if the matter
-bas been prejudged, as I Imagine it la, frorn
the voltes I hiear around me, I suppose this
bouse can carry the motion. I do not
thlnk,'
however, they will add mucli to their reputation or honour.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The hon, gentleman does neot add to Its honour by refusîng
a committee. We want te clear ourseli-es
If there la anything la It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hon. gentlemen do not
hold thomsclves respoasible for what this
governmeut niay have done.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-If they are guilty
of that charge, I would flot want to associnte with them very long. 1 do not say
they are guilty. Par fromn IL, but I want
to give'theni a chance to show they are not
guîlty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hion, gentleman
froin Marshtield to-ok occasion to have a
fling at Mr. Blair. 1 do nlot know what object there was ln drawing hinm Into the controversy.
If the hou. gentleman desired
some Illustrations of the use made of this
Senate ln the past I could give them, wliere
members were allowed to drop out of this
Huse to contest a constltuency, and then,
when defeated, to corne back again? If that
was flot rnaklng use of the Senate, I do flot
know what you would caîl it. Durlng the
eighteen years I was on the other side of
the bouse, the Senate wvas made an absolute
convenience by the governmnent of the day.
When a member was consldered a strong
man lie was allowed to wlthdraw f rom the
Senate, and when defeated was put bacir.
That was maklng use of the Senate. I arn
referring to the observation made by the
hon. gentleman from Marshfield in which
he dragged in the cases of Mr. Blair and
Mr. King, which have no bearîng on or
parallel with the case now before us. This
question is ln a nutshéll. Ail I can say la,
I do not thlnk It is consistent with the
chlaracter of this Senate that a case of this
kind should go to a committee. I know of
no parallel to It ia this Chamber since 1
have been here, -nor in the history of the
House of Lords. The government is put on
lis trial for what some ou;tsider, who had
no connection with the body, for what no
senator alleges, no one will allege, and what
the outsider will not confirm la any way by
disclosing la advance who the guilty person
wjas, or wbo the agent was that was employed as a go-between, .between the guilty
government and hlmself. In the absence of
those statements it is extremely undignified
aad improper of this Chamber to grant a
committee.
Hou. Sir M~ACKENZIE BOWELL-When
the charge w«s made agalnst me, as a member of the government, 1 rose at once and
cballenged týhe gentleman to send it to a
committee and make'an Investigation. I objected to it standing on the order paper for
a single hour, and Mr. Edgar, If you will
look et the report, gave me credit for the
position I took. If hon, gentlemen consider
themselves at ahl mallgned let tlier do as
I did.
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-I feel that the House
has been taken a little advantnge of by the

j

[MARCH 13, 1901]
leader of the Senate, inasmi.ch as I understood, whien the proposition -was made to
the leader of the opposition that the motion
proposed by hlm should be altered and certain naines eliminated, that the motion itself would be allowed to go witlhout any

clusively that the accommodations whiech 1
mentioned are very urgently needed.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shonld like the hion.
gentleman to allow this inqniry to stand.
Mr. Blair has been 111 for some days. I
sent the question down to bis bouse, and I
division.
sent also the remarks made by the bon.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
gentleman when lntroducing It, and perhaps lie can let It stand tili Monday. Mr.
Hon. '-\r. PROWSE-As the bon. gentle- Blair bas a bad cold and can not g-et out.
man lias provoked a discussion on the matter and is deternijned to divide the House
The motion was allowed to stand.
on the question, it is well it should be ful]y
discussed, nnd 1 therefore inove the adjournBILLS INTI2ODU.CED.
nient of tlue debate.
Bill (C) 'An Act for the relief of James
The motion was agreed to.
Ward Macdonald.'- (Hon. Mr. Perlcy.)
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill1 (À) 'Ali Ac't rclating ro the Grand
Trtunk PRaîlwaty Comipnny of Ca.nadit.'-(Hofl.
isir MaIýekenzie Bowell>.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottiwa, 'Wednesday, Marclt 13, 1901.

Bill (D) 'An Act for the relief of Lilias
Middleton.'-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
INDEPENDENCE OF THE SENATETHE COOK CASE.
DEBATE OONOLUDED.
The Order of the Day being called
Resuming the adjourned Debate on the motion
of the Honi. Sir Mackenzie Iiowell :
That hie wili cali the attention of the Senate
to certain teiegrams, letters and an afidavit
whlch appeared ln a number of newspapers
publisbed in Canada durtng the montli of Octaber, 1900, as follows :

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
(From the Montre-ai Gazette of the lZtli Octoo'clock.
ber, 1900.)
Prayrs nd rocedigs.Owven
outne

Sound, Ont., Oct. 12.-At the opening
meeting of the Liberal canipaign ta North Grey,
spoke
E. H.
TERMINAL FACILITIES AND ACCOM- Dr. Annan, Horsey, the Liberai candidate, H. G.
whcn hie was oppased by Mr.
at
MODATION AT PICTOU.
Tiicker.
During Mr. Tuclier's iLddress. reference was
made ta the manifesta of Mr. H. H. Cook, and
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
In reply Dr. Horsey claimed that Mr. Cook had
ieft his party because hie had been refused a
The Order of the Day heing called
senatorshtp.
Mx.Tucker afte.rwards teIeplianed Mr. Cook
By the Hon. Mr. Primrose
That lie wvill inquire whether tt is the in:ten- andllearned from hlm that the reason lie bad
tion of the governrnent ta provide, at an early le! t lis party was that Sir Wilfrid Laurier and
date, for much needed terminal facilities tn the I ther members of the cabinet, througli an agent,
shape of an enlarged station bouse. additianal wlia was sent speciallW to Toronto to interview
yard. and freiglit shed room. as well as increased Mr. Cook, off ered Mr. Cook a senatorshtp, and
bertli accommodation at the railway whiarfs, for stated that, owing ta lis long and useful itcareer
upani
vessels loading and unloading cargo at the part ifn the~ Liberal party. lie wüuld receive
payment of $10.000.
0f Pictou, Nova Scatta ?
IMr. Cook refused the position under the cirstated that hie would do
cumstafl2es.
Hon. MNr.PRIROSE saici: I do flot pro-1 Sin his powe'r and ous~t those who wvere guilty ail
of
ta
pose to add anything ta what I sald onl 1,uch barcfaccd acte of corruption.
also stated
Frldny last, when I gave myv notice of 1Dr. Hcersey Mr. Cook andthat lie hael ta been apuse his
requested
! roaclied by
motion, because 1 thinik 1 placed. as plainly influence in getting Mr. Cook a senatorship.
Mr. Cook telegraphed Mr. Tucker, in reply ta a
as possible, before the Hanse the actual
condition of the matters ta which I refer- leileplione message-, the following words :Harsey
' Re your question, I neyer asked Dr.
red, and 1 think I have proved pretty con- to assist me in getting a senatorship. I have

[SENATE]

9-1

no confidence in thc mari, and knew~ hie had no
influence. 1 Nas an applicant fcr a ssenatorship,
but whien it was offered tri me the price was
trio lsigh.
ii. H.. COOK.,
atNorh
st igh Kppe Dr Hoseyden
Lat igtaNrttKpeDrHoe>dnied
that Mr. Cjok had ever namied ariy membeis oft
the cabinet, arid as a resuit rit a conversation
over the 'phone to-day, Mr. Crirk telegrapbcd
Mr. Tucker in the tcsllowing words :-responstbi'lity
'Pries demanded trom me for a senatorship

,vas $1o,ooo.
(From the

H.

H. COOK.'

Montreal Herald oft the 15th
ber, 1900.)

Octo-

agent rit bis demanded frein me an>' sum of
înoneY, &c.
Sir Wiltrid Is tri aieak tin Toronto
to-morrow n.lght, and I shabi watt tri see wbat
In
ho miay have tri sa>' then upon titis subjeet.
the meantirne, I say that the staternent already
te absolutely true,
to Mr. Tueker
made byje
ha
hn 1 ver>' shortly make a f ull staternentori
the whole transaction, or what would have been
a transaction, bad I consented tr ibe bled. Possib>' Sir Wilfrid mnay bie wllng tri escape the
by denylng the agericy of the parties. There were two cf thern who, apprriachedl

me, but no such pretense will avafi them.

The

coninection oft these gentlemen wlth the mnembers rit the goverrment ta known tri evor> one.
flot be able tri decelve an>'
wtl
a.nd he711 alpy
rifl b'ptending that the>' diii fot corne to me
dtet rom the griverriment, rir that tbe propositioin they made was flot made by authority.'

The Gazette this moraing publishes the fol
lc.wing letter from Sir Wiltrid Laurier :
To the Editor rit the Gazette :(Firom
the Mail-Emnpire of 3lst October, 1900.)
Sir,-In the Gazette of titis nioring there appears a telegraphic report rif a meeting tseld at Affidavit rif H. H. Cook In reply tri Sir Wiltrid's
Denial-Has documents and witnesses.
Owen Sriurid, Ontario, ini whiçh the following'
-Is willing tri place evidenco
statemen occurs :a royal commission.
During Mr. Tucker's add.ress retersoce was Ibefore
mnade tri the manitasti rif '.%r. H. H. Cook, and
In rep>' Dr. Hlorsey clairned that Mr. Criok had jHaving made a Btatement tri the etterit that I
left bis party hecauae bie had beln retused al had been asked b>' a person acting on behait
of the members oft the present Dominirin cabinet,
senatrirship.
Mr. Tueker afterwards teilepined Mr. Cook,. or certain rif them, tri pay a sun of $10,000 tin
and learried frri'm bina that the rea.son hie had 1corisideration rit ry being appointed a member
left bis part>' was that Sir Wilfrid Laurier and it the Senate rif Canada, and this having been
other members rit the cabinet, thrriugh an agent catled tin question, 1 deemi it my duty tri make
wbri was sent specially t.. Toirontri tri interview a plain statement tri the public oft the translacMr. Corik, offored Mr. Cook a senatrirship. and 1tion or attempted transaction. I arn the more
stated that, owing tri bis long and usetul career convinced that tt Is my duty tri do tbis, because
lu the Liberai party, be would roceive It upon the Prime Minister, Right Hon.Sir Wilfrid Laujrier, bas, 1 arn infored made a statement whicbh
payment &it $10.000.'
Comnîenting upon the above, yen sa>' editorial- hie evideritly desires the public tri accept as a
denial, or authoritative contradiction, rif the
1>'
Mr. ookwasan
ldpromnen an bail-atoresaid statement made b>' me.
'Mr.CDokwasan pomient nd hrîod,
1, etherefore, say that tbe tacts in conne-ctirin
working Liberal, andi was tri get bis seat at a with this mV.tter are as to-iritta:
bargain, frir $10,000. WbVat did the unknowna
I was a candidate for elecdirn as the reprePay ? Wio was tri get Mr. Crirk's $10,000, and sentative in the Dominion Hriuse rit Crimmons
what was tri be donc witb it ? These are que,- rit the east ridlng rit the count' oft Simicre in
tieas that Sir Wiltrid Laurier must answer per- the year 1896, and in tbat conteat was su-pporteil
soala]>.
He la the hea f i the government titat by Sir Wilfrid Laurier and other members ot
namnei the senatrirs. Hie perarinal> ailviseil the tbe cabinet as the candidate rit the Liberal party.
Griverrirr Generail when senatrirs ivere appriinted. Failling rit e-lectirin for the east riding rit Sirnoe,
He carinot go tri the country on prilling day with I made applicatirin tr ibe appriinted tri a poisitirin
this charge unariswo-red, and with tbe senatririalint
the Senate rit Canada, then vacant. In cion1
tolîtaker unexposed amnd unpunished.'
neictirin witb this app ltct
I *had Interviews
I amrnflt preparcd tri admit tfiat a mari in with membezrs rif the cabinet andr athers. and
public lite shonld be answerable for charges rit wrrite and received letters tromn thens, tbe crithis character, unless they are supprirted b>' gina.ls rir copies rit tvich 1 have kept.
Atter these negotiatirins bad prriceeded for
Brime kind rit evudence wbicb wriuld give tbem i
crilour at firat sigbt. 1, however, tysive tbe rlght a considerable length rit turne I receiveil a tellerit ignriring such an accusatioin, andi I bere and gramu troin Ottawa, frot rime
rit tbe leading
now make the stateinent for myseit andl my col Rtrmi nmbers, knuwri tri passess the contiLaurier grivernmerit, requesting me
leagues. that there is orit a shadrw rit tounda- douce rihe
tirin
the charge rit Mr. Coock ;tlîat I neyer, to meet hlma at the Unlin station tin Trornto.
direcU>' or iiidirectly. thrriugh an agent rir other- II did meet bim as requesteil, and be o.ben showWise, muade an>' demanil upton hlm trir an>' sum 1 efi me a letter which. had been written tri him
rit surne>', big or smatI, or nnytbiuig else.
by rime rit the members et the cabinet (tfor the
1 give the whcle charge the moat unqualifleil purprise. as hie salid, rit being shriwn tio me), in
me that I
and emphatic denial, andl 1 challenge tbe proot wbich. he wa3 authorizeil tri iritri
of the saine.
coutld bave the position 1 bail applied for, pro' (o
sometbing.'
1 thereupon
videl I wrilild
W'ILFRID LAURIER.
Moit-real, Octriber 13.
iasked hlm what this expression was intended
tri mean, and wbat wvas the~ ' sumething' I was
asked or expecteil tri 4'dri.'
(Frrir the Torointri Wrrld, October 16, 1900.)
Ho then infrirmeil nie tbat I would be reIn an interview with a representative ot the quired or expected tri psy a sum rit $10,000.
World yesterilay, Mr'. H. H. Cook said :
I told hlm ver>' ernphaticatly that 1 wriuld not
I have read the statement made b>' Sir «Ml- psy that or an>' other sum. He thereupon sld
trid Laurier b>' wsy rit dental that hie or aDY that hie would flot riccept su> answer as final,
Hrin. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[NIARCH. 13, 1901]

but wou'ld see me again after I should have bad
tine to give the matter further consideration.
LateT I agaîn met hlm ln Taronto, when he
again tolld me that he was autborized to say
positivedly that if I would pay the sum he had
fbr'merly named , that is, $10,000, I would be appointed a senator. I again reiused ta pay any
sum of money.
I further say that I have ln my possession
a large number of letters, wrîtten by members.
of the .govern'ment and parsans acting on behaif
of one' or more such members, and copies of
some letters. the originais of which I wss requested to rerturn atter perusal, and did return
aiso copies of iletters writteu by me in reply
to letters sa received, and that theee Ietters
and copies of letters bear corroborative evidence in support of the statement above made
by -me.
And I further say and promise that should an
investigation be made by a campetent and impartial non-partisan commission ino the whale
matter of the sale or attempted sale of senatarships, as it has been rcently intimated by the
Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bawell may be made, I will
appear befare such commission and give evidence, and produce the carrespondence aLnd copies
of correspandence which I have in my posses sien, and will alsa furnish the names of witnesses wba can corrobarate mny kstatenients.
Dominion of Canada,
Province af Ontario,
County of Yark.
I, Herman He!1.ry Cook, ai the city o! Toronto,
ln the county of York, lumber merchant,
Do solenîngy declare that ail the foregoing
statements arc true in substance and ln fact.
And I make this sc-lemn declarationl conscienticusly, believing it ta be truc and knowing
that It la of the ame farce and effect as If made
urder oath snd by virtue of the Canada Evidence Act, 1893.
H. H-. OOOK.
Declared before me ai the city of Toronto, In
the ccunty of York, this 30th day of October. A.D. 1900.
H. CORDON,
Natary Public, Ontario.
[Seal.]
(From the Toronto Globe of Octobr 3.1, 1900.)
Sir Wilfrid Laurier's Reply to the Statement of
Mr. Cook.
Montreal, Oct. 31-' In answer la Mr. H. H.
Caak's last statement, I reiterate my denia],
already publIshedj. I neyer anthorized anybody,
cither directly or indirectly, ta interview Mlr'
Ccak on bohaîf of the goveramnent.
Nobody
had my autharity, either written or verbal, from
me ta approach hlm. and I characterize the whole
accusation as a fouI slander.
' WILFRID LAURIER.'
And mave the following resolution, seconided
by Han. Mr. Landry, that in view af the grevity
of the statements and allegatians contaJned in
the foregoing quoted telegrarns, letters and affidavit, rellecting as they do upon the pivileges
and dignity of the Senate, a special commIttee
be appointed to inquire into the truth ai the
statements and allegations made ln said tejegrams, letters and affidavit, with power ta a<rnd
for persoa
aud papera. ta administer antbs,
empioy shorthand reporters, and, if dleenmed adta report from
visable, engage caunsel ;ard
time ta time.

93

Hon. Mr. PROWSE said: I was under
the Impression, until yesterday afternoon,
that the government was not disposed to
oppose the motion made by the hon, leader
of the opposition, for a commlttee to lnvestigate the charges made by Mr. Cook,
and I have had very littie time ta think
over the subject, I have no intention or
desire, at this stage of the proceedlngs, to
speak on this question at any length. and
my observations will be f ew and short. 1
wlsh to say In the first place that to my
mind the goverument have made a mistake,
a very great mistake, in making this a
party question. It is in no sense a party
question.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
hear.
to me
Hon.1 M1r.PRO WSE-It -appears
simpy to be n family quarrel. on the part
of the goverrument and their friends, and the
Senate has nothing to do with it beyond pr~otecting their own honour and reputation. It
appears to me thnt by showing opposition to
the appointment of thls committee, the government Is placing itself ln a very false
position. It would have been much better,
in my opinion, had the government snid :
'Our hands are dlean. We do not oppose
Investigation. We court investigation, and
we are anxious that these charges that are
made by this gentleman, Mr. Cook, shall
be proved to be absolutely fnlse and unfounded.' But, lnstend of that, it appears
at the very outset that nn opposition is
rnised and a division la to be taken to burk
If, unfortunately,
the inquiry altogether.
the. ministry should be found guilty, it would
not redound to the credit of the Senate of
Canada. The Inference must be drawn that
there was something ln these charges that
the government was afrald of belng investigated. I hope when this investigation
takes place--and I believe that It wlU take
place-for the credit of Canada, and for
the credit of the Senate as well, that the
charges that have been preferred will be
proved to be unfounded, and that It may be
in accordance wlth the statement af the
hon, leader of the government that there
is not a scintilla of truth or fact in these
charges.
If this question did not affect the honour
and reputation and character af the Senate

[SENATE]

94

of Canada, 1 do flot knlow that we would hiving contributed large sums of mouney for
be justified in taking it up ut titis time. political purposes, then 1 say the usefulness
We k-now that the party !i power, or somne of the Seniate will sooni be gone, and tite
persons connected witb the governiment, sooner it is, flot reforined exactly, but
have for some years past declared that it abolished altogether, the better for the
1 should be very sorry to believe,
-%vas niecessary to reformu the Senate, and country.
different systeius of reform. have been pro- and I ar nfot yet prepared to believe, that
posed and suggested by the Liberal press the government of the day was prepared to
Lt is true, the last year give Mr. Cool, a seat in this Chamber on* thte
in years gone by.
1 leave myseif open
-or two we have heard very littie about paymellt OS~ $10,000.
Lt appears the reformis 1ulntil 1 hiear the evitietce tiat inay be adSenate reformi.
that tite govQrrineiit proposed to make lu duced in support of titat charge or othertitis body were to be effected by introducing! %vise, and then 1 shall be in a position to
We judge wliethcr te statetîtent is truc or
men more lu accord -witi titeir views.
But I consider a prima fadie case
tiud no tault NvItli that, whden they introduce false.
gentleme-n h'erc qua]ified to sit !i titis Ciam- has been mnade out by a solenîtii declaration,
ber attd deliberate ou the great questions jwhichi is equal, in the eyes of the law, to an
Wleît they oath, aud the party whio wakes it and inakes
comiing before thte counttry.
have a iiaajority iit this Ilouse, wve hiave 11o it falsely is liable to .ail the pains and
right ru ltnd fault witlt their proceedinigs, petnalties attached t0 pcrjury, and it does
but if genilentenit re pl:aced ut titis Ciain- itot do even for thte leader of thec goveriibelr because they aie 1îiepar(d to contribute, meînet Iiinsclf to say that there is not a
Tlie
larreiy 'tu politiettl futtds of' lte party i~ii scintilla of trutit in tlî:t stâtentent.
power, it is a disgrace to te Scitate of lucre declaration of thte prenmier will itot
We satisfy titis counttry tîtat the sw-orin stateatadaaîd to the coulitry at large.
The lic direct
hiave the plaineds, I)robof eore us that there mentt of Mr. Cook is unitrue.
is a prima fadie case made out already in is given l one case or flhc otbier, and it is,
Lt is it miy opinion, the diuty of thte Senate f0 inthe declaratimt umade by Mr. Cook.
made iin Sucll a îvay thlat I caunot see that vestîgate this mnatter and probe it to the
Mbat is the charge brouglit
tite goveritatetit is justilied in burking the vcry bottom.
1 do ixot objeet f0 miliont- by Mr. Cook against tite prescrit governinvestigation.
aires occupyiîîg scats in titis Chamber. Men ment ? 1 miglit say, iii thte lirst pîlace, titat
Cook has been a lif elong supporter of the
anîd M'Nr.
legitiatate
wlio bave obt.ained, by
Wcý7
know titat hie
itonest timants, large antounits of capital presetit party lu power.
show, to sortie extent at ail evexîts, that lias ruii more titan oîîe electioti and lias becit
He is a mnati of
tbey 1a successful candidate.
they possess linancial abtlîty-tiat
have large antd broad views oit public qunes- large means attd bas spent blis money lavishin securing a seat in the I{ouse of Cointions antd especially of the financial side 0fly
That statement bas been dcclared
the business of titis country, and titis would, Mus.
in my opiniotn, be a proper place for a pro- by him-self before the courts on a former
1 tbink in one election alone If
portion, at nil events, of that class of the coin- occasion.
ntuflity f0 have representatton. but 1 would cost imn hetweeni $20,OOO and $30,000, showîlot say thant flhc Scitate is to be lilled up iîîg fliat lie Is tiot a man wbo is penuriousThere are men of showving that, la order to assist bis party,
entireîr wlvtL, sucli mcen.
broad-rninded views ln the lower wvalkrs of lie îvas prepared to contribute largely of bis
is right or
Whetber tat
life also-tuen %-ho are itot hlessed witlt a private ineanis.
deal of titis worldI's goods, wbo liave not, is not my purpose now to discuss, but
great
shows that lie w-as prepared to cotîtribute
towedg 0ftit nfaiî 0ftheit
as rea a
csuîttrv as jillonaires he. andir if the largely of bis mens for the support of tite
couitr asinilioaies ad
iav,
i thseparty now in pow-er, and 1 find tîtat rny
gentlemen coîne iii here witlt tieir broad lion. friend the Secretary of State, in bis
viewvs andî extenive ktowledge attd take speech of yesterday, admitted that Mr.
part it the debates of tItis Iluse, it ýwill Cool, bad dlaims upon the party.
He
add to flic iîîterest of the proceedings botit says
But
heme nnd before the country at large.
I have known Mr. Cook for many years, and
if gentlemen are f0 be giveit seats bore for bave reco gnized him as beinig a leadlng Liberal
Hon. Mr. PIROWSE.

[MARCH

13, 19011

da-v and one that mlaht soine day falrly Ivocate of Mr. Cook's appoiutnient. I think
if ainy man liad a dlaim on account of
claim a seat in the Senate.
party, Mr. 000ki
Notwlthstandiflg lie liad contrlbuted ail moneys expended for the
and It was had a dlaim to the position on thiat ground.
this large amount of money,
the premier, in repiy to
known to the Secretary of State lie had I notice also that
his election to the House the first statement made by Mr. Cook,
done so, to secure
of Commons, that did flot deprive him of says .
myseif
the abulîty to dlaim a seat in this Chamber.
I m and now make the statement for
and bere coleagues that there is flot a shadow
But lie says:of a foundation for the charge of Mr. Cook.
It so bappened at the time Mr. Cook was pressNow, that is a very sweel)ifg stateinent
ing lits dlaim there were eighteen or twenty
Ail could flot; for the premier to inake, iiot oniy for ilmngentlemen pressing their dlaims.
be accommodiied at the time. My bon. friend
on my lef t (Mr. Mills) got the seat te which Mr. self, but for his colleagues. lhat there w'as
Cook refers in his statement.
iot a shadow of founidation for the staten
Coo00k
It appears that the leader of the House 1ment. If tlîat assertion be truc.
was one of the applicants for this position. 1must haive fabricated tbis statemnent out of
I cari scarcely believe that.
xhole cloth.
Hon. r. MLLS-o.
cannot but tbilk there w' ns some shadow
Hon.Mr.
ILLSNo.I
Hon. Mr. PItOWSE-That is the inif<rewn'c cf founidation for it iii some -way or other.
to be drawn fromi the staternient o; th'e Lt nuiy niot he brouglit horne to the goveînent-I hope it wviil flot be brouglit home
Stte.
Secrear3'cf
to the goverunient, but tlîat there was a
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No.
shadow o! a founidation foi, it, I have inot
lon. entema
SEIf
Hon.Mr.PROW te
SE-f
Hon.Mr.PRO th bo. gntlmanthe Ieast doubt lu the world, and bow the
ttmn
denies it, I take his word that lie w-as out- peircudnaesc
ln. hi

1cannot imagine. He says:
sideof tis ortweny.
eghten
Honi. Mr. PRIMIROSE-In the case or so -there is not a shadow of faundation in the
1 neyer, directly or
many applicants there was an emhairrass-! charge of Mr. Cok; that or otherwise, made
indirectiy, through anagent
any demand upon him for any sum. of mofley.
mient o! riches.
big or smail, or for anything else. I give the
emphatlc
Hon. Mr. PROW7SE-Thien, further on, the 1whole chargeI the most unquaiified and the samne.
challenge the proof of
denial, and
,
il ..
words:
1 ivas one of tho'se who favoured Mr. Cook
corning into the Senate.
In reply to my iniquiry, a littie later on, as
to w-by the governinent hiad flot proseduteil
Mfr. Cook for perjury if bis deciaration was
a tissue of falsehoods. what does the Secretary of State say:
We did not do it because it would not be
If you touch pitch you miii be defiled.
proper.
This '4pitci *' w-as the gentlemnan that the
lion. Secretary of State considered worthy
of a seat in the Senate:
If yen touch pitch you will be defiled; if yon
corne in contact with people of that character,
yon cannot fal te become degraded.
When did bie become degraded ? Hie evidentiy advocated bis appointment wheni Mr.
Cool- was presenting bis dlaims. It appears
lie was pressing bis dlaims for a long- timie.
He had interviewed the leaders of the party.
nnd during this time, I talce it, fromn wbia'
the Secretary cf State said, lie was au ad-

In this statemient. the first in whicb Sir
WNiifricl Laurier re fers to the mnatter, lie
spcal:s for hiniseif and bis colleagues. Later
Cook bad made bis statutory
on, w'ben MiNr.
deciaration. baving the saine effeut as au
oath, the Prime Minister agnini appears la
print, and this time hie says:
Nohody had ioy authorlty, either written or
verbal, to approach him, and I characterize the
whole accusation as a vile siander.
He doas not speal. there for bis colleagues,
but for bimseif, but lie nevertheiess denounces the whle charge, supported as lt
was by a solimo declaration, as a vile
I tbink
siander on the part of Mr. Cook.
that that of îtseif is quite sufficient to
justlfy this House la apjiointing a committee. In fact, I consider that the House Is
bound to appoint a committee and investigate this matter to the very bottom, and
If it
to find out wlio is telling the trutb.
can lie proved that Mr. Cook is telling an
untruth, and lias made this statement and

[SENATE]
declaration out of whole cloth, the govern- 1 believe is touring through Europe and
ment will flot be besmirched, and there wIll otlw'r parts of the world at the present
be no reflection on the members of the time. But he is flot fulfilling his duties as
H1e bas taken ail the lionour,
Senate here, but the hon. Secretary of State a senator.
In a speech yesterday told us that every- but lias flot taken part ln the debates and
body could flot be satisfied. They had flot labour of the Senate, and it would be lnThere weré teresting to know how much that gentleplums enough to go round.
eighteen or twenty applicants for the posi- man contributed for the privileges he nomintion. But there were other vacancies la ally holds ln the Senate.
Ontario to be filled. 110w was it that the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I rise to a question of
Minister of Justice got the seat that Mr. order. If the hon. gentleman has a charge
Cook was applylng for at that trne ? 110w to make, he is entitled to make it, but he
is It that Mr. Cook did flot get the seat he is flot eutitled to, insinuate that the hon.
was entltled to, ln accordance wîth the gentlemnan frorn Toronto, or the hon. gentieview of the hon. Secretary of State ? Otherma
r
Bokilraybdesbs
gentlemen have been appointed since the contributed $10,000 or $20,000 to a governhon. Minister of Justice was appointed. ment fund for political purposes to obtain
Let us see who they are.
The first ap- a seat in this House. If the hon. gentlepointed, after the Minister of Justice, is thema
netishtvewadtik
e
hon. gentleman wlio sits alongside of hlmneuetbihih
i entle toak o
nildt
s
o
heoe
cann esMbr.l
Cot, getsma
anthe
(Ho. M. Cx) getlmanwho~Sa comniittee, and I arn one wbo will flot
reputed to be very wealtliy, and thie ques-'rfs
i
fh
aesta
epniiiy
epniiiy
aesta
reuehmini
tion cornes up here, and will corne up
the rninds of the people of the country, and but lie must not indulge lu slaudering a
must corne up lu the minds of the members large number of lion, gentlemen in this
of the Senate if you defeat this resolution, House.
'-Ir. PROWSE-I arn much obliged
if you deprive this House and the country IHon.
of an investigation into these charges, how to the lion. leader of the House for his
mucli did this other gentleman pay for this lecture. I have not cliarged these lion. g-enseat. Did he corne down witli his ten tlemen witli contributing one dollar for
thousand dollars or twenty or fifty thousand their position, but I do say these hon. gendollars ? Then there are otheriý.getIernen tiemen stand on ticklish ground, and if they
who followed the hon. gentleiùafl from oppose this resolution of the lion, leader of
Toronto lu this House. The next member tlie opposition, the country will have a riglit
is from Cobourg, Ontario <Hon. 'Mr. Kerr). to suspect them of contributing to the funds
I thlnk these gentlemen dare flot, If they of the party for their position in this
value their own reputation, vote agalnst the House, and I say to, ail these hon. gentleproposed Investigation. If they do, 1 can men that it is their duty, ln my opiniontell them that this country will 1001, upon and it is flot only their duty, but it will be
them with suspicion-will suspect that they to their credit, to vote for the fullest lnbouglit their position In this House, and I vestigation. It would be to the credit of the
leader of this House and his colleagues
think that they would be justified lu looking at it lu that Iliglt. I say that these hon. lu the goverument, not only willingly to supgentlemen are bound lu honour to, vote lu port this resolution, but to do their very
favour of the resolution proposed by the! utmost to probe this question to the bottom
0f the opposition, to make and get at the truth of It. That is the
hou. leader
an investigation Into the charges against! charge I bring ag-ainst the hon, gentlemen,
Mr. Cook, and probe it to the bottom, and we will see how they vote on this
and find out the truth. Then there is resolution. It will be most damagîng
another hon. member who was introduced against the goverument lu this House or
at the beginaing of last session, and I any other, if they vote against the resodo not think I have seen hlm sînce 'lution proposed by the lion, leader of the
110w much did lie contribute for lis; opposition, and defeat the object whldh it
That Is the hon, gentleman lias in vlew. But I will go through the list.
position.
from Broekvllle (Hon. Mr. Fulford), wlio There are other hon, gentlemen who have
Hon. Mr. PROWSE.

Ihon.

[MARCH 13, 1901]
seats ln this House, who perliaps neyer contributed as much money for party purposes
as Mr. Cook did, and tliose that 1 have
already named. I. wiUl refer to the hon.
gentleman from Hamilton (Hon. Mr. Wood),
who has a seat ln this House, another ricli
gentleman. He stands ln the sme category
with the others who have >been appolnted,
and we wlll see how these gentlemen wlll
vote on this question, 'whether they wlll
give an independent vote, and vote for the
purification of parliamentHon. Mr. WOOD-Does the hon. gentlemfan InsinuateHon. Mre. PRO WSE-I do flot insinunte
anything. The hon. gentleman lias been appointed te the House since Mr. Cook was
an applIcant, and Mr. Cook was declared by
the hon. Secretary of State te have strong
dlaims fer the senatersbip.

97

to secure a seat in the Senate. We ail
know lie bas been a if e long supporter of
the government. We knew ale-any one
who lias gone throeugh a political campaign
knows-that he must spend a great deai of
money ln securlng bis election unless he has a
constituency more virtuous than smre others.
But the hon. gentleman did nlot s-ay, nefther
did I understand hlm to Insinuate, that lie
pnid any money te get here. I wlll may for
the hon, gentleman from Hamilton, whem I
have known for years, that there le no genS.tleman who deserves the consIderation of
bis party more than lie does. But the hon.
gentleman, in speaking gensrally of the apspeke of the contributions whtch,
I -have ne deixbt, many cf them have made
te the party f und. I do net censider that a
liolitical crime, If ne other ensideration ls
involved, because I think mest of us have
been called upon te do the same thing.

I)eifltmlefts,

Hon. Mr. WOOD-I throw back the inlHon. Mr. SCOTT-Dees the hon. gentiesinuation in the hon. gentlemnan's face and man t'hink lt pertains te the dignity of thls
say that 'it is a piece of Impertinence.
iHouse if, when some hon. gentleman from
the the government aide responds that when Mr.
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-I have no doulit
hon, gentleman lias centributed bis money Se and Se, and Mr. Se and Se were appointIed te this Heuse, that at the time it was
for party purposes.
reperted currently, they bad subscribed
Sorne hon. MEMBER-S-Order, order, or- a very handseme sum in censIderatien of
der.
e
getting senatorships ? ls it riglit that we
Hon. Mr. S0OTT-I rise te a question cf sbeuld take up the newspaper reports ? Will
order. The hon. gentleman has slandered It tend te Increase the respect we have
hon. senators ln this Houme by însinuating fer eacb other that this sort of language
that they came here by virtue ef theïr sbeuld lie used on both sîdes of the House ?
If it is used on one side of the House, It le
meney.
net think ther godug te be used on the ether, and I depiere
Hon. Mr. PROWSEI1 do
teuec
u~ agae
le any questlon of order ln what I said.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I thinli the quesHon. Mr. SCOTT-The question of order is tion before 'the House Is between Mr. Cook
In siandering several hon. senaters whe and the government.
have been .appelnted -te the'Senate by InHon. 'Mr. SCOTT-That la the question.
sinuating, or more than Insi'nuatlng, that
We are net discussing Mr. Woed.
they paid their way -te get here.
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-Nobody who bas
Hen. Mr. PROWSE-I did net do anytbing
iknown Mr. Wood would believe that he had
of the kind.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The hon, gentleman ask- pald money -te get Into thi House. I have
ow
ed te qeston, uchdid heysub knewn'hlm for years, and 1 know a great
te suli- deal of hlm. But this ls a etraiglit question.
edribe quoes t huw muc id
t le the government and Mr. Cook. If there
tI
epltde
nodrt
Hscrb
House 7
I a question of erder let It be declded. I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I un- do net see any question of erder. I dld net
derstood the hon. gentleman te ask hew understand the hon, gentleman addresslng
mucli ddid they subscribe te the party. I dld the House te Insinuate that hon. members
paid. money te: get Into tuie Chainber,
net understand hlm te ask the hon. gentieman from Hamilton how much he subscribed except that Mr. Ceok ,diarges that they told

Ihad

[SENAI'E1
hlm that bie would get a seat in this flouse deliberate falseliood, a sander against the
government, let us make a declaration of it
after the investigation, let it be recorded in
Hon. Mr. MILLS-He went a good deal the minutes of the Senate, thet Mr. Cook 15
h
n
eàvd
etutdo
further than that and iiatimated that a great ntamnt
ad
numbr ofmemers ough thir wy government is pure and honest and straightforward, which 1 hope for their ow a sake
h i
o gb
a
o memb r
Inumberi
the country's sake will be proved -when
his
Huse.and
Into
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ne, nlo. Ithe investigation takes place. But if the
investigaHon. Mr. -MILLS-Aad hie also said that Igovernment is goiflg to burk tis
unless hou. gentlemen would vote for that 'Hou -and prevent the Sena-te from inquiring
resolution it was evidence that tlîey had got into these charges, 1 tell hon, gentlemen that
the country at large, as well ns the lion.
here corruptly. I asi: a rulinig on'tliat.
h on. sellators themiselves, must coaie to the condoDot tink
The SEAKERI
clusion thiat there is something in thie backThe R-Ido ot tinkthe
PEA
cxe
ia
h
gentleman from Murray Harbour is out of gon.smtigbhn
If hie pald se much money.
understand.

That is what I

1 sbould be
obecton as ben ake tomy
orde. A
ill not bear investigation.
giving reasons why I mIle, I say nothing
sorry for this country, and for the govfurtber.very
further.ernment
of the country if such an impresFlon..Mr. PROW7SE-I wlsli to make it sion should go abroad.
distinctly understood that I do flot desire
lo.M.LNEt-1N1d
ltitn
to make myself offensive te any hon. gen- to take up mucli tinie to-day iii discussing
tieman lu this Chumber. I should be very
sorry to charge any man with giving a dol- this matter. It is net a new subject. This
lar for his sent in this House. I want that is a question thiat wvas discussed la the
dIstiactly understood, but 1 was trylig to :1country before the general election, and proshow the false position the gevernment are nounced upoii by tHe people. Lt w-ns a caniplacing these mien lu by asking them te pa1ig] slîeet. Lt %vas cireulated broadca~st
vote agaiast the reselution preposed by the freini eue end ef Canada te the otlher, and
bon, leader ef the opposition. Wby should tHe people expressed their opinion ou tliis
they be afraid te have an Investigation ? camnlaigii sheet, and hon. gentlemen of th:s
Is there' aaythîng te be hid ? Is there any- Seniate k-uow whiat that opinion wvas. The
tbing te lie kept in the bnckground by op hon, gentleman whe introduced this motion
posiag that reselutien ? The inference is la an old parliaminent aria n. He lins had t
thit there is someting, and 1 say te these. weiidoiful position politically. lie bas athon, gentlemen who have beeii appointed tztiied the lnghest position for any oe
since Mr. Cook's application, that the gev- lu pelitical lite to attain. fIe spolie et Mr.
erniment la plnoing them la a very false posi- Coolk, of bis nilegiance te the Liberal party,
tion by asking themn te vote againat an la- et bis pessessing the confidence of the
vestigation, and I say that if I 'were la their Liberal partF, of is liaving been elected
place I would tell them that, as leader of by the Liberal party. Tlîat la ail quite
He aise intimated tliat on that
the party and leader et the geverniment, they true.
could tak-e what course they pleased lu the ground semethuîîg sheuld be done--tlîat ainiatter, but my bands are dlean aad I ami theuîli the electers had proneunced upel.
going 'te vote for an investigation te main- tlîis quiestioni, somietliug sheuld be done,
tain the chamacter and reputatien and dig- that lie wenld yoke the Senate te the chariot
nity of this Chamber, and the dignity and w-leels ef n party and have the question
honour and reputation ef the gevernment breuglit biite the flouse, acting la the beas well. That la the position I take and that hests ef the party, when matters ef that
is the reasoning 1, amn drawing ln reference kind should be investigated in tue ilouse t0
te this matter. I do net kanow that 1 need whiclî they belong. Wlîy should w-e go
go furtber on this question. I tbink the inte these matters whicb pertaili te the
matter is plain, and it ýis evidently the duty pepular body, wlîeîî our tiule miglît be more
of every member of this flouse te, maintain preperly taken up in discussiag matters
its honour and dîgnity and to investigate cenaected witlî the development ef thsý
tbis matter, and if Mr. Cook bas stated a country, and more in the interesta ef the
Hoa. Mr. McCALLUM.

[MARCH 13, 1901]

99

country, both materlally and nationally, and per's campaigil sheets and bringing it into
whieh would maintain and preserve the this House and asking the Senate to, invesdignity whicli the constitution expects the tigate it. He will flot take upon himself
senators would maintain. in this higli and the responsibllty o., saying that lie is credImportant House, the Senate of Canada. If; ibly informed, and that lie believes, thüt
the Senate becomes the beeler of any poli- ile can establisli the charge if lie gets the
He takes none of the saf etical party, it wlll then bie declared that the~ commnittee.
usef ulneas of the Upper House is gone, an 1 guards usually tbrown around the constituthe claims for its abolition will corne frofi tion. Lt is heaôs 1 win, tala you lose. In
ail portions of the country, and justly so. 1other places th.ey take their seat in their
That Is wliat I believe, and wlat isthL, band wlien tliey make a charge against a
sentiment tlîat sbould actuate any mau fellow-mnember in the House. and that is a
wbo bas the honour of holding a seat in the!I pioper provision. But the lion. gentleman
Senate of Canada. The lion. gentleman wbo'opposite will not jeoliardize bis seat by
The riglit bon. Sir Wilfrid
introduced tlîis motion bad a little idea ofr this motioni.
what a dlsappoiated man will do, althougli Laurier takes up) the charge made by Mr.
a member of his party. No one knows that Cook, and gives it the strongest denial tliat
better than the lion. gentleman. No poli-! ean lie given, and If there is aiîy man in
tical leader iii this country ever received Canada wliose word can lie relied on imsucli treatment from thie liands of political, plicitly, that gentleman is the riglit lion.
frienda as did that hion. gentleman, at a! Sir Wilfrid Laurier. Wlien did -Mr. Cook
critical periofi, when lie was Prime Miitrmike this application to lie appointed ?
of tliis country. He spoke of Mr. Cook and ! Four veir aga, after lie ~vsdefeated in
bis allegiance, and tlie confidence hie wvas East Simcoe. lIe mnade biis application, if
The you read the cainpaiga sheet tliat tue lbon.
entitled to, from the Liberal party.
leader o! the opposition himiself biad t entlernan lias submitted to tlie Sonate, four
lion.
been in the government witli George Fost,_r Iyears ago. He thoni pressed Ilis suit. The
for ten or eleven years. He hiad been a Minister o! Justice %vastaken in bis place.
member o! the goverament for a number 1 tbink members 0f the Ser.ate will say that
o! years witli John Haggirc; for some years the governmnent did a wise thing wlien tliey
witli Dr. Montague. Tliey were gentlemen preferred the Minister o! Justice to H. H.
lie trusted, and to whom lie gave seats in I Cook. I think that Is the verdict of this
bis goveraiment. Tliose gentlemen, after thli country and o! this House. and if It is the
address was read by His Excellency thie Gov-! intention of memibers of the Senate to perernior General lu this Honse. discarded their pettuate party feeling in fuis Ilouse--f tl'ey
leader, denîed their leader, said fliai lio are bound f0 liacli the heelers of any party.
was Incompetent-mfore tlîan thaf, if thlir in f lus country andi figlif ftle campalgn over
sfatement is true, tliey cliarged liim witli Ia this House, then tliey will know and
belng a dislioneat man, for If lie was in- find flie position the Senate wlll be placed
competent, lie was receiving tlie emolumentifnl by snch a course. Instead of makiag
of ci man wlio sliould. le comnpetent to fili fhia motion, If the lion, gentleman opposite
bis office. Tliese are some of the tling-S liad moved for a commlttee f0 InvestiGeorgo gate thie transportation problem of fhis
that disappoînted men %vill do.
Foster was a disappolnfed man. Hl. H. Cooiu country, and discuas tliat very important
is a disappolnted man. The parallel is not maffer, whicl iIs one of thie great queseven, because Mr. Cook lad neyer occupied fions before flie counfry at the present day,
the higli position thaf Mr. Foster held 111 the energies, tlie minds, flie wislies and
Wlien the lion- aspirations of every man In the Senate
the couacils of the party.
gentleman speaks of Mr. Cook~s party ser- would have been witl iliim lieart and soul
vices, lie gives away bis case. The record to get full information finit miglit tend to
of bis 11f e and bis career shows that the the greater development of the trade of fhls
lion, leader of tlie opposition lias no case country, and if would have been a great
Instead of tliaf, we are
wliatever ln this matter, and that lie is beiîefit indeed.
bringing it up merely af fthe instance dif called upon f0 investigate one o! tlie roorparfy, and la taking one of Sir Chiarles Tup- backs of the late election-one o! the waves

[SENATE1

Ithe

privîieges and dignity of thie Senate.
froin tbe campaign of iast November. Wliat
does it look like, I ask in ail seriousness ? If the Senate sliouid then be reiieved of
Mr. Cook states himself that after the eiec- any scandai, and the governiuent is relieved
tion of 1896, lie applied to lie made a sena- of any odium lie!ore the judicial committee,
to have the
tor, over four years ago, and lie kept that it would lie a lietter thing tliu
this
Then tlie lion. inquiry before a special committee
bottled Up until last year.
1 do flot
opposite does flot tell us what House appointed to try this case.
gentleman
minister Is cliarged with this offence. Wlio know that it is necessary for me to talk any
are the members that asked Mr. Cook for more on this subjeet.
Hon. Sir MACKEN\ZIE BOWELL-Oli,
Who are the agents that asked
money ?
e gon
for money ?
He miglibt bave made this
esgO
H1e
11e miglit have inquired.
plain.
Hou. Mr. LANDERKIN-I thiiik 1have
flot treating this House w'itli proper respect.
o
tos
H1e sliouid have got the information beforesidalttiseesryfrm
introduced bis campaign sheet here. 11e tlie muatter.
he
H-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh, no.
sliould liaye done that before lie introduced
Hon. Mr. PJXOWSE-A littie more.
You will remnember, lion.
motion biere.
bis
Honi. Mr. LANDEIIKIN-l do flot want to
gentlemen of the Senate, that about a year'
ago, I think it was-perhaps in 1899-there syaýodaanttebn
etea
h
li
was an election ia West Huron. You will alsosaawrdaanttelo.gtean
Our relations
introduced this question.
enbroiu.1amr
remember during the saine year there was' aeawy
You remenîiber the tenacity wîiu which lie clings to bis
an election iu Brockville.
I even admire bis wisdoni. but in
Onue views.
the particul-ars of those twvo elections.
znbago
o! thei was referred to tue Coinilittee on hsceIfcyispr
Eectoli.
Yu rineberthe
better of bis judgment, when lie is
Privlegs ad
nrs
h
t
apinsett
the liowl that w-as sent up then, the outcry alwn
tention of this Hlouse witluout the usual
V
tbat was made thiat the conimnittee wa
competent to deal ivitli that question. Thiey aeursttsrondi,1ahrtik
hn
t Irte
aeurstatsron
wanted a judicial coimittee appointed i
lie is making a mistake tbat lie will
t.
orde toinvstigte hey ecevedtlitlîat
obcpesdwtafrati.The
judicial coinmittee, but what were the conhatis no desire on the part of any gentleman of
reeivd i ?
wichtliy
ditins n
Sthe Senate or any supporter of the governcommittee lias beeni appointed for a year. ment to burk an inquiry lu this mnatter.
Not a single desire (Ohî,
Have the party that clinoured for the for ýIronîical cîieers>.
Ioia
attefles
nur
mnation of that coilnmittee ever brouglit a
Ioia
uletiqir
WNew.n h
Not a single cae no).
case betore it silice ?
WVehave sucb confidence lu the
tuneto aps afer uecheers>.
The thalowe
tolape aterthegoverument that.we defy anybody to put a
Theyallwedthetiw
on an act to their discredit. We have
Tliey liad the in-fne
eleetion la bobli cases.
ihfaibli in tlie right bon. leader of the govformation after eiglit days were ovr
i
oga
n
eko
ht5
in forty days t.liey couid have entered a eZmn
protest. They did not do that, and wlien a administers tlie affairs o! this country the
efrefo
icei.I
judiciai comrnittee w-as appoiuited, and wlbeiîoeaetwl
thescoe o
it iiquiy ws etened ackit the intention of bon, gentlemen to bring
,ad
vrcapinsetheatyb
for a number of years, nlot aniother word was
wai5 ask for a committee '? Wîll they give us
said, niothing wvas done, no action
hy
mbl
N.6th
taken, and tliere tlie matter was alloweda omteonp
Âny gentleman lu the Senate caii distributed in the province of Quebec ? Will
to rest.
get this matter tiansferred tu thiat judicial thev give ail those and wili we bave to,
Tat
commtte. woud b a ropr pacefiglit the battles of the general election over
yHn
omvscne
If bue lion. gentleman aanIb.
to investigate it.
that introduced tbhs motion will carry it Mi. Dandurand, that aIl after the word
n
h
mte
oinb
nsi
befoie the judicial committee, lie can get ,Ta
h
an
i
oi mitbed
tbe legisiationi to enabie hiin to do so, and 'Tlloit lu si
This House affirms that It is at ail tîmes ready
hae itinvstigtedproprly
ther li wil
and f airly and wibli due consideration foi to investigate any charge of corrupt practice, or
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN.

[M,ýARCdI 13, 1901]

of iiconduct ln office, which can be properly
brought ln this Flouse specifically made against
any Miniater of the Crown, of the governmeflt
af Canada, when any Senator trom his place lu
this Flouse declares he bas been credibly infarmed and believea it ta be true, and that if
granted a ComTnilttee of Inquiry, he will be able
ta establish the same ;but that It la 'wholly
eantrary ta the spirit and principles of aur system af gaverument and with the dlgnity of thîs

be held to be true, and tbat therefore these
charges made by Mr. Cook should nlot be
allowed to be pressed or furtber investigated. Of course It Is aise hinted at by
certain of the unfaithfli and certain nbeIlevers that as the charges promulgated by
h
~r00 r aeudratwis
M.Co

r

aeudrotwis

h

assertions, they
Flouse, ta institute an inquiry refiectlug upon deniais thereof are slmplywant just here to
the hanour a! same minister unnamed iu re- ahould be investigated. 1
spect ta charges that na Senator affirma ta be
on record wih regard to tis
true and which na ane says, if granted a cam- put myseif ta make what our Preabyteriul
matter, and
mIttee, he eau establish.
of f aitb
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-It seemas ta friends would cali my canfession
be reare Importiug a beated toue to thus with reference to bow this should
me we
lot ceived. 1 say that a simple statemeut made
discussion, aud it geuerully falla to may
bis colleugues
about that lime to throw ail on the troubled by Sir Wilfrid Laurier, or by
thia Huse, would be accepted by me, and
waters. 1 have listened to the speech of lu
me as havlng
the bon., gentleman who bas juat taken bis always wlll be accepted by
same weigbt and effect as if given
iseat, and 1 must say be appears before me the
that the
ln au eutirely uew llght. We have always under oath, and 1 am satisfied
ou this aide of the House la eutireiy
heard of that geutleman, sud be bas been feeling
with refereuce
halled lu uis uomination to thîs Chamber, lu accord witb what I say
tbat I entirely
as being bumorous, and the jester of the to the matter. I furtber say
have always believe that the hon, gentlemen opPoHouse of Commons. 1 myself
speeches yesterday
known hlm lu the most genial capacity, but site, w-ho made their
came into this lu corroboration of the denial, did so iuwe find thut since be
have just as
Chamber, he la determined to show that be tendiug that they sbould
and tbat much weight as if made under oath. But
has many aides in bis character,
lawyera, and they
altbough he has ail the geulal qualities both those geutlemen are
ta hlm by the kuow perfectly well that au affidavit can
which have beeu accorded
lu perfect truth
public and the press, be la aise able be drawn statiug a f act
of bis tongue which would be riddled to piecea if submitto show us the rougli aide
Ou this occasion lie bas ted to croas-examiflatiofi, aud 1 cannot see
occasionally.
lnconsiatency beshown us the weakness of bis cause by tak- that there la the slighteat
made under
ing that course so often quoted as tukeu tweeu the fact that a atatemeut
case, that of ioatli by Mr. Coolk, and the denials given by
by a lawyer who bas a poor
bis calleagues lu
abusing the opposite attorney, that is. the Sir Wilfrid Laurier and by
resolution. this bouse, are nat botb perfectly true.
gentleman who Introduced this
lndependent
Now, I do not tbink there la any necessity Now, let us look at tbis*from an
I have not the pleasure of
a heated standpoint.
for. discussing this matter from
Mr. Cook personally, but 1 underataudpoiut. We bave before us some simple ikuowing
made stand that up to the time he made these
matters of fact. There la a stutement
the Liberal
by one gentleman which la cautradicted by, charges be was a member of
whlle! party. He -was a geutleman of unblemîshed
others. The fact la stuted aiso that
their caunthe peraou wbo bas made til original repututiou, and he waa blgh lu
he has cils and in their regard. To show how easy
statement bas doue sa under outh,
til hîgil
adduced no corroborative evideuce witb re- It la for a man ta fail from
the estate if be does auything againat a party,
gard to It, aud it la poînted out that
the words of
Minister of Justice la supported lu bis con- it la only necesaary to quote
bis the bau. Secretary of State yesterday wben
tradiction by the statement of two of
was asked
colleagues lu thîs bouse, who have most alludiug to that gentleman. Hie
wby it wus he bad nlot gone to Mr. Cook
strenuoualy corroborated bis denial of the,
hlm wltb recharges wbicb have been made, and It is >sad peraonally cousulted with
to thase charges, and bIs answer waa,
auggeated that the old rule of law sbould gard
be unbe followed, and that testimony ýwhicI la nlot thut he believed the chargea to
but that he could not toucb pitca
not supported by other evidence should rlot true,

jSENATE]

without being defiled. 1 think if the Secte- no one supposes that a person entrusted with
tary of State would modify lis language any sucb mission as that would go to Sir
and let us know why it was that lie did Wilfrid or to these gentlemen and say :
l lere 15 Mr. Cook, hae is hot for a senatorflot make a visit to, Mr. Cook and ask hlm
with reference to, these charges, it would slip ; lie is well able to afford a good round
be fat better than putting on record sucb suliscription to the party, and we will soak
Now, im for $10,000.' Sucll a thing would navet
a statement as lie made yesterday.
let us look at the position the hion. gentle- lie said to these gentlemen. The men who
man takes witli regard to this matter. We would bie engaged for such a purpose would
have not only the evidence of Mr. Cook, not do any sucli coarse work as that, but
whose word up to now, or at ail events it does not follow tliat the off er was flot
If these gentlemen
until hae broke wlth bis party, would have made aIl the samue.
beau accepted as gospel truth, but lie have nothing exceptîng ignorance of this
makes a statement under oath, and I would matter to defenld them w-len they make
ask the Minister of Justice would lie, or these assertions, If thay are only able to
would tlie Secretary of Stata, or would Sir say : 'W'e do flot kuow about this thing,'
Wilfrid Laurier himself, malte an oath that they are just like the agnoýLucs. The agnossuch and such a statement as that made. tics -,ill not say there is not a God. They
Tliese gentlemen
by Mr. Cook was untrue ? They certainly say we do flot kaow.
would not do so ; they could flot possibly can on-ly say and sliould onlly say-they
do so. All that aniy one of thesa gentlemen certainly could only say it if they wete
i
could say would lie that, as far as hae had uder oatli 'we do flot know of any such
any personal knowledga of this subject-as off er as this havinig been niade or suggested
fat as the Ministar of Justice knpw, as Ito Mr. Cook.' That is the only grounid they
far as the lion. Secretary of State knew,~ could taka, but 'the other man miakas an
as far as the premier himself kuew, naitlher aLlidavit. N\ow, which is the stronger posilie flot thay had made any advances to M,. tion ? Thay say Mr. Cook lias not made any
Cook in this wiay, flot had they iustructed charges of any kind, but lie has an affidavit
anyhody elsa to do so, flot had they known lare makiug the strongest kinid of charges.
personially of any oua doiag so. Now, that and there is absolutely no0 ref utation with
is ail that thasa gentlemen could say, and reference to it-absolutely nothing. Thiere
that is ahl tliat they have said. That is ail are seventeen or aigliteen mamibers in the
Sir Wilfrid Laurier bas said, and it is also icabiniet, and w-e hava had an assertion from
aîl that bis colleagues have said lare, and threa of themi. They can onily speak as far
I say that it is quite -withiu the bounds of as they personally know, tînt tlay have
possibility, and not nt ahl inconsistant that not made an advarnce of any kind like that
botli thasa stataments and both thasa as- to Mr. Cook. It is a question, w-hichi is
sertions ara perfactly trua. I say that it is! iikelY to ha true, the charge made by MNr.
very mucli to the credit of our colleag-uas Cook, or the danial ? Sir Wilfrid Laurier
In this House tînt tliay do not know any- can only refute that by a suggestion
thing about this thing. There are certain hie las recaived fromn lis colleagues, and that
people w-ho are paid to know things. Tiare lie balievas his colicagues to bie teiling the
ara othar people who ara instructad not to truthli when tley stata thnt tliey did Dot
know things. and thare is yat another class nalta such and such a proposition ; but, wa
whose cnnracters stand so high that if any- do0 not know that lie lias avenl conversed
body lias a shady transaction to proposa, or 1w-ith ahl of tlam. or brouglit the matter up.
anything of that nature, thay would ha the We have no intimation of that whntevar.
last people to wliom hae would maka sudh and, aveni if w-e lad. 1 an not prepared to
a proposition, and I say thase gentleman, sfly tInt 1, for one, wtiuid not say that lia
ont colleaguas in this Housa, and Sir WVilfrid %-as justified if certain men tell hlmn so and
Laurier wouid lie the vary last par- 10, iii accepting their statemant as final.
sons to whom sucli a proposition would 1 know the country would not accept it as
lia submittad. I sny futther that thnt finial frorn a good number of tliam. If thay
the go nliroad in the country they w'vIll find a
that
assuma
ail
at
not
doas
becauseý certain iluniber 0f thc governiment-a lnrge
made,
not
was
proposition
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFIER.

1LMARCH 13, 1901]
proportion of them-are regarded as being iHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Hlow about the
as corrupt ns they make them, aiýd that! Canadian Pacific Rallway scandai ?
they base that conclusion upon the fact that
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOLI'ER-Tlie hon. gentliey see theni condoiig, conniving, and in
-with the rnost colTupt acts eveî' tlemnan eau give bhis views and 1 can give
collusion
mine. I1 do not thiuk 1 amn out of order. I
lntroduced into tliis country.
arn. replying to the leader who lias given bis
BOWLL-H
Ilon.Sir MCKENZE
Hou.Sir
ACICNZI BOWLL-Harviewe on the subjeet. Not only that, but
They glorified in the
Itbey gloried la tbis.
hear.
shanie and disgrace that they brought on
Hon. Mr. KIPtCHHOFFER-We have bad: the country. There Is flot a member who
again and again electiou trials whicb have lias not seen evidence of it before his own
Whntewtwngotepalexposed the most dastardly and inost glar- ys
lng corruption ever perpetrated i this coun-: ment buildings was bnrned down and had to
We have luad judgrnents given by be rebujît, we could sec men sitting around
try.
judgcs who bave tried tbe election trial.k, doiag notliing and drawing a dollar and a
and made scatliing indictnients agalnst the' dollar and a half a day, because ai] election
~~a alwas going on just over the river. What ls
cocre
~ ~ ~
parties ~ ii len ~ ehv
men wlio took part iii these narned by the that but corruption ? The governrnent corjudges. and wlîat do wve find lias been done rupt the country and constituencies and
i n unicipalities. They corrupt towns. They
larefrenc tothe
by te gverrnen
Have tluey ln iny way attempted to punisli corrupt these people by doing large public
these nien w-ho have been iii tluat way works in n great many instances where they
marked down, tlîe seal set upon them by are not necessary. They corrupt railway s
the judges wlîo have pronounced judgrnent by. large bonuses and individuals by payagainst them ? Have tlîey done anytbing- ments of money.* There is a large amount
for the puriiose of trying to stanîp out this of corruption going on through the country,
corrupition wvhich is rampant in the country ?: and the moral tone of the people Is lowered
Not one bit of it. They take them by th',, and degraded. People are prepared now to
band. They make frîends ,vith theni. They take money and go into schernes whicii a
set tlîei lu the chief seats. The mari who 1few years ago they would not have thoughit
was the original prornoter,. who was the 0f doing, and as I say the hou. gentlemden
founder, wbo was the maker of tlîe machine' glory la it. The Mlister of Public Worls
wbichi bas carried on, nt their instance in this tells us tbat elections canuot be worked or
counîtry. so large a number of the elections- w-ou by prayers, and business is business.
what (I0 they do witlî that man Preston, the Ris phrases bave become bousehiold words.
one who instigated and got up the machine '?Does tbat not show tbat the moral tone of
The 'Minister of the Interior gives hlm a the country is lowered, and does it not show
position as representatîve of this country that these men are not to be trusted, If they
ln Europe, at a salary and expenses amount-: tell their leaders they have flot done anylng to $5.000. Can any one suppose that ail thiug whereby they could be accused of
the miembers of a governemnt whlcb con-' mak-iag an offer of this kind. 1 say, as far
dones and coniîives at such actions as tbescý as we are concerned in this House, the feel,are sucli that thieir word eau be relie-d ing of this House should be, not to try and
upon ? Do -%e not know that corruption condone and cover up any such rnatter as
from oie end of the country to the other is this, but to investigate it to the fullest exramipant, and bas alwnys been rampant tent. If hion. gentlemen on the other side
since the Liberal party came into power la of the bouse knew what was la the intertlîis country ? 1 say that to-day tliere is îîot ests of their own party and the interests
a more corrupt country on the face of tht, of the country, they would join band la band
Take Egypt, Turkey and China. wýith us ln seeing thiat this matiter Is thorglobe.
Then If
which have been held up as emblemat'c of oughly sifted and iuvestlgated.
corruption. and I say that thîey are not any there ds any 'truth in the charge, the party
worse than is Canada to-day, and that bas should be pnishied. If there is nort any
ai corne into existence since the Liberals 1trutb la 11, they are relleved froni the stlgrna which certainly will attach to thern
took hohd of the country.

[SEINATE]
more and more if tbey vote downi such an
Investigation as this. We liave seen the Investigation whicli they tried to put tlirougli
In tlie Commons. The constant endeavour
of the parties 4:here was 4:0 vote tliem dowfl
and burk tliem and stop theni in every possible way. I say we sliould treat this maitter In a more judicdal -way. The motion Is
lnrtroduced by thle bon. leader of tlie opposition aud lie lias a perfect right 4:0 Introduce
it, and we -should ail set our niinds to work
is
to ascertain -wlicther 14: true. If It is not
true, the Senate and tlie whole paimty and
tlie public spirit of the country will lie benlefited tliereby, and if it às true, then the parties implicated ln tit should be punished.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I am surprised
when 1 hear the lion, gentleman from the
west speak of thie date at which corruption
appeared in tbis country. Practically bis'
politîcal career dates f rom 1896, for if lie
would look back some years previous, lie
would add to, bis store of knowledge some
deals of lis friends and party th-at would
perhaps lie on a par witb things that have
bappened sinice 1896, to lie as modest as
possible in the comparison. The hon. gentleman speaks of corruption. If lie was old
enougli 4: remember wliat took place in 1891
and 1892 lie would know tliat a minister of
tlie Crokwn. holding tlie portfolio of Public
Works, had to abandon tliat office because
scandalous accusations had been proven In
a reg-ular committee appointed In the House
of Commons. If lie remembered that period,
if -lie remembered what took place before
that committee, bie 'would know that members of parliament had to lie lndieted by lis
îown party jointly with contractors who had
defrauded the goverument In a sum exceedIng, one million dollars, and lie would know
that a former member of parliament, the
bosom friend of that late Minister of Public Works, was condeinned 4:0 jail wîtb
those contractors wbo liad robbed the Federal treasury of over ia million dollars. If
bis mnemory did flot carry hlm back so far as
1891, lie would know that hli the construction 0f the Otirrail bridge ini Montreal, n
most scandalous steal of mloney tool, place,
and strong Gonservative contractors, the pilars of the Conservative party iu Montreal,
Ild to lie ind-icted sud brouglit before the
courts. The hon. gentleman's career apparently only began iu 1896, aithougli I thouglit
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER.

hie had been appoin4:ed to this Chiamber lief ore that date. He speaks of corruption, of
having wftnessed a number of men ldling
around the western block wlben an electioli
ia -the neiglibourhood of Ottawa was takIng
place. He Is quite young in Federal politics
if file doeis flot know ithat a f ew years prevlous four hundred men were employed dally
and openly plcking dandelions !i front of
the parliament buildings, a job which cost
the country $60,000. The lion. gentleman
would remnember that about the saine tiime
a squad of painteris was eaiployed to, do
work for this goverilment, as election Urnes
were coming on, and 4so zealous -%ere they
in earning their money that tliey even
pated the s;andstone at the entrance
of the buildings to the disgust of everyone, and the paint is still there. Certainly the lion. gentleman froui the wvest
bas only been acquainted with polities
for a few years, because hie seeins to ignore
the whole policy of the Conservatîve party
and the weakness and frallty of the human
nature of the men who led thiat party. He
seems flot to bave read Canadian history,
and to forget that lis party tumbled over
in 1873 on the Canadian Pacific scandai
whlcli made sucb a noise as 4:0 le reported
in the his4:ory of Canadian pýolitics. The
lion. gentleman Is mucli younger than lie
appears. Coming dlown to the motion and
the amendment laid before this House,
what are the principles embodied in tliem?
What -are we esking 'this Chamber to prodlaimi In voting for thie amendment-that
there will lie two conditions requisîte 4:0
obtaîn a committee of inquiy against a
mînister of the Crown. First, a specific
accusation to whicli any British subject is
entitled, liumble thougli lie be. If lie be
accused of liaving stolen a five-cent piece,
or of having stbolen a million, whetlier hie
lie a humble 'labourer -or a -man holding a
higli office, there must be a ispecific charge
against the man, in order that lie should
be able to meet it and defend himself. What
is there in this accusation ? We have the
solemnl declaration of Mr. Cook. Here is
bis declaration in a nutshell:
After these negotiations had proceedefi for a
considerable length off time 1 recelved a telegram from Ottawa, from one off the leading
Reform mnembers known to possess the confidence off the Laurier government, requesting
me to meet him at the Union station in Toronto . I did meet him as requested, and lie then

[MARCH 13, 1901]

105

from tbe newsshowed me a letter which had been 'wrltten to, the street, or take them sheets, and throw
<for
of the çabi
hlm by one of the membersbelng shown net me), Ipapers, or ln the electoral
to
the purpose, as hie said. of
Chamber, and say we wll
-ln whlch hie was authorized ta inform me that them across this there must lie first a speelfor, pro1 could have the position I had appiiedthereupofl Investîgate. But
vided I wauld 'do somethlng.' 1
and there must be a declaration
asked hlm what this expression was Intended fie charge,member of the House of Gommons
and what was the ' something' I was from one
ta mean,
os htleblee
fti
ramme
expected to ' do.>'
erothsHuettheeiee
requlredoame
lie then Infornied me that 1 would be thousanld the accusation.
or expected ta pay a sum of ten
Now, I have heard hon. gentleman here
dollars.
two. to-day speak of the standing of Mr. Il. H.
The signer of the affidavit mentionsprtyCool. ln the Liberal party before lie made
le des
Persns wom kow, he
declaration, and I have heard the hon.
who interviewed hlmi and who held a letter that
gentleman from Prince Edward Island state
signed by a cabinet mnister. There are
i
o
atd
M was
presigotn
ud
sixtcen or seventeen ministers holding port- thopdt
a
htM.Co
rv
ol
ls the hpdI
follos and without portfolios. Who
be trusted. 1 hope that there la some
Doe
one ccued th acuserpreendnot togentlemnan ln tlils Chamber who can
retnd on.
2Doe
one ccued theaccser
that lie does net know f rom wim came
and say, for the purpose of having
the intermediary ? Not at ail. But that rise investigation, that lie will trust Mr.
leterlu is aud the
th
lntemodaryhel
solemu declaration by declaring- tilat
and that letter was signed by a cabi- Cook's
it. lie believes ln it. Hlow la it there shoulil
net minister, and lie declares lie saw
an Investigation to fiuud whether
Who la that member of parliament, and nieed to be
Cook is trustwortby wben tliere is not
who la the cabinet minister who signed the Mr.
lu this Chamber wbo will back
letter'? He saw the name. Does the bon. a entleman
declaration by affirming that lie liegentlemen opposite pretend that we wiîî luis
lu it. 1 look lu vail. in this Chamber
go Into a charge of sucli a serious chùaracter lieves
say that lie
whn te acusr cn gvefor any one ready to rise and if there la
witoutthenam
believes lu that accusation, and
an
t
iependccue
name wb
wtutthe
wbo belleves this vague charge,
the letter signed by a cabinet mînister. 1 nobody
sprung upon the people at the lat elections,
opposite ho
would ask the hon, gentlemen
they when the act complaîned of had occurred
tbev would stand, lu wliat position rat-months and montbs before, 1 say this
hisInuir wre
woud e fpacd,
xcr
hmesoudntgonafhi
ed to-morrow and we go on-and 1 hesîtate
la that
to see If there la not something
even te mention names ln tlue face of sucu sion
two or three years ago
accusations-but suppose that tliat accusation. Some
grevious
and dleclare I said I could not reconcile myself to calling
gentleman should corne here
gentleman opposite the leader of
that that letter was signed, or that lie was the bon.
that
by the hon. the opposition, for 1 neyer suspected
told tbat that letter was signed
would be party divisions bere, and 1
Postmaser General. No one ln the lengtli there
think lie should accept the titie of
or. breadth of this country would believe did not
uaCabrcm
fteopsto
sucli an accusation against tlue Postmaster lae
General posed o! independent, uabiased and nonGeneral, but to-day the Postmaster
members. But whlen the lion. genIs on bis w-ny to Australia. He wlll be partisan the leader of the opposition, as bis
lnfiv
orsi moths afer hesession tleman,
bac
ebsmoonaded
redstlhim
Is over. Suppose that that Is the nane that
yi
elrto,1wstl
are we M.Co'
that gentleman will swear to, liow
friend of bis that lie w-ould not
to go on w-itb this Inqulry ? Will not the Conservative Cook under oath. 1 do flot
Mr.t
simple fact of mentioning the name of tbe believe
etee
!tebn
the inqulry for fai-onde htnu
Postmaster General stop
e
the session ? We do not know w-ho w-ill be fcn
HIon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
struck, or w-ho will be aimned at, and Is ît
demen holding the hon. gentleman say I made that
more than simple Justice to
claration ?
higli offices lu the land to trmat them as
Hon. Mr. DANDVRAND-No-as tlie lion.
humbler people are treated w-len accused
stateniefit il
? We can pick up rumours on gentleman was making that
ln a court

1SENATE 1
eînment on its trial, I do not wish to give at
silent vote. I repudiate any sudh desire,
aa fee sure that no miember of thîls Hlouse
desires to place the goveriineiit on its trial.
But 1 dlaim the riglit, and tliis Housoe
dlaims the riglit, to sift and probe to thebottom questions affecting the political
standing of the Senate and of the country.
The question under discussion affects the~
integrity and higli political standing of this
Sucli
Dominion. This no one ean deny.
Hon. 'Mr. McCALLUM-'t'le lion, gentlebcing an undisputed fact, I amn surprised
man was sitting round bere a littie wlile.
at the attitude of the Minister of Justice
and i sliould like to know whio lie means
on s0 important a question. W%ýheni we caiwbien lie says lie lîcard a Conservativc
sider the inalicious nature of tlic charge
senator say that.
made by MINr.Cook, which, 1 hope, and> I
Hon. ',%r. DANDURAND-The lion. ge-think the Houise liopes. m-1l1 be found to bo
tIemnan is not the one.
unfounded. sliould it flot have been the duty
Conservative friend of his. sitting near m::,
said lie would flot believe Mr. Cook under
oath. Since thien 1 wondered if no0 one had
more faith ln Mr. Cook than my neighibour
at the time. Âpparently there seems to lie
some unanimity ln the estimate of his veracity, for no one wll rise here and declare
that lie believes the charge made by Mr.
In sucb a vague declaration-no
Cool..
names mentioned-

Hon. Mr. McICALLUM ITlîit

-ilji (Io.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1 do
i7ýt like to repent whnt gentlemen have sail
to me on this question, because 1 was sure
that no one on the other side intended te
contest this motion lrom tlie fact that Mr.
Cook liad made this declaratioi..

of the -Minister of Justice. as

iali Attornev

1Ceacral of, Canada. to have instricted tlî-,
Solicitor General to take steps to bring tie
makier of the charge to the bar cf a tribunal
of justice, or adopt tue course now proposed, appoint a committee.

m-ould ine>'t
Hon. -Mr. DANDURAND-I
imn iii the court if lie makes a specuilie
IIon- Mr. DANDURAND-Whien wc comp charge.
'
to a dedlaration of this kind, every member
'Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-My hoii.
i tobi colegue woiHon.
of heSenteowe
oinhsio
h
may lie accused in this vague way by someý redwomd
House, to look into the said that lie would prove his charge if
one outside of the
accusation as laid dowîî, and obtain furtlier lie got the committee, for this reason, lie
ifMr.000kladit.andbi*îîgis a judge ia this matter, and tlie Miniister
Infoniaion
InfomatonifColbadit.
M.
nd rin,-,of Justice lias forgotten that point, that the
the accusation, backed by a member of tis 'a
-omd
u
oin
flepoone
i the party guilty before the witacsses w-ere
Climber, wlie takles the acesaiuion
He would
ic ccsaton aubeard, could nût lie a judge.
sayng ha
li beiees
lie substantiated. The lion, gentleman may peug
h
ae
ul
elv
h
tie
fail in the proof of thc accusation, but ifprugetecs.Iulybivetetathat lie
ie bs ben ru-ment made by Sir Wilfrid Laurier,
thisChaberthins tat
dthi Clamer tinksthat li ehlias bee prit- kaows nothing of the matter, and i also
true, lie will bie absolved f rom any rashî fully believe the statement of the hon. Secretary of State in whicli lie repudiates any
act in tlie premises. so tlîat if Mr. Cool-r Co
wih
I have net the pleasure of kaowing the gen- L-oleg sea inegtai
Why, thoni, should
tleman, I have neyer met hlm, lie does itot, for a sainteSenate.
rovnce-f tere s 8niethc 'Minister of Justice, believing that. as 1
beIog t
my
my
belo~ rovnce-f tere s snuebelieve it, refuse an inqulry into this serious
t
member of this Cliamber wlio bas been in charge ? I regret exeeedingly tbnt it sliould
httegvrmn
spae
contact with tbiat gentleman, who lias lecniee
known him and can trust him to the extent onl trial by this House. i arn strongly of
of saying 'I really believe what lie says. I the opinion that tbere is no wish on this
let hlm rise in lils place aad make the neces-sde0teHoetobsrlihefrnae
sary declaration, so that in thc future we o f tîi s country, or of our public mcan, who
will be guided by no0 wrong precedent.
are charged with tlie administration of pubHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-On ac- lic affairs. 1 have nothinig to find fanît wltb
count of the statement by the bion. Secretary 1in the speech of the lion, gentleman oppoof State, that this House is placing the gov- 1site (Hon. Mr. Laniderkiin) except his bringHon. Mr. DANDURAND.

1LMARCJ{ 13, 1901j'

10>7

regret that any political
ing up of old inatters whicli have nothing fore the House. 1
bas been introduced in t1ils deinite.
feeling
to do witli this question,
that a good many arguments
Hou.Mr.LANDRXI-Itwas he is-I thiuk, too,
advanced, on both sides would bave been betEIINI
r.
on. o the pasthelus
ornitted at this stage in the considerapaty.ter
toryof te
tien of this matter. If we are to bave a
Hon. Mr. M-NACDON.StID (B.C.)-WCl have
Investigate tbis subjeet, it does
nothing to do with a party ; we have the commrlttee to
neot appear to me proper that w'e sbould
miatter before us to-day.
of the appointmeflt of that
ACKNZIEBOWLL--Thenow, In advance
Hou.Sir
BOELLTbOcommnittee, discuss the merits of the quesHon.SirMACENZI
hon. gentleman's attack on mue dici not do tion. 1 do not thinli it desirable either that
we should go back and cast reflections on
aniy iarin. I rather enjoyed lt.
upen theïr manageoýIACDONAID (B.C.)-Tbere either political party, or
M
Hon.
airs du the past. The hion.
question thait bas coule before ment of public aff
Ns no
this amendment, and the hou. genthe flouse for a number of years on 1 nover of
wbo secolided the amenument, made
w-hidi I thonglit botb sides could bie more Itioman
truth of several references to the past bistory of the
agreed than this of ferretting the
onservative party in thUs country.
thus inatter ont. I arn surprised tint tic
flot tie vcry first
M\inýster of Jlustice was
nwrt
ADRN-u
r
Hn
Mali to move ia the matter. Tic question
wvest.
w-hidi looks to the lion, gentleman fromi the
is now hefore the country,
etelna
in
O-la
Ho.M.W
its heing cleared up, not hy Nvhitewashilig
il
hc
refrre toMr. ai scandaisý t bon.
ex
or by letting Mr. Cook drop gently se as not eredtcrlisai-l
Nieiwr
it in
to hurt hlmi by the fait, but hy sifting
iherl pesstieposed, 1 think hoe said ln IS91, and made thie
he
an oea tibual.
thonra n
govrhen
tpet theunal
prs,
ansatmn
hategoriette
and tenn
electors aiud this flouse :ook for tlis
po'.ver, on tbeir own indictilnent, had chargnething less. The bon. 'Minister off Justice ed one of the ministers off the Crow'n and
informed the flouse that the mover off the sonie persons who were associated ivith
outside, off certain corrupt practices
resolution should have used the words 'cred- lmi
ovc
poft
h
uns
la
ibly iuformed,' and tbat if a committee were 1,
If that is the case, and I helieve it
giveni hnm Lic could prove the allegation. tli.
The xvords 'credihly informed' ire often 1,i I think it reflects boueur on tbe minist2y
uised, and migit have been used( lu this of that Clay that tluey biad the enaete
case as a parliamentiiry formula withbout take tha.t course, and 1 siould conmcnd lion.
attaching importance to the exact ineaninig. gentlemlen opposite te lie influonced. li- a
asmlrcus
dp
n
moie
Witli regard to the other words wliicb it iSsmir
tbe investigation of this case. I must say
nl
hen
saidshoud ued i theresoui
ine
proving the alleýgatiens, the mninister will sec wvhenl the bon. gentleman made those sadeM!1l
lie
curdoleth
let
tiat the mover of the resolution is to b
one of tie judges !l this case. Sir Macken- have bad in Lis mind this fact, that tie .exzie Bowell, 1 have ne donlit, carefully avoid- 1pesures Made In 1891 Lad somle influence la
letn
ed saying anything reflecting unifavourablydevmigtereusette
rsetgerieita
on tie administration, nor does lie wish thiatlufvr0fte
enelti
the present
ti
n
ilintu possibl o
PS
ht -hould lie cauglit lin ail undesirahle
tie prse
feil
18Gvean t refse ol
tioii. WiII tlic lion. iniister say if the moau
h
oflo
the words te whicli lie refer- gvrietrfs of inivestigatiuig charges off this
tionl containied
amcourse
wold
red.tha li ot ppoe i ?
resuit
.t thIae kind. lest in the next electien the
opptat os
lie wvl nt
red.thati
sliould. ho disastrous te their own party. A
u
wo
thas
withsay tht,
Motinied lieo
reat deal lias been said with reference to
ordsas
ood
motin isas itbet tose
it would lie wlth themi. I arn in faveur of tuis Seniate being tee mucli of a partisan
hsivsia
httecaatr0
an1 investigation, but 1 look~ to sec the gev- boy
It was also stated
tien would ho partisan.
eramnt crnetbrogliit tiumlianly.
net wish te con,- hy the bon. gentleman wlio moved the
Hon. '-\r. WOOD-I do
tbe electors Lad decided
tiliue the dehate, but I wislb te give mny amneudmneft tbat
now lie- this question-that it was an old question,
reasons for voting- for the motion

j

[~S LNATE]

sortie four years old, and therefore we should furnisi evidence to prove its truth. Sorne
flot consider it now. The arguments used charges corne under our notice whicb it
by the last speaker that a specifle charge would be, perhaps, impossible for any
should be made, and that unless the state- member of the Hlouse to go that length
ments were made by some member of the iand make so positive a statement as that,
House that hie believed these charges were and yet there are charges which it is of
true, is a repetition of the argumnents used -the greatest Importance should be investiyesterday. Indeed the amendmaent intro- gated, and tbe truth of the charges known.
duced to-day, If 1 understand it, emibodles Reference was made yesterday toi the course
practically the views advanced by the Min- wbich was adopted ln the House of Coinister of Justice yesterday. New, I say that mous when the present leader of the oppoail these Unes of argument appear te me~ sition iutroduced bis resolutien to have a
Unnecessary, and flot pertinent to the issues; committee tu luvestigate certain charg-es of
it is corruption in connection with somne elecbefore us now, and for this reason
disputed by bon. gentlemen opposite. tions in the province 0f Ontario, and I beflot
that this Senate bas the powier to appoint ýilieve that the premier, when that resolution
No contention bas been was introduced, said that bie thought the
this committee.
made that it is not perfectly proper that. preseut leader of the opposition, Mr. Borden
The of Halifax-he was then a memnber of partbey should investigate this charge.
Only point of objection wbicb tbey raised te liameut-bad made eut a prima f acie case,
the proposition of the bon. leader ef the op- a case whlch demanded Investigation. The
position is this, that hie dees net state when charge was a serions one. The matter was
hie makes bis motion that hie believes the one of great importance, and bie feit, lu
charges te, be true, and that hie believes he the public lnterest, bie had made out a prima
There Ils no fadie case affecting the publie generally,
can prove tbemn to be true.
question about the power or rigbt and pro- that It was a case whicb sbould be investipriety of the Senate toi take this action ;the gated, and hie grauted a committee. Se far
simple objection te it is tbat no one on this as I know, there is no positive rule ef this
side of tbe Chamber bas gonie far enougb' I-use or the House of Lords to which we
to say that bie believes the charges to be can refer, te guide us lu ceming to a decistrue, and can furnisb evidence to prove ion iu this matter. As far as I arn contbem true. Whetber Iliat is a rule thatý cerned, I have doue tbe best I could te
sheuld be adopted or net, I do net cou-~ ascertain wbat the miles of the House
sider myseif sufficient ot anl autberity te 1 were, or whetber tbere werc Ofly very dlisexpress au opinion that weuld have very tinictive precedents te guide uis lu the mat1 listcneil very c-irefully ter, and 1 bave net been able te find auy.
great Weigbt.
te the speech ef the lion. Minister ef Jus- It appears to me tbat we are te be guided
ti(ce yesterday. and I admit that a great according te the best of our judgmeut, and
deal tbat lie said influie:cedi ny minc. aludJ act in this matter as we censider best lu
seenued te mue te bave great weight. I en- the public interest ; and loekiug nt it fremn
tirely agree w-itlî lin that it would be very t1iit standpoint, it appeagrs te mie a very
A very
uB(eirillcfer tlîis body te take notice ef 1 serious case bias been miade eut.
reoiovs er of charges matie iudiscriin)iiately grav-e charge lias been breuglit forwvard lvc
He bas
Iu thie newspapers, or by irrespensiblel a preminent man in Ontario.
It is a.
parties, or tbat we should spend our tinel made bis statement under oath.
If net iuvestigated, ne
lu the appeintmeut of committees fer tbel natter wlîicb,
On tbe deubt, wvill be believed lu by a large numpurpose et investigating them.
etlier baud. it appears te me that it is per- ber of tbe peeple ef Canada. The tendeney
baps stretching the mule a littie tee far, or' of sncb1 a charge being allowed te stand unmakinug tbe mule a littie tee binding, te say. contradicted, is te give it a certain amount
thiat we sbould neyer investig-ate any mat- et credeuce tbmougbeut titis country, aud it
ter unless seme member of this House was W-ill generally îewcer tue toue of publie
pmepared te ise lu bis place ln the House' lite. It is a reflectieu uipen the cbamacter
aud state that bie bad inivestigated it, aud of our public men generally. 1 believe it
believed it te be true, and was prepared te is a reflection uipen tîte bioneur et this
Hon. Mr. WOYOD.

[-.\ARCII 13, 19011

109

o
fluse, aud it appears to me that, looking (Id ilîîlcss tlîoy tire exaiiiipd inito ? 10 ot
at it from this standpoint, it is in the in- suppose for au instant that the Prime Minov the gauintiet, and at
terest of the Senate and of the public gen- ister Wvouid tiiro(>
that a charge, made as this charge tlie saine tiime saY to the M.Ninister of Justice,
eraily
>
bas been made, shouid be investigated, and I Do îlot have au investigation.' And I do
nt tliiii the Minister of Justice is the man
the truth or falsity of it made known.
suchi re(luest could sately be mnade.
Si
~
~ IGTO- ~ ~tik ~ t0
Hon. ~~
ILIM
tut lic says. 'I deny it einphaticaWy, and
hnge
H
W LAn
oblgto Gto ue
arSir
Hon
we a obigaiontothebon gei-challenge you to prove it.' Tiiere is the
re nde
Wstmrelnd or he udiialchallenge. and fi very precise and unmhiistienaîîfren
inainer ini whv1ich lie lias ileait vifh the ques- takabie Ianguage. it appears to luy iiuîind,
tion. l %vliieli respeut lie lias not folioNved 11ou, gentlemen. thiat tiiere is onl~y (>]e course
one of' the previous, speakers. whose speech openi to uis. The charge is made. swoi to,
;>iiili iiiralv on1e on the awili ti ce i s a (eicil a to il. ad (1 I blieve
ai
W> iii iii l;iý e bee
tue challenge is
llustiiigs. buOt wzi5 . to iiiy iiiiild. les., silittd wlti equai silncerity .As
W aey to1)d tiirown-i clonuvi. anid w-liat we have to do iii
fora thei lîoî:ealae nlî:îuîilîcr.
ordte* to preserve the dligiity and usefuiness
sa-te
tliat~~~~~~~~~~ t1 -agsaeiu hYh
as b a. tieY can bi madoue of tiiis flouse, is to aceplt the cliahlleu'.-,e,
p(iil te liiu(,~li
arn fi favour of' tliat course.
are asked inot ani
\Veguie.W
ini tue Euiglishi
e
mae1
to i-<ixiidei- tue eliai-ges. 1 cianse torsooti
e
ou. ',%r.
flewbiiksten KERR-I desire to mk
eb
liec
tie'~~~~~~
n iiied tlîat jobservations upon this important matter
îlooe cittii h t'> ît<l i., 'r
T()î n1>1
îliliiiiw-j h ii now before the Hlouse. and wiii endeavour
l5 :1 iesttie oalednce
xiiîe iv agenle-to be as brief as possible, which intimation i
carg
que4exi Tlî'
sides or the
is
wo
illn Ls.for a quarteV of al century. observe. To acceptable to both
mny mind, the question before
f-ouse.
soat ini flic otber'
:1îi'>
1 bleievoii
us is a very sérions one. a question of great
lixk wsden
Nvlies r(eord
Ileuse. :1111w
to a~ Importance and far-reaching. 1 wiil not folit1ý lie ie11Y:ivloii
îioxvtl~tixîl'i~
low, if 1 can avoid it-and I will try to do
i
party WitI lý il iIaNiuiSuhloClt supo to fail e
cîosst siiiihly :111loiî
He
so-those wbo, perhaps,
miay flot haiva
h iiou- treated it witbi judicial calmness. and, per-wieh 1 kliiew. Tîîey ;il-e(-coisiderecl
intelcligent. and1L until hapls, I shahI fot be able to do it, because
able, certaîini * muand
sonne
iiotlliin:,. se) rai, as i have lleard. bas 1 do flot dlaimi for myseif that wlilh
110N,%.
Is tbe accuser otiiers mnay flot possess-entire judîciai
beeîî lîeatlîed :icainxst thii.
In the flrst place, I waiit to
\'fe are iint i-eîîuled tii truSt to calmniess.
trîitiifi
uIc st;îtts tiiat lie cadi the attentioni of the Senate to the nalii. iiiselîpu(rtcd worls.
tiers andit turc of the charge made, and to the cviwviil briîi-g dou-î,iliîi:îry evi'ii'
of this
cop)ie-s of" letters lie lias re(_eiVCed aud sent. denice adduced, s0 far, in support
liltuseif' ty aZltidav1ýits te do s,) charge. Brietly stated. the charge is tlîat
and lie pfedges
having
-Notuvittistiiilig ail1 tic proiises o1n :qr. soîne member of tOie governmefit.
1 courfes, I hîave had great dilii- authOritY to do so, offered a senatorship to
Cook,:s part,
years
culty in makiîîg np inly mid as to w-bat js \11. H. H. Cook, some four or five
a
to be doue ha tie inatter, but happilî I ago, i consideration of money. Thiat is
best
verY ser*ions charge. 1 do not lcnow whearni relievedi of emibarrassnient by tbe riglit
they
hion. the premiler lîmself. He says, in a ther hon. gentleman recollect, but
them
letter to the Gazette in October last, after Ikuow the law, and 1 would remind
which.
having taken cognizance of the Cook what that charge is. It is a charge
if proved, mighit consigu any member of
charges:
for
I give the whole charge the most unquallfied parliament to the provincial penitentiary
a period of fourteen years.
and emphatie denial.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Anîd lie adds :
us where lie ought to go if the charge is
I challenge the Proof of the same.
Flow, let me ask, how are we to get proof of provedl. Thiat is right.
Hon. Mr. KEIR-That is the charge made
the saine if we do flot take it up bere ; and
w-bat is stili more t0 be desired, how are we against the present governinefit, or some
te have proof tlîat the charges are unlfoulid- member of it.

lISE NATE]
Hon. Mr. TERR-T did Tnt say that any
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lf if
is truc, theinijuher oughit io go f0 the ione said so. Who is lit that is making this
Icharge ? 1 ain going to be as chariitable as
penifenitiary.
Hou 2lr.
ERI-Tht i a erins iagejiI eau. and 1 do flot find if necessary, for the
Hon.Mu.KERt-Tat s aserouschage.purposes of my argument, to bear heavily
Wlit vidnc inbapor o tlla ýagainst Mr. Cook, because Mr. Cook bas
s te
charge ? I want f0 cail the attention orfý been my life long acquaintance, but I do
hon.~~~~~~~~ geteg
otelwwt
eeec
ay that from the commencement to the
to, it. They know what the uie is. anil end of Uis matter, so far, Mu. Cook has
what the law is quite as well as I do, but I ýibeen more sinned against than sinnîing. He
just waut to stir up their pure minds by way b as allowed himself f0 get into dang-erous
of remembrance. The Eîîglish law, under hands. That is the position I take.
Mr.
whichi we aie proud to) live. anid wuiose pro- Coo0k was a respectable man. lie belongs
tection we claini, jîresumes e%-ery' subjeiet of to a respectable family.
Hie belongs f0 the
tohafamily of Cooks who were pioneers in tbis
H~sMa.esy t h loalbu
fot îîy
lioes, cutrryis
th
uti
sthlihe b:'
ountry and pioneers in Liberalism, and
satisractory evidence. But I have watchied, Nwho were flot afraid f0 ally fhemnselves withi
-siice these charges were launched hefore the Liheral party and pronouince their
mwe
twssmtigf
a
the last general election-trom day f0 day Lbrl
But
a Liberal in thils country.
f0 heour nd Ifiîd t.ifaimstoneseif
resuL
invariably iliax
rule lias been reversed. fbanks to such families as bis and others,
bou iiuay iniaa
charge ol murder againist LieaI mf-lyii
Canaduca cowers uider
a i..n.; y0U
p~lace liiîîi ln the crlîninai no shadlow. andl if does nof eower under
dock. andI Hs Lordhliplfls(ii upon tii
mnuch of a shadow in this Senate, and the
trial wvill tel! you ibazt you are hound to 1Senat,
il
on
preisuiiie that mijîi ilînîccela. matil lus guiîtl
lon. '.\I. MIcCALLUi%-Soon ba Reform.
tîl satisfactoiv
iiie
ils establishel 1!y su
evidlence, anîd are we then to rev erse tliaf
Hon. )Ir. KEIIR-Yes, but I hope not f00
rule, ami f0 say that hecause M.Coo:z. or neilo-e
shall be sorry f0 seie the
somnebodv else. has made tliis grave charge
day wbien we are aIl one stripe. although
aganstf le
gverinnt hat threfre,
%ve were told hy the hon. gentleman from
aietopueuiu
iiy
re
uity an
cstBrandon that we were not supposed f0
uI)of fhem the enus of proving their iliilo- have any party feeling in this Chamber. I
cence ? That is whaf is asked
vsrterale
n
ollwig
~va raheramsedlu olwn the hon.
I could
glentleman, hecause sonuetimes
Hon. Mr. PflOW'SE-No, no
hardly imagine I was listening to the hon.
Hon. Mu. KEIIR-Hon. gentlemen wlll Seniator from Brandon in bis judicial spirit
eallom- me te differ. I say, lu etteet, they speaking on this question, or whether I was
say that. 1 find that I have an unfortunate hearing some one, is namesake, if hie bas
habit of sfirrinig up a good deal of remarks onee UI) in Brandon, repeatinig some of those
duriug the course of my addresses. I say 'campaigui speeches whicb were attended with
you reverse that rule ;
h ave heard more Si1cli disýaster fo bis friends lu tîlat ri(liig lu
than one lion. genitleman who lias spoken file bite eleutioli. I Patiier came f0 tiRe latter
Ilu support of the motion say fluat the gov-. conclusion, bowever, unicharitable fliat mnay
leriniient ouglit to pr-ove thaf these charges lie. I hiave read every hune of Mr. Cooks oi
are unfounded. What does that mean ? It giiîal charge, and read every word of bis
is elquivalent to au oath,
m1eans a mani is hound to prove a neg-ative-- (lelaratioii. %ll
to prove tlîaf he is not guilty. I tell you "ii( -\u.Cook lias ixot stated in that declarathe rule is that you must prove a man tioîî thaf flic goveriiiinent. or aîîy aîien..er of
guiltY or inake ont a prima facie case the government, offered hlm a seat in the
against bim hefore voîî can caîl uponi hlm Seîîate for $1O,O00, or any sum, and I defy
ainy hion, gentleman. lu tbis House to sucto prove bis innocence.
There
cessfully contradiet my statement.
they is flhe declaration. He does not say that
Hon. Mr. McALMWosaid
n'eue guilty ?
any member of the governlment made the
Honi. Mr. KERR.

[MARCR 13, 1901]ý
off er, but hie does say that sorne one pro- imputed to bim lu this charge, and forsoothi
The Prime
fessing to have authority from the govern- Mr. Cool, has made a charge.
gov- Minlster on bis own account aad on behaif
ment. professing to be an agent of the
colleagues bas denied it.
erament, muade a certain offer to hlm, ind of fils
said that bie bad authority fromn the govHon. Mr. LANDRY-Not every time.
ernment to make that offer.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And sbowed hlm
a letter.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I tell the hon. gentilmen that in a court of law the statemnt
would go for nothingI and it will go focr
nothlng in this court, which is the highest
-court ln the reairu.

1r.
Hon. Mý KERR-Yes, every time.
i-on. Mr. LANDRY-Not the second time.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Yes.

Hou. -,%r. LANDRY-No.
Hon. Mr.' KE RR-Tbe bon. gentleman can
lind it wiiile I ain speakîng.
Iloni. Mr. LANDRY-I cannot find it at ail.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Trlw.n
Hon. Mr. KERR-Tbe Prime Minister lnwhat becomes of fthe charge against t],e
variably denies It.
goverament ?
Hlon. MNr. LANDRY--On bis own account.
out my

Hon. Mr. KERR-I arn foliowing
Hon. Mr. XERII-And for bis colleagues.
argument. The hon. leader of the opposi0Co1k says lio bas
tion oaa speak agaîn. MiNr.
Iflon. Mi. ADRY-Not the second time.
ln bis possession letters and copies of lettërs
lion. gentlemen are
wbicb, in bis opiniion, corroborate the st.at- Ilon01. *,\r. xEIII-If
ment made by thé man who approimchi: anxions for the dignity of this Obamberhiru. I have given MNr.Cook ail the credif and 1 wiil not yield to any hon, gentleman
whicb hie is entitled to under the circumi- in mY desire to-see this Obamber a dignified
stances, and I am bound to ftell on. gen- body iifted Up above party poiitics if yen
tlemen that 1 tbink MLr. Cook would bave wili-let tbem f ry and make this House
sbown to far greater advantage in this what it was intended to be, a copy of that
ns
matter if, as soon as this corrupt offer was Iaugust cliamber fl tbe old land known
hlm, lie liad denouiiced if and the Hlouse of Lords. My bon. friend from
muade te
bis
ruade if known and pursued those who made Prince Edward Island, in fthe course of
;but Mr. Cook carefuily argument found it ilecessary te pass severi
the corrupt offer
muy
concealed from the public, and lie bas cure- of us in review and 1eoft the impression on
tbe publie f0 this heur, mimd tliaf ini eider te inake ourselves riglif
fully concealed from
disclaim
the naine of tbe min wbe professed to be Ibefore tliis Senafe we siieuid eacb
Wbat can any imiproper action on our part iu respect
tbe agent of the goveramnent.
the goverament do ? Tbey do flot know the i of our apj)ointmient to this Obamber.
'.\r. PIOW'SE-No ; simply that hon.
Tbey cannot contradiot hlm. Tbey ,Hon.
man.
do net know bis name. They bave net: the members sliould vote for tbe resolu-tion.
slighitest idea of the man. But the Prime, That is ail.
Minister of this country bas, witb ail tbe 1,Hon. Mr. KERLI-Ail tbat 1 can say, se far
responsibility attacbing te bis liigb office-!,a I know, aud se far as 1 believe, it was
aud whefber lion, gentlemen Nvili agree wif b thouglit by the goveriimient of the day that
me or disagree witb me, 1 bave known the 1 bad wvon miy riglit te a seat la the Senate
P'rime Minister of this counfry perhaps 'la open figlit, and fbey gave me tbe honour,
longer thani nist bon. senators lu fhls aud I trust 1 will neyer disgrace ItL
Hon. M.Nr.
PIOWSD-I wouid ask the bon.
SenateBOWEL-I do gentleman this question : If Mr. Cook bad
Hon. Sir ~Ai-àK1NZIE
comeo and paid is $1O,000, dees lie beileve
not tbink 50.
Hou. Mr. KERR-And I say that ýafter
more than a quartier of a century's knowledge of the character of the Prime MIinister of this country, I believe hiru te lie
utterly and entirely incapable of tbe act

li wouId have bad a seat in the Senafe ?
Hon. '.%r. KERtR-No, nor if hie bad paid
$50,000. I believe bie would bave got if just
as soon if lie bad paid nothIng-. 1 am bound
'to say te thie hon. gentleman from Murray

[SENA'VE
Hiarbour, that if there is auy money con- they themselves are flot prepared to say
No one tbiey believe to be true, -and yet tliey say we
sideration I neyer heard of IL.
would suspect that in my case. A remark make the greatest mistake of our lives
1
was extorted from some of Mr. COOk's if we vote clown the original motion.
friends, ' Why, it seems strange that Mr. want hion. gentlemen to understand tliat
Cook, who in the courts is said to have! aithougli 1 am rather young in this
given evidence that lie spent $22,000 or more: Flouse, I lri sonmewhiat of an1 old parto get a seat iu the Commions, why xvlieni lîameutarian, and 1 neyer liad a member of
lie got a chance of a senatorshiP for less ;the government for the iast quarter of a
1 shall
than half that sum lie did not pay his $1,0O0O cenitury tell me how, i should vote.
and get a seat for 11f e in titis Chamber.' The vote according to my liglit and any conlion. gentleman eau have a cominittee if lie, science and 1 ask every lion, gentleman, on
lioth sides of the House, aiways to do tbat.
asks for it lu the right way.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, no. 1 do not want to burk this inqu iry. If we
Hlon. Mr. KERR-Yes, yes. When I rend pass this motion it xviii iead to ail manner
the first charges, the next thing I saw was of irregularities la the future, and the
a report of the speech by the hou. senator amendmient is moved merely to proteet the
from Hastings i whicli lie said that lie principles of responsihle goverament. Govwould feel it lis duty to mnove hli parîiamneît erumeuit coulé[ fot bie carried on in t.his
tliat a committee lie appointed, or somethitîg country if every man were at liberty to
make a charge and have some one stand
to that effect.
up ou the Iloor of this bouse or tlie other

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
Hon. Mr. KEItR-I said if lie utiakes the
motion in tae proper wny 1 will support it,
and so 1 will to-day, and the ameudment

chamber and make a motion of this kind.
The legisiature in its wisdom, the parliameut in its wîsdom, the Britisli parliament

the Senate. My hon. friend from Victoria
lias said that the words 'credibly iaiformed
and verily believe' are a miere pnrlîamentary
formula. True, they are a parliamentary
formula, but they are more than a matter
of form. Tliey are a matter of substance,
and I tell hou. gentlemen, wliethler they give
me credit for knowing the conistitutional
vractice and usage lu the British parliament
and lu the Canadian parliament hitherto,
or not, thut in matters of this kind tlie luvariable practice is te require the member
making the motion to assume sonie responsibiiity that the charge is not ail on the
surface. But I must congratulate the hon.

this resolution, or any other gentleman moviJig a similar resolutionl, to assume the responsibility of saying that lie is credibly
iutiormed and verily believes the charges
to be true, and that lie wiil estabiish them
ii lie is givenl a comimittee. I bmupposed, if
the lion. gentleman, at the time this
charge xvas promlulgated, had not in lis
possession the evidence to sustain it, lie
would at once communicate~ with Mr.
Cook wlio would give hlm every letter, andl
copy of letter, and every scrap of evidence
lie lad to enahie him to, say wlietlier lie
ivould lie safe in repeating t îlis chaurge upoti
the floor of parliament. But so far as we

as well as thie Canadianl parliumenit, have
that lias been proposed here is tlie proper seeu fit to lay down this mode of procedure,
way in whidh to bring this matter before and what liarm eau it do for the mover of

mover of tlie original motion on lis Wise are iuformed, flot one step of that klind was
discretion in not taking that course. I re- taken. Perliaps the hion, gentleman Is Wise
gret that 1 diid not lear his speech yester- too in nOt asking for that Information. 1
no doulit w-as able and strongly suspect that Mr. Cook Is flot very
day, which

to the point, but 1 understnnd that hie
did not assume tlie responsibility lu lis
remarks of saying that lie believed the
charge was true. I have yet to heair One
hon, gentleman supportiing this motion rise
lu lis place and say lie believes the -charge
to be true. Do lion, gentlemen believe the

,axions to liave tls
but If it is brought
amn anxious to have
1!shall do my best lu

inquiry gone on with,
up lu the riglit way, I
it gone on witl, and I
any capacity to probe

it to the bottom, and If there lias been any

wrong-doing on the part 0f a member of
thîe goverument, or the goverument, let jus-

charge to bie true ? If tbey do not, hoew eau tice lie done, liew to, thie lne, no matter
tliey expeet us to investigate a charge which where the chips fali, or whom they hurt.

lion. Mr. KERR.

[MARCH 13,19011J

113

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-That is conditions attached, or anybody beinýg responsible ; nothing bas corne of it, and you
the sentiment.
are yourseives to biame for granting the
Hon. Mr. KERR-That is my standpoint. committee.' That would be the first thlng
1 vote agalnst tbis motion because tbere la to be thrown in the teeth of the Minister of
no responsibiiity attaching to IL In criminal Justice and the Secretary of State in this
matters the legisiature has protected. inno- Chamber.
cent people in this way. Formeriy any
Hon. Mr. MILLER-What wouid the reman couid go before the grand jury and lay
a charge against bis neighbour, and have a sponsibiiity amount to in this Chamber ?
true bill brougbt in without a prelimrinary
Hon. Mr. KERR-I ask you to vote for
Now, lu order to prevent the arnendment and you wiii get your comInvestigation.
frivolous charges being made, the legisia- mittee.
ture lias Intervened, and says you shall not
Hon. ',%r. MecALLUM-There is no necesgo dIrectly before a grand jury and make a
sity for exciternent in this matter. I think
charge against a man, who may be innocent,
without the authority of the Attorney Gen- we can discuss it cooly. It struck rne while
erai or tbe judge presiding at the court, and listening to the whole of the arguments that
If In matters of that kind the legisiature the government o! this country are standbas been s0 careful, surely the least that cali ing before the people in a shameful posibe required here, Is to regard the very rea- tion, and the members who support them.
sonable condition, that whoever makes a or those who get the members to
charge of this kind, shall not only formulate support thern in this muatter. What is the
lis charges, but shahl pledge bimseif that ohjet in asking for this comrnIttee ? It is
he credibly believes that they are true, and to find ont whether there is any truth In
that If he is granted a comrnittee he will wbat Mr. Cook said or not. Sorne members
be able to estabiish thern. But, here It is go 80 far as to say, they would not believe
said we must deai wlth this in a judicial Mr. Cook on oath.
spirit. Hon. gentlemen know, as I k.now,
Hlon. Mr. KERR-I do flot believe anytbat in neariy every riding In Ontarlo, wben body said that.
this charge was made, th&£t the supporters
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The hon. gentleof the opposition rang the changes on It,
electorate In many man's ears are not always open to what is
to lead the untbinking
parts of the country to believe that it bad said. 1 have known Mr. Cook for years,
been sustained, and made out cieariy that and certaInly I would believe Mr. Cook onl
tbe governrnent stood before tis country oath. I would believe him in any business
convicted of sellng the bhgh'office of a sena- transaction, no rnatter what the arnount o!
torship for $10,000. Was that a right use money lnvoived. But what are the governto make of this ? When we talk about fair ment doing here ? They refuse an Investiplay, let us bave fair play ail round. Those gation. My hon. friend from Cobourg says
who want this matter inquired into be would do thîs anid do that to, probe the
Just attach matter to, the bottorn, but the first thlng he
can get ail they want.
to that resolution or some other wants to do Is to burk an Investigation.
yourseif
resolutilon, and pledge yourse4ves to the
Hon. Mr. KERR-No.
truth of these charges, and that yon
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The hon. gentlebelieve you can sustaIn tbem, and 1 will be
one of the first to assist hon. gentlemen ini man does flot want an Investigation at ail.
estabiishing them before the comrnittee or Hle wants the House to vote this thing
anywbere else. But If hon, gentlemen do down, and then he says be wlil vote for a
not want that, If you just want, wben It cornmittee. 1 have no feeling In this malter.
cornes before a committee, to corne back be- 1 say If 'Mr. Cook swears that so-and-so was
fore the Senate with nothIng proved, and the case, as stated In this declaration, the
nothing to report, tbe government and Senate of this country wouhd be far astray
supporters of the governrnent on this side If they did flot grant an Investigation. I
of the House wiii be laughingly toid, "Yo&i have nothing &tail .to say In answer to what
sent lt to a committee without the usual my hon. friend f rom Murray Hlairbour stated,
8

[SENAT E]

bu.t it Iooks strange to see some hon. gentlemen rise and say 'that he is refl.ecting ou
them. My hon. f riend from Grey says that
this question lias been settled by the provinice of Ontario. Was it settled when he
was ieft at home ?
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I amn here.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-He should have
been more moderate. Was it settled. by the
people of Grey ? If so, they did nlot send
the hou, gentleman to parliament.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The gerrymander
operated.
Mon. Mr. McCALLUM-The hou. gentleman should be modest. Hle came here to
give us fun, and nlot to talk lu that way.
If this was settled lu Ontario, what did
the province of Ontario say ? I do nlot
dlaim that the province said this charge'
But
was true, because they do Dot kuow.

it was uot settled. then. 1 do uot say the
When
charge was truc. I neyer said so.
the hon, gentleman f rom Moatreal (Hlon. Mr.
Dandurand) speaks of a former Minister of
Publie Works being driven ont of pariament by a committee of bis own friends, it
says a good deal for the Conservative party.
Iustead of being a disgrace to them, It is a
credit to them. What is the bon. gentleman trylng to do now ? Tryiug to stifle lnquiry ?
Hon. Mr. KERR-No.
Hon. .Mr. McCALLUM

Who says no?

Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-I do.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The hon, gentleman Is trying to stifle lnquiry when he says
1We must have a member of this House
take the whole respouslbillty of this charge.'
That Is not the way. If the goverument,
wbeu this question was first brought upand I took very littie stock in it wheu It
came up first-had courted an Investigation
It wouid not have seemed so suspicions, but
when I see the auxlety of the government

Senate, and of the parliament of Canada,
that there is nlot a word of truth ln this
There Is euough of that sort of
charge.
tbing ln the neighbouring republic. 1 know
at one time my hon. friend, the hon. Minister of Justice, used to advocate that the
.Senate of this country should be appointed
by the local legisiature. I do nlot know that
it would lie an lmprovement-certainly nlot
if there is any truth lu what Mr. Cook says,
because you could buy the members of the
local legisiature a great deal easier than you
conld huy the goverament of Canada.
Hon. Mr. THIBAUDEAU-Oh,

oh.

Ho.M.MILU
-h
as
h h
h h
as
o.M.MCLTM-h
I don't accuse anybody. If hon, gentlemen
look at what Is taking place in the United
States, where senators are elected by the

longest purse Is generally suceessful. I do
nlot reflect on auybody with reference to
that, but it is comIng here that 1 want
If Mr. Cook
to prevent if possible.
proves his case, I arn sorry to say we
I
would lie ln very much the same boat.
do not say he is going to prove it. When
men say they would flot belle-ce MNr. Cool;
on oath, It Is a very serions matter. It la
a thing I would not say about any man.
I would consider myseif mean to say s0. I
have risen merely for thec purpose of explaining the reason why I cousider the Investigation should lie granted, and I thluk
the goverument are standing in their owfl
liglit lu refusing an Investigation. A gentleman like the M.Ninister of Justice cannot for
a moment, lu bis own iuterest or lu the
interest of bis party, and the good name of
bis government, refuse au Investigation.
The people of the country will say tbere Is
something back of ItL If the Couservative
party wauted to gain a party advantage,
they mlght say they would lie glad If they

were defeated on this, because the peoplè
would say there is some rascalîty behlud
it-which I do not say until some rascalIity is
of the day-wheu I see them tryîug to burk exposed-or these gentlemen would nlot try
Investigation, and see the newcomers back- te vote down an inquiry. Just think of It !
lng them Up wlth sncb warmtb. lt makes
me suspicious that there Is somethlng lieIf 'there la anything behind It, let
hlnd it
us know it ; if there is notbing behiud it,
I
so much the better for the government.
hope, for the sake of the reputation of the
lIon. Mr. McCALLUM.

Who is it goiug to hurt ? Hon, gentlemen
talk about our tîme hein.- taken up. Could

it lie occupied on auy question more Important than the preservation of the purity
of public life lu this country and the wellbeing of the Senate ? If seats lu this Hlouse

(MARCH 13, 1901]

115

Non-Contents.
are to be sold-it ls the first trne 1 have
heard of such a thlng, and I cannot believe
The Hon. Messieurs
It is so-what will the people of the coun- Âlkins,
MacKeen,
try think ?
The hon, gentleman from Armand,
McCallum,
McDonald (Cape Breton)
Cobourg (Hon. Mr. Kerr) says he Is going to Baker.
Bernier,
McLaren,
probe the charge to the bottom, and the Bolduc,
McMillan,
first thing he does Is to vote down an at- Bowell (Sir Mackenzie), Miller,
Casgraln (Windsor),
Montplalslr,
tempt at an investigation.
Others say It CcrnOBin
Is settled already lu the province of Ontario, Dlckey,
Owens,
Perley,
but it was the means of Ieaving the hon. l3obson,
Drummond,
Prlmrose,
gentleman from Grey (Hon. Mr. Landerkin) Ferguson,
Prowse.
at home. 1-f what the hon, gentleman sayS Hingston (Sir William),Reid,
Sullivan,
isis ~ ru, hepepl ~ ~elev hutepolLandry,
~ ~ ofOnaro
fOtroblete
~
~ t hKirchhoffer,
Vidal,

charge. The people of this country belleve Macdonald (P.E.I.),
Wood (Westmoreiaiid.
-34.
what I say, and what I say, I believe, and Macdonald (Victoria),
to contend that the question is settled ai- McKay (Truro),
The original motion wae declared carried
ready, with the majority ln favour of the
opposition ln the province of Ontario, is on the same. dvision reversed.
absurd. I shail vote for fair-play and a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-MIght
fair inquiry, because a man Is worse than a 11 asic the hon, gentleman when he wIll be pref001 who would make such a charge if pared to name the cominittee ? I arn quite
there was nothing in it. If there is nothing -willin, to a'llow the comniittee, so fax as our
ln the charge he should be punished, and friends are concerned, to6 remain as stated In
1 woulcl join with those who wouid punlsh'the motion, Yw'ith the addition of the hon.
hlm.Anyman ouidundr~~etO, senator from Richmnond. That would enho
siander the goverfiment and the Senate Of U+tite the government to, six members. The
Canada ought to be punished, and punished: six members the government think proper
severely. The honour of the Senate Is at to select I arn wlhing to agree to If the
stakre.
Some hon, gentlemen niay make Senaite apiproves.
light of It, but If this Investigation is refused, people will be inclined to say when IHon. Mr. MILLS-I wIll send the liait toan appointment Is made to the Senate, morrow before the meeting of the House.
'That fellow bas money ; he bought a seat
Hon. Sir MA&CKENZIE BOWELL-It Is
in the Senate.' Is It to be sai'd thalt amy 1,understood that the Senate wll agree to
member of thîs House could offer sufficlent, whatever committee the hon. gentleman
Inducement to the goverument to make hlm and myseif rnay select-lt must be approved
a senator ? 1 do flot believe it, and I .want of by the Senate.
to clear the governrnent's skIrts If they do

mot want to clear themn themselves.
The Semate dIvided on the amendment,
which was rejected on the follawing vote:

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Certainly.

1 wouid not

bind the Senate to accept absolutely what

we wouid agree to, but will subrnlt ItL

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
1 wanted to be understood to say was thîs,
The Hon. Messieurs
that if there «were any hon, gentlemen whom
Carmichael,
Milîs.
age, or Iflness, would prevent frorn coming,
O'Donohoe,
Casgraln (de Lanaudière), Pelletier (Sir Alphonse) or who mighkt not think It necessary to corne,
Cox.
Power (Speaker),
we will flot take advantage of that ln order
Dandurand,
Scott,
to have what le termed a catch vote.
Shehyn,
Dever,
Contents :

Bills,

Fiset,
Gilmor,

Jones,
Kerr,

King,

Landerkln,
McHugh,

MacKay (Aima),
MeSweeney,

si

Snowball,

Templeman,
Thibaudeau (Rigaud),

Thlbaudeau (Vallière),
Wark,
WAtS01n,
Wood (Hamilton),
Yeo.

Young.-3O.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-That is quite understood.
The SPEAKER-Im order to make the proceed-ings strictly regular, notice should be
given that to-morrow the eommaittee wlll be
appoimted.

ISENATE]

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Is the hou. gentleman
Ho'n. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I givte
notice that to-morrom- I will submit the putting the question in wrlting ?
names of the comxnittee to act under this
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I wish to say
resolutioli.
that I arn very glad the hon, gentleman
ralsed* this question. I, wlth hlm, belong
BILL INTRODUCED.
to the city off Montreal. The salary off a
Bill (6) ' An Act respecting the Supreme judge, at $5,O00 Is outrageously too 10w.
Court off the Independent Order of Forest- Every one knows that men In those higli
ers. -(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
positions mnust live up te the station to
which they are called by the government,
The Senate adjourned.
and I always wondered that It was not feit
to be the duty off the government to grant
a salary lu proportion to the honour attached to the position. I shall, with very
great Pleasure, bear the hon. gentleman,
THE SENATE.
when lie puts bis question, enlarge upon
Ottawa, Thursday, March 14, 1901.
the condition off things lu the large centres,
help him ln thatThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three and show-and I wlll
that the salaries off the judges are absolutely
o'clock.
and unquestionably Inferior to the exalted
Prayers and routine proceedings.
position they hold.
SALARIES 0F JUDGES.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-I desire to asic
the government a question, if the Minister
off Justice Is prepared to answer It now,
wlth reference to the salaries off judges.
If lie cannot answer it now, I wlll give
notice that I shall maice the Inquiry on
Wednesday next. I should like to asic If
the government are aware that the preserit
salaries off judges were fixed in the year
1873, or twenty-four years ago, whether
they are aware that the cost off living and
ail expenses connected nith living have very
mucli increased since that date, whether
they are aware that the judges' salaries In
this country are very much below those
ruling In any other country, havlng Institutions similar to our own ;whether they are
aware that, as a matter off f act, the salary
off the chief justice Is srnaller than the
salary paid to a metropolitan police magistrate in the city off London, and whetber
tbey are aware that the average salary off
the judges in the Superior Court here
ranges fruni three to five thousand dollars
a year. In England the average salaries off
judges off the lowest court are $25,000 a
year, and In Scotland $19,000 a year, and
I wish to kuow whether they propose tal.Iig
any steps to amend this state of thîngs,
which I think 15 scandalous ?
The SPZAKER.

Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-I have had some correspondence with ieadinýg men at the bar
on the subject off judges' salaries, and 1 have
not forgotten the ffact mentioned by the hon.
eenator, that the salaries were fIxed a good
many years ago, when the cost off living was
mucli less than lt Is at the present time.
After discussing the subject confidentially
wîth a number of leading men at the bar in
my own province, and with some off the
judges whom I confidentialiy communlcated
with in other provinces more than a year
ago, I prepared a Bill making the salaries
what I thouglit the present requiremnents
called for, ln order to secure the best men
at the bar ln the different provinces for appointments on the bencli. That subject Is
before my colleagues. It bas not yet been
discussed by them. Their attention bas
been taken up with other matters, and I arn
nlot in a position to say nt this trne, what actilon may be taken upon the subject.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Of
course, if the bon. gentleman lias prepared
the Bill it would depend ln a great measure
on the action off his coileagues as to whether
be wili be peritted to introduce if, and if
it Is to be introduced, it must be in the other
House, I take it for granted, because It
would be exclusively a money Bill to Increase
the judges' salaries. Aithougli a layman, 1
arn f uly la accord, from my past experlence,'
with the rernarks mnade by the bon. gentil-

[MAP.cHr 1,1, 19011
man from Montreal In reference to the neces- forcibly expressed. I know that every word
sity of piacing the judges of this country ln that hie has uttered on this question so far
a position that they can maintain the dignity will be felt to be a word fitly and timely
pertaining to their office. I speak from ex- spoken so far as the province of Ontario is
perience ln this matter, that for the Supreme concerned, and, I have no doubt, so far as
Court-I mention that court particulariy- other provinces are concerned. The judges
when 1 had the honour of being In a position of the courts of Ontario are men of the very
to consider these questions, it was flot ouly hig-hest character. Tbey are men whose
with difflculty, but it was almost Impossible Judgments, if not always right, are always
to obtain the highest talent we had ln the upright, and there Is scarcely a judge upon
provinces to fil the vacancles that occurredl. the bench, particularly of the High Court,
Now, that is flot a state of affairs that should wbo is flot yearly making a very large finanexist. If we are to have a Supreme Court, cial sacrifice lu holding bis position as judge.
we sbould have the best talent in the Do- 1 have thought for many years, and I think
minion on the bench, and should not grudge s0 now, and I desire to emphasize may view,
the judges a fair salary. 1 give that as my that it bas not been creditable to the proopinion from the experience I have had ix> vince of Ontario espeeially that the judges
the matter, and from the difficulties whîch have been s0 poorIy paid. I trust that the
presented themselves ln obtaining that government will not only consider this mattalent which I think the country demands ter at au early date, but 1 hope tbey will
push it to a practical conclusion, and that
for the bench.
the salaries paid ia Ontario wili be worthy
Hon. lâr. DRUMMOND-In addition to the great province, the judicial business of
wbat I have said, 1 may add, 1 intend to which is s0 Iargely accumulating. I can
pursue this question at a later period, so hardiy understand how people abroad cau
as to elicit, if possible, what the decision of imagine that our judges are men of sncb
the government may be.
I f eel that the learning and ability and be satisfied with
standing and the respectability of the judi- the small salaries which they have been reciary is a matter of vital Importance to this ceiving. Although justice in this matter bas
country. Thank God we have a judiciary been tardy, I hope it will not be much longthat commands the respect of the commun- er delayed and that the goverument wil
Ity, and who do their duty faitbfully and deal with it and decide to bring do-wn a
well, but that is no reason why we should measure that will do that justice which we
subject them, to the hardship-I say it is a ahl feel necessary, and which we trust will
hardship-to be paid on an absolutely insuffi- soon be rendered, and that the judges will
cient scale, to maintain their respectability be placed lu a position above financial cares
and meet the demands which are constantly and worries, and receive adequate and promade on them in their position as expected per remuneration for the higb and importby the community. I shall therefore pursue ant duties which they are cnlied upon to disthe question furtber at a later date, and ask charge.
the goverument what decision they have arrived at, and 1 arn quitc' sure the view of
the majority of the members of this House THE INDEPENDENCE 0F PARLIAMENT-THE COOK CASE.
and of the whole community will be to urge
upon the government an efficient mneasure of
MOTION.
relief.
The foliowtng resolutian having been adopted
legl pofesio,
i mgbtbe xpetedtha ~by the Senate ;with respect to the charges
legl pofesio,
i mghtbe xpetedtha 1made by Mr. H. H. Cook :
That Ir, view of the gravity of the statements
would make an observation or two on this
the
subject. I amn sure that we ail are under an an allegations containedandin affidavit,foregoing
quoted telegrams, letters
refleotobligation to the hion. senator from Montreal ing as they do upon the privileges and dignity
for bringing- this Important question to the of the SenatA, a speciai committee be appointed
to inquire into tho truth of the statements and
notice of the House. I think I echo the sen- allegations made lu said teiegrams, letters and
timents of every member ln>the Senate when affidavit, with power to send for persons and
administer oaths, employ short-hand
11
eay .that they are ln entire accord with papers, to and, If dec-ied advisable, engage couinreporters,
the views which hie bas so properly and 50 sel; and to report fromn time to time, said coinHon. Mr. KERR-Being a member of the

[SENATE]
mittee to coniisit of the Hon. Sir Alphonse Pe letier, and the Honourable Messieurs Baker, 1Perguson, Landry, Jones, Klrchhoffer, Mil ler,
Young, Wood (Westmoreland), Dandurand, K err,
and the mover.
The motion was agreed to.
ADMINISTRATION
0F JUSTICE
YUKON TERRITORY BILL.

IN

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, FridaV, Marc& 15, 1901.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers ani routine

proceedings.

SE COND READING.

FIRST READING.

Bill (6) 'An Act respectlng the Supreme
Hon. Mr. MILLS introdueed Bill (D) CouTt of thq Independent Order of ForestLct, ers.'-(Hon. Mr. Young, in absence of Hou.
'An Act to amend the Yukon Terrltory Ê~
and to, make furtber provision for the ad- Mr. Kerr.)
ministration of justice in the snid Te rriAN ADJOURNIMENT.
tory.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- -Is
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It bas been suggested to
thls Bill confined exclusively to the ad- me that when -the Hlouse adjourns to-day it
should stand adjourned until Tuesday. Sevministration of justice ?
eral bon, gentlemen would like to go away
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Mainly.
for Monday, and in the present state of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-W hat I public business, the discussion niow proceedother subi ects does it deal witb ?
ing iu the House of Conmnons, being a disHon.
Mr.
MILLS-There
is noth ing cussion withi regard to the financial statespecial, except certain powers which it niay nlent, I do itot thlnk the public business
be necessary to confer for the purpose of %vould at ail suifer If we adjourned tilt
iucsday. If that is the genlern.l wish or
giving effect to that provision.
lion. members, I move that wben the Iluse
The Bill was read the first time.
adjourns to-day it do stand adjournied util
Tuesday next at three o'clock in the afterBILLS INTRODUCED.
n000.
Bill (31) 'An Act respecting the Orford
Hon. Mr~. McCALLUM-I liave no wvîslî
Mouatain Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr. about it, but it is ail right.
Owens.)
lIon. Mr. FERGUSON-As a gC'neral rule
Bill (24) 'An Act respecting the South members iliving nt a distance do not hike
Ontario Pacific Railway Company.'-(Hlon. these short adjournments - that Is whenl
Mr. Wood, Westmorelaad.)
there Is really business of importance before the House. This is a case, however,
GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY BILL.
in wJiich It is evident to every hon. gentleman that nothing can suifer from the adSECOND READING.
journment and I think It is quite proper.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved
the second reading of Bill (7)) 'An Act reIatlng to the Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada.'
He said : This Bill Is simply giving
power to the Grand Trunk Rallway Company to secure the rlght of a certain number of smahl lines exlsting ln tbe United
States. It Is fully explalned ln the schedule
attached to it and cau be discussed when
It goes to commlttee.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
Tbe Senate adjourned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hou. %Ir. PROWSE-A very short time
ngo the bon, leader of the House and is
colleague in the government thoughit It
necessary to caîl me to order, and they
found that they' -themselves wvere out of
order In maklng their objection. 1 wish to
caîl the attention of the leader of tbe House
to the fact that It Is necessary tbat there
sihould be a unanimous vote to carry this
motion.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes.
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-And I would remlnd
lm, too, tbat If hie wlshes to be conihila:'

119

[M',AR-CH 19, 1901]

tory and to get the good-wlll and friendsbip
of the House, hie must flot rise in his place
and in a few Irrltating remarks, accuse an
hon. gentleman of slanderlng hion. members
of the House. That is the language used,
which, I think, was quite uncalled for. It
is my privilege amidiny rigbt to objeet to
the passlng of this motion. I do flot wish
to do so, because, perhaps, It would Inconveniencee some hon. members 'vho would
like to stay at home on Monday, but 1 do
object on principle to these short adjournments wlich have taken place in times
past. 'Wben there is no business before the
Flouse, 1 do flot object to adjourni for a
week or two at a time, as was done a short
time ago, but to adjourn every inow and
then for a day or two Is malclng a burlesque
of the Senate and flot malatalning its proper
There are three orders on the
dignity.
paper for Monday, and these will have to
be postponied, and we do not know what
otiier important mensures -will be introduced by members of the Seflate. I shall fot
object further to the proposition, but we
must in future consider whether these short
adjouraments are advisable or flot.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I was seelziug to accommodate certain members who desired an adjourument until Tuesday. I stated that I
did flot bhink the public business wouId
suifer. If the House takes the view of the
hou. member who bas just spoken, I have
no objection to wlhdraw my motion and
meet on M-\onday.
Some hion. ME-MBERS-No, no.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned.

needed terminai facilities la the shape of an
eniarged station-house, addltional yards and
freight shed room, as well as lncreased berth
accommodation at the rallway wharfs, for vessels
loadlng and unloadlng cargo at the port of
Pictou, N.S.?
He said :Since I brought this matter before the Flouse, I have received a memorandum giving me information as to the
area of the station yard and the area appiied to the different purposes of the road,
but as It ail goes to confirmi statements I
made to the House as to their total inidequacy, I simply content myseli' witbi asking
the question.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Tlbe answer sent me
by the deparment reads as foliows :'The
matter is being looked into and being consîdered, but hio decision bas as yet beeni
The minister himself stated to
reached.'
tue verbally that he tbeughit when tbey had
a better suppiy of cars there would flot be
Fie seenied to
mucb difficulty about it.
thinlc the absence of treigbit cars cnused the
block in the yard, flot only there but elsefie bas ordered a large number,
wliere.
but they are net yct .1-aiable. The miatter
is under consideration by the department.
COMPLAINTS FROM THE DOUKHOBOR0PS.
INQUIRY.
The Order of the DaY w-as called,
By the Hon. Mr. Bernier :
That lie will inquire whether the government

bas recoived f romn the Doukhobors, or from somebody on their behlf. any reports, representations, complaints or memiorials respeciting the
re sources or the laws of this country, their
satisfaction or dissatisfaction w.tth the treatment they have received, or mrith the conditions
or insti-tutions of this country ?

Hon. ',%r. SCOTT-We cannot get ail the
answ ers here to-day, and I wouid ask my
Ottawa, Tsie8day, March 19, 1901.
hon. friend to let this motioni stand for a
The Speaker took the Chair at Tbree wveek, and also the foliowing inquiry on the
samne subi ect.
o'cdock.

THE SENATE.

Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
TERMINAL FACILITIES AT PICTOU,
N. S.

Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I should like to
kznown how long it is goinig to stand, becanse
I may have somnething te say about it when
It is calied.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say te My hon.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE Inqulredfriend that my secretary Nvent to see the
Whether It la the intention of the goverament to provide, at an early date, for much- Minister of the Interior, and he was not

[Sr,-N AT Ej

120

able to give an answer to-day. It rnay bc
ila my hands to-morrow, but 1 cannot say.
cCALUM-Al rilit.
Hon.Mr.
Hon.Mr.
cCALUM-Al rxbt.
The motion was allowed to staiid.
DOUKHOBOR
INQUIR-Y

characterize it as a disgrace to the people of
the country tbait any sucb immigrants as
these should be eacouraged to come into
Canada.
The motion was allowed to stand for a
week.

IMMIGRATION.
POSTPONED.

BILL INTRODUCED.

Bill (E) 'An Act to amend the Trade Marks
The Order of the Day being called,
and Designs Act'-(Hon. Mr. Templeman).
By the Hon. Mr. BernierThat he will ask
1. In what country were the Doukhobors living YUKCON TERRITORLY ACT AMENDMEN
before coming into Canada?
BILL.
2. What were the inducements made to themn
so as tu secure their immigration Into Carn-'
SECOND READING.
ada?
And by whom were those Inducements
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the second readmade.
lias the governmgpnt entered into any conItract ing of Bill (D) 'An Act to amend the Yukon
wlth them, or with somebody acting on their
te T'erritory Act and to make further provirs
hi
mirto
behaif, ,rosetn
ment ln Mfis country?
And if so, what is the sion for the administration of justice in the
nature of such agreement?
How many of them have corne to the coun- said trritory.'
try ?
How many have settled in Canada? And
HIe said :This is practically an adminiswhere are they settled?
lias the goverilment set apart, for their ex- trative Bill, and it is more convenient to
clusive settiement, any portion of the public give an explanation of each clause as it
lands?
And if so, what Is the acreage of those
cornes up for discussion. Hon, gentlemen will
lands, and where are they situated?
Under wbat conditions or circumstances have sece that it is simply to provide for the trial
the Doukbobors been lntroduced ln this counfacrincasfofecsbplcemg
fecsbpoiem
try?ofacranlaso
Have they been granted, in any shape or istrates in the samne way that the same
form, and at any time, some subsidies?
What bas been the cost of such immigration, class of offences is tited in Ontario. With
lndlcating how mucli per head and the total regard to civil cases of a limited jurisdiccost?
in
egv
oteplc
aizasa
Are the Doukhobors to recoup the governmenttin
egpocengsrae
a
o! any outlay made on their account, or of anv jurisdiction similar to that possessed by thc
money advanaes made (if any made) to them "? county court judges iii Ontario for the trial
And if so, in what way and when?
o f civil cases. Tlie amount is larger. but
Are or will the Doukhobars be exempt from,
militnry service?
not, perhaps, relatively so. Iii Ontario, the
Has any promise been made to them, or jurisdiction given is less than one hundred
any agreement entered into wlth them or with,
soime of their agents, by the goverriment. or dollars in some cases. WVe give to police
somebou¶y acting or alleglng to act on behal! magistrates under this Bill a jurisdiction te
of the government of this country? If so, what
four or five timcs that amount, but relala the nature of sucli promise or agreement?
regard to this itively it is flot larger tlian the jurisdictioîi
Hon. Mr. SCOTT said : I
i
onycutjde
h
question, the deputy minister tells me It is eecsdb
quie iposibl
togettheinfrmaionliee!Ontario. Thiis is to facilitate the work of
quie iposibe te
t gt
nfomatonliee.administering
justice ln that territory,
They have to send elsewhere.
where the amounit of litigation i iwopori
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-This Is a very Im- tion to population is very inuch larger than
portant matter. The character of these lm- it is in any other portion of the Dominion.
migrants is hein.- discussed by the people iHon. Mr. FERGUSON-How are the cases,
o! the country, and tbey want to understand
hcartobdelwt
u e hiBl.
aIl about It. I thougbt the subject would nwic retod be dheat
it nder tis
uuk
Biur.
corne up to-day. and I was prepared to gîve nwtetdl
h
uo?
Wa
or
my opinion with reference to the statement now deals witb them ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbe High Court.
which the bon. Minister of Justice made
the last time the matter was before us. I
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Only?
do not want my people to be slandered by
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Orîly.
belng compared with this immigration that
Is coming into the country from Europe. I
The Bilh was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. MILLS

[MAIRCH 19, 19011

DELAY IN TRANSLATING

REPORTS.

121

was referring to the translation of depart-

Hon. Mr. MILLS moved that the Hlouse do i mn.ental reports.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes.
now udjourii.
ilon Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-The
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the House ad journs, may 1 bc permittcd to caîl the attedn- Prin0tîng (.omm)nuittee lias nothing to do with
tien of the goverument to the delay that that. 1 do not know what the l)ractice Is
occurs in the translation of ail the publie now, but when 1 was in the govertiment,
documents. There are some documents that 1the report of the department over whilh 1
were brouglit down tivo years ugo that: are presided was ordered to be printed, and
nlot yet translated. 1 think it but fair that was cbarged to the departmnt.
the governmnent shouid see that the trans-i
Hlon. Mr. SUOTT-No ; tbey are cbarged
lation is done promptiy.
Ail reports are
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Are these documents* to parliamentary vote.
ordered to be tranislated IJy printed by order or parliainent. for the couthat bave been
Ivenience and information of parliament. As
thisHous
7
a mile they go from the department. The
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-Tbis Bouse, and gen- iýminister lays the first copies on the Table,
and if bon, gentlemen will look ut the cover
erally.
goveluimenit have of the reports, they will see that they are
Honi. Mr. SCOTT-TIbe
ordered to be printed and paid for by parno control over this Bouse.
m cllin aten- hument. The translating is doue by otilcers
ANDY-1
Hou.Mr.
oalfgatei
f parliament altogetber, and not by the
DYdouens
r.
Hion.t pule
The hon. gentleman from
tio topubicdocmens.depurtmient.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As f ar us the trauslation of this Bouse is concemned, the translations are ordered by the House. 1 do iot'
know that tUe goverament are responsible'
In any wuy.
orit
arnspekln
Hon.Mm.LANRYdepartments.
reports of sanme of the public

Stadacona was referring to some bine-boo;s
issued by the Departmieut or Agriculture.
awure there hus been serions
am
I
deiay In tbe printing, due to the accumulation of work. 1 spolie to Mr. Fisher about
and founid that the report in question-the
iurm report, 1 believe it was-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The different reports
Hou. Mr. MILLS-WIll my bon. frieud
thuzt have not yct beeu Of that department.
nane tbe reports
Mr. SCOTT-Tbey are being issued
int
tranlate
Frecb ?Hon.
Agriculture De-; now at the Bureau.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The
partment ; we bave flot had a translation
Hon.* Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ali refor two years of some of the reports of tbat
pot are ordered to be printed by parliadepartmeut.
and under that order tbe reports are
jment.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-I thluk the matter sent to tUe printer by the departmnents.
to wbich the bion, gentleman mefers was
Hon. 'Mm. FERGUSON-I may remark
under the consideration of the Prlntlng Coi-'
mittee at thieir last meeting, and stel)s have tblnt when the Inquiry was made before tUe
Priniting Committee with regard to this subbeen tak-en.
Hon.Mr.LANDY Te ho. snato isject. it was found that tbe Printing DepartHon Mr LADnYTbebon seato Isment was not to blame-that tUe deiay
referring to 'Hansard.'
was in consequence of the trauslating
The matter wholly.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-No.
was up before the Printing- Comumittee. andti
.M.LADY1d
ntwn
h
atte
dont
YAN
Ho.M.
%teps were being taltei to rectify the deThat Is
goverument to sta9te tbe evil.
îay.
qtated alrendy. Wbat 1 wan t is a remedy
1for tUe present state of tbings.
OWEL-Tb
ÂCKEZIE
Hon.Sir
must be an error. Tbe Printing Committee
The motion wus agreed to.
bas notbing to do with tUe printin, of dThe Senate adjourned.
The bon, gentleman
reports.
partmental

[SKENATEj
VALIDITY OF PROVINCIAL PROHIBITION ACTS.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Wednesday, March 20, 1901.
The Speaker took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON rose toCall the attention of the House to the following article which appeared on the 11th instant
in the Guardian newspaper, published in Charlottetown, P.E.I.:-

BILLS INTRODUCED.

' Prohibitory Law All Right.
*We learn that while at Ottawa recently the
premier and Hon. B. Rogers submitted to Hon.
David Milis the question of the validity of the
prohibitory law passed here at the last session
The Minister of Justice
of the legislature.
gave the opinion that notwithstanding the Manitoba Prohibition Act had been found invalid,
the Island Act is a good law and quite within
This Is
the power of the legislature to enact.
COMPLAINTS FROM DOUKHOBORS.
good news.'
And inquired of the Minister of Justice
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
1. Is the above statement correct?
2. Did the Minister of Justice report officially
on the prohibitory liquor law passed by the
called:
The Order of the Day was
Prince Edward Island legislature during its last
By the Hon. Mr. Bernier :session, and was such report favourable to the
That he will inquire whether the government constitutionality of the said law?report officially
3. Did the Minister of Justice
has received from the Doukhobors, or from someliquor law passed by the
body on their behalf, any reports, representa- on the prohibitory
in the year 1900, before
tions, complaints or memorials respecting the legislature of Manitoba
' ultra vires ' by the
resources or the laws of this country, their sat- the said law was declared if so, was such reAnd
isfaction or dissatisfaction with the treatment court of Manitoba?
port adverse to the constitutionality of the said
they have received, or with the conditions or
law?
institutions of this country?

Bill (F) ' An Act respecting the Bell Telephone Company.'-(Hon. Mr. McMillan.)
Bill (G) 'An Act respecting the demise
of the Crown.'-(Hon. Mr. Mills.)

Hon.

Mr.

BERNIER-I

understood

that

this inquiry was postponed till Tuesday
next.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The second inquiry was
postponed. .
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I thought this one
was postponed as well as the other.
think the
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I
understanding was that they were both
postponed together.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-All right.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-At any rate I shall
ask that this inquiry be postponed till
Tuesday next.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I am prepared to
answer this question, but if my hon. friend
desires It to stand, I am content.
Hou. Mr. McCALLUM-Is the hon. minister prepared to answer it now ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, the first question,
but if It is desired we can let it stand.
The Inquiry was allowed to stand.

He sald : I may explain that there Is, to
my mind, a distinction between an opinion
given, as it appears this one has been given
by the Minister of Justice to gentlemen of
the government of Prince Edward Islandan opinion that the Prince Edward Island
law is valid and constitutional-and the
official report which it is the duty of the
Minister of Justice to make every year on
the legislation of each province. My object,
as my hon. friend will see, is first to find
whether this statement as published In the
local paper is true, and, secondly, whether
an official report has been made by the
hon. Minister of Justice on the constitutionality of this Act of the Prince Edward
Island legislature, and also on a similar
Act by the legislature of Manitoba, not a
special report on these Acts apart from
the general report on the legislation of the
province ln any particular year. From my
experience I know it has been the custom
for the Minister of Justice in each year
to report upon any Instance lu which the
legislation of any province infringes upon
the powers and privileges of the parliament of Canada. My hon. friend will see
that my object ln asking these questions is

[MARCH 2-0, 19011
sirnpiy to find out wbether tbis report bas tbat statute must bave gone outside of the
been made in tbese cases.
judgrnent of the Judicial Cornrittee, or
the court would not bave beld it ultra
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The statute of tbe late
vires. I assume tbat to be the case.
session of the Prince Edward Island legislature bas flot yet been before me, and no YUKON TERRITORY ACT AMENDMENT
officiai report bas been made upon it. I
BILL.
had an unofficlal. conversation witb tbetwo
local ministers, I tbink, wbo calied at my
IN COMMITTEE.
room one night at the hotel, but, so far as
The House resolved Itself inito Cornmittee
any officiai. opinion on the statutes le con- of tbe Wboie on Bill (D) 'An Act to arnend
cerned, none bas been given, because tbey tbe Yukon Territory Aat and to make furbave not yet corne before me for careful ther provision for the adminiistration of
consideration. I calied tbe attention of the justice iii be said territory.'
iiisters in tliat unofficial interview to a dein theC ommivLee.
cision o! the Judicial Cornmittee of the
Privy Council, ln wbicb It was heid the
On thbe first clause.
provinces had, in some cases, tbe power
Hon. Mr. BAKER-The bon. Minister of
of prohibition, and I expressed the opinion ,Justice did flot explain, upon tbe second
that if tbeir leg-islation was witbin the reading of tbe Bill, tbe necessity for the
rules of the decision in that case, wbich,enagm t0ftepoionorbedmupon a cursory examin-ation it seerna to 1istration of justice ln the Yukon. Has It
be, of course their statute wouid be valid, ibeen found tbat the existing arrangements
but 1 caninot commit myseif, in an unofficiai bave flot met tbe requirernents o! tbe popuconversation with parties, either to bin.l lation ?
myseif or thue goverument, because 1 bave
Hon. Mr. l1flLLS-That is the case. Lt le
not, up to tluis moment. examined it with
to relieve the congestion which exists ln
any care.
the Hi.gh Court that these bass important
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then rny bon. cases bave been handed over to the police
friend's answer to this first lnquiry is that
mag'istrates of Dawson and White Horse.
It is not correct that he bas declared the My hbon. friend ia perhaps aware thiat
White
law to be valld ?
Horse is situated at a considerable distance
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I bave given no officiai frorn Dawson. Lt is near the entrance ln.to
opinion upon the subject ;but frorn such the Yukon Territory. Travelling in that
examination as I gave the Act. 1 tbought country, at certarin seasons of the year, is
It intra vires.
extrernely expens-ive, and the court called
nur attention to the subject and suggested
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. friend
that It ls moet desirabie that a police magiebas flot touched the third question at ail.
trate, or a judge, sbouid be stationed at
Hon. Mr. MILLS-On the Manitoba Act White Morse. We are making pr.ovision
tbat Act went aimost lrnuedlately before by this Bibi to relieve the congestion tbat
the courts, and I bave made no speclal existes ln the court, and to enabie justice
report upon It wbatever, nor do I know- to be more easlly administered. The numI bave not yet read the judgment-upon ber of cases ls very great Indeed, ln proporwbat particular ground the Act was beld tion to the population.
ultra vires.
lion. Mr. FERGUSON-If I remember
Mon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has correctly, st y-ear we had a Bill before
It been sent to the Department of Justice ? the House, wblch did flot becorne iaw,
provlding for eLn additional judge ln the
Hon. Mr. MILLS--I arn not sure that it Yukon district. I think the neceslty for
bas. At ail events, I bave not consldered increased judges ln the Yukon was then
this provision of the statute of Manitoba. made pretty clear. 1 arn to underatand,
I bave no doubt that the court of Manitoba therefore, that It is not proposed to go on
carefuily considered tbe decision of the now and appoint an additonal judge, as It
Judicil CormlIttee, and in some respects was proposedl In the Bill hast year, but It

[,-EN ATE]
15 tbought that the appointment of the two
magistrates will suffice. Lt w-ill lighten the
work of -the judges e.nd It wlll flot be necessary to appoint an additional judge.
The clause was adopted.
On the second clause :
2. Such police magistrates shall hoid office during pleasure, and shall not be debarred f rom
jpractising their profession as advocates.
Hon. Mi. BAKER-This provision is, to
if,
my mftnid, extremely objectionable
aurthority be given to, a member of the bar
in the Yukon to exercise judicial functions,
both in civil and criminal matters, it wil
seriously handicap his confreres if he is permitted to practice his profession. and unless
some reason is given by the hon. Minister
of Justice why that should remain as a
part of thiis clause, I think it would be1
weli for the committee seriously to consider
whetber it should flot be &truck ont.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-We permit the police
magistrates in Ontario to practice in ail
civil cases, and we have neyer found any
laconvenience arising from it. Ia criminal
cases .they practiced until a comparaitively
recent period, and then there was a measure
passed which deprived them of the right to
go into court in n criminal case. The effect
of that law would seriously interfere with
practitioners. 1 feit, myseif, as a practitioner, that the meansure was extremely inconvenient and not altogether just.

One of

my partners In London was a police magistinte, and the effect was that 1 could not
take a case In the crimiinal assizes at ah. 1
could well understand why there might be
reasons that the police magistrate and his
partner ouglit not to deal with cases that may
corne before hlm, but I can see no reason
In the world why they sbould be restricted
In cases that may go directly in-to the Hligh
Court and with which the police magistrate
may have nothing to do-not a whit more
than' any other member of the bar. If it
Is thought desirable that greater precaution
should be takea to p-revent a police magistrate appearing la any case that was before
hlmi-I do not think aany one would be guilty
of s0 scandalous a proceedlng-if It is
thought that it is necessary, I should be
quite willing to iscrt a provision in the
Bill to that effect, but I do not think that
in that country you ought to deprive a

not be at ail touched by the cases that go
before the High Court, from practicing before the court In any matter which bias
neyer been before hlm, and in which he lias
no concern.
Hon. Mr. BAKER-By the terms of the
Bill the police magistrate is given concurrent jurlsdiction with the lgh Court judge
up to a certain amount, and I do not wlsh
to qualîfy lt by a strong adjective, but it
seems to me perfectly monstrous that a
man, In such a community as that especially, shouid be vested wîth judicial fntions, and yet be able to practice his prof ession In the midst of It. If necessity
exlsts for the appointment of a police
magistrate, the country Is abundantly able
to pay hlm for his services. I see the next
clause provides in blank for the payment
of a salary. If a necessity exists, the country should be called upon to pay a man
adequately and to give hlm an opportunity
to exercise his judicial functions wvithout
lnterferîng with other members of the profession and without, as would certainly be
the case In such a country as that, raising
a suspicion that would amouat to a scandaI.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I think It ls a
most perniclous clause.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-If the words were
'advocates in a higher court,' it might
answer. We certainly would not allow a
police magîstrate to do any work in connection witb bis own court.

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHEOFFER-I think even
that is objectionable, because it would give
hlm an advantage which sbould not be permitted. Hon, gentlemen must recollect that
it is an entirely different country from the
eastern provinces, and a practice which
mig-ht obtain here without any danger
might be a critical one up there. We had
a case In the earlier days of the
Yukon, when Mr. Wade was Crown
prosecutor, and at the same lime practised Mis profession.
We ijeard nothlng
but condemnation of his actions.
From
the position which Mr. Wade occupied as a
Crown prosecutor, being a very clever man,
he was able to have a very strong influence
over the commissioner, and the first thing
the parties thought of la contested cases
that were hIkely to corne before themn was
police magis&trate, whose juri6sdIctin may to secure the service of '.%r. Wade, and it
Hoa. Mr. FERGUSON.

[MARCH 20, 1901]

was f elt that tbe Moment tbey got Mr.
Wade on their side, they had succeeded
ln wlnnlng their case, and It prevalled to a
large extent. By bis influence over the commiasioner, Mr. Wade was able to control the cases that be took hold of. Great
interests are lnvolved and enormous feesf ees wbich transcend anythlng known lu
this country at ail-are pald ln the Yukon
country. Wilere hundreds of thousanda of
dollars are involved they can pay enormous
f ees to secure certain legal services, and
Lt would place a power lu the magistrate's
bauds tilat would be most pernicioua. There
are people in iligil places wilo bave relatives up there who are likely to be appointed
to tilese positions, and I tilink it would be
a dangerous thing to allow tilat to be done.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My bon. frlend la perhaps aware that for many years the police
magîstrate of this clty, Mr. O'Gara, acted
as police magistrate and practised bis profession ln the courts of the country at the
same time, and I neyer beard of any complaint belng made agalnst hlm ln the discbarge of bis professional duties, and the
same la true of many of the magistrates
that are now acting as police magistrates
In the towns and cities ln the country.

any -case, In thle city ln wilich 1 live, exce4lt
where servants had complained of their
masters or miatresses flot paylng their salaries. Tiley have jurisdiction ln those cases:
have tiley ln others ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My bon. frlend la right.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Lt Is
confined to that In civil cases-non-paymeflt
of wages. If I u.nderstand the bon. gentleman from Missisquoi, be says this Bill
gives them concurrent junlsdiot!on with
orther courts.
Hou. Mr. MILLS-I b~ave amended the
clause ln til way, tilat they sill flot be
debarred from practicing itheir profession
ln the Territorial Court of the Yukon.
Hon. Mr. B.AýKER-Tilat makes lt even
worse.
Hon. Mr. POWER--The ameudment proposed by the Minister of Justice meets one
of the objections to til Bill. Tilere are
two things to be consi'dered, first, tile supply
of professàon-al men In the Yukon la rather
Urntted, and, on the otiler band, the courts
there are niot subject to the same keen
criticlsm, perhaps, tilat they would be subJected to dn a city like Montreal, Ottawa
or Toronto. It seeme to me that there ls
flot the same daily acrutlny of the whole
coun.try that exista du these citles. Tile
people In tile Yukon are ra'thxer more disposed to find fauît than people lu eastern
cities, and I think there sbould be some
provision insertefi ln the Bill which would
ilinder the partner of a magistrate, or any
person professlonally connected with him,
comlng bof ore the magIstrate. That would
be necessary. I do flot undertake to move
an amendment, but I tblnk -the clause
should prov'ide tilat no sncb mag'lstrate, or
any lone professlonally connected wlth him,
shahl take part In any case coming before
sucb inagistrate.

Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-I may say the
same thlng of the municipailes tbat surround Moutreal. Some of them are qulte
as large as Dawson City. Tilere Is St.
Cun6gonde, St. Henri, St Louis, Mlle End,
and tbey bave recorders wbo are lawyers
practlsing Iu the district of M.ontreal. One
of thers Is a member of parliament, so that
be la a poditician, recorder and practisIng
barrister, but be dlscbarges bis duties as
recorder wlth perfect satisfaction, and I
bave beard no complalnt ln those municipaities, whlch are qulte as large as Dawson.
Hon. Mr. BÂ.KER-Move that the consldHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Has the recorder of
eration of thle second clause be postponed.
Montreal the rlght to practice also ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I consent to that.
I am
Hon. Mr. DÂNDUBÂND-No,
speaking of these places surroundlng MontTbe clause was allorwed to stand.
real.

Oln the tilird clause.
lion. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL,-ToHon. Mr. BÂKER--Of course the Sonate
wbat extent bave the police magdstrates
ln
power to deal with sncb cases ? Do they wll not f11l the blank lu this clause, but
questions affect- the meantime it may not be impertinent for
go beyend the decidiug of
Sonate
lng payment of wages ? 1 do -net remember the Minftster of Justice to take the

[S E1 AT E
Into bis confidence, and state on wbait scale
of Ilberahty the sabary wlll be .placed. 'Lt Is
Important that tbat should be informaily
given to the Senate lu order thaçt we migiat
know whether any necessity exdstEs for givIng a magistrate an opportunity to supplement bis salary by the practice of his professlon.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Oh0, yes, very good. In
the Dawson country, I suppose at the present lime, there must lie twenty limnes more
business to be done than at White Horse,
and so we wouid not pay a magistrate at
White Horse as large a sum, and on account
of Its proximity to Skagway, 1 do flot think
the cosit of living wiiil be as high there as
ait the otlier point.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I am flot dn a position
The clause was adopted.
to give my bon. f riend the opinion lie seeks
at this moment. We wan.t to make the
On clause 4,
most reasonable arrangenient that we ean.
No person shall be appolnted a police magisAil the salaries charged. there are v-ery
trate hereunder unless he bas been admitted
higli indeed, and we have constant coin- and bas practised as an advocate, barrister or
plaints made tbat -the living aUlowances s icitor in one *of the provinces of Canada for
tb.at we are obllged. to grant judges of the a period of not less than three years.
courts are not sutnecient, atougn tnose nlvHon. Mr. POWER-I would ask the Mining aliowances to-day amoulit to a very Ister of Justice If lie does flot think, conlarge sum, and, tnking in connection wilih sidering the very wide jurisdiction which
salaies, mnke them, 1 thiak, higlier tliau 1 5 given these magistrates, considerabiy
any salaries of judges in Canada, except of greater than the jurisdiction given county
the Supreme Court, so lion, gentlemen wili judges In the province of Nova Scotia, that
see that we are alliious to let those gentle- a barrister or soIIcitor shouid lie expected
men wh-o may lie appointed to act as police to be of a littie more than three years standmagistrates suppiement the salaries we Ing ? In the province of Nova Scotla a
may pay them, by continuing to practice county judge, wben appointed, must be of
their profession. Everytbing Is abnormaily seven years standing. Under clause 6 of
high compared with what we pay else- this Bill,* the jurisdlction of the magîstrates
where, and It ris because of that we are la much greater than that of the county
obliged to do ln the Yukon country what judges of Nova Scotia, and I think the magism.ight be consildered objectionabie If done trate sbouid lie a barrister of flot less than
In other portions of -the Dominion. I wil five years' standing. I tbink this sending
give the bon. gentleman the Information
whih le seksjus
a son a I aveanof Young fellows, who may bave been adopprtuit
hf
dies ssng the matte ait mitted three years, but have not been doing
jus
my ouiienguef aicoing
toe atcocuion any business worth while, and glving them
as colwbat te adr
eougt
to liencbutiat sucli large jurisdiction, Is rather doubtfui
ath preet lie we ave
nogt d eaibt a policy, and I would suggest that we sulibiais subi ect, and I thouglit It was not desir-stuefveortee
able to delay bringing forward 'the Bill
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
bere, because bore we are unable te inoert wouid nsk the Minister of Justice wby the
the amount of salary fixed In the Bill, but territories shouid lie ieft ont ?
I wdUl try and give the information to my
hon. frlend opposite and to the Sonate Just
Hon. Mr. MILLS-They are included In
as soon as a conclusion is reached upon the the Interpretation Act, so the word ' prosubjeot.
vince' covers territory as weli.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is there any good
-

.-

f*fA

iý

-f

.-

fi-L

VlJ*

dIfferent salaries should lie paid to these
men ? Now, as It Is In the power of the
Governor in Council to divide the territory
equally between the two, would there seem
to lie any good reason wby there shouid lie
a difference ?
Hon. Mr. BAKER.

Hon. Mr. BAKER-I should tblnk a sol!12UJ

#l

tAJV

Jýlf

OLUA

W

Â 1A

(

many cases lie very inforior materiai. to make
a judge of. He miglit, when bis judgment
was more matured, lie a very good man,
but It ls reducing it too 10w to permit a
i solicitor who bas been only three years
1 in practice to ascond the bencli, and give

127

LfrARCH 20, 1901]

concurrent jurisdiction to a certain extent but if we flnd a man who bas been but
three years at the bar, wlio la otherwise
with the High Court of Justice..
qualmfed, and who is ready to accept, l
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. friend will do not think we ouglit to be hindred and
see that, even If lie divide the sum men- delayed by fixing a longer period. It is
tioned here by five, lie will have about true that many persons have named a
what the real value is of the case that longer period, but I do flot think, nor do I
this man may try. One hundred dollars is belleve any -lawyer who lias considered the
as Important for adjudication here as five subject is of opinion that the Orown ls
hundred dollars Is ln the Yukon Territory, bound by that provision here lnserted in
and we fix the sum in this BUlI so as to the provincial statute, so that I thlnk,
correspond very nearly to what our division when my hon. friend will look at the charcourt practice is in Ontario, and what,iln acter of the cases that will be brouglit
many cities, is known as the small debtors before this tribunal, lie wlll see that a
court, may discliarge. Who are the men lawyer of three years' standing, If lie ls a
They
usually engaged in* those duties ?
man of f air capacity, ouglit to be qualifled
are not professionai men at ail, and my to dIscliarge the duties creditably, and so
hon. friends opposite will remember very as to satisfy the population in that new
well In the province of Ontario, when the country.
magistrate adjudicated upon small debtsThe clause was adopted.
the old courts of request-and they arrived
at justice ln a way on the whole satisfacOn clause 5,
tory to those who were brought before
1Each of the police niagistrates sa appointed
tliem.
shall have the criinal
jurisuicuuun puaaesseu
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That by a police magistrate of a. city or an incorporated town, and may by his commission, or
about flfty years ago.
was
by order of the Governor in Council, made
Hu';I.MILLS-Yes, and you have a at any time after his appointment, be vested
h alpo with the civil jurisdlction herelnafter def hnsl
odto
on.bakr.
morebackardcondtion0f hing in he ned.
Yukon country at the present time than
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-May I ask the
Minister of Justice whetber the jurisdictiofl
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There of tihe police magistrate ln criminal matters
are a great deal sharper people to deal with is the sanie in ail the incorporated cities
and towns of Canada ? Recause, If not, this
ln the Yukon.
you had ln Ontario then.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-That may be-people
who require a strong hand, but you take
any man who is admitted to the bar, and
lie lias a pretty good knowledge of the general principles of law f rom the very outset, and to say that the magistrate must
be a man of more than three years' standin.-,

might

make il.

UtXcessay

unit.

saine,

would be quite Indeffnite.
Hon. M'r. MILLS-It is not necessarily the
same.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is the
jurisdiction of the police magistrate in Toronto greater than that of the police magistrate of Belleville ?
Hon.

Mr.

M~ILLS-Tlie

jurisdiction

of

onb sliould be sent from a distance to that 1police niagistrates ln -the towns and cities
country. If niy hon. friend saw the corre- 0f the provinces are the same, but thiey
spondence ln my office, and the complainte imay not be thie ane in one province that
made by parties that they were not Buftheyaed
ohr
yaei
ciently paid, and If I were to show him' i
letters ln which it was stated that the cost lHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then would not
of living amounted to over ten thousand'the language of this clause give rise to
dollars a year, wlien persons were living doubt: as to what the jurlsdiction la ? If
very plainly, hie wlll see what very formld- there ls any variation ln the powers o!
able demands may be made upon tlie gov- îpolice magistrates, this will certainly confer
ernment and upon parliament with regard ,nidfniepwr
to compensation. Now, we are not obliged iHon. Mr. MILLS-They will conf er the
I will.
to appoint a man of three years' standing.,I wldest power that lis conf erred.

128

[SEN ATE]

let that clause stand, because we may take
power 'to fix the Jurisdiction by commnission,
but so as not to exceed the jurisidiiotion In
axty town in Canada.
H'on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
It not be muel botter ito state the powers
and then it will not be .necessary to make
reference to any Bill; or confine the power
to that exerclsed In some one province ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-0 will let the clause
stand unltil 1 look lInto that.
The clause wes allowed te stand.
On sub-clause (a) of clause eight.
The followiflg classes of cases are excepted
from the jurisdlction of such police magistrates :
(a) Actions for gambIlng debts
Hon. Mr. BAKER-What court in the
Yukon takes cognizance of garnbling debts

Yukon. I wlll have to look over the L~J
again, but the appeal to wh-ich my hon.
friend refers le in criminal cases aristing in
the Yukon Territories, of whioh the judges
are the members and flot tihe police mýagistrate. Clauses 10 and i1 refer to the Territorial Court and flot to the Magistrate's
Court at ail. However, I willl see that the
language Is sufficiently expressive before
we take the matter up on Monday next.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN, fromn the committee, reported that they bad made sorne progress and asked leave to sit again on Moi'
day next.

SECOND READINGS.
Bill (31) 'ÂAn Act respecting the Orford
Mounitaln Raâlway Company.'-(H0on. Mr.
Owens).
Bill (24) 'An Act respecting the South OnHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.)-You can- tario Pacifie Raîlway Company.'-(Hou. Mr.
Wood, We.stmoreland).
not recover a gamblîng debt.

Hon. Mr. BAKER-The Inference is irreBILLS INTRODUCED.
sistible, frorn tlhe language of that clause,
Bill (8) 'An Act respecting -the Grand
tba.t there ls a court In the Yukon Territory
Trunk Rallway Conmpany of Canada'for the collection of garnbldng debts.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My bon. friend knows
that election bets are recoverable by law.
The clause was adopted.
On clause ten,
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Thàs and the follOWIng clause refer to tihe Territorial Court,
and not to the magisfrate's court. The
appeal f rom the Territorial Court le to
the Supreine Court. There Is no0 appeal, of
course, f rom the Maglstrate's Court tO the
Territorial Court.
Hon. 5fr MACKENZIE BOWELL-I5
there no courat to which an appeal could be
made in the Yukon district from the magietrate's decisdon wlthout compelIng11 the appellants to corne to Ottawa ? In the Province of Ontario, if the party desîres to
appeal, lie eaui go fromn the ma.gistrate's to
the County Court, and so on to the Queen's
Bench. Thds prov'ldes, In case of an appeai,
that lie must corne to Ottawa, and the expense and distance would make an appeal
almost imposslàble- lB there no court In the
Yukon Territory to which hie can appeal ?

(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell).
BtJJ (20) 'An Act respecting the Nakusp
and elocan Ralway Cornpany.'-(Hl. Mr.
Kdrchoffer).
The Sen-ate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Tltursday, March 21, 1901.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ADMINISTRATION 0F TUEE YUKON
TERRITORY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) rose to
Ask the governrnent for information respectIng the JoIlowing matters In the Yukon district :

1. Has Mr. Ogilvie, commissioner in the Yukon,
been recalled, or has hie resigned bis office
voluntarlly ? Should hie leave for either reason,
who succeeds hlm ?
2. What has been the revenue of the Yukon
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Provision 15 made fer
all sources for the year 1900 ?

trom.
an appeal frorn these magistrates to the
3. Is It the Intention to reduce the royial'ty on
ln the gold from. 10 Ver cent to 5 per cent ?
High Court, the TerrItorial Court
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[-MARCH 21, 19011
4. Have any or ail of the gold dredging leases royalty. Lt bas been mentioned lu another

Iu the Yukon been cancelied ? If Bo, bow manY place, but 1 have seen no officiai staternent,

and for what reason ?
the
5. Ily whom. Is the Issue of licenses for the that the governrnent intend to reduce
Importation and sale of spirits, wine and beer royalty from 10 to 5 per cent. Fron rny
lu the 'Yukon regulated ?
of that mnatter, 1 think the
6. What lias tieen considered the neeessary own knowledger
miners would bie quite satisfied to pay the
qualification of an applicaut for a license ?
7. Io It the Intention to deal wit the business 10 per cent royalty If a good portion of it
of liceuses in a more open and general way
was spent lu making roads ln that country,
than hias been hitherto doue ?
by which they couid get their supplies
He said : Lu asking these questions witb to the mines easily, and if a portion of it Is
regard to the Important Yukou country, it spent for the Improvemzent of Dawson and
15 not niy intention to make any charges
other municipalities ; but if the goverument
against the administration, althougb I can- have decided to reduce the royalty to 5
not approve of ahl that bas been done. per cent, I do flot suppose there will bie an
1 wisb simpIy to bave information for par- o bjection froin any source. Questions five,
liament and the country. I arn quite -%villing six and seven reter to a very important
to make every allowance for the difficulty matter, that is, the spirit licenses wbicb have
in admiuisterîng that distant region, lu keepiug poorly paid officiais lu the patb 0f rectitude. Young men ou 10w salaries lu a country where there is gold everywbere but lu
their ow-n pockets, are apt to thîuk tbemselves justified in trying to get sorne 0f the

gold to hune their own pockets. Lt is to bie
boped that hereafter the goverument will
take care that the qualification for officers
in that country shahl be nothing but entire
fitness and not partisansbip or favouritism,
althougli it is quite possible for a partisan
and a favourite to be a good officiai. The
chief qualification, bowvever, should bie fîtness for the office. The first question, as to
the retiremeut of Mr.-ilvie, is not so Important as w-ho is to bie bis successor, and
the country will expeet the goverament, witb
the experieuce they bave biad, to appoint a
tborougbly good man to tbat position. It is
au exceedingly important one. There Is
-certain legisiation, and regulations of au
important character, to bie carried out, and

the man w-ho is appointed to that office, if
Mr. Ogîlvie is retiriug, should bie a man who
bas sorne knowledge of legisiatiofi and iaw.
The second question, that of revenue, bas
already been answered lu anothier place by
the 'Minister of Finance, but It will bie noue
the worse if repeated here. The expeudIture
bas been heavy, but If usefully applied, and
if a large portion bias been speut in improving the sauitary condition of DJawson City,
the money will have been well and usefulIy
spent. The condition of that city for the
past couple of years bas been dephorable,
and I hope that a large portion of the revenue bas gone towards its Iniprovement. The
third question relates to the reduction of the
9

been given ln the Yukon. I arn sure no one
wiil try to maintain, on the floor of this
House, that the Iicensilg for the sale of
spirits in the Yukon lias been carried on un

a proper systein. Thiere is no doubt that a
great deal of favouritismi bas been sbown
to men wbo took spirits into that country,
and who have made money. Liceuses have
been given by the department bere that
have been hawked about the country, and
sold for large sums. Lt Is quite certain
that spirits cannot be kept ont of that country, and it requires stringent regulations to
goveru its sale. Lt sbould bie left entirely
f ree and open, excepting as to the liiting
0f the number of bouses, and flot giving

licenise to any one merely because hie happens
to bie a friend or an acquaintance. I should
regulate the licenses to retal bouses by
tbe number of persons la the villages and
towns, as they are regulated ln other parts
of the country, and make bigb licenses as
guarantee that the bouse shouid bie bigbly
respectable. As to wbolesale, I sbould
leave that question to regulate Itself, but
I sbould exercise the greatest stringency,
and the greatest fairness at the saine time,
towards the retailing of spirits and wine in
the Yukon country.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Iu reply to the flrst
question, 1 may say that Mr. Ogilvie was
desirous of being relieved, and a successor
bas been appointed accordingly. The second
question is as to bis successor. The successor of Mr. Ogilvie Is the Hon. James Hamilton Rose. Mr. Ross was for mauy years
connected wltb the goverument of the
He eujoyed the
Nortb-west Territories.

[SENATE]
lie commissioner altogether. lu the seventh
confidence of the people of that country, t]
uestion the hon. gentleman asks ' Is it the
any otber ci
perbaps to a greater extent than
ntention ýto ýdeal witb the business of
resident. Hle was conversant with th e con- 1
icenseS in a more open and general way
ditions of the population in tbe new coun- 1
The inatter
bas been bitherto done.'
try, and perhaps no better. man ln ail Can- t han
Copies of the
position, forinerly i.s iiow regulated by order.
ada was available for the
are laid on the Table herewitb.
held by Mr. Ogilvie, ln the Yukon country r egulations
tbey can
Ross bas been ap- ' Cbey are somewbat le.ngthy, but
than Mr. Ross, and so M1r.
>e inspected by any hon. gentleman wbo
pointed and will soon enter upon bis duties t
lesires to examine tbem wîtb greater minin that country. Tben the next question the É
iteness.
bon. gentleman asks Is as to tUe revenue.
Tbe aaswer is, $1,804,09-6.81. The uext Is JENSUS OFFICERS FOIL THE NORTHas to tbe reduction of the royalty. Tbe anWEST TERRITORIES.
swer is yes. Tbe reduction bas taken place.
INQUIRY.
Tlhe fourtb question of the lion, gentleman
The answer
relates to gold dredging leases.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired:
Is that the boiders of leases 64, 65, 176, 177,
If the census officers for the North-west Ter221 and 222 bave asked permission to re- ritorles have been appointed ? And If so, who
electoral division
the several officers
llnquisb their leases, and those leases bave areEast Assinibola, with for thepost office address?
their
178 and of
In Nos.
been reliaquisbed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No officers bave yet
179, errors were made by the lessees ln securing the portion of tbe river to be cover- been appointed by order in council for the
ed by the lease ; and lease No. 131, the area Nortb-west Territories, excepting the chief
described la the lease was covered by grants census officer wbo is Huysmans de Deftal,
for placer minîng purposes, and placer mnin- of Duck Lake. Tbe otbers bave not yet
ing bas been given a preference to tbe been appolnted.
For Nos. 237 and 238
dredg-ing leases.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-What Urne of tbe
the lessees bave asked permission to relinyear Is It expected tbe census wlll be taken?
qulsb tbeir leases, and the lessees of lease
it is, as 1 understafld, about the first of
No. 262 bave reafused to accept the lease. If
It strikes me tbat the officers will
That is ail the information that 1 can give April,
bave a short time to prepare themnselves
the bon. gentleman on tbe subject of the
that work.
leases. Other than those rnentioaed, the for
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbe expectation is to
leases, no doubt, continue in force.
in April.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can take tbe census
the
Hion. Mr. PERLEY-ls there a fixed day ?
the bon. gentleman say wbether any of
paîd on those leases bas been remoney
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I tbink the first day of
turned, or Is to, be returned ?
tbe month. I bave flot carried the exact
Hon. Mr. MILLS-1 am not aware. Thbe date ln my mind.
tiftb question Is 1By whom is the Issue of
ERRORS IN THEE MINUTES.
licenses for the Importation and sale of
spirits, w-lue and beer lu the Yukon reguHon. Mr. PROWSE-I w-ish to cail attenlated.' The answer is for the importation, tion to an error in the Minutes at page 150,
by the Governor la Council ; for the sale, wbere it is recorded:
by the Governor la Councl or the commisMr. Perley moved, seconded
sioner in council. Ia reply to the sixtbi byThe H-onourable Mr. Owens,
the Honourable
there bave been no special reguinquestion,
That rule 106 of the Senate he suspended, and
of the
tions as to tbe qualifications of applicant that permisionl be given Jamesa Stovel. for a
petition
of Edmonton, to present
Tbe issue bas heen in the town of Divorce from bis wife, Margaret Stovel.
for a license.
Bill
The question of concurrence being put thereon,
discretion of the minister, and upon the Indivision, resolved in the
the saine
to the character of tbe per- affirmative. was, un
formation as
son, and bis fitness to be entrusted witb
No-w, as a matter of fact, tbere was no
the license, wbicb bas been given to the minquestion of concurrence put on the motion,
Ister. My bon. friend calis my attention to
if there bad been a division on tbe mnothe fact that this matter now resta with and
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[MARCH 21, 1901]

131

tiou, the rule could flot have been suspended. The necessary correction would be
to strike ont the words ' carried on a division,' because it nmust have been carried
unanimously, or the rule could flot have
been suspended.

was a division, and the miles of the House
must have been deliberately vlated, whlcb
should not appear on the record. I would
suggest that the words 1carried on a division ' be struck ont, and then our ruies
would be consistent.

. Hon. Mr. MILLS-My bon. friend L-nows
there are many hon. senators who aré opposed to the granting of divorce, and they
must be assumed to be opposed to every
motion relating to that particular subject,
and so every motion relating to the subject
of divorce is entered as carried on a division, if carried at ail.

Hon. Mm. MILLS-No, the entry Is proper
as it stands. It follows the practice of the
Honse for years. If my hon. frlend lnsists
on the enforcement of the mule, notice must
be given on ail future occasions. He wli
no donlit contribute to the inconvenience of
the House by so doing. We must respect
the opinions of those wvho are opposed conscientiously to divorce, and w'e do so by
inserting the word 'carried on division' in
the record. We cannot do so in any other
way except by requiring, in ail those cases,
the usual notice, and I think my bon. friend
will not confer any advantage upon the
majority in the I-buse by insîsting upon a
strict observance of the mile.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
Is quite true as a matter of practice, but It
will lie observed at once that the point taken
by the bon, gentleman from Prince Edward
Island is correct, because the rule cannot
lie suspended unless it is by unanimous consent. Tlinr is the point that lie lias taken.
The understnnding of this House, and also
of the other House, is that, it being a matter
of conscience with some members, ail motions relating to divorce Bis are carried on
a division, to obviate the necessity of having
a division on every stage of a BIHI. Notwithstanding that, the point tnk-en by the
bon, gentleman is correct. The entry as it
stands places on record a precedent whicb
may lie quoted ln future when an attempt Is
made to suspend the miles witbout the
unanimous consent of the House.

Hon. Mr. BAK£ER-M\y hon. friends seem
to lie working at cross purposes. It is true
the motion for the suspension of a mile must
lie camried unanimously, and I believe that
was done yesterdny, but wben the report
was presented it was carried on a division,
as is always done.
Hon. Mm. IMILLER-The mile bas been as
stated by the hon. Mînister of Jusfice ln
ail proceedings ln divorce cases. The entry
appears 'carmied on a division.' As the bon.
Minister of Justice snys, the practice that
we have foliowed contributes to the convenience of the House. If any bon. gentleman insists on baving a division, the names
must lie taken down, and It would not serve
any useful purpose.

Hon. Mr. M.NILLS-The practice bas so
long prevailed with regard to this subject
that the rule has neyer been beld to apply.
If any bon, gentlemen, nt the time the question was put, had tak-en exception, of course
the motion could not have been put, but
the motion was put, and the entry was made
Hon. Mr. BAKER-The rules must be
in this case as it bas been for a series of unanîmously suspended ; then the motion
years on ail motions relating to divorce to adopt the report is carried on a division.
cases.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I do not want to
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-The question arises discuss whether the hon. gentleman from
wbether a matter of sentiment, in wblcb Murray Hambour (Hon. '-%r. Pmowse) Is right
realiy no principle is Involved, shall take or not, but if suchb objections are lnslsted
precedence of the muies of the House. 1 do upon, some members of this House, who are
not; find fault with gentlemen who take the opposed entimely to divorce, will ln the fuview they do ngainst divorce, but tbey did ture insist upon a real division being taken,
flot press for a division on this motion ; con- and the yeas and nays ecorded. It Is flot
sequently it must be admitted that the sus- a meme matter of sentiment witb us. It Is
pension of the mile was carried by a unani- a matter of conscience and principie, and
mous vote ; but the record shows that there If sncb objections are taken, then I say some

[SE NATE]
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is the practice, as
of us will consider it our duty to record ai]
you will see by referring to a recent mothe votes in every case.
bo. frendtion of the leader of the opposition. You
Hon.Mr.FERGSON'2\l
ho.
Hon. r. FEGUSONMy frind wiiind bis motion is set forth in full] in
froni Missisquoi states this matter correctly. the Minutes of Proceedings, and it bas
There were really two propositions before
former years.
the Hlouse. One was the suspension of the', aiways been done in
report. 1Hon. Mr. MILLS-I understand from the
miles ; the other, concurrence in the
It is quite proper that hon. gentlemen, who: Clerk It bas flot been done In previous years.
do not believe in divorce, shouid like to If a miember desires It to, appear, the pracbave their votes recorded against the prin-, tice Is to, mention it
cipie on every occasion ;stili, for the con- IHon. Mr. LANDRY-I deny the assertion
venience of the House, they ailow the mile made by the hon. Minister through the
to be suspended to advanice the work of channel of the Clerk of the House, and 1
the House ; but the second proposai, the wiil bring up to-morrow precedents to show
motion to adopt the report, was a separate the hion. 'minister that bis information is
one, and shouid have beenl recorded separ- not correct. I ara sure of wbat I arn talking
ateiy on the journais of the House, wbichi about.
wouid meet the views of those who bavei
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is my desire
conscientious objections to divorce, as the
rnd carie ona iviiol.'that the practice of the House should be
recrd oud
n adivsio.'followed in regard to my înquiry of yesrecrd oul
red 'arred
Hon. Mr. L-ANDRY-As we are debating terday.
the phraseoiogy of the -Minutes of Proceedings of the Senate, 1 would cail the attentioni GRAND TRUNK RAILWýAY COMNPANY'S
of the House to this fact : yesterday we had 1BILL.
SECOND READING.
a motion made by my hon. friend froni
Prince Eclward Island (Hon. 'Mr. Fierguson.),j
cali the attention of the Hlouse' Hon. Sir MACK{ENZIE BOWTELL moved
thiat hie %votild
to a certain article which -as given in his the second reading of Bill (S) 'An Act renotice. That was a motion w-hich, in my specting the Grand Trunk, Railway Comiopinion, sbould be in our Minutes of Pro-i pany of Canada.'
ceedings to-day. Every tume a member 1 The motion was agreled to.
calis the attention of the House to anyî
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-This
article or telegramn that bas been published,
aniprat one, and those who are
a record is made of that fact in the M~inutes Bill is
I find nothing of the kind interested la it would like to have it go be0f Proceedinigs.
as early as
in the proceedings of to-day. I tbink It fore the RaiUway Committee
Under one of the rules of the
sboud beinseted.possible.
it Is provi'ded that a Bill of this
iHouse
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It wiii bie in the De- character *must be posted for twenty-four
hours befome being sent to the Railway Coinbates.
LANDRY-I arn not speakîlg of rnittee. Under the circunistances, and there
Hon. M-%r.
the 1Debates.' The hon. 'Minîster of Justice, being no possible objection t0 the Bill, it
knows I arn not speaking of that. I arn having been thoroughly discussed in the
n
calling attention to a motion that was made lo, rHueadbfretecmite
and which was not mecorded in the Minutes the clause which wvas supposed to have been
of Proceedings. I arn not speaking of the! objectionabie having been amended la order
'Debates' at ail. Tha& is not a reply to my to meet the views of the members of the
objection. Has the bon. gentleman notblng tcominittee and of the House of Conimons,
th ere can be no objection to the suspension
te say ?
f the rule which requires the posting of
COTTNo.
Hon.Mr.
Bill for twenty-four bours, in order to
Hon.Mr.
COTTNo.the
noticed there Is enable it to be sent to the committee toHon. Mr. *FERGUSON-I
no reference to my Inquiry in the proceed- mormow. Tbere aire two Bis that bave
lngs of yesterday. I did not kno'w that lt been introduced affecting tbUe Grand Trunk
Raiiw'ay, and as the raiiway officiais wilI
was the practice to record such Inquirles.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER.

[MAROR 21, 19011

be here to-morrow to 100k, after theother
Bill, I trust the Hbuse wJll consent to the
suspension of this ruie In order that this
Bill may be sent to the coinmittee. 1 inay
explain further that It is provided that the
pninc1ple off the Bill must have the consent
off the stockholders and shareholders Ini
Europe, and It Is necessary. to, give one
months' notice for a general meeting to be
held on the SOth off next month, In order to
ratify the bargain which lias been entered Into, and whlch Is provlded In this clause.
So that every day is off Importance to, the
Grand Trunk Itailway Company. Once It
passes both.Houses, a notice cau be given
off the meeting to be held. If It is delayed
too long It may prevent that and create
great difficulty. With the consent off the
bouse, I move the suspension off rule 60
so ffar as It affects thîs Bill.

133

sion off Urne. I want to know where the
railway they propose building leads to. 1
am~ asking for information, as this Is a British Columbia question. I arn afraid my
hlon. frîend is flot niuch better Informned
than I amn as to, the object off the BilH.

Hon. Mr. KI]RCHHOFFERt-T-he hon. gentleman is mistaken. I can explain It thoroughly. The railway is to, run fromn Nakusp
to Siocan. The hon. genleman should know,
as a resident off British Columbia, If hie cloes
flot know, where this rond ls to mnu. Now,
wlth reference to the other part, thils railxvay was to have beeni constructed wilhini
a certain time, and It bas flot been constructed in that Urne and the conpainy requires an extension off the tie. -I think
the line has got a littie be5'ond Siocan, and
has flot reached Nakusp. With regard to
the othier part, it is more convenient to
have the head office la Montreal, and the
The motion was agreed to.
company reqaire the sanction off parliament
to make the change. If the lion, gentleman
!NAKUSP AND SLOCAN RAILWAY COM- thinks I do flot unde,,tnd the Bill, hie is
PANY'S BILL.
mistaken. I do flot takze up a Bill that I do
the flot understand.
Hon. Mn. KIRCHHOFFEI înoved
second reading off Bill (20) ' An Act respectHlon. Mr. TEMPLEMýýAN-Th71e Iucid exing- tbe Nakusp and Slocaii Railway Com- planation off the hion. gentleman is very
pany.'
nrnusing. The Nakusp and Siocan Ilallway
lias been in operation a niuuber off years.
bion. Mfr. TEM-ýPLEMÂ\IN-Explain.
Tho bon. gentleman snys it bias got beyond
bion. Mn. KIIRCHHOFFERThjCe object off Slocan and bas not reachied Nakusp. The
the Bill Is as follows :
road has been In operation from Nakusp
Whereas the Nakusp and Siocan Railway to, Siocan for several years. What I want
Companli as, by its petition, prayed that it be to know Is why the extension off Urne
enacted as hereinafter set forth, and it la ex? I have no reason in the
pedient to grant the prayer off the said petition: is required
The oriTherefore His Majesty, by and with the advice world for opposing the Bill.
and consent of the Senate and House off Coni- ginal Act is not before us, and It Is diffiCanada, enacts as follows :
nions off
1. The Nakusp and Siocan Railway Comnpany, cuit to know what the amendient is for.
hereinafter calied ' the company,' may construct The INakusp and Siocan Railway -%vas built
and complete its railways and works wlthin five
years froni the passing off this Act ; provided very largeiy by the province off British
that as to s0 much thereof as is not constructed Columbia, by bonds and land grants granted
within that perlod, the powers off the Company by British Columbia, and 1 wislh to know
shail cease and determine.
2. From and after the passing off this Act the why this extension of time Is required. No
bead office off the company shall be in the city doubt, in the Railway Committee, we wiii
off Montreal, but the directors off the company
may, from time ta time, by by-law, change It get a fuller explanation thiin the hion, gento any other place la Canada.
tleman bas given us.
bon. Mn. TEM-NPLEMAN-Tihat does flot
The motion was agreed to. and the Bill
give us anucll information. We want to was read the second tume.
kznow what particular work the company
bas to do, and why It asks us for an exten- 1The Senate adjourned.

[SENATE]
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday, March 22, 1901.
The SPEAKER tool, the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (7) 'An Act relatlng to the Grand
Trunk Rallway Company of Canada.'-(Hofl.
Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
Bill (31) 'An Act respecting the Orford
Mountain

Railway

Company.'-(Hon.

Mr.

Owens.)
Bill (8) 'An Act respecting the Grand
Trunk Railway Company of Canada.'-(Hon.
Sir 'Mackenzie Bowell.)

terday on the propriety of including in the
ff lnutes and Proceedlngs or this Hlouse every
mnotion that is miade calling the attention
of this House to certain facts and concludlng
with an inquiry. 1 was told yesterday that
that was flot the course followed ln previous
years. I sald yesterday I would give proof
to the contrary, and 1 intend to-day to give
that proof. 1 will flot go far baclc. I shall
only take seven years, and If I find that the
course I indicated yesterday was pursued
every year, 1 thînk that I will have made
good my statement. I shall take 1894 for
the first year. On the llth of April of that
year, Mr. Ferguson of Niagara:
Called the attention off the House ta the advisabi1i'ty and àmportance off an ocean route by
Hudson bay and Hudson straits ffor the transport ta Europe off the cereals off the northern

portion off North America, especially those off
M4anitoba and the North-west Territories, and
inquired off the goverument whether they had
received any ffurther Information on the tsubject
AN ADJOURNMENT.
off the navigation off Hudson bay and Hudson
straits since the report made thereon by the
Hon. '.%r. MILLS-I observe that there Is late lieutenant-governor lu 1887.
and,
but one item on the paper for Monday,
That is the entry that we Eind in the jourwith the consent of the House, I move that
nais of the Senate for that year upon a
when the House adjourus to-day it do stand
The report ndds that the
simple inquiry.
until Tuesday at three o'clock in the aftermotion was debated. I shall take only two
noonOn the 5th of July
instances in each year.
of the saine year, Hon. Mr. Boulton called
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-Hear, hear.
attention to the provisions of the treaty
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-I should just malte with France, then before parliamnent for
the remarl., in relation to this, that It would ratification, and concluded with an inquirybe very desirable, if it is lntended that the debated.'
In 1895, Hon. Mr. Wark. on the
House should adjourn from Friday thi Tues- 27th of June, called attention to the unday, tbat it should be brought up on Thurs- profitable systeni of cultivating the soul so
day, so that members might avail theni- prevalent over much of this continent, and
selv es of the opportunity of leaving to-day concluded with an inquiry-'- debated.' On
and perhaps takiug lu a trip to Toronto or the 18th of July, 1895, the Hon. MNr.Power
some other place, and if such a course as called attention to the unsatisfactory return
this is in contemplation we should know presented to an address of the Senate dated
of It earlier.
litil of July, 1894, for a statement showing
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I could not give notice in detail the several sunis paid for public
of It very long lu advance, because 1 did printing, and made an inquiry-' debated.'
not know precisely what would be on tbe We had two sessions in 1896. In the first
session, on the 12th of February, Hou. Mr.
Order paper for Monday.
MNclnnes, of New Westminster, called attenThe motion was ngreed to.
tion to telegrams which bad appeared in the
Daily Colonist of the city of Victoria, and
IN THE
RECORDING INQUIRIES
The sane
made an lnquiry-' debated.'
-MINUTES.
year, on the 27th of February, the Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved that the House M%,clnnes, of New Westminster, called the
do now adjourui.
attention of the Senate to the fact that the
had beeni but
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-Before the House ad- government steamer Quadra
and
to call the attention of the a few months of the year lu commission,
jourus, I desire
made an lnquiry-' debated.' In the second
goverument to the few remarks I made yec,-

LýMARCH 22, 1901 ]

135

session of 1896, the first session of the last to tbe two I bave givea from the minutes
parliament, the Hon. Mr. Poirier called the of 189, there are about ten others recorded
attention of the government to a letter pub- Havlng proved what bas been the practice
lished by Mr. Gueicho la the Montreal Star of this House, I need flot dwell on the subrelatlng to Canadians bavlng been lndnced ject furtber. Tbe bon. Minister o! Justice
by false representatioti to emlgrate to Brazil, must see that be was flot well dnformed
On the wben lie told me that a dIfferent course bad
and made an lnqulry-' debated.'
2nd of October of the same year the Hon. been foilowed la tbe Senate.
Mr. Ciemow called the attention of the
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Will the hon, gentleleader of the Senate to a statement made man state the motion wltb regard to whicb
by the hon. the premier of Canada in a he Is making bis contention ?i
speech delivered by hum In Ottawa on the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. member
subJect of 'The Washington of the Nortb,' froin Prince Edward Island (Mr. Ferguson)
and made an lnquiry-' debated.' In 1898,
the attention pf the House to an
on the 4th of April, the Hon. Mr. Macdonald, .called
article wbicb bad appeared on tbe lltb
of Victoria, called the attention of the gov- instant ln the Guardian, a newspaper pubiernment to an order ln council approving
lisbed ln Prince Edward Island, and wound
of regulations for the disposai of timber
up by inqulring if the statement was corberths in the district o! Yukon, and made an
rect.
inquiry-' debated.' The saine year, on the
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Tbat ougbt to have
lOth o! May, the Hon. Mr. Landry called
attention to the answers given by the Secre- appeared in the minutes.
tary o! State and the bon. Minister of JusHon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe bon, gentleman
tice to bis 'questions, and made an inquiry froin Marshfield quoted the extract froin the
In 1889, on the 1Sth of April, newspaper, and concluded by inquîring 'is
-* debated.'
Macdonald, o! Victoria, called the above statement correct ?'
the Hon. M-Nr.
Lt is a
attention to the lncreasing commerce and similar motion to those that 1 bave cited,
revenue of British Columbia, and made an and I ask, following the precedent whicb
inquiry-' debated.' The saine year, on the bas been establisbed ln tbis House, follow18th of April, there is a long statemeat made ing our uniform practice, tbat this motion
by the Hon. Sir 'Mackenzie Bo-well, calling ,sbould be entered in the minutes of prothe attention of the government to a tele- ceedings o! tbls House.
graphie despatch published in the Evening
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do not know precisely
Journal of Ottawa, and concluding witb an
On the l9th of April,ý of what the bon. gentleman is complalniag,
inquiry-' debated.'
Hon. Mr. Primirose dîrected the attention o! except that a rule, wbicbi bas been very
tbe goverament to the numerous wrecks on largely followed ln other cases bas not been
our coast, and followed It by three questions, !oilowed in bis own case. If the hon, genwbicb were debated. In 1900 the Hon. Mr. tleman were contending that every question,
Landry called the attention of the govern- *or inquiry. that is made of the administrament, on the l9th of June, to certain facts, *tion in this House ought to appear on the
and to different assertions made by the journals of the House, be is introducing a
That bas flot been tbe
Minister of Justice and by the Secretar7ý of new practice.
State, and asked whicb of the assertions 'was practice heretofore.
true-'debated.' On the l2th o! July, the
Hon. Mr. MILLER-He d oes not contend
Hou. Mr. Templeman called the attention of *that, as 1 understand.
the Seniate to correspondence laid on the
Table: between members of the governineni t Hon. 'Mr. M.NILLS-1 understand that he
at Ottawa and the gnvernment of British Sdoes.
Columbia, relative to the dismissal of thE e Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Th.re bon. member
goverament o! that province, and Inquirec idoes xîot understand yet.
if there was any further correspondence oi
Hon. 'Mr. MfILLS-Will1 the bon. gentle,the subject of the dismissals-'debated.'
man explain ?
in eacb year
bave cited jnst two instances
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Motions of lnquiry
sbowing that sucb inquiries have alway
In additiol Smny be of a dîff erent nature. An bon. Memnbeen recorded in the minutes.

[SENATE]
ber miglit make a simple iuquiry and ask
of tbe g-overument -uvlat happened on a certain occasion or ask tlie government w-bat
is their pol-icy on -any subjeet. On the otlier
baud, an inquiry may lie preceded by a
statemeut calliug tlie attention of tlie Hlouse
to certain facts, and w-heu an inquiry of
that -sort Is made, I conteud tliat It sliould
lie entered in the Minutes 0f Proceediugs,
and ail tlie precedeuts that 1 have cited are
based on tlie same principle. Every tume
an Inquiry is preceded by a statemeut of
tacts, or alleged facts, flien tliat inquiry
shouid lie entered in tUe minutes.
Hon. Mr. MILLEIL-I tbink my lion. friend
is pertectly riglit in both cases, and perlaps a word witli regard to the origia 0f
tlie practice migbit not lie out 0f place.
Tbiere caî lie no question tliat simple luquiries of the governament, sucu as we are
ln the babit of bavinig on our paper every
day, as tbe minister stated, do îlot go ou
tlie journais.
bon. Mýr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Tbnat ls,
witbout notice.

Hon. Mr. MjILLER-But inquiries sncb as
iny lion. friend alludes to, 0f wlicli lie cited
so many instances, bave been treated, not
as an inqniry, but as a motion. Tlie practice w-as introduceil by Sir David MacPliersoil0o1 a precedent w-liid lie fonnid iii
the Proceediugs of tUe House of Lords. .3y
stating certain tacts and makzing an inquiry,

adjourning debates ou sncb inquiries froum
day to day as upon a regular motion,
and it bas uow become the settied practice
of tbe House that a discussion eau arise
upon an !nquiry, wlien a statemeut of tact
precedes the question, just as if it were a
reguiar motion made ln the House, and that
it is eutered on the minutes and cani le adjourned from day to day. No such practice
prevails lu thie House of Comnions. We
have goue furtber than the precedent of
the House of Lords in adjourning discussions ou such inquiries from day to day,
and the mninister may niot be as conversant
witli it ns mnany of us wlio have been iu
the House longer than he bas been. If
the iuquiry in questiou were preceded by
a statement of tacts, it sbould go on the
minutes, according to the practice since
1S747.
Hon. Mr. MIILLS-I understand. the bon.
member opposite is calling the attention of
the Senate to the tact tbat soîne inquiry
whicbi lie made bas not appearedl lu tbe
journals of tbe bouse.
LANDLtY-No, I noever coinIlon. M.Nr.
plined of that. 1 complained of the tact
that an înquiry by miy bon. friend, the
member for Prince Edward Isiaud. lias îîot
been entered. It Is not a personal matter
witb me, It is simpiy a matter of principle,
and I w-ant wliat Is doue at oue time to lie
done at ail times.
M\ILLS-Thnýt lis not been tUe
Hloi. M-Nr.
practice.
Hon. Sir 'MAC'KENZIE BOWELL-Ob,
yes.

a full discussion, equal to a discussion upon
any motion, was permitted lu the bouse of
Lords, and that mile w-as adopted by tUe
Hlouse aud carried out, I tbink -uitli some
Hou. M-\r. FUItGUSON-Yes.
degree 0f irregularity as to its ultimate resuit. Iu the bouse 0f Lords tlie Instances
Hon. 31r. LANDRY-Yes.
show tbat wbere a full debate lins tal-en
Honi. 'Mr. M.IILLS-I beg to differ witli the
piace upon a statemient of tacts and an inThe first case, w-heu the
w-as genernliy conflned lion. gentleman.
qniry, the discussion
new practice w-as introduced into the bouse,
to one day, and did not -appear on the journais. But witli us tUe discussion on many was a case w-lien au inqniry w-as made by
of tliese questions lias spread over several the late Hou. Sir David MuNlePhersoli, to
days, and theni the question arose bow w-e wbich tbe bon. senator fromi Nova Scotia
couid adjouru tlie debate. I contended ai- bas referred. and on that occasion a disw-ays tliat it w-as irregular w-len there w-as cussion took place and a motion for the
no motion before the bouse, tliat we sliould adjournment of that discussion w-as made
Iu order
adjourii tlie deliate from day to day, and by tbe hon. Secretary of State.
tliat, according to tUe precedents 0f tUe to adjouru the discussion, to introduce a
Hlouse 0f Lords, w-e sliould flot adjouru, but practice w-ili does not exist, as my lion.
sliould drop tUe discussion on thie flrst day. frieud says, in the bouse of Lords, it w-as
The House, liowever, got Into the usage of necessary to enter the matter upon tbe
flou. Mr. LANDRY.

[MIARCH 22, 19011
journals of the Sente, and I think that was enougb ta show that there is no such uniform
the first Instance in which tliat practice was practice as the hon. senator contends for.
I can well understand, where a debate bas
Introduced.
occurred and a motion bas been adjourned
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What year ?
tli a subsequent day, that an entry of sanie
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Ifl 1877. A great sort should be made in the journals of the
bave been made la Hause, ln order that the reason for the remany Inquirles
this Hanse which do flot appear ln newal of the discussion shouid appear, la
bave a list of sut-b order that It sbouid be perfectly apparent
the journals. -I
Inquiries before me. On the l7th of that the discussion on the following day is
April, 1877, an lnquiry was made by Sir a discussion based upon an inqueiry or some
David iNacPhersoan upon which some dis- natter or other which may be regarded as
cussion toolk place, and that does flot appear. a motion, whlcb would justify the Flouse in
An lnqulry by Mr. Cornwall, ln 1878, does the continuant-e of that debate.
flot appear. An laquiry by Han. Mr. Power
Hon. MýIMILLEIt-That is the way they
on the 7th of May, 1879, does flot appear. An got the adjournmient.
inquiry by Mr. Trudel on the 1Oth of March,
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have no doubt niy
ISSi, daes flot appear, and an inqulry by
Mr. Power, aur present Speaker, May 15tb, lion. friend bas carrectly stated the originià
raie, and lu lookîng at the cases before nme.
1SS2, does flot appear.
I have corne ta the saine conclusion. I
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-Are they ail pre- find, at page 383, Baurinot, the following
ceded by a statenient of facts ?
note:
lion. Mr. MILLS-I understand that they
Ia the Senate the discussion Is sometimes permltted ta rua over several days on sncb an inare.
Is not customary la the Lords,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the hon. mInIster
understands that as well as he understood
me a few minutes ago, is understanding
does flot amount to mucll.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. frieud may be
insolent if he sees proper. He bas generally adopted, that tone towards me ever
since 1 have held a sent ln this Chamber,
and if the hon. gentleman thinks it proper
that that course should be persisted iu, I
have nothing to say.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Tlie bon. gentleman
does not knaw how ta be anythiug else.
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-I think I possess ns
much intelligence at ail events ns my hon.
friend opposite.
Hon. M~r. LANDRY-Ob, more.

qulry, which
since the debate on a mere question cannot be
adjourned, neither is auy mention miade la the
Lords' journals, as ia those of the Senate, of a
debate on snch an inquiry, since It is in the
nature of a motioni.

Then, he refers ta several instances of the
debates reported la ' Hansard' ta show that
he correctiy states the practice. The practice of the Flouse of Lords Is ta ask a
question, and at tue saine tule ta move
the
then
and
papers,
for
formaliy
motion is an the jourmnals, vecause there is
a motion. In this case wbicb is complaiaed
of, there was no motion made, and s0 there
was no way of gettiag the miatter uponi the
journals, because the debate ivas contined
ta a few moments discussiali, and was coinpleted on the day an wbich it was originated. I think the matter is perfectly obviaus. If the Flouse desires that the journiais should be fuller thuii they are, and
that a fuller mIle sbould prevail, then an
ameadment can be made ta aur practice,
but I an quite certain that It wlll be found
that the journals will be overloaded and
made much more bulky than they are, and
that no practical gaod purpose would be
served by the change.

Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-And 1 have endeavoured
to answer bis questions courteously, according ta niy view of parliameutary practice. I
have given a statemeut, which I think Is
a well founded one, with regard ta these
questions, and thase cases tbat I have mentioned, and I do that upon the Information
whîcb I have received froin an hon, gentleman who took the trouble to look themn Han. Mr. LANDRY-I just want to add a
up. I might refer ta others that I have la word lu persdnnl. explanation. If the boa.
the Eist before me, but I have referred to gentleman thinks I have been insolent ta

138

[SENATE]

Hon. Mr. MILLER-Were those quesbilm, 1 withdraw very wiliingly every word
and I do it tions preceded liy a statement of facts '?
that miglit hurt bis feelings,
with pleasure. But, lie will aiiow me to
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, as I am informed.
differ wîtli hlm. He says the oniy thing Lt, therefore, goes to show that tlie practhat would justify that practice is, when a tice bas flot been strictiy adhered to.
In
debate is adjourned tili another day.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is It
ail the Instances that I quoted just now,
the de- not a fact tliat the hon, gentleman imseif
there is flot one single case where
tlie jourIn every case the calied attention to an omission in
bate was adjourned.
The nais of a motion which hie had made at tlie
debate was finished the same day.
time ? That is my recoilection.
Speaker is in the Chair, but lie wIll reHon. Mr. M.NILLER-2My own impression
member the motion lie piaced before the
Hlouse, and which Is reported in the jour- was tliat, after the practice liad been liunais of the House. He asked the goverfi- troduced by Sir David Macplierson on a
ment whether tliey would flot subrmit a more question where tlie debate extended over
satisfactory retura to said address, aller two or three days, tlie question, wlien preliaving calied the attention of the House to ceded by a statement of facts, was entered
the unsatisfactory return whicli had been on the journals and carried on from day to
previously made. In ail those Instances the day, and established a precedent witli regard
simple inquiry is preceded by a statement to ail these cases. 0f course, 1 have flot folof facts, and that is the test. I asic that lowed the jouruals to see w-letlier any such
the practice whlch lias been followed since motions were flot entered on the jouruals.
1877 lie now adhered to. 1 did Dot go liack Perliaps motions eiiciting only a short disfurtlier than 1892, but 1 understand now cussion were flot, but my impression w-as
the practice was introduced in 18717, whielh that, from the time the precedeuit %vas estals stili stronger la my favour. It gives a blislied of adjouriug debates on these
date for the new departure, and from then inquirles, ail suecb inquiries were entered on
tili the present time, wlihen a motion lias tlie journals. I considered it irregular at tlie
been made preceded by a statemeut of fact, time, and -lieu 1 was iii the Chair 1 said
lt has been entered lu the journals of tlie so, but the Hlouse liavlng adopted that
House, and the hon. minister cannot say practice I consîdered I was bouud by it.
it is not the practice w-len I gîve hlm for
Hon. Mr. FELIGUSON-I do uot thiuic the
1 did flot want to
ecd year two cases.
question is as stated by tlie lion. Minister of
weary the House by citing- ail the cases,
Justice, that is wlietlier we shiall introduce a
but there are twelve cases in the single
new mnetliod of dealinig wltli these motions.
volume for 1898, wliere it is laid down tliat
I conceive it is rather wliether we sliould
when an inqulry Is preceded by a statement
not adopt some uniform practice. My lion.
of fact, it goes regularly on the journals of
friend is strictly correct in sayiuig thiat vcry
tlie House.
many Inquiries are uot preceded liy a stateHon. MNr. MILLS-Let me read a state- ment of fact, and sncb have flot gone uponment whicli 1 have in my hands, whicli will tlie journais. But I have learned liy iushow that the lion, gentleman is flot strictly quiry, witli regard to my 0w-n motion, tliat
if a practice lias prevailed of ash-ing lion.
accurate in the statement lie maikes.
lion. gentlemen wiii look at tlie debates of gentlemen if they desire to bave sncb inJune 18, 1898, and May 11, 1898. they will quiries, wlieu preceded liy a. statemnent of
find that on eacli of tliose dates a lenigthy facts, appear, and If no sucli desire is ex1 think
question was asked. which, althougli de- pressed, tliey do flot appear.
bated, does flot appear ln the journals of that is not riglit. Tlhere ouglit to lie a
the Senate. In thie Debates ia April, 1899, uuiformn practice in dealiug with these
and June, 1900, tliree similar questions wer( motions - My lion.. friend from Richmond,
asked by Sir Mackenzie Boy cil which dc wlio is a very old member of the flouse,
flot appear on tlie journals, whichi therefore and weli posted lu its practice, tells us
gocs to show that the practîco-blas flot beeli that as far back as 1877 tbis kind of inquiry
was introduced, and that sncb inquiries liave
strictly adliered to.
Hon. Mr. LANI)RY.

[MAR11'

12
901]

3

been recorded ever since as motions. When part of the Senate in connection with these
a debate lias arisen upon tliem, they have motions ? It is quite evident from what
been treated as motions. There may have, the hon. gentleman has stated, and what
been exceptions as to the recording. MY! the hon. Minister of Justice has stated,
hon. friend, the Minister of Justice, that there has been no uniform practiceIs, no doubt, right ln saying so. My hon. that ln many cases the entries have been
friend, the leader of the opposition, Imade, and ln other cases they have not. I
ln a case of the kind, was asked If hel can remember distinctly the hon. gentlewished to have the inquiry appear ln the! man, a year or two ago, caîîing attention
minutes, and It did not appear. I think- ail to the fact tliat an Inquiry lie had made,
motions of this kind sliould lie treated alike, and which he consIdered of Importance,
and the practice of the House is so pre- was not entered on the journais at the time.
ponderatingly ln favour of regarding thein Eitlier ail questions sliould be entered or a
as motions and entering themn in the jour-: change should lie made and none enterednis, that, in future, ail should be treated that is, questions based on statements of
fact-well, I wil not say statement of facts,
as motions and entered.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-If we are to have a because some statements are made to which
uniform practice, 1 think we ought to foi- the attention of the House is called whlch
10w the precedent of the House o! Lords, turnl out flot to lie facts, so we cannot adopt
and have no discussions on questions. The a ruie upon that liasis. If I call attention to
practice of having long discussions on lu- a statement which I consider of sufficient imquiries ln this House is not commendable. portance, the government mighit say at
once that Is not the fact, and it would not
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Did I understand the go on the journals ualess it was established
lion, gentleman that it wvas the 9tli May, that it was the fact. But If a statement be
1898, when sucli an inquiry as the one he lins made of what is alleged to lie facts, and
either a motion or an inquiry is made upon
just mentioned wnas omitted ?
It, should it not appear on the journals ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes.
questions
Miany members put
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I'find in the minutes to have them appearthese record, and la order
who is
on
sucli an inquiry recorded on the 9th May. to lie the judge as to which should go on
It was one of the ten or twelve of that yearreodadwihsul
tImgtpt
that I did flot cite. On the 9thi May I called1 reo
andic slioult1 d not I migit pt
attention to certain facts, and that motion a question anesay thas d bu oewat It t
wvent Into the journaîs. In conclusion, I appero theh journal, buv t somea
othe
may say this to the hou, gentleman : 1 memersa h migwsl bcbaveithappenrren
have asked that a practice, which was in- ord tha there mîgt lcienwa
setingn
retrouce ad ollwedup o tisthe
in187,
question. M'e must lay down a uniform
day, be followed. It miglit lie changed If rule and act upon it. My own impression
the House wishes to do so. I have no obi- I hti
%ol cbte
ofl
h
jection at ail, but I do not thinir this precedent which the lion. gentleman fromn
change should lie made liy the Clerk, or. Stadacona lias cniled attention to, la order
any other officiai of the House. I contend that ail questions which the member may
that It Ia the House itself which should hnofsfietImraceobiubmai*re the alterations, If alterations are tofr the
o!sfcet iportae tuon
lrnge-d
lie made. If this inquiry la not put Into the Ifo
thek
shde
aose
put. upnerd.ys
journals, I shall move that the entry lie I d t etins as thatebo. mnter as,
made; sucli a motion would comprise the that quetshf
that
coliaracter are s
Inquiry, and ln that way I am sure to get joras
h nur
hciI
made the
day, based upon certain statements
it i thejourals.other
Hion. Mr. FERGUSON-It lins already which had been made by certain parties,
the discussion on which was adjourned,
been decided to insert it ln the journals.
BOWELL,- and a motion based on it, wili appear on
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
It not lie well to express an opinion ithe records, but let us decide positiveiy
Would
as to the necessity o! uniform action on the wliat shal lie done ia ail such cases.

[S ENATEJ

140

The London Chamber of Commerce have had
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I would suggest that
under consideratian the absence of a Dominion
my han. friend fromn Richmond, the leader bankruptey law, and have adopted the followof the opposition, the Secretary o! State, ing resolution :
1That ihis section ls convjnced the Angloand myself, ineet and discuss the matter
Canadian trade has materially suffered from the
without formai. appointment.
absence of a Dominion bankruptcy law, and urges
most strongly that the chamber should make reBOWELL-I presentations ta the Dominion government with
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
would sug-gest that the Speaker should aise a view ta legisiation on this subject, and should
also address the boards ai trade throughollt the
be added, and let us came ta same decided Dominion, «xpressing the hope that they will
urge on the gavernuient that the zoatter be.
rule.
if passible, consldered during the next session
ai parliament.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have no objection.
These are my reasons for asking- the quesbas tion next Friday.
cases ta which the Minister of Justice
referred, that is the dismissai of Prouix
and Paîtras in June, 1897, Mr. Landry set
DOUKHIOBORtIMGAIN
forth certain facts and asked a question.
MOTION.
It does not appear in the jaurnals of that
day, lSth June, but there Is an entry In the
Han. Mr. BERNIER moved:
journals of a similar character that does
That an humble address be presented ta Hîs
not appear in the debate.
Excellency the Gavernar General, praying that
His Excellency wvill cause ta be laid on the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW%ýELL-That
Table ai the Senate copies of ail correspondelice
Is wbat we complain of-want of uni- relating ta the immigration af the Doulcbobors;
and also copies af ail petitians, reports, memnoformity.
randums or representations sent ta the government by said Doukbabors, or by any one on
The Senate adjourned.
their behaif, since their settlement in Canada.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Loaking up one o! the

THE SENATE.
Ottaiwa, Tiiesday, M1ardi 26, 1901.
Speaker

The

toak the

Chair

at Three

o'clack.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BANKRUPTCY LEGISLATION.
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) rose ta give
notice that on Friday the 29th lnst., lie will
Ilquire if it is the intention af the gaverament ta introduce a bankruptcy la-%wthis
session of parliament. If not, will the question be considcred by the government during
recess ? He said :I think I aught ta give
my reasons for asking this question. The
Board of Trade of Landan, Eng., is moving
ta have a bankruptcy law for the whole
Dominion, and they bave been urging the
boards o! trade throughout the Dominion ta
ask for suoh legisiation. 1 shaUl read the
repart of the Landau Board af Trade on the

subject :
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

He said : I have only a few words ta say
with regard ta this motion. lu recent years,
tue governiment have beeni at great expense
in connectian with the immigration Of certain peaple, among thein the Doulkhobors.
Nothing at the time was tao good for themn.
Delegations were sent ta them, and addresses were preseated ta them. Lt wvas almiost a craze with certain people. W7e were
told that they were the most moral and mast
desirable of ail immigrants. Now, we bave
the other side.of the medal. They have hardly
been here for two yenrs, and they are up
aiready with their grievances. I'hey abject ta
aur land laws, ta aur laws in relation ta marnaige, and ta aur registration laws. A petitian, it appears, bas been sent ta the government, setting forth thase grievances. If
what appears in the papers is true, they
abject ta taklag up homesteads individually,
on the -round that private awnership is opposed ta the law of Gad. Their second obi jection is ta aur marriage laws.' They do nat
believe any civil or any other ceremony 15
The
necessary ta constitute a marriage.
third abjection is this, that only such a feeling Of love as is born of the recognition af
moral character,creates a real legal marriage.

141

[MARCH 26, 1901]
They also objeet that, under Canadian law.
divorce ean be obtained only tilrough the
courts, and that If a person remarries, without obtaining a divorce, lie is hiable to lImprisoament. They cannot recognize as correct, and cannot accept any human law as
to the marriage union. They have sent an
address based on these objections to ail
civilized nations, asking If thiere Is a country
where they couid live Iu accordance with
their own views. Whether they can find
sncb a country or flot, I amrn ot aware ; at
any rate the duty rests witb us to take the
matter up and cope with this problem, because it is a very serions problem according
to my views. I cannot put it before the
House better than in the terras wbich I Elnd
ln the Halifax Chronicle, a newspaper
friendly to the goverament :
It is well, perhaps, that this matter has corne
Not much damup in this way, at this trne.
The few thousage can yet haive been done.

ands of foreign riffraif so far brought Into the
Dominion can probably be swept out of the country or got rid of in sorne way without serions
But we want no more of It. ImInjury.
migrants have recently landed in Halifax,
and flot a few of them, whom ail that
have seen themn report as anytbing but a prornising acquisition to any clvilized land, and as
a rnost probable good rlddance to their native
It la revolting ln the extreme to
countries.
think of blood such as this belng destlned to
mix with our good, dlean British and French
Canadian blood to its certain corruption. The
ear]y filling up of our vacant lands Is a smal
matter as cornpared with the preservation of the
wholesomeness of our population.
It apOfrs that more imimigrants of that
sort are to corne. I flnd ln a despatch of
the luth Mardi that MNr. Preston bas
visited. Asia, going tbree buudred miles towards the eastern end o! the Black Sea,
-where a number of the MaNilok race are,
as, a resuit of bis visit, preparing to corne
to Canada, aad I have seen aiso auother
despatch sug-gesting the idea of sending
here the Boers to work on the railways.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. BERNIEFI-It seems to me that
a stop should be put to ail that sort of Immigration, and aside froin ail political consideration, I hope that the goverament wiii
take this matter Into their bauds and lu the
future -wli see that a better discretion la
exercised l.n bringing la any sort of Immigrants.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My lion. friend bas on
the notice paper certain questions. Is he
permitting those f0 stand for the present ?

Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I wish to make the
motion first and ask the questions afterwards.
Hon. Mr. LffLLS-The hon, gentleman Is
flot takinig them la the order in which tbey
appear on the paper.
Hon. Mr. BER-NIER-No.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbe hon. seaiator bas
made an attack upon the Doukhobor population-that is the inim4gration into the
North-west Territories,-and, as I understand, It is an attack based ou the theory
tint those people do not agree wlth hlm ln
their views, either as to their obligations to
society or their religions convictions. I did
not know that this country was disposed
to prepare a creed for its immigrant population. Lt has never been proposed by any
one heretofore that there should bo particular articles of f aitb subscribed to by the
foreigu population in order that they miglt
become sottlers in tie Dominion of Canada.

That is practically wvhat the hon, gentleman
proposes.
Hon.

Sir

MCE~EBWL-o

no.

Hon. Mr. BErZNIEP,-I did not propose
aayting of that sort.
Hou. Mr. MILLS-The bon. gentleman
proposes that these people shall not be encouraged to come to this country. He contends tint they are not a desirablo class.
Hion. Mr. PROWSE-Hoar, hear.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That tiey are not the
kind of population we ougit to secure as
settiers lu this country, that our progress
in secnriug a more select population bas
been so satisfactory -iu the past that we
ought to persist la it, and that the efforts
pointing la the direction of securing the

setulernent la Canada of the Doukhobor
population, oug-ht to be abandoned. Then
the hou. gentleman -ives us a reason for
that, that the Doukbobor views with regard
to the marital relations and with regard
to .proprietary interests la property are not
those wbich ho entertains, and persons wbo
dissent froin bis views ought flot to be encouraged to como bore. 1 do not agree with
the doctrines which the hon. gentleman
conteudis for. I do not tbink that we ougit
to undertake to prescribe an ortiiodox creed

142

[SEN AT1',

to whicb we would require the immigrant
population to subscribe, nor to certain views
of political1 economy that would he necessary in order to lind introduction into this
country. The hon, gentleman bas referred
to the Doukbobor population. I arn inforrned that there bas been no offence cornritted
by any member of that body since they
first came to Canada, and, so far as their
observance of the law is concerned, they
are as law-abiding a population as bas corne
fro-m any country in Christendorn in order
to flnd a home in tbis country. There Is
a f urtber fact, that the Doukbobor populaUion are industrious, and, so far ns my information goes, tbhey bave ne-ver claimed
the rig-hts, nor have they made any encroacbment upon the rights of any other
section 0f the population. If industry and
good conduct are grounds upon which we
sbould encourage a population to corne to
this country, then the Doukhobor can obtain a certificate from us la this particular.
I do not know that the Doukbohbor popuilation. in their views with regard to the
marital state-that it is one 0f divinieorigin
and ought flot to be based upon civil contracts-differs so widely f romn the views entertained by somne other sections of the
population. I remember in the speeches and
letters of Count Cavour, in Italy, a very
able and interesting discussion of thils 'subjeet, and hie points out tbe necessity for
regarding the marital state as one created.
by civil contract, and that, 1 tbinik, is subscribed to by most people to-day, but it
does niot prevent an ecclesiastical marriage
beîng establisbed betweeai the saine parties
wbere that is thougbt desirable. The civil
marriage, to wbicb some of the Doukhobors
object-I do not understand tbe whole
Doukbhobor population objects, for we have
a good many tbousands in the country, and
I tbink the petition on tbis subject was
signed by but twenty-nine of them-is one
whicb is found necessary la deaiing witb
tbe subject of legitimacy and of succession,
and I bave no doubt, wben the Doukhobors
understand precisely the grounid of our contention, they will be quite disposed to acquiesce la wbat is conitended for by the
majority 0f the people, and wbat the law
provides for in this country. I do not think
rny hion. friend bas made out any case that
would justify this House in undertaking
lion. Mr. MILLS.

to interpose in the matter and to induce the
government of this country to put an end
to the immigration of the Doukhobors as
settiers in Canada. We have an immense
area of unoccupied la.nd. We have room for
a great rnany millions of people, for m*any
Urnes the population we have at the present Urne, who rnay profltably engage in
agricultural. pursuits. The growth, the prosperity of this country, the development of
its resources, and the necessary provision
for is defence require that xve should encourage Uhe settiernent of people arnongst
us, and if the people are industrious, not
given to, crime, baving so-me respect for the
righits of others, 1 thinl, that we rnay fairly assurne that the descendants of such a
population wfl make f airly good citizens,
and ia this respect the Doukhobor population,
I think, fuls the requirements. We are securing people from the continent of Europe, froni south-eastern Asia, as the lion.
gentleman bas referred to, and I do not
know that it matters very mnucli to us f rom
what section of the civilized world a white
population cornes to, this country for the
purpose of rnaking this country their home.
In my opinion, the literature, the history,
the scientiflc pursuits in whicbi many of our
people engage, w-i'll malte our population, no
rnatter frorn wbat source they rnay be
originally drawn, a homogeneous population.
When I look at the population of the United
States, many of whom were persons la very
much more straitened circumstances than
any of those who have yet corne to Canada,
when I see what progress they have made,
how readily tbey have adapted theruselves
to, the Anglo-Saxon forais of government,
the Anglo-Saxon institutions, how readily
they have conforrned to the Iaws and bave
becorne enthusiastie admirers of that systerr of g-overrent under which they have
corne to live, 1 have no doubt whatever
thiat any of the peoples who bave corne to
this country wil be equally ready to adopt
our forai of goveramrent and to hecome admirers 0f British institutions. The public
scbools of a country, the literature of a
country, the habits and customs of a people,
ahl exercise an Immnense influence on the
population that cornes to a new country
frorn older ones, and 1 believe that our
institutions will serve to convert those peopie, no matter frorn what section of Europe

[MARCH 26, 1901J

thiey miay corne, into a iaw-abiding and industrious Canadian population, as readii
as the United States institutions have aeThe
complished there the saine object.
people who have gone to the neighbouring
republie have flot ail been nmen of means
or people of weaith. They have nlot ail been
highly educated peopie. Many of thein are
extremnely poor, and many of them extremeinformed, bu-t in settling Lu the United
iy 111
States they were surrounded by persons of
American birth anid the dnstitutions of the
country have ïmoulded. thein into American
citizens scarcely distinguishab-le fromn those
of Anglo-Saxon origin. 1 see no reason why
the institutions of this country may flot
accomiplish the saine objeet, and, for niy
part, 1 rejoice to eee a people coming to this
country, law-abiding, disposed to do what
is right with their neighbours, and ready to
engage la industrial enterprises to earn
their own ilivelihood and to contribute to
the growç%ti and prosperity of the country.
The Doukhobors are serving this purpose,
and although -their religious views, and their
i-iews of goverument, and their views wlth
reg-ard to the obligations of the miembers
of society towarýds each other may nlot be
exactly those to which I niyseif subscribe,
or those of Engliih orig-in, they wili in
tine, no0 doubt, accept our views se far as
we are right ; they wiil discover their superior adaptability to the Institutions of the
ccuntry and te the irequirements of the
tiwes, and we can leave time to correct
those mIstakes of opinion to which the hon.
gentleman opposite attaches so iuch Importance, I think with perfect certalnty that
they wili accomplish that purpose.
Hon. Mr. McOALLUM-I desire te make a
few remarks on this question, and I may
have to refer to the language used by the
'Minister of Justice ia his speech on the
address in repiy to the speech froin the
Throne. I thought tiiere was something behind to be covered up. When the leader of
the opposition was speaking of this question,
ail hie said was, that hie w-as pieased that w-e
had a large immigration Into the North-west,
but hie w-as flot altog-ether satisfied w-ith the
class of people w-ho were coming into this
country. 'My hon. friend, the Minlster of
Justice, in repiy, had to go ail over the worid
and talk about bringing people equal to any
In the w-orid froin the Mediterranen and the

140

Black Sea. He was particularly unfortunate
la bis referenice to the Highlanders, my
He said that after a w-hile
countrymen.
they learned to speak English and made
good settiers, and hie wanted to class thein
with the scruff froin Russia in the Northw-est. He w-anted to compare my people,
w-ho are the descendants of statesmen and
warriors, with that venal tribe that hie
speaks of, who ieft their homes to tîli the
sol iii the North-wvest. That is the Inference
1 takze from. what hle said. If it had corne
froi nny ordinary gentleman, I would nlot
But this cornes
think anything about 11.
froi the Minister of Justice-from a lenrned
nman. That is the character hie -ives my
people. He classes thei with the Doukhohors. The hon. mnister has rend a lot-a
great deal more than I have, but I cannot
sit here, w-hile I have a tongue to speak, and
aliow mny countryrnen to be mnisrepresented.
Ras the hou. gentleman rend the history of
the Highllanders ? No doubt lie has, but hie
has misconstrued it. Has hie rend the bistory of Huntley and the Gordon Hl.ighanders-the Sutherland Highianders-the Glengarry Highlanders, and the Camerons of
Lochieil ? I can go through the -whoie lot of
theni, and 1 inay last speak of mny own, the
Argyle Highlanders. They are fighting today ail over the worid in behaif of liberty
and good governinent. I w-ouId ask the Minister of Justice bas hie not read ia British
history that my countrymen, froni the day
of the union of Scotiand and Engiand, knowa
as Great Britain, now as Great Britain and
Ireland. wvhose emiblenis are the shamirock,
the thistie and the rose-shamrock green,
thistie keen, together with the rose, Britons
liold your own-have stood by the British
Crown on every sea and in -every land, and
neyer turned their backs on the foe ? I eannot remain sulent w-hile my countrymen are
being piaced ia the saine category as Doukhiobors hecause they could flot taik English.
Does the hon. gentleman know that these
men who fought under Abercrombie and
Wolfe Ia America, under Wellington In
Europe, under Campbell In India-does hie
fancy for a moment that ail of thein could
talk English ? 1 know they couid not. I
know when a boy I conversed with some of
those veterans who did nil this fighlting, and
they considered it as the -worst thing la the
worid to show the white feather. It is too

[SENATE]
MARRIAGE WITHOUT LAW.
mach that the descendants of these people
to-day sbould be ciassed with the scruff of Doukhobors in Canada Issue Address to Al
Nations.
Europe-to be classed w-lth Daukhobors. I
Institutions-Land,
say if the Highlanders and the Germans of In Revoit Against Canadian Registration Laws
Marriage, Divorce and
this country stand such an insuit I arn misare Distasteful to, Them-What is to be
Dane?
taken. 1 arn a Highlander af the HighlandMontreal, Mer. 13.-The Doukhobars, the gentie
ers, and I hope some one here wili resefit the Russian Quakers, who were brought to Canada
Insuit that is offereid to, the German race. a couple of years ago at great expense, are in
against the iaws of Canada and the
The hon. gentleman bas read hiýtory. Some full revoit code of civilized marality.
recognized
have read toc, mach history. Has he read They_ have issued an appeai to the nations of
the xworld asking that they may be given a
the history of Canada ? Has: he read the refuge from Canadian tyranny.
They abject to our land laws, to aur marriage
description of the battie of Queenston
laws, and ta aur registration laws.
and how the Glengarry Highland- And because they cannot have their own way,
Helghts,
looking for some otber
ers marcbed from Buriing-ton Heiglits ta they are nawreiigious liberLy will not country
be opwvhere their
Queenston Heights tbrougb the niglit ta be pressed.'
ta
These statements will appear
prepared ta, pitch the Yankees down the the average Canadian, who has remarkable beuntil now
day ? Did the Gien- iieved that tbis wns the freest country under
heiglits the following
such thing as oppression
and that
iglish? the sun,beneath ournoCanadian skies. Yet these
g-arry Highlanders éspeak Gaelic or En
existed
1 venture ta say that ýfour-flithts of them uncivilized peasants, who fled from Russia ta
escape the -tyranny of a Czar and hls Muscovite
spie Gaelie ani nat Eugiish, and aine- officiais. and who have been the recipients af
and
tentlis of tbemi spoke Gaelic, their mnother nothing but kindaess from the goverametit forpeople af Canada, are dissatisfied because,
tongue. Yet the 'hon. gentleman wants ta sooth, tbey cannot have their own way la the
pramiscaity of marmatter of land -tenure,
ciass sncb people -with Doukhobors w-ho take riage, or the practice ofiafree lave, and la the
their w-amen and drive tbem as the Boer neglect af -the simpiest ruies of obedience ta the
state.
does bis oxea ta do bis pioughing w-itb themu.
is the ciass of people brougbt Into this
This
STORY 0F THE REVOLT.

country by the governiment, and when 1 The story of this Doukhobor revoit against
heard the Mîinister of Justice speaking of my the iaws of Canada is an interesting one.
Ia June iast the Doukhobors settied in the
countrymen and the Germans as he bas aeighhourhood of Yorktan, N.W.T., addressed a
done, I thougbt there w-as some dirt ta be petition ta the Dominion goverament settlng
consider the

forth the grievances which they
unjust, or Canadian iaws impose upon themn.
Their first abjection was ta their takilng up
him then,
bomesteads Individually, on the graund that
not failiy private ownership of land is oppased ta, the law
of lsand
people. I af God. They wished ta have a tractthe same
bet apart for their brotherhaad, la
sny sa noiv. We sbouid not be anxiotis ta manner that reserves are set apart for Indians,
whole tract being vested in the
settle this country with such people as the the titie ta the the individuai members af the
sect and flot la
Doukhabors. 1 say aw-ay w-ith tliem. Tliey commuflity.

covered up. I do not want ta be
ta do hlm a w-rang, but 1 told
when lie sat down, that ha had
represented the character of my

malte slow progress. Let the quaiity of aur
immnigration be good, if w-e do not get quaitity. I read an article from the Montreai
Star, publislied by Mn. Graliam. He Is the
responsibie editor. Graham is a goad name
la Scotland, and ail over the w-orid. I do not
know w-hetlier lcie s a descendant of the
ancient Grahams of Montrose or Dundee,
but lie is tryin-g ta, do to-day witb bis pen and
printing press w-bat bis ancestors trîed ta do
witli the sw-ord. Let us see w-bat lie says,
w-len forced, to speak an behaif of MY COUn1try men, wblen tliey are ciassed wltli the
iow-est of liumanity :
Hou. Mr. McCALLUM.

OBJECTED TO MARRIAGE LAWS.
They next objec'ted ta aur inarriage iaws.
They do nat helieve a civil or any other ceremany is necessary ta constitute a marriage, and
they cansider It a violation of the iaw af Gad
ta be compelied to take out a marriage license
On this point
and psy twa dollars therefar.
they say
such a law, for we believe
' We cannot accept
that It also breaks the iaw of Gad. We cannot
believe that a marriage cao become legai hecause It is recorded in a police register and a
fee af two dollars paid for It ;on the contrary,
we helieve that such recording and payment
annus niarriage and breaks up its reai iegality.
We believe that the reai legalizatian of a inarniage union Is when It Is brought about freiy
as a resuit of pure feeling, of a mutuai moral
affection between man and woman.

145

[MARCH 26, 1901]
THE ONLY REAL LEGALITY.
Only such pure feeling of love, born of the
natural recognitian et moral traits of character
creates a real legality of marriage according to
the law of Gad, and nlot a record of same in a
police register and a money fee. *And every
marriage whlch had Its source in the pure feeling o! mutual love will be legal before God.
althaugh It were nlot registered and other people
would nlot recoguize its legallty. And every
other msrrlage, nlot the result of free will and
pure love, but contracted unwilllugly or as a
result a! lust, or money, or any other cousideration, wlll always be Illegal before God, although
it should be registered in aIl the police recarda,
aud would be causidered legal by everybody.
Therefare, we belleve that legalizstion a! the
marriage bouds belonga solely ta -God, and we
cannot consent to transfer the legalizatian Of
aur marriages fram God to the police.'

Quaker, who was chiefly Instrumental ln their
Immigration to Canada, aud he wrote them a
letter cf advlce. He pointed out, in regard to
their desîre ta own their land as a community,
that after the Individual members had earned
their bomestead patents they could transfer
their land ta the community, and that there la
a provision ln the !and aCt whereby tbey can
perform their bomestead duties while still living
in community.
ONLY A FORMALITY.

In regard to the marriage laws, he recomImeuded that they comply with the formality of
taking out a marriage license -,but aiso paiuted
out that there la no law against adultery, snd
if tbey conscientiously wished to separate sud
live with serme one else, they could, therefore,
do so, provided there was no second marriage.
He aiso recommended that tbey observe tbe
formallty of registering births and deatbs, even
though they did nlot believe lu the necessity of
FREE LOVE IDEALS.
doing so.
To this tbe Doukhbors wrote a long reply,
They also object that under Canadisu lsw ' s
would
divorce can be obtained ouly lu the courts. and contending that their consciences they did not
not
that if a persan should remarry witbout a allow them ta go tbrougb forma
divorce so obtained ha i la able to Imprison- believe lu tbe necessity of.
ment for many years.' This, tao, is apposed ta
A HOMESTEAD PATENT.
their free love ideas, and they cannot couacientiously submit ta it. Here la their argument on
a man ta secure a bomnestead patent in
that point -For
trans!erred
' As ta divorce, we believe that every man who bis own name, even if be afterwarda
sect, constituted temporsry privbas divorced his wi!e lsan adulterer, aud forces 1the land ta tbe aud wss a sin ;sud, as ta tbe
her ta become an adultress, sud that every re- ste ownersbip,
lawa, tbey
marriage, or marrying a divorced man or wo- 'marriage, divorce sud registration ' equivalent
as
man. Is aiso sdultery. But, alangside o! that, regarded compliaucetbewitb tbeio tbe law o! God
of
power
we believe aise that the law o! God la the îawý ta denuuciation of
of freedam. that -open sin is ligbter thsn a sud human conscience.' o! Yarkton subsequentThe immigration agent
is consecret one, sud that If s marriage union
a meeting o! tbe Doukbobors ta extracted not tbrougb pure feeling o! love, sucb a ly called them haw they migbt practically secure
union la illegal from Itg beginning, sud consti- plain ta possession o! their land, as Mr. Maude
tutes tbe sin o! sdultery, aud, therefare, wben communal
but tbey remsiued firin
persans living lu such au illegal union will corne hsd explained ta tbemn
The Dominion landls camto such a conclusion, sud will conceive the im- lu their protesta.wrote them, telliug tbem tbere
possibllity a! msking such a union legal, out miasioner finally
being cbauged
possibility o!
o! two evils, the lasser for them will be ta was no tbeir wisbes. the laws
ta meet
divorce sud separate.'
DIVORCE MAY BE LEGAL.
And lu such s case s divorce msy become
legsl, If the Hesvenly Father will forgive tbe
sin of the divarced parties, aud sa allaw tbem
ta remarry with free consciences. As tbe forgîveness o! God can be kuowu ouly ta tbe two
people caucerued, no one, nar auy human institution csn make a divorce either legal or llegal,
for tbey caunot be cainpetent ta know whether
God fargave tbe sin of divorce or nat. That
au ha kuowu only ta the consciences o! the
divarced thecuslves.'
And this la their ultimatum ta tbe gavernment :-Ottawa
luI cons!deratlan o! the above we canuet recagnize as correct and canot sccept any human
laws as ta the marrlage union, belug sure tbat
ail pertainiug ta It la lu tbe province of Gad's
wvill sud human conscience.'
THE REGISTRATION LAW.
They abject, aise, ta the Isw requiring aIl
births sud deatha ta be registered, on the grouud
tbat the Creator knaws wbo ls harn and wbo
dies sud does nat require ta bave it recorded
lu s register.
The Dominion goverumeut, apparently sent a
capy of their petition ta Mr. Maude, tbe Mngliah
10

ARE TOO OPPRESSIVE.
Tbe Doukbobors bave now decided tbat tbe
Canadian laws are too oppressive, aud thst tbey
eau 'fia longer couscientiously live lu thîs
Tbey bave published su Address ta
country.
Ail Nations, settiug forth wbst tbey regard as
the Iniquity o! the Canadian laws, detailing
tbeir efforts ta ba relievefi fram the operation
a! these laws sud appealiug to some nation ta
offer them an asylum ta wbich tbey csn emigrste
sud where tbey may live lu accordauce witb
the dictates a! tbeir consciences. It seems that
under date of February Il lsst tbey wrate ta
askiug tbe government for permission
ta remain lu Canada until tbey could Enud some
other country ta settle lu.
THE PROBABLE RESULT.
There la little likelihood a! their fiuding a
civllzed country whlch will favourably respond
ta their appeal. What, therefa-re, la goiug ta ba
the result ? If they are firm. ln their refusai ta
obey the Canadisu laws, they wili have ta endure
the penalties thase laws Impose. Then they 'wlll,
doubtless, dlaim tbat Cana:da Is persecutlng
them the same as Russia .did. Their manifesta
serves ta explain mare f ully thelr peculiar
prîncîples, whlch, It la safe ta say, were not

[SENATEJ
thoroughly understood by the majorlty of those
ort.hodox religions people who so efiuslvelY welcomedl themi on their arrivai as persecnted fellow-Chrlstians. It looks as thoughi Cantada
-would, before long, have a serious problemn on
her hands In dealing 'wlth these irrecouclables.
Now, 1 have no doubt at ail the Minister
of Justice was aware of ahl this when he
replied to my hon. frleud the leader of the
opposition the other day, when bie ralsed
that tempest in the teapot about my countrymen and the Germans.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Is the Montreal
Star good authority ?
Hon. Mr. MýcCALLUM-N-Yes, I have g-iven
the name of the proprietor. I consider Mr.
Graham is responsible, -and the Star is about
as reliable a paper as there is in Canada,
and If the bon. gentlemani is displeased at
what the Star says, Mr. Graham is at the
back of it to make it good. Does the hon.
gentleman waut to throw me off my argument ? If so, I give hlm warnlng two cati
play at that game. I tbought we had the
freest country under the canopy of heavena country where a man can worship God as
he thinks proper, and can do anything that
Is not unlawful without interfereuce from
anybody. Yet, here are the Doukhobors appealing against the injustice and the oppression of Canadian law. And how are they
oppressed ? Simply because they cannot take
other men's wives. Is it desirable we sbould
have free love among our people like the
cattie of the fields?7 Those who are lu
favour of that kind of morality can go whiere
they pieuse, but I shall neyer raise my volce
In their favour. The hon, gentleman said
that if the Doukhobors stayed in the NorthWest, 'they would iu a generation or two,
inake good settiers. Say a generation Is
seveuty years-: double that and you have one
hunderd and forty years. That Is why hie
wanted to class my people with such a tribe.
Hie .must have had au intimation that the
Doukhobors were petitioniag against the
tyranny of the Canadian goverilmeat and
wanted to leave the country. Hie had a
doubt ns to whether we could keep them
or not, but bie has chauged bis tune
to-day. The Doukbobors are good today. They have beea spoon-fed by the
people of Canada. We helped to bring
them here. We fed them whea theycame,
and we gave them land, and stili they -will
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM.

flot stay with -us, thougli my hou1. friend says
they are satisfactory settiers. ihe Minister
of Justice speaks of settling themi in the
North-west with the Highlanders and the
Germans. Does hie suppose that the Highlanders and the Germans will have anything
to do with such people ? Let us have a
We do flot
Christian, a moral counftry.
want such cattie here.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Are the women
pretty ?
Hou. Mr. MeCALLUM2%-I do flot know anything about that. My hon. friend can go up
there and see for himself. Does the hon.
'Minister of Justice approve of free love ? 1
do not want to do the minister an injustice.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. frieud bas done
nothiug but injustice since hie began to
speak.
Hon. Mr. MeCALLUM%-How bave 1l done
the hon. gentleman injustice ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-T-.he hon. gentleman did
hlmi an Injustice lu mlsrepresentiug bis statement about the Highlanders.
Hou. Mr. McOALLUM-Let the lion, gentleman speak for himself. IJoes the 'Miniister of Justice approve or disapprove of the
views of the Doukbobors ? lie is a learned
man-as I cousider to-day the most learned
member of the government. If this coinparison between the Doukhobors and my
countrymen hnd come from a common man
I would not care nnything about it. The
very man who made the arrangement -wlth
the Canadian government tells the Doukhobors that they had better comply witb the
law, as far as divorce Is coucerned, that it
is not necessary ; that they can put away
their wives because there is no law against
adultery in this country. 1 repudiate any
connection wlth the Doukhobors and any
comparîson between my countrymen and the
scruff of the population that has come fromn
Europe, f'romn the Mediterranean and the
Black Sea. I do flot want them here. Canada does not want them, and when the hon.
gentleman speaks of the Highlanders and
the Germans who do not talk Euglish, 1
ask what would this country do without
themn ? 1 venture to say that four-fifths of
the men who marched fromn Burlington
Heights to Queenstou Helghts to figbt the
batties of the country could not speak Eung-

[MARCI-1 26, 1901]

147

country was concerned, they would ahl
a)like, at an early period, become Canadians.
I said:
The man who spoke Gaelc when he came
here and could speak no other language, the one
who spoke German when he came here and could
speak no other language, would soon be succeeded by familles that wouid apeak the common
"Shamrock green, thistie keen, together wlth language of the country, and we wlll be scarcéiy
the rose,
able to distlngulsh the descendants off the HlghOn every land and every sea, ready for their landman and the descendants off the German.
foes."
Is t-here a word ln that which casts any
.Amd nobody has been more forward than
My coruntrymen In this respect. In conclu- reflection upon Highlanders or Germans ?
sion I say to you Hlighlanders In the DomIn- 1 think hon, gentlemen wîll say that there
ion off Canada -and oid Scotland, and you is none, that what I war, pointing out was
Germans that have settied in tbis country, that we ought not to object to Immigration
that the Minister off Justice will give you becanse the people wbo settied hiere did flot
one consolation. He said he did not be- speak the EnglIlsh language xvhen they,
lieve wlth Darwin that your ancestors were came, that their descendants would, In a
monkeys. That Is the on'ly consolation the remarkably short time, speak the Englisb
bon. gentleman gives you now. Thak is ahl language and become undistinguishable
It la my
he bas to say in favour off that great andi ffrom those off Engiish ot-igin.
opinion stili, and 1 corne to that conclusion
glorious people, niy couatrymen.
from my observations off the state off things
Hon. Mr. PRltlMROSE-I think after the in the neighbouring republic, and where
remarks wýhicli have f allen f rom the bon. you have a highly protected systei that
gentleman from Monck that the next time the congregated foreigners in towns where they
hon. Minister off Justice draws bis venture- became distinct com-munities, you had this
some bow he will take good care to make process off their being converted into one
himselff well assured that there ls not a population going on constantly. That proScotchrnan anywhere witbin range.
cess Is g-oing on in this country, nnd I have
Hon. Mr. MILLS-If the House will per- no doubt whatever that this country wfll
mit me to say a word lu my own defence be advantaged by the settiement here off the
against uiisrepresentations wbicb have been Doukhobors, the Mennonites, -the Icelanders
and others wbo have come from beyond
made by the bon. senator frosu Monk.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Better the British Islands ? My hbon. ffriend, may
say 'misun-derstanding Instead off misrepre- speak about these people as the off-scouring off Europe, as an inferior race. 1 apsentations.
prebend the mai ority off the people off this
Hon. Mr. 3ILLS-I do not care what country are off a different opinàon.
name my bon. friend gives it, but the reHoa. Mr. McCALLUM-No.
marks off which my hon. f rIend. front Monck
compYlsins are as foalows .
Hon. Mr. MILLS-They do not look upon
I arn myself off the opinion, notwithstandlng a comin'unity asuongst whom there is no
the views put forward by Mr. Darwin and those vice, who commit no crime, w-ho observe
who sympathize with hlm, that atter ail, the
human races are off one blood, and that there the relations that exist between man and
are merely physicial causes for the differences man, who have neither appeared In the criwhich. exist amongst us, and If you brlng people
from. the continent off Europe, from the republic mrinai courts nor In the police courts since
of the United States snd from the British they came to this contry, as flot a desirIslands, and from the provinces off this Dom- able class to secure as settlers in Canada.
inion and place them In the Nortb-west Territories, engaged In industria-1 pursults under the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This is a matter
sme Influences, reading the same literature,
having their thoughts turned ln the same chan- which affects Manitoba and the North-west
liels, that In the course off a generation or two Territordes to a greater extent than eastern
You will net be able to dlstlnguish between them.
Canada, the settlement off our vacant land,
That ws rmy contention. I did flot re- and I wish to say a ffew ýwords about the
present any race ns an Inferlor race. I was clase off people referred to in this motion.
poInting ont the fact that, so far as this It appears ,to me that the gentlemuen wbo
loi
lish, yet there is no population in the British Empire, in proportion to numbers, who
have done more to uphold the honour off the
British Crown and the Highlanders. Every
one knows that they have done so ever since
the union. The emblems off the empire are :

[SENATE]
have addressed the Senate on this particular question are only too anxiou-s to find
fauît, for political reisons, rather thon to
get at the facts of the case before the
House.

i
b est part of any particular avocatiofi, a.nd
are engaged in
1 find that the Doukhobors

-asing stock on the settiement. Our foredo flot know
f athers used to be drovers. I
bat they raised much stock, but tbey were
t
rovers. There is this particular distincHon. '3r. BERN 1ER-No, no.
ion. So far as they are concerned 1 tbink
here Is no doubt that the morais of the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The lion, gentleman Doukhobors wlill stand ini goo-d comparison
says no, no, but 1 think I ca-n convince hon. with the igorls of any class in Canada. 1
members of this House that the remarks have before me a report made by a gentiemade by the hon, gentleman who Introduced mnn, who will flot be questioned on this
this motter, and the hon. member for natter, a gentleman wbo had an opportunMonck, were for afield la speaking of the ty of informing himself particulttrly on the
1 have tbis to say about Leligious and the moral beliefs of those
Doukhobors.
them :that they are a desirable class of people. He made a report a few days ago.
settiers. I know whereof I speak, and hon.i It is published in the Free Presas of Saturmembers w-u bear -me out. 1 was sur- day, Marchi 23. It reads as foliows :
prIsed at the zeal of the hon. gentleman
Dr. J. T. Reid, a graduate of McGill University
from 'Monck ln defenlng our race, the and a resident for five years, as a practising
returned

physiciail. la Point St. Charles, has district,
after a year's residence la the Dauphin
the home- of the Galicians, andi amongst the
Coiony, a
Doukhobors of the Thunder HisReid's headhuadred miles further north. Dr.
centre hie bas
qjuarters are at Sifton fromn whlch
occasions, whea reflections were made o! a done good work as a medîcal missioflary under
than ony con- the ausplc2s of the Presbyterian church of Canmuchi more severe character
could draw fromn the remorks o! ada.

Hig-hlainders, because, w-hile 1 bave not the
knowledge of the clans that lie bas, stilI I
cdaim the 'Macdonald tartan as my tartan.
I have seen that hon. gentleman on other

clusions he
the hon. M-\inister o! Justice, la another place, ,-Mr. Reid goes'on ta s-tate the peculiarities
wvhen the late member for Giengarry, hlm- of the people wlth whom hie is deailing. and

self a Highilander, whens it suited the pur- at the present time it Is very important
pcse of the party la the House of Com- that this should be considered la this House.
mons, declared that the Highlanders of 1 do not think that any lion, gentleman la
Scotland were as much barbarians 150 years this H1ouse w'tll question this report of Mr.
ago as the Indians of the Nortb-west plains. ReId'sý being a medical commissiofler, represThe hon. gentleman sitting Ia bis seat had enting the Presbyterian Churcli, and who
nothing- ta say against tle hon. gentleman -vas among the Doukhobors for about eiglifor Gieagarry for eomnparing bis forefathers, teen months. He proceeds:
the Highilanders of Scotland, witb the InAs a people the Doukhobors are happy andi
the
contented Ia their Canadian home. Duriag
dians of the plains.
two seasons they have been in this country
progresa la the
made
Mc\ICALLUMN-I knew it was flot they have of the commendable thoee who were
Hon. M-Nr.
land. Ail of
cultivation
a fact.
to go ta California have returaied, and
Induced
are now satlsfied that on the prairies of our
'-\r. WATSON-So for as the Douk- western provinces there arethemore promising
Hon.
United States.
prospecta for themn than la
hobors are coacerned, 1 flnd they are en- Durlng the seasosi of 1899 the womea and
gaged ia followdag their avocations as farm- childreri of the Thunder HuIs Colony,by wbich
pickmade $2.025
ers la their settliments. True, they have compries 1,500 Doukhobors, men made, during
ing senega root, while the
peculiar ideas about sonhe motters, ideas the samne season, $30,670 en railroad construclive la villages
that differ eatireiy from the Highlanders, tien work. The Doukhobors
work the land about themn while the Galithe Hidghlan-ders are aiways to the andi
becouse
clans live on thelr farmE lîke Anglo-Saxon
of
front in a flght. The distinction betweefl farmers. Both are followiflg the systemn are mixefi
thus
posasib4e, aad
and the Hig-hlander is that farmlng as much as
the Doukhobor
Canadlan settlers, who are land
the teaching saine poor, a valuable lesson. Many
the Higlqander wants ta fighit and
poor, or wheat
to Manitoba
Doukhobor doesn't want ta, and there Is have gone from easterfl Canada growing, or
wh eat
obtaIn and depended so'lely upoa profit. When these
aunother distinction whichi w-e w'ill
land speculatIon. for their
credit for. We always happen to be on the fail they are rulned. The Doukhobors are grain the dually golng loto, stock ralslng and their succees

top.

We always like ta bie engag,,ed

Hon. Mr. 'WATSON.

[MARCH 26, 1901]

149

ls rendered curer on this account. They fInd without stating what I L-now of this matter.
oxen less suited for draught purposes as yet. Referring to the Germans and the M-%ennoThe Doukhobors are devoutly religions and
carry their relgion into their everyday life, and nites, the Mennonites came to Manitoba
their moral tone le high. The fundamental pria- some twenty-five years ago, practically in1
ciple of their religion le love-love for their
nelghbour as well es God. The Doukhobor locks the samne position as the Doukhobors. Will
upon business competition and strife, as well my hon. friend say that the Mennonites are
as ail war, a being anti-Chriatian. If we do flot an acquisition to Canada ? 1 do not
flot love our nedghbours they coneider we are nat
Christians. They say Jesus taught bis followers think he ,will dare make that statement.
to love their enemies-not to, kilI them. The They are hponest. They are good farmers,
Doukhobor lives and works, flot for himself,
but for his neighbour-for the communlty ;and and they have produced wealth out of the
bhe turne over all bis earnings to the common prairie.
They are sober and industrious.
treasury of the village la whlch hie lives. Âmong
the Doukhobors of Manitoba are a number of The Doukhobors are probably more so. They
women whose hushands are la exile la Siberia. have a religlous regard for cleanliness.
Thece, together with their cildren, are supported When a number of those Doukhobors arrived
out of the common fund. This le flot dcne
in Manitoba, two years ago, sorne 365 of
grudgingly, but freely as a Christianl duty.
them were housed ln tlie old court-bouse in
And later on hie says :
the town of Portage la Prairie where they
Cleanliness is a consp1coos part of their
religion. With them it le flot 1next to godliaess' slept la buaks put la three or four deep. I
but a vital part of ItL Godliness with them means visited thiat place and found it wvas perGodlikeness. Therci le a public bath in every fectiy dlean. There xvas no bad sineil. Tbey
village and every Saturday at least, ail the year
round, the populace takes a bath ' whether they are probably the cleanest people residiug in
need it or flot.' The men perform their ablutions Canada to-day. I make this statement knowln the moraing and the women ln the afternoon.
Their houses and clothing are likewise kept ing w-bat I arn speaking about. They cime
scrupulously dlean. In this respect, as la social from Halifax to Portage la Prairie, some
affairs, the Galicians differ from them greatly.
3,000 miles, and the Canadiani Pacifie RailThat is a report of a gentleman who had way people said the cars were cleaner wbea
Just returned from amongst those people, they reachied Portage la Prairie than wben
and it is surprising to me thiat, because they left Halifax. It is absurd for hon. gensome twenty-nine of themi, out of 7,500, were tlemea to speak of thein as the scum of the
Induced to siga a petition, which bas been earth. It cannot be ia flie best interests of
read here, complaining agalnst the laws and the country. It is trying to get a slap at the
being compelled to settle on separate hold- Minister of the Interior, who lias, by biis
ings, the hon, gentleman for M-Nonck, should energetic administration brougbt a lot of
wax wrath over the miatter. This petition wns people iato our Canadian North-west. I arn
not really got Up by the Doukhobors. Lt w.îs a Highlander, borti la Canada, and I mnay
the w-ork, of a Russian who got among thein say to rny hiou. friend for' Monck that I do
and g-ot it signed. Those who went to Cali- not thinl, there Is aay cause for alarm. 1
fornia have returned and are good settiers. do not think the Hon. 'Minister of Justice
I know something of the people ; I have seen would try to tura down the Highlanders,
them. I L-now that during the hiarvest of and If hie tried I do aot think lie coulfi suc1899, if it had not been for the labour of the ceed. If my hon. friend feit genuine zeal on
Doukhobors and Galicians, millions of behaîf of the Hig1hlanders, hie w-ould have
bushels of wheat would have been de- remonstrated «%ith Mr. M.%c7%aster whien hie
stroyed.
They are a valuable acquisi- referred to the Highlanders of Scotland as
tion to the North-west for the pur- 'being as much barbarians as the Indians of
*pose of furnisbing good labour. There the Nortli-west.
Is no better labour ln that country, either on
the farm or on the railway. Before hon.
gentlemen rise la this Chamber andi make a
tirade against aay class of settlers, they
should know something of what they are
talking about. The speeches la this House
this afternoon prove that statenients are
made-without any founldation 0f fact whatever, -and I could not let the opportunity pass

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Are they still that
way ?
Hon. '.%r. WATSON-I do not think they
,ever were that way. I think the party zeal,
which led Mr. MeMaster to make that statemient, causefi his defeat la Glengarry, and I
think If my hon. friend was depending on
the electorate for bis seat hie would not

[SENATE]
maire thiat charge against a desirable class possible, tbat they allow their chuldren bo
of the
of people who, no doulit, iu the near future lie educated in the different scbools
will be a desirable portion of the popula- country, and are assimilating tbemselves
rapidly 10 the other classes of the communtion of Canada.
ity. If you taire the doctrines laid down In
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-It is the Doukhlobors' own ma-nifesto, and in the
not desirabIe to continue this discussion at petition which they have presented 10 tle
any great lengtli, but I cannot help express- government of Canad1a, tînt neyer eau
ing the opinion that the hon. Minister of occur with them. What do tbey demand ?
Justice misunderstood entirely both the re- Tbey ask t b le relieved, first, f rom the marmarks of my hon. frlend from St. Boniface, niage laws as tliey exist in Ibis country,
and the object of his motion. Otherwise lie on tbe ground that they confliet witb the
would not have attributed to hlm wbat lie laws of God. They object 10 being comdid. If the hon. gentleman from St. Boni- peiled 10 register births and deatbs, as
face had laid down the doctrine that no im- hein,- contrary 10 the lnws of God, and they
migrants were to lie aliowed to corne to this objeoet also 10 the divorce laws. Lt is most
country unless they held bis theologicai extraordinary that their adviser, in order
views, 1 arn inclined to thýinlc 1 wouid be 10 induce tbem. to accept the laws of this
witb the hon. Minister of Justice at country, tells tbemn bat tbey cau put away
once, and protest against any sncb doc- tbeir wives, as there is no law against
But he mnade noý sucb conten- adultery. He certainIly cannot know the
trine.
tion. 'What lie pointed out was that laws of Canada. We know a ma-n ean lie
a certain ciass of immigrants were brouglit prosecuted for bignmy, crninal conduet and
'iews diamne10 Ibis country holding
varions other crimes of that kind, and yet
trically opposed 10 those held by ail classes their adviser in England tells themn that
of tbe community, and I may ilustrate that they can adhere 10 their peculiar views and
by the last remarirs made by tbe bon. Min- liye in open adultery witbont punisinnent,
Ister of Justice. He spoke of the Highland- and bie gives that a-s a re-ison wby tbey
ers, bie spoke of tbe Frenchi, aûàd lie spoLE *sliould accept their position in this country.
of the Germans, wbo did not speak the Eng- In addition 10 that, tbey elaim tbat no memiIish language, coming to Ibis country, and ber of their community shal lie permitted
said that they ultimateiy became a homo- 10 hold property in bis own igît: that it
geneous people, but lie forgot 10 say tbat ai'. sbould belong- to the whoie comnmunity, tbat
those imimigrants, w-hetber tbey were Ger that is the teacbing- of the Scripture. from
mans, Frencbmen or Higblanders, beld nic
say,
Then
politica? wbicl tbey cannot depart. read it if they hon.
opi1nions on
heterodox
sucb
iny
in addition to tbat-I mau
questions and upon social questions, mý friend bas not read il'anc
those beld by the Doukbobors
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, I have not.
my bon. friend from St
to wbich
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I said,
Boniface objected, and notbing more
He said nothing abouit tbeir industry. Tis when I heard tbe bon. gentleman speair,
lie could not have rend their petition
House bas been ied away by drawiag appar -that
entiy a herring or something eise across lii Sor lie would no-t have spoken as bie did. Lt
trail. Wbat I object to, and I object t0 It is, an illustration of wbnt 1 pointed out
taire place in goverming the country
as strongly as the nion. geatleman bimself- -would
altbiougb in theological questions we a-r Supon the principles wbicl were laid down
dia metrically opposed. I fuily concur in hi:s when tlese gentlemen came 10 power-tbiat
view, that itlis objectionable to introdue e is, tley govern Ilirougli departmental inia class of people mbt tbis country whiD isters, instead of on the principle, as we
rever will, if they adbere to tbe relig-ion s understand il, of responsible governumentsentiments tbey bold, lie assimilated to our that is, each gentleman submitting to bis
population. The Scotch, the Germans anid colleagues in council wbatever policy lie
others, and even the Galicians who hav e has, 50 tbat tbey ca-n a-il become acquaiated
settled in Ibis country do become assimilai witb it. The position we find the 'Minister
ed. It is poiated out that tbe Galicians ar e of Justice in at the present moment is this.
learning the Engiisb language as rapidiy as lie bas ventured 10 give us a lecture on
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

[HARCH 26, 19011

L

terms and conditions as any
what class of immnigrants sliould be on the sie
are
He avoided alto- 0ther settiers. The laws of our country
brouglit to this country.
~gainst polygamy, and if you violate those
gether the question raîsed l'y the lion. gen- a
l'e prosecuted. as any other
tleman from St. Boniface, that is, as to 1aws you will
)eople would be.' Sir John Thompson, ln
the character of that class of people. Had 1
and amendient of the
their petition been laid before councl-had ils consoiidatilon
'rlminal1 Code, se amiended It as to meet
It been discussed, wliat answer should be>
l'y these peogiven.them l'y counicîl, instead of the Min- Lfly evasion that miglit occur
ýle of the laws that goverfi the rest of the
Ister of the Interior assuming and arrogatIf niy hon.
lng to himself the right to say what an- ?opulatlon. of the country.
friend will corne down with a similar proswer should be given, then rny hon. friendi
the objection to these
would have been In a position te deal with position of that kind,
settlers w11 flot l'e as great as it is to-day.
the question mucli more intelligently than he
bias deait with it to-day. Had lis answer
Hon. '-%r. M.NILLS-If my lion. friend
been exactly in accordance witLu the anthinks for a moment that I suggested that
swer given te the Do'ukhol'ors l'y the offithe laws sliouild flot lie enforced against
cer-I think lie must l'e an officer of the
the Doukhol'ors, or any othier class of the
Interior Department-he would have anconm'unity that vielate theni, then lie is
swered effectively and effectually the statelal'euring under a mistake.
meut macle by my lion. friend. This Is
slýgned l'y J. G. Surriff, commissioner ef
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOMWELL-I arn
lands. Wli'1at does lie say ? I-le tells them very glad to hear that. I have attributed
distinctly, after commenting on their de- nothing of the kind to the lion. g-entlemnan.
mands : The goveramient cannot adept a 1 ivas merely discussing the position that
system for any one particular clnss of the lie laid clown, and I uiîderstood hlim to say,
cemmunity different frein that whidh ap- as iny lien. friends on iny riglit and left
plies te other classes ef the comrnunity.
understood in to say and to argue, that
it wa-s net the duty of the governament in
SCOTT-Hear, lîear.
Hon. M-Nr.
a.uy case. where immigrants were lirouglit
to tliis country, te interfere with their pecuHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW7ELL--T'heŽ liarities or religions views-to let themi live
lion, gentleman laid clown an extraordinary, as they liad lived in their own countrydoctrine, wlien lie accused miy bon. friend that is what I understoed hlm to say, and
of wanting the~ governinent te adopt some that is tlie point that I ain endeavouring
standard of ortliedexy for the immIgrantsý to elueidate l'y drawing a comnparison l'ecoming te this country, that they, the gev- tween the Doukhol'ors witli the-Ir peculiar
erniment. adopted net onily the principle,1 views, and the -Mormons and the way tlie
l'ut tliey Nvislied te admit every eue as goverriment, of xwhicli I was a mienîiber.
a settier 'la this country, no rnatter whatý deait w4th thern.
Now, the question Is
their peculiar religions views mlui.-t l'e, wrhether It is advisable that this class of
and that they should net lie Inter- people, industrious thougli tiey -inay be,
fered with. Apply tlîat samne argument and netwithstanding the virtues tliey rnay
the 'Mormons and possess, sliould l'e encoura9geci to settie in
and î,rinciple te
wli ere (Io yen fincl yourself ? Wheu the Canada. The lien, gentleman f rom Portage
Mormons carne te this country tliey macle la Prairie seerns to thlnc that any one who
a. special application te the premier, Sir dares to differ frorn the policy of the goy'John Macdonald, and I liad two hours dis- erament, or to suggest any improvemient,
What înust l'e aetuated l'y ijolitical rather than
cussion with their representative.
they wanted was te l'e permuitted te corne patriotic or moral considerations.
W bat
to this country and te live as tliey did In does the paper from whicli tlie lion. gentleUtahi. When that ivas refused them, they nman from St. Boniface rend a f ew moments
asked te l'e allowed to liring in their fami- age say ? I will read f rom the Hailifax
lles and wives and pledged tliemselves not Clironiole, an organ of the governmentte go l'eyend that. The answer ef the preHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh !
mier Nvas 'Yen ean corne te this country

152

[SENATE]

Hon. Sir MCEZEBOW'ELL-Does
the lion, gentleman say the Chroni cle is
flot an organ of the governrnent ?
Hlon. 'Mr. SCOTT-NI'ýo.

One of the fundarnental piinciples of the
Doukbobors is that tliey wiil flot figlit. They
say it is contrary to the teaching of the
There Is no comparison between
.lmigbty.
these Doukhobors and thelr religious belief,
and the Mennonites to whomn reference bas
been made. No such doctrines as are promulgated by these people are held by iýhe
Mennonites. Lt le true they partake of the
Quaker character, and refuse to figlit; that
is the only objection whieli could be made
to themi.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It was
-edited for years and years by the present
Finance Minister, and I understand lie bas
an interest in It to-day. Lt speaks for hlm
and for the bon. gentlemen opposite wlienever it does speak, except upon the present
occasion, wben it is riglt, but in ail other
cases it speaks for the government. If the!
Hon. ',%r. McICALLUM-\-It is enough.
lion. senator from St. Boniface -%as actuated
by political motives, lie certailily gave no Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIEL-It is
indication of it ; but if our objection to tle truc, also, tliey Iive In communities, but lnan
n
oteNrt-etTrîois
iî
pollcy of the goverfient ln this respect islt
that the younger
to be considered politicai rather tban pa- aiso to 'Manitoba, I found
trlotic, whlat are we to say of the language. people of that class were beginning to scatof tbe Halifax Clironicle ? The article from ter about the country.
o.M.MLSHaler
whilcb the bon, gentleman read -%inds Up as'
er
Hn -f.'NIL-er
follows
it is revoiting ln the extrerne to think or' Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWTELL-My
blood such as this being destined to Mlx with
a statement la
Our good clean British and French Canadian lion. friend tbinks tliat is

blood to its certain corruption. The ear]y filling' favour of bis argument. So It Is, as far as
ncndndofr
up of our vacant lands je a srnall mattera;teMnoisae
he Mnoie aecnendnd8
cornpared witli the preservation cf the Nvh
What would be as the Scotch, German, or any otber settiers
rnymeness Of our population.
tbouglit or the sanity of the owner of a mansion arcoend;buthspoleayhy

epesyte
and the father of a growing farnily who shouldaecnend;bttis
witliout
go Into the alurns and I bis vacant chambers . canniot depart from their doctrines
with these denizens to the pollution of hise violating tlie teacliings of God, and doing
borne, and the probable ejection of the unborn

violence to tlieir consciences, and tliey apif tliere is not a
peal
Git eito. ItiSplace to ail tbe world to seewitbout heing- inoinin he
Tbisis he 0fa aGri edtor ~
wbere tliey can live
pinon f
Thisis
Iagre w-tb mbutI ani terfered witb ln a ny w-ny wbatever. That le
not eryoftn
beartily in accord with hlmi at the preseut. the class of people we are bringing to this
and If tbey are consistent at ail witb
moment. Then bie proceeds to say :country,
in their declaration. tbey will, on the first posThere ie no necessity for reckless haste
peopling the Nortli-west. Better let the prairies sible opportunity, leave the country and go
lie fallow, as they have laini since the ýwaters
bave sucb
reced.ed fromn their face, than to plant tbem with somnewbere else. If tbey are to better. 1
residents who will be la, but no t of Canada, teacliing, tbe sooner tbey go tbe
and wborn we shall be asharned to acknowledge
arn strongiy In favour of filling up tbe counas bearers of the Canadian namne.
try witb any class of people wbo will assiTbose are the sentiments of one of tbe milate tbemselves wltb the otber portions
organs of tbe party now in power, and Of of our population.
the.ministers wbo are defending tliis class
Hn
r
ADNL
B!)Ee
h
b
BC)Ee
,of immig-ration. I do not propose to dwell HoglndMr ?ADNL
mucli longer on this subject. 1 ask are theHiladr
Doukbobors a desirable ciass of people ? Hon. Sir MNACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbey
Many bon, gentlemen will rernember, ln a ahl do, as generations pass away, but tliese
former session, the lion. Mînister of Justice; people neyer wiil, If tbey are consistent.
referring to the necessity for filling Up the Tbey refuse to allow their young men to
Nortb-west Territories and 'Manitoba wltb accept deeds for their lands, and none of
n population that would not only croate tbern bave taken ont a deed yet. Tliey rewealtb but givo strengtb to this country, la fuse to do s0 unless tlie government will
case of dîfficulties witb a foreign nation, place tbem in tbe same position as tbey
children?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[MAlICH 26, 1901.]
themseives say, as the unciviiized people of, Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Voice, printed ln Winnipeg, Man., Mardi 8,
the North-west Terrîtories.
191
Hou. Mfr. MILLS-When the Miennonites
Hon. Mfr. MILLER-The article Is publlshexactly the
came to this country, they made
ed ln several other papers.
same objection.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I adnot so extensively as in fixe Voice. In going
mit that.
to Belleville thxe other day I took It w1th me
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Not exactly the to read 1t, and 1 was very inucl surprised
at the position taken by the Doukhobors, and
same.
tliat the government had flot tiken a strongHon. Mfr. MILLS-I arn speaking of whàt er stand than they have done, aithougli I
I know. It was pointed out to tbem that amn bound to say that tbe letter written by
they couid each take out a separate deed and the official of the departmeflt In clear and
they could afterwards hold their property distinct enough lu telling these men that the
lu common.
governmfefit will flot depart from the policy
BOWEL-I have which goverus ail other classes o! the comHon. SIR NIACKENZIE
adnome lIttie L-nowledge of what was done at muuity ln that partIcular respect, and
only to reb~eat what 1 vises them, as 1 have already sald, to take
that time, and I have
they
have said in respect to that particular brandi out their deeds lndividually, and then
bon, gentleman from can arrange to hold their lands as a commul,
of ibeir teaching. The
Portage la Prairie tried to make a point of nity. 1 think lt is the greatest mistake for
the fact that only a certain number of these the people themselves and for the country
Doukhobors had signed the petition. Tbey tbat any clas of emigrants should lie settled
seefi
lite ln communities, and the head men of ln commuflities and lu blocks. I bave
I do
the tribe speak for the wbole, and as no the evil effect o! It lu our own country.
de- flot refer to any particular class of people.
settler there, whetber youug or old, bas
the
parted yet from the doctrines laid down lu 1 believe ail settlers succeed better If
There Is no
suppose different classes are rnixed.
the petition, we have no right to
relithat the petitioners have flot spoken for the necessity for their surrendering their
advised gions views, nor Is there any necessity for
Their friend ln England,
whole.
notbem to lite under the law of this country, abaudouing their language, but I have
to ticed ln differeut communities, settled by
wltb the extraordlnary recommendation
whicb I have referred, that they could, If Eugllsli, Scotch or Irish, frorn the same
tbey wanted to, put away their wIves and section, they have flot doue as well as wbere
o!
lite lu a state of adultery witbout coming they bave mlxed Up wlth the population
I have corne to this conclusion
under the penal clause o! the Iaw. He tells the country.
them they lied better lite lu that state, and from practical observation o! tbe results o!
as
lie says, tak-e out your deeds and let the settlement ln our own country. Desiriflg,
men transfer their land to the com- 1 do, apart altogether from politlcs, to see
Young
munity, or the head man of the cormnruity, t1lis country settled by a bealtby, thrivlng
no that the cornmunity will hold ail the pro- people-people holding vIews at least lu acThey assume to have some little cordance witb those o! the majority-tbat is
perty.
conscience ln that matter. They say no, the fundameutal principles of Christiautythat is evadiug the law ln doiug that which sbould corne to this couutry. I amn not parti1
we are tanght should flot be doue, and there- cular as to the views tbey may hold, but
opposed to thîs systern of setfore they will flot do It. How can we ex- arn totally
pect sucli people to assirnilate with the popu- tlemeut lu comitinntIes by wbicb the race
lation o! this country ? I would advise the is likely to degenerate rather than Improve,
Mlnister of Justice, If lie would flot consider and becomes an lnu ry to the country rather
It officlous, to read the petition of the Douk- than a benefit..
hobors. which appeared in several newsHon. MTr. SCOTT-I arn quite in accord
papers.
with the eoncludiflg langutige of my bon.
friend opposite, that It wonld lie very desir?
Hon. Mfr. ALLAN-What paper is that

[SENATE]

154

in them. Mfterwards, the Quakers ln England befr.îended them. No one would suppose that they would recognize the views of
the Doukhobors In reference to the marrige
rite If they were as stated by the
hou, gentleman froin St. Boniface and
Our exthe leader of the opposition.
ln regard to the Mormans
perlence
and Mennonites is an absolute proof that
there Is no serions objection to the Douk1hobors because of their living ln communIties
and having- sucha vle-ws-lif they have such
vlews, and 1 amrn ot prepared to accept It,
because 1 do flot think we should judge of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
eight thousand people on a staternent made
hon. gentleman means Glengarry.
by twenty-fflne of tbein, instigated by a
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-No. 1 men Dundas. Russlan socialist. There aré men ln every
The hon, gentleman *speaks of Glengarry. cornuulty who are not ln accord with the
That was settled by a large number of rest of the. comanunity, and It may happen
Highlanders who came over together. That that arnong the Doukhobors there are a
has been observed as a rule flot simply by few men who hoid those opinions, but they
itreigners, but by our own people.
recognized, in coming to Canada that they
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The came here under the laswhich exist in
Dutch population who settled in Dundas this country, and that they would have to
to thein just as the Mennonites
together %vere principally United Empire conforr
No argument
loya.lists, who came frein the United States, and Mormons conforned.
could be brought against any class stronger
and were the very best setliers we had.
than agalust the Mormons. Many persons
Hon. Mýr. SCOTT-I admit that, but they belleved, when they carne into Canada, that
came ia tog-ether and settled between Ed- they would flot keep their promises. The
wardsburg and Cornwall. I merely men- hon, gentleman (Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell)
tion this as an illustration.
and those assoclated with. him in the govHon. Mr. M)cMýILLAX-The people who ernrnent, very properly pointed out at the
settled la Glengarry did not settie ln coin- time that It was extremely objectionable to
irunities ; they took up their lands as in- admit rnen wbo entertained such loose views
on the snbject of marriage laws, and dedividual settiers.
manded frein thein stipulations that those
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn aware of that.
views should le ahandoned. We have neyer,
Hlon. Mr. M)c3MILLAN-That is the whole until recently, heard anythlng objectionquestion.
able agaînst the Doukhobors. It is onlY
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-What I arn pointing very lately that the point has been ralsed,
ont is, that people who corne ont to.-ether and I amn not aware that it lins that fountu a new country like to settIe near each dation which would justlfy this House, or
MJy hon. any body of gentlemen, in corning to a conother. That is quite natural.
is wrong. I qulte clusion prejudicial to the great body of the
frle'nd says the priaciple
agree with hlm. il would be mucli better peuple.' The- accounts that I have read of
If they could be distributed among the' thein la the past, and the newspapers have
whole population. They would be assimil- been full of them for the lnst two years,
ated mucli more rapidly. The circumstances ag-ree with the descriptions of thein by my
under which the Douk-hobors came to this non. friend, the Minister of Justice, and
conntry are probably familiar to most peo- the hon, gentleman from Manitoba, that
pie who rend the papers. Il is well known they are Industrious, moral people. No one
that ToIstoi, a recognized leading man ln disputes that. That tbey were very desirRussia, a man of strong religlous convic- able settiers was admitted by every one who
tions anfd a plillanthropist, took an lnterest studied their habits. There is this one obable that outsiders coming to Canada should
be dîstributed throughout our population, as
they would be assimilated ail the more
quickly. But if he w1il go back for the 150
years occupied in the settlernent of this
country, he will find 'that; immigrants frein
varions lands have corne in bands and
settled in communities. There is that clannlsh feeling wbich lrnpels thein to settle ln
one locality. The hon, gentleman will remember that the Dutch, when they came
here, settled ln Waterloo and Dundas in
that way.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

[211ARCH 26, 1901]
jectien urged agaInst them. They must conform to, the laws of the country. So far as
the vlews they entertain wfth referenoe ta
taking part lu the defense of the country
la concerned, we ail kinow the pol&cy of this
country bias been for mazy years to, exempt any class of people, who had conscestious seruples on the subjeet of flghtlng
against their feUlow-nxan, from mlitary mer-,
vice. As long as I eau recollect, the Quakers
and other Christian bodies have been exempt, yet no one lias urged that that la a
reason why they should flot recelve fair
treatment. We have an abundance of people ln Canada, as our past hIstory lias
shown, who are prepared to defend the
country, withou't ealling on those people.
We made no exception to the Mennonites
on that ground, and certaln-ly the Mennonites, of recent years, have been consldered
a very excellent class of settiers. They live
lu a community, but as the hon. senator
who leads the opposition admltted, they are
departing f rom that position ;they are
abandoning their old prejudices just as the
Doukhobors will do ln the future. You wiil
find ln twenty-five years the Doukhobors
The
NdLl be a different class of people.
young people will go out and work among
other different nationalities ; wial become
assimilated with them, and adopt the vIews
of the great majority, ýust as they have
been assillated lu the adjoining repulUc;
and, therefore, it would be extremely unwise, and I tfrlnk uncharîtable and unkind,
to say to those people, ln consequence of
those who are alleged to hold views sucli
as have been descriibed, you will be forced
to leave the country, and otber of that
class wlll. flot be admitted to the country.
If this opposition to our laws were to be
rnaintained or persevered ln, It would be a
further reason why others of that class
should flot be admitted, but I can scarcely
believe, that an Immoral people 'would find
a champion in a man like Toîstoi, a man
who ls himself a Christian of the broadest
vlews, philanthropist, and wbo has expended time and money lu aiding the Doukhobors to escape from the tyrauny under
which they suffered lu Russia. The very
f act that some heads of fanllies to-day are
prisoners iu Siberia, due largely to their
refu-sal te take up arms in support of ILusia, ouglit to be a reason for our extending

155

to themn our sympathy. I arn culte sure
when ail the facts are brougnt out-and we
have flot themn before us now-it wlll be
*found thaît we have nothlng before US to
justify the conclusion that the hon. gentleman frein St. Boniface proposes to the
HEouse, and we wMi f orm a very different
o!pinion. The Doukhobors a-re subject to our
laws just as the Mennonites are, and If the
Mennonftes were perrnitted. to live ln Canada for a time as a community, these people should be. Some hon. gentleman sald
that the Doulihobors were spoon-fed by this
country. That Is flot true. Their passages
to thle country were pald, flot; by the goverument of Canada, but by the Quakers of
England and of Phuladeipia. This country dld neot pay their passage. We gave
themn the usual bonus of one pound a head.
Beyond that we loaned them a sum of $20,000 whlch is to be repald, and no one who
has given any thought or attention to the
characterlstcs of the Doukhobors wlll, for
a moment doubt that that $20,000 wlll be
That ls the onlý
repald wlth Interest.
money they recelved from the goverumeut
of Canada. Apart f rom th-at, they have, of
course, Éad the attention of immigrant
agents and had some food supplies the same
s other destitute immigrants, but nothlng
beyond that An Impression see.ms te have
gone abroad that they have received from
the government of Canada a marked distinction over and beyond wliat is extended
ta other Immigrants. That is flot the fact.
The Mennonites were loaned a considerable
sum, I do not remember the amount, but I
thlnk ln excess of the $20,000 loaned to the
Douih-obors, and they repald it witbi interest mome yearS ago.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thelr
counitrymen lu Waterloo became security for
every dollar of It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. I amn qulte sure
before ten years are over the $20,000 advanced to the Doulihobors wlll be paid back
to Canada.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I have had
some llttle experience with reference to the
Doukhbobor immigration, an experience flot
very large and not very varied, but qulte
as mucli as the bon, gentleman from Portage
la Prairie, the experlence being wlth reference te a number of those people who were

LSENATE]

156

to them. These Imp
kept for six months ln the government build- - eople inflnitely superlor
were brought out. The hon. memBrandon and
ings at Portage la Prairie, and
passages were flot paid.
a few of them scattered through the coun- ber states that their
gangs ln the, I bave seen that statement, and I arn glad
try, working.on the threshing
I saw It lu the
fail of the year. When on a visit to 'York- to hear it coutradicted.
of the papers that the passages were assisted by
ton 1 saw the homes and aettleinents
It Is the first time I
Doukhobors ln two districts, and 1 think I the goverument, and
hon. gen- have heard It stated that these people were
arn able to say a littie more than
being assisted in their
tlernen who speak acadernlcally about this brought out without
class of P'assage across; but even If their passages
Immigration, with regard te the
wouid be found to be
Immigrants that the Doukhobors make, and were not paid. they
1 do not very expensive Immigrants by the time they
their reputation at home and here.
The governent brings
consider that It Is at ail fair to say that got to Manitoba.
; thern into Manitoba, their expenses on the
these people beiong te the criminal class
They have te be taken in
nelther are they the iowest in the scale of railroad are paid.
haiid from the time they land In this counlauranity as they are depicted by people
kept for six mouths, as
who are hostile to them. There is a far try, and they are
they have been ln Brandon and Portage la
iower-at least a lower class-in the GaiaI the expense of
clans who have also breen brought out te Prairie, f ed and housed
country, taken forward through the
this country and settled in the samne way. the
at the expense ef
Everybody who has ever hiadt anything to country by land guides
government, and settled upon land, and
do with the Galicians knows that they are the
land I can assure you
lower than the Doukhobors, but whiie you whefl Ihey get to that
there are mauy Instances-and Mny hon.
cannot say that Ihey belong 10 the crirninai that
cau corroborate what I
classes. 1 do not consider that they can be friend on -my left
ln regaýrd to this--wbere settiers lu that
ciassified a 's belonging 10 the iaw-abidlng say
vIsIted iast fali, west of
classes. We have only 10 go back 10 the district which I
who had been living Ihere a great
reasous thal they were deported 'from the Yorktou,
had been unabie, on
country from which Ihey came. They were mauy years, snd who
of it being stated that the lauds
not immigrants whom we sought after, but account
10 obtain a titie, found
Ihey were being deported from Iheir own were unsurveyed,
lands had been given lu large
land on account of not beiug amenabie te the thal these
and they were
iaws of their country and the first ex- blocks to the Doukhobors which they had
land
perience we have when they corne here, Is obliged to leave their
were the first _Immithat Ihey wish not to be amenable te the squatted upon. They
of being proof our own country. That is a class grants 10 corne ln, and iustead
laws
superseded, If tected by the government, the lands were
which we might easiiy have
Europeall dregs-because
the governent had only taken the samne handed over te the
they are European dregs, we kuow thattrouble with regard to them, by an Immigraover to, these people.
tion from our own kindred, -speakdug our their lands were handed
I look back to the.lime when the Immiown language, and uuderstandiug our laws.
Into the blorth-wesI and
If our goverurnelit had offered the sarne ln- grauts were comiug
I neyer saw any Irish or Scotch Immigrants,
ducements te an Immigration from Engiaud,
people, taken in hand by the
Scotland, or Ireiand, they would have been or any English
lu this way. They were net fed
able to fill up, far better than they have governiueut
the governrnt. Thiey were
doue, that North-west country wlth a class or housed by
out with land guides. Why Is It
of Immigrants infiuiteiy superior, because I not sent
people ? Why are our owu
do net agree with the bon. gentleman from doue with these
put lu a werse position than
Portage la Prairie when hie says that Ihese feiiow-subjects
If the goverument teok
people are the cieauest people ln Canada. 1 these Immigrants.
steps, If they sent this great man
think It is a disgrace and Insult to ail our the saine
of Ibis ' Machine,' who is
people lu Canada to have these races brought Preston, the auther
as an Immigration agent to
ln, and Ihen ciassify thern as the clean est getting $5,000
and offer hlm the saine
people in Canada. I arn net saying anythiug the British Isles,
to corne
but I say we have a ciass of inducernents to persuade Immigrants
against them,

[migrants

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER.

[MARCH 26, 1901]
but, If they would pay their way Into this
country and employ land guides, they wonld
people that country with a large proportion
of good 'population from the British Ilies.
But they will flot do that. They put hn these
Immigrants spoon-fed by the government.
They maire themn government supporter.
One .would bardly belleve that Immigrants
who had hardly been lni that country two
years. who had not; been long enougb ln the
country to become naturalized, were brougbt
They
up and voted for the government.
could flot vote for any One else, becanse the
goverfiment would lay their bands on them
and the spoon and the feed wonld be tairen
away from them. If this Immigration goes
oni of thia class of people, it wili flot taire
very long before you find that country Dp
there will cease to be an English-speairing
country ? It wlll cease to be a British country, at the rate they are going ln now, and
tairing up blocks of land, it will be a country of Enropean Immigrants of that class,
and I say it ls going to be a menace to us,
and, elderly as we are, venerable as we have
been called, we will see the day when we
'will rue putting Into the bands of people
of that kind our land In the North-weat. I
do flot want to say much of the Douirbobors,
but I qulte agree with my hon. friend wbo
spoke about the Highlanders, and I regret
that my ancestors, the Germana, are treated
with the same contumely as the Highlanders
ln this matter. I think It la a shame that
they are to be claased at large with such a
clasa of people as,those that we are brIngIng
ln bere as Immigrants Into the country. I
would urge upon the government strongiy
that tbey change their class of Immigrants
and bring ln people from the old country,
who can be brought ln juat as cheapiy and
who can be made excellent settlers.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-We have just
beard. a wltness, not on bebalf of tbese
Douirbobors, but a witnesa wbo has been
among them and who would be only too
eager to contraict some of the good things
raid about the Doukhobors, and yet who bas
not one aingle bad word to aay againat
them. He lias seen somâ of them, and he
admîta that they are flot auch a 10w class
as tbey have been depictied by some hon.
members. He bas cornplained somewhat
of 'the fact tbat they were. giveu, blolcis
of land ; that they were perbaps at-

1517

tended to more especially by the goverfiment employeea than 'the ordinary settler
who comes ln by hImself ; but tbe hon. gentleman sbônld not forget that when YOD have
thonsanda and, thousands of Immigrants, as
ln this case, that it la but natural that there
shonld be greater ca>re tairen of that immigratIon, that Inatead of sendlng one employee
after each who wants to find a lot ln the
North-west when they corne ln snch nnmbers they sJiould be attended to and located
properly by government agents. This la
quite natural and I do flot think we shonld
complain of the goverament for the care
tbey bave taken of this ind of Immigration. The hon. gentleman f rom Brandon
bas flot helped the cause of thoee In this
Chaniber who have issaiied the Donirbobora as a bad. clasa. If I examine what the
hcn. gentleman f roui Belleville bias said
about the Douirbobors and bis comuplainte
about them, lt seema to me it can be reduced to very little. He bas complained
of their communlstic Ideas. If thie la their
only fanît, If tbey can prnduce nder sncb
a systeni as mucb as any one could wben
left to bimseif, their system will laat If It
la the beat. Otherwise, the individualized
system around that settlenient will prevail
ln tbe long run. If these people prefer to
lve ln commun'lty, there are many philThere
osophera who do aide.-with them.
are many people who thinir It la the best
system. Tbey will be an object lesson to tbe
people of Canada. But If our old eystem,
tbe one adopted In the older provinces la the
best, undoubtedly the Ideas of these people
will wear ont by comparison and their
grandch.ildren will taire to the land and
accept tbe tities for themeselves, and work
as their neigbbours do. This la one of the
complainta of my bon. frIend. He bas menticned two or tbree others. He bas compiained of thl settiements en bloc, and bas
ad thakt It la better for the country that
tbey sbonld be dlotributed tbroughout the
land. The bon. Secretary of State bas answered that fnAly. Undoubtedly It la better
for thia country that we should noît bave
petty groupa of different races, holding separate vlews frMm the m.ajoTIty, but
nndoubtfly Wben they come Into this land
they wlll come ln together and will try to
cling together. as longe as they can. One
of the -most serious thinga that bas been

[SENATE]

158

urged against the Doukhobors is their different Ideas as to olir marriage laws. Supposlng we adopted. the views of some of the
members of the House of! Gommons and
members of thls Clxaxber, and eatablished
divorce courts, then these people would very
50011 be on a par wlth this most clvilized
country called the United States, where
you can. change wIves a couple of times a
year and do so quite regularly under the
laws of fihe varions states.

fledged citizens, and as the hou. gentleman
has threatened us wlth dire resuits for
brlngIng those foreign populations Into the
west perhaps we are beginnlng lu the rlght
way lu applying to thema the real remedies
for complsi.nts that we heard la Sou-th
Africa by maklng them, as soon as possible,
fulil fledged citizens and havlng thexn feel
that they are at home. I do not think, on
that grond. that a case bas been made
againet the Doukhobor population, and 1
hope before long that we wIll ail agree tlxat
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-No.
we have ln tlxem a good, honest populaThe cases are not analogous at ail.
tion. My hon. !rlend from Brandon speaks
Hon. Mr. DÂNDU1IAND-But, 1 amn quite of the desirabillty o! gettlng people from
sure their pecullar Ideas as to our legîsiation the British Isles.
wlll soon be altered. When they know exHon. Mfr. DEVER-How wlll you get
aetly whnt Is the law o! thIs country and
the object of the law, they wIll regîster, tlxem '.
not oniy thelr marriages, but their births
Hon. 3fr: DÂNDURÂND-He should know
and deaths. They bave aiso been accnsed tl-at this governwment, for twenty odd years,
of re!using to figlit. We have a certain sec- bas spent millions o! dollars in tryîng to
tiont ln England, a certain coxnmu.nity, well get Immigrants from the British Isles, and
behaved, that does flot belleve ln war when we saw that Immense population
elther, and who had, up to a few years, a whcx Sir Charles Tupper predlcted twenty
mcst illustrions representative ln fixe British years ago was flot materlalizing by the inHouse of Gommons and British mInIstry. n'Agration, o! Enellsh, Scotch, or Irish, it
Tbose people are somewhnt, perhaps, ln wais turne for us to look elsewhere and bring
advance of our turnes. We have seen very the population from fixe continent-the
many wlse mon meet at the Hague not a population whlch has made the United
year ago, trylng to wipe out that curse States what they are to-day, and rolled It
whlch le called wqr, and If these peojple up to seventy-five or seventy-slx millons.
think that the laws o! God declare that I thlnk we should welcome ail people,
you shouild not kili your neighbonr, I say and I firxnly agree with what the Minister
they are slmply lu advance of their age ln o! Justice bas aald, that there are no lu! ertrying to practice aimong themnselves what lor races on fihe face of the globe. There
the representatives of ail the nations of! the are more or less educated races, but I know
world tried to establlsh at that conference that thls contention of the hon. Minister o!
last year.
Justice, held wlth others, la not the one
that la held by every cItizen ln the DominHon. Mir. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
ion of Canada, and It Is simply due to the
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-The hon. gen- ignorance o! these electors. Thero are
tleman frorn Brandon bas spoken of the people who, !rom the !act that tbey have
Gallclàns and has declared that tbey were read very lIttle, and know nothlng but the
Inferior to the Doukhobors. As I know nel- history of their own conntry, or o! thelr
ther of these people, I will not pass jndg- own people, tlxink that those who do not
ment apon thein, but It seems that he bas speak their own language or have their
a specsal grudge against thein, and more own Ideas, or who come from other porespecially agailuat fixe governafnent, becanse tions o! thxe world, are really inferlor peoafier a two years' resîdence in thls coun- pie. We know that the races have ail
try they were allowed to vote at the last sprung from one trunk, and that there Is
election. Perhaps we are beglnning to treat between them but a difference ln temthein ln the saine way as. our people In perament and education.
But with the
South Af rica wanted to be deait wlth by same, opportnty, with the saine educabeing consIdered, as soon as possible, as full flou, wlth thé saine freedom, and the saine
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

[M~ARCH 26, 1901]

159

cation, and on this paint perhaps the Daukhobors are not the on'ly peaple in this Dominion, wha need more educatlon--espeoially more Christian éducation. I would nat
be surprised but we cauld ail be considerHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the ably iinproved by that kind af education.
hon. gentleman had left ont ail the Ifs, bis
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
speech would be an admirable one.
hear.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I f eel that I would
Han. Mr. KERR-I want ta draw anhardly be discharglng my duty If I dld not
express my thanks ta the hon. senator other lesson frain anather passage ln
fram St. Bonif ace for brlnglng on this my early read.Ing. It -le recorded that wbien
debate upan sncb an Important ques- thie Englishman first banded in thie westtion. Ta me it bas been very Instruct- ern world he was met on the shores af the
Ive, and perhaps, not less Instructive Atlantic by n band of Indiaus -%vho said
by those views whicli happen to be op- «welconie Englishmen, welcome ta our broad
posed to mine, than by tbose with which I forests, welcome ta aur limitless prairies,
amn in syaipathy. 1 have been trying ta welcame ta aur hunting and aur flshing
settie in my own mind, during- the debate, grounds.' Can we nat now ln return say ta
whether the-I w.Ill not say the abject of the Indians who have been pushed ta the
the motlon-whether the discussion whlch verge a! civilization, as we have la many
bas proceeded on the motion bas not been instances said, welcome Red mian ta our
rather a desire ta whip the goverament or civilization, ta aur public schools, ta aur
saine member of thé goverament, over the high schools, ta aur universities and ta thie
shoulders, or over the heads o! the unfar- blessings a! aur nlneteenth-century civilizaIf that is the ob- tion, and shall we not leara a great lesson
tunate Daukbobors.
ject-whicb I do not share at ail-I froin that circuinstance, and say ta the dawn
think the time might be more prafitably trodden and oppressedl a! ail nations, ln Canaccupied. I do not say that it is the abject. ada there la an asylum where men can find
It appears to me, frein some of the remarks, civil and religions liberty-where they can
that it was capable of such a construction. wark out their social and religious regeneraI was reininded, however, o! a passage in tion. la peace, none seeking ar daring ta make
my early classical reading, where thie bis- thein afraid. 1 knaw that a great cry was
toriaai o! an early nation, that seemed ta made mare than twenty-1ive years ago-I
be opposed ta thie Introduction of outsiders happened ta be la thie House a! Gommons
Into tbeir country, said thie gaverament o! at that time-under thie administration of
the country ' made a solitude and called the bate Alex. Mackenzie, when the MennoIt peace.' Now, here we could act upan nites were brought in. Some hon. gentlethat shart-slghted principle, and although men saw, with feelings a! terror, that they
we would nat be a solitude, are we wçere a ciass a! people whose faith did nat
ta rernaln stationary and ealU Jiat peace allaw thein ta light. They feared aur Instiand w-ise goverament ? I have not much tutians would be destroyed, but It was shown,
sympathy with the views a! those wha and eatis!actorily shown, ta the Hause at
express theinselves as fearful o! thie resuits the turne that they were -people o! excellent
o! these Doukbobors upon thie moreia and moral character, aitbaugh holding peculiar
ciçilizatian of* this Domdulon. I have more views an the question a! war, and that they
faith ln the stability and ia the vitalîty and were a thrifty and Industriaus people, and
I i the virtue of aur Institutions than to sa strongby was the Hanse o! Gaminons consuppose that tbey would suifer ta any vInced o! that, that I think we vated $100,considerable extent by thie presence o! those 000 to asaist theni ta settle la tRis country.
who do not share aur views. I look upon It Subsequent events have shown that no misas an excellent opportunity, however, for taire was made la that vote, and I wish ta
us ta educate these people, and If they, say here and now that I neyer gave a vote
fiain aur sta.ndpoint, are ln darkness, let in my 11f e with which I was better satisfied
us lead thern inta thie Ilght of day by edu- than the vote I gave ta assist those thri!ty,
laws, 1 amn quite sure that after one, or twa
or three generations'-at the most, we will
find ad11
those caming here to settle a goad
peaceable and désirable population.

160

[SENATE]

,industrious, moral and religions people to we shal nlot lose our reward for that work.
settie ln the Nortb-west and 1 arn dellght- 1 could nlot allow the debate to drop wlthout
ed to hear the testimony thiat bas expressing myseif briefly, and I shouid be
been given as to tbelr character to- amply rewarded If I have said anytblng on
day. I have as great a horror as any this occasion that will have a place ln your
iman can have of some of the vlews memory on this question of immigration. 1
held by the Doukhobors, but n'y advice Is belleve the motives of the MinIster of the
nlot to send tbem out of the country, but to Interior were good la bringing these men,
keep themn in the country and let every man and I bellev-e he conferred a boon on Canunderstand that, so long as he enJoys the ada whien he brouglit ln, nlot only the Gaiblessings of civil and religious liberty, in clans, but the Mennonites and Doukhobors,
Canada, whlch are unsurpassed In any other because they can be made loyal and patriecountry, he must conform strlctly to the laws tic cîtizens. Be It ours to see tbat that reof the country, and we must set ourselves suit is brouglit about. I hope tbe discussion
to work to educate those people, and convert of to-day wiIl not dîshearten the poor Douktbem from the error of their ways, and to hobors in the west, but that tbey wIll see
show thein that we bave the best Institu- that here, at the capital of this Dominion,
tions, the best code of morals, and the best tbey bave friends wbo appreclate la their
forms of religions falth, and la that way character whatever is good, and they aise
tbey will be better able te work out their have men bere who will see that tbey obey
social regeneration than under any other the laws of the country so long as we afford
government la the ivorid. I feel, that uni- them the great biessings of our free institiulntentionaily perhaps, an Injustice bas been tion.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It will be rememberdoue to the Doukhobors, but I was giad to
hear my hon. frlend (Hon. Mr. W'atson) ed that I said bere last year, wben my colbear sncb strong testl-mony la their leagne was speaklng rather dIsparaglngly of
faveur. Do nlot let ns tbink of driv-, the Doukhobors, that I entertained an oppoing them away. I would -not tbinkl,,ite Opinion of them. On that occasion xny
very mucli of our Canadian Institutions, of Iopinion was based on bearsay, from wbat 1
thuglt ad heard people saying of the Doukhobors.
f oi'
ourcivhiztioi, awsif
those few Doukhobors were going to upset 1 do nlot hesitate to say that up to last fali
them. Instead of them doing great harm to, , bad beard the Galicians represeuted as a
us, let us do great good to thera. That Is cut-throat class of people, and every one
my doctrine. What this country wants Is spoke of the Donkbobors In the bigbest
more people-more good, religions, moral terms as a moral, law-abiding, civil people.
edncated people, I grant yon, but we cannot Last faîl 1 bsd occasion to be la the district
always bring the flower of Europe bere. But wbere the two peoples reside, and 1 say now
we can pick men up that bave not the ad- that I neyer heard one person say a word
They are on their
vantages that we possess, and Invite them against the Galicians.
to our civilization and make tbem better land. Eacb bas bis quarter section settled
men and better citizens, and la doing that aIl over the country, and wberever 1 beard
we will be performing a bigli and noble duty a report of the Galîcian It was that he
la our day and generation. Our wealth does would make a good settler-that lie was getnlot consist merely la onr mines, our forests, ting along fairly weli for a poor man. On
our rIvers and our agriculture. The greatest the other hand, I neyer heard one person
weaith we bave la the Dominion to-day 1s say a single good word for the Doukbobors.
the fact that we bave about six millions Of The thing was entirely cbauged upside down
loyal, patriotic, bigh-toned, earnest, iaw- from wbat 1 bad beard before. The arguThat is tbe grandest ment bas been advanced bere to-day ln supabiding Canadians.
siglit for me that I can see la this counltry, port of the Doukbobors that tbey compare
and 1 hope the discussion to-day will give -,itb the Mennonites. 1 can tell the goverfian Impetus to lntroducing more people like lhent, and I hope they will be gulded by
the Mennonites. I do not at ail despair that what I say, the Mennonites were settled la
*
we shall make the Doukhobors a good class one of the finest sections of the whole of the
o f citizens. If so, all bonour to tbem, and western country. Tbey conld bnild a village
Hon. Mr. KERR,

[MARCU 26, 1901]

161

in the centre of a reservation of 22,000 would make poor farms for many of them,
acres, and plougli the *whoie 22,000 acres, but they could ralse a small number of
and it was soon to be handy te a railroad cattie, and they would do mucli better thait
and they could grow wheat and -do first rate, by living in villages. You cannot haul hay
But the Doukhobors are settled up forty to feed your cattle a long distance.
The
miles from a railroad in a country flot ranchmen say, We have to go back ten or
adapted to raising grain. I have been there,fIlfteen miles from the Doukhobors to get
anid have seen twe or three of their villages
and we, cannet do that. We have to
as they caîl them. It is a stock coulntry. leave the place that we have been In for
Yorkton is flot a grain-growing district. The, a number of years, and where we were
great country te the north of It, Up te the waltlng te get the benefit of the buildings
Saskatchewan, is a grass-growing and graz- we bult. Now, we are deprived of that
lng country. Those people do net pretend because when the Doukhobors Came In, they
te raise grain ; tlxey do flot raise enougli for said: 'Yeu are hirlng us this' year, we wli
their own herses ; they buy what they want, 1:hire you next year.' Some men were berbut they go into cattie raising, and from: derlng on lInsanity from the way they were
Yorkton last year were shlpped nearly $300,-: treated. That le a large country. 1 would
000 worth of cattle frein ene station alene. separate those people ; do net put themin
I saw hundreds of those cattle there that clusters. A man cannot haul wheat fifteen
brought $47 apiece for three-year-olds. The miles te market aud make It pay, and you
finest cattle in that country were shlpped cannot milse cattle In large numbers on a
frein that station. Ail the cattie men were smaîl area of land. If you do net scatter
six or seven miles apart. It takes a large those people It means starvatien, unless
area te gmaze an animal, and every stock they continue te lîve on vegetables, and they
man that was raising cattie there con- neyer. can make the success that the ]%endemned the Doukhobors in unmeasured nonites did. The Mennonites had chances
terius.
these people neyer will have. The railway
Is going north of thein is a hundred
Hon.Mr.'.,\ILL-Rea, har.that
miles frein them. It will be a long time
Hon.Mr.MILS-Her, ear
Hon. Mr. PEltLEY-They condemned thei before a rallway reaches them, se that they
because they tool. a section of the hay can grow wheat. There Is ne agitation fer
lands, and elther one or the other would the Manitoba and North-western Raliway
have te move. These men cannot live on ln te-day te be constructed beyond Yorkten,
villages and go into stock-raislng.
One because the country Is net adapted to
village I was nt had eighteen or twenty wheat ralslng. There are patches here and
houses, and about 150 of a population. They there sultable, but lt Is net lke the central
had about fifty or slxty acres pleughed. part of the Territorles. It Is a stock-ralslng
The Doukhobors are vegetarians, and live country, and yeu cannet ralse stock succheaply, and they cannot raise any number cessfully by settllng It ln clusters.
AU
of cattle, because the country ls flot ail hay the steckmen are scattered, and they go
land. There is a slough here and a slough out and gather the hay, and feed cattle
there, and the cattle have te be hierded te tlirough the wiiîter. 1 do flot know where
keep thein eut of the sloughs, and If you the hon, gentleman froin Portage la
have these people living together, they can- Prairie got hie Information, but I neyer
net make cattle-raislng a paylng business. heard of the Doukhebors speken of as a
That le vastly different frein the Mennonites, moral people. They are spoken of as Imwho live in a wheat-growlng country, the moral. They are spoken of as obacene and
best lu Manitoba, and they could Ilve la Immoral. I have been told by people lIn
villages, but the Doukhobers can neyer Yorkton that they are afrald te take thelr
make any greater progress than they are women out In the evenlng because of the
making te-day, and it le Impossible te ralse lmmorallty of the Doukhobers. They are
wheat because they are fifty or sixty miles net a people yoil would like te have for
froin a railway.
I know It teek me ail nelghbours. 1 would ask any hon. member
day te drive te White Sand, If you put If he had a farm In the North-west, say
these men on quarter sections, even that anywhere from Winnipeg te the Rock-y
il

jhay,

162

[SENATE]

Mountains, wbere you find a hlgb civlliza- tell the bon. gentleman wbnat my viewsare
tion, bow hie would like to have a farm! on thîs matter. I do flot want any limithree miles out from the town, wltb a grants to biold anti-Obiristian and antiDoukbobor at one corner of It and a Gai- social doctrines. We are flot dlscusslng the
Ician at -another ? I w-ould flot taire a Doukbiobors indivldually. This gentleman,
farm as a gift under such clrcumstances. or that gentleman, taklng the Doukhobors
It le absurd to talk of educating tbem Up. indlvldualiy, may be moral, but we are disNo bon, gentleman would like to have bis cusslng their doctrines, and I say that these
children assoclate wlth tbem. It will be people hoid doctrines that are anti-Chrisbetter to scatter them in their own districts tian and anti-social.
and not keep them ln villages. It would b.,
to the advaiitage of the people tbemnselves, *Hon. Mr. MILLS-Hear, hear.
as well as to the goverulment. They could
Hon. Mr. BERNIEII-I s.dy such immigrow wbcat wben settled ln clusters, but grants shonid riot be encouraged to come to
flot cattie. 1 have to go two miles on my tbis country. Instead of assimilating to our
own farm. The Doukhobors would flot people-instead of conforming to our laws,
have to go furtber than that ln tbe wbeat tbey wili corrupt our people, and after a
district. We bave the best unsettled land tîme you will find a large proportion of our
on the continent. Why flot go slow, and population wlll bold tbe same views as
get In a good class of people wbo wlll hieip tbey do.
'Me should not give our adbeto develop the country, rather thani a class sion to anythimg of the kind. We hiave
of people who are flot adapted to a.-ricul- 1very near to us an immense field for immiture. 1 amn sorry to say that tbe govern-, lýration. M-bv not go to the United States
ment agents tbere are not the people to and bring in Frencb and Eniglish settiers
teacb the Doukhobors anything. I saw a from there ? if we offered haif the innumber of Doukbhobors ; they bad l3ought ducements that we give to those who are
the worst class of four. They bad cattie. the object of this debate, v-e would have a
I neyer saw cattie harnessed like theirs. large immigration from the United States,
Tbey bad a piece of wood across tbelr neck and would soon fill up the North-west with
on top and anothier underneatb. Tbe gov- tbe very best immigrants we could find. I
erument agent tbat would permit sncb a Imust take exception to anotber idea wbich
tblng should be discbarged. 1 do flot see bas been expressed bere. Some bon, genbow oxen could work witb such appliances tlemen bave thouglit proper to impute poliat ail. I undertook to explaîn to two or tical motives to me. I strongiy deprecate
three of tbem how to do It, but tbey could such an idea. Tbis is a question of vital
flot understand me. The agents the govern- importance, yet any one daring to rise
ment have are flot the rlght kind of mea. in bis place bere to speak on this matIf tbey bad men wbo could show the people ter, from a social point of view, is
wbat to do, there mlgbt be some use in it, accused of a desire to make a political capibut the Doukbobors are keeping ln tbe old tal. I said expressly that 1 did raise that
ways tbat tbey brought from Europe witb question outside of aIl political considerathem. I am told that the Doukbobors are tions, and I tbink tbat the government
good labourers on a rallway, but tbey would sbould be giad tbat sucb a question should
neyer make a success In farmlng the way be discussed bere in a fair way. The hon.
the goverament bave them settled ln colo- gentleman from Marquette, wbom I do
nies. It would be far better to give eacb not see ln bis seat, bas read us a report of
one a quarter section for bimself.
one Mr. Reid, ani, I must remnark, la passHon. Mr. BERNIER-I regret deeply tuie ing, tbat bie bas prefaced his remarks in a
way tbe bon. Miaister of Justice bas mis- very courteous way by saying that we did
represented my views. He said that my flot know wbat we were talking about.
vlews were that tbe doors of Canada sbould That may be, but the bon, gentleman wili
be closed to any immigrant wbo does not have to extend bis remarks to outsiders,
have tbe saine creed as I bave. I neyer because I have la my band an answer to the
sald one word to tbat effect-not one word report of Nlr. Reid. and with the permission
that could justify sncb a statement. I will of the House, I wýill rend lb. You will find
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

[MAI{CH 21i, 1901]
Bill (86) 'An Act respecting the Great
it in the Gazette of 31arch 21 of this year.
North-west Central Railway Company!'It reads as follows:
1The Gazette's report of the Rev. Mr. Reld's (Hon. 31r. Wood, W'estmoreland.)
lecture on the Doukhobors wIll malte funny
Bill (42) ' An Act respecting the Klondike
reading in Manitoba and the west.' remarked
a gentleman froin Winipeg to, a representative Mines Rallway Comupany.'-(Hon. Mr. Kirch*'The Rev. Mr. Reid hoffer).
of this paper yesterday.
must be sadly mjsinformed as to the actual
facts. o.r hie could at possibly have contrasted
Bill (48) 'An Act respecting the Edmonthe Douks, as they are commonly called out ton, Yukzon and Pacifie Rallway Company.'
there. with the Galiclans s0 favourably to the
The fact is that the Galicians are --(Hon. '-\r. Landerkin.)
former.
looked upon as far the better of the two races.
The Senate adjouraed.
The men are good workers, adopt what they
think are civilized habits, want to learn the

English language. drink a littie whisky now and
then, and geuerally try to conduct themselves
They send their childreýn
as Anglo-Saxons.
to school, and endeavour to bring tbem up la
They obey
THE SENATE.
the ways of their adopted country.
our laws about as well as the average Canadian
does, and are not eternally making trouble like
Ottawa, Wcediicsdo(y, March 27, 1901.
the IJouks are.
'Mr. Reid forgot to tell the people of Montreal
The SPEA KER toolz the Chair at Three
that the Douks are inveterate grumblers, that
to-day they have a petition to the nations of the o'clock.
world to lie relieved from tbe tyranny of Canadian lawe, wbicb they consider are too oppresPrayers and routine proceedings.
They do not want to submit
sive for thern.
to our marriage laws; they don't believe 'tbat a
civil or any o"her ceremany is aecessary to INDEPENDENT OItI)ER 0F FORESTconstitute a marriage, and tbey %vaut a shorter
ERS BILL.
mneans of divorce than our Canadian laws permit
They have a divorce law o! their own, of
of.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
They refuse to pay
the free and easy kind.

the legal fee for a license to xnarry, holding it
They object *to the holding
is a sin to do so.
.of land individually, and demaad tbat it shahl
They also object
lie held by tbe communlty.
and deaths, and
to the registration o! bihs
for these ressons ask tbe Dominion government
from the ordinary laws reto exempt tbem
garding tbe use of lande, the legality of mar-

rnages and registration, and wbich the governIn consequence
ment very properly refused.
of thia prompt refusai tbey are appeallng to
sonie other Christian natian for sbelter. They
are not an eclucated people, and the men are
not, as 1 have mentioned, as good workers as
the Galicians. Tbey are fanatical in their religious bliee! and whle no one wants to Interfere with their creed, every loyal Canadian demande a compliance and a submission to, the
laws of the land.
If you were to ask those wbo have come In
contact with the two peoples, as many in the
west have doue, tbey will tell you a far different
story thian Mr. Reid gave to you Montrealers.
They wvon't eay that the Galician je the most
desirable immigrant in the world, but tbey will
assert very forcibly that one Galicien le 'worth
a dozen Doukhobors, and that there le some
hope o! thie future generations of the former In
Canada, but none of the latter. The Douk will
alwaye remain as lie is, a narrow-minded, ignorant fanatic, unwilling to adapt hlmself to new
conditions-the very Izind a gr owing, progressive
and enllghtened country does not want.'
The motion w-as agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (35) ' An Act respecting the 'Mather
Bridge and Power Company.'--(Hon. Mr.
Joues.)

Hon. 'Mr. DRUMMOND, from the Coinmittee on Bauking and Commerce, reported
Bill (6) 'Anl Act respectîag-- the Supreme
Court of the Independent Orders of Foresters,' witla amndments.
He said : These ameadments are -unimportant, and, I believe, 'were accepted by
the promoters, and unanimously adopted by
the committee. The preamble stated as a
matter of fact that ail debts were pald
and obligation s fulfilled wlien the present
organization took over the provincial corporations. We thought It better to have It
appear la the preamble that such was
stated on the authorlty of the petitioners.
Clause No. 6 was certainly ambiguous. It
chaaged the amount to be lnvested, under
oue heading, by one organization, the
Supreme Court, to $30,000 a year. where It
had previously stood at $350,000, as a capital sum-which we consented to-but it was
obscure, inasmuch as it seemed to apply
the sanie rule to the other investments by
the branches, which was not, 1 believe,
the Intention of the petitioners, and cousequently we simply put in words -whlch
would make it clear that the Intention was
definltely fixed, lu regard to those branches,
that It should be. a capital suni.

[SENATE]

164

Hon. Mr. KERR moved that the amend- or person who advised Mr. Field's dismissal
ever at the post office ? And further, did any
ments be concurred in.
number of those served by the said post office
petition against the dismissal of Mr. Field T
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The acting Postmaster
General told me that lie had not this
to
Bill (24) 'Au Act respecting the South information ready, and so I am unable
it to-day.
Ontario Pacifie Railway Company.'-(Hon. present
Mr. Wood, Westmoreland.)
DISMISSAL OF CHARLES TAYLOR.
SECOND READING.
INQUIRY.
Bill (G) ' An Act respecting the Demise
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired-:
'MIr Mills)
(H
'-(oln
,
f
-0 *t.
THIRD

o

e

.

ro

READING.

.

.

.

On whose recommendation was Charles Taylor
dismissed from the caretakership of the Wolesley court-house in the North-west Territorles,
and what was the cause of complaint against
Mr. Taylor that led to his dismissal ? Also,
how many applicants were there for the posiand for their respective names, and the
Ftion,
name of the person appointed, and who specially

The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
ttowa, i'nursday, M

recommended him ?

cit z

1.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-The reply sent me by
the Minister of Public Works is the following:
Mr. Charles -Taylor will be replaced as caretaker by Mr. Wm. Hare on April 1. The Min-'
ister of Public Work* assumes all respons.bility
for the change.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
Bill (H) 'An Act respecting the Dawson
the dismissal ?
Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Mac- lie give any reason for
City Electrie
donald, B.C.)
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No. I have just receivBill (14) 'An Act to incorporate the Cen- ed this note.
tury Life Insurance Company.'-(Hon. Sir
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I do
Mackenzie Bowell, In the absence of Hon.
not find fault with the bon. gentleman's
?Jr. Cleniow.)
answer, but it

is scarcely courteous to the

Bl(6) 1An Act to Incorporate the United
Empire Life Insurance Company.'-(Hon.
Mr. Watson.)

Senate. The hon. gentleman from Wolesley
asked for the cause of his removal, and the
reply is 'I assume the responsibility.' I do
Bill (I) 'An Act to incorporate the Alaska not think that is courteous. Either the man
and North-western Railway Company.'- dismissed is too old for the position, or in(Hon. M\r. MeKean.)
efficient, or has misconducted himself in
some way. The country is entitled to the
DISMISSAL

OF POSTMASTER
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired:

FIELD. information.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do not dispute that,
I take It that Mr. Taylor bas not been dismissed, but that lie will retire, and Mr.

On whose recommendation was E. Field dis- Hare will take bis place on the 1st of April.
missed from the postmastership of Fishing Lake I have given the Information that has been
post office ? Also what was the cause of complaint against Mr. Field, and was the person furnished me.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND.

[MARCH 28, 1901]
price 0f sugar 'was the reduction in the
duties, aîîd the interest on profit that would
bave been charged by the Importer and retail dealer on the sugar s0 Imported. Now,
I apprebiend that tbere is no difference of
opinion as to wbat the doctrines of political,
economiy are on thîs subi ect. 1 amn not considering the question wbetber it is wise or
unwise to encourage furtber manufacture
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do nlot know tbat in tbe country by tbe imposition of bigba
the hon. gentleman can dlaim the right to protective duties, but I take It for granted
know w-ho maltes the complaint In such a it is admitted that the reduction of tbe tax
case, but hie can certainiy dlaim to know reduces the price of the article that is lithe reason for the disinissal. I shial malte ported by the amount of the tax, and the
further inquiry and give the Information amnount of profits that the importer will
to w-hich, uncler our systein of goverument, charge upon the duty, as well as upon the
original prîce of tbe article. Thiere is no
the lion. gentleman is entitled.
doubt that if you charge a certain suai as
the price of an article, and you impose a
THE PREFERENTIAL TARIFF.
tax for the purpose of preventing the arINQUIRY.
ticle coming lu, that the party w-ho imports
It in estimating- bis profits includes the tax
lion. M.PERLEÏ rose to
in the price wbicb the article has cost bina,
Ask the governiment to enumerate some of the and bie estimates his profit or percentage,
articles that have been reduced in cost to the
low, upon the
farmners, mechanies and labourers of Canada in whatever It may be, high or
consequence of the preferential tariff with Eng- duty as w-ell as upon the original price.
land ?
Now, the Information which Is piaced ln my
He said :I arn inspired to aslt this ques- bands is this:

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
saine course was pursued precisely-in tbe
citr in which I live. The caretaker of a
publie building was notified that bis services
would nlot be required after a certain date.
No reason was assigned for bis dismissal,
and no statement was made as to wbo compiained.

eleetion cam- The government of Canada cannot regulate
in Great
paigun, 1 attended two or three meetings, and 1or control the price of goods as soid
goverament IBritain. or any other country, for expert te
heard tbis question asked of the
but it cau regulate and control the
candidate, and neither the candidate, nor! Canada, of Irnport, tax requlred to be pald on
amount
effect of the prethe mierchants and others present, couldf ive such goods in Canada. The
ferential tariff is to reduce substantally the
a reply, and I L-now the information would
on all classes of *dutiable goods, except
ccetabe
be vry tothepubic.duty
spirits and tobacco, lmported frein Great
e th
be vry aceptblepubie.wines,
tion because, in the recent

to an- ýBian
Honi. Mr. M-NILLS-I will undertalte
at one time miay be scarce and
swer the hon. gentleman's inquiry, and If 1 The article
says our bigba, andi at another trne it inay be abunddo that for bina, I w-ill do what bie

but ivbether it is cheap, or
friends in bis constituency were not able to ant and cheap,
is a bigh duty imposed upon
accomnplisb. 1 amn rathier surprised at that dear, if tbere
is added to the price, and the
statemient, because I remember nlot many It, that duty
in tbe importer, if bie is to continue in business,
years ago that the Finance Minister
bis profits on the entire cost
other House proposed a reduction on tbe must estimate
whien these goods w-cnt on bis
sugar duties, and hie went on and statefi to hlm,
or into bis store. Let mie give, for
the amiount of taxation f rom w'hich the ishelves
o! the lion, gentleman w-ho
people would be relieved in consequence of the information
would bie en- puts the question, somie figures to illustrate
thic low-cr rate at wbich tbey
abled to receive sugar. His contention on the reductiofi.
that occasion was, that the reduction of tbe taken:

The followiflg itemns may be

[SES AIE]

Rate uiider Tariff of 1891;.

bc. pler lb. and 25 lier cent, equivalent to 39 per cent. .
.. ......
.......
Blarkets ............
Tweed.. ..........
.... ..............
,
:132 ,23,
Flannel8 .,..
. .. . .. .,
. .
33
.,23A
Socksi and stockings of woul and cotton. 11c."per doz. pairs andl iller cent.............
Undershirts and drawers..............3à p.-r cent ................
.........
............
Ready-niadeclothing .........
........
c. per lb. and 30 per cent, equivalent téi 34 per cent
White or bleached cottoin fabrics... 25 percent .............
... .......
........
..........
Grey unble.1cled cotton fahrics
.
-2
Il.
-.....
...... ...................
Fabrics printed, dyed or colotured ....
..........
...................
................
Sewing tliread on spools...
. .
25
l
.....
.
.
.....
Cotton hosiery..... ............
... 135...............
.......................
Cottoni clothing ...... ...............
32L............
.............
......
..........
Collais ........
.. ...........
.....
21c. per doy.. and 25 lier cent .... ... ..............
.....
Ghn'es; andmiitta...... ..............
35 r)ercent .........
........................
Hats an(] caps ......................
130.......................
...................
.......
WVjndow glas.........
......
.. *20
...
....
.
Granite and iron stonewvare .........
3
.
.
.
.
..
.
.
Table cutlery .............
............
2.........
Iluilders' and cabinetinakers' hardware. 3*2.ý
..
.
35
....
.......
Files and rasis.. ....................
Locks ....................
.. ........ 132 *, I « -*C
'
..*
ý
Spades and shove]s ................
5I
i r doz. and 25er cent, equivalent n>3. ;r.n

Preferential
Tariff rate.

1cet

23zi
23ý'
2qi
1b

~......

'231
6

231
3
23j
.

20
0

2'

Very many other itemns could be given); transit. Now, the duties iiîuposed on the
the aliove are only illustrative. It will be articles are additions to the regular price

obvions to every one that the great redue-, made in the way of transit charges, and ia
tion in the rates of duty must benefit the .tlieir
effect, tliey do not at ail differ from an
Canadian consumer.
Iaddition of thiat sort made at the place of
mnanufacture. If you were to add the duties
Hon. Sir M-\ACKENZIE BOWýýELL-HoW 1 we charge upon the article te thc original
does the hon. gentleman arrive lit these price, and you were to import the article
figures ? Is it by the repeal of specific duties free, ven Nvould pay exactly the samie price
and the reduction of duties by 33à per cent. that yen do pny witli the duty added on the
w-ny. There can be no difference, and my
i
«-ly
Hou.
'ýNILLSPrecseI.
Hon.~~~~~~
IL-rcsey
y hn lion. friend will see, froin the rates of duty
friend will sec thiat there is a reduction of ç%hicll I have mentioned, that ail these
taxation of j in respect to ail these articles, 1articles which atre lmported from the mother
and there is n corresponding reductien in 1country bave been sulistantially reduced in
price to the consumers in this country, in their price to the consumer.
Tliey have
addition te wliatever percentage of profit come inte this country in larger quantities
wças charged upon the duty as a part of the la consequence, and if tliey have flot come
price. se, that my hon. friend will see that In se Iargely as seme anticipated, It is bethe amount of saving is very considerable, cause the United States cempetiters have
and what that amount may lie will depenid cut the price of their article te the estent
altogether upon the additional profit that the, of the 33?t per cent ctut, la order that they
Importer chooses te charge upou the article. may ente'r the Canadinui market on equal
Say, If it were 50 per cent, hie would add terms with the Eng-lsh manufacturers.
baif Élis ameount to the duty saved, and the
saving on the price. ind se with regard te L lI-on. Sir M-NACKE-NZIE BOWELL-This
every one of the articles here mentioned. 1is net the time te enter into a philosophical
Tliere can be ne doulit-bea. gentlemen 1 Sdiscussion on pelitical economy, and 1 only
think will admit-that tlic lower an article is rise te point eut that the lion, gentleman in
in price in the general market in whichi it is bis statement bas net stated ail the facts
seld, the lewer the price at whbich it may lie 1governing the tariff. la tlie first place. hie
furaislied te the consumer, if there is ne sliould have teld the House that the gevaddition te the price made in the way of 1eramnent rnised the duty uponi many articles
Hon. Mr. MILLIS.

[MAnciL 2S, 1901]
frein 25 to 30, and 35 per cent, and then
dedncted first 124 per cent for eue year.
which left the protective duty of the Conservative government much higher than it
had been under the old tariff. The next
year they reduced it 25 per cent, Ieavlng It
stili a higber duty on those articles on whicb
tbey had raised the tariff than it was under
the tariff of the late adiihinistration. The
33à per cent reduction only applies te the
rate of duty imposed since the change of
governiment :that fact sbould have been explained in order to put the whole truth and
the facts before the House. 1 take exception
also te, the statement made by the hon, gentleman in reference te his ideas of the
doctrines of political econemy. It is altogether too prolIflc n subject to enter into,
just now. Hnd the hon, gentleman snid
thiat the principles of political economy were
theoretically sucli as bie presented tbem to,
the Huse, lie wvould have lef t the limpression on those wlio paid any attention to the
question tlîat Lis theory was right. The practical effeet of political economy is .-Overned in
a great mieasiire by the situation in wblcb
the country is placedl w'ith regard to another,
and if timie permitted 1 tliink 1 could convince this bouse, and e'-eun y lion. friend
bimself, aithougli bie is an advanced political economist, thiat the placing of an article on the free list iii this country bas
soinetimes raised the price of it, fromn the
fact of the 1-iited Stagtes getting- control
making- this
of the Canadian markets. Iniii
a free ira de country for any article wvhich
is largely nianufactured in the United
States, you place Canada la the position of
a State of the Union, and it is onIl- a question of tue cest of transportation that governs the price of the article in our market.
And if there bie a manufacturer in tlue
United States control]ing the article,h
be an
raise the price in Canada just as highi as
bie pleases. He places it exactly te the consumiier iii Canada, as lie places it te the consumer in the State in whicb it is manuifactured, frein the fact that, haviiig ne duty
te pay liere. liaving only the transportation
to coîisiî1er. and having the iiiopoly and
centre] of tlîis market. as of lis own, hie
can charge just wbat bie pleases for It as bie
does in bis own country. Hewever, that is
a subject tbat 1 de net propose te enter Into
beyond peiating eut te the bon, gentleman

161

tlîat bie is scarcely fair in bis ianner of
presenting bis case te the House in reference te the î'eduction of tbe tariff. I simply
enter my pretest against the theery he laid
down ns te, the practical werking of pelitical economy. Me knew that prices are geverned ln a great mensure te tbe consumer
by thue prices whicli the manufacturer bas
te pay fer the raw material. At the present
time sugar is dearer than it bas been
for years past. That mnay arise from many
causes. It is on]y one article te wbich 1
cail the bon. -entleinau's attention. I de net
wisb it te be understoed tbat I acquiesce,
eitber prnctically our tlîeoretically, in tue doctrines laid dewn by the bon. gentleman.
Pelitical economy is ail very well in tbeery,
but wben yeu ceme te, reduce it te practice,
like maîîy other things, it w'ill net hold water.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOX-This openls up a
very wide field, but n-e hiave neot the time.
and I suppose wcv have net tue inclination
te enter fully inte it. I want te poinît eut
one consideratien i-hidli tue lion. minister
wbeolly ignored in bis argument, and in is
list of articles submitted te the LIeuse. He
referred te the reduction of the duty on
sugar under the late administration, and
stated that the tiien Minister of Finance
elaimed thiat tbat reduction nieant a decrease of taxation te tue extent of tlîe roduction of tue duties. My lien. lriend, in
applying that principle te tbe preferential
tariff, entirely ignered the consideratien tlîat
the reductien of the duties on sugar was a
general reductien whîicb applied te aIl countries, whereas the reduction in the tariff
nom- applies te enly one country. The hion.
gentleman ig-nored the fact tbat in a great
many Instances, under the preference, Britisli maîiufacturers are able te keep np their
prices te the level of foreigu prices, andl
reap tbe advantage of tue difference iii
duty, and that it dees net. in many cases.
result in a reduction of the price te the consumer ln Canada.
Hon. Mr. Mý%ILLS-I wisbi te correct a misapprehiension. Tbe bon, gentleman 'opposite
spoke of a reduction before the pi-eference
was given. I referred, net te tbe price of
these articles aftêr tbe present government
came lnte office, but under the tarif! as it
existed before the change. and cempared it
with the present rate after tbe f3l per cent

[SEN2,ATE]

168

i'etuction. So it -as a comiparison of the,: flon. Mr. MILLS-I did niot refer to, it at
tariff as it stood when rny hon. friend's 1ail.
govrmn retired frorn office. with the
Ho.Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thie
tariff as it exists to-day.
question is as to the calculation of the
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL--The amounit of reduction.
explanation wvould be quite admissible, if'
RAILWAYS TO THE YUKON.
the calculation were correct. Take the article of carpets, for instance. Carpets werel Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the adjournment
25 per cent under the old tariff. Talce the 0 f the House.
j from 35 per cent, to whîch the bon. genHon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Will1 'the
teHue
iiteofuscenor
tleman's party raised it, and you have23,hn
nointeIos
fJstc
inse
so that you have only 1â per cent reduct3on
of the governmient Is wlth
on the tariff as it exited when the present wblat the pli
That is not regard to railways to the Yukon ? The last
government came into power.
the way the hion. gentleman put It. The t-wo, sessions they have biocked charters
calculation wbich lie made was this :the for railways to that country. There are
duty on the article was 35i per cent ; they Bis before the House, for projected railreduced it one-third, whicb made It 23à, w'ays la that territory, and there is no use
showing a difference of 11* per cent. Now, la g-oing on Nvith them if the sarne policy
the correct w-ay of ascertaining the exact iprevails stili.
lion. Mr. MLLLS-L amrn ot prepared to
arnount of the reduction is to make the calculation uponi the 25 per ceint in the tariff answer the question to-day.
of the former govertnment, and yon have a
DELAYED RETURNS.
reduction of enly la pet' cent instead of 111
per cent.
Hion. SIr MACKENZIE BOWELL-i_\Ight
didnetmenton ar-I asit the Secretary of State whenl I May exlion Mr MILS~pets in my list.
Ipect the papers for which 1 asked respecting
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-But I the Pacific Cable Telegraph?'
did as an examuie of bow the tariff worked.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I. arn Iiving them arHlon. '.\r. MIILLS-Tbe hon, gentleman,
should look at the question which was putwbat are the articles on w-hich the govera
ment claimed tliat there hias been a redue- I
tien la price. 1 took a large numiiber of articles.Thmoinwsare
McCALLUM Blankets partien-ý
lion. M-Nr.

ranged.- Mi'. Mulocit bad charge of tbern.
Theyv are la considerabie confusion, but I
hope te have tluem arraniged la a day or
two.
get
o
ie
oinwa
.
The Senate adJourned.

larly._______

Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-I teok a large nurnber
of articles under tue old tariff, and cornpared

them w'ith the prices under the present tariff
and 1 assumed the reduction of price was

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday, Mardi 29, 1901.

The SPEAKER took tlue Chair at Thrce
the difference between the two tariffs, withi
the percentage of profit on the difference In oeok
duty added.
Prayers and routine proceedinigs.
Hon.
Sir
MACKENZIE
BOW ELL-I
pointed ont that the bon. geûntleman did netý
inform the lieuse that they Ilad flî'st in-!

DOUXHOBOR I-MMIGRATION.
INQUIRY.

creased the tariff and then made the prefer-1 lon '-\I. BERNIER inquired:
ential reduction. and consequently bis cal-' 1. Ia what country were the ]Jeukhobors living
culations were niot correct, so fat' as the befere comlng into Canada?
2. W'nat were the inducernents made to thern
actuai resuit was concernied. I rnentioned so 'as to secure their immigration into Canada?
the article of carpets bFv wav of illustration, And by whom were these inducements made?
3. Has the government entered inte any conand that is only one of a great rnany tînt trac t wjth them. or with sornebody acting on
their behaîf, respectiug their immigration or
I could refer te.
Hou. Mr. MILLS.

[-MARCH 29, 1901]
And if so, what They are located in nortii-eastern Assiniboia
settiement in this country?
is the nature of such agreement?
and in the Saskatchewan district.
4. How many of them have coule to the coun5. The governmient lias set apart for the
try ? How many have settled in Canada ? Andi
where are they scttled ?
settlement of the Doukhobors in the terri5. Hac the govermunent set spart, for their ex anclusive settIement, any portion of the publice tories referred to In the last preceding
If so, what is the acreage of those swer, about 200,000 acres, in round nunibers.
lands?
lands, andl where are they sltuated?
6. The Doukhobors camne to this country
6. Under what conditions or circumstances
have the Doukhobors been introduced In this through the instrumentality of a number
country ?
of Quakers living In England who were lu7. Have they been granted in any shape or
terested ID thei, and who sent representasnd at any trne, sorne subsidie.« ?
t3rm,
S. What has been the cost of such Immigration, tives to Canada to Inspect the lands of the
Indicating how much per head and the total cost? North-west and interview the governiment
9. Are the Doukhobors to recoup the goverument of any outlay made on their account, or If with reference to the mo-renent.
any money advances made (if any made) tbo1 7. The only nîoneys paid to thg Donîthotheml ? And If so. in what way and when ?
10. Are or wiII the Doukhobors be exempt from bors are those which have been referreti to.
military service?
and an additional amounit which was re11. Has any promise heen moade te them. or
any agreement entered Into with them or with quired for soîne of the poorer settiers w-ille
some of their agents, hy the goverament, or they were located In the immiiigration halls.
somebody acting or alleging to act on behalf of
8. The cost to the departinent of the
If so. what
the governmeut of this couontry?
Doukhobors will amount lu aIl to not more
Is the nature of such promise or agreement?
than about $60,000. It is impossible to give
Hon. MNr. MILLS-The answers to the an exact statemient as at certain timies therle
hion. gentleman's questions are as follows
ivere othier immigrants occupying the li1. Many of thc Doukhobors lived ini the migration hialls and in somne cases smiall
Kasr district, some in the Caucasus in supplies wvere provide1 for themi and the
Southern Russia, and others in Cyprus.
moneys piid out of the general immigration
'. The advaiitag-es offerod( to the represen- expenditure of the., conmissioner at WViuuitations of the Doukhobors to induce themn peg.
to settle in Canada were (a) that each male,
9. The Doukhobors are expected to repay
over 18 years of age, and eaclh female, who ail morieys advaniced over and above the
would be eligible under the Dominion Lands bonuses to cover any additional supplies
Act, would be granted lîomestend entry for w-hîch they may have received, the amiounits
160 acres of land under the provisions of to be registered as liens against the lands.
the' Dominion Lands Act ;(b) that under
10. The Doukhobors îvill be exempt fromn
the provisions of tile samue Act they would service in the millitia uipon the production in
be allowed, if they so desired, to setile to- eachi case of a certificate of ilemibership
gether in a hamlet or village ; (c) that they froin the proper authorities of their comnwould bie exempt from military service un- j munlty.
der the provisions of subsection 3 of section
11. No promise lias been made to t1iemi.
21 of the MNilitia Act ;(d) thiat iustead of nor, bas any agreement been entered into
paying a bonus direct to steamislip agents, Iw-ith the Doukhobors, except as to military
the department would place to the credt service, by the goverament that would nor
of tbe Doukhobors Committee, to assist In be given to any persons w-ho maiy settle in
their maintenance, £1 per head for each per-- the North-west.
son ; te) that lu view of their arriving in the1
winter moniths immligrant halls and other i Honi. 'Mr. McCe(ALILUM-Tlils is the class
buildings w-ould bie provided for them. where of people on whiosc comiug to tlis country
necessary. These inducements were made %ve were congratulited lu the speech froml
by officers of the Dcpartmlent of the luiterior. 'the Throne. WhIat is the tfact to-day ? They
3. No contract on behaîf of the goveru- are exempt from takzing part !l tle defence
nient bas been entered into with these peo- of the country. I said the otiier day th-at
the licil.
pie, nor aur agreement made aside from they wvere spooni-fed. Froli vat
'Minister of Justice lias stateti to-day. it
those referred to in answer to No. 2.
4. The number w-ho arrived Ilu Canada is appears we hiave beeni keeping these people.
recorded as 7.427. ail of w-homl are settled and wve have the statemielt froml hlmi ili.h,
on lands w-ith the exception. of about 100. I reply to me. that if yon mlix themi with the

170

[SENATE]

Germans aud the Canadians., after two genlerations tbey would be suetisfactory settiers.
The allotted time of man is said to be three
score years and tell. Are we to wait 140
years before tbey w-i be of uny advantage
to this country ? Is that wbat 1 arn to understand ? The governmnent, througli His
Excellency, say that they are satisfactory
people for thîs country. They rnay be satîsfactory to the hon. 'Minister of Justice and
to the hon. Secretary of State, but thiey arenot satlsfactory f0 me, and will flot be
satisfactory to the people of tbis country.

sur to-day that the government of lis couni
try biave put language iii His Excellelicy*s
moutb, and use His Excelicncy tô tr anti
cover up their blunders l this mlatter. 1
arn informied tlîat tlîey used these people.
They took thern to the poils and recorded
their votes, ±hougbi they were Dlot entitled

to vote, because tbey were flot British subjects. They were driven there, and If 1 amn
correctly informed, poiled their votes. That
is rnaking use of them. I gay if the goverliment of this country would offer the
saine inducements to emigrants frorn Scot-

Myhu

red tili the soil, because ini 149) to these rlno
to
u
bs
epefltelno
people, we nlnta
would get plenty ol
hyddNorth-west
years their descendants rnuy make satis- them, and get loyal settlers, people wb-o. iii
factory settiers. He wvus taikzing about the case of trouble, wouid be ready to defeuci
Germans that could net taik Engllsh, and your country, flot people that wouid make il
the Highlanders that could not talk EngIisI, a condition that If trouble came they couid
and I went ou to show hlim that whether refuse to fighit or defend the coluntry-peo
they talked Euglishi or xiot. they were satis- pie who would say :'You rnust defend nie
factory settlers. I asked liiiî at the tirnie :and feed me with a spoon ln the meantime.
Mhut about the Frencli ?'-and I know My lion. frlend the Secretary of State found
W
thuit wben I speank I spealz loudly enougli to faut because 1 said they were spoon fed
he lieard ail ovei' the room-but my hon. and I thlnk the answers given by the 'Mini
friend did flot choose to anwrthut ques- ister of Justice to-day bear out imy assertion
tien. Wby did lie net ciass thein w-ith the 1 tbink I said enougli the other dau- on the
Frenchi, too ? Because lie tlîouglit it %vas question, but 1 liad «a perfect riglit t0 (Io se
net prudent te (Io so. It w-us net prudent hecause 1 considered rny people w~csiante ciass thein witli thut brave people. the dered by being coinpared wvitli theini. Trîev
Frencli. the men that at oue tine did geed p)ut rny people !i the saine boat wich thie
service te tlis country ut Ciîuteauuay. umi- refuse of Russia, because timey did net tail:
ail remnemider Genieral de Sliaberry. 110w lonmg is this Engiisli. Just think o: it !W)e
country golng te feed these Deukhbors with lwer tua t inceidlent at the selge of luki
a spooni after tlme3 coule te this country ? wlien the Highland pipers played 'The Camip1)ells are corning, the rebels are ruinniîg.'
Will ther de it fer 140 yefirs ? Tliat is whullt
1 wunt to knew. 'My bon. friend dii mnt an- Nobody lnquired then if the Highilanders
swer tlîat, and wlrdid lie net umswer it? ceuld speak Englisli. 1 say the goverilmenit
1 doient kmow. I do nef wisi te suv umîv- of this couintry lias îlot acted in tlie interflîimg linjust or unlgeucerons. I tîmnuglit tlien. ests of the people lu inducimig tbis class of
ammd 1 tlîimk mîow. thaf every inam's iiimd emigrants te corne to Canada, and the people
11e bafs a perfect right te of the country will hold therni responsibie
is a kingder.
thlnk what be likes as long as lie does not
thiiil tee loudir. 1 neyer timouglit loudir
ou this question, but 1 kept tbuiing,, anmd I
mur sury a w-ord or two leudîr on it now.
Wlmy did hie net ciass tbem witii the Frenchi?
Beciuse the ver existence of' lus party
and their position la fuis House aind iii the
oflier lieuse depends on French votesz. Ain
1 uncliaritable !l sua-ing tlîuf fliat is the
If fliat is un1just. tiien I 'as
reasomi ?
thinking ef whut was un1just. because thlat
is w-but I w-us tliinhkîua of. 1 tlîou2b-,t it
quietîr tuien, and thimmk it aloud now, nd I
Hon. Mr. MCLtM

for IL As for me, Individually, I fell them

I arn always ready f0 say wbat I think. of
their actions, ne matter whio filey arc. let
thein be so-called Refermeis or so-callekd
Conservutives. People w-lie kniow me klow
that I hiave ruised my veice iii this Ilus
venfet
against eveli the actions of the
whicbi I wus supporting-yes, against autiens which were net a drop lu flie biieket
cornpared with the actions of this gover iment. I will say ne more about tii matter, but wili let it drop new. I think I amn
ln order la making theste remarks. becue

['MARCH 29, 1901J

171

do flot increase, and
'the inquiry is s1iightly different fromn the s atisfying them, his wantscommercial value will
a .s bis wants increase bis condemning hlm, hie
question we had before us the other d&Y.
Before utterly
9 ~row.
,hould be given time to show what la ln hlm
Haon. 3fr. SCOTT-I amn sorry the hon. gen- rhat goes to the making of a good citizen.
He
and
tleman bas fornied an opinion first, witb- nsy pass through the Galician's experlence was
firat contumely alone
respect where
ont givlng thîs subject proper attention. 1 f,ain for hlm.
This continent bas had many
elt
Some may remember the
say the government were justifled la brlng- Mases of a like klnd.
it
lng the Doukhobors ; 1 approve of it, and phrase, 'No Irish need apply,' and what
neant.
bereafter, ln years to corne, the country
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Is that the report
wiil be thankful t0 the governiment for havof Mr. Reid ?
ln-- donc it
Hon. Mc. SCOTT-No, 1 ann reading the
Hon. 3fr. MeCALLUM-A hundred and editorial of the Gazette :I have the report
forty years fromn now.
of' MRLefl Nom% 1 la ini tiat theure va li
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, nor teîî yeîîrs from be no better authiority than a gent1liin
now. MNylion. friend hiad not information
whvlo liasý lîved two yc;îr. w !tît those p)eopi'ý.
lie spoke simply frontî prejudice.
I believe lie is a clergyman of the Presbywill not allowv terian Churcli, aud certalnly is better eiiMýcCALLU-I
Hon. 3fr.
the hon, gentleman to put me down as doing tltled to express ait opinion than gentlemen
anytliing of the kind. 1 toolc the language %lîo have nleyer seeni the' Il>nllnhrs .and
of the 'Minister of Justice. Hie says they wlîho :1 cept prejimlice'l a (iuvolits andi ha;ive
wvill malte satisfactory settlers i onue or two nothing but contempt for a race whiech, unfortuniately, bias flot been educated up to
gencratiolîs front novt%. That le lus view.
the standard of othiers, flot front auy fault
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A g-eneration noNvadays of their own, but because they have been
is ciilled twventy-five years, net seventy-flve k.ept uuder by the tyranny of Russia. M-Naliy
Long heforc' tîtat period the Douk- husbands and brothers of the Doukhobors
ycars.
liohors -iill have hecîi regarded as a very are now working iii the mines of Siberia,
valuiahie class of mueiî for the North-west. and that ouglit to create sympathy for tbei
1 suppose the M.Noitrc.il Gazette is a good ii a free land like Canada. aînd we ouglit
autliority on tlîe suhject. I pickcd up the to be gratified that thiese peole have licou
Gazette of yesterday ;attenîtioni was drawvn brought to a country wlîere there Is abýuudto the subject front the tact thiat this Chaiii- ance for them, and for ail w-ho choose to
ber liad beeni discussiîig the qilalities of the corne. They are a. sinaîl body as yet, ouly
Galicians as compared with the Doukho- eight thousand people.
Thnt country theF
bois. and the Montîcal Gazette, after dis- have gone inito is quite capable of supportcussing the varions clijaracteris tics of the ing eight millioxs-eiglit timues eiglit miltwo races, says:
iions-and 1 boite before many years it will
The Doukbors are belng now made the sub- contii a large proportion.
Soine one bas
ject of hostile criticism, much as the Galiclans
called lit question Mr. IteicYs statemelit. I
were' only a short time ago. There la probably
The Russisn pea- shall lot read the whole of it, because it is
some occasion for it, toe.
sant, te whose class the Doukhobors belong, la a long article, hut 1 w-i read a few parala many things backward, even among European
He faîls short, ne doubt. la net a graphes.
pessants.
few things which particularly attract the attenHon. Mr. M-\cCALLUM-Just what will
The
tion cf -the Erglish-speaklag Canadian.
a msn of peculiar views la religlous suit the bon. gentleman.
Douk le
matters. acting literally on soute precepts of
Hon. Mr. SCOT'f-No. but 1 do ia
the New Testament that other Chrîstians have
ia practice set asîde. He la settled, toc, among xvant to weary the House.
It bas been sqidl
la llhcely to be but slowlîy
hîs own' kind. and
atfected by lntercourse %with bis neighbours. the Doukhiobors are iniferior to tlue GaliIf men frrnm the British Isles, Scandinavia or clans, because they do îîot educate thueir
Germany could he got to taize bis place and do
read
the work lie is doing, it might be aaid the coun- children to the sanie extent. I wvill
try would he hetter wlthout hlm. It la open te fromt Mr. Reid's statemfelit. He says:
He le dolng
question if titis can he said now.
The Galîcians do send their children to school,
a work the slow progreas of which bas heena
tbem,
He goes where they have schools to whlch to send
cause of complaint for a generation.
very few. The Doukboh'ýrtsi
lint the wilderness, and by bis efforts turna but tbese schools are
eut
to school if they had
it lint
wvealth-producing fields.
He is pre- N"uld sed their children none. In two Doukhosently a smaîl consunmer, but hie ivill be very any .,schoos; but they have private sehiols.
Se
are two
peculiar indeed if, with the opportunity for bortsi villages

[SENATE]
anxious are the Doukhobortsl to have their child- u)ur Anglo-Saxon superiority implies obligation
ren taught Engllsh that I was shown several not only to protect, but to enligbiten.
When, la my address In Montreal, I referred
children who regularly walked live miles al
to the superlorlty of the Doukhobortsl In comwinter to and from school.
says that I forgot to teli the parison witb the Galicians, I was referrlng to
Your informant
people of Montreal that 'the Douks are in- the comparative moral tone of the two peoples.
veterate grumblers and are eternally making In two years in Canada only one Doukhobor has
trouble '; that ' tbey have to-day a petitien to been arrested for crime, and that one has since
Wben any communlty
the nations of the world to be relieved from been proved Innocent.
the tyranny of Canadian laws,' is untrue. Belng of S,000 Anglo-Saxons can show a similar rea simple-minded, primitive and uneducated peo- cord It will be consistent In your Informant te
pie, tbey are easily lnfluenced by would-be dema- throw stoaes at the Doukhobortsl.
It is not, theretore, surprising to fim0
gogues.
Now, that is from a gentleman who bias
that In a colony of 8,000 Doukhobortsi, twentynine men could have been induced by a Russian llved among tbem for two years, and wbo
anarcbist te slgn a petit ion tn the' Canadian
Vie seems to be a citizen of some repute. 1 arn
goveroment agalnst our Canadian laws.
advised that bie is a doctor and a ciergySappeal te tbe nations ' against 'Canadian
ofteC
lyranny,' wbich bas been huilt up into a great
Surely
of Scotland.
fteCurcli
This appeai was ma
meuntain, is oniy a molehili.
sent, not by the Doukhobortsi themseives, but evidence of tlils kind oughit to lie takeii
hc
eot
by the atoresald Russian anarchist-and sent by ratber hntepeuie
hc
eot
him wîtbout any sanction from the Doulcbobortsl ihntepeuie
If the samne energy whicb has been are tling at those unfortuuate people. Very
people.
expended in the abuse of the Doukbohortsi had many of those who are now comfortably
been exerted towards the hanishment of thi«
dangerous Russian demagogue. it would bave settied lu the North-west were even poorer
been an action warmly welcomed by the Doulç- than the Doukbobors are, yet they have
Take the Icelanders. In
bobortsi themselves, ns they do ne t want hlm i 'cquired wealtb.
te remain witb them. but are , from religlous l
expel himn fromn their 1875 or 1S76, I liappeined to lie adiniisterilg
scruples, not willing to
the Initerior Departnient iii the absence o!
colony.
A letter received iast week fromn the presidenlt
of the Thunder His Doulîhnrtsi colouly states the minister. The Icelanders were strauded
that a number o! these twenty-nine mnen who without a penny lu tixe neigbIbourhood of
hu
osn
edeie
eebruh
signed this petition to the goverument are aow
hn
osn
eie
qulte willing to obey the Canadian enregistra- Ptroog.W
tion laws agalnst which the petition was signed. Iup to 'Manitoba ait the expense of the couiin
adtee
That the Doukbohortsi ' do flot believe that a trv,_ Tlxey are stldo
aUtee
civil or other ceremony Is necessary to constil- istldo
Look- thougli only one generation lias gonie over' is aise largely untrue.
tute a marriage
ing, as they do, uponi marriage as a sacred tbing, long~ before the twenty-five yenrs had exthey do net wish to malze it secular by a 'civi
ceremeny,' but with them marriage Is a reli- pit'ed-the Icelanders are regarded as a
glous ceremeny, wbicb, to a religieus people, is very valuable class o! population for thiat
So it
ilb
wthteDu-o
as binding from a religieus standpnint as is ours cntrv.
oko
b
1llewt
3
That ' tbey bave a CO
fromn a legal standpnint.
wvill ail] pass awtty,
This prejudice
divorce law cf their own o! a free and easy ;,bors.
I hiope
years.
kind,' is a statemient w'hicli la as unjust as It 1and long before twenty-five
That they have a stringent reIs unfounded.
live to see
bon. friend fromi Monck m-ill
ligious law of divorce is true, bu, it Ils of a kind myU3
much less ' free and easy ' than that of many it. anxd te admit that bis stateinents about
Anglo-Saxon communitites.
0f course, my
That tbey d,3 flot bold land as individitals the Doukbobors are unjust.
watesy,
rmyblee
fren
theh.
but as a cemrnunity, is quite truc :but
Mennn,*tes of southern Manitoba, wbo are to- Ibut hie bias not bnd ample opportuilties for
day a reai strength te Maitob,., at first adoptedI
Tbat they are religieus judgingthe same principle.
fanatiý!s la a statement which sbeixd b-, acccpted
011. M.Nr. MýcCALLU-l bave lind the
cum glaneo salis. The force o! tiat statemnert î
samne opportunity of judgiuig tbcmn that the
depends upon your ewn standpDint.
Your Informant says that 'evs:ry loyal Caini,
dian demands tramn the Doukhobortsi a compli- goverfiient bas liad.
Ilon. '-\I. SCOTT-I like to look nt both
ance and a submnission te tbe laws of the land.'
More charitable Canadians tin your Informant
evidently la are at present tryiog te selve the sides ef a question, and 1 do not care te
pcoblemn of hew we are to influonce them by pass judgment witbeut considering botb, andi
ease
haeodutmybnfrei iylin
our bigiier civilization, se that the next genenyast
red
ob
aen
ration of Douk-hobertsi nîay be more leyal te
corne, wvill regret having expressed an unour civil and religieus institutions.
Your informant thinks that 'the Deulz. w'ill lind and unjust judgmnent agalast the Doukremain a narcow-mined, ignorant fanatic.' Tbere
are others wbo have a fuller ltnowledge et thie h obors.
Hou. MNr.PRIM\ROSE-1 beg te talie exDoukhehortsi w-ho are net ready te admit that
tbey are elther ignorant or narrow-minded1
the moment that ception to the style ini whieh the lion. SecreBut graatîng for
fanatica.
they are sncb <wih those wbo k nowç% themn most tary of State ait times is disposed te charac!ully will be the least ready te grant). Canadians -,vill neyer elevate tîein by abusinig them. terize the expressions of opinion by gentleHon. 1Mc. SCOTT.

[M-%ARCH 29, 1901]
men w-ho do flot happeji to agree w-ith bina tinguishi thena froui other emigrants landing
in bis views, and who cannot frame their on our shores, and they landed iii a much
1
moutbs to pronounce bis shibboleths. I more favourable condition than most.
w-ould ask w-hether the Secretary of -State see no0 reason whatever to doubt that tbey
w-ould be disposed to characterize the ex- will, withln two generations, allowlng a genpressions of opinion wbich fell the other eration to, be tblrty years, be just as excelIt
day from the hon, gentleman fram Woles- Ilent citizens as we have in Canada.
ley (Hlon. Mr. Perley)-who ought ta be In must be a matter of pride and satisfaction
a position, f roma bis proxlmity to those peo- ta tbink that we have a country which can
ple, to k-now something about them-wbe- open its arms wlde to give those people,
ther be w'ould be disposed to characterize who are fleeing frona persecution i11 their
those expressions as the outeome of ignor- 1own land, a home here. I speak entlrely
ance and prejudice. I do not like that style f ree fron any political feeling. I ana merely
of debate, andI I tbinL the lion. Secretary stating the impressions w-hielb came ta My
mind after I saw the Doukhobors. I looked
of State is a littie too prone to it.
sw te
Ilo. M. ELIS1 to sipladsinto the whole question, as set forth by
sa
Hon Mr ELIS- th two sipladsthose w-riters who have discussed modern
of tlie Doukhobors which landed in St. John. Russia, and I have come to the conclusion
I sîent several bours on botb occasions lu that this country bas made no0 mistake
going through the sbip, talking witb the w-batever in receiving the Doukhobors and
officers of the ship), and xith those who bad that they will become good citizens of
charge of the immnigrants, andI the inapres- Canada.
sion left on my mind was quite difierent 1'ý7TO-ýihrfrnet
Hlon. Mr. WTO-ihrfrnet
frona that of My hon. friend froua Monck.
After that I gave some attention to the the complaint of the hion, gentleman from
whole question. The Doukbhobors undoubt- Pictou (Hon. 11x. Primrose), that the hon.
edly bolfI saie extreme opinions on what Secretary of State characterized the reThose marks of members of this House who do
w-e miglit <'ail religions matters.
extreme opinions are due to thîe nature of, not ngree wlth hlm politlcally, as being the
their clissent fram the state authority of the' resuit of Ignorance, 1 have no besitation in
churcli ini Russia. Under the broader free- saylng, that I can quite endorse w-bat bas
dom of this country, In view of the fact been said by the Secretary of State, after
that nmen can hold what opinions they piease; llstenlng ta some Of the remarks made by
bere ln refereuce ta religions matters, and members of this House w-ith regard to this
cau Nvorsliip in their owl ýway, those ex- particular class of people w-bon w-e are distreme view-s w-i disappear, 1 am confident cussing here to-day. If hon, gentlemen
of thar, just as the extreme view-s of the would take the trouble ta inforni theniQuakers disappeared whenl England ceased selves, as suggested by the hion. Secretary
ta persecute them. 1 believe that, even If Of State, tbey would leama that the people
stîli lbelt, tbey will nat be sa obnoxious. -who do know of those Doukbobors since
came to our country, would not exThe Doukhobors w-ho came out in the ships ithey
that I speak of w-ere organized in companies' Press the adverse opinions that bave been
They did their duty heard la this House. For instance, on the
by their managers.
on board ship cheerfully andI willingly. question of Doukhobor settiements, the
When they landed in St. John, they werenearest point ta the rallway where tbey are
met by a number of ladies w-ho desired ta settled ls Yorkton, a town of considerable
give thena saine welcome to the land of! Importance, a tawn that bas a board of
their adoption. They expressed their grati- trade, elected Irrespective of palitics. About
tude for U,iduess show-n theni. Tbey ap- elght or nine montbs ago. an agent came
preciated it. and showed, therefore, that they' there fram the United States side, from
possessed those qualities -whichi go a long~ California, and trled ta induce some of
w-ny to develop good citizenship. Tbey were those Daukhobors to leave their settlekind to their eildren. The men were will- ment, and go ta California, promislng them
ing ta do w-bat tbey could ta assist the en-! big -wages ta work on railways, andI free
trainment of thieir women, and 1 saw noth- land la the state. At that time the Board
ing, except thieir dress and language, ta dis-,1 f Trade of Yorkton-the Douk-hobors trad-

[SENATE]
ed there and did business tliere, and the

flouse, Who bas the welfare of the country

people off Yorkton bad knowledge of-tbemmet and unanimously passed a resolution
asking the government to interfere to prevent any off those people leaving the country, giving as an excuse that It was a viola-

at heart, Wbo wishies t0 see our prairie
lands in the Nortb-west settled, to discourage the immigration of these people,
because lt is only by settiement that the
lanld will produce the weaith. It seems to

tion of the Alien Labour law for tbem to

me it is worse tban waste of tirne ln this

go to the United States under contract
made at York-ton to work on the ;ailroads
of California. That is the opinion expressed by tbe board of trade, showing that tbey
regarded the Doukhobors as valuabie settiers. Tbiey w-anted to retain them ln tte'
country, and 1 see that sorne who did leave
have returned to the settlement. The peo-,
pie are wcli pieased witb our country.
Tbey bave returned, and every person w-ho
bias an intercst in tbe settiement of the
North-west bas reason to congratulate the'
country anti tbe Dukohobors who have returneti from the Unitedi States tbat tbey
bave corne hack to thieir settlinent north
of Yorkton.
It appears 10 me that this
evidence is sufficient to convince lion, gentlemen that these p)eople are desirable set-

Chamber for bon, gentlemen to rise and
criticise tlhese settlers In the w-ay we biave
heard theili criticised liere this session. If
hon. gentlemen wiil take the trouble to
make inquiry with regard to these different mnatters before they undertake to discuss theni in titis fluse, it wîll be mucli
better, flot only for the Senate, but for the
eounitry at large, because ît is not a pleasant tlîing for those people to learn that
theY are being criticised in sucb a w-ay. I
have no hesitation in saying, fromni y own
knowledge, and k-now-ledgce I bave acquired
from others wlio ought to know, that the
Douliioburs are a iliost desirable chtss oi>

tiers. I have neyer l)een in their settiements. but I bave .seen these people lu
service ini Manitoba. They furnish labour

in the Territories than auy otber class off
people brougbht to this country. The Dominion government inaugurated a policy

that is much requireti. I bave neyer beard
aur one whio lias hid those Doukzbohors
employeti speak otherwise than higbiy of
tbem. So far as tbeir morais nnd religions
belief are concerned, we bave the evidence'
off the clergymauýn Who bas liveti with tbemi
for nearlv two years. The sane objection
used to be taken by bon. gentlemen-some,

years ago off paying a bounty off one r>oultd

settiers. Lt is said tbey are spoon-fed, antd
a source off expense to the country, but
itlibas cost no more to settie those people

for eaeh aduit person wlbo should couie to
Canada from tbe oid. country. That was
paiti to the booking agent, the agent Who
secured tbiese people. The Dominion goveraument ou aceount off the Doukbiobors
coming in large numubers, instead off îaying
this one pounti to tbe booking agent, paid
ivho are lu tbis flouse now and ln anothier it to the Doukblobors, aud tliey got the
place witb regard to encoura'-ing Iceiand- benefit of it. Thiey made tbeir own arrange-

ers to settie lu our North-west. As lias ments. Tbeir friends subscribed large sums
been said by tbe Minister off Justice, tbey off money, I tbink solue $35.000 10 assist
bave proveti themselves a very desirable tbem in settling lu the Canadian Nortb-west.
cinss off people. Wl'hen I happeniedti
be a A comimittee was appoiuted, composed off

member off the Manitoba goverument, that
goverument went so far one year as to
adivance sonie seven tbousand dollars to assist payiug part off the passage off n numiber
off Icelanders to «Manitoba. That w'ns g-uaranteed by a number of Icelanders lu that
country, Who were willing. as far as their
limiteti resources went. to guarantee the
returu of that moniey. The money was al
paid bnck, witbin two or three years. They
are a most desirable class of settiers, and it
appears to me that il is a great mistake on
tbe part of any bon. gentleman in this
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

gentlemen wbose nbility for doing tbe work
tbey ivere entrusted with, couid not be
questioned-a committee off tbree gentlemen In the city of WNlininipeg, to see that
the money was profitably spent. We bave
Iustead
heard no comiplaints about that.
off the book-ing agent getting the one pounti
per bead, it was paid directly to thesettlers
themselves. Surely tbere cait be no complaint about tbat. They made their own
Lt
arrangements witbi tbe vessel-owners.
must be better for us to bave that amount
of money spent on the people w-ho are set-

[MARCH 29, 1901]

tiers in the country than paid to the booklng agent who secured the emigrant. PeopIe did say the government was paying for
feeding them in Manltoba-paying for feedlng them three or four moutbs before tbey
went on their land. That is not true ln
the seuse in whlch It was stated, but
simply the one pound per head, usually
paid to the booking agent, was paid directiy to the Doukhobors themselves. I: think
we should compliment the government on
bavlng procured those valuabie settiers for
the country. To my mind, as a resident
of the west, knowing the importance of
haviug that country settied, I only hope
the government wilI be able to continue
brînging over the same ciass of people that
some gentlemen here condemu-that is the
Doukbobors. I have no hesitation in saylng they are good settiers at the present
time. They have only been here two or
three years, but tbey are recognized as good
workers, industrlous. healtby, and if you
can get a ciass of people like that, the
more you get the better, and 1 only hope
the government wili be able to bring the
same ciass of people, or people just as good,
ln larger numbers if possible.
COMPLAINTS FR031N

DOUKHOBORS.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER inquired:

Ho'n. '-%r. PROW'SE-In what way have
the Doukhobors protested against that petitiou of the twenty-nine ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I understand they did;
I do flot know w-hetber there was any formai protest or flot.
Hon. Mr. .PROWSE-The petition bas
corne to the bands of the government, but
flot the protest.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do flot kuow that even
the petition bas corne, I ain flot at ail sure
as to that. Ail 1 caný say is that I regret
very greatly the attacks that have been
made upon these settiers. I believe they
are very worthy people, although Z~ do flot
subscribe at ail to the views they entertain
on somle subjeets. They differ very littie
from the Quakers In Eng-land, and tbey have
been largely assisted by the Quakers to
escape the persecutions to which tbey were
subjected, and to corne to this country and
seek refuge here, and 1 trust the people of
this country wlll receive tbem in a more
generous spirit than bias been shown by
the bon. gentleman from Monck. 1 greatly
regret that he should have expressed hilmself so strougly ag-ainst any class of peopie who are seeking homnes in this country.
Hon. 11r. WATSON-Hear, bear.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Eigbt thousauld have
been bere two or three years, and they have
been guilty of n0 crime. Tbey are most lawabidiug and orderly, cleanly in their habits,
industrious and sober. They will, I have no
doubt, prove very excellent citizens. Wheu
up to Yorkton a yenr ago last summer, t
met some Doukhobors. They were on their
way to their settIements, and some of those
that had gone to their settiements came
back to purchase supplies in the village of
Yorktoa that they %vould require to supDoukhobors.
port their familles. I heard no opinion exHon. Mr. BERNIER-Have they com- pressed of tbem that was unfavourabie to
plined themselves ?
them *by the people. One or two articles
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, 1 amn not aware of had appeared against the Doukhobors in
some paper, 1 tbink ln Ontario, that hiad
any compluint beiug received.
been written up by a ranchmnan from that
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-No petitions ?
country, and the editor of the ieading paper
Hon. Mr. MILLS-There is one sig-ned by ln Yorkton informed me that the DoukhoWhether the government lias received from
the Doukhobors, or from somebody on their liehalf, any reports, representations, complaints
or memnoriais respecting the resources or the
laws of this country, their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the treatment they have received, or wltli the conditions or institutions of
this country?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-We have no communication lu the direction that the hou, gentleman mentions lu this question. Nobody bas
complained against tue Doukbobors to us,
nor bave we compiained t0 anybody of the;

twenty-uine persons, and 1 uuderstand the bor settiements had been formed in a disDoukhobors protested against il, sayiug they. trict whicb had been held by some ranchwere flot parties 10 il.
men before, and that the ranchuien were

[SE NATE]
of course being- driven further back by the
settiement, that if their wishes were compiied with, they would flot favour settiement there at ail. They would rather retain possession of the country for rancbing
purposes than to have it devoted to ordinary ag-ricultural pursuits, and I believe that
the people who were settled there from On-

Hon. Mr. MILLS-That they have wil t egard to religious matters, and I arn perfectiy
sure they wiIl neyer do that If you indulge
in violent attacks upon them ln the one
House or the other and seek to create a publie sentiment against them, as a people unworthy of your friendship or your encourag-ement.

Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The hon. Minister
hobors are gettîng along most satîsfactorilv.
I could, if it were at ail pertinent, poit of Justice appears to thînk- that 1 have said
out the very great progress In wealth that too rnuch about these Doukhobors. Whtt I
those have made who have been there for have sald is a good deal the resuit of bis
but a very short period of time. A large own speech. He snys to-day, iu the authe government received no renumber of cattle were raised, the count.rv swerta
proved productive In oats and wheat, and monstrances from these people. That statethe entire population in that country were ment set me thinking, because hie said if
niost hopeful. They were gettlng along they are willing to stay here and till the
most satisfactoriiy, and when I spoke about soil, they will make good setlers. Il apthe Doukbobors doing as the people wbo pears to me that he must have had sonie
cime here from the Hig-hlands. who couid warning when he put in His Excellency's
flot speak a çworcl of English, had done, that imouth
such language, that these people did
in the course of a generation or two they not want to stop here ; they were appeilwould ail learn to spealc English, that tact ing to the powers of the world against the
was impressed upon my mind by what 1 tyranny of the Canadian goverament, aud
saw. Sorne Doukbobor children that had that is the ciass of people he wants,,.and lie
been in the country but five or six months comments on my remarks for teliing Tvhat
spoke very fair English, could easily make I think about the matter. 1 have not said
themselves understood, and could easily un-! aflythiflg about the Germans and Higliderstand what was sid to thein, and 1 had landers improving. Everybody knows that,
no doubt, after seeing those people in their but wbat I compiain of is that my hou.
bouses and at their ordinary avocations. 1friend intimated that until they learnied
and seeing their anxiety to learn the Eng- EnglIish they were not satisfactory settiers
Iish language and to speak the language of for this country.
those who, wherever they settlcd, bave made:Hn
l.MLSO,
o
i
o a
o a
i
o
o.M.ILSO,
that language the language of freedorn, I .
had no doubt whatever that those people ht
would become as thoroughiy Canadian, and
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-That is the wav
as tboroughiy Engilish in their sentiments It struck me, and it is not so. What would
as any other ciass of our people. It is to Canada be to-day If it were flot for the
me a matter of most profound regret that Highllanders and Germans ? How much
such violent attacks should be made upon jcountry would we have and the great
them in either House of Parliament. IL can FPrenchmen whom we dare not compare
do no possible good. It might be that 3'ou with the Doukbobors ? I asked him the
woul
nd turn away desirabie immigration question why he did flot want to place them
from the country that we would other- in the same boat. If it 15 true that they
wise obtain. You may embitter the feeling drove them to the poils like cattie, aithough
of those people against a particular party !they were not British subjects, to perjure
by what some individual says, and that, I themseîves to support this government, we
think, is to be regretted. I siiould like to should know it. I arn toid tbat it is SQ.
see theni enjoy the same freedoin in the I do not vouch for the truth of it, but I
formation of their politica] opinions and believe it will come ont in the courts byI do flot
and-by. I am informed It wiIl.
sentiments and their politicai alliancesknow if the information is reliabie or not,
Hon. '-%r. 'MeCALLUM-%-Hear, heur.
and that is why I sny that the very existHon. 'Mr. MILLS.

[MARCH 29, 19011
ence or these gentlemen wouid be imperilled
if they compared the Doukbobors wltb that
great race.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Do I understand the
hon, gentleman to say that the Doukhobors
were driven to tbe poils to vote ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, that is wbat he
said.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Nofle of tbem are
on tbe voters' list and none of them are
naturalize'd.
Hon. Mr.
Bay.

McICÀLLU31-That is whiat I

Hon. Mr. WATSON-They cannot vote.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I know ItL But
tbe agents of the governmeflt drove tbern
to tbe pols like sheep, botb the Galicians
and tbe Doulbobors. That Is taking advantage of the poor innocent people to compel
tbern to vote, and make tbern believe that
because tbey bave been a year or two ln
the country tbey bave a riglit to vote. I do
flot know wbether tbe information I have Is
true or not, but I expect before long it wili
be tested in the court.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-What
were tbey in ?

constituency

Hon. Mr. McÇALLUIM-I arn not going to
tell. Tbe bon. Secretary of State can get
bis in-formation from some one else. I arn
not goiag to furnish any information.
Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-L should like to find it
out If it is true.

few rebellions subjects among thern, it
would nlot amount to anything ; but, the
whoie question Is whetber tbey are to be
censured or not-the other Is mnerely sentimental. Whetber it Is better to have ernigrants to live ln separate communities, it
is nlot necessary to discuss. If tbey mix
up witb other people it is better. 1 differ
from the bon. Minister of Justice in bis'
comparison of the assimilation of emigrafits
to the United States, and the assimilation
of emigrants to Canada wltb the general
Tbe people wbo go to the
population.
United States emigrate frorn ail nations,
and are irnbued witl a strong desire to
Tliceyý accept
assimilate witb the country.
with cheerfuiness the laws of the country,
and tbe language, and ln that way they
assimilate themselves with the peopie. Lt
is the publie scbool system of the United
States that bas assimflated the foreign
population, and made what is called the
United States race. If these people entertain tbe doctrines of free love and the doctrines tbat are mentioned ln that report,
of course the Immigration ouglit not to be
encouraged, but If tbat report is false, then
I think a great Injustice bas been done
tbem, and fromi wbat the bon. leader of
the House bas said, tbey would be a desirable class of Immigrants to corne here, althougb I would prefer a class of people that
would mix witb the population of the country. I know that I have observed tbe Irisb
people, and there is no condition wbere the
Irisb succeed s0 well as wben they are
rnixed with the people of other races.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
hear.

Hon. Mr. McCALLUI%-Tliere are many
tbings tbe hon. Secretray of State would
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I have notbing
like to find out, and lots of tbings he would
more to say, except about tbe religious doclike to conceal.
trines of tbe Doukhobors. If those docthen most unHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-In vlew of those trines are bel-d by tbern,
not be encouraged.
speaking tbe Englisli language doubtedly tbey shouid
people nlot
are repugnant and
and living together, I should like to asl,, because these doctrines
of the
governent any agent, or medium would strike with horror tbe feelings
have the
people of this country. If such a class o!
o! communication, whereby they wouid
to corne bere
know bow the Doukhobors were conducting emigrants were encouraged
imbued witb these Ideas, and the govtbernselves ? If the doctrines set forth at
an agent there to give tbern
that meeting that was held are entertained ernrnent had
advice about It, that would be ail rigbt,
by any portion of these people, they are
couid be advised
damnable doctrines wbicb would sap the because the governent
If anytbing serious took place.
foundations o! soclety ; but if it is rnerely a
12

[SEN ATE1

178

series of
Hon. Mr. MILLS-T-fhese people Ivere aided imposed upon them for a long
years.
to the country by*the Quakers of England
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
and Peunsylvania, because there is a similarity between them ia their religious views hon. friend bas toid us be bas not read
and opinions, and they have very great sym- the documents to which I referred the other
pathy for them on that account. We kiiow day when discussing this matter, nor bas
that the Quaker population of the United he toid us upon wbat authority he maires
States are an extrernely exemplary popula- the statement that 7,971 out of the 8,000 lation. Our experience of the Douirbobors glace habitants have protested agaiast the action
they have corne Into the country is that they of the twenty-niae, nor have we any eviare very ranch of the same type. The boa. deace, further tban a mere declaratioli, that
gentlemnan's question, 1 thinir, is sufficlently there is a Russian anarcbist who is at the
answered by this fact, that there is a1Rus- bottom of ail this. If there is sucli a man,
slan anarchist, a socialist, advocating bis and he bas spoken on behaif of the wbole
ow'n peculiar views, undertaking to create cornmunity, lie ougbt to be reprobated, but
discoatent arnong the Douk-hobor settiers, there is nothing la the eight or aine colurns
and he succeeded in gettiug twenty-fline which appeared In tbe paper to wbich I repersons out of a population of 8,000 to agree ferred to Indicate that such is the tact,
with hlm, and some of thein, I believe, sub- nor is there any Information that 1 have
sequentiy declared that they misappre- been able to glean, so far as I bave studied
hended bis Intentions. You couid go into the matter, that the statements wbicb have
almost any part of this country and get St been made are, baseil upon fact. If they
fluent taîker to persuade a nuinher of un- are, it changes the whole aspect of the
thining people, twenty-nine out of 8,000, question. If the doctrine laid down la the
my
to agree, perhaps, with bila, but it wcinld petîtion to which I referred, and whicb
tO hon. friend the leader of tbe Hlouse says be
be a very extraordinary course to adopt
ndertake to condemn tise whole 8,000 be- neyer read, are not the views and
cause twenty-nine made a mistake by send- sentiments of the Douirbobors, why tben,
tbe
Ing an address that, perhaps, within a fort- If be does not speak for them,
full whoîe case falis to the ground. If
aight, tbey regretted, for wben tise
meaning was explained to tbem, they dis- the 7,900 out of the 8,000, the number
seated from the very terrns of the petition that he indicated are in the country, are not
to which they bad been iaduced to subscribe. la unison with these twenty-aine, we ougbit
1 believe the Doukbobors are a fine race. to bave that before us. Do I understand tise
Their moral character before corning to this minister to say that the petitions to wbich
country is In faveur, as thse hon. gentleman wc referred In a former discussion have
irnows, of their pbysical stamiria, and tiseir neyer been laid before tbe goveramont ?
ladustry In thse country goes to show that If tbey bave not, then I can readily underIf they grow up wbere freedom lins full stand tbe position takea by tbese lion. genplay, wbere there is no attempt to per- tlemen. Has there been laid before the govsecute or Impose disabilities upon thein, on ernment a protest from upwards of 7,000,
account of any peculiar view whichi tbey to whicb he bas referred, and to which I
of tbe Hlouse ?
rnay hold, they are very likely to adjust have called tbe attention
to tise views and feelings and The fact is tbis : Somebody preseated a
tbemselves
sentiments ef the rest of tise population, and petîtion purporting- to speak for tise wbole
those peculiarities, if tbey do not eatirely community.
disappear, become proportioflately weak and
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS-Tweaty-aine persons.
unimportant. Ri feel, myself, that it w ud
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbose
be a great misfortune if we were to underln tbe way of who sigaed the petition purported to speair
taire to put impediments
not say
securing moral and uprigbt people, because for tbe whole commuaity. I do
to tise view which they did speair for tbem. I arn speaking of
tbey dîd nlot subscribe
bave
we entertaîn, and which, perbaps, wve would thse contents of the documents as tbey
if we isad been labour- been laid before thse country. That appeal
not bave entertained
ing under disaisilities such as bave been ls made to tbe wbole world, and tbat apHon.

Mr. SULLIVAN.

'MARCHf 29, 1901]

17U

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I neyer heard of It
peal'has been answered by the parties in
England who Induced them to corne to this
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Nor I.
country, and In that document they laid
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
down tbe doctrine to which I referred, that
they could carry out their peculiar Ideas are none s0 Ignorant ns those who do not
of marriage and live in communities, and desire Information.
that there was no law In this country to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, oh.
punish them for living In adultery. They
could carry oui their peculiar ideas and stili
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--I do
if
remain In the country as settlers.
not know anything about is accuracy, but I
there is any protest let us have It, and It
was told it was In connection with the
may change our views In that particular
West Assiniboia election.
to whlch the hon. gentleman from KingsThat ls
ton has so eloquentiy referred.
Hon. Mr. McC.ALLUM-And Alberta.
the princIple objection which has been
taken, I think, to the settiernent of a class
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
of men holding those peculiar views. That I amn coming to that. It was stated that
la the only. thing. This ls a new Idea, and the Galicians and Doukhobors were drIven
I should flot have risen again to discuss the to the poils In scores, and that the men
question, and I do not desire to continue It who were empioyed by the government to
until further Information ls laid*before par- settie the half-breed claims, under the law
Ilament, had flot the hon. Secretary of lately passed, were the men who took them
State and the hon. Minister of Justice re- there. That may or may not be true. The
And
peated that this document was drawn Up courts of justice will decide that.
by a Russlan anarchist, who spoke for hlm- the Doukhobors living at Alberta were taken
self and the other twenty-nine oniy, and to the pols and induced to swear In their
that the others had repudiated It. Whien we votes, havIng been told by these agents
have these documents we shall be better that they had a right to vote. I have rend
able to judge of the men and the com- this In the newspapers and also heard It
munity, and the character of the man who from those who came from that territory. A
has endeavoured to iead them astray. But gentleman from Alberta bas given me such
It rnust be borne In mind that their friend Information, and the hon, gentleman from
In England, whose letter Is pubiished In Wolseley, and the hou. gentleman from CalconnectIon with thls petition, answered It, gary, also gave me the Information.
and has answered It In the manner which
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Dld they publicly menI pointed out, and to which I referred the
by pointing out to them how tion It ln the Chamber ?
other day,
they can rernain In the country and live
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No. I
according to the peculiar tenets of their arn statIng where I got the Information.
religion, If by such a name it may be It is from gentlemen whose veracity 1 have
Certainly It would not be by
dàgnified.
no right to doubt, and who live In the
holding strong vlews, which many of us locaity In whlch the Iaw was violated.
hold on matters of that kind. Let us have The hon. gentleman has the Information as
ail the facts and then we wili be able to cheaply as I obtained it, and on the same
judge of their quaities. As to their In- authority. The apparent-I will not say
dustry, I do not know anything about It,
Ignorance-the apparent want of knowledge
and I say nothIng. In reference to their on the part of the Minister of Justice and
voting, my hon. friend from Marquette
Secretary of State, and the hon. gentlemen
must certaInly not have read the news- who corne frorn that part of the country,
papers, If he is not acquainted with the would lead us to believe that such stories
facts which have been pointed out, that were not afloat, and that It neyer occurred.
they were taken to the pola and voted.
But hon, gentlemen have it now, and I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In what county ? 1 make the staternent just as I heard it. If
the government have any Information to
neyer heard of it.
12J

[SENATE]

180

justlfy the position which they have takeu,
aud ta give that character to these people
that they both couteud they menit aud are
entltled ta, let the world kuow it, and then
discussious 0f this klnd wlll not arise lu
future.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think my hou.
frleud is quite fair. 1 arn always exlu this
ceedingly frauk and candid
Chamber. I neyer heard of any petition
for or agaiust what is mentloued here. The
Iuformation I got of the character of the
Doukhobors was froin general reading. Mr.
Reid bas writteu one or twa articles which
appeared lu the papers. Nothing has came
to my department f rom the Doukhobors, aud
I presume that would have beeu the proper
chanuel, uuless It weut direct ta the MinIster of the Interior. I uever heard any com-

Son. Mr. MLLLS-On the 2Oth March. in
reply to Mr. Wilson, the 'Minister of the
interior said:
1. A petition was recelved fram the immigration commissioner at Winnipeg, under caver of
a letter dated July 10, 1900, purporting ta be
signed by twenty-nlne of the Doukhbors, maklng certain abjections to the land, marriage and
registration laws.
2. The department sent a copy of the petition
ta Mr. Maude. ln order that be might communicate wlth the signers of the petition and remove their misapprehension lu regard, ta Cana-

dian Iaws.

3. The departrnent is nat aware that the Doukhobors had lssued an appeal ta ail the nations
uf the world, asklng If they would be given
The departa refuge tram Canadian tyranny.
ment is lnformed that a Russian (nat a Daukhobor) named Bojianskl undertook ta mako
He got up the
trouble wltb the Doukhobors.
original petitian referred ta, and bas now#
caused ta be prlnted a document, ta which reference Is made ln the question, ln a Winnipeg
The department
paper known as The Voice.
bas no reason ta belleve that the utterances af
Mr. Bojianskl represent the vlews of the 7,500
plaints. The goverument are campletely with- Doukbobors who are settled in the Nartb-west.
out auy Information on the subject. My mind or any substantial portion of tbemn.

was a perfect blank as far as that weut,
and, although I read the papers pretty
regularly, and read bath sides, I neyer
heard of their votlng, and I do flot thlnk
the hon, leader of the opposition could
falrly say that the hon. gentlemau froin
Brandon had any personal kuowledge of
it, because, If I arn correctly Informed,
there are no Doulihobors living there.
Hou. Smr MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
are Daukhobars a few miles uorth of where
the lion. gentleman frouu Wolseley (Hou.
Mr, Perley) lives.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman
spake of the han. Senator frain Braudon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, 1
referred ta the hon. geutleman froin
Wolseley
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I must express my
surprise at the answer of the hon. MiuIster of Justice. It seerns ta me there must
be some mîsapprehension, because I nderstand elsewhere a similar question has beeii
put aud an auswer has been given.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-What date w-ns the
questiou put in the other Hanse ?

Sa that hon, gentlemen will see tbat the information given to the minister is lu exact
accord with that given by the Presbyterian
clergyman who had resided a considerable

time among thein.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL Wbat
information ls that based on ?

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I cannot say, but it is
certainly as good

Information

as that ta

which the hon. gentleman bas referred that
led to the statement he has just made, that
these people had voted lu varions districts,
althaugh they had been a very short turne
la the country-too short a time to be naturalized. I have been Interested lu L-nawiug
where this votiug was doue, and for wbomn
it was doue, for, so far as 1 know, there are
no Doukhobars settled lu the Alberta district. There are in saine parts of it, 1 beleve, a number of Galicians, but saine of
thein have been there for a considerable
period af turne.
GEOLOGICAL MUSEUM SPECIMENS.
INQUIRY.

Han. Mr. PRIMROSE rose to
Inquire wbetber it Is the intention of the gavHon. '.%r. W'ATSON-Yau will find in ernment, or of any departmeut af the gavernrnent, to remove or ailow ta bc removed
the Commans ' Hansard' of 2Oth 'Mardi, a from the Geological Museum on Sussex street,
the magnificent specimen of the waod buffalo
reply to'this question.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[FMARCH 9-9, 19011
Perhaps
or bison, or any other type or uniQue specimen specimen was substituted for it.
animal for the purpose of exhibition ai the Pan- the gentleman wbo sent it had a keen
American Exhibition In Buffalo?
sense of humour, and thougbt it was a
said : This, at first siglil, might appear suitable enougli specimen for the building
He
t0 be a malter of very lîttie moment. 1 do where the Canadian museum is kept ln Otflot regard il as such at ail. 1 takze it that tawa. Besides tiIs, there is the risk flot only
anythlng having a tendency to advertise of improper handiing and Injury abroad,
this country, elîlier among Canadians tbem- but ail the risk which attaches to transporselves or t0 the world at large, whe- tation from its present site. Under the cirther il be Its animal life, minerais, cumstances, I sincerely trust that a specior flora, is flot a malter which can men of such value as this will flot be ailowed
be cbaracterized as of very small import- to leave the museum, especialiy under the
ance. I brlng the malter to the notice of conditions insisted upon by its donor at the
the House for Ibis reason, that Ihere is a time lie gave it to the museum.
very currenî rumour afloat that il is the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do flot know precisely
Intention of the Department of the Interior
what the bon, gentleman means by what lie
to remove from the museum on Sussex bas said in reference to this partîcular specistreet, the splendid specimen of wood men. The Minister of the Interior, 1 bebuffalo, or bison that Is there. Any leve, Is 111, and I have not been able to get
gentleman who lias seen the specîmen the Information the bon. gentleman is askto which 1 refer, mnust acknowledge lng for. I have flot heard, I may say, howthat it is indeed a splendid exhibit. ever, it was thought it would be a very
Il is valuable for this, among other reasons, desirabie ornamentation of the Canadian
that the species is practicaiiy, to ail latents section of the exhibition at Buffalo. This
and purposes, almost extinct, and Ihal fami- specimen that ls here Is flot a unique speciiiy wblch roamed la sucb large lierds over incai.
Tl'îe %voo(I-buffalo tl(Yeý lot differ
.our prairies a few years ago, cannol be very mucli from the others, except the diffound at aIl now, except a few smail
fereat habit that lias been created by wanherds la the possession of private indivi- dering in the woods, instead of on the open
duals, sucli as Ihat owned by Lord StrathW'e have at Banff, 1 tbink, somue
prairie.
cona, and one or lwo others. This specibuffaloes.
men was doaated to the museuni by Mr. twenty-five
Warburîon Pyke, and one of the conditions
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not of
on which il was given was, that It should not the -wood-buffaio.
leave the museuni. I1have snid the species
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-There is no differeace
le almost extlnct. The last wiid buffalo
except wbat bas been made by the animal
Iu ils native state was seen la 1888. Lt is
bis suba uie flot departed fromn ln ail properiy goiag int the woods and obtaining
And, furtber than
sistence la the woods.
managed museums, not to allow a type
1876, wben the
specimfefi, that is a specimen whici lias been that, 1 remember that la
United States Centenniai exhibition was
described In officiai documents and Illusspecimens
trated, or a unique specimiea sncb as this, belng beld at Philadeiphia, many
of the fauna 0f the United States, hield at
-whicli could not be duplicaîed-to be taken
Washinfrom lhem except for criticai study or tue Departmeat of the Interior aI
ton, were taken there and put on exhibition,
comparîson. The specimens that have luthserlôns Injury
erto been sent to exhibitions from Ibis and I do flot kaow blinI any
would be done to Ibis specimen of the woodmuseum have been duplicates, not originals,
Geologicai
as this Is. Ail specimeas bitherto sent, buffalo If il wvere taken from the
Mauseuni and put la a case 10 be exhibited
with the exception of the Rocky Mouatain
goat, have been sent froni duplicales. lun at Buffalo. 0f course, there Is a uitIle risk
nnd bringiug it
1885 a specimen was aliowed 10 go to the iii transporting it Ihence
Indian exhibition lield la baclc again, but not very mnucli. The woodCooiland
to
London. It was not returned. but evi- buffalo is not s0 completeiy extinct as
perfeli into the hands of soine one who niake it of special importance neyer to
dentiy
knew 11e value. A mutilated and wretchied mit tbis specimen 10 be tak-ea froin the Geo-

ISENATE]
tion on this subject during the present session. We are anxious thnt thè session shial
We
corne to a close as soon as possible.
have had tbree very long sessions preceding
this, and 1 thinl, it is only due to thîs House,
and to the House of Commons as well, not
to, keep members hiere at the seat of governMon. Mr. PRIMROSE-Would the hon. ment longer than is necessary. We do not
gentleman be prepared, at a later date, to feel called upon to legîsiate upon the subject
give us information as to wbiat tlue intention of bankruptcy during the present session.
is ?
BILLS INTItODUCED.
Hon. '-%r. M-%ILLS-WVhenever 1 cau get it
I will let my bon. friend know.
Bill (21) *An Act respecting the British
Hon. '-\r. PIMROSE-Ntwitlistaidilg Columbia Soutbern Railway Company.'what bas tallen from the Minister of Jus- (Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
Bill (34) 'An Act to incorporate the Cantice, 1 do flot consider that auy advertisement that could be given to Canada by the ada Patriotic Fund.'--(Hon. Sir Mackenzie
talzing away of this valuable specimen from Bowell.)
the museum on Sussex street to be exhibited
Bill (40) 'An Act respectlug,- the British
at Buffalo, would compensate for the chances Yukon Railway Coiupainy.'-(Hoil. 2Nr. 'Macand risks of having it 50 injured as to make a donald, B.C.)
poor specimien, and, iu proof of that, 1 reBill 114) ',An Act foi guaîîting to His Mapeat what I have already cited-(remember
jesty certain sums of money required for
I ar n ot speakiiug nîy own personal opinions
defraying certain expenses of the public serand views, except as to the expediency and
vice for, tbe financial year ending 3Oth June,
propriety of doing this, but the views 1901, and for other purposes relating to the
of those who are experts iu sudh mat- public service.'
sent a
ters)-that w-e have already
spedimen from the museum, and the
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the suspension of
resuit is a mniserahie, mutilated thing camne the rule.
back instead of the fine specirnea sent.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
Unlder no circumstances would I, for one,
and should like to cali the attention of the govbe willhing to sendi away this specimen,
46th rule of this House:
I hiope w-e wifl be able at a later date to ernmnent to the
The Senate will not proceed upon a Bill apbe assured by the M.Ninister of the Interior
propriating public money that shall not, within
that there is no intention to do so.
the knowledge of the Senate. have been recomn-

logical Museumn here to the Canadian exhibit
at Buff alo. Whether that was contemplated
or not, I cannot say, for 1 have lad no opportunity of speaklflg to the Minister of the
Interior on the subjeet since my lion. friend
put this ou the paper.

BANKRUPTCY LEGISLATION.
INQUIRY.
Hon. )Ir. MACDONALD
Inquire

mended by the Qupen's representative.

We have uo know-ledge conveyed to this
Ilouse that there bas been an! consent or
(B.C.) rose to desire of the Crown to enable us to proceed
with thîs Bill.

If it is the intention of the government to
Introduce a bankruptey lav this session of parliament? If not, will the question be consldered
by the government during the recess?
Hle said :There w-as a committee of this
House sat seven or eiglit 3-ears ago and
tooli a great mass of evidence frein people
Tlîat
ail over the country on tliis stîbleet.
evidence w-ould be very good nio' if the goveriimient intend to ixuroduce legisîntion of
the kind.
Hon. '-Ir. MIILLS-It is îlot the intentioni
of the governument to lîttroduce aîîy legisiaHon. '.%r. MILLS.

Hon. Mr. M-%ILLS-1 thinkl I eau informn
my bon. friend that Ilis Excelhency gave
bis consent to this Bill.
Hon. Sir
tlîink s0 ?
Hon.
did.

mr.

MAýNCK-ENZIE

SCOIT-I

BOWELL-Yotl

unii quite sure

lî<,

Ion. Mu.MILLS-It w-as aîunouiîced iu
the othier Ilouse, andi 1 thtini: there is a
record of it ini the journais of the Other

[MARCH 29, 1901]
bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
House, wbieb are before the Senate. That
would be gratifying If we coutl believe
is conclusive information to this alouse.
tbat $30,0OO would cover the expense of the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If the Buffalo exposition; It would be gratifying,
Minister of Justice will state as to lis knowl- for It is likely to be more than three times
edge that the government had a Message as mucli. Can tbe hon. gentleman answer
from His Excellency and the authorlty to my question as to how mucli tbe Paris exproceed wlth this Bill, the Senate ought to postion cost ?
take it ; but, ixo sucb statement as 'I thlnk
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
this,' or ' I tbink that'1 will suffice, and
examine this ' and 'examine that'
'If you
blon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I bave
record, is sufficient. If the hon, gentleman very grave doubts whetbier the returuis rewlll just state It, as I have heard it very celved for the amount of money spent ln
often stated by the leader of the govern- tbose exhibitions are at ail commensurate
ment ln the othier Huse, or the Minister of with the expenditure.
Tlhat ls my own
Finance, it will be satistactory. When tbe view, and I have held it for a long time.
question was asked lie would say :'Yes,,
we have the autbority of the Governor for
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That may be, If my
bon. friend considers the pecuniary advanwhat we are doiag.'
tage only. There is a certain advantage lu
Hon. Mr. MILLS-When my lion. friend taking part iii an exbibition witx a view of
says I must state it upon my own absolute sbowing w-hat our intellectual and manuknowledge, I cannot do so, because 1 was facturing progress is, because you are comflot present ln the House of Commons when paredl with otber counitries, and the questhe Message of His Excellency was read, tion of taste and skili ls somethlng to which
but I was informed by iny colleague, the a country can neyer be quite Indifferent,
Minister of Finance, tlîat sncbl a measure and those are always questions of compariwas before the Housc of Commons, und son involved la ail these exhibitions.
that it would come up hiere this afternoon.
bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I bave
Hon. Sir NIACKENZIE BOWELL-I tbink
ail tixese points, and 1 am only
that is sufficient. We will take is word considered
speaking my own individual opin!ons, after
and yours.
baving considered them ait.
The motion w-as ag-reed to. and the Bill
Hon. Mr. M2%ILLS-It ls expected the prowas rea-d the second tie.
vinces will take an lnterest, and tbe DominHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbie amnount appropri- ion contribution Is supplementary to that
ated by this Bill ls $120,000, made up of wblcb the provinces themselves provide for
Items for the Paris exposition and Buffalo the Buffalo exposition.
exposition, public buildings, Ottawa, and for
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-lIlthat connection
tbe slides and booms at T]bree Rivers, whicb
I miglit just sny, that the considerable exbeen under conitract for sonie time.
have
penditure which we have lncurred witb reHon. Sir MA%--CKENZIE BOWELL-Will gard to the Chicago WorId«s Fair, and now
tbe hon. Secretary of State inforam the the Buffalo exposition, brings up tb's idea :
House how mucli the Paris exposition lias Is it ln contemplation at any time ln tixe
cost, or is likeir to cost, and w-bat tbe pro- near future to encourage a general exhibibable cost will bc of the Buffaio exposi- tion of a similar cliaracter ln Canada?
tion ?
bere Is $30,000 to lie expended in
Buffalo, and no provision is made for
box'. 'Mr. SCOTT-I thinkl tlils is the
of an exhibition on
last payment for the Paris exposition. This the encouragement
similar uines withia the Dominion of
is the balance of accounits thiat hiave came
I maise thils point to asic my lion.
in. I do not know that there wiIl be a Canada.
friend, tue leader of the govemumelit ix, this
larger vote for the Buffalo exposition. It
it is lu contemplation to give
Is not intended Canada sball have an exten- House, wbetber
encouragement to an international exhibition
sive exhibition there.

184

ISENATEI

in Canada ? 1 know both Montreal and Toronto have been thinking about IL. There
were delegations hiere two or three years
ago to elicit an expression from the government and parliament with regard to supporting exhibitions of that kind. 1 think ln
both of these cities, and I should say that
If any such course as that would be pursued, we might reasonably expect some reciprocity from our American neighbours,
from the tact w-e have expended such very
large sums on the Chicago exposition, and
are supporting something of the same kind
at Buffalo.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I understand tis exposition wll bie different from the Chicago
World's Fair. The Chicago exhibition wis
Panis
international, tVils exhibition
I suppose from whiat is conAmerican.
templated that exhibits from the coutinent of Europe will not be inv-ited 10 tiue
Buffalo exhibition. I inay say. iii repiy to
the main portion of the lion. gentleman's
observation with regard to an exhibition iii

It. We should be inclined to go very much
further If the exhibition was to bie held within our own borders.
Hon. ',%r. MILLS-No doubt.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If I understand
the niatter aright, the city of Buffalo and
citizens of Buffalo, supported probably by
other cities and populations, are sustaining
1 amrn ot aware
that exhibition mainly.
that there is any very considerable contribution from the treasury of the United
States.
Hon. Sir JOHN CARLING-Half a million.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is a pretty
serlous contribution ; but, while we are so
liberal as we have been towards the Paris
exhibition and the Chicago exhibition, and
now to the Buffalo exhibition, it is a question whethier we shouid not turiu our attention to the encouragement of nn exhibition
on similar lunes ln one of our own two
great cities.
Canada, whichi, I suppose. wonld neanu
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
either an international or North American
was rend the third time and passed.
very
exhibtion, tlînt the expense wouid be
great, and lu that matter 1 mighit lie luclined to agree with the observation made

THIRD READING.

Bill (6) 'An Act respecting the Supreme
by my hon. friend the leader of the opposition. I do not kznow that the advantages Court of the Independent Order of Forestwould be equai to the expenditure whichi ers.'-(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
the country would incur.

I do not tiiink you

coulfi have an exhibition lu any part of Cariada on a great scale, either li Montreal or
Toronto, that would not cost some millions
of dollars, and I do flot think the expenditure of so large a suni of muoney, which
would be a very large expenditure, beyond
any contributions we could possibiy receive
ln auy way, would be w-arranted at the
present tîme. If we were 25,000,000 lustead
of five or six millions, Rt would be anotiier

SECOND READINOS.

Bill (B) 'An Act for the relief of Lilias
Middleton'-(Hon. Mr. W'atson.)
Bill (C) 'An Act for the relief of James
MicDoniaid.'-(Hon. Mr. Vidai, ln
Ward
absence of Hon. Mr. Perley.)
Bill (35) ' An Act respecting the 'Mather
Bridge and Power Company.'-(Hon. -Mr.
Jones.)
Bill (36) ' An Act respecting the Great
matter.
North-west Central Raiiway Company.'of Hon.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-The propostion <Hon. Sir John Carling, in absence
Mr. Wood, Westmoreland.)
from M.Nontreail. if I remember right. w-as to
Bill (42) 'An Act respecting the Kliondike
make the exhibition International, anxd the
contribution tiey asked froii tlie Federal
parliamnent w-as, I thinlc, $100,000. We are
now providing $30.000 for Buffalo, and the
probabiiity is, as the leader of the opposition says, we w-ill dip very mucli deeper
in our pockets hefore w-e are through withi
Hon. M. FERGUSON.

Mines Railway Company.'-(Hon Sir Mackenzie Bowell, in absence of Hon. Mil.
Kirchihoff er.)

Bill (48) ' An Act respecting the Edmonton. Yukon and Pacifie Raiiway ColnWany.'
-(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)

[INARCII 29, 1901 ]
YUKON TERITORY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

1S5

Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-I ar n ot dealing with
anything except the amount for whiclb a
suit may be entertained.

THIRD READING.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lt
The House resolved îtseif into, a Commit- -would be only $,150.
tee of the W9bole on Bill (D) 'An Act to
Hoil. Mr. MLLLS-Yes, ln one case, and la
amend the Yukon Territory Act and to make another $500.
furtber provision for the administration of
The clause was adopted.
Justice in the sald terri.tory.'
(In tbe Coinmittee.)

On Clause 4,

On Clause 5,
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-I propose to substitute
the following for tlie flfth clause:
Each of the police niagistrates so appointed
shall ex-officlo withln the terrltory limlted to
bis jurisdlctlon be a justice of the peace and
have and exercise the autborlty and jurisdiction

Hon. Sir MACKENZ~IE BOWELL-Has
the bon. minister considered the objection
raised as to the appointmient of a barrister
of oniy tbree years' standing ?

Hon. Mr. MILLLS-Tbe jurisdliction of a
police magistrate ls comparatively limlted.
o! two or more justices of the peace sltting or Lt is not ns thougli you were giving hlm
acting together.

1-risdiet1,rn over, a wide rnger

Tbe object of Cils section is to give the jects.

of legal sub-

Then where a young man bas been

police magistrate in the Yukon the jurisdlc- ln an important law office and received bis
tion wbicb bie bas in the provinces in tbis legal training, and under a barrister of disregard, and Oive hlmi that jurisdiction abso- tinction wbere bie bas plenty of practice.
lute la certain cases ;that is, witbout the, tbree years at the bar nhigbt mean a good

consent of tbe person put upon bis triai, and deal more than five years la another case.
ln otbier cases sucb consent is necessary
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
wbere it is necessary under the provisions but wbiat guarantee bave we sucb a man
of tbe Code.
would be selected ?
'£lbe clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. M-%ILLS-I sbould like to have tbe
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I propose to insert a opportunlty of selecting n competent man,
section before section 9, wbicbi will be 8a, even tiiougl be bath not, been more than a
as foliows

few years at the bar.

There shiall be an appeal to a Judge of the
territorial court from the final jufigment of a
police magistrats in any civil case where the
amount in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds
one-balf the maximum sum to wblcb the jurisdiction o! the police mnagistrate extends.
That is to provide

an appeal froal the

police magistrate to the Higbl Court o! the
Territories la any case wbere the sum
reaches one-baîf the maximum sum o! tbe
police magistrate's jurisdiction.
Hon. 'Mr. M-\ILLER-Tlie
amount of the judgment ?

dlaim,

or the

Hon. M.Nr. M-\ILLS-The dlaim. Under tbe
statute lie cau enitertain stiits up to $500
in certain cases.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-WbCfl we were in
committee before on this Bill, 1 calied my
lion. frlend's attention to the circulustance
that hast year we had a measure before us
that did not become law, providing for an
additional judge la tbe Yukon district. That
was one of the provisions of a Bihl that did
not become law but was before parliamient.
1 tbougbt 1 understood froni my bon. frhend
tbat making tbese provisions wouhd at least
temporarily meet tbe congestion of work
there, and that it is not intended during this
session to bring l a -Bill to provide for flic
iappointaiient of another judge.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, at tlhat tiime 1
tbongbt, as we bad tbree judges, there
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Oîîgbt it not to be
be an opportunity of properly considclear that it is the amount of dlaini and wuid
eriing appeais from nny one judge, but at
not the aiiiount of judgment ? It w-i inake
the present time, for the purpose of decidiaga great difference.

SENATE]

certain Questions in which the comrnunity
are largely lnterested, the Gold Commissioner, who is a lawyer of some distinction, Is,
in a certain class of cases, acting in conjunction with the judges-that 15, bie forms
a third in certain classes of cases as to Mining operations, and that, wlth the two police
magistrates, we think, wlll do ail that Is
necessary to bie done at the present time.
0f course, if the gold continues to be obtained in large quantities there and the population increases, It inay be necessary to make
some other provisions, but we think this will
adequately serve the purpose without any
further judicial appointmnent
Hon. Mr. POW%%ER-The Minister of Justice submnitted a substitute for clause 2 to
provide that the police magistrate, or his
partner, or any person connected with hlm,
should not be concerned in a criminal. case
before a magistrate. 1 do not think that
provision should be llmited to criminal cases,
Arn I to understand that the police magistrate's jurisdiction extends to clvil cases ?
Hon. 'Mr. 'ILLS-Certainly.

cau be no objection to It I thlnk the principle of the Bill Is highly objectionable, and
1 certalnly would not agree to ItL
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I understand
we are talking about an adjournment. The
parties who are promotlng this Bill-the
organlzed labour associations of the country--desire to be heard before the Committee on Banking and Commerce, te which
If the Bill
the Bill mlght be referred.
couid pass Its second reading now, there Is
a chance of its passing through both Houses
this session.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Wha
Is representlng the labour organizations ?
Is Mr. Donoghue, of this clty, the representatIve ?
TEMPLEMAN-The trade
Mr.
Hon.
unions of the country are the parties who
are promotlng this Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Who
ls their representative here ?

Hon. -Mr. TEMPLEM\AN-Mr. DonogHon. '.%r. ELLIS, from the commlttee,
wlth amendments, -which hue is one. He Is the party who handed me
reported the Bill
the Bill, and asked me to present it to the
were concurrcd lu.
House.
The Bill was then rend the third tie
Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELLHon.
and passed.
Donoghlue is an employee of the governTRADE 'MARK AND DESIGN ACT BILL. ment, and It is a question whether lie lias
any ri,-lt to interfere ln these matters.
POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It should be a
The Order of the Day being called, second
reading of Bill (E) 'An Act to amend the governrnent Bill If a government employee
Trade -Mark and Design Act.'-(H-on. Mr. takes tliat position. He shouId only corne
forward to promote it in case It is a govTemple man.)
ernment measure. 1 remember very well the
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT said : This Bill should hlstory of thls Bill. It was before the
stand. There is a grave objection to the Banking and Commerce Committee more
principle of the Bill, and several members than once, and the hast time It: was before
who are opposed to lt are absent.
that commlttee, there was expert testimony
commlttee unaniHon. Mr. TEM2ýPLEMAN-The Bill passed with regard to It, and the
moushy refused to go any further witb ItL
last year.
second reading
I have a clear knowhedge of what tben
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Such occnrred, and examining the Bill, I tbink
Bis, to which objections may be takien, it ls precisely the samne Bihl we hiad up
can be read the second Unie without those before us ou that occasion, and I shaîl, mnywho vote for them being pledged to the self, if 1 arn here and it is brouglit up, opprinciple involved, if it is so understood, pose its going to the Banking and Combut If the hon, gentleman desires the prin- merce Committee, for reasons which I shahl
ciple of the Bill to be discussed here, there then state.
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[MARCH 29,1~901]

187

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is simply increasing
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I arn not pressing the Bull now, but the hou. gentleman Is the capital stock.
wrong ln saying that the Banking and
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-Is the bon. gentleCommerce Committee unaaimously opposed man ready to explain the clause?~
1tHon. Mr. SCOTT-The company are laHon. Mr. FERGUSON-My reollection is creaRing their business largely ln Canada,
quite clear. It was sent twice to the com- and are asking to be allowed to Increase the
The capital stock of their company. There ia
mittee on Banking and Commerce.
Committee unanlmously opposed the Bill on but one clause ln the' Bill.
Its second consideration.
Hou. Mr. VIDAL-Aithougli the Bill Is
Hon. Mr. bMcCALLM-It la an under- very simple, It must be kuown to the House
stood rule of this House that the principle that there Is strong opposition to the passof the Bihl is explalned at the second read- Ing of it without adding some provilng-. Is the hon. gentleman prepared to ex- sion necessary for the general well-being of
plain it ?
the country. 1 amn sure others must have
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I have consent- recelved, as 1 have, petitions asking, that
ed, at the request of the Minister of Justice, when this Bill cornes up there shall be a
clause ln it to prevent any incrense of the
to let the Bill stand.
rate for telephones ; also, that any parties
DEMISE 0F TEE CROWN BILL.
living close along where the Unes are, or
their branches, shahl have the riglit to have
READING.
THIRD
the telephone brought Into their houses If
The House resolved Itself into a Commit- they pay the expense-that it shall fot be
tee of the Whole on Bihl (G) 'An Act left lu the power' of the company to pass by
respectîng the Demise of the Crown.'
1 suppose the amendments
auy house.
wlll have to be made ln committee, but it
(In the Committee.)
Is well that the House should uaderstand
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-I ,have to maire an that it is not simpiy a Bill for an extension
amendmeat to the tithe, from the fact that of time-that more Is required lu It.
they find it Impossible to translate it into
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lt may
rirench. I move that the tithe of the Bihl
to rend 'An Act to make cer- or may not be. It makes it subject to the
be amended
tain provisions necessitated by the Demise provisions contained lu section 5 of cap.
67 of the statutes of 1880. Does the hon.
of the Crown.'
gentleman know whether the provision in
The motion was agreed to.
the statutes of 1880 restrlcts the charges,
Hon. Mr. PROWSE, from the committee, because that appears to have been the great
reported the Bill wlth an amendment, objection made ln the dIfferent petitions protesting against glving them power to lnwhich was concurred ln.
rend the third time, crease their charges.
The Bill was then
and passed.
Hon Mr. MýILLS-Mvl bon. friend knows
the telephone
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY'S BILL. that If you want village, whether system ln
the coma smail town or
panv will Introduce It or not depends upon
SECOND READING.
Hon. M1r. SCOTT-In the absence of Ithe charge whlch they are nt lberty to make,
Seniator «MNcM\iilaii. who lins charge of th~e and If you fix a rate beyond which they
Bill ia the absence of Senator Clemow, 1, cannot go, you will prevent maay localities
move the second reading of Bill (F)1'An from havlng a tehephone system thiat otherAct respecting the Bell Teleplhone Company wise might have one.
Honl. Mr. SCOTT-That is a question we
of Cana«da.'
Clemow cau discuss in committee.
cLU-r.
1
Mr%
Hon.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bihl
wili be here probably and caln 100k after
was rend the second time.
thec Bill himuself after thie adjouramnent.

[SENATE]

THE EASTER ADJOUtN'MENT.

liefore witb regard to these adjoumuiments,

it u-ould inake an adjourument rauch more
i-aluable to us Nvho live at a distance.
Honi. Mr. MUfrILS-I do not profess to posI catinot
sess omniscience or prescience.
tell beforeband precisely wbat is golng to
bappen. I gave to tbe Bouse the information on tbis subjeet as soon as 1 recelved
Il, and as soon as it was la my power to get
it. Whietber we would succeed la gettiag
througb the Bill to-day or not, depeaded on
lîow much discussion took place on it lu
the Bouse of Commous, and If the Blouse of
Cornnons bad not carried tbe Bill, I could
ilot bave suggested auy adjourumenl this
eveniug over next week, because It would
bie necessary to meet bere again on Monday.
Tbe practice has been, wben tbe Supply Bill
is carried tbrougbi bolb Bouses, altbougbi it
lbas not receîved tbe Governor's asseat,
the Auditor General assumes that it will
receive Ihat assent, and will make paymieuts
on the Bill, the sanie as if tbe Royal assent
Tbat Is the position lu
lhad been given.
wilti the malter stands. If hon. gentlemnen do not want to adjourn to-day. w-e can
I would suggest that
meet on Mouday.
w-hen the Bouse adjourns this eveîinii il
stands adjourned until MWedniesdiy of the
weel. after next. Tue reason 1 do not mention a longer period is, If the Bouse of CoinHon. Mr. 3icCALLU2M-If 1 understood mous sbould make very mucb progress, it
tbe Minister of Justice the other day, lie inigl be we would bave delnyed too long.
thougbt we shiould adjourui on Tuesday next.
agreed 10.
If we biad known lie w-as going to adjourin The motion ivas
The Senate adjourned.
to-day, some gentlemen mlgbt bave made
arrangements to go borne this evening, wbo
cannot go now. Hereatter, I think, proper
notice should bie given.

Bon. Mi.MILLS-Before 1 move the adjourirnieut of the Flouse. it will be rememnbered 1 suggested thiat I was unable, when
the House met, to say wbether we would
propose to adjourn to-niglit until some time
the week after next, or wbetber we wouid
meet'again on Monday, because there was
a Bill relating to supply before the Bouse
of Commons that biad flot yet been sent
Up to this House, and that If it were recelved to-day, 1 would thenl be in a positioni
to say If It would be possible to adjourui.
Now, thiat Bill bas been before this Bouse.
and bas been adopted. Nearly everytbing
on lte Iaper for to-day bas been deait with
and disposed of, and the number of Bis
before us for consideration on M.Nond..y next
lis four. I arn entirely In the hands of the
House. An adjouraiment Is a matter of no
consequence to myseif or my colleagues.
It is a miatter ot ç-onveiiieiice to severzil
h
1lilave endeamenhbers. and the ruie
voured to follow since I bave been leader of
this Bouse bas been to meet the couvenience of members of the Bouse, so far as
possible, and, so long as the public business
dld not suifer, to give tlîem ait adjourtiment
wbien an adjoumilmelit was pi-oper, aiid
-wlienever It was convenient to do so.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The Supply Bill,
THE SENATE.
-wbicb the biont. Minister of Justice lndicated
was to come before us, we bav-e now dealt
Ottaira, Wedncsdoy, April 10, 1901.
-wilb. Wbat is tbe position of that Bill
The SPEAKER 100k, tîte Chair at Tliree
now, If tbe House does not meel on Monthe Royal o'clock.
-,day? 1 bave always understood
assent cannot bie got for a Bill unless the
Prayers and routine proceedinigs.
Bouse Is lu session, and, therefore, the Bill
will 1emain as il is until our relurn. 1 do
BILLS INTRODUCED.
not tltink the situation bns been altercd iti
1Bill (27) 'An Act î-espectiug tbe Atlantic
the sliglttest respect. so far as the adjourniment is coucerned. I do flot propose to raise and Lake Superior ltaîîway iuumpauly. any objection. The Minister of Justice bas'(Lion.- Mr. 0w-ens.)
(23) ' An At i-espectinig the Guelpht
consulted members. and wîslbes 10 meet
Mrl:.
Railw-ay Colnpany.'-(Honl.
but if there could pos- Juactioni
tbeir conveuleuce,
sibly be some understanding a day or tw-o Fiset.)

IBill

APRIL 11, 1901]
Bill (49) ' An Act respecting the Niagara,
St. Catharines, and Toronto Railway Company.'-(Hon. '.%r. McCallum.)
Bill (54) 'An Act to incorporate the Fort
Qu'Appelle Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.)
Bill (55) 'An Act to incorporate the Arnprlor and Pontiac Raiiway Company.'--(Hon.
Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (71) 'An Act respectlng the Hudson
Bay and Pacific Railway Company.'-(Hon.
Mr. McCallum.)
Bill (91) 'An Act to amend the Inland
Waters Sesmen's Act.'-(Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
Bill (92) 'An Act further to amend the Act
respecting the Safety of Ships.'-(Hon. Mr.
Mihîs.)

Bill (60) 'An Act to incorporate the United
Empire Life Insurance Company.'-(Hon.
Mr. Young, la the absence of Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (1) 'ÂAn Act to Incorporate the Alaska
and North-western Rallway Company.'(Hon. Mr. MacKeen.)
Bill (21) 'AÀn Act respecting the British
Columbia Southern Railway Company.'(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C., ln the absence
of Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
Bill (34) 'An Act to incorporate the Canadian Patriotlc Fund Assoclation.'-(Hon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell.)
Bill (40) 'An Act respecting the British
Yukon Raulway Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
The Senate adjourned.

DAWSON CITY ELECTRIC COMPANY'S
BILL.
SECOND READING.
The order of the day belng called
Second reading Bill (H) An Act respecting the
Dawson City Electric Llght Company (Limited).
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) said: Before moving the second reading of this Bill,
I want to call the attention of this House
to the fact that ail those Senate Bills to be
read the second time to-day were thrown
back, by the adjourament, ten days, without having been read, and they milst be
posted seven or eight dnys before going- to
committee ; therefore there la a danger they
snay be lost from that cause. The estimates
are being rapidly passed, and parliament
may soon be ready to prorogue. If those
Bills have to stand eight days more they are
If the House
ln danger of being lost.
agree, I move that, the rules be suspended
ln so far as relates to these Senate Bills, so
that they may go to-morrow, or Monday, to
the committees to which they should be referred.
The motion was agreed to.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thursday, April 11, 1901.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
TRADE MARK AND DESIGN ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the second
reading Bill (E) 'An Act to amend the Trade
Mari, and Design Act. He sald : This Bill
It proposes to
is very short and simple.
amend the Trade Mark and Design Act by
giving to trade unions or labour organizations the right to register any design,
or braad, or label. It also gives themn
the right to ask manufacturers of the
article ln the trade In wblch they are
employed to put that mark on the goods
they produce. I believe this Bill, or one
very similar to It, was before this House
ln two former sessions-that is it passed the
Hlouse of Commons and was defeated ln this
The Bill was then read the second time.
House. The promoters of this Bill, I may
say, are the trades organizations of the
SECOND READINGS.
country. I have been requested to ask this
Bill (14).'An Act to Incorporate the Cen- House to pass the Bill through to the comtury Life Insurance Company.'-(Hon. Mr. mittee where the advocates of the legislaMcMillan, ln the absence of Hon. Mr. tion will appear and give their reasons more
fully than they did Iast year ln favour of theClemow.)

[SENl'ATE]
Bill. They are ln hopes that tbey may
overcome the objections of some hon. menmbers of tliis House that were opposed to It
last year.
They think they can advance
,good and cogent reasons why the Bill should
be passed, and I arn simply asking the
House, If it la iu order, to let the Bil bave
Mts second reading to-day and refer It to the
BanklIng and Commerce Committee. For my
*own part, I do flot know any good reasons
wby this legisiatlon should be refused. I do
flot know that It ivili effect ail that the
.trades unions expect It to accompiish, but
1 k-now of nlo harm whIch cau result from
this legisiation and, for my part, I amn very
iuch lu favour of the adoption of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-Wbat are the arguments ln Its favour now, that we bave not
lad before ?
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-We wlll -et that
lu comniittee.
Hon. M-Nr.
3McMILLAN-I should like to
heur them now.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-One of the
-strong arguments of the trades unions is
this : the unions, as hon, gentlemen kuow,
are very generai lu ail the trades of the
country.
The members of those trad es
unions contend that they are better workmeu-tliat the labour of their hands is better
-that they produce better articles than those
who are not members of the unions. They
hoid that it la in the public Iuterest that the
products of tbeir labour should be marked
'by the union label, in order that the pur-chasers of those articles may know that
they are buying articles manufactured by
inembers of trades unions. They also contend that it is in the interest of labour-in
tact, that it is lu the Interest of the public
generaliy, that members of labour unionswho are generally fairly weli paid for their
labour, as compared with those who are not
members of labour unions, should have a
fuir day's puy for a fair day's work, and
that this should be acknowiedged by the
public, aud that the public shouid patronize
articles manufactured by the unions. I think
that is possibly one of the principal reasons
why the labour unions desire thut ail articles manufactured by union labour should
bear the union label. For my part, I cannot
*see any harm in IL. If their contention is
-right, it is proper that they shouid be soý
Hon. Mr. TEIMPLEMAÇ.

iabeiled. If union labour Is not better than
the labour of non-union men, then that fact
wili soon become apparent by the mere fact
that these labels are used on inferior articles,
and nothing wlill Injure labour unions quicker than the fact that their labels are placed
on goods not as well made as gooda manufactured by non-union labour. I takre It that
la very largeiy the objeet of the labourlng
men of the country ln seeking this legislation. It ls permissive altogether. The labels,
or designs, can only be placed on the articles they manufacture, with the consent
of the owuers of the goods. It ls sald that
that can be doue now. I believe it ls doue
now, to a limited extent. I have myseif
seen the union label piuced on boxes of
cigars, and even on newspapers, with the
consent of the proprietors ; but the trades
unions who put them on have no proprietary
interest ln that label, and they desire to get
that proprietary înterest, so that others cannot use ItL So fur as I know, these are some
of the reasons why they ask for this legîsiation.
They are, as I said before, most
auxious that the Bill should be cousidered
at length lu the Bnnklng Commlttee, where
they cun state fully their rensous for usking
for this legisIation.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-i have very considerable objection to thîs Bill. To begia just
where my hon. friend ]eft off, I amn afraid
that the reuson whlch lie offered, lu response
to the Invitation of the hon. gentleman from
Glengurry, rather tells agaiust the Bill. My
hon. frlend seemed to poiut out that It was
lu the iuterests of labour to have. a trade
mark legalized, as' union men are better
and more skllful operators as a mile than
non-union men, and thut It was to lmpress
the public with the excellence of their
workrnanship thut the trade mark wiis
required.
We know that workrnunship
and material run very much together,
and along with each other lu many products. Take cigars for instance :the workmanship is a very smnall matter conipured with the muterial. The labour organizations do not supply the material to make
a first-class cigar, and while in appeurance
one product might seern to be us good us
another there wouid be a difference lu quai!ty of material, of which the label would give
no indication. Therofore, the Bill w-il utterly
fail to uccomplish thut object. I object to this

[APRIL 11, 1901]
Bill on several grounds. If It is to lie enacted
at ail, It sbould bie as a goverunent measure.
It deals wlth a subject wbicb is specially
relegated by Act of parliament, to a depart-'
ment of this governent. In addition to
that, we bave now a Departrnent of Labour,
a Minister of Labour, a Deputy Minister of
Labour and other officiais, as we bappen to
know very well. I think It Io time thtis
Department of Labour should show sorne
reason for its existence, and one way ln
whlch It could do so, Is to corne to this
parliament and ask for sucli legisiation as
lt deems necessary lu the lnterests of the
labour of this country. And certainly, If
this Bill Is ini that interest, the Department of Labour, whicb Is costing the taxpayers of this country a good deal, sbould
be Its expouent la this House, and the Bill,
If It le a good one, should corne to us with
the Department of Labour behiud it. My
hon. f riend, wbeu iutroducing titis Bill somte
Urne ago, explalued that Mr. Donoghue, au
officiai of the Departrnt of Labour, is one
-of the gentlemen who bad seen hlm lu regard to It, and had put tbe Bill Iu bis bauds.
That le an addltioual reason wby this Bill
should be a goverument measure.
If au
«officlal of the goverument Is the promoter,
It soerns to rne the Bill sbould bie put lu the
bauds of a minister.
Hon. Mr.' TEMPLEMAN-On the two
former occasions wben this Bila was
brougbt -before pariliament, Mr. Douogbue
was the intermediary between the labour
uxnions and par1Lamenct ln brlingin7 lit the
Bibi. He did the autue tbiu.g in thi-3 instance.
He was not en offi-cial before ; lie is now.
Hon. 5fr MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
was flot an ernploye of the govertiment ait
the time the bon. gentleman refers ta.
Hou. Mr. MILLf--That does nlot
auy dIfference.

mite

Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-At that trne there
'could be no possible objectiou to Mr. Donoghue, as a member of the labour unions,
acting as a representaUtve nui'X ln couuectlou with them, bringlng* the Bill before
parliameut lu the best way lie could ; but
since that trne two things bave baplpened:
-a Departmeut 0f Labour bas been organized,
and Mr. Donogline bas beco-me an officiai

lu that departient, 1 do flot thiffk lit îs regular ithat a suboirdinate officiai in that department should luduce, members of parliament to J.xîtroduce legisiation on sucb an
important matter, affectiug tbe commerce
of tbe country, except tbrough lhe goverument of whicb the bead of the departmneut
Is a member. So mucli for that brandi of
the question. 1 objeot to tlîls BNI4because
It proposes to make a trade mark of sornethlng wbich cannot bie a trade mark. It Is
said tbat parliarnent cau do almost anything
except makre a mun a womant, bu-t the task
of declarlug a tbing a trade mark which, lu
itself, canuot be a trade mark, ls beyoud
the power of parîlameut.
A trade mark
mnust be one of two thiugs : It must represent a proprletary luterest on the part
of the person wbo registered it, or it mnust
describe eome particular excellence la the
prod-ut itself. My lbon. frieud iried to
cover one of these grounds, but lie failed to
do so, 'because the persons %vlofuruisli the
labour seldom furnish the material, aud
therefore there caunot be a certaiuty of
the excellence of both labour and materlal.
I dlalm there le an aittrpt by this Bill
to make a trade mark of that wbicb ls not a
legîtirnate tblug to be rnade a trade mark.
Other Instituious of thîs couutry have just
as good a right to corne lu and ask that
sonie mark or design that they sbould agree
upon ehould be ac"ted. by parlinuient and
by law be placed on goods whicb they produce. Take as an Illustration, suppose the
Scotch societies of this country were to ask
parliameut to- make a design of the thisetle
a trade mark so that ail Scotchmeu ln this
country, who are eugaged lu work.ghops,
would lie authorized to put a sign of the
thislle ou the work that passed tbrough
their bands, in order that ail the Scotch
people lu this country could kuow that the
work was doue by Scortch workmeu. That
is precisely a parallel case. Does auy oue
say that it would bie a correct use of the
trade mark law, to do auytblng of tbe kiud?
We xuigb't pursue the Illustration a lit Vle
furtbier : Supposlug tbe Orangemen of tbis
cou.ntry were t, askr that a design tbey
agree upou-King William rldlng a white
Ilorse, crossing the Boyue-sbould be put
ou %là the qproducts Oraug-emen matke, so
that affi. other Ox'angeraen throughlout the
country could kuow that they were made

[SENATE]
Suli)- was proposed to legisiate by this Bill, and the
hy Orangernen and patronize them.
on and
tue muasons m-cire to asIc flint the measuze was re4ported adversely
posing
was flot proceeded any furtber wîth. Now,
compass and square shoulti be put on ail
had] forgotten ail
goods mauufactured hy masons, iii order it; Is brought up as if we
this, and we are asked to seni It to the
tliat the brother masons wvould know that
when
It was made by themn. It could not possihiy Banking. anti Commerce Committee,
some of us are sure that the same informashow they had any proprietary interest as
that the objecmaeons lu the articles. It could îlot show tdon will corne up again,
tions whlch 'are Insuperable wlll be preany excellence in the protiuct, because they
lt must meet the
would îîot be supplying the miaterial. Al ented agaîn, and tbat
same fate as it met before. 1 concur ln
tlhey could .possily show would be that
by my hon.
masoîîs had manufactured these articles, some of the observations made
the efforts the trade
and there might be seme agreement among friend witlî regard te
promote excellence
the mnasens, thut masons shoulti consume unions are maklng to
'l was strucir
no rival produet. It is absurfd te ask this lu their tirades and callings,
by law that sonie- only a dey or two ego lm reading a report,
parliament te declare
thing should be n tirade mark whichi ls net to wliicb my attention was calleti. made
lu
a tirade mark, and which cannot legitimately by the ICing's Printer to parliamneut
of the
be matie a tirade maîrk. even if we were te 189S, mlth regard to the working
I thiul. %ve Prluntlng Bureau, andi I %learnedf rom that
se legisiate on the question.
Mr.
have only te look nt iftlu that way te report, anti f rom the expérience of
wvhioh %vas arrived Dawson, tlint the influence th-at the trade
arrive at the conclusion
ut, after a good deal of delibération. by the union was enabled to exert over the emCommittee of Banking anti Commerce two ployment of men in the Printîng- Bureau
years ugo. The Bill came te us as a iiew was in the publce Interest und tended to
a
propesitioni, nnd we trieti vaiîîly for somne produce better work, es they requireti
timie te discover wvhat ivas te be accoin- high standard of efflieecy andi only men
plislîed by the passing.of tue ineasure. M'e could get employment under the influence of
I
sent it te the Committee of Bnnking and the union wbo were really good workmen.
ire- was very proud to flnd that the influence of
Commerce eue year, and the committee
properteti adversely upon it. My lion. frlend the trades union is in the direction of
satis- moting superior workmanship among their
who had charge ef the Bil- ivas net
was such
fied wlth that. He muade a motion that it owu members, and tha:t there
of the an excellent tri-bute from Mr. Dawson to
should be restereti on the orders
House, anti sent bnck for reconsideration the work that the trades union is doiug.
inte the Banking and Commerce Cominittee. 1 have hati conversation with so-me
this
wns dont. 'I'le 11iuse d'eferred to bers of the tirade union wfth regard te
That
full- Bill. 1 learu that there ls far from belng
my hon. friend, who clulmed that the
them on
est considéeration hli net been given to unanimLty of sonti-ment ameng
coin- the subject. Gentlemen with whom I have
the Bill, and It was sent back te the
qualifleti
mlttee. The committee summoned an ex- converseti and who are as wll
to speak for tba~t body as Mr. Donoghule,
pert froi thie Departmnent of Agriculture,
the proMr. Jackson of the Patent Office, te explain. whose name bas been g-iven as
exactly what the proposition was andi if lt moter of this Bial, have told mue that only
We a section of tbe tirades union are seeking
wvas caipaible of belng accomeilshed.
'better and
were itolti by Mir. Jackson thet It coulti net thds legiation, an~d thýat the
hhhistration I more sensible of the tirades union are net
be done. He used the veiry
BiU at a&d. For
have (borrowed from him, ithat pailiament in synmpathy wLth this
a mn these reasons I shaJl vote againet the meacould. do almnost anythlng -but make
gentleman wants to send.
a woman, but that It was almost equivalent sure. If the hon,
te de- it: to the committee, I ehbai not oppose lt
to attemptlng maklng a man a woman
to,
claire this a trade mark which It essentially strongay. I do neot tbink it is necessary
Is that the Bank- ido se, as it is quite easy to see that the
coulti net be. My recollection
this parlianient ought
ing snd Commerce Committee were unanim- Bill is flot ene whleh
us it te pass.
eus on thé impessibility oif legislating
lion. Mr. FERGUSON.

[APRIL 11, 1901]
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do not precisely un- the consent of the proprietor-that the goods
derstand, from the speech which the hon. have been produced by him wlth that magentleman opposite has addressed to the chine ? I think no one would say that la an
House, what his objections are. He says unreasonable thlng. Especially would It be
this mark Is lot; properly a trade mark. Any a reasonabie thIng to permit hlm to do so,
mark or design whlch workmen may intend the proprietor always consenting, If they
to point out the goods which they have pro- were marked by superiorlty of workmanduced, would be properly a trade mark, and ship. Now, 1 express no opinion as to whewhat It; seems to me the hon. gentleman ther work done by the members of the
might do very properly with this Bill, and unions is superior, inferior or equal to
what the Hlouse, no matter what their vlews that produoed by non unioný men. They
may be on the subject, might with pro prlety seem to, be of opinion that, havlng
and
coucur ln la, to let the Bill go to the com- been protected by their union,
mittee, where it can be properly considered. haviag been members of the union, they are
The committee of the Bouse may choose to always on their good behaviour la respect to
give the parties a copyright on the trade the character of the work they turn out.
mark, and may prevent anybody from uslng That may be so, and If the proprietor
It except those who are members of the chooses to allow a trade mark belonging to
association, and the officers of the associa- the union to be put upon the goods produced
tion who are so appointed. Another thlng la bis establishment by members of the
that might be done is to leave, as the Bill union, then it seems to me no mischief or
at Its conclusion does, the use of the trade. wrong is doue any one, and 1 say ag-ain it
mark entîrely to be assented to, not simply, may be welI that the members of the comby the producers of the goods, but by the mittee should consider wbether they would
proprietor. If the proprietor choosea to ac- simply coavert this Blill into a proposai to
quiesce In having his goods that are manu-. copyright the trade mark and so give to the
factured by the trades associations marked parties xvho apply for it an exclusive right
by their label, that Is a matter whlch may to its use.
very safely be left to himself. If these men
Hon. Si.r MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
were entltled, because they were employed inot thinkl it la necessary for me to give my
to manufacture or produce the goods for the opinion of this class of legisiation. I have doue
proprietor, to mark the goods as a matter of so on two or three occasions. I only rise now
right, there. might be objection to that, but to put on record my views on the question,
when no mark of theirs can be put on the for fear, wlhen the matter comes before the
gooda wlthout the consent of the proprietor, Bouse againi, should it corne, that we will
then every one kaows that the object of put- be told that havlng consented to the second
tîag the trade mark upon the goods Is slm- readIng. we approved of the principle of
ply n declaration as to who are the labour- the Bill. That is a point, the Senate will reera who have been employed ln the produc- member, bas been conibatted in the pat.
tion of the work ; and if work produced by I know It waa laid down ln the Bouse of
them la superior, I do flot know that any Gommons some years ago by the late Sir
wrong can be lnflicted on any other portion John Macdonald that the time had passed
of the public by permitting that to be doue. when the Bouse was committed to the prinIf their goods are inferior it will be a notice ciple of a Bill by permltting It to be rend
to every person that these goods can flot be the second time, and referring it to a comsafely purchased. Let me suppose, for in- mittee. I give expression to these opinions
stance, that some labourer had a patent for now, as I have stated them on former occaa plece of machlnery by which boots and sions. It doea seem to me an extraordinary
ooes are produced, and that the workman- position for the government to take under
ship produced by that machinery la auperior the circumstances. They seem to be afraid
to that which could be produced iu any to wrestle wlth this question, which might
other way, would there be auy Improprlety, place them in antagonlsm to a certain class
or would It be an unreasonahie thing, to of votera. If It lo a measure of snch Impermit the workman who possessed that portance as la claimed for it, and is part and
patented article, te mark the goods-with parcel of the system of trade marks by whîch

[EAE

194

or. It Is ail very fine, on tbe face of it, and
looks very plausible, but what I fear from
past experience is, that If a manufacturing
Industry refuses to allow this outside body
to, enter Its premises and place Its mark on
every article manufactured in that establishment, they will boycott It at once. Since
the Introduction of this Bill, 1 saw an article
In a Kingston newspaper stating that the
trades unions of that city were cailing labour
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No.
organizations throughout the country to boyHon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL-I aml cott goods manufactured la Glasgow-why ?
glving expression to my own views, and I ý1Because the trade union mark w-as flot
on them. Wiil this country be beneleave It to the judgment of the Bouse, after iplaced
hearing the speecb of the hon. 'Minister fited by such legisiation ? Lt Is a dîfficulty
of Justice, to say whether that Is not a fair which bas presented ltself la the past. Is
deduction to be drawn from is remarkis. It rlght that any union should be at liberty
What is the real meaniag of bis argument ?1 to enter an establishment and say you shall
He began by saying that hie did not qulte ionly empioy sucb-and-such men, and sncbunderstand the objections of the hon. g-en- and-sucb a class of men ? I have a distinct
tieman from Marshfield (Hon. Mr. Ferguson) recoliectioni of lhaving w-hile a minister, used
to, the Bill. 1 thougbt the objections of the ail the influence 1 couid to get a printer
hon, gentleman w-ere stated la a very clear repiaced ia the printiag bureau by the govand log-ical manner, and I consider themi erament printer after the force had been
It was not two wek after that,
unanswerable until some one vouchsafes Ireduced.
some reply. I do not agree w-ith my hon. la the miidst of a session, at twelve or one
frlend la one respect la refereace to trade o'clock la the aight, that a strike took place.
I asked this man, w-ho had a wife and famiiy
unions. I arn as miuclh ln favour of in
taining tlic riglits of the labouring man as to maintain, why the union had taken adthe hion. gentleman w'ho introduced tîjis vantage of the printer under the circumucouid not bell) it;
Bill. I have been toiling myseîf since 1 stances. He said :I
was thirteen years of age, and I kuow It w-as done by two or three w'ortbless young
what labour is, but 1 ouject to organiza- feiiows w-ho agitated the union, and insisted
tions w-hidi exercise a tyranny and col- !on a strikie uniess some concession w-as
trol over w-bat I may bave earuied bY made. Thiey are not the best class of aiea.'
If tbe hion. Minister of 1 understand la the union, every man must
Lonest industry.
Justice bie correct, the right to place the 'be treated alike, and any nian joiniag a
union label upoii the goods restý Nwith Ille Iunion is eattled to the samie consideration
person -ho seils the goods 'manUfacturei 1w- and w-ages as if hie were a first-class worktrades unionists. If it be optional, they can man. I have kaow-n cases where an expert
do so now, just tbe sanie as tbey could If stone-cutter couid do nearly twice as machi
this Bill were made law. If the great manu- w-ork la a day as an inferior workman. Sucb
facturlng industries of this country desire a man workiag by the piece could earn 50 per
to let the world know that the products of cent more than the incapable feliow aiongside
their industries are produced by labour or- of lm, but hecause hie liad done so. hie w-as
ganizations, they can place a mark. to that waited on by a deputation of union men,
effect upon them. Tbe hon. gentleman nsks and toid that hie must not turn out s0 much
Is there any objection to the public being w-ork la a day, because it had a tendency
notlfied that goods have been turned out by a to destroy the uniformity of wages. There
mie
to
superlor machine ? If a man Invents a ma- are hou. gentlemen listenlng1
chine of that klind, bie bas ail the protection w-ho know the truth of w-al I arn
now that this Bihl could afford.' because on saying, and I coatend that parhiament
ever3' single article turned out by that mia- *should flot lend itseif to placing In the
chIne;, you will find-the- sta'tément 'Patented hands of the trades unions the power to
by se and so,' andthat protects the lavent- *carry this system further than It bas been

the Inventor, or the manufacturer, can notify
the world how and by wbom an article is
-made, then it is the duty 0f the goverament
ýto grappie with and settie the question. But
:they are piaying fast and loose. They do
mot want to antagonîze those who have
strong opinions against such legisiation, and
tbey are stili more afraid to lose the votes
of those wbo favour It.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[APRIL 12, 1901]
carried. I belleve ln these organizations
THE SENATE.
where their object is mutuai protection. The
Ottawa, Pr<d*W, Aprit 12, 1901.
labourer bas just as mucb rlght to demand
frozhi bis employer biglier wages, as the
Tbe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
manufacturer bas to say 'we cannot pay o'cîock.
you s0 mucli,' but as I would flot support
Prayers and routine proceedinge.
any measure wbicli would place ln tbe hands
of capitaliats the power to dictate to the
labourer bow mucb he sliouid receive, COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS.
QUORUM REDUCED.
neither can I sanction a law giving the
labourer the rig-ht to fix the standard of
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-In tbe abwages as a condition of permittIng the sence of tbe Cliairman of the Standing
manufacturer to carry on business.
Tbe Orders Committee, I have to report tbat it
labourer bas a riglit, under tbe constitution, is difficult to find a quorum these days. A
to demand what lie considers fair remunera- number of the members are absent : 1 theretion for bis work, and If lt is refused, to go fore, witb the consent of the House, move
out ; but hie bas no right to say to me, If 1 that the quorum of that committee bie redo not belong to bis organization, that I duced fromn five to tliree.
shaîl not work because hie does not choose
The motion %vas agreed to.
to do so bimself. That is a system whicb I
think every man, wbo studies the Interest
1
of tbe country, and looks to its Nwelfare, wiîî RESIGNATIOX 0F SENATOR BL RPEE.
INQUX RY.
oppose unless lie ls actuated by the feeling
o.M.LNDYiurd
whiclh I have indicated-a desire to pandr
to a certain element for fear of losing its
1. The date of resignation, by Mr. Chiarles
support. 1 shahl not ask the House to reject'Burpee, of bis seat in the Senate.
2. The on the staff of Charles Burpee was
the Bill at this stage. I amn quite willing to employed date on which Mr. the Census Commisaccept the suggestion of the hon, gentleman sioners.
3. The duties hie lias to perform.
from Victoria (Mr. Templeman) and allow
4. The remuneration 'which lie receives for the
it t bereadthesecnd owan reertme
lt t bereadthesecodnw ad reer-performance of snch duties.
tme
red to the Committee on Banking and ComHon. Mr. SCOTT-The date of Mr. Burmerce wliene It can bie fully coasidered. I
le lias
1 pee's resignation was July 19, 1900.
bave stated my objections to the Bill.
thînk lt la vicious legisiation, and 1 hope the! not been employed on thie census commission
Senate xvill flot lie a party to placinig it upon
the statute-book.

Thie motion w-as agreed to, an
read the second tirne.

I-bie

la flot a census commissioner.

EMPLOYMENT 0F J. HURLEY, EX-Mt.P.

d wasINQUIRIES.
th
Bil

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL inquined:
BILLS INTRODUC] PD.
1. lias J. Hurley, Esq., ex-M.P. for East
ApplcatinsHastings, been appointed a flsheny cverseen,
Bill (J) ' An Act respecting
Appicaion.;and the date of sucli appointment ?

for RaIlway Chariters.'--tHon.

de Lanaudière.)
Bill (93) *An Act respecting
Investigations

into Shipping

flHon. Mr. M-Nilîs.)
The Senate adjourned.

2. What are the duties whlch lie has to peromadwhat extent of territory do thie"
duýties c=vr ?
3. The amount of salary to bie paid hlm ?
Iqrlsand
.nui1e 4. The per diem allowance for travelling exCasuaîties. - 1penses, &c. ?

MIr. Casgraiiî,

Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-Mr. Hurley was appointed inspector o! fisherles January 31,
1901. Tbe duties are the general supervision
of tlie district, and the enforcement of the
fisheny laws.
Bis duties extend over tbe
eastern division, comprisiag all that part of
the province of Ontario east'0f a line coinciding w1tli thie western boundairy of the

[SENATE]
counties of Durliam, Victoria, and Halbiir-,
ton, including the waters of Lake Scugog,
and tlie eastern boundary of the districts of
Muskoka and Parry Sound. The amount of
salary to be paid him is $1,200 per annum,
to whlcli the salary of Inspector Sheppard
of the western Ontario division was reduced.
Tliere is no per diemn allowance.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-SureIy
lie is not expected to travel over the whole
extent of tliat terrltory, nearly baif the province, without being paid a per diem alIowance.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Lt bas not been flxed, at
ail events, up to thie present time. I presume
lie wlll be allowed bis actual expenses.

moutlis of the year, unless, 1 suppose,
when looking -after parties catchlifg fisb
tlirough tbe ice. 1 do flot find fault with
the government for looking after their deIt is something we
feated candidates.
neglected to do.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I can congratulate my
lion. friend that lie was flot derelict of lis
duty in that regard.
six

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Perliaps the lion, gentleman had better point
out particulars. It is very well for the bon.
gentleman to make the statement, but wlien
lie makes lt so seriously as he did, even
thoughl t was with a smile, lie sbould give

j acts.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliere
YUKON RAILWAY LE-GISLATION.
was anl order in counci allowing $3.50 a day
INQUIRY.
railway and stage fares.
in addition to the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Before
Has that been repealed, or is it lu force ?
the orders of tlie day are called 1 ehould like
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-t do flot know.
to repeat my question about the railway
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbere pollcy of thie government in thie Yukon counis Dio doulit lie will bie allowed his travelling try.
expenses 2
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I trust 1 shahl be able
Hon.Mr.SCOT-1haveno
oub heto tell my lion. friend at our meeting on
will be allowed lis expenses.
hîonday.
M_%ACKENZIE BOWELL, ina
Hon. Sir
qulred
Whether

J. Hurley, Esq., ex-M.F.

for East

Hastings, lias been appointed Census Commissioner for the East Riding of the County of

PANY'S BILL.
SWOOND READING.

Hastings, or any other riding in said couflty.
Hon. Mr. FISET moved the second readand wbat is the remuneration paid for such
ln- of Bill (23) 'An Act respecting the
services ?
Guelph Junction Railway Company.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He wvas appointed
Hon. Mr. FIiRGUSON-I understand tbat
rîding of
census commissioner for the east
the county of Hastings. The remuneratiofi there is considerable opposition to this Bill
15 fixed by statute at a sum not exceeding -that it lias been amended in the otlier
$4 per day for tbe time actually employed. braindi of parliament contrary to the wislies
of the promoters of the Bill, and, as I arn
His duties are instructiag enumerators.
iuformed, contrary to the wisbes of the corHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wil]1 tbe time l)oration of the city of Guelpli. Perbaps my
devoted to fislieries inspection be deducted, hon. friend wýill be able to tell mue if tliat is
from bis pay as census comînissioner, or so. I bave been told tbat the first amendwvill lie receive his salary as fisheries officer ment wbicb was made to it was petitioned
as well ?
against by the corporation of tbe city of
1 Guelpli, ani wns abandoned, and tbat anHon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I arun fot advised.
give the information as 1 got it froin the other ameudment w~as substituted, and that
it was still against the wisbes of the proDepartînent.
mioters of the Bill, and of the corporation of
Hon. Mr. MILLS-There is nio reason wby
Guelph.
deduction.

lie should be subject to

Hoiu. Mr. FISET-I know there ivas a
Hon. Siýr MACKENZIE BOWELI-His
about
inspector are confinied to petitin froîn tho House of Commons
duties as fishery
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

[APRIL 12, 1901]

the Bill. i know that the mai ority of the
citizenS of Guelph opposed the amendinent,
but ail the expianations wlll be given on
both sides ln the committee. AIl that I ask
at present is that the House consent to the
second reading, and let both parties be heard
before the commIttee. 1 think the Honse
wii nlot refuse this request.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have not the
Inland Waters Seainen's Act before me and
I amn at a loss to know whether this is to
have a general reference to our statutes, or
only to this Act that Is belng amended. Is
It ta have a more general sigaiticance ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. Section 2 of the
Inland Waters Geamen's Act Is amended by
striking out the words 'above the harbour
The motion was agreed to and the Bill of Quebec.' The only change made is that
was read the second time.
Iastead of terminating above the harbour of
Quebec, the Inland waters Include the river
SECOND READINGS.
to the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It is defined
the Bill where the St. Lawrence river
Bill (27) *An Act respectiag the Atlantic ln
ends.
and Lake Superlor Rallway Company.'<Hon. Mr. Owens.)
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It; is for the purNiagara, poses of Inland Seamen's Act.
Bill (49) 'An Act respecting the
St. Catharines and Toronto Railway ComHon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is ail, ln order to
pany.'-(Hon. Mr. McCailum.)
give the judges jurisdiction down to that
'An Act to incorporate the Fort point.
Bill (54)
Qu'Appelle Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Lougheed.)
was read the second time.
Bill (55) 'An Act to incorporate the Arniprier and Pontiac Raiiway Company.'- SAFETY 0F SHIPS ACT AMENDMiNT
Landerkin.)
BILL.
(Hon. M-%r.
Act respecting the Hudson's
Bill (71) 'An
SECOND READING.
Bay and Pacifie Railway Company.'-(Hon.
Hon. M-r. MILLS moved the second read'Mr. McCallum.)
Ing of Bill (92) 'An Act further to amead
INLÂND WATERS SEAMEN'S ACT
the Act respecting the safety af ships.' Re
said: It would be more convenielit to point
AÂMENDMENT BILL.
out the chang-es which are made ln the law
SECOND READING.
when the Bill is before a Cammittee of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- Whole BE3ouse.
gedtadteBl
a
ing of Bill (91) 'An Act ta amend the In- Temto
i
h
mtion sn agredtad
Th ea
land Waters Seamen's Act!' Be said : This
is a very short Bill embracing two clauses.waredtescnti.
The first clause enilarges the term 'lnland
BILLS INTRODUCED.
waters of Canada.' At present the lnland
aa
h
noprt
1)'nAtt
i
waters are restricted to a point on the St.
aa
h
noprt
Bl 1)'nAtt
above the harbour of Quebec. The dian National Rallway and Transport ComLawrence
b
h
proposai Is now to extend the lnland waters pn.-SrMcezeBwl.i
te S.
te te lmitof Lwrene werethesence of Sir John Carling.).
river proper entera the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
Bill (32) ' An Act to provide for the markThe next clause authorizes the judges of
of packages containing
territorial courts of the North-west and of the ing and Inspection
exercise the same inria- Fruit for Sale.'-(Hon. Mr. Mills.)
Yukon territory to
diction ln regard to seamen that any judge
The Senate adjouriied.
of the Superior Court of Lower Canada, or
county
judge of sessions or judge of a
___
court or atipendiary inagistrate bas at the
present time. That la. it gives very summary
procedure.

[SENATE]
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-The-e is another
ujatter in connection witb the committee. «I
Ottawa, Mfonday, April 15, 1901.
think every member of the House, whether
The SPEAKER took tbe Chair at Three a member off the committee or not, should
have an opportunity off knowing when the
o'ciock.
committee meets. I do flot see ]iow any
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ordinary member, who is flot on the committee, cau know off the meetings. 1 shouid like
NEW SENATOR.
to be present sometimes when important
Hon. JOSEPH GODBOUT w-as Introduced and matters corne up, If I knew when committees mieet. If there was a notice postedtool. bis seat.

THE SENÂTE.

Hon. 'Mr. McKAY (Coichester)-There is
LEASE 0F RAILWVAYS IN MANITOBA always a notice posted in the corridor.
BILL.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-There Is
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE ON STAND- no special mile for the reception and conING ORDERS.
si(leration off petitions by the commlttee.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Colchester), fmom the At this time off day we receive notice of a
Commlttee on Standing Orders and Private mieeting of the committee to-morrow-that
Bis, pmesented their report, mecommendîngé is about nineteen hours. Special notice off
that the miles be suspended in so far as they this meeting w-vas posted on Saturday night.
relate to Bill (102) 'Ani Act respecting a 1 got mine early this morning. and was present w-heu the committee met. With regard to
Lease of certain Raiiw-ays in Manitoba.'
the remark off ny hon. friend from Kingston,
Hou. 31r. KIRCHHOFFER moved the there is no mile off the kind in thjs House.
adoption off the report.
Lt is generally known w-heu committees
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Before that motion is meet, and those w-ho m-ish to attend can go
put fromn the Chair, 1 shouid like to eall at- there.
tention to the fact that it w-ould appear the
Standing Orders Committee met this forenoon. I amn a member off that committee,
and w-hen I ieft heme on Fmiday I bnd no
notice whatever that the committee w-as to
meet on M-Nonday forenoon, though matters
of importance wvere to corne up before that
committee. It w-as caiied on such short
notice that it w-as scamceiy possible for mnembers of the commnittee to have an opportunity off being present. Several important
matters were considered by the committee,
and have been reported upon under the
circuinstances I have mentioned, so that
notice must have been g-iven off those meeting-s after this House rose on Fridny. One
off those matters, the Manitoba Raiiway
question, is off very great importance to us
iu the w-est, and I persoualiy should have
iiked to be present at the meeting had I
kuioni it w-as to be bield this afternoon. I do
not think it is a proper practice to have committees off this House meet on Monday fore-

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Whiie we are in
the mood for discussing committee meetings,
'l iigit just miake this remark, that on
Friday morning last several committees met
aimost slmultnneously. We had no coinmittee at ail on Thursday, and the committee
w-ork w-as bunched on Friday moruing. If
the chairmen off the varlous committees
w-ouid consuit together they miglit avoid
tiiat ditticulty. I w-vas myseif on the Printing Cowniittee at n very important meeting.
I wanted to be present at the Raiiway Comwittee which w-as to have met at eleven
o'cIock-. When I w-ent to the Raiiw-ay Coinmittee room, 1 found that another committee w-as sittiag, and they couid not meet to
organize until that w-ns through. An effort
should be made to prevent committees eucroaching on each others time.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The House
met on -Wednesday evening, and we couid
not gives notice off a meeting on Thursday.

noon ; but if they do meet, notice of such
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-This is not an exmeetings shouid be given previous to the ceptional circumstance. It has occurred beHouse rising on Fmiday forenoon, so that fore that severai committees have met at
every member may have due warning.
the same time.

[APRIL là, 1901]

Hon. Mr. DEVELI-On Friday 1 was notiùid to attend two comnrittees-the Prlnting
and the Private Bill Colurnittees. One was
to ineet at 10, tbe other 10.43. Lt was long
atter 10.45 before ive got to the second
coînmittee, and the consequence was, when
I got to the Private Bis Committee tbey
had adjourned. The wor. -as over, soI
biad no opportunity whatever to attend tbose
comnmittees. It was caused by the fact thiat
the two committees met about the saine
finie s0 thiat nibers could flot attend both.

notices are flot out before they leave, tbey
are flot aware of the rneetings, and matters
may corne up, in which they have greaf
interett, when they would like to be presentIf the House will consider the suggestion
I have rnade, and add my namne f0 some of
the committees, I fhink they will not lack
a quorum If only one additional member is
required.

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I should be
happy f0 second the suggestion o! the hion.
There is a person in Unifed
gentleman.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It Is the States polities known as delegate-at-large,
and I think if the bon. gentleman were to be
fauit of adjourninents.
named committeeman-at-large It would meet
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-Tbie fault lies at the the dlfficulty. I sympathize wifh tbe hondoor of the g-overnment on account of the gentleman froin Manitoba.
Ha1-d lie been
adjourtiment we bad a litewieago.
biere Friday, the cormlfttee could have met.
Senators went horne and forget to corne back
Hon. '-%r. YOUNG-I was bere on Friday.
in proper trne, and tbe consequence was,
w-lien the Cornmittee on Standing Orders
Hon. -Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Wýe froi fthe
w-as suinmioned to meet, there wvas flot a west must have our feelings considered
quorum to be found in the city of Ottawa. wbien we wishi to be absent for a few days.
'Meiers w-ere tw-ty-eitlier at bomne or Lt wvas f0 suit our convenience that the
somnewiere else. and the resuit w-as thiat on quorum was reduced. 1 think the cornrnttee
I"riday it was found necessary to reduce should have waited for us unfil Tuesday,
the quorum of that commiiittee s0 that the or until we could get back. W~e western
business of the Senate miglht proceed In people should have our feelings considered
regular order. The fact is, mnatters carne la the matter, and I stand by my colleague.
before the commiiittee tlîat the commlttee
Hon. Mr. LANDERIN-It rnay be the
could not handie for want of a quorum, and
tbe business of the Senate would bave been policy of the senators froîn Manitoba, for
locked up if the quorum bad not been re- one to caîl a meeting ln the absence o! the
duced. and f0 faîcilitate public business the other. I should like f0 see more harmonlous
commiiittee wqs called for Élis imorning,. I relations existing, not only between the rereceived mny notice this worninig iii timie to presentatives of that province, but the reattend the mneeting-, and I w-as present. If presentatives frorn ahl the provinces.
lion, gentlemen wbo complain about niot
The motion was agreed to.
knowing of thec meeting of the committees
w-ould pay a little more attention t0 business,
BILLS INTRODUCED.
and be in thieir places in the Senate. thiere
Bill (K) 'An Act for ftie relief 0f James
w-vould be i10 cause of complaint.
Stovel.'-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
Hon. 'Mr. LANDERKIN-I bave been here
Bill (29) 'An Act to amend the Dominion
for sorne time, and ar n ot a memiber of any
Lands Acf,'-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
committee, and if I arn required at iany
Bill (46) 'Ant Act f0 amneid. the Unorgantiiiue, I shall be happy to attend any of
thien, if my lîealth permits, to make up a ized Territorles Game Preservafion Act,
quorum. 1 think the contention of the bon. 1894.'-(Hon. Mr. M.%ilîs.)
gentleman fron 'Manitoba (Mr. Young) Is
M-Nonday rnorniîg is flot a SUPREMNE AND EXCHEQUER COURT
quite correct.
ACT AMEND'MENT BILL.
proper timie f0 hiold a meeting if notices are
110f given ouf on Friday, because if is usual
FIRST READING.
for members living within a short distance
Hon. '.%r. MNlllLS int-roduced Bill (L) 'An
of Ottawa to go home on Saturday, and
returfi on 'Monday forenoon, and If the Aet to aniend the -let 10-.51 Victoria, cap.

[SENATE]
16, intituled ' An Act to arnend the Supreme
and Excbequer Court Act, and to makie
better provision for dlaims agalist the
Crown.'
He said : Hon, gentlemen are aware that
a few years ago the power of brInging suits
against the Crown on petition of riglit was
extended to torts. Previously It bad been
confined to contracts. The extension led to
a good deal of unnecessary litigation. I arn
of opinion that the law was more satisfactory as it stood, giviag the party bis redress
where lie bas a contract witlî thse Crown,
but stili adlhering to the ancient maxim that
the Crow-n can do no wrong, in ail actions
with regard to, tort, except lu the case of
accidents wlsich arise on railways owned
and controlled by the governiment.
Hâon. Sir MACKENZIE
It coutain aur provision of
gentleman introduced tw-o
fereuce to contraets. and
jected to ?

rnst daugerous cliaracter.
Tiiere w-as a
time w-lien redress could not be obtained
from the Crown. but the whole trenîd or
modern legisiation lias been to give Increased
jurisdictioa, so that if an injury bas been received, the publieceau have its reiuedy precisely In tIse same way as against a corporation or an individual. I must say that w-heil
this Bihl cornes up in lts more advanced
istages, I shall feel it incumbnent upon myseif
to oppose it in every possible w-ay. I amn
quite satisfied iny hon. friend. fi-ou bis
reading, must kunow that tue contention
tliat I have suIuîiýted. tliat the treiffl ol.
legisiation lias been in the w-cy indicated,
is correct, and tlils Blill shouid certainiy
not meet witlh bis approval. because i
kuow that thse bon. Mdinister of Justice bas
been prog-ressive rather than retrogressive
BOWELL-Does
la regard to legislitioii.
the Bill the hou.
years ago In reBILLS ASSENTED TO.
w-hich w-as obTue Sente adjourlied during pleasure.

Hon. M\r. -NILLS-No. thiat w-as on a 1 After sorne tirne the Flouse w-as resurned.
differeut subjeé-t.
The Honourable the Chief Just'ceo0f CaniHou. Mýr. LOUGHEED-I amn reaily as- ada, acting as Deputy t0 His Excellouc% theo
tonished tliat tIse goverument is adopting a Governor Genoral, being seated at the foot
retrogade policy w-ith retereuce to actions of the Throao,
brouglit iinto tue Exchequer Court agailst
Thse Honourabie the Speaker eomrnanded
The whiole trend of modern the Gentleman Ushor of thse Black ltod to
the Crow-u.
legisiation lias been to open tue door so tlîat procood to the Hlouse ou Couinions and ac
w-bore negligence eau bo bronglit borne to quaint tiiet House,-' It is tho Deputy
the Crown, particuicrly w-ith regard to any Goveruor's desiro tliey attend irn lîiinediapublic worlc, and upon w-hidi worlz aîîy one tely in this House.'
bas been injured, hoe sbould have redress
M'ho, being corne wn-itiî their Speaker.
the salue as agaiust any corporation or individual. 'Now, to limît logisiation of this
The Clerk of the Crown lu Clîancory reati
cbaracter to accidents ou railways seems to tIse Tities of the Bills to be passed, as folme to bo tronchiug on the rights to wbich lows
thse public are entitled. 1 would refer to
An Act relating to the Grand Trunk Railway
miany public w-orks whici «are undor the Comnpany of Canada.
An Act respecting the Grand Trunk Raiiway
jurisdictiou of tue Crown ;for
instance.
bighw-ays, bridges, public buildings, and Comnpany of Canada.
An Act respocting the South Ontario Pacifie
works of a numerous character, w-bore In- Raiiway Company.
juries are constantly being received by the
An Act respecting the Orford Mountain Railpublic, owing to the nogligence of the ser- way Company.
An
vants of the Crow-n-ow-iug to the nogli- dence Act 'urtber to amend the Canada EviAct, 1893.
gence very froquenitly of the officers of the
An Act reapecting the Supreme Court of the
Department of Public Works. To say that Independent Order of Foresters.
the Crow-n shall oujoy irnrunity frorn the
To theso Bills the Royal Asseut w-as rcnogligeuce of thoir officers, and that the nouncod by the Clork, of the Senate ini the
public shall ho throwu oîtirely foir thoir followiug words:
safety on that class of ludividuals xvithout
In His Majesty's name, the Honourabie the
rodross, sorns to rne to be logislation of c Chie! Justice of Canada, acting as deputy to His
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[APRIL 15, 1901j
Excellency the Governor General doth assent
ta these Buis.'
Then the Hionourable the Speaker of the
House of Gommons addressed the Honourable the Chief Justice of Canada, acting as
Deputy to His Exceilency the Governar
General. as follows :
May It please Tour Monour
The Commons of Canada have voted the supplies required to enable the governinent ta defray certain expenses of the public service.
In the naine of the Commions, 1 present to
Tour Honour the following Bill :-' An Act for
granting ta Hus Majesty certain sains of money
required for defraying certain expenses of the
public service for the financlal. year ending 30th
June. 1901, and for other purposes relating ta
the public service, ta whlch 1 humbly request
Tour Honour's assent.
To this Bill the Cierk of the Senate, by
Hiq Honour's command, dld thereupan say:
'In His Majesty's naine, His Honour the actlog deputy of His Excellency the Governor Generai thanks bis loyal subjects, accepts tbelr benevalence, and assents ta this Bill.'
After wblh the Deputy Governor wvas
pleased to retire, and
The Flouse of Commonq witlidrew.
LIMITATION 0F PURCHIASE 0F ARMI.
BEEF.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Bef are the Orders
of the Day are called, I sbould like ta ask
the bon. Secretary of State If any word bas
been recelved fram the Imperial goverameat
wltb reference to the limitation whicb bas
been put upon the purchase of army beef,
whicb I observe, from the press reports, Is
coaflned ta British-grown cattle or Britislh
Tbere seems ta be considerable
beef.
alarm lu meat cîrcles in Canada as ta wbether this term In Its limitation would restrict the purchase of colonial beef. I aeed
moat point aut ta my bon. friend, or seek
ta Impress upon the government, the necessity of taklng prompt measures ta bave tbe
broadest Interpretation placed upan that
pbrase, partlcularly la vlew a! tbe fact
tbat In 1890 we exparted over 82,000 bead
ta Great Britain, and sald 12.650,090
paunda of dead beef, and If tbis restriction
Is now ta came Into play ta Ilnit tbe market
for colonial beef, It will be an unfartunate
circumstance, partlcularly lu view of tbe
vigorous attempts wbicb are beiag made
ta pramate Imperlalistlc sentiment througbout tbe empire. Considerable discrimination

bas already takea place au the part af the
Imperial goverament against colonial beef,
and I bope that we will nat bave a repetition
a! the embargo wblcb was placed same years
ago upan aur beef la tbe Eagiisb mark-et ;
and more particularly la view of the preferential trade pollcy of tbe preseat government. The Imperlal goverument shauld certainly nat seek ta lirit the cansumption of
aur beef In tbe way lndicated In tbe press
reports wblcb we bave recelved.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Beyond the repart of
the Press Association. the gaverament liave
received no notice wvhatever of the action
referred ta, tbat is af limiiting the consumption of beef for the ariny ta haome-bred caitIc. Beyand the repart la the papers. (lie
goverament really know narhing about it.
If lt should be confirmed, w-e should of
course make saine lnquirr as ta haw% ît
Nvauld affect the Canadian expart a! beef.
The subject, as my hon. friend has abs4prved, is a very important one. We fully appreciate the value of oui' having the advantage over our n eiglibaurs o! Canadiani ca-11
tie not at ail events being exciuded.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-I natice that the
Sýecretary of State at Washington cables
the United States ambassador la Landon
wvithi reference ta the interpretation ta be
placed an it, and it seemis ta mie aur goveramnent should aet with as mucli aiacrity,
particularly where a grave doubt exists as
ta whiether aur mnent is ta be affected.
Hoa. Sir MACKENZI E BOWýELL-Thie
words ' home-bred beef' la the despatchi
were used by thle Secret.ary of State -in reply
ta the bon. gentleman framu Calgary. 1 do
nat understand the despateh ta be so worded. It said British-bred beef.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-As 1 saw It, it 'Vls
'bome-bred.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Britisb g-rawn. 1 cannat conceire it passible
that the wards 'British grawn' wauld confine the beef ta England, Ireland and Scatland. It must mean beef produced la any
Vý
not, it becomes the duty of the goverament
ta take such steps at once as ta include beef
raised la all parts of the British Empire.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-If the expression 'British-bred beef' were used, and used ia a re-

[SENATEJ

,stricted sense, it would exclude Ireland
as mucll as it would exelude the colonies.
se 1 apprehend that that cannot be the
construction that was intended.
THE PAN-AMERICAN

EXHIBITION.

THE l'<»TM~ASTElt AT FISIIING LAKE
PIOST OFFICE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired:
On whose recommendation was E. Field disrnissed from the postmastership of Flshing Lake
post office ? Aise, what was the cause of complaint against Mr. Field, and was the person or
persons who advised Mr. F'ield's dismissal ever
at the post office? And further, did any number of those s.erved by the saicl post office petition agalnst the dismissal of Mr. Field?

Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-Before tlie Orders
o! the Day are cailed. I desire to ask the
Minister of Justice wlietlier lie Is ln a pos.tion to-day to give us Information wltli regard to the matter I brought before the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Mr. Field lias flot been
House a littie whlle ago, that is, wbether dismissed from the postmastershlp of Fishthe M.Ninister of the Interior bas corne te any In'g Lake post office, and is still performlng
decision re.-nrding the remnoval of the wood the duties of postmaster at that office. My
bison speclmeîî froîn the inuseuni here te lion. friend lui,~ lîeen îîîisinforîinei.
the Pan-Arnerican Exhibition at Buffalo ?
Hon. '-%r. PERLEY-That Is quite satisHon. Mr. MILLS-I amn unable to -Ive My factory.
In fact, I
lion. friend the information.
tjuite forg-ot h.. 1 wili endeavour to obtain
THIRD READINGS.
the Information just as soon as posslblp.
Bill (20) 'An Act respectlng the NaLusp
Hou. Mr. PRIMROSE-It will be in the and Siocan Railway Company.'-(HOl.
Mr.
mentory of bn, gentlemen wlio heard my Ni'relîbotl'cr.)
remarks on this subject that I made the
Bill (36) 'An Act respecting the Great
statement on good authority, as I deemed it.
North-west Central Rallway Company.'that that specimen was given te tlie mus(Hon. Mr. Kirclihoffer.)
eum by tlie donor with the express stipulaBill (42) 'An Act respectlng the Klondike
tion that it was not to be removed therethe view, in Mines Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Kirfrom. The lion. minister blds
opposition to the view whicli 1 expressed, ellhoffer..
Bill (48) ' An Act respecting the Edmonthat this is n&t a unique specimuen. In this
lie differs from the nuthorities in such mat- ton, Yukon and Pacifie Railway Company!'ters. Whether it be a unique rspecimeni or iHoli. 'Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
net, it seemis te me tl.at. under the circumBill (21) ' An Act respecting the British
stances which I have recited, the species of Columbia Southern Railway Company.'morality which would permit a ininister of (Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
the Crown, or any other person fer tliat matBill (40) ' An Act respectlng the British
ter, to remove tliat specimen is at least Yukon Railway Company.'-(Hoii. Mr. Kirunique. That is a proposition which I ven- clihoffer.)
ture te sulimit te this honourable House as
Bill (34) 'An Act to incorporate the Canabeing incontrevertible.
dian Patriotic Fund Association.'-(Hoii. Sir
Mackenzie BowelI.)
COE HILL MINES MAIL CONTRACT.
MOTION.
INLAND W'ATERS SEAMEN'S ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWNELL moved:
Hon.
That an humble Address be presented te His
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
ExcelUency -the Governer General ; praying that
His Exceillency wdlýl cause to be laid upon the
The House resolved Itself Into a CommitTable of the Senate, a returu showing the num- tee of the Whole on Bill (91) 'An Act to
ber o! tenders recelved by the Post Office Deamend the Inland Waters Seamens' Act.'
pa.rtment for the carryisig cf the mail fromn Ce
HUi Mines, ln the north riding of the county ef
(In the Committee.)
Hastings, te Apaley, ln the east riding of the
county of Peterboreo' ;the names of the persons
On clause 1,
wbo tendered. the sumn asked for the conveyance
of such mails, and the name of the persoa te
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-This clause extends the
whom the contract waýs awarded.
i lnland waters of Canada from a point above
The motion was agreed te.
Hon. '.%r. MILLS.

[APRIL 16, 19011

Uý

out of the contingenthe harbour of Quebec to the lower end of ican pay for this work
the Senate. These papers aald on the
cies of
the St. Lawrence river.
now, as 1 understand. the hon. Secrewasadoped.Table
The laus
of State, are a retura that 1 &sked for
wasadoped.tnry
The laus
some time ago of the correspondence whlch
On dlanse 2,
place. and the contracta lato whlcb
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause gives to the bas taken
Imperial government and thls goverfiJudge o! the Supreme Court o! the Yukonl the
ment and Australia bave entered, for the
Terrltory similar Jurisdictiofl to that no
of the Pacilic cable. 'L.ie bon. Secreexerclsed by Judges ln other parts of Can- layiug
tary of State suggests that as It Is late ln
bc pîrlnted forthada in reference ta the righta of seameno cllec thir age bythe session, they should
alloingseaen
ln order that we can uuderstand the
wlth,
allowlng sreamnt chet hiwgsb
when the appropriation for the
summaY proesa.question,
construction of the work comçes Up.
The clause was adopted.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSO-N-I amn far froin
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED froni the commitîaviîig auy objection ta the printing o! these
reported the Bill wlthout amendment.
tee,
apers. 1 remember last year, when slimilar
The Senate adjourned.
japers went ta the Printîng Comm ittee, they
vere ordered flot ta be printed. 1 was not
present at the tirne. 1 was present at the
iext meeting. and tbey were ordered ta be
1 withdraw any abjection I have
printed.
THE SEI¶ATE.
miade.
Ottatca, Tucsday, A4pril 16. 1901.
Hou. '.Ir. SCOIT-Thie hon. gentleman is
If
a member of the Printin; Committee.
The Speaker took the Chair at 3 p.m.
Lie wilI utidertake ta have an order made
Prayers and routinîe proceedings.
at once by the coimlttee ta bave the returui prlnted, 1 have Do objection ta sending
PACIFIC CÂBLE CORRESPONDENCE.
the papers ta the comimittee.
-'%r. SCOTT submitted a returfi of
Han.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO'N-The Printing Coulthe Pacifie Cable correspondence. He sald : mlttee can afterwards ratify It.
1 wonld suggest that this return should be
The
sent nt once to the Printing Bureau.
The motion was agreed ta.
Committee is not likeiy ta meet ia
Printing
time ta deal withi It, nnd it is better to bave MATHER BRIDGE A-ND POWER COthe whole returu printed prompthy. I therePÂNY'S BILL.
fore move that the returui be sent directly
tthe Printing Bureau ta be printed.
aREPORTED FBOM COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. FERGU SON-I doubt If w-e have
tbe power. Lt Involves the expeuditure o!
However, If the papers are remonley.
quired urgently-l do not know that they
are-the usual way is ta send them ta the
Prîntin- Committee, wbicb meets every
week, aud we could pass an order relating
to the printing of these papers.
Hon. «Mr. SCOTT-The course I suggest
bas been frequently followed in former sessions when urgency demanded it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If this
were a matter involving au expenditure by
the government, my hon. friend from Prince
Edward Island would be quite riglit, but we

Han. Mr. BAKER, frani the Committee
on Rallways. Telegraphs and Harbours, presented thîeir report on Bill (Na. 35) an Act
respectiilg the 'Matber Bridge and Power
Company, with ameudmelits.
Hon. Mur. McCAýLLUIM-It strîkes me that
ln this Bill we are doing sometbing the
parliarnent of Cnada bas no righit to do.
This bridge company got a charter here lu
They got power to build a bridge
1896.
from Fort Erie. lu the countY of Welland, in
the province of Ontario. ta the clty of
Buffalo, ln the state of New York. 1 contend that. as far as the parliament of Canada Is concerfled, our jurisdictian only ex-

[SENATE]
tends to the boundary lune, that is the middie of the Niagara river. By the Act passed
hiere amiending that charter, we knocked out
'the state of New York' altogether, and we
substitute ' any state.' It does tiot even say
any state of the union. It may be any state
I amn
In South Amnerica, as far' as 1 know.
speaking of tlis because 1 want to put myI have my opinion and I
self on record.
amn giving it to the public. The committee
struck, out ' the state of New York ' withiout
hein.- asked to do it. The compauy did flot
petition parliament to strike out ' the state
of -New York,' but whoev'er drew the Bill
Think of it for a moment.
put thiat lu.
'Any state' luay cover a bridge from the
village o! Fort Erie to Pennsylvania, across
the lake. That is the reason I object to this
the
legIsiation, ixot that 1 arn opposing
bridge. 1 wanit the bridge huilt If it is posThe company have had a
sible to do it.
charter f'or live years. They are takiug five
1 kniow they have hiad a
years more now.
good deal o! difflculty frorn the state o!
New York, but they have the power frorn
the state of _NvN- York and, after getting
that power. wbY cut out New York State ?
I have an artiec~ here from a paper, saying
1 wanit it to go ou record
the saine tinig.
thiat, as far as 1 arn individually coucerned.
1 do niot -,aut to do auiytinig that wil loo0k
1 do not want to :ippear
foolish bereafter.
to legislate for the people o! the United
1 contend tlîat oui' charter ceases
States.
I arn
when we get to the boundary hune.
not going to oppose the Bill anly furthier. I
thought this was the proper time to make
Hon.
a few remiarks to put myself right.
gentlemen who are versed lu the lawv can
give their opinion, but 1 have mine, and 1
arn going to stand by it uiitil I hear arguments to convince mie thiat I arn wrong.
The report w-as adopted.
GUELPH

JUNCTION RAILWAY
PANY'S BILL.

more volurninous than the Bill Itself, but
tliey are the outeoine of an agreement betweeil the promotors of the Bill, and the
The
corporation of the city of Guelph.
They are
arndments explain themselves.
not contrary to the public lnterest or good
morals, and 1 move that they be concurred
in2.

The motion was agreed to.
BOUNTY

TO QUEE-N'S COUNTY,
FISHER'MEN.

P.E.I.

MOTION.

Hon. Mr. PlERGUSON moved:
Thiat an humble Address be presented to, Ris
Emoellency the Governor General ; praylng that
lits Excellency rnay be pleased to lay on the
Table of the Senate, a return giving the names
and addresses of ail fishermen In Queen's county,
P.E.I., who clalmed bounty and recelved the
same, for the season of 1900, with the amount
Pald to each.
understand the naines are ouily
He said :I
about 120, and on that account. I expeet the
return to be laid on the Table at a very
early day.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (No. GS) 'Au Act respectinig the 'MeCleary Manufacturiflg Company.'-(HoI. Mr.
Watso n.)
Bill (No. 82) 'An Act respecting the Rathbun Comupaniy.'-(Hofl. Mr. Young.)
RAILWAYS IN THE YUKON COUNTRY.

Hon. Mr'. MACDONALD (B.Ç.)-I would
ask the MNiniister of Justice if he is in a position to state the policy of the goverflmeut
To-day
on the Yukon Railway question.
we bad a Bill relating to a railway In the
Yukon country, aud no one could tell
COM- whether the pollCy of the governmneft would
permit it to becorne law.

Hon. '-%r. MILLS-The measures on this
subject bave corne here from the House of
'. BAKER. from the Committee Commons. They bave passed the House of
Hon.
on Railways. Teleg-raphis and Harbours, pre- <Com mon s.
sented their report on Bill (No. 23) ' An Act
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-This is a
Railway
respectinEg the Guelph Julnction
H1e Bill introduced here. 1 believe there is no
certain ameudmeuts.
Company.' with
L will bave been observed, from the Bill la the House of Commnons with regard
t
said
reading of these amnendments. that they are to the Yukon.
Hon. Mr. McCALLTJM.
BEPORTED

FROM COMMITTEE.

[APRIL 16, 1901 Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, we had one yester- has been any change of policy on that question. The question of dîsputed boundarY
day from the House of Ooinmons..
in the vicinity of Lynn Inlet stili continues.
Hon. Sir I'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The We have no reason for authorizing a connecBill to which my hon. frlend from Victoria tien now any more than we had two years
refers was Introduced in this House.
ago. Unfortunately there was a Bill carried
Hon. Mr. MILLS-There have been Bis. through parliament at an earlier perlod,
We carried a number through yesterday before the commission met, charterlng a railthat came up from the House of Commons way, extending from Skagway Up to Lake
on this ane oubjet-that le, Bil relating Bennett. That lune lins been built, but no
to railway corporations in the Yukon coun- further measures have been autborized by
the government since that period.
try.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I thinit only in reference to the extension of the time of charters already granted. Do I understand my
hon. friend to say that hereafter the government wiil raise no objection to Bis incorporatlng railway companles In the Yukon
country ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have flot saiti so.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-What qualification does my hou. friend make to bis statement ?
Hon. 'Mr. M'%ILLS-If my bion. friend will
look at the list of Bis that have been deait
wvitb already, bie %vdIii see a number of Bis
relating to railways in the Yukon country
have passed the House of Commons and
coule Up bere. 1 understand my hon. frienti
to say that the government had annoneed
a policy preventing any further railway corporations within the Yukon couatry, andi
hie wanted to know whether any change had
taken place in the policy of the government
in that particular. That was the question as
I understood it.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Surely my hon.
friend does nlot consider the construction of
the White Horse Pass Railway a misfortune
to the country ?
Hon. Mr. MILL-S-My hon. friend suggests
a proposition in the question whlch lie puts.
1 say to may hon. friend I do ; I tbink you
have gone a long way to confirma the United
States in the possession of territory that
belongs to us, and not to them. This House
assumed a very grave responsibillty In that
matter. That was the opinion which 1 expressed at the time, and that opinion lias
only been confirmed liy what bas since transpired.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
the House and the country w-111 lie very
mucli astonished at the attitude assumed
by the Miaister of Justice on behaif of the
government In connection witb this matter. Experience, at ieast, shoulti have
tauglit hlm that tbe conclusion at wbiclî lie
arrived, and the principles which lie advocated when this question was before the
House, have been not only disputed, but
Hou. Mr. 'LNACDONALD (B.O.)-No, I proved te be utterly lllusory.
did flot mean that exactly. I mean charHion. Mr. MILLS-No.
tering railways connecting wlth United
States territory in Alaska, that Is a quesHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--And
don Nve w-islî to bave answered. There are a
number of charters for railways insIde the would have been of the greatest damage to
Yukon country that no eue will object to, the country, and would have exhausted the
but the question Is, will these railways be treasury of this country to an enormous exjustify.
Howallowed to makeconnections with the Lynn tent, whIch no one could
ever, the question asked by the hon. senator
canal ?
from Victoria was simply whether the govHon. MNr. MILLS-W'ith the United States ernment lad dhanged the pollcy which they
territory connection bas Dot, so far as I advocated wben this question was before
know, been sanctIoned since the announce- this House two or three years ago. That
nient was made by the government a year was the question lie asked, and that was the
or ti-o ago, and I ar nflt awa re that there 1question which was discussed to-day, as to

[SENATEl
whether the parbiament of Canada sbould
grant additional charters for the construction of railways commencing at Dyea or
at Pyramid Harbour, extendlng Into British
territory. It is contended, as the hon, gentleman sald-and I think very properly, from
,what knowledge I have of the countrythat flot oniy Skagway, but Pyramld Harbour and Dyea, should belong and do belong
to Canada. So that if we pass a Iaw admitting that either of these ports, or any
other starting points on the Lynn canal,
are in United States territory, we theni concede a good deal. It is a fact which nobody
denies, that the railway which the governnment proposed to buHld f rom the Stikine
river had its terminus at Wrangel, in the
United States. We have neyer contended
that Wrangel helonged to Canada; hence
it was no more a Canadian route starting
from Wrangel, running Up the Stikine, than
the one tbat now starts from Skagway, and
If we ever bave an arbitration. and that section of the country is awarded to Canada,
then a city hns been built ia our own country.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No.
Honi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbie
bon, gentleman says no. Did hie flot dlaim
that Skagway belonged To Canada, and if
it should ever be awarded to Canada, then
the terminus of the road, either at SIzagwa y. Pyrarnild Harbour or Dyea, would be
lu Canada.
Tbe United States continue to
refuse, as 1 understand, to submit this question to arbitration, unless the commissioners
from Canada flot oiy concede. but have the
reference to be made to the arbitration concede, tbat ail these places whlch have been
l>uîlt up on Lynn canal should bie in any
event Utiited States territory. Thiat is. as
1 understand, the point upon which the
Canadian commissioners broke off negotiations with the United States commissioners,
and tbe position with whicb I think every
Canadian, no matter what his politics mighit
be, was in accord. That is the point that
the committee waated to know, and whicb
bans been ralsed here to-day. I understand
the bon. mInister to say they have not
cbianged their policy.
Then, if they have
uot changed their policy, it would bie useless
for the Senrite to pass the Bill which was
introdnced by the hon, gentleman (Hon. Mr.
Hon. Sir MACKENZ.IE BOWELL.

McKeen) In this House. If they do pass
the Bill, the poiicy of the government la
such that it wlll bie rejected In the Lower
House. Were it flot for the complications
which have arisen through the fiegotiations
wlth the United States upon this question
0f boundary, speaklng for myseif, I would
vote for any Bill for the construction of a
raiiway runnlng Into the Yukon terrltory.
But fortunately for the Yukon terrltory,
fortunately for Canada, and fortunately for
that section of the country, there Is a railway running by the White Pass, -otherwise
there would have been no entry to, that
country at ail, unless the government carried out tbeir scheme, which never would
have been utilized, and would have been of
no use to that country etther in settienient
or anytbing else. I say that froni tbe reading of the reports whicbi have been made, lu
reference to the feasibilify or traffic on that
road-I could quote it niow, but as there is
notbing before the House, and this discussion is ont of order, I will not do so, althougb the question is a very important
one-from the readinig of the reports It can
be sbown, especially the reports of the
Globe's special correspondent, that It is an
iiipracticable route. It can bie shown tbat
steamers and barges that went up the
Hlootalinqua years ago, -are there to-day and
cannot get away, and consequently the whole
thing would have beenl as huge a failure
as could be perpetrated by any governiMent.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My bon. friend brings
up the discussion on the proposed Yuk~on
route.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hion. minister just raised this discussion.
Hon. '-%r. MILLS-I may say I have not
chaniged the opinions 1 formed at the tume,
after very careful consideration, and I thînk
what lins transpired since shows that the
course proposed by the government was a
wise course, and one which, If adopted,
wvould bave been In the public interest. My
lion. friend talks about startlng from Fort
Wrangel In United -States terrltory. We did
flot propose to start f rom there. Everybody
admltted that from the boundary to, the sea
the Stikine river was witbln United States
territory, but under the treaty of Wisiilng-ton, as under the treaty of 1824, we have the

[APRIL 16, 1901]

right of navigating that river, a right whicbi,
under the treaty of Washington, -was confinied to navigation for commercial purposes.
Now, we could have passed throug-h United
States terrltory uuder the authorlty of that
treaty. We would flot have gone through
Uiited States terrltory as we are going
througb United States territory at the present momentHon. Sir MACKENZIE
do not admit that.

BOWELL-We

Hon. Mr. MLILLS-W,ýe go through their
territory by sufferance, but l the othier
case we went by riglit nbieli we acquired
unfler that treaty. No one proposed thîat
the bead of navigation in the Stikine river
should be the permanent starting point of
the railway, but as our object wnv.s to get inta
the Yukon country witli as great rapidity
aq possible, we begran at the lead of niavigation froin the sea on the Stikinie river,
to construct a rond fromi thiere ilorthward
inito the Yukon country, not withi the initention of leaving that as the onily rond f0 be
conistructed, but with the intention whenl the
northern section was comnleted to the
Yukon territory, and made available for
commerce, we could bave beg-un at the lheld
of navigation on the Stikine river, we
could have gone southward and constructed
to some point on the sea, admittedly within
Thiat was thle proposiour own terrifory.
tion. Thiat xvns feit to be so lunch iii the
initerests of the peuple of the country, that
the goveruiment of British Columbia, although not favourable f0 the Dominion governmeat, were willîng to make a handsomne
contribution to every mile of the r-ailwNvy
consfructed lu their province. That wnis a
rafional and, ln my opinion, a statesmnanlike
proposition. If that proposition had been
carried ouf, one of the effects would have
been to put an end f0 the growth of Dyea
and Skagway. It would have made those
points unimportant, and would have ènabled
us f0 obtain fromn the United States government what we have not, up to this moment,
been able to obtain, and that is, the reference of our right, or their righf, respectively
The
along the Lyun canal f0 arbitration.
United States governniient: refused f0 agree
Because Dyea
to arbitraflon, and why ?
and Skagway were becomlng important
points. They were the entrances into our

territory.
They would always have considerable commercial importance If the only
Inlet to the Yukon country was froni that
point. If was undoubtedly the most couvenlent point f0 start from, and therefore if
was one of whlch they obtained possession,
and whlch possession they were unwllng
f0 gîve up, and the respective rights of Canada and the United States f0 the country
along the Lynn Inlet was not referred f0
arbitration, as we deslred.
We referred f0 the case o? the Venezuela
arbitration. We pointed ouf the readiness
of the British government to agree f0 a
reference f0 arbitration. We poinited ouf the
similarity of the two cases, but tbe United
States refused f0 submlt that question, refused f0 have the boundary there settled by
arbitration. They were in possession, and
that possession they were not willing to
gieup.
y h
lon. friend sn1-s thaf the
courge taken l the rejection of the proposed r.nilwny Bill two years ago was a
proper action on the part of this House. I
was of a different opinion tbenl, and I retain the opinion which I then formed. You
have two towns on the Lynai Inlet, Dyea
and Skagu-ay, which contain a considerable
population, both of which owe their existence to the discovery of gold fields in the
Yuk-on country, and botb o? which are supporfed by Canadian trade, and bofli o?
whîich lire under United States control ;, If
we lxnd established anl lidpenclent rond
into the country those places wonld have
10sf their importance and would have ceased f0 grow. The popu.lation that were there
would have withdrawn, and whoever mîght
have been eniflited f0 the possession o? the
country would have been enabled f0 have
that question defermined by a competent,
fair and Impartial tribunal. That we have
not obtained. That we cannot obtain. My
hion. friend talks about the question of our
rights ln the country. If is ail very well
to talk of abstract righbt. I have no doubt
la my mind that that country legally, under
the treaty of J824, the treaty of St. Petersburg. belongs f0 us, but the United States
are in possession and unwilling f0 give Up
possession, and never will give up possession. and neyer wlll consent f0 arbîtration
as- long as the country possesses any importance. One Important object whlch we
hoped f0 accomplish by the proposed rail-

[SENATEJ
-way into the Yukon country was to destroy
the importance of those points. It would
have bad the effect of putting an end to
their importance. It would have led to the
wlthdrawal of the population from there,
because there would no longer be any trade
to support them, and we believed, and lielieve now, and every piece of information
that we have got from British Columbia
leads us to the opinion, that along the proposed Une of railway frorn the head of
navigation on the Stikine river southward
to the Portland <'hannel. or to that other
arrn of the sea in its immediate vicinity,
ran tbrough a very ricli metaliferous country, one that was capable of infinite development, and It would have been very
Important to British Columbia if we bail
built that road, and If we bad enabled
parties to carry on their geological exploraT
tions in that vicinity. W e could have secured a large population that would have gone
a long way to give local support to the
railway. Lt would flot have beenl wholly
dependent upon the trade going inito the
Yukon country. It would have had another
and outside support, and when my hion.
friend speaks about the difficulty of constructing the road, 1 see no such difflculty.
Tiiose wlho have gone tbrough the country,
frorn the head o! navigation on the Stikine
nortbward, have pointed out that the country tbrough wbich the road would run is
neither difficuit nor expensive.
Hlon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOW-ELL-My
1 said nothing
hon. friend is in error.
about the difficulties o! building the road.
1 spok-e of the lmpossibility of navigation.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Navigation is a matter
o! no consequence. We have the right of
navigation under the treaty, and if the
river was flot well suited for navigation, it
would certainly have suited our purpose for
a short tirne. We hadl appolnted surveying
parties to explore the country to the southward. We neyer lntended that the comnmencemenit of the rallway on the Stikinie
river should be the soutbern end o! the
road.

Hou.

Mr. MILLS-The

lion, gentleman

says we have to navigate the Hlootalinqua

river. There is very littie trade carried Into
the 'Yukon country in the winter, and if the
river is navigable ln the summer season, as

it certalnly isHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS- My information points
to the fact that It is navigable, and being
navigable, It could have been utilized in
the summer season. That belng so, 1 think
It would have served a conveaient purpose.
It would have dîminished the cost o! living
in the 'Yukon country, which was o! very
likely for years to corne, and would bave
opened a wider field for exploration than is
likely for years to corne, nd wobuld have
contributed to the development of important
minlng regions in the province of British
Columbia, ail of whîch are of very great
consequence to the people of this country.
I apprehend-that is my feeling, and I trust
it is the feeling of every bon, gentleman in
this House-that we rejoice scarcely Iess at
the progress and developmient of any of
the provinces, than we do at -the progress
of one ini wbich we are residents, and 1 arn

sure of this, that the goverament would
bave been deligbted if our railway construction in Britisb Columbia had served to
secure a large population and extensive
development o! the mineraI resources in that
province, ail 0f which, ln rny opinion, would
have been a necessary consequence of that
construction. Hon, gentlemen state, as If
it were a rnatter of great rejicing, that
there is a railway f rorn Skagway into the
Yukon country, as far as Lake Bennett.
Well, you have placed the wbole trade of
that country, in wbich we are making large
expenditures, !rorn whicb we are deriviag a
very large revenue in proportion to the
population, into the bands 0f our neighbours and rivais to the south of us. We
have permission to go into the Yukon country

by their sufferance.

trade

regulations

are

Our

trade and

practically

under

their control, and tbiat condition of things
is due to the fact that the proposed

measure to give us access to the counHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You would have try, on our owvn territory and witbin
was rejected by this
te navigate the Hootalinqua river, whicb is our own control,
Hlouse, and our position bas been cbanged
equally bad.
Hion. Mr. MILLS.

[AI>IIL 16, 1901]
frorn thit moment for the worse. No bon.
gentleman can eay we are as well off as
we would have been If we had badl a line
of communication wholly within our own
country, and whether the territory around
Dyea and Skagwaly le our territory or not,
It ls practically under the control of the
United States. They have possession. They
are flot wiihing to give Up possession, and
they neyer 'wIll give up possession as long
as It: la of any Importance or value to them.
If the policy of the government of two or
three yeare ago had been carried out, that
territory would have lost Its Importance to
them, because we wculd have diverted the
trade on which those places depend wholly
Into other channels, and that, ln my opinion,
even If It had cost much more than It; was
certain to cost, was an object worthy of
the people of this country, but uafortunately
the feeling of this House at the tirne prevented that poiicy being consummated.

'209

the proposition made by the goverilment at
the time. It was talked about, I admit,
after the proposition was brought forward
by my hon. friend from Victoria, as to the
necessity of another road being bulît, starting from a point ln British Columbia, over
which the United States wou1d have no control, as tbey would -have had by ezacting
statutory and bonding regulation« in reference to bonding going Up the Stikine river.
That le the pointI~ desire to cali attention to,
and whieh we wiIl dIscuas more fully when
the government corne down with the proposai to pay Mackenzie & Mann smre $400.000 which they dlaimn have been expended
undeir the authority of the government
Itseif.
THIIRD READING.
Bill (91) 'Au Âdt to amend the Inland
Waters Ses.men's Act '-(Hon. Mfr. Scott.)

APPLICATIONS FOR RAILWAY CHARTERS BILU
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)
moved the second reading of Bill (J) ' An
Act respecting- the applications for railway
charters.!
He said : The object of this measure la
to prevent speculative charters being granted by parliament; also to provIde that ail
the necessary data should be furnished to
the House ln ivhich the Bill la to originate.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that a government meagure ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amn strongly opposed to the principle of this BIil I presume that we could discuse the BiII perhaps more InteUliglbly ln committee when
we take into consIderatIon the fact that
there are many subeections anid detaile to
it.which could be betr dealt with in cornrnittee of the whole. However, the principle
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, ne.
of the Bill seeme to me to be mc vicious, and
MACKENZIE BOWELL-An-d to invade the righ.ts which thie Heu8e has
Hon. Sir
had nothing whatever to do with the pro- exercised with reference to Its committee
position to grant a charter to Mackenzie woqrk, particularly dealing with Bills before
the Railway Committee, that the Senate
& Mann.
would be dolng an Injustice to Itself, would
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It hail everything to do be stultifying itself to an inconceivable exwith it. My hon. friend wil remember we tent to permit of Its being passed. Up te
took a vote for the very purpose.
the present tirne. this House bas vested In
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I. re* -the committees full p0wer to deal with Bills
inember distinctly that wns not part of ln whatsoever way that comrnIttee thought

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not propose to continue this discussion, but
1 simPlY want to set the hon, gentleman
right ln reference to the remarke he bas
made about the continuance of the railway
from the head of the Stikine river southward through Canadian territory, by which
sorne three or four million acres of arable
lande was to be brouglit Into the mnarket.
That proposition wae not made by the government at the tirne, nor was anything eaid
about it at the time, further than the remarks made by my hon. friend from Victoria, who moved a resolution comîmttilg
this House to a railway echeme etarting from
some point Ia British Columbia. That was
the proposition made by my lion. friend, aud
It was confirmed by the rnaiority of tbls
House. The principal argument ueed by the
hon. gentleman to-day wns an after thouglit
altogether.

[,SENATE]
best, as the Bis came before it. 31y lion.
friend asks parliamend to pass a bard and
fast statute by wbich tbe committee catiflot exercise that discretion whicb a cotamlttee sbould be permitted to exercise, partlcularly with refereace to Bis of this character. I bave bad the honour to have ai
seat on the Railway (JommIttee since I bave
been ln tbis House, çand I live ln a section
of tbe country probably wheçe more railway
charters are granted than ln aay other part
of the Domdinion, and yet there bias flot coule
trnder my observation, up to tbe present
tixne, the Injury whidh my bon. frleud wbo
bas introduced the Bill seems te tbink proceeds from permItting the RLailway Committee to deal with cbarters entirely IrrespectIve
of the arbltrary rules whlcb bie bas embodled in tbis Bill. My hon. friend ln tbe fIrat
place laid down the priaciple tbat the appicants fer a ral'lway charter sbould assume
tbe Initial expease--or taninanount to tbatwhicb would be assumed If tbey bad secured tbeir charter, and practically after they
have finaaced 'their project ia tbe market,
ln the maklng of surveys, plans and ail that
sort of tbIug. If niy -bon. friend had designated this measure a Bill for the further employint of civil engîneers, I could very
well appreciate -bis objeet in introducing lt,
because the only menit ln It Is probably tbat
wbich my hon. friend can very mucb appreciate, wbea we consider the fact that hie
belongs te that profession, of glvlng very
considerable employment to a class of men
wbo occupy a higb position ln professlonal
lfe, but wbo, I thlnk, at this stage of a railway charter, sbould not bave their services
enlisted te the extent tbat hie antîcipates
should be done by the passage of this Bill.
If no abuses bave arisen ln the grautlng of
railway charters, under the procedure wbilh
at present obtadnus in the Railway Committee, I ask wby sbould the Railway Committee or this Hlouse be bound by tbe bard and
fast rules embodled In this Bill ? I ask furthermore, 'would tbe members of the Railway Committee give any more conisideration
to a Bill by reason of a suTvey baving been
made, by reason of plans having been prepared, by reason of estimates baving been
furnished, and ail the other Information
polnted ont lu this B3ih ? Those familiar
wlVh commlttee work know perfectly wehl
that evea in most cases a plan is subHiou. Mr. LOUGHEED.

mitted. to the cômm-ittee, and most elab-orate plans bave la most cases been
prepared. The committee seldom examine
such plans. Tbey look over the Bill and
see whether 'it Is possessed of merits.
If It bas inerits they pass the Bill. In the
case of any confilct viltb vested Interests, a
coutroversy may aise as to whetber the
Bill sbould pass, but the Information demanded by this Bill would not place tbe
commlttee ln possession of facts whlcb are
so desirable la deaiing witb a Bill. We
know very well that the most contiroversial
question that arIses lu deallng wîth a railway charter le the question of vested lnterests. It would be impossible under this
Bill to obtaiu Information of that character.
I would furthermore point out what would
the mnembers of the Rallway Commlttee know
about tbe gradients, about the difficulties
that may be lu the way of construction,
about the cost of dîffereat sections, and that
sort of th.ing. That la a matter for the
domestie concern of the raîlway coxnpany
af ter the rond bas been started. The greatest
fucihity sbould be gîven to promoters of enterprises like ra)llways, particularly lu 'a new
country, for the purpose of havlng the country developed. Raîlways are tbe ploneers
of civilIsaftIon la a new country, and if you
once handicap -that ciass of enterprîse by
placiag n bieavy Initial expense upon men
wbo are flot possessed of mucb capital la
takiug the prelimlaary steps, you at once
preveat that enterprise fromn being ealisted
la the developmneat of the country--aad yon
place thîs class of work practlcally la tbe
bauds of capitalists w ' o are alone able to
lncur the vast expenditure lnvolved la the
preliminary steps whicb my bon. friend
tbinks should be taken Incident to the application for a railway charter. I submît to this
House tbaît no abuses having been obtruded
upon the attention of the Huse la deallng
with railway charters, and the greatest facility should be extended to promoters in obtaining their Bills. Untîl abuses are sbown,
1 must say 1 shahl feel myseif la duty bound
to oppose the Bill.
Hlon. Mr. MiacKEEN-Tbe Billshould coinmend itself to the judgment of the House,
aud aiso of the public.
La the flrat place,
I admire It for dis conservative spirit, wbich
is sometbing we do not see much of la the

[APRIL 16, 1901]
present day. I think the hon. gentleman
who Introduced this Bill is des er,'ing of
more or less credit for bis public spirit In
trying to repress, as I see the spirit of this
Bill tends te, practîces and legisiation
which, to put It mildly, I think ln many
cases are perniclous, and cantrary ta the
public interest.
Notwlthstandlng the remark of my han. friend from Calgary, there
la no question whatever that a great deal of
legisiation ln connection with rallway
charters, and a great deal of the Urne has
been expended ln prornotlng rallway charters, bas been done ln the interest of speculators. We kuow for a fact tbat men have
obtained charters, even through this Railway Committee, and of which they have had
the highest opinion, fer no other than purely
speculative pnrposes--charters which have
been sold ln the public market. I thlnk
It is known ta us ail that one charter
was obtained ln this Hanse and afterwards
sold for sixty thousand dollars, without one dollar having been expended.
As
regards the application of thls Bill to
the older provinces, I think it la aimost perfect. Countries which are now s0
well opened as aur enstern provlnces--which
are so intersected by railways, and where
the topography of the country la sa well
known, It would be of Immense Importance,
to my mind, to have Information of the
character the Bill calle for lu the banda
of the committee. 'I rnust say that 1 amn
snrprlsed ta hear the hon, gentleman from
Calgary say that the cornmittee wauld have
no intellIgent Interest ln plans and specifications such as the Bill calis for. That la
-a mistake ; there are nainy members of the
commlttee who are thoroughly conversant
wlth surveys, and I do nlot think there la
any man connected with that cammittee who
d-oes flot take an Interest ln maps and
specifications which are brought befare
them. 1 have seen, 'when maps were put
on the walls, the members of the Raiiway
Committees of bath Hanses taking great lnterest lu them. Wlilie this measure 'would
be of value ln the oider proviinces, perhaps
the provisions would be too stringent for the
Yukon and British Columbia. I arn afraid
It wonld be rather repressive, and perhaps
tend ta Interfere with the developrnent of
ralways 4n those territorles. We ahl know
that railway surveys, partIcularly or the

kind asked for here, are expensive, and
more eapecially expensive lu new and unexplored countries. It seems ta me If the
Bill asked for what yau might caîl expieratory or barornetrlc surveys, where l-uformation could be obtained at a amail expense, it might be mare practicable ln Its
working.
There Is no daubt the surveys
such as are called for here would be very
expensive ln cauntries of the rugged nature
of British Columbia and the Yukon, but 1
thlnk myself the Bihl might be s0 arnended
as ta ask for surveys whlch cauld be of
very great benefit and very great Importance, and add ta the Inforrnation necessary
for the cominittee, and would be less expensive than this. These 1 presurne are
.Instrumental location surveys. The remark
rnade by the hon, gentleman from Calgary
that this proposition la lu the Interest of
engineers, 1 do nlot think la much ta the
point, becanse snrveys muet be made anyway.
No railway can be buiit wlthont
surveys, and whether they are made preparatory te the charter or subsequent ta the
grantlng of the charter, it ls pretty much
the sarne ta the engineers, I 'wouid take It;
but ta ask any cornpany or any Invester ta
expend we wll say anywhere from $2,000
ta $50,0O0 as the case may be without auy
guarantee whatever of succesa ln getting
a charter, ls perbapa a little bard.
I do
flot think we would succeed lu getting any
investors ta do that lu a country like the
Yukon; ail the same, I think the spirit of the
Bill ls ln the right direction, and wltb same
arnendments It wili meet witb the approval
of this Hanse.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the Second tirne.
INQUIRIES AND INVESTIGATIONS
INTO SHIPPING CASUÂLTIES
BILL.
SECOND IEADING.

Hou. Mr. MILLS moved the secon d readIng of Bill (93) ' An Act respectlng Inquirles
and Investigations lnta shlppIng casualtles.'
He said : This Bill la maklng aur law conform largely wlth the Englsh law, as was
provlded lu the Merchants' Shipping Act
It la ta mèet the representatians of the London Board Of Trade that these changes have
been made. If bon, gentlemen desire fur-

[SENATE]

212

England.
tber explanation, I amn prepared to give it Lord Chancellor .......................
$50,000e
40,000,
the principle is flot likely to be Lord Chief Justice ....................
but as
25,000
High Court Judge......................
objected to, the changes can be more con27 Metropolitan Police Magistrates, each. 7,500
venlently pointed out in cormlittee, as we
Canada.
are called on to consîder each phase of the Chie! Justice .................
.... $ 6,000
Queeni's Bench and iuperior *Court...
Bill.
3600 ta 6,000
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Possibly my hon.
West India Islands.
frlend will explain. The Bill as It cornes Trinidad, Port of Spain, with a total populabefore us does not appear to amend any tion of 269,000, pays its chie! justice $9.000.
6. Whether the government has decided to take
exlsting Act ln Canada. It seems to be. an
steps ta remedy the grave injustice aboya set_
original measure repealing- ln its closîng forth?
some section of previous Canadian legislaHe sald : I have at varlous Intervals aslrtion. It Is a classification or consolidation ed the leader of the governrnent ln this
of old Acts or arnendmcnts, or Is It mainly House if he could answer this question, -and
a new measure ?
so far have flot been successful ln getting
Hon. Mr. MILLS-If Mny hon. friend will at the decision of the governinent. I have
look at the last section lie wIll see It deals flot very mucli to add to the question, but
with chapter 81, the Wreckage and Salvage I do think It is of sufficient Importance ta
Act of the Revised Statutes of Canada, warrant prompt attention on the part of the
government, and for my part, 1 amrn ot wllchapter 33, and the statutes of 1893.
are repeal- ing to lie under the suspicion that I have
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They
made the motion ln a haif hearted way, and
ed.
arn not disposed to press It. My present InHon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, ln a large measure, tention 15 to asic, ln the fIrst place, the quesand there are some provisions that are new, tion, and falling to elicit a reply, to urge On1
but the new provisions are largely taken the government the importance of the mat-

from the Englîsh Merchants' Shipping Act. ter. I have very little to add to the tact
The rnotion was agreed to, and the Bill stated in the question in the paper, but a
was read the second tUne.
further research ln the paraliel cases ln the
British Dominion would show sornethlng
The Senate adJourned.
like the followlng facts :

Justice. Judges.
$6,500
$10,000
British Guiana .................
6,000
10,000
Jamaica........... ............
April 17, 1901.
Ottawa, 'Wedne8dai/,
7,500
.......
Leeward Islands .........
7,500
...
........
Barbados ...........
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three Trinidad ...... ...... ...... :.....9,000
1,000
Cape Colony...................
o'clock.
7,500
............
Natal ..............
17,500 13,000
and routine proceedings.
New South Wales ...............
Prayers
15,000
17,500
Victoria .......................
8.500
10,000
South Australia .................
THE JUDGFES SALARIES.
17,500 10,000
Queensland ...................
6,000
7,500
Tasmania .. :....... .............
INQUIRY.
7,000
8,500
Western Australia ...............
7,500
8,500
New Zealand...................
lion. 31r. DRUMMOND inquired:
9,000
13,750
Ceylon.......... ..............
8,000
Is the governiment aware of the following
facts :
Straits Settiement..............
13,500
8,400
o! the judges were flxed, Hong Kong....................
8,400
13,500
1. That the salaries
ln the year 1873 and have not been changed ince
Now, If bon. gentlemen will comnpare these
that date.
2. That in the period of twenty-four years figures wlth those prevailing ln this counwhich has elapsed the expense of living and the
claims o! all kinda on persans in their position try, they will, 1 thinlc, admit the truth of
have enormously increased.
what I have urged on the government,
3. That during this period salaries and wages
namely, that the present salaries attached to
advanced.
of ail classes have been rnaterlally
4. That, as compared with the judicial salaries the important offices of judges ln this counpaid elsewhere the Canadian scale is unjust and try are absolutely and entirely Insufficient,
l.nsuffcieflt troim the tacts above stated.
5. That a comparison o! salaries paid in the and I trust that the answer wbich 1 will
mnother country and ln other portions o! the receive from the government to-day, or at
emnpire Is substantially as follows
Hon. '.%r. M~ILLS.

THE SENATE.

[APRIL 17, 1901]
4n early date, wiil be of a reassuring character. It is perfectiy well known to everybody. concerned that the cost of living, and
the demands upon people of their station
-are constantly Increasing, and have ln*creased materiaily since the Urne when the
present salaries were fixed, and this muet
be so 'obvious to every member of this House
tihat I arn quite sure that no language of
mine is required to enforce It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I might be per,mitted to make an observation ln support
of what my hon. f riend has said, and to
bring a point before the hon. Minister of
,Justice which has flot been touched upon
by my hon. friend ln the comparative statement that he has made ln regard to judgee'
-salaries ln Canada and those ln other parts
ef the British Dominions. The case le even
woree than he etated In hie notice, for 1
find that he put the judges of the Queen'e
Bench and Supreme Courts of Canada at
from $3,500 to $5,000. In Prince Edward
Ieland the judgee of the Supreme Court
receive only $3,200 each, which le $300 les
than the minimum mentioned by my hon.
friend ln hie notice. I wlsh -to caîl the attention of the Minister of Justice to this f eature of the case, that ln any measure that
may be submitted deallng with the salaries
paid to Judgee, the Supreme Court judges In
the province of Prince Edward Island should
be treated as they are treated ln the other
provinces of Canada. Becauee the province
le emaîl le a good reason why there should
flot be as many judges as there le ln other
provinces, but It afforde -no reason whatever
that they should be pald inadequately, or
lees tban judges are paid In other provinces
of Canada. I find ln Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick where it Ie complained the salaries are too,email the Supreme Court judges,
other than the chief justice, receive $4,000
each. I cail my hon. friend's attention to this
a.nomaly, and when the rearrangement of
the salaries paid to the Judges le made ail
over Canada I hope that the peculiar and
anomalous position of things in Prince Bdward Island shiah be redressed. It le very
little short of an Insult toi Prince Edward
Island that the judgee of that province
should be slngled out for the insufficient
salaries they receive.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD
(P.E.I.)-The
judges ln Prince Edward Island have been

213

paid certain f ees, and have received them
up to the present trne. That, I beIleve, was the reason why their salaries were
fixed at a lower rate than the salaries given
to the judges in the neighbouring provinces
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. There
le a strong feeling againet the collection of
these fees ln that province, ae they are flot
collected in any other province of the Dominion. It is therefore right that the Judges
of Prince Edward Island should be put on
the same footing as similar judges ln Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick, and that these
fees ehouid be done away with. I think ln
the last year ln which SIr John Thompeon
was premier of the Dominion, thie matter
came up, and I believe it was the Intention
at that time to place the salaries of Superior
Court judgee ln Prince Edward Island on
the same footing as they arè ln the province
of Nova Scotia. It le also the case throughout the Dominion that there is a very considerable difference ln the amount of salary
that le pald to the county court judges, and
the amount that le paîd to the judges of the
Superior Court. We see that ln Prince Bdward Island the salaries o! the county court
judges have not been Increased since they
were firet established, and the county court
Judge for the county of Queen's ln Prince
Edward Island now receives almost the
same salary that the judges of the Superior
Court does. The salary of that judge ie
$3,000. The salary of a judge ln the Superior Court le but $200 higher than that.
This le a matter-when the government le
taking thie question up-that shoi4ld be looked Into, and I trust that they will deal ln an
equitable and just manner with the judges
ln the province of Prince Edward Island, as
well as with those of the other provinces of
the Dominion.
Hlon. Mr. PRIMROSE-Did I understand
the hon. gentleman from Charlottetown to
say that the county court judge o! Queen's
county receives a larger salary than any
other county court judge ln the province
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I arn not
certain as to that.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Yes, that legielation was passed here two years ago, by
which the county court judges ln St. John,
Halifax, and Charlottetown were given

[SENATE]
court present session or net. I informed the Heuse
at an earlier peried of the session that a
measure bad been prepared ln my departHon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I want to draw mient fer tbe consideration of tbe governthe attention of the Minister of Justice te ment wltb a view te revising the salaries of
the case of the city of Montreal. 1 do flot the Superier Court judges througbout the
pretend to speak for the rural districts of Dominion, malingô more adequate provision
the province of Quebec, because I have pass- fer tbem ln the discbarge of their duties
ed ail my life ln the clty of Montreal, and I than is made in thé law as It now stands.
know less cf the state cf thlngs throughout Hlon, gentlemen knew that upon this subject
the province ; but there ls one tblng I know, tihe legal profession and the public at large
and it Is that $5,000, wblch ls the ainount t:ike different views, and wblle a vast
paid te our Superlor Court judges, is ab. majority of tbe legal profession, and gentlesolutely Inadequate to, allew them te live nien who are extensively engaged ln busiup to the station to wblch the goverument ness, regard the judges as uaderpaid at tbe
1 know that tbreugbiout the present salaries, there Is a very large section
cails tbem.
rural parts of the Dominion there Is a cer- ef thse public wbose opinions cannot be altotain sentiment that the sum of $5,000 is getber disregarded, that entertain a different
quite large. 1 have heard farmers say that view. Now, 1 do net say that we ougbt te be
that represented about the price of a farrn governed wbolly by the latter view. If I did
in the country, or two-tblrds the price cf a so, I would net have undertaken te prepare
farm. I w'ant te draw the attention of the a nieasure upon the subject, but if Is very
autherities te the fact that those who live important tliat we sbouid carry public opiln large cities k-now tbat $5,000 is absolu tely nion wltb us, because It is net only ImInadequate as a salary for a judge. The portant fer the representative Heuse in this
rentai of bouses bas gene up te sucli an ex- parliament, but It is aIse important te the
tent that one cannet think of obtalnlng a suit- judges, for you do net wlsb to, make on the
able residence lu proper quarters In Ment- public mind an unfavourable Impression with
real mucb below $800 or $1,000 a year, and regard te tbem. -My bon. friend wbe brougbt
prices have increased ln proportion tbrough- forward tbis question at the present moment
out, se that I know thiat judges generally, bas referred te the salaries that are pald in
who bave mnot a private inceme of their own, otber Britisb colonies of far less Importance
bave beeii ebliged te devote many heurs thian Canada, that are very mucb larger than
during the day te other cailings as pro- any salaries paid te any jndge in any court
fessors in universities, as executors of large iii tbe Dominion ef Canada. That ls true,
estates, and bave accepted and sougbt posi- but, atter al, I de net tbink tbat we can
tiens wbicb would allow tbem te live ac- be wbolly governed by those salaries. Tbe
cording te thieir station, and the public bas salary paid at tbe Straits Settiement and
complained tbat some of tbe time of those some of tise ether possessions te wblcli my
Judges bas thus been given to other thasi bon. friend bas referred, are salaries fixed
judicial work. We cannot complain If they by Imperial autherity and net by any rebave tried te equalize their income wltb their presentative body ln the country, and tbey
expenses, and 1 tbink that wben sucb a have been framed In cenformlty with the
state of things exists, it is fer tbe gevern- views tbat are beld ln England, ratber than
ment te remedy IL. I know that a real case these tbat are beld ln any colonial possesof bardship exists wbere the goverument sion. Wbiat seems te me the fair way of
of Canada would be justlfied ln takiug estimating wbat salary a judge in one of
action.
our Superlor Courts is entitled te, is te comMILLS-I arn quite sure that tbe pare tbe salary wblch you previde fer hlm
Hon. Mr.
tbe ameunt tbat will be
legal profession tliroughout tbe country will under tbe law wîtb
te my bon. frlend wlio earned by the leading men of the profession
be very much obliiged
from the saine bar. Tisat, 1 tbink, is a fair
bas brougbt this subject befere the Heuse
w.ay 0f ascertaining Nvbat ameunt sbould be
for consideration. 1 enly regret tbat 1 arn
paid te a judge, and wbile I think that tbe
not yet able te answer my bon. friend as te
salaries we are paying at the present time
the
higbher salaries
judges.

than

other county

whether any action will be taken duriiig
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

[APRIL 17, 1901]
are below the salaries that would be indicated by the average earnings of proininent
men ln the profession, certalnly the salaries
to which my hon. friend bas referred would
bie above that standard. At the present time
we find great difficulty in gettlng men of
prominence at the bar to go upon the bench,
and that ougqht flot to be the case. The comnpensation ought to be such that a prominent
member of the bar, who Is dlstlnguished tu
his profession, in whom the public have confidence and would like to see appointed to
the beach, sbould not feel that lie Is making
a great sacrifice personally in withdrawing
from the practice of law and going upon the
bencb, and so 1 tblnk that the subjeet is one
wblcb is deserving of careful considerations
aad witb a view of glvlag to the judges sucli
compensation as will secure the best men at
the bar, and at the samne time 'will not bie a
suin whicb men practislng at the bar
would be disposed to rendily desert their
profession in order to accept. My bon.
friend from Marsbfield (Mr. Ferguson) bas
referred to the salaries 0f judges la bis pro
vince. They are lower than la the otlier
maritime provinces, and tbey were fixed, I
presume, at tbe tlme-I know that was the
point of discussion, but my bon. friend will
perbaps know more about thiat than I dobut I tblnk It was consldered that the province being smail and the salaries earned la
the practice o! tbe profession beiag
less than la other provinces, that the
anlount allowed to the judges upon the
beach, was relatively, compared wlh the
earnings of gentlemen of the profession In
the province, a fair amount as compared
with the other maritime provinces.
My
boa. friead does not concur la that view. I
do flot know liow tbat may bie, but 1 have
no doUbt the goverament at the time, as I
feel It would be our duty at the present tiue.
tool. that into coasideration, as we will
take It Into coasidera-tion whien we are
fixing thue salaries. My boa. friend wlll remember this, that In the province of Prince
Edward Island there Is a population of
about 120,000-lt may bie a littlemore or a
littie less than that. Tbey bave three county court judges.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They do not coinplain of their salaries.
Hon. 'Mr. 'MILLS-I amn speaking about
the nuniber-three coiunty court judg-es and

21

tbree Hig-h Court judg-es--tbat Is six judges
to administer justice to about 120,000 people.
If you take the exlsting salaries and compare thein wltb the population, you will find
that tbe administration of justice provlded
for la the salaries of judges ls more la the
province o! Prince Ed-ward Island tban It
is la Nova -Scotia or Ontario-In fact more
than la most of the provinces, wichb la
one point o! view from wblcb the subject
inay bie considered. If you were to unite
the three maritime provinces lato one province, 1 su.ppose you would bave but one
Hligb Court judge Ia the province of Prince
We have fourteen Hlgb
Edward Island.
Court judges in Ontario, to perbaps two and
a quarter millions of people-I am merely
estlmatlng the population at thîs momentso you bave about one High Court Judge
You have tbree
to every 170,000 people.
Higli Court judges la the province of Prince
Edward Island to 120,000, so tbat the question always bas been, on account of the laequalities of the provinces and of the population, and of the jealousies that may
arise wltb regard to the salaries of
Tbe
judges, a dîfficult one to deal wlth.
province of Ontario la the past. la proridlng for the salaries o! judges, provided for a pulane judge of one of the Higb
Courts a salary o! $5,000. The judge, Ia
addition to tbat, recelves $100 for every
court whicb lie bolds, and la addition to that
the local legislature, la order to avoid the
demand on the treasury here for a general
lucrease la the salaries of judges, have added
$1,000 a year to the salary o! eacb judge of
We
the Superlor Court o! the province.
have a large Increase of population la tbe
Nortb-west Terrîtorles, la Manitoba and In
British Columbia. The aumbers of cases to
be deait wlth are year by year increaslag,
and the population of tiiose two provinces
and the Territories la also lncreasing rapidiy,
and the relative a&nount o! salavry thet was
fIxed some years ago Is less, no doubt, than
iuiglit be consîdered fair at the present time,
as compared with the salaries of the Judges
la the province of Ontario and la the proince o! Quebec. My hon. frieud. bas asked,
and that bias been brouglit under my attention, that the salaries o! judg-es la Prince
Edward Island should bie made the sane as
the salaries o! tbe judges la New Brunswick
and Nova Scotia-the two other maritime

[SENATE]
provinces. Now, I remember very -well that
wben the subject of fixing the salaries was
under consideration, many years ago, of
determining wbat would be a fair amount
as salaries for each Higli Court judge, that
the province of Prince Edward Island was
flot put on a footing of equality wltb Nova
Scotia. Nova Scotia was flot put on a foot-'
ing of equality witb Quebec, or witb the
province 0f Ontario, because the amount of
legal business was apparently less, and the
amount that it was possible for a member
of the bar to earn was less than would be
the average earnIngs of prominent men at
the bar ln the other provinces. That was
considered ln determining a fair salary for
the Judge. Now, the bon. senator wbo bas
broug-ht thls matter before the Senate at the
present time bas pointed out-and In that
I agree with bis view-tbat the salaries
wbich were fixed in 1873--nearly thir-ty years
ago-are less than they ouglit to be ; that a
3udge cannot well maintain bimself ln that
rank of life upon the salary wbich lie now
receives, wbich bie position, the Influence
wbicb lie should possess, and his standing
ln the community require. I think that that
Is a sound proposition. How far we should
go Is a matter about which there may be
some diff erence of opinion, but If you could
fi the salaries of ail the Judges tbrougliout
the Dominion upon a footing of equality, I
do not think il would lie possible, because
ln some of the provinces the practice at the
bar Is mach more extensive, and the salaries
that may lie earned in tbat practice muil
greater than in other provinces, and that
fact can neyer be lost siglit of ln undertaklng
to deal with the subject. Wbat you bave to
consider is wbat amount of salary paid to tbe
judge wbo abandons bis profession and goes
upon the beach would secure the foremost
men of the bar in eacli province. Beyond
that the public would not justify you in
going. That you should go that far 1 tldnk
is obvious, because unless you do so, the
bench must in lime degenerate, because the
'prominent men at the bar will refuse to
accept ail judgeships. We waut, as far as we
possibly ean, 10 secure the best men, men
who are learned ln their profession, who are
good st-udeats, who keep tbemselves abreast
of the jurisprudence of the day, who have
patience 10 listenl t0 those who are brouglit
before them, and who will so feel the responHon. Mr. MILLS.

sibility of their position as to leave upon the

minds of suitors that tbey bave bad a full
and fair hearîng, and that it is not because
tbey bave been burriedly brusbed aside that
tbe decision bas been against tbemn If it s0
sbould be. 1 need not say more upon tbe
subject. 1 cannot at this moment state wbat
may lie done, but I bave no doulit that tbe
Bill wblch bas been prepared ln my department to wbich reference bas been made,
wlll lie before my colleagues for decision
some day Ibis week. 'We bave bad many
matters of pressing necessîty to consider,
requiring lmmediate attention, and tbey had
to lie considered first.
Hon. Mr. DLIUMMOND-If I miglit be
permaitted to say one word more on tbe suliject, I would express 10 a certain degree my
regret that the bon, leader of tbis Ilouse has
approacbed the subject ln sucli a judicial
spirit. He bias weighed in the balance the
pros and cons ln a very fair way I tbink ;
but stili tbe general idea is 10 leave the Impression that be is not sufficlently alive 10
the exigencies of the case and is disposed to
bold out the possibulity of an adverse vlew
on the part of the goverament. I will flot
say that that is exactly determined ; 1 hope
il is not. Witb regard 10 one or two o! bis
grguments, 1 quite admit, with regard 10
the Straits Settiement and one or two points
la whicb tle judges are appointed by the
Crown and their salaries fixed upon Englisb
ideas, that tbey are bigh ; but that does not
in the least apply 10 others wbicb 1 read out.
Take for Instance tbe colonies o! New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, in ail of wbicb the population dependent upon tbose judges is very limited, and,
let us suppose, the wealtb also dependent
upon their decîsions very mach smaller, and
yet wbule la Canada we pay the Chie! Justice $6,0O0 and the ordinary judges of tbe
Superior Court from $3,500 up 10 $5,000, in
Queensland and New South Wales they psy
10 the ordinary judges $13,000 and 10 the
Chief Justices $17,500. 1 only wisb 10 record
my soleman conviction that tbe subi ect ls o!
the very bigbest Importance and that la
dealing witb it, if tle goverament take a
broad and liberal view of wbat I consider
,to lie the only true policy la the malter,
they have the support of both sides 0f tbxs
Flouse Irrespective of party or anything

[APRIL 17, 190 Il
else. There is no question of party Involved.
I do flot speak as a party man at ail. 1 arn
flot reiated to a judge or-dependent upon a
judge, in any sense. While 1 recognize the
tact that there Is a certain portion of the
community to whom a salary of four or five
thiousand dollars seems an unlimited fortune,
we, that live in cities, know very well that
with the claims upon a Judge, the amount is
entlreiy and absolutely Insufficient, and one
gentleman trom Quebec tried to point out
that judges had ta supplement their limited
salaries by taking offices which, I think, they
shouid be prohibited from doing.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-And the same
thlng ln Prince Edward Island, where they
had to collect tees of doubtful propriety. I
do not know whether It Is so or not. I do
flot know anything about the tact, but certainly it would be infinitely better if it were
flot so. There is one theory running through
the whole question and that is, to pay sufficientiy so as to secure the best service.
Hon. Mr. ALLÂN-Hear, hiear.
Hon. Mr. *DRUMMOND-I tbank Providence thiat our population have no reason to
complain, on the whole, of the manner In
which the judges exercise their tunctions. I
tbInk we bave a pure and admirable judiciary, taken as a whoie.
Hon. Mr. BÂKER-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-But takIng the
very question whicb the hon, gentleman
took, whether we can secure the best members of the bar as judges, I say we cannot.
1 know as a tact that the best men at the
bar ean èarn treble and quardruple what
they can earn as judges, and wiil not accept
the position. Is thiat a condition of things
which should be justified ? I say It Is flot,
and I say, therefore, that I do trust that the
government will take a broad and statesmanlike view of the situation and do justice.

the Territories. I find a notice given to Increase the salary of the cbief justice of the
North-west Territories to $5,000, and four
puisne judges, $4,000. I should like to direct
the attention of the minister to the tact
that the salaries of the puisne judges are
already $4,000, and there seems to be Iu
this notice of motion a misapprehiension existing In the minds of the governiment as to
what these salaries really are. There la an
expectation lu the Territories that thé
i3alaries are about ta be Increased. This la
but a delusive hope, Inasmuch as the notice
of motion onIy places salaries. at what bas
been already fixed.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Quite so. That la the
recommendation ot a Bill that was but ore
us last year, which had reterence to the
There la no chief
fixing of the salaries.
justice of the Territorles. It bad reference
to fixing the salariesl of the chiet justice
and three additional judges lu the province
of Quebec. That does not touch the question whlch we have been discussing bere.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The notice of
motion deals with the Increased salaries to
judges of provincial courts mentioned here,
but wby mention four pulane judges lu the
North-west Territories at $4,000, when that
is the salary already allowed them ? 1 do
not understand the abject of the motion.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I suppose It would
have been perfectly valid -witbout mentioning any salary, but It Is at ail events a
notice that a Bill, intended to be tounded
on those resolutions, preserves the salaries
of the judges as they are at the present
time, except the chief justice, there being
no chief justice.

Hon. Sir MAC]KENZIE BOWELL-It appears this notice was placed on the Notice
paper of the House o-f Commons as eairly
as the 12th of April. It deals with the subject to a much greater extent than tbe hon.
T 4u;vu
.ý
il~
geuteuia
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHIEED-Âs pertinent ta the last paragraph that it deals with no
this question. may I direct the attention of less than seventeen judges of the province
the hon. Minister of Justice to a government of Quebec. It reads as follows:
notice of motion made by the Solicitor Genhttisepdn
tamdteAcreralon he Aril in he ous ofspecting the judges of provincial courts and to
2th f
Commons, ln wbich notice was given of provide as follows :-That the salary of the
the Northa proposed increase In the salaries of the chief justice of the Supreme Court of of the four
West Territories shali be $5,000, and
judges of the provincial courts, and also of puisne judges of the said court, $4,000 per

[.SE-NATE]
And whlle
annum., and the salary of an addltlonal judge of vide three additional salaries.
the Territorial Court of the Yukon terrltory 1 arn ui)of
my feet 1 hope 1 rnay
shahl be $4.000.
So far it deals with questions to whicli
the hion. Minister of Justice has referred.
Then, the next paragraph reads :
That the salaries of the seventeen puiose
Judges of the Superior Court of Quebec, whose
residences are fixed at Quebec and Montreal,
Inciudlng the judge to whom the district of
Terrebonne ls asslgned, shahl be each $5,000 per
ftnnum.
I was going to ask, la that an increase of
salary of the seventeen judges of tlie province of Quebec ? If not, what is the object
of lis Bill, except it miglit be to include the
judge of the district of Terrebonne, who, I
understand, resides ln Montreal most of hIs
trne, and nssists the judges of that clty lu
the performance of their duties ?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-He gets $5,000.

be excused for saying the remarks of
the hion, leader of the government ln this
House have been exceedlngly disappointing
to me. He admîts hlmself, that the proposition submitted by the hion. gentleman who
asks the question, is well founded. He admits that a necessity exists for an lncrease
ln the salaries of judges, and yet, from his
place.lu tbis Houme as Mlnister of Justice,
hie hesltates and falters about dolng what
lie himself admits to be an act of justice.
The argument of the 'Minister of Justice,
if I may be permitted to say so, is an open
panderlng te the prejudices of the people
who affect to aee ln the payaient of a fair
salary to judicial officers, a reason for the
goverament nlot dolng its duty. For years
and years, long before this goverument carne
into power, lt was admitted that the salaries
of judges ouglit to lie readjusted, but excuse was made from tirne to tirne for not
doing It. And the late goverument was, ln
that respect. justas mucli to blarne as the
present goverunent is, lu hesltating to do
its duty.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-T&en,
-what is the rneaning of this notice placed on
the Notice pnper of the House 0fCommonis?
To a layman it would appear that it was
(lxing the salaries of those whose salaies
had not been fixed, and that it w-ns au luicrease. Otherwlse whiat object can tbere
be ln introducing these resolutions uipoin
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
wvhlch to base an Act of parliament to
true.
place upon the statute-book ?

BOWELL-It is

Hou. Mr. BAKER-Every one who knew

Hon. Mr. BAIKER-The hion, gentleman
anything about it, knew that the late govw-ho sits in front of me (Sir Mackenzie
erurnent adrnltted, sornetimes In answer to
Bowell) is under a misappreliension.
The

questions put in the House and at other
resolution la not to provide for an lucrease
times in reply to representations made upon
of the salaries of the fourteen judges of the
the subject, that thie necessity for readjustSuperior Court whose residences are now
mient existed, but the saine clameur that la
fixed at Quebec and Montreal including the
causing the present governeut to hesitate
judge to wiorn the District of Terrebonne
prevailed ln those days, and the nct of jusla aasigned ;for they already recelve $5,0O0
tice was neyer done to the judges. The hion.
a year. The object is to provide three ad- Minister of Justice says that lie ouglit to fix
eltional salaries by changlung the number
a scale of salaries to judges lu sucli a way
frorn fourteen to seventeen. It la to make
as to cornrand the services of the leading
provision for the salaries of three additioual
members of the profession. I do not believe
judges that thiat clause of tlie resolution
that that can ever be done. I do not believe
lias been iuserted
There la no difficulty Iîthat parliarnent will ever be justified in
about it.
;fixing the scale of the salaries of judges
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It la very rnislead- proportionate to the incomne that la earned
by the leading barristers In eitlier the proIng ail the sane.
There Is an
vince of Ontario or Quebec.
Hon. Mr. BAKER-I admit it la rnislcad- elernent of certainty about the salary of a
ing, aud wlien I flrst saw tlie resolution lt judge that comrnends ltself to mnembers of
occurred to me there w'as a mistake, but the profession. There is the dignity that
1 looked at the statute and saw at once bas been suggested attaching to the posithat the object of the legislation was to pro- tion, but that ougbt to be insured by an
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[APRIL 17, 1901]

adequate sala-y. A judge ought not to be
ln a position to make It Impossible for hlm
to keep up the dignlty of the position wlthout
engaging la other work to supplement his
salai-y, and I hope, notwithstandlng the
faiterlng attitude which the Mlinister of
Justice has assumed to-day, that he, as head
of the Department of Justice, wili cause
bis views to prevail, and ti4at the goverument wiii not hesitate to brlng down a
measure by whlch a substantiai Increase
will be made to the salaries of the judges In
ail the provinces.
Hon. Mi-. MILLS-There ls provision made
for a second judge in the Yukon ln these
That does ixot mean a third
resolutions.
app)olntinent. Last year we provlded la the
estimates one thousand dollars, and provided
for it la the Bill, as we are provlding this
year. The year's appropriation was made,
and the judge w-as appointed, but it Is necessary, ln order to put the judge that was so
appointed upon a footing of equality with
the other Judges, that bis salai-y shouid not
be voted year by year, but ln the same way
as salaries of other judges ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Am 1
to understand that this provides $5,000 per
annum for three additional judges la the
province of Quebec ?
Hon. Mi-. MILLS-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Are
those the judges referred to ln the Bill
whIch w-as rejected by this House last session ?
Hon. Mi-. MILLS-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I regret very much that the suggestions made
by the Solicitor General of *Quebet, snd the
late Attorney General of that province, and
admltted by the present premier, that the
system which prevails la the province of
Quebec at the present time la antlquated ;
and should be changed, was not acted upon,
then the prejudices of the habitants of the
people, that my hon, fi-tend the Minister o!
Justice, Is afi-aid of, with reference to increase of salaries, still continues--I regret
that they have not grappled with this question and so arranged the courts ln that province as to avoid the necessity foi- this expense, which the late Attorney General of
the province o! Quebec, the premier himself,

and also the Solcîtor General, admit couid
be avolded If they would only rearrange the
courts, and the manner ln wbich they should
do their business. In other words, by bringing to the centre of the legal business judges,
rrom the outslde who reaily have nothing
whatever to do. In connectlon wlth this, I
have heard of a judge ln Quebec who had
but one case to hear down ln Gaspé, and
rather than go down to try that case, he
paid the matter lnvoived himseif. He was
a sensible judge, because It would have cost
hlm more, ln ail probability, to go down and
try the case than to pay the amount.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-When did the case occur, when the judge paid ?
Hon. M1r. PERLEY-I should like to know
that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
been so lnforîned. It was only a very short
time ago. The admission made by the Soittoi- General hirnseif ln the debate that took
place on this question shows that one judge
living at St. Hyacinthe had some eighiteen
cases durlng the year, and lived threefourths of bis tinie la the city of 3lontreal,
assisting judges la that district. The government ought to have sufficient courage to
grapple with this question, and to place the
courts of that province or any other province la such a position as to avoid the necessity of appointing additionai judges and
încreasing the expenses of the administration of justice. Those additional salaries
which are to be paid might very well be
gîven to those already appointed. 'As a layman, havlng had some littie experience ln
connection wlth the appolntment of judg-es to
the Superior Court bench, 1 arn fully ln accord not only with what the hon, gentleman
from Montreail says, but also the Minister of
Justice. He knows, as I have experienced on
one or two occasions, that It was absolutely
Impossible to get ln the province ln which I
live a iawyer occupylng a prominent position to accept a judgeship even la the Supreme Court, the hlghest court ln the country, and the sooner the Departaient of Justice and the governmnent, whatever government It may be, ls placed in a position to
offer to gentlemen occup.ving the position to
which I have referred the salary commensurate with the Importance of the duties of the
judge, the better It will be for the country.

220

[SENATE]

1 frankly admit in my younger days, before majority of men On the bench at the age of
1 bad experleuce, I tbought the salaries were
sufficiently high. 1 amn quite convInced now
that ail the hon, gentleman from Montreal
bas said 18 quite true. Take Queensland, for
Instance, a small colony, smaller almost'
than some of our smaller provinces, the
Chief Justice referred to would flot go on the
bench until lie got $17,500 a year. They
pay him well, and lie discbarges lits duty
well.

seventy years are very apt to have passed
that period of life when men are active. I
do flot impugn their judgment. I do flot
enter on that phase of tbe question, but the
work of law Is deiayed In Canada very mucli
Indeed by the fact tliat men have passed the
prime of life wben they are able to enter
vigorously upon the work before them, s0
I trust when tfie mensure la brought forward liere to Increase the salaries of judges,

r
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The Mlnlster of Justice
has ivied
te cmmuîty ntotwo lasesno burry about It, and that it will also makre
tbe lawyers who want to have the judges' sucli a change In the constitution of the jusalaries increased, and the public -wbo hesi- diciary as will help the administration of
tate. 1 belong to those who hesitate, and I justice In the country.
amn glad tbere is to be further consideration
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-I want to anof this matter. My own opinion Is that iill swer the argument of the hon. gentleman
the judges discharging similar duties lIn this opposite (Sir Mackenzie ýBowell). We have
country, shouId be paid alike, no matter a decentraized system, and the people are
wbere they ive. In any case, I do flot thliik slow to abandon wbat they think Is an adthat the question of wbicb the hon. gentle- vantage. From tbeir long connection wlth
man from Missisquol (Mr. Baker) spealis, the Britisb tbey feel tbat ivhat tbey bave
the question of dignity from the point of tbey sbould hold.
view of money, should enter into the matter
at aIl. The judges sbouid be dignified by Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Judgtheir character, the fairness of their judg- ing from the hon. gentleman's speecb la
ment, and their willingness to quickly dis- Toronto, he Is o! the advanced type and
charge the duties of their offices. DoIng these Idoes flot hiold the view lie lias advanced.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It ail depends
thinga properly, they wlll attaîn the highest
possible dlgnity any man can attain In the on the point o! view from whicb one looks
communlty. The hon, gentleman from Mon- at it. Our people thInk that as they bave
treal compares the salaries of our judges i n their district a judge wbo can be easily
with salaries of professors In unîversîties. reacbed It would be an unpardonable misThat Is aside from the matter altogether, be-! take If tbey let him go far away from themn.
cause no professors receive sucb salaries I have met judges from the rural parts wbo
as judges: I do not think It Is fleces- say, ' Weil, we would bave no objection to
sary to appoint as judges brIlliant, cornet- serve at Montreal or Quebec. but once wve
Mie lawyers who make great records In! have freed our judges and once tbey are inIt may be that men o! dependent o! us, tbey will corne to us wbeuithe courts.
calm judicial mlnds, wbose minds are not ever tbey please. While now we know tbey
warped by consideration o! special theorles must be here every day, and even if theY
o! law, can execute justice ln the country resîde outside of tbe district, we only need
quite as well as those brilliant personages. to express our desire to have tbem among
I trust, therefore, tbat the matter will re- us and tbey corne.' The bou, gentleman bas
celve furthier consideration ; and I further mentioned oae or two districts wbere there
believe, with ail due respect to tbis assem- is very little legal business. We are helped
blage, tbat no man sbould be on tbe bencb considerably la Montreal by the country
of Canada wbo is over seventy years o! age. jufiges, but I know tbat In those rural disAny man wbo accepts a position on tbe tricts considerable work is done--far more
Case
bencli sbould be compelled to retire at the thian final judgments would show.
end o! bis seventieth year. No doubt there upon case is settled out of court, or before
lare many eminent men ln tbis country- reacbing final judgment. wliere the judg-es
one bas only to look around this Cliamber to have the final word to say, and so our judisee tbat-wbo are past seventy, but the cial systemn bas flot cost rnucb more tUai'
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[APRIL 17, 1901]12
the judicial systeni of other parts of Canada,
and the people do flot want to abandon It.
Besides we have at Ottawa nothing to do
wtth that systern. It 18 the provincial governrnent that bas to cope wlth that question and settie it. So long as the provIncial governent is nlot dlsposed ta alter the
systern, we rnist accept it as it is.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (12) 'An Act respeeting the London
Mutuai Fire Insurance Cornpany of Canada.'-(Hon. Mfr. Jones.)
Bill (19) 'An Act respecting the Eastern
Canada Savings and Loan CIrnpany, Lirnited.
-(Hon. Mr. Wood.)
Bill (25) ' An Act to incorporate the Ottawa
and Hull Power and ûfanufacturiag Company, Lirnited.-(Hoa. Mr. Perley.)
'An Act ta incorpeýrate the Bishai>
Bill (374)
of Keewatin.-(Hon. Mfr. Lougbeed.)
Bill (51) ' An Act to incorporate the AIgoma Iran and Nickel Steel Company of
Canada.-(Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier, ln
the absence af Hon. Mfr. Dandurand.)
MACDONALD DIVORCE BILL.
MOTION.

Bill (49) 'An Act respectiag tbe Niagara
St. Catharines and Toronto Railway Coinpany.'--<Hon. Mr. 11cCallurn.)
Bill (71) 'An Act respecting the Hudsan's
Bay and Pacifie Railway Cornpany.'--Hon.
Mfr. McCallum.)
Bill (23) ' An Act respectlng the Guelph
Junction Railway Cornpany.'--(Hon. Mfr.
Baker.)

CANADA

NATIONAL RAILWAY

AND>

TRANSPORT OOMPANY'S BILL.
SECOND

EErADING.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL rnoved
the second treading of Bill (13) ' An Act te
Incorporate the Canada National Railway
and Transport Comnpany.'
He said :I amn somewbtat at a loss to know
haw this Bill appears ln miy. name. I daresay it Is because I toak charge of It ia tbe
absence of some other member. I do net
kaow whetber I ar n faveur of every provision of it, but 1 wiil move the second rending s0 that it rnay be. sent ta the cernrittee.
I notice, this session ln particular, that a
good rnany Bis corne up frorn the House of
Cosumoas that appear nat ta have been
placed ln the eustody of any inem-ber of
the Senate. I called attention to this fact
last session. I tbink it is a gross want ot
courtesy ta -members of the Senate to send
Up Bis bere if the parties wbo carried theni
thr&ugb the House of Couinons do nat lntirnate ta members of the Senate their desire to have theni takea charge of ln the
Senate. 1 thiak there is one Bill to-day that
no one took charge of. Wlhen a Bill cernes
f rom the House of (Jornrons and fio Senator ls asked ta take charge of it, we sbeuld
ailow it to rernain on the Table antil sorne
one Iaterested ia it extends ta sorne member
of the 'Senate the courtesy due ta this
House.

Hon. 3fr. KIRCHHOFFER, frorn the
Standing Cornrittee on Divorce, presented
their eighth report, recornrending- that tbe
petitioner in the Macdonald ddvorce case be
required ta deposit $2Z witb the coznmittee
for the purpose of enabling the respondent
to produce witnesses ln ber defence, and
rnaved tbe adoption of the report. He said :
The respandent in the case bas presented
a petition to us asking that the petitioner,
ber busband, be forced&to Supply ber with
rnoney for the purpose of carrying on ber
defeace. She says sbe bas a good defeace
on the inerdits. In order to do this, we bave
to put in a aura to enable ber -to briag witThe rnotion was agreed ta.
nesses here to-rnorrow. We want to proceed tbis afternoan with the wltnesses who
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL rnoved
are bere. I move the adoption of the report. that the Bill be referred ta the Cornrittee an
Banking and Cornrerce.
The motion was agreed ta.

IHon. Mr. SCOTT-I notice in the House
ofI
mosasrn
beto
a ae
THIRD REDNS
a ae
beto
tag
0fCraoi
the Matherta the title, rnakIng it 'national,' whIle it
Bill (35) 'An Act respecting
Bridge and Power Company.'-(Han. Mfr. ls a purely local concerti. I understood the
of the Blouse was. that the titie
Joues.)

jfeeling

[SENATE]
siiould be changed at the third reading. I MNARKING AND INSPECTION 0P PACK0F FRUIT BILL.
1AGES
notice it bas flot been cbanged.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (H'nmilton)-I was to
bave taken charge of this Bill, but I was
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the second readtold Sir Mackenzie BoweIl had arranged to Ing of Bill (32) 'An Act to provide for the
take charge of it, and I paid no more atten- Marklng and Inspection of Packages contion to it. Wlth reference to, the change of talning Fruit -for Sale.' He sald : This Bill
titie, that was moved ln the House of has been approved of by tbose interested in
Cominons, and was voted down. We do flot frult-growlng ln Canada. It Is for the puarwant the tltie cbanged, and it Is hoped whex pose of preventlng fraudulent packlng of
It goes to the committee the titie will be ai- fruit, and so brlnging discredit upon the
lowed to remain as it came froni the House frult-gx'owers ln this country. The principal
,ot Common's.
provisions of the Bill are first with regard to
the marking of packages or defining the
The motion was agreed to.
grades of the fruit; the prohibition for mark-ing packages as other than the quality they
SECOND REA.DING.
really are, and the prollbiting of placing the
Bill (08) ' An Act respectlng the McClary fine fruit in bhe ends, whlle the centre of the
Manufacturflg- Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Wat- barrel Is filled lip wltb inferior fruit. These
son.)
are the provisions of the Bill, and the objeet
is to carry out honest deallng in the trade
THE RATIIBUN COMPANY'S BILL.
ln the fruit of Canada belng packed for
market. The Bill consists largely of detalis
SECOND READING.
and these can be better explained ln comHon. Mr. WATSON moved the second mittee than now, s0 I move the second readaeading of Bill (82) 'An Act respecting the ing, promlslng te explain each particular
Rathbun Company.'
section while the House Is in committee on
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What the isubject.
necessity is there for the second clause of
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The principle of the
this Bill ? I find the first clause simpîr Bill will be approved by everybody ln the
,changes the number of directors froni five country, but it ls feit ln our province by the
to seven, and then the second clau-se makes trade that some of its details might be a
a provision that you'can change, alter or hnrdship to the traders.
1 have recelved
amend the number by the board of dlrec- froni the Board of Trade la Winnipeg a comtors. This power is given to the directors munication about this matter, and 1 think
to change and amend the numbers, but the best way of presenting the case to the
flot to be less than three. Why not repesi House Is to read it. The letter ls as folthe fourth section of the chapter to, whlch lows:
it refers ? I cail the hon. gentleman's at4th April.
tention to it. I may be lu error in the lnDear Sir,-I have the honour, by direction, ta
terpretation I put upon ît, but lawyers say write you with reference to Bill (No. 10) : 'An
It Is ambiguous, and they 1ook upon it as un- Act to amend the Weights and Measures Act.'
now before pariament.
necessary.
This board, whlle agreelng fully with the
beHon. Mr. WATSON-I must say that 1 principle of Itthe Bill, recognizes that if it peowli practicaliy prohibit the
cornes law
,occupy the sanie position lu reference to this pie of Manitoba from lmportlng or enjoylng
Bill as the hon. gentleman did to the Bill berries and smail fruits grown la the United
that means, la effect, allthe bernies now
of the Canada National Railwny Company. States; the Manitoba miarkets until late in the
used la
any reason why my name season. wben a limlted quantlty may be had
1 do not know
This Bill was froma British Columbia.
should be attached to it.
If every box contalnlng strawberries, for exMr. Young, but as my ample, must be handled after arrivai here, and
taken charge of by
the
name is conneeted with it, I move the second stamped ' short,' It wouid mean thatcrates ondin(each
ary importation lby express of fi! ty
reading.
containing twenty-four boxes) couid not possily
be deiivered to retaliers on the day of arrivai,
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill as ail express trains from the United States
tume.
arrive after noon, and the breaking of the crates
was read the second
Hoa. Mr. SCOTT.

[APRIL 17, 1901]
-and handiing and stamping of each box wouid
certainly injure the barries.
Severat attempts have bean made ta bring
:strawberrles here from Ontario, and in each case
a heavy loss bas resulted, and la any case the
-eastern bernies do not ripen tili months ai ter
we commence t-o recelve amati fruits and barries
troa t-be southera states.
From your personai knowladge of aur situation In Manitaba yen wiit readiiy underatand
that the enforcemnept of t-he Act would be a very
great hardship ta Impose on the people here.
I inciasa for your Information a latter racaived from the Winnipeg Praduce and Fruit
Exchange.
Yours truiy.
C. N. BELL,
Secretary.

222

then be able ta suggest some amendrnents
wbicb wiil meet the case.
Haon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before this Bill
goes Into comrnlttee, I wisb ta make sorme
To my
observations witb regard ta It.
mmnd the Bill wiil be unworkabie, and 'I

t-hink In some respects lt ls n dangerous
mnensure, and calis for very earuest con-

sideratian before It Ia placed on the statutebooks. Originalty t-he a'bject of the in-troducer of t-bis Bih was t-o airn at tbe apple
and pear t-rades prlncipally, but the acope

af t-le Bill bas been enlarged whlte considered In tbe House of Çommans so tbat
They Inclose another comnmunicationl frorn
it Includes ail cultivated fruits. Wiid fruits
t-be Winnipeg Produce and Fruit Exchange,
While
are excluded tram lt-s openation.
whicb reads as fallows :
1 arn quite ready t-o admit t-bat thene Is a
Winnipeg Produce and Fruit Exchange,
uecessity for more at-ngent enforcernent
Office. 483 Main St.. April 4, 1901.
of thbe Inspection law regarding apples
Esq.,
-C. N. Bell,
anad at-ber fruit-s--while 1 arn fully ailve
Secretary Board af Trade, City.
Dear Sir,-Regarding the conversation wbich t-o t-bat fact, we sbauld be very caret-ook place yesterday between severai members fui before ire pass a Bill o! t-bis cbaracter
-of aur exchange and the council af the board of
1 do flot t-ink, and I
trade la reference to a Bill ta came bafora the in lt-s present form.
Dominion parliament. ra t-he marking of ail pack- speak as one baviag a litt-le knowledge, that
ages of amali fruit. we bag ta stata the Winnipeg Produca Exchange are satlsad t-bat t-he there la a great deal o! Injuny t-o t-be CanaBill la ail rIght as far as Canadian smali fruits dian t-rade arlsing from disbonest and bail
The amail fruits handled ia
are conceraad.
exponted fram Canada t-o
this province ara pnincipally Imported tram the packlng o! apples
We hear a good deal about
United St-at-es. and the different states. aay, Great Britain.
Oregon, Kansas, Texas and Wisconsin ail use It ln t-be newspapers, and it aft-en cornes up
For the smali amount of
-different size boxes.
business done with Canada the exportera In otie way or t-be at-ber, but I bave very goad
those statea would not consider It worth whila evidence t-bat tbere Is no serious gnound of
ta mark the boxei- according -ta this Bill, and
It would ha Impossible ta have t-be boxes marked compiaint on t-bat score. I turn t-o evidence
aft-ar they arrive at their destination, as the given by Prof. Robert-san, befone t-be Calantfruit would suifer la soa daing.
Agricuiturai Committee o! t-he
Ail amalt fruits lmported from t-ha Unitad zat-lan and
Hou. gentleStates are sald an thair meits, thare la no Hanse o! Commons In 1898.
guaraatee of weight or size af package; they men will rernember t-bat Prof. Robertson
are flot sold by quantity, but simply soid on
This business with the st-at-es dosa not mnade a very extensive visit t-o t-be oid caunsight.
clash or coma Into campetitian wit-h Canadian try during t-be season of 1897, and made
fruits, as the former are out of the market
very exhaustive Inquirles as t-o thbe way In
wben Canadian fruits are ready ta came lu.
Whie endorsing t-ha Bill as far as Canadian- %-blcbe aur t-rade iras being conducted t-bere.
grown fruits ara canceraed, wa would consider On hein.- examlned befare t-he cammittee
it a hardsh!p and detrimental ta t-ha t-rade of
this Nort-h-west If the Bill was madea ta caver a! t-be Hause of Commons t-be session faiiowimportations f rom the United States. Trust- ing, be made these rernarks:
Ing that aur views on this matt-en may receive
favourable consideration.
on the wbaie la Engiaad I difi not fiad more
Tours truiy,
t-ban 2 or 3 par cent of tbe appies not honestiy
&c., c
packed. I iean by that barrais that are faced by

fine appies and Illiad with poar anas. Thena bas
la Liverpool la a damnagefi condition by heatiag
on t-be voyage or otberwlae, but I do flot thlak
t-bat more than 2 or 3 per cent were packed disBut if you listen t-o ail t-bat t-ha
honastiy.
fruit-buyers in Engianfi say, t-bey wiii tait you
ail the faut In conaction with packing, andi
witb t-ha appies, andi fot any o! the gaad thInga.
ITha t-eadeacy t-a fInd fauit la madea too con-ý
Ta show you t-ha standing of aur
spicuaus.

1 wRll content myseit witb reading thesE been a larger pencentago of aur appies landefi

communications, and I do s0 at the presenl
stage of the Bill, s0 that the bon. Ministei
of Justice rnay take these represent-atiani
into conisIderation during tbe Interval wbiel
will take place betweell t-be second readi4

of this measure and the day wben the BIF
-cornes before the CommIttee of the Wbol4 appies in Engiand, I nead oniy say t-bat t-ha prica
and 25 shillings a
*House, and perbnps the bon. gentleman wii i aat year of 20 shitinags

jjSENATE]
barrel were proof that the appies were goodgood ripe fruit ln most cases.
Now, I submit that is very good authority
on the subject. I have other reasons for
believing that the injury to Canadian Interests by the dishonest packiing of fruit for
export, As not nearly s0 great as has been
represented ln some places. It arises from
the Interest 0f shippers to pack honestly and
well. Except ta years of great scarcity, anybody who sends apples badly packed to the
Engilsh market may be called on to send
money af1er thein to pay the freight. The
methods of the miarket there do not serve
the purposes of the dishonest packer. Wben
apples are sold on the exchange, a barrel Is
turned out before the buyers, and If they
turu ou-t bad they are condemned to realize
10w prices,- and the loss falls on the shipper. It is not làkely, tberefore, that many
shippers wdll be so blind to their own Interests as to send dishonestly packed apples
to the British market. I arn aware that this
practice of turning out the barrel does not
prevail where shdpments of less than
twenty barrels are made, but I amn informed
that these are seldom sold without an examination of the contents of at least one
barrel by the buyers, and more than one
Is examined In case the first one should not
be satisfactory. While I feel tbat Is the
case, notwithstanding a gond deal of talk
we may hear to the contrary, I arn free to
admit there is a great deal of bad packing
0f apples for the home market. I f ear tbat
a great many of our shippers, knowing the
heavy expense they lucur in shipping fruit
across the Atlantic, send only their best
apples, and turn the culîs on the local market, and ln many cases brand them as No. 1
or No. 2, w'bile they are da reality only
culîls. I fear a good deal of that is
done, and I quite admit that a remedy ought
to be found for It. My objection to this
Bill Is to what I may regard as Its principle
and that Is, It takes the Inspection of fruit
ont of the range of the General Inspection
Act a.nd' sets up a tem!porary Inspection
under this Bill Itself. I thiink that is
my bon. friend
a dangerous thing, and Aif
who bas charge of the Bill will take the
trouble of looking over the General Inspection Act, hie will fitid that we are attempting
to institute a system of Inspection of fruit
here, without any of the safeguards that
Hon. Mr. I'ERGUSON.

are provided both for the packer and the
publie ln the General Inspection Act. Take
the General Inspection Act and from section 1 to section 26 there are general provisions that relate to the setting la motion
of machinery for the purpose of Inspection
of ail staples. 1 might say apples were flot
lncluded ln the General Inspection Act when
It bas been enlarged
orignally framed.
from tinie to Urne by this parliament. In
1892, apples were made a subjeet of inspection-grades of apples were determined. In
1893, the Act of 1892 was amended and
Grades were esvery welI considered.
tablished for apples, and apples were brouglit
under the scope a*nd operation of the GeneraI Inspection Act. Now, the General Inspection Act provIdes that boards of
examiners shall be appointed by the boards
of trade of the principal clties, namIng the
cities. Where there are no boards of trade,
and no exaininers have beeit appodnted, the
Governor ln Councii may, for any county
or Iocality where neeessity foir Inspection exIsts, appoint a board of exaininers. These
examiners are sworn mien. They are selected because they are experts In the particular staple thet cails for Inspection. They
hold examinations. Candidates for the poslition of Inspector are examined. Inepectors receive certificates If they are found
to be qualified. Before entering on the
duties of their office they are sworn.
They have to put up security for the falthfui discharge of their duty, which Is a very
Important one, between buyer and seller,
and affecting the trade of the country, and
they are amenable tb a number of provisions with regard to fines and penalties, If
they fail to diacharge their duty properly.
Now, If the changes that it Is proposed to
Introduce ln the fruit trade were made as
au amendment of the General Inspection
Act, we would have ail these safeguards
with regard to the appointment and qualification of Inspectors. But when we pass a
Bill of this kind, whlch gives the Minister
of Agriculture, or of some department,
power temporariiy to appoint a number of
inspectors without any regard to their qualifications whatever, but simply that they
have been recommended to hlm by somebody, and these men are given these extraordinary powers of going to the point of
shipment, Halifax or Montreal, to intercept

[APRIL 17, 1901]
apples in transit, and In the absence of tba
owner of these apples opening the packages
and exaznlning their contents,-probably
openlng them and flot closlng them casfully, or dt may be allorwing a portion of their
contents to bie extracted so that the barrels
of apples, when they are closed again, even
If they are closed properly, wIll be alack
and go forwiard In bad condition-a grave
danger anises -when, when mnen w4thout
passing emaminatlon or givdng security or
being sworn, assume 'the -work of InspecSome of these thinga might be
tion.
pro'rlded fer by way of regulations, but
penalties could flot be enforced In that way.
It is not a general Inspection at ail that is
proposed under this Bill, and it Is propoeed
that these inspectors, If they have any
cause or reason to suspect that any appies
have flot been weil or honestly packed, can
board a train or steamsbip, or at some point
in transit, examine the apples and condenin themn and mark 'Fraudulent' on
the head of these barrels ln the absence of
the owners of the apples, and the apples
wlll go forward sa marked to the other aide.
.Hon. *Mr. MILLS--Where does the hon.
gentleman find that lu the Bill?
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. friend
will find this ln clause (14)
14. Âny persan charged wlth the enforcement
of this Act may enter-upon any premises ta
make any examination of any packages of fruit
suspected of being falseiy marked la violation
of any of the provisions of this Act, whether
such packages are on the premises of the owner, or any ather premises, or ln the possession
of a railway or steamahip company; and any
persan who obstruots or refuses ta permit the
making of any such examination shall, upon
summary conviction, be hiable ta a penalty not
exceeding $500 and not iess than $25, together
with the costu of prosecutian, and -iu defauht of
payment of such penalty and coste, shahl be
liable to imprisoninent, wlth or wlthout bard
labour, for a terni not exceeding six monthe,
unless the said penalty and casts of enforclng i
are sooner paid.

It Is Just exactly as 1 have stated, that biehind the babk of the shipper, who may be a
thousand mdLes away, who bas noa reasoti ta
expeet any Interference, sucb action as this
wiil ibe taken. This may be done by a man
who bas been appointed temporarily for this
duty and may not be at ahi qualified ta perforni It, and who ls flot amenable, as hie
should be, ta the provisilons of the Inspection
Act with respect ta the Inspection of staphes.
That is the point I niake, and I think It -lies

225

very rnuch against the Bill i lts present
fanm. Instead of a Bill of this kind, settlng up over the General Inspection Act, a
systemi of temporary inspection, which ls lntended to be monitory ln Its character, I
tblnk some provisions might be Incarparated In the Inspection Act, under which
any minister, to 'wbom the matter might be
relegated, could caî lin the sevices of lnspectors that would be qualified under the
ternis of the Inspection Act, ln place of
proposing to go farward, as is lndicated ln
the Bihl bef are us. This Is an objection,
which I eau sec Is a very radical one, and
makes -the Bill dangerous inasmucli as It
provides for an Inspection that wlll nat
guara2ntee the Interests of ail concerned as
But
it should guarantee those Interests.
there are sanie other things ln the Bill that
I wish ta point out as abjectionnble. I think
clauses 4 and 5 are very good provisions.
They provide that the naine of the packer,
the Initiais 6and Christian naine and full surnaine af the packer should be plaoed on the
package, the name of te vaxiety, and the
designatian af the fruit, all shouid be plainly mairked. Then It provides that It shail
be an offenoe If that section la not complied
with. But sections 6 and 7 provide for certain standards o! Canadian fruits. There
are two standards provided. Na. 1 A Canadian and No. 1 (Janadian. These are not
compulsory. It is nat obligatory on any
packeir ta put elther o! these marks upon
bis fruit packages, but If lie daes mark
then, It Is -then requà-red. that the apples
shai came up ta the standard o! tbese two
sections asA-i Canadian and No. 1 Canadian.
I subimit this gradlng Is not by any means
as good as that whlch ls provided by the
Inspection Act o! 1893, the last amndment
on. the subi ect ln which the inspection a!
appies is fo.und ln our statutes. It pravIdes :
No. 1 Inspected Canadian apples shall constat
of well-growii specimens of ane variety, of nearly uniforai size, af good colour, sound, free frain
scab, warm-hôles and bruises. and properiy
packed.
And No. 2 Is described as follows
No. 2 lnspected Canadien apples shall consist
o! specimens o! one variety, reasonabiy free
fromn the defects mentloned in class No. 1, but
whlch, an account of inequaiity or aise, lack of
colour, or other defeets, couhd not be included
In that class.
This Bill provides çthat 'A No. 1 Canadilul'
shaîl conslst of welh-grown specimens of onc

[SE NATE]
variety, sound, of nearly uulform size, of
good colour for the variety, of normal shape
and flot less than 90 per cent free froni
scab, worm-holes, brulses, and other defects,
and properly packed. My Idea is that that
la scaTcely a No. 1 standard, to say notbing
of an A-i standard. I think lt ls preposterous to describe as No. A-i Canadian apples
that may have ten per cent of wormy apples
or scabby apples. There should be none of
this. These are defects that are very easily
observed, and there should be no excuse
whatever for putting wormy or scabby
apples in packages that are branded '(Janadian.' Hon, gentlemen will agree with
me that the section In the Gener>l Inspection Act, of 1893, which 1 have read, la a
far Iigher standard tlaan is proposed In
this section, and they are to be only called
Here we are called upon
No. 1, flot A-i.
to establishi a national standard, and
stili it w-i be admissible if eveni ten per
cent of the appies contained a No. i Canadian should be wormy or scabby appies.
I think that is lowering the standard and that it wll injure the appie trade
of Canada very much. It will be an anomaly.
It Is nof compulaory, and I think that is its
only redeeming feature. It would be very
much better that It should not be in the Act
at ail. If it is flot made compulsory it
should flot be In -the law at ail, and If It Is
in the law, the standard ghould be at leasf
a respectable standard that would colnply
with what No. i Canadian apples reallyought to be.

care anything for their reputation would
consider they ran a risk of loosing that
reputation if one wormy apple should be
found in a barrel marked wlth their stamp
and branded as No. i. My view of It Is that
this standard is flot a good one, not one thaf
should be adopted in the Interest of Canadian trade. But we now corne to what is
tbe second quality in the Bill before us :
7. No person shall seli, or offer, expose or have
In hîs possession for sale, any fruit packed In
a closed package, upon whlch package la marked
the grade 'No. 1 Canadian,' unless such fruit
consists of specirnens of one variety, sound, of
fairly uniform size and not less than 80 per cent
free fromn scab, worm-holes, brulses and other
defects. and properly packed.
Now we think thaf the standard in the
Inspection Act of 1893 is good en.ougli. 1
handle apples in a email way myself and
I never think
I arn a grower of apples.
of putting anything biglier than No. i on my
barrels, and I would consider that I ran a
risk of losing- ny reputation If one single
m-ormy or scabby apple nlpeared in a harrel
stamped xvith rny name. But what ls the
standard of tis so-called No. i <Janadian.
Eighty per cent of the apples must be free
froin -worm-holes or scales, or in other words,
20 per cent may be wormy or scabby, and
sf111 they are No. i Canadian. My hou. friend
talks of the views of the trade. I arn afraid
they are rather the views of the Minister of
Agriculture, who is always working on what
he calîs educational lines, and who is legislating in what he describes as educational
grooves. I ani told that his explanation is
that thougli these clauses are put In the
Bill they are not made compulsory but
are lntended for educational purposes, in
order f0 lead the shippers of Canadian
apples f0 adopt first-class methods ln the
marking of their fruit. I object to these
standards and submit that the standards
which -are already on our stafute-book lu
the Acf of 1893 are very much better

Hon. MT'. MILLS-I arn told that these
two standards have been fixed in accordance
with the setfied usage of the trade, and
that the intention la to make the A-i and No.
1 Canadian apples exactly as these numbers
exist In the trade at the present time. To
make them otherwise would be to make the
standard for Canadian higher than that for
other countries, whereas the purchnser,
No. i lnspected Canadian apples shahl conknowlng what the standards of those coun- sist of well-grown specîmens of one variety, of
nearly unitorm size, of good colour, sonnd, free
tries are, would expect thern to be no better from scab, worm-holes and bruises, and properly
than apples purchased outside of Canada.
packed.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think my hon.
friend has been mislnformed on this subHe seems to think that a barrel of
jecf.
apples, of which 10 per cent might be woroey
or scabby, is the A-i standard of the
trade. Lt is nof so. I know packers who
Ron. Mr. FERGUSON.

And No. 2 Is descrlbed as follows:
No. 2 lnspected -Canadian apples shaîl consist
of specimens of oe varlety, reasonably free
from the defects mentioned In class No. 1, but
which, on account of lnequallty of size, lack of
colour, or other detects, could flot ba lnclnded
In that class.

[APRIL 17, 1901]
I arn afraid that in the Bill before us,
even thougli the clauses are nlot compulsory,
the educational effect, to use words of the
Minlster of Agriculture, will be injurlous
instead of beneficlal, and these clauses
should nlot find their place Iu the Biîl 1
have been at a great loss to account for Qie
appearance of sucb clauses as these In the
Bill, and I think 1 have found the explanatien In the fact that somne such standard as
this Is applied to the grading of Manitoba
wheat. If 10 per cent of the wheat is nlot
Red Fif e hard, then it is graded No. 2. It
is graded No. 1 if flot more than 10 per
cent Is deficient, but It does nlot mean that
this 10 per cent may be soft, or smutty or
frosted wheat ; it means, that the other 10
per cent miust aiso be good wheat, but not
necessarlly Red Pif e. If ouly 10 per cent
Is fouud to be of other varleties than Manitoba bard wbeat, then it is graded No 1,
but If more than 10 per cent Is nlot Manitoba bard, it is graded No. 2. It does nlot
proceed on the principle that the 10 per cent
may be soft, or damuged, or defectîve grain.
It must be as good wbeat of Its own klnd
as the Red Fife Is of its klnd. If wheat contained more than 10 per cent of damaged
grain, It would nlot be graded as No. 1 bard.
There are other objections to this Bill.
Those who qsuggested the measure must
have got their ides from the grading of
Manitoba hard wheat, but a llttle consideration will show hon, gentlemen that it is impossible to proceed on the saine Unes lu
grading fruit. Iu clause 3 there is a provision :
The expression fruit should flot Include wild
fruit.
I would just show the difficulty of dealing
witb the question in that way. Take cranbernies, for Instance. They are growu both
wlld aud cultivated. There are wild cranberries that could nlot be, except by au expert, and I doubt even by an expert distinguished from cultivated crauberries, they
run so much alike, yet here we have a provision that the wlld crauberries are not subject to inspection while cultivated cranberries are. To my mind, the law cannot be
made applicable to such fruit as cran.berries
at ail, because brulses should not be made
applicable to theni. A very considerable
portion of crauberries packed In barrels and
.made the subject of commerce are bruised.
15J

22 7

I have seldom seen crauberries imported
from Cape Cod that were not more or iess
brulsed, and far more than 10 or even 20
per cent of them. There Io another feature
of this Bill that I think bas flot been sufficiently consldered, and that Is this : The
penalties tihat are Imposed under this Bill,
are mouey fines, wlth an alternative of liprisoient and bard labour. I do not know
why we should depart fromn the general
principles of the Inspection Act wlth regard
to penalties. If a man puts up a barrel of
herrlugs, sud faces them with herrings of
better quality than those that are found in
the middle of the barrel, and if a prosecution
is entered against hlm, I do nlot know why
it should stop wltb a mouey penalty, whlle
the penalty imposed for a similar offence
lu packing fruit should be imprisoumient and
bard labour. I caunot see any uecessity for
these quasi-criminal proceedings that are
tacked on to this Bill, aud they are especially
dangerous lu this measure, because It does
nlot provide for certlfied sud qualified lnspectors. The mode of fixing the penalties, aud
the alternative punlshment of Imprisonmniet
and bard labour imposed for trifiing infractions of the law under thls Bill, zuake It, to
my mind, daugerous legishation, and renders
My
it almost impossible of enforcement.
suggestion would be this : there are some
clauses of the Bill whlcb are useful and desirable, and I would advlse my hon. friend
to take a little time to cousider the matter, and see whether hie couid nlot Iusert
these clauses that are really necessary aud
useful ln the General Inspection Act, aud
then lie would have the benefit of ahl the
leglalation we have carefully devlsed, legislation whlch provides for the mauner of
appointiug Inspectors aud the fulfilling of
their duties, sud provides penalties for
them as well as for the dealers and packers
wbo may violate the law. I submit that
the matter Is one which should be very
I know very wel
earnestly considered.
that the Minister of Agriculture and other
gentlemen lu represeutative capacities such
as hie ls, must receive *many suggestions
fromn associations Intended to promote the
lnterests of one Industry or auother, and I
know very well that fruit growers' associations have been often moved to pass resolutions upon subjects of thir- klnd, but, although these people may be well meaain.,

[SENATE]
they know very littie about legisiation, and
the present position of our law on this subject, and when they ask for legislation they
do not know the best way of going about
It, and they rnny make suggestions which
wlIl be found utteriy Impracticable when
they are atternpted to be reduced to Iaw.
1 f ear that has been the case in the present
Instance, and whlle the object airned at ln
the BMl Is good, wbat we oughit to try andI
do Is to take the standard of apples as It is
found in the General Inspection Act-and I
believe It is good enough for this country,
and very much better than the standard
souglit to be establIshed under this Bill,
that it Is really a fixed standard, while this
is oniy an educational or suggestive onewe take that and hedge It around with provisions by whichi we can work It out and
provide for sucli Inspection as is necessary
to prevent the eviis that exist in the trade
at the present tirne. If we do that it is ail
we eau do, and it will not be safe to proceed ln the çray this Bill proposes to deal
wlth the question.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-We have listened to
a number of reasons wby this Bill should
not pass. I arn stroiigly ln favour of this
measure, not only fron rny own knowledge
of the evils with which It deals, but from
representations made by the Winnipeg Board
of Trade. The people of Manitoba and the
North-west have suffered greatly from the
fact that aýpples have been packed and sold
that were not worth haîf the rnoney pald
for thern. The grading rnight possibly bccbanged If It does not suit. With reference to the suggestion o! the hon, gentleman
froni Marshfield (Mr. Ferguson) thýit the
rninister who drafted tbis Bill had ln mind
the grading of Manitoba wheat; while it Is
true that No. 1 Manitoba bard should have
a certain percentage of Red Fif e wbeat,
and the balance sound wheat, It does flot
follow that the proposed standard would
flot be sultable for apples. This Bill provides that a certain percentage of appies
should be free frorn worým-holes and scabs,
and If we can get sucb apples as are described as A-1, we lu Manitoba would consider thern first class, because I arn satisfied
that 50 per cent of what we get have wormThe Winnipeg Board Of
holes or scabs.
Trade took this matter up. I do not know
Hou. Mr. PERGUSON.

whether ail the members of the Senate received copies of their resolution, but theY
suggested legisiation on the Unes of the Bill
that bas been subrnitted to us. It is not
enougb to say that we shall have a certain
Inspection, but I tbink the fines and penaltfes and Imprlsonmient should be imposed on
any one who packs a barrel of apples and
falsifies the contents. 0f course, there xnay
be sorne trouble ln the near future lu working this out, but, as I understand it, rnost
shippers who send aples to the old country
and to Manitoba and the North-west, are
men who buy tbe crop lu the orchard and
do their own packing. There is no reason
why this penalty should not be irnposed on
nmen who pack apples of No. 1 which are
defectIve. The narne of tbe packer is on
the barrel, and they can be traced. Tbe
wholesaler who purchased the apples and
sbips them to the North-west knows the
packer, and the retailer can, of course, corne
on the whoiesaler, and consequently there
can be a guarantee frorn one to another.
and the wrongdoer eau be punlshed. I amn
lu entire sympathy wlth the Bill, andI I arn
sure If It Is passed It wlll be ýappreciated
by every purchaser of apples in the Northwest, because while a great portion of our
fruit Is exported to England, a considerable
quantity is also sent to, Manitoba and the,
North-west frorn Ontario, and it rnust be
remernbered that It Is very disappoint1flg
to a person who pays four or five dollars
for a barrel of apples, when hie opeins the
barrel, to find that haîf the fruit ls of inThat was rny experience
ferior quality.
with haîf a dozen barrels that 1 bought last
faîl, and which were represented to be
flrSt-cîagS fruit. When I opened the barrels
1 found that tbey would flot corne under
either of these grades. If rny bon. frlend
lived ln the North-west hie would be very
giad to get apples sucb as are describ-ed here
as No. 1 grade. It rnight be well to have
au extra grade made of sucb. apples as be
speaks of, because when the apple crop of~
Ontario is good and tbere are f ew wormholes or scabs on the fruit, It rnight be
weil to bave a grade free frorn both scabs
.and worni-holes, the same as in grading our
Manitoba wheat we have No. 1 extra bard,
whlch is pure Red Fife wheat. Then, we
could have other grades below that. That
rnight suit the views of tbe bon, gentleman

[APRIL 17. 1901]
froma Marslifield, because there is no doubt more thau likely that the better qualities of
some years ail the apples shipped froiD apples have been sent to the Enropean
Ontario iniglt be above the grade described market, and inferior classes to our own
markiets ln the provinces where tliey are not
here.
grown. This question of packing and slipHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
ping Is of sucd a character that dishonest
lion, gentleman had compared the present
people are destroyln- tlie trade, and 1 qulte
Act witli the clause referred to by the hon.
agree that anythlg like an appropriate
gentleman from Prince Edward Island, repenalty should 'le imposed. I liad a strlkguiating the grade of apples, lie could flot
ing illustration of this wlien I was ln Honohave corne to any other conclusion than that
British Columbia salmon Is of adthe present Bill Is a retrograde movement lulu.
The British consul at
mirable quality.
instead of an advnnce. The law as it stands
Honolulu lad a consigament of a large numon the statute-bool. provides that No. 1 apber of barrels of salmon packed In British
pies shall be of a certain quality and
Columbia, and sent to that market. Wlien
mnust be free from scabs or worm-holes. That
lie opened thcm lie found a few fish on the
Is a positive statute. The present Bill protop of very superior qualîty, while the fisli
vides that there sliould be two classes, A No.
in the middle of the barrel were very ln1, and No. 1, and that A-1 may have 10 per
ferior.
He refused to accept them and
cent of defective apples, and No. 1, which threw the whole responsîbility on the slipIs described lu the law upon the statuteper in Britishi Columbia, wlio not only lost
book as fruit free from ail these defects, can
the value of the saînion, but also liad to
under this Bill have 20 per cent of defective
pay the freiglit ln addition, and lt served
apples, so that the hon. gentleman will see
lm riglit. 1 know tuiat in discusslng this
that hie is taking a retrograde step ln adoptquestion wlien I was abroad, I pointed out
lng this Bill.
to tliem, as bas - been pointed out by my
Hoii. Mfr. WATSON-I suggested thiat it lion. friend liere withi reference to ourselves,
miglit be well to have a superior grade as If we expect to be successful ln any market,
well as these two grades.
we must be very particular in the qualitY
Hon. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-Tlie of food we send, aud more particularly to
lion. gentleman's argument was that the England. There is no ciass of people ln the
apples whicli have been sent to Manitoba worid wlo are s0 particular ln matters of
were of a defective cliaracter, and I sliould food as tliey are In Great Britain, the place
suppose from bis remarks, of a much more wliere we send most of our products. I amn
defective character than 10 or 20 per cent. sure If the Minister of Justice will couThe law on the statute-book declares whnt sider the points that have been logically
No. 1 apples shaIl be, and If apples below placed before us, hie will corne to the contliat standard have been sold in Manitoba, clusion that the law ou the statute-book tothen the parties wlio sold tliem were amen- day lu reference to, the quality of apples
able under the Inspection Act, which provides Is Infinltely better than this Bill. I cannot
a penalty for any violation of Its provisions. possibly understand how the system lias
That is the point to whichi the lion, gentle- grown up, wltli this law on the statute-booli,
barrel
man from Marslifield referred particularly, declarlng tînt a 20 per cent defective
shahl be a No. Il or that A-i shahl be perand that is the point, that the hon, gentleman from Manitoba lias entirely overlooked, mitted to have 10 per cent defective. Bewhat
because lie says he wili accept a permissive cause there is a law which regulates
Act ln place of an Act whlch Is obligatory No, 1 Is, and it Is that we should guide our
they slip apples
in lts cliaracter, and prescribes a penalty growers or shippers wben
1 noticed ln the Citizen
for any violation of its provisions.
To to the old country.
evade this Bill, If It passes, the shipper lias this mornlng that the M.%inister of Inhand
only to dechine to put A-1, or No. 1, upon bis Revenue liad introduced two Bills providlng
barrels, or any other mark. I sympathize for the amendment of the Inspection Act.
with the lion, gentleman, and there Is a good W9hen I read. that I said: If there is any
deal of force ln lis remarks witli reference defect with reference to appies in the Gento frauds in the packlug of apples. It is eral Inspection Act, why should not a

[SENATE]
çlause he proposed amendlng it so as ta
provide for any defects existing there, and
then it could be brought under the whole
provisions of the Act providing for the Inspection of fruits and other products.
I
thlnk that is a very strong point that the
minister should consider.
If this Bill becomes law, there Is no provision whatever
that the man who lnspects these apples
shahl be an expert ln the trade. That 18 heft
altogether wlth the Governor in Councîl or
the xninister, and as we are governed to-day
hy departme'nts, and not by the responsibillty of the whole government, It makes it
ten times worse.
The Inspection Act provides for a competent Inspector ta, be appoln*ted, who must take an oath of office
and be subject ta penalties If he does not
perforni bis duties properly.
But lt is
a dangerous power to place ln the bands of
a man wlho may be the eappoIntee of any minlster, ta autbonize hlmn who may have a
partîcular friend to, whom he desires ta gilve
a job, to go on board the Allan Line of
steamers and deal with a shipment as this
BIR provîdes. He snight be actuated by spite
or by a desire to have the quallty of appies being sent ta, the European market af
the very best quallty-we cannot tell. Experience has taught us what human nature
Is.
He might go on board the steamer
without informing the shipper, and have
the apples turned out to satisfy bis whim,
and if he found a barrel not la accordance
with the provisions of this Bill, have theni
ail condemned. That Is a dangerous power
ta place lu the hands of any one not a
sworn officiai.
It is an Important point to
whiech the miaister should give his particular attention. I heard the report of the
Winnipeg Board of Trade read by the hon.
gentleman froin St. Boniface.
The board
of trade evîdently mlsunderstood this Bill,
for It: does not apply to any fruit not la enclosed. packages. Strawberries are brought
in smali open baskets, hence the argument
of the board of trade of Winnipeg does not
apply to the extent that It otherwise would.
There are many other fruits that might be
mentioned, where you can scarcely draw
the distinction betweeu what you cali wld
fruit and cultivated fruit-gooseberries,
currants and many others. In aur country
there would be very littie difficulty la drawing a distinction, but mn other couintries,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

where they grow ta greater perfection, you
can scarcely tel] the difference.
I have
seen the wild raspberries as far north as
Port Simpson, larger and more lusclous,
growing wlld, than our cultivated raspberrnes. This is an Important Bill, affectlng an Important trade lu this country, and
I do flot know of any one who can speak
more authoritativeir on the matter thau
those who ive ln fruit-growlng sections of
the country, like my hon. friend to my right
(Hon. Mr. Ferguson), who has large and extensive orchards, and who ships those fruits
la large quantities to the European markets.
The hou, gentleman kuows the consequences
of shipping an inferior fruit, and he is canny
enough flot ta do that.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That motive, 1 thlnk,
operates very largeiy on other people besides my hon. frlend from Marshfleld.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I only
refer ta hlm as havlng experlence.
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-I thlnk the Bill Is not
open ta any objections whlch have been
made. Wlth regard ta the Inspection, what
does the Bill provide ? That the Governor
General la Council may niake such regulations as he considers neeessary ln order ta
secure the efficient enforcement of the Actthat Is the object ta be almed at. In the
maklng of arrangements and the appointment of the party ta lnspect, If you were
ta say that the party appolnted shall be a
competent party, you would add nothlng ta
the provisions of the section, because the
goverament representing the Crown, responsible ta parliameat, would be censurable for
the appointment of Incompetent persoas
equally, whether the Act sald they were ta
be competent or not. The presumption Is
lt is the duty of the adývlsers of the Crown
always ta advlse for the administration work
la every case competent people. Others are
not qualified, and are not entitled to be
appointed.
Minîsters are always censurable if they fail la their duty ln this regard.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
becomes of the unfortunate sufferer ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. frlend will see
wdaat becomes of the unfortunate in any
event. The presumption must be that the

[APRIL 17, 1901]
gevernent wlll always undertake ta dis- opinion, the safeguards whlch the hon. rnember from Marshfield seerned ta thlnk necescharge their duties prol)erly.
that
lnl that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe saryflot cailed direction are safeguards and
for-neyer are called for,
dlfernt.are
expeiene l
you were to put thern Inte a Bill, they are
experence18
dfferfit.If
put there slmply as a matter of forrn.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The bon, gentleman
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Â matter of forrn?
rnay speak frorn bis own'experience, but
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The Governor ln Council
that bas flot been the practice sInce I have
rnay maire regulations. Those regulations
been ln the gcvernrnt.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn speaklng of will appear frorn tirne ta Urne and will be
subject ta the supervision cf this Banse. Now
the hon. gentlernan's experlence.
this la the kind of legIsiation that has been
Hon. Mr. 3MILLS-I arn speaklng of %vhat v'ery frequently authorized ln modern tirnes,
Is the common sense princîpie. Wliat ob- bath ln the United Klngdam, and In ail the
ject or motive can any governent or party dependencles cf the Empire, wbere parliabave in prornotlng the trade of this country, mentary government bas been lntroduced.
ta fnrnisb facilities for the commission of I do net think It ls a desirabie system ta
fraud upon those wha are engaged lu t ? autiiorîze the governnient ta niake regulaSnreiy this ls not the abject of tbe 11111, ta tiens where you aiready know well the kind
prevent the governent appointlng 1i'nconi- of regniatien that ls required. Tbe oril cf
petent people, or cornrittlng fraud upon the this provision Is the coxnpiexlty of modemn
people, or irnposing officiais upon the coni- soclety, and tbe dlfficulty of foreseeing the
rnnty who are altogether unfit for their necessities whicb rnay arise, and parliarnent
duties. Ail tbese tblngs tbey are sufficlently entrusts the advisers of the 4Jrown wltb the
That
protected agalnst ln the responslbllty cf the subordinate power cf legisiatien.
appeintlng power, and that responsilty suberdinate power ls exerclsed by the makls effective because parliament can alwnys lng of orders lu ceuncil or regulations from
exercise the autbority It possesses ta punisb tume ta Urne. Wben you bave deait witb
the men glity of unfairness or careless- tbe subject long enougli ta acquire the luliess ln tbe discliarge of this duty cf ap- tornAin wblcb enables you ta say precisely wbat the regulations will be, If the
polutrnents.
BOWELL-Thiere subject admits cf permanent regulatiens,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
la ne provision for punlsblng If lie dees net tben yen' supersede the regulatian by an
arnendrnent te your Act cf parliarnent. That
do bis duty ?
MILLS-Yes, you have that bas been the practice tbrougb the wbole cf
Hon. M.Nr.
the past century. One hundred years ago
power.
the systern was Introduced la the United
BOWELL- Kingdem and ln this country, and we have
Sir MACKENZIE
Hon.
If the Minister cf Agricentinued It.
Whiere ?
Bon. Mr. MILLS-You disrnIss the minis- culture knew precisely 'what the regulation
auglit ta be, be, instead cf asking fer power
ter.
OWEL-Weta maire tbese regniatiens, wenld Insert
ACKEZIE
Hon.Sir
stating and deflniug tbe
olbtWELL-We a clause lu the Bil cannot always fereseeIfw
thaCKNI
on.d Sdr
functians, but we
i wecoldbutwe annt.
woud d tht
Heu. Mr. MILLS-My bon. friend knows we are flot possessed cf omniscience, and
rigbt well that a minister ls net suppesed te we sait parliament te vest us witb power
negleet bis duty. He undertakes ta dis- whicb ls exercised tentatlvely. Experience
charge It. My ban. frlend was for a long mlght point eut, after six montha, that some
Urne a minister, and be wlll hardiy tell this modification or change ls cailed fer, and yen
Hense that be purpcsely went wrong-tbat exercise that pewer. It is the power wltb
be was flot dispased te dlscbarge tbe duty whicb every administration is entrusted
tbe law Imposed upou bim-tbat be was dis- wbere you have our system of governrnent,
pesed te advlse tbe Crown wrongly with re- and one whvich It ls necessary tbey sbould
gard ta the character cf the men wbo were be entrusted with nnless yen were going ta
'Io be appolnted ln different places. In my bave a Bill that possibly migbt be fonnd

[SENATE]
to be uaworkabie two months after it be- 1 amn sure, to ulake the measure as fuli and
fair as it can be. Tliere are some things
-cornes law.
You give that power, and you give it 1 tbink my hon. friend iu bis speech oversimply for this reason that there is no motive looked The appie crop is a very variable
that occurs; to you which presents ltself to crop ln this country. Some years It Is an
the government, why tbat power shouid bie immense crop. There are millions of bush.abused. W'e are ail anxious for this, that els, and millions of busheis go to waste.
the fruits sbipped from Canada shall have, Other years it ls a short crop. Now, you
as the cheese shlpped from Canada bas hadil do flot wnnt to make it Impossible for the
heretofore, a good name, that we shall send farmer whio bas appies, because tbey may
forward tbe 'best possible quality-tbat we be somewbat defectIve, f0 seli tbem. He
shall not encourage our people f0 put Inferi- ougbit not to put tbem on the market other
or fruit into barrels and so prgctise a fraud 1bnn as they are, but bie oughit not to be
upon the person wbo ultimately purchases hindered from putting them on the market
If. We wiii put an end to that so far as we aitog-ether. You do not want fa frame the
ean, and no minister of the Crown can by measure la suchi a wvay as wouid bave that
any cther concelvabie motive bave any other effect. It may'be that those disasters wbicb
object ln vlew than to carry out that oh- ln the past twenty years hiave affected the
ject and to give effect f0 it bonestiy. Thiat appie crop la tbe province of Ontario may
ls bis purpose and interest, for If my hon, flot affect tbe appie crop in Nova Scotla and
frlead the Minister of Agriculture were af- Prince Edward Island. I do flot know how
ter the adoption of this Bill ta under- far that is so.
take to admiaister if lmprovidently or luiHon. '.%r. FERGUSON-We bave the sanie
properiy, the resuit undoubtedly wouid be troubles.
to bring discredit upon himseif. No minisHon. Mr. MILLS-Sometlmes an apple Is
Every minister
ter desires to do that.
avoids lt so far as bie possibly can, and so fine la form and appearance, yet some of
are wormy. You cannot aiwqys exwe bave aiways, la the matter of adminis-te
tration, entrusted every goverament ta wborn amine tbem so closely as to absolutely detect
we commit the work of administration witb 1 every apple whicb may have a worm la IL.
an unrestricted free band so far as itîIs Some of tbem may be lnjured very seriouspossible fa confer that power upon hlmi and iy, and some may flot be very seriously afyou rest soiely upon the superlntending fected at ail. Now, this Bihl says :
No persan shall ssii. or offer, expose or have
power of parilament ta criticise or censure
hlm r pintoutthewrogs hic hemayln bis possession for sale, auv fruit packed ln
him r pintout
he ron-s wichliemaya closed package, upan whlch package la marked
commît If Is not la this direction and ln the grade 'A No. 1 Canadian,' unless such fruit
well-grown specimens of one variety,
regard f0 matters of this sort there ls danger consistaofofnsarly unlform size, of good colour for
9 sounfi,
of serions abuse, and so you admit 0f great- the varlety, of normal shape, and not lsss than
er freedom than you do in some other mat- 90 per cent free from scab, worm-hales, brulses
ters of administration. I trust that the and ather defects, and propsrly packsd.
House wiil a]iow the Bill to be read the Those may be, to some extent affected by
second time. I am flot asklng to go Into scab or inay be wormy. There is but 10
committes upon it until Monday next, and 1 per cent of them, and there is this fact,
wil la the mean tîme have an opportunIty thiat la size and appearance they are ail
of discussing the matter wifh the Mînister righf. There is a defect la them, and if
0f Agriculture and wlth bis officiais who tbey are not of diminutive size, the fact that
have given speciai attention to the subject, there may be a worm la the appie, or a scab
and I bave noted what my hon. friend opo upon If, if the size is flot affected, the greater
site bas said, and wbat bas been said by portion of the apple may be sound.
Hon. Mr. ALLAN-They wud not bie ail
the bon. member from Manitoba, and will
brlng these matters under bIs attention, right la appearance If tbey Iiad scab. Any
and discuss tbem witb him and witb bis one wbo bas grown appies knows that.
officers, and see how far hie may think
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It depeads on the size
changes are necessary, la order f0 meet what, of the scab. If my bon. friend were ta see
my hon. friend opposite thinks are defects 1a scab the size of a split pea hie wauld not
In the measure as if stands. We ail desire, consider it a defect. and yet it is a defect.
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[APRIL 17, 1901]

233

Hon. Mr. ALLAN-If an appie bas a scab i man for the dissertation he bas given us as
upon it, alniost to any extent, lt lsý a great to the duties of ministers under our constidefect ln the appearance of the apple, and tution ; but If be wiil refer to the Inspecyou ean see lt without any trouble. It ls the tion Act lie wilI find that wbule the power la
same so far as wormy apples are concerned. given under the l4tb section to the GovAny one who knows anything about fruit eruor ln Council from time to time to make
knows perfectly well when you are packing regulations for the appointment of and
your apples ln the autumn a worrny apple governlng of the duties of inspectors It aiso
w111 aiways show a littie bole wbere It lins maires regulations providlng for penalties
been penetrnted ln the sprîng. and there ls for the contravention of these regulations
somethlng like sawdust where the worm and It Imposes au affidavit and oath upon
niakes its exit, and that eau aiways be de- the person who la appointed, and he cannot
be appointed until he has undergone an
tected.
va- examination before people who 'nnderstand
Hon. ',%r. M-IILLS-It depends on the
rlety of the apple. There are some appies the duties whlcb be has ta performn. That
that the worm will be found aiways to en- ls ail we ask lu this respect. The present
ter the apple at the blossoni end, and you law gives the power to tbe Governor lu
will find no other defect, and no other mark Council to, maire regulations and appoint
of the worm about the appie except where these lnspectcirs. but there Is no provision
for adminlsterlug the oath, nor is there any
it ls showxi just within the blossom point,
bas the GovHon. '.%r. iMcICALL«UN-Yoti can very provision for a penalty, nor while makiug
lu Council the power,
It.ernor
easiy dicove
regulation, to require that the oatb
It.the
easiy dicove
Hon. Mr. M-\ILLS-What 1 ami poiuting should be takeu-there is no power, unless
out Is, If an apple were as scabby as the there Is a provision under tbe statute,
Hence It gives
bon. gentleman from Toronto suggests, It to Impose any penalty.
would not be of the quality described here power to the minister to appoint mast wliom
-it could flot be of uniforni size and good be pleases, wbether the man Is com1petent
colour. It would be sorted out, and so with or not. The presumption the hon. gentieregard to those that are marked No. 1. 1 man lias advanced la. that he wiil appoint
spoke to the minister, after reading tbe .9 competent man, and that no Incoinpeteflt
Bill, on my way ta the House lu the morn- man wiii be appointed for the diseharge of
ing, and lie lnformed me that what lie was such duties ?
providing as No. A 1 and No. 1, was ln
uGSNIiiht r
in
on
on. FEGyOe
-er.ma
i t ouit
conformity with the trade lu other parts of ouI-I
gentlema my e a abou
tbe
hou.
cotoet
tont
great
them coninrhet. Myiebon. frediopsite scab on the apple, whieb I regard as
blemish lndeed, and any one who bas exa
He
Ienlshat.brn dise
froni Mharsfeld
apesar
attention of the minister. late aungs ndl altoug t a
bas said under the
MY per
our safnundltog
Wbat we, I suppose, desire, seelng tbat
appes re xtet afeceilln omevery small wben yon put It lu a barrel. yet,
o sme
small deect w hengro
seasons at least by diseases, ls not to put urapdy ahd bat lsn
Is
lu the way of aur peo- ait pand becomes a srion defect b he
greater Impedimenta
h
et
pie findiug a market for them, sncb as they itie tbck brre la s erind.
pnd
arll
h
lu other countries lu which tm
are, than exists
The motion was agreed to and tbe Bill
apples are prodnced for consumption, lu
sîde of tbe At- was read the second tîme.
most cases, on tbe other
BILLS INTRODUCED.
lantic.
Hon. Sir M.\ACKE.NZIE BOWELL-The
Bl 15
nAtt
mn
h
eea
Ant-(r
AtomendtbeGnra
request of tbe bon. gentleman ho have the Ihp(cti)
Bill read the second tîme and referred to Inpion(16)A Actt-( reset
thelîs).n
ctrpetgthClig
Bi(1)An
committee Is a reasonable one. No one
desîres to prevent the passage of a Bill of Lumber and the Inspection of Staples.whlcb wiii facilitate our trade lu any way. (Mr. Scott).
The Senate adJourned.
1 amn very mnchi obliged to tbe bon. gentie-

[SE-.'ATEj
If flot, is It the intention of the
9overnment to take steps to prevent these (>ffisuggested in
fromn
c iais circularasking the questions
?
ld
bpeen sent?

THE SENATE.
Ottawa. Thursdai,, Apt-i 18, 1901.

He said : I might bave added what punlshment do tbey propose to inflict, and wbat
;teps do tbey propose f0 take to punisb the
men wbo se violate the law. Since I placed
thls inquiry 'upoDn the Notice paper, fihe question bas been fully discussed In another
Therefore we are
brancb of parliament.
relieved, 1 take It, to a very great extent,
from entering mlnutely Into the subi ect of
this inquiry. I need scarcely say that 1 cannot for a moment believe, from the long
knowledge I bave bad of the M.%inîster of
Justice, that be would be a party ta any
sucb circular being sent t0 enumerators and
census commissioners, wbo are solemnly
warned nlot to divulge any information wblcb
tbey receive from the people in order to
obtain a correct census of this counitryWothey are tbat could be so forgetfUl Of
their duty and of that respect due ta law,

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree

o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (M) 'An Act respecting the St. Law-

rence and Adirondack Rallway Company.'(H1on. Sir 'Mackenzie Boweli.)
Bill (53) 'An Acf respecting the Manitoba

and North-west Loan Company, Limited.'(Hon. MIr. Aikens.)
Bill (43) 'An Act ta incorporate the St.
Lawrence bloyds.'-<Hlon. Mr. Wood, Westmoreland.)
iMPiROPER CENSUS CIRCULAR.

INQITIRY.

Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL rose ta
under the management
Call attention to the following circular whlch that are so completely
has been Issued and sent to, census enumerators of what we understand as the 'machine' lu

in the province of Ontario, With blanks ta be the province of Ontario, as ta commit tbemfilled wlth Information for the use of the Liberai
organizations of that province, which reads as selves ta a policy similar ta tbat whicb Is
fohlows :
exposed ln this circular, we would ail like
Dominion of Canada, province of Ontario.
ta know. 1 do not think 1 use too strong a
Month of!............. 1901.
term when I say that the circular Is of the
16 years of age or over ..
Male residents
Polling subdivision No....................
Municipality of!..........................
Electoral district o! .....................
.......................
Per ..............

P. 0 ...............................
........................
To .............
P. o ...............................

most iniquitous character, and what Is more
surprising te the people of Ontario and of

* the wbole Dominion, is the fact, that whenl
this question was brought Up in the local
legisiature of the province of Ontario, the

premiier of that provtince actually not only

Two copies to be prepared by the gentleman
ta justify the acts
so chosen for each subdivision and sent te the winked at. but attempted
Liberai candidate In the last provincial election, of those wbo had committed this outrage.
or candidate now nominxated for the next prostrongly is the feeling aroused in the
vinicial electico.

The achedule which Is ta be

filled up by -the enumerat-ir catis for the f011 iwing Information :
Name of resident-surname, Christian name (be
careful ta give name of each lot of each maie
persan who is eighteen years if age or over).
................
Politics .................
Date o! birth ............................
Month, day, year ........................
Number o! lot or bouse, concession or street.
Post office sddress.......................
...................
Nationality ..........
Religious denomination and church .........
Remarks............ ....................
And Inquire of the government whether this

So
press generalis and the people an this question, that even the Montreal Witness conThe
demuns It In vers strong language.
remarks of Mr. Ross as printed
ronto Globe are ta the following
He did not think that every census
wouid perjure himself to give the
formation.

la the Toeffect:
enumerator
Zesired in-

We ail know wbat the duty is and what
the instructions are to the enumerators wbel

tbey take the oatb of office tol f ulfil their

duties as census commissioners and enumerknowledge, consent or authority of the govern- ators. The Witnes-s commenting on that exbave
If not,
ment, or any member thereot?
any steps been taken ta suppresa it. or have pression of the premier of the province of
any instructions been given ta county or riding Ontario says:
census commissioflers, or ta enumerators, nat
Mr. Ross was sureiy very unhappy in bis treatta ask for or seek the information sougbt by
Surely it is of sorne imIf sa, what ins tructions have ment of this matter.
circular?
circular was

said

issued

and

circulated

with

the

[APRIL 18, 1901]
portance ta a governuient that nlot Its party, we
hope, but sanie injudicious members of it, should
ha guilty of trYing ta persuade or tempt the
census enumerators ta perjure theniseives, and
surely if seine of the enumerators who were
strong party muen were texnpted ta do se, the
If a governmnent
result would be deplorable.
treats such affairs as this one as a matter of noa
It 15 certalnly loslng its moral perconsequefice,
ception, and wlll soon forfeit the confidence of
right-thinking people.
I think there la scarcely any one in the
province, who bas a proper appreciation of
the duties of a census commissioner, but will
agree wit]i the remarks made by the Wltness on this question. I miglit quote a number of extracts froni other papers on both
aides of polities on thds isubject, but 1 do nlot
tblnk it la necessary. I was pleased to see
that w-lien the question was brauglit to the
notice of the government Iu the House of
Commans, while the MlInister af Agriculture
disavowed ail knaw-ledge of it, or that lie
bad beard of lt-I think that was the
language he used-until It was brouglit
up in the Hause of Conimons by one
of the ;members of that body, and that,
while he gave no assurance of what'
course the gavernuient wouid pursue after
having it brouglit to their L-nowledge, lie did,
wltb the consent, I presume, of bis cal-'
leagues, or perhaps was farced to do It by
sanie of bis colleagues, lmmedlately after
the rising of the House Issue a circular te
the enumeratars witbdrawing, and to a
certain extent, denouncing the circular.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Wi tbdrawing ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He bail neyer beard of
It.
Hon. Sir MAOKENZIE BOWELL-I retract that word. Directing the census commissioners, would perhaps be a better way
to put it, nat ta act upan the Instructions
wbich they hid recelved froni the 1machine'
of the Liberal party.
Hon. '.%r. M-NcMILLAN-AInd ta destray
theni.
Hon. Sir -NIACKENZIE BOWELL--Yes,
that is quite riglit.
Hou. Mr. DANDUUAND-Hle denied knowing anything about it.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
already said that. I stated, further, that lie
not only denied knawing anything about it,
but tliat it was the first lie knew of it wben

his attention was cal'led to It by a member
of the House of Commons. I do not tbink I
Elid the bon. gentleman any Injustice. I gave
hlm the full benefit of the position which he
had taken. I have simply to say, In that
connection, that It la somewhat remarkable
that the whole world-when I speak of the
world I speak of Ontario and those who are
lnterested-that; almost the entire press of
the province of Ontario, and even of the
province of Quebec sbouid bave beard of this
Iniqulty ; and It neyer came to the ears of
the Minister of Agriculture who is responsible for the proper talzing of tbe census,
until it was brouglit under bis notice by
some member of tbe House of Commoils.
I have no desire to hold them responsible
for any more than that for whicb tbey are
responsible. Wbat la publisbed In the newspapers au being tbe orders sent by tbe minister Is as follows:
The statement is made liera that a schedule
entitled ' Male residents 16 years of age and
over' bas beau placed in the bauds of census
enumerators. If such a scbedule bas been arnployed, it Is fraudulent, and you are raqulred
farthwitb ta instruet al anumeratars lu your
census district to discontinue It under pain of
dismissal froni office and prosecutian and punlsh-

ment under the provisions of the Census Act.
Âny such schedula lu the possession of the
anumeratars, whathar fillad or nat, must bo
destrayed, and the delivery of theni teasny persan or persons, or the ratentian of thera by
enumerators will ha vislted with the full penSee sections il and 15 to 19,
alty of the law.
Wire me tainclusive, of the Cansus Act.
marrow any Information you may have regarding this matter, and af the use of the reputed
achedule

In your census district.

(Sgd.)

SIDNEY FISHER,
Minister o! Agriculture.

I do not know tbat the minister could go
any furtber than he bas gone In this respect.
AIl tbat I regret la tbat it was not done before, because we ail know that on the fIrst
of April tbey commenced taking the census
lu the different -provinces of tlie country,
and If tbere are any, as I bave no doubt
there are many, wbo would not consider the
attempt to obtain this information Of as
heinous a cbaracter as many of us wotild,
and every one else w-ho would think about it
may, in ail possibillty bad been asklng these
questions during the fortnigbt previous to
the reception of the circular. I regret to say
that it is another evidence of the demoralization of political parties ln thîs country.
It la an evidence tliat nothing appears to
stand lu tbe way of attempting ta obtain lu-

tSENATE1
formation for political purposes, otber than in feeling and everything else, but their
that wvbicbi is proper, honest and legitimate, names happen to lie Scotch, English or Irish,
and therefore deeply to be regretted.
I and for the reason that their fathers happenplaced the inquiry upon the Notice paper be- ed f0 be of that race for generations back,
fore any action bad been taken in the other fhey are French Canadians to ail Intents
House, because I dleemied it my dufy, not aud purposes, and if a French Canadian who
only to ourselves, but to 'the country, that bappens to have an English name Is to be
attempts of that kind sbould be exposed, classed in the census as of French origin,
and information obtained so that such la)- surely the Macdonalds ought to be classed
iquities be put a stop to. There was another wlth the Scotch race, and my hon. friend
circular wbich was issued by the goveru- from Brandon, 1 thlnk, would have to trace
ment itself which I venture f0 say, althougli bis ancestors to the time the Huguenots were
if is not iacluded in my motion, was a highiy drivea freim France. 1 tbink the HOn. MýNr.
improper one. That was the one seat by the Kircbboffer would bave to be put down as
oeo
fi
rDtcmn
rnha
assistant commissioner, and was, in fact, part;!
of tbe government policy of obtaining the : ;n Dutch name than anytbing else. 1 fhink
census. as acknowiedged by the Minister Of 1such ù .policy ijnfortunate. If that informaAgriculture biniself. I do not say that there tion is required wbaf necessity wýas there f0
was the vile, iniquitous intention iu that cir-pu
ondeta'poteciuladw-î
culr fiafthee tb on lsuedla n-was tbe circulation of that circular confined
ws i
tario, but what I do say is this, and I think to a particular race in the country ? I bave
every one will agree wlth me who fblnks upoxi some of the circulais lying on my desk.
the subject for a momient-that no circulai They are addressed to people witb French
should bave been issued, even by tbe govera-;ý names. These the Minister of Agriculture
ment itself, whicb deals witb tbe question of fells us lu bis speech ';ere circulated to a
obtaining a proper census for tbe Dominion,ý large extent, and I find fault witb that beand mnarked 'co:iftdential,' and sent exclu- 1 cause if leaves a false impression on the
htcruata
falwora
slvely to one party or one section of the com- m d
miunity. If I mazy bc permitted to give an there ivas an attempt to swell tbe number
expression to an opinion w-bich I hold very of a certain class improperly. Surely we do
strongly, I tllink tbat la tbis country the not require that. it is a poliey tixat liais
sooner we drop the question of wbere a maxn been adopted by the present minister lu taitw-as bora and raised, the better. That we liing tbis census, -wbetber ib the consent of
aire British Canadian is quite enough for me, i ail i's coileagues or not I do not know.
w-betber a maxi be of Englisb, Scotch, Dufch Probably it may tiot be. If if w-cre issued
or Frencb orig-in. Tlhat is the k-lad of census under n
te
diitain
eiih
I sbould like f0 see taken. If if were neces- hiave ' aay therbleo
amnsrtionem
indviflgh
sary to issue private an.d coMfdential ciu
responsible, because under old administra-;
lars and send tbem to a certain class of the' tions nu circular and no scbedule affectiig
community, asking thein to inquiîe as f0, the taking of tbe census was 'sent forth
the origin of some people and the race from until if hiad been considered by the cabiu wt hsnwsse
w-bicb fbey sprang, if was equally Important ne n prvd
that if sbould go f0 ail other classes 0f of departmental administration,
if is
people. I do not see lu that circulai to jnst possible that this may have been issued
wbicb I referred auy reference -made te, the without thle knowledge of fthe hion -enportion of our French fellow-subjects who tiemnan opposite, or otber members of the
bear Scotch, Eng-lsh land Irish na-mes,
cabinet. 0f course I cannot speak positively
on that question, but judging fîom the past
SCOTT-Ob, yes.
Hon. M-Nr.
and the experience w-e bave bad in conaecHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWnELL-No, flou Nvitbi Bills wvhich have come before this
not in that circular. There are tbe Mac- House, -we might properly presumne that such
donalds, Hlarwoods, Frasers, O'Briens aud is the case. I have brougbf this matter beCaleys. They are as inucb French as nxyý fore tbe Senate from a sense of responsibililion. friend w-ho is aow speaking f0 the hon. ty, as a member of the Sonate, and as a
Secretary of Stato (Mr. Daaduraad) that is, Canadian who desires f0 see the census taitHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JAPRIL 1S, 1901]
en fairly and bonestlY, and that it should flot the character of the candidate Who May apbe used by any party, I care flot who"It may pear before theni for the purpose of receivbe, for the purpose whieh evidently that In- Ing their support. Tbey may perhaps naformation was intended to be nsed, In case turally be lnclined to support one party, but
of a redistribution of the different constitu- they have a personal preference for the man
encies in the province of Ontario. If that that belongs to another party, and the charwere flot the Intention, what reason ean acter and standing of the candidates aisuggest itself to anyone that there should ways is an Important factor, and alwaym
be a special scheduie sent ont to obtain In- ouglit to be a very important factor ln the.
formation wbicb can have only that object deermination of the electors. So 1 say that
ln view. I give the government credit, as I parties are wanting ln that permanency that
have already stated, for having taken the belongs to religions divisions. Then, a govearliest opportunity, after its being brougbt ernmnent may be anxious to ho]d an election.
before parliament, to prevent the Iniiquity ITbey migbt get information at the expense
being- perpetrated, and I can oniy express a o f the entire community that would be of
further hope that the Minister of Justice, ln great advantage to the goverfiment, as a
bis capacity as Attorney General of this goverument, in that election, and It would
country, If the names of the parties who be grossly unfair to those Who are opposed
perpetrated this act, are ever brougbt under to tbem, and wbo are anxious to secure the
his notice, wil1 prosecute theni to the fullcst defeat of the government when the opportunity occurs and put in power another party,
extent of the liw.
that a large part of the work that beiongs to
Hon. Mr. M-%ILLS-I have listened to the the party and depends upon its own energy
speech of my lion. friend opposite witb at- and diligence and attention, should be done
tention, and note wbhat lie bas aaid witb re- for it at the expense of the entire commugard to the proposed taking of the party nlty, and at the expense of those who becensus. I do not know that 1 differ ln the lieve that the continnance of the leaders of
slightest deg-ree froni the observations he the party in power may be a misfortune to
bas addressed to tbis House. Wbether a the country. Now, I apprebend those are the
party census ouglit to be taken ln a country grounds on wblch my hon. friend has exor not, is a question on wbich I have often pressed biniseif in sncb strong language, and
heard individual men, wholly unconnected I do not say it is too strong, ln condemnawltb parliament, express opinions. 0f course, tion of what It is alieged was atIf sncb a census were taken fuily, and with tempted by these circulars. My bon. friend
the knowledge of parliament tbat It ought bas also referred to tbe fact that the
to be taken falrly, 1 do not kno"w that there Minister of Agriculture lias said that be
wouid be any speciai barrm done. There waýs not aware that anytbing of tbis
migbt or might not be. My impression ls sort was being done, and be expressed bis
that if you were to take a census of that surprise at that because, he sald, it
klnd, the dlfficulty wonld be that people do was lu the paper sometime before. Most
flot belong to parties ln the maine way as ministers are pretty bnsy dnring the session
tbey belong to churches.
of parliament. There Is not a great deai of
opportunity to devote much time to newsHon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-Some paper reading, and so there are very imany
of tbem do flot belong to churches.
tbings ln the newepapers that I fail to
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Some of tbem do not, see, that 1 know nothing about, except
but we do take a churcli census, and we take what 1 casu-ally hear f rom others who
It because tbe theological and religions opi- have had more leisur,e to read them ;
nions wbich men bold are to smre extent and I apprebenld the Minister of AgriThey are opinions eulture Is in very *mnch the sanie posipermanent opinions.
wbich are pretty muchi the sme to-day ln tion, and so there is nothing, ln my opinion,
every ehnrcbh us they were a century ago. at ail surprising that If allusion was made
It is not so wîtb parties. The parties are to, these matters in the newmpapers, It esundergoing changes contantly, and men are caped the attention of tbe Minister of Agrilargely -influenced in their assoelatio'ns by culture. in fact, I beard and knew notbiug

[8 ENATE]
thier with regard to it. It was no part of
the government's policy to take a political
census. They gave no instructions for this
purpose, and if a census of this sort was
taken at ail, or if instructions were given
for taking any census of this klnd, they
must have been given by unauthorized parties without the knowledge and without the
sanction of any memnber of the administration.
'3y hon. friend has alluded to the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Theu local government. I should be very sorry
I take it for granted the hon. gentleman to charge the local goveruiment with dolng
does flot read the notices placed on the what I have not doue myseif, what 1 do
notice paper, because tîjis notice was placed Ilf~Sî,ad
etil
i
,fDot approveofnyefan1
rtildd
about the niatter niyaelf until I heard a discussion Lad taken place on the subject ln
the House of Commons, and It was the conversation that tool, place on the matter that
gave me the first information on the subject.
So if I was myseif entlrely Ignorant of the
matter, I amrn ot at ail surprised that the
M1inister of Agriculture should be in the
samue position.*

on the Order papel' before the discussion iui Dot approve of attemipting the acquisition
the~~~~
omosf
oue0auy information of this kiud through

Hon. '-\r. M-NILLS-That may be. 1 knowl officiai sources.
Whbile the members of
the notice was ou the paper, but I did flot cvery i)arty who sit in parliament are anrend it over. I looked at the date ; the: xious to know t.heir political strengtli. everynotice itself I did flot rend, until my hon.! ihere. 1 trust that they ail equally feel the
frieud began his speech, when I cast my leest
fudraigt
banta
u
jformation through voluîîtary channels at
eye clown on the paper.
Honi. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I read
It very distinctly lu the House.
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-The 'Minister of Agriculture lias put these answers to the inquiry in

my hands:

teronxpene
Hlon. Mr. DEVER-I thoughit w-e
that information at the last election.
Hi.M.MLSI

o

oaai

hiad
h

conduct of parliamenitary government unider

stewtlthevlnar
1. The circular was flot issued or circulatedouEgi
wlth the knowledge, consent or authorlty of the and individual efforts which, lu usy opinion,
goverfiment, or of any mnember thereof, or of are niecessary for the maintenance of a
any officer of the census office.
2. The following instructions were wired by healthy public spirit, by obtaining ail that
the Minister of Agriculture to every census coin- information at the public expeuse which
missioner in the province of Ontario under date o'h
ob
bandvluaiyb
ate
ate
bandvlnaiyb
ob
of April 15, belng the flrst day on which the ogi
circular or ans' reference to it or notice of It and at their owni expenlse. you wvilI do a
was bronght to bis attention :great
deal to create a spirit of indiffereuice
I do Dlot know that the minister could have
regard to public matters, which would
made his deulal more explicit than hie bas flot bie In the. interest, or to the advantage,
done. or more explicit thani has been con- of the people of this country.
We are ail,
veyed to me in these tw-o propositions thiat I hope, interested, strongily initerested, lu the
I liave read. and my hon. friend will see, maintenance of our political and constitufroni reading over the communication whichi tionai systeni.
It is, lu my opinion, the
the iniister lias made to the parties et,- one best caiculated to secure a proper adgaged iii taking the census, that hie Las not muinistration of justice and the maintenance
ln any way eithei, countenanced, encouraged of private rights and politicai liberties; but
or approved of this proceeding; that it was I do flot care how you May forai a goverudoue without Lis knowledge or approbation nment in a country, if it bas not a healthy
in any w-ny whatever; thiat wheni it was and intelligent public spirit behiud it, you

Iwith

cailed to his attention in the House hie de- wili have degeneration and corruption.
nounced it. and Lie tooic the eariiest opportunitY of conanunicating w-ith the officers
engaged in tak.ing the census, that it did flot
have lis approval, aud that if any such
census Lad been taken, the papers regardiug
it shouid be destroFed.
I do not think it is
necessary that I should say anything furHon. Mr. MILLS.

One

of my strongest objections to the attempt
to acquire such information as a census of
this sort would afford, if tal-en, is that you
weaken that public spirit, and that selfdeniai and those personal exertions whicii
the health of every political party renders
necessary shouid be undertaken and carried

[APRIL IS, 19011
on voluntarily by the leaders and supporters
of the party itseif.
Hou. 3Mr. FERGUSON-Whlen. this question camne up for the first tUe ln the legislature of the province of Ontario, and when
public attention was called to it, a painful
Impression was created on the public mind
ail ov~er the country from the extraordlnary
attitude which was taken ln regard to It by
the premier of the province of Ontario. Instead of appearing to find serious fault with
w-iiat had been doue by these parties lu
tauipering with the enurnerators and trying to use thein for party purposes, lie denounced the parties in the Ontario legislature who had fonnd fault with this couduct of outsiders belonging to the Ontario
machine. Fromi that time forward it-seemned. frorn the press and the declarations ln
the other brandi of parlianient. that there
wVas only one opinion on the subjeet, and
that was a feeling of liorror ut the attempt
which had been made to induce the enumerators to perjure theniselves and to deinoralize
the taking of the census lu this couutry into
a party census.
I amn sorry that the Minister of Justice,
frorn bis remarks to-day, does not look at
the subject in that way. My bon. friend, ln
place of dlscussiug tbat feature of the question, rises in bis place, and gîves us, as lie
Is very well able to do, a very learned discussion upon the proprlety o! a party census
being taken lu the country, and upon the advantages of a party census. He discussed
that pro and con, holding the balance pretty
evenly on both sides, and wound up by the
conclusion that it would be better for the
party itself and all concerned If the party
should take its own way of gettlng thîs political information. Now, that is about the
substance of the speech whlch xny hon.
friend lias made. There was not a word
of denunclatlon, no horror expressed at these
men of the Ontario machine who approaclied
the enumerators to, perjure themselves for
the purpose o! gettlng thîs party Information. There was no word of condemnation
at the attempt to, demoralize the taking o!
the census for party purposes from my lion.
frlend. I arn surpr'ised that he should have
discussed thus question, to.my mmnd, in sucli
an Insufficient way, conslderIng the very
grave importance o! the subject In so many
aspects ; and 1 amn aleo sorry that my hon.

239

friend, the Minister of Justice, eat down
without meeting another point raised by
my hon. friend (Sir Mackenzie Bowell), and
thiat is to ask hlm, as the chief officer o!
justice ln the Dominion, If lie ia prepared to
take steps to, punlsh the people guilty of this
.crime o! endeavouring to lead a large body
o! public officials to commit thie crime o!
perjury. 1 amn sorry the MInIster of Justice,
for the salie of public sentiment la this country, sliould bave discussed. this question la
what I regard as sucli, an insufficient way.
The mnere dnoldental question as to wlietlier it
is well to have party statistics taken ln connection with the public census, or whether
finit sliould be le! t to the party îtself, Is a
question which slnks into insignificance compareil wlth the grent moral question Involved
la temptlng the enumeratoes o! th.ls country
to commit perjury ln the In'terests of the
machine, and I arn surprised that the Minister o! Justice could have discussed the question in sucli an entirely Inadequate manner.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-There le not inucli
,difference between the lion. leader of the
epposition and myseif as to, the character
o! the circuler whici lias been condemned.
1 wish the hon. genitleman lied confined bis
Iremarks to that part of the subjeet, the only
part of whlch he lias glven notice. But lie
thouglit proper also to refer .to another circular issued. by one of the officers o! the department la charge of the censue. If lie
had confined lis remarks to condemnng the
use of the word 'confidentie.l,' put on that
circuler, I tlnk, lie would have been riglit.
I do not think the word confidentiel should
have been used, because It sliould not be
issued confidentially.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Minister of Agriculture condemned tbe use of the word ' confidentie:l.' He said le lied uo Mdes. It was
on the circuler.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Who Is
iresp onsible for the Issuing of governmental
circulars ? Is Mr. Côté, the iassistant commîssloner, who was forxuerly private secretary of Mr. Tarte, thie Minîster of Public
Works, and who allowed hie private and condidential letters to be stolen and published
to -the world, the offly responsible party ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. frlend can
hardly hold the Minister o! Agriculture, with

[SENATEJ
people to whom tbat circular Seerns t0
have been sent out. The idea of the assistant commissioner w-as t0 try t0 prevent the recurrence of sucli injustice.
As f0 the origin of people with sucli
names as Fraser, or Hamilton or anythlng
else, there Is a coiumn In the scliedule
wlicli obliges the officers of the department
f0 tak-e that. Eacli person Is at liberty to
say wlietlier lie is of Englisli, Frencli or
Scotch origin, but the officer lias to ask for
If. 1 do not see anything Improper lin the
Mon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
officers directlng the population t0 speak
there should have been iu the scliedule a
freely and tell the exact trutli. That Is al
columuii for sucli information.
I liave to say about this. I have sald It
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But ln the former cen- wltli some reluctance, and I regret very
sus, it wias complained by a large element mucli that the hon, gentleman thouglit prothat the Frencli Canadians did flot receive per to refer to tliat circular In lis remarks.
fair-play ; that there were Frenclimen with
Eng-lsh names who were put down as EngTHE TRENT VALLEY CANAL.
lish.
MOTION.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I liold
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved:
the minister responsible for the contents
be presented to His
That an
sent from Exc.ellency humble adIressGeneral, praylng that
of any cIrcular or letter which Is
the Governor
the department over whicli lie lias control. Hi-s Excellency wlll cause to be laid upon the
of
He should have looked at it and seen wliat Table of the Senate copies any ail reporta and
otlier employee
mnaps made by engineers, or
It contained before lie approved of it.
[of the goverament, who bave aurveyed and examined that portion of the province of Ontario
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hle approved of the lying between Rîce Lake and Port Hope, or some
contents of the circular, but disapproved of pointa adjacent thereto, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether a feasible route exista for
the use of the word 'confidential.'
the construction of and making the southera
Valley
terminus of what is known
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlien canal at or near Port Hope, as the Trent shore
on the north
why flot dismiss lis mani who placed the of Lake Ontario.
word coufidential upon it ?
make this motion in order
He said :I

the hundreds of thousands, I ýmay say millions of documents lssued from that depart,ment, responsable for every one that goes
out. It would be absolutely impossible for
hlm to see every circular whicli goes out.
Re can only give general Instructions. The
.moment lie heard of It, he defended the circular, but the said the word 'confidential'
should not have been on. He went furtlier
and sald in every census the origin of the
parties was asked for.

Hon. Mr. BERNIER-To my mimd there to obtain wliatever Information there may
It lie In tlie liands of the government on tlie
Is nothing improper in that circular.
may lie that It would be a good thlng If subject. I need scarcely say f0 the Minister
no difference of any kind sliould exist of Justice, or the Secretary of State, that
among us, but tlie fact 'is therel are differ- this Is a very old question, and one that
ences. As to tlie taklng of a census of the lias been discussed a great many tîmes in
origîn of the people, I think it is qulte a parliament and out of parliament-nearly
proper thlng to do. We take a census of a hundred years since if was first mooted.
the churclies, and in a community com- During the Mackenzie administration the
posed like ours, It Is a proper thing to take premier o! the country, lu discussing this
the origin of everybody ; but whetlier It 18 question lu the House of Commons, declared
the proper thing or not, the officers of the that a shorter route could lie lad than by
census are directed and ordered to do it. corning down the Trent Valley f0 the Bay
They hiad to do It under the law and regu- o! Quinfé, but whether any surveys liad
lotions ; tliey cannot escape thot, aud they been miade until lately, 1 amrn ot aware.
canniot be blamed for tryin 'g to get at the During the I-ast summer there were surSo, that veyors upon that route f0 which I have reorigin of the people of Canada.
circular iesued by Mr. Côté, apart fromn ferred. It is therefore now a question with
the use of the word ' confidentini,' I do flot the goverument whether the southeru terthink, is improper at ail. In the mest ceusus, minus of the canal should lie at Trenton,
injustice wnus done to some sections of the on the Boy of Quinté, or at Port Hope on
Hon. MINr.SCOTT.

[APRIL 18, 1901]
Lake Ontario. Speaking a word on the merits
of the enterprise, I need scarcely say that the
great object which governments and people
have ln view ln the past would be completely destroyed If the terminus were mnade
on any portion of the shores of Lake Ontarlo, The laite, as we ail know, can be
reached ln a shorter distance tben by foliowlng the Trent river down to the Bay of
Quinté, but the great object in the construction of that canal was to have iniand
navigation froni the tume It strikes the bay
until you reacli Montreal. The most dangerous portion of navigation would be what Is
termed the gaps at the eastern end of the
Bay of Quinte, as bon. gentlemen are
aware. If the terminus were at Port Hope,
Cobourg, or any Lake Ontario port west of
Trenton, the most dangerous portion of the
lake navigation would have to be encountered ln taking freiglit from the canal down
the St. Lawrence, hence the great object
that commercial men have lu vlew wouid
be entireiy destroyed. What the object was
ln havIng that survey cannot be deliniteiy
understood, and what I want to know, and
the people of the seotion of country wbere
I live would iike to know Is, what the probabiiies are of any other route than the
one to wbich I bave referred for the canal
being seiected. Even If It is shorter or
cheaper, It Is for the government to see how
far tbey would adopt a system whicb would
destroy the object they have bad In vlew
la spending money on the construction of
this canal.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbe bon. gentleman, of
course, does not expect me to enter Into a
discussion as to the relative merits of the
varions projects that are put forward for
the southern terminus of the canai.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
sbould like very mucli to hear lt.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. friend bas no
doubt consldered that subject to some extent, but I suppose when the project was
put forward some years ago, the question
rather was-were tbe surveys made for the
purpose of determining the political complexion of the district through which the
canal was to run ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
originaliyv, but iately.

241

*Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. friend, I suppose, la aware that this canal will never
secure any large portion of the trade of
the great lakes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
la a question.
Hlon. Mr. M1ILLS-It will bave a local
value and the traffic locally will no doubt
be very considerable.
We bave our St.
Lawrence canais the present time for carry.
ing trafflc from the great lakes to tbe sea,
and we have projected and frequentiy discussed the Ottawa river and the Frenchi
riv-er as a highway also to the ocean.
A
great rnany people of this country are of
opinion that the Ottawa and the Frenchi
rivers wîii in the future .be an important
highway between the great lakes and the
Atlantic Ocean. There is no doubt, looking
at the future of this country, and at its
advance, that this proposed canai of the
Ottawa would be of very great importance,
but I am n ot going to discuss the important
services tbat the construction of the Ottawa

canai mny be made to serve commercially,
and for defensive purposes ln connection
with this country.
My on. friend bias
moved for certain papers and there ds no objection to aniy Information ini our possession
being given to hlm upon the subject of the
Trent Valley canai-a canal upon wbich a
considerable sum of money lias been expended, but which lias not been constructed
throughi to connect the waters of Lake
Ontario witb the -waters to the nortb. Some
progress bas been made in the construction
and no doulit a district of the country lias
been benefited bY the work so far done.
The motion was agreed to.
CONDITION 0F PARLIAMENT
GROUNDS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. ALLAN rose to:
Cali the attention of the government to the
condition of the grounds surrounding the parliament buildings, and will Inquire whether it is
the intention of the goverament to do anythlng
towards putting the grounds surrounding the
buildings la proper order, and repairing the Injuries done to many of the trees and shrubs
within the said grounds.
He said :The
inquiry is really a repetition
of what I bave addressed to the goverament
for the iast two years, and I amn very sorry

[SENATE]
called attention to before, that disgraceful
rubbisii heap whicli was made just beyoud
the buildings near the Supreme Court, and
which is being added to all the time, and
the face of the cliff there more or less destroyed. In connection with thie subject
I saw in a paper a day or two ago tlint
twenty-tliree thousand slirubs lied been
l)rought from France for planting out the
streets and parks of Ottawa, and the paraHon. Mr. MILLS-Tbe Minister of Public grapli gves on to state that Dr. SaunWorks.
ders Is te give bis asistance in superintending the planting of theun, and
Hon. Mr. ALLAN-And that it would reit goes on to give the particulars of
ceive .iminediate attention, and something
these will be placed. I presume
wouid certainiy be done to remedy the mnis- wliere
this is a municipal affair, and it seems to
chiefs whlcli I pointed out were beco-mlng
municipality of Ottawa have
worse yeux by year. 1 drew attention chlefly me tliat If the
the public spirit to do a thing of this kind,
on previous occasions to the condition of the
expense to beaucliff-the Loyvers' Waik a it is called-ofl and to go to a considerable
tify their clty the least the governiment
which -the buildings stand, and 1 nientioned
be to remedy the disgracef ul
then that there was great destruction goin., couid do would
state of things existing bere at the buildings
on there year by yen', the trees and a great
and place tbe grounds once
many evergreens -w Sre dying and falliug of the capital,
more ini the condition In wbich tliey oughit
over in many cg j;( , beenuse the eartli
wbo see each year a cerand rock bad be o ne disintegrated and to be. Gentlemen
tain number of flower beds fllled wltli flowers,
crumbled away frt a frost and rains. That
raked and wateris a tbing wbicli -,<, m on increasingly yeer and tlie very miserabie turf
ed occasionally, tbink that is ail that is neby year. If any Lon. gentleman will take
done. M~ bat 1 wisli to point
the troublîn to go across the Interprovinciai cessary to be
the out, and wliat I have alluded to before with
bridge and just look back, at the cliff on
shrubbery is lu?ast sie of the bridge, which bas neyer regard to the trees and
growtb finitely more important. You can tlirow ail
»een toue ied, and see the luxuriant
will onlly
Df evergriens from top to bottera, and then your flowers away one year, and it
wbicli tbe buiid- take anothler year to renew tbem. But with
loo1. acjý,.3s at the cliff on
ings staud, end see liow quickly the trees the trees and shrubbery is a diff erent blIlng.
are dying and the evergreens are disappoer- The only liesitation I have in bringlng and the mischlef that Is going on there, Ing the subject before the House again
II liave a v'ery great dread
lie wUll see that the longer this state of things is that
goes on the more difficuit it wIll be to re- of wliat aniglit be done if soane inI aise called attention to competent person Is employed to remedy
medy the evil.
the two groups of trees planteil on the east the miscliief, and the last state will be a
and west sides of this building, and pointed good deal worse than the first. The ordiout tbat many of tbem are dying for want nary jobbing gardener knows nothing about
of thinn-lng out. They have grown so close it. We want a man who knows something
togetber that one is destroying the other, about trees and shrubs, and the government
and that bas been going on to sucb an ex- cannot do botter, perliaps, than to follow
tent tbat it wili be mucb more difficult now the example of the municipality, and invite
to remedy the evil than it would have been Dr. Saunders to superintend and give hints
two or three years ago, then lot any lion. as tIo wliat ought to be done. 1 hope lion.
gentleman walk around the cliffs, and sec gentlemen will not consider that I bave this
the disgraceful state of wliat was once n question on tbe brain, beca use 1 bring
beautiful cedotr ledge, and the gaps whicb great imiportance, in wbjcb we are ail interexist, particularly on the north-east side, and ested, and that the governiflett shouid take
wliicb seero to be convenient places for the the necessary stops without delay, and inmen empIoyed 2about the buildings to dump cur the necessary expenditure te put the
their rubbisb. 1 rnay aiso point out what 1 grounds in order.
Hon. Mr. ALLAN.

to say that no favourable resuits bave fol-lowed. Botb in 1889 end 1900, 1 called the
attention of the government to the condition
of the groulids, as I have done in this Inquiry. On both previous occasions 1 teceived the assurance of the Minister of
Justice, that the zuatter would be brought
before the member of the goverfiment withIn whose juris-diction It was.

[APRIL 18, 1901]
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I quite agree with
everything said by the hon. gentleman from
Toronto. There le no doubt the attempt to,
clear the brow of the bill of fallen timber,
and to remove obstructions which existed
there, bas produced the state of things
which the bon, gentleman points ont. The
clif is very steep, and if there are any
obstructions or impediments of any sort,
when tbe snow meits ln the epring, of
course tbere are a great many nuls produced that wash away the earth from the
surface of the rock, and there Is leas earth
to support the trees 110w than there was
many years ago. My hon. friend bas pointed
out the luxuriant growth of the evergreens
that are seen on the bank of the river, below
the bridge.
Well, tbere they have neyer
been disturbed, neyer been interfered with,
the natural obstructions from falling limbs
and so on, prevents -the nielting snow and
the nain from washing away tbe earth, and
keeps the soul upon the declivity, whereas
bere the removal of these obstructions, with
a vdiew of lmprovIng the aippeanance of the
cliff, bas been the cause of a great deal of
tbe eartb washing away. 1 agree with the
hon, gentleman that If we had a thoroughly
competent man who would take charge of
the grounds to look after the state 0f the
cliff, to (look after the twof groups of trees
on each iside, and to see tbey were properly
thinned out, a good service would be done,
and ln the course of a f ew years Panliament
Hi111 would present a very mucb more
beautiful a!ppearanee itban it does at the
present tie.
Wbetben some competent
man from the Department of Agriculture,
connected with the farm, could be given
charge of Panhiament Hill with a view of
exercling the proper oversigbt over it, I
amrn ot prepared to say, but it has occurned
to me that that might be one way of securIng the improvement of tbe bill, and the
preservation of Vie trees that have grown
upon the declivity, and the Improvement of
these two clumps ef trees, one on each end
of the panhiament buildings here, 1 daresay
that the resuit would be accomplIished. No
doubt injury bas been done to those two
clumps of trees by thein growing too close
together, and the removal of some of them,
and lettlng ln the light, might do a good
deal towards causing the others to spread
16"

24Jl

out, and to grow more luxuriantly than any
of them are likely to, grow at the present
time. Every one whio has watched forest
growth knows tbat an Immense number of
the lives of trees are sacrificed by not givIng proper fonm to those that survive. The
larger ones shooting ont kili the smaller
ones. But, the smaller ones serve the purpose of acting as prunens to thoise that
grow more luxuriantiy. I fancy that our
trees at the west end 0f this building are
altogether too close together, and there Is
too much naturai pruning being done ia
consequence 0f that close press.
I will
again bring tbe observation of my bon.
friend opposite to the attention of not only
the hon. the Minister of Public Works,
but also my hon. colleague, the Minister of
Agriculture, to see what steps may be taken
the better to accomplIsh the object which
hie bas in view, and which I think a highly
commendable one ; and, speaking for myseif.
1 feel like expnessing my obligation to the
hon, gentleman that hie has flot permitted
this matten to, escape public attention, and
that by brlnging it up here we may ln time
have this bill placed ln the hands of some
one thoroughly competent, and who will be
allowed a free band ln perfecting the trees
and securing the plaating of others that may
be required to, fIll the places of those that
are gone.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Since the question of
the repairs 0f the surroundings of the parliament buildings bas been brought before
us, 1 tbink we mlght extend Vie subject and
bring It home more closely. I have heard
commeats on severai occasions es to the
staté 0f our carpets ln this Chamber and
la the corridors, as being hardly what we
should expect. I do not know who bas
charge of that matten, but 1 think wlfile we
are at it we might also examine that. portion
of this building and see If It would not be
possible to spend a few dollars, out of tbe
maay millions tbat are appropriated every
year, la renewing the carpets here, or If that
la too costly, to, pateh tbem ln some way
B0 as to, make tbem more suitable and proper for this Chamber. I do not know whether It Is a matter for the Speaker or the
ministers, but I thiak their attention should
be called to that matter also.

[S EN ATL
of the ýpatent is withhbeld untdl the lien is
done away with. It is 110W proposed to let
FIRST READING.
the patent go in the nine of the owner if
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND introduced Bill ail the conditions have been fulfilled, and
(N) 'An Act to amnend the Patent Act.'
leave it to the law to say wliether the lieu
He raid :I inay explain thils Bill. Tie shall be enforced, and the last clause fixes
are patentees who have spent labour and the rate of interest at 5 per cent, according
money upon Inventions and who, during the to the Act passed last session.
terni aîlotted to them, have been nable to
Hon. -Mr. FERGÙSON-I think my bon.
either finance the work and put dt before thé friend Is slîghitly astray lii bis explanation
public in a maaufactured state, and this of the amendment In one of the clauses.
Bill gives authority to the Govrinor la Couli- If hie will look at It carefully, hie wlll flnd
cil, after submnitting the case to the Exchle- that it does not propose to put a poison froin
quer Court, to extend the terni allowed the any part of Canada takîng lands in the saine
patentee when hie has not put before the position as those co'mint, froîn Europe. It
public the article w'bich hoe has inveated.
only allows persons frorn the United States
PATENT ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

The Bill was renqd the first time.
DOMINION LANDS ACT AMýENDMIE.T
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Mr. SCOTT moved the second rendHon.
Jng of Bill (29) 'An Act to amend the Donîinion Laiids Act.' He sald :This Bill proposes to amend the Dominion Lands Act lu
a 'variety of details. There are a number of
clauses whicli require to bea amended, from
the experience gnthered ln the last five or six
years. The flrst is that, under the law, as
it now stands, there is an officer kaown as
the Dominion Conîînissionei of Lands. Verv
often hie may be absent, and this authorizes
another officer to perfora bis duty for the
time being as commissioner. Thea, wbere
the delay in perfecting a hiomestead goes beyond six months, the minister must void the
This
entry-it ,nust be absolutely voided.
Bill proposles that it may be declared void
if the miniister thinks proper. It g'ives him
a discretion, -whieh is oaly reasonable. Then
la the limitations for aiaking homestead
entries, persoas iu Canada or the United
States are excladed from the extended limitation of one year. It is proposed to put ail
persons, whether from any part of Canada
or the United States, on the samne plane ns
those coming- fi-om Europe. The next paragrapli provides for iici-eased. conditions to
bo fulfllled hefore the homestead entry eau
be completed. Anothie- paragî-aph allows
the patent to be issued in those cases where
a lien exists iii the departinent, that Is, of
Whiere a pel-son boans money whio bias a picemPtion right to a lot. At present the issue
lion. Mr. POIRIER.

or other parts of the Nor'th Americain contillent outside of Canada to be put in that
I think the word 'immigrant'
p)ositionl.
%vouldîlot apply Io a citizen of Canada movinig from one of the provinces to the Northw-est. At presexît the privilege extends to
other places t1mxi the North American contiiient. It is proposed to iinke it openî 50
tlîat United States people could take ad-

%-antag-eof it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon.

Mr.

FERGUSON-But

it

will iiot

apply to Canada.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It applies to any one on
this continent as well as to those f-oii
abrcad.
Hou. Mr. FEItGUSON-lt only applies to
immigrants, and n Canadian is not an limmigrant.
The motion was agreed to, aud the Bill
was read the second time.
GAME PRESERVATION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
lion. '.Ir. MILLS moved the second readIng
of Bill (46) 'An Act to amend the Unorganiized Territories Game Preservation Act.' He
said :The Bill is very brief. It relates siniply to the preservation of gaine in the lnorganized districts of Canada. 0f course w-e
do not interfere w'ith the game iu the ýprovinces not under oui jurisdiction. but it
seems the general opinion of those w-ho are
best informed, thiat it is necessary that this
provision should be made for the preserva-

[APRIL 18, 1901J

245

tion of garne iu the unorgnized sections of views 0f every bon, gentleman Iuterested
the country, and thîs provision la an amend- In the subject. I arn naking these explanament of the present inw on the subjeet. tions so that hon. gentlemnen Nviii bave an
It is a substitution for section 17 of the Act ides, before they rend them, of what they
are, and wIll see lxow far they meet the
of 1892, and reads as follows :
17. Ail animais, birds, fish or eggs, or the views of those gentlemen wiîo are interesteci
peit, skin or head of any animal, killed, trapped, In the business of shippIng.
snared or taken In violation of any provision of
thia Act, or any part of such animal, bird, flsh,
Hon. Mr. FERGUJSON-If I uaderstand
peit, skin or haad, shall, atter the conviction of
the person who so kilied, trapped, snared or took my hon. friend right, It is proposed to maire
the same, respectively, be confiscated to the some changes in the Bihl from the wsy la
Crown by the authority who made the conviction, wbich It came to us, and In order that we
who shall have the power to declare the same
no confiscated, and to order the sale or destruc- msy the better understaud the changes, tbey
tion thereof, ani, if soid, the proceeds thereof wiil be rend over and the committee wIlI
shahl be deposited and applied In the manner
provided by section 15 o! this Act; provlded that rIse, and we wiil consider the changes later.
sncb convioting authorlty may give or direct any
Hon. Mr. MILLS-They are simple and
animal, bird, flsh or eggix s0 confiscated, or any
part. of snch animai, fish or bird, to be given to easiiy understood. What I propose is that

any religions, charitable or scientific Institution
or purpose as In bis discretion seema proper.
The motion
was rend the
SAFETY 0F

we should pass the Bill througb committee,
report progress, nnd have the Bill reprînted
was agreed to, and the Bill The committee can sit agalu.
second tîme.
On clause 2.
SHIPS ACT AMEND31ENT
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There are only
BILL.
two changes. one ls to aliow steamships to
be freed froni this restriction as late as the
TE COMMITTS'E.

IN
whereas. utider
The House resolved itself into a Commit- 12th of October encli year,
to tîxe
the Whole on Bill (92) 'An Act to the old iaw tbey are subjeet
tee of
restrictions from the first of October. In
further amend the Act respecting the safety
subsection (c), the oid Act îIernuitted iive
of ships.'
stock to form part of such deck-load as is
(In the Committee.)
described la subsection (,c). Live stock is
Hon. Ur. MILLS-This mensure bas been now left out of the ameudment. so that they
considered with a vlew of meeting objec- will not liereaftcr be carried as deck-loads.
tions that have been made by severni genHon. Mr. M-NILLS-They were excepted out
tlemen isrgely interested ln shlps' cargoes of the operation of the law as it stood. They
upon the high sens, and I had sent over are not excepted ln this case.
to me from the department the Bill amended
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is less rewith a view of givlng- eff ect to those pro'Steaniships are aivisions, and 1 have put It in the chairman's stricteil than before.
hands. I will ask hlm to rend it. Hon. iowed to depart, without heing- subject to
gentlemen have the Bill as introduced be- these restrictions, as inte as the l2th o!
fore them, and what I wouid suggest, If October, whereas formerly the2y were subnobody objeets, and If the Bill as proposed ject to restriction If they left at aur time
to be amended meets with their approvai, a! ter the lst of October iu each year. Last
ts that the commlttee shouid rîse and re- year we passed a Bill with regard to this
port the Bill and have It reprinted as amend- very subjeet. A ridicuious blunder was
ed before any fnrther action is taken. Prac- made hast year, and the amendmeut we are
ticaiiy, the Bill does this : As amended It la now cousidering is mainiy necessitnted by
proposed not to put restrictions upon shlps that blunder. The Bill was introduced by
sonth of Cape Finisterre In Europe, or ves- the MNinister of Marine and Fishieries ln the
sels sailing to Mediterranean ports. Those other end of the buiidiug-, and it passed
saiiug to Af rica or Australla, or to the other there. I remember when It w-as before the
parts of the, continent of America, are not committee lu thîs House the hon. gentleman
restricted at ail, and It la thought that it from Northumberland (Mr. Suowbaii) was
will be quite broad enough to meet the lu the chair, and 1 asked for Information

[SENATE
andi received it, but whule that Bill was
intendcd to permit steamships to, leave as
late as the l2th of October, without being
subjeet to these restrictions, in fact practicaliy, as it was worded, il relieved steamsblps from ai! restrictions except between
the lst and the i2th of October dn each
year. Hon. gentlemen wlll rexnember the
discussion wblch took place on that subjeet. The. inspectors of New Brunswick
lgpored the Act of last year, wblch permitted ehips to leave wlthout restriction except between 'the lst and 12th of October, and
Imposeci the Testrictlons, andi tihe shippers
claimed that they had fair ground for damages, but they did not appear to make much
of It, because even If tbe lnspectors on this
aide had permltted ships to leave without
the restrictions as to, <eck-]oad. they would
bave been met by the British law on the
other side, andi have corne to grief. The
point 1 wisbi to make is, we bave to, use
our eyes for ourselves with regard to
Bis caming before us. That Bill was a
blunder. It did not accomplish what It
ivas Intendeti ta accompliali, but it really
relieved steamship owners fromn ail responsibility with regard ta deck-ioads between
the 12th of October and tbe l6th of March,
the very time of ail otbers when sucli restrictions should be Imposeti. This Bill tnit
Is before us will remedy that, and also make
some other changes, but niainly the effeet
of the Bill before us Is to remedy that error.
Hon. M-ir. WOOD-I certainly do not read'
that Act as the hon, gentleman fromn Marsifield does. As RIuntierstanti It, under the
general iaw, steamships were Included theI
saine as sailing vesseis in the prohibition
between the lst of October and the lOtl
of March. You wili observe that the Act
of hast yeutr, insteati of referring to, the
prohibition, extends the time when steamships shal! be relieved fromn the prohibition,
and says distincthy thnt they are not subject to any restrictions from the l6th day
of M-Nlrch to tbe 12tli of October. After tbe
12th October liey remiain subject ta the
restrictions.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, tbey are rehieveti from tbe restriction.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I should like ta thorn
oughly understand subsection (c). Il appears
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

I

t'O mle as if under4 Ibis subsection you cauflot carry lite stock aI ahl.
Hon. Mr. SNOWBÂLL-Not on deck.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If you
qCIose in tie deck you eau carry cattle or
any cargo you please.
-Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL,-As I .read It, catCe canniot be carried on tleck if Iliey are
bigler than lhree feel above the deck. That
is qike .prohibdtlng the exportation of cattie
entirely.
Hon. Mr. CARMIOHAE-That clause requires amendment with regard to carrying
live stock. The point ls 10 prohibit tle
carrylng lumber above lhree feet. It sbould
be stated specifically thnt that does not
apply to live stock. Wlen you lalk of coveriag space, there migît be a question. Live
stock will alwnys be carried covered, but
the covering Is temporary, and therefore It
shoulti be made clear thal lhe restriction
of the three feet does not apply to live
stock.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That only deals with
uncovereti space. Wouid you carry during
the winter season ecross the Atlantic on
board a vessel, lite stock uncovered ?
Hon. Mr. cARMICHAEL-You coulti carry
lite stock covered witb a temporary structure. Tbey put up a temporary structure
ta cover the lite stock. Most of lie siippers tiaI carry lite stock put up temporary
structures.
Hon. -Mr. ELLIS. I hope the hon. minister -wiii look into lie matter and make lie
law rigit, because tie government itself,
and the people of St. John anti Halifax, are
putting forthi strenuous efforts ta ship lite
stock in winter lime. We do ual want the
law s0 frameci liat il will shiut that off.
The railways are carrying caIlle ta these
ports andi they are shippeti in winter, and
temnporary decks are put ut) iu lie vessels,
andi there are iundreds of thousands of
cattie ta go during lie season.
If the hon.
Minister of Justice wihl fraine the clause so
as ta permit tie cattie ta be shippeti during tue wvinter, thal is ail liaI is wanted.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (WVestmoreland-Thal is
flot prevenleti under is Bill.
If 1 read
tie Bill carrectly-and 1 have reati it earefuily several times-no other meaning c.111

[APRIL 18, 19011
be taken from it than that, if the deck of
tbe ship is closed in, even temporarily, you
caîî carry a cargo of any description, except deais, battens and liglit wood goods,
whicb you can only carry to the heiglit of
three feet. Any other cargo you can carry
to any helght.
Hon. Mr. POWEIt-I do not think it is
qulte as clear as the hon, gentleman from
Westmoreland Imagines. The clause says
or permit ta be placed, or to remain upon
any uncovered space upon the upper deck.'
If the clause stoped there, and parag'raphs
A, B and C reniained. the lbon, gentleman
from Westmoreland would be rigbt, but It
does not. The clause continues :
Or ta remnain upon any uncovered space upon
the upper deck or in any covered space not
lacluded in the cubical eontents forming the
reglstered tonnage of such ship.
That provision applies ta ail the succeedilg
paragraphs, A, B, C and D. 1 do flot thlnk
that Is the intention of the draftsnin of the
Bill, but as a matter of fact that is the effect.
It was only intended ta apply ta the first
two
(a) 'Any square, round, waney or other timber,' and (b) 'any more than five spars or store
spars made, dressed and finally prepared for use,
or flot no dressed and prepared.'
The intention I tbink was to allow live
stock ta be covered in a temporary manner.
The wording Is defective, and It would be
well to see that tbe meaning and Intent
are carrled out.
Hon. Mr. I"ERGUSON-Subsection 3 is
a restriction to a three-foot deck-Ioad. The
aid law made an exception ta that by elwing live stock to be cûrried wben they occupied a space biglier than three feet. That
prIiUege Is taken away, and it will npply
ta live stock the saine as any other cargo.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I must stili differ witb
the hou. gentleman froin Halifax and the
bon, gentleman wha bas just spoken. The
-wordiug of this clause seems ta me very
clear. I do not see how It could be misunderstood, and if I understand It, it does
flot alter the law as it exists to-day, and as
it bas existed for saie years. and we ail
know that under the la'w as it bas existed,
cattie bav-e been sbîpped on deck by baving
a temporary cavering over them. The first
part of the section, certainly prohibits plucing-, or causing, or permittiug ta be placed,

24i

or ta remain upon any uncovered space on
the upper deck, or any covered space flot
included lu the cubical contents formlng the
regietered tonnage of sncb ship. Tbere is a
total prohibition of any square, round or
waney timber.
Hon. Mr. SNOI% -.ALL-Or any deck cargo
of any klnd.
Hon. Mr. WOtJD-No. no.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Sectlons C and D are
a direct contradiction of the closing portion
of the flrst part of the clause.
A, B, C
and D are ail included in the prohibition
contained in the latter part of the first
clause, which includes any uncavered space
on tbe upper deck, or any covered space
not included ln the cubical contents farming
the registered tonnage af such ship. The
wording does flot carry ont the Intention.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I do not sa read IL. A
and B are the onir sections included.
C Is specially limlted. Lt specially lmits
this prohibition ta a space where the deck
of sucb sbip Is not clased in. If tbe deck
Is clased lu it daes not unmit it at ail.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The next section
Geais wlth where the deck is closed ln.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-The ouly limitation
where the deck Is closed i is cantained,
first lu A and second lu B. Then, subsection
(d), 1Any Geais, battens or other ligbt woods
of any description ta a heigbit exceeding
three feet above the deck wbere the deck
of sncb ship is not closed in.'
Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL-Llnes 20 and 21
of section 1 state dlstinctly what closlng in
should be.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Yes, but a temporary
coverlng Is not included ln the reglstered
tonange of the shlp. If tbere ]s any space
covered ln which Is ln the regi-stered tonnage of tbe shlp, you can put in any cargo
you like. You cannot place any square, or
waney timber or more than five squares or
any cargo of any description above the
height of three feet ln aur space which bas
no temporary covering-.
Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL-I iniglit explain
that cattie and live stock are never cnrried
below the main deck. The ships are flot
built with sufficient ventilation ta have the
cattle belaw. if they were below the main

[SE1NATEi

deck, the liatches would bave to be kept
open at ail ties, and the ship miiglit be
swamuped, andi tliey would occupy a valuable
space in the slip where the exporters couid
flot afford to pay for the space, and they
are being carried in a temporary structure
If muy hou. friend
above the main deck.
from Westmloreland reatis oniy the last two
Unes, or rather Unes 20 and 21 of section
1, it says there any uncovered space upon
the upper deck or ia any covered space flot
inciuded in the cubical contents forining
the registered tonnage of sucb ship.
The CHAIRMAN-A later clause of the
Bill explains It.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think if the comnbined Intelligence of ail the hon. members
of the committee does not uuderstand the
clause, it requires amiendmrent.
Hon. 'Mr. CARMICHAEL-Couid we not
say that the restriction of three f eet should
flot apply to the carrying of live stock ?

in these matters, and I bave refrained to-

day fromu making any observations in the
committee.
Hon. Mr. M.\ILLS-I may say to mly lion.
f riend that important changes wvere made
Ili the Bill since it came fromn the House of
(2ommons, to meet the wishies of sbip-owners.
and that those changes are expressed hli the
copy of the Bill that is before the clairuau.
and I propose that the comumittee rise, report
progress and ask heave f0 sit again, andI
NvIien the Bill is printed andi conues before
tlue conuuittee next w-veeit w-e wll ho lucifectiy frec to consider every purovisionu.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- %Votild
the hon, gentleman look over thiat clause in
reference to the covered and uncovereti
space, whicl seems to the uninltiated somewliat contradictory, not aitogether, perhaps.
but it is certainly subject to -differcut !ilterpretations, and it suggests itsehf Io nio
that it muiglt mieet flhe approval of the
Hon. M-Nr.MAI-ýCDONA-ýLD (P.E.I.) There hatwyers la the House. because il. w-ould
are on ships certain spaces that are not la- probably furnlsb excellent material for lawcluded in the registered tonnage of the sip. suits ?
They are aiiowed for the accomminodation
Hou. Mr. MI1LLS-I do not think there wiil
of the crew, or, possibly, for passengers, or
bcleunchi difliculfy in understanding wvlien
anythiug of thiat icind, and tliey are above
if is reprinted. Subsection (c) reads:
the miain deck of the slip. This preven-ts the
Any cargo of any description to a height excarrying of timuber, or any of those articles
ceeding three feet above the deck la any space
apt To wbere the deck of such ship la not closed in.
In any of t-hose spaces, for it is
slnk the ship deeper than it is safe for lier
to be, or deeper tlan it w-as intendeti wben Lt foiiows liy inference fromi that, that il' if
she w-as registereti. I thinir the clause is is closed la. then that restriction linunediately preceding does not apply. I tiuini that
quite riglit in Uhit respect.
Ron. 'Mr. SNOWBALL-There is no piace
on the -sbip whidi 1s not inciuded !i the gistered tonnage. The inw says you shahl
have certain space for, your englnes, crew,
&c., and these are taken off, and the remainder is the net tonnage of the sh.il.
These are exemlpt spaces for certain Purposes.
The clause was adopted.

is what is Iintended. and my impress*ion i.,
that it carried ont thaf iuueaning. However.
lion. gentlemien w-I have a better opportunity of examining the defails w-len fIe Bill is
reprinteti.
Hon. Mr. LOVITT-The lion. minister
miiglif explain w-hether it is per-uîailnt or
temiporary closing la tInt is roferi-et to.
lion.

Mr.

ELLIS-A

vessel

couiti

oi

'Tliey huiilîl
iHon. MNr. BAKER-M'lil thie comînittee carr-y cattie on tIe dock.
.dts again, I presumie tint we will bave nu) cattie penis on the deek. w-hicIl are inspocteti
by the goveramienit iiipector to provide for
opportunity of discussing it-.
If fIat is w-Iat is
tue safety of cattie.
Hon. '-\r. MILLS-Certainlv.
ilneant by being covet-e i l, wveli andi good.
oppor- but if it is flot a coverinur la. tdien this Bill
Hon. '.\r. BAKER-We need in
tuaity of consuiring in regard t0 it, andi dis- wiil be botlie-some for the tradeo f tue
cussing it witi our confreres froui the lower maritimne ports fu-om whiclu cattle are shipprovinces, wlio are supposeti to lie au l'ait ped.
Hon. Mr. SNOWÇýBALL.

[APRIL 19, 1901]

249

Hon. Mr. BAKER-lt ivili bc serious fori, CULLING 0F LUMBER AND INSPECTION 0F STAPLES BILL.
the otiier provinces as well, because it will
SECOND READING.
affect tiin to a large extent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readHon. 3fr. LOUGHEED. troin tAie coinmittee, reported that they bad miade some ing of Bill (116) ' An Act respecting the Culiprogress with thxe Bill and asked leave to ing 0f Lumber and the Inspection of Staples.'
He said: The obJeet of this Bill is siply
sit again on Weduiesday next.
to transfer the administration of the law
The Senateadjourned.
relating to the cuhlng of lumber froni one
departmient to the other. At present they
are under the control of the Minister of Inland Revenue, and it is proposed to transfer
the power to the Depnrtmnent of Trade ami
THE SENATE.
Commerce.
Ottawa, Friday, Âprit 19, 1901.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose the Minister
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
of Trade and Commerce hias flot qulte as
o'clock.
mucli to do, for one reason, and this gives
Prayers and routine proceedings.
a lîttle more work to him. That is the
was g-iven by 'fr. Bernier. He
LONDON MUTUAL PIRE INSURANCE reason that
thouglt he had quite enoug-li in lis departCO-MPANY 0F CANADA BILL.
ment.
SECOND READING.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It may
Hon. Mr. JONES moved the second read- be on account of the fact that it pertains
lng of Bill (12) 'An Act respecting the Lon- more to trade and commerce than for the
don Mutual Fire Insurance Company of reason the lion. gentleman has given, beCanada.' He said : The changes in this Bill cause every onie knows that tAie duties of the
are merely changes enabling the company to Inland Revenue Department are not so oxiermanage their affairs somewhat differently ous as to require the renioval of one portiou
fromi what they have doue in the past. The 0f its duties to another departmnent. Howprincipal change la the Bill is to enable the ever, I nm ixot so sure that the course purmanager of the company to become a direc- sued by the government in this case Is flot
tor of the company. No paid officiai pre- the correct on1e. There are many duties
viously had the righît to be a director. The performed by other deparînients thagt peronly other change is with reference to the tain more to the Department of Trade and
amiount of stock whichi a shareholder might Commerce than to the departuients that adbold. It was Ilmlted to thirty shares. That minister theni, and Cils is one of theni.
is changed 110w, so thiat a sbareholder cau Does this affect the weights and measures
hold a larger amount of shares. These are as iveli ?
the only chang-es.
Hon. '-%I. SCOTT-No, it is simply limited
The motion was agreed to. and the Bill to luniber and the inspection of staples.
,%vas rend the second ture.
Hou Sir MIACKENZIE BOWIELL-Is il
Intented to transfer that portion of the IuSECOND READINGS.
land Revenue work pertaining to gas and
1
Bill (19) 'An Act vespecting the Eastern electric inspection to this departmeiit ?
think 1 have seeui sonething to that effect
Canada Savings and Loan Comipany (LinîitIu the newspapers.
ed.).'-(Hon. Mr. Wood. Westiuorelafld.)
Hou. 31.SCOTT-I will miake some furBill (25) ' An Act to incorporate the Ottathier inquiry. It is flot contaiued in this
wa and Hull Power and M.NanufacturingBill.
Conmpany (limited).'-(Hon. )Ir. Perley.)
Hou. '.\I. FERGUSON-There is a Bill on
Bill (374 'An Act to incorporate the Bishop
the paper for M.\ondty to amnend the Inof Keewatin.'-(Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)

[SENATEJ
spectionl Act whicb provides for handing
over the inspection as well as the culling of
lum ber.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbere is a clause in this
Bill that transfers the inspection of grain.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I quite agree witb tbe
hon, gentleman. If the law does not meet
that, I tbink It ougbt to.

DOM.%INION LANDS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I do. It is whether a settler from one of tbe older provinces
has not the same privileges as an immigrant
from a foreiga country.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The bon. Secretary of State does flot appear 10 apprebend
tbe point taken by my hon. friend from
Marshfield.

REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resolved ltself Into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (29) 'An Act to Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The difficulty 1
see is tbere Is no Interpretation of the word
amend the Dominion Lands Act.'
'immigrant.' If tbere is any doubt on tbe
(In the Commlttee.)
point It should be removed.
It certainly
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first clause of the would do no harm to put a clause in the
Bill deals with the appointing of an officer Interpretation Act statlng that the term
to perform the duties of the commissioner of 'Immigrant' should apply 10 a settier from
Dominion lands. It is found necessary in any portion of Canada as well as from a
bis absence to have an officer in the depart- foreiga country.
ment who does bis duty and takes bis place.
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-I find that the
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-He would be an
language formerly used shut out settiers
officer appointed by the government.
from the United States and Canada. Now,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, some otber officer we say ail 'immigrants' shah bhave tbat
Ia his brancb. It is to remove any doubt as priviiege. I contend that a person moving
10 wbetber the assistant is authorized 10 from one part of Canada 10 anotber is not
performi bis duty.
an Immigrant. He is a citizen of this country, and not an immigrant.
The clause w-as adopted.
On clause 2,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-At present the law Is
arbitrary, and if certain conditions wltb
regard to homesteading are not performed
wltbln the time, il Is absolutely vold. This
gives the minister the rigbt to exercise bis
discretIon ;lnstead of the words 'It shahl
be volded,' the words used are 'It may be
declared void,' by the minister, because there
may be circumstances which would justlty
him In not actually voiding It. The other
portion of the clause widens the privilege.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not tblnk
this will effect the object tbe bon, gentlemen
appears to bave in view, because I do not
thinl. a settier coming from any of the older
provinces of Canada is an immigrant. This
provides that only immigrants will bave the'
privilege of extending the period for entry.
I tbink we sbould give the saine extension of
lime and privileges to settiers fromi the older portions of Canada as we give to settiers
coming from tbe United States.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am lncllned to tbink
tbere bas been no discrimination In tbe past;
otberwise we wouid bave heard of il. It 's
not Iikely Canadians going 10 tbe Nortbwest would be discriminated against.
if
tbe interpretation given to it bas been the
broad and liberal one, and tbe only people
sbut out were those from tbe country soulli
of us, this ameadment is ail that is needed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wby
flot change the word ' immigrant ' to 'settler.'
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbere may be some
qualifications 10 the terni 'settler.'
Hon. Mr. POWER-Would flot tbe object
of the hon, gentleman from Marsbfield be
met if somie word were inserted inistead of
'immigrant' 10 indicate a person coming
from some place outside'0f the Territories ?
Subsection 3 of clause 2 was allowed 10
s tand.

[APRIL 19, 1901]

251

either break the land or put on the
cattle.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those are quallfylng
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-Yes ; be le fnot rewords, aitlni the direction of %vldeningthe
advantages of the law to the barnesteader. quired to do botb.
The second bomestead that a man takes up
On subsection G of clause 4,
muet be lu the vlcinlty of the first.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-In many cases parties
The clause was adopted.
advance money on land before the patent
le Iesued, and It reniains a lien. The origiOn subsection (b) of clause 4,
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I tbink nal AuJer leaves the country, or abandons
this Is too stringent. The poor mnan going the land, sa the man who advances the
ln there cannot posslbly bave forty bead of money le embarraesed as ta bow to get It
back. This autharizes tbe Minleter of tbe
cattle.
Interiar, If ait the conditions bave been
Han. Mr. PERLEY-Tbis law was amend- complled with, to Issue the patent ln the
ed to meet certain circumstances lu the name of tbe original holder, and tbe lender
North-west. Forty head of cattie le found to bas recourse ln tbe courte.
be far toa many. I spoke to the Deputy
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-SupMlnlster of the Interlor this rnornlng on the
subject, and the department agree to wbnt pose the man leaves the country before be
I propose to do now, that is to amend the fulfils tbe conditions entitling bum to a
clause to say twenty bead of cattle upon patent. Under tbese circumetances would
sucli lands, or on some land occupled by the patent be iseued ln order to enable the
party wbo loaned tbe money ta have bis
the settler.
lien on It ?
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.)-That le
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume the condistîll taa many.
tions would have to be fulfilled before the
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-If a man le living on
patent could be Issued.
a quarter section -that he bas bought for
Tbe clause was adapted.
the purpose of building. and bas his cattie
on that section, tbey bave so far regarded
On clause 5,
tbat as satisfactory. This makes It posiHon. Mfr. SCOTT-At present the leae
tive so that tbere can be na question about
It. I propose to maire the section read that for grazing lande bas realiy ta corne ta
the settler sball have at ieast twenty head counil. It le purely a departmental matter, and tbere Is really na reason Wvby It
o! cattle.
Tbe Minister
ehould corne before council.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He may bave only a a! the Interior bas to take the respanelbility
temporary occupation.
of it.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-We do nlot want that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
This is what we agreed on tbis morning.
opposed ta tbat epecies of legielation altoHon. Mr. POWER-He migbt bave land gether. You are placing a power, by thîs
In another territary.
and other Acte wblchbhave been introduced,
PERLEY-Tbat 19 the Intenxtion. ln tbe bande of the minister for the exerHon. Mr.
cise af wbicb tbe wbole government ougbt
Hon. Mr. POWER-Or be milbt have It to be respansible.
There le no reason,
lu some other province.
that I can possibly comprebend, why, If the
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Ob, no; It muet be lease le ta be granted, it sbould nlot receive
thie approval of tbe government. You enIn tbe vicinlty.
able the Minister of the Interior, for the
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-Then It ivould be bettime being, wbaever be may be, to issue
ter to say 80.
these leases ta Wboni be thinks proper, and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I suppose my wben be tblnks proper, without the aubon. friend underetands that this le ln lieu thority of the Governor In Cauncil. Or, ln
of breaking a certain amount of land. Ho otber words, you give hlm pawer to do by
On clause 3,

eau

[SE NAT E]
whieh is imposed upon bim by the
ports to council and gets the approval of law. I do not know where miy hiou.
councli. I admit it may Invoive a llttle friend bias got his view that ail the
should aslabour attending to a matter of thls klnd, members of tbe governmeut
of tbe administrabut If the Minister of the Interlor sbould sist in the working
I uaderstand
lie an unscrupulous person-there may bie tion of eacli departmeut. As
that Is neyer doue. Each
sucli a person, 1 do flot say there Is nOW- II, lu England
discharges the work of bis owu
wlth this power in bis bauds, the goverui- minister
Secretary does
wouid neyer know what lie bad been department. The Colonial
ment
not take the work of is department before
really doing-, or who bad recelved' leases,
to decîde any question of
and 1 may say In many cases, lmproperly. bis colleagues
administration. The law setties wbot lie
I tbluk it is wrong legisiation altog-ether.
really has to do, and It Is bis business, and
Hon. '.%r. MILLS-I quite agree with my hie is responsible for conformlug to that rule
bon. frieud ou a great many things, but whlch the law requires. That Is the EngI caunot agree with hlm lu this matter. lisli systein, and every departure lu this
Tbe work of ench departmeut sbould be country from It mnerely binders and delays
doue by the minister of that department, the work of administration, and tbe
As 1 mnister may lie made respousible for deand on bis own responslbulity.
understand, the regulor practice lu Eng- lays wblcb are flot bis, wbicb are due
land Is for every minister to performn the to some colleague, wbo Is perbaps luHe only slsting upon undertaloig to decide some
work of bis own department.
brlugs a question to council when there is question for hlm because It may have arsome klnd of public pollcy involved, and Isen lu a locality whlcb lie represents. One
wlth a vlew to settiug that question of mInister wouid undoubtediy cousult another
poiicy. But with regard to the ordinflry wlth regard to a matter whlcb miglit affect
work of administration, lie is the party bis coileogue lu any way, but the workt of
You fix the responsi- counicil is to settle the general policy of
wbo Is respousîble.
bility more clearly by fixing It upon a administration. It Is not Its duty to admînspecific individual. thon If you undertook ister ; It Is the duty of eacb minister to do
to distribute that respousibility for the th-at. He receives bis patent from the
ordinory work of administration over tbe Crown, and is sworu as mînister to underLet my hou. friend take the discharge 0f that duty, not lu partentire goveru ment.
lool. at the provisions of the law. You turu nersbip, but upon bis own responslhulity.
up auy statute creating a department. Ia
Hou. Sir M-%ACKENZIE BOWELL-To a
thot department you have it clearly defined
wbat the functions of the minister et the very greot exteut 1 agree witb the bon.
bend of it are. You have the pateut lssued gentleman, but not wholly. The very fact
to hlm by the Crown. He is sworn to dis- thot you are placing up on the statutes laws
churge the duties of that departmeut. No- where regýulations are to be prepared by any
body else Is sworn. Hîs colleag-ues are not departmeut, shows tbat lt must lie, as It
sworn ou tbot motter. and the patent Is bas been in the past, with the authorlty
wbich lie Is not permitted to discharge of the Governor lu Concil before tbey are
those duties. Now, If aIl bis colleagues are put loto force.
to join hlm In undertoking that work whilh
Hou. Mr. MILLS-There you are settlingL
lie bas sworn to discbarge, and which lie
a question of policy.
Is appoiuted by 10w to discliarge, and a duty
Hou. Sir MACEKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
wbicbi be is flot permnitted to discliarge
witbout the concurrence and approval of that is a question of policy. While it is a
bis colleagues, it would lie un anomalous fact that our system is based ou the Eiigcondition. Very often bis colleag-ues miay lish system we knowv la the past it bas neyer
ask to have time to inquire into the suli- been carried to the exteut in this country
ject. Very often a colleigue may ask to that it bas heen carrîed in Euglaud lu the
have a matter stand over until bie cao make administration of the affairs of the empi'r,,
inquiry. and 1 can see nothing growiflg out and for very many reasons. The powers
of thot system but to hinder -and delay the vested ln the deputy, or permanent beads of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.
law what lie cannot now do unless hie re- worlc

ILAPRIL 19, 19011
the departments in Engiand, are vastly differeut from those whicb are vested in thp
departmental beads'and those wbo administer affairs lu this country. Tiuere, It neyer
would be supposed that a minister wouid
consider ail the detals of the department
of whlb lie Is the head. The law lays down
~what the duty of the deputy Is, aud lie admlnisters that portion of is departmnent
aimost without consultation wltb bIs minister nt ail. Take the business of the empire
nnd the duties pertaining to any minister of
the Crowu and compare tbem witb those
of the ministers lu Canada ; It wlll be seers
at once that the power glven ta the minister
there should bie, and must of necessity bc,
greater than lu this country. It is a question whether we should go the full iengti,
whilcb the bon. gentleman argues we sbould
go, Iu adopting the whole system of admiuistration that prevails lu Engiand. In a
smali couutry-smail compared witb the
empire ltseif-llke o>urs, I do flot thlnk we
bave arrlved at thiat stage yet wvben we
ouglit ta adopt that practice, and wberever
concessions are ta be made to settiers, or ta
auy one else, that luvolve a dealing wlth
the property of the Dominion, the council
ougbit ta be cagunizaut of wbiat the mnister
Is doing and assume the respansibillty. 1
kuow the lion. gentleman may answer me
that If a minister administers the uffairs
of is office lmproperly, the wboie gavera*ment is necessarily responsible.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C)-But it is
toa late then.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Precisely. Wbiat follows If it la. administered
improperly ?~ If a lease of this kInd be giveu
improperly, thien, as my bou. frleud says,
it is taa late. Yau cither have ta quarre's
wvitb your minister or turu hilm out of office.
I upprelieud under maany clrcumstnnces It
miiglit be used to the disadvantage of the
country. 1 have formed these opinions frorn
a number of years' experience, and I tbiulc
we have had ample proof of It duriug- the
iast thiree or four years Ia tis House, wbere
Bis bave came down fram the diffe*ent de-.
partments whîcbi affect the administration
of those departments wltbout eitber o! the
gentlemen opposite knowing wbat tbey
were. WNe have had the MInister of Justice
acknowledge from bis place lu the Senate,

that lie bus neyer been consulted upon a
question whicbi affeeted large and material
aiteration of the land laws o! the country.
We bave had the Secretary of State tell this
House, wben asked to explain a gaverument
Bill, thut lie knewv nathing about IL. He
supposed thiat tbe minister who liad lItraduced the Bil luInte lower House wauted
a cbange umade. We have no daubt about
that, but hie onglit to bave koniwn, as a minIster of the Crown, wben lie came here andl
asked the Senate ta amend the law lu auy
particular, %vhy tbat ameudment was requiréd, and it is nat a sufficient reason ta
give 'I suppose if the minister wbio lntroduced tbe Bill wants It, that is suilicient for
jyou.' That is flot enaugli for mie, or for
thase wba have biad any experieuce ut al
lu adiiiînistering the affairs of the countr5.
I do nat intend ta comibat the question furtber, but I tbiuk the hon. gentleman is
carrying it ultogetber toa far, and that the
Goveruar lu Councl, or iu other words, the
miuistry as a whole, are relieving tliemselves of trouble lu caunectiori with many
ucts for wbich tbey sbould. assume the responsibility. by tbrowiug it upon the heads
o! the departmients.
Han. '-%r. MILLS-My bon. frieud ls uoiv
dlscussing a question of legisiatian, wbicb Is
a very distinct tblug fram administration.
Hou. Sir NIACKENZIE BOWELIL-I admit that, but the same principie prevuils
by adoptlng the systemu wicbl the bon. genitleman surs they bave adopted lu this country. I arn using that as an analogous argument ta Illustrate wbat I mean wlth reference ta the other. However, you may put
the whoie power in the bauds of the Minister of the Interior If you like, but I question If the country, after the experieuce thieY
bave had, will approve of your placingê taa
rauch power lu the bauds of tbe minister,
particularly the ininister niow ut the bead
0f the department.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-If tbe ban. gentleman's
views were ta lie carried into effect it wonid
lie absoiuteiy Impossible ta administer the
of governmet-if a minister bad ta
-affairs
lie famiUJar with ail the details of is departmeut.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
flot argulug that at ail.

[SENATEJ
On clause 6,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Coming down to the
question before us, whether the Minister of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-By. section 3 of cap.
the Interior shouid be perinitted to issue 26, of the amending*Act of 1894, provision
leases without going to council when ail! was made for the sale or lease of lands
the conditione have been compiied witb, vested ln the Crown which were nlot resureiy, the issuing of a lease is iess import- quired for public purposes. There are very
ant than the issuing of a patent. Now, my often public lands set apart for publie purhon. friend knows that at no time ln the bis- poses, and afterwards they are found nlot to
tory of this country bas an order In counfli be required, and It is that particular class of
been required for an ordinary sale of land, lands that Is referred to here. The minisand the Minister of the Interier Issues pat- ter must, ef course, conform to the order in
ents constantly, enormous quantities of council authorizing that particular class of
them, and ln the same way he should Issue land to be sold.
leases. Many of those leases are for srnaii
The clause was adopted.
blocks of land, perbapa a couple hundred
acres adjoining the homesteader's lands, for
On clause 7,
a comparatively smail consideration. What
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hlon. gentlemen wiii
enuld any member of the council know
about i unless he had gone over ail the~ remember tbat we reduced the rate of lncorrespondence in connection wvitb It ? As terest from 6to 5per cent. This Is applying
many as fourteen pages of lenses have corne the same prinicple to the administration of
the land department. Hereafter land sales,
before council ut one time.
where there are arrears on them, wiIi bear
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon, gentle- 5 per cent, ln conformity with the new law.
man Is mistaken in sayîng an order ln council
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Is this
is not required for a sale of land.
retroactive ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, 1 am not mistaken.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-From the 7th of Juiy,
You take the lands that are open for sale
ln the North-west, you do not mean to say 1900.
The clause was adopted.
that the minister would have to go to
councl on the sale of each individual lot,
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreiand), from
or that the commissioner of Crown lands
that they had made
have to go to councl the committee, reported
in any province would
some progress with the Biil, and ased leave
to get approvai for a sale. 1 bave been
to sit again.
commissioner of Crown lands myseif, and
have soid a block of 25,000 acres without UNORGANIZED TE~RRITORIES GAME
going to council. The price was fixed by
PRESERVATION BILL.
order in council, but the sale was not, otherTHIRD READING.
wise it wouid be absoluteiy impossible to
adminster the affairs, not alone of Canada.
The Hlonse resolved Itseif into a Committee
but of the province of Ontario, or any other of the Whoie on Bill (46) 'an Act to amend
province in the Dominion.
the Unorganized Terrîtories Game PreservaHlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You bave a re- tion Act, 1894.'
gulation permittîng the sale of certain
(lu the Cornmittee.)
lauds;but now you propose taking the whoie
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
of the public lands not otherwise provided
for by statute, out of tbe bauds of the thought this was ail provided for.
Governor in Council and putting them ln
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Not ln the unorgagized
the bands of the minister to seil. I think territories. A good many hunters go in the
the minister shouid bave power to grant summer season into our unorganized terrileases of public lands witbout reference to tories, and engage in the destruction of
order iu council, but a sale of lands, of muskox, caribou anéi other animais, and it
course, is a more important subject.
was thought desirabie to make some provision for the preservation of these animais.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[APRIL 22, 1901]

Hlon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-There
was an Act passed some years ago for the
protection of animais lu the unorgaized
terrîtories, was there flot ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, lu 1894.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do flot see any
distinction between this Bill and the statute
to, whlch the hon. gentleman refera.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-This is mucli wider in
Its termas. Iu a good many cases, parties
have engaged ln hunting the muskox to take
away the head and borna. This Bill would
prevent the destruction of animais for any
such purpose.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It also
preventa the party convicting the offender
from keeping It himself.
Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL, from the committee, reported the Bill without ameudmnent.
The Bill was then read the third time
and passed.

b

2. He was appointed by Order lu Council
under date the lSth of July, 1900, a member
of the Canadian Board of Commissioners
for the Paris exhibition. He was pald at
the rate &f $2,500 per annum, with travelling
expensesand au allowauce of $3.503 per day
for living expeuses whlle lu Canada but
absent from bis place of resîdence, and $5
per day for living expensea while out of
Canada.
3. No.

VISIT 0F HIS HIGHNESS, THE DUKE
0F CORNWALL.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (Britishi Columbia) lnqulred :
If lt lo the intention of the goverument ta
cali parliament togetier duriug the visit of His
Royal Higliness tie Duke of Cornwall and York
to Canada, as was doue during the visit of Hls
Rayai Highness the Prince af Wales (uow King
Edward tie VII.) lu 1860 ?
He sald : I did not mean by this lnqulry
that parliament should be called together lu
the usual way, but simply as was doue lu
1860, as the lion. Secretary 0f State wlll reBILL INTRODUCED.
member, wheu tlie members were lnvlted ta,
Bill (97) 'an Act to Incorporate the Manuappear at the Capital ta welcome the Prince
facturera and Temperauce aud General Life of Wales. On that occasion the mileages
Asurance Compauy.-(Hou. Mr. Lougheed.) of the membera to and from the Capital
The Senate adjourned.
were allowed them.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say ta, my bon.
frlend that the matter bas not been cousîdered, but I uuderstaud that the visit of His
THE SENÂTE.
Royal Hlghnesa to this country la to be of
Ottawa, Monday, AprUl 22, 1901.
very short duratian, and the tîme that he
Chiair at TbreE would spenti lere would be very brief lnThe Speaker took the
deed; lu fact, the time spent Iu the wbole
o'clock.
country betweeu Halifax and Victoria wouid
Prayers and routine proceedings.
be short, and whlle it la impossible ta say
whetlier parliament will be called together
EX-SENATOR
EM-NPLOYMENT 0F
or not, If the pragram as ludicated ta the
BURPEE.
goverument la carried out, there wll be, as
INQUIRY. a
far as I can see, no object lu calling parHon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
But if the viait la ta be
1. Has Charles Burpee, Esq., late a membe r liament together.
no
of the Senate, been lu the enplaymnent of thiB more protracted, as the goverumnent alter
goverumexit silice lie resigued his seat iu th, Bdonbt desires it sbould be, then lt will
Senate ?
But the mat2. If soa, lu what capaclty was lie employed 7the circumataficea altog-ether.
'What remuneration did lie rece4ve for the ser -ter lias nat been fiushly diaposed of.
vices reudered, per diem allowance or other
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I do not thiuk that
Wise ?
3. Is he now emplayed by the garerument ,t parliament was called together on the ocIf so, lu what braneh of the ser7ice, and at wlia
casion of the Prince of Wales' visit lu 1860.
rate per diem, manth or otlierwise ?
were iuvited ta,
e
Hou. Mr. SCOTT : The auswers ta thi Members of parliamelit
ta the Capital, but parliament waz
-came
hon. gentleman's questions are as followa
flot summoned.
1. Yea.

[S E.NATEI
MARKING AND INSPECTION 0F PACK- specting the Culling of Lumber and the In'spection of Staples.
AGES CONTAINING FRUIT BILL.
ORDER Pos>rPONED.
(In the Committee.)
The Order of the Day being called:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This is a purely formai
*Committee of the Whole House on B1i (32>

An Act to provide for the marking and Inspection' Bill transferrlng the matter of the culiing
of packages contalning fruit for sale.

10f lumber and 'the inspection of staples
I have flot hadil frcyn the Department of Iniand Revenue to,
an opportunlty of devoting one moment to the Departmnent of Trade and Commerce.
Hon. Mr. MILLS said :

Ho.SrMCEZEBWLýWa
0fMACKEig the change
His Shereao
steraoofmkighecne?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume the two minhmeve
tes av arngdbwen
tba.t it is more convenient to have thls
bra.nah under thte Department of Trade and
CommeIDrce. I do flot L-now any other reason.
1 suppose Mr. Bernier wanted Sir RLichard
Cartwriglit to take charge of It.
lion. Mr. FERGUSON-It seeqns quite
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (115) "An Act to amiend the General proper that It shouid be under that department. I do flot think the departnient is
Inspection A-ct."-(Hon. 'Mr. Milis.)
Bill (43) "Ail Act to incorporate the St.. overworked.
,Lawrence Lloyds."-.Hon. Mr. Perley, In the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Are
absence of Hon. Mr. Wood, Westmoreland.) w oudrtn
htti
ragmn
Bill (M) " An Act respecting the St. Law- vee toauderetn tht tti arrngsement bas
iitrsten
ewenteto
ad
be
rence and Adirondack Rallway Company .
selves wlthout the consent of the goverui(o.Sir 'Mackenzie Bowell.)
ment ?~
(Hon.
Hlon. Mr. SO0TT-Oh, no. It came up in
MANITOBA AND NORTH-WEST LOAN
council andi received the approval of counCO'MPANY'S BILL.
cil.
SECOND READING.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
HIon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL, in the
absence of Hon. Mr. Aikins, moveti the; it must have been done to justify the desecond reading- of Bill (43) "An Act respect- claration of the present bead of thet departing the Manitoba andi North-west Loan Coin- ment whlen in opposition, that the Departpany, Limiteti. HIe said :This Bill is in- ment of Trade and Commerce was useless.
nlocent in its cliaracter, andi somnewliat Out Af ter an experience as bead of that departof tbe usual line. It is to enable the coin- 1,ment for five years,,'le now wants it to have
pansy, whicb bas really ceased to do business, something to do for the next five years, andi
to wind Up its affairs wltbout referring to, so lie takes over the officiais connected with
the courts unider the Winding Up Act. The the Culling Department, andi also t.be
directors andi sha'reholders, I believe, hiave,, Weights andi M#asures and Gas Inspection.
after considering the matter, decided that I do not know what the heu. gentleman lias
they would wind it up mucli more cheaply found to do mn that departunent ; I know
and effectively than by proceeding under wbile I hati the hionour of occupying that
position, I found plenty to do. I have no
the Winding Up Act.
The motion was ag-reed to, andi the Bill objection, however, that -these atiditional
duties sbould be imposeti upon one Who
was read the second time.
said the department hati notbing to do, andi
CUDLNG
F LMBERANDINSEC-perbaps it would be just as well to relieve
TION 0F STAPLES BILL.
'some of the other departments whicli are
overworked, but in doing so they hati better
BREPORTED FROAI COMIUTTEE.
the consideration of the subject of this
Bill since the House rose. I was anxious
to compare it witbi the Iaw as it now stands
before bringing- the inatter under the attention of the House ag-ain. I move, therefore, that the Order be discharged, and ttat
is stand for an Order of the Day for
Thursday niext.
The motion was agreed to.

The House resolved itself into a Commnittee of the Whole ou Bill (116) 'An Act relion. Mr. MILLER.

take these departments Wshicli really have
something ta do. If somie branches were

LAPRIL 23 1901]
taken froua the Customs Department, wblch
is one of the hardest worked departments
ln the administration of affairs of the government, they might with propriety transfer
some of the labour which Is lmposed upon
the Minister of'Custouas and give it to the
Minister of Trade and Commerce. 1 canflot understand any other reason why this
trifluing transfer has taken place.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Customas Department, to which my hon. friend refers, as hie
very wefl knows, is flot capable of being
divided. Ail subjects under that office are
germane to that office, and ln the Department of Trade and Commerce, the minister
bas charge of Important duties, and very
many subi ects. He bas .to do exclusively
with the subventions to steamsbIps, contracts made with steaanships on the Atlantic
and Pacifie, and a variety of kindred sublects.
Hon. Sir MACKE*NZIE BOWELL-There
is where the bion. gentleman is in error.
There are branches of 'the public service
wbieh miglit wilth proprlety be trnnsferred
to the Department of Trade and Commerce.
The Post Office -las soanething to do witb
certaiu subsidies under the titie and
name of Post Office subventions, but It Is
only a change in name; aU thaît brandi of
the Pos-t Office mighit with proprlety be
transferred to the Department of Trade and
Commerce, because Al really and legitimateIy belongs to that departiment. However,
It neyer bas-been doue.
Hou. Mfr. FERGUSON-I think my hon.
friend is too Inquisitive about these thIngs.
1 presume that the government, since the
Minister of Trade and Commerce lias made
such a magnificent success of the fast Ue
service, and lias got through that subject,
have corne to the conclusion that they will
give hlm another contract.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
are to have the bottle-uosed ships byand-be.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, from the committee, reported the Bill without amendmeut.

(Iu the Couamdttee.)
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Hoa. gentlemen wii
remember that the cominittee rose the other
day ieaving subchauses 2 and 3 of clause 2.
undisposed of. The point for inquiry was
whether the privileges granted o immilgrants should not also 'be extended to nativeborn Canadians who go there f rom other
parts of Canada, and I have now the pleasure of substltut-ing for those subelauses
one which embraces everybody--one which
excindes nobody.
The subciauses were adopted.
Hou. Mr. SNOWBALL, froua the committee, reported the Bill wich amniedments,
which were concurred in.
BILLiS INTRODUCED.
Bill (41) ' An Act respectiug the Saskatchewan and Western Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Iianderkin.)
Bill (44) ' An Act respecting the Ottawa
and Gatineau Railway Co.mPanY, and to
change its namie to the Ottawa, Northern
and Western Raihway Company.'-(Hoai.
Mr. Kirchhoff er.)
Bill (52) ' An Act respecting the Vancouver and Lulu Ishand Raihway Company.'(Hon. Mr. Tempieman.)
Bihl (56) ' An Act respectiag the Columbia
and Kooteny Railway and N_1avigatioîn Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
Bill (58) ' An Act to Incorporate the Kootenay and Arrowbead Railway Company.<,Hou. MT. Macdonahd, B.C.)
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottaica, Tucsday. A4pril 23, 1901.

The SPEAKER took. the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceediugs.

ELECTION IRREGULARITIES.
DOMINION LANDS ACT AMENDINQUIhtY.
MENT BILL.
Hou. Mr. PERLEY inquired:
EEPORTED FROM C03fMITTEE.
The House resolved itself Into CommitteL If in the matter of the Dominion election of
Comof parhiament
of the Whole on Bill (29) 'An Act to ameud a member Canada, has a for the House of under
mons of
returniug officer
the Dominion Lands Act.'
the law governing sucli election, the power,
17

[SENATE]
reeither himself. or through any o! bis deputy any
torning officers, ta give ballot papers to
persans other than the deputy returning officer ?
MILLS-It would be highly irHon. M-%r.
regular to give them prior to the date of the
election, but of course they must give themf
at the polling places, and only at the POlling

places should they be given out. The giving out of ballots at any other time is a
;hlghly irregular proceedlng, to say the least.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-15 it contrary to law

VISIT OF THEl DUNE 0F CORNWALL.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Whether the government bas information as
to the precise approximate date of the visit of
His Royal Highness -the Duke of Cornwall and
York to the following cities :Halifax, St. John,
Quebee, Montreal, Ottawa, Kingston, T'oronto,
Winnipeg, Regina and Viecria, and la what
order these cities wili receive a visit from Hia
Royal Highness?
Hon. Mr. 31ILLS-I arn unabie to give My
hon. friend the information wbich lie desires
at the present timie, but as soon as I amn able
to, give hlm a dtefinite answer I shall have
pleasure in doing so.

Mon. 'Mr. MILLS-Yes.
Hon. '.\r. PERLEY-All I ean say is, thea
at the polling station of Wolseley tbe late
THE MiICM-NAC INDIANS.
returuîng officer for East Assinabola told
INQUIRY.
me bimiself, and I kaow it of my own knowledge, that lie lias given out ballots ta
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY rose ta
agents, and I thinc lie told me lie got bis
Cail the attention of the gavernment to the
following document sent to the members of the
authority f rom the Secretary of State.
Senate and'of the House of Commons
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Hle lias no riglit to quote
An Appeal to Parliament.
the Secretary of State for a thing of that
Indian Reserve,
Sainte Anne de Restigouche, P.Q.,
kind. I bave no recollection of ever baviag
February 9, 1901.
speakiag to me
been applied to, or anybody
the Senate

of
upon tbe suli- Ta the Members
And the Members cf the House of Commons.
ject.
Gentleman.-As chief of the band of Micmac
[ndlans reslding here, with the full approvai of
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The governmefli the members of the council of the band and
of ahl the mnen of -the band, with very few exbas a very poor recollectioli.
ceptions, I desire to appeal to you te secure
for the band that Justice and fair treatmeflt
THIRD READING.
whlch the Department of Indian Affairs has
ta grant ta ItL
Act respecting the Culling of refused for no favours for the band, I merely
Bill (116) ' An
I asic
before you
Lumber, and tbe Inspection of Staples.'- asic that you have broughtletters which for exI have,
amination the petition and
(Hon. '.%r. Scott.)
the last few months, sent ta the deduring
partment in regard ta the Indian agent for the
The Senate adjournefi.
ba.nd, and the replies of the department ta the
same, and If, after an examination ef the saine,
yeu consider thaàt the band la entitled, as wards
of goverament, ta have the complaints made
THE SENATE.
agalnst the agent Investigated, I asic that you
Insist upon a fair and Impartial lnquiry iato
24,, 1901.
the matter by some competeat persan.
Otfawa, Wedncsday, April
That you may thoroughiy understand the situyour attention to
I beg
The SPEAKER tool, the Chair at Thre( ation,followiag leave ta direct
facts :
the
o'cloek.
miles from the re1. The agent lives twentY
serve and seldom visîts it, and when he does
and routine proceedings.
visit it lie fails ta give attention ta the affaira
Prayers
of the band la a satisfactory manner, and ln
my opinion lie does not possess that education
JUDGES SALARIES.
or business abili-ty which would enable hlm to
affairs the attention tbey properly
DRUMMI-NOND-Has the leade r gtve 'those
Hou. '-\r.
sbould receive.
given
oi
2. About two years ago the band wasfor the
o! tbe g-overanent any answer to .- Ive
a chie! and couacil
the judges' salaries, whlcb Ithe rigbt ta elect
the question of
purpose of managing its, affairs, and an) electiori
have brought up sa frequently ?
was beld and a objet and councillors were then
elected. but aithougli often requested so to do,
have not at the pre4 the agent has neyer called a meeting of the
Hon. MNr.'MILLS-I
ent time, but as soon as the mnatter is finaîll Scouncil.
3. Owing ta the incapacity of the agent or
disposed of, I will bave pleasure la inforir abis neglect o! -duty and bis refusai te call a
ta enat
ing my hon. friend as ta wbat. the conclusia nmeeting of the councilpreserviag such regulatIoas
peace and good
as are necessary for
is for the session.
Ilon. Mr. PERLEY.
or writing pr telegraphing

fAPRIL 24, 1901]
ammunition boots superior and more laetUng
to tliose sent with the troops from Ce.nida.
Too much attention could 'net be pa.id to this
motter.'
Major General O'Grady-HaIy, ln summing up
and moving a hearty vote of thanks to the Ieturer, stated he had listened to the lecture with
-the keenest Interest, and lioPed it womuld nlot
be the Iast time lie would hear Capt. Winter.
.
.. He was aise in acord with the becturer about the Oliver equipmet-he was ln
Canada when this had been tried for the Imporiai
eervice and rejected et Halifax some years ago.
Too, mucli stress could not be laid upon the
necessity of giving men a good water-bottle.'
(Vide The Milftary Gazette, April 16, 19OL
And Inquired :
Is ft the intention of the government ta luvestigate ino the complainta brouglit forward
by Capt. Wiuter and ta improve the general
equipment of the 0auadian militia?
in the ineantime, is It the Intention of tlie
government to discqntinue the distribution of
the Oliver equipment ta the Canadian militia
and ta substitute for It a more suitable one?
Ilow do the goverument explain the tact that
the Oliver equipmeiut lias been selected for the
Canadian militia when the same equipment lias
been refused and rejeoted by the Imperial auHon. Mr. MILLS-Mr. McRae, the inspec- 'thorities a! ter a triai made in Canada, at Halibas just returned fax some years ago?
tor o! Indian agencies,
from making an investigation into the comprepared ta
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-I amrn ft
plaints made by Chude! Marchel, but bas not answer that to-day. I will make inquiries,
yet submitted bis report.
and I ask the bon. gentlemnan ta let it stand

order. there is often mucli unruly and disgraceful iconduct on the reserve.
Althougli the members of the ba.nd cannot vote
ln Dominion elections. I do net tink tliat for
that reason they shouid be refused that fair
treatment which ls the riglit o! ail Bri'tish subJeots, evea If by granting it the government
may be compelýled to remove from office one o!
its active supporters.
Gentlemen, on behalf af the band, I appeal ta
you ta ses that, putrtIng slde ail politIcal considerations, the government administers the
affaira of the band with due regard ta the riglits
of the people.
I have tlie lionaur to remain,
Your faith!ul and obedient servent
ALEX. MARCHEL,
Chie!.
And Inquire If the complaints made against
the Indian agent of the Indian reserve of Ste.
Anne de Restigouche have been iavestigated5,
and If so, what is the result of such an Investigation ?
If no Investigation has yet been held, Is It the
intention o! the government to hold one, and
when?
If not, why ?

THE OLIVER EQUIPMENT.
INQUIRY.
Han. Mr. LANDRY rose ta
Caîl the attention of the goverumeut ta the
following !acts :
On the 27th o! Mardi last CaPt. C. F. Winter,
Adj., tlie Governor General's Foot Guards, spoke
ta tlie officers of the Ottawa brigade upon some
observations fram recent experiences ln South
Afrîca and their application ta Canadien deThe lecturer was introduced by Major
fence.
General O'Grady-Haly, commending the militia,
Aniong his observations are the
who presided.
following :
...The Oliver equipment lias net found
mucli faveur among the men, and the waterbot tie which. goes with It was strongly condemned-the beat proof o! tbis belng that tlie
regiment procured the army water-bottle at the
vory first opportunity, and tlie Individual men,
whenever they could, got a ' Tomniy's' set of
The main objecstraps ta replace their own.
tien ta the Oliver was the excessive pressure
cn the bsck a! -the neck between the shoulders,
which resulted wben carrytng the blankets, &c.,
on the lips. The bandolier was the proper way
ta carry ammunition on the persan, but It muet
always be oovered by a flap, otherwise cartridge.9
Itwas a fact that
work loase and are last.
lu South Africa the mon o! the regular regiments used to say that they could always tell
where the "*Canadians " badl been by the amount
Haversacks
o! loose ammunition bof t behind.
wore out very quickly on service, and those o!
Royal Canadiens after seven or eight months'
service were a sight once seen ta remember
for ever. .. ..
'Boots were always a question o! extreme import ta an Infantryman, but it was not conduaive 'ta Canadien pride ta find the regulars'
173

for the present.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (51) ' An Act ta incarporate the Algama Iran and Nicktel-Steel Company of Canada.'--(Han. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (97) ' An Act ta lncorporate the Manufacturera and Temperance and General Life
Assurance Company.'-(Han. Mr. Lougheed.)
GENERAL

INSPECTION ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.

IN THE COMMITTEE 0F THE WHOLE.
The Hanse resolved Itself Into a Cammittee
af the Whole an Bill (115) ' An Act ta amend
the General Inspection Act.'
(Iii the 0ommittee.)
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS-Han. gentlemen wll
see, by examining the Bll, that the changes
The
are very siight, and mastly verbal.
changes are suggeated, I understand, by the
Inspector and the board of trade.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
Hon.
there much wheat raised at the present day
ln Ontario, west of Lake Superiar ?
Han. Mr. MILLS-I think nat, but there
are some wheat-growers alang the Rainy
River, who I suppose would like ta have the

[SENATE]
If the inspectors had selected a
same regulations applied to tbem, and tbey vkjus.
sample of No. 1 liard, the wvheat would flot
are«in the same inspector's division.
have beeni worth as mucb as the year preHon. Mr. WATSON-It is the intention of vious. It is important that the value of the
the western grain men to, If possible, make standards sliould flot be cbanged fromn year
the grades conform to Duluth grades, and to year. If a person is buying Manitoba
It was the intention a year ago to make wheat in the British market, No. 1 bard of
these grades permanent, so they will not be this year sbould be of equal value to No. 1
changed fromn year to year. As a ruIe, the liard of last year. These changes whicb
grades have been made to suit the samples1 were recornrended by tbe grain men la the
In the past. lt a ttbe intention to make w-est and adopted by the governrnent are
the standards permanent now, and :make the standards of Duluth.
The 'Manitoba
them conformi as mucli as possible with the wlieat rnay be quoted 5 cents a bushel more
grades at Duluth. 0f course some' yenrs, tlian Duluth No. 1, and consequently the
wben they made the grades conform with buyers try to keep down the price of Manithe crops, sometinies Uanitoba bard was toba wheat. The desire is to have a uniform
wortb five cents more per bushiel lu tlie standard.
market, but It Is desired to make the grades
Hon. '.Ir. YOUNG-Thils matter was very
permanent, and in conforrnity with the Infully considered last year by the standards
spection at Duluth.
west, a board cornposed of
Hon. -Mr. PROWSE-I arn glad to hear board of the
of the goverament to , farmers and deniers who meet once a year
that It is the Intention
make the grades now being establisbed per- ,to select sa.mples and fix the standard of
manent. It is of the very greatest import- 'the commercial grades. Certain grades are
ance to the farming commnunity that there fixed now and defined by tbec Act. Tbe inshiould be no unnecessary changes made in spector fixes those grades by the standards
into
the standards of our produets. Let us bave in the Act. It w-as found, liy looking
that aIl the world! the Act and taking the experience of those
our standards fixed bere
law
may know w-bat the standards are, but if bandling grain, that the effect of our
or two, people w-as to delay transactions in grain to some
changes are made every year
do not know what they are. Probabîy the extent on the other side of the Atlantic.
proposition of tbe bon. gentleman from Mar- Dealers biad to wait to see what tbe quality
quette wvill be appreciated and fully carried o! our grades was liefore purchasing.
ont liy the government, and no cbanges made Samples bad to be seat aciross, because
tbere was a variation fromn year to year, and
which are not absolutely necessary.
know
Hon.Mr. '.ourd
ERLE-Wil tb bon genie-they did notlieE-Wl liy last year's grade wbat
foo. thecnpslfe-i fti
toe.
tetie
h rp
%ol egtigfo
man explamn bow the standards can be made te
and consequently there was a delay
permnentseason,
the beginning of tbe season. There was
permnentat
Hon. MNr. WIATSON-As the bon. gentie- also another disadvantage, and tbat was to
mian is weIl aware, the grain men, or the the producer bimiself. It was very bard to
board that have rnade the samples, bave met explain to the farmer wby grain that wvas
year after year in the past, to strike samples, No. 2 bard or No. 3 bard, or No. 1 bard one
for the crop, and it is for that year. There' year should not lie of tbe saine grade the
rnay be a difference in value in this year's next year, and that explanation would corne
You
and a last 3-ear No. 1 bard for rnilling pur-'in, that the standard w-as changed.
poses. I understood it is the intention of cau see if a uniformi grade is established as
the goverilnent, and the inspectors areý far as is possible and reasonable, that the
going to carry out that idea, 'tbat the value farmer bimself will becorne educated in the
brnaintained the sanie, no matter grades, as well as the dealer or inspector,
w-ilie
wbat the crop mnay lie. There may notli more uniforrn system of bandling our grain
in 'Manitolia a bushel of No. 1 bard, but the year la and year out will prevail. As I unstandards wçill be the sanie. The values derstand it, ail these recommendations were
will lie equal year liy year for milling pur- made by the united action of this standards
Last year, there was a smaller board and the grain.trade of the w-est. Afposes.
quantity of No. 1 bard than the year pre- 1ter the propositions were considered by the
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[APRIL 24, 1901]

261

individual bodies, wbo met jointly to consider You could sîy 1û. 1, No. 2 or No. 3 in any
wbat was the best, aud made these recom- class of goodk\ 1L\it wben you use the Word
mendations, and I fancy tbat the experience 'Nortbern' I do flot understand it. You
tbat these people bave Up there, 'witb tbe put au ambiguous terni whicb no one can
fact that nearly every lnterest was represent- understand.
Ho1n. Mr. YOUNG-MY hon. friend knows
ed-tbe producer, the dealer and everybody
else at tbese boards, you can very Weil take that is a trade name, that wbeat bas been
tbose recommendations and crystallize tbeni known by for years.
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-It Is put lu for dealInto legisiation.
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-I fail to know more ers, and flot lu the lnterests of the farmer.
abou't tbe Bill now than 1 did before. Prior Put No. 2 bard and you bave it ail rigbt. I
to last year ta mimber of gentlemen met who obJect to tliat clause.
were appointed by tbe goveruiment for the
o.r.TMLMNfomtec
purpose of fixing the standards for the crop
wltbout ameudof tbat year. Tbey fixed the standards îast *mittee, reported the Bill
year, as 1 understaud, by cbauging tbe law, ment.
and made four grades permanent by Act of
SHIPPIN.G CASUALTIES BILL.
parliament. A man lu England could take up
IN COMMITTEE.
by it, because bie knows
tbe law and'buy
tbat so mnany pounds of a certain ciass of
Tbe House resolved itself into committee
grain niakes No. 1 bard. Now this grain
of tbe Wbiole on Bill (931 'An Act respect
board, I uuderstand, goes on to examine the
Ship
remainder of tbe crop. They fix wbat those in, Inquiries and Investigations into
to do tbat ping Casualties.'
erades will be, and you bave
(In the OommIttee.)
every year. You caunot fix the standards
tbis year for neit year's crop. Thiat must
O lue5
O lue5
be flxed by tbe crop of the year. But tbere
Hon. Mr. MILLS-In subclause 2 there ar e
are four grades fixed permanently by Act
biere, aud you do not require certail alterations to make the phraseolo)g.
of parliament
a littie more distinct tban it Is in tbe presen t
auy legisiation on It, to my mmnd, at ail,
sam e
Hon. 31r. YOUNG-If my bon. friend wîîî law, but the effect ls practically tbe
read the Bill be will see we are extendlng as lt is lu tbe present statute.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is thi s
tbe permanent grades, and lt is proposed to
No. 2 bard a consolidation of tbe Act ?
do away witb tbe grade called
Hou. Mr. MILLS-In a large measure i t
altogether, and also cbangiug the percentks so as mv lion. friend will see by 100ki.
ages ln one or two cases.
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-Wbat do you do witb at thbe last clause. Almost everytbing lu the
Bill is conta ined iii the Revlsed Statutes.
No. 2 bard ?
3fr. YOJN-It goes into No. 1
Hon.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As fas as I am
Nortleru, tand as imy bon. fliend expladued. able to arrive at the scope aud object of this
It is to get lu uine witb Duluth as mucb as Bll, it is to regulate the conduct of investipossible.
gations into losses of sbipping, &c.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-No. 1 nortbern and
Hou. Mr. M.NILLS-Yes, and to bring our
No. 2 bard are the saine?
law lnt) 'barmony with .the Englisbi Merchants Sbippinig Act.
Hou. '-%r. %'.IILLS-Yes.
Hion. Mr. FERGUSON-It does flot deal
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbere is no common
seuse lu that ? I do flot know wbat is meant at ahl with the question of the liabillty of
tbe owners of ships, eitber to passengers or
by No. 1 uortbern.
my bon. frleud to owners or goods. That is goverued by
Hon. '-%r. YOUNG-Perhaps
bas been raisiug No. 2 bard aud does not auotber statute. This is to find the cause
sud tbe culpability of tbe owners or masters,
kuow about it.
Hon. '.%r. PERLEY-I do not know muel cb
II'\IL-ut
o
o
Hon. fMr. MLSQit
about No. 2, as we raise No. 1 ouly for sale.

[SEINATE]
Hon. Mr. SCOT'r-The words are merely
Hon. '-\r. FERGUSON-I looked carefully
into the Bill, because of a matter -whicli per- copied in the new Bill.
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS-The Bil] is brought ia
sonally interested mue not long ago. We
a slip is lost, tbough it may be shown on harmony with the Evidence Act of 1893.
sncb an inquiry as this, that sbe was lost The practice is, that a witness shall daim
through tbe negligence of 'the employees or the protection of the court.
fauht of the owners In flot supplying proper
The clause was adopted.

appiances, yet the.re is a condition on thbe
tickets sdld by most steaxnship companies
eradorsed on tihe back «f 'the tickets, that
they do not bhodd 4themselves hiable for any
loss arising tihrongh the -neglàgence of the
officers or froin any other cause. I have
been told that the contract whiich is endorsed on most passenger tickets, bias been
beld la the United States to be against public policy and to be ýinvalid. Stili it is there
written un most cases. This Bill does aot
touch tibat.
Hon. 3.r. MILLS-What my hon. friend
says is true. There is a large distinction between the EngliEji and the United Sates
law on that subject. Tbe United States law
will not allow a coinion carrier to contract
hlmself ont of bis legal obligation, a very
good provision I think, if be fails to discharge the duties which the law imposes
upon hlm, he cannot relieve bimseif of bis
obligation by nndertaking to make any condition upon ticket. That bas not been the
practice in England or in this country. This
statute of course introduces the provisions
of the Canada Evidence Act Into the Bill.
Under tbe Canada Evidence Act, a party is
compelled to give testlmony, even where,
under the common law or under the ordlnary
criminal law, be wouhd lncriminate bimself,
but if he speak the trntb, no action can be
brougbt agaiast hlm iu consequence of bis
own evidence. It is only an action of perjury that would hie against hlm for auytblng be might say, under tbe provisions of
this Act. If my hon. friiend wfil loo0k at the
Revised Statutes of Canada, chap. 81, section
5, subsection 3, lie will see tbere that if a
party will assert that wbat lie may say
would incriminate hlm, he is not compeIled
to testify, but under this statute it is amended, so that lie must testify or be lhable to a
fine of $40, but be incurs no obligation if
be testifies.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has
be a laim to the protection of the court
under tbe dircuinstances, or does lie mierely
give the evidence though it may incriminate
bimseif, and be beld barmless ?
Hon. 1%r. MILLS.

On clause 8,
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The latter part of this
clause would be, under our constitution outside of our competence, but that power is
conferred upon us under the M-Nerchants'
Shi.pping Act, and it is unde 'r the provisions
of that Act that are giveni jurisdiction, if
we choose to exercise it, beyoad a marine
league from the shore.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, froin the commîttee, reported the Bill without amendment.
SAFETY 0F SHLPS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
ORDER POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being called-House
zigainlun Committee of the WbýVole on Bill
(92) 'An Act further to amend the Act re#
specting the Safety of Slips.'
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS said: In looking over tbis
Bill with some care to-day, it was perfectly
certain to me that thbe intention of sub-clause.
(c) of clause 1, was to enable shippers to
carry cattie upon the upper deck la an laThat intention is very obclosed space.
sourely expressedý in the Bill as it appears
aow, and I desire to let it stand over, and
I 'hope to ameujd that provision so as to
-make thbe intention perfectly clear, and witb
that object in view, 1 mnove that the Order
of the Day be discbarged and tha-t it be
mnade an order for 'tomorrow.
The motion was agreed to.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (44) 'An Act respectiug the Ottawa
and Gatineau Rtailway Company, and to
change its naine to 'The Ottawa, Northern
and WVestern Railway Companiy.'-(Hon. Mr.
Perley.)
Bill (56) 'An Act respecting the Columbia
and Kootenay Railway and Navigation Coinpany.'-(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
Bill (58) 'An Act to incorporate the Kootenay and Arrowhead Railway Company.'(Hon. 2Nr. Macdonald, B.C.)

[APRIL 24, 1901]
.

BILLS INTRODUOED.

Bill (61) 'An Act respecting the W. C.
Edwards Cornpany, Limited.'--(Hon. Mr.
McCallurn, in the absence of Mr. Clernow.)
Bill (70) 'An Act respecting the E. B. Eddy
Cornpany.'--(Hon. Mr. Macdoaald, B.C., in
absence of Mr. Clernow.)
Bill (75) 'An .&ct respecting the Canada
Nortbern Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
Klirchhoffer.)
Bill (79) 'An Act respectIng the Llndsay,
Bobcaygeon and Pontypool Railway Conipany. '-(Hon. Mr. McHugh.)
Bill (83) 'An Act to Incorporate the Kootenay Central Railway Cornpany.'-(Hon. Mr.
Templernan.)
Bill (84) 'An Act respecting the Alberta
Railway and Coal Cornpany.'-(Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.)
Bill (83) 'An Act to Incorporate the Ahberta Central Raihway Cornpany.'-(Hon.
Mr. Watson.)
Bill (90) 'An Act respecting the Dominion
Burglary Guarantee Comnpany, Lirnited.'(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
ZilI (107) 'An Act to confer on the Commissioner of Patents certain powers for the
relief of John &bell.'-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
PATENT ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved the second
readlng of B3ill (N) 'An Act to arnend the
'Patent Act.' He said :This Bill Is ail contained In one clause and one prineiple. If
the opinion of rny hon. colleagues Is made
up and settled on the point, and If the priaciple invoIved is agreeable to the rnajority
of the members of this House, then as to
ithe details there will be very little to be
done. A Bill ras presented last year whicb
covered, -I think, the point I arn now ralsing
and submitting to this Chamber, but which
went rnuch further. It had three or four
clauses, and It covered a great number of
cases which are not covered by the present
law. A1couple of cases bave corne to rny
notice, have been pressed upon me by sorne
patentees, where they thought there was a
hardshIp 'whlcb tbey shou]d be relieved frorn.
One case bas more especially appealed to
rny sense of justice and equlty. A patentee

263

obtained a patent fitteen years ago. It will
lapse in a few rnonths. Re spent-I amn giv5ing an incident to Illustrate the class of
cases this Bill will cover-a fortune ia
developing bis idea, and succeeded in obtainDuring the ten or twelve
ing a patent.
years that followed, be in vain looked for
financial assistance to float bis invention
and put it on the mnarket. The invention is
a costly one ; the apparatus stili rnore
costly. He died a few years ago and left
to bis heirs the invention, the patent for
which is about to lapse. As another similar
case bas corne under my notice, I tbought
that perhaps an arnendmnent sucli as the one
1 arn now suggesting should be added to
tbe Patent Act. It is that wben a patent
bas not, for certain reasons, been placed
on the mnarket during the terrn granted the
patentee rnay, before the lapse of the
terrn, ask for an extension. The petition
mnade to the Governor in Council could be
referred to the Exehequer Court, the aliegation et the petitioner could be inquired
into by the court, at bis coat, and If the
court round that during the tinie allotted by
law he did not proceed, and there bas been
no acquired rigbt, then the Governor in Council rnay, on that favourable report, grant
hirn an extension. 1 do not see that any lnjury Is done to anyone, and relief rnay be
granted to a party wbo bas bad a valuable
Invention and bas been so unfortunate as
not to succeed in ralslng the proper capital
to place It on the rnarket and recoup hlrnself
for bis labour and bis expenditure of rnoney.
I know that we sbou]d not legislate generally for privare cases, but as there were
sorne cases that I knew similar to the ones
that I want to cover, 1 thought there would
be no barrn in giving this power to the Governor la Council after having submitted the
case to the Exchiequer Court.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-One
point strikes me ln this Bill, admitting the
principle to be correct :why is not the
usual course adopted of givlng to the minister, under whose charge tbe issulng of
these patents is. the power that you desire
to give the court in this case ? Could not
the minister and the Governor in Council
perforrn tbe saine duties and make the sarne
inquiries that are irnposed on the Exchequer
Court ? That would relieve the party desirous of having an extension 0f bis patent,

[SENATE]

of ail the expenses attending a reference te
the court. 0f course, I understand under
this Bill tlie Gov~ernor lu Council would
have the power, in case of a.n application
sucli as the bou. gentleman speaks of, and
no caveat fiied, to act. In case a caveat Is
filed, it goes to court, I understand.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It goes to court
In any case.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Perhaps the bon. gentleman thinks It is sa.fer
to go to the court. W'hat suggests Itself te
me, Is, the expense which wouid attend an
,application of that klad la going to the
courts, miglit be avoided if the minister had
the power to act.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-My first idea
was, to act upon the uines just nientioned,
but It w-as represented to mie that the referrlng to the court would have for Its ohiject and resuit, greater uniformity la thc
decisions to be rendered, and, besides, the
Governor ln Council could not well sit as a
tribunal upon a statement of fact and hearlng of witnesses In case opposition were
entered against the application. Besides, It
may affect private riglits, and the public in
general, and it was represented to me It
would lie a fairer proceeding to leave the
finding- of the facts to the Exciiequer Court.
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-My impression is,
that if a person applies in the usual wvay,
and obtains a patent for a termi of years,
and within the life of that patent, or towards the end of the terni, lie inay apply
and get an extension of ItL
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I know cases of
it, and I think ny lion. friend wiil find that
a patent itself contains tlie provision that it
is for a number of years and may lie extendcd. My lion. friend proposes that there
shahl ho an extension beyond anything provided for in the Patent Act. 1 have liad no
practical experience witli the question of
patents miyseif. but I remember liaving liad
a correspondence with a gentleman in Ontarie, and in bis interests I went back and
forward to the Patent Office, and I found
that bis patent liad expîred, but that if lie
bad appliod boforo the expiration of the
first period iiientioned in the Bill, lie could
Hýin.

Sir MACKENZIE BO0WELL.

have procured sucli an extension as the
patent conteniplated. My hon. friend's Bill,
as 1 understand it, contemplates an extension such as is flot covered or embraccd in
the original patent. That 'being the case,
I imagine that there would flot be very
niany cases in which it would be regarded
as In the public interest to do what my hon.
friend seeks to have the law to do, but it
is quite possible such cases might arise and
If sucli cases do arise, I think that this 15
a very guarded amendment. It provides
that a pai-ty wantlng an extension may petition. Any person whose interest Is affected,
or who thinks the public interest Is affected,
ean object, and it will be referred to the
Exchequer Court as mentioned by the bon.
gentleman. As far ns I can see, 1 do flot
thiak any barm could arise.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Patents are liiited to
fifteen years, but In order to relieve parties
from a large fee, tbey are allowed to pay
a fece for a limited terni of five years. At the
,end of five years they are allowed to pay
for another Èive, and so on. Very orten a
man forgets when the first five years expire,
unless lie renews it in lime, the patent exMNy lion. friend's Bill would cover
pires.
botb contingencies.
Hon. Mr.* JONES-I think the Secretary of
State is mistaken as te, the period for which
patents are allowed te, run. Hie bas been lookinig at the Act of 1886. The extremne life of a
patent now is eiglteen years. 1 tbink that is
the loagest terni granted a patent by any
government. It lias be fifteen yeanrs unfil
recently. In the United States patents are
now granted for soveniteen years, that is the
extreme limnit. Tliere is no law lu the United
States enabling the courts to extcnd the
tinie. Efforts frein time to time have been
made la the United States to enact snch a
law, but tbey have never been su ccessful,
and only by conigress itseif can a patent
bie extendeil in the United States. lu Eagland 1 tbink the extreme limit for the life
of a patent is fourteen years, and there 1
thlak you will find they have a law soinewhiat similar to the Bill whilh is now before
this House, in %vhieli a pateatee is enabled,
if lie desires to go before the court or possibly first te get an order-dl am flot sure
'about the details, but at aIl events lie is
able te get, unider certain conditions, before

[APRIL 24, 1901]
the court, and if lie can show there that bis pose In 'the meanttme, and thus lie up for a
patent was taken out at an earlier period, long tiine -usefnl inventions. There bas been
possibly, than the country was ready for the in the United States, and possibly to some exuse of the patented appliance which hie tent In Canada, serions consideration given
had, or for other reasons lie was unable to to thiat feature pf the law witb reference to
profit by the use or manufacture of the telephones und other Important inventions
article naxned lu the patent for sncb tinie which are now consldered. almost absolute
a wealthy
as would seem reasonable to the court that necessities. It seems to me that
numbers of
ouglit to have been protected, then hie is corporation, controlling large
hie
get possession
,enabled (under certain conditions) to get patents, might ini thls way
The advisability or the o! and control a series of patents which
an extension.
against
necessity of extensions in Canada is iess would practlcally tie up-possibly
public--for a very long
lHable to happen, because a patent here runs lte lnterests of the
There .period of time what ought to be open to
eighteen years to begin witb.
witbin a shorter
may, to my mmnd, arise very serions diffi- everybody to manufacture
the people, time, because the .patentee wouid bave been
culties In the interest o!
long before
and of patentees also, wlth reference to well re.paid for bis Invention
law will sucli a lengthened period woudl -have exthis. I do not think that this
nre matters whicli
necessarily affect the class of people which plred. It Is true these
ority-the wlll come before the courts for their consi.may be considered as the mai
possibly it wouid not follow
great *majorlty of the Inventors. I think deration, but
from the
grea.t tltat ail the information desirable,
bon. gentlemen will agree with -me the
side of the people or f rom others Interested,
majority of Inventors are poor. T-hey are
wouid get before the court, and it seems to
genluses, but they neyer get rauch money,
me thiat this House siiould *be very careful
as a rule, for their patents. They there- to give most serious consideration to a Bill
to go
fore would flot lirebably be enabled
of this kind, Iengthening possibly, or pro.
before the court and pay the expenses ne- bably, and IUkely ln important cases, the
cessary to give theni a riglit to the ex- life of a patent long beyond the -lire of any
tension of a patent under tlils law. Then patent ever granted in any country heretothere Is another class of people who miglit fore. There is a ]aw also on te statutetake grest advantage of the ia'w wlicb en- book here, and very properlY so, that the
abled them, under certain conditions, to life of a patent in Canada cannot exceed the
lie up what might be an exceedingly im- lire or time tlînt lte said similar patent bas
portant thing for lihirty years. It will be to rua in aniy other country in 'thich it is
possible, as 1 -understand it, by this law, tû taken out. A very important Invention may
get a patent gIvIng the owner absolute righi have been taken out iu Great Britain. The
Tlhat seerns tc longest period that thiat could 'be controlled
for a period of 30 years.
me to be a very long time to tie up anY by the I)atentee in Great Britain wou.ld be
patent that is taken out.
14 years, and while tiat patent is taken out
There are now .probably 70 or 80 tbousanÈ in Canada for 18 years, It -il1 only live lu
patents in Canada, aithougli this nurnbei Canada the 14 years, notwithistanding the
bas been reachied àn a comparaitlvely shori present law. That is provided, of course,
time. The forelign patentee may corne ber( no refereuce in tîtis Bill is made to that
-and 1 refer particularly to the inventori 'tenture of the Act, but 1 take it from the
in the United States. It Is a very big coun readinig of this Bill tbant notwithistanding
try, iying convenient to Canada, and you wil Sthis patent would become common property
find, if you go .througli the Ilsts of patents In any other country in 14 yenrs, and they
a large proportion have been taken out b2 i-gbit therefore Import into Canada articles
United States Inventors. These generall, innue uuder that patent wvithout the expense
find their way into the possession of larg, Sof a patent, it iglit still be tied up by this
corporations wbo contrd them. li mighl law ln Canada for a long period of years
under -th.is law, be thouglit silvIsabie by Safter it became open property In another
large corporation to withhold the inanufac country. 1 knoW nothing, of course, of the
*ture of an article, uslng possibly less desix Itarticular case of wbich the hou. gentleman
is a very deserving
able inventions, but which serves their pui lias spoken. it doubtless

[SENATE]
case. If tiiere is such a case, it seemis to me
the safe thinig for tijis I{ouse to do wou.ld
De one of two things : ither to give legisianu;i direetly to the case of whicli lie speaks
and flot makie it general, or else t0 makze a
general iaw extending the patent laws of
Canada to the limit whichi il is thought readone. Then a poor man or a
sonable 10 Dbe
rici -man taking ont a patent knows exactly
what lie can do, and the poor man w-ho is
unable to go before the court will have the
saine numnber of years to get thbe value of
luis p)atent tluat the corporation will that
buys it from hlm ifor a small price, and gets
the time extended. I have Lad considerable
experience of patents. I have taken out a
large nimber myseif, and ain interested,
lu a business way, lu probably two hundred
patents. There are very very grave difficultles in coming before the court w-Rh a patent,
aiîd satisfyîng the court. Ln Canada they
have flot had a very wlide experience lu
sncbi inatters to decide whethier you would
be entitled to an extension or not. It is
dillicuit. Lt wvill Die expensive, and I hope
that tluis House w-i give most careful considerat-ion before they decide to make the
change.
lon. «M\r. DRUMMI.\OND-I am flot sure
about the exact legal position of the patent
lav lu Ibis country, but I know tUat one of
the objections raised by the Don. member ls
met by the fact that it is necessary, under
lihe patent law Dore, to manufacture the
goods in Canada within a certain period
after the g-ranting of the patent, so that it
is impossible for a foreign corporation Io
bottie up a patent la that way, because they
require 10 be put in operation and offered
to the public on rea.sonable ternis, witDln
a certain period-two years after the taklng
ont of the patent. I have had some experlence of patents. I have pateated things
myseîf, and used patents myself, and I must
say that the objeet of the present law appears 10 me 10 provide for a special case. The
word 'exploited' used ha one subsection here
meiins t0 give the patentee a reasonable
retura for the bralns and time and money
Die bas expended upon it. I take it that is
the meaning of the word ' exploited,' but the
Eniglishi courts have repeatedly had before
them cases in whieh a patent extension is
applied for and granted only upon the clearest evideace thaI the remneration whicli
Hon. Mr. JONES.

lias been obtainied by the 1)ateiltee lias Dlot
beeii sufficient to justify an abrupt termination of the patent. It does appear to me
that some method of extension is a reasoniable and advantageous thing, and slîould be
provided for. I amrn ot very sure wbetber
1 would give the Governior la Council the
full power that is provided for under tbis
Bill. The Governor ia Council may refer
it to the Exchequer Court, and after the
Excliequer Court lias reported upon it the
Governor ln Council may act upon IL. 1
would rather, in the interests of poor luv-ontors, that the application sbould lie made
to the Excliequer Court, which would deal
%vitlî the proposed extension, and thiereupon
the Governor in Couincil might have a say
iu the matter. If yon will notice the extension is flot to exceed twelve years, but it
mighit bie three, or four, or six, or any period
the court might consider desirable. 1 think
that 1 %vould set clearly forth la the Bill
thiat only iii the event of the remuneratioli
and return to the inventor being considered
insufficient, it should be extended. That
brings up one question wbicb the last speaker touched uponi, whicbi is the clause iu the
present Act, that if the patent is pateated
elsewhiere and expires there, the Canadian
patent expires ipso facto. The promoters of
the Bill should take care that that difficulty
is overcome. I do not see bow it can be
overcome; You miay extend it here, but unless you alter the present law, so that it
wîhl flot bie terminable on the expiry of the
patent elsewbere, You are no better off.
I favour the Bill.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-In every patent there
are conflicting interests, the interests of
the manufacturer and of the iiaventor. They
do not always accord, and because of this
difference many have contended that the
right to secure a patent ought not to exist,
that every one's invenitive genlus ouglit to
De exercised gratuitously and without compensation. Thiat is not ithe rule, however,
where a patent law prevails. The intention
of the patent law is to provide the means
by whichi the invenitor marY obtain some
compensation for the time, labour and ingeauity whicli he lias expended la the production of the inîvention. I w-as spoken
to wlth regard to this by Mi. Peterson, 1
think, an engineer of the Canadian Pacific
Thjis invention is one
]Iailway Company.

[APRIL 24. 19011
in point shows that tlhat is flot the law
upon wbicb the .patefltee bas spent a large 1have
$00,- in f act, because if so, it flot baving been
sum of money, if 1 remember rigbtly
this patent would be dead.
000, and hie bas neyer succeeded in having -ianuf4lctured,
'-Mr. M1ILLS-That is true of foreiga
Hon.
bis invention takien Up, or until very reThe publie will flot suifer any. patents.
cently.
I would recommend to my bon. frlend to
Hon. Mr. JONDS-I tbiulz the Patent Act
send thls Bill to a special committee to conpatents.
important does flot refer necessarily to forein
sider it, because there are many
the law refers to Canadian aad for1 tbink
questions involved, such as have been sugeign patents alike la the sense lu wbich tbe
gested by the bon. senator from Toronto,
hou. gentleman bas referred to it, and gives
wbere it mnay be fully consldered, and if
; but In
undertakeil a certain time for m.anufacturilg shown
there are any persons wbo bave
to void the patent, It niust be
order
to apply tbe invention wben it is no longer
that the necessity existed for the producprotected by patent, that tbey sball be protion of the article, and tliat users reqilirtected. That bas been tbe usual practice
patent ls
that the ling it desire to bave it. else the
wbere you extend patents, but
and as a matter of fact. in pracflot voided,
party blmself shial be entltled to an extentice lu Canada 1 do not think thagt iny
sion of blis patent. 1 tbink that would be,
Patents have ever been voided because of
under the circumstalces, only reasonable,
the non-production wltbin the time. and lt is
If you give hlm tbe extension. A special
perfectly well known by those wbo are lacommittee can very well consider wbether
terested lu patents that patented articles are
tbe measure ougbt to be made general in
frequently held for a number of years after
its cbaracter, npplying to, ail applications
witb a
certain cir- they could be made to advantage.
for reniewals of patents under
of bringlag themn out at a Inter date,
view
cumstances, or wbietlber you wîll confine it
manufacttlring in the meantime wbat would
to the specific case witb wbicb you are unanswer the purpose and be fairly successful
dertaking to deal. A speclal cominittee may
to fromn a nionetary standpoint. The importafind that it would be more advantageous
tion of articles ln connection with forelgil
keep this particular case ln view, and to
The Govcase wbere patents is limlted to two years.
apply special legislation in every
la Council, bowever, bis po-%ver to exernor
you think tbe party merits a renewal of bis
tend that time, I arn lnclined to think pracpatent, witbout undertaklng to legisiate
tlcally indeflitely, altbougb It is not usugenerally. However, If my hion. friend rein Canof the ally adbered to, and I believe never
fers this to a special committee
objection be taken, to a longer period
ada, If
House, tbat question may be consldered,
than probably three, four, or possibly at
and tbe committee may report this Bill
longest five years. I bope that this Bill wlll,
nenrly In tbe formn in wblcb my bon. friend
I
tbe pub- as suggested, go to -a special comrnlttee.
bas it, or mny consider It safer In
some letters and telegrains from1
bave bad
lic interest to undertake to confine tbe Bill
lnterested parties who would desire to apto the particular case wblcb, upon the reprepear and give their views witb reference
sentation made to me, is a case of very great
sug- to this, and that would afford an opportunbardsbip, or flot. I would, therefore,
ity to tbe commîttee to get information, and
gest that tbe House allow tbe Bill to be
of stating
for 'a interested parties an opportunity
rend, and that my bon. friend ask
to the comniittee before tbe Bill
their case
special committee that may carefully con-ý cornes bach to the House.
sider the question, and tbey aay report,
tbe Bill is
(ait)-If
Ho., Mr W
besides the Bill, information upo the sub_
referred to a special committee. I will not
ject wblcb may be useful to us la guiding
it furtber bere. The matter can be
us lu legislating on matters relalgtosb oppose
threshed ont there mucli better than It could
jects of this kind.
committee of the whole. 1 would say,
Hon. Mr. JONES-Witb reference to the' be la
la reply to iuy bon. friend, wben
statemefit wbicb bas been made, that it is bowever,
be manu- bie says bie bas no recollection of any patents
necessary tbat an article sbould
voided lu Canada for flot being used,
factured wltbin a specific time to enable the being
Coinvery case we 1 will mention one, the Orford Copper
patent to be kept alive, the

[SENATE]
Hou Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELIL-Before
the House adjourns, iny attention bas been
called to a question that I put to the minister a short time ago, wlien we were discus'sing the question of the circuhars whicb
were issued by Mr. Coté, of the Public
Works Department. I tben asked this question :'Wbo is responsible for the issuing
of goverament eircuhars. Is Mr. Coté, tbe
assistant commissioner, wbo was formerly
private secretary of Mr. Tarte, the Minister
of Public Works, and wbo allowed bis
private and confidential letters to be stohen
and publisbed to thie world, tbe only responNo answer was given by
sible party ?'
eltbier of the ministers to that question, and
consequently it lias goine to tbe world as
If the questioni was affirmed by the non
reply of tbe Ministers. I bave been laformned silice that Mr. Coté wns not the
secretnry of Mr. Tarte at tae time the documnts to, wbicli I have referred were purloined, and I should be very sorry indeed
to bave an imputation rest upon the sboulders of any gentlemnan who Is not guilty,
Hon Mr. DANDUIIAND-I intend to more and I take this opportunity of maklng tbe
for a special commlttee when the seconid correction. I tbiuk it is offly due to Mr.
reading Is passed. I sbould like to draw. tbe Coté to make tbe explanation, as it is only
attention of tbe bon, gentleman from Kenne- wbat one ougbit to do if bie bas been led
bec division (Mr. Drummniod) to the fact that astray or was la error. I thiougbht Mr. Coté
tbis Bill only refers to cases wbere no manu- was secretary at tbe timie, but I am, glad
facture or sale of the article bias takeii to kaow tbat sucbi is flot tbe case.
place, wbicb in fact has not been put on the~
market. So, if the lion. gentleman tIhouiglit
Hoýn. Mr. M-\ILLS-Thlit question was not
that tbis Bill sbould go furtber lie coulci put across the floor of the House to my colmore in committee an amendmient to that league or miyseîf. It was merely a stateefiect. I bave flot gone so far as to men- ment of fact which muy hon. friend made in
tion tbe case of patents ýwhicb bave not asking the questions.
brought aay profits to the patentee, or bave
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bad but a short period of existence on the
market of Canada. I simply wanted to bon. minister is partially right and partially
cover tbe case wbiere no manufacture at wrong. We were discussing the question
ail of the article bas takea place durinig the of the placing of the word ' confidential'
upon the circular. The Secretary of State,
terni.
Hou Mr. DANDURAND moved tbat the lu reply to somle renrls w'bicb 1 bad made,
Bill be referred to a special comnmittee con- and wlicli the hou. geatlemaîî froml St. Boniisistiîîg of Mr. W'ood (Hamiltoni), Mr. Jones. fiice bad made, said the 'Minister of AgriculMr. Baker, Mr. Feiguson, MmIl.Lougheed. ture coudemued the use of the w,%ord 'coniMr. Druinond and the mover, to examine fidential.' H1e said bie lîad no idea it was on
the circular. I tlien put the nuestion 'whio
and report iiol b.
respomîsible ? Is such and such a mnan
-ws areedto.is
The otin
2' a'nd no answer Tvas givefi. 1
nmed o.responsible
Th -a mtin
take tbis oportunity of doing justice to Mr.
THE CENSUS.
Coté.
Hoiu Mr~. MILLS imnoved that the House do
The Seniate adjourued.
now adjourni.

pany. They got a patent seine years ago for
the purpose of refining nickel and copper in
Canada, and never used it. The patent
lapsed, and they came to parliament last
year for the purpose of getting it renewed,
and, of course, it could flot be renewed, Iu
consequence of the patent having lapsed.
However, as the bon, gentleman bas consented to let the Bill go to a specini committee, I ;slahl say nothing further on tbe matter.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
tlhere not a provision of tbe law witb regard
to foreiga patents, if tbe manufacture is flot
carried on wvitbiu the time mentloned in tbe
haw, any one else cau go on and manufacture It, and tbere cau be no prosecution for
It ?
Hou. Mr. JONES-Unless the thne bas
been extended by the government.
Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWý%ELL-I bop,ý
my bon. friend will nccept the sug-gestion
of the Minister of Justice.

Hon. Mr. WOOD.

[APRIL 25, 1901]
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, ThursdaV, April 25, 1901.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceeding-s.
THE EXPORT 0F, CHEESE.
INQUIRY.

THE 'MICMAC INDIANS.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The notice of inqulry being called:
By Han. Mr. Landry
Thst he wlll cali the attention of the geverument to the communication of Alex. Marchei, chief of the Micmac Indiana, sent ta the
members of the Senate and cf the House af
Commans;
And will Inquire If the complaints made agalnst
the Indian agent of the Indian reserve of Ste.
Anne de Restigauche have been Investlgated,
and if sa. what is the resuit of such an Investigation?,
If no investigation bas yet been held, la It
the Intention af the gavernment ta hald ane,
and when?
If fiat,
wby?

Hon. Mr. DRUMIMOND inquired:
Has the government any Information bearlng an the question of an alleged serions depreciation lu the quality of cheese exportedl af
late ta Great Brltaîn or ta farelgu cauntries?
Is there any truth in these allegatians, and
what steps, If any, Js the goverument dispased
lu such case ta take ta secure and sustain the
Hon. '.%r. MNILLS-I informed my lion.
high character of this product?
friend yesterday that a report had been
He said : In case it should be supposed
made by an officer of the department, and
that 1 wantonly asIc this question, I may
that the report was lu course af preparation.
say that a gentleman recentiy returned tram
I have flot received that report as yet, so If
England tald me that in conversation with a
my hou. friend wl] let his question stand, as
large cheesle dealer on the other side, the~
soon as the report is received I will give hlm
latter hiad stated that he would have ta give
the Information.
up dealing in Canadian cheese altogether.
The inquiry w-as allowed ta stand.
Whether it w-as because ai a general depreciation of qnality, or lmpertect standards,
THE OLIVER EQUIP-NENT.
I cannot say, but it was af sufficient moment,
I thought, ta warrant me lu asking if the
INQUIRY.
subject had attracted the notice of the govHou. 'Mr. LANDRY rose ta
ernment lu particular, and whether they
Call the attention of the gaverumeut te the
were fully aware of the vast importance oi faliowlug tacts :
On the 27th of March last, Capt. C. F. Winter,
the question.
Adj., the Governor General's Foot Guards, spake
Hon. Mr. MNILLS-There can be no doubt ta the officers af the Ottawa brigade upon some
observations from receut experiences ln South
of the Importance of the question. It Is ai Af r'ca and their application ta Canadian deThe lecturer was Intraduced by Major
the utmost consequence lu this country that fence.
the reputation of Canadian cheese sbould not General O'Grady-Haly, -commandIng the milItia,
whn preslded.
Among his observations are the
suifer by negligence in transportation, or faiIowlng: The Oliver equipment had nat f ound
tram any other cause.
The information
much favour among the men, and the waterthat I have received tram the department bottie which goes with It was strangly conis that agents of the Department af Agricul- demmed-the best proof af this being that the
regiment procured the army
ture in Great Britain and others ha.e r e- the very first oppartunity, andwater-bottle at
the indIvidual
some Canadian cheese had been men, whenever they cauld. got a 1'Tommy's "
ported that
set of straps ta replace their own. The main
delivered lu Great Brituin injured in quality objection ta the Oliver was the excessive pressby overheating in the curing rooms and ure an the back of the neck between the shaulders, which resulted when carrylng -the blanket,
during transit.
&c., on the hlps.
The handolier was the proper
The Commissioner af Agriculture bas way to carry ammunition au the person, but
by
brought the matter ta the attention af the it must always be covered are a flap, otherwtse
lost.
It was a
cartridges wark loase and
manutacturers at conventions, and through fact 'that in South Africa the men of the regular
regimnuts used ta say that they cauld always
the press. A special bulletin of directions
tell where the " Canadians " had been by the
for the improvement of curing rooms bas amount of loose amxnunitlan left behind. Haversacks wore out very qu!ckly on service, and
been prepared ; and arrangements are being
thase ai Royal Canadians after seven or eight
made with several steamshlp liues ta pro- mouths' service were a sight once seen ta revide refrigerator machinery and tans for member for ever.
'Boots were always a question of extreme lm-cooling- the places where the cleese arc part ta an Infantrymai, but it was net concarried by circulating co]d air through thema. duaive ta Osuadian pride ta fim4 the regulars'

[SEN ATE 1
ammunition boots superior and more lasting te
Too
those sent with the troeps from Canada.
mucli attention could flot be paid to this matter.'
Major Genieral O'Grady-Haly, ln suimlng Up
and moving a hearty vote of thanks to the lesturer, stated bie had Iistened tri the lecture
with the keenest interest, and hoped It w'oud
flot be the last time hie would hear Oapt. WinHe was aise la accord with the
ter. ...
lecturer about the Oliver equlpment-he was ln
wben this had been trled for tIse ImCanada
peril service and rejected at Halifax nome years
Too much stress could flot be laid upon
ago.
thse necessity ef glvlng men a geod waterbottie.' (Vide tIse Mllitary Gazette, April 16th,
1901.)
And will incire
Is it the intention of thse government te lnvestigate into tIse complaints brougbt forward
by Capt. Winter and to improve the general
equîpment of thse Canadian militia?
In thse n-e:antime. is it tbe Intention of tbe
governTaent to discontinue the distribution of
thse Oliver equlpment te the Canadian militia
and to substitute for It a more sultable one?
How do thse governxMent explain thse tact that
thse Oliver equlpment bas been selected for the
Canadian militia wben thse same equipment lias
been refused and rejected by tIse Imperlal authorities after a trial made la Canada, at Hallfax, some years ago?
Hon. 'Mr. MLILLS-I have receiveti froxn
the Department of M.\ilitia and Defence thse
follo,ç%ing reply to this inquiry:
1. Steps have beea taken te obtala the
independent testimoay of officers, aon-com)missioneti officers andi men who had experience of the equipment ln South Africa.
'2. No, as no doubt aay defects brougbt
te, liglit by the severe test of actual war
can be remetiieti.
3. The late administration on the 4th ef
July, 18963, passeti an order ia counceil, authoriziag the purchase of Dr. Oliver's patent for the infaatry equipment, for the sum
0f $5,000.
Befere flilly acceptlag this equipment,
special tests thereef were matie at the varlotis depots of the permancnt units, in 1807.
On the 9th of December, 1897, Major General Gascoigne, Comrnanding thse Canadian
Militia, matie a very elaberate report, lai
every case there is a
whicli lie stIys :In
Lt is comfortliighly fa .ourable report.
able to -wear, wvell balaaceti, serviceable,'
ant ihe recommentiet that it be adopteti for
the use of the millitia.
On the Gtli of August, 189S, aa order in
coniili wns passed authorizing the purchase of the equipmeat.
4. Tîsere is no record or evitience of this
p:irticular ecluipmnelit liaviag ever been refused or rejected by the Imperial autiioritics.
Hon. )Xt- T.ANDRY.

Hon.
r.LANDRY-That coatradicts thse
statemeat made by thse Major General.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Tbe whole question of the equipment of infantry bas been
rcvolutionized by the experience gaineti la
The Imperial forces useti
South Africa.
the Oliver equipmeat, anti they are now
consitierlng thse whole question of re-arrnging it, anti thse Oliver equipment bas
heen largely contiemaed by experienceti
Tise use of thse helm-et-that is no
mn.
part ef ut, of course-is being abandoneti
Tise use of the poucb
for a sof t f elt bat.
is being abandoneti for the use of the bandolier, and even that is net supposeti to be
sufficient, because infantry and meunteti lnfantry must carry 150 rouands of ammunition hereafter. The whole subjeet ls being
consitiereti aow by the Imperial authorities.
when thse Oliver equlpAt the sanie tie,
ment was obtained for Canada, 1 arn sure
lt was considered thse best available, but
that It will now be discardeti is almost a
matter of certalnty.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wisls te cali thse
attention of tbe hon. Minister of Justice te
tbis part of tise lecture, te wblch I refer in
my inqulry :
Major General O'Grady-Haly, ln suzmtng UP
and saoving a Isearty vote ef thaaks to thse
leoturer stated hie bad llstened te the lecture
wltIs thse keenest lnterest, and Isoped it would
net be thse last time bie would hear CapYt. Winter. . . . He was aise la accord wlth tIse
lecturer about thse Oliver equlpment-he was la
Canada wbenthis Isad Iseen trted for the Imperial
service and rejected at Halifax some years ago.
Referriag te what my hon. frienti (Mr.
Drummnsod) bas stateti, that the belmet bas
been condemued anti replaced by the f elt
liat, I suppose that applies oully te South
Africa.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMnOND-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-Because we received an order a short tiune ago, asking us the
number of men anti the sizes of their heatis,
so that they miight be fitteti with new helmets.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMiýOND-i saw the report
on that quite reccntly. Thse mna using- the
heinuet said they coulti net shoot with it,
anti w'luen they liati te shoot they hati te
tura tise front to the back, in erder te sec
the sights of tlîeir rifles. It is sure te he
condemnueti.

[APRIL 25, 1901]
THIIRD READINGS.

plaint, and I presumne every other hon, gen-

tleman has a reasouable grouud of complaint, that the promoters of Bils do flot;
ask any senatar ta take charge ai themn In
this Chamber. I moved the second readlng
because I heard the names Vancouver and
Lulu Island mentioued, and I thought I
would advance It a stage. I do flot know
much about the Bill, but I know enough
about the geography of the country ta anMARKING AND INSPECTION 0F FRUIT
swer the hon. gentleman's question. VanPACKAGES BILL.
couver city is fourteen or fiteen miles disORDER 0F THE DAY DIScHARGED.
tant from Lulu Island, which Is sltuated
The Order of the Day bein.- called :
at the mouth of the Fraser, which enters
Oommittee of the Whoie House on (Bill 32) the ocean through severul branches. Thle
An Act ta provîde for the Marking and Inspec- isiand is separated only by a narrow brancb
tion of Packages containing Fruit for Sale.- 0f the Fraser river that forms the northern
Hon. Mr. Mills.
boundary, sa that It is quite an easy matter
Hon. -Mr. MILLS said : I may say to DIY
ta bridge it and it wlll not interrupt or lnhon. f riend from Marshfield, that 1 have not
terfere witb the navig-ability of the Fraser.
had an opportunity of fully discussing this
Bill wlth the M'%inister of Agriculture sînce
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I am
the hon. gentleman put a number of suggest- quite satisfied wîth the explanation.
ed aniendments in my baud. I have flot had
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
time ta go over the amendmeuts with the
was read the second tIme.
hon. Minister of Agriculture, but he does
flot quite agree wlth the views of my hon.
frlend opposite, aud so I move that this SAFETY 0F SHIPS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
Order af the Day be discharged and placed
on the Orders for Monday.
In the meanREPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
tIme I will dlscuss the matter more f ully
The House resolved Itself Into a Comwith my colleague and the Department af
Agriculture.
mittee of the Whole on Bill (92) 'An Act ta
further amend the Act respecting the Safety
The motion was agreed ta.
Bill (B) «'An Act for the relief of. Lillas
Middleton.'-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (115) 'An Act to amend the General
Inspection Act.'-(Hou. Mr. Mills.)
Bill (93) 'An Act respecting Inquiries and
Investigations iuta Shipping Casualties.'(Hon. Mr. Milîs.)

of Ships.'

SECOND RIEADING.

(Iu the Committee.)
Bill (41) 'An Act respecting the SaskatHon. Mr. MILLS-We adjourned the dischewan aud Western 'Railway Company.'cussion on thîs Bill on the last occasion for
(Hon. *Mr. Landerkin.)
the purpose of consldering the proprlety of
VANCOUVER AND LULU ISLAND RAIL- maklng the provision 0f the law more clear
WAY BILL.
relatlng ta cattle being carrîed as a portion
of the deck-load of a ship, and with that
SECOND READING.
abject I propose ta strike out on line 18 the
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the second followIng words:
reading of Bill (No. 52) 'An Act respecting
deck or la
Any unoovered place
the Vancouver and Lulu Island Railwny any covered space not on the upper the cubical
lncluded ln
contents for the registered tonnage af such
Company.'
ships.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Will
the hon. gentleman kindly tell us how they And ta insert the following words
expect ta get from Vancouver to Lulu Is- Any space where the deck-Ioad of such ship
la not closed ln, any cargo of any description
land ? Will they bridge the Fraser ?
ta, a helght not exceediug three feet above the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I moved the deck or upon any uncovered space upon the
upper
lu auy covered space
second reading of thîs Bill the otiier day. cluded deck, orcubical contents forming flot lnthe relu the
1 thlnk I have a reaýsonable ground of corn- g'latered tonnage of such shlp.

[SENATEJ
That forms part off the main section. Then
1 propose to leave subclause (a) as it iS inl
the Bill, for those are the exemptions to
that provision, and 1 will leave subelause
(b) as it stands, but 1 strike out subclause
(c) altogether, and subclause (b) will then
be subclause (c).
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I presume Uine 31 of subclause (b) will go out, because It 15 a repetition?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, because lt relates
te a different matter. The latter part off
the clause reads as fellows:
Provided always that If the master of any such
shlp considers that il is necessary, la cansequence of the springing of a leak, or of cother
damage received or appreheaded during the voyage, he may place and keep on any space on
the upper deck, covered or uncovered, not lncluded in the cuhical cont'sats forming the ship's
reglstered tonnage, any wood goods forming
the
part of the cargo of such ship, and permIt consalxe te renuun5 there for such time as he
siders expedient.

hon.
There is no change in that. «MNy friend
from New Brunswick suggested that the
word 1wood' should be struck out. I think
the Intention off the framers e! the Bill la
that this clause should be applied to wood
goods.
Hon. 'Mr. McCALLUI%-I think the word
It is necesleak' should be struck eut.
sary that every ship should carry spars
In case of
where they can g-et at them.
getting dismasted they should bave enough
spars te erect a jury mnst to carry the
vessel into a saf e harbour, and the ship
should carry enough bonts te take the crew
ashere witliout having te make a raf t. 1
do net see wby he should anticipate that
the vessel is geing to spring a leak, and if
It spring-s a leak what use are the spars
geing to be ? Are you going te float the
crew ashore on the spars ? It mig-bt be
necessary te re-spar the vessel, and they
should see that the vessel is in geed order
in every respect and be compelled toecarry
boats enoug-h te save the crew la case of
accidents. That is my view, and that is al
1 wish te say about the matter.

te place live stock on the deck fer the safety
ef the ship. I do flot wish te press the
matter If the department have any objection te it, but I really think the words are
unnecessary.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It weuld really
seem that in such a case the captain should
have a very wide discretion.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-It is net in our Act, but
since the committee met before, I have read
the Britisli Merchant's Shipping Act, and
it is flot in that Act. The captains under
that Act have full power.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-We will strike eut the
word 'wood' and make it read 'any geods.'
The clause as amended was adopted.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I may be permitted te make an explanatien before the cemmittee rises. In one off the earliest stages ef
this Bill I made some remark about a previeus errer that hail been made in dealing
wîth this question, and 1 located that errer
lu the statute e! 1900. It was net in the
legisiatien off 1900, but in the legisiation off
1899 that the errer was committed which
removed ail these restrictions with reference
te vessels leaving Canadian ports, and the
Bill off last year remedied the blunder
whichi had been made in 1899.
LOUGHIEED, frem the commitHion. M.Nr.
tee, reperted the Bill withi certain amendments, which wverc concurred in.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (50) 'An Act te Incorperate the Canadian Mutual Aid Society.'-.Uof. Mr. Casgrain, Windsor.)
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Fridaii, April 26, 1901.
1The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thrce
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

Hon. Mr. WOOD (W1ýestmoreland)-Under CHIEF JUSTICE 0F THE NORTH-WEST
TERRITORIES.
the Act upon the statute-boek, hitherto the
INQUIRY.
ship
master off tHe ship has power where the
bas sprung a leak or received damage. and
Hon. 'Mr. PERLEY inquired:
If ln pursuance o! the Act off Parliamenit passhe considered it necessary, te place any
goods on the deck ; it might be necessary ed last session. providing for the appolatmsflt
Hon. hIr. MILLS.

[APRIL 26, 1901]
Has the government been In.tormed et those
of a chiot justice for the North-west Territories,
and have ithe necessary
whon ft ta the Intention of the government ta suggestions, ta ensure, ln this direction measures
et least,
been taken
make rtbe appoIntment?
greater safety of navigation on the St. L.awHon. Mr. MILLS-Tlie Bill rehating ta the ronce?
Io It -the Intention of the government ta insalary of the Chief Justicç of the North- quiro lnto the cause of the accident suffered
west Territories, and some ef the judges by #the Ashanti and ta remove the inconvenionces pointeid ont, ln adopyting the suggestions
that It was proposed ta appoint in tbe pro- made by the exportera as above stated, or any
vince of Quebec, and alsa ini the Yukon other measure which would help toaovodd the
recurrence
country, was not carried tlirougli this Chiam- Ashanti lias of sueli accidents ae the one the
met with?

ber-it did flot become law, and so no appointment of the Chief Justice couid be
mnade until sudh time as a salary suitable
te, the office is provided. A measure is now
before the House of Commans for the purpose. If that -measure becames law, one or
the present judges, ln ail probability, will
be made Chief Justice of the North-west
Territorles.
EMPLOYMENT

0F EX-SENATOR BUItPElE.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂN]YRY inquired:
1. At 'what date was Mr. Charles Burpee. exsonator, appoiflted to a position on the staff
of the Paris exhibition?
2. At what date did bis services end?
3. What was the tetal sulms paid ta hlm. for
udh services, inýIudIng travelling and living
expensos?

Hon. Mr. MILLS-In reply ta the fIrst
question, the answer is, yes.
To the second, yes, It has been suggested
that fog signais sliould be so placeil.
To the third, yes, the suggestions are being
investigated, and tbe resuits wlill be stated
when the supplementary estixnates are
brought down.
As ta the fourtb, If an inquiry is asked for
by any of the parties Interested or If the
tacts aeem ln the publie interest to requIre
It an Investigation will be beld, but up ta the
present tizne no demand lias been made nor
do the facts of the loss as disclosed s0 far
seem ln the public Interest ta requIre an
Investigation. It bas flot been even stated
-inucli less proved that the accident ta the
Ashanti was caused by any defect ln exlstIng aide ta navigation.

4. Ia there any f urther sums due him? If so,
how mnuaI?
THIRD RDADING.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. friend beside
BiIh (29) 'An Act toa mend the Dominion
answered this question
me (Hon. Mr. Scatt)
yesterday. Mr. Burpee was appointed the Lands Act.'--(Hon. 31r. Mille.)
18tb of July, 1900. In answer ta the second
question, February 28, 1901. The nnswer ta SÂFETY 0F SHIPS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
tbe third question ls, $2,263.49. The answer
THIRD READING.
ta the fourtb question ls, noa.

Han. Mr. MILLS maved the third reading
SÂFETY 0F NAVIGATION ON THE ST.
of Bill <92) 'An Act furtlier ta amend the
LAWRENCE.
Act respecting the Safety of Ships,' as
INQUIRY.
nmended.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
Hon. Mr. MeCALLUM%-I do nat rise with
Has the government been Informned that the the abject of oppasing this measure, but this
steamer Ashanti. of the Elder-Dempater lino, Bill says what the master of n slip shall
whtdh sa.iled on the 7th of April from Newcastle
with a cargo of coai for Quebec, lias run agrauud not do, and what be may do. We ail know
during a starm ln -the night of the 20th aud that the master of a slip must be -a good
21st Instant, on rocks near RIvière Blanche, seaman. He must 'le a navigator, and he
&bout Ïhlaf-way between Matano and Metis?
Was it p)raved at the investigation made by is responsible for the ship, the cargo, the
the exportersand undorvilitors on the necessary safety of ail on board ; and we tell him
improvements -to be made o the St. Lawrence
route tram. Montroal ta the Gulf, that -the smal liere that If his vessel lealis, lie can put some
buay a hIttle qabave Matane was useless and had of bis cargo on deck. Tbe dutyi as
ta be replaced by an automnatic gas buoy with
a whletie; that, mareover. t lias boen ouggested I understand it, of the master of a
that tog signais ehouid be piaced at the light- vessel wben lie finds bis vessel ls
bouses at Fame Point, Cape Chat, Matane and leaking, is to try his pumps, and see
Father Point?

[SENATE

I

If tley wvill overcome tbe leak. If tbey do, .1ers and cargo, absoiutely as lie thinks 15
If lie does anYthing imitl s ail clear sailing. If tbey do not, I amb est and riglit, and
to an investigatlie cargo ouI of tle hld, and Piroper, lie can be sulijected
sure taking
ion, or trial, when lie gets to land ; but lie
putting il on deck, is flot going to lielp liim. t
ail lie surveys while lie is aI
F)ancy a-vessel w-itb its hld hlf fuîl of i s monarcli of
ea. There 15no0 divlded responslbllity. Thie
ivater, and tlie cargo on deck. Wliat is tlie s
I say tle ' ýassing of a law, teling hlm wliat to do
resuit ? It w-I tumble over.
Is practically nonsense, and
master sliould bave full liberty. You tell vith the cargo,
about
do, and wliat lie sliall it only indicates a want of knowledge
hlm bere whlaI lie mnay
lie incidents of navigation to place sucli a
not do. Supposing lie gels aground, yofl t
aw on the statute-book.
do nol say wliat lie shaîl do la, tliat case. 1
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-I think if I wvere to go0
Is lie 10 throw some of thie cargo overboard
t0 save tlie balance ? If lie understands bis ato a discussion of the iaw, 1 miglit fasten
duty lie should save w-bat lie could, because ou tlie lion. gentleman that want of knowlwhlatever lie saves is for tlie benefit of al edge whIci lie describes as existing ln my
concerned. You anticipate a leak la the colleague and myseif. If lie w-i look at tlie
vessel, and tben, la order 10 lielp tînt ieak, revised statutes, lie wili see tliat it Is part of
you make the master put the cargo on deck, glbe law, and lias been part of tbe law of
and the moment lie does that, lie increases Canada for over tlilrty years.
lis danger. It would lie mucli better to liold
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-Tbefl wby do you
him responsible. If lie is responsible, w-bat want tbis legisiation ?
is tlie resuit ? If lie makes a mistake be
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tlie lion, gentleman says
loses bis cerlificate, wlicl is a very importto blm, and If lie lias passengers, it tlie oflicer is monarcli of ail lie surveys when
ant tliing
tlie
la almost a crime if le mismanages la Iliat lis slip is at sea.- If lie is, It Is because
lie lias 10 suifer. Tlierefore, law lias made lim so. We are ameadlag the
case. See w-bat
lie ouglit 10 bave discretion tlirougliout, lie- law, and tlie amendments, apart from tliis
cause lie is beld responsibie. in Ibis Bill provision, miglit enabie tlie party la cliarge
you tell blm w-bat lie shali not do and w-liaI of a vessel to say I miglit have saved the
lie may do. You instruct him, as mudli as slip, If I were at liberty to exercise a certo say :' Oh, take tlie cargo out of thie liold, tain discretion, but tlie law as it stands lias
a&nd put it on deck, if your pumps do not been amended, and the effect of Iliat amendsulidue tlie w-aîer.' If thie pumps sulidue the ment is to take away tbat discretion from
w-nter lie does not require 10 shift bis cargo me.' To remove ail doubt in Ibis matterat ail, and If tliey do nol, you advise him. to to Inake it perfectly clear that tliat discretion
.take the cargo out of tle hold and put it lias not been taken away, tliis provision was
on deck. A blast 0f w-lad or a roliing sea Inserted lu the statutes at a very eariy period
w-ouid tben tumbie ber over, and you lose la tbe bistory of Ibis country. It w-as reahl. We are very wise. We think te Instruct enacted and revlsed wlien tbe consolidated
mariners bow tliey sliall manage tbeir slips. statutes w-ere prepared la 1886. It lias been
1 do not presumne t0 know auytliing about coatinued down 10 tlie present lime, and tle
il, but I bave seen enougl and gone througli alterations w-e have made ln the sections
enougli 10 know tle efiect tbat tbis w-lit preceding Ibis miglit bave the effect of limitbave, and tlerefore I do nol approve of Ibis ing tlie autbority of the commander of the
Bill. I leave tlie responsibility witl iliose vessel If it were not for Iis provision. Now,
wbo introduced tle Bill, tle g-overament of wliat does tbe proviso say ?
Provided always, thlat if the master of any
the country.
sucli ship considers iliat it la necessary, la conHon. 1Mr. PROWSE-It appears to me tînt sequence of the springlng of a leak, or of ollier
damnage received or apprehended dur'ing thie voythe clause witb whlicb tle lion. gentleman age, lie may place andS keep on any space on
finds faulî is a very barmiless one, and I w-as 'the upper deck, coverecl or uncovered, not lacontents forming thie aliip's
nîmost golng t0 say a very silly one. If I cluded ln the cubical any wood gooda, &c.
registered tonnage,
understand the duty of a sbipmaster il is
Now, tbat is 10 make it perfectly clear
Iliat, once Ilial vessel goes 10 sea, lie is the
that be lias tbis discretion, and may lake
absolute commander, and laites sudh action
that bis judg-ment sug«
and sudh course w-itb bis crew and passeti- the necessary steps
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM.

[APRIL 26, 1901]
gests as a precaution against difficulty or
danger, and in doing so the law is making
a necessary and proper provision. My bon.
friend from Monck (Hon. Mr. McCalluni),
wbo has discussed this question, knows a
great deal more about the salling of vessels
than I do. I do nlot pretend to have any
knowledge of the subject, but I do say that
the re-enactmnent of this provision ls necessary to leave no room for doubt on the mInd
of tbe commander of the vessel that he bas
this discretionary power to save the goods
and save the slip.

275

le was -not allowed to present to the commlttee. This is flot a case In whlcb be could
say he was nlot allowed to present bis vlews.
The commlttee dld nlot consîder It necessary
te hear counsel on eltber side. Tbey were
perfectly able to slft ont the evidence and
adinadicate wlth regard to It tbemnselves wltbout havlng any counsel to state their vlews
upon It. Wlth regard to the cîrcular whlcb
bas, I nnderstand, been sent to the members
of thls House and commlttee, I may say
tbe majority of the statements In tbat circular are wlthout foundation.

Tbe motion was agreed to, and tbe Bill
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-I thlnk It la rather
was read the third time and passed.
premature for the chaîrman of the committee to make sncb a proposition to-day. It
McDONALD DIVORCE BILL.
can scarcely be expected tbat members of
this House can ferme a judgment wltbout
REPORT POSTPONED.
bavîng the evîdence, and It is Impossible
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER moved the for most senators to have read tbe evidence
ndoption of the Ninth Report of the Standing which was only clrcnlated this mornlng.
Committee on Divorce lu re McDonald relief As I have l>een on committee ail mornlng,
Bill, tog-ether with the evidence. He said: It: was Impossible for me, and I dare say for
The committee took a great deal of trouble many others, to have read any portion of
tqud spent a great deal of time lu the In- that evidence. I suggest that the Order of
vestigation of this case, not that they fromn the Day be discbarged and tbat it be made
the very beglInning, saw mucli renson to an order for some day next week.
doubt that the party applying was entitled
Hon. Mr. KIRCHIHOFFER-I have no obto divorce, but from the fact that the counsel for the respondent put in a statement jection to let it stand untîl Monday. I bave
that she lad a good defence on the merits, read the evidence myseif, and 1 supposed
and the comrnittee were willlng that she every other member lad an opportunlty of
sbould have full opportunity to defend the reading It.
case. When the application was made to
The motion was agreed to and the Order
the commlttee to order a sure of money to was postponed until Monday next.
be pald to bring witnesses, to establish what
ehe contended she could prove, they made
SECOND READINGS.
tbat order, and she was given every facllity
to present the case la the fullest way. The
Bill (61) 'An Act respecting W. C. Edcommittee was entirely unanimous on the wards & Company,
Limited.'--(Hon. Mr.
fanding, and several members, among tbem
McCahlum.)
Mr. Baker, wbo is a skllled criminal lawBill (70) 'An Act respectlng the E. B. Eddy
yer, stated that It was one of the worst
cases tley hiad ever seen, and oue in whilh Company.'-(Hlon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
no credence could be placed In the evidence
Bill (79) ' An Act respectlng the Lindsay,
that was brouglit in by the respondent. The Bobcaygeoii
and Pontypool Rallway Comevidence, wbicb bas been very voluminous,
pany.'--<Hon. Mr. Dobson, In the absence of
ls prlnted, and bas been submitted to every
lIon. Mr. McHugb.)
senator, and no doubt bas been perused by
Bill (75) 'An Act respectlng the Canadian
a great many of tbem ; and I amn satisfied
tbat tbey will entirely concur in the finding Northern Railway Company.'--<Hon. Mr.
of the commlttee. I make these remarks Kircîboff er.)
because there bas been circulated by the
Bill (84) 'An Act respectlng the Alberta
solicitor for the respondent a synopsis of Railway and Coal Company.'--(Hon. Mr.
wlat he calis bis argument whicl he stated Lougheed.)
18ý

[SENATE]

2 i6

Bill (85) 'An Act to incorporate the Alberta
Central Railway Company.'-(HOfl. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (90) ' An Act respecting the Dominion
Burglary Guarantee Company, Llmited.'(Hon. Sir Alphoise Pelletier, in the absence
of Hon. Mr. Danduraxid.)
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.

ment Bill on the order paper for to-morrow
instead of Thursday.
Hion. Mfr. MILLS-Bill 82 is put on the
Order paper for to-morrow. I might say,
with regard to the Excbequer Court Bill,
that I amrn ot disposed to press the measure
If tbe sentiment of the House is agaiflst it.
1 think the Bill is ln the right direction. If
any bon. gentleman had had the experience
I have had, as Minister of 'Justice, they
wouid see that that is the case. I do flot
tbink the Bill, as we propose to maire it,
wouid take awny any substantiai rights that
a subjeet ougbt to have.

Ottawa, Monday, Apiil 29, 1901.

Hon. Mr. MILLER-It takes away a very
Tbe SPEAKER took tbe Chair at Tbree substantial right.
o'ciock.
Hon. Mr. bIILLS-We have this experince:
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ive bave any number of suits brought agaiust
the government by Impecunious parties,
SUPRE«.NE AND EXCHEQUER COURTS making dlaims for ail sorts of things. In
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
some cases tbey bave falien on a bridge
belonging to tbe administration.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Tbe Order of the Day being called :
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Is flot a private citizen
Second reading (Bill L) An Act to amend subject to the sanie thing ? He may have
Chapter Sixteen of the Statutes of 1887. inti- any number of suits brougbt against him by
tuied :An Act ta amend the Supremne and
Exchequer Court Act,' and ta make better Impecunlous people, and tbere is no redress.
provision for the Trial o! Claimns against the
Crown.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Parties are not likeiy
ln
think in the to bring suits against private Individuals
Hon Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I
the sanie way as tbey do against the adabsence of the leader of the opposition, who
ministration. That is very certain. It seenis
las taken a great interest ln this Bill, it
to me we can have a discussion on the Bill
'would be well to postpone the second readwhen it cornes up on Thursday. If the sentiing.
ment expressed by my bon. friend la tbat
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I bave no objection to entertained by any considerable number of
members in the Senate, I amrn ot disposed
postpone the order until Thursday next.
to press the Bill tbis session, but I bave no
Hon. Mr. IMILLER-Tbe Bill is a very doubt in my mind that the Bil goes quite
Important one. It is a public Bill, and If there as far as -we ought to go, and certainly as
ls any objection to it at ail, it must be on far as tbey go in Engiand. We bave one
the principie. For my own part, I think the great institution-the Intercolonial Railway,
principie is very unsound, and I arn entireiy that ls under government management, and
opposed to the measure. The fate of the we bave retained, by this Bill, the liability
Bill sbould depend on the second readinlg, of the government in tbat particular case.
and, as the House Is not full to-day, I tbink
Hon. MNr. fLOUGHEFED-Only witb regard
It would be better to let it be postponed until
we bave a fulier House. If we give the Bill to passengers travelling on it.
!a second reading, *we cannot dispute tbe
Hon. Mr. MILLS-And with regard to
principle in the Committee of the Wboie, persons empioyed on public works, we bave
because it is a public Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Might I siigest vate contracts, but beyond tbat we do not go.
to the bon. gentleman, as there Is only one
The order was discharged and fixed for
order on the paper for to-morrow, that be
place the Exchequer Court Aniend- Thursday next.
might

[APRIL 30, 1901]

277

INSPECTION 0F, PACKAGES CONTAIN- bers of parliament recelve ail the other pub.
lications, so far as 1 am aware, yet they do
ING FRUIT FOR SALE BILL.
not receive this one. It is very desirable
ORDER POSPONED.
t4 bat, If publications of this kind are for
The Order of the Day being called:
public use, the members sliould receive
Commlttee of the Whole House on Bill (32) themi.
An Act to provide for the Marking and InHon. Mr. MILLS-I shaîl make lnquiry
spection of Packages contalning Fruit for Sale.
-(Hon. Mr. Mills.)
with regard to the matter, and give the hion.
There Is a
Hon. Mr. ?.IIS-I move that this order gentleman the Information.
be discharged, and that It be made an order paper called the Labour Gazette, I belleve,
for to-morrow. I asked for a report from published under the auspices of the Labour
the Minister of Agriculture, and it was hand- Departaient. I do not know whether It is
ed me just as I was leaving the office for lntended for circulation among members or
the House. I trust 1 shall bave an oppor- not, or mierely for circulation among labourtunity of reading it over to-niglit. and be Ing men.
prepared to take Up the Bill to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I saw a circular
The motion wvas agreed to, and the Order some time ago that those wishing to have
the Gazette mlght, on application to the
of the Day was postponed until to-morrow.
departmnent, have It. I do not see why any
SECOND READINGS.
distinction should be made between this pubBill (50) 'An Act to incorporate the Cana- lication and other departmental papers and
dian Mutual Aid Society.'-(Hon. Mr. Cas- reports.
grain, Wý%indsor.)
Hon. Mr. MLLLS-I suppose it is published
Bill (107) 'Au Act to confer on the Coin- ln the Interest of the worklng classes, and
missioner of Patents certain powers for the wlth a view to maintaining a certain relation between them and parliament, but I
relief of Johin AbeII.'-<ýHon. ',%r. Perley.)
understood that they were supposed to be
subscrlbers for ItL I do not know bow thiat
BILLS INTRODUCED.
is; 1 ehahl make Inquiries.
Bill (22) 'An Act respecting the Coluimbia
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understood It
Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
and Western Rallway
was for gratuitous distribufion.
Wood, Westmoreland.)
Bill (59) 'An Act to incorporate the SimllkHon. Mr. FERGUSON-It Is an officiai
ameen and Karemeos Railway Company.'- document and should be furnished to mem(Hon. '-%r. Templeman.)
bers of parliament. It matters not what the
Bill (73) 'An Act to lncorporate tlie Van- terms to the general public are, this docucouver, Westminster and Yukon Railway ment issued from one o! the public departments of the country, should be supplled to
Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
Bill (S7) 'An Act to amalgamate the North- members o! parliament.
ern Pacifie and Manitoba Rallway Company,
The Senate adjourned.
the Winnipeg Transfer Railway Company
(Limited). the Portage and North-western
Raîlway Company and the Waskada and
THE SENATE.
North Eastern Railway Company under the
mime of the Northiern Pacific and 'Manitoba
Ottaiwa. Tuesday, April 30. 1901.
Railway Comupany.'-(Hon. '.%r. Kirchhoffer.)
The SPEAKER took tbe Chair nt Tbree
o'clock.
THE LABOUR GAZETTE.
PrayeÉs and routine proceedings.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before tbe House
BILL INTRODUCED.
adjourns. 1 slhould like to ask *the governBill (O) 'An Act to incorporate the Inment why is It that members of parlament
do not receive the Labour Gazette. 1 under- stitute of Chartered Accountants. Actuaries
stand it is a departmental publication. Mem- and Finance.'--(Hon. 'Ar. Lougheed.)

fSENAT El
INTERPRETATION ACT
BILL.

A.\ENDM-NENT

i

FIRST READING.
Hon. Mr. MILLS lutroduced Bill i(P
'Au Act to amend the Interpretation Act.'
He said : The amendment is a very brief
one. It has been found that the expression
county court' does flot include the district
court ln the northern portion of Ontario.
There are certain duties imposed upon the
Judo-es, and it is declared ln the Interpretation Act that county court judg-es are comA like
petefit tu discharge those duties.
declaration does flot embrace the district
court judg-es ini the northern portions of
Ontario, and so we provide that the expression ' county court,' ln Its application ln the
province of Ontario, Includes district courts.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Are
those district courts new courts being establshed by tbe Ontario government ?
Hon. Mr. M.%ILLS-AlI the newv courts are
called district courts. They have a wlder
jurlsdlction than the ordinary county court.

GOVERNM-NENT ASSAY OFFICES.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD rose to
Cail attention to the necesslty for the estab-

lishment off goverument

assay offices, one lIn

Victoria .and one ln Vancouver, B3ritish Columu-

wlll ask If the goverument lntend
bia ;sad
taklng steps at.an early date to accompllsh this
object ?
He said : lu calling attention to the imnportant subject of assaying the preclous
metals I propose to show briefly, as well as
the materials available will allow, the conditions prevailiag- in other countries. Australia may resemble our own country in niany
ways more than auy other, but the statistics at band from there are very lncomplete, so that I ýwill have to ailude to, the

United States to show what is beiag doue on
the continent a part of xvhich is under Our
Dominion. The goverumcnt and the country
should renlize by this time that the Dominion is a gold-producing couutry, and a producer of silver. copper. and lead ns w-eh, and
that the developrnent of this wealth shouild
be encouraged, and fostercd ns mucli as
possible, and steps should at once be takea

CRIMINAL CODE AMEND'MENT ACT.
to retain a portion-at lenst-of our owu
FIRST READING.
wealth lu our own country.
Nearly the whole gold yield of the Yukou,
Hon. Mr. MILLS introduced Bill (Q)
' An Act further to amend the Criminal and British Columibia tinds its wny to the
Code.' He said :This is a very short Bill, United States, iu corroboration of whicb 1
and is rendered necessary ln consequence of shahi quote from the report of the director
a decision of the court in the North-west of the United -States mint for 1899, as folTerrîtories with respect to animais that are lows.
branded. The courts have interpreted the
The assay office at Seattle was opened for the
statutes so ns not to regard an animal as recelpt of bullion lu Juhy, 1898, and up to June,
to the value off $6,550,659 was deastray that hns wandered away from the 1899, buihion.
posited.
herd to which It belongs, and nevertheless is
wlthin the limits o! the terrltory. By this The director goes on to say
The facility wlth which this office can be reachBill it is intended to gîve the protection
mluing districts of Alaska, and
which the people of that country have been ed from the great Territorics imsks it apparent
the North-west
seek-ing with respect to cattie. There Is also that It wlll prove to be one off the rnost ima clause added here with refereuce to the *portant offices lu the service off the mint.
sentence of persons imprisoned in jails ni
I amn not iu possession of a statement of
Manitoba, some of which are not suitabli ethe depos.its of Canadian gold at Seattle in
for the confinement of prisoners, and sc 1900, but arn credibly- iuformed thcy are
there is power given to the judge to commi t double th,,e 0f the previous year. Victoria
the party for imprisoument to a jail that i~ and Vancouver occupy a more favourable
sultable.
position for the reception of miners, traders,
Another provision is to give the judges
and gold than Seattle does. Steamers froin
certain amount of discretion lu seulncu
the north muake Victoria. or Vancouver first
parties not to be sent to penitentiary, to be before reachiug Seattle. We eau therefore
confined for a short period of time in a jai loo0k contideuthy for a resuit iu our own
that the sanitary condition rnny be suitable country simihlar to thiat at Seattie, if proper

Tlie Bill was rend tbe first time.

steps are takeni without delay to establish

[APRIL 30, 1901]
be of intereet to hon, gentlemen, as a higli
commercial mark to aimi at.
The production of gold in the United
States ln 1898 was $64,463,000 being less than
that of Australia by $400,000 and of silver
$70,484,000. The deposits in mints and assay
offices frorn ail quarters for 1899 were $221,The gold coir'age for 1899 was
184,530.
$108.170.180 ; the silver coinage wvas $27,.
721,586. The stock of gold ln the treasury
$48.800,000
and bnnks was .$945,800,00; thue stock of
Tbese figures may be taken as fairly ac- silver was $5M5,845,719.
Hon, gentlemen will notice the enormous
curate, if anytblng they are under the mark.
volume of Coin and bulliou n ltat country
$2,593,928
Silver in 1898 ...........
It is not possible to accouat for the distri- south of us.
The earnlngs of mints and assay offices
bution of tbis wealtb. Mlners from ail parts
in the United States for 1899 was $6,017.849,
of the clvillzed world dIo, no doubt, carry
frorn w-hidi lias to be dcducted $1.500.000
large surns wlth tbem to tbeir bornes. Tbe
expenses. The production of
value of unrefined gold fromn the Yukon and for worklng
gold in the world for 1898 wns $2S7,450,000
British Columbia deposited la United States
is $50,000,000 greater than the prenuints and assay offices was $8.029,000 for which
Tbiree couutries, the United
vious year.
tbe year 1899, and silver to tbe value o!
States, Transvaal and Australia produce
$70.000.
Lt is Weil
amouat.
Fronu the other provinces o! Canada gold $200.000.000 of tlhat
known that the production of gold increases
to the value o! $970.044 was deposited. Teýh
production in forty
total stock o! gold la the Dominion for the each year. The smallest
years was $90,750,000 in 1860, and yet the
year 1898 was :
value of gold is as high to-day as it was
In 'the Dominion treasury ... $13.424.347
torty yenrs ago. 1 ar n ot golng to toucli on
In the banks---------------..9,000,000
the desirabllty or wisdom 0f bn1ving a mint
and do flot ieel competeat to -Ive a very
Total .... ...... $22,424,347
profound opinion, but I cau say this that
The stock of sIlver--------..$22,390,768
Canada cannot absorb mucli gold wltbout
I wlll now give the Information la rny disturbing our excellent baaking systemi.
possession wlth regard to Australia, wblch The amount of gold necessary to bie kept lu
canad:î under pre.-elit îîîunetary arraiîgewill, I arn sure, be o! interest:
ments is about $26,000,000 as security for
.. $64,860,800
Gold produced la 1898.. 15,543,200
Slver produced ..........
the note Issue. So thiat a surplus of coinage
The gold coinage was------..39,455.504
over that arnount would bave to bie disposed
The stock of coin aiid ballion la baaks and o! ln the'best miarket. If, tiierefore. It be
necessary to dispose of surplus gold, It eau
treasurles, la 1898, was $90,550,000.
These figures show that the gold produc- bie doue from tbe product of assay offices
tion Is very large, and the stock o! coin and more profitably than fromi the product of a
bullion as large compared with the popula- mint, as the cost o! coining would be avoidtion o! those colonies, lu fact tbese returas ed. Some steps should be takeu to stop the
m-ake Australia the second lax-gest gold-pro- drain of gold from our country, and I bope
ducing country la tbe world. Tbe Transvaal tbe government will be able to announce
being the larg-est producer la the world, la flint assay offices will be establishied as soon
1898. the output being $78.07S,000. making as possible. I regret tbat my statisties are
$14.000.000 more than the United *States or not so ample with regard to total yield. of
gold la Canada, but think w-e rnay falrly
Australin.
Tbe stock of gold la Great Britain la 1898 assume that tbe arnount I have given, $48,.
was $462,300,000, and silver ln stock $111.- 800,000, is under the mari..
It is not a question to bie liglitly passed
900,000.
Tbe figures relating- to currency la the over by the goverameuit. It deserves earnest
1 bave stated wvhat our
United States as our near neighbours niay consideration.
assay offices. Had this subiect received attention tliree years ago, w-e can say to ai
certainty, that millions o! dollars,. and
thousaads o! men w-ould have been kept in
the country. The value of gold and silver
produced in the Dominion is as follows:
Ia 1898..... ... .. .. .. $13.8.000
1899 .... .... .... .... 15,000,000
1900 .... .... .... .... 20,000,000

[SEN ATE]
friends to the south of us are doing and deposit their gold dust witli the goverament

and whose gold dust was converted into
coin. In England that always is made to
pay, and they pay the interest upon the
money that is paid out until the coulage
actually takes place. There the amount of
coining- done is very large and whether we
would have here ln Canada sucli an amouat
to the coun- of gold to convert into money as to make
is of course of vast importance
the office a self-supporting institution, ls a
try that wants a gold reserve.
matter requiring very careful consideration.
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-I supposed when my There Is also the further matter that was
hon. friend began lils speech that hie was aL discussed by the lion. senator from M-%ontreal
advocate of the establishiment of a mint ln some four years ago, the question as to the
Canada, but I infer froui the conclusion of effect of puttlng gold la circulation ia the
his speech that lie thinks the coinlng of gold country upon the circulation of the banks
la Canada miglit disturb our banklng sys- of the country. 1 do not appreliend, witli
tem, and tliat there would lie no substantial our present banking system, and witli the
gain to the country by the adoption of sucli security that that banklng system affords to
a course. I need flot enter Into a discussion depositors, and to the holders of bank notes,
on this subject. It was very lat.elligentir and the confidence the public have la it,
discussed la tis Huse some four or five that there would be any substantial gain la
years ago, by the lion. member from Mont- the colning of gold and the putting of that
real, wlio, as a gentleman connected with g-old into circulation. It would not add actuImportant lianiag institutions, lias given a ally to the convenience of the country or to
great deal 0f attention to the subject and is its wealth. What advantage we may gain
tlioroughbly familiar witi ItL The subject of from the establishiment of assay offices, and
establishing assay offices la Canada, and also from the establishiment of a mint are matters
establishing a mint is one that is engagIn.- requiring careful consideration.
Wliether
the attention of the goverameat at the pres- we lose anything by the gold being carried
ent time, and I have no doulit that before ont of the country is a question about which
parlameat meets again the goverament wIll there may lie a very great deal of discussion,
have arrived at a conclusion on the subject, ani upon whicli different opinions may be
and will lie prepared to sulimit their views entertalned. Hon, gentlemen know the orThere dinary view of political economists is, that
to parliameut at another session.
are, of course, widely differeat opinions up- gold is a merchantable article, the saine as
on the subject. It is, of course, very im- any other commodity, and if you part wlth it
portant that those wlio are eagaged lu for Its value, aud for something that Is more
mining g-old or silver should have somne op- conveaient or useful to you than the preclous
portunity of ascertaining the actuni value metal itself, that the wealth of the country
of the product la their possession. From a is flot la any way diminished thereby. I
properly organized assay office Mils informa- need flot enter into a discussion of the subtion could lie liad, and they could secure ject, but I miay say to my lion. frieud again,
adequate value for the gold dust in their that the matter is at this moment under
possession, but w-here that office should lie consideration, and will be, no doulit, dealt
establislied, wliether in the Yukon country, witli la a way satisfactory to the country
or la Britishi Columbia, or at some othier liefore the next session of parliament.
point, is a miatter deserving careful consideration. TIen, in addition to the question
THIE SNIDER RIFLE AND OLIVER
of the assay office, there is the question of
EQUIPMENT.
tue establishment of a nit in Canada. 1j

what they are doing in Seattle. In the wliole
of the United States there are about ten
assay offices wherever it is possible that
gold could corne into aay part of the country,
the government establishes an assay office.
There are assay offices in Seattle, Montana,
Peansylvania, and aIl those places, which

INQUIRY.
establishiment 0f a mnint lu Canada 1 underHon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the governstand will lie the establishiment of a work
that will cost a very cousiderable sum of meut:
1.Witrgmnsare actually armed wlth the
rnouey, but whatever flot cost may lie, of
oourse would lnrgely fail uponi those who Salder rifle ?
Hon. '.\r. MACDONALD (B.C.)

[APRIL 30, 1901]
2. What regiments are actually provlded with
the Oliver equipment.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-In reply to the first
question, thxe regiments armed are the 12th,
1Tth, l8th, 2Oth, 21st, 22nd, 28th, 3Oth, 3lst32nd, 33rd, 34th, 30tb, 4Oth, 42nd, 44th, 45fl,
47th, 49th, 5Oth, 52nd, 55Mb, 56th, 58th, 59th,
61st, 64th, 67th, 68th, O9th 7Srd, 74th, 75th,
7fth, 77th, 7Sth, 79th, 80th, 7ist 83rd, 85th,
86th, 87th, 88th, S9th, 912nd, 93rd, 94th. These
regiments are provided with the Lee-Enfleld
rifles for target practice during camps. ln
reply to the second question, wbat regiments
are provided witb the Oliver equipmellt, the
reply Is :the Governor General's Foot
Guards. Following regiments : lst, 2nd, Srd.
5th, 6tb, Tth, Sth, 9th, 1Oth, l3th, 14th, 15th.
l9th, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, 35th, 37th, 38th,
39th, 43rd, 46th, 48th, 53rd, 57th, 62nd, 63rd.
Rocky
65tb, 7lst, 82nd, S4th, 9Oth, 97tb.
Mountain Rangers, 3rd Battalion, Royal
Qanadian 'Regiment: of InfantrY, Permanent
Infantry, Permanent Garrison Artillery.
Following regilmeats o! artillerY : lot, 2nd,
4th, 5th, 6th, Cobourg Company, Charlottetown Engineers, bearer coinpanies, field hospitai companies.
THE TEMPERANCE COM31ISSION'S
REPORT.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY inquired:When wIll the Sessional Papers, Vol. XXVII.
Nos. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, French edition, be distributed to, the French members o! the Senate
and of the House of Commons ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No provision lias been
made for translating« those volumes intu
Frenchi.
Hon. M~r. LANDRY-When will the EngIlsh edition be distributed to the Frencb
members ? We bave not got It at aIl.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot know whetber
It is extant at ail now. This Is the report
of the commission appointed to inquire lnto
the liquor question in 1894. A contract was
made by the late goverument witb Mr. Montpetit to translate the report. After transiating the first v-olume, the uselessness of It
was recognized by the government, and he
was ordered to discontinue it. He was paid
$2,344.75 in August 1894. He had a dlaim
for a further amount, which, after the
change of government, was lnvestigated, and
lie was paid the balance of $589.10, or rather

It was paid to bis representatives. He, ln
the meantime, had died.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If the F'rench editicm
cannot be secured, there can be no objection
ýat ail that we should be ln possesion of
copies of tbe English edition itself.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If tbere are any ln exlatence, I do flot really know how they are,
whetber there Is a sufficient number of them.
Tbey were flot considered of v'ery great Interest at the time. I suppose tbey distrlbuted ail that were printed at the time. I
shall makze inquiries, however, whether
there are any.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The Frenchi members
of the Senate and House of Commons-I arn
speaking for myseif and a few otbersreceived nelther French nor English copies.
INDEBTEDNESS 0F THE PROVINCES.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY moved:
That an humble address be presented to Ris
Excelýlency the Governor General ; ipraylng that
Ris Excellency wili cause to be laid on the
Table of the Senate, not later than Wedneuday
the 8th o! May next, a Returu showing the
Indebtedness of the several provinces of Canada
separately at the time they entered confederation, and how much of said debt was assumed
by the federal parliament ;and also. as nearly
as possible, the debt of the several provinces
by bonds, guarantees, notes or otherwise Up to
the lst May next.
He said :This notice may be a lîttie out
of the ordinary way. I have been unfortunate ln prevlous sessions ln asking for Information which I neyer got. I thouglit this
was a matter wlich could be easily obtained
by the clerks in some of the departments.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I think there is no objection to my hon. friend getting the information which he seeks. I dare say.the Finance
Department w-i biave ail tbe Information
which the bon. gentleman asks for. Lt will
be brougbt under tbeir attention.
The motion was ag-reed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (99) 1An Act respecting -le Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada, and to change its name
to, le Crédit Hypothdca-ire du Ba-s-Canada.'
-(H-on. Mr. Landry.)
Bill (109) 1Au Act to Incorporate the Soverelgn Bank of Canada.'-(Hon. Mr. McMillan.)

[SENATE]

2~2

wisli to cati the attention of n'y hon. friend
to tihe question of cranberries. Whethier
cranberries are cultivated or wiid, rnany of
then' are so essentîaiiy the sanie, that even
an expert cannot discover any difference.
By the Bill as we have it bef ore us, the deaiers in wiid cranberries wouid flot be subFISHING BOU.NTIES IN PRINCE EDject to the law, whle the dealers in cultiISLAND.
WARD
vated cranberries wouid, and the question
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the Orders would arise as to what are wlid and what
of the Day are cailed, 1 wish to ask the 'en'- are cultivated cranberrles.
bers of the goveriment if they have the inHon. Mr. M-NILLS-There is no objection
formation 1 asked for sorne time ago, that
is, the namnes of the persons applying for and to rnaling it read that the expression shall
receiving fisbing bounties ln Queen's county, not inciude wild fruits nor cranberrieq,
Prince Edward Island. I inquired for it whetbier wiid or cultivated.
sorne two weels ugo. It contains oniy 123
The clause was adopted.
ninmes, aud I amn anxious to get it soon.
On clause 4,
Hou. Mr. MILLS-It has not been received
Hon. Mr. FELIGUSON-I had boped that
by either of us.
I ask the hon. il would be possible to add another section
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-May
gentlemn to cati the attention of the M.Nin- which wouid simply be the word 'Canada.'
Since, bowever, I have been discussing it
ister of Marine and Fisheries to it ?
witb others, 1 find that the people of Nova
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-Yes.
Scotia and their representatives wiii not
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-When inay I ex- ag-ree to that.
pect It ?
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-Tbey strongiy object to
Hon. Mr. NIILLS-1 shall bring it to the lt.
attention of the Departrnt of Marine and
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That being so, I
Fisheries. We are anxious that tbe return do not tbink tliere is any use adding ItL
shouid corne dowu and be in rny hon. friend's
Hon. Mr. MýILLS-M-\y bon. friend suggesthands as soon as possible.
ed the word 'Canada' and this is the auswer
I received in respect to that : In the British
SECOND READING.
f Jmesmarket, appies are known in trade under
'AnActfortherelef
genleral naines, American, Canadian
Bill (K) 'nAtfrterleofJmstbree
Stovei.'-(Hon. '.%r. Periey.)
and Nova Scotian. The fruit exporters from
the rnaritimne provinces represeut that the
MARKING AND INSPECTION 0F FRUIT putting of the word ' Canada' or ' Canadian'
PACKGES
ILL.on
the barreis contain.ing appies mîglit interf ere witb tbe trade andý prevent buyers, or
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself into Coinmittee intended buyers, froin linow.ing wbether the
of the Wbole on Bull (32) 'An Act to provide appies liaving the word 'Canada' printed on
for the M.Narling and Inspection of packages the barreis are %-bat are known in the trade
as ' Canadiani' or ' Nova Scotia,' and as tbey
containing fruit for sale.'
tbe departn'ent saw no practicai
he
(In
Cmmitee.)objected,
by adding the word and creating,
(In be
ornitte.)advantage
discontent arnongst the people on a question
On clause 3,
Hon. Mr'. FERGUSON-This is not of ver-v tha t had no practicai importance.
Hon. 31r. FERGUSON-1 wouid just say
,great importance, but I wisli to cati the attrntioni of the bon. gentleman who bas that I arn not sure w-hetlber il is niuch use
charge of this Bill to subsection (b), wbicb putting optionai' tbings iii the Bill, but if
says 'the expression shail not incelude wild 'we 'were to add a subsection. tbat it wouid
fruit.' The Bill is made to apply 10 fruit in be oioail to put either the wvord ' Canada'
Bill (124) 'An Act respecting the Western
Assurance Compaiiy.'-(Hon. '.\r. Lougbeed.)
Bill (125) 'An Act respecting the British
American Assurance Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.)

closed packages

but not to wihd

fruit.

1 or the naine of tbe province,

or botb,

it

[APRIL 30, 1901]18
c )rrespondence upon the subject of the
v arlous parties wbo were engaged ln the
purchase of Canadian apples ln the British
slands, and certainly the appies that have
sale, have been
been beretofore offered for
ery, very far below the standard fixed ln
v
to the worm-eaten
t:Lie Bill. Witb regard
pples, 10 per cent Is the proportion spoken
a
are sbipped there may
f.
O Wben those appies
ot be an apple In the barrel that Indicates
n
t bat it is affected witb worm at ail. There
aay be no0 scabs upon the apples wben tbey
are sbipped, and wben tbey reacb the United
On clause 6,
Z.Ingdom they rnay present a very different
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Whaf suggestion Lppearance, but if they are rnarked as A 1,
bas rny hon. friend to make witb regard to Lfd tbere is more than 10 per cent of wormy
a
tbis section 't 1 bave strong objections to Lpples among tbem, of course tbey would
clauses 6 and 7. They are not oblig-afory.a iot pass, but If there Is not more tban 10 per
They are simply permissive sections. It Is ent tbey would. The germ of the wormn may
optional %Yitli nny shipper of fruit to usee )e in these apples wben tbey are shlpped.
designations or the marklng of tbese two Irbey rnay be in no way perforated, and
My feeling y'et when tbey reacb tbeir destination and
sections just ns bie chooses.
about them is that tbey will db the Cana- are opened by the party engaged ln tbe sale
dian fruit business a great deal of harm, of this fruit to bis customers worms rnay
because tbe A 1 grade whicb ls described ln be developed. That is absolutely unavoidsection 6 sbouid be alrnost exbibition fruit able. I arn told tbat Is the experience 0f
witb sucb a rnarking as that upon It, anid tbose engaged ln the trade. and this provisf111 10 per cent of tbe apples migbf contain sion Is a provision tbat bas been suggested
worm-holes, braises, scabs or other defects. by 'tbe fruilt-growers association.
It is put
Mh'at section is not obiigatory.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is It
tbere for some purpose, educational I tbink,
if bas been claimed. 1 arn perfectly sure the growers of tbe fruit or tbe sblppersthat our rivais ln the United States and else- those wbo purchase and ship ? A man may
wbere wili use these sections against Cana- be a grower of fruit and stili bave no exdian fruit. Tbey wiil show that -wbat Is perience ln sblpping.
reaiy an extra A 1 Canadian apple might couHon. Mr. MILLS--I understand fiais Bill is
tain 10 per cent of worm or scabby apples. perfectly satisfacfory f0 botb.
In a barrel that contains ninety-six quarts
Hlon. Mr. ALLAN-Does tbe bon. gentleit would be sonewbere about ten quarts
you corne man mean f0 say that apples tbat are
of that icind of apples, and wben
to wbat was No. 1, and wbaf ougiat to re- shlpped bere perfectly clean, showiflg no
present the very best of commercial apples, signs of scab at ail, may develop scnbs afmnay contain no less than nineieen quarts terwards in the course of the voyage, and
out of the ninety-six of scabby, or wormy. tbat the appies rnay corne ouf of the barreis
or defective apples. I fbînk tbese two sec- on the otber sie, scabby '!Itmay be so, but
tions should be takzen out of the Bill alto- it is news to rne.
gether. They are only compromising, only
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I understand if is s0.
there for spectacular purposes, or sometbing
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not thinl. My
like thot, and I sulimit they will do barrn
good wbhatever. I do not hon. friend means what lie says. It is not
and cannot do any
care wbence the sug-gestion emanafed, 1 amn possible that this clause Menus tbaf tbese
firmly of the opinion tliat tbese sections wili shahl be standard appies -,vien they reacli
not do any good but may do a great deal of tbe other side, because. let nie tell bim, tbaf
If tbe apples are almost perfect when tbey
ha rm.
bere, and are shipped xvitb bad condiMILLS-Tbat is not tbe vlew of leave
Hon. M-Nr.
tions, as often bappens, they rnay be dethe departient, and I have before me the

miglit be useful. But this is an imperative
clause ail tiarougli, and perbaps It wouid do
v-ery littie good to insert an optional section.
Hion. Mr. MILLS-There bas been a great1
deal of dissatisfaction with respect to
Canadian fruit, and tbe provisions of tbis
Bihl were frarned witb speclal refereuce to
tbe views of the various fruit-growing associations,' and embodies tbeir experience,
and were practically sbaped by tbern.
The clause wns adopted.

[SENATE]
when the insect makes its escape from the
apple, and whether that is before the appies
are packied or flot depends a great deal upon
the character 0 f the autumfl. If it is hot,
and the appies mature very rapidly, my hou.
friend knows weli that there are mnany
appies which in England are winter apples,
that are fail apples here, and they are early
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yet my bon. falI appies liere If It happens to lie a very
frlend is providing for wlint may bappen on warm autumnu. The character of the fruit
shipboard. We kaow extraordlnary tbings largeIy depends on the temperature of the
may liappen on sliipboard. 1 have a ietter season, and that condition may lie intensibere from a large sliipper in Ontario. He fied by the appIes being put ln a warm place.
accompanied. a shipmnent of bis own of the Wbat the Minister of Agriculture lias been
very best apples tliat could lie put up lu alnxious to, do is to make proper arrangetbe province of Ontario. He took passage ments with the steamship companles that
on the slip blmseif. He had the tempera- trade between Canada and the United Kingture tested after he was four days out, and domn to provîde proper storage on vesseis,
found it was 110 degrees, and the apples wliere apples wiil flot reach a higli temperaarrived every one of themn slacl, and wet. ture.
and tbey scarcely paid tbe freiglit wheu
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-That is the most
tbey were soid. We are not providing bere Important of ail.
for wbat may happen on shlplioard. The
bion. gentleman may lie riglit as to wliat liap- Hon. Mr. MILLS-It is very Important, but
pens wltb the worm In an apple, but that *withi regard to this section we are now
occurs only at liarvest season. The buik considering., my lion. friend will see thiat
of the appie crop Is gathe&ed after tbe 10 per cent is flot a large percentage of
appies in whicli worm hioies may exlst. It
harvest passes over.
Is not wbat the condition may lie when they
Hon. Mr. ALLAN-I have very often ex- arrive, but what the condition may lie when
amined appies, in the latter part of the they are inspected. I am told that tlie scali,
spmmer, that bave been pierced by the altboughi It may lie but a mere polat,-in
worm. The worm batches In tbe apple. If tact not noticealile when the apples are
you examine the apple about the time it is packed, ny reacli coasiderable dimensions,
gatliered, it aimost always bappens tbere 15 especially if the fruit is kept warmi on the
a smail hole at the other end of the appie, voyage, before the apples go into tlie liands
-where tbe worm bas made bis escape. I bave of people who are seiling tbemn on the other
no doulit the minister lias bis information side of tlie Atlantic.
from competent autbority, but I neyer beard
FERGUSON-ML\y hon. friend is
Hon. M.Nr.
of wormns developed in the appie long after
discussing something altogether apart from
tlie apple barvest.
the object of the section. The section is flot
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-My hon. friend says niined at any inspection In the United Kingthey neyer do, but I think lie Is not accurate dom ; it is tbe condition of the fruit at the
on that point. They mnay flot, but a great point of shipment.
deal depends on tbe temperature off the
Hon. 'Mr. MLNILLS-Yes.
appie. In the case whicli my bion. friend
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-Wliat mnay happen
mentions, of a bigli temuperature in the barrels on shipboard, the appie not on]y mua- on board the ship is aito-ether outside of the
tures unduiy fast, but ail the iarvoe of in- scope of this section. As 1 have remarked,
sects that have stung the appie are develop- the wboie consignment may lie destroyed
ed during- that lieated condition, and find owing to the bad condition on shipboard.
their w-ay out of the apple. Very freqintly Lt is infinitessimal wliat May liappen tlirough
the deposit is made at so early a period by worm in the apple after it is liarvested.
the fiy tbat there is no indication wlien the Lt can oniy liappen wlien the worm is
apple is put up of any perforation of it by 'in the fruit alive at the time of packan insect. The perforation only takes placel ing.' About that time the wormn leaves the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO'N.
cayed and sweated on shipboard, and will
lie in a deteriorated condition win tbey
reacli Engiand. It is flot pretended that
this shal lie the standard on arriving in
England. It is tbe standard when tliey are
shipped.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes.

[APRIL 30, 1901]
' Canadian,' or having anything on Îheir
apple and tbere le no more trouble. We are
tbe manner ln wbich fruit apples to Indicate tbey are Canadian.
deallng now witb
la put for export ln Canada and we are put- Hon. Mr. MILLS-They are no better.
ting a provision ln the Bill that 10 per cent
Hon. Mr. POWER-They know better than:
of the apples that are marked A 1, that really
exhibition fruit may be defective to put A 1 on such fruit as is described bere.
should be
a.nd badl apples-Gnay be -wooemy or ecabby The minister's argument goes to make It
apples, and we are putting that ln the Bill clear that the law should be more stringent.
for no other purpose that I can see, except because the minister'a argument la, that If
to advertise what we are calling A 1 apples. the apples have suffered to a certain degrêe,
That la nmot obligatory, but whether It la before they are shIpped. from thîs country,
obligatory or not, It wihl stand ln our law they will be ln a much worse condition wben
as declarIug çwhat we comsider really best they reach the other aide, and therefore we
applea, and It will be quoted all over the ought to require on this aide a higher standworld against nis, and Injure the reputation of ard of excellence than If they were going
our fruit. I do flot care where the suggestion to reacb the other side ln the same condition
came from-I dare say It came from Fruit they were ln on this side. 1 do mlot know
Growers Associations, we bave to, use our very mucb about apple-growing, but I know
own common sense about it, and I am sure this, when I am toid that any article is A 1,
tirat the section can be only used to the I expect it to be a very superior article, and
detriment of the reputation of our fruit, leaving- aside altog-ether what is said with
and that It will be s0 used, and since It la respect to the worms and scabs, I contend
mot obligatory, why should it be ln the Bill? that the apple described here is mot an A 1
The following section is even worse than apple. It le stated that the fruit shall conthat. 1 intend to move to strike these two uet of well-grown specimens of one varlety,
sections out of the Bill. There are excellent sound, of nearly uniform size, of good
provisions ln the Bill, subject to considera- colour for the variety, of normal shape and
tion of some clauses, that will anawer an stop there. That describes an average fruit.
excellent purpose du our fruit trade, but It Lt does not describe A 1 fruit. It does not
not being obligatory on any packer to use indicate It Ia to be of superior quality or
these two sections, and having a tendency to variety. The idea of superior quality entera
set a standard for our fruit that is too 10w, essentially Into our notion of what an A 1and that wihl be used to our detriinent and article should be. I must say, If it bias been
disadvantage. I tbink we ought to remove the practice in the province of Ontario to
brand as 'A 1 Canadian,' apples which are
them from the Bill altogether.
Inferior to those described ln this section,
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Thls la as high a stand- 1 can onl'y wonder that Ontario fruit found
ard as bas been adopted for the shipping of any market on the other aide at aIl. If we
fruit from North America to the other aide let this pass and say that tbese are No. 1
We are not below thE Canadian, we will be going just as far as
of the Atlantic.
standard o! fruit du oliher countries. WE *the minister bas any riglit to ask us to go.
are entîrely up to that standard, and If my To say that fruit 10 per cent of whicb is
hou. friend -were to see -the correspondence *damaged la to be called A 1isl a moat unand to see how far we have fallen belo-m reasonable proposition.
that standard beretofore, he would. see w(
have jone a long way ln advance of wfba bHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
we bave Wtherto practicaliy done, In tbi Minister of Justice, ln discussing this clause,
adoption of 1ihie standard.
said we are establisbing a bigher grade o!
apples for exportation than any other part
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI,-DOeý
t of North America.
flot the General Inspection Act provide tha
No. 1 apples shall be ei perfect ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-N,ýot any other part o!
a North America, but we are establishing a
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the statement mad,
higher grade than we bave bad beretofore,
by the hon. minîster is accurate, It fully ex
and that is the came grade as Ie recognized
plains the objection which the lower pro
the bran,à ln other sections of North America.
vinces' apple-seller bave to using

[SEN ATEj
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
are establishing a grade A. 1. The very fact
of putting A 1, would indicate that it is a
)very much better qualiry than No. 1, or
there would be no necessity to put A before
the 1. Looking at the Inspection Act, the
section fixing the standard for apples rends
ln this way:
No. 1 Inspected Canadian apples shall conslst of well-grown specimens of one varlety, of
nearly unhform size, of good colour, sound, free
Xrom scab, worzm-holes and bruises, and properly
packed.
The clause ln this Bill enable6 you to
have an A 1 barrel of apples wlth 10 per
cent of scabs and worm enten and witb other
defects. It certainly is lowering the grade.
compared witb the standard under the lnspection Act as it is to-day. The hon. gentleman may say that people have flot packed
their apples in accordance with that clause.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-And flot selected themn
,elther.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE , BOWELL.--Tlat
is the fault of the packer. If the packer
wIll not pack his apples in accordance
witb this provision of the law, and the
Inspector, who bafi taken en cath of
office to perforrn hi s duty properly under
the Inspection Acf, wlll pass and sexxd fhem
abroad ln a defective state, then he is viobating the law, and also the obligation f0
perform bis duty, that Is not the fanif of
the law. The law as it stands establishes
a hlgher grade than the A 1 grade ln this
Bill. Whaf the House bas to decide now
is, wlthout going info any extraneous argument, whefher an A 1 barrel o! apples may
consist o! 10 per cent o! defective fruit, and
a No. 1 o! 20 per cent of defective fruit,
and tbereby annul the provisions o! the Inspection Act w-hieh provides that fbey shahl
be o! the character indicafed by the Speaker on behaîf o! Nova Scotia, wifhouf any
of these defects. Wnitb this clause in, 1 arn
not surprised that N.ova Scotia, particularly
fie !ruit-growers of the Annapolis Valley,
siould object to shipping under this section,
witb tbe word 'Canada' upon the barrel,
as they received tbeir reward ln the way
of beffer prices, witbout, tiat word being
placed upon the barrel.
Hon. INr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If I understand the bon. gentleman, bie said certain
correspondence in the possession o! fthe govvernment would fhrow light on this section.
Honi. mr. MILLS

Hon. '.\r. MILLS-Yes.
Hon. '.\r. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Wby
should we flot -have that correspondence ?
W7e ail want to pass the law in its best
possible shape, and if we had the correspondence it mighit throw some ligbt on ItL
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS-I have no objection to
reading the correspondence, or so much of
It as may be necessary. My hon. friend
assumes that everytbing is rigbt ln *Nova
Scotia and that aIl is wrong ln Ontario with
regard f0 fruit. I do flot undersfand that
to be the condition of things. I do flot understand that the fruit, wbich bas been objected to and which bas been spoken of simply ns trasb here by some of these dealers,
ail came from western Canada. In that regard tbey, are no respectors of provinces, and
they complain of our fruit generally ? The
changes made in this Bihl with the view of
meeting the wants of the Enlisb and Scotch
markets have not been to put a standard
beyond that wbicb could be reached in Canada, because I amn safisfied of this, thaf if
the fruit shîpped comes up to the standards
centained in this Bill, it wll meet the requirements of the consumers on the otber
side of the Atlanfic. W7hat they complain
o! Is, tbat it does not meet those requirements. They do not get sucb a fruit as is
mentioned in the Bili-that the fruit is in
many cases sirnply trash-tbat occasionally
fhey have apples packed in whicb they have
f air apples at each end, and in the centre
culis.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Is this
Bihl going to mend that ?
Hon. Mr. M.%ILLS-Yes if will. because we
are provicling for an inspection in a way that
bas not existed heretofore, and we prov-ide
also for the punishment of the parties w-ho
perpetrate the fraud.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Not es far as these
two sections are concerned, if they are permnissive.
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS-But if a party marks
a barrel in a w-ny that is calculated to convey a wrong impression, bis mark is a fraudnient mark-lt is Dot a mark sucli as is required by law. He is not compelled to mark
bis barrels, but if he does he must mark
honestly. Everybody will have nloticed that
they are buying at their own risks if a barrel
i5 Dot marked, but if it is marked, buyers

[APRIL 30, 1901]
lare entitled to k-now that it is marked 1a re filled up wlth the veriest trash. No
honestly, and the name of the packernmusto ne caa have any sympatiiy with a disNot only
be put on the barrel, and the law providés b.anest proceeding- of thaît sort.
of the parties who are Ilave there been complaints on tlie otiher
for the punisliment
In the United Kingullty of fraud, and we hope by these pro- s ide o! the Atlantic,
the
a better class of fruit put d arn, where the fruit of aur frlends ln
visions to secure
aarltime provinces goes very largely, but
upon the market ln the United Klagdom
here lias been a complaiat ln the province
than bas been the case heretofore. 1 wIllt
if Britishi Columbia, ta whicli thle fruit of
just read for the inforimation of my hon. 0
complaint there la
o
one or two of the letters ta )ntario goes, and the
friend opposite
mniversal, the same as It bas been in Scotwhicb I have referred. In this first letter
and and England, amd -the obJeet of this
the name Is given of a party who"
Is, flot -to makre cuils of nearly ail the
Tbey EB-11
-shpped to us 1,200 barrels of apples.
were bouglit for the choicest selected fruit, and f ~ruit that may be growa In certain seasons,
Our )ut ta describe a fair sample or fr-uit and ta
the prices paid for this class of goods.
bankers gave a guarantee that the bills voul.l enable those wlio are disposed ta deal
be paid on presentation, and the uniy securlty
for fulfilment af the .barg-ain on the part of the lionestly wltli the people on tihe otier aide
shipper was good falth that b. wauld aet bis of the Atlantic and wlth aur friends ln
This, unfortunately, has flot
part bonestiy.
About two-tbirds af the parcels Manitoba aEnd the Nortli-west, ta do so aud
transpired.
were, on the whale, satisfactary, and the other ta punish thlose w-ho undertake ta
act
one-third were simaply vile rubbish. The size, fraudulently.
Tlint is the abject af the
about the dimensions of plums. and vorst of
These are quit. us- Bill, and we bhave flot set up any Ideal
ail, covered with spots.

less for aur trade, and we are ta seli wbat
remains.
Now, a large number of these dealers make
similar representations. One writes :
The last apples yau sent me are simply shameas ta Vick flic.
fui. The party (Mr. -)
fruit, but I do nat thlnk he could have donc

standard ln fruit, but such a standard as
we believe can be maintalned, and that
there will be less ddfficulty la easuringthan if we are ta attempt ta flx a standozd
that but a very small fraction of fruit
grom-n ln this couatry wauld reacli.

The first barrel hadl a few good apples
worse.
an the top and the rest were nearly aIl marked,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlie bon. minister forpleked hales, rust-ed-Iooking stuif, and the lover
baîf were green. The ather barrels were openad gets tliat lastead of ralslag the standard he
There were a few good ones at the bas actually lowered It. I thiak the moist
ta-niglit.

top and the *bottom, and the. others ver. of th:. of tlie provisions ln thbe Bill are exceedingsize of smaîl plums.
ly wise, as ivas lndiicated by the bon, genNow, men who are disposed ta des-I honest- tleman from Marslileld. Clause 4 Is a
ant
ly la fruit aind ta furntili the'consumer
partlcularly goad clause. Lt provides that
article such as lie supposes he Is buying, every persan who puts up f ruit shall mark
wlio act
have their market rumned by those
this fruit wltli the Initiais of bis elhristian,
ln this disiionest 'way, and lt seeme ta me name and bis f ull surname aad address,
secure,
tblat It is the interest of the public ta
and the ame of the varle'ty or varieties
as far as practice ln dealhag ln fruit, a and witli a designation af the grade of the
of the fruit to see Ijbat
proper inspection
fruit. The average mani wàll piot put biis
it Is fairly satisfactory for coasumption. ns-me and addiress on a poor article.
1
that it is of the quality and kind described. tbiak that la a very Important provision by
and that, this being doae, those wlio pur- ltself, and is caîculated ta do a great deal
cbase fruit will bave confidence ln the fact ta Improve the chbaracter o! aur fruit. Then
that w-e are giving themi what tliey assume
fifth clause provides that the packages
At present we do the
they are 1)urcliasing.
are not ta be sold unless tbey are marked
At
At present tliey are eheated.
not.
as required by clause 4. Thea we go over
present there ils no fair care taken la the ta clause 8 and we fiad tliat no persan shall
packig, except a care ta mislead tbe parties
sou, or offer, expose or bave ln bis posseswbo are the consumers.
sion for sale any fruit packed in closed
Hlon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbey put some good packages, upon which package ls marked
ones on top.
any designation wbich represents sueli fruit
and at the bottomn as of finest best, or extra good quality, unlion. Mr. 'MILLS-Yes,
of the barrels, and the centre the barrels less such fruit conslats of well-grown speci-

[SEN AIE]
mens of one variety, sound, of nearlY uniforin size, of good colour for the varletY, Of
normal shape, and flot less tbsin 90 per
cent free from scab, wormboles, bruises
packed.
and other defects, and properly
excellent
The nintb clause containfs an
provision :
9. No person shall sell. or oiter, expose or
have ln bis possession for sale any fruit packed
ln any package la which the faced or shown
surface gives a false representation of the contents of such package; and It shall be considered
a false represeatation when more than 15 per
cent of such fruit Is substantially smaller ln size
than, or Inferior la grade to, or different ln
variety from, the faced or shown surface of such
package.

vinces, npart from this inspection altogether, 1 would be perfectly satisfied to get
thýe very best quallty of apples If tbey had
,the name of the grower and the packer.
ana that hoe was a person known to me, or
well known to the trade, as one who always
put Up good, sound apples of the finest
grade. I would trust much more to the
naine and reputation. of the packer than to
any clause or law regulating the manner
lu whlch apples are to be packed, as provided ln the present Bill. I should suggest
that these few words relatlng to the percentage bie left out, and tbat the clause
remain as it is, otherwlse.

Noîw, if you Omit clauses 6, and 7, the other
Hlon. Mr. ÂLLAN-Mlgbt 1 ask the hon.
clauses are good, and ahl calculated to do 3llnlster of Justice wbether the description
a grent deal to improve the reputation of contained ln clause 6 as to what Al apples
our fruit in f oreig-n markets, but clause 6 should be, Is to be verified by the Inspector
and 7 simply, to xny mind, nulify the other here, or In England, 'where thse apples are
provisions, because tbey allow a man to sent ? If the inspection Is to be made hore,
mark as A 1 what Is merely an average thon 1 do not see so much dlfficulty about
fruit, and 10 per cent of wilcb may bie it but If it Is to be made wlien the apples
1 muet say, wbile not arrive at thse place wbere tbey are exported
seriously danaged.
professzlng to bave any intimate knowledge to, and ail thîs marvellous change takes
of the fruit trade, 1 thhxfl- the suggest .on place on sbipboard, It is another affair altomad1e by the bon. gentleman from Marsh- gether.
field, that clauses 6i and -à sbould bo stricketi

out, is a very wise one. If we do thbat, w~e
retain the standard as lrt la now ln the Inspection Act, and that wbile not a higtIi
standard, is a better standard tban thîs.
Unless these two clauses are consiiderably
modified, I think the Bill would bie much
better witbout thein.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSONI1 may say that
wbon first looking Into this matter, I was
not altog-ether of that opinion. I thought
the Bihl would be as well without clause
8, but on fuller considoration, 1 think, with
sliglit alterations, clause 8 is a good ofle,
and clause 9 also, but 1 do not tbink we
should pass clauses 6 and 7.
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I do nOt
agree -witb the bon. gentleman froin Marshfield that tbese clauses should be struck out
of tbe Bill. 1 would suggest tbat these
clauses bie left ln thse Bill, but tbat the
words ' not less tban 90 per cent' should be
struck, out of clause 6. Thon, I think It
would ensure tbe purcbaser havlng tbe blghest grade of applos tbat ho could expoct
to get. 1 know if I were purcbasing a few
barrels of apples down in thse lower proHou. '.%r. POWER.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Of course, the Inspection must bie at tise point of shipinent, but
on.
hy friend wl espoigyuwr
oin oue, Ief
wnill sree, fuo
moy
tihe inspector wore to find haîf a dozen
apples la the barrel witb wormboles, it
would condemil the wbole barrel, and tbose
clight bo made by the Insect ln thse barrel
between the period of sblpmeflt and inspection. 1 amn told by thse departinont, that
we are fixing a standard as high as the
standard ln any fruit-growlflg section of
this continent, and our great difficulty bas
been that the fruit froin this country offored
for sale ln England and -Scotland, bas been
altogether below the standard. It bas been
dishonestly packed, aud bas, lu great monsure, dlscredited our fruit lu the Britishs
market. What tbe departinont is trying to
do by this Bill Is not to ûx an ideal standard ln ýCanada far abovo that of any other
country, but to fix the standard wbicb la
generally recognized by ail the fruit-growîng districts of tbis continent, and to see
tbat that standard is enforced, aud punisis
those who undertake to act dishonestly and
fraudulently, and if that la doue, 1 tbink

[APRIL 30, 1901]
Hon. Mr. MILLS-If we were to carry that
the object the fruit-growers have in view (motion and we were to have a proper Inwill be accomplislied.
spection, if the inspecter found an apple
ln it ln a barrel, lie
-Hon. Mr. SULIIVAN-Is the hon. gen- that had a wormliole
would be obliged te condemn the whole
tlemanl from Marshfleld opposed to grading
Here ls a maximum quantity of
iat ail, or is this gradlng In the Bill dis- barrel.
can defective apples mentioned, 10 per cent. If
pleasing ? If that la flot satisfactory,
hon. gentleman thInka that 10 per cent
he not amend it ln some way se that it the
apples are is too large, we could say 5 per cent, but
will please him ? I thInk If our
want te, adept seme regulation
te bie gra-ded at ahl, this provision ls rIght, you would
has that would flot place the shipper of apples
but the hon. gentleman from Marslifield
Ontarlo to Montreal or from
had more experience ln these inatters than frem Western
be able to make Annapolis Valley te Halifax, ln a position
I have bad, and should
Inspector could open the barrels,
vahuable suggestions. If we are ta have that the
a proper one?7 and condemn them because he found an
grading, ls net this grading
-eHon. Mrn FERGUSON-We are drlfting
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not know the
These
away f rom wliat the clauses ccmtain.
present law but I do
clauses are not obligatory. Tliey are sim- exact words of the
lie adopted by not thlnk thet it says that the apples shahl
ply put ln there, and may
scali.
any person who chooses to adopt them. A be entirely free from
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE.LL-No,
man may put the brand on If lie pleasei,
and If lie does, lie is hiable for the couse- t(0sD.
My han. friend from Queen's >des10t
quences.
Hon. Mr. POWER-And If the law sImply
Beemed te lie under the Impression that If
eut of the Bill says tjbat these apples shahl be f ree froni
we knocked these clauses
If two or three
we lied ne Inspection. We have the Clauses wormlioles and scabs,
Act, whicli pro- apples have wormhohes In them, ne Inspecln the General Inspection
as te condenin the
vides for the brandlng of No. 1. and No. 2 tor rwould lie so absurd
my view ls that we whole barrel on tha-t greund.
Canadian apples, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He could dIo se.
should incorporate the sections framn the
Act ln the Bill, just as
Gemeral Inspection
Hon. Mr. POWER-We miuet suppose the
they are ln the Inspection Act, and that
of wliat our apples inspectbors have a littie common seuse.
woould lie our Ideal
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B(t%,'ELL-T-he
ouglit te be. Then the other sections whicb
fraud bas been section ef the Inspection Act reade as foelprovide positive penalties, If
practiced, or If apples are marked really .1w
cansiat
the finest and perhaps de not come Up te, a No. 1 Inspected Canadian apDies sall
specimexis. of one variety, of
operating
certain standard, these would be the stand- af well-grown size, of good colour. sound. free
nearly uniorrm
clauses te bring oixr fruit up te
from saab. wormholes and lirulses, and praperly
Canadian apples shall
ard which we provide In this Bih. But I packed. No. 2 inspectedone variety reasonably
specimens mentioned ln class No. 1.
a standard -whichi is au coaisst of the defects of
ebject te adopting
iree frem
of size. lack
advertisemelit that our fruit is bad, and but which, on acceunt af ineqw3iity not be ilnbadly. I fully ngree of celour or other defects, could
that we are packing
in that class.
with the words of the Speaker, and I would eluded
Hon. Mfr. MILLS-There la Inequallty of
of applea, I have always
say, as an exporter
Equality of size la one
of.
put the word 'Canada' on my barrels, but size spoken
If
apples.
are passed, and the mark- of the cliaracterlatics of good
If these clauses
the my lien. friend thi-nks 90 per cent is toe
ing 'Al Canadian' laI te lie usedl, and
he were te allow 5 per cent ln
10 per cent remains ln the Bill, I would net large, If
bar- thie first and 10 ln the second, I would achave the word 'Canada' on.any of niy
Tels, because I believe our apples will lie cept ItL
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I do net thlnk that
badly advertised by passIng that clause. I
No. 6 lie atricken eut suggestion would lie a good ene. We are
wili move that clause
putting ln two sections here, net coniof the Bill.

[SENATE]

pulsory upon any person, but ,which xnay
be used If Viey s0 desire It, and wih
wlll be held Up al ovelr Vie wu.rld as our
Ideal standard of No. A 1 and No. 1 apples.
My vlew Is that we should Insert, Iu place
of those clauses, the sections of Vie preseut law, and then we would. have the following sectLions as well where the percentSection 8 reads as
age would corne ln.
follows
No person shall seli. or offer, expose or have
la bis possession for sale any fruit packed lu

a closed package. upoa whlch package is marked
any designation which represents such fruit asn
of finest. best or extra good quahity unies. sueh
fruit conslst of well-growa specimens of one
varlety, sound, of nearly unifoin size, of good
colour for the varlety, of normal shape and flot
less than 90 per cent free from sc&b, wormholes. brulses and other defects, and properly
packed.
I bave n objections to that, becauSe If YOU
prosecute a man, there must be somfe reaàonable lumit for the judge to decide on the
apples, and I tiblk Viat section Is ail we
Lt affords the basis for the prosewant.
cutiosi of a mann wbo is selling apples as
No. 1 and giving an la! erior quallty. That
Is a compulsory section, and applies to every
barrel of apples packed ln Canada, and It
lis a section Viat -wiUl be operative and eau
But these two sections that
be operated.
we are proposlng to put in for spectacular
purposes fix-a standard for oui fruit, and we
are makilng Lt so low that IL will be used
1
to the detriment of oui fruit industry.
say we bhould put la the two sections of
a
the Inspection Act in the sanie way
they are at present, and Vien tbe otiber
clauses 8 and 9 would corne ln, with the

penalties behind Viem, which would acconiplisb everytbing my hon. friend is 9O auxious to, effect in the way of punlsblng
those who are doi.ng wrong ln connection
wîtb packing and selling fruit. Taire out
clauses 6 and 7 and substitute sections 1
and 2 of Vie Inspection Act, and we would
Nobody wouid
have an ideal standard.
think because Viere -were two or tbree
scabby apples Viat a person could be con-

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have proposed 95 per
cent for one clause, and 90 per cent for the
other, Instead of 90 and 80. We will then
have a hligher standard tban the Inspection
Art, and It is Up to the highest standards
of the frult-growlug associations of the
coun*try. The standard Is decldedly above
that of any -other section on the continent
of North America.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe motion Is
that clause 6 be adopted.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Make It 95 lnstead of
90.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
conittee adopt the clause, then the hon.
gentleman f rom Marshfield, can make his
motion to amend afterwards.
The clause was lest on a division.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say to the hion.
gentleman that hils Bill has been fully
considered by meinhers of Vie Fruit Grlowlug Associations ln the maritime provinces
It is not an Ontario
as well as Outarde.
suggestion, and the responsibilitY Of strlking out Vhis clause is with his House.
On clause .7,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I move that clause
7 be struck out.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
quite
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I am n ft
sure that Viese permissive sections tliat belong to the Inspection A.ct sbould come in
la Vhis part of the Bill. If Viey sbould, I
would move theni now, but I think the better way is for Vie bon. gentleman in charge
of the Bill to consider -whether he will latroduce these sections.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do not propose to introduce any sections after wbat Vie conimiittee bas done. The Bill bas been framed,
after discussion with the fruit-growers of
every part of Canada, and 1 amrn ort disMy
posed to assume any responsibility.
Ten per cent hion. friend undertakes to take the Bill out
victed under tbat clause.
I bave no fault to find of the hands of the government. Well and
would be enougb.
witb section 8, but 1 have fault to find wben good.
these provisions, 6 and 7 are lnserted, beHon. M1r. FERGUSON-The frult-growers
cause 1 bold they will do our apple trade a
deal of harni. I move that Vils clause are nlot superior to Vie parliament of Cangreat
My obserada and cannot dictate to us.
be struck out.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

1APL{IL 30, 1901]
vations have led to the conclusion that we
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Inspection Âct
should embody in the Bill the sections that contains the word 'seund.'
appeax already In the Inspectioni Act.
It
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the fruit passes the
is flot necessary to transfer tbem Into tbAs Inspection and deterlorates afterwards, there
part oW the BIh].
They are the law at Io ne liablity.
present, and It 15 flot proposed to repeai
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This la net that
theni, but I tbdnk tbey sbould be repealed In the Inspection Âet and placed ln case at ail.
this Bill in order that any person onld
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It assumes the fruit
id ail the law on the question la the one bas been lnspected.
enactment.
I therefore move that these
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But at the peint
sections be added.
I may say that, wltb
sllgbt vairdations, they are wbat la now In of shipping tbey may be perfectly aound.
Tbey may bave been put up preperly, and
the Inspection Act.
may bave rotted on the voyage. I thlnk
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We the word ' sound'1 sbould be lef t In there,
have now strlcken out clauses 6 and 7, and and aitbougb I had objection te It at firat,
clause 8 Is the one under comslderation.
I do net know tbat It sbeuld be removed.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It ls suggested
The clause was adopted.
tha-t we sheuld Insert these clauses In place
of the ones we bave struck eut. I would
On clause 10,
suggest th-at we sbould leave that and reHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I bave given this
turu to kt afterwurds and Insert It In the
Bill a very great deal ef censideration, and
Blll where It wou'ld be thought symmetrical.
I have a great deal ef correspondence In
Hon. Mr. POWER-The bon, gentleman reference te 1t, whice It would take np tee
does not propose to snbstltnte anything for ranch time te read, but It occurs te me
dlanses 6 and 7, and we should pass on.
that the penalties are tee severe under this
On clause 8.
Bill, and wonld render It unworlrable. I
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-Orlglnally,
I cannot see wby hord labeur and Imprisontbougbt that this was a severe section, but ment sbenld lie assoclated witb a Bill of
I do flot know that It la any more severe this kind.
than the clrcumstances caîl for. But there
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Very serions frauda
la one word In It whlch occurs In another bave been commltted In tbe sale of fruit,
section as well. That Is the word 'sound.' and the àpples of this country bave been
I arn net sure that It ougbt to be nsed. It serlonsly injnred In the United Klngdom,
ralses a difflcnlty nevertbeless, because a and wben we make provision fer securlng
man In Ontario may pack bis appies wefl, an beneat package of fruit It Is only rlgbt
benestly, and fairly and there may not be that the penalties shenld be sncb as will be
an apple wltb the sllghtest unsoundnesa In Ilkely te effect the observance of the kaw.
it, but by the Urne It reaches 'Winnipeg or
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbere
some other distant peint, owlng to the stress is a goed deal of force ln wbat the bon.
of weatber, It may net be sound, and the MinIster o! Justice says. There bave been
man who bnys geod apples may, after a dishoneat dealinga among the packers and
lime, find lie has bad apples In bis barrel, abippers, and If tbey are well punisbed once
and Is liable te be p-resecnted.
Section 13 or twlce kt will stop tbe practice, but otherprovIdes for that. It reads as follows wise It wlll be a failure.
The person on wbese behaîf -any fruit la packed, sold, offered or had In possession for sale,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Â man wbo fran,contrary to the provisions of the foregolng sec- dulently packs a barrel of berrlng Is liable
tions of this Act, shall be prima facie lhable for
to a penalty and proceedinga of civil law,
the violation of this Act.
Ile wlll only be prima fadle hiable, and It but lu tbe case of apples, be Is liable te
wonld be open te hlm to maire a goed de- Imprlsonment and bard labour.
fence. It would be a good defence te say- Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I thlnk It Is a terlie bougbt these apples In goed faith, and rible tblng te send a man to jall fer a few
that tbey were sonnd when he bought theni. apples. He may net bave been gnllty. Re
19i

[SENýATE J
may have had another man packIng them,
and the fauit occurs; that way.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-He must be more particular about bis choice of packers.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Why flot simply
coufiscate the goods ? Do not puit a man Iu
Jall for a few apples.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
only a matter of detail.
The clause was adopted.

iq

On clause 11,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There le a great
deal of. objection to clause il and aise te
clause 14. 1 have correspondence on my
desk from a large ahIpper ln Ontario, who
says that If tbese two sections are passed
lie 'would witbdraw bis operations to the
other aide o! the border.
Hon. Mr'. MILLS-Well, let it lie 80.
Hon. .Mr. FERGUSON-I thInli that putting the law ln the bands o! the inspector
-the question o! Inspection will corne up
later-that lie lias a 'rigit, ta examine a
package. When we corne Vo clause 14 we
wIll bave more te say about that. When
the Inspecter finds the package wrongly
marke, as lie thinks, lie can mark 'fraudulent' on the package and leave It. -My view
Is, that lie slieuld be compelled to go on
wltli a Suit against the man, and net mark
'fraudulent' on the head of the barre! mnereiy and go sway and leave it there. He
should lie compelled te enter a suit and let
the judge decide whether it was fraudulent
or net
Hon. Mr'. SCOTT-Utterly Impracticable.
The CHÂIRMÂN-Tbe ap'ples miglit lie
sold in tbe meantime.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They ought to lie
either confiscated or retained te be preduced
as evidence, or something of that kind. 0f
course it la net se serions an investigation,
but ln connection with clause 14, It is a
very serious matter. 1 will not press an
objection te It until I sec wbat we will1 do
witli clause 14.
The clause was ndopted.

Hon. Mr'. MILLS-No, I thinli it Is riglit as
it la.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then I do flot
agree with the bon, gentleman. Clause 14
provides :
Any person cbarged with the enforcement of
this Act may enter upon any premises ta make
any examination of any packages of fruit suspected of being falseiY marked in violation of
any of the provisions of this Act, whether such
packages are on the premises of the owner,
or on other premises, or in the possession of
a railway or steamahip company; and any person who obstructs or refuses ta permit the making of any sucli examination shall, upon summary conviction, bee hable to a penalty flot ex-

ceeding $500 and not hess than $25, together with
the costs of prosecution, and ln default of psyment of sucli penalty and costs, shal.hi li able
ta imprisoalment, with or without bard labour,

for a term flot exceeding six menthe, unless the

said penalty and caste of enforcing It are soaner
paid.
My objection to that Is thi.s, that even if

the

inspecter

be

a

qualified

person-

we will have to meet that question as to

who these Inspectors will be-yeu give hlm
power 'te board n train at any -point -or go
into a rallway station, or on board a slip,
behInd the back of the owner of the apples,
and without giving hlm any notice wbat-

ever, open those packages and declare thein
talsely marked. There iS no0 obligation to
close them properly or to give notice to the
parties. ne (marks a barrel 'falsely marked,'

Kingdem
and it gees te the United
witb this mark on the head of! the barre!.
The barrel of apples itself bas gone away
and could noV lie exam'ined, and the owner
of the apples does noV know anytb.ing about
Vbis, until ie- hears 'that bis apples have
gone on the British market marked 'fraudulent.' Perhaps lie may be unable to learn
who did that. This inspection should flot lie
undertaken without no-tifying the owner of
The Inspection should take
the apples.
place at the point of original shipm.ent or
at the point of sale for consumptioii or exportation. Most shippers will have agents
at Montreal, Halifax or other places, from
which the apples are shipped, and IV should
be necessary for the cinspector to notify the
owner, If lie ds not there or If the examination le made at the place of original shipnment giving notice in order thnt lie may see
what is hein.- done and be in a position to

On clause 14,
defend. bimself if the dnspector Is flot tr-eatHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Hlas thie hon. gen- iiig hlm riglit. Supposing I want to sencl a
tleman no amendment te suggest te clause shipmnent of apples by waY cf Ge.or.getowu
or Pdctou ; an inspector mugît board the
14 ?
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

[APRIL 30, 1901]
Superior, and from the
train at any point aud make his examina- far west as Lake
extreme east. The Inspection wil be maintion behind my bacli, and I would kuQw noThe Inspectors eauthing about dit until I would hear fromn Lon- ly at the shIppIng point.
flot communicate with the growers. It Is
don or Liverpool ithat some fruit liad corne
gentleman
marlred 1fraudulent.' I say the owner utterly impossible. The hbon,
must belleve that the Inspectors -will be
should bie In a position '10 look aiter bis own
will flot condemn fruit
Interests. I think the ameudmeut whicb 1 reasonable men who
that should not bie condemned. If it should
have <would meet the case. 1 wlI rend IL. i
we
thongbt this.was a point that had only to bie be condemned Justly, no penalty that
provide ds too severe for the man who coinnamed ln order to have sorneth-ing dune to
meet the wrong that this section .might lu- mits such a fraud.
filect upon the ohipper. :i propose to add
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
these words as subsection 2:
great objection 1 have to this clause is,
The examination of the fruit authorized by
the minister to appoint auy person
this section shali not be made except at, the it allows
place of productiou or original shlpment, or at lie thinks proper. It would not be half s0
the place of delivery, either for consumption lu objectionable If that duty devolved upon
Canada, or for exportation, and the inspector
shal, before takiug such examination, give due tlie Inspector appointed under the General
notice lu writing of bis Intention to do so tu tbh Inspection Act who has to take an oath to
owner of the fruit, or bie agent at the place o! do bis duty after having been exarnined as
original shipmeut or delivery, for home conto his qualification to iuspect apples. The
sumption or exportation, as the case may be.
mauy days' presumption, I have no doubt, is that a proHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-How
per person will be appointed, but we do
notice ?
know this, thnt where a power of this kind
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-That Is a malter Is given to another persan, it is very often
for consideratlen. Lt would be a mabter used in a manner not ln thc Interest of the
for -the justice tryiug- the case to see wlie- trade, or tu the lnterest of the commerce of
thei the notice was due or not.
the couutry.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hou, gentleman
Hon. Mr. IIILLS-MNy hon. friend will see
wiil, on refiection, see that his proposition
tit iu tUs case a party wlio is appolnted
Is not a practicable one. Fruit is sbipped
Inspector %vould, in the first place, bie reover a large area iu bie country, and lt 15
sponsible te the minister, who is anxious ta
Impossible bo have au luspector aI every Improve the market value of the fruit, and
point.
lu the next place, his conduct Is liable te
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON. It does not cal] be called ln question lu parliarnent, and to
for that.
be discussed and condenined bere If It Is
are found tînt lie lias been guilty of arbitrary
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I understaud there
to bie ouiy flve permanent Inspectors. Il is conduct.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL'--That
to bie presumed they wlll be men who will
recognize the responsibility of the position is afler tlie mischief Is doue.
biey occupy, and would not bie so capbious
Hou. Mr. MILLS-Tliat is true. IK-- have
as my bon. friend indicates. Unlesa some
Bill, it is utter- lu this Bill provided, as the hion, gentleman
sucli clause is placed lu thc
ly futile to atbempt te put rellable Canadian will sec by bhc hast section, bliat regulabions
wiil
aPPles ou the Bultish markiet. Year afler are ta be niade aud those regulations
year tic report bas .com:e tiat the apples bie for the purpose of carryiflg tus Act out
sent from Canada have been a fraud, and in a reasouable and efficient manner, and
it ina doue serious injury to bhe trade ef tiere wiil also be matters wiicli wiii be disne
the country. Tiere Is no .way ta meet it cussed and crîticized liere, sud 1 have
except by stringent provisions of bia kind. doulit will, nt no distant day, bie superseded
My lion. friend will sec tint the Inspection by an amendaient ta the law itself. Witli
may bake place 500 miles froni where the regard ta the inspeètion, My ion. friend lias
grower resides. You cannot bave the lu- spoken about people going ou board trains
spection at the place wiere bhe apples and stopping a train sud doing a number
They are sent from as of imaginable but iiglily improbable tbings.
are packed.

[SEINATE]
What is likely to happen is, Ibat the lu- people of that province continue to be as
spection will be made eltber at the place dissatisfied as tbey have been beretofore,
where the apples are grown and paeked be- and so ýwe are uadertaking by this Bill to
fore shipment, or tbey will be inspected at deal fairly by the frult-growers, not to exsome one central place, where a large amounit pect impossibilities, from them, but to mark
of fruit is gathered before shipment to the the fruit as bigh as It is marked in other
nearest port froni which. the shipinent is to couatries froni which fruit Is sent, and to
take place, or from the port of Montreal secure to the consumers the kind of fruit
Lwhere the final shipment will take place. that tbey expect tbey are purchaslng lu
Now, with regard to this inspection, it is dealing witb fruit of Canadian growth.
lntended to be ln the interest of the fruit- Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Supposing that the
growers, for tbe purpose of giving con- fruit w-as marked ail rlht and lnspected
ildence to the consumers that they are get- hiere, and supposiag on arriving ln England
tlng what they suppose tbey are purcbasing, it w-as found bnd, Is the shipper liable to
and It Is to provide an inspection in order puulsbment ?
that persons who undertake to pack frauduHon. Mr. MILLS-No.
lently and are putting up apples that are
flot marketable amonagst tbose that are, and
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot know but
coneealing the fraud that they are practlsing. iny bon. friend's suggestion mnay cover the
I say nobody bas any desire to enable those case, If hie w-ould say 'due notice by letter
persons to succeed in wbat they are doing. or telegran.'
We do flot want to make this inspection
diflicuit. We do not want to malte it Im- Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL-It says
possible to detect any fraud that is attempt- shall give notice.'
ed to be practised on the consumer, to the
Thie CHAIRMAN-It w-ould not be a nodetriment of this country, and to the injury tice unless it w-ere a reasonable notice.
of the good name that it ougbt to have in
Hon. Mfr. POWEll-I was at first disposed
the mark-et where this fruit is consumed.
add to syunpathize a good deal w-itb the hion.
'We might, perbaps, as a subsection
gentleman froin M-Narsbfield. When I sat on
this
the other side of the House 1 remember
The inspector shall give notice by letter or hein.- sbocked by the tyranniical doctrines
telegrani to the packer, whose naine la marked
on the package, before marking-4he words 'false- laid dow-n in bis fron the Department of
ly marked ' on such package.
Customis, w-hen that department w-as preHon. Mr. BAKER-That would cover the sided over by tbe -lon. gentleman w-ho 110W
whôle objection.
leads the Opposition. I tbougbt the 'most
sub- serious consequences must fohlow those enHon. Mr. POWER-Tbat would be a
actinents ; but, I do not know whether it
section to section Il ?
was because the department -mas adminHon. Mr. MILLS-Yes. MNy bon. friend istered la a merciful spirit, the serions coâlwill see that this country and parliament sequences did uot follow. This is a mattelr
ougbt to 'have no object

la proteeting

a

of administration, and the goveraiment are

muan who, be bis mietbods of packinig apples, trying to put an end to fraudulent packiug
is acting disbonestly and practising a fraud. and marking of fruit, 'and I tbink *we had
The less parliament does by way of under- better give thiein a fairly free band, and not
taklng to protect tbe man who is acting have theni comning here a year or two bence,
ilisbonestly, the better it will be for the aIn< saying if it bnd net been for the
Our people Senate this law *would bave worked ail
country and for parliameat.
bave-as will be seen from tbis corresponi- rigbt.
dence--seriously w~ronged those wbo have
Hon. ',\I. SNOWBALL-1 agree witb the
been purchasers of apples for consumption
on tbe otber side of the Atlantic, and this chang-es so far made la the Bill, but wliei
,country must stamp out that sort of pro- it cornes to section 14, I think it la one of
ceeding, or w-e are going to have no market the best sections lu the measure, and I
for fruit la the United Kingdom, and w-e will differ froin ail that bas been said in opposihnve no market for fruit la M_%anitoba if the tioli to it. A shipper from lWestern Ontario
Hou. Mr. MILLS.

[APRIL 30, 1901]
fied. 1 would, therefore, move an amenidconn ient, and If my hon. friend has flot
s.Idered it suifficientiy already, the commitanid
t ee mlght risc, and we could sit again,
by tbat Urne my hon. friend might consider
t he question as to whether we should or
s honld not transfer the sections from the
( eneral Inspection Act with regard ta the
classlfication of fruit and silo* them to
stand as part of this Bill. That question
night aima remain to be settled after fuil
littie
consideration ta be given to the
bhanges we bave made to-day. I would
e2
nove, and tbis could be lncorporated as
~lause 15:
Clause i1 was reconsidered and amcnded
That the provisions of the General Inspection
by adding the clause read by the Minister %,et, trom sections 1 ta 26 inclusive, ana al
shall apply mutatis mutanof Justice, and as so amended was adopted. umendments thereto.
is to anything which may be dons under this

sends is apples. say ta Hlalifax for shiPment ln the winter seasan. The steamer
is tiiere. The cars arrive just in trne ta
put the apples ou board. How ls the inspector golng ta give notice that xwill be of
any use ta tbe shipper ? The provisions of'
Tbe
the Bill sa far are lenient enough.
is ta crusb out any attempt et
abject
fraud. Let us, by tbfta Bill, crusb It out.
I think by strlking out clauses G and 7, as
we have donc, we take ail the severer
clauses fram thc Bill, but I certainly approve of clause 14, and wish ta sec It adopted as it is in the Bill.

On clause 16,
Han. Mfr. FERGUSON-Any Inspection
donc under tbis Bihl should be donc under
the Gencral Inspection Act. Any bon. gentleman wbo -%wihl tura up thc Reviscd
Statutes and read Uic general provisions
rcspecting the Inspection o! apples, and of
other staples, will finit that there ls a framework of provisions there for the securlng of
qualificd Inspectian. The boards of trade
have a rlght ln regard ta thc matter o! appolnting examinera. Then these examiners
receive applications for thc position; If they
are found on examination ta be qualified
persans, tbey recelve certificates. Then
they may be appolnted by the governmeiit
ta carry out the provisions of the law with
regard ta any particular staple. Then they
The cxare required ta give sccurity.
aminers themselvcs are sworn ta discharge
There are provistheir duties faithfully.
Ions In the law for penalties ln the case of
these inspectors not dalng their duty properly. That applies ta thc Inspection of ail
staples, apples includcd. This is a radical
point ln connection with this Bill, and that
Is that any Inspection donc under It, ta be
'worth anythlng, must be donc by qualiled
men-nat merely mca that may be recomxncndcd ta the minister for pohitical or any
other reasons-not mcn that may have a
dlaim upon hlm, and may be pressing for
an appaintmctit, but men who have received
certIficates from a competent board, and
sbould be appointed, because they are quahi-

That would bring lu ail the provisions by
whlch we could get a qualificd class of
Inspectors.
Hon. Mfr. MILLS-I think It would be
very inconvenlent and very unfartuflate.-if
this amendment were adopted, because the
Inspection of apples extends over a very
short perlod of the year, but It requires persons famIIIar wlth the different varieties of
fruit, and oa I could not accept the amendment proposed by thc hon. gentleman. He
can let it stand for discussion when we go
Into commIttee again.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED. from the committee, reported tbat they had made same progress with the Bill, and asked leave toa it
again to-morrow.
THE LABOUR GAZETTE.
Hon. Mfr. MILLS-The Departmeflt of
Labour states tbat the April nuinber of the
Labour Gazette wIll be sent ta members of
the Senate ln future. Copies will be mailcd ta each Senator. This la ln reply ta an
inquiry made yesterday by some hon. gen7
tieman.
The Senate adjourned.

[SENATE]

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, 'Wedie.sdaV, May 1, 1901.
The SPEAKER took the Chair ut Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (110) 'An Act to incorporate the Debentures and Securities Corporation of Canada.'-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
DELAYED RETULINS.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
the Orders of the Day are called, wlll the
goverument state when I may expect those
returus called for some time ugo, one wltl
reference to the survey from Rice Lake to
Port Hope, In connection with the Trent
Valley canal, and aiso a copy of the contract
for carrying tlîe mail from Coe Hill to Apsley ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shall bave lt looked
Up.
ATLANTIC AND LAKE SUPERIOR
RAILWAY COMPANY'ý BILL.
THIRD READING.
Mr. OWENS moved the third reading
Hon.
of Bihl (27) 'An Act respecting the Atlantic
and Lake Superior Rallway Company.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before this motion ls
carried, 1 would ask permission te say a
few words. This Bill was founded upoii a
petition asklng for an extension of time.
The petition rends as follow's:
That your petitioners are desirous of havlug
an Act passed to amend section 6 of the Act
57-58 Vie., cap. 63, so as ta extend the tîme for
the completion of the construction of the railway by the trustees for the bondholders. wherefore your petitioners, &c.
According to this petition, the Bill was presented in the bouse of Commons really asking for an extension of time, and nothing
more. That Bill was sent to the Committee
on Rnilways, and there a complete change
wns made, the result of which ls the Bill
that is presented here te-day. This Bill before us dees not mereiy ask for that extension of time, but it alters the charter of the
compnny. Accerding te that charter, the
Atlantic and Lake Superier Railway Company entered into an agreement witb

the Baie des Chaleurs Raiiway, acquired the
roa-d, with ail the obligatiions attached to
the Baie des Chaleurs Ra.ilway, and which
are to be fouud ln the Act passed Iu 1894,
cap. 63. We see by the Act passed in 1893,
cap. 39, section 3, that the Atlantic and Lake
Superior Railway Company may 'acquire,
lay out, construct and operate a railway of
the gauge of 4 feet Si luches, at a point
at or near Gaspé Bay, P.Q., to a point
at or near the St. Mary's river, lu the district of Algoma, in the province of Ontario ;
and the company may enter Into an agreement witb any of the foilowing companies,'
-among them is the Baie des Chaleurs
Railway, coustructed or authorized to be
constructed between Gaspé Bay, lu the province of Quebec, &c. According to these
enactuments, the Baie des Chaleurs Rnilway
was supposed to be built from Metapedia,
where the western end of the road was, to
a point east at or near Gaspé Basin. By
the Bill now before us, parnament curtails
the charter of the Bale des Chaleurs Railway, and brîngs It to, a point elgbty miles
from the eastern point contemplilteti by
prevlous legîsiation, that Is to say, to Paspé1 do not thlnk those considerable
biac.
chiang-es were contemplated by the petition
brought before parliament, and which were
made by the commnittee of the Fluse of
Commons. For these reasons, when the Bill
came before the commlttee of this House,
I proposed certain amendments, which were
not passed, but I reserved my right to bringthemn before the Senate. The amendmetits
are these. 1 just ask that wherever lu the
Bill the word 'Paspébiac ' s mentioned, that
word be erased, and 1Percé' be substituted
therefor, so as to insure to the inhabitants
of thiat country the building of the rond.
They hiave a right, as weli as the other luterested parties, that the law be carried out,
and that the privileges granted them ini
former years be continued ; but, by the Bill
as it stands to-day, ail these priviieges are
curtailed, and the charter is mnanipuiated lu
a way that the compauy now is not obiiged
to, build further than Paspébiac. With these
few expianations, I move:
That the sajd Bill be not now read a third
timae, but that it-be referred back to the Standing Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours, with instructions te amnend the saine
by Ieaving out the word ' Pasp6blac ' wherever
it occurs, and substituting therefor the word
'Percé.'

[71AY 1, 1901]

2. By leaving out ail the words after ' near '
at the end of the 19th Uine, and replacing them
by the followir'g
' Percé. in the county of Gaspé, the road to
tollow the seaside at a distance from ht neyer
exceeding three miles; and may operate the
raiiway between Metapedia and Its eastern terminus at a -point near Percé. sucb powers of
construction ta be exercised before the Slst of
December, 1902, for the ftrst ten miles of tbo
mail extending from New Carlisle eastward ta
Percé.. before the 3Ist December, 1903, for the
following twenty miles ex.tending In the same
direction. and befare the 31et December, 1904,
for the balance of the road finishing at its eastern terminus at Percé; such powers of construction to, cease as to such portions of the
railway as are not then as aforesaid completed.'

Hon. Mr. OWE-NS-Thoe was a compromise by «Il the Parties In'terested.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-4It Was not a compromise by a-Il the parties interested, and'I do
flot ithink they could be -affected by I. We
sbould cSsnider the publie generally as weli
as the bondholders and trustees, and I protest against a compromÀse being referred to,
becaufie 1 do not thlnk there bas been any
compromise at eil.
Hon. MT. OWENS-The peovple sent petitions to, the members fron the county of
Bonaventure and the county of Gaspé.
Hon. -Mr. LANDRY-I dlaim that those
petitiolie asked for' the amendment 1 arn
now proposing.
Hon. Mr. OW7ENS--I may tell the bon.
gentleman thatSeveral hon. MEMBERS. Order, order.

The Bill will tben read:- Th&t the trustees
may construct and operate a road from one
point up to Percé lu the county of Gaspé,
the road t~o fc@iow rthe seaside. The dates
given lu tbe amend.ment are tbe saine as
those -In the original BIH1. Tbey wanted
parliament to give rtbem power to complete
tbe Unme up to the 31st December. I take
The motion was lost on division.
tbe same date, and tbe new Bill, wbicb is
The motion for the third readlng of the
no-w presented -Vo ithis House, gives tbe coinauthority ta bui-id that small section Bih1 was agreed ta, and the Bill was read
pany
of the road frorn Metapedia ta Paspébiac up the third tIme and passed.
to, 3lst December, 1901, wbieb da provi'ded
THIIRD READINGS.
also by the ameudment to tbe second section.
Bill (54) 'An Act to Incorporate the Fort
Qu'Appelle Railway Coinpafly.'-(Hon. MNr.
Hon. Mr. *O.WENS-The Bill before tbe Perley.)
House Ils tbe resuht of a compromnise that
Bill (13) 'An Act to ineorporate the Canwas effected lan the Private Bilils Committee
ada Nation-al Rai.lway and Transport Comlu -the House of Commons. It was accepted ýpany.'--(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Boweli.)
by I the parties luterested, andi aiso by
Bill (M) 'An Act respecting the St. Lawthe proimeters of the Bill, wbo accepted the
refers rence and Adirondack Railway Company.'restriction -t-bat thbe hon. -gentleman
Bo'well.)
to. Tbe Bill was aiso ful-y dlecnaaed before (Hon. Sir Mackenzie
Bui (44) 'An Act respectiug the Ottawa
Telethe Senatte Committee on Raiilways,
graph and Harbours, and after the discus- and Gatineau Rallway Company, and te
sion before tbat commlttee, this ameudment change its name to 1'The Ottawa, Northerfl
was -nia ed by the bon, gentleman and, un- and Western Railway Company." '-(Hon.
fortunately for hlm, he lied flot even a sec- Mr. Peoeley.)
onder 'to bis motion. Tberefore, I think it
Bill (56) 'An Act respecting -the Columla unnecessary that we shou.ld go into it at bia and Kootenay Railway and Navigation
further iength. Lt bas -been accepted by ail Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Kirclihoffer.)
tbe parties lntenested.
Bill (58) 'An Act to lncorpor4ite the
Kootenay and Arrowbead. Railway ComHon. MT. LANDRY-I tbink the bon. gen- pany.'-(HoII. Mr. Kirchboffer.)
tle-man le mistaken -wben lie says It was the
Bill (41) 'An Act respecting the Saskatcheresnlt of a compromise. I was flot a party
Company.not Rbear it. wan and Western Ralwvay
ta the compromise, and I diti
(Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
There cannoe lie any compromise lu that
Bill (52) 'Au Act respecting the Vancouway, and tbey cannet consent ta, sacrifice
Railway Company!'the public dnterest for Indivîduai Interests. ver and Lulu Island
took place. (Hon. Mr'. Templemali.)
1 do not think any compromise

[SEN1-ZAT El

298

Bill (84) 'An A-et respecting the Alberta Tbie proper place to consider these reports
Ra-ilway and -Coal Compainy.'-(Hon. Mr. is l the House and not in the committee.
Kirclhboffer, in Ille absence of Houa. Mr.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-I uaderstood.
Lougheed.)
the motion -was that the report should stand
Bill (75) 'An Act respeeting the Canadian over, and the next Order of the Day be
Nortaiern ;Railway Conipany.'-(H-on. MWr.taken up.
Kirchhoffer.)
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-No, 1 thougbit
Bll (79) 'An Act respeceing the Lindsay, we milht go into Conimittee of the Whole
Bobcaygeon and Po-ntypool Rai'Iway Curm- on this Bill.
pany.'-(Hon. Mr. Dobson.)
Hon. Mr. MILLER-It is not a Bill; lt Is
Bill (55) 'An Adt to incorporate the Arn- a report on the Internal affaîrs and econorny
p1rior and Pontiac Rai.1way Company.'- of the House.
(Hon. Mr. Baker.)
Honi. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Yes, but 1
Bill (C) ' An Act fori the relief of James thought we migbt consider it ia Comm.Tittee
Ward McDonald.'-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
Of the Wbole.
SECOND READINGS.

Hon. '.%r. MILLER-I cannot understand

why Jt should be done. 1 neyer knew of*
Bill (22) 'An Aet respeoting the Columbia It being clone before.
The proper course
and Western RailwayOomjjany.'-(Hon. Mr. would be to proceed with the consideration
Wood, W%ýestmoredand.)
of tlip report, and 4f any portion of the reBill (73) 'An Act concernlng the Vancou- pbort does mot meet wàth the approval of
ver, Westminster aind Yukon Railway Coin- the Honse, It cannot be amended by the
pany.'-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
House, but muist be sent back to the com1 think it -is unusual to refer a
Bill (s3) 'An Act to ducorporate the mlittee.
Kootenay Central
Company.'- report of standing committee on contingenRailway
dies to Committee of the Whole. I arn not
(Hon; Mu. Teinpleinan.)

prepared to say that anything cannot
INTERNAL ECONOMY
AND CONTIN- ferred to Committee of the Whole.
know of no precedent for lt. 'If the
GENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
condemns any portion of the report
REPORT.

be re-

but 1
House

it can

be sent back to commlttee.

REPORT ADOPTED.
The Order of the Day being called:

Hon. Mr. KIILCHHOFFER-I arn content
to witbdraw the motion.

Consideration of the third report of the C1ommlutee on Internai Economy and Contingent
Accounts.

of the
Honi. Mu. MILRTereport
sub-committee on stationary, &c., cornes np,
and I think lt would not be fair to coasider
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFE R-As there is the matter until, the chairman of the subIikely to be some discussion on this re- committee (Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier) is
port, 1 beg to more tbat tbe House resolve in hîs place.
itself into a Colmittee of the Whole ln
Hon. 'Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I move that
order thiat w-e may* discuss the flatter.
the Speaker do resume the Chair.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mu. VIDAL-I thiink the only way
(Ili the Comiimittee.)
is for the Cjbairman to rise, report progress,
andl asic leave to sit again.
Hon. -Mu. SCOTT-Is it niot rather an unHou. 'Mu. MILLER-If any precedent calu
usual course to consider a report of this
kita inl conillittee ? 1 bave no recollection be shown wbere the report of the Internal
of that being done on any puerions oc- Econoiny Committee bas been referred to a
WNIe bave discussed sncb reports Committee of the Wbole House, I have
casion.
nothing furtber to say.
f recly witb the Speaker in. tbe Chair.
Hon. MuNl.M-%ILLER-I tbinlc it should be 1Hon. Mu. KLRCHHOFFER-I want to get
I bave inoved the House
discnssed withi the Speaker in the Chair. 1ont of committee.

[-mAýY 1, 1901]

9

that this is an unusual proceeding, but 1 do
nlot tblnk that the ground taken by the hion.
Minister of Justice is tenable. Âny matter
whlcb requires mucb consideration and deliberation, and about wbich there nre likely
to be many motions, may be referred to the
Committee of the Whoie, as It ls supposed
that such a matter can be deait with more
conveniently ln Commlttee of the Whoie. As
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It stands.
to wbich is the better course, 1 have nothing
Hion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, it to say, but either course can be adopted.
does net stand. It bas to be piaced ou the
Orders of the Day by a speciai motion. Tbe
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I wouid not have comnonly motion that can properly be made is plained of the conduct of the Speaker. 1
tbat the chairman of the commlttee rise, barely caught the motion wnen I rose to
and tbe chairruan be ordered to report. He oppose it, but the Speaker did shut me off
can report progress If hie likes.
rather summarily, and put the motion, and
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My bon. friend is righ't It passed lu that way. There are clrcumeuough If we were regularly lu committee, tances connected with the Speaker's conduct
with somne business to be transacted by the on this occasion whlch, 1 think, it Just as
commlttee before us, but I do not thlnk that weli to state. I have been given to underthe rising of the commlttee wouid destroy stand that the Speaker is very muchi opo'r iu auy way affect the report, because the posed to features lu this report, and I precommittee bas no power or autbority to sume the motion was made lu this way,
deal witb the report. Golng Into Committee and we were hurried Into Committee of the
of the Whole on this occasion is a nugatory Wbole, where the Spenkez way be able to
net, and If my hon. friend asks that the act a prominent part. It Is nlot usuai for the
committee rIse, and the Speaker resuine tbe Speaker to take such a part ln relation to
Chair, tben bie may proceed wlb the report the report of a standing commlttee of thls
This House bas appointed an
preclsely the samne as If tbis motion had House.
Internai Economy Committee, and thant comnot been made at ail.
mittee bas always been aliowed to judge
(C.B.)-There
Mr. McDONÂLD
Hon.
of the Internai affairs and coutingencies of
Is another point ln connection witb this
tbe House, and no Speaker lbns ever intermatter to whicb I wlsb to cail atten- fered ln the matter until the present lncumWhen the lion. gentleman from
tion.
bent of the Chair thought proper to do so,
Brandon made bis motion and the bon.
aud, taken in the liglit that I believe the
Secretary of State rose to reply, before he hion. gentleman Is desirous of talrlng a strong
finisbed speaking, the bion. -gentleman f rom
part agalnst the report, tbe way ln wbich
Ricbmond aise rose to reply, but lu the
we were shut off is not at ail what it oughit
meantime, the Speaker decided tbe questo be, or the treatment that we are entltled
tion. and asked tbe bion, gentleman from
to from thq gentleman occupylng the posiWestmoreland to take tbe Chair. It is Irretion of Speaker of the House.
gular in my-opinion.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - 1
Hon. 31r. POWER-The bon, gentleman
from Cape Breton is in errer. The bion. sbould bave very great respect for any
gentleman from Brandon moved the motion, opinion givenl by the M.Ninister of Justice If
and I put the motion to the House aud de- it i-ere a question of iaw covered by the
clared It carried, and after tbe motion had statutes, eitbier constitutionai or comînon
beeu declared carried, the hion. the Secretary law, but we are just l tiis position, whieof State rose lu bis place ; but 1 couid not ther righitiy or wrongiy, wlietl er lu accordrecail what had been done, and after the ance w.itb system or not, the lion. genhon. Secretary of State sat down, I lef t tiemani from Brandon uioved tlhat the House
the Cbair, and it was after the chairman resolve Itself Into committee, and coneider
Tliat mny
bad taken the Chair that the hon, gentleman tlîis report clause by clause.
from Richmond spoke. I am quite aware bave been irreguiar nnd iiuproper. We wiil

into committee, aud uow the trouble is to
get out of committee.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-T-he bon, gentleman
can inove that tbe committee rise.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the.
committee rise witbout reportlng something, the report Is dead.

[SENATE]
The Is aiiowable to move an amendment, to add
flot discuse; that question at ail.
words, as a condition to a motion for concurSpeaker put the motion and declared it rence In a report. A report lias been somecarried, and asked the hon, gentleman from times adopted only In part.
Westmoreland to take the Chair. He is ln
Ail tbat is quite proper, but tiiere is no
the Chair. What for ? To consider a cer- suggestion thiat the House go iinto coinittee
tain report. Objection is taken to thiat mnodeŽ for the purpose of considering a report.
of procedure. Ail the Hquse bas to do is to It may do thiat for the purpose of conlsîdernet on the suggestion of the hon. gentlemani ing a Bill, but I do not think my hon. f riend
from Richmond, and get out of committee will find an instance where the House bas
in a legal way, so thitt the records cati be gone Into committee to consider reports.
kept correct, and the only way ls to move
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Several cases have octhiat the Chairman leave the Chair and recurred this session where reports have beeu
port. Thiat would place the report of the
laid on the Table without any resolution or
Contingent Accoutits Comnîittee fairly bemotion. Iii my opinion, It Is uanecessary to
fore the Senate, and tîten ive ctîn go on and
consider the report.
consider It ln the usual way, as sug-gested.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-T.be
I do not tlîink thiere Is nny rule about It.
opinion of Bourinot read by the Minister of
Hon. Mr. MILLER-After the commnittee
Justice bias nothlng to do wltlî the qluesrises, lt is competent for the lion. gentletion as to how we shall get out of committee.
man to make a motion, wvith the consent of
It sustains, to a certain extent, the position
the House, tîtat the report be placed lii the
taken by the hon. gentleman from 'Richsame position on the minutes as before.
mond as to golng Into committee, but we
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Let us are In committee now ; let us get out of ItL
get out of committee. We can do titat.
I more that the committee rise and the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I would cali attention to Chiairman report the tacts.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I tbink it would bo
the provision in BourInot, at page 51S,
to mention the facts. It would be well
whicli reads as follows :well
it Is the practice to move concurrence ln the
For
reports of committees In certain cases.
Instance, the reports on prlnting are lnvariably
as they contain recommendatioa
agrecd to,
for the printlng and distribution of documents,
whlch uet be duly authori&ed by the House.
Also reports containing certain opinions or tesolutions are frequeatly concurred In on motion. But when thc report des flot coatain any
resolution or other propositions for the consideration of the House. it does not appear
that any further proceedings wlth reference to
It remains In
It, as a report, are necessary.
the possession and on the journals of the House
as a ba.-ic or ground for sncb further proceedEvery
ings as may be proper or necessary.
sfession select committees make reports of thl5
description, containlng a statement of the facto,
or of the evidence on the subject of Inquiry ;
but as thcy do not contain any proposition whlch
can be agreed to by the flouse, they are slmply
Many
printed for the information of members.
motions for con.,-urren,ýe in reports of select
committees are brought up witbout notice, and
consent.
to pass by unanimous
allowerd
But Inail cases objection may be taken. and It
This is
is the regular course to give notice.
consequently aiways done when there is an objection taken, by one or more members to the
adoption of a report, and a debate is llkely 10
The reports of
arise on its subject-matter.
the committee relative to private Bis are not
concurred ln. as they are regulated by special
Sometimes, however, wben
standing orders.
one cf these committees bas made a special
recommendation, requiring the autbority of the
House to give it effcct, the concurrence of the
It
flouse wiil be formally asked and given.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.%

for the Chiairman to rise and report that
the matter would be better discussed in the
House, and that would bring back the wiole
oteHue
mte
oteHue
mte
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland), front
the committee, reported that they liad consldered the report, and that they thouglit the
report could be better deaif witlî in the
flouse than ln the comînittee.
Hon. Mr. K,ýIRCH-HOFF'ER-I

now beg to

move that this report be adopted.
n
hr
ILRI
r
Hn

rec

rec
n
br
ILRI
r
Hn
lu this matter?' I would ask the hon. gentleman to let it stand over until there is a
full House.
KIRCHHOFFER-Until whien ?
Hon. M-%r.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Untll Thursday. We
are lkely to have a full House on Thursday. because there are Important committees meeting on that day.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I have no ohwetion.

Ho.
Hn

there

r.

R

WS-

unesadtt

nesadta
S
r PO
le still important work before titat

[MAy

1, 19011

hon. f riend «will see by the 18th clause of
the Bill, as It was printed, that the Governor
lu Council may make such regniations as
hie considers necessary ln order ta secure
the efficient enforcement and operation of
The Order of the Day rwas discharged, this Act. Now, we propose ta make reguand ordered to be placed on the paper for lattons under that clause of the statute, and
Thursday next
so we do nlot propose ta adopt the proof the General Inspection Act, ta
INSPECTION 0F PACKAGES 0F FRUIT visions
which the hon, gentleman refers.
BILL.
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yau do
FROM COMMITTEE.
REPORTED
change Iu clause 18 ?
of the not propose any
The House resumed ln Committee
Wbole consideration of Bill (32) 'An Act
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Na. The han, gentleto provide for the marking and Inspection man will see under that there Is power ta
The
of packages contbaining fruit for sale.'
make regulations as ta inspectars.
parties who wiii be appointed ta lnspect
(In the Commdtee.)
fruit are persans *who wIli be called upon
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON moved the adop- ta dlscharge thase duties for but a very
tion of the foilowing amendment, as section short period of the year. A mouth, ln al
(a) ta the Bill
probabilty, will caver the season *within
The provisions of the General Inspec'tion Act, which apples are packed and got ready for
fromn eection 1 toi 26, Inclusive, and ail amend- the market, and It ls within that periad
ments thereto, shall apply, mutatis mutandis, ta
any Inspection which may be done under this that the Inspection would be required under
Act.
this Act, ta see that no0 fraud was attemptMy
Hon. Mr. MILLS-We cannot agree to that ed on the buyer or the consumer.
amendment. This Bill was prepared after bon. friend speaks about an examination.
very fulIl cansideration and discussion of The proper requirement Is a man wha Is
the subjeet with the Fruit Growers' As- thoroughly famihiar with the diff erent kinds
sociations ln the different provinces, and a of fruit, the seasan ln which they ripen, and
Bill was prepared by the Fruit Growers' the characteristlcs of each variety. That
Association for the province of Ontario, of Ia the qualification which lie wll requIre,
whIcb this Bill Is almost an exact trans- so far as bis knowiedge is cancerned, and
cript. In fact, the twa clauses that the hie ought ta be a thoroughly conscientiaus
cammittee struck out of the Bill yesterday and honest man, who wIll undertake ta give
are bath Included ln the Bill prepared by effect ta the Act lu accardance with the
the Fruit Growers' Association and sub- spirit of Its provisions. That we propose
mItted ta the department as a Bill that shahl be accomplished, and therefare, it la
would satIsfy, ln their opinion, the require- not desirable ta mix the provisions of this
ments of the trade, and give praper pro- Bill up -with thase of the statute to
tection ta those who purcbased Canadian whlch my hon. f riend fram Maraliapples for consumptian. Naw, witb regard field refera. It may be that after thia
ta the suggestion contained in the clause Act Is broughit Into operatian, anld after
submitted by the han. senator from Marsh- its operation bas been thoroughly estabfield (Mr. Ferguson), this Bill Is complete lshed, the Iaw upon this subject may be
I cannat say how far the pro- cansolidated, and the provisions of bathi
ln Itself.
visions of the Inspection Act cauld apply, atatutes combined In one, but the informaand theref are, I arn nat prepared ta take a tiein ivlich la necessary in order ta accomileap ln the dark, as suggested by the amend- plish ïthat satisfactorii'y 'we do nlot passes
ment ýof the hon. gentleman. I know that at the present time. The regulationa whichi
the Bill can be satisfactorily warked out, the gaverniment rtake power ta make, by
as an Independent part of the law applicable order in council, are regulatio-ns of a tenta fruits, but I do nlot knaw prectsely what tative character which every gaverumnent,
the effect wauld be of adopting the amend- *lu the present cainplex condition of society,
My *finds It necessary ta take in order properly
ment praposed by the hon. senator.
committee, and I would suggest that the
report be allowed to stand until the final
report of the committee cornes In, whIch
will be ln a few days.

[SEN ATEj
to carry on the wvork of atdiinistratIoni. field villi not press bis ineudment, but
T.he business of administration is a b)usiness ivili permit the Bill, as It lias been prepared,
for whicli the governîment Itself is responi- to receive a fair trial, 'with a vlew to its
ailie. We wish to secure a proper adminis- ameadmeat If experience shows that amendtration o>f the la-w tu ithils particular.
Wle ment is necesslary.
wlsli to prevent frauds being practiced upon
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My lion. f nlend Is
c1onsumners, that may bave the effect of seri- flot.altogether riglit In sayJng tliat the Hlouse
ously lnjurlng the fruit product of Canada, passed the clause empowering the goveraand the reports made certainiy shoYw that ment to m-ake regulations. We were just
some Injury lias been snstaIued already lu reaoliing It ivien 1 -moved this ameadment.
consequence of whiat lias been doue. So
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Mfy lion. friend Is mistUnit ln tUis respect whiat la proposed by
the Departmnent of Agriculture ds a mnore~ taken. Everythlng that was la the Bill ls
efficient administration than it -was possihie carried. The Bill simply stoo-d over to conto secure under the law as 1lt stood. Tliat sider the ameadment o! tie lion. gentleman.
efficient administration the depart-ment lias
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-Thiat Is not macoasldered. lt lias liroughit to Jts assistance terial, anyway." Il rose to miove that this
prouminent men ia the different Fruit Grow- ameadmnent lie added after 14. I cannot
ers, Associations of -the Dominion. The in- agree wltli the hon, gentleman ia the views
foraartion whlîi they could give and the lie lias put before us. 1 can see nosuggestions w-idci they felt it ilheir duty thing whatever in the reasons lie lias given
to, make were before the minister of the wliy w-e sliould depart froin the safeDepartmnent of Agriculture. This Bill lias guards which parliament, la its wlsdom,
beau prepared to carry lato effect the vari- liolds should surround the inspection o!
oua sug-gestions wih.icli have been made by stapies of any kind. Tliat is a niatter on
these -parties to secure a better administra- w-hidi the parîlaiment of Canada long ago
tion of the trade o! the country, so far as legislated, upon, uwhJcli w-e have frequcntly
fruit is concerned, and I trust that this legisiated , bringing the îaw up te the verY
Bouse wîîl co-operate'. 'with the miaister latest viciva. Fromn sections 1 to 26 o! the
wlio ilis undertaken tbis wçork, and who Inspection Act there is provision for malias the duties relating to the oversight of chlncry wlth which to do thua Inspection.
this tî'ade imposed nupon hlmn by the law, The very fouadation of tlint la tihat there
nda by thia amendment to the law lie trusts shahl be quaified inspectors-that the boards
It wll lie made mýore effective. If experi- of trade ishaH- appoint examinera, that candience shows, ln the course of m year or two, dates for the office of 4nspector shahl apthat other amendments niay be adopted for pear before those boar'ds of trade, a*nd tliat
the purrpose of securing a more effiedent ad- if they are found to lie qualified, ceriliiiniistratio.n, i am sure that there wiili lie cates shall le granted to tieni, and ont o!
iio objection to that lieinig done, but my persens s0 qualified the government can apanxious desire le, and I thiink it le the de- point inspectors. They are not lîmited la
sire of those who are eugaged la the pro- their choice to one or tivo. There w-I no
duction of fruit in thls country, that the lu- doulit le -many candidates whio have passed
formation placed art the disposai of this. their examinations and bcorne qualifled.
department that lias been systematized and My lion. friead laid stress on the faet tint
put la the form. of the Bill wbîch is now tus Bill gîves thc Governor ia Council
liefore the House, lnay lie nmade law and powver to make regulations, and lie ioids tint
the xutnister affordedi a fair opportunity of under those regniations everything neceaaary
giving effect to regulations -in the public lu- to lie donc can lie done as w-cil as under
terest, based upon the information whicli the Inspection Act.
That is a point I
lie has acquired, and the viewis and opinions cannlot agree with, for I .find the powver
of the officers of the departmneut w-ho have the hon, gentleman is taking to the govbeen specialiy concerned la tie acquisition ernmeiit is flot as great as it la under thc
of thus information from varions parties Inspection gAct. There is no power to imw-ho are iaterested. That bein.g the case, pose penalties. Section 14 o! the General
I trust 'that the lion. senator friom Marsh- Inspection Act says tint the Governor ia
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[MAY 1, 1901]
6, and I find that while somne of them speciCouncil may require securities f rom the la- 2
Manitoba, the
time to time a 11y refer to the grain trade of
spectors, and they umay from
est of themn are general, and -that they coumake regulations for the guidance and gov- r
ain nlothlng liiconsistent witli the direction
ernment of the Inspectera under the Act, ild conduct cof tie proper inspection of
or any of them, and of persons empioying a
On the contrary, I fibd tbat tie
ruit.
themn, and may by sucli regulations Impose f
v-hole tenor of these sections from 1 to 26
penalties on any person offeading against ' f the Inspection Act is in the r1glit directbem. Noir, my hbon. friend does nlot pre- oion, and wvlll save the governimeut a vast
tend to say that under the clause of this t Lmount of trouble ln nking regulatiofle
Bill he can Impose a ,penalty on un inspec-n Lfd keeping everytbing riglit. The only
ter simply by the power to niakhe regula- n
>bjection tlîat my hou. friend offers against
tiens. That is somnethlng the Governor ln oidoptiiug tlis safe course, that I have heard,
Tluey can makie reCouncil caunot do.
:bat meets the case at ail, is that there Is
gulations, but not a reguiatiou to impose t )nly a short senson for tic fruit trade,
a money penalty for violating the regula- and, therefore, It ls nlot worthi while taklng
They may dismiss the Inspecter,
tions.
measures for securlng qualiled Inspectera at
but nothlng more. If imy lion. friend mlii i ,east 1 understood that iras the conclusion
go over those -clauses of the Inspection Act1 -because the sen son iras so short.
As
lie will find every care ls taken to have- far as *ny observationi goes, Uic season ls
Supposiug
thoroughiy qualified lnspectors.
sot shorter than Uic scason ln other staples.
that these men act fraudulently under this Takze herrings, I tlîink the scason for fruit
Bill, there is no money penalty tliot we eau ls quite as long as for the lierrîng trade.
impose upon theml for dolng so.
Take mnckerel, pot and pearl asbes-tuy
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Or any of the articles enumerated, unless lt ls
other penalty?
bides and leather and flour-the scason la
they cou-Id qulte as long for fruit as it Is for these.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-Yes,
do nlot know, but, taking one klid
be dlsmissed, but It ls possible for greater ln fact I
cover almost the
by unqualified and dis- of fruit and another, thcy
wrong to lie donc
wiiole year. 1 do 'not want to press iny
hionest Inspectera than the fauits that are
unduly on tbls point, but I thinli If
alleged against the packers of tîle fruit. vlew
the Bill la golng to bc workable and do
They may accept bribes-may use the
ire ouglit to have ahl the safeguards
stamps lmproperly, and brand as good those good,
that the lairImposes witlî regard to havhug
that are bail and vice versa, and yet they are
It Ès ail
qualified men to carry It: out.
nlot open to any penalty. The Inspection Act
that
le quali- very -wehi for my lion. frlend to say
provides that these inspectera shall
That ls
governiment arc responsible.
fied men, shahl kive securlty. that they shahl the
ire had a goverument responsible
take an oath of office and bee hable to penal- truc, -but
thc Inspection Act iras passed, and
ties If they do wrong. The penalties should w'hen
lias been amended from ti'xn to
not lie ail one-slded. Let me tell my hon. irben It
lime. WVe -have bad governmeflts ln power
friend, the value of tlîe legilsîntlon depends
wlth due respect to my hon. friend
entirely on the qualifications of the lu- that,
and luls collengues, irere just as quallfied
If tbey are net good men and
spectors.
on the affairs of the country as
are not held responsible, and unless ail the to carry
they are, and they did not appear to think
obligations are -laid over them to make themn
it was auy reflection on them. to have their
discharge their duty pro.perly, this measure
that they
I am sur- hands tied up .by these provisions,
-cannot he cnrrled ont right.
I
appoint quaiified înspectors.
shonld only
prised that the goverument would not at
canno>t for the 11f e of me, sec any reason
once fall lu itli the idea that mwe shonld
-we should not adopt the amendment,
have lnspectors appoiated un-der thc care- why
and then If thie provisions of the Bill are
fui provisions set forth In the Inspection
good, as I know some of them are, we wmU
Act. The mords of my ameudment are there,
have ail undoubtedly quallfied class of lnthat they shahl ap'ply as far as they are found
spectors, for they -wlll be subject to Teto lie practicabie and satisfactory. I have
gulations, lairs and penalties to kecp them
looked over the sections of the Act from 1 to

SENATE]

*

in t'e rigit Iune, and there -will be every difficulties in this matter that reaily have
no foundation. If, in a year hence, it Is
guarantee tint we wili have a good iaw.
found that inspectors have been named 'wbo
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Looking over the Gen- are flot efficient, I think it would lie quite
eral Inspection Act, I find tlie clauses are proper to eall attention to It, and demand a
not really germane to the subject now unider ehbqnge in the law. Mr. Fisher wili be most
consideration-that the boards which report anious, from the advice of those who are
on the inspectors are not boards that are as lis usual guides, to obtain the best inspeca rule conversant with the fruit question. tors, because lie Is really anxlous to have
It ia a spocial matter. Fruits are not grown the apple trade put on a basis that will lie
In cities and towns. The boards of trade profitable to Canada and an lionour to the
referred to la the Act are at the cities of country. A great many fraude have been
Quebec, M.%ontreal, Toronto, Hamilton, Lon- practiced heretofore, and an Inspection Is
don, Ottawa, Winnipeg, and similar centres. demanded. Moreover, the inapectors named
The subjects to which the Inspection Act Ia the clause to whuch my lion. friead lias
refers are germane to, the boards of trade. referred are Inspectors for permanent work,
The men who are familiar with the suli- whereas under the practice that wiIl projects resîde In towns and cities. Take the bably preval, comparativeiy a small numflour and meal trade, the wleat and grain, ber of inspectors wlU be permanent at the
the beef and pork trade, potash and pearl cities of Montreal, Halifax and St. John, the
asli, leather and raiw bides-these are al ports of export. There will lie lnspectors
subjects whlcb members of the boards of for a few weeks, or months or so, in tliese
trade may be conversant with, but, I sub- portions of the country where the fruit is
mit the boards of trade of cities are not grown, Iu order to facilitate the inspection,
tlie best persons to appoint those who are s0 I think my hion. friend is pressing lis
to inspect fruit. They are persous wlio are views on the House unduly and witliout
generaliy the leaders of tbé various fruit any justification.
associations, who take a very deep interest
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There is n board
ln the subjeet. They are satisfactory men.
of trade for King's county, N.S., right in
Tley are known more particularly to tbe
Agriculture Department, because they make the heart of thie apple-growing valley, and
reports there. M~y hou. friend Imagines that that board of trade would lie the lest to
the minister is wanting some political job deal with this question, and ail the governor other. Nothing can be further f rom the ment would bave to do would be to coinIf anybody takes a municate with tliem, and tliey would malze
Intention than that.
pride ln the success of the department, Mr. examinations. It is non-polîticai. and you
would have good Inspection.
Fisher does.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They are not thle boards
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Mr.
of trade mentioned in the Inspection Act.
Fisher mny not always be there.
Those boards of trade are in the cities.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-M-Nr. Fisher Is guided
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That clause bas
by officers In whom my hion. friend liad confidence. Mr. Robertson is the principal one. been ameaded again and again, with regard
The to naming the boards of trade, and there is a
Surely you bad confidence iii hlm.
selections are made from the best men provision furtlier on tint where there is no
amongst the growers, wbo tboroughly un- board of trade, the Governor in Council
may appoint examiners. All that bas been
derstand the business of fruit-growing.
provided. I might say, further, that if thc
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If you goverament will guarantee thnt the CoinImpose that duty on Mr. Robertson, we wl missioner of Agriculture will direct this
withdraw nny objection to the Bill.
matter, we have lad experience in our ownl
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am sure Mr. Rtobert- province of bis administration, and there ls
son's opinion will prevail largely. He has the utmost confidence in hîrn, tbat lie would
been the principal officer preparing this Bill not allow any political consideration wliatin connection with the different fruit- ever to corne in, and tînt lie wouid put bis
growers' associations. You are conjuring up hand on tbe right men to carry out the proHon. NIr. PERGUSON.

[MAY 1, 1901]

30.5

visions of tihe Bibi. 1 would feel safer Ili visions of the Inspection Act, where boards
bis bands than even in a board of oxamnin- of .trade make the examînation of the
parties. That relates ta certain matters,
ers, If be were allawed a free baud.
where scientific knowledge is required,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-HEe wlll Insist an a free wherc an examination la necessary, the
hand In this matter.
licensing of sklled persoa for the InspecHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have had a littie tion of drugs or some other things where
oxperlence wblcb makes me anxians about chemicai knowledge la required. That bas
this. We have had It dlscusoed over and no applicability in a matter of this sort,
ovor again In this House, where a matter and bouides that, the condition of the Inwas mun entirely on political lines--whero spectors being appointed by the porson who
a man was appainted for pohitical reasonu ls constitutlonafly responsible to parliament.
only. He put hlmself In the bands of mon and not by some outside body, who have no
wba had the palItIcal. patranage, and thoy sncb responsibity, 1s tbat the officers are
dlrected him. Havlng badl that experience, more dlrectly undor the control, and subjeet
we. are approbenuive of what may happen ta the minister, who la responsible ta paragain, but If my hon. friend wifl give any liamont. I arn porfoctly sure that the proassurance that the matter wil be mun on vision of the law, as proposed by the tainsncb linos as I knaw the Commisuioner of juter, ls roasonable, and I trust that tbis
Agriculture would ru It If he were ef t a Hanse wiil not pranounce In favour of the
free bandameudment propased by the hon, gentleman,
be very
Hon. Mr. MILLS-If my bon. friend becauso the offect of that would
a pledge that the govorn- serions, so far as the Bill is concerned.
wants me ta give
ment wIll abdicate Its functionu-that the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I hope the han, genmatter sbail be withdrawn from the min- tleman fram tMarslfield wIll not persist la
istor hegally In charge and banded over ta pushing this amenidrent ta a division. The
an officer, no sucb assurance wihh be given. ba'n. gentleman admits, and 1 think we ail
The minister will consut those about him- recognize that with the amendaients which
those be considers campetent parties ta do- were made In the substantive portion of
My han. friend suggests that we the Bill yesterday, 'the Bill ls good now.
cide.
sbauhd Incarporate ln this Bill the provisions The question of administration, or procedaf the Inspection Act but Iu reading them are, I think we had botter beave wl-th the
it wlll be seen tbey relate mainly ta another govornmont. I voas disposed ta think, and
matter. I pointod out before that the pack- arn somewhat diaposed to thlnk stiU, that
ing and sale of fruit grown ln Canada occu- perbapa a wlser plan might have 'been to
pies but a very small portion of the season. have Introduced the mossure as an amendMy ban. frlend speaku about boards of trade. ment 'to the ýGeneral' 'Inspection Act, but I
Any man wba takes an Interest la the arn not qulte es stroaug In that opinion as
cultivation of fruit an bis f arm In the coun- I was two or three days ago. The gaTtry lu better quallfied ta say wbo la fit ta ernment tadoptod a different policy. They
Inspeet tbem, than a member of the Board have îintradnced this ;Bill as an independent
of Trade In Montreal or any other city, no measure, and I can see certain reasons for
matter how extensive lbs commerce may be. dolng'that. The administration of the GenIt lu ont of their line. Tboy are not as eral Inspection Âct, as 1 understand It, la
famihiar with the uubject as the man who chiefly In the bands of the Minister of lula accustomed ta growlng fruit and knawu land Revenue. The administration of this
somethlng of the sehection and packing of Act would be in the bands of the Departthe fruit, and the bout means af preserving ment of Agriculture; and I think there la
It from disease. Ho possesuos more Informa- sometbi>g In favaur of chaving the work
tion an the subject than any other party carried on Independetly of the Genoral Iapassibly con, and It lu fram sncb persoa spectian Âct, and as this substantive law
that that practical 1knowledge that lu re- lu good, we bad better naw having gat a
qnlred for proper Inspection that proper guad BIRi, not interfo're witb the adminisand their
inspectors can be taken, and.-tbey wlll ho tration, butalhow the goverument
afficers ta adniin'istor In the way *wbich
taken. My ban. friond speaks of the pro20

[SENSATE]
they think best. The 'Minister of Agriculture
wiii lie -charged witli the administration of
this Bill if it 'becornes law, and I taink ir
Is not too mucli to say that lie miglit be
allowed to bave the administrative portions
of thie Iaw as lie wvishes, and If, after a
year or so, it is found tliat It does not work,
It can be altered.
Hon. ýSir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
just about makzing the suggestion, or very
nearly .the same suggestion ito *ry bon.
friend, as bas been made by the Speaker;
before doing so I desire to ask the hon.
Mialater of Justice wbat objection wouid
tbere lie te, takIng a littie mnore power.
There is a fear la the niinds of frui*t-growers and shippers of fruit of tlie effect of the
Inspection -they will have under the law.
Wby not take the power in the lSth clause
of tbe Bill to impose the sanie penalties
tuat the Governor lia Council may impose
by tlie 14tb section of the Generall Inspection Act, whdchb las beea already read Ùy
my lion. friend. 1 have copied thie exact
words. I think it wili give mnore confidence
to the fruit-growers and tlie shippers, those
conceraed Ia the commercial aspect of ît,
than If there is no Power given to the GOvernor In Council to imPosq a penalty. NO
government lias power to impoee a penalty
unless tlie power is received directiy frorn
Thlaît Is a well-k-nown f act.
parliaînent.
ahould flot your clause read Ibis way :
Wý%hy
The Governor in Council may make regulations
as he considers necessary in order to secure the
efficient fuifilunent and operation of this Act,
and may by such regulationThese are the words that appear in tbe 1-Ith
clause of the General Inspection Act to
wblcb I refer.
And rnay by sucb regulations impose penalties
not exceedlng $50 on any person offending against
thern.
That is thie regulation wbich you Malte.
That la giving more power to tlie Governor
la Council. It is glving tliem power to maLe
regulations to impose a penalty upon the
person appointed to nuake these Inspections,
would the addition of tbese words not lie an
improvement ?
Hon. Mr. M3iILLS--I see -no objection at ail.
BOWELL-In
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
order to show niy lion. friend wvlat fear
exists in the minds of large producers of
fruit in Ontario, and niso sh-ippers, I wili
Hon. Mr. POWER.

read a Jetter sent to My hon. fri'end fromr
Ma.rslifield, which lie lias placed in my
bands. 1 do flot know that it is necessary
to give -the narne, but 1 will band the letter
to the hon. Minister of Justice, and to the
hion. Secretary of State, and tliey will se
that It is f ram a gentleman weli versedi l
fruit culture and -in the shlipping. of fruit
from Ontario, and tliey ean judge of the
force Of the Ternnrks lie lias made. The
letter reads as fello'ws :
April 25tb, 1901.
The Hon. D. Ferguson,
ottawq. ont.
Dear Sir,-Your favour of the 19th instant
I
I could flot answer you sooner.
to band.
agree wlth you that clauses il and 14 la Bill
There rnay be corn32, 1901, are rnDnsrrous.
petent Inspectors appointed, but it Is not at ail
There is no justice or reason in cornllkeIy.
pellng me or any other shipper of appies to
subrnit our Interests to be piayed wlth by men
who are incompetent and where there Is no
chance of redress where wrong bas been done,
for instance, supposing 1 have made a shipmen' of apples to Liverpool, an inspector cornes
aiong at Montreai, opens Up a package of fruit,
conderons i, and brands the shlprnent falsely
packed; these apples go on board, the fruit
happens, as it often does, to land la an unsound
condition; there ls no possibility of my prnvlng
that the fruit Is honestly packed, and 1 amn
branded a rogue wlthout a chance of clearlng
myseif. If this Bill becomes iaw and the penalties snd conditions named la It are enforced,
It will sirnpiy kiii the export trade of Canada.
I, for one, wouid want to change my place of
operations to some point la the United States,
slrnply because I wiii not place my intereste la
the hands of men who may or may not know
one appie from another, and whose intereet It
Is to secure conviction whenever they can, whether fraud has been perpetrated or not. Apple
exporters, as a rule, are anxiaus to have their
They pay for
fruit put up_ honestiy and well.
good fruit, and If they get fraudulently packed
stock, it is because dishonest empioyees have
Shippers' fruit that rnay be
accepted bribes.
fraudulently packed Is generally sold on is
as they are concerned; there are
merits s0 far
some buyers wha buy this kind o! fruit on its
merits, but who, because of the greater profit,
I arn incloslng two conseil on its face value.
tract forma upon which (or airnilar forms) the
bulk of the apples are purchased.
I approve of the branding of the packers'
narne on each and every package; this will do
rnuch to put a stop to dishoneat apple-packflg,
and will, I believe, prevent the sanie arnong
peacli packers where the grzatest amounit of
Much
fraud has been practiced in the past.
more rnight be saiS, but your patience and rny
permit of it.
time will flot
It cornes from a gentleman In western
Ontario: The bon. ¶nlnister having acceptcd
the arndment, wbicli 1 bave siiggesited, 1
tbinlz My lion. friend from MLIars-ifield wvil
have to be content nd hiold the government responsible for any dereliction of duty.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, bear.

IMAY 1, 1901]

307

Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-That would permit several varieties to be put lu the samne barrel.
fta
HnM.FRUO-Teefe
fta
r EGSNTeefc
Hn
ameudment would be this: 1 itnow lni the
province of Ontario 1 have often heard the
dlfficulty described by those lnterested ln
the fruit trade there, and I know ln our
own province of Prince Edward Island the
difficuity Is, we have so many dîffereut
In Nova
ln the samne orchards.
ïScotia they are far ahead of us lu that
respect, because they have settled on a few
varleties that they cultivate and deal lu,
but ln places where there are many varieties, a mau may flnd hie lias filled a barrel
with Ben Davis to withiu a few luchies of
the top. The question Is then, shall lie f11
jup wlth luferior apples of that varlety, or
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes. wlth equaily good apples of somne other
nlot
The hon. gentleman may imake It applicable variety. As long as the apples -are
fec
eu
tsol
nqaiy
to the inspectors alone 4f lie pieases. This ifro
Ito M11 up the barrel with another varlety.
maltes It general.
My hon. friend shah-es bis head, but If lie
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-ThIat -wili be bet- iih 'turu back to clause 4 lie wlll find
ter. All that Is wanted Is that the goveru- that the Bill has been framed wlth the
meut have power to makte a penalty agalnst very vlew I arn taking. It provides, amongst
other thlngs, that the package shall be
d1shonest inspectors.
marked «Wlth the name of the varlety or
The ameudment was withdra.wn.
varleties,' and that It was ln contemplation
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON. I wish to cail niy that such a thlng would happen as two
hon. frJeud's attention to a smaii point Ili varieties beiug put lu the samne barrel. The
fdea is, It shaîl not be a fraud as long as
clauses 8 and 9. They are as follows :
S. No person shall seli, or offer, expose or have the apples that are put lu to 1111 up the
ln bis possession for sale any fruit packed ln a ibarrel are flot inferior lu quallty or varlety
closed package, upon whlch package Is marked'
any designalian which represeuts sucb fruit as to the appies named on the head of the
of finest, best or extra good quality. unisse sucli larrel. It Is contemplated In clause 4 of
fruit consist of wehl-grown specimens of one L'he Bill that there miglit be two varieties
variety, solind, of nearly unform size, of good
colour for the variety. of normal shape and flot lu the one barrel, and that being the case,
less than 90 per cent free from. scab, worm- the two naines miglit be put ou the head of
udrlev
holes, bruises and other defects, and properlytebarlInceayutt

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Iy miotion lbas
been before the conmittee, and lu deferenee
to the views of -lion. gentlemen, and haviiig
heard -the assurance of the eninisters of their
Intentions with regard to the administrations of the Act, 1 will flot press -the amendment, but wili be satisfied with the on
which the hou, leader of the opposition hal5
sug-gested, and which the hou. leader of the
goenetbas accepted.
govrafentvarieties
Hou. Mr. 11ILLS-I may say that I have
prepared a draft subelause to carry out Ili,
suggestion by amending the 18th clause of
the BiU, introducing the penalty as provided
lu section 14 of the Inýspertion A.ct. Before the Bill Is read the 'third time, I will
more the ameudment, If the bon. gentleman
will accept that.

packed.th
9. No person shall sell, or offer, expose or have
In bis possession for sale, any fruit packed l
aoy package ln wblch the faced or shown sur
face gives a falie representation of the contents of sncb package; and it shall le considerd
a false representation wheni more than là per
cent o! sucb fruit is substantlly smaller ln
size tban. or inferior la grade to, or different
In variety f rom, the faced or sbowa surface of

sncb package.

Now, I thluk a small ameudment tbere wilI

malte the clause very mucb better and
fairer. I would suggest after the word
Inferior lu grade'1 that you Insert the words
or varlety,' and then strike ont the words
or differeut in variety from,' and the effect
of that ameudment would be this-20,O

lev
ol
eesrbtI
arlI
a packer from being charged with fraud,
whie bis ouly offence had been to put lu

apples wozrth more than the variety stated
on the head of the barrel.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. frlend knows
very well that ail varleties of apples do

flot ripen at the saine time. For instance,
take the Nortbern Spy; It does flot mature
until March or April. Kinge ripen some
months eariier. If you always put lu varieties which could be used at the saine time,
It would be different, but my hon. friend
ltnows very well that an apple wbich comles
lu season lu October would be a decayed

[.SE.,;

apple iu Jauuary, aud it mighit lie lu the
barrel -with fruit whicb would Dot mature
until 'March or April, sucli as the Nortberui
Spy.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That wauld cure
ltself, because if sucb a thlng was done,
they would be ail rotten before that lime
of the year. My view Is, the quallty of the
apples, Its lnferiorlty or superlarity, depends on Its keeping qualities. Every one
knows the Nortbern Spy Is a much better
apple than the Beu Davis apple. 'My suggestion is that lt shauld uot be a fraud if the
packer, wlio bad been filling bis liarrels
wlth Na. 1 Ben Davis, and rau out, sbould
put In a gallon or two of au apple that was
as good la quallty.

fE J
tbu* Bill as it Dow stands, and probably the
amendmeut the bon, gentleman bas suggested, of puttilg a penalty on the inspector
is ail riglit, but ta mIx the apples, and allow
differeut varieties to be placed ia the same
barrel, would be certainly unfair. I arn
xiot referrlng to the export trade, but ta
the Import; trade of Manitoba, -wbere we are
affected, and wisb ta, have apples kept, and
where probably as mucli or more fraud has
been perpetrated by shippers from the east
ta .Manitoba tban by shipments to the old
country. For that reason, I sbould decidedly abject to have two or tbree varie~ties of apples ln one barrel, and flot bold
the packer responsIble for tbe mixture.

Hon. Mr. McCALLU.M-ls the hou. gentliman aware how tliey pnck apples lu the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbere migbt be a great province of Ontario ?
many disputes as ta whiether they were IaHon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
ferlar la quallty or not, and 1 arn told by
an authority that the suggestion made by
Hon. '.%r. M-\cCALLUM.N-As fir as my exthe bon. senator, If acted upon, wauld Seritrade, whlle perience goes, and it is considerable, they
ously Injure apples In the export
If it is
It might perbaps be right enougb If the var- put but one variety lu a barrel.
the local market. Northern Spy tbey put in that kiud; if it
leties were lntended for
lu Kîngs; if it is Rhode
It -would lie Injurions, bawever, lu the case is Kiuigs, tbey put
There
Island, tbey put ln that variety.
of the European markets.
all kinds of apples are packed separateHan. Mr. FERGUSON-I would like ta Iy, sa there cannot be týwo kinds In a barrel;
know wbo the autbority Is that -would say but if a farmer wants ta go ta the market
thnt Is not a praper provision, so we wouhd and takes a barrel Of mlixed apples and
know who la respoasible for sncb an opin- wqallts ta seil It, -lie tells the buyer whiat
Ion.
lie lias. He is flot deceiving the buyer.
Wlieu a miln gets up aud says you eaui ship
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I hope the House wil mlxed apples ta England or M-Nanitoba, lie
not agree ta the suggestion made by the is inistaken, and whien lie speaks of puttilig
bon. gentleman, because It 'would certalnly apples ln the cellar 'and taking care of
affect the purchaser of apples lu Manitoba theni, tbey must lie taken great cave of
As bas
and the Nortb-west Territorles.
They waut ta be kept alinost at
there.
been just said by the, Mipilster of Justice, the freezinig point- There is verv little
au apple that would not keep part the differeuce in that respect iu the qualitY Of
month of January might bie put la wltb apples; they ail require ta be kept near the
Nortbiern Spies, whicb would keep until freezing point, lu the province of Ontario,
MNardi or April. The cansequeuce would ta iny kuowledge, as f.ar as it extends, we
bie, you would Enud tbe whole lot rotten. In ou'ly put one kind of apples lu a barrel,
Manitoba a persan buys bis stock of apples lot tw'o or three kiuds.
lu the fahl, aud places tbem la bis celiar,
lion. «,Nr. WATSON-I bave bad saie exaud be expects a barrel of Nartbern Spy
until Marcb or April. If p erience of purchnsing apples packed ini
apples will keep
No inter than hast fall 1 bougît
a f ew of thase apples, wbicb 'would nat SOntnrio.
were Put wvlat 1 eoausidered blf a dozen barrels of
keep past the montb of Janunry,
I fouud thern
la the barrel, the resuit would be the whole No. 1 Northeru Spy apples.
by the time il -mixed.
barrel would lie destroyed
was opeued iu Mardi, and couseqîieutlY thal
M.\cCALLUM\-.Nixed w-li w-bat ?
wouid flot lie fair. I bave Doa abjection tc I lou. Mr.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

U)LAy 1, 190]]
Ilon. Mr. WATSON-Mixecl witlî apples do nîot know whiether tbey do that, but I
that would not keej) like Nortberni Spies- suppose like ail iil selling goods, Nvhen
the barre] is opened, they waîît it to look
Ben Davis aud Greeniu.
The fariner lias iuothas well as possible.
Hou. Mr. McCALLUM-You must have ing to do with thiat; it is the packer.
If
as culls.
boughit thein very clheup,
hie gîi-es you an inferIor quality to wbat
Hlon. Mr. WATSON-I boughit at $3.50 you bought, lie can be punislhed. The lion.
I hope this gentlemaun's statement would give a Ibad
per barrel-thie highest price.
Bill wIUl pass, and the people wvill be punlsh- character to the growers aîîd pack-ers of
ed who pack apples lu that way. Accord- apples Ili Onitario, and ln tlîat bie is flot
Ii- to the hon. gentleman's statement there correct.
At leat I will îlot be a party
Is lio reason for nîaking this amendment, to glvlng tlîeî sucli a reputation. They
because apples are nlot pnck-ed as repre- are as holnest people as you m-111 flnd ia this
sented; but 1 suffered frami thiat sort of counîtry. or anly athier coaîitry, anid they
packing lat fa]]. In tact It la a constant are ready to give you valne for wliat you
complaint that the barrels are faced %vitli buy, but If yan pay a poor quality price,
a better quality of apples tban are found yoti must expect a poor qualit3- apple. If
lu the centre of the barrel.
The 'big ones you buy a first-class article yeu imust pay
are placed on the top, and small and worth- the prIce.
less apples In the middle.
The objeet of
Honi. Mr. WATSON-I arni not aware thlat
framlug this Bill to-day, Is to preveut that
Ihave ever seen apples sold in Manitoba
kind of packing.
that were branlded under the Inspection Act.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Were I aîn uîîder tlîe imupressionî that whien tiiis
the apples which you'purchased branded Bill la passed, dealîug specinhly witlî apples,
as of any quality ?
slîippers of apples to Manitoba wiill try and
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, there was no have them marked ln future. I belleve It
wlll have that effect, and If It has, then the

necessity to brand them.
penalty can be attached when fraud is coinHou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whly ? mltted. Apples are marked, witlî ail ordiHon. '.%r. WATSON-Tliere was ne Act nary card fput on the barre] "first-class
apples for sale.' Under section 8 of this
ta compel them to brand the barrels.
Bill we are uow passiug-, tiney wlll corne
Hfou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Sup- under the penalty clause, because It proposing they do nlot brand them now, the vides thiat:
brahlding is nlot compulsory. aud yau wll
No persan shall seil, or offer, or expose for
be l the saine position.
sale, or have In his possession for sale. any
fruit packed la a closed package, upon whlch
Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-I thiul, nat. 1 will package la marked the grade ' A No. 1, Canada,'
unless such fruit conslst of weIl-grown specirequire them branded.
mens of one varlety, of normal shape, and not
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWIELL-Wby less thsn 90 rer cent frea from scab, worm-holes,
did you nat do so before ? The law pro- brulses and other defects, and properly packed.
Now, It appears to me that sellers of
vided what A No. 1 apple sbould be, and
if you were buying apples you should ln- apples will be very careful nlot ta impose
sist on liaving tlîem No. 1. If you bought ally fraud an their customers by handling
without the brnd, you toolz tlie apples at apples that they are iîot satîsfied will coinyour owiu risk, just as you will under tbis ply with the requirements of the Inspection
Bill if the packer does nlot braîîd the Act. For that reason, 1 believe the fruits
shipped ta 'Manitoba nexi year 'ili be
barrels.
branded. and if a persan wants ta bny firstHoui. Mr. -NcCALLUM-If the bon, gentleclass fruit, hie will be able ta get it.
man bought apples lu that way, hie must
Hou. Mr. FERGUSO-N-I cannat congratuhave bought a cheap lot. The seller must
When a late rny lion. friend !i charge of this Bill
have tald hlmi what they were.
fariner in Ontario souls bis aPPles, the an bis disposition teaencept reasonable
buyer takes thein and pluts 0111Y One class amendments. I thought I had only ta make
of apples lu the barre]. The lion. gentle- the suggestion with regard ta tlîis ta have
I it admitted ta be seif-evident. Let us see
minî speaks of facing wlth big apple6.

[SEN'ýATE

310

what we aire proposing to do.
:St.
that

W-e provide reported Bill (43) ' An Act to incorporate the
Lawrence Lloyds,' with ameudment.

No person shall seIi, or offer, expose or have
la his possession for sale any fruit packed la any
-package in which the faced or showa surface
gives s false representation of the contents of
such package; and it shall be considered a false
representation 'whea more than 15 per cent of
such fruit Is substaatially smaller In size tsan,
or inferior ia grade to, or dîffereat la variety
from, the faced or sliowa surface of sudh package.
Now, under that clause, if a man puts a
quart, or something likze that, of apples of a
difierent variety tbat are better than the
named v-ariety In the' tail of the barrel, that
man is hiable to fine and Imprîsonient aad
Does the hon, gentleman
bard labour.
thini lie could operate sucli a han- as that,
that lie could have that mian attaclied to a
cart, breaklng stones on the road, because
lie did that ? Yet, JI: is what the bon. gentleman proposes to do. I can afford to let the
clause go if tlie hon, gentleman thinits that
ls sensible legîsiation.
Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-It
If tbere rwere a
grade.'
lie wouhd not be hiable.

says ' iuferior
better quality

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The inferior ln
grade refers to the quahity, and It adds 'or
different In variety.1 The Bihl contemplates
In clause 4, that tbere may be two varieties
tu one barrel.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-This section
that to the extent of 15 per cent.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-Let

admits

it go.

Hon. 3fr. KIRCHIHOFFER, from the' committee, reported the Bill with ameadments,
whlch were concurred in.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottaiva, Thursday, May 2, 1901.

The SPEAKER tooli the Chair at Three
o'cdock.
Prayers and routine proceediings.

ST. LAWRENCE LLOYD'S CORPORATION BILL.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND
rence in the amendments.

moved concur-

Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I tbinli there bas beeji
a departure from our usual practice whicb
should flot be indulged in, and that Is neceptlng an amendment whlch we know
It may be an Important
notldng about
amendment which requires consideration.
Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tliere are but
two amendments, and one of them lS of a
clerical nature, affectlng the last clause,
whicli the Law Clerki of the Senate lias represented as being a vicious clause, althougb
a general one, concerning the non-user. The
Law Clerli thouglit the laws putting an end
to the operations of a company, or a charter ,througli failure to proceed during the'
two years, were so radical that people who
had contracted wvitli the companies for the
preliminary organization could not even
dlaimu from the sharebolders that the' company lied ever any legal existence. The
Law Clerk suggested that It would be better to amend that clause for the future and
that was concurred in by the committee.
Lt is a simple alteration ia the clause, ln
order to malte It perfectly clear that the
charter will be lienceforth Inoperative, without taking ail recourse from the creditors
of the company. The other clause whichi is
affectedl is clause 7. This is a marine lnsurance company, which asks to be authorlzed to do lnland transportation insurance. as well as tire insurance, by conforming to the Insurance Act. Lt w-as
thouglit by the committee that in that case
the pald-up capital should be lncreased, and
it w-as agreed that the company should not
go into the tire insurance business w'ithout
doubling its paid-up capital. Thiat is the extent of the' amendînent.
Hon. Mr. McCALLU-N-Would the hon.
gentleman allow the amendments to stand
until tomorrow ? There is no danger of the'
Bill being thrown over. 'Hon. gentlemen
w-ould then be able to compare the ameudmnents with the Bill. It is jiot an unreasonable request to ask that the amendments
stand for a day.

REPORTED FRONI COMMITTEE.
[Iou. Mr. DAN DURAND-No one bas
Hon. Mr. DRU)IMOND, from the Committee on Railways,Telegraphs and Harbours. inode tiiot demand s0 far, and( I have no obHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

[M Y 2,
jection. I mnove that the ainendmcnts be
taken into consideration to-morrow.
The motion wvas agreed to.
The SPEAKER-I may be aiiowed to suggest that the usual and more satisfactory
practice is, that wlben the chairman of n
committee reports a Bill with ameudmnents,
the chairman should himself state to the
House what the effect of the amendments
Is, and then the House is lni a position to
decide whether the amendrnents sbould bu
adopted at once, or whether their consideration sliould be postponed. I tbink it a pity
to depart from that practice.
ALGOM-NA IRON AND NICKEL STEEL
COM-NPANY'S BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. '-%r. DRUM-%MOND, from the Committee on Banking and Commerce, reported
Bill (51) 'An Act to incorporate the Algomit
Iron and Nickel Steel Company of Canada,'
He said : The first
with amendments.
nmendment changes the word 'thirty' Into
'forty,' giving the company power to lncrease the capital from thirty millions to
forty millions ultimately. flot at present.
Then. there is a long subsectIon wbich permits the company practically to acquire
other companies connected witli it in sinilar objects, under certain conditions. It is
too technîcal, I tbiuk, to go further witb
the explanation than that.

19011

311
DELAYED RETURNS.

Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I desire to ask the Secretary of State wbether
he made Inquiry as to when those returus
1 asked for will be brought down.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I gave Instructions to
ascertain the cause of the delay. 1 may say
that returns 'have been brougbt down
promptly this year. There are only two or
three behind. I gave Instructions to hurry
them Up.
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Âs
long as I can get themn before the House
adjourns I will be satisfied.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh well, the lion, gentleman wlll have them before that time.

THIRD READINGS.
Bill (14) 'An Act to incorporate the Century Life Insurance Company.'-tHon. Mr.
Sullivan.)
Bill (60) -'An Âct to Incorporate the United
Empire Lif e Insurance Company.'-(Hon.
Mr. Wood, Westmoreland.)
Bill (12) ' An Act respecting the London
Mutual Fire Insurance Company.'-Hon.
Mr. Jones.)
Bill (19) ' An Act respecting the Eastern
Canada Savings and Loan Company (Limlted).'-(Hon. Mfr. Wood, Westmoreland.)
Bill (53) ' An Act respecting the Manitoba
and North-west Loan Company (Limited).'Hon. '-%r. DANDURAND moved that the (Hon. Mr. Aikins.)
amendments be now concurred in.
Bill (90) ' An Act respecting the Dominion
Bur.-lary Guarantee Company, Limited.'The motion wns ngreed to.
(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
DOUKHOBOR PERMITS.
Bill (70) ' An Act respectlng the E. B.
Eddy Company.'-(Hon. Mfr. Macdonald,
MO0TION.
B.C.)
Hon. "-%r. PERLEY- moved:
an humble address be presented to -Ils Bill (61) 'An Act respectlng W. C. EdThat
Excellency the Governor General, praylng that wards & Company, Limited.'-(Hofl. Mr.
His Excellency will cause to be laid on the McMihIan, in absence of Hon. Mfr. Loug-heed.)
Table of the Senkate, net lat'-r than the lSth
Bill (37) ' An Act to incorporate the Bishop
instant, a returu showlng how many Doukhobors have made homestead entries of 160 acres of Keewatin.'-(IHon. %Ir. Kircluloffer, in abof land each, and in what
the North-west Territories
entries, and who own or
land the villages are built

iparticular district of
they have made uuch
have entries for the
on. Aiso, how many

sence of Hon. MIr. Bernier.ý
Bill (25) ' An Act to Incorporate the Otta-

perniits have been granted te the Donkhobors wa and Hull Power and Manufacturing
for cutting hay, and the quantity permitted to Company (Limited).'-(HoI. 3fr. Perley.)
each Doukhobor, and the particular section of
Bill (82) 'An Act respecting the Rathbun
the North-west Territories sucýh perinits have
And, further. how many wood
been granted.
permifs have been granted to the Doukhobors
the number of cor(15 or quantities given
and
cach pei son as may he designated.
The motion wns agreed to.

Coni.gny.'-(HoI. 7Ur. Watson.)

Bill (68) ' An Act respecting the McClary
Manufacturing COMPanY.'-(Hon. Mfr. Watson.)

[SEN ATE]

INTERNAL ECONOMY & CONTINGENT
ACCOUNTS CO1MMITTEE REPORT.
REPORT ADOPTED.
110o1. Mr. KIRCHHOFI"ER mnoved concurrence ln the third report of the Committee
on InternaI Economy and Contingents Accounts.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On looking over this
report, it becomes perfectly apparent that
In the last year or two the expenses of the
Senate have been greatly increased. I notice that the expenses now very nearly equal
the sessional indemnities of senators. Tbe
normal indemnity of senators, apart froma
the usual allowance voted wben a senator
dies, would be $81,000. 1 find the contingent expenses and salaries for clerks and
messengers amounts to $72,000 and $73,000.
Hon. Mfr. MILLER-Not clerks and messengers. That ls ail the contingencies.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. I find on looking
back a few years that there bas been a
great Increase. It was $73,000 lait year. In
1894 it only amounted to $57,095, and In
189 It was only $56,417. I tbink hon, gentlemen will realize that there bas been no
justification for so large an Increase In tbat
time. There bas been no Increase ln the
number of senators, and It was quite understood. a few years ago, tbat our expenses
were to be kept down. It naturally creates
a public crIticism and this House is not tbe
body that votes the money and the feeling
abroad is that the expenses of the Senate
ought to be regulated by some sound principle, and that there should not be this continuai Increase year by year In the expenses.
For many years they were kept about the
figure that I have given. Hon. gentlemen
who have been la the Senate for the last
ten years will remember that about 1890I will flot call It a scandal-but attention
was called to a very abnormal increase ln
the Items that weat under the naine of
stationery, and then a general consensus
was arrlved at that thereafter the stationery iccount sbould not exceed betweea five
and six thousand dollars, tbat that was to
be the limit to be expended ln the purcbase
I uaderstaiud
of stationery for senators.
tliat in the last year tbat amount bas been
considerably increased, and I think It is a
regrettable incident that we should permit

tbat, or that we sbould allow articles that
are not strictly stationery to be purchased
under that namne, thereby increasing the
amouat. So long as tbe sum is kept witbin
twenty-five dollars for each senator, I presume no objection could be made to it.
An bon. member could be allowed to select
what bie pleased blmself witbin the range
of that limit, but wbere It goes beyond tbat
I tbiak bon. gentlemen will f ully appreciate
that It exposes tbe Senate to very severe
and unpleasant criticism, and 1 merely now
caîl attention to it ln the hope that some
cbeck should be placed upon the action of
the Contingent Committee. Last year wbea
a demand was made for an Increase of tbree
tbousand dollars, I bad a very great
deal of difficulty in recommending to
my colleagues tbe recognition of the
seem
It
did not
because
amount,
defeasible or justifiable. I do not propose
to go loto It now, because It ls not a very
pleasant subject to discuss, but hou. gentlemen wbo have examIned tbe figures wIll see
that the increase last year was wholly Indefensible. I bail spoken to leading membera
of tbat committee with tbe hope tbat further expenditure ln tbat direction would
bave been stopped. I regret to see that it
bas not been stopped, but bas been continued and Iucreased during the present year.
It is not a pleasant subject to refer to, nor
to naine tbe individual Instances whIcb give
rise to tbe criticism whicb I have been making, but If boa, gentlemen will look at tbe
details, they will find my language ls fully
justified by the facts. What I sbould express now Is the hope that ln the formation
of the Contingen cies Committee bereafter,
the number would be less. It ougbt to be
small, because It would glve lndividual responsibility. Ia a large committee there le
a good deal of log-rolling, and no Individual
can be beld responsible for extravagance.
Lt would be better If that committee were
composed of a much more llmited aumber
of members wlth a view to controlling and
limitiag expenditure on this subject.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-I
want to make an explanation to the flouse
of a little error that tAie Secretary of State
lias made about the stationiery. The bon.
g2entleman says the stationery account is
always increasing. As chlairmin of the subcoiimiittee on stationery, I may say tliat this

L\1AY 2, l9U1]
year there is a decrease of $500. Last year 1i the House and censure the committee, I
o flot tbink it is fair.
the aniount was $6,000, and this year the d
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bad a reason for not
ainount proposed by the committee is onl1Y
$5.500, so we have made a decrease in that attending the meeting of the commlttee. My
v olce did flot prevail when 1 was there.
direction.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-I do flot express
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Perbaps 1 arn wrongly
advised, but I arn advised tbat the amounta .n opinion as to, wlietber the expenditure is
ustifiable or flot, but It 19-a refresblng siglit,
ivas exceeded last year by about $1,500.
arn speaking of a.nd one wbicb, as a Scotcbman would say,
Hon. Mr. PELLETIER-I
to see a member of
stationery, and this year it is reduced from is guid for sair een,'
t he governinent of this country practlsing
$6,000 to $5,500.
he role of economny. I tbink that if the
fion. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I think the t ,overnment were to extend that new digpodifficulty would not bave arisen If the Sec- iton, as expressed by the Secretary of
retary of State bad attended tbe meeting 93tate just now, to a larger spbere It would
Had be attended be
of the committee.
)e more satisfactory to the country at large.
would have seen wbether be had a proper and the members of this House as well.
basis for bis objection. -We bave not, as a
lIon. Mr. MA CDO1NALD (P.E.l.)-I tbink
rule, many meetings of the Comxnittee on
precaution on the part
and wvben we do bold .t would be a wise
Internai Economy,
of members of this House to exercise control
theai, ail the members sbould attend. If
future over the stationery departtbey are not able to do so, it Is unfair to jin the
ment. We find that there is a very large
tbose members wbo do attend to say that
of moaey expended under the beadlog-rolling and tlîat sort of tbing goes on amount
in- of stationery by the Senate as well as
lu tbe committee. It is a very injudicioua
House of Commofis. The wbole of that
remark to be nmade by any member, especi- the
statioflery is flot distributed solely amongst
ally a member of tbe government, witb reof the Senate afld House of
gard to, bis fellow-members, and I can as- the inembers goes to those wbo are officers
Commofis, but
sure the lion. gentleman tbat it is a mosi
House, and wbo receive, 1 believe,
unjust remark, because notblng of the kind 0f the
to, the ame amount of stationery as the membas corne under my notice. Witb regard
of eitber branch receive. Now, that
the increased expendîture tbat bas been bers country is loohked upon as statioflery
In the
quoted, the years tbe bon, gentleman bas
for the members exclusively. Tbey
alluded ta were 1894 and 1895. If my re- provided
is a
time do not taire into accoufit that there
collection serves me rigbt, at that
number of empioyees wbo receive a
tbere were vacant seats ln tbe Senate to vast
portion of that StationerY, and the account
the number of ten or twelve, wbicb would is tbereby increased. The electors of the
account for almost the entire amount of tHie country are disposed to, find fault witb thils
increase that tbe hou. gentleman bas pointed item, and I thiuk it would be a wise preout Non', tbe seats are ail tilled, and every caution on the part o! the Senate~ to limlit
member is present, and draws bis sessional the expenditure in the future to, a fixed
Indemnity and inileage. At one time there amount, and that members sbould Just rewere fifteen vacancies in the Senate, and elve the amount of stationery that is necesthat accounts for $15.000, to say aotbing of sary for their political correspondence, or for
muleage these gentlemen migbt bave drawn, their officiai correspondefice duriug the
and tbe stationery and other Items.
time tbey are in parliameft. This stationHon. 31r. SCOTT-In 1894 and 1895 there ery costs a very large amount of moneY to
I the couatry,_ and is o! very littie benetit
n'as notbing abnormalinl tbe number.
Many of
took the Auditor General*s report, and wlîat to the members wbo recelve i.
n'as, salaries for 1894-5, and I us have no use for the kind of stationery
governed me
find it increased. by tbe figure I bave aamed. wve receive from the committee and it would
better if it could be tixed nt a
Hon.'-\Ir. ICIRCHHOFFER-Tbe lion, gen- be mucb
of members
tbat up in comi- reasonable amount for tHie use
tleman sbould bave brougbt
during the session, aud that it sbould flot be
mittee. if bion. members, of the comimittee
mueb extended. as it bas been during
will flot attend Its meetings, and tben rise so

{8ENATE]

some years past. We know that a good
*man1Y Years ago, tbe amount of stationery
w-as much more liinited that it is at present.
I believe it would be mucb better to do
away with it altogether and allow the members a certain amount of money to supply
tliemselves with stationery, than to supply
It in the w-ay It is now distributed.
Hlon. M-Nr.
MILLER-There is a good deal
of force in what the hou. member says, but,
after ail, it is difficuit to limit the members
to a cer-tain amount, and I do flot tblnk
anythlng in the way of economy would be
achieved by ItL As it is now, some members
do flot take much stationery because they
do flot nieed It ; others Lave a great deal
more correspondeace, and require more
stationerv than some of their colleagues. If
the thing were levelled up, the av-erage
quantlty of stationery furnished to each
senator w-ould Le found to be very 10w. Iu
some few cases it w-ould be higlb, but lin the
great majority of cases, I think it w-ould
be found to be 10w. There is a good deal of
truth ln w-bat the Secretary of State bas
said, perhaps, w-ith regard to the increase
ln the expenses of this Hlouse, but I nm flot
lnclined to think thiat tLe comparison made
Is a fair one. If my bon. friend will take
the trouble to go back to the expenses of
the Hlouse of Commons in the year Lie named,
and compare tbe expenses then of that
Flouse witb the expense of last year,
Lie w-i find that there is just as great a discrepancy in the Increase in one Hlouse as iu
the other. Lt must be rememnbered last -session w-as a very long esession, and there are
many expenses Incidental to a long session
w-Lich are flot incidentai to a short session,
and some extraordinary expenses sometimes
ocdur w-itb regard to sessions. For instance,
this year we have the Cook investigation,
w-hich wll entail a very considerable sum
upon the contingencies of the Hlouse, afld,
therefore, it is flot easy to formi a correct
judgmuent upoti isolated cases, or by isolated
comparisons, between one House and the
other. I think, bowever, tue goverfiment
nre open to some comment in flot tnking a
grenter interest in that comrnittee thaii tbey
do. At the last meeting of the coinmittee
it %vasa general observation that there wvas
no member of the goveraiment present.
There sbould be a member of the governmuent alw-ays present at a meeting of that
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD (P.ET.)

committee, because it is a ummittee wbieli
Las control of a very large amount of money

over w-Licb the govertiment sbould exercise authority. With rega,-d to the increase
of salaries Iast year, I was flot here nt tbe
last meeting of the Contingent Coxnmittee,
but, I quite agree w-itb the Secretary of
State that increases were made last year,
I believe, by a systemt of log-rolling w-hidli
w-as flot at ail creditable to the Hlouse. We
Lad the salaries of -some officers -inereased
to a considerable extent, w-ho are paid really
double as miicb as their services would entitie them to. If they were estimated upon
any correct principle as to the labour or
services performed ln returfi. Ou tne w-fiole,
how-ever, I think there is a disposition in
the committee to retrencb, and lie as economical as possible. This year I amnfot aivare
that there Is any increase ln the salnry of
any messenger or officer of the Houe, except
in one instance, and that is in the case of
the niewsroom keeper, -%Lo Lad ant increase
of fifty dollars to bis salnry. I do not tLink
It is probable tbere w-ll Le any furtlier increases this year. Tiierefore, I do iiot tLinc
the committee is open to any hostile criticîsm in regard to the question of economy in
the present. Iu reference, to one particular
pbase of tbe report, that reiating to the arrangement made witL regard to tbe service
of messeugers in the uewsrooms and lat the
stationery department, wben I arrived bere
in the enrly part of tbe session, I was told
it w-as necessary to Lave two messengers in
the newsroom. My 0wn opinlion was to the
contrary, and I told '-%r. Young, w-îth w-lnm
I discussed the matter, that I did xiot tbink
the Contingencies Comimittee w-ould be propared to place two messengers in tbat room.
After, Low-ever, Learing tLe pros and colis
of the case, I inclined to a different conclusion. That rom Las to be open from eigbt
o'clock in the morning to ton or tw-ele
o'ciock at nigbt. If a senator cbooses to stay
there until twelve, a inessenger must be
there in attendance. It is utterly out of the
qluestion to keep a messenger on duty fromn
eigbt o'clock in the morning to tw-elve at
night. Besides, Lie must go to bis meais, and
I arn toid that valuable papers Lave been
taken ont of tLe ront in Lis absence. I w-as
told aiso thiat in the House of Commions newroorn there are four messengers, a chief
messenger, an assistant, permanent, and two
others during the session. I think ht m-ould

1-NIAY -_-,
u0l]
L

simlply a
IIOIEL-tis
Hiou. M.IT
be alrniost out of reason to cxpect one miessenger to attend to our newsroorn. But, memiber of the staff of tlîe Ilouse traîisferwliat decided me in reference to the mlatter! red fromn olle Place to aniotiier. Tliere lias
,%as that the wliole subject was referred to: been lio addition at ail.
the cornmittee on stationery and the nie-si Flu. Mr. WATSO.N-Tlieii tiiere umust lie
room, of -whicli my lion. friend, Sir Alphonse a mnessenger transferred to tlie place lie
Pelletier, is cliairman, and tliey suggested formierly h*eld.
the recommendations whîcli were made in
luHFERTee
Io.M.
ln
the report, and. laving full confidence In
Hn. Mn.
additionERThr
tetesaf
liaser
their judgrnent, and k-nowing tliey made ful
uî.%I lenD
diion
ei
to
etirel staff wlit
ect
lnquiry as to what service was required, 1, wa hon. rend ths entrey
s incoet.
o
I
as oe comiteereailyadotedwork to do, and we acted uponi the report
th
o
There lias been n lxitheir report. The first haîf hour of our last that was made.
meeting was occupled In discussing the crease in the staff or n the ainount. exposition of two cliarwomen and two messen- cp
h it
olr
de
eteslr
addped otreslr
gers. Tliese are small matters ho bring le- cop the ffty ollr
epr
fore tlie House for discussion, and matters 1ftenwro
Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-Tlîere mnist lie a
wlich the commihhee lias always been regarded as being able to halte charge of vacaflcy iu the miesseiîgers staff, 'because
one of these rnen is transferred to the
wlthout hroubling the House.
stahioniery office.
The genitlemni wiiooc
Hlou. Mr. WATSON-I quite agree with cupied tliat position liefore is now assistant
Tliere are
the lion. gentlernan from Richmond la bis to tlie mail in the uewsrooii.
of econorny. might say, olle or hwo other matters, ho which 1I wislb
remarks In faveur
as a member of that cornmittee, that I was ho refer, and it appears to me thiat it ini.glt
net well informed lu regard to the news- lie well to refer his whoIe matter back ho
roorn. I have learnied since that cornrnihtee the comrnihtee for re-consideration, because
met tliat previously one of the ordinary I arn inforrned that tlie Library Comrnihtee
messengers used ho occupy the position of hiave given orders for copies of L. D.
assistant in the newsroorn ho relieve the Desjardins, Speaker's Decisions for the
present man in charge wlien ih was neces- iembers. 1 arn informied sucli is tlîe case,
So far as the 'work is coacerned, and ef course If that is so, weý do iiot waut
sary.
there can lie no possible excuse for two ho double the order.
men !i the reading room. I think hion. genHou. Mr. McDONALD, (C.B.)-We cau
tlemnen will ail agree witb that, because strike that out liere.
the work thiere is very liglit. Tliere can be
Hou. Mr. W'ATSONil-Tlie report states
no0 comparisonli etween the work iiu our
during recess your cornrittee caused the
newsroorn, and the work in the House of
in the basernent to lie reinodelled.'
Tiiere they have a bathroorn
Commons newsroorn.
Tliat às nlot dolie. It lias been recomîuedlarge numnber of members, and every newsThe report says :' We
ed ho lie doue.
paper is read by sorne of the members of
appointed Napoleon Audette as a messeuger
the House of Cornmons, wliereas fifty per
to reeeive pay for looking af 1er the barber
cent, or seventy-five per cent, of the papers
1 do flot hhiuk amiy rnessenger eau
sliop.'
hung Up In our room are not touched by
send a substitute here, and I arn satisfied
senahors, and consequenhly there cannot lie Mr. Audette is iiot goinig te corne Up liere
tlie samie necessihy for liaving rnen !il the and act as a messeuger and run a barber
newsroom t0 keep the papers in place, and il sliop hirnself. Cousequeuitly 1 hbluk these
appears to me we are incurring additional clianges slîould lie made.
expense by placiug a second man il tlie
Hon. '-\r. MILLER-1 diid not observe the
newsroorn. We have increased the salary of
last recommendations l tliis report-the apthe newsman fifty dollars a year and given
hlmi an assistant. That is certainly a very p)ointrnent of a sessionial iliesseilger to look
excessive addition ho the expense l connec- after the bathrooin. I rnist say tlînt that
it iu
tion wihh the newsroorn for the preseait ses- went througli withoh rny observing
I do ini know that 1
tlîe comrnittee.
sion. The hou, gentleman says we hiave not
increased tlie staff. We have iucreased it. would have supporhed lt liad it corne uilder
notice.
Mny
We have appointeil anl assistant.

[SE NATEj

Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW-ELL-As a
membler of that cornrittee. I concur in the
that it
rernarl made by the cbaiirmn,
would lie mucli better if a meniber of tie
government biad heeni present to enforce lils
views. The hon, gentleman says that wlieil
lie did corne his voice bad ne effeet.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It did not preval.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Sonetimes It did and sometimes It did not, but
the bon, gentleman representing the gov-ernment, wlio bas been put on that coinziittee speclally to represent the government, knowiag there was a large expenditure, sbould bave been there.
It was
bis duty to lie tliere, and if lie lad suggested the economies to whlcbli e bas referred now, and bis voice did flot prevail,
then bie wouid be relieved of that respon-slbulity which falis upon bis shoulders by
not attendiug. 1 thiuk tlîat is very clear,
and 1 hope we will not have that excuse
giveîî again.
It is one of the complaints
of tlîis House by mny memibers-and 1 arn

nlot at ail surprised that they do complaintitat a good deal that is said in this House
is liot hea.rd by the mnembers generally.
Sitting as I do bere, right opposite the Secretary of State-and I miglit include my hon.
friend fromn Richmond, it was with the
grentest difficulty that I could hear and
follow the remarks made by thein on that
subject, and bow others sitting at tbe lower
part of the House can understand w'lat is
going on, I arnl at a loss to knlow.
The
hon. gentleman wvas also in error when lie
referred to the number of senators iii 1894,
1S95 and 1896. If the lion, gentleman will
cast bis îuemory back for a short period,
lie Nvill renîeiliber that during about a
.year and a liait wh'ile I was at the bead
of the governinent, I recommrended and introduced into this House about ten senators.
I amn speaking of the position of affairs
Some ten
then and at the present tume.
or twelve senators were introduced in tlîat
Those senators lad to lie
short period.
supplied witlh tbe saie stationery and the
salue expenditure incurred as w-as in the
Henuce tliere
case of the older inernbers,.
w-ould be that additional expense to the
Ail bon. gentlemen
stationery accoulit.
'çvill rernember tbe state iin wlîlch the Senate was at tlîat period. and the rapidity,' if
1 may use tliat expression. wlth whiclî the
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

scats were filled during tbe period to which
I have referred. The hon, gentleman froin
Chîarlottetown suggested tbe payrnent of a
silnali arnount of money instead of the

stationery. We ail get tbe saine stationery.
Soule bion, gentlemen in this House have
haîf a dozea times more correspondence
than others, from the positions that they
occupy and tbe business which they are
carrying on. Theve is to my mind one way
of avoiding what I would conisider an unnecessary expenditure. and I proposed it in
tlie one year, since I bave been in the Senate,
that I was a member 0f tlie Statloniery
The majority of the suliCornmnittee.
committee recommended to tbe committee
the abolition of the siaîl trunks. and that
each senator be furnlslied with ail the
stationery lie required to do bis correspondence lu the coinimittee roomus and
Tlhat was îîot apin the Senate.
proveci either by the genierai comuuhittee
or lu tbe Senate. In that w.ay w-e w-ould
place every meuiber iîpon a fair basis. and
on an equal footing. The man wlio would
do double the correspondence of bis neigbour could nsk for bis stationery. He would
receive it. and the nman wbio wanted littie
would receive littie. That is the only remedy
If yon say you would give
I see.
hlm twenity or twenty-tive dollars, that
mighit work out ail rigbt. I helieve in the
United States Senate, tbey give a inember
a certain allowance for stationery, and lie
linys w-hat he pleases. I k-now that that
proposai was made iu the bouse of ConiCharlton, but it w-as voted
mous by M-Nr.
down. Tînt is the only way tliat I cau sec
to avoid that portion of the expendîture. I
suppose 1 may lie excused if I refer to proceedings 0f the committees. It is contîary
to pariiarnentary practice, but it lias been

done to-day, and it will lie remenibered it
w-as pointed out distinctly ilat in g'vinig tho
additioilal assistance iu the reading rooni,
that no additional mess# "ger w-as to lie
'placed upon the staff, and consequentiy no
NMy
additional expense would lie incurred.
owu view, w-as that tlîat was uninecessary.
I stili hold that opinion-that one man is
quite sufficieut lu tlîat readiiig rom department to do ail the work that there is to do.
'and that the systeni slîould prevail that
existed lu tbe past, thiat whîlile the readiug
at
bis
meals.
c-icik
is
aw'ny
roornl
0one of the messengers shionld lie put ili

[MAY 2, 1901]

the reading roomi, and remaini there1
until the regular keeper of the roomi returnis.
The dutios are flot so laborions as
to prevent a man remaîning tiiere till nine
or ten o'clock at niglit, dnring the
session. That is my opinion upon the matter. If the system whicli I have suggested,
-which prevailed formerly, was continued,
there would be no0 necessity for putting a
man In that position, but If a man from tue
staff can be spared to be In tlîe readiiig
room ahl session, there is no necessity for
thiat man being on the staff, because if yon
can dispense with the ser-i ce lie [s supposed to render on the staff, if lie is not
required In the reading room lie would not
be required anywhere else. Wben the question was put, is it the Intention to add
an extra messenger for the outside work
by placing this man in the room, it w-as distinctly and positively stated that [t was
tiot, and it was for that reason the recoinmeadation w-as acquiesced la and the vlews
of the bon, gentleman from Richmond prevailed ; otherwise I am quite sure it would
not have been done. I am fnlly [n accord
wltli the hon. Secretary of State w-len lie
urges that the most rigid economy must prevail. but there are certain circnmstances,
'as was very properly pointed out by the
hbon. senator from Richmond, at different
sessions of parliament, that the contingent
accounts must vary to a certain extent. A
session or two ago we had a special committee in connection with the Drimond
County Railway, which iacurred one or two
thousand dollars expendIture, and this year
there will be an expenditure In connection
with the Cook Investigation, which I hope
It will neyer be necessary to repeat. If the
hon. Secretary of State will permit me, I
would advise hlm to come to the meetings
of the committee, and any reasonable suggestion lie makes will, I am sure, lie nccepted and carried ont, and that lie shall
not have an opportun[ty lu the future of
coming and saying that bis v[ews do not
prevail. On some occasions they do prevail,
and on other occasions I am glad to say that
tbey do not.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. friend did not
hear me. My criticisms were not directed
ag-ainst the stationery departmnent, but
against the general expense accouiit. and
the increase of salaries. I have the station-

ery accounts before nie for the different
y-ears. lu 1895, the account w-as $5,2S3, ani
in 1894 it was $5,80S. In both these years
they were withia the limit. I took, simply
the general resuit. I compared the g-ross
figures in 1895, $456,000 odd, and in 1894,
$57,000 odd, as compared with $72,030 and
$73,000, and it must be apparent to every
one that the additional expense is due to the
increase in1 the staff and to the increase ln
the salaries. There is no0 doubt about that.
ln. Mr. SULLIVAN. 1 was about to remark thiat the gentleman wbo bas charge of
the reading room told me that the work had
nearly doubled, and that lie could flot get on
without the aid of an assistant.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT. There [s no0 complaint
about that.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER. I can quite
understand a miember of the committee who
does not attend the meetinig of the committee would not be as well informed as those
wlio were present, but I cannot understand
how the lion, gentleman froin Portage la
Prairie (Hon. Mr. Watscff) can show sucli
extraordiaary ignorance of wbat actually
occurs after baving taken part in the debate
hlimself. How It is possible to tbink that
because we transfer the snessenger from
where lie had no fitxed einploymient in the
House to, wliere lie lias some stated employment in another part of the House, [e golng
to add a large expense to tlîe contingent accounts, passes the bounds of compreliension.
Those wbo know tbe personnel of our staff
and the duties tbey have to discliarge, and
the way In whicli tliey try to avoid-as a
great many of them do-uoing zany more
work than is actually allotted to them, shows
that we bave staff enongli if w-e only get
them to do their proper work, to fill these
particular employments. Wbien a mnessenger
is taken from one part of the House and put
iii another department, and set to work
there instead of being at the general work,
it only means that there is n littie more for
the general staff to do, and 1 can assure
lion, gentlemen that none of the mnessengers
are overworked for the pay they receive.
The remark made by tlîe hon, gentleman
from Portage la Prairie about the last paragraph shows that lie did not keep track of
w-hat was going on in the commnittee, or the
condition of the House. He says Nve have

SENATE]
oinly rtecouimuîded n1ow, and Dot inceurrec 1 up the bathroom,
as in the Fluse of Comthe expense witli regard to the bathrooui.
mous. I see nothing about that lu the report. I would ask an explanation of that
Hon. '%Ir. WATSO-X. Yes.
omission. We have had only two meetings
Hon. Mr. KIROHEOFFER-If the hon. of the committee this session, and the rnatgentleman had taken the trouble to investi- ter of what had been done with regard to
gate this thing before he spoke on it, lie repairs of the bath was neyer discussed.
would have found out that these bathrooms The condition of the baths was referred to.
have nlot been ln good condition, Up to the Tliey are flot lu a sanitary condition, and
present time, and that the shav-lng parler the committee decided to recornmend to the
has nlot been ln condition for use nt ail. Minister of Publie Works that a certain exAt the beglnnlng of the session reports -were penditure should be made during the comrnade by a number of hon. senators that we lng receas lu repalrlng the batlis.
So far
liad a place there which could be used as as the barber is coucerned, the recommena bathroorn and shavlng parlor if we could dation was that a barber sliouid be a sesouly get some person to corne here and do sionul messenger to cure for the batlis. 1
our work. I arn responsible for this. I en- arn satlsfied Napoleon Audette will not coule
gaged the man Audette to corne and open here aud act, and lie should not be allomwed
a shaving parler, and I leave It to the gen- to emiploy another to take bis place. TNvo
tlemen wlio have avalled thernselves of that different barbers have been here shaving,
to say whetlier it was a -wlse move on my but I have never seen Audette hîmself.
part. At the sarne tîme, the bathroom was
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There is ouly one
opened up and the baths renovated and put
barber.
to use as recommended by the report of the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I saw two myseif.
clerk, but tliey are stîll not ln a condition
they should be for the use of nernbers of
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The hon, gentlethis House any more than the plurnbing of man may have seen a second one wlieu the
this House generally, on whlcli we propose other was at dinner.
to make a report to the Minister of Public
Hon. Mr. WATSO'N-Audette is the rnan
Works. I therefore, got the bathroorn opennarned here to be employed as a sessional
ed and cleaned Up, so that tliey ean at ail
events be used, and ln order to Induce a messenger, and lie sliould lie the man lu
barber to corne there-we did nlot know how uttendance. The Chairman of the commitfar It was goiug to be a popular rnove, or tee says there ls no additional expeuse.
whether there would be enough business Then there sliould be a savlng.* I say It ls
to pay hlm-I recorneded the cornrnttee foolish to add to the expense -wlen it Is not
to put hlm on as sessional messenger, adopt- uecessary, and I take It for granted from
lnê the sarne course as in the House 0f the explanations made by Sir Mackenzie
Commons wliere the barber Is put on the Boweil, who lias a k-nowledge of what Is
rois as a sessional messenger. The gentle- required for fillng newspapers and looking
rnan who Is now speaklng agalnst lt did nlot ufter the reuding room, thut the bouse
say a word against It lu committee, and I should flot colleur lu that portion of the
arn sure the explanation I have given wll report.
be satisfactory to the House.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-It is quite
evident from thls discussion that thie sclioolHon. Mr. WATSON-The report is not lu master should be abroad amongst
the rneraccordance witli the decision of the com- bers of our committee, some
of wliom do
rnittee as I understood lt, and that is one not seem to be able
to assimilate wliat
reason wliy I find fault -wlth it. The mat- tukes place lu the
comrnittee. In reference
ter of what had been dolie to the bath- to the charge
the bion. gentleman makes
room was not discussed lu the committee against the report,
because lt does not conat ail. The matter of what sliould be de
tain a certain paragrapli which lie thinks
to the bathroom was discussed, and It was oug-ht to have been included-if
lie reads
understood we should make a recommenda- the resolution
pussed ut the meeting of the
tien to the Minister of Publie Works to fix committee lie will find
it snys that a report
Hon. 'Mr. KIRCHH0FFER.

[MAY 2, 1901l;

shall le subsequently made to the Minîster
of Public Works with reference to that matter. Tbat report Is now belag drawn up.
I have promlsed the members of the commlttee that another meeting of the committee wll be held and the report submltted to
themn before belng sent to the Minister of
Public Works. If the hon. gentleman would
look up the resolution passed by the cornmittee, lie could satisfy bis mmnd without Tequiring instructions. This matter of the
barber sbop Is about as pickayuue as the
To say that
matter of buying apples.
Audette, who lias a barber shop in town,
should be here bimself to shave members,
is unreasonable. We are quite satisfied If
we get a good sbave no matter wlio does It.
JO'NES-I understood the chairHon. M-Nr.
man of the committee to say tliat this report would nlot lacrease the expendIture lu
tbe department, but I understand the last
clause Is addltional to what we have had
heretofore, and therefore, to this extent thie
expense 'would be lncreased. Am I correct
la that ? The extent that we are golng to
pay a niessenger as a barber-to that o'xtent there will bie au increase. I understand we have not heretofore had a messenger to act as a tousorlal artist. If the
uecessity for a barber shop exlsts, I do flot
kuow but that It Is a reflection on the
Senate that we have to pay a man $2.50 a
day to lok after the senators, and then
pay hlm for dolng the work afterwards.
.B.-They do
Hlon. Mr. MACDONALD,
It lu the House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. JONES-They may do thiugs
there that are not correct. If we furnlsh
a good room and every convenience, It
seems to me a good man would tale the
position for wbat it Is worth, and not be
put on the list as a messenger ln addition
to that, particularly so If lie does not coule
to the House nt ail, but sends some persoil
bere to do the work, while lie is always ln
the city himself.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe services of a
messenger are dispensed wltb. It Is a question of substitution.
Hon. Mr. PRIMIROSE-Is it arranged with
Audette that lie, or bis represeutative, here,
bas any charge or care of the baths to
keep theul la order ?

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Certainly,
that is part of bis duties.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-That does away
with the argument of the hon. gentleman
(Mr. Jones) against putting hlm on the list
of messengers.
Hlon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I stated to
the cormlittee wlth regard to thls very paragrapli, what had been doue. Every other
member of the commlttee, wlth the exception of the hon. gentleman from Marquette,
I arn satisfied, heard my explanation and
uaderstood it. if lie could not assimilate It
I could nlot help It.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do not wlsh ta be
lectured by the chairman of the committee,
elther ln the committee or ln this Hlouse.
I state here, and I thlnk I arn la my rîglit
lu statlng, that I decldedly object to the
payment of a dollar to anybody who does not
gîve services for it lu the building. If Mr.
Audette is appointed mnessenger and discharges the duties of a messenger, he Is entltled te lis pay, but he cannot sead a substitute. Let hlm be put on the lst as a sessional messenger, and get bis pay, but I do
not thlnk the principle should be allowed
that any person sbould lie appolated lu the
city of Ottawa to furnish employees of bis
own for service lu the Senate.
,Hon. Sir MAOCENZIE BOWELL-I can
tell the hon. gentleman that it is the practice tbat bas prevailed ever since there
has been a parliameut. The barber wbo Is
appoiuted for the House of Commons Is neot
supposed to lie there, neither is lie there.
If lie is flot there persoaally, lielbas one of
bis emnployees there to represent hlm, ani
that answers every purpose, and so long as
there is no comiplaint as to tbe service rendered, I canjnot conceive why an objection
should arise because the man himself is nlot
tiiere. we know tbat ail nianufacttlrers
carry on business lu that way. A man mnay
have a reputatiofi of being a builder or a1
certain article, we know lie does nlot put
five minutes work on that article, andl
mnay nlot know anytbing about lt, yet
lie lias the credit of manufacturitig It. I do
not desire to lie disrespeCtful, but it seems
to mie the object is of a most puerile charWe had before us an admiraIcter.
able report fromi the Clerk of this Hoeuse,

[ISEN ATEI
flot only as to the state of the bathrooms,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Could
but of every other part of the House, point- not the bon. Minister of justice informi the
ing out wliat was required for the preser- Hlouse what bis intentions are in refereace
vation of the building ln order to prevent to this Bill ? I was absent on Mond.ay, but I
leaks and other damages taking place, andi read in the report what thxe hon, gentleman
hie also pointed out that the liatlirooms were stated, for the information of the House,
nlot fit for gentlemen to use, and that lat reply to an objection made by the hoit.
they sliould nlot only lie removed altogether gentleman from Richmond, that If there was
and new ones put ln tbat a gentleman a general feeling against the principle of
would like to take a bath in; but that, In the the Bill he would flot press 1t. Would it
meantime, until we could get the M1lnlster not lie just as well to, have that expression
of Public Works to act upon tixe report now, in order that those who desire to go
whlcli the committee proposed to maire, tliey bomne before the close of the session may
should lie made as dlean and fit for use as know whether le intends to press it or flot?
possible. If the hon. gentleman had paid a I do flot liesitate to say that, unless there
little attention-I amrn ft going to lecture tire good and substantial reasons given-I
hlm-to the discussion whlcli took place ini suppose the hion, gentleman could give the
the committee, hie would have kaown these reasons whicli satisfy is own mind-tliat
tacts as 'well as I do, liecause lie was there the feeling of the House would lie against
at the time and took an active part ln the this Bill because it ls a retrograde movediscussions arising on tliis very question. ment. It is taklng from the subject rights
The hon, gentleman will see, as the lion. whldli lie lias agalnst individuals,
and the
member fromn Stadacona (Mr. Landry) bias tendency. of the age and of tlie legîsiatioxi
polnted out, that we have recommended the of this country lias been to protect a workdismissal of one of the messengers, and It nman, and a servant, and to bld the master
was distinctly understood that bis place and manufacturer responsilile, to an extent
miglit flot bie filled, as an additional messen- thiat never exlsted la the past. The Bill
ger miglt not be required, and then we seents to mue to carry ont the idea of the
moved another messenger from the work lie divine righit of klngs, that tIe king can do
was supposed to do and put hlm la the read- no possible wrong, and we are asked to cryslu,- room, so there is really no additional tallize into an Act of parliament, that very
expense. We have followed up the prac- idea, that no matter what may take place,
tice which bias prevailed la the past, par- apart from the exceptions which are
proticularîr la the House of Commons, of vided for in this Act, the goverfiment shall
hiavlng somne one to look after the batlirooni not lie hield responsilile
for that whicli a
and accommodate the senators wvho desire private
individual, cither a manufacturer, or
to go thiere to lie sliaved. That is the only a common
carrier, or any one else, would be
additional expense, and if yenx put that ex- lield in the
courts of Iaw to lie responsilile
pense against the dismissal of one of the
for, and punislied to the extent of the injury
messenegers, you have the whole accoua t
done. Tliere may lie reasons whicli I do flot
about balanced. These are the facts.
at present 1,1:ow Of why thîs proposition is
The motion was agreed to.
made, but when we consider what lias been
SUPREME AND EXCIIEQUER COURT done la the way of legisiation for the protection of the workingman and the holding of
ACTS A'MENDMNENT BILL.
employers responsible, and the extent to
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
whicli it lias lieen carried-to my mmnd very
The Order of the Day having been called, ,vide in its provisions as every manufacturer
Second Rcading (Bill L) An Act to amend and employer of labour knows to lie the case
Chapter Sixteen of the Statutes of 1887, loti- -wby the government sliould lie placed in a
tuled
'«An Act to amend -"The Suprerme and
Exchequer Courts Act." ' and to make better lietter position in this respect than an mndiprovision for the trial of dlaims against the vidual, I should like to know. I express the
Crown.-(Hoin. Mr. Milis).
hope, particularly at this stage of the sesHon. Mr'. 'MILLS mnoved that the Order sion, thiat the lion, gentleman will not press
of the Day lie discharged and that it be this mensure. in tlie meantime (,I arn permade an order for Thursday next.
fectly sincere ln wliat I amn saying) if the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[MAY 2, 19011

honi gentleman can give to the RHouse and
to the country a good reason for theadoption of this ciass of legisiation, thien it is
a question 'we should consider eitber this
session or at some future session of parlianment.,

Hon. Mr. M-\ILLER-Do you consider it
no protection at ail ?

Hon. Mr. MILLS-None at ail, and neyer
was intended to be, for ln every case wbere
a subject has a dlaim to property, or under
contract agalnst the Crown It is the duty
Hou. Mr. MILLS-I do flot care to delay the of the Crown to see that that right is trled
business on the order paper by undertaking by a proper judicial tribunal.
to brlng forward a mensure which will lead
Hon. '-%r. MILLER-I aqu very glad to,
to a very long discussion -without pro- bear tbe .Min lster of Justice giviag expresduclng any important resuits, and so 1 have sion to sudi an opinion, 'but I do not tbink
let this ineasure stand over from tume to, it hus been the opinion entertained by bis
tume because, froni the declarations of opin- predecessors lu office.
Ion made by an hon. memnber fromi the
Mon. Mr. MILLS-I do îiot go upon tbe
North-west Territories (Mr. Lougheed) and
opinion of miy predecessors, but tbnt bias
by my hon friend from Richmond (Mr. Millier) been the opinion expressed by Sir Fitzroy
I feit that If that was the general feeling Kelly, when lie was Attorney General, and
of the House, there could be no object lu also by Lard Seiborne. wheu he was Atgoing on witb the Bill. I tbink that the torney General, and botb those distinguished
iaw as it stands ln Engiand, and as it bas legal luminaries bave held that toi be the
always stood there, is the law as we shouid rigbt doctrine.
have it on our statute books, and a mistake
lion. *Mr. MIILLER-WVby wvus Burlaud
wns made when we went as far in giving
a remedy against the Crown refused the fiat ?
the subject
as we have gone, accordlng to the interHon. Mr. MILLS-I cali tell tbe bon, genpretation that bas been put on the Ex- tleman: I mentloned that matter lu the
Wbat ls the object of a
chequer Courts Act. I have been informed House before.
by those wbo have had an opportunity of suit under a petition of rigbt ? It is for
knowing, that there was no intention to go the purpose of ascertain-îng wbether tbe
s0 far as tbe courts have held the Act does Crown is lndebted to tbe party as bie clainis
Now, ln tbe
go ; that there was no intention of making tbat tbe Crown is in debt.
the Crowir responsible for ordlnary torts, case of Mr. Burland, the Postmaster General
but oniy ln those cases wbere the Crown admitted thiat Mfr. Burland biad a valld
undertook to, discbarge tbe duties of a com- *daim against tbe Crown for the suni wbicb
mon carrier, as they do ln respect to the lihe claimed, and so there was nothing for
Intercolonial Railway, dld parliament lntend *the court to ascertain. There was notbing,
to give toi the subject a remedy against the therefore, to prevent tbe Postmaster General
Crown. The subject has aiways had, by tbc froni paying the amount, and there -was,
common law, a remedy against the -Crowni ifurtber tban tbat, niotingi thiat the court
%r. Burland in a better
wbien his own rights of property were af- *could do to, put -.
fected by any act of the Crown. because position than bie was put in by the admission
So,
tbe Postmaster General made.
the Crown was then supposed to be mis. -wbich
informed, and also where the subject haE as you cunnot issue an execution against
a contract witbi the Crown. In botb thosE the Crown in case of judgment, and wbere
cases tbe sanie redress >bas been gîveili the party admitted bis indebtedness, it was
to put Mr. Burland la a better
against the Crown as bas been given be -impossible
position than bie tben stood lu by the adtween individuals.
The
mission of the Postmaster General.
Hon. Mr. M.ILLER-You bave tbe protec Postmuaster Ceneral said that there were
tion of tbe fiat.
dlaims against '-\r. Burland and until lie
Hon. Mr. M.\ILLS-My hon. friend surs w, Swas ready to meet tbose dlaims tbat payThere was a
have the protection of the fiat, but that i: nimeut would not be made.
protection at ail, and it ouglit to bie ni Slarger amount owed by Mr. Burland to
no
protection against proceedings in petition o Sthe Crown thanl the amnounit of Mir. Burlund's accounit against the Crown.
rIglit.
21)

[SENATE1
Hon. '-\r. MILLER-But lie was refused terpretation gîven by the Excbiequer Court
the fiat.
to the Act caried the provisions of the lauHon. Mr. M-%ILLS-H-e w-as refused the fiat very mucb furtber than it was the intention
because there w-as notbing on which a fiat of the parties that the law sbould be carried. M'bat 1 propose by this Blill is to
could operate.
bring the law back, not exnctly lu the posiHon. ',%r. MILLEIt-Tbat is a difference tion lu whicb it stood before, because we
of opinion.
propose to give the party a rernedy in ail
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The those cases w-bere tbe Crown bas underhon, gentleman expi-essed the opinion ini taken the w-ork of a common carrier, as lu
this House that lie would have granted the the Intercolonial Itailway, and so lu that
respect w-e w-ere prepared to allow refiat but the Postinaster General objected.
dress where under the law as It previously
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I w-ould have grantstood, before w-e had any legisiation, no reed the fiat if the Postrnaster General
dress could lie had. My hon. frîend opposite
bad rnade a different staternent. Hon.
wll rernember the case that was tried iii
gentlemen w-ill find nothing agalnst thel tbe Suprerne Court
froin Prince Edw-ard
staternent w-hich 1 now make ; what Island
wbiere a party w-as darnaged by tbe
1 said on that occasion 1 amn saying
spreading of the rails, I think. it w-as. A train
now, that ls, that the doctrine of our Eng- rau off the track. He w-as very
seriously
llb constitutional systcmn is that the Crown lujured.
Judge Henry mentions, ia bis
Js alw-ays ready to meet its obligations and judgment,
that a piece 0f bis jaw was foulnd
to pay Uts debts.
Now, the object of a sticking in the liniug
of the car, but he
suit under petition of rigbt is to ascertain had
no redress, because the Crown was liot
wbetber there is indebtedness or not. It la
responsible for the negligence and carelessnot for the purpose of enfoî-cing a dlaim ness o! its servants.
lt w-as for the puras you w-ould against a private party, bepose of furnisbing redress in a case of that
cause you cannot issue an execution against
sort that an amendment w-as made to the
the Crown, and If the Crown refuses to pay,
law, and that arndment carried the prothe party is absolutely beipless, unless par- visions of the law further than it w-as luDiarnent cornes to bis rescue.
That is the tended the law should go. In
rny opinion
position of tbîng-s.
But ail this is apart the interpretation of the law given lu Engfromi tbe subject that w-e were considering. land by Lord Seiborne and by Sir FitzroY
Hon. 'Mr. 'MILLEII-And ail that is an Kelly is the proper interpretation. Lt is the
argument against your Bill.
one w-hicb bas alwvays been actcd uponl,
Hou. Mr. MILLS-I entirely differ from and w-bere tbe dlaim of the partiés is of
sucb a cbaracter that it rnay lie put ln the
rny bion. frieud in that regard.
forrn of a staternent'o! facts that w-ould
Houn. '-\I. MILLER-A fiat and ixo exe- show a dlaim rnade against tbe Crowiu,
cution.
w-betber that dlaim is a valid dlaimn or notHou. Mr. MILLS-Tbat is the law, and wbether it w-ould faîl nder contract or
under tort, is a question wbich the Attorney
always bas been the law.
Genieral -w-i not consider for the purpose
Hon. Mr. «M\ILLELI-A double protection of deterrnining w-hether a fiat shahl isfoir the Crown.
sue or not. But If it will not conHon. M1r. MILLS-Lt is an axiom that the stitute a dlaim against the Crown, but
Cx-own can do no wrong-that it is always is a dlaimi against sorne servant of the
rendy to pay its lndebteduess aud meet Its Crown, then the fiat rnay be refused, as it
obligations in so far as parliament w-i w-as refused by Sir Roundeil Palmner lu tbe
enable it to do so.
Lu this rnatter, w-heu cclebrated case lu Ireland referred to ln
w-c gave parties a rernedy against the Crown Todd, on Parliamentary Governmeut, and
for torts w-e w-ent furtber than the law goes very fully diseussed in the English ' Hania England, and furtber than it was thc In- sax-d.'
My bon. friend wl sec that it
tention of the parties w-ho put the present would be a very serious matter if the MinThe lu- iste- of Justice, acting as Attorney General,
lau- on the statute-book to go.
lIon. Mr. MILLS.

[MAY 2, 1901]
sbould refuse a fiat wbere a party malces
a elaim and tbat dlaim 1 inl proper .form,
because it would absolutely place every
party wbo made dlaim against the Crown at
the mercy of the minister, or of himself
àind his colleagues. That is flot the intention ; ln fact, the public pollcy in matters
of tbat sort bas long ago, been well settled
lu tbe United Kingdom, and so you find
that tbe vast majority of cases in wbich
the petition of right is claimed, even in tbe
United Kingdorn, are determined against
the party, flot because it was not well
known or believed tbat, according to wellsettled rules of law, it was doubtful whether hie could succeed or flot, but because
it was desirable that tbe party wbo made
a dlaim against the Crown should have an
opportunity of having that dlaim disposed
of by a proper judicial tribunal. Now, that
bas beeni the rule wbicli I bave recog-nized
since I have been Minister of Justice, and
one wbicb miy predecessors in office, 1 believe, followed exactly. 1 know wben Mr.
Blake was Minister of Justice bie did so,
because we bad often discussed the matter
as to wbetber there was any discretion left
witb the Minister of Justice to say wliether
a fiat sbould be granted to the party or not,
and it was bis opinion, and lu tbat opinion
1 entir-ely coucur, tliat tbe 2,ihister of Justice ouglit flot to undertake to determine the
case bimself, and to refuse a fiat where be
thouglit the parties could flot succeed. The
only case ln England where tbe Attorney
General refuses a fiat is a case -wbere
the ainount is so trlfiing that tbe costs wvould
ultogetber be in excess of any ainounit tlhat
the party could secure.
If I remniber
,rigbtly, where the amount is less than five
pounds, the Attorney General, if lie thinks
the party is flot entitled to anythig, may
refuse to grant a fiat, but in every other
case ]ie <loes grant a fiat. In one remarkable case, wbere a party ivas convicted of
perjury and wbere bie thouglit bie was exititled to redress, and wbere lie f elt tlmt
one of the ministers bad done lmi a wrong
in flot appearing la tbe case in court bie endeavoured to brîng an action uponi the petition of right, but that was refused, because
Sir Roundeli Palmer, then bein.- Attorney
General, poiuted out that, concediug- everything bie said, and that his statements were
true. if bie bad a case at all it wvas against

323

the Secretary of State for tbe Home Department and not against the Crowu. And
so a petition of riglit could not be granted,
because, wben the facts whidh lie blmself
stated were put in the formn of a petition,
thiey did flot point to any liability or dlaimi
againat the Crown, but pointed to, a dlaim
agalnst a public officer for wbat bie tbougbt
was a failure of duty.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bon, gentleman knows well tbat tbe Crowu
bas tbe power to refuse a fiat to anybody,
under any clrcumstances.
In England It
Is flot refused wbere tbere ls any probability of a rigbt existlng. It ls where you
kuow that tbere is no just dlaim, that he
lias that rlgbt now, and no proposition bas
been made to take It away from bim.
Hon. Mfr. MILLS-Tbe doctrine laid down
by Sir Fitzroy Kelly is that la every case,
wbether tbe Attorney General believes tbat
the party can or cannot succeed, lie ls entitled to, the fiat, unless tbere Is some fraud
la tbe matter, because If you once admit
tbe riglit, of tbe law officer to exercise biis
discretion you admit a rlgbt wbieh would
enable a government to hold a party at
bay, to refuse to grant a fiat wbere sorue
negligence or wrong on their part mlgbt
corne out on a trial, and so, la order to conceai tbeir own faults, tbey migbt do tbe
party a very great Injustice by refuslng the
flat. That is not tbe Intention of the law.
It le not tbe rule that I bave acted upon.
I have looked Into the matter witb. a great
deal of care, and 1 find that the rule is as
1 have stated, tbat wbere the dlaimi of tbe
party can be put ln proper form, and it
points to a llabllty of the Orown, whetbier
lie'succeeds or fails, or wbether I tbluk bie
can succeed or fail, my duty Is the samie, to
grant hlm a fiat as a matter of course.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO-N-The only limitation
would be wbere the amount was too trivial.
,Hon. Mr. MILDS-Yes, that la the limitation. There bave been a great many cases
entered for tort A person complains that
a bridge ls out of repair, that lie slipped ou
tbe bridge and spralned his ankie, and bie
applies for a petition of rigbt. Or hie may
bave lijured bimself la some other way.
He bas been walking by a lumber pile, and
slipped into the canal, and taken a severe

[SENATE]
coid, and lio briligs an action against the,
Crown on a petition 0f riglit. Except where
tlie government 15 discharging the duties of
common carriers, you wipe out the iiabiiity
of the Crown ln the cases of tort, we will get
rld of a great deni of expense, a great deai
of unnecessary trouble, and we wili do no
substantial wrong to any particular party.
We have, at the present time, a suit pending under a petition of riglit for the loss of
the 'Amabla' In the St. Lawrence, because
they say the channel was flot as deep as
It was represented to be, and a suit lins
been entered against the Crown for the
purpose of redress for the loss of the Arabla,
and Its cargo. That suit Is uudecided, and
1 express no opinion wlth regard to It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wouid
the present Bill prevent the owners of that
vesse]. from asking for a petition of rIglit?
-Hon. Mr. MILLS--Yes, because that ls
tort. There Is no contmnct between us nnd
them on the subject, and so, If a party nudertakilg to corne Into a liarbour wliere an
accident happened to the liglithouse, and
falling to enter It, was injured, a suit mîglit
be brouglit at the present tlîne. No suit
could be brouglit if the law %vaslu the saine
position as It is In England. I have made
tiiese expianations lu consequence of what
the lion, gentleman says, and liot because 1
desire to go on withi the Bill at the present
timie.
Hon. Sir MA'CKENZIE BOWýELL-Woe
wili not discuss the matter further, but tny

bon. f riend's expianation oniy strengtheins
nîy own opinion.
The order of the day was aliowed to stand
until Tuesday next.
LE CREDIT FONCIER DU BAS CANADA BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY înoved the second
reading of Bill (99), an Act respecting Le
Crédit

Foncier

du

Bas-Canada,

and

to

change its ame to Le Crédit Hypothécaire
du Canada. He said :I took charge oif this
Bill in the absence 0f the lion. g-entleman
(Hon. Mr. Delanaudière), and as lie is stili
absent, I movo the second reading.

the lottery business that wvas carried on iii
Montreal, and in respect of which very serious comPlaints were mnade before, and I
know that the sense of the House was deeidedly opposed to it.
Hoi. Mr. LANDRY--Tben 1 asic to let It
stand.
Hlou. Sir MNACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
tlîat this Bill is fin insidious attempt to revive the lottery systern whicbi the parliament of Canada bias decided was to the
detrimerît of the general public, and if auy
oîîe will look at the original Act whieh this
Bill1 proposes to aniend, and also at clauses
6 and 7 whichi provide for the distribution
of money by lot, that the interpretation put
upon it by the Minister of Justice Is the
correct one, and when it cornes up for consideration it wili be for the House to say
whetier they are prepared to give their
assent to the systemn of lotteries whîcb this,
Bill provides, agaliist whicll iieariy ail of us
have expressed strong opinions.
Hon. Mr'. LANDRY-1 do îlot controvert
wiîat the lion. Minister of Justice and the
lion. leader of the Opposition bave stated.
1 do flot know anything about the Bill, but
I shouid like if the House would ailow it to
stand.
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-By3
the action
of this parliament lotteries were put a stop
to on the lst of Janunry last. For two or
three months we were without ticket sellers,
at the corners of streets, but these gentlemeni wlo were making money out of it
wanted to see if they couid not drive a
four-in-hand througb tbe law. They attempted divers means. A couple 0f months.
ago tiîey took bold of n charter granted by
the provincial parliament, authorîzîng the
issue of obligations, or bonds, wbich could
be subdivIded, and the hion, gentleman mny
be surprised to learn that they attempted to
soul tbem. They put on the market bonds
for 25 cents which they started seIling on
the street corners, and in littie shops
throughout the city 0f Montreal. But they
counted without the supremacy 0f the crinilnai law, and I can now understand why this
attempt is mnade, to revive an, oid charter
which lias not been lu operation for ton or
fifteen years. The Credit Foncier du Bas

Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-I think tiis Bill is ini
derogation of our legisiation of hast session,. Canada, by- section 205 of the Criminal
and undertakes in another way to renew Code, is exempt from the operation of the
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

1NIAY 3, 1901]
lion. Sir M-NACIK7ENZIE BOWELL-If not,
law, and so tbey tbinlc now that theY have
then the order stands. We do îîot WaDt tu
found a loophole bY whicli they will Ce"duplicate the order.
tinue to sell tickets throughout the province
Hon1. Mr. SCOTT-No.
of Quebec and the Dominion. I arn glad
attention bas been drawn to this clause by
The Senate adjourned.
the lbon, gentlemen who have spoken. These
lottery men were taken before the police
magistrate when the tickets were issued, and
It was found that, aithougli they bad a proTHE SENATE.
vincial charter, the criminal law couid stili
readli them ; but on looking at the criminal
Ottawa, Friday, Mai, 3, 1901.
law they found there was this charter whlch'
was lying dormant, and if this littie clause
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
could be passed subdividing their bonds. «dcock.
tIen the 25-cent tickets could stili be sold
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ln Montreal.
Il MARKING AND INSPECTION 0F FRUIT
The order of the day was discharg-ed
Tuesday next.
PACKAGES BILL.
SECOND

READINGS.

THIRD READING.

Bill (109), An Act to Incorporate the
Sovereign Bank of Canad.i.-(Hotn. Mr. '-%e
Millan.)
Bill (124), An Act respectlng the Western
Assurance Company.-(Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)
Bill (125), An Act respecting the British
America Assurance Compa.ny.-(Hlon. Mr.
Lougheed.)
Bill (110), An Act to incorporate the Debenture and Securities Corporation of Canada.-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)

The Order of tlie Day being called
Third reading (Bill 32) an Act to provide for
the Marking and Inspection of Packages containing Fruit for Sale, as amended.-(Hon. Mr.
Milis.)
HIon. Mr. MILLS moved tliat the House resolve itseif Into a Committee of the Whli
ln order to make certain ameudments to the
hast clause of the Bill.

INTERNAL ECONOMY AND CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I propose to amend
clause 16 ln the Bill as It now stands, whlch
18 clause 18 lu tlie Bill as originally printed.
The first part reads
The Governor la Concîl may make such regulations as he considers necessary ln order ta
-secure the efficient enforcement and aperatian
of ihis Act.
I propose to add after that:
And may, by such regulations, Impose penalties not exceeding $50 on any persan offending
against them.
These words are taken from tlie Inspection Act:
And the regulations so made shaîl be la force
from the date of their publication la the Canada
Gazette, or fromn sucli date as ls specified la the
proclamation la that behaîf.

REPORT.

Tlie motion was agreed to.
(In the Committee.)

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
tlie House adjourns, 1 sliould like to cali
attention to the fact that ln our discussion
of the report of the Contingencies Committee. we authorized the purcliase of one hundred copies of a book on 'Speakers' Decisiens' for the use of senators. My attention lias been called to the report of théLibrary Committee in whicli theY recoinmend to tlie government the purchase of
copies of the 'Speakers' Decisions,' by L.
G. Desjardins, witli a view to the purdhase
of copies for the use of members. Perliaps
lt would be as well for tlie Cierk to under- And tben I propose to add:
stand that the intention is tliat, if tlie govAnd the violation o! any sucli regulation shail
erniment make this purcliase f rom tlie au- be deemed an offence against thîs Act and puathor for each member, lie will not purcliase ishable as such.
the book.
The motion was agreed to and the clause
as amended was adopted.
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-Hlear, hear.

18ENATEJ
Hon. '-\Ir 'WOOD (Westmoreland). froin to refer the Bill baclc 10 the commictee for
the comuflttee, reported the Bill with amend- reconisideration. I therefore move:
ments, which were conceurred in.
That the report be not aow concurred la, but
that the report and the sald BIIt ho referred
The Bill was theni rend the third tinie and baek 10 the Commlttee on Raiiways, Teiegraphs
and Harbours, with the instruction to consider
passed.
the advantage to residents ln the Yuk<on ta have
aceess to a coat suppiy, and to consider the
THIRD READINGS.
position of the sharehoiders la the aforesald
company who have expended $150,000 ln works
Bill (97) 'An Act to incorporate the of development, with the vlew that the Bill may
M-\anufacturers and Temperance and Gen- be favourably reported.
eral Life Assurance Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
Hon. 31r. IiKIRCHHIOFFER-Before this
MeM\illan.)
motion Is put, I should liue to say a few
Bill (51) 'An Act to incorporate tile words agalnst lt. This report was on a matAlg-oma Iron and Nlck-el-Steel Company.'- ter NvIlicii -was considered for a long time,
and vPiry thoroughiy tbrashed ont Ili the
(Hon. '-%r. Dandurand.)
Bill (50) 'An Act to incorporate
Canadian M.\utual Ald Society.'-(Hon.
Primrose.)
DAWSO'N

Coxnmittee a short time ago.
the Rallway
Mr. Parties representlng both the companies interested appeared by counsei and by others
interested la the companies, and the mat-

CITY ELECTRIC COM-\PA-NY'S
BILL.

ter was giveil very careful consideration.

It was not douie; as my lion. friend seems
to say. lu a hurried w-ny; the Bill was
The Order of the Day beiug called
given long and careful consideration, and
Consideration of the report of the Standing nt the end of that time defeaited by a subCommittee on Rallways, Telegraphs and Harbours. to whom was referred (Bill H) an Act stantini majorlty. The company, or some
respecting the Dawson City Electrie Company parties, liad originaily got a charter for
(Limited).-(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
They w-ere
this Dawson Eiectric Raiiway.
Hon. MIr. MACDONALD (B.C.) sald : It represented both by the gentlemen who
may be la the knowledge of the House that were counisel lu the case, and by others
a few days ago the Committee on Railways. who knew them to be people of very large
Telegraphis and Harbours reported adverse- means who were prepared to put lu aniy
ly on this Bill. This company did not asic amount 0f capital, but the extraordinary
for a new charter, but for an extension of thlug about It was, that these wealthy people
time for the commencement and compte- dld not thinie enougli of the charter to keep
tion of their -works. I have no fau]t ta find It aive. They did not put any money inito
with the action of the committee In that lt. or expend any money on It. and at thP
case, but ail will admit that sometiines end of the tern they were given for

measures which come before them, sb 111dL
receive a littie more consideration than they
get, and that is ail I asic at the hands of
the House and of the commlttee, that this
Bill receive recousideration, on the ground
that If the -works are carried out, tbey wili
give the people of Dawson a great deai more
comnfort. and conduce to cheaper mininig by
sui)plying cea«per fuel. It witl also be Pli
act of justice and fairness to the people wvho
have put thoir money into this seheme. They
bave spent in deveiopînig coal mines $150),000l. It is a snll matter, an extension of
baie. lil a ucw country lice that. they
were uncertain about expending further
moliey. because they did not lcnow if the

construction, this charter actuaiiy lapsed as far as construction is concerned0f course the charter does not go out of existence. They have a charter, but the time

which was given them for construction had
coule to an end, and therefore that part of

it hnd iapsed. When they appiied here. instead of appiying as they shouid have done,
for a revival of that charter and for an extension of the time for construction, and
then put ln a termi for the extension, they
simply ask now for an extension of the tinie

for construction upon a charter which does

not actualty exist as far as construction
W1ýhen they 'say that this is
is concerued.
donc for the purpose of advantaging the disgoid mining was of a permanent chlaracter. trict by furnishing it with coal, -which is
Now. they feel warranted in going on witli of such importance to the people of the
tbeir worlc, und 1 asic the House to consent Yukon district, inobody disputes the fact that
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[MAY 3, 19011]
further cousidthey have a coal mine where they have ex- back to our coimittees for
eration matters to which t]ieY have alreidy
pended, as somebody says in an off-baud
attention and consideration.
way, the round sum of $150,000. We Lnow% given their best
wvhen the comnaittee were in a far better
nothing of that except some statenient made
of this House to
by some gentleman to the committee. There position than members
adjudîcate upon the merits of the case,
was no evidence whatever of any descriptheni those
tion to show that, but that they have a lnasmuch as they have before
who are supporting the measure and those
coal mine Is admitted, and that the people
the measure. I have
of Dawson want a coal mine is also admit- who are adverse to
still greater objection that a remnission to
ted. The people -%ant the coal, and they
be made couched lu
do flot care who it Is that brings the coal out the commlttee should
such language as this one-that it should b0e
so long as they get It. Another conithe committee wlth Instructions
pany bas a charter over the very referred to
to do so and so. If It is referred to the
They have had surveys.
sanie route.
at ail, I tbinl, it sbouid be reThey have built a roadway on whlh the commlttee
ferred without any restriction wbatever.
public have been travelling in getting access
committee at any rate would exercise
to that country, and they are now prepared The
their own discretion in the matter, but I
to construct It and would have constructed
It Is not rig-ht to refer these matters
It before, but they could not get the rigbt of think
to the commlttee wltb Instructions to adopt
way. They have now the riglit of way and
course. 1 feel quite certain that
are prepared to go on wltb their construc- a certain
the members of the varions committees of
tion, and do not want to be interfered
give the very best attention to
witb, by having another charter reviveil this Honse
the subjects subluitted to theni, and ini wy
when the only raison d*etre that they cau
are in a better position to arrive
give for applying for It, Is to bring out the estimation
at a clear and rigbt conclusion than the
coal. The other company sayrs. we will
ltself. I can Imagine a case i which
bring the coal ont; that is part of our House
It mlght be proper to remit to the committees
business. The first thing we will do we wvill
again for consideration any subject that
run up to this coal mine.' Therefore these
bad been already before them where some
people cannot urge as anl objection that they
have transpired iu the interini that
are not going to be allowed to distribute their things
might alter their fanding, but not otherwise.
coal, because the company can bring out
the coal. This matter wns thoroughly disHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I thiuk
cussed in the committee, and the Bill1 was there Is another strong objection to refervoted down. These wealthy capitalists had ring it back, because It is a revival of an
flot seen fit to go on wlth their charter. old charter which is, to ail intents and purIt commences
They had sold it to some United States poses, a blanket charter.
capltalists out In California w-ho wcre ln. and runs round in a circle.
If they had
terested in the coal mine. They took ur. applied for a charter to reach their coal
this old charter and thought tbey would *mines, exclusively tbrough that section of
-et In and crowd out the people who havc the country, there would not be so mucli
the charter by revîving the old charter. 1htobjection to it, but when it reaches the
w'ould not be fair to the people who havt river the two mouds run parallel and close
-one on and expended their money in goo( together. It is the only way tbey can reach
f alth thinklng they had the charter to ref er Dawson City. The question is whether, in
this Bill back to the commlttee with ln a sparsely settled country, It is to the adstruction to reconsider it favournbly. I di vantage of the country or for the beneflot object in any way to having report Sfit of the settiers, that there should be
referred back to committees, but thiere ha S roads built in that w-ny, or whether
exist
continue to
been no reason adduced hiere whatever for a charter should
having this matter referred back to comi which muns ail round the country, and
mittee.
iuay be kept there for years and years to
rcorne without ntilizing any portion of it,
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-I, as one membe
others from constructing moads.
of this House, have very strong objections t o preventiflg one great objection I had,
gThat is
this method of procedure-that is, referrin

LSENATEI]
aind have now. to the revival of this
charter. There is another point. There
is an assertion in that motion of my hon.
friend for whichi we have no evidence other
than the statement by the attorney who
was acting for the parties seeking this revival, and 'when we remember that wben
he was asked a great number of questions
as to what had been done and what was
Intended te be done, or whether they bad
done anything, he kinew nothing about It,
but he had been informed that tbey had
spent $75,O00 in building a tramway-lot a
tramway, but a trail, as they eall It ia the
west-to their mine. That is the statement
made, and It is a complaint that the committees la the past have frequently made,
and on whlch I thlnk they should inslst,
that when applications of this kind. are
made, there should be somne evidence given
of their houa fides. The Hlouse and the
committees are la the habit too much of reviving charters which stand upon the statute-book, preventing the development of
that country by people wbo would build a
roadway.
Then, there was another question raised as to the policy of the government la reference to these roads.
When
the question was under discussion here before, and I called the attention of the minister to the former policy of the goverament
upon the question, I understood hlm to say
that the pollcy was flot chang-ed. Neither
of the ministers who were on that Rallway
Committee were present la order to express
their opinion as to whetber their policy was
changed or not.
Whether the committee
would be guided altogether by policies of
that kind la another matter, but the majority of the commlttee, no matter what
their views may be upon the question, have
no desire to throw any difficulties la the
way of the final settlement of the boundary
question, which the hon. Minister of Justice
referred to the other day. If the Bill goes
back to the commlttee, I thInk It will receive
the same treatment it has already received.
These are the objections I would have.
Otherwise, I would vote for the construction
of any road, provlding it is not exactly parallel with one, a portion of whlch already
exists, and will rua, when they reach the
river, the Lewes or the Yukon, alonigside of
each other.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI.

Hon. )Ir. 'MACDONALD (B. C.)-Both
the legal gentlemen who appeared before
the committee on this Bill told us that their
companies expended a certain amount of
money, and there is just as much evidence on the one side as the other.
The
legal gentlemen of this Hlouse and. the
others who have spoken against the Bill,
have flot a particle more evidence of
their contention thon I have of mine.
Tbose gentlemen both said that certain
amounts of money had been spent, and we
have to, take their word that they would
not come before the committee and state
that wbich was false. Hon, gentlemen can
easlly understand that one company wisbed
to have a monopoly If it could get It Very
naturally that Is so. Mfy hon. friend ean
support a monopoly If he likes, but both
companles have an equni rlght to go to
work in the country. This bas nothing to
do witb the boundary question.
It is entireiy withIn the boundary, and they bave
not laid out their Unes. It bas not been
approved by the goverament, and there are
There are certain
no Unes yet deflned.
powers given by the Bill. The Ilnes have
to be approved by the Governor In Council.
The committee may do the same thlng wlth
this Bill agaîn If tbey Ilke, but the reference back to tbem on certain points Is not
much to ask for, and 1 hope the flouse will
grant It.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-What does the
hon, gentleman mean by a reference to the
policy of the goverament .9
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I wll
let them explain that.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I did not know
that this had anythlng to do wlth IL.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
rather surprised that the hon. gentleman
does not L-now that this has anything to
do with the boundary hune. The charter
commences at Pyramid Harbour.
Wbere
is Pyramid Harbour ? It goes by the Dalton route, and that commences at Pyramid
Harbour.
Hou. M.Nr.MeKAY (Truro))No, this bas
nothing to do with it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This is a local iatter.

[,IA)- .3, 1901]
Bihl shahl be
TEIPLEiIAN-This is a tram- made to this House that the
Hon: M-Nr.
referred back to the comrnittee, not with
way from Dawson City out to the Klondike
cast iron Instructions, but for the purpose
mines.
of giving further consideration to the matHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then it ter. For my part, although I arn jeahouts,
la n9Qt the same Bill at ail.
and I belleve justhy jealou., of the rights of
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-This Is committees of this House, I do not f eel
the Dawsoni City Electric Railway Bill. It that It would be casting any refiection upon
bas nothlng to do with Pyramid Harbour. the action of the committee.
Hion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I wlthdraw that portion of my remarks, as I was flot say that It would.
under the impression the motion had referHon. Mr. BAKER-My hon. frlend bas
ence to another Bill whieh was before the withdrawn the allusion that he made to the
committee. There is this to be said, how- Importance of this question as likely to reever : that there la just as mucli reilance to gulate the boundary uine betweea Canada
be placed ln one as ln the other. The coin- and the Ujnited States, so that I need flot
pany that le opposlng this have already further discuss ItL
As chairman of the
spent a large amount of money.
Rallway Committee, 1 subinit that the proHon. Mr. BAKER-As chairman of the position of my hon. friend Is a reasonable
Rallway Commlttee, It would be, perbaps. one. as so far as I am concerned, as chairbetter for me to maintain a strictly neutral man of the commhttee, I shahl vote for ItL
attitude la this discussion, and I shahl fot
Hon. Mr. PRINMROSE-This thentransgress that rule ef proprlety further
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Order,
than to say that this matter came before
order. Spoke.
the committee, as matters of the k-ind have
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-I was merely wantcorne before the cornmittee scores of turnes
t
since I have had the honour of belng chair- Ing to explain.
man. It was preseated by my hon. friend,
a member of the
Hon. Mr. VIDAI-As
'%r. Macdonald, who, as a senator, as a comrnlttee, I venture to express the opinion
House, stated to tne coin- that the proposaI to retura the report to the
member of thls
rnlttee that a suin of $150,000 had been ex- cormlittee Is not a motion which, as stated
Lt
pended ln promotlng the enterprise.
by the chairman, Is merely for reconsideraneyer for one Instant occurred to me to tion ; It Is a motion wlth a direction to the
challenge the correctness of the statement comrnlttee to act in a manner contrary to
made by that hon. gentleman. It neyer what their consciences led them to do when
occurs to me to challenge a statement made *they decided upon the report which they
by a member of this House upon his honoui made.
as such member. I accepted It, and 1 confess that I was disappointed at the action *Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-No.
of the comrnlttee. I am not golng to entet
Hon. Mr. BAKER-There is no positive
Into any discussion, or offer any censure tc direction to the cornrittee.
chairman,
the comrnittee of which .was
*Hon. Mr. VIDAL-The Instruction Is
but the request of the promoters of th(
ln the
to
Bill Is one that is made every day, au LTo consider the advantage coal residents and ta
supply,
a
Yukon ta have access tothe shareholders in the
ordlnary request for an extension of turne consider the position of
$150,000
It was represented to the committee b3 aforesatd cornpany, who have expended that the
In works of development, wlth the vlew
the hon, gentleman who had charge of th4 Bill may ha favourably reported.
Bill, that there had been a large expendi
1 suppose the concluding words are flot a
ture of money on this enterprise, and tha t
is an Instruction
who are interested were readý rpositive Instruction, but, It
the parties
2to go over again the arguments advaaced
to lnrest a stIhi greater suin. In the faci
bas been pald. I thlnk
of that, the Bill was reported against, no t with reference to wbat
1 the decision. the committee arrlved at was a
by a decisive majority. as my hon. frieni
and certainly, as far
('-%r. Kirchhoffer) intimates, but by a ver: F just and wise decision.
r as my present information goes. I shall be
-3maîl majority, and the pioposition 1iýnov

ISENATE]
disposeci to vote as I did then, in support
of the report preseuted by the committee to
the House--that the preamble of the Bill
was not satisfactorily proved before the
committee.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-I wisb to know
wbetber I am n ot perfectly within my
riglits, according to our ruies, to offer a few
words in explanation ?
Hou. ',%r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-No, not
according to our rules.
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-I move that the
House do now Adjoura.
Hon. '.\r. PRIMROSE-I can now do so.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Il objeet
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman can
speak on the motion to adjourn.
Hon. Mr. PRIM-%ROSE-Tbe remarks of the
chairman of the committee are an illustraThere are circumtion of what I said.
stances in wbicb it is permîssible sud
commendable to refer a report baek for
reconsideration, and under the explanations
wblcb be gave, I witbdraw any personal
opposition I migbt have to the motion.

mine development, and they are asking wby
tbey should flot be allowed to buiid a tramway for the purpose of bringing out the
coal. Nobody wants to lock tbat up, but
another cornpany whil bhas a charter bias
the right to build that tramway.
Hon. Sir MACV,-ý'1'îE BOWELL-I arn
not going to discuss this question.
When
1 referred to Pyramid Harbour, 1 was under
the Impression that It was anotber Bill
altogether.
However, the reasons that I
gave for voting as I Intend to vote-I cannot vote, bowever, for I arn paired.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)l-No Bill of
this nature before a committee, liere or ln
the otber House, bas received greater consideration or been more elosely investlgated
than this sane Bill. and I arn somewhat
surprlsed to see lu tbe motion bere the
statemeat tinit $150,000 wns expeaded on
Wlien the bon, gentleman
this enterprise.
made that statement I did flot bappen to be
la the commnittee, but I remember dlstinctly
asklag tbe promoter of tbe Bill bow mucb
had been expen ded, andl le could flot tell.
Thcy had eut out a trait to tbe mine, but
thiat wns ail he kaew aaything about.

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I wlsb to
Hon. 'Mr. MILLEII-He could not tell us
make a few remarks. myseif ln explana- anlythlng at ail abolit lt.
tionHon. Mr. WOOD (Hamiltoa)-On the other
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-Order.
hand. the gentleman wbo is promotiug the
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOF~FER-I amn speak- otber Bill gave us a full and satisfactorY
ing- on the motion to adjourn. I do not expianation to almoat every question that
wish any one to imagine that I did not bie- was asked. This charter bavlng died out,
Ileve the statemeat that $150,000 bad been those interested in it want it to be revived.
I They bave no interest in tbe country except
spent, and this Iswhat they en exploit Ia tbe coal mines.
Hon. Mr. MNACDONALD (B.C.)--Order, Wheu a eommittee passes on a Bill as careorder. That ls flot an explanation.
fuiiy and eiosely as tbis Bill bas been atHon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Tbe lion gen- tended to, it is flot rigbt that it sbould be
tleman cannot choke us ail off. The oaly sent back for the purpose of creating austatement Ibat was muade was that this coal otber coateat la that cornmittee.
company bad spent $150,000. It was stated
Tbe SPEAKER-I rnay be aiiowed to
distinctly that that hiad niot beeii expended drmw the attention of tbe lion, gentleman
on the Dawson Electric Railway; it %vas from Victoria to the fact that this resolution
stated distinCtiy that these people, wbo are practically Instrutslarge capitalists, had spent no money on
Hon. 'Mr. M-NILLER-I do flot tbink the
it. This was stnted over and over again
Hnuse requires any Instructions from the
by people before the eomniltzee. Now, the
Speaker witb reg-ard to tbe contents of tbe
sympatby of this House la asked because
resolution. We understand it weii eaoug-h
thîey have speut $150,000 on IL. That is
to do our duty.
nov so. There bas not, been a dollar speat
The SPEAKER-Tbe Speaker uuderstands
on this Dawson City Electric Railway. They
have, as they said, spent $150,000 on coal bis duty as well as the hou. gentleman f rom
Hon. Mr. VIDAL.

pMAy 3, 1901]
Hlon. Mr. PROWSE-I consider that this
lticlamond. WiLh this instruction. the bauds
of the committee will lie tied.. 1 thouglit, motion to refer the report back to the coinfrom the remarks of the hon, gentleman. lie mittee is ratier a reflection on the commitwisbed the report to go back for recon- I tee, and by giving Instructions, it is situsideration, leaving the committee n free 1ply ordering the committee to do what they
1 would cercaunot do conscieutiously.
hand to deal wltb It as they please.
aiuly prefer, aud I tbluk it is more commonHou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-If the ense, to take a course that is frequeutly
House wishes those words elimlnated, 1 s iursued in this House. The proper course
have no objection to that at ail. I simply p tbat pursued by the lion. gentleman from
s
want the Bill to be sent back for recon-1 lichimond tbe otlier day.
His notice of
sideration.
notion was tbls:
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Omit.
That on the motion for the third readiug of
lie Bill respectlng the Bell Teleplione Company
Hon. Mr. M-NILLER-No, it must stand as îe will move that the said Bill be flot uow read
third time, but that It be amended by addiug
It is. I objeet to any ulteration.a
hereto the followlug clauses
The SPEAKER-Does tbe bon. gentleman
Tbeu foliow thie proposed aniendments.
from Murray Harbour witbdraw bis motion rbe motion of tbe lion. gentleman from Victo adjouru.
toria would be more ln accordance with
Hou. 'Mr. PROMWSE-I witbdraw.
:be feelings of the committee If lie moved
but that tlie
M1r. DeBOUCHERVILLE-This mio- that the report bie not adopted,
Hon.
Bill be read the tliird time. Tbat would
tion says, 'To consider the position of the
a refiection on the committee and
shareholders iu the aforesaid company.' Is prevent
serve every purpose.
not that telling the committee that tbey have
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Could
not considered tbe sharebolders ?
sucli a motion be made ?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It 18 a
Hon. ]Sr. PROWSE-Certaily. Why not ?
matter of recousideration.
the If you bave to adopt tlie report of a comHou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLFEBther
mittee under auy and ail cireumstances,
gentlemen of the committee have considthey there would bie no object lu presenting It.
ered the matter and done their duty, or
House can disagree to
bave not. If we say that they have not. A majority of tbis
com- a report of a comm!ttee and the Bill can
I think we are finding fault with the
tbird time. Tbat seems to me
mlttee, and I amn sure my bon. frieud does lie read thie
bave to be tbe common-sense view of tbe quesflot wisb to find fault witb wbat tbey
doue. It is lu reality blamiug tbe commit- tion.
tee wheu the committee does not dleserve
Hon. Mr. MILLS-So far as I arn conblamne.
ceined-and I daresay it is the samne with
House wlio are not
Hon. Mr. M1ILLER-I cousider the resolu- otbier members of this
to some
the concluding portion would members of the committee-I amn
tion witbout
extent lu tbe dark upon this question. Que
be incousequential. The commi.ttee would
by an hon. genhave no instructions wbatever but simply statement lias been made
tleman tbat the company thatt are asking
to reconsider. Wbat object is there ln
If we sent back for un extension of tbe charter bave already
simply reconsidering ?
amount of moneY
the Bill to the committee ut ail, it shouid speut a very considerable
charter. Iu
lie with instructions of some kiud, and, upon this enterprise under the
the Speaker a case of tbe sort, once It is made very clear
therefore, I think the duty of
lu conis to put the resolution us it bins been that the country is goins to suifer
is in sequence, It Is the usual tbing to give a
placed lu bis bauds. The resolution
large
order, and there Is a clear course before eoinpauy an extension of time. The
remarks of tbe suin that tbey have expeuded Is an evltbe House. I agree with the
lion, gentleman from Hamilton. I ivas ou dence of their good faitb ; but I understood
committee
the committee and voted wlth the majority, fromn another hou. miember of tbe
of that
and I see no reason -wby I should change that hie contestedl the accuracy
statement, and it would bie, I tbink, Wel
u1y vote.

[ SE 'ÇA T E]
that the House should know precisely what
the facts are in that case before they are
iaeked to deal with this question.
If the
conpa-ny have spent, as the hou. memnber
said, about $150,OOO on this enterprise, it
would be rather bard, and adoptlng a course
itot usual lu the House, to refuse thern an
extension of tine ; but If they have made
îîo sucli expenditure and are standing In
the way of an Improvement which otixers
are ready to make, that wouid be a good
reason for taking the course that bas been
xîdopted by the committee.
Hon. gentiemnen who are members of the commlrnttee
oughit to be able to give the House Information upon that subjeet in order that they
iay vote in a way to do no party Injustice.
Hon. 'Mr. 3McCALLUM-I arn a member
,of that committee, and as It struck me, I
will explain what took place. My understanding of It 15, that this compauy bas
liad a charter for, 1 thiuk, three or four
years, and a coal mine, and tbey have spent
some money on a trail going to the coal
mine. That Is ail the evideuce that I could
hlear.
A represeutative of the conipany
was asked whether they spent this $100,000),
some say $150,000), ln testlng their coal mine
-not building a rallway-and he dld flot say
they hnd. I do not see any great harm can
be doue by sending the Bill back to thse
committee, but my opinion is, thse committee will report ns they have done, and tbere
Is no use wastiug their time wben they went
carefully Into it before, witb a view to
dolng wbnt is riglit. That is wbat 1 arn
golng to do bere.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
motion instructs thse committee to report
favourably.
'Hon. '-Ir. McIDONALD ('C.B.)-I aiso
wus a member of that commîttee, and
I think thse committee, wien it voted, conisisted of tweaty-two niembers, and tise vote
was ten to twelve, if I remember correctly.
This company got its charter lu 1898. Lt
expired last year. Lt was stated on tiseir
bebaif tisat tisey biad expeuded $150,000) ln
developing coal mines with a view to bringlng that coal to Dawson City, and to thse
district where they wisbed to seli tiseir
coal. In addition to that, this company-it
was stated by thse solicitor-had filed a planl
of tise railway. with thse Railwzay Departmient, as required by
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

tiie

Railway

Thse opposing company. it was stated by tise

same solicitor, had not yet filed nny plami
with thse Railway Departmeat, and, tiserefore, lie coutended that this company had a
superior right to a renewal of their charter.
I thiuk, myseif, as 1 tbought then, tîmat the
equities are lu favour of this company, and
I voted accordingly. Lt la only right that
the matter should be referred again to the
commlttee, because there were several
members of the committee who wvere not
present on that occasion, and If tisere was a
full attendance, it might result differeutly
to what It did on that occasion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I dare say 1 arn like a
good many otiser members of this Chamber,
not sufficîently lnstructed on the subject to
vote luteligently.
If the motion la tise
bauds of the Speaker were to send the Bill
back to the committee for furtiser inquiry
and information, then I thiak it would le
a safe resolution to vote on. If. on tise contrary, it is referred back witis a speclflc
direction, I do not thlnk this House is ln a
position to give thse direction.
I do not
thlnk we know the facts sufficiently. 1 an
eorry my hon. frlend bas not placed the resolution on a broader basis, sending back
the Bill and leavlng the committee free to
deai witb It as they think proper. As it is
noxv, It Is very embarrassing to vote ou It at
all.
The House divlded on the miotion, which
was rejected by tise following vote
Contents:
Hon. Messieur.i
Bernier,
Dever,
Jones,
Kerr,
King,
Landerkin.
Macdoaald (Victoria),
McDonaid (C.B.),
McHugh,

MeKay (Truro),
McLaren,
Milîs,
O'Doooe.
Priinrose,
Snowball,
Templernan,
Wark.-17.

Non-Co'ntents:
Hon. Messieurs

Aikins,
Allan,
Boucherville, de
Carling (Sir John),
Cochrane,
Dobson,
God bon t,
Kirchhoffer,
Lovjtt,
Act. McCallum,

MeSweeney,
Merner,
Mille r,
Perley,
Power (Speaker),
Prowse,
Vidal,
'ood (Hamnilton),
yeo).-19.

[NIAY 3, 1901]

333

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I rnay say to hon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did
gentlemen that I do flot think It will deiay
flot vote because I was paired with. the
the House desires it,
Hon. Mr. Baker ; otherwise I would have the public business if
and therefore I have no objection. There
voted against the motion.
is nothing on the Order paper for 'Monday.
SECOND READINGS.
Hon. Mr. PRO WSE-I do flot wlsh to
Bill (59) 'An Act te Incorporate the Simîloppose the motion, but I have spoken against
kameen and Keremeos Railway Company!~
these adjouruments on severai occasions.
-(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
~Bill (87) 'An Act to amalgamate the The SPEAKER-If there is any opposiNorthern Pacific and Manitoba Railway tion the motion cannot be put.
Company, the Winnipeg Transfer Rallway
Hon. Mr,. PROWSE-I wish te rnake a litCompany (Limited), the Portage and Northtie speech on It first. I stated that I was
western Railway Company and the Wask- flot going to oppose the motion, because the
ada and North-eastern Railway Company government undertake the responslbility of
under the name of the Manitoba Railway
it, and they tell us that there is no particuCompany.'--(Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
The rfason of
lar business for Monday.
Bill (O) 'An Act te Incorporate the In- that Is that this House anticipated an adstitute of Chartered Accountants, Actuar- journrnent two or three days ago. and Bills
ies and Finance.'-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie which rnighit have been placed on the Order
Bowchl, in absence of Hon. Mr. Lougheed.) paper for Monday were set down for TuesWe
day, anticipating this adjournrnent.
INTERPRETATION ACT AMIENDMENT wish to have It properly understood by the
Bouse. It is a pity that these short adBILL.
journents should take place and be reSECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
corded ln our minutes. It looks te the counthe second rend- try as If we had no business to do but to
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS rnoved
ing of Bill (P) 'An Act to arnend the In- meet and adjourn. and I arn sure the iast
arnount
terpretation Act.' He said This Bill con- few days we have had an Immense
than
sists o! twe lUnes. It Waan arnendmnent te of work ln the Senate, perhaps more
that the should have been crowded Into onc day. It
the Interpretatien Act te declare
close of
expression 'county court' shail Include the is desirable, drawing so near the
same pew- the session, that these short adjournrnts
district court, se as te give the
If we allow the
ers ln reference te extradition cases in the should not be persisted ln.
part of On- practice to be perpetuated, it will becorne
district courts lu the northern
a meeting
tarie, as is possessed by the county courts. chronlc, and we will never bav e
on Monday at ail. I do not object to it at
The motion was agreed te.
the present time, but I wish to give warniug
that if lt is perslsted in, I shall daim my
The Bill was rend the second tirne.
right te object even If I stand alone.
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved that ruhe. 41 be
Hon. 31r. M-NcCALLUM%-I theught there
suspended lu se far as It relates to this w-as an understandiflg the last time ive adBill.
journed that there should be due notice
given of any future adjournnient. I know
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
that we adjourned on a Friday on that ocwas rend the thîrd time and passed.
casion. There was no notice, and I objected
strong-ly. because I had to stay bere till
A PROPOSED ADJOURNMENT.
Monday, whereas if notice had been given
Hon. '.%r. SNOWBALL-It would be con- *the iay before, I could have gene borne
have an
venient te a great number of the rnerbers twe days sooner. It we are going te
Bouse If we adjourncd tihl Tuesday adjournrnent we eught to cornply with the
of this
next. 1 wouhd miove that the Bouse ad- *rules of the House, and have due notice
given the day prevîous, se that we would
jeurn tihI Tuesday next.

ISENATE]
know ail about It. Two or three hon. gentlemen make Up their minds that they want
to go home for a day or two, and the House
Is asked to adjourn from Friday tiil Tuesday to meet t1ieir convenience. I do not
think this is fair to those who lire at a
distance. We cannot tell to-day what we
wiil bave on Monday. They are working
lu the other House, and we may have some
work to do here. The weather is good, and
the ground is nice and dlean, and If bon.
members have flot anytbiug else to do, they
can go and take a wall, around the building and improve their health, because It is
very desirable thiat they should be in good
condition for the work that is before themi,
If we are golng to do our duty. I object
st.rongly to this adjourumeut and lnsist
that we shall have due notice giren so that
we can govern ourselves according-ly.
Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL-As there was -no
business on the Order paper for M-%onday, I
made the motion.
Hon. '-%r. KIRCHHOFFER-Does îiot the
bon. member for 'Monck menu that hie wil
object the next time ? He does not object
this time surely ?
Hon. Mr. MeCALLUM-I do flot kanow
wbat I may do aext tîme. I will take that
Into consideration.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-The bon. gentleman Is not objecting this time ?
Hon. Mr. MclCALLUM%-Oh, yes.

draw the attention of the Senate to the fact
that the Hon. J. J. Ross, one of our promineut members bas died since we iast met,
and w-ould suggest the propriety, out of respect to his memory, of adjourniag until tomorrow. I have been informed that the
funeral is to take place to-morrow. Most of
us have known the late senator. He was a
gentleman who occupied mnany prominent
positions In bis own province, as well as ini
this Senate and in the government of the
country. 1 find, in looking over a short
sketch of bis life, that hie occupied
many prominent positions in bis owu
province. He was president of the Agriculturai Society In the locaiity in whiceh
hie lived.
He eutered parliameut in 1861
and remained a representative of the people
until the union of the differeut provinces at
confederation in 1867. He was then appointed to the legisiatire councl. During the
time of bis occupancy of a seat in the Legisintire Assembiy of the province of Quebec,
and of the legisiatire council, lie was comnmissioner of public works, and hield other
important positions, and on the death of the
Hon. Mr. Mousseau, hie became premier 0f
Quebec, an office w-hlch he held I think until
1887, when lie was appointed to a seat in
this House, and subsequentiy w-as elected
Speaker. He was also sworn in as a member of Sir Charles Tupper's government, In
1896. I mention these facts to show that
Mr. Ross was a prominent man, enjoying
the esteem and confidence of bis feflow
Som hon. MEMBERS-Withdraw the ob- men, not only îmg his own province, but in
this Huse, and in the Dominion. We must
jection.
ail regret the death of s0 many of our feiiow
Hon. Mr. M.%cOALLUMý-No.
members, especially of one who bas occupied
so many prominent positions, one known to
The motion was withdrawn.
the most of us. I think it wouid be weli for
The Senate adjourned.
the Senate to adopt the sugg-estion whichi I
have thrown out, and if it meets the approvai
of the leader of the gorernmeut, either bie
or I could more the adjourument.

THE SENATE.

Oitaica, Monday. Mali 6, 1901.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-M-%Y hon.
malte the motion.

friend can

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Uuder
the circumstances, with the cousent of the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
go-verament, I more that this House do now
adjoura tili to-morrow afternoon at three
THE LATE SENATOR ROSS.
o'clock. It lias been suggested that we
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before adjoura till Wednesday at three o'clock,
the Orders 0f the Day are called I desire to to enable a number of hon. gentleman ini the
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM.

LNIAY 7, 19011
THE SENATE.
.Senite who are desirous of attendiflg the
fnnciral of their late colle9gile to do SO.
Ottaiva, Tuiesday, May 7, 1901.
My motion at present is to adjourn nThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Tliree
tii three o'clock to-morrow. If, bowever,
to extend the adjourninent 0
the Senate desires
tintil Wednesday, to enable many of the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
juembers who are anxious of attending the
no >AWSON CITY ELECTRIC COMPÂNY'S
funeral to do so, 1 certainly sliould bave
BILL.
objections.
NOTICE 0F MOTION.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say to my lion.
friend opposite that I remernber Dr. Ross
lion. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Before the
very well years ag-o, wlien conf ederationi was )rders of the Day aire called, 1 wlsh to muake
lnaugurated. as a member of the House of
motion, witli reference to the report o! the
Commons. Hie w-as tiien a man in good a
'ommnittee on Railways, Telegraplis and
licaltli, and a prominent member of the Rlarbours on Bill (fi) 'An Act respecting
House of Commons fromn the province of
lhe Dawson City Electric Comupany,' w.hil
Quebec. The nunierous positions which Dr. twas not disposed of the other day. lu parRoss lbas lbeld N-ith the sanction and approval lamentary language, it niow lies on the
of Iiis province bespeak well for binm botli 1
Tabile, and it can lie spokeui to by any miemas a publie man and a man of wortb. 1 liad ber of tlie flouse. I think it sliould be put
not the pleasure, for a great many years, of or. tlie Orders of the Day, and tîten it would
ain acquaintance with Dr. Ross after lie be- be open to any one to make auy motion with
l was
came a mnember o! this flouse.
reference to IL. 1 move tîtat fi lie restored
brouglit very Ilttie into contace with hlm, tro the Order paper.
but there can be no doulit that the fact that
The SPEAKER-Is that not al motion o!
lie was a member of the old legisiature, that
of the House of Conimons w'hlch It Is necessary to give notice ?
lie was a member
at the tume of the Inauguration of the presHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I lielieve it
ent union, that bie was sulisequently for is not necessary lu this case.
many years a member of this House, that lie
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I ai
lield the position of Prime 'Minister of bis
lnclined to thinik thiat notice ouglit to lie
own province-ail go to, show that bie was a
of a motion o! this kind. This Bill
wan who enjoyed the confidence of the peo- given
tbe
the wvas defeated in tlie commlittee, and
ple o! lis province and was entitled to
and my lion. friend froîn
made,
respect of tbose who sat eitber in this flouse report was
moved that that report lie referreI
or the House of Commons from the other Victoria
the Commlttee on Raibvifys, Tele-provinces of the Dominion. I bave, 1 nxay back to,
the graplis aud Harbours witlî Instructions to
say. a mnelanclioly pleasure in seconding
That motioni was defeatmotion of my lion. f riend foi- the adjourn- report favouralily. Tliat w'as an evidetîce at
memnbers ed lu the House.
nient of the flouse, and if any lion.
disapproval of tlie restoration o! tlie
of this body desire to attend tbe funeral ef least of
not Bill, lndlrectly, if not directly, and 110w withMr. Ross 1 see no reason -wly we miglit
or wîtbout knowiflg that tbe matadjourn tili Wednesday, if that is the out notice,
we are
make this ter was to lie lrouglit forward again,
d&-sire of the House. 1 siniply
to restore the order. If we restore the
statement to show that 1 am anxious, as asked
then the motion of my lion. frlend
well as my colleague lieside me, to meet tlie order,
wc-uld lie, I suppose, to refer it agaitu to the
xvislies of tlie flouse and of tiiose who were
for amendmneuts or to, report tlie
personally associated wltb Dr. Ross, and who committee
Sbould not those wlio voted agalinst
may desire to be present ut bis funeral. in Bill.
was made hîy ny lion.
titis mutter w-e are in the bands of the flouse, the motion wbich
the other day, have notice before thîey
to do w-bat the House ma.y think proper friend
are asked to nast anotber vote oit this quesunder tbe circuinstances.
tion ? Personally. I am. not .particularly opThe motion w-as ag-reed to.
posed to restoriflg the order. but I tbink it
is an unus'ial course to pursue. It is likçe
The Senate adjourned.

[SEN'ýýT El
taking th'e Senate by surprise, and I think, if
my bon. friend considers tbe inatter for .1
moment, he w'ill consent to make it a nlotie
of motion.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Lt cau only bo nmade
on regular notice o! motion.
The SPEAKER-Is the hion. gentlemn
satisfied to, allow it to remain as n notice o!
m~otion ?
Hon. '-\r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I -will reail
a few lines front Bourinot whîcli supports
my contention. Bourinot says :
In the Senate if a Bill on the Order paper ls
calied, and no one moves In relation thereto,
It is dropped, but the member In charge has the
right to move to restore it ta the paper without
notice, but on that motion he cannot discuss
the subjeet-niatter of the measure.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is where a Bill bas
not been voted upon. Where a measure is
dtopped, and there is no expression o! opinion in the Ilouse, the motion can be made
without notice, but 1 thiak the better way
would be to allow it to stand.
Tbe SPEAKER-I think,
the lion, gentleman has the
motion, but substantialiy,
xîot be quite fair to muake it

strictly speaking,
right to inake the
I think it would
now.

Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.) Thien
wili stand as a notice for to-rnorrow.

it

THE COOK CHARGES CO-MMITTEE.

Hon. '.\r. M.NILLS-Before the Orders of

that the terrns of the original reference
should in this respect be cornplied with, and
as the eomrnittee was to report from time
to tirne the evidence as it was taken until
the question was argued, I have no doubt
whatever that the duty of the cornmittee
was to report that evidence to the House,
so that every member of the Senate would
be ln possession of It, and would have ain
opportunity of reading It over and making
hlmself familiar wlth It, and be in a position
to express an opinion upon the report of the
comrnittee when that report was made. 1
bring this under the attention of the Honse
l)ecause the proceeding in that regard Is
quite irregular, and iny hion. friend, the
chairnian o! the commîttee, I thlnk wlll agree
with the view that I have taken, that the
comrnittee have nlot power to withhold the
evidence froni the House, after the resolutien was adopted authorizing the committee
to make this inquiry, se that I trust that
whoever is responsible for the action that
has been taken, will see that the report is,
with as littie delay as possible, placed lu the
hands o! every member o! the House, so
that we will have an oppoitunity of considering It: and that when the question cornes
here for discussion, we wvill be prepared te
consider any report that the committee miay
mnake on the subject. It would be a most
unusual proceeding to withbold ail the information froni the House ilatil the cornmittee carne to their conclusion.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-There is no intention
o! doing so.
Hon. Mr. MLLLS-It was s0 stated.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT'-They only sent a liinited
number of copies rnarked confidentiai.
Hon. Mr. MLLLER-I was told that the
evidence would be distributed to ail the rnembers of the House either to-day or to-mnoirow. There was somne delay, the particulars
of which 1 heard something about, with
regard to the priating o! the evidence last
taken. I only got the advance copy two
days ago, and I asked then if it had been
distributed arng the members, and was
told it was not, but would be in a1day or
two. Certainly the House -%ouid not be
in a position to consider the report before ail
the details w-ere before hon. ieners.

tbe Day are called, I wishi to make a stateawnt. I received a copy some time ago o!
the proceedings of the committee that laquired into the Cook charges, and that copy
1 understood
was marked 'confidential.'
fromi a letter wbicb accompanied it frorn the
la9w clerk. that until the cornmittee reported,
the proceedinigs of the committee would not
be laid before the Senate, and it seerns to rne
that that was a most unusual proceeding.
If bon. senators will look at the motion made
by rny lion. friend opposite (H1on. Sir Macker.zie Bowell) they will see that it was a
motion to report from time to tirne to the
Lieuse. That motion was carried. The coinmittee are acting subordinate to the House,
and under that motion, which in fact is ant
instruction from the House to the cornrittee,
ns a matter of fairness to the members of
1lion. Sir MA[-ýCKENZIE BOWELL-The
tUe House that are miot metubers of the coinmittee, it seemis to mie only right and prope statement made by. the Minister of Justice
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL.

[MAY 7, 1901]
is -quite correct, both in practice and theory,
but when the question was discussed in committee as to reportlng from day to day. It
was deemed advisable flot to report until the
investigation was completed. I gave positive
instructions to have the evidence, as f ar as
it had proceeded, sent to the coînmittee, and
It was marked 'ÂAdvance Copy.' I do flot
know how the word ' Confidential ' occurred
on my hon. f rlend's copy. Whether lt wvas
on any others or flot, I know not. My hon.
friend beside me (Hon. Mr. Ferguson) says
It was flot on bis.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I did not say the word
'Confidential'1 was on It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I understood the hon. gentleman to say it was
marked confidential.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I sald It was accompanled by a letter from the law clerk whichi
lntimated that it was a confidential copy.
and that it was not to be generally distributed at the present time.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
was the understandlng ini the committee.
The resolution, as drawn by myseif, was
precisely in accordance with the practice
whlch had prevailed in the other House durlng the whole time 1 have been hi parliament ; but, as there were only one or two
days ln whlch the evîdence was being taken,
It was thought better it should not be distributed among the members until It was
completed.

copies sent to the distribution office for distribution this afternoon, because 1 pointed
out to the clerk that it was unfair, itor would
the Senate consent, to consider for a moment
any report of the committee until the evidence wvas laid before them and they lad
an opportunity of reading and studying it.
That Is really the position. There lias beeli
some littie misunderstandlng in counection
with the matter, I frankly confess, because
when 1 sent for the clerk and told liim what
ought to have been done-must be done at
or.ce-he was under the impression that some
other Instructions had been given. That Is
really the cause of the delay. I trust, however, that the prlnted evidence will Le in the
hands of hon. senators at once, and that
each member wlll recelve a copy in extenso.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is qulte evident some
one gave Instructions that It was to be confidential. I was informed by a gentleman
that some copies had been distributed, and I
phoned to the Bureau if such was the fact.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE. BOWELLIs that
the advance copy ?.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was distributed last
week.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Tlîat
was for the members of the commlttee only.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He sald It was confidentlai, and only a limited nuiober Lad been
prlnted.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-T-'liat is
true. Only a limlted number, to be distriHon. Mr. MILLS-Completed by the report buted In an unbound state.
of the committee ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wanted to get a copy
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
Hon. Mr. M~ILLS-That was the stateinent
made to me.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
xnay have been stated, but I informed the
clerk dlstinctly that the report of the committee, if a report was made, would have to
Le subsequent to the distribution of the evidence, and I gave positive instruction to
have a sufficient nuinber of copies of the
evidence in full circulated to every member
of the Senate and the House of Commons as
soon as It was complete, and I was assured
to-day, both by the printer and by the clerl,
of the committee, that thiere would Le eighty
22

myseif, and 1 was lnformed by the Bureau
that It was to Le confidential and only a
limlted number of copies for the commlttee
was to Le printed. It was to be kept in type
util a later period.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I will
not say that the order wvas gîven to send a
copy to each of the ministers, but I will say
tbat positive Instructions were given to the
cîerk to send copies to Sir Wilfrid Laurier
and Sir Richard Cartwright.
Whether 1
went beyond that I am not at this moment
peae
osy
peae
osy
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No matter, wve will have
It now.

[SENATEl
SUPItEME AND EXCHEQUER COURTS
ACT AMEND MENT BILL.
WITHDRAWN.
The Order of the Day belng called:.
Second reading (Bill L) An Act to amend chapter 16 of the statutes of 1887, Intituled :'A,
Act to ainend -"The Supreme and Exchequer
Courts Act," ' and to make better provision for
the Trial of Claimi against the Crown.-(Hon.
Mr. Mille).
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I consent to, that order
being dropped, for the present at ail events.

lion. Mr. MILLS-The message is flot quite
accurate as to what the House of Gommons
intended to do, and in the next place It Is
somewhat abrupt in form. In the first place,
there Is a suggestion to, drop our ameudments
and restore the Bill as It was. My bon.
frlend will remember there was a good deal
of discussion here, and It was thouglit the
iaw as It stood was ambiguons. There was
doubt as to, Its meaning, and doubt as to, Its
meanlng among gentlemen familiar with th1e
subject to, which the Bill related, and the
reason given by the bouse of Commons for
flot amendlng the law in that respect is because the original section of the Bill is aiready sufficlently plain and tbe amendment
is consequently unnecessary. That is one
statement, and then there are certain others.

lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I
understand the hon, gentleman to Say lie
drops his Bill ?
bon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, 1 will drop it for
the present, aud If I should brlng it up again,
1 will give notice.&
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
bon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Next year? will be the procedure ? Send the message
back to the bouse of Commons to change
SECOND READING.
it ?
Bill (Q) 'An Act to amend the Criminal
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It will require some time
Code, 1892.'-(Hon. Mr. Milis.)
for consideration, because, if our action here
wili cure any defect in procedure, It would
LE CREDIT FONCIER BILL.
I
be hardly necessary to send it back.
wanted a 11111e time to consider the matter,
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
as 1 bave not badl an opportunlty of looking
The Order of the Day being called :
into It, and it seems to me rather an extraSecond readlag (Bill 99) An Act respecting Le
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada, and to change its ordinary reason to give, when it was seen
name to Le Crédit Hypothécaire du Canada- that this Chamber were of opinion that the
(Hon. Mr. LAmilry).
clause as it stood was obscure, and that
Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)-I there was some doubt as to its meaning, to
presented the petition for this Bill. Since be told that it was very plain, and that
then I have heard something of its char- therefore the amendments of this bouse
acter, and 1 prefer to have nothing further were unnecessary. There was a difference
to do with It.
of opinion on that subject, and the difference
experience.
The Order of the Day was discharged nnd of opinion arose upon actual
The motion was agreed to, and the Order
made an order for Thursday uext.
of the Day was discharged and fixed for
Friday next.
SAFETY 0F SlIPS BILL.
CONSIDERATION 0F GOMMONS AMENDMENTS PosrPONED.
The Order of the Day being called:
Consideration of the message from the House
of Commons agreeing and disagreeing to certain
amendments made by the Senate to (Bill 92) Au
Act further to amend the Act respecting the
Safety of Ships.-Hon. Mr. Mills.)

THIRD READING.
Bill (43) 'An Act to incorporate the St.
Lawrence Lloyds.'-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)

BILLS INTRODUCEU
Bill (33) 'An Act respecting Victoria Day.'
-(Hon. Mr. '%llls.)
Hlon. Mr. MILLS moved that the Order of
Bill (26) 'An Act respecting the Canadian
the Day be discharged and that It be made Pacific RallwayCompany.'-(Hon. Mr. Casan Order of the Day for Friday next.
grain ffde Lanaudière.)
Blill (63) 'An Act to amend the Franchise
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BONNELL-Is there
Act, 1898.-(Hon. -Mr. Scott.)
any objection to the amendmrents ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

[MAY 8, 1901]

339

INSTITUTE 0F CHARTERED ACCOUNTBill (64) 'An Act to amend the Dominion
ANTS, ACTUARIES AND FiINANCE
Elections Act, 1900.'-(Hon. Mr. Mills.)
INCORPORATION BILL.
Bill (121) 'An Act further to amend the
BILL DROPPED.
Post.OfFice Act.'-(,Hofl. Mr. Mills.)
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND, from the CommitThe Senate adjourned.
tee on Bankîng and Commerce, to whom was
referred bill (O) 'An Act to Incorporate the
institute of Chartered Accountants, Actuarles and Finance," reported that the commitTHE SENATE.
tee had arrived at the conclusion that the
Bill be not further consldered by, them durOttawa, Wednuday, May 8, 1901.
ing the present session. He said: This
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three decision was arrlved at after a patient hearo'clock.
lng of the advocates o! the Bill and the
opponents aiso. 1 move that the report be
Frayers and routine proceedings.
concurred in.
DEBENTURE AND SECURITIES CORHon. Mr. MILLS-Before the motion Is
PORATION 0F CANADA BILL.
put, I would be very much gratified If my
hon. frlend would go a llttle further and
ÂMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
state upon what grounds this report
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND, from the Com- bas been made. It would be, I daresay,
niittee on Banklng and Commerce, reported satlsfactory to other mezubers, besides myBill (110) ' An Act to Incorporate the Deben- self, who have not had an opportunity o!
ture and Securities Corporation of Canada,' attending the commlttee. I have had reprewith amendments. He said : The amend- sentations made to me wîth regard to thîs
ments consist of an alteration of figures ln matter, but have come to no conclusion, and
two Instances, and the Insertion of a clause 1 wlll be much pleased to know upon what
after the word 'Company' in the l9th ground the commlttee have declded to report
clause.
as they have done.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Explain.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-I will state the
moved grounds upon whlch the commlttee arrived
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL
the decisi ons which have just been read.
concurrence ln the ainendments. He sald : at
A very declded objection was to the title of
The ameudments are very trivial in their
of Incorporation. It seemed
character. The first is simpiy the strlking the Association
to be a tltle closely resemblîng the tities
out of the figure 3, which refers to a clause
held by two associations, the Society
ln the company's Act whlch has no reference *already
*o! Actuarles and the Society of Accountants.
whatever to this. It was put ln by mistake
not remember the exact terms but that
The second amendment Is to substitute the 1 do
was the effect, and the first objection was to
figure 8 for 9. This refers to a clause ln the
the tities which seemed to be a very close
company's Act and ln the Bill the figure 9
and held
thirÈ Icopy of the tities already existing
appears instead of the figure S. The
by other bodies. The second objection was
amendment Is to declare that this compan3
amongst the four promoters only one
-tiiat
shall not be consldered to be a boan com
ewas an actuary, and there was no accountpany. It Is a matter of littie consequenc(
The third reason was that the Bill was
further than that the promoters of the Bil 1ant.
- petltioned agalnst and strongly opposed by
were desirous of having it dlstinctly under
t existing associations o! actuarles, and the
stood that It was nlot a loan company, as I
exlsting association o! accountants, and,
might Interfere wlth the ralsing of capital.
lastly, I think I interpret the vlews of the
explanati on Is sat committee correctiy when I say that they
Hon. Mr. VIDAI-The
lsfactory, but the chairman of the committee were of opinion that the !ollowIng and backdld not follow the usual course of explainin g ing of the Bill was nlot of sufficlent Importance te justlfy such an important movexnent
the amndments.
as thîs one took the f orm of, whlch was
The motion was agreed to.

[SENATE]
really an educatianal system, with pawer ta
give degrees on their own examinations, ta
give bursaries and the whole machinery of a
universlty or educational establishment, for
which there appeared to be na power in the
promoters, or no power certainly was granted by the Bill ta justlfy the assumption on
their part that they had elther a legitimate
cail ta carry out sucli educational movement, or ta fulfil It If they had the riglit.
DEIiÂYED RETURNS.

Harbours, ta wham was referred (Bill H) an
Act respecting the Dawson CltY E]ectric Company (Limited).-Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.

Hon. Mdr. MACDONALD (B.C.) said :When
the House, a f ew days ago, declined to refer
this report back to commlttee, 1 did flot feel
satisfied ln allowlng the matter ta drap. I
wish this company, which lias riglits, ta receive justice at the hands of this House.

and 1 arn sure the House wlll give that justice and hiear the case amply. It would be
mucli more couvenlent, lu the discussion of

the question, ta produce the two charters
ind show what bas been doue by bath comask the Secretary of State if there Is any ?aules. I propose, ln the meantime, that It
probabllty of my getting the returns I asked should be dlscussed more thoroughlly lu the
for smre time aga, shartJy ? I see by the
Commlttee of the 'Whole House. 1 move
*

~~

~ XtT~~

M iIh

newspapers that the Hause of Gommons wll
ait twlce each day next week. That mndicates an early prorogation of parliament, and
I sbould Ulke ta bave the returns, particularly about the canal, before the close of the
sesion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I gave instructions ta
Mr. Pope, whlch i know were carried out,
calng on the deputy heads of two departments wlth a view ta requestlng themx ta
have no further delay.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Has the hon. member
recelved the return 1 asked for some trne
ago respecting the Doulibobors ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer 1 got frami
the Interlor Departmeiit was that It was a
very long returu ; that they had already a
xiumber of clerlis worklng on It for a week,
and they did not know when It would bie
brought down. There was a great deal of
detail lu It, and they did not know when It
would be ready.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-What I have reference ta is the settlement of the Doukhobars.
That return could be got lu tweuty minutes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Could the bon, gentleman turu up the date on which it appeared
ln the minutes ?
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-The flrst day of May
I asked the question.

bliat the report of the Standing Committee be

not now concurred lu, but that the said re-

port and Bill H be referred ta a Oommlttee
of the Whole House on Thursday, the 9th
May.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-How did this get on
the Orders of the Day ? 1 do not care ta
taire any objection ta the motion, but I cannot uuderstand how this appeared on aur

orders to-day. The Bill was dropped under
the report of the commîttee. 0f course, It disappeared fromn our proceedlngs. The Hanuse
was not ln possession of it. The only wny
lu which this subject could be put on the
Orders of the Day would be by notice of
motion for that purpose, and 1 understood
my hon. f rleud yesterday ta give notice of
motion that the Bill should be restored ta
the Orders of the Day ; but that Is a very
diff erent thing from putting it at once on the
Orders of the Day. It could flot even by the
consent of the Honse be there. It requires
a formai notice of motion ta replace it on
aur orders. However, 1 shahl fot, for one,
press the objection.
The SPEAKER-The hou, gentleman froin
Richmond Is quite right. 1 understood the
hon. gentleman fram Victoria ta give notice
of motion for to-day.

Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I cancurred lu that suggestion yestierday, and 1 supDAWSON CITY ELECTRIC COMPANY'S pose the clerk who prepares the minutes preBILL.
pared It lu that way it appears on the orders.
1 gave notice, and it is on the orders by
POSTPONED.
some mistake. 1 suppose it makes littie
The Order of the Day being called:
difference : the House will dispose of it as it
Consideratioli of the repart af the Standing t.hinks proper.
and HarCammittee an Railways, Telegraphs
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND.

[MAY 8, 1901]

Hon. Mr'. 'MILLER-That wiil do.
Hon. Mr. 'MILLER-It is continued on thie
orders. It lias no riglit to be on the Orders
Hou. Mr. M~ACDONALD (B.C.)-I substi*of the Day until It is put there under notice tute a motion to tliat effect for the motion
and formai motion. It Is improperly on the I liave already made.
Orders of the Day.
The SPEAKER-That does not get over
Hon. Mr. MILLS-As I understood, the tlie difficulty. The difficulty Is, that tliere
notice given yesterday for a consideration of Is nlot notice on the paper to-day of tbis mo-

the report was dropped.

Hon. Mr. MILLER-Yes.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My lion. friend opposite
gave notice yesterday for a cousideration of
thie report to-day.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-No. He couid only
make sucli a motion If it had been regularly
on the paper.
Thie SPEAKER-As I sald, before putting
the question, it is Irregular; but I was under
thie Impression that tlie lion, gentleman
from Richmond had withdrawn his objection, but since thie objection is urged It
The lion, gentleman must
stands good.
give notice.
Hon. Mr. F ERGUSON-Could not wliat the
bion, gentleman did yesterday stand as a
notice ? He gave notice ; couid he nlot take
action on that notice to-day ? It was a notice that lie would to-day move.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-My lion. friend does
flot'at ail take the point I raise. Tliis Bill
was referred to a Standing Cornnittee of tlie
That committee reported back
House.
againat it. The report was laid on the
Table. That report dropped the Item froni
our Order paper altogether. After tliat report was laid on tlie Table, and no exception
w-as taken to it, tlie Bill dropped from our
orders. It can be got on ln only one way,
by giving notice, as you would in the case
of any other natice of motion, that you
intend to liave it replaced on the Orders of
the Day. If that motion were given and
carried to-day, It would be on the orders for
to-morrow.
Hon. 'Mi. ADNLD(B.C.)-The motion I maL-e is tlis, that the item be restored
to tlie Order paper now, because yesterday I
gave notice.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-But it is wrong-fully
-on tlie Orders of tlie 131Y.
Hon. Mr. M.ýACDONALD (B.C.)-I drop
that motion and move that it be restored
now.

tion. That Is tlie difficulty raised by tlie
lion. gentleman from Riclimond, and tlie
only way out of it tliat I can see, is tliat tlie
lion, gentleman shahl give notice now tliat
lie wll to-morrow mol e to put It on tlie
Order paper.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO2\-Mýy lion. friend
gave notice, but an error was made in not
putting It properly on tlie paper. It was
tlirougb no fault of my lion. frlend that It
was not entered properly on the proceedings
of tlie House.
Hon. 3fr. M-NILLER-It mniglit stand, by the
unanirnous consent of the House, as a notice
for sorne day in tlie future, but not as an
order.
Tlie SPEAKER-I do not see any way out
of tlie difficulty except the one indicated by
tlie lion. gentleman frorn Riclimond. AItb-oighi the lion, gentleman frorn Victoria
laid this paper on the Table as a notice of
niction, It did not so appear ln our proceedings, and zliere was no notice tlien to members of the House that this subi ect was to
be considered amongst tlie notices of motiens. I think tlie reg-ular thing now is for
tlie lion, gentleman to give notice for tomorrow. It will Involve only a loss of one
day. It is understood tliat tlie hon. gentlemani gives notice tliat lie will maL-e this
motion to-rnorrow.
VICTORIA DAY BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. 31ILLS moved tlie second readln- of Bill (33) 'An Act respecting Victoria
Da.'. He said: I arn sure lion. gentlemen
of this House, wll approve of tlie Bill, the
second reading of which I amn now moving.
Every one lias the higliest regard for the
memory of lier late Majesty, and those wlio
have so long- treated the birthday of Queen
Victoria as n
tuate tlie Lind
by celebrating
cornes eariy in

holiday will desire to perperemembrance of Her Majesty
ber birthday as a holiday. It
the season. It is generally. at

[SENATE]
a period when every person can enjoy the~ not a man there who had courage enough
day as a holiday, and 1 have a very great to take it up and pusb it througli. It was
deal of pleasure in moving the second read- dropped in the other House, showing that
ing of the Bill making the 24th of May a during the lifetirne of Queen Victoria, whose
holiday for the people of Canada. I amn sure rnemory we ahl respect and honour, there
tl'at it will meet with flot only the approval were flot men in the House of Commons
of members of this House, but with the cor- disposed to do ber that honour and to gratify
dial approval of the entire population of this bier natural feelings while she lived, but after
country.
bier death, -when she could not appreclate
the kindness proposed by the hou. gentleHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C)-I arn very men who are In favour of this Bll, when shie
glad that this Bill is at last becoming the Is beyond the sphere of this
life and she
law of the country. It will be in the recol- cannot appreciate their good will, they
are
lection of this House, that three years ago wllling to pass the measure. What does thîs
this House passed a Bill similar to this Bill Impose ? It Imposes a direct tax upon
measure and it was sent down to the House the people of the country, and la this regard
of Gommons. It was given in charge of a 1 thlnk the government are f ully justfied
gentleman, wbose namne I wlll not mention, in taking the matter ont of the hauds of a
who took It up wlth pleasure and delight, private member and assuming the responsibut subsequently dropped It. I suppose some bllity theinseli-es. What does it impose ? Ail
pressure was brought to bear whlch made the public offices of the Dominion are to be
hlm do so. I cannot understand wby this closed durlng another day of the year. Anmatter has been taken out of the hands of other Idle day is Imposed upon this country
private mernbers as it bas been. A gentle- and every labourer, every searnstress, every
iran In the other House moveci the second person whio is earning bis day's wages, ls
reading of this Bll, and hie was hlghly com- hiable to, have an Idle day forced upon him
plimented. He was told by the premier that against his wlll. If you leave It alone, they
they should make some amendments to It can take as many holidays as tbey please,
and not to press it to a third reading at the but If this Bill passes, they will not be altime. He put off the third reading, acting on lowed, accordlng to law, to ean an honest
the suggestion of tbe premier, and fin.illy It dollar on the 24th of May. AU the public
was taken hold of by the goverfiment, and offices I say will be closed up for another
as a government measure It stands before us day in the year, and whiat does that mean ?
to-day. But In whatever shape It appears Ahl the shlpping of the Dominion of Canada,
before us, 1 arn glad It ls about becoming which Is a very Important Item, will be
the law of the land. We cannot pay too stopped, and people will not be able to carry
much respect to the memory of Queen Vic- on the ordinary business of the country.
toria, her illustrlous life and grand qualities, The custom house will be closed. Ships
and 1 arn sure the Hlouse will take any step cannot enter nor be cleared during this new
whîch will do honour to ber memory.
holiday, which Is being lmposed upon the
country, and the post offices in the country
Hon. Sir 1%,ACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
iray be closed by the postmasters. It is !imhear.
posing a direct tax on the country to a very
Hon. Mr. ]PROW SE-When the bon. gen- large extent, and I see no necessity for It as
tleman from Victoria introduced a similar far as I arn concerned. We wlll have tbe
Bill some three years ago, I bad the ternerity King's blrthday to observe, and we will very
to oppose the motion, and although I arn not properly keep It. I say again that there Is no
going to divide the House on tbe question person in this House, or out of It, that bias a
now, I want to say that I have not changed warmer feeling towards our late Sovereigu
my opinion in regard to the matter f romn that than I have, but 1 amn satisfied If she were
time to this. It is true that Bill whicbi pas- lix ing to-day and could bie consulted upon
the question, and k-new that It was imposing
one cent of tax upon, ber people, she would
the hon, gentleman from Victoria, and seconded by tbe Minister of Justice. It went say no, that she wanted notbîng of the kinci.
to the House of Commons, and there was
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Hear, bear.
Hoa. Mr. MILLS.
seci

tbrough this House was proposed by

[MAY 9, 1901]
Hon. -Mr. pROWSE-Her record stands
higher than anYthing we can place ln the
statute-booli. I think that It is Imposiflg 0on
the country an unnecessary tax by creating
another holiday ln addition to those we bave
already.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-I was ln hopes
this motion would be passed unanlinously
without a dIssenting voice.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-For my part, I
thinli the plea that we are losing a day's
work on such an occasion Ie altogether failaclous. Any urgent work can be done on a
holiday with or without the Intervention of
such an Act as this. I think it ls an admirable thing to have a holiday at this season
of the year, and I give this Bill my most
cordial support.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.
The Bill then passed through its final
stages under a suspension of the rules.

it was printed. It may or may flot have
been amendaed.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second time.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY BILL.
RETURN LAID ON THE TABLE.
The SPEAKER-I have the honour to lay
on the Table a iist of shareholders of the
Bell Telephone Company of Canada, which
bas been sent me ln compliance with the
requlsition of the Committee on Banking
and Commerce.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thlàk
this retnrn had better be printed ln the
minutes of proceedings, because otherwise
It will be of no use to bon. gentlemen of the
House who take an lnterest ln it.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I move tiiat this return be printed jmmediately, and that the
clerli give instructions to that effect in order
that it may be before the House during the
consideration of the Bell Telephone Company Bill.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY BILL.
The motion was agreed to.
SECOND READING.
The SPEAKER-If I miglit be allowed to
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, lu
o! Hon. 3Mr. -Casgrainý (de Lanan- make a suggestion, I thinli the better way
absence
It can be
dière), mioved the second reading o! Bill (26) is to print It ln the minutes.
'An Act respecting the Canadion Pacifie stated that this return was laid on the Table,
Railway.'
and Instead of giving a reference to the apHon.Mr.FERUSO-Thi Bil I no inpendix or the journals, it can be stated that
it rends as follows :We would be more iikely
the bands of hon. gentlemen.
to get it promptly If it goes en as part o! the
Hoti. '.\r. BAKER-Yes, I bave it.
Sir MACKENZIE, BOWEL-l minutes.
Hou.
The Senate adjourtied..
sbould like to cull attention to the fact that
it was marked on the Order paper as having______
been printed in both languages. 1 bave sent
for a copy of it, and the page tells me hie
THE SENATE.
bas gone to the distribution office and that
lie was informed that It was not printed.
Hon. Mr. 3IILLS-It is not amlong MY
Bills.
MAýCXENZIF BoW\EL-'£h",
Hou. Sir -.
one placed in my bande is tbe Bill as originally introduced.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER--If
there le any objection to It we can postpofle
the second reading.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
no objection, but I say that It shouid flot
bave been placed on the Order paper until

The SPEAKER tdok the Chair at Tliree
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PATENT ACT AMENDMENTBILL.
PETITION PRESENTED.
Hon. '-\r. DANDURAND-Some time ago
1 introduced a Bill to amend the Patent Act,
dealing with cases where the patentee or
assigflee was ln sucb a position that it had

[SENATE1
been impossible for hlm to manufacture the
article invented and place it upon the market during the terms granted him. This

Bill was referred to a special committee. That committee s at, and there was
a consensus of opinion In the committee thiat
this amendment to the general Act was of
such Importance and had sucli far-reacbiflg
effects, that it would be perhaps too late In
the session to give It the necessary attention.
A special case being mentioned, It was suggested tliat Parliament would wlHingly susrend the rule regardlng advertisements and

Hion. Mr. MILLS-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Taken by surprise?
Hon. Mr. MlLLS-N,,o. I told the hon. gentleman that the officer was making a report,
and the hon. gentleman knows the Minîster
of the Interior bas been out of the city for
a f ew days, and I do flot expect that I shall
be able to get a report before bis return.

LACHINE CANAL BRIDGES.
MOTION.
Hlon. Mr. O'DONOHOE moved:
p ýtitions, and allow the Bull to be -passed
That an humble address be preseated to His
rtlievIng that party and giving hlm an ex- Excellency the Governor General, praying that
His Excellency wvill cause to lie laid on the
tension of tîme for the manufacture of the Tablo of tbe Senate the original papers comprisarticle invented. A petition bas been placed ing books Ist, 2nd and 3rd, on the substructures
in my bands by Eudora Sibbold,
M.Nontreal, representing
city of

of the of the two bridges over the Lachine canal at
Wellington street, Montreal, with the accomthat a panying drawings and appendix.

consIderable expenditure, amounting to Hon. Mr. M.%ILLS-There is no0 objection to
over $60,000, had been made by bier late bringi ng down the papiers.
husband lu trying to develop an invenThe motion was agreed to.
tion of bis whicb covered car wheels, that
hie died n-lthout being able to finance the
COMPANY'S
manufacture of tbat article, and lad left bis DAWSON CITY ELECTRIC
BILL.
famihy .penniless, and that there was now
hope that a company could be organized to

manufacture

the article and place it be-

fore the public, If parliament would simphy
extend the time and ahlow another terni of
18 years, or whatever time the committee
would fix upon, for the company to exploit
and manufacture that article. I now present
the petition asking that the rules be suspended,. and that the parties be authorized
to bring in a Bihl providing for an extension
of time.
COMPLAINTS FROINÎ

THE MICMAC

INDIANS.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The notice of inquiry being called

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFEII-I
oppose It.

That lie (Hon. Mr. Landry) will caîl the attention of tlie government to thie following docunient sent to the members of the Senate and
of the House of Commons, to an appeal to parliamient f rom Alex. Marchel. chief of a band
of Micmac Indians, and inquire if the cornplaints made against the Indian agent o! the
Indian reserve at Ste. Anne de Restigouche have
heen investigated, and if so, wliat is thie result
of such an Investigation?
If no0 investigation lias yet been lield, is lt
the Intention of the gorernment to liold one,
and when?
If flot, wliy?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the

M-Ninister
Justice able to give an answer yet ?
lion. Mr. DANDURAND.

MOTION.
Hon. '.%r. 'MACDONALD (B.C.) moved:
That the consideration of the report of the
Standing Committee on Railways, Telegraplis
.and Harbours, to whomn was referred (Bill H)
An Act respecting the Dawson City Electrie
Company (Limited), lie restored to the Orders
of the Day for to-day.
Before my motion is put, I should like my
lion. friend from Brandon (Hon. Mr. Kîrclihoffer) to tell me if lie means to oppose this
motion. If lie does, I shall make an argument in favour of It ; if lie does not, I shahl
postpone my argument until the Bill goes to
committee.

o!

intend to

. Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-As there
is to be some opposition to this motion, I
shall now read to the flouse the powers conferred upon the Dawson City Electric Coinpany by their charter:
The company may, in Dlawsnn City and eisewhere in the Yukon district, within a radius of
fifty miles from Dawvson City, and also to, from,
and along the Bonanza, Eldorado and Klondike
rivers, lay out, &c., lines of electric railway,
or tramway, or bo tl, &o.
Thiese are the powers that the companiy
had in their charter, and if they had done

345

[MIAY 9, 19011

no0 work there, the charter would have expir- 1whvIclî le opposing the extension of tirne to
ed, but there is no doubt they have spent. the Dawson City Company, coatrol under
a large sum of money. They built a road Up their charter the whole country-almost
to the coal mines whlch wlll corne in as the every creek and river. Considering thiat just
road-bed of their electrlc railway. They bave the year before this charter was given, 1
also, developed and worked the coal mines tl:ink the House might have decided then to
and sunk to the depth of 400 feet. The rea- refuse this charter very properly. But that
son they dld not go to work sooner -was' the was not done. 1 suippose the idea was to
uncertainty and difficulty of getting'machin- let every company go in and develop as
ery into the country. Hon. gentlemen will rnuch as they could, and iii that way every
understand that la a new country like that, opportunity should be given to ail the coin*wlth.poor means of transportation, they could pallies. Though the Dawson City Comnpany
not get heavy machinery In there immediate- had prior rights to this cornpany. they neyer
Iy, and the price of labour was very higb opposed the granting of this charter. They
there at the time. Instead of constructing were ready to take their chances. Aiother
-their works at once, they went on and thing hias corne to rny notice lately. It wll
developed thelr coal mines. Tbey have now take the House by surprise, and lt will show
corne to the conclusion that it will pay tbexn what short memorles ahl of us have. The
to build a road to bring the coal to Dawson Klondike Mines Railway Company, whlch
and the Yukon country. It is a wealthy rny hon. frieud Is supporting-, although the
They do not wish to borrow tirne for cornnencing worc under 'the
cornpany.
iinoney or anything of that kind. The other ternis of Its charter has just expired,
company, the Kiondike.NMines Cornpany, that actually this sessioa got a precisely sirnilar
my hou. frlend fromn Brandon is supporting, Act to that which 1 arn now applying for.
have more extensive powers than those They obtained permission from Ibis *parliawhich were given to the Dawson City EIec- ment to extend the tirne for cornmencing and
tric -Company. They have very extensive finishing tbe road. If that lias been donc
with one company why should it flot be done
powers. The Tth section, is as follows :7. The company may lay out, construet and la the case of the other cotnpany, with
operate single or double lines of rallway or
Company wlîich, I arn
and
any
tramway, or both, worked by electrie or also Pro riglits, good a1
authority, lias spent on1e
assured on
power, In Klondike City, and
other motive
frein Klondike City along the Klondike river hundred and fifty thousnnd dollars ? Ail I
to Bonansa creek, thence aiong Bonanza creek
is to asic the'
to the divide, thence across the divide by the have to do witli 1his matter ho thîs coinmost feasible route to Dominion creek, thence House to r!et fairly and justly
h
etee
e lwbn
an
along Dominion creek to the Indian river. thence ply
b
etee

o,
o
ano e
r
along the Indian river to the Yukon river, and
witbout the
thence along the Yukon river to Dawsoa City, passed this former Bill tbrough
and operate
and may also lay out, construct tramway on least opposition can refuse 10 give equni
branch hunes of such railway or
it hnd been kt
Klondike river, Hunker ceek. Bean creek, rights to this company. If

Quartz creek, Sui-phur e.reek, Eldorado creek, new tliing, if this other comipafly hand uot
and other creeks in the vlcinity.
te sarne rlghts, there would
Clause 9 provides that the cornpany mnay, In been grnhed in the argument la opposition
wlth its railway or tramway, and for be more force
connection
the purposes of its business :to
(a) acquire lands, and erect, use aad manage
works, manufacture machlnery and plant for the
generation, transmission and distribution Of
electrie power aud euergy;
(b) bulld and maintalu power bouses and stations for the developmneut of electrical force and
energy;r
(c) acquire exclusive rights In letters patent,
franchises or patent rlghts, for the purpose of
the works and undertakings hereby authorlzed,
and again dispose of such riglits;
(d) seli or lease any surplus power wblch the
company may develop or acquire elther as water
power or by couverting the samne Int electricity or other force for the distribution of llght,
heat or power, or for ail purposes for which.
electricity can be used, wlth power to transmit
the same.
So the House will see that Ibis company,

But having grauted these
rights to the otîter comnpany hîow cati the
lion. gentleman refuse 10 .-ive Ibis cornpany
equal privileges ? I think the Senate will
agree ho do Justice 10 tbis other Company
br
e
fwrm
ihs
erfwreebr
who have priorigt.
the other company had its lime extendthat
ed. but that le the fact. 1 bave ta my hand
the Bill by whlch we extended -the lime for
the construction of the Klondike 'Mines Cointis

motion.

Pa yS works.
Hion. Mr. WVýOOD (Hnmiiilton)-H-o-W rnuclh
of that $150,000 n'as spent upon te trails
and how muchi upon the mines ?

[SENATEJ
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD

(B.C.)-I do flot tbey boped to tap by tbe railway which

know how mucli was spent.separately, but tbey are aow seeking to build ; but, on tbe
altogether about that amouat was spelit on1 contrary, tbe other parties wbo got an extension of tbeir cbarter actually stated-it
tbe trail and in developing tbe mines.
was not contradicted, altbougb there was an
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamllton)-We asked
opportunity of doing it, and my hon. friend
that question before, but we did not recelve says tbe statement sbould be accepted wben
the information. I tblnk before this report made before the conimittee-tbat $70,0O0
Is referred back to the commlttee, the bon.
biad been spent by one of the promoters, Mr.
gentleman should give us that Information.
O'Brien, In .layiI4g out tbe trails and opening
Hon. M1r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Tbat la al up the country, and that the. money spent
tbe Information I have, but I bave just as was used for tbe advantage nlot only of tbe
mucb dnformation as the other compauy bas Klondike Mining Company, but for the benefurnisbed. I do not deny that tbey spent Eit of lncomlng people wbo,.travelled. over
money. I take tbe word of the legal gentle- tbeir trail. Tbat was a definîte expenditure
men wbo appeared before the committee, ln openlng up tbe country for tbelr rallroad,
and I tbink tbe word of the gentleman wbo but nothlng of that klad bas been done by
appeared for tbis company sb0uld be accept- the other company.
ed in the salue way, as a man of bonour
and lntegrity and good reputation ln tbe Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Ob, yes.
country.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Tbey certainHon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Before the ly did not state It to the committee. Tbese
motion is put I desire to say tbat whlle 1 people seek to revive an old cbarter for tbe
admire tbe pertinacity witb wbicb the hon. purpose of belng able to run a rallroad and
gentleman who has proposed the motion obtain access to their mines. Tbe company
sticks to bis subjeet, 1 sbould like to know wblcb bas their charter la existence now
how often be intends to force bis Bill upon bave received that extension o! time of
tbis House ? W7e bave aiready badl it tbrasb- whicb my bon. friend speaks, because they
ed out in tbe commlttee, and a great deal had those rlgbts ; their cbarter bad flot
of care and attention was paid to the Bill elapsed, tbeir time had flot run out. Tbey
at tbat tinie, and as we ail know, the majo- lasked 'for an extension of tume and tbey
rity of the committee reported ag-aiast it. got it, as any ont else would -bave got It la
Wben It was brougbt up la tbis Cbamber, tbe same way. But havlng got this, they Iawe had a full discussion of it and the House tended to rua their Ue Into this coal mine,
decided, flot by a very large majority, but sO that the plea that these gentlemen make
stili in: an unnilstakable manner, that they that tbey sbould be allowed to bulld a road
would not refer tbat report back to tbe coni- sO tbat their cowl. mine will nlot be blocked
mittee. The bon, gentleman bas brougbt it up, wlll nlot avail. I have no lnterest in the
before us again, and bas not adduced any lune 1 arn supporting except to see that it
new facts, but one point bas been tborougbly sbould get justice. I know notbing furtber
elicited by tbe discussion wbicb bias taken about it tban wbat was stated in commlttee.
place upon this matter. At tirst, wbeu Ii. But they will, at the very first opportunlty
was proposed to be referred back froin the extead their railway lato tbe mines owned
House, a stateiient was made by a geutle- by tbese people, because tbey wisb to get
man that it bad been said by the promoters the rates for carrying tbe coal from tbe
of this Bill tbat $150,000 biad been spent mines.
That is part of tbe business for
upon tbe railway wbicb tbey were promo- wbicb tbey are going- to build tbeir unDe
ting, but furtber discussion went to show there. Tbe bon. gentleman. after baving aswbat was actually tbe fact. Tbese people certained tbe unmistakable feeling of this
bad neyer said tbat tbat sum of money was House, and aiso tbe pronouaced feeling in
expeaded in promotion of this railway. As the committee, certainly sbows extraordia matter of fact, they did not say anytbing nary pertinncity when be tries to force this
bad been spent on tbe railway, but that measure tbrougb the House. Inasmuch as
$150,000 was expended upon tbe coal mine ehis report bas never been adopted, I bewblcb tbey possessed up tbere and wbicb lieve that the report aginist the Blill stands,
Hou. Mr. WOOD.

LMAY 9, 19011
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
and as a means of diepos4ng of it, 1 would
of this Bill?
move an amendment that the report of the la the explanation
be adopted.
committee
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The Bill ls preciaeiy the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How could we cou- same as tbat lntroduced hast year, for an
cur in a report which la flot before us to- increase Iu the number of judges In the
gay. The motion that la now made la to province of Quebec from 14, I think, to 17.
restore a report to the Ordera of the Day. Also, for making permanent provision for the
judge appointel ilast year in the Yukon coun1 think the amendment la flot lu order.
try. My hon. friend wll remember that we
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I thInk the hon. gen- had an appropriation for a single year, aud
tleman from Stadacona (Mr. Landry) la rlght. the appointment was made, and after that
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The report the Bihl was In part rejected In this House
should be first restored to the Order paper and dropped, because there was a aufficlent
and then my bon. friend's motion couid be *salary provided for payment for the current
taken.
year. I tbInk there la also provision for the
The SPEAKER-I think the point of order chief justice of the North-weat Territories.
Is well taken by the hon. gentleman from
The Bill was read the firat time.
Stadacona. The motion Ia premature. The
hon. member from Brandon should wait till
THIRD READINGS.
this report has been restored to the Orders
Blill (124) 'An Act respecting the Western
of the Day. If the House accept that rullng
Assurance Company.'-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie
I shall put the question on the original moB'owell.)
tion of the hon. gentleman from Victoria.
Bill (109) ' An Act to incorporate the SoverA count was taken and the motion was eign Bauk of Canada.'-(Hon. Mr. Meagreed to. Contenta, 28; non-contenta, 22. Milhau.)
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I rIse to a
Bihl (125) 'An Act respecting the Britishi
question of order. Under what rule eau a Amerlca Assurance Company.'-(Hfou. Mr.
count be taken In that way ?
Wood, Westmoreland.)
The SPEAKER-The yeas and iiays were
Bàll (110) 'An Act to incorporate the Debennot asked for, and I arn not aware that there ture and Securities Corporation of Canada,'
la any rule which preveuta counting mem- as emended.--(Honl. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.>
bers. If hon, gentlemen wlshed the yeas
and uays, they ahouJid be asked for. I de- BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY'S BILL.
clare the motion carrled. The order goes to
CONSIDERÂTION OF ÂMENDMENTS.
the foot of the Ordera of the Day.
The Order of the Day belng called :
BILLS INTRODUOED.
Consideration of the amendments made by the
Bill (IR) 'An Act further to amend the Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce
(Bill F) An Act respecting the Bell Telephone
North-west Territories Representation Act.'- ta
company of etnada.-(Hon.. Mr Drummondi.)
(Hon. Mr. Periey.)
Hon:' Mr. KIROHHOFY'ER said : As the
Bill (12î) ' An Act to amend the Animal hon. senator from Montreal (Hou. Mr. DrumContagious Diseases Act.'-(Hon. Mr. Scott.' mond), wvho la chairman of the committee
Bill (S) 'An Act to ameud an Act paaseÈ
wl'ose report la now before us, la absent, I
during the present session, intituled "An Ad' Tbeg to be ahlowed to take the matter up.
to Incorporate the Fort Qu'Appelle Raihwaî This arises under an Act respecting the Bell
Company." '-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
Telephone Company of Canada, and as It la
upon some
COURTS BILL iikely there wiii be a discussion
JUDGES 0F PROVINCIAL
of thie clauses in thia report, perbapa lt
FIRST READING.
wouhd be advîaable to go Into the matter and
A message was received from the House o niove it clause by clause.
Commons with Bill (131) 'An Act to amen(
had better move
the Act respectiiig Judges of Provincia h Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You
in the report.
concurrence
Courts.'

SENATEJ
Hon. Nir. KIRCHHI-OFFER-To the first
clause there was no objection in the coinmittee, and, therefore, 1 presume that clause
of the Bill may be considered passed. In the
next paragrapli of the report of the Standing
Committee on Banking and Commerce there
Is an amndment whlch Is objected to. As
a matter of fact, the hast Une of the clause
la retroactive. 1 was flot a member of the
committee and was flot present at its meeting, but I understand from those wbo were
present that there was no intention on the
part of the committee. to Introduce into tijis
P.11 anything which would bo retroactive.
It would be easily seen tbat a clause like
tlat wouhd put an Immense power in1 the
bands of parties to blnckrnail the company
If it were adopted in its present shape. It
would be a strong weapon in the bands of
designing persons against the company. I
would ask some member of the commnittee
to explain wbat the Intention of the committee was when that was passed.
Hon. Mr. M1ILLER-It was flot Intended
to, make that retroactive. An arrangement
bas been arrived at which will completely
meet the objection. That retroactive feature
of the clause will be dropped.
Hon. M.Nr.
KIItCHHOFFER-Then the better way wouhd be to have it dropped now,
and I would move as an amendment : that
q1he words 'and shahl be deemed to form
part of the Act froin the date of its enactn ent' bie dropped.
Hon. MNr. McCALLUI%-Retroactive legislation is bad, but if you rob a man and take
bis money you should pay it back. If the
company took people's mnuy wvhtli their
cyes open and knew what the haw was, and
t<;ok more money ont of the people than they
should have taken, they sbonld pay it back.
H-on. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Tlhere
is evidenthy a misunderstanding. The remarks of the lion. gentleman from 'Monck
appy to the clause whicli the hion. senator
from Richmond intends to mnove. The coinmnittee bave in.troduced into this Bihl a clause
whhch did not exist in the law of 1892,
that
and declare hy this legisIation
that clause was in tbe Bill of 1892, and
have given an interpretation to it, and if
passed it is a new clause altogether, which
the conipany accepted ;but if made retroacetive, thien, as the hon. gentleman from
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Brandon says, it would enahie every man
who biad been refused a telephione iii his
bouse to enter an action for damages against
the company. The company miglit say that
was ucYt the law of 1892. and therefore we
were flot obllged to dolit, but the answer to
that wouhd be 'You have made It law by
your legisiation this session.' Now, there
never was any Intention lu the committee to
do so.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I do not see why we
shouhd discuss questions on whichi there is
no contention on eithier side.
Hon. Sir MACKE'NZIE BOWELL.-Because It la not understood. From the remark
of the hon, gentleman from Monck, it Is
evident lie did not understand it.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER moved the adoption of clause 3, and that the blank he
filled in with the figures 500.
Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-W'ould it no, be botter
to, have a general discussion on the report ?
Hon. M.%r.
MILLER-I beg to say, withi regard to the proposed alterations iu the report
of the committee, that there Is no difference
of opinion hetween the prornoters of the Bill
and those w-ho are seeking its amendment,
regarding the !modification of the amendments just alluded to and to-day an
arrangement was arrived at between the
piarties that the first clause should be
amended as stated by the bon. geutlemnan from Brandon, by leaving out the
wcrds 'And shial be deemed to have formed
part 0f said Act fromn the date 0f its enactment.' That arrangement lias been corne to,
and aithougli I may have some doubt as to
the regularity o! moving the amendement on
the vote for its concurrence, stili, I think,
wvith the unanimous consent of the Ho-Use,
it eau be done, and these w-ords may be
cousidered striken out of the report of the
committee, and therefore ýwill have the eff et
of preventing any amndmeuts -whhchi may
be added to the Bill having a retroactive
operation.
As this question lias to be placed hefore
the House soirewhat broadly in relation to
the position of this company hefore the
country, I presume it is just as well that the
discussion should take place upon this motion of my lion. friend frorn Brandon

['MAY 9, 1901]
(MNr. Kýirchioffer) altiougi the motion is 1lic and it would be misleading to us If we
be influenced by any
not 'opposed. The Bill under the consi-j allowed ourselves to
sa*y, is such contention. The Bill affects, I repeat,
deration of the House, I need iardiy
Dominion under the
one of the very grentest importance to the every section of this
country, and legisiation which this company bas obtained
people of every section of this
of Canada.
Is at the present time occupying a very large from -the parliament
I shall endeavour to be as concise as 1 posand atteation
share of public interest
remarks I off er to, the
throughout the Dominion. Âlthough the Bil, slbly can be lu the
arisen in cou- Hlouse, and especially ln my quotations, beand the controversy which has
Issue must be decided
nection wlth At, more lmmedlately and practi- cause, after ail, the
of the Dominion, upon the salient points of controversy, and
cally concern some portions
easîly illustrated la a very
especlaliy ia the provinces of Quebec and these can be very
cali
o! this Domin- limlted speech. But 1 fid It my duty to
Ontario, still every portion
the attention of this House to, the Act creation bas a direct substantial financial lnterest
lng tMs Bell Telephone Company and to point
ln the legisiation we are now consideriag.
out the extrnordlnary powers, priviieges and
franchises granted to that company, such I
Hlon. Mr. ALLAN-Hear, hear.
venture to sny as would not be granted at
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Whle the City of To- the present day to any telephone Company,
ronto Is somewhat to the front la the pres- and such as have neyer siace been granted
ent controversy, It must not be assumed that to any one of the aumerous corporations
that City alone is interested la the preselit connectedl with telephone service w-hidi have
attempt to secure safeguards to the public been created in this Dominion. This comagainst exorbitant rates on the part of the pany w-as created by au Act of the parliacompany shouid the present Bill go Into ment of Canada passedl in 1880, 43 Victoria,
operation. Every section of the country is chap. 87. The second clause gives the powers
liable at nny moment to be the possessor of of the Company, whlch I shall rend and to
a telephone service la connection wlth the whlch 1 ask the attention of hon. gentlemen.
Canadian Bell Telephone Company, and
shail have power to manucom-ny1
'r, sl
therefore thus legisiation conceras every por- ,facture telephofles and other apparatus connecttion of the Dominion, and the fnct that we ed therewlth, and their appurtenances and other
the
connection company, busihave, independently of the city of Toronto, instruments used la or telephone wlth
and
ness of a telegraph
many municipalities scattered jto purchase, seli or lease the sole rlghts relatlng
petitions from
acover the Dominion from. ocean to ocean, la thereto, and ta buld, establlsh, c0fl5truct. seli
mainain or operate or
answer .to any nttempt to localize quire or lease, andlines for the transmission of
a sufficlent
or let any line or
this question ns simply affecting the dity of messages by telephone ln Canada or elsewhere.
ThcmpnspoesndrahiseToronto. We have varlous municipalities
coneciontend not oaly over the wide area of the
or afeuars l
petiionng
wlth rates where there Is no Bell telephone Dominion of Canada, but elsewhere, even
service, and It la asked what standing bave extending to the United States. Then the
they before pairliament ? But when It Is con- section rends:
And to make connection, for the purposes of
sldered that at any moment a tehephone
service may be instailed by thîs Com- the telephone business, with the line or lines
Canpany ln their midst, and the vast fran- of any telegraph or telephone company lamoney
and to nid or
or
privileges grantedl to the Bell ada budelsewhere, any such hune advaace
chises and
to be used for,
or work
to
Telephone Company to enable It to plant telephone purposes.
e nt gvtebrowg
Thseto
services la every portion of the Dominion,
Thsetogesntoivtebrown
1 contend that every section, whether it has
which I do not connow a Bell telephone service or not, la dlrectly .powers of the compnny
this sider It necessary to rend. Then comes secinterested la the legislation now before
olw
.wihrasa
House. 1 think it necessary to make these to
The said company may construct, erect and
made
remarks, because an attempt bas been
maintain its une or Uines of telephofle along tie
to represent the controversy between the sides of and across or under any publie hlghor other
Company and those opposlng it as simply a ways, streets, bridges, watercourses
waters,
or acrose or under
cerning the city o! Toronto. This is places, wholly in Canada, or aay navigable
matter cou
dlvlding Canada f rom
either
provided the snld company
an unfair issue. it la misleading to the pub- ,any other country,

[SENATE]
shahl not interfere with the publie right of
travelling on or using such highways, streets,
bridges, watercourses or navigable waters ;provlded, that in cities, towns and incorporated
villages the company shall fot erect any pole
higher than forty feet above the surface of the
street, nor affix any wire less than twenty-two
feet above the surface af the street, nor carry
more than one Une of pales along any street
without the consent of the municipal council
havlng jurisdictlon over the streets of the said
City, tawn or village, and that In any City, town
or Incorporated village the poles shahl be as
nearly as possible straight and perpendicular,
and shahl ln cities he painted If sa requlred by
any by-law of the council.

jeet not ta allow the company to incrense its
rates arbitrarily without any restraint or
controI, this 3rd clause was added ns follows :
The existing rates shaîl not be Increased without the consent of the Gavernor In Council.

With regard to the Act o! 1892, it bas been
argued elsewhere that there was some surreptitious action In getting it through parliament, that parliarnent did not really understa.nd what It was doing when lt passed
The latter portion of this clause contains that clause, that thue company dld nat
the only limitations placed upon the power know what they were doing when they
of the company to carry a telephone service accepted the Bill with that clause In
inta any City, tawn, municlpality or bain- It, and that altogether there was somelet In this Dominion, and these are of the thing mysteriaus and something unfair
most insignificant character. First that thec ta the company In the way in whlch
lines shail no.t be placed upon the saine side that legisiation was passed through parliaof the street, secondly that the wires shahl ment. It Is a strange contention wlien. we
be a certain distance froin the street, and find an enactinent upon the statute-book ta
that the pales shall be a certain height. By nttempt ta get over It or ta evade it by any
this Act this company Is given the extrar- such reasoning or any such contention as
dinary power of going into any City, or that. If we could argue awny statutes by
municipality, or village, and planting ltg an, attempt ta show that parliament was
telephone wires subject to these restrictions over-reached, or that there was something
without the leave or license, or contract witli wrong in the way the Act got through parthe City, tow.n or corporations lnterested. liament, there would be no certalnty or safeThis is an extreme power and a power glven ty about any legisiation we put upon aur
to no ather telephane corporation la Canada. statute-books. Snch a contention Is slmply
Sueli was the first Act af the parliament of absurd, and is not complimentary ta inCanada creating this telephone company, and telligent, common sense men, no matit limlted. Its capital to $500,000. In 1882 an ter froin wbat quarter it may be
Act was passed giving the company power to urged. But I want Ia show the House,
extend Its Unes to every province In the Do- and I think I can do sa successf ully
minlion. By the Act of 1884, whicb 1 shall with regard ta this Bill, that nathing
not read, the company had power ta increase a! the kind alleged can be for a moIts capital stock by $1,500,000, In addition to ment maintained, but that every fair Inferthe original suin of $500,000, thus making ence Is ta the contrary; that wben this Bill
the capital $2,000,000. We now corne to the came bef are parliarnent In 1892 it went ta the
important Act of 1892. By that Act the coin- Committee on Railways. Telegraphs and Hlarpany was given power ta Increase its capital baurs, and was reparted froin that ecm.mittee
ta $5,0O0,000 and a new clause was enacted, by the 4Jbairman without any ameadment.
a clause for the protection of thue public, ln A discussion arase upon the reception o! the
view of the very powerful monopoly the report, and the late .Senator Boulton obcompany was becoming, maklng it Impera- jected strongly ta the increase of the capital
tive to receive the assent of the Governor In and contended that it shauld be reduced ta
Council before there should be nny ndvance $3,000,000. A long discussion taok place upIn rates. 1 should state that In 1891 an agree- ,on that point, whicb resulted In the Bill
ment was corne to between the City of To- being sent bacl, ta the Committee on Railronto and this company that the rates should ways, Telegraphs and Harbours for reconbe fixed at $25 for dwelliag bouses, and $45, sideratian. Now, it is not o!ten that a meafor business establishmnents, and in view of sure is subjected ta sucb an ordeal as thisthat contract between the city of Toronto that is, ta be re!erred back ta the
and the campany, and with tlue ob- Standing Committee for reconsideration
Han. Mr. MILLER.

[MAY 9, 1901]

351

and then the report be brauglit in and company ta change those rates In the direction
thse GovHouse. of anincrease withoutasthe consent a ofprotection,
the
by
unanimously,
adopted
ta afford
ernor in Coilacil, so.
that no exWhen that report was brought Inl as as far as we couid. ta thse public,
resuit afibtis In-.
usual, under the rifles of the H:ouse, the orbitant rates wouldbe the
epiedcreased capital, and the wording af thse clause
hon. Chairman of the committee epandshows that the rates charged are not hereafter
af the
the amendments that had been mnade to the ta be increased without the consent points,
These are the two
hic
Bill amndmnts I ellee wre adeGovernor In Couacil. very general assent in the
adeand they received
I bliee wre
hic
Bihamedmets
as a compromise on the question of the re- committee.
Now, It isurprised me very much ta hear
duction of thse capital. Senator Boulton did
flot succeed In carrying his point of having the -Secretary of .State contend In tise standthse capital reduced ta three millions dollars, ing committee, as he did In regard to this
but as a compensation for bis failure on that last clause, that It was smuggled into thse
point, clause 3 was Inserted In tise Bill Act, when I find lie himself in thse debate follu erder ta prevent the campany iro0m lu- iowed the Hon. Mr. Dickey and used this
creasîng its rates upon what might be, as language:
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The cisairman of thse comhe alleged, a watered stock. He contended that this fixe million of stock niight nat mittee has explained f ully thse purport of the
and thse Bouse thorougisiy under-I
be expended in construction, that It mlght 'e amendments, will probably approve of thoea.
stands and
added ta thse capital as watered Stock, therefore move that tise report af tbe committee
and that on that basis larger dividends could be concurred ia.
Han. Mr. CLEMOW-To-morraw.
be claimed than really ouglit ta be allowed
Han. Mr. SCOTT-There ls no necessity ta
of
1 an ide
b
ofpostpone thse third reading. Tise Bouse underan fecharges
na
upon the regulav
When that Bill came from stands tise subject naw.
construction.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill, as
committee the second tirne for the consideraamended, was rend the third time and 1-assed.
tion ôf tise Hanse the Chairinan said :
I cannat understand haw my han. friend
I may explain tise effect of these two amendany
ments. By the Act of incorporation tise capital thse Secreary ai State can throw
stock af the company was half a million dollars, Imputation on tise manner in whleh this Bill
and they obtained power at tisat time ta, !soue
he .himself
bonds ta a corresponding amount-haîf a mil- got through parliament, when
By a subseciuent Act this capital stock says It was thorougisly understood, tl'at we
lion.
was Increased. and the question arase. on the knew what we were doing, and lie maoved
second reading of the Bill, as ta tise eff ect
of the bond clause, whIch was ta empower tisem concurrence ini thse amendments.
Naw, wisat le the position of this camta Issue upan the .paid-uip capital of thse company an amount that correspanded with the
The question that arase was wisether pany, comIng at the present time bei are
capital.
and
privileges
asking for
this power followed an, as the pald-up capital parliansent,
In arder that that quesstock Was Increased.
entered
The company soiemniy
tion might be considered In ail its bearings, powers.
the Bill was referred back by thse Bouse ta the inta an arrangement with parliament, wfth
comrnittee.* In refereace ta tisat, thse evidence its subscribers and witis the public, that It
befare us showed that this power had been
availed ai ta tise full extent af $500,000, but would nat Increase tise exiefting rates-that
ta no greater extent, and It was intimated that la, tise rate af $25 for dwelling-isouse teleprabably any furthar amount would be unnecesIa view of tise doubt that arase as ta phones and $45 for business telephon3,3sary.
the construction af the Act, whicis might em- without tise consent of tise Governar ia
power the company ta Issue ta tise exteat of Gouncîl, and for a time they kept faitis
five millions af stock, ta which tbis Bill has
referente, and ta that same extent ta extend with parliamnent. For a time they dld flot
thse borrawing power, maklag. for ail practical attempt ta Increase their rates, and dJoubt
purpasea, a capital of ten millions of dollars,
ta thse efiectiveness of the
ht wàs suggested that we should limit tise bar- arase with regard
rowing power which the parties declared they legishation, and a legal opinion was obtained
probably would flot require for any purposeex
fram the Minister af Justice.
cept for thse purposes of reaewal af those bonfds. on thse subjectai Justice gave as bis opinion
Tise effect ofibtis clause, as explained ta me, The Minister
1s this :Thoat it enables these bonds ta be the following statement In reply to a letter
taken up by other bonds ta the citent af that
amount, but that thse amaunt af thse bonds ta be irom thse frilister af Railways:
Ottawa, 24th July, 1900.
Issued is ta be limited for all time ta $500,000
and no mare. With regard ta the ather amend- 1
My dear Mr. Blair,-I beg ta acknowvledge reit is nat a clause
ment, reierrIng ta tise rates,
9th Instant aud Mr.
wisich places the rates entirely under tise con- ceIpt of yaur letter of the
therewith, In relation
trol af the Governar In Council, but It Is a Cswel leter Inclased
tise Bell Telephone Camta
clause wisich, after the rates were explained the ta the rent charged by
pany.
us, was Intraduced to limit thse power of

[SENATEJ

In reply to your letter I may state that I arn
strongly of opinion that the clause in the Act
of 1892, providing that the existlug rates shall
not be increased wlthout the consent of the
Governor in Councl, le legally ineftective s0
far as subacribers are concerued, sud that proceediugs to restrsin the company from iuoreaslug the rent charged te subscribers would be
For that reason, 1 thlnk the
unsucceseful.
governmeut might decline to take proceedings,
even If otherwise It would be its duty to thus

Intervene for the protection of the subscribers.
But, iu my opinion, It would not lu auy case
be incumbent upon the government te take the
Initiative

lu auy such proceedinge.

If

auy

persou be sggrieved by the action of the cornpauy, desires upon hie own respoueibility te apply te the courte, and je advieed that hie ehould

do se lu the naine of the Attorney General of
the Dominion, the question whether he should
be perrnitted te do se would be considered tipen

a proper applicationý.being made te the departmeut of Justice for leave te take such proceedluge.

Tours falthfully,
DAVID MILLS.
(Sgd.)
Before receiving the opinion cf the Minister of Justice, the Bell Telephone Company
had received other legal advice. I presume
it bas ou its staff some cf tbe ableet counsel

aud solicitors In the Dominion, and these
were of the opinion that the law, lu plain lau-

guage, was net water tight-that the clause
was capable cf evasion-that by evading that
clause, by breaking faith wxth parliament and

its subecrîbers aud the public, tbey could
raise their rates te any figure they thought
proper. I have sbown that the bon. Secretary
cf State (Mr. Scott) muet be wreng In bis contention that there was anytbing surreptitieus
lu getting this Bill througb parliamelt-that
the cempany did net understand the legielatien tbey were acceptiug, when they accepted

the Acte of 1892, which was the condition on
which the increase cf capital was grantedl
to .them, but if we wanted auythiug further,
we have the action cf the compauy itself, lu 1897, wheu they inveked the Act

or 1892

and made an application te the

Governor lu Council for leave te increase
Its rates. The compauy which new wishes
to evade the Act of 1892, was the firet to
lwç oke tbat Act, when tbey thougbt it weuld
serve their purpose, lu 1897, and by their
Y,etition te the Governer iu Council aeked
1leave te Increase their rates. 1 shaîl bave
somethiug further te say on that point by
aud by. 1 neyer knew, lu my experience, ef
any corporation comiug befere parliament
under such circumstances te ask further
powers-additional legielatien to increase
their moniopoly-while admittiug a shameful
Hon. '.%r. MILLER.

breacli of faith and an attempt to deprive
the public of ail the protection and safeguards which they have in regard to the
abuse of these powers. There is another aspect iu wblch this company has treated parliament wlth great disrespect. It was pressed
on the promoters of the Bill in the committee
to give us some Intimation as to why the additional five millions ef stock was required.
We got no satisfaction from them. Tbey
seemed ito be disposed to carry everytbing
wlth a blgh hand. They did flot even condescend to say for what purpose ilbey wanted
this increase of stock. They did flot even
say they required it for purposes of construction. They may require some of It
for sncb a purpose, but It is just as possible
tbey may require it for other purposes--they
may require It to crush out competition
or to buy up competition iu this Dominion, or to water their stock iu
order to enable them to charge increased
rates upon the watered stock. Looklng at
their antecedents, their acts se far, and their
treatment of the public and of parliament,
I say that ie a f air Inference. In 1897, this
company came before parliament asking for
an increase of rates. At that time it was
shewn that the company was paying a
dividend ef 8 per cent upon is stock-tbat lu
that very year they had a surplus, whichl
they carrIed te contingent account, of over
$82,000, and that their contingent acceunt
whichl,
amounted at that time to $800
with the surplus of 1898, amounting altogether to $149,OO0 edd dollars to be added to
their contingent acceunt, would give tbem
what yen might call a rest lu cash; of a million dollars-at the time tbey applied to
parliament for power te virtually double
their rates. This was the position, and
sncb were the dividends the compauy
was getting. Iu view cf the fact that the
company made snch an application uinder
such circnmstances, muet it net be evident
to every gentleman the absolute necessity
of protecting the public agalnst unfair rates
iu the future, fer the stronger this company
gets, the lees able will parliament be to deal
with it.
With regard to the citY of Toronto,
I do net wish to, read -the report ef the Bell
Telephone Company, for 1898, but I will juet
refer, lu order to verify what I say, to the
figures iu that report. The receipts of the

[MAY 9, 1901j
company, during the year 1898, were exchanges, long distance lines, private lines,
mniscellaneous, ln ail $1,302,944.04. The expenses were operating legal, insurance bonds,
&c., $971,792.30, leaving a balance of profit
of $331,152.74. Deducting 8 per cent divldend, $263,7719.95, we have a balance that year
of $67,371.81, and ln 1879 a balance of $82,364-17, maklng $149,735.98 to be carried to
contingent accounit. The balance sheets of
the 31st December, 1898, showed stock account, $3,556,000 ; bonds account, $941,0O0O«
contingent fund, $800,000 ; revenue account,
$149,739. That would inake altogether as a
rest, as It might be so cailed, of $949,735.98 at
the time tbis company applied to parliament
for an Increase of rates. On that occasion
tbey made a statement under which they
contended that they were iosing mon-ay ln
the ckty of Toronto, but It was afterwards
discovered that that statemnent was not reliable, and the returns of this compaoiy mtrst
be accepted witb a great deai of hesitation
when they do not undergo the super vision
of an independent auditor. I tbink the action of the company, when applying for un
Increase o! rates, In 1897, fully justilles me
in saying this. I hold ln my hand a letter
f rom parties wbo are able to speak on the
subject-men connected wlth the telephone
service ln the United States. It centains Ibis
paragraph :
In the pamphlet entitled «Petitien of the Bell
Telephone Company cf Canada to the Qovernor
in Council,' 28th January, 1897, with a statement
of the company's case, &c., appears 'Exhibit
C,' which contains a statement of revenue and
expenses~' f the telephone company at Toronto ln 1895. as follows :
No. of sub- Fer
soribers. aubscriber.
Revenue ..
172,719 56
$36 67
4,710
5636
252,597 30
Expense ...

b]

Mr. O. Higman, a part o! which is in these
words :
«A careful examination of the company~s books
at Montreal, the freest access .to which was readily accorded, proyed the statements o! revenue
and expenditure, which are contained in Exhibit
Nothing
C. ta be correct ln every particular.'
appears ln this report ta show that ' expenses '
On June 3, 1899, at
doe fot mea-n outlays.
l4ontreal, Mr. Higman, tînder oath as a witness
is statement above
in aur cases, repeated
He was foliowed on the witness-stand
quoted.
by Mr. Charles Page Schlater, secretary-treasurer of the Bell Telephone Company of Canaada, from whose testimony we quota
Q. Will you state whether or not the books
and statements which you exhibited to Mr.
Higman were the ordinary and regular books
and statements of the office, or whether they
were something which bail bean specially prepareil for the occasion ?-Â. There was an item
tbat was specially prepared, and which was
showu ta hlm and acquiasced ln by hlm-a pro
ratha expectation expense, I might cail that.
Q. Something ln relation ta the future?-A.
What la expected ta corne immediateiy.
Q. Who prepared the statement when lt was
orlginally prescnted ta the Dominion government ?-A. That was prepared under my supervision.
Q. What can you tell us as te the correctness
of that statement?-Â. That le correct, as stated
at the tîme. It was on a system that was only
Of course, a portion af the
just ccmpleted.
expendIture was based on the depreciation as-.
sumed te arise Tram the new system of accoaint.
That deIt was a matter of depreclation.
preciation ls flot on our regular basis of 10
It Is on a 16 par cent
per cent depreciation.
depreciation, which we have been infcrmed was
the proper one te reckon under the aId systema
of metalio circuit underground system, whlch
That is the only difference.
was new ta us.
Q. What Is your regular allowance for depreciation?-A. Ten per cent.
Q. Can you tell us what difference It wculd
have made ln the resuît If you had put the depreciation at i0 per cent lnstead of 15?-Â. Yes,
I thlnk I cculd. It would have made a difference cf $34,311 in the expenses.
Q. What difference would that malte ln the
loa per telephone per annum?-A. $7.25 per subThat would ha at the rate of $9.71
scrlber.
Tt thus appears that this estimatad depreciatien cf 15 per centum of the total amount therefore expendafi by the company for construction,
amountlng ta $102,933, did net appear on the
bocks as being an outlay during 1895, but was
spally prepared for Mr. Higman. Strike this
sum. from the axpensas total for the year, as
shown by Exhîbit C, and tha result a! the ceinpany's oparations la transformed from a laso
cf $78,877.44 te a profit of $23,058.27.

3196
79,877 74
Loss ...
It turne ont, however, by the evidence taken
here under oath, that Ibis statemient was
produced by the Insertion o! a fifteen per
cent aliowance for a future depreciation ln Now, this is the statemient with which tis
the stock, which had the effeet o! tnrning the company went before the Governor ln Counaccount against the city of Toronto, Instead cil asking for an Increase of rates, and 1
aak this Hanuse If we shonld not view with
o! showing a balance in ils faveur.
find nothing ln tha document or the report the greatest suspicion the applications
We
sent us by you of the latar haarings bafora the o! a company who, ln order te acparliamentary committee ta lnform the reader complish the abject they had lu view,
that the word 'expanses,' as amployed ln the
exhibit, means anything aise than eutlays, L.e., te increase their rates, should se mismoDey expeniied during the year 1895 ln the represent facts ta the Governor in CounIn the pamphlet
operations of the company.
It bas been said by the promoters of
ccntaining this Exhiblt C, is also the report cf cil.
23

[SEN ATE]
this Bill tbat it is unfair to place on tbemn
a restriction that is piaced on no other telephone company lu the Dominion. Now, If
every other telephone company ln the Dominion received legislation on ail fours witb
the legisiation of the Bell Telephone Company of Canada, there would be sometbing
ln that contention, but as no other telephone
compgny ln Canada bas received to the samne
extent prIvileges and franchises from this
parliament as the Bell Telephone Company
has, the argument falls, to the ground.
There Is flot the slightest pretense to, say
that the Bell Telephone Company stands lu
tbe samne position as the other companies
granted Acta of Incorporation. There are
fil-ty-e-ight other companies lu the Dominion,
that la, companies that bave received charters. Only tblrty-eiglit of these have made returus. They are ail smnall comnpanies. They
bave perhaps ln ail a capital not amounting,
certainly not exceeding, one million dollars,
and therefore, with regard to unjust and excessive rates to tbe public, they cannot be
placed on the sane footing as this great
xnonopoly. Besides none of these compan*es
can Install their plant ln any city, town or
*muntc-ipality unlesa with their consent and
agreement. This is the grat difference between the Bell telephone monopoly and ail the
small companies. Let mue here say 1 do not
use tbe word monopoiy offensively to, this
corporation. Those wbo are lni a position to
say, state that tbe business can be better carried on by a monopoiy than under perbaps
too mucb competition, but where a great corporation like the Bell Telephone Company
bas received a monopoly, there sbould be
soute restriction, some safeguards to, the
public, that they would not abuse tbe great
power tbey posseas to enforce unfair rates.
In Nova Scotia there are, for Instance,
two companles carrying on a telephone
service, but these companies are very imîted In comparison with tbe Bell Telephone
Company and tbey are largely under the influence of the Bell Company already.
I tbink It is a matter of notorietyat least rumours to that effect have been
floating around for some time past-tbat one
of the uses, If this Bill is passed, that the
increase of capital will be put to is to buy up
theGe and other coxupanies. But at the present
lime they seem to have control of that telephone service. lt will be found on InvestiHon. Mr. MILLER.

gation that the switch boards, instruments
and other materials are supplied to, these
companies by the Northern Electrie and
Manufacturing Company and the Wlre and
Cabie Company, of Montreal, botb of whichi
concerns are controlled' by the Bell Telephone Company. It wouid be furtber interestlng to, know bow mucb of the stock of
these companies ls lncluded ln the $414,331.50 wblch the iast report of the
Bell Company states to be th« value of
the shares i other companles held by theru.
There la no doubt at ail whiat the Intention of this company la, and no doubt as to
thieir power to, carry out their intention
that la, to crush out and buy up ail competition, and establlsb this as au exclusive mouopoly throughout the Dominion of Canada.
An offer was muade, and I bave no doubt it
will be used ln this discussion, to the city
of Toronto, lu order to induce it to wlthdraw lts opposition to this Bill to grant it
the saine -rates as those chîarged in the city
of Montreal, and that offer appearecl very
plausible ; but lt must be recoilected that
there are peculiar cîrcumstances ln connection wlth the city of Montreal, tixat do flot
extend to any portion of Ontarlo. The clty
of Montreal la composed of a population
iargely French, and it involves a dual systeru
of telephouing wblch adds largely to the
AIcost of the service lu that city.
though It may not be an unreasonable rate
for Montreai to pay lu consequence of Its
.peeuliar position, stili It might be a very
unrea8onable tbing to ask tbe city of Toronto to, be placed on the samne footing as
the city of Montreal, the rates of which are
higher than -tbey are now iu the city of Toronto, owing to the circumatauces I have
Telephone Exmentioned. The Mercban'
change of Montreal cannot be classed as au
active competitor lnsomucb as It caters oniy
to the French epeaking population and cau
neyer hope to be of universal beneflt to the
entire business commnunity. If It were au
active competitor -tbe Bell could -not obtain
the hlgh -rates which at preseut exist lu the
city. As it la the Merchants' Company
serves the Bell Interests by furnishing Mr.
Sise with an excuse for misleading the
public into the belief that they are flot a
monopoiv.
Hon. Mr. THIIBAUDEAU (Rigaud). Do
you mean that the French Canadia-us are

[MIAY 9, 1901]

5

paying iess than 'the Engliali for their tele- per cent does not represent construction lu
any way. The compnny lias nothing ta show
phones ?
for it, and therefore ta ail Intents and purHon. Mr. MILLER. No, I mnean thiat the poses, lt must he regarded as water lu the
fact of having ta serve in Iwo languages In- stock.
creases the coat of the service. In the city of
Hom. Mr. TEMPLE.IAN-Would the lion.
Montreai, -and that na fair comparison cal'
and gentleman please say on whase autliorlty
be drawn between the city of Montreai
that statemenit Is made, that 48 or 50 per
the city of Toronto.
o! the stock Is water ?
(Rigaud)-I cent
Hon. Mr. THIBAUDEAU
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I make It on my own
thInk that ia far, fetched. 1 do flot know
The autliority, from the Information given ta me.
-exactly how you bring that about.
Frencli peo-ple use the telephone to the
Hon. Mr. TFIMPLEMAN-I thought you
samie extent as the Englisli.
were quoting ItL
Han. Mr. MILLER-Now, wliat Is this
Hon. Mfr. 31ILLER-It is on information
stock required for ? The general bellef Is given me, in.formation in which I have
that a portion of it may be required for -confidence.
construction-a portion to, buy out competiNow, a few words wlth reg-ard ta the position, but f ar the larger portion wiil be used tion lu which this Bill is now befare us.
for the purpose o! watering the stock of the The Bill received its second reading and was
cempany, and we know that the day may not sent ta the cornmittee. In coinmittee I
be f ar distant when either the municipalities moved three amndments. the first aniendor the government may desire ta acquire the ment w-as ta the following effect:
teleplione and telegrapli system. It ls therestatutes of 18912
of chapter 67
fore a mafter for serions consideration'whe- la Section 3repealed, and of the
the foliowing sections
hereby
capital stock o! are substituted therefor. and shall be deemed
ther we sliould increase the
a monopoly of this klnd in snch a way as to ta have formed part of the said Act as from the
date of Its enactmnent.
ultimately cost the government, or the
These latter words making the clause remunbel-pality, double wliat it ouglit to cost
ownership troactive we have consented ta, have striken
In case the policy of public
There la another out of the Bill. My next amendnient was:
sliould be resorted to.
-Tact whicli perhftps It is as well the public
3. Upon the application of any person, Ilrn or
city.
should know-that the Bell Teleplione CJom- corporation within the whlch town or village or
a general service
wlthIn
a controlling Interest other territorywh ere a telephone ls required for
pany o! Anierica ]las
la given. anS
al
in the Bell Teleplione .Comnpany of Canada: any lawful purpose, the company shaîl. withprereasonable despatch, furnish telephones for
fest of any
1 amn advised. and I believe It ta be the tact, mises fronting upon or within
that when the Bell Telephone Company of Can- highway, street. lane or other place along. over.
ada was originally organized, the American Bell under or upon which the company has constructTelephone Company, who owned.the plant, &c., ed or may hereafter construct a main or brancb
under which the telephones were firet construct- telephone service or system upon tender or
ed. received either 48 or 52 per cent of the whle payment o! the lawful rates semi-anniiallY In
capital stock without putting one dollar Intc advance.
the business of the company, and that on every
Increase of the capital stock of the Canadiai
The blank I Intended ta ask the committee
company tliey received the like proportion. Per- ta I up with the number 500, but It was
American Bell Com.
haps the fI-st Issue ta the
pany, while a large one, might be consideree not done ut the time. I presume If the
gavi
as compensation for the rights which theyIssue.s iamendment is accepted, the figures can be
ta the Canadian, but certainly successive
not be called any- inserted liere. This amendment was acceptof stock In 1888 and 1892 could
thing else but water.
ed hy tlie cammittee, and the other two
Hon. Mr. THIBAUDEÂU (BRIgaiid)-Th4 clauses which 1 will read ta the House
stock lias neyer been watered.
were rejected. Tlie next clause reads : 'No
MILLER-My han. friend froni higlier rates thaxi the rates now In force.'
Hon. Mr.
'Montceal says tlie stock lias never beau An ameadmnent will be made by striking
watered. If 48 or 50 per cent o! the Canada out the words «'naw In force,' and putting
Bell Telephone Company stock was given In the words 'for each class o! telephane
for tlie patent riglits of the Americali Bell service than the rates for sucli service in
o!
Telephone ýComp.nny, certainly thant 48 or 50 force on the 3Oth June, 1892.' The effect

[SENATEl
the ameadiments is to prevent the amndiient
from being retroactive, since it was not
the Intention of those who framed it that
the Bull 6hould have a retroactive effect.
The amendment wli then read as foliows:
No hlgher rates for each class of telephone
service than the rates for sucli service la force
on the 3th June, 1892. In the municlpallties of
Canada respectively, except as herein otherwlse
provlded (a) for long distance messages, (b) for
rentai of telephanes to snbscribers or for any
other purpose whatasever, shall be chargesble,
payable or recoverable in any sucli municlpality,
and any suin pald in excess of the sald rates
after June 30, 1901, may be recovered by the
subscribers ln an action therefar In any court
of campaient jurisdlctlon or mnay be dedncted

froin any rates unpaid.
The salO rates in any munlclpallty may be lncreased or dlminlshed by order o! the Governor

ln Council upon the application o! the company
or o! auy lnterested municipality, and thereaf ter the rates so ordered shall be the rates
under this Act until again slmilarly adjusted
The word rates
b$' the Governor Iu Council.
in this section shall &pply not only ta the rates
charged for the rentai or use o! telephones,
but also to charges for messages !romn any person in oua munlcipality to any other person l.
another municipaltty, commonly known as long
distance messages.
These are the three ameudments I sub-

mltted In commlttee, and on an amendmnft
moved by the hion. Senator Lougheed, the
flrst clause was accepted, and the other two
were stricken out, and lu lieu of that a
clause was added by the commîttee, whlch
appears lu the report before us. It Is an
extraordinary amendment-thîs amenduient

for -Calgary
member
bon.
of the
The House wiil
(Hon. Mr. Lougheed).
percelve that the ameudment by Implication admits the justice of havlng the rates
restrlcted or limlted, because It looks forward to the passing of a 'generai Act to
restrlct rates, and sucli general Act shaîl
flot be looked upon lu derogation of the
But the effect of
rights of the company.
hon. Senator Lougheed's amendment was
that, while It repealed section 3 of the Act
of 1892, providing for no increase of rates
without the approval of the Governor ln
Councl-whiie It repeals the protection of the
public in that section, it strikes out the
two sections which I intended to substitute as amendments to the Bill for section
3 of the Act of 1892, and as the Bill stands
at present, It not onhy aliows the compauy
ail It asks for ln regard to an increase of
Its capital, but it takes away the restriction which was piced upon the company
It abohishes vested
by the Act of 1892.
Hon. Mr. MILLER.

riglits, and leaves the publie at the mercy
of the company until parliament intervenes
with a general Act.
Looking at the enormous power and Influence which the company possesses at the
present turne, aud the figlit It is mak-Ing
under sucli adverse circuistances, under
sucli discreditable circumstances, what probability is there of any measure to protect the publie agalnst this company unlted
wlth ail the others, and prevent anything
like limitation of rates in a general Act In
the future '
If we waut to get a general Act, the way
to secure it is by imposing this restriction on
this company, and thus make it Interested
iu having every other company piaced
With regard to,
upon the saine footing-.
the question of rates, It may be disclosed in
this discussion that the company bas made
some offer with regard to rates which
might be accepted as reasonable and fair,
but I cannot ngree that any fair and reaThe
sonable proposition lias been iqade.
oniy proposition I understand that haýs been
made Is, that the rates shall neyer be Iacreased beyond a certain sum. We ahl know
that, in regard to telephoning, new discoveries and Inventions are taktng place
every day, and perhaps bef ore flve years are
over the cost of constructing telephone appliances througbout this country, and workIng teiepbone apparatuG may be one-haif
of what it is to-day, and, therefore, it Is
just to the public that in limIting the rates,
the company should have the riglit, when it
Is able to show to the Governor in Council
that it is losing on the exlstlng rates, on the
rates flxed by the contract wlth the City
of Toronto in 1891, It should have the riglit
and power to go before the Governor In
Council and get an increase of its rates. The
City of Toronto is willing to pay increased
rates if it cau be shown at any turne that the
rates existing do not pay, or are lower than
they auglit to be. But when the subscribers
in the future May be able to, show that telephone construction is not costing one-haif
what it does to-day, and that the rates fixed
to-day miglit be grossly in excess of %vhat
tbey should be under a more Improved and
cheaper systein of construction, 1 say the
fairest way to the public and ta the coinpany is to allow discretion to the Governor
in Council with regard to either increasing

[MAY 9, 1901]

35 7

the late Senator Boultonl to the
or diminishing the rates. This is the chie! drawu by
named ln the Bill. He thought
object of my amendmeft, and this will be ilarge capital
if the It was excessive. He tbaugbt the abject
-h
prton and effecet or the Bill,
ulterior one, for the benefit of the
House colleurs lu the proposais wbîcll 1 in- 1 was an
sharehoiders, and nlot for the benefit of the
.tend to make on the third reading.
hie pressed very strongly
My position now lis to allow the first company, and so
witb on the Hlouse to reduce the capital account.
amendment to be concurred in,
of the bon. gentleman
the modification suggested from the other, At the instance
it its f rom Calgary lie made ail appeal te me to
side-that is, taking away f rom
to go back to committele for
retroactive cbaracter. T-hti amendmient I! allow the Bill
the purpose o! reducing the capital account.
consent to as one o! my own amendmeflts,
Mr. Lougbeed, on that occasion,
with the expectation that on the third read- The Hon.
two, but 1 spoke as foilows
ing the Hanse will add the other
I would suggest ta the hon, gentleman frcm
opose
am tothe oncurene 0fthe
to
lu Ottawa to allow the Bill ta be reftcrred back und
Hlouse ln the second amendmielt made t the Commlttee on Raîlways, Telegraphs
aud npont Idesie
tht
large Interests iuvolved
There are
lHarbours.
eiet
on
nta
committee, an
If the'in lit. and 1 do flot think the dIspolo f the
take the opinion o! the Senate.
give the Billi the three
Hanse atpen
House concurs in the ameudmnent made by, montbs' holst. or s toreduce the capital stock
ta
be faund necessary ta increase the
the hon. gentleman fromi Calgary, then, 1Il shauld It
No
stock ta the amaunt asked for.
presume the compnny will have -whatever' capital can be clone by referring the Bll back
injury
and If the hon. gentleman
it desires, but if the House does not concur to the commlttee,
ta agree ta that, I move
in that amendmetit, if it refuses concuirrenice, shows a disposition now read the third time,
that the Bill be icot
stand
ln that amendment, then the Bill wiliwil bebut that Rt be referred baclc te the Commlttee
amenmentmad, nn
n ltailways, Telegraphs and Harbolirs for furae n vl e1 amnmn
the one
with
consideration.
open on the third reading ta be further' ther
ta the amendments o!
considered In regard
Âsuing tîxat thxe whole object in refetrîng
whlch I have given notice. 1 bave na objecit was probut 1 will take it back was to consider whether
tion ta the first amendmnft,
per that the capital account should be lnthe sense of the Hanse on the second, creased ta the sum then nsked, 1 consented
o sewith every canfiIwill
and
h
omtewe
nte
oin
I cannot be-,t h
idence in its decision.
The
up, it was rejected.
se' question came
Ileve for a moment that a proposition
committee conciuded there was ample evifair and reasonabie. and so niecessary for
îs sO dence ta wvarrant the company ln asking
the protection o! the public, which pulicfor the increase of capital. An han. gentleintheproectin 0 th
necesar
n
lbnthes grotin tof lihoe o!btie man, who is not now present 1 am sorry ta
agast
say, nioved the adoption o! the clause prohugest monopolies of the Dominion, *will
!viding that the rates sbauld not be lncreasbereecedbythe Senate of Canada.
ed witbout the consent -of the Governor ln
>3
be rjectd
was my misfortune Council. I will nlot go Into any explanation
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-It
I belleve the bon. gentleman hlmIn 1892 ta become the foster father o! the o! that.
to very
came ni) ta this, self bas given a personal explanatiofi
Bell Telephone Bill that
bon. senators as ta wby it was, and
Chamber as an unoppased measure. The, many
what circumstaflces hie xnoved that
gentleman wha ougbt ta have taken charge under
That was carried in committee.
of the Bill was absent at the time, and, as clause.
Up ta
have clone on The Bill came back to the bouse.
miany other hon. senators
time tbe company knew nothing about
similar occasions, without nny preconceived 'that
I say naw advisedly that there
arrangement, or without any lcnowledge i t whatever.
no demand by the press or by the
been
*that such a Bill was befare parliiiment, 1 had
for any change in the rates, or any
moved its second reading. It w'as unop- people
in that direction. The shareposed. It went ta commnittee, as has been amendmeilt
f rom Rich- hoiders of the compally were absolutely
stated by the bon. gentleman
a! it until the repart o! the coinmond, and passed through its stages there. ignorant
Thereit in the coin- ilmittee wvas made ta this Ohamber.
No opposition -was off ered ta
I say my hon. friend is scarcely justimittee. It came back ta this Chamuber, and, fore
ln stating that it was a movement at the
as bie bas readily observed, attention was, fied

[SEN ATE]
instance of the people of Canada after due 1 city of Toronto, coming from provinces
deliberation. An important amendmient of where the Bell Telephone Company bas no
that kind ought flot to have been introduced interest whatever, where they have flot
witbout notice. There was no notice given offices, where there was no possible connecof it. Wben the Bill came back from coni-I tion, so that the people there could have
mittee it simply meant that the Bill had no possible lnterest in weakening or affectto be accepted by the company, or with- Lng the rights or privileges of the Bell Teledrawn. Tbey requlred the money at the phone Company. I wlll dlsmiss that witb
tixne. They were Increasing their long dis- nio further observation. I have under my
tance telephone system, and so tbey needed hiand a number of documents whicb will
to go
money, and they had to accept the Bill. confirm what 1 say. I do flot propose
Lnto it, because the point is Immaterial. The
There was no help for it. They accepted
obligathe Bill in the hope that some time or other people of Canada will be under great
tion to my hon. friend for the speech he
parliament would remove the objectionable
bas made in defence of their Interests. Had
clause.
iny bon. friend prepared bis argument with
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Tbe bon. Secretary a little more care, 1 should bave been much
of State was there at the time and It was better pleased, but he bas been mlsled.
all rigbt.
He bas made a great many misstatementsHon. Mr. SCOT'T-I could not help myseif. statements wbich are absoluteiy untrue. I
There was no help for it I bad to bow to acquit hlm, of course; of being a party to
the will o! parliament. Those are the cir- It. He bas taken the papers as tbey were
cumstances under whicb that amendment given to him. One hon. gentleman lnquired
passed. 1 tblnk no) hon, gentleman wll about a statement made by the Bell Telecontend that it was done after the expres- phone Company and he was obliged to say
sion o! any public opinion. The bon. gentle- that the statement was given to hlm, but
man who moved the amendmenM was very be could flot name any authority.
sorry for it afterwards. He felt it was unHon. Mr. MILLER-I assume aIl responfair that the company should be singled out
slbllity f or my statements.
from any other company to have their rates
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn so1TY the bon, gensupervised ln the manner Indicated.
tleman takes that course. One would supHon. Mr. McCALLUM-Did hie express
pose, fron is argument, that this wes a
that sorrow publicly ?
glgantic monopoly controlling the people of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Canada, that tliey were securing extraordinary prîvileges, and by some means or
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Where ?
other they obtained extraordinary advanHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have a letter ln my
tages. They obtalned no more advantages
possession showing it, but 1,prefer not readthan any live company which gives a good
Ing the letter. He bas expressed hlmself service in any Industry obtained.
At the
decidedly that bie did a wrong to the com- Urne the Bell Telephone Company started
pany, wbich bie thought was wholly uncalled ln Canada It was difficuit to get suhfor, and wholly unjustifiable, unfair and un- acribers to their stock. They only obtained
Just, discriminatlng against this company. $300,000 of stock subscriptions, and there
I say, and I say advisedly, that the opposi- were a number of other companies floating
tion to this Bill bas been woi-ked up by the about
Tbey got the sarne power as the
clty o! Toronto. Ail the petitions, as lion. others. M.Ny
bon. friend says that they obgentlemen know, emanated from the city tained extraordinary powers. I was rather
hall in the city o! Toronto. Tbey were
amused at the statement. I thougbt there
sent broadcast over this country. In some were other companies wbich obtalned pretty
cases they were returned unsigned.
nearly as large powers as the Bell TeleHon. Mr. MILLER-We do not know that. phone Comnpany.
However, at the time
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-It is a fact, I state it. they -were chartered, the people held up their
I bave the evidýence iu my hand. It was flot hands and begged them to corne into their
an expression of public opinion. It was cre- municipalities. I bold in n'y banci a charter
ated purely and entirely on the part of the granted in 1886 to the North American
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

[MAY 9, 1901]J5
Telephone Company.

Lt gives the company

power to estabiish, construet, piircbase,
lease or worl. telephone or telegraph liUnes.
They had the rights of telegraph and teleThey could construct
phono compa-nies.
lunes from any place or places in Canada,
either by land or water, over which exclusive telegraph lunes do not now exist by
any law o! Canada, and to or from any
places outside the Dominion o! Canada,
and to, make connections with any telephono
or te]egraph uines in the United States.
They had the right to manufacture their
They had borrowing powers
apparatus.
and power to make arrangements wîth other
companies, power to erect their lUnes acros
highways, bridges, waterways, &c., and to
enter upon the lands of Her Majosty and
Then there were restrictions placed
80 on.
In the towns or citios they
upon them.
could not erect a pole more than forty feet
hlgh and the length of the wire was
liiuted-a clause which is in ail these Bis.
Hou. Mr. McMILLAN-Âre they carrying
on business now ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know. I have
not followed It.
Hon. Mr. THIBAUDEAU (Rigaud)-Dld
the bon. gentleman from Richmond vote for
it ?
Hon. '-%r. MILLER-The Act incorporating
the North American Telephone Company
provides that the conipany shahl not use or
erect any pole higher than f orty feet aboya
tLhe surface of the street or affix any wire
or to carry any line o! poles alonig any
street witbout the consent of the municipal
They cannot get la wlthout
corporation.
I would
the consent o! the corporation.
like my hon. friend to point out anything
of the same kind In the Act of Incorporation
of the Bell Telaphione Company.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We were only too
anxious to get the company to establish
However it is entirely beside the
uines.
question.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Why did the hon.
gentleman quota it ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I want to show that
they had the same pivileges as the Bell
Talephone Company. The Bell Telephone
Company may have some additionai powers.
I have flot examined It. Later on, in the

year 1890, there were a number of charters
granted and they are ail specificaily limlted
to obtaisiing the consent of the corporation.
I do not think that was the case in the
early oharters. People bad not arrived at
the conclusion that tbey mlght Infringe on
municipal rights, and so pariament, or the
provinces, were more liberal lu dealing wlth
them, but when it was found the poles
were a great nuisance ana annoyance, then
In grantlng charters to ail compan les parliament restricted them ln the proper way. But
I do say that the attack on the Bell Telephone Company as something hostile as an
eneiny to the people of Canada, is not justified by the facts. I daresay bon. gentlemen
have looked over the iist of sharehiolders. I
find that there are over 800 sharehoiders lit
the Bell Telephone Company, ana about 95
per cent of them are people of Canada, and
there are many names whicii are famillair
it Is reaily a Cauadian company.
to us.
There are not 5 per cent of names that are
outside o! Canada. Is this Ilke any other
industriai company ?
Hon. Mr. MILLEIt-I shoulid like to cal
my hon. frlend's attention 'to the followlng
provision In clause 24 o! the North Amenican Telephone Company's charter:
Provided, however, that the rate charged for
the transmission of a message of ten body words
over the Uines o! the company between any two
points In Canada shall not ba more than 25 cts.,
etc.
That Is a restriction o! the rates, which we
have not got in the Bell Telephone Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That
graphic rates.

refers

to

tele-

Hon. Mr. MILLER-No, it applies to both.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-M.Ny hon. friend lias endeavoured to mnake a point of the iucreased
capital account from time tO time. 1 have
here a statement made by a firia of chartered accountants o! M.Nontreal, 'Messrs. Ross &
Co., dated May 6, 1901, which reads as
follows
C. .sise, Esq.,
Presideat Bell Telephone Co. of Canada,
Montreal, Que.

Dear Slr.-We herehy certify that the statement below show.s the correct position of the
pald-up capital of the Bell Telephone Company
of Canada at the respective rates from the Inception of the company up to the 3lst Decsmber.
1900, and tbat the capital stock o! the companY
bas neyer heen waterae'l,

nor

dlstribute'l

au

360

[SEtZATE]

$1,376,000
1,400,000
1,494.000
1,926,000
2,200,000
2.241,600
,600
are stock-'
CIL.T1Y
lon. Mr.
.. 3168,000
hodr.1895.....................
1896..................... .. 3,168,000
holders.
3,168,000
1897 .......................
flot
3,556,000
\r.
Hon. -- SCOTT-I do that know .9bout
1898........................
Would affect
3960,000
tbat, andi 1 do flot suppose
1899.......................
5,000,000
1900. .....................
one dollar of
1 amn satisfied that flot
them.
oveî- Ontario and
they extend
their stock bas ever been offereti below par, 110w, could
Quebec, as they do now, running into nearly
and lias Blot beein watered ut ail.
by ail the townls and villages lu the North-'vest
Hon. Mr. M.\cCAlLUM-Afld ail holti
tîîrough te Brandon andti rougli to Calgary
do
Canadian people.
Mw1th1out money ? it required capital to
h.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. 1 said 95 per cent
'.Iy
of the stockholders were Canadianis.
BC)Adto
Hon. '-\r. MADNL
'Ihe
the list bofore lmn.
lion. friend. bas
protty well dis- Britisht Columbla.
stockholders seomi to be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Alid in mauy cases the
tributeti over Ontario and Quebec. There
the wvork had to be renewed, lu somne cases
are some lu the othor provinces, but
two or tlîree tinies over, andi whiat at oiîe
largor number are in Ontario and Quebec.
valuablo machinsee why tirne was considered very
Hon. '-\r. M.\cCAkLLUM\-I do nlot
been thrownà into a heap
on that, ery andi plant, bas
1
the hon. gentleman wants to dwell
metal, consi'dered absoluteir useless.
they belong to the province of of
but becauso
Proin
however, Inter.
are we will coule to that.
Quebec and province of Ontario,
investigation, I challenge contradiction
them to bleed the lest of the rny
going to allow
of the statement made by those gentlemen.
MNr.
coinmunity?
My hon. friend from Gleflgarry (Hon.
andtie
will Mcill~knows these accouutntits.
Hon. '.\r. SCOTT-If iiy hon. friend
to
Is content, from bis knowledge of fihei,
allow me to proeeed 1 will endeavour n10t
mialte lu
go over say thiat any statement that they
to be too prolix. 1 would have to
tbat direction is to bo believeti, andt thoy
a good deal of ground If I answered seriatim
the
gen- make the staternt anti they bring
ail the accusations matie by the bon.
down to 1900, showing the
I do flot think it whole amount
tieman from Richmond.
expenditure year by yenr, because they have
is necessary to go ito every particiilnr Item
Into the accomiits anti ox1 state emphatically, on gono thorough]y
ho brought up.
amineti theni, end they givo that certificato.
the authority of Mr. Sise, that ho c.hallenges
for any bon. gentleman
If those gentlemen I lay It on the Table
the closest scrutiny.
Thoy say there is not oele
not to eaie.
are not consitiereti proper autiitors-I do
their stock anti thiat lio
1a.rl
or dollar of
know whethe,- they are st ockholdeors
shares have been solti undor par.
ntHon. Mr. M.\ACDON-\ALD (B.C.ý-Cafl the
îiot doubt
Hon. M-\r. MMLA-Odo
lion. Secretary of State tell us the reasoli
We can accept their statement.
thena.
capital '?
that the company dosire thîs increaseti
Hon. Mr. MILLER-You do mot deny
Hon. 11r. SCOTT-The hon. gentlemian
50 per cent of the stock washave
knows that the conlpany of late years
Hon. '.Ir. SCOTT-Referriflg to this loUter
telepaid-up been going largly into the long distance
of Ross & Sons. the incroase of the
have a telephone systolu lu
Thoy
phiono.
stock of tlic cornpany is gix-on as followvs:tiiroca direct line as far as wNindsor ln one
$ 77,600
1880........................
Andi it was
Quobec la the other.
tion and
500,000
1881........................
1,000,000
anti
1882 .......................
proposeti to mnu linos from Wininipog the
1,000000
1883 .......................
Brandon anti othier points there out to
1,000,000
t.ToMnI884 .......................
ot-W
nt0fhe
sele
1,200,000
1885 .......................
SetmnsofheNr-wt.TkMn1300,000
an
1886 .......................
roal, Toronto, Londion or Hamiltofi, what
1,375,000
1887.......................
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

never
bonus to any corporation or personl and has
eowpa.1889
ben sstd belw
pa.
been s'td
P. S. ROSS & SONS,
(Sgd.)
Chartered Accouatants.

1888.......................
.......................
lg1890......................
1891........................
1892 .......................
1893 .......................
1894 ......................

361

[MAY 9, 1901]
Ho.SrMCENI
enormous advantage it is to the merchalits
and business men of tbose cities that the.'
can caîl up a customer at any moment, probably receive an order for goods or aunounce
The
thiat the goods bave been delivered.
facîlities for doing business have been irnmensely developed by the construction of
the long distance telephone, and bon. gentlemen will see that it cost a great deal
o! money, and besides tlint, tue cost o!
tbe telepbone plant to-day is probably two
-or tbiree bundred per cent biglier thani it
wa-s thirty years ago. That remark applies
particularly to the towns and cities, and
more especially to those towns and cities or
localities 'where tbere Is high electric current.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD) (B.C.)-Is It a
fact that the clty of Toronto invited two
UnIted States companies to take up the
telephone system o! Toronto, and -tbat tbey
,declined to do so on account of the low
rates the Bell Telephone Company was
dhargingl
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-I did not make that
statement, but sncb a statement was made
in committee, and It was not contradlcted.
But just now I will compare tbe rates prevailing ln other cities corresponding to Toronto.
Hon. Mr. Mc3IILLAN-Before the bion.
gentleman goes into that subject, would lie
make, an explanation. He appeared to dweli
a g-reat deal on tbe fact tbat tbey bave not
issued watered stock below parHon. Mr. SCOTT-No watered stock at ail,
na bonuses.
Hon. 'Mr. McMILLAN-Have they issued
stock at par to any of the sharehoiders?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn mot aware. I do
not think so. They bave sold no stock be10w par.
Hon. Mr. Me.\ILLAN-But tbey bave lssued sto-ck at par to shareholders. wbile It
16 now quoted nt 170.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The rule, I think, ln
all companles is, where new sftock is issuedtbe -rule ln ordinary companies, that I have
had anything to do witb-is always to give
preference to thieir own sharebolders.
Hon. 'Mr. WOOD (Harnilton)-But not ai

OELÂ

rnarket price.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will find out before
the debate ie over and let my lion. frlend
know. 1 was going on to answer my
bon. friend opposite, (Mr. Macdonald, B.C'.),
who asked. what they wanted tis ioney
for. 1 arn advised that part of this money,
$75,000, was to be spent ln the clty of Toronto lin continuing the underground wire,
and that before another year nu excbange
had to be put up ant North Toronto wvhicb
would require $100,000, and Iliey wlll aiso
need lu anothier year an addition to their
buildings wbere adâltional accommodation Is
required. Then. $200,000 are required for tbe
extension o! the Ulnes in the North-west.
The company do flot lntend to Issue thls
$5,000,000. Tbey simply asic for the power
because tbey do flot want fo corne back to
parliament for perliaps five or ten years.
When parliament autborlzed tuie issuing of
$5,000,000 on a former occasion, lu 1892. the
compnny did not issue thnt stock. Tbey
held it and lssued it only as it was winted
for the construction of lines, and on the
present occasion they.would not probably Ia
the next year use at ail events more tlhan
$1,000,000, if they used that.
Hon. Mr. ýlMMILLAN-Tbey
thiat to their shareholders.

would give

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am flot lu a position
to say ho-%v it ivould bie sold. 1 shall be
very glad, bowever, to oh-tain the Informatlon for my hion. friend before this debate
closes. Mr. Sise writes me a note saying
tbere bas neyer been a stock bonus. 1 was
giving some of the probable expenditure lu
the near future. If the growth of tlils coinVany bas been great, Is it flot rathier due
to tbe energ-Y and business talent exhibited
by tbe company ? Certainly they cannot force
people to take their Instruments unless tbere
They cannot
Uis an Inclination to do ItL
esta9blisb themaselves in nny town or city
lu
unless; the people %vant them tliere.
ma-ny instances they have gone into a tpwn
The
wbere tbere was a local company.
local com-pany censed to exist a! ter a f ew
years for the reason that they could mlot .-Ive
the samne service the Bell Telephone Company could. They always had the best
instruments. and they liad thieir long- distance system.

[SEINATEI
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I only had lt ln my
Hon. 31r. MILLER-Does the lion. gentieand it appeared to
inan know what they did in Peterborough ? hands a few moments
me, from *a cursory glance at it, to be 95
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Tbey did, 1 suppose, per cent.
what ail other compan les do.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-There are no figures
Hon. Mr. MILLER-They gave a free serorder to klI the othier given whatever, and you cannot judge frorn
vice for a time ln
that.
one.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised, on authorHon. Mr. SCOTT-They do tlhnt ail over.
ls so. There- ity I can place confidence in, that there
Hon. Mr. MILLER-That
has been no Increase unless It is the parties,
fore, protect the public against theni.
whose namnes are given there, may bave
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot know liow yoil purchased stock to a large amnount.
are going to protect the people against
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-The company conanything of that kind. If there is a monotrol it.
poly created, it la by the public. because
they centre on the one systemn: they think
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ne, the stock is on the
one system Is best for them and take up the inarket Anybody can buy It. I arn toid
best. It is pretty well recog-nized. As an there la no controlling Influence outside of
evidence of the growth of the company, ln Canada in regard to this Comnpany, tliat ia
1890 the numb5r of subscribers of lhe coin- tlbat respect It is a domestic Company.
pany was 19,000. In 1895 it had grown to
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
28,000, in 1900 it had grown to, 38,000. Now,
could flot state that unless you mean the
certainly the 10,000 people who wvere added
arnount of stock the Americans hold.
to'the patrons of the company lu five years
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are several sharedid it of their own motion ;they dld it because they were getting better service frorn hoiders ln this room who know and can
the Bell Telephone Company, and because verlfy anything 1 have sald.
they wanted the benefit of the Bell systein.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
Hon. Mr. M-NcCALLUM-That tireezing out are some fifty Americans stockholders in the
Comipany.
ln Peterborough was flot a fair thing.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It may not bie patrlotic,
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Fiflty out of about 800.
but It is lhe spirit of tUe age. Peu-ple are
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
doing that every day. Merchants are do[ng would be no Indication whatever unless we
that every day and against each other, and knew the amount of stock held by each.
1 do not thlnk that that la a reason that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn told on good auought to 13P urged againat this company.
The bon. gentleman gays this company Is tlkcrity they do flot control it.
controlled from the outside. I deny tlîat. . Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
I deny that the United States company has hon. member from Toronto has just put in
anystock in it.. They had at the first. my hands a reply to a question asked by the
There was only $380,000 subscribed by the hon. member from Victoria. He says 'There
Canadian people ; that was not enougb, and bas neyer beaun any bona fide company whicb
so tUe Bell Telephone Company in the deslred to corne into Toronto whicb declined
United States was asked to subscribe a to do so because of the 10w rates. Toronto
certain, not a very large amount, and that is now paying more than any other municiwas the only occasion on whicb they sub- pality in Canada save one.'
scribed at aIl.' Then when It becarne apHon. Mr. MACDONALD (C.B.)-That is
:paént it was going to be a success, the
not exactly what I asked. They were luCanadian people took up tUe stock, until toand declined to corne on
day, as I have said, 95 per cent are Cana- vited to corne
account of 10w rates.
diaus.
1 Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The statement was
Hon. '.\r. M,%cCALLU31-Ninety-five,
place, and 1 did not hear
thought tUe hon. gentleman said seventy- rr-ade in another
that It was contradicted. They did not go.
five.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

[mIAy 9, 1901]

363

~efore 1 corne to the question of rates, I to quote wbat Mr. HIg-man says. Mr. Higave bere the revenue account of the com- man is an officer of the Inland Revenue DeP
*any up to December, 1900. The receipts partment, flot appointed by this government.
.re, exchanges, $1,125,000; long distance Re ls a higbiy skilled electriclan. He lays*
mnes, $359,000 ; private lines, $11,000 ; mis- down this principle, that wbere it costs
ellaneous, $116,000. Total, $1,614,000. Ex- $100 per subseriber, under the old fashloned
>enses of operating, $1,146.852 ; legal, $8.900. Qystem, that is ef the pole and the wlre,
nsurance, $15,700, bonds interest--4bat ls and the connection with the holder of the
p
on the bond issue---$52,000 ; mis- phone, out of the capital account, where you
ahie interest
ellaneous, $5,000. Total, $1,229,000. This put ln a double wlre, as you bave to do now,
eaves a net revenue for the year 1900 of It adds fifty per cent to tbe cost. Then,
The dividend out of that was where they have to put the wires under384.000.
av od nsm towns
.I71,000, so tiiere was passed to rest accounit grud ste
hat yenr only $12,000. Tbey were only able and cities-cîties, particularly-the Increase
o pay to the contingency accounit, $12,98b.33 ts up to three hundred dollars, so that
t ast year. This is audited and verlfied by P. bon. gentlemen wlll see tbat the conditions
& Sons, cbartered accounitants. It cannot be made to apply fairly to ail posL.
1 Ross
s quite true tbey have, as rny hon. frlend sible cases, they vary so much. Tben, again,
'romi Richmond observed, in some years grent variation is due to cases wbere there
jeen larger than that. He quoted one year is a high electrical curirent, as witb the
n whicli It was forty odd tbousand dollars. street car lines. Street cars. as bon. gen[or a company of that klnd, doing the ex- tlemen knoe, propelled by electricity, are
-ended business they are dolng, It ls not a now pretty general throughout Canada. The
Tcry large amount. Thiey were giving a effect on the tubes which contalas the wlres
arger dividencl probably than most conser- le to destroy the tubes. The escaplng elecvative companies would feel they were jus- triclty eats up the tube. There was protlfied ln glvlng to their sharebolders when duced before the commlttee evidence of that?
they could only place to contingencles ac- The electrolysis of electricity simply concount $12,000 out of tbe years business. It suines tbe tubes and they have to be removed
shows they were paying out the dividends from time to tine. The fifteen per cent, ont
of wblch so much bas been made, is for tbat
to the full limit of their earnings.
wbere there
the charge ln Toronto
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-What isato-are hlgh electrical and Montreal, where tbey
currents and
te
whol amantof rst ccout
lo have to put the wires underground and tbe
con
es
b
wher am? t0
has to be renewed. If hon, gentlemen
gethertube
have neyer seen the tube, they can scarcely
Honi. Mr. SCOTT-I thinir it iS $800,000.
flid
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamllton)-On a capital realîze bow tbordugbly the electrlc
penetrates and make floles ln It and conof five millions.
sumes It. You will find tubes absolutely
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The capital is five ral- opened. Tbe fifteen per cent referred to Ili
lons and the bond issue-I do not kuow what tbe evîdence taken under oatb in Montreal,
th.at was. I tblnLk tbey were autborized to to whlcb the bon. member from Ricbmond
issue bonds, Ilike ail other companies, to the referred. as sbowing tbere was a loss la Toextent of 75 per cent of their pald up capital. ronto that particular year, was added be0f
Hon. Mr. TEM-NPLEMAN-Wbat bas been cause of the destruction of tbe tubes.
last five years ? course. It Is only a calculation. Nobody eau
tbe average divldend for the
per cent. It
Hon.Mr.
COT-The bav ben pain-speclfically state that it ls fifteen
antb
emr rlsbttefc
elgbt per cent. Now, as to the rates, Înigh that wbenever a high current of elechee,
makethestatmen ad Ithin ltcandenled,
im- tricitv le allowed to escape, it finds its way to
a I tl
ee
maesub sttatemenli t
telephone wires are
possible, la fairness to the company, to la tbe tube ln whicb the
wîîî apply to ail ercased. and ente it up, and the tube bas
down any fixed rate wbicb
Tbe fifcases. The conditions existlng Ia one local- from time to time to be renewed.
tbe conditions exlsting teen per cent ls an estiiate, but that did
lty are different fromn
in others. I sbould like on that point just not weaken tbe statement made by Mr. Hig-

LSENATE]
man.. Mr. Higman hirnself made an exaniination of the company's books at that time,
and I know it was absolutely impossible for
the governrnent of this country to undertake
to revise the rates over the 800 offices tbe
cornpany bave throughout the country.
Hon. 31r. McAL MIhave confidence
ln the goverument on this question If on
no other.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-If It were practicable,
It certainly would lie doue. 1 arn endeavouring to explain that the conditions prevaling- [n different places are so wîdely different that It renders it absolutely impossible. Tben It Is an olinoxious thlng. We
know bow difficult It Is for the government
to hear a case of that kind and put up
rates. Tliey must face the rnunicipality. It
is liard to convince the people that the goveriameat was right. Tliey will say the government wns prejudiced, or give other
reasons for [t. 1 arn readiag now from ]Sir.
Hlgman's report. He was delegated to go
He
to Montreal and make this Inquiry.
refers to other authorities as confirrnag tlie
jufigment that lie expressed as to tbe rapid
destruction of the tubes coataing the
wlres ns sliown by evidence ln cities la the
Uaited States, and lie quotes a distlnguished electrician, 'Mr. Dciand, as follows :
A careful examination of the rornpany's books
at Montreal, the freest access to whlch %,;as
readily accorded, proved the statenments of revenue and expenditure contained ln ExhIbit C
to be correct in every particular.
ln conclusion, the resuit of my investigation
has been to prove the correctness of the dlaims

of the Bell Telephone Company, made ln theJr

petition. namely
That the introduction of electric raiiways or
other industries using stroag currents of electricity lin dities or towns where there Is an
established telephone ustng a grounded single
wlre system necessitates a change to a metailloe
or double wire 5ystem, and when the overhead
,-ires become too numerous, the change lias to
That the cest
be to underground construction.
on construetion or an underground metallic or
,double wire system îs 300 per cent greater than
a single wire overhead system, and that the
cost of operatiag the former la at least 2'0 per
cent greater than the cost of operating the latter. even without making allow2tnce for thýe
destruction o! underground cables by electrolysîs
to which I have alluded.

Hon. 'Mr. MILLER-Wliut Is the dIfference la the hf e of eacli-over ground as
compared with underground ? Lt la largely la faveur of the underground.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, 1 do not tlink so.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. MILLER-Yes, the underground
will live a hundred years.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat, I say, Is neot correct, because 1 have seen, myself, cables
talcen up that were underground and that
were absolutely eaten up. We bad a piece
of cable before the cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (C.B.)-Wby does
nlot Mr. Higman report on that ?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-He does; lie referred
to that, and gave the Illustration which I
have mentioned. He stated the cost of the
v-arious systerns. He gave at that tirne the
revenue and expenses in 1895. The revenue
[n 'Montreai was $234,527. Expenses $205,229, showing a profit; but la Ottawa, wbere
the metallic circuit bas been partlally
adopted, the revenue was $36,983, tbe expenses were $49,8S5, showing a loss of
$,12,802. In Toronto, wliere the system Is
ail nietallie circuit, the revenue was $172,719, expenses were $252,597, showing -a loss
of $79,877. 1 do not think Mr. Hligman
could lie so very far astray that yeu could,
ln tlie face of bis figures, state there was
a profit that year, even If we were wrong
la putting the destruction of tubes by eiecSupposing lie retrolysis at 15 per cent.
duced it to 10 per cent, It stili would not
be a paying business for a city like Toronto.
Hon. Mr. 'McDONALD (.B.)-Where
the dividends corne from ?

do

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Frorn places -where they
The
are paying more than they should.
company do not propose that the stockbolders shall get more. than 8 per cent, but
they say that the rates ouglit to lie readjusted so that they would bear equaily on ail.
As a matter of fact, there are 130 offices,
out of tlie elit hundred odd, tbat are not
paying expenses. To keep up the systeni,
other offices are chiarged more than tbey
sliould lie cliarged, but I arn told by the
president, and I arn at liberty to make the
statement liere publicly, that they do not
desire on the capital an lacrease la the aggregate receipts. Wliat they do desire, is
to so adjust rates that all may hear equally
their fair share, and the resuit to the coinpany would lie practically tbe saine. There
are a great many industries in Canada that
are paying a good deal higlier than 8 per
ýcent, and puttiag large amiounts to rest.

IMA.Y 10, 1901]
THE SENATE.
Consideviflg all the risks, it is a mnatter of
Olttawa, Friday. May 10, 1901.
opinion whether the people wbo put tbelr
money into that concern, flot knowing if it
Chair at Tbree
The SPEAI CER took the
was to bie a successful concera, are gettlflg
o'ciock.
If lu
more than tbey ouglit to receive.
Iroutine proceedings.
recent years the new stock bas been sold
Prayers arn
at the price of average stock on the market,
then the people would flot be getting 8 per
RAILAi,D SOUTH-WESTERN
cent. If a man paid one hundred and fifty ALASKA
ï COMPANY'S BILL.
WA'
dollars for a one hundred dollar share, lie
OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
would not be getting 8 per cent for bis
REPORT
meni who are~ gettine 8
-1
n'l.
Hon. Mr. BAKER. from the Oomimittee on
per cent for tbieir money are tbose who
stock was Railways, Telegraplis and Harbours, to
bouglit it originaliy, wben the
Bill (1) 'An Act to lnsold at par. I can recollect myseif wbefl wliom Nvas referred
corporate the Alaska and South-westernl
below par.
it was sold conslderably
Railway Company,' reported the preambie
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I recollect wbeu It not proved to the committee's satisfaction
for the reason that the Bill wouid coufiict
w-as very mach below par.
hougt witb existing rights under a charter already
Hon.Mr.
McDOALD(C.B)-I
grauted. He said : I miove that the report
Hoasn. Mr.ue beDONL pa.B-Itogt
adopted. The renson for the recommenwas ot
Itssue beow ar.be
is given lu the report itself. It was
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-It passed from baud to dation that there were existiug riglits wbich
band.found
parliament ouglit not to interfere witbi unHon. ';\r. McM.NILLAN-Tbe bon. gentle- der the circumstances.
.
Thmoinwsare
Is
man is certainly makiug a mIstake.
lie ln a position to tell us how mucli of the
five millions bas been dlsposed of. Has It
BELL TELEPHIONE OOMPANY'S BILL.
ahl been lssued ?
F M DETS
Hou. '.%r. SCOTT-Ob. yes.NOIE
Hou. Mr. MILLER-When the Bell Telewhy did tbey phione Company's Bill w-as under cousideraHon. 'Mr. McMILLAN-Tbefl
tbrown out
not pay a divIdend on it, because the dlvi- tion yesterday, suggestions were
the capitahîzation 1wltb refereuce to modifications whicb were
deud paid ouly represeuts
There must be sometbing agreed, to, taklng away from the amendof $4,641,300.
These
1mens their retroactive chiaracter.
wroug.
but I amn
rspet totheamendments bave been agreed to, to make
Hou.Mr.MILLR-Wth
MLLE-Wih rspet t th not s0 sure that it wouid be regular
Hon 3f.
lite of underground aud overgrouud ser- tbem on the motion for concurrence. I thlnk
the proper time to inake them wili be on the
vices, I find the followlIng iuformation:.
I, therefore,
the third
lMs. Sise overlooks the tact that ln Installiiig motion forsubstitute areading. covering that
motion,
lunes the lite of the plant is very intend to
underground
the depreciation of

niuch increased, and that
wel as my two otber amendproperiy constructed work Is Infinitesimai. Mr. grouud as the third readiug-, especlaliy, as
Preece, the chie! electrician of the British Postal ments, for
and Teiegraph Departmnent, bas stated that the
the first ameudment uow upon tbe minutes
life of au ordinary underground paper cable lu
au Important alteration bas
might safely be estimated at one hundred years. under my namne
that tbere are
th deatebeeu agreed to. 1 may say
mvedtha
Hou.Mr.SCOT
are
ofrm
aay
tku
of
moedirections
that tw
h
be adjourned untîl Tuesday uext, and
wyfo
ftkn
ieto
ith
Day.
I
it bie the first Order of the
operation.

Tbe motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourued.

amendments auy retroactive
Ibeg to give notice thnt on motiou for the
third reading of the Bill respecting the Bell
Telephone Company of Canada, I sball move

[SENATE]
that the said Bil be not now read the third
time, but thiat It be ainended as follows:
By strlking out the wards, «and shall be deemed to have formed part of the sald Act ' ln the
second clause ;and by adding the words ' five
hundred ' ln the blank in the second clause.
And by adding the follawing clauses, whichi
are the same as the clauses that I have al-

ready given notice of, wvithi this difference.
The first clause rends . No hlgher rates than
the rates *noiv in force.' 1 substitute for
the words ' now ln force,' the following
words :
No higher rates for each cîass of telephane
than the rates for such services ln force on the
3Oth June, 1892.
I asit that thîs notice off ameadment be

substituted for iny first notice on the Order
paper, and that the latter be dropped.

They are generally Imported periodicals. Why
are they not canfiscated and burat by our eustoms officers?
Are we ta thlnk that the laws
whlch proteot public marais have become a
dead letter?
On the saine subject a gentleman whoin I
do not know, Mr. Arthur Ware, the head of
the St. Lawrence Advertising Company, bas
said :
The customa officiais do not exercise the contrai which the iaw permits them to exercise.
As a mnatter of fact* no lithographie works are
dane ln Canada.
Ail the engraved advertlsements for theatreB and posters -aiang the streets
came fram the UJnited States.
They are reputed to have gone through the inspection of
the customs officiais, ta whom It is forbidden
nat ta stop Immoral productians.
Ail that
which goes thraugh the customs Is held to have
received thc appraval af the proper autharity
and ta be biameiess.
1 do flot tbink I need say anything more
en this mnatter. I bave no doubt that everybody entertains the saine feeling on the subject as those who have thoughrt proper ta
raise their voice, and more particuiarly I aiu
sure the goverumnent only need to have their
attention cailed ta the matter to, give it
their earnest consideration.

0F IMMORAL LITERATURE.
IýNQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER rose to:
Cali the attention af the government, on the
afleged negleot of duty on the part af customs
officers wlth regard ta immoral publications and
Hon. Miè. MILLS-The attention off the
advertlsements Introduced into thîs country;
and asic. what is the law in cannectlon wlth Departuient of Customis bas ail along beeu
the lnthese importations, and whether It Is
ient ion of the govcrnmcnt to have the law car- gîven to thue subject, wlth a view off preventried out in this matter?
ing the importation of obscene or licentious
He said : Lately the public have been publications. I have received froni the Minnroused by denunciations of a certain con- ister of Customis a statemeut showmlg the
dition of things which is really a serious revised list off prohibited publications that
grievance. It appears that obscene produc- are shut out of the country by the custonitions, la the forni of periodicals and posters, bouse. It may be that occasionaily an ohare imported into this country, and are to be scene book or Illustration is imported Into
seen in public places in the cities of Canada. the Dominion and escapes the attention and
No less an authority than thue Archbishop off vigilance of the customis officers. That somneMontreal bas thought fit to speak out bis tinies must take place ; no amount off vigilmind and in suclb a way as to have bis views ance on the part of customis officers can seand bis indignation sbared by ail the de- crre absolute exclusion, but in the main,
nominations la Montreal. The municipal exclusion does take place, and very few pubcouncil of that citY bas also taken note off lications off this sort escape the vigilance off
this matter, and I hope they will succeed, public officers. I arn told that sanie off theso
la so far as they are empowered to do so. in publications, when exaniined, are found not
In bis letter to the ta be importations, and of course greater care
preventing this evil.
Mayor off Moatreal. the Archblsbop of Mont- is required in police supervision in the cities
or places where these obscene publications
real says:
There 18 another source a! danger whlch àilso are produced.
I would speak o! cerdemands aur vigilance.
Attention is -iven in that direction with a
tain book stores where productions not only
dangerous, but contaiaing lllustrati3ns whlch are view of compieteiy stamping out, as far as
rltogether obscane. are soid even to eildren. it is possible, elther the importation or the
Some of îhe produc- publication of works of this sort. Lt is a
These places are known.
tions bought by young people have been brought
to me, and I wouid neyer have thought that disgrace to men who are artists that they
Somne are in French should give their talent and skiii to the illussuch perversity existed.
and some are la Engllsh, and they are equally
tration off works of this sort, and 1 can asrevolting in their iicentiousness.
lion. Mr. MILLER.
IMPORTATION

[MAY 10, 1901 ]
sure my bion. friend that uotbiug that can
be doue lu reason by the officers of the goverriment of Canada to prevent the Importation of literature of this sort wlll be neglected. Every one who bas a regard for the
moerals of the commuulty is lnterested Ia
exercising vigilance iu this mafter, and
there is notbing that bas been said by His
Grace the Arcbbishop, wbose observations
iny boa. friend bas read, that every rigbtthiuking man lu the country will not sympatbize wltb.
CIiEDIT FONCIER DU BAS CANADA
BILL.

clauses, and ail they would ask would bc
that the Bill should be passed iu order to
enable them to establisli the bank,-I think
that is what it is called-or loan society,
which Bill bas been In existence since 1884,
buYt which bas been allowed to die. Tliat 15
the explanation. tbey gave me. I told tbem
that I heard objections on both sides of the
House to accepting the clauses relating to
the lotteries. I tliougbt it due to these gentlemen to make tbat explaflatiofi. Perhaps
we had better let It stand.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It sbould be dropped.
Bon. Mir. LANDRY-It is unclean. I shall
nlot touch it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move that the Order
of the Day be discharged.
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD <B.C.)-Why nlot
allow It to go to committee. lu order that
It mny be looked into.
The SPEAKER-The lion. gentleman from
de La.naudlère, who had charge of the Bill
when it came up last, stated that hie was
opposed to IL.
The motion was agreed to, and the order
was discharged.

ORDER DISCHARGED.
The Order of the Day hein.- called:
Second readiug (Bill 99) An Act respectlng Le
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada, and to change
Its naine to Le Crédit HypothÏcnlre du Canada.
-(Hon. Mr. Landry.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wbeu this Bill came
up lu the Bouse, the Hou. Mr. Casgrain (de
Lanaudière) was absent. The fatber of the
Bill is Mr. Geoffrion, iu the House of Commous. The Bill came from the House of
Oommons here and, as the hion. gentleman
(Mr. Casgrain) was absent, a paper was put
lu my bauds bearlng the nnme, and 1 took
BILL.
the Billinl my charge slmply as a matter of POST OFFICE ACT AIMENDMENT
thought It was a gentie littie
courtesy. I
SECOND READING.
baby, but it turns out now that' It Is a
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the second readwretched creature.* I'do not waut to assume
lng of Bill (121) 'An Act further to amiend
the responslbillty whlcb my hiou. frieud
the Post Office Act.' Be sald : I may say
(Hon. Mr. Casgraln) bas no desire to assume
that the first clause amends the luw relating
hlmself.
to what is called a 'post letter' by the inHon. Mr. MILLS-I suppose tbe Bill had sertion of certain words, whether sucb letter
Letter drop.
Is addressed to a real or fictitious persofi or
Hou. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL--Tb not. Then the second clause relates to dead
promoters of tbe Bill called upon me abon' tletter offices, and there Is dn extension of
an hour ago and sald tbey were qulte whlling 1the number of the cities where those offices
if the House would give tbem the Bill, t 0are establlshed.
0
drop that portion whicb bas reference t
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
drawings tand lottery. I told tbem. I tbougb t Hon.
at Ottawa.
was that tbey wouli h as been but one In the past
tbe feeling of the Seuate
flot recognize any principle or any clause 1l n Hem. Mr. 'MILLS-The old law provided for
any daw wblcb recognlzed tbe principles o fthe cities of MNoutreal, Toronto, Victoria,
lottery.
Winnieg~ and Halifax. This clause strIkes
out the word anud' bef ore the word ' Hallhear.
Hlou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear,
cities : St.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They fax' and inserts 'the followiug
Vancoutbey would like the Bill to go to comn- john, Kingston, Hamilton, London,
said
the explana- ver, and tbe town of Dawson.' These are
mlttee wbere tbey would niake
made iu the Bill
tiens, and If it were the opinion of the the oniy changes that are
drop these iu that respect. There is a provision lu the
Senate, tbey were quite willing to

[SENATE]

nexf clause for train porters andl a provision
for preliminnry civil service examinafiou
and for promotion under certain conditions
after having served a certain lengtli of finie.
These are flic provisions of flie BiI. Tbey
are not very important ilu theniseives, but
fhey will contribute to flic efficiency of flic
Iaw upon fthe subjeef.
Tbe motion was agreed fo, and the Bill
was rend n second time.
INTERNAL EGONOIMY AND CONTINGENT AGCOUNTS GOMM1'NITTEE.
FOURTH REPORT ADOPTED.
Hon. Mr. KIRGHHIOFFER moved thic
adoption of the fourfli report of flic Standing
Gommiffce on Infernal Economy and Go'nfingent accounts of flic Senate. Hle said
Tliis is fhe report of flic conmlttee wifli
reference to tlie repairs, aiterations and Improvements that tliey recommend flic Deparfmenf of Public Works, to carry ouf liefore flic nexf session of parliament.
Thie motion was agreed f0.
SAFETY 0F SHIPS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
THE SENATE AMENDMENT NOT INSISTED
UPON.
Order of fthc Day beîng cnlled
The
Consîderafion of fthe message from fthe House
of Coimons agreeing and dlsagreeing fa certain amendments made by flic Senafe f0 (Bill
92) An Acf further f0 amend flic Act respecting the Safefy of Shlps.-(Hon. Mr. Mille.)

Hon. Mr. MILLS anoved fliaf the Senate
recede froi flic amendaients whicli have
not been ag-reed f0 by tlic bouse of Gommons.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hns
flic character of flic report which was sent
down been nmended ? It intimnted f0 us
that wc did not know whaf we were doing,
thf flic clause was plain enougli and if
sliould remnin.
bon. Mr. MNILLS-The report is nof a very
courteous one. There can be no question
about fliaf. There are mnny gentlemen of
flie Senafe who are nof waiititig in experience and not wanting ici ordinary Intelligence or ucutcness, and we fliought the Bill
as if stood wns somewhat obscure and ambiguous, and we went into committec, and
subsequently rose and reported the Bill with
Hun. Mr. MILLS.

certain amendments. 1 called the attention
of one of my officers to the provisions of the
Bill and the doubt fliat had been expressed
by the Senate, and lie 'prepared certain
changes wbichli e tliought removed the amnbiguity or obscurities. Wlth tliose amnendments the Bill was carried througb flie
Senate and was sent down to the House of.
Gommons, and the House of Commons say
mn
tbeir report that there was no arnblguity,
that tlie provisions of the Bill as It stood
were plain enougli. I amn acquiescing, not in
the jndgment which they pronounce, but In
the amendment whicli fley made.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Unfortunntely you have f0 accept tlieir report and
their reasons.
Hon. Mir. MILLS-No, I do not nccept their
reasons. Then there was anoflier expression
n fthe Bil. We used fthe words 1the British
Isles' and* affer discussing if in the Ebouse
of Gommons fliey seemed to think the British Isles were nof the Islands of Great Britain and Ireland, thaf they mlght be Isles
lield by His Majesfy Ia some other portion
of thie globe, and so fliey substitufed flic
United King-dom, whicli Is flot the naine of
a pince at ail, but which is the deslignation
of a political condition atfached to sonie
country or oflier. If miglit be the United
Kingdomi of Great Brifain or it miglit bé
fliat of Soudan and Timbucto. However, 1
accept fthc ameadments, and Invite tlie Senafe f0 acquiesce, flot in flie report, but ln fthc
nmendments that have been made ilu the
Bill.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
lion. minister nccepts flint, notwithstanding
ftle ambiguity in the ternis used by ftie
Gommons ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Quife so. 1 do not think
fliere is any ambiguity in fthe term British
Isies, and the courts will liold that flic expression 'United Kingdomn' by implication,
at least, refers to the 'United IiKingdoni of
Great Britain and Irelnnd.
Hon. Mr. MIACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Wouldl
if flot be nincl beffer f0 express tbat fullY.
and say 'fthe Unit ed Kingdom of Great
Bnitain and Ireland '?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Il have no desire f0 prolong flie session, and I have no doubt if wili
i be correctly interpreted, no matter whetbcr

IL3AY 10, 1901]
Hon. M-Nr.TE3-11'LE3IA-I w-ould point
we permit the words 'United Kingdom ' or
'British Isies 'to remain. I (Io flot think it ont to the governaient this is a very serions
matter, and in making- an amendment of the
is necessary to delay.
law, tbey onglit to t4ake into consideration this
The motion w'as ag-reed to.
feature of the franchise law. It bas been given as the opinion of ieading lawyera la BritTHE FRANCHISE ACT AMEND.MENT
ish Columbia that every Chinaman la that
BILL.
province who has takea the oath of allegfiance
SECOND READING.
and become a British subject under the law,
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT moved the second rend- may go to the pol and vote, aithough under
!ng of Bill (63) 'A-%nAct to amend the Frani- the provincial law hie la specificaliy diaqualichise Act. 1898.' He said : The amendments tied froma voting. I do not know what the
are purely verbal, malng the interpretation opinion of this House is, as to contlnuing the
Chinese la
clearer. In the fourth lune the words are disqualificaxtions of natnralized
respect to the Dominion franchise, but I
introduced ' by the provincial law ' to entitle
themi to vote at the provincial election. It know what the opinion of British Columbia
w-as sllgbtiy obscure witbout those words. and the west la, and I say unhesitntlng-ly
The oath la the Franchise Act Is, 'I so and that If any numnber o! Chinamen wvent to
Lt is adminlstered by the re- vote at any polling place la British Columbia
s;) do swear.'
turnîng officer, and it sbould bie 'you SQ and under the pow-er contained la this Dominion
so do swear.' Then la the 9th section, ln franchise law, very serions consequences
reference to provincial lsta, the only change wonld result. I think the Dominion goveraimuent sbouid recognDize public opinion iii the
there la the proviso la the amnendment:
w~est to the extent of conforming to tbe proProvided that, if la any such case voters' llsts
have been prepared under this section flot maore vincial law. The provincial law apecifically
than one year before the date of the wrlt for excludes Ghinamen f rom votiag. 1 do flot
such election, new Iists shall not bie prepared, think any Chinamien couid vote la Victoria
but the lists s0 prepared shall be used unles
there are ljsts. of a later date prepared under or Vancouver without serions consequences.
the provincial law.
In thils ameadment to the law, .tbiey should
Then there la an amendmnent to section 10. ir.troduce the provincial qualification lu re-

The only change la that la, requiring the
officiai la charge of the list, after lie bias
sent forward bis liat to the Clerk of the
Crown la Chiancery, if any change is made
la the list, it is bis duty to seud forward the
alteration.
Hon. Mfr. McCALLUM-Tbat, 1 suppose,
is to cover the blunder la Nipissing.
Hou. '-\r. SCOTT-No, it bias nothing to do
with -Nipissing.
Hon. 'Mr. TEM-\PLEMNAN-I should like to
àsic the Secretary of State if this first clause
wviIl toucli tie question lu Britîshi (olumbia

of Cîiniese voters.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-No, I think not, because there la no change beyond what I have
indicated. Apirt f rom those chianigea the
uýlaiise reads .lust ns it did liefore.
Honi. 'Mr. TE-MPLEMAN-Do the words
'or belongzing- to sucb ciasa of persons' remain la the Act ?
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-Yes.

sîiect to the Chinese votera.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Tbe bon. gentleman is
aware that the province bas not only disquaiified Chinamen, but It bias also disquali
fied Japanese. In tbe provincial law tbiey
both stand la the same category. Lt bas been
considered by the House of Commons and
the government of this country that in the
interest of the empire it la extremnely univise
for British Columbia to bave taken any action la marlcing out the Japanese as an ohjectionable clasa to admit into this country.
Japam la a very wnrmn ally- of' Great Britaiiu.
Withont Japanese aid Great Britain would
perbapa be weakened in Asia, and tihe liperil authorities bave attacbed very great
importance to our contining tbe friendsbip
of the Japanese, and strongly object to their
being o.3tra)dsed by the province of Britishi
Columbia. It is l.argely- becanise they have
coupled the Japanese wiîth the Chiinese in
aIl that legisiation.
Hon. 'Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I thinl; the hon'.
gentleman la mixing np two questions.

[SESATE1
disqualify ions of the old Franchise Act may
have been sucli as to render It expensive,
but I think with the aid of some practical
Hon. 'Mr. TE11PLEMAN-No impedimeuf minds an Act might be fra.med for the whole
lias been put on Japanese coming lufto tie Dominion, placing ail classes of His 'Macountry, whiereas there is a fax 0f $100 on jesty's subjects on the same footing, withChinese coming into fie Dominion. You out costing much more than it now costs to
must remlember that there are not s0 man3' prepare the voters' lists by the Dominion
.Tapanese as Chinese in British Columbia- government. If the policy of the party now
If you open the door f0 Chinese vofing, fhey la power were carried ouf, ail they %-ould
cau carry electoral districts lu Victoria and have to do would be simply to take the last
Vancouver. If would be a monstrous propo- revised voters' llst iu encli province, whatsiftion if three or four fiousaud Chinese in ever that might be, and in force at the time
Victoria could elecf a represeutative.
of an election. Then ail the expense, trouble
and annoyance that now arises from fthe
31ACKENZIE B WI-Itis
Hon. Sir
of the voters' lisf s and carrying
-only another illustration, to my mind, of fie reprinting
wlfh the clerks of the
of the pretended adoption of on communication
incougýruify
dîfferent inunicipalif les and for provinces
local franchises. If the policy of the party
there are no vofers' lists, would be
inow lu power were carrled out ln its entlrety, whtire
avoided altogether. I amn inclined to fhlnk
:as advocated w-heu they w-eut to the eleclu a few years they w'ill return f0 the
torate, fiey would nof luferfere lu any -way
old system-that is, the principle of fthe old
wvith fie provincial franchise or the voters
I w-ould flot like to see if adopted
they corne to place upon tic sysfem.
lists, but w-hpu
in Ifs entirety, but experience bas shown
sfatute-book a law ostensibly adopfiug file
that the lists could be prepared at as littie
locai franchise, tlîey have to change it lu
expeuse as we are put to now, and the long-very rnany respects, because they fouud lu
we attempt to crystallize lnto law for the
somne of the provinces a ver7 desirable class er
Dominion the different franchises of the
o! cîfizens were deprived of the rlht 0f vofseveral provinces, and then make exceptions,
In-. For instance, lu one of fhe provinces
and alterations wherever we may
any one thaf wvas an employec by the day additions
profecting ftic
of the deem lt proper f0 do so, ln
-was iuterpreted f0 be au employec
Iighfs of the citizens and the worklngmen,
goveruimeut. and consequenfîr lie was dewe will find the necessity of returnlng f0
pt-ivcd 0f is vote, Iu Brifish Columbia I
some system by which there will be a Domithiili tlîev w-nt so far- as to dleprive sorte of
nion Franchise. I am not prepared f0 disthe oficers 0f fie militia and naval forces
pute the feeling which exlsts lu British Cothat w-ere living ln the province of fie franDo- lumbia, referred f0t by the hon. Senator from
chise, for reasous given by thcm. The
Vilctoria, as to the resulf s of allowing Chinaminionl governumeuf. hiowever. lu adopfing
grave questhe- mien and Japs to vote, but if is a
the local franchise, gave these residents
tion whefher, when nny man becomes a suliriglif f0 place their name ou tie voters' llsfs,
taken the oatb of
lu direct contradiction f0 ficir professions jecf of His M.Najesfy, having
allegiance, i'ta we should place hilmlu inh
of adopting tie provincial lists. Now, thecre
position that Kruger placed the Uitlanders
is îiot a sing-le province tlîat I amn aware cf,
w'hom hie thoughf jusf as lîttie of as British
exeeptilig probably Onfario-I do not remenii- in
Columbia may think of the Chinani, and
ber any exceptions there-iin whill ticy have
-hich led f0 the unfortunafe, expensive and
flot inirtti-dcedl a clause ini tue Fraiiliise" Act
serions war which bias taken place in Southi
giving flic riglit f0 vote f0 perso;ýiis w ho are
by any means, however,
depî-ived of flic riglîf of franceiisc by tue Africa. Let us not
iuuve niay disîlike n c-ertaini clas., of
tlieY Ili:iv
local leiIsafre. slîuîwiig, tînit
infto this country-let us flot
<înly uaried out tieli- po5cy in this respect people coming
jplace Canada in a position analogous to thaf
extent, anid 1 ilîînlc tiov ri-e
tlîey

1Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-No,
Japanese.

to a linîiited
quite îiglît. I do lnît bla nie t1leiii
lînt 1 tlîinlc the Domainion
positive
a ild
:1 distinict
hlave
Tlie
ow-n.
its
'clîie Act o f
Hon.

Mr.TMLE

N

thiat. of tlie Tranisviaal- under the goveriunient
IliIel lias riuled flîcre for a nunî1iher of
51001(
soenl'i
Fi-an-i years. and w-hici made slaves of the irnost
pi-ovis- intelligent par-t of the cornmunity. 1 cain ouly,

aij[

[MAY 10, 1901]
repeat, experience teaches that ln every should frame an Act that would prevent the
case where you attempt to Interfere with repetition of such occurrences as I have
thia Franchise Act, you see the difficulties nientioned.
of carrying it out by adopting ivhat purHon. Mr. SCOTT-The object ln Niplssing
ports to lie the franchises of the provinces. was to give the electors an opportunity of
Letme ask my hon. friend, the Secretary of votlng. Under the Franchise Act the liste
State, whether these amendrnents-I con- to be used could flot lie older than one year
fess I have not looked at them sufficiently old. The lista in the unorganized districts~
to corne to a propier conclusion-are lntended and It la only the unorganized districts of
to obviate that unfortunate difficulty whlch Nipissing to which allusion need lie madeoccurred ln Nipissing by which a consti- were only prepared In Nlplssing, !Parry
tuency in the province of Ontario lias been Sound and Algoma. They are only prepared
deprived-no, flot deprived of its representa- ln the unorganized districts on the eve of
tion, but 1 'do flot hesitate to say that the the provincial election. The list ln Niplslng
electors were cheated out of an opportunlty It was found had not been prepared wlthof casting their votes in favour ef or againat lu more than two years. There were no
two candidates that would otherwise have lista prepared within one year ; consequentbeen in the field. Some provision should be ly, under the ninth section of the Franchise
made to prevent a repetition of such an oc- Act_
currence. Where the blame resta I cannot say,,
but as far as the world knows, the trouble iHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Suppowas due to the interference of the Secre- sîng it had not been prepared, whose duty
tary of State and of his department. 1 would' la it to see that it la prepared ?
mhot even insinuate a charge againat the
Hon. Mr. S'COTT-I do flot know. AttenMaster in Chaucery, whose duty it is to1 tion was flot called to It until after the
issue the w-rita, but if my information is 1writs had been lssued. Attention was first
correct, he was seriously interfered wîth, and 1called to it in the district of Algoma. The
by the hon, gentleman himself.
1goverfiment was written to, znyaelf particuHon. Mrý. SCOTT-No.
larly, calllng attention to the tact that a very
large number of people, it was eatlmated at
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then 1,500, and about as many in NlplsslngI withdraw that, I do flot say it on my own between the two districts it was thouglit
responsibility, but on information which I over 2,000 people would be dlsfranchlsed
received to w-hich I gave credence, and had Iunless new lista could be made, as under
reason to believe was correct. We aIl have Ithe liat of 1898 they could flot vote. It so
heard that-I will flot say stupld blunderin Auguat and September lista
It aeemed to be worae than that-the man- Iwere belng prepared by the aherlif s, who are
fier in which the election lu the constituency Ithe officers to prepare the lista in the unorwas lnterfered with, and If thia Bill does flot Iganized districts, and under the law of Ontaprovide for the prevention of such difficulties rio it required thirty days for appeal after
in the future, ail I have to aay la, it should the ahenifa had prepared their lista, and it
do so. and it is a matter which I think we waa found that to allowv the thirty daya for
might cousider, even thougli it pertaina to; an appeal would have mun over the 7th of
the other House more than to our own. The Noveinher ln the unorganîzed districts, and
object of the goverument, and the object of lt w-as represented that unlesa some action
every elector and representative of the peo- 1 w-a, taken under section 9, by which the
pie, whether in the House of Commons or 1Governor ln Council w-as authorized to have
ln the Senate, should be to have a Franchise' inew lista prepared, a very large flumber,
Act and an Election Act framed in such a between those two distr4cts, Algoma afld
way as to prevent. if possible, the frauda Nipiasing-nt leaat a couple of thousand of
and rascalities whichi w-e know have been votera w-ould be -absolutely diafranchised.
perpetrated .during the last and prevlous elec- The order in council w-as pasaed, authorizing
tions. M-%y
deaire. and I amn sure 'the desire the sheriffa, as they had to prepare the lista,
of every mieiber of tbe Ilouse is. to have to hasten the preparation and to limit the
this law made so that if it be possible we timue for appeal-instead of thirty days to
"_4

jhappened

[SENATE]
allow ten days for appeal. ln Alýgoma, as my
hon. friend knows, the returning officer w-as
flot bound by the Election Act.
He could postpone 'the day. Lt was one
of those movable days ln Algoma, and so it
had been in Niplssing ln former years, but
it was ixot in the last election. In Algoma,
the difficulty was overcome by the returning
officer postponing the election until bis lists
were complete. In Nlpissing, the returnlng
officer represented it w-ould be Impossible
to have is lists prepared in time, and the
question arose what w-as to be done, whether
to postpone the election or to allow It to go
on, and disfranchise that very large nuniber
or people. Lt was just as fair to, the one
party as to the other that the date should be
postponed, and as the returning officer reported that it w-as impossible for him to
have bis Ilsts ready on that day, I may say
here, I arn informed by the returnlng officer that Mr. Klock's friends were lnformed
of that fact and asked whether they w-ouId
agree to allow those lists to be used, although
they w-ere not finalIly completed. They said
.yes w-e w-i.' The returning officer said
'if both parties w-ill sign-'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWý%ELL-What
Iist ?~
SCOTT-The incomplete llst. 0f
Hon. M.Nr.
course in the appeals It w-as not; thought
there would be many changes. There are
very 'few changes ln the unorganized districts, and it w-as thought they might be
used, and the returning officer lufornis meand 1 have reason to belleve him-that hie
said ' If the two candidates wll put ln writing an agreement that the lists wll be used
notwithstanding that they are shut out by
the law as It stands, the election can go on.'
But they refused to put it in w-ritlng. Mr.
Klock's friends declined. I understand that
is the fact. Therefore, the sherjiff postponed
the.election. He notified both parties some
time betore the 31st October.
Hon. Mr. MecGLLUM-And hid ail the
day of election.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-NSo hiding about it.
Hon. '-%r. MýNcCALLUM-That is the evidence.
Hon. '. SCOTTLet in-. explain. He
niotified the agent on the S.iturday, or thie
M.\ondnqy before the nomination day that thie
Hoa. Mr. SCOTT.

election would be postponed. Lt would 13ot
be held on the nomination day lu cousequence of the lists heing incomplete, and it
w-as desired to have the lists ready so that
they could bie used at the election.
evidence
Hon. Mr. McCALLUIN-The
shows that the candidate and the returning
Qificer came to Ottawa to see the Secretary
of State about it.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Mc\ICool, the candidate,
lives ln the city of Ottawa. He saw me.
Hon. Sir M.\ACKEN-'ZIE BOWELL-Tbe
returning officer acted under the advice of
the hon. Secretary of State and under bis
instructions.
Hon. Mr. SCOPIT-Xo, not under nir advice. He used is ow-n discretion ln the action hie took. He does not say hie acted
under my advice.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-After
censultation w-lth the hon. minister.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He may have consulted
me.
Hion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
did, dld hie not ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thiere w-as an order Ili
council passed some days before directing
hlm to have the lists coipleted and confinIng bum to ten days. He came down and
saw me and said hie could flot have the list
revised within the ten days. It w-ould flot
be possible, because there w-ere some appeals that had been put in, and then certainly both parties w-ere notified and both parlies stood on the saine grou.nd on the second
nomination. Notice w-as given. The returulng officer w-as quite prepared to allow Mr.
Klock's nomination paper to be used on the
second occasion.
Hon. Sir 3MACKENZIE BOWELL-Verv
kind of him.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I mean the first nominaSo that there would be no
tiç.n palier.
trouble or expense gone to in connection
w-ith It. He w-as informed that there w-ould
be no trouble imposed on him. in order to
make things smooth, so that hie would consent to appear at the nomination and take
pirt !in the election. These are the f acts,
and it w-as simply an observance of the law
whiichi made it impossible to hiold the eler-

[NIMAY 10, 19011
Ho.Sir \ICIRNZIE BOM7ELI,-Tliere
is no doubt about that, but any one readin.number of voters.
tLat clause wvill know tliat It coutemplated
beld some tixue iu the fuHon. -Mr. M-\cÇ-LLUM-\-Did the hon. miD an electiofi being
by the returu- ture, and the voters' lists flot being ready.
i,ter read the evidence given
then tbe Governor lu Couucil sbould have
ing officer w-heu heý appeared beoefe
but it was uof inteuded thec Governor
court '!power,
ln Council sbould bave the power, on the
Hon. '-\r. SCOTT-I saw flhe report.
f0 determifle whetber
that lue day before the election,correct or flot. That
M.\cOALLUMýN-He said ay.
Hou. -Mr. he imslf
the i-oters' iist was
holenomnaton
hid
neyer was the intention of the law. if ls
bld inieiftbew-lolenomnaton ay.
an exaggeratiofl of their powers. There is
Hon. '.\I. SCOT'r-Yes.
fron flue
lue no question about that, we know
Hon. 'Mr. -M\cCALLUIN-AUnd lie said
given. that there was
of evidence that wus
came down here and saw fthe Secretary
rvn
nyt
wbo was ruuniugadlbrt cnprcnt
Stafe, and the candidate
place tiien, but f0 accoinand flie election takiug
for tlie district, M\r. Mc\ICool came also,
tbey did acconiplisli afterwards.
: * haf did MIr. >'-ott s:îy.* plusli whaf
lie w;îs askedl
say
aud lie answered ' Oh, w-ell, lie did flot
friend
Hon. Mlr. 'MILLS-I fbink ny lhon.
be looked very ivise.' Thaf Is
nuythiug but
1 do uot remember a case
I tblnk is hardly correct. wbicb tbe election for tbat
the evidence before the court, aud
for many years lu
ctedwisly n no saing
mý slf ie
place précisely the sanie tinie
any- district foolcotlier portions of flic province of
ay
lo
dlu
ef atet]-.ng w'isel
rl-ng
if did iii
aoutthisrnudie.as
Ontario.
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-That is no muddle.
LU -tis ail straiglit, is
Hon. M-Nr. cC
Hon. Mr. FERGTSON-It did iu 1896.
It ?
Hon. Mr. MACKENZIE BOWNEll-lt le
SCOTT-Âll strailif.
Hou. «MNr.
wbich an election w-as held
Tegoverumnent fbe oaly finie la
Hou. 'Mr. Mc~LU
.a an election is fo be held on a certain day,lutadirc.
Hou. Mr. 'MILLS-Throughout flie district
and then they cancel fliat and subsequefly
we have been holdinig electiofis
elect their man to parliameDf. Tbe returu- of Algonia
taken
thaf he bld ail affer the elections elsewluere bave
in.- officer admifs himself
fthe voters' lisfs have uot alwiiys
ffday. and bis clerk bld also. Whetber tbe place, and
for use af tbe finie or af the day
bon. Secretary of Stafe advised blun to do been ready
au election in tbe vnst niajorify of
Ibhat or not I do not knowv. but lie sa Ys fluat fixed for
sythe constituencies fbrougbout theDoion
n
ecame hr'.I.Sotd
wle
been so, not only la the Dominion
w-hetber lie w-ould pass fthe order in council That bas
but in the local elections. My bon.
or îlot, but lie looked very irise and passed elections,
f rleud bas referred to thaf particular section
the order lu councl afterwards.
wbiclu
of fthe Franchise Acf. Thaf section f0
Hon. 'Sir MACÇKENZIE BOWELI-Bfrieud refers is not lu the Act for
order niy bon.
liew-bat aufborify under any la-iv w-as the
firsf fime. If w-ns a part of the law
passed ? NVhat clause in flue Act fthc
lu couneil
w-lieu the elections fook place,
tbat fore, and
lu fluat
lave tlue governmeiif power f0 pass
very often the period for thue election posilu council ?
order
part icular section of country bas been
for tlie very purpose of permlttiflg n
UIon. 'Mr. SCOTT-SeCtiou 9, w-hich pro- poned
a
f0 lue gof ready wbicb w-ould enable
viudes that for flue purpose of prepariuig new lisf
nu-mber of electors f0 vote. ln tbe
vofers' llsfs the Governor Iu Council may large
-my hon. friend bas pointed ouf, w-heu
arpoiflf ail nece53flry officers and confer case
fbe élecftion fook place tbe lisf thaf existed
-upon fluen ail necessuiry pow-ers, and lu flic
w-as a 11sf more than twelve nionflis
preparation and revisioa and ln bringing there
laws old lu flue unorganiàed parts.
ilito foi-ce such new voters' lists flue
of the provinces regulating fthe preparafiofi
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In the organized parts
shahi
of the vofers* lists as far as possible
fbe 11sf s were aIl rigbt.
be observed aud followed.

tion unless you disfranchiseci

tliat largêe

[SENATE]
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Alid tliey were nut interfered wifh. Therefore it became necessary to postpone fthc election in order that
the law mighf lie complied, withi. The regulation made by the Governor ln Gouncil was
a regulation under the authority of the
statute. My hon. friend bas read it and
there Is no room for doulit, it semns to mue,
on that question, that the regulations that
were muade, providing for the preparatiou
of new llsts, were lu priniciple sîmilar to
those which existed ln the province of Ontarie for the preparation of thc lists, ln the
various towns and cities. You have a list to
be prepared after the dissolution of parliament 'takes place lu ail the cities of fIe proYou have a provision
vince of Ontario.
-made that the list shall le prepared after
the writ lias issued. That w-as doue lu London. It w-as done lu Toronto. It w-as donc
In Kingston and St. Caftharines and la other
places. If I remembier rigthly it w-as net
doue in the city of Sf. Thomas, because the
list there w-as not twelve montlis old. Tiierp
havlng been a provincial electn wltbin a
year before, If was flot nccessary to prepare
a new list. The principle is exactly tlic saine.
Hon. Mr. McNlCALLUM-\-That is onîr ln a

Hon. '-%r. 'MILLS-Yes, but the prineiffle
applies la the case of n electoral district
That is my contention, and thiaf is %vliqtflip
law provides for, and fliat being se if w-as
right and proper-if w-ould have been au laiproper thing on the part of the retui-ning
officer f0 have held the clection w-len onehaîf, perîaps, la a large section 0f countr-y
of those w-ho were entiflcd te bave flicir
nimes on the list and could flot v-ote. Tlie
law provides fleir naines shahl go on the lisr,
thaf the 11sf shali be prepared, tînt if is thie
duty of tlic person appoinfed as a i-etuirningoflicer. if such a lîst Is nof ready, te posfpoe
the day of election ln order thaf it may lic
prepared. for the date of the election is of
far less consequence than the riglîts of the
electors. and in this case if wvas iiecessary
that the parties who were by Iaw entitled te
have their nimes upon tlie list. and if tîeinames w-ere upon the lists w-ould have been
entitled to vote, should have had the opportunity of having those names on the Eist
and have that opportunity afforded themi of
voting-. That was fthe case. and the returnHoni. MIr. MILLS.

ing officer, in my opinion. acteci wîth perfect propriety in postponing flic day of the
electioil.
Hon. Mr. McALMAter lie lad giveii
notice ail over the country that hie w-as going
to hold Rn election on a certain day, then
lie hand a l)erfect riglit to postpoiie if. That
is the statement.
Hon. 'Mr. 3IILLS-Certainil., lie bad a riglit

f0 post.pone if. If lie made a iniistakze, if
after fixing the day lie discovercd there -ns
no list and he hiad the power given lm.ii undecr fthc statufe, as lic has ppwer, to )ostpone the day of fthc clection in order fliaf
that list miglit lie perfcfed, it w-as biis dury
to exercise that powcr for w-hîdl purpose tlie
lnw had given It to bimi.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Under w-bat law
w-as there any power to -postponie that elecfion in Niplssing ?
Hon. Mr. M.\ILLS-Lt w-as posipetic ie e
cause the 11sf s were not completed.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Where is
clause that says that shal lic done ?

the

Hon. Mr. MNILLS-I have not looked nt the
it up.

section :I cannot tell without turniing

Hou. -. FERGUSO-N-Surely the lion.
gentleman is able to show us tlie law antliorlzlng If.
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-I tell the hon. genitleman the law gives the returning officer the
power to make the postponemient. If lie
asks for tlic particular section I cannof turn
it Up at thec moment. Tieî-e is the fact that
a thousaud people w-ho w-e-e entitled te vote
w-ould have heen disfranchised.
Hon. Sir MACCE-NZIE BOWELI-That
lias nothing te do w-ifh the facf thaf the
power exercised by the goveramuent w-as
witliout law or autbority.

Hon. '-%r. M-NILLS-I say it lias. 1 say the
objeet of ail election is to s-ive to fihe people
of thîs country, who have a riglit to be electors, the right to express their opinion.
u.*31r. M-NcÇALLUM-N-I agree with ail
wants to exercise
tlîat, tliat every voter %vho
bis franchise should have the epportunlity of
deiug it, but if the gevernuient in Ottawa
instruet a retnrning officer thiat an electien

shall take pflace on a Certain day and send

[MIAY 10, 1901]j
for the goveruIment to assume the responsib*litY at once and say that they iustructed
Zh returuing officer Io do wliat lie did do.
How la It the goverflmeflt knew that the
voters' llst was too old for the election ? Was
attention called to It Immedlately after the
lssuing of the %vtits,or was their attentjou
called to It wlien It was discovered a day or
two before the time for receiving noniinatiens by the returning officer. W'hen was It
Mr. SCOTT-He gave the explana- done ? If the duty devolved upon the head
Houi.
of some department, the Secretary of State
tion to the court.
lee liis
H-ou. 'Mr. MeIC.LLUM.%-H-e shows lie did If you like, or any other, It would
himself. Wby did lie duty to see. the moment it'was decided te
xvrong when lie hld
the voters'
not corne up like a man and face the music. issue the writs, ln what state
muddle from beginfllflg lista were la the different sections of thue
The whole thing is a
for
to end, and 1 arn satistied, the people of this country. I arn speaking more partlcularly
the way that Ontario. 1 do nlot knuo% s0 mucli about th
ccuntry will consider, from
to d":
election was carried on, that tbat seat was other districts, and If they ueglected
that, they badl no riglit, under that law and
stolen-nothing more or less.
to apply tliat section
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I de- under this section,
to the
of the House to the whici waa nmade applicable only
sire to cail the attention
Alg-oma dListrict ; 1 do not know-it May
renuarks made by the lion. Minister of Justo Gaspé-I arn not sure about
tice nd the nianner lu whicli lie lias Inter- bave applied
that, I won't speal. positively, not havlng
preted and applied the law. We ail know
the clause-but kno'ving- tliat
that lu tlie province of Ontario wlien an looked at
clause was placed lu the law for that
election Is to take place lu a city and lu a
te provide for the very
town inow, ucnder the laws, If the voters* Ilst very purpose,
districts which are polnted out by the M1inIs of a certain age, a new liat bas to bie preJustice, but it neyer was lnpnred. The Ontario law provides for that Ister of
tended for a.ny other, and unlcss it hiad been,
and that Is not a provision of this law ; se
to Nipi-sing, I bold tluey
that the cases to which lie refers are not at made applicable
bon. hiad no rilbt to act as tliey did. However. be
ail aualogous. The clause to wvhich tlie
is not this constant chauging,
gentleman lias referred and thagt clause upon that as It rnay,
lis whole tryfng to provide for difficultles that have
whlch the Secretary of State based
the past and are continualir ocargument was lu the Franchise Act provid- occurred ln
teri-ltory currlng, a sad commentary upon their leg-ising- especlally for that enormnous
and dealing witli this
known ln Ontario as the Algoma territory, lation lu dabbling proves to the country
miles, but Franchise Act. It
there la extent over a thousand
systern slionld be adopted.
there la no provision lu the law making tbat that some other opened. either througli the
The Nip- These doors are
applicable to the Nipisslig district.
returnlng officers with the assisissing district la a constltuency set apart intrigue of
of a portion tance, Iu seime cases, as it lias been. improatter the last census, conslsting
no doulit, as insiuuated they
of the Algoma district and a portion of the perly. 1 have
one of the mincouuity of Renfrew, and a were -in this'instance through
nortli riding of the
isters-I have no riglit to say it ivas, after tile
portioni of North Hastings whidh formerly
the hiou. gentleman lias
u-as lu the constitueucy that 1 liad the honour explanation that
the given, but I do hope the turne us fast apof represeutiflg. So tluat the clause in
the 3liniister of Jlustice '%vill
Iaw to whiclu they have referred is flot ap- proaching whien
Nipis- apply bis practical mmnd to thîs subJect. He
plicable te the electoral district of
law as well as any of
sing, any More than it la to the county of 1knows the franchise
us. and 1 hiope lie will apply his mind. durCarleton, or to the county of Ottawva. There
to this wliole subject and
is no authority for a returnuing otflcem to talce iug the receas.
introduce a simple. practical system by
tlue course that lie did, and it would bie mmucl
will not oecur ini the
more rnanly. if 1 unay lie permnitred to say se. w-hidli tiiese difficulties

Iilm the writs and put up notices ail tbroughi
the eountry, deceiving thue electors, and aiterwards instruct the retuning officer to go
and bide Ilimself, they are doing wrong. HP
oug-ht to have held the election. Did the
instructions corne fromi Ottawa ? Did the
Secretary of State send those instructions ?
The evidence before the court was tilat the
returning officer hid ail diy.

[SENATE

I

future. and by whichi e ery man wilIl get
bis riglit to vote.

body of the unu-ise cliaracter of our- legzisladion, in 1898. Lt wvas ovdng to the Position in
Hon.Mr.SCOT-I reerene t th lits tw icbl w'e puit the franchise of tlîis country.
Hon.Mr.SCOT-I reerene t tle lstsin 189S. by the Franchise -lcf of that year,
the bon, gentleman bias spoken of, he pro- tliat this difficulty bias arisen. A-ý stronger
bably is aware that l Nipissing, as well as
-iagiin
fti
egsaino
SSta
in her ar proabl
Agona,
thrtyolias
been made by the two hion, gentlemen
forty differeut sections, I canlnot at the mo-lîo, represeut the government In tlîis House.
ment state the number, that are called ' n-vlien tliey told us onîe tliousand p)eople
organlzed.' Thiere are sections of Nipissing1
vould lie disfranicbîsed if the law were cartliat are unorganized, tliat is, liave no muni- rie& ont and thie election bield at the tiîuie it
cil--al organization.
Whieu tlie w'rit w-as siiotîli have heen lield. could flot lie uttered.
issuied applications came la from the couiity Trley telll u, that the existence of sucli things
for lists. We liad 11o lists liere. Lîîqiryý jsife
the GovernorinCuiln
ot
ivas mnade as to lîow it bapperied. It was poniug the election. I sulimit tliat even if
found last year. or tlie former year, no lists 50,00 men were disfranchlsed, It did not give
had been sent mi-mn fa.'t tliey were net the Governor in Concil the right to break
known-tiey were unorganizted districts. tîhe ]aw.
If.there is anv legislation under
Theni the sherliff sent dowýn a list wlicli tliey
pitdthere. lu those sections wlîere no 1 vhlich a local election could lie postponed lu
fnt
91rgt
fNpsig
municipal organization exists It is tlie duty tedsrc
of the sherif to make up) the lists. Lists were thie tact that a large number of men were disimfranchised would not make the law different
rined
madeup nd nd crtiiedby
from w'liat it was, and did not clothe the
an
ertfieubyhi
lit
butade and printied
meut at the bottom that there was thi*ty Governor iu Councîil witli the power to postdays f,'om that date for appeals. That would îpc'w tlie election. I have heard the lion.
aay
have carried it beyond the 7tli November. Lt Secretary of State tîy to explalî
only hiad reference to tlie nnorgauized dis- lu bis jauuity mnanner. lîow this thin '
ut 1 understaîîd Ile is the
tricts, I think flfteeul or twenty of tli . happened :
wvho lias charge of
Tha wy terewer noliss a th particular mninister
exlais
Tha exlans
liytlerew-ee o lstsat
th îese mnatters. ami 1 sutrnit tîînt the
Bureau, and noue could lie supplied, and It
f ted elie
le
ae
u a stio
was In consequence of tliat the order in coun- lino gte
te
as
wao qutstoe. lue ae bof
ls
cil w-as passed to liasten and complete the
twa
n ou
lists tliat were then under way aud shlorten itionivsntetldi
the tern.
'fley hiad thirty days for appeals, ko',poalt
yhu
redi
n
tougt
and t ws b shrteingtha totenpretty wvell kuown to otliers, outside of tlie
andit as
honlitliyslirteinatha totengovernuent iu this counitry-tliat anu election
days tliey could lie comipleted liy Novemlier. w-ould l)e lield -early lu the mont> of NovemIt so liappened that thie judge wvas in Ternis- tber. 'Mv lion. friend could ilot have
been
camingue. He w'as fisliing at the time, and more igorn ontitpitIi'tepol
hntepol
htpin
oato
a teleg-ram could tiot reacli liuînl- at ail eveuts r
i0f Cauiada were. Wliy could not tlie hon.
lie could not lie reaclied, and lie said lie could
g(-itleman have looked into tlie matter at anl
ýithi th tel dys
not ompetetheliss
flo coplee wihinfli te das.
te lst
earlier date. Tlie law provides plaiuly that
Hou. MNr.
%vLU-ouwere
ail fisli- if an electorni list is not provided within a
lug- at tliat time.
year, tlie oIc] onie may lie used. 'If iiv bon.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I liope the lion. gentie- f'riend land heen atteuding to tlie duties of
man does Dot cast any reflection on hlmii.
Iiis deî>artment, lie would have discovered
tlhan a fewv w-eels liefore the election
lo.sooner
Hou.'-Nr. !IcCLLUý1-Oi,
Hou.~~~~~~ Mr
cALM-lDwhetlier
the lists 0f Nipissing w-ere iii a
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-It w-as just a question of state of preparation or not. I cannot lind iii
whether you disfranchised l round nîimbers ti-is section liefore us, section 9 of the Frani
a tliousand voters and limiited it only to tlue jchise Act of 189S. and lu the proposed
organized districts,-that is, wvhere mlunlicipal amiendmient. that an1! particular minister
organization exis.ted.
is designated as heing responsible for
Hou. 'Mr. FERGUSON-This Nipissin.g ditli- the lîreparanion of the lists.
1 under.culty is sufficieut, I think, to convince every- stand my lion. friend. the :Seccetary of State,
Houi Sir MACKEN7IE BOWELL.

IMAY 10, 19U11
was more than
luis. been dealing witlî this questioli-that titue, and finding that the list
'Minister0 usie one year, or two years oid for the purposes
-,as tbe statement of the
sbould either have
Veshould clearly desig-nate the minister ou of the F ranchise Act, lie
these tuatters allowed the election to be heid ou the
-%vlom the duty to look after
or taken eariier
should devolve, so that lie sliould be beld llst that was in existence,
manner be- steps to see that the electors of that part of
responsîble in au unmlstakabie
iu a position that tbey
fore parflament and -the country, and I hope the country wereput
tbat that will could vote. 1 hope that before we pass this
before we leave this question
It lu this respect. 1 do
be done, because I submnit that if my hon. Bill we shall amend
State w-as respon- flot think there is any necesslty for a change
friend the Secretary of
to the power of the
sible-if it belonged to his denartineut, it lu the law with regard
this ditticulty about Goveruor lu Council to postpone an election.
IV.s blis duty, long before
and there
s0 fiudh bas beeji sai occurred, to ibere was no power ln Xovember,
-ii
and I sub- is none niow. and if the Governor la Counicil
have bad the difficulty removed,
iaws of the country tbere
mit further, tint even if this extreie state- will override the
very extreme state- Is no use Ia maklug laws at al; but, 1 subment, and 1 think, it is a
ouglit to make clear, and
mlent, that a thousand men would have been mit, one tbiug we
applied ouly that is we siould defluîe in this section 9
el'sfrauchised, for that difficulty
the governmnelt bas a
to the unorganized districts of Niplsslug-1 whut mînister of
nuiber right to look after tbese lists as provided for
subtuit that even If a considerabie
l
sbouid hein that section.
of men be disfrancbised, the 1,9a%
the election hieid according
c:îrried out and
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-Hofl. gentlemen will see
to the law, since the Secretary of ',îate neand bad that my hiou. frieud ihiffers from the proviglected bis duties at an early stage
lawv. H-e says tint il wouid be
tut seen tiat tiiese people mdLalot tîteir sion of the
should
list. This discussion better that a large nuinber of people
naines placed on the
thun that an electiofi shouid
caie up unexpectedly on mny part, and 1 be disfranchised
; that il ougbit to be held on
have not bad timue to look over tbe stitutes. be postpoued
the day. Non-. my hion. friend ignores tie
blut I tî-ied to get thie 'Minister of Justice to
that lias always prevalled
inforni ume. I understaud tbere is a provi- settled principle
regard to the exercîse of t]îe elective
sion lu our law to postpone, bevoud the date witlî
our British consbtitioflal
ofVtbe general clection. the holding of an franchise. Under
systeml, It is alwiys regarded as a matter
election la tue district of Algoma. That bas
to the liberty of the
existed lu the law for a long time. 1 su]>- of special importance
tHe righbt to, exercise the elective
pc-se the plea w-il] he set up that a portion of suhject.
constitution of the House of
-Nipissing belonged fornierly to the dis- i franchise lu the
Couinionis. Ei-erythilig rlîat may coutribute
this pgrliament,
igm.but
tric-t of
the elector o-f bis rigits
some years ugo, toc-k tlint section thait towards deprivinig
nmust be treated as a inatter subordinute,
formerly belong-ed to Algomia, and which
riglit and tnwnutaîning tie
is now to Nipissing, out of Algomua, and preserving- thut
Algoma, riglit of one whose namne is entîtled to go
it no longer remiains uni. part of
list, to have bis nuame put
aud the old law w-hich gave the Goveruor lu on1 the regular
In the itiere and to bave the opportuniity of recordCouncil power t0 postpone an election
is îîothing of whicli pardistrict of Algoma could have no refereuce ing bis vote. Thiere
subsequeut hanient bias been more jealous ln the United
to tertitory wbich had, by lie
than In the preservîllaw of the Dominion of Canada, been made King-dom lu past years
no tion of lie liberty of the subject ln this rea part c-f tie couiity of Nipissing and
frietid speaks about wbat
longer remained lu conuection w-îti Algoma. gamd. 'My lion.
an over- lias been doue ou otber occasions. Yes, 1
Therefore, I subniit tint there.,-as
couinty, N.B., when the
ridimig of the law of the country on the part remember Iu Quleen's
1 subtuit retîîrning officer î-eccived a $200 deposit fî-om
of the Governor iii Council. aud
The proclamation for
that no sucb autlîority slîould interfere with 'one of the candidates.
lias ho be liolding tue election is mtade. The deputy
the Ian- of the country. The Iaappointed. The eleccarried out, and if, as i said hefore, the returuing officers were
hiad tion tc-ok place. but whcni the election n-as
Secretary of Stute, or %vb.itcver muinisher
refused to sutu up
charge of tbis iuatter. bcad done hîis dîmtv la over. tHe returniîg- officer

[SENATE]

the vote. and dleclared that the athier candida te. vvho revel vet thie miliirity of vote,'.
was the only candidate that w-as legally before him. and -vas tie candidate wboin lie
returncd.
Now. I think that my bon. f riend opposite.
If 1 remember rightly, maintaiued the proprlety of that proceedlng agalnst the brlnglng of the returning officer to the bar of the
House, and aqsking hlmii to arnend the returui.
I dlssented froin tlhat vlew. I beld that the
maintenance of the riglit of an elector In the
election is the parainount consideration, and
our law has on every occasion trented that
as the proîîer view, and bias upheld the conduct of a rctuu-nlng officer, whien it hias beeli
perfectly clear tliat the object of the returnlng otticer wns to preserve the riglît of the
elector, and flot for the purpose of preventing hlm from exercising that riglit. Let me
cail the attention of lion. gentlemen to two
sections of the Dominion Election Act, the
Act which is about to be amended. Section
152 provides that no elections slial be declared invalid by reason of non-compliance
ýwltb the provisions of Ibis Act as ho the
taking of the poils or the counting of votes,
or by reason of the want of qualificationis
of the persons signing tbe nomination papers,
or any mistake in the use of the scbedule, It
It appears to the tribunal having cognizance
of the question JI: is In accord wiîl the priaciples laid down ln the Act. and sucli noncompliance or mistake did flot affect the
result of the electian. Then the next section provides that no election shal) lie declared invalid by î-eison or nion-compliance
witli the ternis of the Act as ta limitations
of tilie. unless it appears to the tribunal
that sucli noni-compliance May have affectedl
the result 0f the election.

of the listS had flot been brouglit into operatioai-that it wvas impossible to do so witbinu
tbe turne and that it was necessary that the
election should lie postponed, hie postponed
the election. He did it for whiat purpose ?
For enabling a large nuniber of persons Io
vote, who could flot have voted on the day
appointed, because, although they were legnlly entitled to have thieir naines on the
lst, such a list dld flot exlst, and lie post1poned the election in order that that list
might be prepared. and these persons hanvi
an opportuflity of voting.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did lie
do -that under the order in council t0 whici
the Secretary of State referred ?
Hon. '-%r. MILLS-I snid tbis, that thiey did
flot pass an order In counell postponlng the
election.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
did they do ?
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-That was the act, as I
understood my hon. friend the Secretary of
State. of the returnlng officer hlmself.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
lie acted under an order ln couneil ?
Hion. '-%r. MNILLS-No, under the writ, the
only autbority under wbich he could act.
After the turne expired, it was necessary lie
sbould have a writ. My lion. friend knaws
that qulte well.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is nothlng ln the wvrit authorizing- hlmi to
postpane the election.

BERN[ER-Does the hion, gentleHon. M.%r.
man contend that these two clauses, wbich
lie bas jush read. would authorize the Governor in Council, or the returning officer.
s ýto change the date of the election, even if
Hou. ýIAI)(N.1IL)
tews
the. use o! the Act witb these loose clauses ? i telwwssln
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-These two clauses proHon Mr he se f he At l vide this, that if n postponement did take
MILS
ta enable an honcst rcturning officer to cari-y place, and an election wns bionestly held, it
ont the law in accordance xvith its spirit and( w-ns a valid election, and that the courts
intention. My lion. friend froiin M.ars'fieldl would s0 bold, and the court did liold in this
bias rcferred ta w-bat lias beca donc by tbi, case, that tlîe election w-as valid. If the
Governar la Council in the Nipissiag case. view of my bon. friend opposite bad been
The Governor l Council did flot do anytbing. the vicw tak-en by the court, the court would
It was the sheriff who was appointcd ho bold have declared the election void. But the
the election aud] inalze a returu. Wlieni lie court upbcld flic election, and sa the party
discovcrcd tluat the lists wvcre flot complehe, who w-as clcctcd at that postponcd pcriod
that the lav *vith regard ta the plrePain-tiohu af clectian. w-as returaed ta the Hause of'
Hcn. Mr. MILLS.

[LmAY 10, 1901]
set traps for them and their candidates and
create a dIfficulty, wblcb will necessarlly
lead to expensive litigation, after the excitement to whicb the people are subjected lu
a general election. We propose to amend
that by providing ln this Bill that :
No nomination paper shall be vaiid and acted
DO'MINION E'LECTIONS lACT ÂM-ýENDupon by the returning officer unless lit is accomBILL.
MENT
panled by the consent ln writing of the pertherein nomiaated, except when such eiecsonabsent from the province ln whlch thepersan
SECOND READING.
la
tion la to be held.-in which case such absence
nomination paper; and
stated
Hou. Mr. MILLS moved the second reading shall be sum of la thela legai tender or ln the
$200.
of Bill (64) 'An Act ta amend the Dominion unlessofa aay chartered bank doing business ln
Electons
ct.'bis
drawn upon
He said -The objeet of Canada, or a cheque for that sum deposited ln
EletinsAc.'
any such bank, ls
these amendments is, ta remnove Incansis- and accepted by returniag officer at the time
ta the hands of the
tendies in the provisions of the law, and ro-the nomination paper ls flied with hlm.
mikethelawmoreperect '%'e bve
That la the same as the law bas been for a
flted, as far as ail goveraments and parliataken long period of years. In that respect there
meats do, by tbe elections that have
Now, we have bad cases
change.
place, ta remedy defects that the actual ap- la no
time ta wbere a persan bas deposited a cheque
plication of the law shows from
' gaod' by the baak, and it bas beefi
time to exist. In this matter we have to marked by tbe returnlng officer, and the
the tirst nccepted
in
provide certain ameadments.
afficer afterwards questioned the
place, the second section applies ta the Ireturnlng
validity of the election of the man baving
North-west Territaries that are , la a large
of votes wbo had deposited
mensure, provided for under an Act of. the the majority
such cheque. It seems ta me thiat where a
parliament of Canada 0f their own applicofficer bas accepted a cheque and
able ta those Territories. The samne strict-! returning
ln bas permltted an electian ta lie beid. hoe
ness daes flot apply to the vaters' list as
already adjudicated upon the valldity
the aider partions of the Dominion of Can- has
of the cheque which he bas accepted. He
ada. They have a mare indefilnite system,
sit ln appeal from bis own judgment
with greater latitude ta the parties, ln order cannot
in' la the matter. If bie bas authorized an electbat a fair election may prevali there, as
lie ought ta caunt the votes and returul
the district af Aigoma and the County 0f jtion
1the candidate bavlng the majority of votes,
Gaspé. Then, witb regard ta the second
be ougbt to leave any other party, who
section of tbe proposed Bill, It is an amend- and
may think the cheque Insufficielit. ta test
ment of section 34 of the statute. Under
electian on that ground. ilf lie sees
section 0-4, as the statute now stands, li ls': the
be praper. before a judge ; but, if tiiere is iiot
pravided that no nomination paper shall
a contest. and if no court bas exvalid and acted upan by the returning officer, sucli
pressed an adverse opinion. the ellection
unless lt Is accompanied by the consent, la
ta remain gaod. The returning olicer
wrltlag. of the persan therein nomlnated, ougbt
the onglit nat, after the ellecrin is uvCIr. ta
except wben sucb persan is absent from
ta revise the judgment lie lias
province in wbich tbe electian is ta lie beld, undertake givefi. and ta declare himuself
stated IPreViauslY
la wbichi case sucli absence shail be
the deposit was not sufficient, and that
la tbi? nomination paper. aind unless the that
candidate havin.- the majority ouglit
sum of $200 in legal tender, or la the bis
ta be retnrned. His canduct ln sucb a
of any cbartered banl, doing busines in nat
the, case leads ta unnecessary litigatian. Lt ean
Canada. Is deposited lu tbe bands of
no good ; it may do a great deal of barm,
returning officer at the time the nomination do
and the abject of the ameadment in this
paper is filed wit bhlmn. That provision bas
is to remave doulit upan this poinlt.
led, lu some cases, ta disputes, and ta very matter
bas 1and ta make it mare certain. and ta leave
considerable expense. 'My -own view
returaing afficer iess -round for excuse
been always lu favaur of a wide interpreta- 1the
for irregularity or partisan conduct. Vien,
tian. one tbat wili validate tlhe proceedinpre
next provision is an ameudment to
of the electorate rather than one that -would the

Gommons and was confirmed In bis seat by
tbe decision of a competent tribunal.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second time.

Ithe

[SEN ATE]

3t$0

section 4S of the Act. The prcposed amenid the Act apply to cases of the kind to whicb
have rcferred. Does the amendmient go
ment is as follows :
voter shall be a printed that far ?
48. The ballot of each
paper, in thia Act called a ballot paper, on wblh i
Hlon. 'Mr. SCOTT-No, ht only carrnes out
the names o! the candidates, alphabetically arranged in the order of their surnames, shall the bion. gentleman's suggestion of last year.
be printed exactly as they are set out in the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Clause 6i of thie pronomination paper; and the ballot paper shall
b
0o
eto
sarpalo
a
oe
also be provlded with a countertoil and a stub.
h
0o
eto
eelo
psdlwl
the whole as in form P.
2. Subsections 4 and 5 of sald section 48 of present statute.
the sald Act are repealed and the following aire
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
substituted therefor :-Hon.
4. The paper requlred for the prlntlng af
have ndded the words indicated in fori B.
the ballot papers shahl be furlsbed to the Teturning officer by the King's Printer, when the 1 notice that the onlly change in subclause
In the
,writ for the election is transmitted to hlm or .7 is the correction of ailnispri ut.
as soon thereafter as possible.
81 wbichi is a mis' 5. The ballot paperz shaîl be niànbered on Act It speaks of section
the back of the stub and the counterfoil, the print for '80.'
same number belng printed or wrltten on the
Hoii. Mr. M.NILLS-Thie riniaiîîder of the
stub as on the counterfoil, andl shahl be bound
Hn
altppr.
rvdsfrte
or stitched In boaks contalning 25, 50 or 100 Bi
lon
supplylagBilpodefrthbaotairs
ballots, as mnay bie moat sultable for
gentieleen wili remnember, iii regard to the
the polllng divisions proportionately to the au:nformn of tbe ballot paper, Nve liad n wh-ite
ber of voters in each.*
The object, of course, la this is to malte disc at one time In a black ground,
it more clear and specific whlat sball be the and we bad more mistalces, as 1 feit certain
kind of ballot paper. and biow the voter %Ve would bave, than under anîy other formi
We have had a fe'v
shahI exercise bis riglits. The next section of ballot pnepared.
wfistiikes arlsing froom tbe ftct that pensons
proposed to bie amended is section 59.
so carelessly madle tbeir mark for a candiis the date opposite the name printed above the
'-1r. FERGUSON-Wliat
Hon.
line, or the Danme of tbe constituency, and
change ia that section ?
LIon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not see any change. the resuit bias beenl that a num ber o! ballots
0f
Tliere uîust bie some error there. .We -will hiave been rejected on that ground.
1course tbere is grent carelessniess on the
malte inquiry.
part of the eîector that uceS tLUIL sort ci
tbing, but the object o! altering or amendIng tbe law Is for the purpose of obviatlng
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-Tbeni section 64 is ne- the possibility of mistakes of this kind.
pealed and sections 5, 6 and 7 are cbanged.
Hu
i
,NAKNI
O ELI
Hon.

'-\r. PRIM-%ROSE-They
cal.

are Identi-

tionsuggein fe there any provision in tbis clause to validate
Thes bleader 0f tIops
the mark, no matter ln what portion of the
Bhe lin.as e e o te H osito
hi
h
BillvasbefreHose.white
te
disc It may bie phaced ?
Lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-If referred to voters'
Hon. Mn. MILLS-Lt is pertectly dlean that
lists, and those words bave been introduced
portion betweeni the
f0 miale it dlear it was intended to apply if if is aiarked iii any
Unes it is ail riglit, and I tluink that is
to maabood suffrage,
The law bas been conwvbat if sbould be.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELL-Doyou strued broadly so as to preserve the rigît
provide in your amendienit for cases wbiere of the elector where the intention is dlean.
an elector bas inoved froin one riding in the
Hi.Sr-AKNI
O ELDe
O ELDO
AKNL
i
Hn
saine couaty to anothuer ? 1 îcnow a numballot if if is in
lier of cases f0 wvbîchî my attention was flue la,% miale it a good
There are front of tIe namne or behind if ? Lt seenis
called during the hast election.
provision of the
tbree ridings in the Counity of Hastings, thec to me if w-ould be a good
Parties Who law to malie if a good ballot, no matter
easf, norfh and west ridings.
as if is befween the
were living- in the east i-iding moved into wbiere if is put-so long
and they w-ere Unes.
the nortli and west ridiligs,.
Lon. Mr. MILLS-Yes; a good ballot for
disfralnchisedi uiîder tHie Act. Lt w-as claimed
.1-e ouglif te have gouîe funfluer. by haviflr tie candidate w-hose naine is pninted bieH-oc. '.\I.

M1NILLS.

[-m1AY 10, 19011
tween the lines. If that is flot clear I think
-we should naake it clear.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The section reads:.
The elector on receiving the ballot paper shall
proceed ta make a cross wlth a black lead pencil withln the white space containing the name
of the candidate.
That is section 72. Tbat is the law nlow,

and eoug.
t i clar

specifle mile, the long continued practice of
the House would certalnly establisli it as a
thing unprecedented and flot to bie attemptIf the lion1.
I tluink it is wrong.
ed.
gentleman desired a reconsideration of the
Bill, le should have nioved to refer it back
to the Railway Committee.
Hn
r
ADNL)(..-l.i
ýmotion was mnade.

The motion was'agreed to, and the Bill
wns rend the second time.
ELECTRIC RAILWAY CO'MPA-NY'S BILL.
REFERRED BACK TO COMMITTEE.
The Order of the Day being called:.
Censideration of the report of the Standing.
Comnmittee on Rallways, Telegraphs and Hlarbours, to whom was referred Bill (H) An Act
respectlng the Dawson City Electric Company
(Llmited).-Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-I propose
to move that this Bill le referred to Coinmittee of the Wbole House on M-%ouday next,
and nuiy discussion can take place on It
then.
Hou. Mr. VIDA-It strikes me this Is n
very -wide departure from the ordlnary procedure on sucli matters ln this Chamber. 1
have been a member of this House now for
nearly thirty years, and 1 do not remember
a private Bill ever havlng been commltted
to a Committee of the Whole H1ouse. Let
hon, gentlemen think for a moment wbat
reason have we for the nppointmeut of the
committees to whicb the Bis are referred '?
Is it not for the purpose of exainining wnitliesses and obtaining details which we canflot possibly look into in the Cbamber ?
We mny have persons lnterested in the
mneasure for or agnlnst It, tbeir solicitors,
present, perhaps presentlng matters of importance before us, evidence required to be
taken, many matters requiring to lie carefully considered ln the committee which
cannot possibly lie considered or mentioned
Why should a private
iu this Chamber.
Bill, which bas recelved full consideration
in the committee te whîch it lias been ref erred, lie transferred for considemation te a
It is
Committee of the Whole House ?
a most uuprecedented action. I should almost have imagined that His Honour the
Speaker would have ruled the proceeding
out of order. Altbonghl there may lie no
DAWSON

Hlou.

MmI. VIDAL-I

think

it

is entirelY

out of order and exceedingly ixuproper, anîd
if the Bill is to receive furtber consîder:'tion,*andi if there is to lie au ôpportnity of
examining Acts or hearing the testixnony
of persons conniected witîb it, the Committee
on Itailways is the place where these mlatters can be carefully aud fully considered,
and therefore il is very univise on the part
of the Honse to consent te its lieing referred to a Conirittee of tue Whole Honse.
Hon. ',%r. WIOOD (Hamilton)-I wish to
ask the hou, gentleman if lie bas any fresh
ei-idence te bring before the commnittee '?
If he has, of course the Coniîittee of the
Whole House would net have the opportunity of bearing the evideuîce and -would
I
not have au opportuuity te discuss it.
think it must go backç te the comimittee froin
whicli it came if it la to lie denit with at
ail. Lt should net corne to us tili the Railway Com*mîttee bave pnssed upon it. In
the House of Commons a member couhd flot
briug up a mensure bal! a dozen times, anîd
I canuot see wliy this Bill is brougbt before
ns on se many occasions.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I quite agree with
what the bon, gentleman fromn Hamilton
bas said, and the hon. gentleman from
Lambton. This Bill should go back te the
Rallway Committee, but wlthout instructions, and the committee wouid lie very
glad te receive any evidence which tlie hon.
gentleman can sulimit te, lt, and the Bill
could be reported te the House again with
the additional evidence.
Hon. '-%I. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-I adepted
that course on a former occasion, but the
lieuse would net agmee te It Tbere Is ne
further evidence. We have just the words
o! the two solicitors, one on each side, who
told us what was doue iu that country,
but if the House prefers that it sbould go

~SENATE1
back to the committee witbout instructionls,
I do flot object. I tinki it should have a
fair and impartial hearing, and, considering that a similar Bill was allowed to pass
without objection, I do flot thinl, that this
company sbould be singled out and deI will alter the
prived of their riýghts.
motion, and move thiat it be referred back
to the Railway Commlttee for reconsideration.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
thinh we sbould have tbis point settled now
ln order to avoid difficulty ln the future.
It would be out of order to refer it to a
committee of the whole. Rule 69 provides:.
Unless the Senate otherwise orders, a private
Bill reported from the standing or speclal coinmittees is flot commltted to a Committee of the
Whole.
The
dered.

SPEAKER-Unleas

otberwise

or-

PROWSE-It would be a waste
Hon. M-Nr.
of time to send this Bill back to the Commlttee on Railways unless there Is morne
fresh evidence, or some further reason glven. Is it expected that the Rallway Coinmittee will reverse their decision, atter considering the arguments on both sides, simPI! because tbe promoter of the Bill wlsbes
to send It back 7 Does the lion. gentleman
expect that tbe commlttee will change thieir
views and make a dîfferent report frn the
former one ? It would be preposterous to
expect sucb a tbing, unless there -was fresb
evidence to justify the committee lu such
a course.

spent a large amount of money and bave
not asked parliament for one dollar of subsidy. I sbonld lîke to see that class of
companies encouraged and assisted along,
and I do not want to give a charter to another company to corne ln and embarrass
them tili they have had an opportunity
of carrylng ont their project for a time,
and I sbould hIkIe to see them successful,
and flot bothered by any new charters. The
company wblcb la aeeklng tbe revival of
an old charter wblch bas expired, happened
to obtain some valuable property in the
way of coal, and they went to work and
bought Up that defunct charter that had
explred, and now they corne in asklng, flot
that their time be extended, but that this
charter be revived so that they may have
a blanket charter granted to themn to build
a rond lnto these coal mines. I think It is
better for the present to allo-w tbe company,
wblcb la carrying on the work and building a road according to tbe charter given
them,' an opportunity to carry out their
work, and If they do flot satisfy the country and give the coal company the facilIties they require, it will be time enough,
ln a year or two. to consider whether we
shahl give another company an opportuaity
to build another road.

Hon. 'fr. MýcCALLU-Il caninot see that
It would do any great harm to refer the
Bihl back to tbe committee, If it la not contrary to the rules of the House. We have
adôpted that course on other occasions. It
is flot probable that tbe committee wil
change their report, but if it pleases the
Hon. «Mr. M-%cKAY (Truro)-Tbere may be lion, gentleman from British Columbia, and
la not contrary to tbe rules of the House,
a larger committee next time.
I would vote to aend it back. If there la
HEon. ',%r. PROWSE-I do flot thlnk the anv fresbi evidence it mlgbt change the
probabilities are tlhat there would be,bu report, but I understand there la flot.
If we establisb a precedent of tbat kind,
where are@ we going« to end ? IWben a re- lýHon. Mr. BEIINIER-We are not called
port la presented and a member of tbe Sen- upon to discuss the merits or demerits of
ate la flot satisfled, bie thinka hie can drum the mensure ;we are simply discussing tbe
Up a larger committee and asks to have It manner of disposing of this Bll. I share
recommitted to them. 1 do not tbink that tbe opinion of the lion. gentleman from
Is advisable. Tbe comniittee came to their 'Murray Harbour as to the uselessness of
conclusion agfter due consideration. I tbink referring the Bill back to tbe committee. I
1 would report again lu the sane way if jthînk rule 69 Implies tbat, with the apIt w-ere possible to do so. I felt tbat tbe proval of the Senate. we can refer it to a
otlher company were at work tbere. Tbey Committee of tbe Whiole, s0 that the course
hanve bnci n charter granted 10 them andi taken by fliclion. gentleman fromn Victoria
arc workingý under titat charter. They liave wn- th)e correct one. This wonld give flic
Honi. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)

[MAY 13, 1901]
THE SENATE.
lion. gentleman the opportunity lie desiresOttawa, Monda y, Ma0Y 18, 1901.
to take the sense of the Hlouse on bis Bill.
I think that would be the proper *way Of
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
disposing of the whole matter. However, 1
o'cioek.
do flot wish to interfere.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
who bas charge of this measure lias shown
THIRD READINGS.
a very great deal of Interest ln It, and no
Bill (22) 'An Act respecting- the Columbia
doubt lie would flot have doue so If lie was
It. I was one and Western Railway Company.'-(Hofl.
flot realiy ln earnest about
r. Fergus nl the absence of '-%r. Bal.)
of the committee, and I votedBill 73) 'An Act to incorporate the VanHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
couve,WetmInster and Yukon Railway
bou. gentleman must flot tell how lie voted. Company.'--(HoI. -. Templeman.)
%I.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I wouid lie preMr.
pared to modify my view In regard to the nay Central Railway Company.'-(HOn.
Bill in one respect. This company lias had Templeulan.)
Bill (59) 1An Act to incorporate the Sia blanket charter by which tbe.y couid build
tailwav.Y Colnralwxays wlthin a radius of fifty 1 iilaiiieen andi Kerent'o,
electric
%ulles of Dawson. They are interested lu 1i>iUiy. -( Hoi. Mr. TLeniplefllafl.)
retaining that rond on account of a coni
Bill (87) ' An Act to amalgamate the Northmine. There is great objection to, reviving eiii lacâifie and Mnth
Railway Coinlthe blanket charter after It lias expired, paity. thîe M'iinnipeg Transfer Rail,%ay Coibut I thlnk they should lie given a riglit pauy (Limited), the Portage and Northito build a rond from Dawson to their coal western Ratlway Company and the Waskada
mines, and If my hon. friend could see liç and North-eastemfl Railway Company under
way clear to bring the Bill to that basis, the naine of the Manitoba Railway Coin1 do not think there would lie a voicE pany.'-(Hon. Mr. Kirchihoff er.)
against hlm.
ill (26) 'An Act respecting the Canadian
Mr. VIDAL-I rise to a question ol Pacifie Railway Compafly.-(Hofl. Mr. DanHon.
order. Can a notice which lias been g-ivei durand, ln the absence o! Sir Alphionse Pelbe clianged during the debate, froin a refer letier.)
ence to a committee of the House to a refer
Bill (107) 'Au Act to confer on the Coinence back to Its former committee ? If tha missioner of Patents certain powers for the
Is the motion now before us, I rise toan ques relief of John Aýbell.'-(Hofl. Mr. Landry.)
tion of order. Is it flot a ruie of this Hous
that 'whea any question hias been clearly nui
JUDGES 0F PROVINCIAL COURTS
distlnctly decIded by tlie House ht canno
BILL.
lie brouglit up again durlng the saine ses
SECOND READING.
sion ? We liad that particular motion lie
fore us a few dnys ngo, to refer the mE Hlon. '.\r. 3MILLS moved the second rendport back to the saine commnittee, nnd th ing of Bill (131) 'Au Act amending- the Act
House voted lt down.
respectiug the judg-es of provincial courts.'
precisely the samne as
Mr. FEIlGUSON-Referred linck He snîd :The Bill is
Hon.
ta re- the Bihl whidb uvas introduced last year and
with instructions. This is a inotion
a dif- defeated in this House. I thiukz, by one or
fer back whthout instructions :it is
two. Under it provision is made for, the
fement matter.
appointulent o! tîrce additional puisne
The motion was agreed to.
judges in the district of Montreal, at salaries of $5.000 eacli. There is provision made
The Senate adjourned.
that one of the judges lu the North-west
Territories shah lie made n Cief Justice.
The law at the present timie provides for the

[SEN'ATFE]
appointment of four judges. but there is Do object ro making this piecemeal improveChief Justice *of the court. By th!$ Bill 1 ment of tbe salaries of judges in Quebec,
propose that one of these judges sball be wjtliout taking into consideration the judges
mode Chief Justice of tbe court. Then, witb of the wbole Dominion. 1 think if this werp.
regard to the senior judge of the Circuit 'not done that it would oct as a lever iu
Court of Montreal, it Is provided that bis regard to Quebec in consideration of the
salary shall be $3.600 instead of $3.000. Thnt general question. admitted to be one of
is simply giving bim, as far as sncb a posi.; justice and necessîty at the present moment
tion is applicable to that court. the positiona with regard to the judges of the whole
of Chief Justice. Then there is provision, Dominion. The fourth clause of the Bill proalso, that the tw'o judges of the territorial vides for two additional judges for the procourts of the Yukon Terrltory slhah receive vince of Quebec. It çvas SUbmittea to parsalaries of $5,000 each. Last year w-e took n lianient hast year, and I believe was reappropriation of $5,000 for one of these jected ln this House. I beg to say that bad
judg-es, the other having been appointed ai- 1 beeni here on that occasion I should have
The principle uponi
ready, and we made the appointmient. The'i supportedl that Bill.
appropriated which 1 have acted in regard to the creation
time for w-hich bis salary was
expires on the lst of July. Under this Bill of the judges and the payment of their
1 propose to make a permanent provision for salaries since the year 1876, w-len I bal
bis salary. It was embraced ln the Bill of reason to consider the subject ln connection
the rejection of the county court
last year. but the provision as to the province iw'ith
of Quebec having been objected to, and the judges Bill for the province of Nova Scotia,
Bill having been defeated ln that particular, viewing as 1 did the vagueness of the Britthe whole of the Bill was allowed to stand lsh North America Act hn regard to the
over, because we felt that parliament would question of the limit of jurisdiction of the
meet within the year and there would be local legishatures with reference to the creaample opportunity to, confirm what there lion of judges, 1 thought it was a safe rul.'
was no objection to, provlding for a second to lay down, that where the provincial and
judge ln the Yukon territory, and providing federal authorities agree upon the crearion
for making one of the judges o! the court iand payment of judges, tbat, assuming as
o! the North-west Territories a Chie! Justice. ithey did, the responsibility, this Parliament
So that the Bill bas been introduced this should not throw anly objection la the way
year again, the government having reason of carrying ont w-bar should lie a common
to believe that the objection made last year- policy between the provincial nd the Dothe sole objection to the increase of the mninion authoribies. While I do not intend
number of judges in the province of Quebec to oppose the secondf reading of the Bill, 1
-wouhd not be persisted ln, as lb is a pro- should l1k-e to have further explanation of
vision that affects the district o! _Montreal1 the lncrease to tlie juuiges of Quebec w-heu
1the Bihl goes before the Committee of the
only.
Hon. iNr. IMILLER-I do flot intend to oh- I W'hole.
on, gentleman is
liLSTb
Mon. -Mr.
Ject to the second reading o! the Bill,
that this in mistalien if bie supposes there is any increase
but I think it is unfortunate
crease shonld not be a part of the general ln the salaries of judges generally in Queue.
system relating to the judiciary of the 1We add three judors lu the district of Montwhole Dominion, and flot simply to the pro- real, but w-e give tlîeai thP saine salaries
vince of Quebec. I do flot mean to dispute that are now palil. 'l'le only judge w-ho is
the justice of the Increase contemplated to receiving auy increase ln the city of Quebec
is the senior judge.
lie granted to the judges of that province.
Honi. 'Mr. M-NILIIi-There are no iiiHon. ',%r. MýILLS-Mýy hon. friend is miscreases ?
talren ; the additional three.
Hon. 'Mr. MýILLS-No. The senior judcze
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I consider $5,000 a
biis salary. bea very low salary for a juilge of receives $600 additional to
year
cause practicallv Ji-. is Chief Justice. aithe Superior Court living in sucbi a
called.
place as the city of M.\ontreal, but 1 do though flot so
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[MAY 13, 1901]
Hon. Mir. LANDRY-Do I understand the
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B. C.)-When
3 of the
to deal with h Cn. minister to say that by clause
does the hon. minister propose
li there is an Increase of $600 to one of
the salaries of the other judges ? There bas
he judges ?
been a promise held out for some time, and t
I cannot see why thîs plecemeal work should
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes. Ail the judges get
be done. Why not bave aIl the Increases ln ;3,000 now.
one Bill instead of taking it in bits like
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbere are thv'- of
this
,hem?
Hon. Mr. McDONALD (C.B.)-I '%vish to
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes. There la one of
eall tbe attention of the MfinIster of Justice
to a case where an increase of salary ougbt :hem that Is the senior judge who practically
to be made in one of the county courts of discharges the duty of Chief Justice but he
the province of Nova Scotta. I mean ln s5not s0 called, and we propose to give him
The county au increase of salary ln that court.
the Island of Cape Breton.
court judge at Sydney, C.B., bas now jnrisHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think I amn riglit
diction perhaps ovei' 100,000 of population.
Breton ln understanding that this is the Bill that
In the county court district of Cape
by this House last year, wlth
we have five large incorporated towns, and was rejected
and one tlie single exception that there is an lathree counties or municipalities,
the salary of the senior cirjudge bas to attend to that county with al crease made ln
Victoria cuit court judge of the city of Montreal.
its industries now, and the county of
If 1 remember riglit, was not
and the county of Richmond besides. His That Increase.
consider in the Bill last year. In alal other respects,
salary la very small, and when you
the one we bad before us a
tIhat the county court judge at Halifax, and the Bill la juat
N.B., were year ago. Wltb regard to that other, I was
the county court judge at St. John,
voted against it, but I
specially provided for by an increase ln their one of those who
the judge at distlnctly stated at the time that the action
salaries, I believe the salary of
only tentatively takea. and
Sydney ought to be placed on a par at least 1 thea took was
John, 1 was one of those wbo believed tbat the
xvitli the salaries of the judges at St.
the province with regard to the
Halifax and Charlottetown. The number of view of
the creation aad jurisdiction of judges, should
population under the jurisdiction of
prevail ; but ln view of the very
judge at Cape Breton is very much larger ultimately
judge strong opinions that were expressed against
than that under the juriadiction of the
the necessity of -that Increase ln the province
at Charlottetown, P.E.I.
of Quebec, 1 feit that no barm could arise
Hon. '.%r. M-\ILLS-I will consider the mat- by allowing the matter to lie over. It was
ter.
held by some representatives f rom the prothe vince of Quebec that a better distribution
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Can
of the work amongst the judges already aphon. gentleman answer my question.
pointed would resuit in their being able to
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The hon. gentleman is overtake and discharge ail the duties that
asking a question aside f rom the Bill. 1 devolve upon tbem, witbout the necesslty of
bave no objection to answering lt at the appointing additional judges. However, the
present time. I may say now I have sub- province bas adhered to Its view that addimitted a Bill providing for an increase of the tional judges are necessary, and that being
salaries to the judges of the varlous super- the case 1 am quite prepared te vote for the
lor courts of the Dominion. Tbe ameadment Bill as It aow stands. 1 eatirely agree with
la very coasiderable whea it cornes to be the observation made by the hon. gentleman
aggregated, and I thlnk rny colleagues like from Cape Breton with regard to the salary
governments la former times, f eel that pub- that ought to -be paid to the county court
lic opinion will scarcely sustain the chang-es. judge In that now important centre of PopuHon. Mr. MILLER-That means there wll lation, Cape Breton. 1 have no hesitation ln
saylng that 1 think the judge ln that countY
be no Bill this year ?
will bave probably more work to do than
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-I mnean there will be no
any county court judge in the maritime proBill this year.

[SE NATE]
The section we arc
comrnunicated with.
now amending says it may, ln any case, or
class of cases lie otherwise disposed of as
the Postrnast-er General directs. As 1 understand the law, a letter upon which postage has flot been paid, either through lnadvertence or any other cause, is sent to the
dead letter office, and properly sent there,
and another provision or section of the law
provides that the letter may lie opened with
a view of ascertaining the narne of the
writer, and communicating with hlm, and
requlring hlm to pay postage. But this provision I have just read is also ln the section
to, meet a certain class of cases where the
Postmaster General may otherwlse direct.
I know that ln practice the person to whorn
the letter is addressed Is communicated
with If he Is well known, and lie is required
to send on the addltional. postage, and whien
that Is sent to the office, the letter is forwarded to him. A case to which my attention bias been called is one ln which that
The party to
course lias been pursued.
whom the letter was addressed was communicated with. Hle sent on the postage, and
received his letter, but he received It open.
There does flot appear to lie any reason
whatever why a letter that Is deait with In
that way, where the writer Is not communicated with-where there is no0 attempt to
ascertaîn the name of the writer, and when
the letter Is sent on to the person to whom
it is addressed,-there does flot seem. to lie
POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL. any reason why that letter should lie opened
at the dtend letter office. A correspondent
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
lias called my attention to a case of the
The Houie resolved Itself into a Comm.nittee kind. 1 addressed a letter the other day to
of the Whole on Bill (121) -'An Act further the Post Office Department on the subjeet,
to amend the Post Office Act.'
but have not had time to receive a reply yet,
but as we have that section before us, lt
(In the committee.)
seems to me, it is an appropriate time to
On clause 2,
bring the matter up. The letter to whlch 1
Hon. Mr. 3IILLS-By this clause there are have referred was addressed to a well-known
certain places added as centres for the person. It was inadvertently not stamped,
réceipt of dead letters.
and the dead letter office communicated wlth
Hon. '3r. FERGUSON-I have no objec- the person to whom it was addressed. Hle
tion to offer to the clause as far as it goes, at once mailed the stamps and the letter was
but it seems to me that there is some fur- forwarded to him, but was received open.
ther amendmient required to section 44. I can understand, If lie had not'replied, that
The provision of the law is that when pre- the letter should be opened in order that the
payment of postage is neglected, a hetter is address of the writer might lie ascertained
sent to the dead letter office, and is opened to require hlim to pay the postage. If thýfor the purpose of ascertaining the name of law is framed in sucli a way as to permit the
the writer, in order that the %vritermnay lie opening of a letter when there is no0 necessi-

vinces, not excepting perhaps either Halifax
or St. John. I arn quite satisfied that lie
will have very mucll more to do than the
county court judge of Charlottetown, and
that he should lie paid at least as mucli as
tliat judge Is paid. Where there is a large
mrining population and a growing population, there will lie a great deal of litigation,'
and the work of the judge will lie very
mucli increased, and I am sorry that provision lias not been made iu the Bill before us
to meet a case which everyliody must admit
demands serious consideration. There lieing
no other changes in the Bill, and having indicated the position I took hast year, I am
quite consistent ln votlng for the Bill, 1 join
with the hon. senator from. Richmond ln
regretting that the Bill Is not a general mensure, and that when we are increaslng- the
salaries of some of the judges, we should
deàI with the wliole question of the payment
of the judiciary throughout the Dominion.
I arn sorry that my. hon. friend is not in n
position yet to promise definitely whether
siceh a course as that wihi lie pursued. Wlien
It is taken Up and deait with, I hope my
hon. friend wll lie prepared to deal fairly
wlth the Supreme Court judges of Prince
Edward Island w'ho are paid very inadeqiuate salaries lndeed.
The motion was agreed to and the Bihl
was read the second time.

Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON.

UNIAY 13, 1901]
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But there is auty for opening It, the law sliould be amended
of the kind bilng other provision further on that says sucll
so as to prevent anything
dead letters may lie disposed of as the Postdoue.
master General may direct.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I shall cali the attention
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Under regulations.
of the Post Office Department to the observations which my hon. friend has addressed
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It seems to me tlie
to the House. but the hon. gentleman knows regulation lu that case sliould lie that the
that lu these matters It Is uecessary to glve writer of the letter sliould lie commuuicated
very consideralile latitude to, the postal with. There sliould be no authority ln the
authorities. -Cases may arise where a letter law to open a letter until the person to whom
couid have been deait with and disposed of it was addressed had failed to reply. Tlien,
without Its being opened at ail ; but there of course, there would lie a justification for
are cases wliere It becomes uecessary-wliere opening the letter in order to find the name
perliaps there may be two men of the same of the writer, as the person to wliom It was
name living in the locality, and wliere one addressed liad not responded. 1 think the
of them may have moved away, and the only members of the goverument will agree wltli
*way that the department mîglit be abile to me that there should lie no openlng of pridetermine to whIch of tliem It was address- vate letters unleas tliere was some strong
ed would lie by opening the letter.
That uecessity does not arise
necessity.
it was adFERGUSON-The case that 1 until af ber the person to wliom
Hon. Mr.
dressed has been commuuicated with. Evidhave before me, whicli has prompted me to
uuder some regulamuale these remarks, was not one where ently that lias lieen doue
tion ln existence, as this section provides for
any such difficulty arose. The dead letter
whicli I have referred,
officiais at Halifax did flot communilcate that. ln the case to
unless tlie person who was addressed failed
witli the wrIter, but commuuicated with the
not have been
person to whom the letter was addressed. to respond, tlie letter sliould
opened.
I admit that If the person wlio was addressea liad not responded lu a reasonable time,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlie proposed change
the post office wouid have been amply justi- lu the law is a decided improvemnent. It
lied ln opeuiug the letter and communica- Increases the number of places where there
ting witli thie writer. There was no time shall be dead letter offices, and avoids the
lost, although the distance Is cousiderable, delay, auxIety and sometimes loss arising
but the complaint is that the letter had been from forwardiug letters from remote parts
icpened when there was no necessity for of the Dominion to, Ottawa to lie there
opening It Thie necessity ihad flot arisen. examined and returned. 1 should like to, ask
The person to 'whlor It was addressed *the lion. minister ln charge of tlie Bill wliewas communicated with and he respoud- ther the city of Charlottetown Is one of the
ed Immediately, and the letter was sent ta places at whicli there is to lie a dead letter
hlm, but was sent to him opened. That waE office. It Is not; ln this liet. If CharlotteThe matter struck me aà town la uot Iucluded lu tlie list of places. I
the complaint.
being of sufficient Importance to mention.i bthiuk we should takze this opportuuity to
Einclude it. There Is mucli more reason wliy
when we were discussing this clause.
called the attention of the gentleman wlio li there should lie a dead letter office ln Characting Postmaster General, on Saturdaj 7lottetown, than ln Kingston, Hamilton or
evening to the case. 0f course lie lias no tLondou, ail places mentioned in this clause.
had time to auswer my letter, but the mat luI the first place, Charlottetown Is a great
ter ls of sufficient Importance to warran 0deal f urther from Ottawa than any of those
the committee la rising and seeing that thi eplaces, and the communication, particularly
law Is amended If necessary. I think thi ein the wiuter season, is very uncertain aud
irregular. A very great inconvenieuce and
law sliould be made exact so that wliat
be doue.
have descrilied could flot
delay must arise wlieu a letter is sent from
office ln
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-I thiuk the law autlioi iCliarlottetown to the dead letter
the r( ~-Ottawa. If Chiarlottetown Is not one of the
izes the opeuiag of the letter liefore
places at whicli tliere is now a dead letter
ceipt of the postage stamp.

[SENATE]
or tbe present this section 44 beld over until
office, 1 hope the mnister will see that that f
ve hear what the mile of the departnient is.
city la added to the list of sucli places.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I agree
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The matter bas flot
vitb the hon, gentleman from Marshfield
been brouglit to my attention.
n this question. I do not see why a letter
the Lddressed to any individual, and posted
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamulton)-M.Naly-of
business bouses have their addresses on tbe vithout having a postage stamp on It,
outslde of the envelope, and letters could be îhould be opened If the address of the
returned to theni, or the writer could be )arty la known, and la shown upon
comrnunicated with, and there 18 no neces- ;he letter. The party addreÉsed should
)e notified tbat the letter bas been posted to
sity for opening theni at ail.
im without sufficlent postage, or without
is forwardedi
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No letter
any postage, and hie should he requested to
upon which the postage is jiot paid, but the
stamps, wvitb tbe fine if It la
parties are notified to whom the letter la forward the
and then the letter Is forwarded
addressed. 1 do not k.now that every letter necessary,
know that Is the practice which
is opened. If the party la notiied, andi he to hlm :I
and prevails now in.
send the postage, and to eall for prevailed at one tume,
fails to
the United States, witb letters insufficientiy
the letter, then It mnay be opened with a
the payment of any postview of returning it to the party wbo origin- paid, or wlthout
age. I kuo'w of a case, niyself, of a letter
ally mailed It.
being addressed to me posted in the United
Hon. Mr. WOOD-But If the nddress of the States, and tbe parties posting it bad failed
sender is on the envelope, why not communi- to put a stamp on the letter. I received a
ente with hilm ?
notice that the letter w-as lu the post office
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No doubt they wouid. at Gloucester, United States, and that on
In this case, no doubt the address of the forwarding a certain amount of postage it
party wbo wrote the letter was not upon the would be forwarded. I received the letter,
and it had not been opened. I cannot see
envelope.
to
the aaidress any necessity, under such circunistances,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-W bere
open a letter. It is a wvrong tbing to open a
la on the envelope there la another provision
letter wben it cau be forwarded to the party
ln the law that the letter shall be returned, or
At
on recelpt of the postage.
whenever there la any otbier indication of the addressed
aîletThe coni- ChI-arlottetownI, or any city office where
wrlter of the letter it is returned.
it frequentiy happens tbaît parplaint I have to make is not of any delay. ter Is posted,
who bas ties put i letters wltbout stamplng theni,
My hon. friend f rom. Charlottetown,
is generally the case that those parties
had a great deal of experience in tbese and It
author- are know». Even when the name of the perthings, can speak wIth much better
.the letter la not on the envelope,
lty than I can as to whether there is any son eending
the writer may be known, and notified tbat
necessity for a dead letter office in Charlottethe letter bas heen sent without heing
town, but the otber point to whicb I bave
and on receipt of the postage it
called attention Is, I think, of sufficient Im- stamped,
be forwarded to its destination. Charportance, and we sbould bold our hands w-ill
lottetown, previaus to confederation, w-as
until we Eind wbat explanatiofi tbe departa dead letter office for Prince Edw-vard
ment bas to make witb regard to tbat. It
ie
Island, and eome very considerahie
may be that the law is already sufficlent,
afterwards, it w-as cbanged, and letters
and that tbe regulations cover the point, but
which eould not be forwarded or delivered
ln the case to whicb 1 allude, I tbink it Is
afterwards sent to the dead letter office
evident the right course was not pursued. were
at Ottawa. That bas caused a great deal of
W
ýhen the person addressed was a wellln many instances. I see no reason
known indiv-idual, and the course taken was delay
why Charlottetown sbould not now be conto communicate wlth bim, the letter should
stituted a dead letter office, tbe same as
not have heen opened, until bie hiad falled to
of tbe offices mentioned bere. In fact,
respond. When that bappened, it w-as ail nmany
Charlottetownl
It may be that tbe there are greater reasons wby
rigbt to open a letter.
slhould be clotbed with such power, hecause
regulations cover it, but I sbould like to have
Hou. Mr. POWER.

[MAY 13, 1901]
of a dead letter office there, it would have
been asked for; there would have been some
MNy hion.
representation on the subject.
r.riend wiil see tliat St. John is the oniy
place mentioned In New Brunswick. Moncton is not mentioned. As there is daliy commnunication between, Prince Edward Island
and the mainland, I suppose the letters that
beiong to Prince Edward Island go, either
to St. JTohn or to Halifax, and are reported
from there. With a population of 120,000
you wouid hardly have a sufficient number
to make It worth wbile to establisbi a dead
letter office ut Charlottetown, but 1 will
brIng thint matter under the attention of the
Acting Postinaster General, and If the representatives of Prince Edward Island think
It Is necessary to establish a dead letter
office nt Charlottetown, I wiii bring thet fect
to bis attention, and before the third reedIng
of the Bill, If lie finds metters are not satisfactory to hlm, lie can ask that we go back
into conimittee with a view to making somne
amendment as to opeaing dead letters and
aise to giving effect to the suggestion of the
Speaker, flhnt Charlottetown should have a
Étead letter office. I dare say thet the establishment of additionaI dead letter offices
mens somne Increesed expense. It may not
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-NO.
be very great, but i means some additionai
Hon. Mr. M1ILLS-l shall have inquiry outlay, and unless there is feit te be a conmade. ln the meantime 1 would ask the venlence of some Importance ln establishing
House to let the clause be cerried as It Is, sucli an office, it wouid not be worth whiie
and If It should be found necessary to make multiplying the number. Those we have ln
somne further regulation, we cen go Into com- the province of Ontario, under this Bill. are
mittee, with a view of making- it; but 1 Kingston, Hamilton and London ; Toronto
appreheud that If the letter was unopened was iu before. In the whoIe province of
before sufficient finie was ellowed for re- Manitoba, the onIy dead letter office Is et
celving- a reply fromi the perty to whom It Winnipeg, and then there Is no other dead
was addressed,-It was done by soute Inex- letter office until we get to Vancouver on the
perienced persan ini the office, or through ln- Pacific Coest. There Is one et Dawson, beedvertence. It is possible that sucb a tbîng cause it is a very remote place.
might happen, but the practice of the departHon.. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. friend's
ment neyer bas been to encourage the open- sugg-estion is perfectiy satisfactory. 1 thiuk
ing of letters except for the purpose of as- from what 1 know of the Actlng Postmaster
certaining by whom they have been sent end Generai, hie wlIl give every explanetion and
witb a view to returning them. So that ID satisfaction ln bis power, and do It promptthat respect my lion. friend will find, uponi ly, and I wIll therefore ask to have the third
inquiry, that If hie Is not misteken, thiere hae reeding fixed for to-morrow, as 1 may not be
been some iuudvertence or want of expe- preseut Inter.
rience on the part of soute clerli acting Iii
Hon. '.%r. MILLS-I do not object.
the office. W.ith regard to a dead letter officf
et Charlottetown. 1 reelly do not know whai
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I think It would be
the necessities of the place may be lu thai
1very mucli better to have unstamped letters
regard, but 1 shouid think that If there haÉ
r forwarded at once, and let the receiver pay
been e necessity feit for the establishuten

it is more difficuit to communicate hetween
Cherlottetown and the dead letter office at
Ottawe, or any one of the others, theu it Is
witli those that are situated ln adjacent
provinces or close together. 1 do flot see
that there is eny good reason why Charlottetown should be omitted. 1 thiuk there Is
reason why It should bie lncluded. and 1
should hope thet the government would teke
the matter Into consideration and sc the
propriety of inciuding Cherlottetown If It
Is not already ln the original Bill. as one
of the offices to which deed letters sbould be
forwarded.
Hon. Mr. liILLS-The regulations et the
'present time do flot permit a letter to hi'
opened where the name of the party or firni
sending the letter Is on the envelope. Tb.only abject of opening a letter Is to ascertain by whom It was sent. 1 have no doubi
It will be found thaï: the letter to which the
hcui. gentleman refers xvns a letter insutliciently paid or unstamped, thant the post
office authorities communiceted with the
party et Charlottetownl about It, and not receiving e reply wlthln the usuel tinie ailewed, opened the letter-

[SENATE]
double postage. If he does flot receive it, Iished. 1 know that the fact of a letter flot
reaching its destination in timie, froin any
let it be returned to the dead letter office.
cause whatever, gives a great deal of
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is the law
trouble, anxiety and annoyance which, If the
where the letter is insufficiently paid.
trne couid be shortened, would be reinoved
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I amn quite xvell aware to the g-reat advantage of the public.
of that, but I want the saine mile to be apHon. Mr. SNOWBALL-I must dissent
plied where there is no postage at ail. Le'
the letter be sent promptiy to destination from a great deal that bas been said on this
letter question. 1 hope the government will
and a double rate collected.
not undertake to make any change without
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-That was the practice giving it most serious consideration. Our
of the department, but It was found, tu postai system ls as nigh perfect as we can
cases where the parties knew froin whom reasonably expeet to get it. Every unpaid
the letters came, they declined to recelve letter should go to the dead letter office. The
theni. It was withi a view of saving the ex- sending of sucb a letter to the address stamppense of carrying them that the present sys- ed on the outside of au envelope wouid be
tein was adopted.
a very dangerous thing. In large offices,
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman many people are constantly coming in and
from Wolseley no doubt bas a great deal of using the stamped stationery. In many of
correspondence ln the North-west and Is de- them there Is a desk for strangers, captains
luged with letters unstamped or insufficient- of sbips and others, on which to write and
iy paid, and If his sug-gestion were adopted address their letters, and I tbink It Is utterly
we would have hlm coming next year wltb absurd to have dead letters sent back to the
firm. The law as It is works admira.bly,
n proposition to amend the Iaw agaîn.
aud I view with suspicion mnany of the
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-The hon. gentleman
changes proposed ; but assuming they will
Is mIstaken.
receive full consIderation, I did not wisb to
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-I suppose the Min- make any remark. Many of the suggestions
Ister of Justice wlshes to have an expression thrown out here this evening 1 think if
of opinion from the representatlves of Prince adopted would produce trouble.
Edward Island with regard to the establishHon. Mr MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-The law
ment of a dead letter office at Charlottetown.
as it stands does not require the return of a
Although we have professedly daily communiication between the Island and the main- letter to the stamped address on the outside
land, yet there are times ln the winter, when, of the envelope. If it is a request that the
from stormns and biocking with ice, there Is letter be returned. that request must be
no communication for a week at a Urne. If written by the party sending the letter. Ia
there was a dead letter office ln Charlotte- that case it is returned, but with the orditown, these letters could be attended to and nary printed address the law does not rereturned to the parties who mailed them, quire or sanction the returu of a letter to
and there wvould be no delay. It is really that nddress.
more necessary to have a dead letter office
The clause was adopted.
at Charlottetown than at the places menOn clause 3, subsection 3,
tioned la Ontario, because here you have
Hon. Mr. MACDONA.LD (P.E.I.)-Wbhat
mapid communication every day with tlie
capital, but we are not so far advanced with necessity is there for the appointuient of
our communications in Prince Edward Island train porters in connection with mails transthat we can depend upou daily communica- ported by the rallway ? We know the railtion wlth the mainland every day of the ways have a staff of officials sufficient to
year. The transmission of letters, if tbere look after everything transported over the
was a dead letter office estabiied in Char- road, and that the railway compaflies relottetown, I suppose would ilot cost muich ceive froin the government a very considermore than it costs now. Tbe suggestion is able subvention for carrying the mails froin
given. and I hope the 'Minister of Justice one point to another, and wby it should be
wIll press the matter so that it will be estab- necessary for the government to appoint
Hon.

Mr.

PERLEY.

p--IAY 13, 1901j

v

as
tbere Is no0 change in this. This clause
train porters for the purpoSe of handliflg
that this Is a new office
The It reads plainly says
tbose mais in transit, 1 cannot see.
being created. It provides that :
Departmleflt maires a contract that is
Pest Office
The said Act as amended by Chapter 26 of
with a certain individual to carry the mails the stauteSS of 1897, Is further amended by
He resection
frcmn the post office to the train.
adg thereto the followiiig
apoint ta
'132 The Governar In Council may emplayees
that work, and there
ceives bis pay for
Service o! Canada
appointmeflt of the Ra iway Mailtrain porters, &c.'
no occasion for any further
is a ta be known as
a porter to assist hlm, becanse If there
Âccordlflg ta that, there Is no officiai known
porter required, it 18 the duty of the con1 arn nlot suffiIt is the con- at present as a train porter.
tracter ta fnrnish him. Then,
pasted ta know w-hether sucli an
fromu ciently
tractor's dnty to transfer the mail bags
undera officiai is required or not. 1 cannot
one conveyaflce to another. This is not
whiat work they have to do. It is cerstand
service that the governmfelit should furnish.
tainly nat a rallway mail clerir. He takes
It shonld be done by the contracter.
them. If It is
There charge of the mails and sorts
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It is doue now.
mail from the post office
this regard. 1 to accampany the a itedu
oaplcIs no0 change In the law inrisky experimentteherlwy
be rather a
tLink It wvould
It seems to me the only
to the rail- mani, not a porter.
to band over ail the mail matter
would be to handle the
tlxem to employ duty of the -porter
way campantes, to authorize
from one train ta anand as- mails lu transferringbe the duty of the contheir own officers ta receive letters,
or hatIs eryother. That should
onthetran,
sortthemai
the contractor brings the
t severy tracter îilmself. Ifthe eniployees of the railthetrain o
sote themail o
mail ta tixe trai,
n the
company taire charge of it there like
oftenal donef offiiaisof prariesetsytmb
te deartmflt.way
any other frelght. This is a new office.
Han. Mr. PERLEY-It Is done ail the tinie.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-1 thinir we should
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It would be a complete
these train
train have some explanatian of what
change of system. This is done an the the porters are.
of
at the present time, but by an officer
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hofl. gentlemen must
departflent, not by the contracter. In that
tliat In ail the large towns andi cities
respect it is very much safer and much less iiiow
you
the sys- ithere are tons of mail matter which
iely to lead ta complaint against
scarcely thinir proper to entrust ta a
would
tem than if we wcre ta mnaie a change. My
wlthout having some officiai of
hcn. friend will see we are simply appiying contractor
department to see that none o! It was
the
the system of examînation and promotion ta
lest or stolen. Taire Ottawa, for Instance ;
the train porters emplayed, that exists wlth
enormous amount of mail matter g-oes
regard to the other officers in the statlonary an
train. Sureail that is hein.- frein the post office ta the
offices. That Is practicihly
could nat expect the customes
ly yeu
done by this clause.
and ireep
par- Ïhouse officer ta be In charge,
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-The
them. The proposition is that the
office checkr of
and
ter has no right ta -go into the mail
porter, who has served a certain time ta
the boat or train-is not permitted
on board
an examination, should be entitled
clerkir s passed
ta go there. The railway mail
except certain promotion.
authorized ta exclude every person
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-'-Iy hon. friend
Office Department. 1
officers of the Post
bas given an explanation which may be suffineyer knew of a train porter la connectiofi
have
I cient. We have contractors, and we
wlth mails in the province from which
friend's
con- railway mail clerirs, and my hon.
corne. The mails are handled by tbe
explanatiofi is, If I understood hîm right,
tractor and bis employees '-\t having seeli
large
of that the porter's duty 'wonid be at
any of these train porters in the emploiy
there is a large amaunt a!
centres, where
the departmetit in the province of Prince
matter ta be handied, to keep checkr of
Island, I do not see any necessity mail
Edward
It.
for them.
that
Hon. Mr. McDON-\ALD ýC.B.>-is not
Hon. Mfr. PROWSE-The hou. gentleman
Is It not part of the duty
says, , done at present?
must bave made a mistaire when hie

[SENATE]
of the contractor, to deliver bis mail to the
railway elerk ? The railway mail clerk
checks what the contractor delivers to bhlm,
and the contractor checks what lie delivers
to the mail clerk. Now, this Is institutingc a
third party, who will be tbe connectlng ink
between the contractor and the mail clerk.
Hon. '.%Ir. M-\ILIS-Sonie one carrnes the
mail from the post office to the train.
The duty of the railway authorîties is
simply to carry It. The duty of supervision, after It Is upon the cars, Is that of a
public officer belonging to the Post Office
Department. The train porter sees that the
mail is put upon the car, or put In custody
of the officer who places It on the car.
It Is neyer out of the custody of the departinent There Is no period of the time
ln which the mail matter that bas been received at the post office ceases to be lu the
custody of some officer responsible to the
Post Office Department for tbe carniage of
the mail, until It reaches the office of final
destination.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD <P.E.I.)-In well
reg-ulated offices, If is the custom for the
despateb officer to require the contractor to
sigu a receipt for the number of bags of
mail received at the office. He carnies that
mail to the train or steamer to which the
bags are to be dellvered, and must have a
recelpt from the officer who takes charge of
tbem at that point. 1 cannot, for the life
of me, see wlbat necessity there Is for a
third officen to accompany them along the
route, if the contracton bas to give a recelpt
for the nutuber lie receives, and to receive
an acknowledg-ment from the party to whom
lie delivers tliem.

Are they to be simpiy haugers-on, waîting
for something to turn up, and w-len a conveulent tinie comes, tliey will be given some
job or employmenf. It does flot look like
business fliat flie Postmaster Genenal sliould
determine from time to time the duties to
w-hieb tliey are to be assigued.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That is a provision lu
almost every statute w-bere there is an administrafive duty to be performed.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Is It necessary that they should be appoiufed f0
general offices in the Dominion-Charlottetowu, St. John, Halifax and ahl those places
wbere there are dnily mails, or ail places
despatching forelgu mails ? I sliouId like to
kuow w-bat number w-ould probably be nequired of those train porters, and whether
tliey are to be employed at ail of the chief
offices of the Dominion ? It w-ill make quite
an army of them f0 see thaf the mails are
safeiy couveyed from the post offices f0 the
train and steamers by whicb fliey are f0 be
despatclied.
The clause w-as adopted.

Hou. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland), from
the commitfee, reported the Bill w-thout
amendment.
FORT QU'APPELLE RAILWAY 003PANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. '.nI. PERLEY moved flie second
An Act to amend the
reading of Bill (S)

Act passed durng tlie present session lut 1tuled An Act to Incorponate flic Fort Qu'Appelle Railw-ay Oonipany.'
He said Iu thie charter of fUis company
tUe word 'electricity' is used. It was not
fhe Intention of the company to be confined
Tliey w-aut
f0 electrIcity as a motive powen.
to be able to openafe the rallw-ay by any
powen whatever.

Hou. Mn. PROWSE-The clause is veny
ambiguous as if is bere at present, and it
appears also that the Postmasten General
does not exactly know what service lie Is
going to place these porters at. It says, the
Postmaster General is to defermine from
time f0 fime the duties to whicli tliey are
to be assigned. He bas evidently flot deterThe motion w-as agreed
mined yet w-bat their duties are, and we are w-as read the second fime.
asked to pass a Bill appointing those porters.
It may be necessary, but before the Post- The Senate adjouned.
master General asks for sucli a law as this,
lie should be in a position to say what lie
w-ants these men for; but lie says he will
determine Inter on w-bat their duties are.
Hon. Mr. McDONALD

(C.B.)

f0,

and the Bill

[MAY 14, 19011
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWTELL-Afld in
roranto.
Ottawa, Tucsday, MaY 14, 1901.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I ar n ot aware, exThrep ept from what I see ini the public press and
The SPEAKER took the Chair at
earn from the 'Minister of Agriculture.
o'clock.
rbere seems to be a misconception as to the
proceedings.
'ste of pay. The statute provides that they
Prayers and routinle
should be paid according to a scale to be
THIE CENSUS.
arranged by the 'Minister of Agriculture, but
.n no case was the remuneration to exceed
INQUIRY.
:hree dollars per day. They seem to have
assunied that in any case and every case
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to:
dollars a day. Under
Draw the attention of the governmenz ta the~ they were to get three
following document :
the scale prepared by the office, and distri' St. Charles, 4tli May, 1901.
buted through the commissioflers, the departament was of the opinion that any man workTo the Honaurable
«P. Landry, Senator.
Ing fairly for a wbole day would earn at
Slr,-The census belng flnlshed Iu my locallty least tbree dollars, and he was allowed, lu
and the enumerator net having corne ta my addition to that, a dollar and half a day If
house. I would hike ta know from you what
shauld be done. I belong ta voting district No. lie had to engage a horse and vehicle. But
The enumeràZor was Dr. 0. E. It appears-at least so it Is stated-that some
1. St. Charles.
Perron. He could not have forgotten me, belng
una confrère of mine, and almost my nelghbour. enumerators have not been industrious,
My famlly ls composed of seven persans, who der the assumption they would get the three
cannot be In the census,. naboly havlng been
My pahitical opinions dollars a day extending over a considerable
seen for this purpase.
are probably the cause of my having l.een Ig- perlod. and *in that w'ay flot doing as mucb
What shahl I do te get :ustlce?
nored.
per day as other men who are more ener'I have the honour ta 'je,
getic and more attentive to their work, and so
'TYours very truly,
a certain n umber of them wlll be disappolitC. H. PLANTE, bM.D.'
' (Sgd.)
ed, perbaps, at not earnlng as much as they
And tbat he will inquire:
lu a large
L.Whether the goverameut Intênds to order anticipated ; but 1 understand that
tbce officer charged ta make the census ln dis- majority of the cases-a very large percentIrict No. 1 a! the parlsh cf St. Charles, county age-they will have earned at least three
af Fehlecbasse. te do his duty by going ta the
domicile ta collect the information whlch he dollars a day. In special cases I bave no
Is at.llged ta have?
doubt the department will consider ahl the
2. if the gaverament daes net -Ive such an
follow ta abtain the clrcumstances and la sections -where the
order, what way will he
necesrsary Informatian?
distances are great to travel aud the populascattered, or from other causes. It
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave just had a meula. tion Is
into consideraMr. Blue. He says, on his might be fair to take matters
handed me by
tion, I have no doubt the departmellt will
attention being called ta the lnqulry mnade
that justice Is done to ahl parties.
by the hon. senator, he at once commuil- take care
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The population of
cated with the commlssliner, and bas Just
sayiug that the persan Montreal is flot scattered.
received a telegram
ta whom he referred has been placed an the
Hlon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-CaIi
list. As soon as the matter was brought ta the hon. gentleman tell us whether. Mr. King.
his notice, he directed the attention of the Deputy Minister of Labour, bas been sent
officiais ta It.
to Toronto and M.Nontreal to conciliate the
and whether they are to receive
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Subseqtieft ta the In- strikers.
justice ?
formation ?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-That is the first report
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
1 have received of anything of the kiad.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Perhaps my hon.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
friend will be prepared ta informn the Hanuse
Bill (117> An Act respecting the packing
whether there is any truth in the report
and sale of certain staple commodities.'that tbe census enumerators have been on
(Hon. Mr. Milîs.)
strike for larger pay in M.%ontreal ?

THE SENATE.

[SESATE]
'Ihat was ail that -%as necessary for my
Bill (122) 'An Ac't further to nmend the
Generai Inspection Act.'-(Hon. 'Mr. Scott.) purpose in support of mv reniarks. The
reporter, in Nvriting out his report of my

Bill (133> 'An Act respecting pensions to
speech, took Up the wrong book, and quoted
officers of the permanent staff and officers from section38 f the Act 0f 1886, which, as
and men o! the permanent militin, and for
the House w-vll see, w-ould be aimost unintelother purposes.'-(Hon. 'Mr. Scott.)
ligible in connection w-ith my observations.
THE

BELL

TELEPHONE
BILL.

COM\PANY*S

Lt is as follow-s

The said company shali have power ta establsh, construct, purchase, lease and work any
line or Uines of telegraph, or maintain such Une
A CORRECTION.
or uines for others, from and 1.0 Rfl place or
places in the Dominion, elther by land or water,
Hon. 'Mr. MILLEB-Before proceeding to over which exclusive telegraph line rlghts do
now exist by
the Orders of the Day, I desire to cail the flotany provinces ofany law of the Dominion or
the Dominion, and ta make
of
attention o! the House to a mistake made by connection with the lino or lines of any telethe officiai reporters of the Senate lu the graph company in the.United States of America,
to aid or advance money to build or work
report o! my remarks last Tlîursday la cou- and such line in the United States, &c.
any

nection with the Bell Telephone Oompany's
Bill. 1 do not L-noiv that 1 would trouble tUe
House at ail with referring to the subject,
but 1 have been given to understand that
the promoters of the Bill are insinuating.
privately that the misquotation w-as intentionally designed on my part to niiead the
bouse. Instead o! doing auything of that
klInd, the mistah-e actually makes mv
remarks almost unintelligible or absurd.
In niy remarks I quoted from the Act
of 1880. 1 quoted the second clause, and
then I went on until I came to the third
clause, and I said ' Then cornes section 3,
w-hidi reads as folloivs.' I then cited section
3 of the Act o! 1880, on w-hich my remarks
m-ere altog-ether based, and w-îthout which,
as 1 have said, my remarks are almost
inapplicable. Section 3 of the Act of
1886 is inserted, instead of the section
1 quoted, by a mistake o! the reporter, a
miistake that might easiiy occur, and in connection witb w-ich 1 attribate to hlm no
I did not quote from the Act of
blame.
1886 in my opening remarkis at al]. The only
occasion on w-hidli I quotea from the Act o!
1886 w-as lu correction o! the statement o!
my hon. !riend, the Secretary of State, after
hie lid quoted it in bis speech. The section
w-hich I quoted and ou whiich my remarks
,were altogether hased, is as follows:

That clause refers to the North Amerîcan
Telegraph Compainy, and Is altogether Inapplicable to my argument ln this case. When
1 got the reporter's copy last evening I discovered it, and w-eut immediately to '-%r.
Holland's office and found it closed. Later
on 1 met the assistant reporter, Mr. Johnslun, and asked hlm how such a mistake
could have happened. This mornlng- 1 met
Mr. Holland, brought him into my room, and
showed him the mistake, and lie gave a very
xnatural explanation, that lie took Up the
wrong book and quoted from the Act of
1886 lnstead of the Act of 1880. Several
friends of mine had asked mie for a copy of
my remarks when 1 received them froni the
printer, and I oaly complied la one Instance,
and la that instance I struck out the quotathon and made a foot-note and said it shou]d
be section 3 o! the Act of 1880. I w-as personally somew-hat annoyed that this blunder
sho-uld have heen made, because 1 w-as the
sufferer by it, and the cause 1 was advocatIng suffered. W\ýhen 1 spoke to the reporter
to-day lie agreed to have it put riglit la the
' Hansard.' 1 would not refer to it lu the
House only 1 wvas told, just before coming
in, that the promoters of the Bifl-and it is
just such tr2atment as 1 w-ould expect f rom
them attributed to me improper motives,
that I w-as misleadlng the
3. The sald company may construct, ereot and and represented
maintain its line or lines of telephoane along the House by a w-rong quotation. I have been
sides cf and across or under any public highways, a long time in this House. and 1 do not think
streots, bridges, water courses or other such
r laces, or across or ander any navigable waters,
either wholly in Canada or dividing Canada
from any other country, provided the said coinpany shahl not interfere witb the publie right
of travelling on or using sucai highwvays, streets,
bridges, water courses or navigable waters.

,any one w-ho lias sat any length o! time
w-ith me in the Senate w-ould mnake such a
charge ag-ainst me.
SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. M-Nr.

[MAY 14,19]
1 caxifot imagine tlat axis person on the
ship could be affected except attendants.
As for the passengers. 1 do ixot tbink tbere
wvas any contact or exposure ; moreover, the
disease wvas not at tliat stage wben it iwould
be most contaglous. It was in wlat is cailcd the wet stage, w'ben the particles, or
gerlîs, could xîot float about as tbey would
ia the dry. Tb&refore, I cail the attention
of the uxinister to tbese matters, Ini the
bope that bie may look into It and brlng It
before tbe government. I tblnk *the plan
of leavlng ail tbis to one man on a cast Iron
rule, in regard to sucb a disease breaklng out
S«M\ALLPOX ON AN ATLANTIC
on a sbip, is altogetber wrong. 'Tbere are
STEA'MER.
an immense number of modifications. Tbere
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Before the Orders miglit be twenty cases on board of a serions
of tbe Day are called 1 take the liberty of clînracter ; the treatment would not le tbe
blis
drawing the attention of the leader of the samne as one mild one. A man wlio knew
to a subject, the importance of whlcb duty would treat tbe cases differenitly. 1
House
la the only excuse I cau give for bringing It repeat there sbonld be no cast-iron mile imto bis notice. A despatcl in yesterday's posing sncb a penalty as is nientioned biere.
cases wbere infection is carried on slxips,
paper reads as follows :in
on board infecteci
Quebec, May 1.-The SS. Lake Superior, due it is froxu tixeir biaving
tliis case,
ln port yesterady morning. is qnxrantined at goods. It is quite different iii
tukne1a
adi
C.rc-sse Isle for tiventy-one days, owing to
of a slhip,-n itsmcmea
case of sinallpoX belng dlscoverel on board. ive lîear outrageous penalty to impose tbis
Her crew and over 700 second-class and steerage being an quarantine witbout any possible
passengers wiII Lie landed on the island tc-day. proloiuged
for it. The slip and cargo couici
Now, as the House is no doubt aware, a inecessity
n
lus
ntvnyfu
iifce
bave been doue under b
great many wrongs
anîd
nd f lte heevery maxi, wiomaxi axxd child, crew
uarntie,
thesyseinof
aate
thee
ndt of
systemer
ofciad
th quratde
ail tlmied
n
t isol
tendency bas been, witb the sprend of our psexîrst thaccntd
kniowledge of quarantine laws prevexxtingseriytatoudereie.
Hon. Mr. 3iILLS-I may say to bon. genInfections diseases to modify those diseases
the past
deal. Sudh a mode of treating this, tiemen that ive bave bad, during
a great
at ail tbree or four years, several vessels arrive
case. as reported. is la my opinion not
Wbo badl been exrequlired. I consider tînt this mani on whlix witb passengers on board
before hoe posed to smallpox, and that a number of
the disease broke ont contmacted it
subsequeiitly atcame on board the sblp. There is no doubt tbose that came over were
be- tacked, as for Instance passengers that were
it ivas in tbe stage of incubation
to Winnipeg, wbiere
fore lie caxme on board, and it broke carried from Halifax up
slxip au- the smallpox broke out amongst them and
ont tîxere. and of course the
quarantinefi for some
tixorities toolc every precantion to iso- wbere they bad been
hlm hle was considerable time. I thlnk tbe officers of the
laie himn. Hlaving isolated
the view whieb the
only attended by the physîcian on board department agree witb
no necessîty la the hou. gentleman has expressed, that so f ar
and the nurse. Tbere Is
wben It is
world, ln my opinion, to detaîn tînt boat -as the sblp Itself Is concemned,
bours. Twenty-one properly fumigated andi disinfected, there
more than twenty-four
why It sbould be
dnys may not obliterate tbe possibillty of la no reason la the world
because if tlxey detained. Tlere mnay le a reason for the
tixeir carrying contagionx.
would le necessaare on tbe saine island witb the patient tbey detention of the crew. It
as axuci as tlxey ry that a new crew should le put In charge
iînay coîtract it there
lmmediately.
would on board the sbip, and If tbey wanted of the vessel, if sbe Is to lenve
ail tîxat ivas lie- Witl regard to those cases wliere smallpox
to exsure perfect safety.
the quarantine of
cessary to do ivould le to fuixigate the slip. has broken ont on board,

Hon. '-%r. BERNIER-MIistakes sucb as
this one mentioned by the hon, gentleman
are very awkward and annoying. 1 hiad a
conversation witb tbe reporter about it. and
lie explained to me that wben members make
qvotations they seldom send tbem to bis
office, and bie bas to look them Up blmnseif.
He asked me to make the request to bon.
members, wben tbey quote fromn books or
papers, to kindiy send the bookts or quotations to hlm, so that suecb mistakes may
be obviated.

[SENATE]
the passengers of the vessel is a matter
about whieh a differeace of opinion exis.
Sonie say tbat sixteen days is a sufficient
period of quarantine, wbule others recommend the period of twenty-one days, because
being exposed to the smallpox on board the
vessel, from those among whom the contagion bas actunlly appeared, It would be unîafe, perhaps, for tbe communlty that those
parties sbould leave, and withln a few days
after their departure from the port smallpox sbould break out amongst theni and that
they sbould be the means of scattering It
abroad over tise country wberever they
miglit go.

lion. Mr. MILLS-Quite so.
But at ail
events, 1 suppose thse officers of tbe department of immig-ration xnay bave thouglit it
n-ecesary to take special precautions s0 as
not to alarn tbe people of the country generally, and flot to create a feeling against
immigration into tise country because tisere
was danger of spreading this disease. At
any rate, I think that ail was done tbat
could lie done lu the case of the vessel, that
she was disinfected, and, as 1 understand it,
was at liberty to depart under a proper crew
within twenty-four isours after the disinfection took place.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVA.N-And the passengers
Hon. 'Mr. SULLLVAN-I do flot tbink tisere also ?
Is a case in Canada where such a thing bas
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, I tblnk tbey were
occurred. I neyer heard of sucb a thing.
detained. I understand tisey were ail second
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I suppose If a person class passengers that were on board the
Is exposed to smallpoi on board tise vessel vessel, and I fancy tbey were mingling with
lie may get It.
each other before the patient was suficient13, 111to be isolated. At ail eventQ, It ivas
Hon. '-%r. SULLIVAN-He Is flot exposed.
thoughlt necessary to put the parties la quaThe patient Is confined and isolated.
rantine for a few days.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-But that Is after It [s
discovered. But persons miglit corne [n con- THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY'S
tact wltb him before It was dlscovered.
BILL.
Hon. '.%r. SULLIVÂN-He could flot conNOTICE 0F AMENDMENýT.
vey what did flot appear, while he wns la
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I beg to give
that state of Incubation he would flot con- notice tbat I wlll, on Wednesday next, when
vey the dîsease.
the amendment of tise bon. member from
Hon. M.Nr.MILLS-The bon. gentleman Richmond Is being considered, move the foldusows better thau 1 do as to that, but 1 lowing amndment :
know tise opinion is prevalent, even among
That ail thse words la the amnendmnent of thse
sonie plirsicians. tbat wbile the person is ln Henourable Mr. Miller, after thse word 'clause'
be lef t out, and the following substltuted therethe state of incubation. it is possible the for
' The rates to be charged by thse comapany for
poison may be conveyed. Tisat may lie an
excisange service
net exceed
erroneous view, but nevertbeless, tbat is a telephone forth la Scisedule A shallthis Act, and
those set
of
view tbat does exist to some extent. At aIl such rates rball not be Increased wlthout thse
events, there have been cases of smallpox consent of the Governer in Council.
witbin tise last two or tisree moaths lu
SCHEDULE A.
various parts of thse country wbere even tbe
Thse apparatus referred to [n this scisedale
physician have pronounced thse disease [s what is known as the ' Standard Bell Telephone Wall Set,' consisting of Magneto Bell,
sometbing else la the first instance.
Blake Transmitter and Bell Telephone.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There is no doulit
Fer annumn.
Exchanges of 100 suisscribers or less.. $25
about that.
100 te 250
"30
Hon. 'Mr. M.\ILLS-And it may have been
smallpox of a very naild type, but it neyertheless n'as a contagions disease.
Hon. M.Nr.
SULLIVA'N-There are no symPtomns during incubation. A man fee;s in his
usual isealtis.
Hon.

Mr. MILLS.

250 te

500

500 te l,OU0

"35

40

1,000 te 2.000
"45
2,000 te 3,000
'.
...
50
3,000 te 5,000
"55
Over 5,000 subscribers .............
60
A reductien of thirty-three and one-third per
cent froni the above rates shaîl be made where
i nstrumnents are placed la residences and net

IAY 14, 1901]
to be used ln whoie or lu part for business purposes.
The above rates to apply to subseribers located
within one mile of the comPany's nearest exchange ln any city or town.
At points where a toîl service exists, wherein
a subscriber pays an annual sum for the rentai
of the apparatus and a fixed price per call for
exchange service, the rate shall fot exceed two
and a haîf cents each for outgoing cails ;and
the existang rate for the rentai of the apparatus
shahl not be lncreased without the consent of
the Governor in Council. The subscriber at
sucli points shall have the option of suhscrlblng
either under the toll system or according to
the schedule of rates above referred to.
On long distance line between cities and
towns the maximum rate shahl not exceed
three-quarters of a cent a mile for a three
minute conversation, but the minimum payment

for such conversation shahl be twenty cents.'
This ameudmeut will restrict the rates,
and reduce them ln many places. The rates
are flot to be lncreased, as w-i be seen by
the scbedule, without the consent of the
Govemnor lu Council.

BELL TELEPHONE COM-%PANY BILL.
REPORT OF -COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
The Order of the Day beiug called :
'Rc3uming the adjourned dehare on the consideration of the amendments made by the
Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce
to (Bill F) An Act respecting the Bell Telephone
Company of Canada.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT said : Haviug spoken at
considemable length on this question, w-heu
the matter w-as befome the Hlouse last week,
I do not propose to offer auy further observations ut present.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-The Bihl is before the
House non- ou concurrence in the amendmonts made by the Committee on Bauking
and Commerce. The first ameudment made
by the committee Is accepted. The question le
now, concurrence in the hast ameudment, or
w-bat is knowu as Hlon. '.mI. Lougbeed's
amendment-clause .4. 1Iinteud to ask the
sense of the House upon that clause, because
it is nec'esasry to get It out of the way, ln
order that I may be lu a position to move
the amendnient of wbich I have given notice.
If this clause is not concurrod lu, then I
w-ill be lu a position, on the third readiug of
the Bill, to, move my ameudments. The regular and proper course Is to get It out of
the w-ny ou concurrence. 0f course, If the
House concurs lu that ameudment, 1 presumo it w-ill accept any other amendment
that the promoters of the Bill may ask at
its bauds, because that would be conceding

everything the promoters may require, and
Itrust the House will refuse to concur Iu
the 4th clause.
Hon. Mr. ALLÂAN-I understood the Secretary of State to, Bay that lie did flot Intend
to speak at further leugth on the Bill, having spoken so fuily on It the other day. I
trust lie will pardon me, therefore, If 1 refer
Ito the unkind and, I venture to say, nogenerous way lu wbich he spoke of the
attitude of the city of Toronto towards
this Bill. Why the business men of Toronto, and those interested iu the business
of the country generaiiy should be subject to
any animadversions because they have taken
up) a subjeet of this kind that affects the
whole country, 1 cannot teli. In ail questions, of this sort, it is found, as a ruie, that
only the more active people and men having
large luterests in the country will take them
up. If tbey did not, very often sucb matters wouid pass w1tbout proper investigation
or any thorough discussion. I cannot Imagine any subject which could corne before this House that is of greater momen t than this Bell Telephone Bill.
The use of the teleplhone bas now becorne a service not of mere huxury or
pleasure, but of absolute uecessity to the
population of tbis country, and to place them
lu a position in which tbey migbit find
themselves lu the power of a company of

this kind, with its capital enormously lucreased, and no restriction whatever upou
the rates It may Impose, would be a mon.strous thing. I hope this House wIll take the
matter fully into consideration, at ail eveuts,
and will put some wholesome checkc on the
power of Increasing the rates, and prevent
the possIbility of the country being subjected to, sucli a ruthless monopoly as this would
be If the Bill remained inuis present shape.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland)-l do not
intend to, say very much on this Bill, but I
believe It is an understandiug with members
of the Hlouse that wbatever Is to be said
regarding the measume ls to be said at the
present time. Just what the effect of the
ameu-dment w-hidi bas now been postpotied
by the hon. member from Brandon would
be, I amn not prepared at the moment to say.
It no doubt will have the effect of mestrictiug the charges which this company can
niake to the public from goiug beyond a
certain limit. 1 can oniy say this, that my

[S-LNATEj

*prefei-ence would be for the principle emubodied in the ameudment suggested by the
bon. member from Richimond, tliat is, that
tbere should be a power wbiclb could regulate these rates-eitber maise or lower themu,
a.3 circumstances at any particular time and
ln aniy particular place miglit render .It
nec-essary- How-ever, we w-i have time to
cnsider that before It eornes up for the
third reading, and I do flot propose to discuss that subject at present. Indeed, the
only observation in addition to w-bat had
been eaid on this subject w-hich it is necessary for me to make to-day is this-for tlue
subject lias been very fully discussed, both
ln parliament and outside of the House, and
I presume that every member here bas
pretty weh formed an opinion as to w-bat
blis course of action sbiould be w-itb regard
to it. It really cornes down to a question of
righlts or relative riglits between titis telephione company and the public. 1 amn free to
say, for one, that I think au enterprise of
this character is deservîng of very reasonable encouragement. I do utot believe In
heing- at all niggardly in our dealing-s w-itb
a cornpany of this kind. They deserve the
very blghest credit for org-anizing these
schernes and bringing- these inventions Into,
practical use aud g-iving the publie such an
admirable means of cornmunicating wltb
encbi otber as our present telephone systemn
affords. I f cel, therefore, that w-batever
capital is required to develop this business
the company should be allowed to issue. I beIleve ton that they should be arnply rew-arded
for their enterprise, for any risks they have
takzen, for the value of any Invention wvbicb
tbiey have acquired, aud wbich they are
now putting into practical use. Tbey should
also bave ample reniuneration for any
amount of capital whielh tbey have rîsked
lu this enterprise. But w-hile 1 say that I
feel too, that the iuterests of the public In
connection w-itb a business of this kind
requires some safeguards. It is a monopoly,
as w-e all admit, necessarily a monopoly,
and it is desirable la tlue public interest that
It should be a mionopoly. The ditticuit; question w-hich confronts us at the present
tlxne seems to be how w-e can adjust the
rates of this company so as to give the
company a reasonable remuneration for
the capital tbey have învested. and protect
the public on the other baud fromi exorbitHon. Mr. WOOD.

aut charges. I do flot propose to refer at ail
to the many staternents which have been
made both in this House and out of it w-lUi
regard to, this company and its operations.
I hiave confined my attention Ini considering
the subjeet almost entirely to the public
statements of the coinpany themselves.
Now, w-bat Is the position of this company to-day, accordlng to its public statements ? They bad lnivested on the 31st of
December, $6,200,000 ; $5,000,000
capital
stock, and $1,200,000 of bonds In thîs enterprise. That w-as the lnterest bearing capital
w-bich tbey bad lnvested. This bas provided
I take if for ail their capital expenditure up
to the present tîme, and I desire la connection w-ltb this capital expendîture to, direct
t7he attention of bon. members to tbis fact
that that capital expenditure includes nof
merely the cost of this plant and equipment
if they w-ere putting it in to-day, but If
includes w-bat fbiey mnay bave pald for
patents w-hicb have now expired ;it includes w-bat tbey may bave paid for plant
;w-hicb tbey say la tbeir report fbey have
been obliged f0 tbrov into tbe scrap-beap,
and. If includes ail the losses w'bicb w-ere
necessarily incurred in the experimental
stages of an enterprise of this kind. So far
as I have been able f0 ascertain, if tbe company w-ere startlng to-day w-itb their present
knowledge of this business, and were puttiug la a plant sucb as tbey have in titis
Dominion. if w-ould not cost more, probably
sometbing less than liaif the amount for
their present stock-fbat is $2,500,000. Now,
tbey are asking lu ibis Bill for an addiflonal
capital of $5,000,000, and as every member
knows, that carried w-ifb It under the Coinpany's Act, a borrowing power of $3,750,000,
so thaf ln passing this Act we are giving
themInl capital stock and bonds an avaîlable capital to tbe amouaf of $8,750,000.
Weil, w-bat is their position according to this
annual statement w-hicb tbey have placed
lu our bands ? Tbey bave under the Acts of
1892 pow-er to Increase their capital f0 $5,000,000, and lu giving tbem this w-e gave
tbemi af the same turne pow-er to issue
bonds to the extent of $3,750,000. Their
last annual statement shows that tbe
capital bas been ail issued-thaf $1,200,
000 of the bonds w-ere issued, and iii
fhe statement on tbis sheet, signed by tbe
president, MINr.
Sise, if is stated that at the

LMAY I11, 1901]

399

meeting held 0on the 5th of December, 1900, distance telephone Uines for the next three
the directors were nuthorized to issue the years. Under these circumstances it ls cerbalance of their bonds, $2,550,000. Accord- tainly ta me nlot apparent why they need
Ing to this staternent these bonds are selllng this very greatly increased capital. If I arn
in the market at a prerniurn of 10 per cent, right In the estimate wbich 1 have given of
and there As also a smnall amount of capital the cost of their present system as It exlsts
which bas been placed on the mnarket since la Canada to-day, the capital now availabie
their last statement was lssued, s0 their will enable tbem to nt least duplicate the
avallable funds from thelr present authorlzed entire system which they now have, that Is,
capital Is in the neighbourhood of $3,000,000. to extend their operations to double the
Now, wbat are their requirernents ? In an- number of people wblcb their telephone sysother statement wbicb As aise issued from temn is reaching at tUe present Urne.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Is that
the head office in Montreal, and slgned by
Mr. Sise, the president of the cornpany, re- without the five millions of dollars ?
ference is made to the Improvernents wbichi
nn
r
ODWt
h
rsn
ai
they have lntroduced In the system, I wll l
wHn. th WODhave
lh te presenbthpi
read tbree short clauses In this statement:
taie ofc tey
hadsvevailble t-a
bysue
1Because of the clauses brought about by thesaefterbod.UeHuIansr,
introduction of electric power, It bas becorne from the action tbey have already takenabsolutely necessary ta practlcally reconstruct
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Perhaps the hon. gentlethe entire _Lelephoae system, whlch fimplies the
seraping of the aId plant. A notable instance man svill say w-hether the usual practice of
As found In Ottawa, where two years aga, be- all conipanies is to prefer issuing stock
fore the plant was six years old it became necessary ta remnove At, and Instaîl a new system rather tbnn falling back on bonds.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Dlfferent companles rnay
on which bas been spent aver $200,000, and the
workIs ot
et ompete. Fr smilr wrk-have different practices witb regard ta that,
-that is for renewing the aid system and but Mr. Slse's statement is that at the
putting An the latest improvements such as meeti ng Ueld December 5tb, 1900, the directors were autborized ta issue these bonds,
we have An tUe city of Ottawa.
-nd for the naturel expansion ' f the business, sa that action bas nlready been taken, and
partlcularly In the construction o! long distance
uines, the requirements of the present year wilî s0 far as this cornpany As concerned, that
TUey bave declded ta
absorb $1,000,00, and this Ueavy outlay must inatter is settled.
raise capital An that w-ny. ?Jow, I was saycontinue for some years ta corne.
Now, 1 would direct the attention of lion. ing that At is evident that in these candimembers of this House to tbe fact tbat Mr. tAons tUAs Senate is nat disposed ta deal
Sise*s statement there is, that for tUe pur- in a nlggardly manner with tbis company.
pose of replacing tUAs antiquated or ont of We bave not, as w-e might have done, and
idate plant An Important centres such as as I concelve At would have been very proMontreal ; ta provide for tUe natural growth per for us ta do, wben'tUAs large amount
and extension of tbe business tbrougbout Of addional capital was called for, inthe Dominion, and for the purpose of re- quired Into tUe business of tUAs company,
erectlng An addition ta that certain long and ascertained whether tUAs large amount
distance Unes w-hicb tbey bave in contempla- Of capital was nctually required for the
tion, At will require for sorne years ta corne legitimate extension o! their works or not.
an annual expenditure of a million dollars. Pariarnent bas not seen fit ta do so. TUey
Now, I have shown nlready from their other bave, on the c5ntrary, showvn a disposition
statement which was presented bere that ta grant tbe company power ta issue tUAs
tbey have at present at command tUe author- very large amount of stock wltbout any
ized Issue of bonds whicb gives thern avall- restrictions. This, Uowever, must be obable capital for tbis purpose of three million vieus, that wben w-e adopt that course, we
dollars, so that according ta their own state- are openlng tUe door for buge speculations
ment tbey have sufficient capital not only ta An tUe stock of tUe company. TUe hon. Seccarry on their business, but ta make ail tbese retary of State, I thlnk. in bis remarks, snid
improvements, ta provide for aIl the growtb that At was not proposed ta issue thîs stock
that is required by tUe natural expansion of ail at once--tbat it was ta be issued gradutUe business, and also ta erect new long illy in coming yegrs. as It rnigbt be required.

[SENATE!
That may be so. We have no guarantee of present rate of charges. The refusai, therethat. We may admit, if w-e choose, that tbat fore, of the Governor in Council lu tbat inis the intention of the company ut present, stance has certainly been of great advanand of the present directorate, but there is toge to the public. It certainly cannot be
no guarantee that the present directors will argued that it has been an lnjury to this
remain in charge of the uffairs of this coin- enterprise, for in the meantime the company
pany for any lengtb of tume, and wben we bas extended its work ; it bas put ln tbe
take the course wbich it is proposed to take latest Improvenients ; it bas, since 1895, aclu this Bill, It must be obvious to any one cording to the statement of the -Secretary of
tl'at we are lnvltlng the public, or a specu- State yesterday, lncreased the number of
J.atlve class among the public to buy up the its subscrlbers by ten tbousand, and Its
stock of this company, to tura out the pres- present position Is so satisfactory that It is
ent directors and put in a different set for abile to pay a dividend on its capital stock
the veri- purpose of placing this stock on or S per cent. It bas accumulated in this
the market for speculative purposes. That time a reserve fund, or contingent account,
appeurs to be the danger wbich Is faclng us, as tliey call It in tbls statement, of $900,000.
and whicb we ougbit, If possible, to guard Its bonds are at a preminni of 10 per cent,
against. It Is evident that If this Bill passes and its stock at a premium of 70 per cent,
wlthout any restrictions, speculative persons iii the open market. It does seemn to me
mlgbt take that course. This stock mlght that that condition of things ought to satlsfy
be divided among the shareholders, or It the reasonable desires or ambitions of nlmight be sold to the public, and a scale of most any speculator or investor. I f eel that
charges to the public for the use of tele- it is our duty in passing a Bill of this klnd
phones migbt be mnintaiued wbicb would to do what -we can to safeguard the lnterests
give a dividend, flot ou the actual cash value of the public froni exorbitant charges. I do
of the plant aud equipuient of the compauy, not know any better method that cau be
but on a fictltious value, of four or five proposed thon tbat wblch bas been suggested
tîmes that amount. How that is to be ac- by the bon. gentleman from Richmond, uncomplished is and always bas been a diffi- less upon investigation we find that the seccuit question-that is, bow to protect where ond amendment suggested by the lion. genwe created a monopoly, as w-e do lu this tleman from Brandon may answer the purcase, and where it Is desirable to create a pose, and 1 therefore wish to support the
monopoly it is difficuit to devise means of principle of the ameudment offered by the
protecting the public froni thut monopoly hon. senator froni Richmond.
abusîng the pow-ers whichi it possesses. I
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I beg to
bave given the matter some consideration, asic my hon. friend, who bas given such a
amnd up to the present time bave seen no very clear and elaborate statement, wbether
other way of affording the public any saf e- If the amendment proposed by the hon, genguard from extortionate charges except the tleman froin Richmond is carried, be will
method proposed in the ameudment submit- agree to give tbe five million dollars addited by the bon. meinber from Richmond. tional capital, or would he cut down the
This will not be entirely satlsfactory. 1 arn
not sure that it will be, but it is certainly.
better thon noue. It lias been ulready point-' Hon. 'Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland)-Perbaps
C-d out tbat the power whîéli the Governor if 1 were acting solely on my own judgment
lu Council exercised under tbe Act of 1892 lu the matter, 1 would look further into the
bas nlready bad a very salutary effect. In question of grantlng capital, but parliament
1897 the company, as the bon. meiber frorn bas already sanctloned the granting of the
Richmnond said, applied to the Governor incail.TeBlbs
sedt
eon
asdisscn
TeBhbs
Councîl to have their rates increased, and caia.
u
eto
b
omte
the schedule of rates submnitted to the Gov- rednadl
ernor ln Council then, if tbey had been aI- tborizing the increase of capital was passeil,
low'ed to be put lu operation, would have s0 that position I take it to be decided. Pargiven the company an incoine of double that lianient bas already given its consent to
-wbich they have been receiving under the allow the additional capital.
Hon. MINr.WOOD.

[MAY 14, 1901]

Hon. Mr. McICALLUM2%-I may be allowed
to make a few remarks upon this question
before the House divides on the motion. I
say Mr. Bell with bis telephone company
lias done a great deal for Canada. I remember the time wben hie used to be at
Brantford, trying to perfect bis apparatus,
but at the saine time hie Is at the liead of
this company. and as we ail know It must
be a nionopoly, and I say that we should
nilndeed about wliat prIvileges we
be carefu
grant this company, even althougli as I say
tliey have doue a great dcal for the country. Thý,y have done a great deai for the
country lu the matter of shoe leather alone,
and ln the matter of time. But tbey have
beefl well pq.1t for it. My hon. friend from
Westmoreland, tell us that the company
have paid 8 per cent dlvidends to the stockholders, and that the company bas a rest
of nine hundred thousand dollars. I thlnk
But wbiat do
they ouglit to lie satlsfied.
they want to do ? They -want to put themselves above ail goverament and above
every one in this country, and to charge
what they please. In 1892 wben tbey were
before this parliament, bon. gentlemen wIll
remember that we thought tbe matter was
ail lovely and riglit then. The Bill was
sent back to committee, and was amended
on the third reading. The hon. Secretary
of State said It was ail riglit then, but lt
turned ont to be aIl wrong. The Minîster
of Justice says the people got no0 redress under that, and what have we 110W before us to
show that we should grant the suggested
privileges to the Bell Teleplione Company ?
We have nothlng at ail before us to show
it except the statement of'the lion. Secretary of State, and what lie told us ln 1892
lias turned out to bie wrong altogether.
Are we to take bis word to-day ? Are we
to take that statement ? 1 remember the
discussion that toolc place between the bon.
Secretary of State and the lion, gentleman
from Rideau, when the lion. gentleman
from Rideau said, 'Oh, you are interested,'
and the Secretary of State replied, 'Oh,
no:' lie said, 'Yes, you are.' Then, ' no, no.'
Then, 'Weil, Sir, you are employed, then.'
The lion. Secretary of State dld not answer
that. He said lie had no stock, but lie dld
flot deny lie n-as employed. The question
comes to my mind to-day, wbea tbe hon.
Secretary of State bas worked so liard, de26

401

livered so niany speeches, if 1 miy be privileged to say so, in the committee, urging
I
this Bill, wbat Is the reason of it ?
thlnk lie spoke no less than five times, and
hie Is promotin, the Bill now. I thinkl t is
flot very modest for a ininister of the Crown
to push hlmself forward with legilslation of
thls klnd-a prîvate Bill. 1 thinklihe is flot
qulte as modest as I should lke to see a
member of the goverfiment of this country.
His colleague alongside of him bas flot taken
any part In the debate so far, and 1 may say
to hlm as Minister of Justice that I hiope
hie will looki into the matter so that there
will b 'e no0 mishaps under this Bill, s0 that
tbe Bill wlll hold water. I remember the
remarks that were made then by the chairman of the commlttee. The chairman said
then, ' The Bill ls ail riglit. Mr. Scott said
It was ail riglit,' and lie urged the matter
through. I hope the hon. Minister of Justice will see that the ameudments proposed
by the hon, gentleman from Richmnond will
be effective, so that the people of this counitry wll get justice, I do flot w.ant them tu
get any more. 1 have confidence In the
government of the country on thîs question.
Hon. Mr. TEM'PLEMAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I have more confidence la the government of the country
than I have in the Bell Telephone Company.
In the
And wby ? 1 have my reasons.
first place, the people of this country cannot
reach the Bell Telephone Company, but
they can reach the goverament of the day
If they do net do what Is riglit and fair
to the people of this country. I have not one
farthing's Interest ia any shape or manner
the Bell Telephione Company. Now, look
In1
at the amendment proposed by the hon.
What does lie
gentleman trom Calgary.
tell us ? He Is flot bere now, but lie tells
us that that ameudment provides that the
company wlll be hiable to any legislation
which the parlament of Canada cheoses to
pass. How generous, bow good they are.
It was very kind lndeed. But now Is the
time to make them do what Is rîglit wben
they are asking an Increase of five million
dollars capital. My hon. frlend from Westmoreland shows that, they do not want It.
and they do flot tell us wliat tliey want It
for. The bon. Secretary of State does flot teill
us, and I am not bound to accept as gospel

[SENATEI
what he told me from subsequent proceefiings on this Bill and other matters. I arn
This is the tirne to
flot g-oing to do it.
get tbe matter put straigbt, wheu they are
asking favours. 'If yon do not corne down
to what is fair and legitimate and make a
certain agreement witb the parliarnent of
Canada that you will act towards your
custorners in a just and proper manner we
wIll flot give you tbe increase of capital.'
What do they want it for ? Are they going
to water their stock ? Why tbey bave been
WVhat are
watering the capital already.
tbey going to do xitb It ? As the bon. genitleman frorn Westmoreland says, they have
capital enough for any legitiniate undertaklng at the present tîme. Are they going
to swamp ail tlie other little telephones In
the conntry-all the big lisb eatlng up the
littie ones ? That Is wvhat tbey want it for.
They either want it to water their stock
or crusb out other industries. I would not
object to giving the capital If tbey give us
a fair explanation of wbat they want to do
wltb it, but if they do not do that, this
is our opportunity to bave this Bill frarned
s0 that it wlll compel. theni to do what is
Just and proper towards the people of this
country, and I lool. to the bon. MîNlnister of
Justice to attend to that. I have before me
on my desk a paper which ask-s the hon.
Minlster of Justice to do that, and tbere
Is no doubt ln my mind that he sbould do
My bo.friend from Calgary says,
so.
' Oh, It is irnposing on the government too
Tbey
mucb.' I arn not of that opinion.
have tbe bonour and the emolument let
[hem have the trouble and the gratification, If tbey are actuated by a desire to
do wbat is juat by the people of this country. I must say that durlng ail the tîme I
have been lu the Senate and In parliament,
I have flot seen as mucb lobbylng about
any measure wbich bas been brougbt before us. We see people button-holing this
man and that man in order to get bis vote,
and to do a wrong to the people of this
,country. I stand before the senators of tis
Dominion. I arn proud of them ail. 1 amn
I
proud of being one 0f tbe members.
know that thîs Senate bas stood up for the
people's rights and prevented greater wrongs
tban tbat. Tbe Senate resisted Sir John
Macdonald's government, and tbey bave
resisted Sir Wilfrid Laurier's gov'eri ment,
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM.

People that talk
irrespective of polities.
gliblyo0fthe Senate outside of this Cliamber
in their heart of bearts feel proud of the
Senate of Canada. I want bon. senators
to stand by their guns. The Senate will
soon deteriorate if we are going to be carried away to do a wrong In order to please the
Wlll the Senate
Bell Telephone Company.
permit It to be sald of it, ' You are interested yourseives, some of you are putting money In your own pockets,' is tbat
going to be said ? I amrn ot going to say
very much about that part of IL. Stock
is vers cheap now, it can be got at par, and
it Is worth about 170, but I do not thinlt
that is going- to affect the Senate of this
country. I tblnk they are too bighrninded,
and that they would flot -disgrace thernselves to do anytbing of thnt- kind.
That Is rny opinion, and I ask bon.
inbers one and :111 10 rejee~t tut>'
ameudmnent of the lion. gentlemlan froi
CJalgary. It is true there bave been soine
conversions in this matter. 1 arn not going
to, speak about that. I rend about the conversion that took place on the road to Dawascus and that was for the benefit of mankind, and I hope tbese conversions will turu
out to be for the benefit of the people of
(Janada. There was one word said about
retroactive leglslation. 0f course the bon.
gentleman frorn Richmond accepted that. I
know retroactive legislatlon bas always beeu
considered bad, but If ever there was a case
in the world where it sbould reacli a comipany who took money out of the pockets
of the people, this company sbould be rnade
to dIsgorge now, and if tbey escape witbout
paylng tbe money they sbould be satisfied.
Hon. gentlemen rnay say that I arn a littie
out of order when I speak of retroactive legislation, but I arn only saying what I rnay
do when we corne to the third reading, and
1 may have sornetbing more to say before
the Bill is finally passed. I tbink the goverilment of the country should control the
rates. They can reach tbern at any time,
and 1 arn satisfied tbey will be actuated by
a desire to do what Is rigbt between the
parties. There mnust be sorne power 10
reacb this company. You cannot allow thenh
to do what they like througlh the country.
They obtained large franchises in the
i
the governinent.
early days frorn
a n not g-oing to split hairs about

[MAY 14, 1901]
the iaw bere and there as some hon. gentlemen do. 1 bave the law on rny desk before
me, and 1 have also the speeches of my
hon. friend the Secretar of State which I
may read hlm before this matter la disposed
of, to show the active part the bon. gentleman bas taken where he -had any interest
at stake. I have feit his great power la
this House when I was trying to work ln
the Interests of the public. I f sit his great
power worklng againat me where he had
an Interest. I do not say he had a personal
Intereat, but the Interests of bis employers.
A.nd there la another Bill coming before
parlament wlth whidxh I may have to deal.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-4 assure the hon, gentleman that 1 have not any more Interest in
this matter, pecuniarlly or personally, than
he bas.
Hon. Mr. -McCALLU.N-To be candid and
right, and parllamentary, 1 must accept the
hon. gentleman's dental. Until I have better
proof I wlll accept It, and If I have better
proof-I will wait until I have before I say
anytbing. I have referred to the hon. gentleman's speech, and to what an hon, gentleman told hlm, and he neyer denled itthat he was la the employ of the Bell Telephone Company. I do flot know wbetber
the bon. gentleman la to-day. I know he ta
not a stockholder, - and 1 say candidly and
hionestiy, when he makes this denial I accept
It. If 1 arn able to find better proof, that
la my business.
Hon. Mr. GOWÂN-The best consideration
1 have been able to give to this matter has
led me to the same conclusion as the hon.
gentleman froni Richmond, who bas very
f ully consIdered the matter as one can eautly
form an opinion froni bis speech, and I entireiy agree with hlm in ail he says and the
mode la which he proposes to safeguard the
public. I arn entirely at oas with hlm Ia
that regard. I tbink what he proposes la
only reasonable, and the ternis which be
seeka ta Impose on the company are equaily
reasonable, and I thlak wlll meet the whole
case. Corporations sometimes forget tbat
they are artificial creations--that they are
the creaturea o! a statute and that tbey receive their powers lndlrectly from the people. Parliament grants the aecessary power
to enable theni to carry out an undertaking
tbat may appear to be In tbe public intereat,
ffl

403

and a corporation la sometimes apt to forget
that it la flot love or lrindnesa or personal. regard, or a spirit of benevolence i whlch
parliament grants certain privtleges to theni.
Parliament a.lways has In vlew the best lnterests of the people, and when certain proposais are made by scientlffc men or men of
means and capital, parliament may see certain advantages, and may grant certain privileges to tbem for the benefit, directly or
indirectly, of the people, and one desires to
see corporations weli and liberaily rewarded
for their labour and their Invention. They
ouglit to be well rewarded for what they
brIng before the public. But, the public advantage and the public Interest la, after ail,
the fIrst and chief consideration, and should
ever be so ln a popular representative body.
We are not here merely to -serve our personal interest or to promote those which
rnay affect usa favourably. We are here to
carry out the well understood wlsbes of the
peopl.e, as expressed througb their representatives, and the good of the people la the
first and chief consideration that sbould
operate with any public man having a seat
on the floor of this House. 1 was struck very
mucb with the rernark that my hon. friend
opposite made with regard to the danger
generally of granting corporations power to
Increase their capital by a very large
arnount, sud there are other attendant dangers which he did not advert to, but wblcb
are obvions to every one wbo thinks upon
the subject. It bas miade nme more strong
than 1 was before, If possible, lu favour of the
resolution to be proposed by my bon. friend
froni Richmond at the third reading of the
Bill. I should like to say that I bappen to
be a stockholder, and as sucb, would, under
ordlna-ry cIrcunistances and In regular
course, feel that I ougbt not to vote. I
arn qulte aware that the rule of our buse
provides that persons baving a personal Interest ougbt not to vote, and 1 amn qulte aware
that that rule bas been considered by sorne
not to apply to the stockholders In an Incorporated conipany, but I fail to agree In that
view. I think it is an erroneous view. If
we look at the underlying principle It wil
be seen that It is a very limited view to take
of the rule to say that It dos not refer to
the stockholders In incorporated campanles.
There la a maxini o! law whicb, la principle,
applies to this case-nerno In propria causa

[SEN ATE.1
index esse debit. But, the matter urnediately before this Hlouse is upon the last
clause of the report of the Banking Coinmittee. 1 do nlot know whether lt was f ully
discussed or nlot, but, to my mInd, a more
Incomplete and singular report neyer proceeded froin a committee of this House or
of the House of Commons. It is c.ertainly
a most strange report to make :
The company shall be subject ta any general
iaws hereatter passed by the parliamnent of
Canada respectlng the rates charged on telepliones, &c.
Now, I do nlot know wlietlier lion, gentlemen here will remember the old systeni of
pleading whien a case as often turned upon
the akili and astutenesa of the special
pleader as on Its merita. Tbey liad pleads,
rejoinders, rebuttere and so forth. Very
trequently a case was determined aumply upon the akili of the pleader. Tis
seenis to be a very skulfully-drawn clause.
Whio put it there I know not, and 1 do flot
care to Inquire, but It seenis a very skilibullydrawn clause. It miglit be cnlled a dilatory
plea. Certninly It Is dllatory, for It puts
off the consideration-shoves It off upon
something to be done at a future time, and
that may neyer be done. It gives away, In
the firat place, the whole question. It admits the mischief, but It refera to some ludefinite tume for the parliament of Canada
to make a general law by whlcli telephone
companies are to be bound. What an absurdity ! If a general law be passed at a
future turne, of course the Bell Telephone
Company, ns well as ail other telephone coinpanies, would be subject to it, and It is quite
unneces'sary ýto put It In that way. Unlesa
there Ia something more than appears on
the face of It, I cannot see wliy the coinmittee and the House should adopt a report
with pliraseology of tbis klnd. It would be
stultifying theniselves. It la a contradiction
In ternis; It Ia Inconsequent and providea
for nothing. It speaks of laws to be 'hereafter passed by the parliament of Canada.'
It la not possible for the parliament of today
to tie up or Interfere withi the action of a
future parliament. This does not seek to tie
up, exactiy, their hands, but it seema as If
It were necessary that this committee sliouid
lend Its f eeble aid to the legialatures of the
future as if to boîster thern up. That, In
itself, I thinc, ls very objectionable. If the
statement be true and sound, that it will be
Hon. ýMr. GOWA.N.

proper for parliamient to say the Bell Telephione Company shaîl be subject to future
laws, it would be equaliy proper to say the
Bell Telephone Company shall not be subject to any law hereaf ter passed to regulate
the rates charged by telephone companies.
Poslbly the framer 0f that portion of the
report may bave thouglit it a plea of confession and avoidance. It confesses the mischief and avoida It by putting it off to a
future tume, and wlth a flouriali of truxnpets
intimates that the company in the future la
to be bound. It ia an utterly unwarrantable
proposition. I do not care to enter upon
the broad question, but I must say that
people are beginning to feel crowded with
the energetic way ln which Incorporated
companies are pushing forward certain
dlaims derogatlng froni tlie riglits 0f the
people. They can scarcely atir without belng
met by the statement 'Oh, that privilege
lias been granted to us.' It Is a dangerous
thing for companies to puali their rights,
if they have rIglita, too far. The people
of Canada are a very generous people,
an impulsive people, and tliey yield
generally very readlly to the blandishinents
of companies 'who offer theni great advantages ln the present and advantages ln the
future, and they wake up sometimea to find
that ahl doea not turn out as it waa auggeated ln the first place, and they regret It ; but
still they are willing to hold to what they
have agreed to. But the people 0f Canada
are aiso tenacious of their riglita, and the
time wlll corne wlien combines of various
kinda may try a faîl with the people, and
they will flnd theinselves worsted, and tbey
'will lie aomethlng like Mrs. Partingtou, who
tried to keep out the Atlantic ocean wlth
a bircli brooni, but did not aucceed. If public opinion la aroused, the people of this
country will not sulimit to be wronged and
-wlll not submit to encroachments bit by bit
upon the natural liberties of the people. I
thlnk it la Voltaire wlio said that wheu the
Engliali and Frenchi were disputing ou this
continent about tlie riglits of certain portions of It, both the Frencli and Enghiali
agreed perfectly that each of their titles was
the beat, but botli were perfectly satisfied
that the original owners of tlie isou bad no
rIglit wliatever ln the matter, and thes?ý
corporations are beginning to treat the
people of this country as If they had

[MAY 14, 1901]
rights in public necessities ; and if which have been suggested and which have
unthey once had a foothold it would go on to my Support. I would flot feel at liberty,
m*y hon. der ordinary circumistances, to vote in the
no end. But the rernarks made by
befriend from W%ý1estmorelafld struck me very matter, but I vote for the amendment
made cause it is ln the interests of the people and
forcibly, together with the reinarks
by my hon. friend frorn Richmnond, confirm- for the protection of the people.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--During
ing xuy view of the true interests of the
public.at large, and that 1 ought to support the debate the other day upon this question,
the nuiendînent of my hon. friend fr011 lu answer to a question put by the hon. genRic.hmond, when the tirne cornes. As regards tlernan fromn Victoria, the Secretary of State
this portion of the report, it 15 so siaipîr made certain statements ln reference to the
aibsurd that no one with conimon sense could city of Toronto having asked for other comaccept it. It was drawn up hastily, but it panies to briag their systern into the city,
ls not ln such a shape as would be accept- and that thiey had refused to do so on acable. 1 quite agree with whiat my hion. frieud count of the rates being too 10w. I read
from *Monck (Mr. McCalluni) has said about at the tinue a note whicli I received from
the tribunal. 1 have the most perfect con- Mr. E. P. Clarke, one of the members fronu
fidence myseif ln the tribunal proposed un- the city of Toronto, to the following effect :
There has never been any bons fide company
der the amendaient. 1 believe that the governuient of the countiy, mien in the respon- which desired to corne into Toronto which deTothe
to do
sible positions that they occupy, wçould be ciined is now so because of than 10w rates. muniaay other
paying more
d wht
mostanxous lsrigt an prperronto
*xnot sxios
t o dowha isrigt ad pope, cipaiity lu Ontario, save one.
and would have the courage of their convicTemme o
etTrno
r lre
tions. I say it, not merely because rny hon.
of the Senate
friend the Minister of Justice ls in the gov- was sitting iu the vestibule
the statenient of the
ernmeut, 1 have full confidence in any tri- at the tirne, and heard
He Imrnediately
has a guiding- hand, but hon. gentleman. Caswell, the cîty telegraphed
bunal in which hie
solicitor of
f al te meber of he ov-to Mr. Thomnas
I sIplysay
effect :
ernrnent, I do not believe there would be Tooto, to the followlag
Ottawa, May 9, 1901.
any disposition on their part to act unthe public Interest The conser- To Thos. Caswell, City Solicitor, Toronto.
fairly with
any do so to corne to
Did
vation of the rights of the people would be TorontoToronto declinefi tocornpany on account of
which ask
'wlth theai. -Now, it toe 10w rates? This allegation has been made
prirnarily conlsldered
la
xuay be that under the old regulations it in the Senate this afternoon, and an answer
E. P. CLARKE.
flot be workable, but certain rules nretyrqie.(Sgd.)
would
eould be laid down, and, if necessary, ex- Drn
h
an
a
r
lrercie
perts could be employed to assist ln prepar- the foloigtlga
eerm
olwn
lng a case and keeping it in order, but under
Toronto, May 9.
rntioned by rny hon. frielnd
the conditions
he very E. F. Clarke, Esq., M.F., Ottawa.
froin Richmond, 1 think it would
Toronto has never asked any has been cornworkabie, and one or two cases would settle pany to corne bere. No proposai telephone made
this to any, and therefore no refusai for 10w rates
general questions. 1 earnestly entrent
House to cousider the dangers ia the future. or other reasons.
TEOS. CASWELL,
(Sgd.)
We hear of doings in the United States that
really shock one's morals and make one fearCiySlctr
that the contagion of evil example miay I do not propose to enter into aur discussion
to say
eome here. We do not even know what this of the merits of th is case f urther than
It I arn f ully la accord with the sentiments
capital ay be for.
large increase iii
may be for legitimate purposes. I listened whlch have been uttered by the venerable
his seat.
to the speech of rny lion. friend froin Ot- judge (Gowaa) who has just taken
He weat over the ground, but hie 1 must say la justice to Mr. Sise, the presitawa.
spoke
did not account for more than three or four dent of the company, that when hie
hundred thousand dollars expenditure. What to me about the misquotation as it appears
did
ls to be doue with this large suni ?~ 1 think la the report, hie said at once that hie
it would be au exceedingîr dangerous thing jiot believe that Mr. Miller ever iuteuded
gonto grant these rights without the conditions to make such misquotation, and as one
119

J)SENATE

shouid ilot :ittCrlpt to p)lace the Bell Telephone Comnpany iu an exceptionally favourable p)ositioni. It occurs to nie tlîat the moti of the Hou. Mr. Louglîeed fuily meets,
If at ai- future tirne. the
the difficnlty.
arliaînent of the country shouid jutroduce
to put ail teleplione compaflies uiider
t ii
the saine restrictionîs (aîd 1 tlîink tlîey ail
tlîould be), the Bell Telephone could have
îio rig-lit to complain, but it is rnost unfair
to legisiate unkindly towards one couipaîîy
whea tifty-eiglit others have been allowed
to do business without these conditions.
NW'bat does the coilupany ask uis for ?Power to increase its capital. 1 coiitead
it would îlot ask for tbat power if it did flot
want the moîîey, and wbo is a better judge
1
whletlîer tbe moliey is wanted or uot ?
shahl not go Into tliat part of the questioni
Hou. '-%r. McIDO.\ALD (C.B.)-There bave further tban to say that 1 believe the coiabeeîî sorne nlegotiations betweeii tie city paiiy is the best judge of wlbat it requires.
of Torontto and sone United States coin- he couîpaîy nslis us to be aliowed t0 lal)anies, 1 uiîderstand.
crease its capital, and 1 arn inclined to think
It bas
Honl. Mr. SOOTT-l was fuily borne out it is for no iliegitimiate pur-poses.
by the facts -wben I sald that Toronto in beeîî said the cornpany mwiil make use of the
1895 sent circulars ail over the United iiioney for titis pur-pose and for that purpose.
States to endeavour to get companies to So far I do tiot lcîîowt thnt it lias ntteîapted
corne in and take lie service up. There Is to do iiîuytbiing of the kind. 1 suppose yon
liear thie 11111e village 1 coule frorn rneatioîîed
plenty of evilence of it.
!i titis matter for the first tirne now. On the
Hlt. Sir W'ILLIAM HINGSTO-N-It sorne- other band we have heard of the grent city
tintes liappens tbat tbe principles uîideriylig of Toronto a good deal, and we have been
ai (lutstioui rnay be fair, just, reasonable aîîd almost led to believe frorn the scope ant
riglit, and yet in tbe application of tbose trenîd of the discussion tbat it was a inatter
priitciîhles, very great Injustice may be clone. between tlîis cornpany aad Toronto alonie.
Nou-, Ilînt is tbe position in wbicb I flid nîy- M.Nontre-al bas rnade no opposition t0 tue Bill.
self lîlacet i l dealing w-itlî the amieadmeats Il is flot dissatisfied w-ith tbe rates and it
prîopuse<l by te boit, gentleman frorn Rich- is pleased witb tbe service, In no part of
nmoud, Ia 1rinciple 1 agree wltb binm fully the world I have ever been ia is thtere a
and eîîtirely. yet wvben it cornes to tbe con- better telepliote service tban la the city of
crete, question, 1 arn agalinst bim, and wby ? M-%oitreal, and altlîouglî -e pay more for it
ht occurs to mie tbat w-e cannot adopt the thaît Toronîto we do nlot gruinible. Torontto
priuiciple wliicli lie bas eiîunciated uiîder the pays $45 for business bouses for wbiat costs
ijieseuit circinstauces without actinîg witlî us $50. Wbiere Toronto pays $25 for private
great liartiality, anîd therefore w-itli unfair- residences we pay $30. and sti11 we do not
îîess. If the Bell Telephone w-ere the grurnble, nnd -%vly 7? The service is go adioiilv coînpany doing business iii Can- mjirable, 1 do not thiuk it is possible to bave
liesitation ia better titan we have iii M-Noîtreal.
ada I sliould bave no
Tiiere
recordiug rny vote in favour of the is anotîter tlîing whicli. as a niedical manarndmnent of my boa. friend frorn Rieli- and if il Nvere not for tbat cirturnstaneies 1
mioud, but tîtere are fifty-eiglit conipatiies do tiot tbink I sitould open rny inouth on titis
ia titis couîitry, anîd of these thirty-eigbit subject to-day-I rnuist refer to. and tbat is
have becit created silice tie Bell Teleplione the excellenît mauner !i w-icli the conipaiiy
Comîpanîy lias Iteen l existence, and yet on treats its emp~loyees. I bave neyer seenl if's
iiot one of thein, I nam inforrned, lias any lîniane anid geiietous treatrnent excelled.
lie
clause of titis kiad been irnposed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

tienian sbould net tow-ards another lie wisbed to make that statement. Wbatever others
may bave said I know not. 1 sirnply speak.
for tbe only gentleman -witb wborn I bad ai
conversation on tbe subject. I bave no doubt
others used tbe arguments referred to by1
lte hon. gentleman from Richmond. Many
people are apt to attribute to gentlemeni
when they make statements, that they are
Mr. Sise
actuated by Improper motives.
disclaimed in the strongest manner any
motive or want of veracity on the partof the hon. gentleman from Richmond. I1
desire to put the clty of Toronto, go far
as the people there are concerned, in a pro1 had no
per ligbt before the Senate.
knowledge of these telegramas until tbey
-were put in my bands.

[MAY 14, 19011

407

and gone to sale, bef ore 1 feel any sympatby for It. We have had before us in this
House and in committee every day institutions whicb have become bankrupt tbrough
nothing else but their own mismanagement
and Inattention to their own affairs, and we
have always sympathlzed with them, and
given themn an extension of time, and clauses
and ameadments to give tbem another
chance. But a company cornes before us
here, starting iu a smali way witb a smail
capital, going on year after year adding to,
their plant, exteuding their works, and by the
exercise of great business ability and a gen!us for organization and administration,
have placed thernselves at last in one of the
bigbest positions occupied by a commercial
company in tbis country, and what are tbey
called to-day ? There is scarcely a gentleman who bas spoken to-day w-ho bas liad a
good word for thein. The ýompIany bias
been called an octopus, spreading out its tentacles, and gatbering ail the business intereste of the country within its grasp, or an
anaconda swallowing ail rival concerns wlthln Its capacions maw. 1 saw a cartoon. myHon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-1Ilntend to self, la wbîcb the old Greek fable was resay only a few words ln winding up this de- vived, and Toronto '«as depicted as a beautibate. In the first place, the time bias gone fui mnaidea, cbained to a rock, and the Bell
by very fast this afternoon, and we want to Telephone Comnpany as a savage vulture
reach a vote. lu the nent place, It has been gnawing at bier vitals. That is the w-ay tbiey
so, thoroughly threshed out It le better to speak of the company wvhich bias year after
say very IJttle in closing the debate. Al- year extended and hult up a business w-bic]'
thougb 1 arn bere advocating the cause of bas become a necesslty in every bousebold lu
the Bell Telephone Company, I f eel lilce a Canada, and if to-day this company, or the'
fish out of water, la that 1 am on the oppo- other telephone companies were to be rerite aide to a great many of my warmest duced and put out of business, we would
and best friends ln' the matter. Even my flot know wbat to do. It lias also been reprehion. friend from Wolseley, whom 1 have re- sented that this company was fightlng
talned tixis session for the purpose of second- against the public generally. I tell you this,
lng ny. motions, bias la this matter lifted up tIght ls not between the Bell Telephone
bis hand agalnst me. In another way I bave Company and the public generally. It ls a
f elt outraged ; I have llstened to the speech fight to a finish between the Bell Telephone
of my hion. frlend from Barrie (Hon. Mr. CJompany and tbe clty of Toronto. That la
Gowan) who bias cornplirnented ail tbe where this opposition really originated. ToI
speakers on that aide of the House-be lias ronto Is represented by Its members, and
gentleman from West- will say a finer set of gentlemen, representeuloglzed the lion.
the
moreland, buttered up the bon. gentleman lng any clty, does flot exlst to-day than
and poured oUl on the head four gentlemen representing Toronto, and
from Richmond,
of mine,
of the bon, gentleman from Monck, and I they are ahl personal. frlends
ail. I s'bould bave corne in for a and 1 hope '«111 remaîn so. But there
arn out of It
share at least of the oleaginoue fluid ie bias was no kick in the city of Toronto. The
of 7,000
poured on the rest. I do flot make any apol- management tells me that out
subscrlbers ln Toronto they have had only
ogy for supportlng the Bell Telephone Comthxe service
pany in this matter. I arn mot one of those 127 complainte from the time
was put ln there. In the province of On'«ho bave to wait.until a coneeru is bank-

I bave rarely seen it equalled. 'We have
establishmnents lu Montreal, employi11g one
to, two tbousand individuals, aud it is to
much tbe habit, as sooni as an emiployec' is
struck down by accident or othierivise lu
the performance of bis or bier duty, to stop
his or ber pay that very instant. It le niot
so witbi the Bell Telepbone Company. Emnployees have corne to me aud bave told mie
tbe manager had lnsisted tbey muet have
tivo or tbree w-eeks' rest, and lu tbe meantime the pay would go on. The eniployed
are looked after as cbildreni are looked after
by a mother. The admirable service, and the
kindness witb whicb servants are looked
after entitle the company to the kindest
consideration and to tbe fairest treatmuent.
Whlle agreeing fully ln principle with ail
that bas fallen frorn the bion, gentleman
frorn Richmond, la the abstract, yet 1 inust
vote for the report of the cornrittee as presented to us as the only fair and equitable
solution of a question into tbe discussion of
whicbi not a little acrîxpony bas unhappily
fouad place.

Lupt,

[SEN ATEl
tario there w-as no complaint. The people much surprised ta find the service first-class
the rates charged below thie actual cast of
ln ail the smnaller towns were perfectiy satis- and
furnishing service in cities of the size of ToI then nvestlgated
ronta ln the United States.
fied.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Wlndsor ls flot
Batisfied.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHEHOFFER. You may flot
bc satisfied yourself.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN1%-Others are not
satlsfied.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-The dissatisfaction has been worked up. Toronto has
undertaken to, what 1 miglit call. stand Up
this company. The Bell Telephone Company
asked for au extension of capital of five million dollars. The extension of capital is flot
lisapproved of ln Toronto. I have flot
heard anything against it, but Toronto says
before you pass a Bill giving that extension,
7011 must make certain rates or give certain
priviieges to us. That is the position. It
Is very mucli like a highwayman's standup. The company say the capital Is
necessary ; the stockhoiders authorize the
capital. The Bill is passed for that purpose.
and yet they want to attach certain clauses
before they aiiow it to go through. I have
heard another statement made here and repeated this afternoon ; the leader of the
opposition bas read out certain teiegrams
to the effect that no company was requested to do business ln Toronto that had refused because the rates there were s0 10w
that they could not maire money out of It.
A good deal of the feeling that was worked
Up on this question arose on that representation. To show you how easy is it to
refute it, I wIlli read copies of letters from
companies which were solicited to do business ln Toronto, and hon, gentlemen can
see whether the statement Is correct or not.
I will read a copy of a letter sent to the city
engineer of Toronto by the City and Suburban Telegrapli Association, Cincinnati :
The City and Suburban Teiegraph Ass'n,
Cincinnati, Oct. 25, 1895.
E. H. Keating, Esq.,
City Engineer,
Toronta. Ont.
Dear Slr,-Replying ta yours of the 23rd mast.
asknng for information regarding the rates
charged for telegraph service ln this clty. 1 beg
ta inclose a copy of a circular lssued AprIl 1,
1895, giving the rates 110W charged ln this city.
In this connection, permit me ta say I had the
pleasure cf visiting your city about one year aga,
and while there tooki occasion ta Inquire regardIng te]egraph rates and services. 1 was very
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER.

the wages paid, rents of office and exchange,
and other expenses incidentai ta rendering a
telephane exchange service, and found thema ta
1 beg ta say,
be about the same as we pay.
If the rates now charged for telephone service
in yùur city are the same as charged when I
was there. the telephone company Is maklng no
maaey, and It la oniy a question of Urne whenl
the rates muet be Increased, the effIciency of
the service decreased, or the exchange clased.
0f course, this statement Is made assuming
the telephone company o! Canada ls engaged la
the business for profit.
Respect! ully,
GEORGE N. STONE,
(Sgd.)
General Manager.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.) Wham is
that addressed to

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFEII-To Mr. E. F.
Keating, city engineer, Toronto. and in case

any hon. gentleman shouid thiuik that it
bas been forinuinted for the purpose of
being produced here. it is dated October
25th, 1895. 1 wiil read another letter addressed ta Mr. E. F. Keating, city engineer,
Toronto, the sanie gentleman who w-as ap-

parently sending out circulars or letters to
these companies, wbich was denied before
the committee. This letter rends ns foliows :
Dear Sir,-Your letter of 23rd ta aur manager
at Grand Rapids bas been referred ta this office.

Our rates there are *Subscribers wlthin one
mile ln an air lune of the centrai office, gro unded
lune service, for business purposes, $48 per year;
resident purposes, $30 per year. For metallic
circuit service,

for business purpases,

$72 per

year, and for resident purposes. $54 a year. But
I would suggest that Grand Rapids daes nat
at ail compare with Tc.raznta, there being at the
former place but 1,600 sdfbscribers, whereas in
Toronto there are some 4,600. The latter place
would much better compare wlth Detroit, where
the rates for grounded line service wlthin haif
a mile o! the central office, for business purpases,
are $72 a year, and for resident purpases, $60
a year; and for metailic circuit, subscrlbers
within one mile of the central office, for business
purposes, $120 a year; for resident purpases,
$100 a year. We have here, ln round numbers,
4,400 subscribers. You are perhaps aware that It
casts mare per subscriber ta furnish service ln
an exchange of the size of Detroit than fl ane
the sîze of Grand Rapids, and in Grand Rapids
more thsn ln ane a! 400 or 500 subscribers.
Then, on October 2(ith. also addressed to
E. F. Keating. city engineer, Toronto, the
following note:
Dear Sir,-The an nuai rates for telephone service, telephane excbange service, ln tbis city
are as follows :
F.ir business, from $100 ta $140.
Physicians' residences, froru $60 ta $100.
Private residences, frami $60 ta $100.

[MAY 14, 1901]
That does flot look very much as If there
had been communication wlth these other
parties. I will read a letter from the Interior Telephone Company, of New York, ln
answer to a Toronto advertisemeut, addressed to R. F. Fleming, Esq., mayor of Taronto, dated July 18th, 1M9, which shows
Toronto must have taken a great deal of
trouble ln sending notices to other countries In regard to telephones. The letter
reads as follows :
Dear Sir,-In response ta your request for a
statement of those views which appeared ta me
prohibitive of any proposai from this or, lu tact,
tram any ather company for a franchise ta operate a telephone exchange ln Taronta, I have
tried ta faruiulate them brlefiy:
P'irst. The franchise, flot being exclusive for
even a limited periad, offers a new company
na faothold excepting that ta be obtalned ln
open campetition with a thoroughly established
Company.
Second. The only inducement which the city
authorities seem able ta offer ln the way of encouragement is the city's patronage of about
seventy Instruments (a Ilttie less than l-7Oth
of the total business). and probable relief tram
expensîve conduit construction by the freedom
of uslng pole construction throughout the City.
Third. Wblle the City authorities offer a new
company every assistance ln obtaining a charter,
giving equal prIvIleges to those now enjayed by
the Bell Company, yet it is Impossible for any
one ta give a guarantee that yaur parliameut
will consider It wise ta duplicate thase privileges; and, at best, such a charter could not
be obtained until the winter session, If, lndeed,
time yet exists for the gazettlng o! the application for the comlng session.
Faurth. That under existing conditions, or
even such as might obtain under a charter as
much better than that o! the Bell as could
possibly be obtainable, the opportunities afferefi
a uew compauy are only thase of entering
valuntarily into a fight ta a finish with a ricb
and establlshed campauy so situated that It
cannot wlthdraw, for the sake o! gainlng, If
rates now curfield ln
successful, a pi'amise which the returas for the
suficient
rent do not
risk ta which a large amount of money must be
subi ected.
If you can get anytbing more definite than
that from a company wbich bas refused ta
enter the field because the rates are too
10w, 1 ebould 11k-e to eee IL. He goes ou ta
say :
It le necessary to fight ta the finish the exlsting company, and, sooner or later, It is necesAll this to win subsary ta build conduits.
scribers educated ta rates not more than adequate to warrant the first item of capitalizatian,
ta say uothing of reimbursement for and the
chance of lass of the greater part a! the capital
required for the first twa Items.
I canuot see bow, lu the face of sucli evldeuce, any sucli telegrami or any sucli letter
as that which bas been placed in the bauds
of my bon. leader ta be read here can be

possibly looked upon as beiug the trutb, and
this Is one of tbe most important thinge
urged againet this company. It shows that
that argument falîs ta the ground. Then, a
great part of the other argumente urged
My bon.
againet It must do likewise.
frlend fram -Richmond bas made a point of
the large accumulation or fl~O,00O which
Tbey bave
thîs Company has rolled up.
been lu business twenty years, and that
would only be $40,000 a year, aud that
consiste largely lu plant, and much of that,
as you kuow, must be dead plant, for every
time there le a uew invention or alteration,
or a new eystem Iutraduced, a very large
proportion of what they bave been using
becomes uselees and may be thrown Into
the ecrap heap. It le of no value, and tbey
are hiable at auy time ta bave tbeir systems
thoroughly upset sud ta bave ta Introduce
new Inventions, wbicb tbey are prepared ta
do, because tbey are an up-to-date compafly,
but, tbey are hiable ta have ta tbrow aside
a large quautity of tbis plant wbicb le set
down as their capital stock. Forty tboueaud
a year le not mucb ta lay up every year.
Wbatever may bappen ta this Bill, I may
say that the Bell Telephone Company deserves cansîderatian. iustead of reprobatiofi
sud kî-ndnese at the bauds of tbe people of
thie country. 1 am carry ta see a feeling
eti.rred up againet the compauy. It le a
question of Toronto pulliug ahl tbe reet of
Ontario ta figbt for better termes. I do not
eny they have not tbe rigbt ta do co. It is
a selfisb motive, sud yvet 1 am not prepared
ta eay tbat I wouid not join lu it myself if
a circular had been sent ta Brandon, suggeeting that, as the Bell Telephone Companly
wae applying for an Increase lu their capital,
now was the time ta inelet on gettlng lawer
rates. If I had not heard more about it, 1
dare eay I should bave joined ln tbe movement, and forwarded a petition ta Mr.
Clarke ta see tbat the rates were reduced.
But, wbeu you compare the rates of this
compauy wltb the rates in large cities, I
do nat thiuk you will find one of the came
capacity sud tbe came population as Toronto wbere tbe rates are anytbing lîke as
10w as tbey are ln that clty.
Hou. Mr. WOO-D (Hamilton)- Have the
co'mpauy made money at tbe present rates ?
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-They say
tbat lu Toronto tbey bave not made any

[SENATE]
can be preserved. I spoke to the hion, gentleman frorn Richmend, and tolci iim I
would be very glad to discuss my amendment with hlmi and see -whetlier we could
not manage to assimilate our views So that
we could perhaps uite on an amendment
satisfactory to both parties. It wlll flot do
any harmn to allow the report to be adopted
and then, on the third reading, If the amendments of the bon. gentleman from ]Richmond
are adopted, perhaps the company would deHon. Mr. WOOD (H-amllton)-Hlave tbey sire to wlthdraw the Bill.
made any money in the whole Dominion ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
Hon. Mfr. KIRCHHOFFER-1 hope they llstened with some attention to the letters
have.
which were read, but I have failed to find
ln whlch a company
Hon. Mfr. DEVER-The bon, gentleman that there was any letter
was asked to go to the city of Toronto.
froxa Brandon might ask the bon. gentleman
as read
from Hamilton how much hie makes ln bis Ail I could glean from the letter
by the hon, gentleman, was, that Mfr. Reatbusiness.
ing had corresponded with a number of coinHon. Mfr. KIRCHIHOFFER-I do not think panies lu different parts of the United States
,.lie would tell me.
to ascertain what their rates were. I failed
to find one single sentence-perhaps 1 overHon. Mr. MeCALLUM-Will the hon, genlooked lt-lu whlch the charge made against
tleman allow me to ask hlm one question? the officiais of Toronto was sustalned, of
the havlng told a falsehood. What they deiled
Hon. Mfr. KIRCHHOFFER-Wltb
pleasure. I always like to hear the was that they applied to any company to
greatest
come to Toronto, and that they had
hon. gentleman's volce.
of the
MeCÂLLUM-If the company are f ailed to do so on account from the
Hon. Mfr.
lower rates. Ai I could glean
losing money la Toronto, why did the govwere read was that an inernor in council refuse to Increase the rates letters whlch
qulry was made froxa the different companla 1897 ? 1 know the hon. gentleman wants
les on this continent asklng their rates, and
to be accurate.
they polnted out that la some cases they
Hon. 3fr. KIRCHHOFFER-Probably the were higber than they were charging ia Torhon, gentleman from Monck, the bon. gen- onto, and having a large wealthy company
tleman from Hamilton, and 3fr. Clarke, al in Toronto, it would be useless to corne
got round hlm and prevented him doing so, there to fight them.
1 have given
as 'they want to do now.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-At the
notice of an ameadment to the amendment,
proposed by the hon, gentleman from Rich- third readlng of this Bill to-morrow, It wll
mond, and it will stand on the order paper. not be possible for this House to corne to a
1 want hon. gentlemen to look it over and proper conclusion about the figures and the
see if it is not a fair offer to meet these schedule of rates moved In amendment by
gentlemen more than haif way. My Instruc- the hon. gentleman from Brandon. I think
tions are that this comipany is Most anious it will require a special commlttee to dissect
to do everything it can to meet the opposi- and go over that matter and sce what the
tion to this Bill more than haif way. That proposai of the company is, and we want
amendment wiUl corne up on the thîrd to guard tbe rights of the public. I havep no
We might leanings to either side. I want fair play on
reading of the Bill to-morrow.
report of the coinmittee to both aides. A great deal bas been said by
allow the
go, and on the thîrd reading, whea the two xnany members, and the public have thieir
amendments are before us, we might see rights, and some middle course should be
whether there is not an opportuaity for as- arrived nt which will satisfy both parties,
similation whereby the rights of ail parties and that cannot be done on the third reading
money, and are prepared to show it, and
%willbe very glad to show it to the hon.
gentleman from Hamilton. But. It Is another tbing to say that the city of Toronto
Is to have access to the books of the telephone 'company. I wlll say, on behalf of
the Bell Telephone Company, that 1 ama
sure there Is no hon. gentleman ln thîs
House wbo is not at liberty to see the books
of the company.

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER.

411

[MAY 14, 1901]

to-morrow.

I would suggest to, the Hlouse,

to bave a special committee appointed to
deal -with this matter, and to bear both Bides,
and then they could arrive at some conclusion to satisfy botb parties.
The House divided on the amendmeat proposed by the Hon. Mr. Lougbeed, wbich was
rejected on tbe following votes
CONTENTS :

Honourables Messieurs
Casgrain (de Lanau-

O'Brien,

Dever,
Goudbout,
Hingston (Sir William),
Kerr,
Kirchhoffer.
Macdonald (Victoria).
MacKay (Aima),
McHugh,
Milis,

Shehyn.
Snowball.
Sullivan,
Thibaudeau (de la
Vallière).
Wark,
Watson,
Vea.
Young.-20.

dière),

Scott,

Landry,
Lovltt,

Macdonald (P.E.I.),

Hon. Mr. SCOTT naid-I have been told
by the government printer that there wil
be dîfflculty lu printing the Bill in the f orai
In wbich lt appears.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, because the form
of the ballot is defined ln the Bill. There is
a quantity of matter whicb Is printed on the
ballot, and Mr. Dawson points out that the
Inback of the ballot sbould be sbown.
structions were

at the bottom, wbereas it

ougbt to be on the margin. It wll only create confusion, and then be says there is too
much to be printed-it sbould be made
6borter.

McMilian,
Merner,

Miller,

O'Donohue,
McLaren,
Power (Speaker),
Prowse,

Hon.

Sir

MACKENZIE

BOWELL-I

wvould suggest that If lu preparing these ballots, they should be so printed that the

Templeman,
Vidal.

Wood (Westmore-

land.-27.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-TbQ
bon, gentleman from Marsbfield bas not
voted.
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-I pnired with Mfr.
Clemow.
migbt take

Committee of the Whole House, on Bill (64)
An Act ta amend the Dominion Elections Act.'

of the Bill 9

McKay (Truro),

Hon. 'Mr. MILLER-We

POSTPONED.
The Order o! the Day being called:

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has
that anytbing to do witb the third reading-

NON-COÎNETS :
Honourables Messieurs
Mcçallum,
McDonald (C.B.),

Alaen.
A&rmand,
Baker,
Bernier,
BctcherviE:e, de (C.M.G.]
BowelI (Sir Mackenzie),
Carling (Sir John),
Casgrain (Windsor),
Gillmor,
Gowan(..G)
King,

DOMINION ELECTONS ACT A'MýEND-MENT BILL.

the

third reading now.
Hon. Mfr. KIRCHHOFFER-I would rather

black mark extends the full length of the
The
paper. it would be an improvement.
ballot Is the best 1 have seen.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The black mark la intended to extend the full length of the
paper.
THE STANDING
Hon. 3flr.

COMMITTEES.

M.\ILLS-I understand tliat soiue

members are about to leave. and some are

o! the comnot have it forced on me now. I would like not able 'to attend meetings
promoters of the Bill. mittees, and 1 would suggest tbat Messrs.
to consuit witb the
Tbey might wish to take some other course.

Watson and Young be appointed.

Hon. M1r. 3IILLS-I tbink it le only courteous to the gentleman promoting the Bill
and those çwho are interested lu a very Importnnt company to tbe country tbat tbe
third readiug of the Bill should be postponed
and that tbey sbould bave an opportunity o!
considering- wbat course tbey will adopt.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is no necesslty to depart from tbe rule at
this stage o! the session. No notice bas
been given, and 1 would take objection to
it
The Senate adjourned.

[SENATE]
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, 'Wednesdapi, May 1.5, 1901.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
APPLICATIONS FOR RAILWAY CHARTERS BILL.
WITHDRAWN.
Hon. Mr. BAKER, from the Committee on
Raiiways, Telegraph and Harbours, to whom
was referred Bill (J) ' An Act respecting application for Railway Charters,' reported that
whie they approved of the prînciple of the
Bill, they recornmended that owing to the
late period of the session the promoter lie
aliowed to withdraw it.
Hon. '.%r. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)
moved that the report he concurred In.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I regret
very mucli that the promoter of the Billlias
decided to accept the report. Sucli a Bill
as this is lu the Interest of the Dominion.
We find many companies seekIng Incorporation, not with a view of constructing the
raiiways, but for the purpose of selling the
charters. The number of such applications
Is increaSing Tapidiy, and It Is oniy rîglit and
proper that the goveraiment shouid Introduce
a mensure of this kind, and cause those who
are applying for charters to pay Into the
public treasury a certain amount of money
to show that they are boa fide able to go
on with the enterprises for which they are
seeking charters.
The hon. member who
moved this Bill, in sl)eaking before the coinmittee this morning, gave very good and
sufficient reasons why sucli a mensure shouid
be introduced, and contended that it would
be la the interest of the people of Canada
generaiiy. I believe that If a mesure 0f this
kind had been introduced many years ago, ut
woui'd have enured to the benefit 0f the
people and would have prevented speculation la charters.
MNany 0f those charters
w-ould neyer hiave been applied for, or If
they had been ipplied for, would have been
souglit for by people competent té carry on
the worl.. As it is at present, we have mnny
0f these applications coming before us, and
we really have no very good reason to reject tihern when applied for in a proper way

ln the parliament of Canada, but there is
something coming after the application. As
soon as these people get a charter of incorporation and the riglit to construct a rond
through any section of the countr'y, If they
cannot dispose of the charter to others to
their own individuai advantage without
doing anything on It, they apply to parliament for a subsidy, and If they manage to
get a subsldy, they wlill buiid the road on
the subsidy from the Dominion, and possIbiy
one ln addition from the province. It Is a
wrong principie that parties shouid be able
to appiy to parliament in this way wlthout
some restriction on them to compel them to
go on wlth the works that are approved of
by the Dominion. Entertaining that view, I
arn sorry that the government have not
taken hold of this Bill and made It a governrnent mensure and passed It through parIlament.
Hon. Mr. ALLAN-I desîre to add to what
has heen said by the lion. gentleman from
Prince Edward Iland rny own expression
of regret that the comirnittee found it was
too late ln the session to 4ake up and discuss the Bill whichl lias now been reported
upon. The principle of the Bill, I thlnk I
may say witheut contradiction, was universaily approved of hy ail the members of the
commljaee, but it was thouglit to be too late
ln the session to take It Up flow and discuss it
thoroughly, and prepare a measure in cornplete and tlorough shape to corne before the
House. One does not like to say unpleasant
things of the leg-Isiation or politics of our
own country, but there is no doubt a great
deal of our legisiation is really a scandai.
Applications are brouglit la for charters of
raiiways and grants and subsidies and 50
on, and the object of a great many of thelu
Is nothing more or less than to sec how best
they can afterwards dispose of those charters. There is no bona. fides Ia the matter
at ail. There are a great inany provisions in
this Bill whichi I think, If carefully studied,
will be found to he exceedingly practical. I
hiope the universal approval which the Bill
met with In the committee to-day, willinlduce the mover of It not to fail to bring it
forward at an eariy stage of next session. I
hlope lie will la that bave the entîre backing
of the goverament.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was withdrawn.

r{MAy 15, 1901]
'ut the reason for flot subrnitting it earller
DAWSON CITY ELECTRIC COMPANY'S b vas the -reason 1 have given. The minister
v
BILL.
vas away in Winnipeg on account of the
REJECTED.
llness of bis father, and lie returned only
occuHon. Mr. BAKER, from the Committee ou t wo days ago, and bas been so mucli
the
Rallways, Telegraph and Harbours, to whom p led with the immediate business before
respectlng louse of Gommons, that lie had flot tîme to
was referred Bill (H) ' An Act
Mr. McRae bad
the Dawson City Electrie Company, Limit- )eruse the report which
counsel ln nade.
ed,' reported that. they had heard
support of the Bill, and that no sufficlent
The motion was allowed to stand.
reasons had been furnlshed to change their
decision in their former report.
DANADA NORTHERN RAILWAY COM~PANY'S BILL.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Haviflg
done my duty by tbis Bill, it only rernains
FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
now to do the hast duty, and move concurrence in the report.
A message was received from the House
motion was agreed to, and the report of Commons with Bill (103) 'An Act respectThe
ng the Canada Northern Rallway Company
was adopted.j
and the Northern Pacifie and Manitoba RailCompany, the Winnipeg Transfer ComnCOMPLAINTS FROM\ MICMAC INDIANS. way
pans', the Portage and North-western RailINQUIRY POSTPONED.
way Company and the Waskada and North
Eastern Railway Company.'
The Order of Day being called:
of the goveraThe Bill was read the first trne.
That he wi!! cal! the attention
ment to an appea! to parliament frorn Chie!
Marche!, of the Indian reserve at Ste. Anne de
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I move the
Restigouche. P.Q.
And wl! inquIre If the complaints made against suspension of the 41st rule ln so far as the
the Indian agent of the Indian reserve of Ste. samne relates to this Bill. As the time et our
Aune de Restigouche have been lnvestlgated.
and If so, what is the result of sucli an Investi- disposai this session Is very short, and as I
gation?
arn anxious to get away, and as I have sworn
If no Investigation lias yet been lield, is It the ~by the beard of the prophet that 1 would
of the government ta hold one, and
Intention
when?
qtey here tili the Bil was through, 1 amn
If not, why?
going to ask the House If they wlll facilitate
the matter, by suspending the 41st rule so
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say to My hon. as to enable the Bill to be read the second
friend that 1 sent over to the Departrnt of Urne this afternoon, that It rnay corne before
the Interior for the Information whlcli lie the committee on Friday mornlng, and be
seeks and the answer which 1 reoelved was reported to the House in the afternoon.
that the officer, Mr. McRae, I thIuk It w-as,
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
who was sent to Investigate, had made lis
report, but the minister was away and re- was then read the second time.
turned only two days ago. Since then hie
bas flot had an opportunity to peruse the
BILLS INTRODUCED.
report and see whether lie approves of It or
Bill (136) 'An Act to amend the Rallway
not, but as soon as that Is done, the Information which my bon. friend seeks will be Act.'-(Hlof. Mr. Muls.)
turnIshed. I pressed for a general summary
Bill (69) 'A4n Act to incorporate the St.
of information that I might meet my lion. Lawrence Power Company.'-(Hofl. Mr
friend's wishes, but so far I have not oh- Kireboffer.)
talned it. I did not know but it miglit lie
Bill (81) ' An Act respecting the Algoma
received whule this matter was before us
Central Railway Company, and to change Its
stil!, but it lias not. 1 eau promise the hon.
Algoma Central and Hudson
gentleman that the moment it cornes Into my namne to tbe
Bay Railway CompanY.'-(HOn. Mr. Dandubands I shah! bring the matter to the attenrand.)
'tion of the House in reply to bis Inquiry

[SENATEj

DELAYED RETURNS.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY'S BILL.

WITHDRAWN.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is there
tlie returfi ln The Order of the Day being called
any probabiity of my getting
reference to the surveys for the Trent ValThird reading Bill (F) An Act respecting the
ley canal between Rice lake and Lake Bel! Telephone Company of Canada.
Ontario ?
Hon. Mr. KIR4JHHOFFER said : After
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have already made the expression of opinion which we had
several inquiries. I will Inquire stlll further. yesterday afternoon, and ln view of the lateness of the session which would make it
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I liope Impossible to get the Bill through the House
there will lie some more information in the this session, and my desire to get away, as
returu than there was in the return whlcli my hon. friend near nme says, I ask permismy bon. friend laid on the Table yesterday. sion to withdraw this Bill. It seenis to me
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Has that any reference the contending parties are flot so far apart
that, during the recess, they would Bot lie
to It ?
able to, meet and corne under some arrangeHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That nient whereby the interests of ail lnvolved
Is a reference to a contract and wlio was would lie practically secured. Our figlit on
carrying the mail. The return says, tlie con- this Bill lias been a pretty lieavy one, and
tract not having been .-!ven out It would be tliougli some severe tlirusts have been given,
lmpolitic to give copies of the tenders. 1 no bones have heen broken. As far as 1 amn
want to know w-ho is carrying tlie mail, and concerned, no bard feelings are entertained,
wby the former mail-carrier lias been dis- and I take this opportunity of thankin,
missed. I wiil cali attention again to it on those who favoured and those wlio opposed
Friday.
me for the courtesy tliey have sliown. I
therefore move that the Bill le withdrawn.
THE VISIT 0F THE HEIR APPARENT.

The motion was agreed to.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I sliouid hike to know POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
If an answer can lie g-iven to tlie inquiry 1
THIRD READING.
made on tlie 24tli of April. 1 then asked If the
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the third reading
government bail any information as to the
of Bill (121) 'An Act furtlier to aniend the
approximate date of the visit of the Duke

of Cornwall and York at Queliec, Montreal
and other cities of Canada, and in wliat
order those cities would, le visited by His
A telegraphic despatcli
Royal Higliness.
publisbed tliis morning in tlie Citizen says
4tlat Governor Jones lias recelved Information that His Royal Highness wiIl not land

at Halifax, but at Quebec, on September 15.
I should think the goveraiment would lie ln

a botter position to give information on this
snbject than any one else in the Dominion.

Post Office Act.'

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-M.Night
I ask the bion. gentleman if lie lias any auswer to give to tlie objection takeni by the
bon. gentleman froni Marslield, to the manner of opening letters ? I think it wilI
strike every member of the Senate thiat tlie
practice, wbich ls carried out under the law,
of opening letters immediately on their being
sent to tlie dead letter office, wlien the direction Is sufficiently plain to indicate the party
to wliom it is to lie sent, is wrong, and that
the party should lie written to before the

Hon. MNr. SCOTT-On tliat subject, the
public seem to have quite as mucli informa- letter Is opened.

tion as the government have. I first learned that His Royal Highness was to land at
Quebee. and flot at Halifax. frorn the public
press, so the lion. gentleman is in possession
of quite as mucli information as the government is.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliat is not mucli.

In the case to which the

lion. gentleman referred, as 1 understand it,
tlie letter was written by a young sister to
The letter was opened urnea brother.
diately on its lieing sent to the dead letter
office. Not being able to know who ' Flora'
was, it was sent to tlie brother lu British
Columbia, la accordance with the directions

[MAY 15, 1901J

41

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes.
on the outside of tlie letter. Wliat reason
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh
was there tliat it sbould not be sent to him
before it was opened ? ln the present case, yes, he told me that.
It is a matter of very little consequence. It
Hon. Mr. MILLS-So the practice lias long
Is simply a case of a chIld writing to lier
but it miglit be a matter of Import- been la force, and lias grown out of exbrother,
acquired as I have ezplained.
ance. If the party to whom the letter Is
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
De found or ascertalned,
directed cannot
then the opening of the letter, to ascertain was read thie third tirne and passed.
by whom it is written, could lie understood.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tlie practice of the JUDGES 0F PROVINCIAL COURTS BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
department is, that wliere there la any ImdiThe House resolved itself Into a Commitcation. on the outside of the letter, of the
party from wliom the letter lias been receiv- tee of the Whole on Bill (131) 'An Act to
ed by the Post Office Department, the letter amend tlie Act respecting tlie judg-es of
Provincial Courts.'
is sent witliout being opened.
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-In this
(In the Committee.)
case It was not.
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Before
.Hon. 'Mr. M.%ILLS-In this case there was
proceeding witli this Bill It will De in tlie
no Indication on the outaide of the letter of
recollection of the Minister of Justice that
the party f rom whom It came, and tliey were
asked hlm if it was the intention to augobliged to open the letter to ascertain from I
of the judges in the differwhom li came, becanse the practIce la to ment the salaries
ent parts of the country. I did flot catch
return the letter to the writer, and not to i
but I understood hlm to say that
forward it to the person to whom It is ad- has answer,
public opinion was flot ripe on the question
dressed. That la ln conformity with the requirements of tlie law. I also learn that. yet.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I think I mentloned la
this practice lias arisen from the fact that
sometimes, witli a view of annoylng a per- the early part of the session that I ladl preson, letters w-ere deposited in thie post office pared a Bill for increaaing or revising the
addreased to hlm without being paid, so a salaries of the jndges of the higlier courts
man in that way miglit receive an immense in ail the provinces of tlie 'Dominion, with
number of letters. He miglit De engaged in a view to the amount of work that is done
Important business and not know ivhich of at the present time, and with a view to meet
the letters are f rom parties witli whom lie the altered circumstances of the country,
lias business, and therefore lie wiil take them aince the last revision took place, whici, I
out and pay the postage. To prevent that think, was -in 1873. Ia order to make that
sort of thing-and It la ont of facts of that provision, there would De an addition of
kind the practice of tlie department grew- about ninety thousand dollars to the exthe department ascertain, eitlier from some penditure of the country on the administraprinted endorsement: on the outslde of the tion of justice, so far as the judges' salaries
letter, or by openlng the letter where there are concerned, and that would represent the
is no printed endorsement, wlio the writer Is, interest on about three millions dollars. That
and return the letter to the writer. That la seemed to many a very formidable addition
the practice. I learned from rny lion. friend to the expenditure of the country, and so the
from Marshfield, peraonally, immediately matter of the increase of the judges' salaries
after the House rose, that the letter lias been permitted to stand over. In fact
whici lie said lie had flot received an in British Columbia aad in Manitoba, there
answer to lie liad been carrying ln lis pocket la no doulit, wltli the rapid increase of popuuntil about time the House met yesterday, lation and the Increase of public business,
and so it not surprising that lie did flot re- there must at no distant day be an increase
ceive a reply.
in the salaries of the judges ln those pr~oHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-That vinces of the Dominion, for the reason that
Ja the letter lie wrote to the acting Post- an Increase miglit be made witliout the salaries now paid in the province of Ontario or
master General ?

Iperience,

[SENATE]
as I understood it, was flot placed at anytbing like $7,OO-nothing like that sum.
But be that as it may, the appointment of
three additional judges, according to the
statement made by the Prime Minister and
the Solicitor Genera] and the late Attorney
General of the province of Quebec, mlght be
avoided If the whole system was changed in
the province of Quebec, which system was
declared by the Prime Minister himself to
be an antiquated system, but owing to the
prejudice which exists in that province as
'to any changes of this kind being- made,
nelther party had the courage te grappie
wlth It. I do net accuse one more than anHon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Would other.
the hon. gentleman inform the House what
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-It is the QueaddItienal amount of expenditure will be
bec government that should grapple with
incurred by the passage of this Bill ?
lt-net this government.
Hon. Mr. M.NILLS--Fifteen thousand six
hundred dollars as actual payment, ostensiHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
bly, but net lu fact, because some of the would be ebliged te grapple with It if the
judges of the outly!ng districts have been Dominion gevernment dld net Increase the
brought up te the city of Montreal, and the number of judges ; se that they are bothi
expendîture due te thie fact cf ceming there responsible. I de net lay It te this goverufor the transaction cf public business, If 1 ment more than te the other, but I de net
remember rightly, covers about haif tins remember the question as coming before
sum, se that the increase will be about one- the late government in the manner in which
haif cf fifteen thousand six hundred.
It le brought up now. I understand that unBOWELL-Will der the constitution, the arrangement of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
the judicial districts Is within the jurisdicthe hion. minister explain hew that la ?
tien cf the local government, and the admisHon. Mr. MILLS-If this change Is net sion made by the gentlemen to whom I have
made, and these judges are net added, the referred was certainly lu the lune and of the
bringing up of the judges fromn the rural character whlch I have lndicated. It Is neot
districts te Montreal necessitates an expendi- my intention te oppose this Bill at the presture of about one-haîf this sum.
eut time. It was defeated last session, and
by the
Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL-SeveII it was defeated for the reasons given
premier, the late Attorney General, and the
thousand dollars ?
Solicitor General, as te the possibility of
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, for travelling ex- nccomplishling the end wbich they hadl in
penses.
vlew If they changed the system. However,
had not the courage te de that, at least
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The they
they Indicated they had net the courage by
hon. gentleman sald at first $15,600. That
dolng It, and they have propesed a Bih1
-would represent a capital cf $520,000, accord- net
similar to that cf last year, I regret te
ing te the calculatien just made by the hon. very
ilear the reason given by the Minister of
gentleman himself, se that it would be addJustice for net grappling with that very iming that much te the debt, $520,000 at 3 per
portant subject, the increase of the judges'
cent, that is, accepting the hon. geutlman's
confess I fully appreincrease of the debt salaries. I frankly
calculation as te the
diate the difficulties that present themselveS
which would be incurred if they lncreased
te any government in dealing with this questhe judges' salaries by the $90,000, of $3,000,tien. I might give reasons why Sir John
000. When this question was under discussion
of Justice, failed
expense of Thompson, wçhen MInister
last session, the question of the
te carry eut what he feit to be right in rebringing the judges frem the rural districts
Houa. Mr. M.NILLS.

in the province of Quebec bein- exceeded.
and se it seenis to me that there must, at an
early day, lu those two provinces at least,
be an increase lu the salaries of the judges,that is, assumiug that the pregress of those
provinces continues-se as te bring themn up
more near]y te the twe most populous provinces of the Dominion. But It was feit
that that could net be pressed at the present
session, and more partlcularly as the session
bas been .protracted beyond the perled It
was supposed It would be necessary te continue sitting lu order to transact the public
business.

LHAY 15, 1901]
ference to tbe judges of the different provinces, but public opinion is just as ripe t0day upon tbat question as it wlll be ten years
bence. 1 am quife sure about thaf. I was
one, speaking for myself, years ago wbo
took the same view tbat many do now, but
trom experience 1 bave corne to tbe concluaion tbat, If the judiclary la to lie kept to
that standard whicb if bas occupied ln tbe
past, and we are f0 secure tbe best men at
fhe bar, we bave to give tbem a jremuneration commenanrafe wlth the position wblch
they hold.
Hon. Mr. '.%ILLS-And something f0 do.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
sonaethîng- to do. If fliere la nofhing f0 do,
I would sugg-esf f0 the bon. gentleman to
continue the policy fhey are carrylng out la
Ontario jusf now. There are fwo judg-eshlps
vacant and they can leave tbem vacant and
not fill them, and flat will leave fbe Ontario
judges somefhing f0 do, I know if fo be the
case with many of fhe district judges ln the
province of Quebec-that is, thaf they have
littie f0 do, if we are f0 accept the declarafien made by the Solicitor General and the
late Afforney General and the premier blmself-but I am nof aware flat that insinuation, If I may so consider if, applies f0 tbe
judges of fbe province of Ont ario. Tbere
are fwo vacancies. One bas been vacant for
a long time, and tbe deafli of Judge Rose
caused another vacancy, and If the othera
bave nofhing f0 do, let tbem .leave tbose
Positions unfilled. I amn very mucli incllned
f0 express an opinion that thaf la not the
reason why tbe vacanclea bave been filled.
Hon. Mr. MILLS--Tbere la only one vavancy.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
tbougbt Mr. Justice Burton waa superannuated.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Judge Armour took bis
place.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hlaà
Judge Armour's position been filled ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Judge Falconbrldge
fook bis place.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He was
promoted and' lf left a vacancy fliere.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-And that la the oniy
vacancy.
27

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wboseplace was if that Mr. Foy was golng to fill
when lie was offered the judgeship ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Mr. Foy would bave,
filled tbis position. Wben Judge Rose died,
of course bis position was taken by Mr.
Lount, se that tbere Is only one vacancy.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman is rigbt. 1 had forgotten
As the
about Mr. Lount's appointment.
other position bas been vacant much longer
than the position rendered vacant by the
death of judge Rose, I suppose the government do nlot intend to fill if.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Ob, yes we do.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
tbougbt the hon, gentlemen said they bad
notbing f0 do.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I did nlot say the Ontario judges bad notbing to do, nor tbat any
of the judges bad notbing to do, but I merely
mentioned fliat as being necessary-tbaf tbey
should have somefbing to do.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And It
was from that insinuation that It would be
inferred the bon, gentleman fhought tbey
had notbing to do.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbe bon. leader of thie
opposition was speaking of Quebec.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbaf
would imply tbaf certain judges bad nofhlng f0 do. I agree wifh hbm as far as Quebec goes. Tbat ls the stafement made by
the bon. gentleman's leader. 1 regret tbat
fhe government bave not faken a bold stand
ln the maffer, and I am quite convinced
thaf If tbey bad done se tbey would have
carried fbelr measure tbrougb botb Houses
of parliament.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say f0 my bon.
friend tbaf tbere la no wanf of boldnesa on
tbe part of tbe goverament, and no want
of courage ln wbaf Ia fransplrlng. The Brit151 Nortb America Acf places tbe constitution of the courts ln tbe banda of tbe local
government, and wbile we may advise the
provinces, we bave not the power f0 con.trol them or bully tbem.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Buf
fhe goverfiment bave the power to refuse to
appoint judges.

[SENATE]

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-My hon. frinm liad exHon. Mr. MILLS-I arn djscussiflg wliat
actly the sarne views years ago as lie lias
now, and lie was ln the government for my lion. -frlend has stated as the reasoils for
eigliteen years. Tliere were three different resisting tlie Bill of last year, -and 1 arn cailPrime Ministers during that period before ing attention to one reason lie ornitted. H1e
lie became Prime Minister himself, and may correct me if lie tliinks 1 ar nl error
during tlie whole of those eigliteen years on tliat point, but liaving liad some experitliere was no chiange in the constitution 0f ence lu party warfare in tlie House of Comtlie courts lu tlie province *of Quebec. We mous and lu this House, I think tliat somepressed upon the Quebec goverument the tirnes tlie reasons whicli are flot stated are
propriety of revising tlieir judicial organisa- more potent tlian those whicli are stated,
tion. We waited a year, and tliey did not and I liave no doubt my lion. fniend tlie leadeer disposed to acquiesce in our sugges- er of tlie opposition wiil acquiesce iu tliat
tions, and we admitted the matter was vîew.
entirely lu tlieir control. It was a matter
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is tlie lion, minfor wliicl tliey were responsible, aud wlien
last year Ister's personal experience.
tliat year liad gone by we proposed
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
tliat same provision tliat we are proposing
now, and we proposedl it for tlie reasons tliat only objection 1 liave to tlie remarks and the
were put forward lu tliis House sorne few principle wliehl tlie lion. minister liuys down
lie sliould measure other peopie'5
years ago, very ably put forward by thl itiat
tlien leader of tlie House, Sir Alex. Camp-,
bushel. I can assure hlm
bell, witli respect to judicial appointrnents 1grain iu lis own
not the feeling tliat actuated
lu Britisli Columbia. H1e admitted tliat the that tliat w-as
I
beimpove. bu li deiedme or tliose wlio voted as 1 did, so far as of
systrn iglt
sysem igh
beimpove, bt h deiedknow, lu connection witli tlie rejection
hebngnlmn
ta
altogether tliat tliere was any duty upon htBl.Iko
liim to undertake to coerce tlie governent did attribute that motive whiie it was under
of British Columbia to adopt lis vlews, discussion. He then said tlie probabilities
enacag.Nw
rather than to act upon their own, and 1I eeteei!-thv
chne. Nfeo,
have no doubt that tlie view wbici lie wer oe h miglit lae een af
expressed, was a sound view, and my lion. any one wli gnotsemnenhingo0fie, effec.tho!
pos tate
of
ffie
f riend wili find the proper constitutional thppotn grenten
thpryinow,
doctrine, it seemns to me, applicable to our eralslctdb
powerh
lunsi
party
ay
lecte
federai system rnost abiy set forth on that aneralhe
occaionby
Sr Aex. ampell.My on.more of these gentlemen are appointed to
ekrheatybcms
friend says this Bill was rejected last year.poionadth
aklue te pte bogme
That is so, but 1 think the most Important Tosition an.te
ong tom
I
reason for that rejection my lion. fnlend lias T1 lin. thinister alluded te
t, and I knowo
goveume
t the
was ina
Dot rnentioned. There was an election to exeiec

eorunstog administaon furtlier that sucli a statement was made to
gone agaf.s The
goneagansttheexitingadmnisratonme by a gentleman fromn Quebec, that there
and if tliey liad, the judicial appointuient would bie at least three o! the most promimiglit have been with my hon. fniend, or nent politicians of the city of 'Montreai
with some of lis party, ratlier than with selected to fui those positions and it would
tlie present administration, and my lion. be better that they sliould be removed fromn
friend feit on that occasion-and so did those tepltclaeaadteeysrnte
wlio were associated with hlm-that It would the politicaaren pandy rtherby strengthe
o whle
be ort sbmi totheevis wichthe Bill. I toid hlm that I did not think
tliat was statesmanlike. I objected to the
then existed for the want of a judge.
inHon. Mr. LANDRY-I rise to a point of Bill on the principle that 1 have already
The hon. minister las no riglit to dicated, and that was that a rearrangement
order.
af the judicial districts o! the province o!
impute motives.
Quebec, If they lad the courage to tackle it,
Mr. MILLS-I amn not imputing mo- would render it unnecessary to add the adHon.
ditional expense of three judges to the distives.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[HAY 15i, 1901]
trict. That w-as the reason which actuated
me at that time, and I believe it was the
reason which actuated a large number of
those whio supported the motion which I
made.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.

419

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Who says no ? A man
that does nlot know. Mr. Champagne was
a legisiative counicillor in the counicil of Quebec. For a reason whicli was nlot given at
the time, because, 1 suppose the true resoens
are nlot given at the proper time, lie resigned
bis seat In the legisiative council, and accepted a position as judge In Montreal, under an Act introduced by the Mercier government, an Act whiclh was disallowed at
Ottawa, because it was ultra vires, and I
suppose that la the gentleman who to-day
receivea an additional reward-I beg pardon,
an increase of $000. Hle accepted the position at that time for $3,000.

Hon. -Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
glad to know that my hon. friend from
'Stadacona approves of *the reason that I
gave as the one which actuated him, I have
no doubt, however, the hon. gentlemen wlio
are sitting on the other aide of the House
wouid have acted differently had they been
In our position. They would, have looked
forward, as they do now, to the time when
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I mnay add sometliey could f11l those positions with gentle- thing to the knowledge of the hon. gentlemen w-ho could not earn as mucli at their man.
own profession as they would get in these
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tlhat mig-ht be.
positions. I k-now one gentleman's history,
w-ho is being promoted under this Bihl-I
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Hon. Judge
shahl not refer to his pat record, but 1 couid
Champagne w-as n leg-isiative counicillor, and
give a reason why hie is to be promoted, if I
had been for a number of years mexnber for
saT that lie Is not sufficiently talented for~ tme lu the Circuit Court created by the prothe position, or wl flot make a good judge,i vincial government, that Act w-ns declared
ct-athnpse
but sometimes there are resoens which areunnttton.An
Consea
înot given, as indicated by the hon. gentle- bv t Federal. pAniAet, Nand n
osra
n
man, for a poIlcy which are more potent and -yteFdrlprimet
effetiv, ae kown thn tosetive administration, w-hidi the hion. gentlethy ae
iI
effetiv,
thy
kown thn toseman supported at the time, reappoiuted Mr.
which are given.
Champane to that court as weh as another
The clause w-as adopted.
judge. This goes to show that '3r. Justice
Champagne %vas held in high esteemi by
On clause 3,
botli politicai parties. 'Now, a third judge
Hon. Mr. LAINDRY-I thought the policy lias been aîlpointed to thnt court. The busiof the government w-as merely to increase ness done iii the "Circuit Court of Montreal
the number of the judges, and not to In- is greater than the business doue throughout
crease the salaries-that that would come In the whiole province of Quebec in the Circuit
another Bill.
Courts. Our Circuit Court lias juriadiction
for cases which go up to a huuidred dollars,
Hofi. Mr. ?RILLS-There is just this one and naturally there are thousauds and thoujudge whose salary is Increased.
sanda of writs taken before that court. In
fact, w-heu a third judge w-as appointed,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-For what reason ?
there w-ere thousands of cases in arrears,
HEon. Mr. 3-IILLS-For the reason hie Is the some of themi cases that had been hanging
senior judge-acting Chief Justice.
for twenty-five mouths and more. There are
is the senior
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is Mr. Cham- three judges. Que of themi
judge, and lie lias to see to the distribution
pagne ?
of the work, and has a greater responsibihiHon. Mr. bIILLS-Yes.
ty than the two, other puisue judges. The
government lias thouglit proper, nnd I think
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that the gentleman
justly se, to Increase the salary of that
w-ho w-as formerly a legisiative councilor 7 judge. Ail our Chief Justices have higher
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)- salaries than the puisue judges, aud I com*mend the Act of the goverument. Thiose
No.
27-é

[SENATE]
efend
te dE
judges are doing liarder work-at ail events Nvould adivance the best reasons
bacel
it 10 the
are doîng as hard and important worlc -s b is measures and flot leave
asons
the absurd re~
the Superior Court judges. The questions benehes to bring forward
liou.
except, as the
that corne before therni ire as Important iii thiat wve have Ibeard.
e net
hie gives ar
the solution, because tliey affect real estate, iniinister says, the reasons
ng- is
somethi
sometîlues they hiave to discuss and tln-a-s those lie means-that
and
settie questions of as grent Importance, as behlind.
to the law w.Iicb must be npplied, as the
Ho.M.MILLS-I did flot say that.
Besides, tbey
Superior Court judges do.
e r me
at
-h
Hu .l.LNR
have the greater respousibility, lu Iliat thiere
e is iuat
ADR-h
r
is no appeal frem their judgmients. 1 tbilkIHu
the reasons given !l th Sreal
Court of 'Montreal is doing very out in saying
the Circuit
uie neot tle real reasous. The
but
it
Important work, and thtIs jd.ge just taI thîe stance is to be fouiid iii the change which
bu of hereasonl
oly f
salay, ot
somle
place la thie legisiative counil learly
others, should be increased. As we are oiiiy tool,
years ago, wvheni the parties m-ere
asked te vote an increase te this judge, 1 equal, and wbei thie Liberals wvant e(l te
tlie majority by buying eut uniscrupprove of l.change
LANDRY-Surely the bion. min- puious uîeî and maiiîg tlîein judges. 1 au'
Heu. Mr.
aster witbout porîfello-because il is hie xvwho against tbaI re-%a.rd.
ieteiiis the gov erniîîeiit illeasures liere-is
The clause was adopteci on a division.
t serions wben hie says that because a
j iidge lias te give judgrneîits fromi which
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Before tbe
:bere is ne appeai, bis salary sbould be lnrîses, 1 wish le say thal from the
creased.committee
made early Ibis session by
~reased.announcernent
fnlly exHon. -Mr. DANDURAND-No, 1 was ex- the Minîster ef Justice, this House
pected, andi the British Columbia judges explainiung bis responsibility.
aise, that their salaries should lie
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-The bon. gentleman 'pected
becailse increased. Lt is mest unfair te pick, eut, as
said is responsibility was se great,
Bill dees, some te be iucreased, and
bis judgmient could net lie appeaied from, Ibis
If that leave these men. who have very heavy exthat bis salary sbould be lncrensed.
without aniy increase. Their salaries
reason is a good one, why net increase the penses,
I
tbat man are smail, and their expenses heavy, and
salaries ef the others ? 1 tbink
unfair te let the malter stand
lt is
ýghouId net get more than the others. He lbink
Public opinion bas notbing wbatmnust be tbankful te Ood le occupy tbat posi- any longer.
te do witb Ibis malter. Il is one enliretien now, and bie should keep quiet. That ever
ly for the goverume 'nt te decide. If somie
te best lblng be could do.
Ib
members of the cabinet had equal force wilh
is
be different. They
Hon. Mr. MýILLS-M-Ny bon. friend dees not Mr. Tarte, tbing-s would
wouid carry their peint some lime. If Britishi
keep quiet.
fitteen or twenly members in
do
Hon.Mr.LANRY- ot xpet t beColumbia had
increase in tlie
Copet nt e tîîe Hense ef Gommons, this
o nupet
th
LANDR-o
Hon .
ju
of the British Colum-bia judges
the salaries
ao jugLondon.e1 hae SopeeCort oet
force
bve
go t I Lodon e epecttiO ofIbewould be given. Il is purely lack of
that prevents it beiug doue. From m-hat thie
kind.
iu the early part eftIhe sessioni,
The CHAIRMAN-The question is on tbe miiîister said
I hoped that justice weuld be doue te tlîe
3rd section.
judges in all the provinces.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The bon. minister
Hon. Mr. MILLS 'My bon. friend will sec
witbouî portf olio is net serions, I arn sure,
that wbal lie says is net perhaps a very
and tbe reasens hie bas given, the goverfibas ninety-two tement neyer thougbt of, because il is certain sonnd reason. Ontario
presentatives in lte House of Commeus.
if the goverumeut had te defeud Ibal meadifficulty with respect
sure hefore the House, the hon. Minister ef Tbere -was the same
Some ef the judges are adJustice, who la well know-n and -whose stand- te Ontario.
paid. lu1 nî- Opiionf.
ing lu the Senate is of se higli a character, îîliîîediy iadequaitely
Hou. ..Nr. DANDURAND.

[MAY 15, 1901]
the bench ; but If
ail the judges of the higher courts receive confidence as judges on
Rents. are t lie salaries become altogether less than the
less than t;hey ougbt to receive.
prorninent profesconstantly Increasing. The cost of living a verage surn earned by
every year, and s louai men at the bar, theu of course there
in the larger cities grows
the best men
yet one of our difficulties is, flot that there v fil be difficulty lu securing
in the representation f or the bencb. Iu almost every one o! the
is flot sufficient force
men at the
of the provinces to secure wbat would be provinces we bave prominent
that force Is bar who w-ll flot go on the bench. We bave
fair to the judges, but because
hon. friend
n
flot directed In their favour. We have a i: the province frorn which my
members from rural dis- c ornes several gentlemen occupying prornînlarge number of
flot be
tricts sitting in parliament, and to tbemn a e*nt positions ut the bar, n-ho could
seems a very large induced to go upon the bench, and if they
salary of $5,000 a vear
at ail equal
sum, and they tbinl, that a judge ought flot e*xpect to get as judges salaries
t'bat, but in time to accumfu- , to those that tbey earu lu the practice of
:only to live on
That is the feeling that t :he profession ut the present time, it is uot
*ýate a fortune.
there is a publie opinion 1ikely they ever would go upon the bench,
exists, and until
there are
that will sustaîn a minister In pressing for- 1>ecause my hon. friend kuows that
of the salaries of the men making very large salaries iu their
ward an increase
tbere are iu
judges, it will be very difficuit to secure practice in bis province, as
friend kuows that gome other provinces, and those men are
that increase. My bon.
tbey
Sir John Thompson on two occasions at ,egaged in less onerous duties than
forward a measure in parlia- would be iu the discharge of the duties o! a
least brought
their
ment to secure an increase In the salaries judge ; so they prefer the freedom o!
and be found such opposition position lu practising tbeir profession rather
of the judges,
the
amongst t5he supporters o! the governrnent than the responsibilities which attach to
of Commons to bis measure udicial office. I only regret rnyself that n-e
ln the House
that he was obliged to abandon it. I do flot have not been able to deal n-ith the subject
know how strong the feeling is In the House duriug the preseut session.
of Commons at tbe present tirne, eitber for
HEon. Mr. BAKER, from tbe cornrittee,
or against the measure. Not>being a inember reported the Bill without ameudment.
-of that House, I have no opportunity of
comuiug personally lu contact with members ORIMINAL CODE AMENDMENT BILL.
which w-ould enable me to form a judgrunft
THIRD READING.
ln tbat particular. 1 trust, liowever, that
The House resolved itself Into a Committhe matter will not be left permaneutly In
of the Whole on Bill (Q) 'An Act further
abeyance, and if my bon. friend, and others tee
to amend the Criminal Code. 1892.'
wb o are not lu sympathy with the govern(In the Cornmittee.)
ment would give ilbeir support outside of
parliarnent and assist la forrng public
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved that secopinion In favour of such a measure, I have tion 205 of the Criminal Code be arnended
no doubt ut an early date a Bill to improve by dropping the hast subsection (c) which
the salaries of tbe judg-es could be passed. exempts from the operation o! the Act tbe
I do not adopt the view, 1 neyer have adopt- Crédit Foncier Franco-Canadien and tbe
ed the view that n-e sbould pay judges in Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada, n-hich had up
lthis country the very large salaries that to this time tbe rigbt to bold lotteries. He
they rkceive lu the lUited Kiugdom, or that said : The Crédit F oncier Franco-Canadien
are paid lu some of the Australian colonies. ha the ouly one doiug business non-. Tbe
Salaries must bave sorne relation to the Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada bas flot been
amount that -the profession earns, because doing business for about fifteen years. As
If a man is receiving on the bench a sum not the Crédit Foncier Franco-Canadien bas
'equal to tbat whicb lie recelves as a pro- stated it dld not need tbat exemption, I thlnk
fessional man, but somewhat approaching it better that the clause be struck ont.
the average earued by men of prominence
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
lu the profession, you have flot often much
sorry the hon. gentleman dld flot go further
difficulty in securing the services of those
of those exemptions.
lu wbom the public w-ould have the greatest and repeal the wbohe

[SENATE]

429

Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-It Is too late In
-the session to attempt anything more. I
shahl le quite willing to go further next
session.
Hlon. Sir MACKE~NZIE BOWELL-That
wlll be in accordance with the principle laid
down in dealing witli the Bill the other day
-that is, giving a right to one wblch we
refuse to give to another.
Hoiu. .Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, frotu
the comînittee, reported tîte Bill with ail
amendment. whichi -%vs concurred iii.
The Bihl was then read the third time, and
passed under a suspension of rule 41.
NVORTH-WEST TERRITORIES REPRESENTATION ACT AMiNENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. -Mr. PERLEY moved the second readlng of Bill (R) 'An Act further to amend the
North-west Terrîtories Representation Act.'

Hon.

'Mr. SCOTT-I

presume

my hon.

friend's intention and object is to remedy

w-bat is an apparent inconsistericy ln the Act
as It now stands.
Hon. 'Mr. PERLEY-That is ail.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill was
read tbe second time.
ANIMAL CONTAGIOUS DISEASES ACT
AMEND'MENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the second reading of Bill (No. 127) 'An Act to amend tbe
Animal Contagious Diseases Act.'
He saîd: Tis Is a very brief Bill. Lt
protides for the exemption, by the minister, in certain cases, of the skin, boras and
hoof's of an animal wbich bas been pronounced, affected by contagilons disease
au be used without spreadwlîcre these
Ing tho Infection, and there ¶5 also provision in the next section for the amendment of the law in respect to tbe use of
the flesh of the animal ltself.
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-I have to thank
the hon, leader of the House for the amiable
disposition hie exhibited to me in postponlag
this Bill for a couple of days in order to
It is not
gîte me a chance to study it.
quite s0 bad as I thouglit it -was, and 1

irrelevant. We ail know that there are a
great many contagious diseases in cattie.
But there is one which is of far more initerest, antd which is far more important than
ail the others. I allude to tuberculosis. The
relation of this to humanity, in whose cause
I make these remarks, is shown in the
terrible ravages wfiich it commits on the
human race. No less than one-flfth of the
whole death rate is caused by this dIsease;
la 50,825 deatbs, no less than 11,850 were
So that that will
cnnused by tuberculosis.
-iv'e hou. gentlemen some idea of the importance of it. There are certain facts established connected with this -which the
Seniate miglit be reminded of. The cause
of it is a 10w form of v'egetable life called
the badillus of tuberculosis discovered by
the mnost brilliant bacteriologist of the present day, Dr. Kock. Anlother point is that
this bacillus is propagated by spores. The
remnarkable property of spores is that they
This
are exceeding-ly difficult to destroy.
Itacillus will ýwitbstand a very 10w temperaturc. It may lie frozen solid and kept tbus
iîideliîiitely and wliea tham-ed be as lively
.as ever. It is destroyed by heat, but that
lieat must lie great-far hliglier thanl the
is also capable of
hjeat of the blood ;it
rapid propagation. Lt bas favourite sites in
the humnai body.. I xvill flot dwell on this
f urther than to say it is acknoNvledged to bie
the essential cause. The second point is that
it is exactly the sanie in cattie as in mati.
Cattle cati lie inoculated froîn mati, anid
ihese tuliercles are
man from animais.
capable of beiag increased ýby thousands la
Although the juices of the
the body.
stoinacli and intestinal canaIs are antiseptic,
they dIo flot destroy these germs ;furtiter,
they are niot destroyed by coolciîg. This is
the niost important point of ahl. Sucli beiîig
the case, lion. gentlemen will see the !iportance of carefully studying this disease,
anîd tîte meaits of avoiding it. The first step
to cause its removal, or to counteract its

intlueiice, is by inspection, to separate tiiose
animais wbich are contamnufate(l from those
wlîich are pure. I ivill 'lot dwell o11 this

otily to say that this requires very skilled
mieni, flot ordinary Ianmen, but tuen wiio are

trained specially for this. 1 -will renîiind
lion, gentlemen of bow important this inrefertrust that the few remarks, which I shall spectioni is by one fa-ct. That is, lu
Honse exîce to the Jews. The Jews are remarlzable
the

makie

ny not be considered by

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[HAY 15, 1901]
for the care *wbich they show ln inspecting offeaded, because, 1 am sure they n have
the careases furnishing the meat for their Do object in vîew but the public welfare.
sustenance. The blood is entirely dralnied off, This question may bie considered fromi a
the lungs are Inflated, and if 'there is the scieatific, economlc or sanitary standpoint.
sllghtest lump, pustule or adhesion to the 1 only consider it frein a sanitary one, anI
wall of the cbest, the meat is rejected. Ani- I propose to su'bmit to, the minister that,
mals are rejected ID quantities, and what is Instead of sendlng this Bill to a Committee
the resuit of l? The resuit is that the of the Whole Igouse, hie sbould submit it to
Jews are the healthiest race Ia the world. a committee composed of physicians of this
I could rend a great many statisties in con- House, of whom I happen 10, be tlie smallest,
nection with this to show that from gesta- la size, at any rate. We can go over it: caretion onwards to old age the Jews are healthy, f ully and much better than could bie donc
and there are less deaths among them tlîan by a committee of the Whole House. The
any other race in the world. Notwithstand- Governor General, ever anxious for the weling the tact that they have been dispersed tare and improvement of the people of Caaand subjected to vicissitudes, adversities ada, conveaed a tuberculosis coaference a
and persecutions, stili their loagevlty and short time ago, and elicited a great deal of
Insurance com- useful Information. 1 had not the honour
vltality are remarkable.
panies will take rlsks on them ln preference of being there. It did a great deal of good,
Lt shows tile singular and stili greater resuits ave expected to
to aay other race.
and propbetic vision of the great follow. If we, in the Senate, ýwould do anywisdomn
lawgiver of Israel, for our advalaced science thing in the. world that would tend to incanuot improve, or even equal the inspec- crease and propagate, instead of diminish
tion of food ordaiaed by Moses thousands tuberculosis, we would commît a fatal misof years ago. I state this merely to prove take and would deserve to have tuberculosis
to the I{ouse the biiefîts of inspection aad ourselves. I might say a good deal more.
the iiecessity for a thorougli inspection. 1 had a long statement prepared, but I think
Anything which would iaterefere with the I have put the gist of the matter before the
strinigency of this inspection I wvould be Senate, and they may possibly agree witb
strongly opposed to. Ia different counitries, uie. Wbiether they- do or Dot, I have done
of course, they have different nuethods. my duty. Herbert Spencer says it is the first
Germaay, with its scientific predîlection, per- requisite of if e to be a good animal, anid a
hiaps gives the most atteation to this. There nation of good animals is in the best condiare 136 inspectors iii the city of Berlin, tion of Dational prosperity. MNy idea is 10
and the meat passes throughi three hauds. improve such a race as the -hou. gentleman
First, one man separates the iaeat, thenl for -Monck wisbed to have la this country,
any suspected is put in tini boxes and ex- and 1 arn sure I will g-et bis assistance 10
amined carefully by experts, and linally belli lue to hrhng that about. I think *we
giveni to a third expert, if there is any shonld pay great attention to, this Bill. I
doubit, whose decision is final. Giving the submit that if it 15 Dot out of order, aud if it
bodies of cattle to be exarnined by nien who mieets witb the wisbies of the ýminister, we
uliit report to the Miaister of Agriculture wlîo helong to the niedical profession, will
would, iin my mmnd, be a very careless way bie very happy to conuit with him and
of inspectiag them, aud 1 tlîink that thUs render the goveramneat any assistauce iii Our
Bill coafers too mucli power in that respect power.
t0 the minister. Lt gives the power of piroHion. Mr. PRIMROSE-I think if the prououaciug whether meat shall be sold or not.
hon.
I an only speaking in the interests of bu- position whicb has been made by the
gentleman froni Kingston, eould be followed
manity and for the poorest portion of buhave
manity, and therefore, I think this Bill It would bie very desirable lndeed. I
flot given any particuhar study to tbis Bill,
should either bie withdrawn or very cnt-efully considered. 1 will inter subinit to the but there is a provision in the last clause,
House the mode in which I tbink it should 12-A, with regard to lnispected meat proauthorhe treated without offending the miaister. nounced to bie sat e by proper imedical
To what extent immunity would be
lty.
1 suppose it emanates from the Departinent
of Agriculture, and I hope they wiIl not bie secured by the certificate of that authoritY

LSENATE]
ia question. I sliould neot, myseîf, desire and letters and In an affidavit made by Mr. Hermoan Henry Cook, whicb reflected upon the prito put any person iii a position that I was vileges and dignity of the Senate.
nlot willing to oecupy myseif. and I arn
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I niove
very sure that I should nlot purchase meat,
The wordtlie reception of this report.
under the conditions that are specified liere,
In- of the motion standing upon the Notice
for use in my family.
paper is not exactly ia the form in whicli
With tlie perHon. Mr. MILLS-I may say to my lion. I iatended to have ItL
friend that this is only tbe stage of the mission of the House I will strike out the
second reading. The Bill may bie read the ivords 'Coasideration of ' and substitute
second time. The committee stage may lie the word 'That.'
Tlien at the ead of the
deferred until Monday or Tuesday, and I motion I -will add the words 'lie received.'
shall le very glad to confer witb my lion.
It will lie observed by lion. members tliat
friend and any doctors wiho may be in thie thec committec bave reported tlhe evideace
Senate, or any one that lie mnay suggest to and the speeches of tlie legal gentlemen wlio
bring liere for the purpose of discussing were acting for tlie differeat parties inthe subject. I do not L-now that it is pos- terested before the committee, allowing- the
sible for the Minister of Agriculture to lie House and the country to judge for tliemliere, because lie Is loavlig the city, but selves of the merits, witliout making any
some one from his department miglit corne, fanding.
and I arn sure every blon, gentleman will
The motion was agreed to.
agree with the observation of my bon.
opposite, that we mrisli, as far ns we
friend
ELECTIONS ACT AMENDcan, to preserve tlie iealtli of the coni- DOM.NINION
MENT BILL.
and to sec that tliey are not iiimunity
jured by the food afforded by thc use of
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
animais affected -with conitagions diseases.
The Order of the Day being called
The very idea of consuming sucb -would lie
Second reading Bill (64) An Act to amend the
repulsive to tlie vast rnajority of the cornDominion Elections Act.
munity, and se I tbink the sympatliy will
Hon. AIr. M.%ILLS moved tliat this Order
be -witli the views exprcssed by rny bon.
of the Day lie discliarged and placed on the
friend, and as far as it is thouglit proper to
next.
go to meet those views I shall be rnost Orders for Friday
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
happy to go. The Bill can be read a second
time and the comimittce stage deferred tiil quite sure ahl wisli to make this B3ill
Tuesday, and In tbe meantime I will bie as perfect as possible, and when we go into
ready to meet and confer with my hon. comrnittec I propose to move an amendI will read it to the
friead and nny persons lie may suggest.
ment to the Bill.
House inow. I do not say that I will divide
Hon. '-%r. SULLIVAN-WXýould the clerk of the House upon it. My object is to prevent,
the Scuate lie allowed to notify us of the as mucli as possible, the exclianging by amy
meeting ?
returning officer of one ballot for another.
Hlon. Mr. M.NILLS-I would lie prepared to
confer -witli nny mnedical gentleman on
Friday at eleven o'clock. The bon. gentleman can give thc clerk a list of the names.
Tlie motion was agreed to, and tlie Bill
was rend the second time.
COMýMITTEE INVESTIGATION.
REPORT ADOPTED.
The Order of the Day hein,- cilled
Consideration of the report of the special cornmittee appolnted to Inquire loto the statements
and allegations contained la certain telegrains
C00K

Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE.

From the exposures which have takea place
ia eac past, we have liad the very best cvidence that iii rany cases the rcturning
officers have in some legerdemain way or
another, after they have got the ballots in
their biaads, substituted another ballot and
I suggest the repeal of
put it la the box.
section 72 of the Dominion Election Act,
aad -will move that the following lie sulistituted theref or:
72. Th'e electors on receiving the ballot paper
shall forthwith proceed into one of the compartments of the polling station and there mark bis
ballot paper, maklng a cross wlth a blacklead
peacil with'n the white space containing the

425

[MAY 15, 1901J
name of the candidate, or of each of the candidates, for -whom he intends to vote, and shall
fold up the ballot paper in the mqnner shown
him by the deputy returning officer ; he shall
then return to the place where the ballot box la
kept and there hold Up his ballot firmly in his
hand without ever parting with it, or unfoldlng
It, but In such a way that the deputy returnlng.
officer and the agents of the candidates wlll be
able to ascertaîn, by examining the initials and
tbe stsmp mark on the back of the ballot paper,
and by comparing the number on the counterfoîl
wlth the correspondlng number written opposite
his name in the poli book, that it is the same
ballot paper which was furnished to him by the
deputy returning officer ;after whlch the latt3r
wlll take hold o! the counterfoil only, detach
it froin the ballbt paper and destroy It, and the
elector In fuill view o! those present will then
place his ballot in tbe ballot box.
Hon, gentlemen wlll see tbat the voter

keeps the ballot paper lu bis hand instead
of giving it to the returniag officer. The
endeavour in this class of legisiation, Of
course, la to legislate against tbe disbonest
returning officers. This proposed amendment will relieve the returning officers of
afl responsibllity la connection with the
substitution of one ballot for another, the
voter keeping it in bis hand the wbole time.
He holds It up In sucli a wvay that tbe returning officer can tear off the counterfoil,
whicb he destroys, and theni the elector deposîts It in the ballot box. I, do not know
whether hon. gentlemen bave considered
this question, but I ask tbe bon. Minister of
Justice to consider it, and If be tbinks It
advisable we can adopt it, as the desire Is
to make the Act as perfect as possible.
The motion w-as agreed to.
GENERAL INSPECTION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved tbe second readIng of Bill (122) ' An Act to amend tbe Generai Inspection Act.' He said : Hon. gentlemen are aware that about a montb or
two ago certain experts were appointed by
the government to Inquire into the working
of the Inspection Act, and tbey made a report, whicb I tbink was laid before parliament, and this Bill professes te embody
Tbey nre nlot very
their suggestions.
ilumerous, and probabiy would be better
expiained wben tbe Bill is in committee.
The amendment to tbe first clause Is. that
the Inspector wilI be paid by salary Instead of by fee. It was tbougbt he would

become more under tbe control of tbe proper officer. Tbe changes in tbe other clauses
are more verbal tban reai. and. tberefore. I
sbail be glad to expiain tbem w-heu the
House is in committee.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I should like to ask
the hon. Secretary of State if I ciearly understand that this mensure does not effect
the Manitoba Inspection district at ail ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, there is a Bill
coming down-I do not know wbether it bas
passed the other House yet or not-wbich
rearranges the standards in Manitoba, making tbem conform witb tbe standards lu
Dakota and Minnesota. Tbat Bill wl be
broug-ht down on Monday or Tuesday, but
this does not toucb that question.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
w-as read tbe second time.
PENSIONS TO OFFICERS BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved tbe second readlng of Bill (133) 'An Act respecting pensions
to officers of tbe permanent staff and officers
and men of the permanent mîlitia, and for
otber purposes.' He said : Hlon, gentlemen
w-ho bave taken an interest ln tbis subject
are aware that a new departure bas been
made by tbe present Minister of «Militia lu
proposlag to grant, w-itb the approval of
parliament, pensions to officers after having served the period of years named in the
Bill. The Bi-I wll appiy only to the permanent force, wbicb is, as bion, gentlemen
know, composed of tbe scbools of infantry,
the two batteries of artiilery, and tbe Royal
Canadian Drageons, together w-ith the staff
officers and the officers in common of tbe
twelve different districts, and of those la
cbarge of tbe stores la tbe different districts.
The proposai is to
te that.
It is iited
place tbe officers, and I may say the men,
on a plan similar to tbose w-ho are now
granted pensions In tbe North-west mounted
police, and it is proposed that, so far as the
officers are concerned, five per cent of tbeir
pay shahl be deducted to form a fuud, wbicb
la to be used Ia payment of tbe pension. In
officers
regard to the non-commissioned
tbere will be no deduction.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW9ELL-Tbe
5 .per cent la only a proportion of tbe
amount.

[SE' NATE]

,Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The 5 per cent would
flot pay the asnount, but it is beli.eved the
actual charge on the public exchequer wll
flot be greater than It Is at present. As
hon, gentlemen are aware, at present, if an
officer serves a number of years, hie is entitled to a gratuity of 10 per cent, I thinkIt Is,. for every year that hie may have
served.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWNELL-One
year's salary for every ten years' service.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That makes 10 per cent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is the samne, only a
different way of expressing it. I shall be
very glad to discuss the Bill clause by clause
when It goes to the committee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL. 1 tiiink
the proposition Is a very good one.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill was
read the second lime.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (105) 'An Act to incorporate the Kamloops and Atlin Railway Company.'-(Hon.
Mr. Templeman.)
Bill (111) 'An Act to incorporate the Interprovincial and James Bay Rahlway Comnpany.'-(Hon. Mr. Jones, in the absence of
Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (120) 'An Act respectlng the subsldlary
Iligli Court of the Ancient Order of Foresters in the Dominion of Canada.'-(HEon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell.)
PUBLIC PRINTING AND STATIONERY
BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message was received fromn the Hlouse
of Commons with Bill (137) 'An Act to
amend the Act respecting the Department of
Public Printing and Stationiery.'
The Bill was read the first lime.
Hon. Sir
plain.

MACKENZIE

BOWELL-Ex-

,Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As hion. gentlemen are
aware, the PrInting Bureau Is a purchasing
department without any capital, and whihe
the Auditor General has for the hast eight'
or ten years honoured their drafts on the returns being made, hie sometimes objects aji
some short lime ago, lie inisisted they should
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

have a credit authorized by parlhament, and
this is for the purpose of ghving the Klng's
Printer, under certain conditions, a credit
in order to overcome the scruples of the
Auditor General.
THE FRANCHISE ACT.
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved that the House
do now adjourn.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL. Before
the adjournment of the House, 1 wish 10
inform hion, gentlemen that I had another
amendment to the Franchise Act placed la
my hands by the hon, gentleman from
Marshfield. With the consent of the House,
I whll band it to the hion, gentleman opposite,
in order that lie may consider il. Lt is to
amend subsection (A) of clause 41.
If you will refer 10 the Brd clause of that
section you will find that the forin ' I' prevents the possibility 0f enacting tlîat portion
which refers 10 Prince Edward Islanrd, and
it lias evidenthy been a dispiacemetît of the
two lines whicli refer 10 Prince Edward
Island. The hon, gentleman from Marshfield suggested the addition of these words

to the clause wlien the -lct was under consideration, but it is evident they placed the
ameadmient in the wrong place. )Vhat lie
sugg-ests is that il should read:
And In Prince Edward Island lie shall cause
to be placarded at the samie time and place sucli
notice or advertisement regarding the qnalification of voters as is required to lie posted under
the provincial law.

Il will suggest itself 10 any one readiing
this closely that if the words referring to
Prince Edward Island were inclosed iii
bi'ackets or pareatheses, il miglit possibly
conrey the correct idea, but by transposing
those words and placing thiem as indicated
In this motion, it will avoid ahl difficulty.
Then, If my hion. friead wîll look at the
43rd section of the Ehections Act of 1893, lie
wll find the duties which are imposed uponi
the returning officer by the 4lst section of
the Elections Act, and It says il shahl be
included In form (I), whicb, as 1 have pointed out, lt Is impossible 10 do. During the
lnst ehection In Prince Edward Island the
returning officer was in a quandary as to
what t0 do, but lie dld the best hie could
under the circumstances. He posted up nil
the information requhred in the 4lst clause,
and put up another poster giving the provisions 0f the Prince Edward Island Ehections

[MAY 17, 1901]
Bill (R) 'An Act further to amend the
Act, and posted thens together. If the suggestions made by the hon, gentleman frocu North-west Territories Representation Act.'
Mûrshfield are carried out, It wlll avoFid ail -(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
retrouble of thse kind In future. It
FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
peals thse clause and re-enacts it by transposing thse words to which I have referred.
Bill (T) 'An -lct to confer on the Coculuissioner of Patents certain powers for the
INCORRECT RETURNS.
relief of Eudora Sibbald.'-(Hoin. Mr. Baker.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-The
Bill (89) 'An Act respecting the Grand
Secretary of State will notice, if he refers Falls W1Nater Power and Boom Company.to the return lie brouglit down yesterday, (Hon. ',\r. Wood, Westmoreland.)
that I asked for a return of tenders received by the Post Office Department for
SECOND READINGS.
carrying the mails from Coe lli Mines to
Bill (120 'Ail Ade respecting the SubsidApsiey. Thse return I got is:
iary Hligli Court of the Ancient Order of
As the contract for which the tenders In this Foreters l the Dominion of Canada.'casa were invited has nat yet been awarded,
it would be inadvisable te make public the in- (Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
formation asked for herein at present.
Bill (S1) 'An Act respecting the Algoma
Without finding any further fauit with It, Central Railwiy Company au-c to change
I want furtiser Information which the hon. its namte to the Algomna Central and Hudson
gentleman can possibly get for me, so 1 Bay Railway Conipauiy.'-(Hou. Sir Alphonse
-ive notice that 1 shall inquire off the gov- Pehletie,", lu the~ absenee of Hou. '-\r. Danduernment who is the person now carrying the rand.)

mest

ll
Mines to Apsley, the
mails froîn Coe
suni paîd for sucli service, and if a change
te
in the pecrson whvlo fornierly carriei

THE MIMCINDIANS.

INQUIRY.
mails lias been made, -why was it madle. 1
Hon. Mr. LA-ýNDRÏ called:
hope it will not take long to get that mnuch
The attention off the goverament to the follawing documient sent roi the mnembers off the
information.

The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottaiwa, Friday, Mep 17- 1901.

The SPEAKER toolz the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
TIHRD REA-ýDINGS.
Bill (103) ' An Act respecting the Canada,
Northern Railway Comnpany, the 'Northerui

Senate and off the House of Commons
Anl Appeal to Parliament.

Idiani Reserve,
St. Anne de Restigouche, P.Q.,
9th February, 1901.
To the Members off the Senate
And the Members off the House off Commans.
Gentlemeni,---ýs chief off the band off Micmac
Indians residing- here, with the full approval
of the' mc'mbers of the council off the band and
of ail the men cf the baud. wvjth very few exceptions, I desire tu appeacl to yon tu secure
for the baud t'rat justice and fair treatment
which the Departîment of Indian Affairs bas refnsed to grant o It.
t askç for ni favol1rs for the band, I merely
ask that you have brought before yon for examination the )etitioi, and letters which I have
during the las* few mcnths, sent to the departnment in regard tu the Ind'an agent for the band,
and the replies off the department to the saine,
if. after au examnination off the samne, you
jand
consider that the band is entitled. as wards of
made
complaints
g overnment. ta have the
againat the agen:1 investigtited, I ask that yon
insist upon a fair and impartial inquiry Into the
inatter by sanie competent persan.
Tisat you may thoroughly understand the situation, I beg leave ta direct yaur attention to
the followlng tacts :
1. The agent lives twenty miles tram the reserve and seldoni visita It, and when hie dos
visit it he fails ta give attention ta the affaira
off the band in a satisfactory manner, and In

Pacifie and 'Manitoba Railway Comspany,
the Winnipeg Transfer Comipany, te Portage and North Western Railway Comupany,
the Weskada North Eastern Rallway- Coinpanyv.'-(Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
Bill (85) 'An Act to incorporate the Aiberta Central Railway Companiy.*-(Hon. '-\r.
Watson.)
Bill (S) ' An Act to amend an Act passed
during the present session Intituled :' An
Act to incorporate the Fort Qu'Appelle Railmy opinion he does flot posseas that education
way C.ompaiy.'-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)

[SENATE]
or business abiity which would enabie hlm to
give those affairs the attention tbey pruperly
sbould receive.
2. About twu years ago the baud was given
the right to elect a chief and couneîl for the
purpose of managiug is affaira. and an election
was held, and a chief and councillors were then
elected. but although often requested s0 to do
the agent has neyer called a meeting of the
counil.
2. Owing to the iacapacity of the agent or
bis negleet of duty and bis refusai to caîl a
meeting of tbe council to enact such regulations
as are neüessary for preserving peace and good
order, there la often mucb unriily and disgracefui conduct on tbe reserve.
Aithougli the inembers of the band cannot vote
la Dominion elections, I dIo net tbink that for
that reason tbey sliould be refused that fair
treatment wlaicb la the rigbht of ail British suliaects. even if by granting it tbe goverament
may be compelled tu remuve from office one of
its active supporters.
Gentlemen, on bebaif o! the band, I appeal to
you to see that, putting aside ail political considerationa, tbe governmeut administers
the
affairs of the band wlth due regard to the riglits
of the peuple.
1 bave the bonour tu remain,
Your faitbful and obedieut servant,
ALEX. MARCHEL,
Chief.
And inquired if the complaints made againat
the ludian agent of the Indian reserve of Ste.
Aune de Restigouclie bave been lnvstlgated, aud
If sa, what la the reault of sucli an Investigation?
If nu investigation bas yet been beld, is it
the intention of the guverumeut ta huid one, and
when?
If not, wby?

Hon.

-N1v.

-NILLS-It appears

from

the

Memo. placed lu my banda tbat the agent
lives too far away fromu the reservation te
promptîr and efflciently performi tlie duties
of the office, and the 'Minister of tlie Iasterior lias under consideration thse taking of
sr:oh stepa as will remedy the difflcuity.
DISALLO)VANCE 0F QUEBEC LEGISLATION.
INQUIRY.

Flou. 'Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Has tbe guveroment received any petition asking, under the f urm. uf a petition tu the Governor
Generai. the disalowauce of tbe Quebec Bill
(No. 162), which suppresses, at une stroke, the
contestations of electiona and ail the penal
actina arisiug out of tbe iaat provincial eiecieuns lu December, 1900?
By whorn waa this demand of disalluwance
made ?
Up)on wbat la It based, aud what are the motives iuvuked tu ohiain the disallowance of this
law?

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I do not know ýwbat the
rule is lu this Hlouse, but in tlie House of
Gommons it is Dot usual to put lu a questUon aur staternent that may bie coutested
as a inatter of fact. I suppose that tlie same
Heu.

Mr. LANDRY.

rifle prevails liere. I miglit say, however,
to my bion. friend that I have flot liad liefore me any sucli petition as yet, and the
petition for disaUlowance of course would
corne to me, as Minister of Justice. If it
lias corne into rny department, it bas flot
yet been submitted to mie.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot think the
hon. minister quite understands the question
as I put it. I do not inquire if the 'Minister
of Justice lias received, or lias liad before
hlm, any petition ; I arn inquiring wlietber
any petition to the Governor General lias
been received. I suppose if the petition -were
received by the Governor General it would
bce sent to the Secretnry of Sta te.
Hon. Mr. 31ILLS-lt would corne to me.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Tlie Secretary of
State may have been too busy, and rnay flot
have sent it to the minister. I know that a
petition was smt, and 1 amn astouislied.
that the Minister of Justice does not know
it. Yesterday I was toid that I knew as
mucli as tlie governent about the Duke of
Cornwall's visit ; la this case I oaa state I
know more than the government.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I arn not responsible for
tise extent of my bion. friend's knowedige.
Hon. -Mr. LjANDRY-No, but thie lion. g-entleman is responsibie for lot knowing.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Could
the lion. gentleman answcr thse question
wlietlier any sncb petition lias been receiveci by tlie goverament ? Lt miglit have been
received and not yet referred to tlie Minister of Justice.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-There is very littie
delay la transmitting thi to mie.
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOW\ýELL-And
the lion, gentleman asks a furtlier question.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Not liaving seen any
petition yet, I arn unable to state by wliom
the demand lias been made, and I did not
know, up to this moment, of the existence
of sucli a petition, except froan the statement in this question. I will make inquiry,
and if the petition lias got into any department, It would first be addressed to the
Secretary of State la regular form, andl le
forwarded, as a matter of course, frorn the
Sccretary of State's office to mine. Ererything of that sort could only be acted upon
on a report by myseif, or some one acting

[-MAY 17, 1901]

on my behalf, to the Governor in CounCil.
1 have had no sucb petition before mie. If ît
has corne to the Secretary of State's office, it

429

THE prOVINCIAL FLSHIERIES.
INQUIRY.
(BC)os
o.r.iADNL

To cail attention to the conflicting dlaims of
nif stl be
o
yofc,
forwarded
aebeen
tomy
beenforarde ofic, itmaystil bethe Dominion and provinces to exercise control of
fisheries, and wili inquire If the Dominion
Iu the hands of my deputy, as there are many the
judgto
at- government intends givlng efiect of the PrIvy
the
ment of the Judicial Committee
things whieh are flot brouglit un er my
the queso

ma

arranglflg and ssttiing
tention until I have an opportunity of deai- Council-by
and profor tion of separate jurlsdictlofl. Dominion the right
lnag witb tbem. There are some miatters,
he ommta-vinciai-or wili the Dominion contest the fishreiaiagto
totecomtofatnhe prvnces to assume control of based on
Instance, petitions
uder legisiation and regulations
of sentences. I arn not able to I keep eries judginent of the Privy Council, which Is la
tion
dis- the
Up witb the work during the session.
the foliowiflg language :
' That the beds of ail rivers and lakes (whlch
I get an opportunity, of as
pose, whenever
o engrantefi) were the property of the
is niways
is possible, but thieredaltwith ha
many ns it
prvine ln which they were situated;
ot
someaccmulaionthatis
the waters of such rivera andi lakes,
itb Pat
ot dnît
soua accmultionthatis
were also provincial proof this sort, disa.lownce and the flsh therein,
sucb as petitions
statutes, that requires a veyconsider- Perty;
the sole right to issue fisiiery leases,
of
That
very'
and permits to fish, and to receive fees
deputy,
able attention. They go first to my the sub- licenses leases. licenses and permits, was vested
for such
gives careful consideration to
wbo
in the province exciuslveiy;
' That a provincial legisiature is not empowerject. and thea to myseif, and then from sue
order in ed to enact fishery regulations and restrictions,
to council to be recommended, by
Dominelther generaliy or unless andi until the
councîl, to the consideration of His Excel- Ion parliament sees fit to deai lawith the subject.
not empowered
That a provincial legisiature
lency. Now, noue of thiese steps have been
they fail
wi!th fisheries
a to deai the description lnof so, far as and civil
property
taken, so far as I kaow, with regard to
within
or within the description of any subject
matter recently denît witb in the province rgts.
leglslatures; and
assigned to provincial legisiature may impose a
of Quebec.
«That a provincial
vey
ndestan
ANDY-1
-Ion '-Ir.
lîcense duty on fishing in order to ralse a reaesadvr
Io.M.LNRpurposes.,
the minister. 1 venue for provincial
well the reasons given by
Hle said : 1 arn sure the minister and the
suppose it is the usual wny in w'hich bie

denis

wvith

his departmneital affairs,

but government attach as mnuch importance to

as I do. I arn bringing this
when a question is put on the Orders of the tLis question
matter forward now to burry the goverliDay, and bis attention is cailed to a certain
The fishing season is coming on iu
fact, I do not see why hie should iiot mnake ment.
British Oolumbia, and it is important that
special inquiries and, in the present case,
known who has to issue the
Inquire of the Secretary of State If be has it should bie
The province, acting
tîxis yenr.
received such a petîtion, or of bis deputy licenses

If sucb a petition bas reacbed bis departmeut.

Hon. Mr. M1LLS-Wheti these questions
are put upon the paper, tbey are rend over
every day by an officer in the departmnt,
and any information wbich tbey have that
mny be couveyed to me is brought before
me, and tbe salme practice, 1 presume, pre1
vails lu every other departmneft. Now,
question of bis has
tell my bion. friend, this
been before the officer of the department
and no report bas been made to me.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the officer say
hie did not receive it ?

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I bave aiready given
my hon. friend my answer, whicb hie thilnks
is not satisfactory.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It Is not satisfactory.

under the judgment of the Privy Council,

has passed a Bill dealing with the fisheries
question, but does not wish to bie out of baris
mony witb the Dominion goveruimeut. It
an extraordîinary decision after aIL The provinces bave the rigbt to issue liceuses, and
the Dominion the rigbt to make the regulations. Tbe judgment la sometbiilg like that
whicb was rendered lu the Manitoba sebool
question-partly lu favour of the local and
partiy lu favolir of the Dominion authority.
There eau be no question of tbe jurisdiction
; but
of the province iii the lakes aud rivera
three
territorial waters, I suppose, for
the
miles out from 10w water on tbe coast would
bie under tbe jurisdIctiolI of tbe Dominion. A
great deal of fisbiug Is doue lu tbe rivera,
and 1 tbink stili more is doue iu the brackisb
waters outalde of the rivera. I ouly hope

IA

[SENATE]

tliat the governuient wlll, witlout waitiug
for the matter to be referred to the courts
for decision, arrange a modus vivendi for
this year, se that the department ceuld continue their present regulations, and perhaps
eventuaily divide the fees witli thie province.
I ar n ot instructed liy the province in this
matter, but I k-now there is a great deal of
anxiety prevailing until the thing is settled.
A modus vivendi wouid be the liest way to
arrange it for tbis year, se that both parties
miglit share iu the license tees and fishing
go on smoothly.

liceusing of tlie flsliermen, tlie profits derived from those licenses, wvhatever thley may
lie, beloug to the provinces of the Dominion,
and it wili lie foi the provinces to exercise
that jurisdictîon. witli regard to tlie fislieries
-at ail events so far as tlie catcling of tbe
flsli is concerued, and tlie licensngi. of tliose
engaged ln fishing-wliich lias iiitlierto been
under tlie cliarge of the Marine and Fisheries Departmnent.

Hon. Mr. McC.ILLUM\-Will tlie lion.
mîinister tell us %vho pays the expense et
the protection of the flslieries? The DominHon. '-%r. MILLS-Under the decision of !on goverument puys the expense I underthie
the Judicial Comlmittee of the Privy Council, stand, and tlie local goveruments collect
the province is declared to be the proprietor money for t ees.
of the fisheries, and its riglits are proprietary
I-on. Mr. MIILLS-Witli regard to tlie proriglits, and any jurisdiction it lins is not as tection of thie fish, we have litlierto mude
a legisiative body, but as pr.3prietor, and it piotective regulations, and licensed perso:i,
stands towards the goverliment of tlie Do- te engage in tlie flslieries, on the assumpmiinion, with respect to tlie fisheries, exactly tien tliat the flslieries were under tlie coulu tlie saine position that a private indivi- trel and jurisdiction et the purliament of
dual in any ordinary case stands towards Canada ns tlie proprietor, as well as for tlie
tue governmieut. M3, lion. friend irnows purpose of regulation.
Tliat lias -ceased,
tLat tbe riglits iu the fisb lu a streaiii that liecause tlie judicial comimittee liave decidruns througli n man's property are bis. Ile ed tliat tlie proprietary interest is iu the
is reguarded as the proprietor, se far as the province.
riglits to taire the flsli upon bis own property
Hon. Mr. M-NcCA\LLUMIStili we puy for
is coucerned, but lie could not taire tleie eut
could not d!sreg-ard the regu- the protection ?
of senson-lie
Hon. Mr. MILLS-To a simal extent.
lutions tliat the legislature maires witli a
view to protecting the flsb. Now, that wlould
M-on. Mr. MILLER-Do the governument
lie exactly the relation the province stands liere net keep up the sanie staff as they did
lu, as proprietor of the fisheries, towards the before tliat decision ?
Dominion geoverumeut. What seaso;n stial
Hon. Mr. M.\ILLS-I tlinkl net.
lie a close seasolu-wliat kmn.d of flsh muy lie
cauglit-liw tliey may lie cauglt, and everyHon. Mr. MILLER-I tliuk tliey do lu the
tbingý et thut sort is under the coutrol of the pr-ovince of Nova Scotia.
parliament of Canada ; but everytliing relatHon. Mr. MILLS-It may lie that the proing to the proprietary interest iu the fisli. vince 0f Nova Scotia lias net taken over its
after the regulations are mnde, and after the proprietary iuterests in tlie matter. Tliut
ecse season is determinied, lielong1s to the inay lie, and it may lie also tliat some other
province as proprietor of tliese flslieries. provinces liave not doue so.
The principle upon wliich the judicial coiiinittee liave proceeded is very eiear. To my
Hon. Mr. MýILLER-Wý%hut about British
rmid, there ouglit to lie very littie diffidulty Columbia ?
lu understandiug that decision. I cannot
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tliat is just the quessay wlietlier the Minister of 'Marine ind
Wlietlier BriFisheries lias reaclied any underst_àiidîng tion my lion. friend raises.
to the admin- tisli Columbia lias doue so or net, 1 caunot
withi tlie provinces in respect
are uudertaning to
istration of tlie law for thie time lieing or suy, but I thinir they
uiay thinik pro- taire cliarge et tlie fisheries. 0f course, tlie
or not, what regulations lie
for
per to enforce witli a view' o e largingý*decision çvas te some extent unleoked
cxp mnse ef thE iu some et the provinces. Tliey neyer made
against the flslieries tlie
work of reg-ulation 1 cannet suy, but thE any dlaim, nnd were quite content that mutHon. Mr. MAGDONALD (BUC.)

[MAY 17, 1901]
regulationS of the Proters shouid have gone on as before, but the ing to see that the
Is
baving decided that the vince are not violated. What in the world
judiclal committee,
for a Dominion inspecter to do other
provinces have jurisdiction in respect to the tl-,ere
that it is utterly
proprietary interests, have the rig-bts of than to walk round-and considering the
impossible for him to do,
proprietors.
over w.hich he bas to
Hou Mr MILERTheripria inerets.extent of the territory
inerets.travel-to ascertain whetiher the Dominion
Hon Mr MILERTheripria
We have
Hon. Mr. MILLS-All the rivers and the regulations are being enforced.
How f ar the no knowledge yet that any regulations bave
lake shore and sea shore.
to the indepartment have succeeded In handing over been promulgated with reference
1 canflot land waters. To iny mind. we are making
the administration to the provinces
or, in other
say. as the work is In process of being an unnecessars expenditure,
-words, furnishing places for some people
changed.
good salary and nothing to
Hon. Mr. MecAILUM-M-Ny object iii ask- with a tolerably
ing for information is, on looking over the do.
Hon. Mr. M-ILILS-My hon. friend can
returns from the fisheries, I notice it costs a
bardly contend, in the face of the decision
receive.
good deai more than we
or the Judicial Committee of the Privy
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-A great deal more.
Council, that the Dominion governient have
Hon. Mr. M-NcGALLU.\-I would say this, not the duty devolving upon them to see to
we are paying- a large amount for the pro- the protection of the fisheries.
tection of the fishieries, and we are not hait
Hon. Sir MACIKENZIE BOWELL-I did
protecting them. That is the trouble on Lake
Erie, and the sturg-eon and sucli fish will not say SO.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Well, if there are no
soon be mun out. I arn aware this is not the
but I know the officers appointed to look after them, lt is
time to maise the question,
any disregard of
Dominion is losing rnoney, and I do not very difficuit to see how
is
other g-overnmfents are iuaking the regulations, or any violation of wbat
know if the
considered necessamy for the preservation
mu ch.
be cammied Into effect.
MCKENIE BWELLThe0f the fishemies, can
Hou. ir
Hon. Mr. M-\cCALLUM-Who makes the
question put by the bon. gentleman froni
one, from the regulations ?
Monck Is a very pertinent
Hon. Mm. MILLS-Tbey are made by orfact that fisheries inspectors have been appointed since the last election, who were dem in council.
cALMHr
r
Hn
paid. according to the answer given by the
r dCLU-ee
Hn
Secretary of State, at .$1,200 a year. In the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes. We have heme the
locality wbere I meside, we have one or two
On- duty of making the regulations. As I said
fisheries inspectors appointed by the
of the local goverutario governmcnt to look after the inter- at the outset, the power
of the ment, as proprietors, Is that of an ordinary
ests given to tbem by the decision
no legislative authority
Pmivy Council, and lately we have had a proprietor. There Is
a year, accompanylr'g that proprietory interest. The
commissioner appointed at $1,200
Is wholly here, and se
who the Secmetary of State informed us, legisîntive autborlty
Muskoka down the regulations are made bere, and it Is imbadl a district rang-Ing from
consequelice of mal.to the eastern portion of the province ; and portant, as a logical
duties were, I got lng those regulations, the work of adminiswben I asked wbat biýs
that the regulations
no satisfactomy answer furthem thian it was teming them, to see
If the power of made by the authorlty of the parliament of
to look after the fisheries.
into eff ect under
the Dominion Is only to make regulations, Canada sbould be carried
is no fisbing thmough an officer appointed by the Governor Genand to see that there
an officer appointed by
the prohibited season, it seems to me we eral, and not under
It. AUl the the Lieutenant Governor under the advice
are paying a good deal for
Is the position. A
bnck lakes contain, as we know, a large of bis minlstry. That
be
and the fisheries In- regulation may be made that fish may
quantity 0f choice fish,
at a certain portion of a lake shore,
spectors 0f the province of Ontario are look- caught

[SEN ATEI
and that no license for fishlng, shall be
granted for certain other space. A regulation off that sort may be made ln order that
there may be a protection to a certain Portion off shore, as a spawniug ground. Al
those regulations may bie regarded as necessary for the preservation off fish. If that
were left catirely to the local authorities,
it is very difficuit to say how f ar they would
bie able to carry them into effective operation. Take, for instance, along the Detroit
river, where you have the United States
peuple fishing at ail seasons off the year ou
their shore, and where wc have a close season ;our people who reside there are very
seriously influenced by -%hat they see every
day. They say that if the fisheries liu the
lakes are to be exhausted, if the United
States people will make no reg-ulations corrcsponding to those made by us, we may
just as well assist in carrying on the work
off extinction as leave it to, be carried on by
people on the other side alone.
Hon. 2\r. MciC.ILLUM-N-Hear, hear.
Hlon. «M\r. M.\ILLS-Our officers 'believe that
we do protect the fish to no inconsiderable
extent by protecting our own shore, notwithstanding what the United States peopie are doing on their own shore, because it
is said that fish, just like birds, go back to
the saine breeding ground every year. Just
as a bird rnay go thousands off miles away
and corne back to its nest again, so the fil
that corne to our coast return there every
season, and although our neighibours may
not observe the close season, you do, neyertheless, succeed in protecting the fisheries
on the Canadian side off the border, aîthougli
the United States are doing nothing. I canflot say how that rnay bie, but this rnuch we
know very well, that over an extensive Dominion, the parliamerit, many off whose
members corne ffromn districts that are not
affccted by these local considerations, exercise a rnuch more effective power iu maintaining the law, notwithstanding what is
being donc in the United States, than the
goverument off any province could possibly
do, aud if wc are to give effect to the decision off the Judicial Committec off the Privy
Council, It secms to me that the work off luspection must, lu no srnall degree, be left
to the administration here, as it bias been
frorn the beginning-. That is the vicw taken
at the present time. Lt has been suggested
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

by some members off the local legisiature
that the inland fisheries ln a large degree
should be entirely under their control, and
that we should have nothilg to do with
tliem, and in their opinion the British North
America Act should be amended in that
particular so as to give them legisiative
authority as weii as the proprietorsbip off
the fish in ail lnland waters.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I do flot wish to,
prolong this discussion, and I know 1 amn
out of order, but 1 thini: this discussion bias
done some good, because 1 did not really
know to whom 1 should look to protect the
fisheries off this country. Now 1 know from
the statement off the 'Minister off Justice that
this is the proper place to corne, and hereafter I shall look to the Dominion goverament. I know tliat aiong the Lake Erie
shore the licenses are vioiated very much,
and we will have to, cali on the governent
to protect the fish, if it is their duty to do it.
It will be a great cost to this country, but
at the saine time if wc do not have better
han
protevu Lonu

.'-..

-.-

-.-

be extinct.
Hon. Mîr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-With reh
h epefo
feec otefsigb
United States, It is very injurions to our
fish. They use traps and catch the fish lu
hmgigu
rvn
n
getnmes
ou r rivers, the Fraser river especially, and I
think it is a question that might be takea
up by the two governrnents to see if the
United States goverunent would flot prevent the using off traps to catch fish near
our rivers. It is very injurious to the
fisheries in our rivers, I hope the minister will give consideratiofi to Mny suggestion about the modus vivendi. It wili be a
long time beffore a decision off the courts can
be obtained, and as matters stand now,
there will be two classes off licenses, and
there will bie a conflict between the two
authorities. It will not work weil, besides
being an extra expense to the fishermeri.
My hon. friend said thc rights off the province were just thc saine as the rights off
the private Individual. There Is a difference ln this way, that the province can
charge a license according to the decision off
the Privy Council.
500fl

Hon. Mr. MIL-ocan a private individual.

[MAY 17, 1901]

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-He can
charge a rent, but not a license.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It would amoant to
the same thing.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I want to
impress upon the government the necessity
of prompt action In this matter, as fishlng
will soon commence in our province.
ANSWERS TO INQUIRIES.
INQUIRY WITHDRAWN.
The Order o! the Day being called:
By the Hon. Mr. LANDRY :
That hie will inquire of the gavernment whether Jt intends saca ta put an end ta the grief

whicb the hon. Minister of Justice manifesta
dally at not being able ta answer the inquiry
of which the hon. member representlng the
Stadacona division gave notice on 22nd April
last, on the subject of the Indian agent o! the
reserve of St. Anne de Restigauche?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-As the Department
o! the Interior bas furnished the information called for by my inquiry, whicb gave
rise to this motion, this motion is inopportune, and I ask to have it dropped.
The motion was allowed to drop.
MAIL SERVICE BETWEEN COE HILL
MINES AND APSLEY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL rose to
Inquire of the government who Is now carrylng the mails from Cae Hill Mines, In North
Hastings, ta Apsley, and the sumn paid for sncb
service? And if a change In the persan who bas
been carrying the mail has been made, wby
was the change made?
Han. M1r. M.1LLS-Charles W. Gunther 15
now carrying the mail between Apsley and
Coe HIi Mines. The former contractar havlng refused to carry on the service at a reasonable rate, a temporary agreement was

made with Gunther at a lower rate than
that asked for by the former contractor.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Is directly contrary to thé information I
have. However, I daresay the hion. genstlemnan Is right.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That Is the answer sent
me !rom the departnient
BILLS 'INTRODUCED.
Bill (47) 'An Act to amend the Act to Restrict the Importation and Employment o!
Aliens.'-(Hon. Mr. Mihîs.)

FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
The foilowing Bis were received from
the House of Commons and read the first
and second Urne under a suspension of the
rules :
Bill (80) 'An Act to Incorporate the St.
Mary River Bridge Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
Baker.)
Bill (95) ' An Act respecting the Ontario,
Hudson Bay and Western Raiiway CoInpany.'-(Hon. Mr. Baker.)
Bill (98) ' An Act incorporating the Kettle
River Valley Raiiway Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
Templeman.)
Bill .(104) ' An Act to incorporate the Nova
Scotia Eastern Railway C)ompany, Limited.'
-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
Bihl (108) ' An .Act respecting the Manitoulin and North Shore Railway Company.'
-(Hon. Mr. Baker.)
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
Hou. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Before the
orders of the day are called, I riUe to a question of privilege. Any gentleman who was
here on Wednesdfly afternoofl, when I
moved the second reading, of the Manitoba
Railway Bill, will remember that, when introducing it, 1 explained that this wvas the
celebrated Manitoba Railway Bill, which
had been debated in the House of Commains
for neariy two months, before it succeeded.
in getting its final passage, and had been
eventually carried through tliat House on a
vote et 109 to 5, and in moving the passage
of that Bil, 1, as a personal favour, asked
this House to allow it to go througb the
stages It was put through at that time, In
order tha't 1, mysel!, who had In charge
the Bill, and had promised to remain unti!
it passed, could go away on Saturday, and
the House very kindly assented to the proposai, and allowed it to go through. My
motion was seoonded by niy hon. friend
Mr. Perley. I wss very much astounded on
reading the following paragraph In the
Globe :
Senator
The joke is on Senator Perley.
Kirchhoffer stole a march on the Senate this
afternoon and managed ta get the raIes suspended and ta obtain first and second readlng for
the Manitoba Railway Bill wlthout his colleagues
It
reallzlng the nature of the transaction.
seems that the titie of the Bi11 was changed

434

[SENATE]

at the last moment in the Commons, and when
it appeared in the Senate nobody except the
mover recognized it under the new naine.
Moreover, Mr. Kirchhoffer said the Bill was a
very simple one, and luiied any suspicions which
Senator
may have existed with regard ta ItL
Perley seconded the motions for the first and
until to-night dîd hc
second readings, but not
leara that he had given his support ta the Roblin deal. Thea he became very wrathy.
a

Xow, it is 'not a laughing matter w-len
Bill bas gone through this House

tat such a deliberate, not distortion of

nothing more than proper that the Bill
sbould be restored to the Order Paper, so
that those who are promoting it will bave
an opportunity of submitting it to the coinmittee. My only objection to the Bill, so far
as 1 knew it, was the facilities afforded for
lotteries, and I should be very sorry to see
a Bill carried through parliament with these
If this w-as eliminated,
provisions in It.
I have no objection w-hatever to give the
promoters of the Bill an opportunity of dealing with it in the w-ny they think proper.

facts, but entire misrepres enta tion of w-bat
uorcurred, takes place, and is put iu a paper
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It w-ill
of the standing of the Globe, and I thinl, w-e
protection of the be remembered that w-hen that question
are entitled to ask for the

House against such misrepresentntion.

I came up, I made at once the saine statement
the hon, gentleman bas made. If I recollect
right, It w-as on the motion of the hon. Secretary of State the Bill w-as dropped.

cail attention to the fact to prevent the
statement going te the w-orld, that I ln any
w-ay attempted to deceive tUe House, as
Anybody w-ho heard
stated in the Globe.
me introduce the Bill w-i ratify w-bat I have
stated. I w-as Incliued to think, that the reporter of the Globe must have got his Information froi some one w-ho w-as stuffiug
hum, but 1 learn froin another newspaperman

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, of the hon. gentleman fron 'deLanaudiere (Mr. Casgrain).

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The objection wns the recognition of the principle
of lotteries, and If that feature of the~ Bill
that he w-as present while I w-as speaking, is dropped, I see no reason w-hy the êgentieand, therefore, he must have deliberately ýmen should not have their Bill. If the hon.
The Globe, w-heU mînister will move to have it restored to
îlistorted -bat I said.
bas attempted to bring my name into dis- tUe Order paper I will bave no objection.
1-epute, as having sought to put a Bill
tlirough the House under false pretenses,
The SPEAKER-M2Ny recollection of w-bat
ehould give my explanation as w-ide a cir- tool, place is that the lion, gentleman froin
culation as it bas given the original mis- deLanaudiere, w-ho bad charge of tUe Bill,
statement.
moved that it be dropped.
CREDIT FONCIER DU BAS CANADA
BILL.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Before the Orders of the
Day are called, I w-ish to state that I received a note froin a member of the House
of Commous, Mr. Geoffrion, w-itb regard to a
Bill which w-as allow-ed to drop bere, a Bill
relating to the Credit Foncier du Bas Canada. Objection w-ns taken to the Bill on the
ground that there were provisions in it
This hou. gentleman
permitting lotteries.
raid that he w-as quite w-illing that any-thing
of that sort should be elimiuated froin the
Bill, but he was very anxious that it should
receive its second reading and shouhd go for
consideration to a committee of the House,
wm-here w-e w-ould have an opportunity of
eliminating anything of that sort that was
objectionable.
That being so, it would be
Tion. Mr. KrRCHHOFFER.

Hon. Mr. ýSCOTT-He declined to take responsibility for the Bill.
The SPEAKER-My recollection is the
House struck It directly froin the Order
Paper.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I took charge of the
Bill w-Uen it -was introduced, because M-%r.
Casgýrain -was absent. When the Bill came
Up for Its second reading, t>he hon. Minister
of Justice opposed certain of its clauses, and
I asked that the Bull be alowed to stand so
that Mr. Casgrain, wben dbe came back, would
have an opportunity to say what be should
do -wlth t. 'Mr. Casgrain came back. and 1
w-as absent at the funeral of the late Senator
Ross w-heu the Bill w-as up again for second
reading. Mr. Cnsgrain declined to promote
the Bill, and It was allow-ed a second turne
to stand aw-aiting my return. On rny return
I stated the facts, ns 1 state themn now, nnd

[31AY 17, 1901]
the lion. Secretary of State nîioved that flhe
Biil be dropped. Tîjese are the fâcts as 1
remember theni.
Hon. Mr. IMILLER-It canixot lie put on
the order paper now witliout a regular notice of motion.
The SPEAKER-As the Bill was flot
got rid of in the regular way, 1 think it is
stili open for the minister to give notice to
have it replaced on the orders to-day. The
question of order can be considered. There
is some doubt about it. Theu the lion. g-entieman from DeLanaudière and the Hon.
Mr. Dandurand will be liere, and the matter
cau be discussed.
.TUDGES 0F PROVINCIAL COURTS BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS (Minister of Justice)
mioved the third reading o! Bill (131) 'Au
Act to amend the Act respecting the Judges
o! Provincial Courts.'
Mon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That the Bill be flot now read the third time,
but that It lie referred to a Committee of the
Whole House, with Instructions te strike out
Clause 3.
He said : Clause tliree is the one whicl increnses the salary o! one judge ln the province of Quebec. The salaries, up to the
present tume, bave been $3,000 for eachi of
the judges, and this clause gives an 1ncrease
ef $000 for the senior judge of the court. I
thouglit, and every bion, gentleman -was of
the sanie opinion, that if the salaries of the
judges were to be lncreased, ail the increases
ihould be contalned in one Bill, which should
be presented to this House, and as the governinent, as a matter of poIlcy, lias decided
flot to sulimit a Bill dealing wlth the salaries
of judges througliout th6f Dominion, I do not
thînk they are consistent in Increasing the
salary o! one judge ln the province o! Quebec. Thiat increase shouid be left for an,other year and corne under the general systeni whlch the government are considering,
and that tbey wili be prepared, -we hope, te
submit a Bill for the purpose te the Hlouse
next session.
Hon. '-%r. MILLS (Miiister of Justice)I -trust bon, gentlemen will net cem-ply witli
the motion of my hon. friend opposite. The
judge my hion. friend names la the senior
judge of the court-practically the Chie!
28*

Justice, aithougli net se called. If '.e were
ta cali hlm Chief Justice, lie woull lie entitled te lie put on a footing of equality reiatively te the othier judges of the court by
an increase o~f $1,000 instead o! $600. Under
this same Bill we have preposed te appoint
a Chief Justice in tlie North-west Territories,
and if we name the senior judge there, as
1 hiave no doulit we shah, as Cie! Justice
of tlie. Terrîtories, lie wiil lie receiving a
tliousand dollars ln addition to what lie lias
lieretefere received. We are flot increasing
the salaries of any court genernily. We are
neot undertalzing te deal with that subject.
We have aiiewed tlie salaries te stand as
tlîey were, but here is a. court where al
the judges, just as la the Nortli-west Territories, have stood on a footing of equality,
because there is ne one having -nominaliy
the nlame of Chief Justice. Tihis judge is
tue senior judge 0f the court, and -we are
not giving him $1,000, but $600, more than
lie lias received lieretofore. I do not thinkl
tlîat the proposition Is an unreasetiabie ene.
I understand, this court in tue district of
Mentreal lias a very great deul ta do, as ail
the judges in that district have, and we are
dealing with hlm, net la a wvay to specially
faveur him, but as we are dealing with a
senior judge or Chief Justice ln nil tlie provinces ; but not being calied a Chief Justice, we fix bis salary a littie beiew the salary of one who is designated a Chief Justice. In 1h15 ceurt and lu the Hligli Court
of the Nerth-west Territories, tlue judg-es ail
stand on a footing of equaiity. Ne eue is
named Chief Justice. Here we designte tlue
efficer wheo is te receive that inereased sumu
ini this court the senier judge, as lie is, and
we propose te increase bis salary and the
salary of tlie one who is te lie made Chief
Justice la the North-west Territories.
HEon. Mr. LANDRY-Do I understand the
hon. gentleman te say that these judges la
the Circuit Court have the sanie jurisdictien
as the judges o~f the North-west Territorles.
Hon. Mr. MILLS--No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbey have net the
sanie jurlediction ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I de net see why
then there should be a comparisen. If on
the ether band the contention that the senior

[SENATE]

judge of a court sliould be better paid. and
Hon. 'Mr. 'MILLS-I canuot say.if the lion. 'Minister dlaims that as a rule
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He was appolnted
sucli an Increase is generaliy of a thousand about 1892. There are two of them, and lie
dollars, then, if the bion. gentleman's argu- is the oldest.
ment is good, the senior judge la this '-%ontHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-That sort
Teal Circuit Court bas a right to a thonof tliig ouglit to go round.
sand dollars more. I do flot see wliy lhe
Hon. Mr. BAKER-If my mouth hadi fot
puts It at $600.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I did flot say that.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I was under the impression that that was the meaning of the

hou. gentleman's speecli-that lie was doing
a very reasonable thing when lie was putItlng It at $600 instead of $1,000. If It is
done In the other provinces, why does lie flot
ask $1,000 ? Tliat senior judge of tlie
Circuit Court bas no more right to an
Increase of $600 than lie lias to an increase
of $1,000. It is simpiy a reward given to
that judge-the bon. gentleman knows wliy
'-because one time lie saw fit to leave lis'
place in tlie legîIsiative council, wlien tlie
Mercier goverament wanted a majority In
,that body, to accept a reward of $3,000 a
year. That reward having been given hlm,
I do flot see wliy it should be lncreased today. If lie is entitled to It lie 6hould liave
It as a rigit ; if lie lias no riglit to it, wliy
give it to liim as a reward ?
Hon. '.\r. MILLS-No judge lias a right
In tliat respect. We give an lncreased salary to tlie Chief Justice and to this judge who
lias a rank-I think lie Is calied the doyen
of the court-a rank -similarto Chief Justice.
He lias a riglit to It when we vote It, flot before. I am flot asking it as a riglit. I am
:lmply ask-lng It as a just and equitable
proceediag. Tlie judges of tlie North-west
Territories are ail on a footing of equality.
Judge Richards was a long time acting la
the Territories before we had aay orgailzed
goverament tliere, and lie Is 10W becomlng
en old man. If we give him the rank of
Ohief Justice, 'we would also, if this Bill
carnies, be enabled to pay hlm $1,000 more
than we have paid hlm up to the preseat
tIme. It Is flot an Improper thing. It is flot
a matter of favouritism ; it is a matter of
justice that a man who has been a long
tîme on the beach, and lias practically the
position of president of his court, should
receive some recognition.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
many years bas lie been on tlie bencli ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

been closed, when this Bill was la committee, wliere I -was cliairman, I would have
made sonie observations upon the merits of
clause 3, and I now support the proposition
0f ny lion. fniead who has moved that this
Bill be referred back to committee for the
i)urpose of expungiag this clause. La my
opinion, the judge whio is namied therein is
flot entitled to tliis increase 0f salary, either
froni lis length of service or froni the position lie occuples la the Circuit Court 0f
Montreal. A misappreliension exists la the
minds 0f hion, gentlemen ini this House as to
the jurisdictionl of this court. It was stated
hiere, quite inadvertently, I have no doulit,
that the court liad jurisdiction over muatters
affectiag real estate. That is a mistake. Lt
is vested with a petty jurisdictiou, and was
created for the purpose of relieving the
pressure that was pneviously brouglit on
the judges of the Superior Court of the district of Montreai w-ho were formerly dharged
with the duty of sittiug as judges in tlie
Circuit Court to dispose of matters w-ithin
its jurisdiction. The biusiness w-as in a state
of congestion and two new judges were appointed for the purpose 0f taking from the

judges of tlie Superior Court the work of
disposing of petty cases, and hy a subsequent statute the number w-as increased to
three, of w-hidli the senior by appointment'
is the one referred to by tlie Hon. Senator
for Stadacona and wliose salary is to be
iacreased by $600 per aanum by the present
Bill.
I am flot goiag to be drawa iato
any discussion or coutroversy as to the
clrcumstances under whlch this judge neceived his appoîntmeat. They are matters
of history and are well-known. Apant from
that, he is one of a small number of judges
of a small court Why sliould he lie singied
ont for this additional salany whule the
judges of the Superior Court, residlng la
the clty 0f Montreal, are left In a position
which every one bas acknowiedged for years
is an Injustice to tliem ? I should have remoastrated most strongly against touching
the saiaries-any change at ail, until tlie

[MAY 17, 1901]

3

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do uiot tbînk the
judg-es residing in the cîties bad Justice
I
came vote lias been taken ini a proper way.
doue to them. The M-%inister of Justice
of order. We are not lu comdown bere at the begiuning of the session raise a point
should take the namles.
and said the goverumefit, of which he is the mittee. We
The SPEAKER-NO hon. gentleman asked
lu tbîs House, was Impressed wlth
leader
called lu, aud no bon.
the Importance of readjustiug the salaries that the members be
yeas and uays be
judges -ad that he actually had lu gentleman asked thet the
of the
theni. He taken. 1 took the division in the way that
biis hand a Bill for dolng justice to
the yeas and nays are not
wavered aud wobbled and the Bill disap- is usual wben
for it had flot asked for.
-peared. It did flot dusappear,
DR-.do not know If it
Hon. Mr. L
been presented. I think it is thie duty of
and 15 tlie practice, but I never saw it doue bethis House to strilce out clause three
leave the salaries. so far as the judges of the f ore.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The hon. gentieprovince of Quebec are concerned, until the
lias moral courage to corne be- man cati make bis motion on the third
governmeut
fore parliameut witb ýwhat they admit would raig
be an act of justice to the juidges of the raig
Tbe SPEAKER-The question is iiow on
land.
il
h
to re- tetidraigo
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Or
the Bil 1
'Mr. LANDRY-I miove that mnontîls.
Hon.
h read the third time this day six
jettewboie Bill.
ject the
Hou. Sir !,%ACKENZIE BOWELL-I bope
Hon. Mr. BAKER-No, no. So far as the
other provisions of the Bill are concerned, the bon, gentleman will not persist il' that
so far as the provision for the salaries of nmotion. I fully agree with hlmi in the obthree additionnl jndges is concerned. whule I jection which he took to tbe mode of takiugtbink that no necessity existed for it sînce the vote. The practice lu both Houses ln
that mensure was hefore the Senate last the past bas been that the Speaker calîs for
_year, wben It was properly rejected, there the contents sud non-contents, sud he usualhas been n general election. and tbe preseut ly decides accordiug to the noise tbat is
goverumeut bas corne back to power with made. Then, tbe usual practice is to ask
a new lease. and under the circunistaliceS, for the yeas snd nays, aud my bon. friend
I do not tlîink tlîat the Senate wonld be behiud me ('.mI. Baker) did nsk for the yeas
.jnstified lu rejecting tlîat portion of tbe and nays, for 1 heard hlm. 1 do not thiuk.
Bill.
liowever, that the Speaker heard hlm.
The SPEAKER-I dld not hear It, but, at
Hou. Sir M1ACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
mate, it should be asked for hy two
hear.any
Mr. BAKER-Wbiletbe question ls members.
Hon.
Hion. Sir MACKZENZIE BOWELL-YeS.
-open for discussion as to the necessity, the
te
dfa
ot'hotwl
si
goverumneut is resj)onsible for the appoint-Th
ares oef elsthes
wl
meut of the additional judges if the Bill Is The sil mondth
erul
e parse som cln ase
Bi, th n
oe
passed. but so far as this judge of tbe GirIrtbink, partt
urfenc
cuit Court is coîîcerîîed, I do îîot think the t0ua thtsudbepsed
andr
1
Increase slîouid he made, for lie is not, lu theuarYu reereuCe to Bt. Nrtet
But. I que agree
on. etlean
any seuse, cllef justice of the court. HIe bas w1the
tpoe apnt-e
the
getemnforBill
imo qtatus above that of lus f ellowvs. Lt is not molthsa.t
even pretended that tiiere Is any desire tomoetsg.tatteBhfrhepoi- addltlonal judges iu tbe
of the tbree
niake hilm a chief justice. Takîng AI these ment
uecessary, for
I muost cordially province of Quebec was not
things lnto cousideration,
the renson I gave the other day. But, that
support the motion of the bon. geîîtîenan.
not the question to be decided uow. The
that the Bill he recominiitted to the com- is
motion, If carried, would defeat the wbole
xnittee to reconsider clause 3.
e
h
hn
stedfiutv
Bl.Ta
The ameudment wns lost on the followiug
lu giviug an lucrease of $600 to
.tiivsîou:parture,
one judge. under the circumstancefl,
diviionthis
after hnving declined to, deal witb the quesnys, 17.
Yeas, 16 ;
tioîî of the judg-es' salaries as a whole, was
The SPEAKER. The motion is lost.

438

[SENATE]

a niistake. However, the mnajority of the which w-e have tak-en on this Bill. I moved
House decided tbe other w-ay, and we are the suspension of the rule, which w-as agreed
bound by It. The only difficulty is. that we to, and the Bill w-as read the second turne.
have~ no recordI of thait vonte and< 1 should My attention has since been called to the
fact that no petition was presented praying
like to have that record.
to Incorporate the Nova.ScotIa Rallway ComHon. Mr. LANDRY-The Speaker g-enand therefore, before proceed'Ia my opinion the yeas or pany Llmited,
erally says
lng further, It should be referred to the
ays have it,' and then w-e ask for the yeas
Wlth the
Commlttee on Standing Orders.
and nays, but such a thing as ithe present
consent of the House I make tbat.motion.
proce2ding bas never been adopted. We
Hlon. Mr. 3icKAY-The motion is that it
were just w-aitlng for the decision of the
Speaker on that division to see if w-e were be sent to the Committee on Standing Orders
going- to eall for the yens and nays. be- under mile 59.
cause hie miight have declared my motion
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Lt
cnrried, and 1 would have beeli contented. w-ould be better to strike out the former
But, hie did neot say ' In my opinion the yea's proceedings with reference to this Bill.
bave it,' or 'the nys have it.'
I move that it be referred to the Committee
Hon. 'Mr. WOOD (Ha1ýmilton)-I think the on Standing Orders under the 59th rule.
hon, gentleman is out of order. The Speaker
The motion w-as ngreed to.
has given bis decision, and bie sbould eitber
abide by it. or, If hie is not satisfied, appeal DEBATES AND REPORTING OF- THE
SENATE.
to the House.
Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tflat
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER moved the adoption
is ahi very w-el w-he w-e are discussing the
decision of the Speaker, but the hon. gen- of the report of the Standing Comm.ittee on
tleman frein Stadacona bas moved the six Debates and Reporting of the Senate. He
montbs' boist. My hon. friend frein Hlamil- sa id :This report refers to two subjects
The first one Is the engagement of
ton bas been ia parliament long enough only.
to know that any motion la the House is a the gentleman w-ho prepares the report of
substantive motion, and any one bas a right the debates of this House for the press.
to discuss it w-hether bie is out 0f order or The commnittee bas g-one over the matter
again, and af.ter careful consideration, it
not.
The SPEAKER-Lt is possible that I did bas been deemed advisable to renew this
not adopt tbe proper procedure in putting engagement w-bich is exactly the saie as
the question ; althougb I humbly subinit that the one of lnst year and for the previous
I did. I stated w-bat was a fact, that I was year-no change at ail. The second subject
unable to decide, froin the sounds pro and relates to the translation of tbe Senate deFor years it bas been contended
con. I said that 1 w-as unable to decide, bates.
tbat tbis translation could be made by one
man, and -e have tried it, and it bas been
Tbhe committee bas lnfound impossible.
quired, and 1 myseif bave inquired frein
the transiator and frein outside parties W'ho,
know sometbing of translation, and the
commàttee after going carefully into tbe
matter have come to tbe saine conclusion,
and bave agreed to engage two temporary
meni to translate the arrears of those debates. Tbere Is, however, one sinall change
The hast
RAILWAY whicb bas been euggested to me.
EASTERN
NOVA SCOTIA
line of tbe report reads as follow-s:
COM-NPANY BILL.
That each be aýllowed $1.50 for each page of
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE ON STANDING
such translation.
ORDERS.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-M-\y at- Lt would -seem that this mnigbt be construed
tention bas been called to the proceedings as meaniag $1.50 for each translater, w-hichl
HMon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

and 1 said 'bon. gentlemien in faveur of the
ameadmuent w-i please rise,' and then 1 expected that soine hon, gentlemen w'ould ask
for the yeas and nays. I did not bear the
hou. gentleman frein Bedford nsl, for the
How-ever, tbat does not
yeas and nays.
substantially affect the resuit.
The motion for the third reading w-as
agreed to, and the Bihl w-as rend the third
time and passed.

[MAY 17, 1901 ]
-would mean $3.00 for eadh page, and 1 suggest that the words 'made liy hlm'1 should
lie added at the end of the report. As that
is a clerical error I do niot thiink thiere is
any necessity for a formai 'motion.
Tiie motion was agreed to.
PRINTING 0F PARLIXA3IENT.
REPORT 0F JOINT COMMITTEE ADOPTflD.
Hon. Sir JOHN CARLING moved the adoption of the fifth report of the Joint Comnmittee on the Printinug of Parliament. He
said :I miov.e that this report lie amiended
liy strîk-ing out clause 2, and inserting la lieu
thiereof the follow-ig clause :
That the report of each department should
lis, as much as possible, translated by the samie
transiator, whose duty It should lie to translate
from the English copy as fast as It Is prepared,
so the the English and Frenchi copies miglit go
to that Prlnting Bureau concurrently.
Hon -Mr. LANDRY-Is thnt the amendment which was mov-ed in the House of
Co'mmoiis ?
Hon. Sir JOHN CARLING-Yes.
Hon. Mr. PREMIIOSE-The change proposed embraces only a word or two, but
w1ille tînt is the case, it promises to secure
mucli more efficiency iu the discliarge of the
worl-, and we trust that, as the Printing
Colnmittee met this moruing for the last
meeting of the session, baving concluded ail
their work, that the House will accept this
'without any formai motion, so as to prevent
calling the conimittee together again.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I do not propose to
object to this ameudmient; stili I may lie
permltted. to say thiat I do flot think it is an
improi-ement on the old report.
What is
recommended iu this amendment is impossible iii practice, because the reports of the
departments do flot always come on the
samne day. For instance, lit is recomimended,
that the saine kind of -wor. lie always given
to the samne man. WVell, take for instance,
the report of the Department of Pulie
Wyorks; lit will come on a certain day and
be distributed among-st the translators. Next
year the sane report will perhiaps come two
months later. so that it will lie impossible to
give that report to the samne man, because
tînt man -will lie engaged In some otber
translation.
The difficulties come from
If
I am correctly
the departments.

informed, it appears that ia somue departments the reports are sent by piecemneal ta
the Prlntlnig Bureau without any order at
ail. They tahze a bundie of documents and
send themi to the Printing- Bureau, and the
officers of the Printing Bureau arrange the
It
whole thing according to their views.
would be considerable improvemnent if in
ail the departments they liad a man specialIy appointed to prepare the reports. Thus
the reports could bie curtailed a good deal.
A good deal that appears in those reports is
of no use at ail. If the departmnental. reports
were reduced by ten or twenty pages only,
that would niean forty pages less of printing
and twenty pages less of translation. There
are a good many matters which could lie
dispensed with and thereby the report would
lie made more interesting and Iess costly
and the whole commuiity anid parlialueut
would be lienefited. by it. So that if thiere
-%as a secretary specially appointed, with
literary qualifications, to consider the reports a.nd put them. in proper shape, it would
I would
lie a considerable Improvement.
say again that although I do flot object to
the amendment, still It seems to me that it
Is flot an Improvement on the original recommendations by the committee.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-If 1 uuderstand
the proposition right It is, s0 far as is practicalile or possible, that this sbould lie doue,
and xiotwithstanding the remarks whiclh
have fallen from the lion. gentleman opposite, I 'hold the opinion 1 expressed la the
tirst instance. This matter lias been diseussed to a very-coiisideralile extent ln the
lower House, and the conclusion arrived at
and embraced lu that change seems to lie
the consensus of opinion there, aud taking
this into view I hippe It will lie accepted.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-As the
hion. gentleman from St. Boniface (Mr. Bernier) says, great economy could lie affected
In this matter of prlnting the reports of
parliaiment. 'We know that many things are
repeated lu several of the reports coming
from the departmnents, repeated over and
over again, and the number of those reports
lssued, I thlnk, le In excess of what is required liy the people to whom they are
sent. I know myself that some members
of the Senate and House of Commons
who have been here for a number of
years have their places lumliered Up with

[SENATEJ
A nincli sinaller
,departiniental reports.
number would be sufficient to supply ail
that are required. If an officer -was appoinited to supervise the whole of the departinental reports and eliminiate fr-oi a
second and third report what appears ia one,
It would lessen the bulk of those reports very
material]y, and thiey would at the saine time
convey ail the information that is necessary
for tlhe public to receive.
The motion w*as agreed to.
RAILIVAY ACT AMENDMNENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. 'Mr. 2NILLS rnoved the second reading of Bill (1363) 'An Act to amend the
Railway Act.' He said : This is to make
provision for an arndment to the Railway
Act in the case of certain railways fliat
are unable to meet their pecuiary liabilities and carry on thýCîr operations. The provisions are takea fromn an Imperial statutelu fact, there is no change except a few
verbal phrases for the purpose of adapting
It to the circumstances of this Country. It
was possible to make these provisions in one
of two wnys-either *by an amendaient to
the llailway Aot or an amendaient to the
Exchiequer Court Act, and it *was thouglit
more convenient that these powers should
be given to 'the Exchequer Court aind provision made for the carrying onl of the railw-ny operations where tbe Company ltself
hiad failed, by anl amenaient to the Railway Act rathier than by ain amenaient to
the Exchequer Court Act. There is nothing
la -the Bill which is flot fourn inl the Englishi Act.
Hou. Mr. BOLDUC-1 do not rise to oppose the second reading of this Bill, for
I do not see why railwiy corporations should
niot enjoy the samne privileges as ail other
corporations. By the Winding--Up Act of
1896(. ail the corporations are deaIt witli
according to the provisions of that law.
After a short perusal of this Bill, It seems
to be about the saine thing. It is, la fact,
ail iinsolvency Act under whicb the corporations are to be deait 'with. I amn not goîag
to disduss to-day why big corporations are
deait w-ith under Insolvency Acts, whlle
private individuals are denied that privilege. lii this Bill, however, there are some
Changes whicb slhould be made. By the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E..)

Act in the Revised Statutes of 1886 ail tiiese
questions have to he tried, in the province
of Quebec, before the Superior Court ; i
Ontario, before the Hight Court of Justice,
and ia ail the other provinces bef ore the
Supreme Court, -but under this Bill tbese
questions wîll have to be tried before the
Exchlequer Court. I do flot see why the
chianige is made, because the alini of the piesent 'Bill must be to save turne and expense,
and to try and settie the estate of a railway
corporation, which is flot able to pay its
iadebtedness as quickly as possible ; and
if you force Corporations or private parties
intere.sted in these corporations to corne before the Exchequer Court, I believe the expense will ibe a great deal more, and a poor
inan Who lias any dlaimi against the Comnpany will be forced to incur the expense of
long travelling, and it will hie a hardship for
Ihi-m. It wonld be better to adopt the saune
priliciple la this 11111 as bas beeîî adoptedl
in the Winding-Up Act. Clause S provides
that rnortgage, bonds, debenture and ail
othier creditors when the schleme is prepared,
are considered to have asseated to it when
thiree-fourths of thern have given written
acknowledgrnent of their approval of that
schieme. That is to say, that wbien threefourtbis of the claimauts accept the scbeme
Lt is settled for ail purposes. But by clause
S, la the case 0f ordinary shareholders, the
scheme can ho assented to by the niajority
at a general meeting called for the purpose.
I do not thinl, the clause is complete. Do 1
understand thiat the majority of ail the
shareholders must assent, or is it to bo a
uiujority of those preseat at the meeting ?
Sometimes nt those meetings oniy a f ew
shareholders are present. Are we to infer
f rom thiat clause that ia a great Corporation
if 0111Y a few of the shareholders are prosent at a meeting a majority of thein. cal)
by their asseat 'bind ail the shareholders ?
1 think an amendaient should be made to
that clause.
Hon. 1ML MILLS-If my lion. friond wihl
lool. nt clause 5 hoe will see the provision
for that.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I arn speaking now
of the ordinarv shareoîlders. Thiýs is a
different mattor. In that clause only a -majority is necessarv. Is it a majority of those,
presont or a majorityin value of the shiaros,

[AIAY î 7, 1901]
Hon. Mr. MILLS-When we introduced
or a majority of the shareholders ? 1 sublie Bill here for the purpose of making Promit these suggestions to the hon. Minister t:
Ision for 'the appointment of two stipenof Justice, and especlally the one giving v
iary magistrates In the Yukon country, of
jurlsdlctlon to the Superior Court of the pro- dl
not be provlded for
order to save expense course the salaries could
vince of Quebec, in
iere. They were provided for in the
l
and delay.
{louse of Commons. We also provided here
MACKENZIE BOWELL-T.he *or the praotice, to a limlted extent, on thieir
Hon. Sir
Minister of Justice bas cal'led attention to >ftrt at #the bars. 1 discussed the matter
the 5th clause.
with the Minister of the Interior, and we
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The 5th and 7th clauses. igreed that the salaries mlight be fxed at
salary of a junior judge
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-To niy ~2,400, whlch is 'the
andl that
a great deal of force in wbat1 n Ontario, wlth a living allowance,
nilnd there Is
f we «llowed them that, we ought '10 get
the hon, gentleman from Beauce (Hon. Mr.
discharge the duties withBolduc) says, and if the 8th clause overrides compeitent men to
out any permission '10 practice. 1 knew
the provisions of the Raiiway Act, then the
and many here
protection -which is suggested by the hion. my hon. frlends opposite
hought Ia ithat distant country the privilege
gentleman should be Included in that clause.
to praetice might be open to abuse, and 1
The -motion was agreed to, and the Bill thought myself if the House of Commons
'was rend the second time.
m~ou-Id a-gree to a liberal salary, it would be
liberty to practise should not
ST. LAWRENCE POWERl COM-%PANY'S better that the
exist. The Bill was a-mended in the House
BILL.
of Gommons on those lines. The rilit '10
SECOND READING.
practise was taken away and an adequate
Mr. KIRCHHIOFFER moved the sec- salary allowed.
Hou.
ond reading of Bill (69) ' An Act to incorporTlue motion was -igreed '10.
ate the St. Lawrence Power Company.' He
said : This is a compu~ay which, when the CENERAL INSPECTION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
Bill was first introduced, souglit for very
large powers lndeed. At that time it was
IN COMMITTEE.
thought they wanted to go ail the 'way
The House resolved ltself into Couimittee
Landing
down the river from Dickinson's
on Bill (122.) An Act further to
to Gaspé ; but eince the Bill was lntroduced of the Whole
of the objection- amend the General Inspection -let.
It hias -been shorn of most
(In the Committee.)
able provisions it contained at tbat time,
and In the shape in whlch it comes before
On the first clause.
us now, It Is one we can reasonably pass.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I expiained, on the secany questions in regard to it
If there are
by any members, 1 shahl be very happy ond reading of the Bill, that its principal
object was '10 bring the law into harmony
to answer them.
receatly
was agreed to, and the Bill wlth the report of the experts whio
The motion
sat in Moatreal to consider what amendwas read -the second time.
ments were necessary. In the flrst amendYUKON TERRITORY ACT L-ýMNENDment, the only change Is payment by salary
MENT BILL.
irstead of fees.
COMMONS AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I see
It,
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved concurrence In that under the old law, as I understand
by the House of the Inspectors were pald by fees. The
the amendments made
Governor in
Oomnions to Bill (D) An Act to amend the change Is made so that the
to make further Councl may appoint chlef inspectors who
Yukon Terri-tory Act and
provision for the administration of justice are to be pald by salary. -Could .the hon.
gentleman lnform the House what addiIn 'the said Territory.
the
BOWELL-What tional expense this will Impose upon
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
revenues of the country, or wliether any
are the amendments ?

442

[SENIATE]

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Where the inspertor la
fees are to be paid, and if thiese fees are to
paid by tees It is only reasonablP and probecome part of the revenue.
per, If he wants a deputy, to pay hlm ont of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot tell. I 'think
bis own allowance.
the fees wiII be contilued, only they will be
funded. It was found the f ee was very deHon. Mr. POWER-This clause is unficient in the past, and the board reportedl limited. If the inspector were paid by salIt would be much more satistactory to pay ary Lt Is clear that Lt would be the Interest of
them by salary lnstead of by tees. At the the inspector flot to appoint any deputy lanext meeting of the House 1 wlill be in a spectors, or to appoint as f ew as possible.
position to inform the eommittee rwbether Lt would be a serious inconvenience to the
the fees are tunded. 1 thiuk they are.
public. The minister might let that clause
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It stand until he bas an opportunity of conseems to me the lion. gentleman miglit at sulting with the Minister of Inland Revenue.
the saine time ascertaiin the amiount of tees
Hon Sir MýACKENZIE BOWEL-It looks
received and what is the probable salary very much like a jumble.
supposed to be paid to inspectors, so that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My experience of the
we can ascertain what the expenditure Is
llkely to be out of the general revenue, and General Inspection Act is that for the last
the tees likely to be paid into the consolid- twelve years it has beeni a puzzle. There is
searcely a session that it lias not been
ated revenue.
am ended.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I faucy the salary
Hon. '.\r. POW'ER-In the case of the Inwould depend entirely on the position the
man occupied. The position at Moatreal spection of fisli, which la one of the articles
wvculd, of course, be more liighly paid than. inspected, if this Bill passes and the gova position at a country place, but I cannot ernment carry ont the intention which the
give you any idea of the salary.
hien. Secretary of State bas Indicated, they
chief lnspecHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The will now bave to appoint onîy
hon, gentleman should try and tind out and tors and Ito pay fhemn by salary.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it is stili optional.
Inforni the Honse.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The deputy Inspectors
of flsh should not be paid by the inspector
,ç%ho ls paid by sala ry.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, only la case lie is
paid by tee. The explanation of the department, the new subsection empowering the
goverament to increase or diminish the
tees, is that the inspection shahl not be a
cl:arg-e on the revenue.
The clause was edopted.
Hon. '.\r. POWER-That refers to grain.
On the 2nd clause.
1 arn speaking of fish.
lion. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
Hon. 3fr. SCOTTI-The clause does not reseems extraordinary tixat the goverfiment fer to filh.
are going to impose on the inspector the
Hon. Mr'. POWELI-We should not legispayment et the deputy inspector's salary.
late ln the dark.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If lie bias to employ a
Hon. Sir MAC.KENZIE BOWELL-Ini
deputy inspector, It is proper that hie should
that very clause there is an exception made
be %paidont of whatever the fees are.
of grain, so tis
Hou. Sir 3MACKENZIE BOWELL-ýBut of the deputy inspectors
clause can have no reference whatever te,
by the fonrth section it is optional. The inof grain.
speotors and deputy inspectors nîay be paid the deputy inspectors
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-It is quite evident,
by salary or tees as determined in eacb case
by the Governor la iCouncil.
m-here the inispector bas a rigblt to appoint
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Unless the ijuatter was
discussed by Council, 1 could flot.
Hon. Sir MA%--CKENZIE BOWIELL-Buit
the minister who bas control of this subjeet
should be In a position to inform us. Hlowever, I shahl flot press the matter now, but
the minister ouglit to be lu a position to say
more than that he knows nothlng about IL

[MAY 17, 1901]

443

is deputies, they muust lie paid by fee, lie- be $40, and twenty years would make Up
cause an inspector could not pay his deputy $800. It would be proportionately greater
if he served 25 or 30 years.
out of bis salary.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-It le
Hon. MNr. POWXýER-I mnust say 1 arn ratlier
that the Secretary of State wlll just one hlf of bis pay.
surprised
not allow the clause to stand over, because
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, $800, haif of bis
thie subject is an important one, and It le pay, would be a tliousand dollars. Thirty
desirable that the law sliould lie made years would give hlm $1,200. Sub-clause
You leave out tlie deputy iaspec- 2 Is the sarne la principle only for a difclear.
tors of grain. The interest of the public ls ferent terra. There are no pensions to be
-I speak of the inspection of ficli especially granted to any persons under this clause
-tiat there sliould be a good many deputy unless he lias served 20 years.
Inspectors. If the inspector pays them out
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
of bis own pocket, it is bis interest tliat there
sliould lie as few as possible, and that the does that affect the present officers who
fisb sliould be broug-ht where he ean himself have been la the service ten or fifteen years
inspect them. It ouglit to be made clear and would require only two or tbree years
tlint the deputy inspectors are to be paid more service before tliey could retire ? Reby fees, and then no question can arise out cause there le a provision, as I understand
of it. Nothing- will happen this Bill if this It, that lie ie to pay 5 per cent of his salary from the time he enters the service unclause is allowed to stand over.
tii lie is pensioned. Would lie have to euhHon. Mr. SCOTT-It le permissible for
mit to a rebate from the salary for the 15
thie Governor in Council to order thern to be years tbat lie bas served7
pald by focs or by salary. If the deputy ls
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
to be paid it mnust be by fees.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Why sbould not the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Iir orl.apguag-e of this clause be qualified, and say der to entitle him to a pension.
except where the inspector is paid by fees ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The clause is general.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýýELL-WouIdl
Hon. '-\r. BAKER-Stand.
the lnterest lie added to that ?
C lause 3 was a]lowed to stand.
'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is provided for in
Hon. 'Mr. TEM\PLE.MAN, f rom the Com- sul)-clause 2 of section 1.
mittee. reportedl that they liad made corne
The clause was adopted.
progress wlth the Bill, and asked leave to
On clause 5.
sit ag-ain on Monday next.
PENSION 0F OFFICERS 0F PER'MANENT STAFF BILL.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved itself Into a Committee of thie Whole House on (Bill 183) au Act
respecting pensions o! officers of the permanen't staff and officers and men of the
permanent militia, and for other purposes.
(In the Coimlttee.)
On clause 3,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I may say, taking this
clause as a sample, an officer receiving $2,000 a year who lad served 20 years, recelves one-fiftietli of $2,000, wliich would

Suli-clause 2.
Hon. Sir 3-IACKENZIE BOWELL-WbTat
is the meaning of the word 'gratuity T'
Hon. Mr. POWER-A man who lias not
served long enougli to get a pension is entltled to a gratuity.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is there
a clause provlding for retiring an officer on
gratulty ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Really 1 amrn ot able
to say. There Is no deduction after a man
has served 35 yeais. He 18 paylng bis 5
per cent up te 85 years, but after that lie
18 not. 1 presume tliere would be no laterest cliarged, the way sub-clause 2 reads.

[S ENATEJ
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
officer can pay it ai'l nt once if lie likes

Hon. MNr. SCOTT-Yes.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I tbink not. It is
so hedged la by the direct language of the
statute that I do flot thiuk the minister bas
any discretion at ail.

Tlie clause was adopted.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
On clause 6,
seemns to me lie has ail the discretion. They
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That use the word 'may.'
clause does not provide for obtainiug- the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-W'e alw-nys say 'may'
consent of tlie Governor in Council.
IL in the statutes.
leaves it exclusiveiy with the minister.
'Hon. Sir «MA.CKENZIE BOWELL-I think
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
ail the acts of ail the ministers upon any
The clause was adopted.
questions affecting the general welfare of
the country should lie subject to the npOn clause 7,
proval of the Governor ln Council. That is
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL-Do 1. tlie only point. Experience tauglit me that
understand tlie lion. minister lias tlie sole a minister would lie glad to bie relieved in
power to place tlie retiriung officers upon tUe tlie first place of the responsibulity devoirsuperannuation list. To retire officers and ing- upon him when lie lias to decide solely
give tliem pensions and gratuities without without the autliority of the Governior iu
reference to bis coilengues ?
Council, and, on tlie other liand, there are
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No pensions are pro. ministers wlio miglit take advantage of the
vided absoluteis by the statutes wliolly ir- power whicli is given himi under the law.
respective of the minister, but clause 6 and do that whicli tlie Governor in Council,
allows tbe minister, on tlie report of officers if a report was mnade, w ould not consent to
do.
of certain rauk, to give a gratuits.
'lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-Is iL
the intention of this Act to place the sole
power aud autbority in tbe minister to re-

The clause was adoptel.
On clause S,

Hon. Mr. POWýNER-These clauses are ail
tire upon a 'pension ans one wlio lias been
so recommendeci by this board, without go- taken from tlie Nortli-west Mounted Police
iug- to tbe Governor In 'Council ? If I un- Act.
derstand it correctly, that is the power given
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Aud
to bim.
some of the otlier clauses fromi the SuperHou. Mr. SCOTiT-So far as pensions are annuation Act, to a great extent.
coucerned, il seems to lie coullned absoluThe clause wns adopted.
tely.
On clause 9.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Auld
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The pay is 40 to 50
the gratuits the same ?
cents a day, and in that case it \vold
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, certain conditions amount to $150. He served twentv vears andi
have to lie performed. iIf a man lias been lie would get $60 a year. One-fiftietb ef the
lijured tlirough no fanit of lis owu, and $150 -%ould be $8, and for eacli year lie
lias te lie retired, tlien, on tlie recommenda- ýserved lie would geL the multiple of it. For
tion of a board, the minister may grant liim twenty years lie wouid geL $60. Lt is based
n gratuits wlicl is fixed liy the clause, net on that principle tbrougbout.
exceeding one montlis' pay for a year.
The clause was adopted.

Hou. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
is flot the question. Does Ibis place the sole

On clause 14.

power In the liands of the mninister to act
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think that lu hune 13
nder this clause, or would he. have to ob- of this clause the expression ' Governor lu
tain the consent and approval of tbe Gov-

Council'

ernor in Council before lie could act ?
Hon. M1r. SCOTT.

ister.'

is used where it should lie 'min-

[MAY 17, 1901]

445

Soutli Africani war. Many of our youflg
nien w-eut out there and returned w-ithl
w-ounlds w-hidi w-i incapucitate them fr0111
carrying on the business they w-ere engaged
lii before the w-ar, and during the time tbey
were there also, the puy they received w-as
totally Inadequate to the services they performed and not ut ahl sncb pay as -,vas reHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The ceived by those w-ho volunteered and w-ent
hion. Speaker wants to, leave ail the power In out frorn. Australia and obier places. 1
the minister ; whlle I would sooner see it thlnk tint is a inatter thut the goveriiment
in the hands of the Governor in Council. shiould have taken into cousideration, and
The power given Ihlm in these two clauses that they should have donc soniething to
rnight be abused by a minister-I do not give these men, -o
wvent abroad lu the
say it w-ould be--but something mnight be service of the Queen, some reînuneratioii
doue for favouritism whicli otherwise would adequate to tie position wlîlch they toolc
flot be doue.
and somethlng that would compare favourably at least w-ith w-bat those from other
The clause was adopted.
countries slmilarly situated to tie Dominioni
of Canada received. We know their puy
Ou clause 17.
was a very small pittauce, compared witlî
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlîe terni Governor, w-bat w-as received by those w-ho v-olunIn Council ' I think is a mistake for *minis- teered from otier colonies, and aithougli tic,
ter' lu this clause. The minister gives the different sections and local societics hiere
pension to the officer, gives hlm the retirIag made up some small amount to assist
allowance, and if you will look at the next these ruen or to maintain ticir famiilles
clnuse you will find that the pension siaîll during their absence, still 1 thinlc tie govnot be granted if the applicant, in the opi- ernent should corne to their aid and give
nion of the minister, is unworthy, or If she thern sorne equivalent for the services -,vlichi
Is -wealtby, and 1 tlîink It should be left to they performned. I anticipated tint sorne
the discretion of the minister. Iu England sncb provision wonld be made lu this Bill,
It Is left to the Secretary of State for W%%ar. and 1 arn sorry to see that it is not.
Hon. Mr. M-\ILLS-The Governor lu Councîil
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The observations of the
represents the Crown, and the Crown is giv- lion, gentleman from Charlottetown are v-ery
lug the pension.
just and appropriate. and 1 presume it w-i

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Under section 13 the
Governor in Council is also referred to. I
arn fot farniliar witli the working of if, and
I do flot know whether it is rig-lit or not.
The Governor In Coundil is a miucli higher
authority, according to, the rernarks of the
hon. leader of the opposition.

forrn the snbject of further inquiry. It w-il]
be necessnry to examine into aîl those cases.
On clause 22.
No doubt tbey w-ill be exarnined lato aud
Hon. '.\r. SCOTT-Tliat is a wise provi- proper action taken.
sion. 1 think 1 read recently that sorne of
Hon. Mr. POW5ER-If the lion, gentleman
the widows of the soldiers lu the revolute the Militia Act, chap. 41 of the
w-ar are still drawing pensions. Old w-iil turn
tiouary
Revised Statutes. sections SO and S7. lie wll
soldiers, eighty and niinety years of age,
see that w-heu a man Is killed under these
rnarried youug girls, who have survlved circurnstances. provision shall be made for
them and are stili drawiug the pensions.
bis farnily ont of the public rnoney. and any
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Noth- case of permanent disability shail be reIng promotes longevity as much as the giv- ported upon by a medical board. and coinpensation aw-arded under such regulations as
Ing of a pension.
are made frorn time te Urne -by the Governor
The clause w-as adopted.
lu Council, and then there is a penalty of
Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.L.)-Before $400 on aur medical practitioner w-ho falsehy
Hon.
the report Is received, I regret to say that certifies, etc. The Governor lu Council made
and
1 have flot observed any provision In this regulations based on those two sections.
these are tlie regulations referred to lu
Bill for any of those w-ho suffered lu the
The clause îvns adopted.

416

[SEN AIE

clause 25 of the Bill, IvIichi rends ils fol- equitably met by consz-idering. the amouint of
lows :-the
gratuitY which he bad been paid upon
Nothing herein contained shali affect the provisions of articles 342 to 356, both included, Of
Part III of the Regulations and Orders for the
Militia of Canada issued in 1898, with respect
to pensions and allowances ta miembers of the
families o! officers or soldiers kiled in action
or dying from wounds received in action.
This Bill deals only wvith the permanent
force, and those regulations deil with the
whole of the militia force. and the last
clause of the Bill provides that notIlin,
herein shaI! interfere %viththe operation of>
Iliose regulations.

retiiemfelit and deduct that froin the penIsion
whlîi
bie would otherwise reccive.
110we ver, froml the discussion lu the otiior Flouse
I iloticed the 'Minister of militia thouglit it
w-as imipracticable or difficuit to arrive nt anl
eutbeslto
fteqeto.Id
o
thuiuk, nîyself, that there iwould be any diffiT
culty in arrivilig at a conclusion. Ml e knlow
soin
mnen bave retirec i 11)01 a couple of
thousand, or a littie more, ýwho are stili
-, i ve. Thcy are flot lit for the ordiuary
vocations of lite, aud ns soonl as lUe amnounî

Hou. 'Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)I il
of gratuity bas been expended, tlicy are
aware that that is the case. M'bat 1 wisbed thom-n upou the Nvorld, or the (-liarity of
Unfortunately, gentlemen
friends.
as
to allatenton ha th goerimeittheir
o
tia tUesgoveruen wlîo serve, particularîy iii tîîis country, as
toial aottaenon tasto
iayyas
oragn
fiesovlutr
to the present time, aud that they have
flot takeui inito consideration the services of !i the service are niot paid suthiciently te
te
thoe wo rturiedfron wr ad gvenenable themi to retire on aii3tliiig hike a
gien, competency, and hience the provisions of this
fr
the lime ndu
the wh eturedp
thml adequate payfor
d
tm.drn
Act. If it could be made to apply to those
who are stili alive, old men w-ho retired uponi
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-I arn a gratnity, upon the principles w-ilîi I have
flot speaking positively, but from what 1 indicated, I think It would be a graceful
have rend, I was under the impression that
on the part of the country.
any of tUe soldiers m-ounded or disabled luin
i
LIOSEPLEIR
rn
the late wnr would be provided for by the the conimittee, reported the Bil] Nvitbout
Imperial goveruiment under tUe pension actamnne.
of Great Britala.
The Bill was then rend the tluird tille aI(
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-TUat is tUe original passed.
arrangement.

Iact

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELL-I suppose that would be one reason w%,by it is flot
provided for in this Bill. I remnember lu
the discussion the hiou, gentleman for Hallfax ealled attention to what he thought an
omission in the Bill, fearing that the Bill
Itself
might
interfere with
the regulations w-hichi the Speaker bas referred f0,
aud hiad this clause inserted to protect those
w-ho might he disabled, but whether that
w-ould npply to voluniteers who were wounded In Caaada or in service !in any other
place, is a question for the Minister o! Justice. He would be better able to give an
opinion on that point than myseif. There is
another matter which I would like to see lu-

SECOND JIEADINGS.
Bill (111) 'Ain Act to inicorporate the Interp)rovincial and Jamles Bay Railway Comliany.'-(Hon. Mr. Jolies.)
Bill (137) 'Aul Act to amend the Act res1)ccting the Department o! Public Printing
and Statioiiery.'-(Hoiu. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (105) 'An Act to incorporate tlue Kamloops and Atîlii Railway Comipauyi.'-(Hon.
M.Templemanl.)

A SATURtDAY SESSION.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr.

M-%ILLS-I miove that whien the

cluded la this Bill, and that is that tUe old flouse adjouras to-day, it do stand adjourn-

officers who bave served twenty or thirty
years who retired on a gratuity. 1 can understand the difficulties that would arise in a
inatter o! the kind, but I tbink it could be
lion. Mr. POWER

ed until to-morrow afteraoon at 3 o'clock.
Some Bills have beea sent up froni tUe Comnnions ýwichl I have not hand timle to look
over, and one or two Bills have been sent
ni) without auiy mnemo. ot notes withi refer-

[MAY 18, 1901]

ence to the statutes that are amended, and
it wvi1I require two or tbree hours to look
into the ruatter. I hope by to-morrow afteruoon that the minister lu charge -%viii have
an opportunity of furnishing me with a
ruemo.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the motion is
l'ut, will the lion. minister inquire of Lis

colleagues, and particularly of the lion. Secretary of State, if tbey have not rcceived a
petition with reference to the disaliowance
of au Act of the Quebec leg-Isiature, and let
nie linow by to-morrow?
Hon. '.\r. M3ILLS-Yes.
The motion was agreed to.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWVEL-I
Hlo n.
should like to know whether 1 amn to get a
report of the surveys of the Trent N'alley
Canal.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I have mnade inquiries.
BOWVEL-I
Hon.
Sir MIACKENZIE
shouid be incllned to ask the flouse to sit
until I get It.
H oni. Mfr. SCOTT-I couId fot heip that.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
may discuss the supply Bill for a week or
two in order to enable the hion. Secretary of
State to obtain the report.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottaiva, Satiurday. May 18, 1901.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Pray7ers and routine proceeditigs.
THE COOK CHARGES.
FINAL REPORT 0F COMMITTEE.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýýELL, from
the Special Committee appointed to laquire
Into the statements and allegations contained in certain telegrams and letters, and lu
an affidavit made by Mr. Herman Henry
Cook, which refiect upon the privileges and
dignity of the Senate, presented their final
report, recommending the payment of $1,000
to 'Mr. 0. H. Ritchie, K.O., for bis services
as counsel for the committee, anid moved
Its adoption. He said : The suni mentioned

iii the report was agreed uponi by ail the
memibers who were sitting- at the timie it

was passed. It was tliougblt, unider certain
circumstauces, w-hich perhiaps it is not nec.
essary for lue to mention ilow, that that
wvould be a fair remuneration for the timie
occupied-somue eighit or teil days.
Hon. Mr. «,NILLS-Does my lion. frient]
include the counsel appointed on behiaif of
the goverurnient ?
Hon. Sir M-NACKENZIE BO WELL-No.
Ail they Lad power to do was to rccomwend
the pay ment of the legal gentleman who
wvas employed by the committee under the
instruction of the -House. They could not
go beyond that.
Houi. Mr.MILLS-Are the Nvitness tees
included ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BO WELL-No.
Tlhere are certain fees and snmmiiioises
whici 'Mr. Ritchie had served whicii are
included in thiat sum.
Honu. Mfr. M-%ILLS-I tliinlc mi lion. friend
liad better let it stand, îlot that 1 take
exception to the payaient of Mr. Ritchie,
because I have no doubt, timat is proper
enougi, but to see If the cxîenise of any
othier counsel oughit uot to Le iincluded.
Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWVELL-I hiave
no objection to let it stand. Certainly wve
hiad no power or authority to recommend
the payment of 3fr. Marsu or ',\r. Blake, and
I understood Mfr. Blake Lad renidered bis
accounit to the goveruiment, fifty per cent
more than the sum mentioned in our report.
It was discussed by those of the commlttee
who were present at the tinlie, andf ilot La-'
ing any authority, or power even. to cousider' thiat question, we dîd iiot deemi it
our duty to, do so. Thiat is a matter excluslvely for the government.
The report was aliowed to, stand.
DISAILOWANCE 0F PROVINCIAL
ACTS.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Before the Orders.0f
the Day are called, I beg- leave to inqu ire
of ouue of the hion. ministeirs if the goverliment can give me an answer to the lnqulry
made yesterdny, whether it lias received any
petition, asklng, under the form of a petition to the Governor ln Councl to disallow
a Bill of the Quebec legislature, No. 162. 1
suppose the 'Secretary of State Is la a position to, give mue information on the subject ?

[SENATEj
Thosýe who filed the petition bad a certain
date-I thiulc it was forty days from the
date of electien, and during that ferty days
The petiwere obligýed te file a petltion.
tien was filed. There was a law of the land
stating tlîat during the sitting of parliauett
ali proceedings must be stepped, and menibers will net be obliged te go before tUe
promptly.
courts during the sltting of the legisiature.
Hon. Mr. LAN-DRY-WVbeni was it re- Iu defiance of thiat lawv, a new Bill was preceived ?
ýsented, w-iping eut the petitiener's rig-hts,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think it -%vas Mouiday bec-anse they w-ere obeyinig the law.
or Tuesday, and it w-as answered tue saine
lion. Mi-. SCOTT-That is what I exday.
plained.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Coul(l the lion. g-enlion. 'Mi-. LANDRY-It is net the bringing
tleînan say iwhat is the basis of demnand for of tUe petition.
disallowance ?
Hon. Mi-. SCOTT-The law as il, stood liad
petitioîî alleged beeni iiîterfered withi in faveur of meiers
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-T.i
session
that the Act referred to amends the election w-ho happened te be returned at the
law, whicb had net counted the tiîue during :ufter the general election.
tUe Sitting of the legisiature, practicilly
lion. Mi. LANDR-Y-lS there anything in
shiortening the limitation of time by includ- the petition complainiug of penal actions ?
iîig the period viile the legisiature w-as Sonue piarties were accused of hiaviîîg renprobably
The lion. gentlemn
Sitting.
dered theniselves liable fer offeuces against
hluows the point. Under the l:iw, in tine the electiei law, and under the law, they
province of Quebec, a period of say titree could have been sued witliui eue year. 1
petitiolns,
montils w-as allowed for filin,
thiik if I arin uot unistalcen, the lawv passed
suc-h thî-ee inonthis net te c-omit if the legis- by tUe local legisiature wiped eut ail those
lattire w-as sitting.
(cases aise.
Hou. 'Mr-. LANDRY-Not for the filing of
Hoii. 'Mr. MILLS-That petitioni I have flot
l)etîtiens ?
yet seel. My lion. friend the Secretary of
SCOTT-Tlîe fihiiig of the peti- State suiys it bias corne te his office, and he
Hon. McNl.
tien w-as liînited te a c-ertain ii îne. Is iiet lias sent il te Couacil. I canneit enter intO
tliat correct ?
tUe subject of what should be doue on a
gîven petitioîî, and w-hether the Act ought or
Hou. 'Mr. LANDRY-YeSouglît iuot te be disallowed, bec-anse 1 have
Hou. Mu-r. SCOTI? TUat tinie w-as iiot tc îîot yet seeln tUe Act.' Se far as my departtue legisiature wva'
iniclude tUe peried %vhile
mîenît is concerned, tUe petition te which my
Sitting. Is net that correct ?
lion. frieuîd refeus has net been broug-ht
Hon. Mr-. LANDRY-I thinik Éliat is no' luelore oui- notice yet.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-A petition was sent in
froni M-r. Nanitel. It w-as acknowledged at
the tiîne and transferred to the Governor
lu Council. It would necessarily go to the
Minister of Justice for an opinion and report. I have flot heard what lias beeli done
siîice, but it was received and attended to

correct.

Hon. 'Mr. LAN-DRY-Wýould the lion. geniHoui. Mr. SCOTT-That is w-liat I under tleîîuaîî be kind enough te examine that petistood. I read over tlîe petitien very hastily tioîi as soon as possible, for this reason :if
and of course did net give it inuch thouglit -the
goveriinuit coînes te a decision te dismust take
time within wliich a party is allew-e( allow the Act, that disallowafl'2
The
shorteneti by tlr t effect as soon as possible. It must bc
to contest an election was
of
Ac-t of last session. It was ag-ainst tUa s ithin tlree months of the prorogation
old1 law
the protest wa
feature of the Act that
the local legislature, under the
Parties
made, and the appeal made te the Governo
ivhich the new eue sets aside.
in Coulîcil te disallow It.
would have had at least three montbs frein
the prorogation of the local legisiature whthHou. Mr. LANDRY-I thiink the hion. ger
petitions, and
peried for the bringin gt lu which te proceed with their
tieman mixes up the
e if any disallowance is te taIre place, it muist
in of a petition and the turne for tUe ultiniat
the parties maY
before a court of justic( be within that date, s0 that
investigation
Hion. 'Mr. LAN'DRY.

1M\A-Y 1"', 1901]

benefit in due time of the restoration of the
old law. I then ask if the hon. mninister
would look at the petition as soon as possible, as it is now in bis possession, if the
information given by the hon. Secretary of
State is true, and 1 have no doubt it is, he
Nvill only be doing buis duty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I said the petition was
addressed ta the Governor in Council. In
the natural course it went ta the Governor
iii Counceil, and from there it would be referred ta tbe -Minister of Justice for a
report, but as baol. gentlemen must realize,
at the end of a session, whien ministers lIn
the ather Hause are in the Ilouse twice a
day, there is scarcely timne ta look after
iatters in Counceil.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-A minister alwayslias time to do bis duty.
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-Perhaps if the lion. gentleianl were a minister lie would not say
50.

Hon. 1Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
question is not anly applicable ta Quebec,
but aglso ta Ontario. We had in the province
of Ontario the leng-tb of the period of the sitting of the legisiature extended ln order ta
meet fhe convenience or wishes of the ministers. This Act ta wbicb the hon, gentleman
frami Stadacona bas referred wipes out al
proceedings in cases of contested elections.
Ani -lct was passed by which ail protests
and ail contestations lu the courts were wlped
out of existenlce after a certain date. It Is
only the other day a judge in the province
of Quebee, n here the question wvas tested as
ta wvhetber the case should be proeeeded
with-tbat is the case of Stanstead-tbose
contesting the election declared that the law
dîd flot apply ta that particular case, and
the judge decided that it did. and consequentîr tbe contestation started against Mr.
Lovitt, w-ho was elected. %vasthrown out
of court. Sa far as I understand, thue question put by the hon, gentleman is a very
pertinent one, ta ascertain whether that ian'
goes so far as ta relieve parties against
whom contestations were gaing on. wbo had
been guilty of bribery and corruption. That
would be condoning and legalizing criilnal
offeuces, ns well as any other Informality lin conducting an election. and it is
a very grive question as ta lîow far the
local legisiature should be permitted ta go.
29

However, 1 suppose tbey have a right to saY
what shall be the law in their province as
to elections and tlue mode of conducting
themn.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT. I understand that botb
sides approved of it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY. 1 beg the hon. gentleman's pardon. As a matter of fact that
is flot the case.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL. Supposing both sides did agree to relieve a
criminal from the penalties imposed by the
law, that Is no reason why the governmnent
should accept it.
DELAYED IhETUR NS.
1
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.
should Ilke to know from the hon. Secretary
of State whether he bas made any inquiry
or whether there is any probabllity of my
getting the return witb reference to the
surveys on the Trent Canal.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT. 1 have made every endeavour to obtain tbem. 1 think that is the
only report that is behiad this year, and 1
do not thlnk in the aunais of the history of
the Senate-Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL. 1 did
not want a lecture about ItL
Hon. Mr. ýSCOTT-When I was on the
other side of the House the government
declined to furnish returfis to me, and my
hon. friend and I pointed out that returns
moved for ten years previous were flot forthcoming.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
that justify tbe goverament in not producîng
the returns ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, but there is no use
lecturing me when I bave dane my duty.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE, BOWELL--The
bon. minister is lecturing me.
Hon. ]Sr. SCOTT-No, 1 ara not.
Hon. Si MACKENZIE BOWEL-Tbfen,
we wlll take a lecture from each otber ; we
I
will have reciprocity in that respect.
should like to cali the attention of the Minister of Justice toan motion 1 made for tenders, and for information as to wbat had
been doae In reference ta carrylng the mail
from ýCoe Hillinl the north riding of Hastings

[SE NATEj
te Apsley, in the ceunty of Peterborough.

The Secretary of State laid the return upon
tbe table and gave haîf tUe information.
One statement was that, ne tenders havîng
heen accepted, it was net deemed advisable
te Iay the tenders before tbe Heuse. With
that I perfectly agree ; tbat was quite right.
Tben the next question 'was, wbo was the
party now carrying the mail, and how mucb
had been paid te the person carrying it
now. The answer given me yesterday was
that ne tenders having been accepted, Mrv.

thue information was as I have stated, a:mud
if that be the reason, it would continue to
operate while the tenders are unaccepted,
and it might flot be desirable, or in the public interest, to state precisely the suai for
which the mail !i~ now being carried.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If my
hon. friend will inquire, I shall be satlsfied.
If that excuse bad been given before, it
would have been a reason for it, but the
cursory manner in whicb tbe questions are
answered is flot satisfactory, and I do net
Gunther was carrying the mail at a lower
think the answers are courteous. MNy inrate than bad been paid te the former carformation is that tbey are paying Mr. Gutirier.
ther more tbnn tbey paid the contracter.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-That is the answer 1 re- The question as to wvhy the original conceived.
tracter bas been removed bas not b)001
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWNELL,-ihait answered.,
is net an answer te the question I put.

Is

it net possible that the departinent can tel]
the House bew mucli they are paying M.
Gunther for carrying that mail ? We weuld
then be able te judge whether it Is a smaller
or larg-er ameunt than was paid te the other
tuan, and ne renson Uns yet been giveu why
tUe other man was reineved or the contract
taken frem him. 'Wonid my bon. friend
ask that question without my putting a
notice upen the

paper-as

te tUe nînenlît

which is being paid te Gunther for carrying
the mail frein Cee ýHill in the nertb riding
of Hastings te Apsley, ln the ceunty of

Hlon. Mr. MILLS-No, but I gave my lion.
friend ail the Information I received.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE ]3OWELL-I am
net finding fanît with the bon, gentleman.
It is with the department.
Hon. Mr. McCALLU.N This man bas heen
dismissed from bis contract, and they are
carrying the mail hy private arrang.ement.
How long a time bas expired since this gen.
tieman -was dismissed ?
Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWýýELL-It
wonld not take long te make a contract,
unless the Postmaster General bas something
behind wbicb be desires to bide In tbe mean-

Peterberoughi ?
Hon. -'%r. MILLS-l think my hon. friend time. Tbere must be sometbiug else besides
will aise understand-and I have ne doubt the contract bebind it ail.
that was the motive whicb eperated on the

Aictlng Postmaster GenernI-that wvhile the TUE VISIT 0F THE IIEIR APPARENT.
contracts are stili pending It might net be
INQUIRY.
desirable te st2Éte wbat priva te arrangement
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-Before the orders of
had been made. I gave the information te
my bon. friend that it w-as less than the the day are called, I ask permission te read,
amount of the tender, but I can well under- for the Information of the gevernment, the
stand why the Acting Postmaster General fellewing paragrapb frem the Quebec
would net want te state the precise ameunit, Cbronicle:
wlîile tUe subject of tendering for tue carThe announcernent that the Duke and Duniage of mail ever that route was yet un)- chess of York will make their first Canadian
landing at Quebec bas already cansed much
disposed of. That is what struck me as the pleasure and satisfaction amnong the citizens of
the precise ament tbis the Ancient Capital of Canada. Much
reason for withelding

apeculation bas arisen also as to the nature of
the reception that will be tendered to the Royal
visitors. It was believed that the occasion
would be seized by the Dominion gov'ernmenit
for a brilliant pag-3ant, but that ibis will be of
tenders wiili be let. I cannot an unprecedented character was learned last
Uew soon the
say.
I wilI ask for the information wbicb evening. It was stated in the city by the Hon.
Fitzpatrick, that wben the SS. Ophir
my hon. friend seeks to obtain, but my ilu- Charles Royal party on board droýps anehor in
with the
pression is that the reason for withbolding- the harbour of Quebec there will be a military
Hen. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

in the answer wb!ob was sent te me. and
whicb I conveyed te my bon. friend across
tUe House yesterday. I do not know -jnst

[MIAY 18, 1901]
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-I have been extremely
display here that wlll far outshine anythiflg
said thiat al
It
that this country has ever before attempted.Mr. rank withi the House. I have
is the intention of the government, sayr,
lie information the government had was
Fitzpatrick, that for that anapicious occasion t iven to the public. Those newspaper reail the troops in the province wiIl be mobilizedg
bers and take part In the reception. Further- pîorts may not lie well founded. They may
more, while the royal party are here the govern- g~et from the Colonial Office advance ini!orment Intends that the corner stone will be laid
ef a national monument to comulemorate the nation ; but the publie and hon, gentlemen
Canadians who fought in the South Âfricari war. xave ail the official Information which the
Trhis monument wiIl lie erected :)n the Plainsi
There is nothing
of Abrahamn, the battlefield where British Can- ~overnment has recelved.
ada had Its birth. This is a piece of news that
eally kept back. 1 rend the extract in the
wiil lie recelved with the liveliest Interest by rýuebec Chronicle, and was rather.amused
ail the citizens of this anýcient Britishi milltarY
it the Information given there. But those
stronghoid.
suppose.
froni the governalents ;ources of information are open, 1
I should like to know

As a 'rule, the
if we could get any information as to thet :o foreiga correspondents.
is quite !imof York ia Quebec, and if despatches are by mail, and it
arrivai of the Duke
possible to say whether those reports are
it ls true, as 'Mr. Fitzpatrick says, that the
One cannot formi any
Dominion governmeflt will take Up the mat- truie or otherwise.
opinion about It.
ter, and that the troops will be cnlled and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
mobilized to give a grand show in the city
of Québec.
lion, gentleman is beggfing the question.
The lion, gentleman fromn Stadacona did not
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-Does my hon. friend
say Vint offensively. What lie wants to
put the Question?
know is, whether a statement made by a
LAN-DRY-Yes, I want to know iiiember of the administration is correct.
Hon. 'Mr.
He said nothing about reports coming froin
If it is true.
England. The statemnent lie rend was a
Hon. 'Mr. M-NILLS-I thouglit my hion. statement nmade la the Quebec Chronicle,
friend was reading a plece of news for the sayinig that M-Nr.
Fitzpatricc, the Solicitor
information of the House ; I may say 1 do General, had made certain statements, and
not know whether It is true or not ; 1 have the lion. gentleman simply asks if that is
no information upon the subject.
correct. If the hion, gentleman does not
gentle- know, that Is an end of it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Has the lion.
man liad any conference with the Solicitor
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Neither myself nor any
General on the subject?
iuember of the Privy Council knows anyHon. Mr. M.NILLS-Tlie Solicitor General, thing about IL.
1 have no0 doubt, lias made a statement upon
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He Is
information which lie had in the newspaper. an outside member nnd seems to know
admit Vint
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think It Is a pity more nl»ut it. I frankly
bas been
the public In general should get infor- the lion. Secratary of State
Vint
of the very frank un giving aIl the informmation froni one of the memýbers
in reference
administration, and that the members of ation lie lad, pnrticularly
of Commons to the visit o! the Duke of York. Have thiey
this House and o! the House
to xVhnt bas
cannot get a single word froma the govern- any information to give us ns
the administration become of the delegate, If I mn! so terin
A member o!
mient.
sent froin
goes down to Quebec and gives Information hlm, or the ambassador thnt was
Canada to Australia to take part in the inliere.
whlch we canuot get
auguration of the new commonwealth? The
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-That is no rea- Australian parlia-ment has met. The session
son why my hon. f riend should sleep over it. was opened with grent éclat by the Duke
k-Ing, and the reHon. Mr. LANDRY-If the Minister of of York, our prospective
lias not been
cannot give the information, why presentntive froni Canada
Justice
give heard froni directly or indîrectly. Has lie
ennnot the minister behind the Throne
Is hie looking after that
it? I suppose lie is as well posted as the gone astray?
fifty pounds lie lost somewhere in France ?
Solicitor General.
29ý

[SEi-NATE]
Have the government any information they
eau give the country as to wlietlier the Postmiaster Generai, '.\r. Mulock, lias arrived in
Australia? Did lie arrive lu Australia iu
time for the inauguration of the Commonwealth? Was lie tbere, and if there, whiat
part did hie talze? This Dominion was supposed to lie represented by a delegate sent
fromn this country, and we have not heard
anything at ail about hlm.
lion. 3Mr. WOOD (Hamiltoii)-DLid the lion.
gentleman see the Tor-onto Telegram the
other day?
Hon. '-\r. LANDRY-Give the mninister a
chance to auswer.
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, I
did iiot. but 1 read the aniswer given by the
Premier the other day ia the Comimous, and
lie had just as much information as I had.
The government have taken a vote for
ten thousaud dollars to pay the expenses of
the delegate. It is a small sumn. 1 admit, for
so important a person, as ' , Williamn.'
The goverament lias a large surplus, but I
tlîinkz we ouglit to know. if lie did flot talce
part ou hehaîf of Canada la that celebratiou, what lias becomne of hlmi and wliy lie
did flot take part?
Hou. '-\r. M-%ILLS-I am unabie to give uiv
hion. friend the information lie so qrdelitl.v
desires.
1 do xîof know anytlîiug excepit
wliat I have seen la the inewspapers w-itb
regard to the arrivai of the Postiinster GenI do not know wvletlier
eral la Australia.
any of mny coileagues have liad a cominunication from hlm siace lie reached Australin
or flot. At ill events, if any coileague lias,
if lias flot 'been communicated f0 Couneil
wliile 1 was presexit.
flou.
Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL,-lt
would lie the Premier whlo would receive
f la t.
Hon. Mr. 2MILLS-If any lion, gentleman
or member of the Council lias received a
communication from the Postmaster Generai on the subject, we have'been busy wlfli
muatters 0f more immediate and pressing
niecessity la respect of the business of parhiament than what miglit have transpired lii
We are ail interested in the
Australia.
creation of thie new federation there, but I1
suppose any information we may 'have wltli
regard f0 it, whule it would be extremely lnHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

teresting, would not lie a matter that wve
eau affect la auy way by its communication.
So, if auy of My coileagues lias received a
comnmunîication from thie Postmaster General, it lias flot, t0 my knowledge, been communicated to Council. Wbetlîer the Postmaster General lias writtefl to any member
or miot since he lias reaclied Australia, I ea~unot say.
Hou.
timel.

M.Nr.SCOTT-Tliere

would

imot

bP

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE LL-I could
not couceive it possible lie Nvould comn-iiicote iuformation except to the PremierHon. 'Mr. M.\ILLS-He mighit communicate
with lis acting minister.
Hion. Mdr. LANDIIY-Wliere was lie wheui
lie wvas last heard fromn ? We sliould have
n iîotlier Postmaqster Gexieral if lie cannot
wvrite imself.
PACKING AND SALE 0F STAPLE COMMODITIES BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. -Mr. M-NILLS moved the second readiîig 0f Bill (117>-' An \.et respecting the
Packing and Sale of certain Staple Couniodiities.' He said :Tliere is nothiig at ;11l
fhiat is specially îiew lu the Bill, unliess it be
the marking of bags of sait. The Bill is luteinded to separate the provisions liere contailied fromi the genieral Act ou W%ýeights and
.Mensures. 1 xvent over this moiiiug1
to the
Miiister 0f Inland Revenue for information
as to the changes effected in the law by this
ineasure, and I was informed that tiiere ivas
nmoimportant change lu lt-mn fact thiat tue
principal provision that is new is tue extenlsion of tlie time at which certain provisionis
of the law are brouglif into operation. Wnitli
regard to baskets of fruit, clause 5 makes
some provision. The subject was brouglit to
the notice of the department. It xvns fouud
that the baskets; complained of were after
ail rather over than undersized. This provision is to make sonie verbal corrections.
BERNIER-I understnnd that
Hion..
clause 5 0f the new Bill is about tue same
as clauses one and two of the former Bill
(No. 10) whieh, I uaderstand, lias beelu
dropped. I sliould like f0 eaul the attenition
of tlie government f0 so0ne representafions
whieh were made by the Board of Trade of

IMAY 1S, 1901]
Winnipeg, and the Produce Exchange. Tbey
represent that tliis clause 5 will put the
traders iii smali fruits iii a bail position.
This is w-bat the secretary of the Board of
Trade of Winnipeg says:
Winnipeg, April 4, 1901.
Hon. Senator Bernier, Ottawa.
Dear Slr,-I have the honour, by direction, to
write you with reference to Bill No. 102 :'An
Act to amend the Weights and Measures Acti!
now before parlianient.
This board while agreeing fuliy with the priaciple of the Bill, recognizes that if it becomes
law. it wili practicalIy prohibit the people of
Manitoba from ImportIng or enjoying bernies and
smali fruits grown ia the United States. That
means in effeet ail the berries now used ia the
Manitoba market until late In the season, when
a iimited quaatity may be had from British Columibia.
If every box containlng stawberries, for exanipie, must be handied after arrivai here, and
stamped ' Short,' it would mean that the orty
dinary importation by express of 111 crates
(each containing 24 boxes) could not possibiy t-e
delivered to retailers on the day of arrivai, as ail
express trains f rom the United States arrive
after nnon. and the breaking of the crates and
haadiing and stamping of cach box would certsinly injure the bernies.
Several attempts have been mnade to bring
strawberries bers froni Ontario, and in each case
a heavy losa bas resuited, aad in any case the
eastern bernies do not ripen tili moaths atter
we commence to receive smail fruits and bernies
from the Southerai States.
Froni your personal knowledge of our situation
Ia Manitoba yota wiil readily understand that the
enforcernent of the Act wouid be a very great
hardshlp te impose on people here.
I enclose for your inf..nmation a letter recelved
frein the Winnipeg Produce and Fruit Exchange.
Yours truiy,
C. N. BELL,
Sacretary.
'£lie letter te which reference ks mîade is
as folioNws
Regarding the conversation which tock place
yesterday between severali members of our exchange and the council of the board of trade
lu reference to a bill to corne before the Domninion Parlianient:
Rie the marking of ail packages of smal
fruit.
We beg to state the Winninsg produce exchange are satisfied that the bill la ail right as
far as Canadian smali fruits are concerned. The
tniall fruits handled ia this province are pricipally Irnported trom the United States. and
the different states, Fay Oregon, Kansas, Texas
and Wisconsin, ail use difierent size boxes, for
the small amouat of business done with Canada the exporters ia those states would not
coasider It worth while to mark the boxes
accordtagiy to this bill, and It wouid be imipossible to have the boxes rnarked after they arrive
at their destination as the fruit wouid suifer
Ia so do!ng.
Ail smali fruits lmported froni the United
States are sold on their merits ;there ia no
guarantee cf weight or size of package ;they
are flot sold by quantity, but simply seld on

.sIght. This business lwith the States does not
clash or corne iato comPatition with Canselian
fruits as the formrer are ,ilff the market when
Canadian fruits are ready to corne in.
Whle eadorsing the bill as far as Canadian
grown fruits are concerned, wvewould consider
it a hardship and detrimontal to the trade of
this North West If the bill was mnade to cover
importations from the United States. Trusting
that our viewvs on this matter may receive favourable coasideration.
If the clause remains as it is, it wvili be
the cause of serious ioss to oui' traders. I
mention this se that tire lion, gentlemnan
iniglit look into it before the Bill goes to

the Comnaittee

of tlue

Whoie.

Lin. Mr. M'%ILLS-I w-ll nuove the second
rending now, and before the Bill cornes inp
on Monday, I shall have an opportunity of~
considering the.suggestion made by tlie bon.
geitlinan. I mnight say that there are furIlier provisions intendeil to be put inito force
luy thîis Bill. There are penalties. Ujufler the
iaw as it stands, there is no penalty for disregardhuîg the provisions of the law. Thiere
kq liere ;aise the provision relating te the
inieasurement of binder twine. and the enforcement of that law-. for whichi there was
no provisionl ii the statutes. Lt is made to
go inteoeperation on or after the first day ef
Octobel' next.
'Ple motion w-as agreed te. and the Bill
wvas read tue second tiune.
RAILWAY ACT AM.NEN-\D.ENT

BILL.

THIItD READING.
he House resol-ed itseif inito Comrnittee
of tue Wiiele on Bill ý13f)-'An Act to anuenti
tue Raiway Act.*
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. MLLLS-AII the provisions et
this Bill are taken from the Eag-Ilsbi law,
and decisions under that iaw.
len. Mr. BOLDUC-Ln accordance wvith
the remarks I made yesterday at the second
readlng of this Bill. 1 propose to meve an
arnendmnent te the first cliusLý. As I said
yesterday. te prevent delays and expense,
lnstead of trying these cases befere the Exchequer Court. it would be better te hiave
tiuern tried before the High -Courts in each
ef the provinces. Therefore. L nuove that: the
clause be amended by substituting fer the
words 1Excbequer Court ef Canada ' the
words 'the court, as defined by this Act.'

[SENATE]

If~ thiat ameadment carrnes, I suppose iiiother amendaient would be necessary. '\e
would bave to say before n-hidi court the
cases would have 10 be tried, and if the
House is iii favour of adopting it. 1 shall
niove another amendmlent to say before
wbiat courts tiiese cases shial be tried.
MLLLS-I hope my lion. frieiid
Hon. M-Nr.
will not persist lu bis ameadments. The
Excilequer Court judge goes to every part
of the country w-here a case is to tried. He
does so as a matter of convenience. on necounit of the examining of witnesses. and for
other reaisons, ani n-e have liiîherto treated
this as part of the n-ont of tue Exchequer
Court judge. We have but tue 0o1e Exchequer Court judge. He lias ample time
and opportuniîy to engage ii tlis n-ork, and
thiere wil] lie uniformity in the proceedings
l these railwvay cases Ihirongliont the entire
Donminion, n-hiih is a inatter of 110 incolisiderable, importance. Tiien if any one isdissatisfled n-ith his judgînent. tiiere may
be anl appeal ho the Supreme Court ? If n-e
were to refer it ho any othier court Iirre
miglit he a numlber of proceedings iii tlie
province before the natter could coule lie
foré, the Supremne Court. I have no doubt !i
iv~ owvn mind thiat Ibis will lie foinnd. oni the
-wvliole. the most expedillous. convenient and
satisfactory n-ar of proceeding. The Rtailxvay Departmleît lias givenl a good deal of
attention to the subjeet. and 1 trust myv hon1.
frieîîd n-ill niot persist ini his amiendmelît.

Hon. Mr. MýILLS-No.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-lt wvill niot have the
saine effeet ?
Hon. «Mr. MILLS-No.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-qillîat is the
ence ?

dil'fer-

Hon. M-Nr. M\ILLS-M-ýy lion. friend will
see iii winding up an3- ordinary business
wliere a mani goes into bankruptcy, or say
ail insurahice company, that is anl end of
Tiiere is no difficulty in
the institution.
%vinding it up and distributing the assets
amongst the creditors. Tliat is not the position of a railway. A railway is ai publie
institution. You give it a number of fraxichises becnuse of its public character. You
enable it to expropriate property, to exercise one of the functions of the Crown.
for the purpose of coming into existence,
anid it continues to exist as a railway. and
you make provision for lts management
and operation, flot under a court of a1 province, but under the Exclhequer Court, biecause n'e are not dealinig -%vith railwavs
gnerally, we are dealinig wvith the railways
of the country that nre incorporated by the
Doiion, the only class n-itl w-hidi Nve
We have 1no Power
have p)ower to deal.
to interfere w-itli or deal with the railways
of a province for instance ; but witb the
M'e
railn-ays of the Dominion we bave.
give the jnrisdiction to a D)ominion court
ini orcler that there may be uniiformitv iii
(Iealinig with bodies n-heul are incorporated
by~ the Donminion parliaiiot, and Si) establish a systein tliat iwill oporate l the
sanie vay in ail the provinces of the Doininion.

Hou. -Mr. BOLDUC-I -ould be glati to
nccept the ýsugg-estion of the hon. gentleman.,
but I see inithe Winidung-Up Act these cas
are trieti before the courts I have mientioned.
andi I neyer heard ûn complaints of tue
w-orking of the Act. 1 see no reason w-ly
w-e slîould depart from the pnînciple adopteti
Hon. 'Mr. BOLDUC-But tliey will have
n-hei the Wiiinig-Up Act n-as passeti. I
to do with the assets of the company.
amentiment.
insist on putting nir
It is oîîly in case where a company is niot
Honl. Mr. LAN-"DIIY-This Act bas tno able to fulfil its obligations and pay its inresuits. Tue fil-st ls to bring ail the cases debtedness. If it was true tiat -we would
'inding--UP Adt. have to confinie ail Ihese cases to a special
under the operation of tue
Is tbat s0 ?
court, ail the laws w-e pass here 10 incorporHon. MNr. SCOTT-No. A railway onîce ate ans- corporation, n-hether a railw'vay corestablished is a public franchise, îîot like ail poration or a trade corporation, ivould ]lave
ordiiuary business.
ho be Iried before a specini court, and as
by
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I am spealig of the ail the ian-s -%e pass hiere are executedl
the courts in each of tlie provinces, 1 see
effect of Ibis Bill. is not the effeet to brii
railw-ays unden the operation of the Wildiiz-- nio reasoni wlîy Iliere sliould bie a departure
iii this case. it is exactly tue saine tlîiîg.
U-p Act?
Hon. 'Mr. BOLDUC.

[MAY

18, 1901]

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A niaHoui .Mr. LANI)IY-Tlîc Exehlequer Court
olily goes (lo%%ll te the provinices l'or the jority iu mnîîbers, if I rea(1 it riglit. throcAil the lest fourthis of the boudiiolders and mortgagees
purpose of talciîg evideîîcc.
îîîust cousent before you clin do it.
of the wouk is clone lieue iu Ottawa.
Hou. 2Nr. BOLDUC-The idea of central!Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
is exactly the
reînrks of the lion. gentleman fromi Beauce ziuig everything at Ottawa
led iue 10 believe thiat il wvould bo botter principle agaist whielî I arn strongly opIf we adopt that principle once, 1
to relegate ail 'these cases 10 the Superior posed.
of the
Courts of the provinces, but Ihere is a great arni afraid it wouid he the insertion
tiîin edge of the w-edge, and if we adopt
deal of force iii the remirlts miade by tlie
Miiîister of .lJustice, particulauly if we de- the prijîciple ef eutraiiziug everythiug ilu
sire uîîifornitv of decisieus iii ail thie pro- Ottawa, m-e are exposed 10 the danger or
the
vinîces. If il ho undcersteoot tiaI the Exclie- seeing ail cases lried lioreaf 1cr before
Excequer Court. 1 uever lieard any cornquer Court Judge is te visit oach province
is
%vlieue the difficullies miay auise m1tlî the plaint of the way the Wuin-pAct
WVe
working- lu the different provinces.
unilways, 10 taite lue evitience and adjudiLklîow very W-eil Imat whore a judgmlenl is
cale upoil the evideuice, it is a question wh-li
ill the
tuier that course -%vould ho aliy more ox- rendered it is iveli kilowîî trouiout
gceneraliy agree
1e
tlîan it xvonld he o le ave it te the LDoluiion, andth judges
pensive
Supreîiîo 'Court or higlier courts efthe pro- upon the princililes ou which they aet. 1
stili insist tlîat uly anîendicuet euiglt 10
vinces.
be cauried.
Hon. '-%r. 'MILLS-Il would net bo as oxlien. '-uI. M-\ILLS-Mýy lion. friend is uiiier
pensive.
Tiîore is uo attenîpt
a inisappuohoien.
Hou. Sir MACKiENZIE BOWELL-What at centralization. We do iiet touchi. flor
1 teared iii rcatling the Bill casually this caîî we toucli. a railway thait is ilieorporated
nîeruing -mis that iii roeeriiîg it te tie Ex- by a province. We are deaiug only -witl
choquer Court yen -,vould hiave te briug ail1 railways incorporatoti by time Dominion. and
your witilesses andiiayr te Ottawa. Il we are givilug to one ju(lge. preciseiy as is
tiat liati l ehonoe I siionit cortainly be doue lu England, the speciai function 0f
strommgly lu faveur oftIhe anieifliilou offered regulating the ternis on wvhic1î a roati is
by the lieu. geutienîn frein Beauce. But lu be iuanaged and the creditors are te
be provideti fer. Tue jutige goes te tlie
lat the Exebeir
if il is ulierstoodth
visits the provinces, alîd thaI place for the purpose eftafking evideluce,
Court Judge
in t1he decisiolîs anti whletler it is argued liere or wvill be
bu uinirity
tliero wil ie
ciosing- Up of raiiway corpora- aigu e( ii the place w-lieue the evideuce is
affeeling tbe
tiens of 1h15 kinti, wveuid it inet ho botter takýeii wili. no doubt, depend upen the conte beave il te elle jutige '? I bave silice veniieuce of courisel largeir, so that tiiere
It le
looketi at the Bihl moee <refuiiy. anîd lt will be ne attemipt at centralizalion.
te nie, as w-e hiave beeli informied. lt simiply a maitter of couvenlieuce that oe
socîlîs
is a couuîloupart of t11e law 110w l existenîce jutigo aut tliat is the prnctice lu England
!l Englil, se far as it eouid ho mîade ap- whlere tlîoy have far more f0 deal Nithi
plible 1<) luis coiiutryý.and I 1111( tuait tlman we weuld lhave iii Ibis Bill-tliat oe
vlietlier il b hoie pautieular judge is indicated as the jutige
every clliss iliteresteti,
original sli.areioiders, t11e bonlîioiders. the wvho lias the riglit 10 deal w'itî ail1 these
cass. y lion. friend ivill see that lu
mortîgagees, or aIls ene else. ks prolocleti
the case of a baukrupt. the property passes
under this Bill, andi ne procedure can ho
altogether.
coîmmced or caruied Ilîrougli %vitliittue out of the biauds ofthe banilztupt
Lt is sold andi distributeti amiolgst the crediconsent of three-fourlhs of ail tbese Intertoi-s. Houe the rillwy inust continue to,
ested. except thle original siarebiolders. .A
borienla slîareimolders -wiil exist after t11e settieiueut, time sanme as it
majerily efth
did before.
te justiîfy actieon boîug tltn.
ho sufficient
11oh. '-%I. BOLDUC-Wiliî
A înajorily !il îurnbers ?Bill

a

majenity

Heu. Mu. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Is net tluis
reaily a baukruptcy iaw for railways

LSEýNATE]
Hon. Mr. MLL,-It is not exactly a
banlkruptcy law, but it bears a certain atnalogy te a bankruptcy law. In baniruptcy
the property w-onld be sold, anil disposed of,
but lu the case of a railway that is uîîablc
to Ineet its liability, and perlîaps to efficiently equip its road and carry on operations,
there is provision made here tlîat the road
inîust stili be carried on, and *it must be
carried on in the iinterests of tiiose te wboin
the rend is ilidebted and that, se far as it Is
possible te mnake provision for their compensation. provision wvilI be made eut of the
cariîîigs ef the road.

Hon. Mr. MclCALLUM-Because if tue
bondholdcrs and ail these people wbo are
pressing the raîlway company, comel unider
thîs law, and agree te a compromise, and ac
cept so nuch on the dollar for their indebt
edniess, tbe railway will be able te continue
At the first blusb, I was inclined te go witu
mny lion. friend, but after the explanation of
the lion. 'Minîster of Justice. and knowing
it is !in the interest of the people thiat the
railways sheuld be operated, 1 wonld advise my l.
friend te let bis ameadmeni

Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHELIVILLE-I put the
question. net becanse I arn oppesed te the
Bill, but te ascertain the fact. If a railway
Is lit debt it is very difficuIt for an individual te sne a railwaiy. and it would ie lunch
better te bave this lavv. if it is as 1 understand it.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If hon.
.gentlemen will read carefully the first clause
1 think tbey wîll see wbat the object of the
Bill is. I presume lt is thc resuit of a greal
dcal of experience in Great Britain.
Il
says

Hlon. McI. BOLDUC-Whmy?

1. Where

a

company

is

unable

te

lon. 'Mr. BERNIER If the Bill provided engagements with is creditors, the meet its
directors
that the judge would go te the lecality of the rnay prepare a scheine ef arrangement between
railway, perhaps that would mleet the objec- the company and its creditors (wlth or withont
provisions for settling and defIning any rights
tion of the bon, gentleman.
of shareholders et the colupany as among themnselves, and for
addltlonal
hloi. Mr. M1ILLS-Ini the nature of tbings. shares and loan raising, if necessary, tbem.
capital, or either of
w'liere there is evidence te be taken. tliat
Thlat is, in order te accomplishi wlhat ti
inust be donc.
lion, gentleman (Mr. Mulock) bas mentionlIon. Mr. LANDRY-But whvlere tliere is ne
ed-to enable theni te continue the operaçovidlence te be taken. the judge need net go.
tien of the road. Thon it provides tbiat they
Hon. Mr. McALMAtrthe
explana- -miay file It in the Exclîsquor Court of Canada
tien of the lion. 'Minister of Justice, I do 1hercinafter called 'the court ') with a doclaraîlot regard this as a bankrnptcy law. It is tion In w-riting under the common seal et the
company te the effect that
a compromise between the creditor and deb- able te meet lis engagementsthe cempany is unwith lis creditors,
tors of the institution, and the people of and wlth an affidavit et the trnth cf sncb declaratien made by the president and directors, or
this country having so mucli interest !in railby a majority et the president and directors. et
ways, they are allowed te continue business. the companv te the best of their respective
If sîmat is tbe ebject, of course it is verv judgment and helief.
desirable that that should be donc.
The It is roally a Bill te enable bankrnpt railpublic shonld net be deprivedi of tbe use cf way companies, witb the consent of thoir
these railw-ays, becanse they are behind lit liondiiolders. slîarelolders and mortgagees,
thieir paymients, and if the property is di- te act upon some course te continue the
vided fairly, giving theni tume te pay, il oeeatiuil of tbe ronds. Or, if tbe court
would be an advantage te the people geul- tlîinks proI)er, after tbe investigation, if 1
erally, the sanue as whien a, man went iiite understand it cerrectly, tbey migbt soul the
bankruptcy under the old bankruptcy law, road and divide the proceods, if there are
lie w-as allew-ed te compromise with bis any proceods te divido. That seemns te be
creditors. I look upon this ns jnst the sailne, tue ebject of the Bill. Thoy discussod thiq
with only tlis differenice :under the old question a niumber of sessions ago. and at
comipromise it m-as bollestly carried ont ;li
tluii tiniie came to the conclusion It was
this case, as I nnderstand, the mensure w'i!l absolntely nlecessary thînt somo sncb probe a. benefit te the public, becanse the rail- posi tion as is comibined iii this Bill should
ways will ho centinued iii operatien, antd be nmade the law in this country lu order te
will accoiniodate the public.J
illcet tbese particular cases.
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS

[MAY 18, 1901]

Hon. '.\r. LANDRY-The amencdment does
flot in aur w-ay destroy that part of the
Bill.
Hon. '-%r. MILLS-Oh, yes It does.
Hon. '-%r. LÂNDRY-AIl the procedures
rnny go on. The only diff erence is It wili
be before the other courts. We want to
have such cases broughit before our local
courts, and flot to have to corne to Ottawa.
Hon. «-%. BOLDUO-I should like ta have
niy amendment put.
The aluendnient was declared lost:.
On clause 3,

45'

lion. Mr. SCOTT-Quite true, only it is
the officiai way of giving notice.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 8,
lion. Mr. LANDlIY-Wby is there a difference between clauses 7 and S? Clause 7
enacts that the- consent of the stockholders
and the preference shareholders mnust be
given by at least three-quarters of the3 r
numnber, while a simple majorlty is requlred
from the common 6bareholders, in clause 8.
Why is there a diff erence ?i
nIon. Mr. M.%ILLS-My hon. 'friend xvill
know thnt lu a bankrupt compauri. any
shareholders', except the preference sîjareholders', Interests are flot wortb a very great
deal, and s0 those who are preference shareholders are specially protected, and iu that
respect we sîmply follow thue Englilb Act.
Tiiese sections are pretty mucb ail fromn the
Englishi Act. I took the trouble of looking
tup the cases where the provisions of that
Act have been brought into controversy. and
1 flnd that ail the parties have been carefully safeguarded, just as they have been
uinder, the Englsh statute, and the difference between the preference shareliolders
and the others Is due to the fact that the
preference shareholders may have a very
considerable lnterest lu a bankrupt institution, and lu case of a sale, their stock or
bondsmay be worth very nearly tlîeir face,
whiatever it mny be ;but In the case of the
other sharehiolders, it would be worth very
littie.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-But It is the saine iiiterest-the sanie class of interest.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Obi no, the shareholders
have a road that Is embarrassed, and knowç
tlîat their shares are gone. The ordinary
shares are onlly valuable for their voting
quality.
Hou. 'Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-And
these 'bonds are never issued without the
consent of the original sharebolders under
the law.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that ail ? Wby flot
give notice also in a local paper ?
1r.
Hon «M 'MILLS-That is aIl. The
Canada Gazette Is the officiai gazette, and
stockholders and bondholders of the road
wvould know exactly where to look for tbe
Information required.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Are flot the creditors
lnterested also ?
MILLS-And the creditors also.
Hon. M-Nr.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The creditors la any
locality should receive notice, and notice
sbould be given la the locality wbere the
railway Is.
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-That would not always
be practicable. Take the case of the Cariadian Pacific Rallway, whicb extends across the continent. I think tbe best way
Is to give notice to the Officiai Gazette.
Everybody interested wlll know where to
look for the notice, and I thlnk that will be
suflicient.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When I say locality,
I niean one of the Ieading cities lu the 10.
cahity.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hon. gentlemen will
rememnber thîs :When a raiiway becomes
euxbarrnssed, It Is a matter of public notarlety. -No proceedings of this kind will be
taken until tbings bave reached an extreme
point.
-Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. Mînister
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Quite so.
lias accustomed us not to believe in the
The clause was adopted.
papers.
On clause 9,
Hon. 'Mr. BERNIER-The publication in
I-on. Mr. LANDIIY-IIow Is tluit special
the Canada Gazette is practically no publimeeting cnlled?
cation at ail.

SENATE]
Hbin. 'Mu. MILLS-talled
oas the counpanyv.
f

under tbe by-

Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oincaruîîdeu the Act by wicxthcy w%ý-eue
l)aiated Tbe clause w-as adopted.
On clause 11.
lion. Mr. LANDRY-1'lis clause says tbait
tbe notice of sncb application shahl be pubTiiere is na delay
lislied ini tue Gazette.
spalcex of. 110w is tluat deterineci?
Han .Mr-. MILLS-Tlie court -%-ill see tbiat
thie parties are not clîeatcd ont of flil
ri zlî ts.
PLIIMROSE, frolu tbe commitHani. MuNl.
tee. reparted tbe Bill witbout aiuendrnent.
Tlhe Bill w-as tlien uead flic tbiud time aad
ia ssed.
ELECTIONS A CT
MENT BILL.

DOMINION

A'MEND-

REPORT FROM COMMITTEE.
The Hanuse ucsalvcd ltself muao a Comimittee of the Whole on Bill (64) An Act ta
aiiend tie Dominion Elections Act.
din the Comimittee.)
On clause 2,
Hon. Mir. MILLS-Tbe w-ards lu this clause
heque fou that sultu -duaqwn upon and
xccepted by any suclu bank' ai-e liew.
-.a

cnw
ikcALM that thiev
Ham. Mui.
ire new. and I wisbi they lîad been aid, becaiuse i is a stîange thiig ta îne tîxat a constituency iii tbis cauntry shauld be disfuanicluised by the act 0f a î-etuî-niîîg ofliceu after
thue nioncy luad beeîî pai lii. lie accepted
the chequxe, as I understaiid i t, and placed
it ta his on-n credit. and anc of the candidates w-as uetuî-ned by 14 of a miajarity, and
still ibe cannty gaes iuepi-esenitedl in the
1ahiarizntnit of Canada. It is stringe tixat ai
--entleniaîi sbauld faîte adviantargeo0f ai tîuina
of ibliai kind.
Hi.

Mr-. SCOTT-lieau, heaix

Han. -Mr. M\cCALLUM-\-Talzing admantagc
ai luis oN-ii inistakie, and the zo\-urnelit ai
the countr-y say tbat it is ail uiglit.
Ilin. Mr. 'MILLS-No.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY.

McCALLUM-\-Wbat is the object
Holu. MuNi.
of ilnaking a deposit at ail? Lt is to lteelp
mnîc fuomu bein,- nominated wbo do flot intend to go to the polis. Wlieu a nian Poils
a certalin numnber of votes, bis inoney is refuîîded ;but In fuis case flue muan pald the
inoney, and the returning officer accepted a
cheque, put if to Lis own credit in tbe banik,
and wbiei the tiniie came to niake a returai,
lie says that lie cannot make a returiu. He
is falcing advantage of luis own act. lias
tlue goverunnent reprinianded lin? 1 neveu
beard tbiat tbey biad. They mnust bave apiuuoved of it. Hie is daing an unjust acf ta
the pxeople of West Durbami. No min wlio
liais al standing in tbis country ivill take ado:îtg matter of tluat Icind. Wlieil a
f a
iiajority of tbe people are against ouue cndidate, be sbould allow tbe otiier manl ta go
ta parliament, and should use luis influence
ta get bum there.
Han. Mu. SCOTT-Hear, bear.
Hou. '%u. M-NcCAILUM--Afd it is an unlfortniate tluing for the people of tiuis country
tiat -we adopted the local fuanuchise fou Ébis
Domuiinion. Look at -Nipîssing-I will deal
witli tlîat wlien we corne ta tle Franchuise
Bill. Look at Prinîce EdNvard Islanid. where
tlie poll l)aaks were scattered. Tîxcue is legisl:îtioli in Prince Edward Island aaw ta
try ilîid do justice ta the people tîxat w-ere
We
în-oîerly î-etuuned ln tliat puovince.
sliould be careful. -qWe have made a mistake. .Sometbiaig lias beenl said tlîis afternoan about disallowaace. Tbe local legisiatnur of Ontario lias passed anl Act ta extenld
Watkinld (if
thîe life of tCuat legisiature.
a franchise are tlîey goinig ta give lis? If
tliey can extend the life of the leg-islatuue
foi- a inontb, tbey caîx exteiid it twelv«e
iiiantbis, tîxen tluey cau extentl it twelve
years, aîud if tbey cau extend it twelve years,
tluev can extend it sixty yeaus, so tîjat after
îw-hile w-e ýwill mvant lia electioli at ail. The
people wvil1 say tbat we elect ouselves. anid
I ask the goveruaaient of tbe counutuy axai thie
Miiiisteu of Justice esl)ecieally, ta see that
iluat Act is disallowed wlîea it cornes lieue.
'l'ie people of tbis country mviii bold hlmi
uesponsible. Thlak of a local legîsiature extending its owîi life. Na\ donbt, anly action
of theirs afteu tbcy extend the lifeo0f tbat
legisiature, and any legisiafion on theiu p~art
will ba abor-tive. I aiu niot a lawyeu. but

[\IAy

w,

1901]

l0 deposit of money required-the saine
pinîciple. He exercised a judicial funiction,
in saying that that clieque, for whlh he
gave a recelpt for $200, wvns a sufficient
compliance witli the Act which required the
placing lu his hands of $200 by the candidate or his agent. Havling accepted that
chieque as a sufficient payrnent, hie was
bound to return the candidate wlio îad,
polled a rnajority of votes. It niay be tliat
the court would have held that tliat was flot
a sufficieut compliance witli the Iaw, but lie
liad 110 power to liold tliat. He had already
proinouniced a judgrnent, and lie had iîo
power to recali or review the judgmnt lie
liad prouounced, and it w-as bis duty. iii my
opinion-I have no doubt of it, and have tiot
liesitnted to say so-to return the candidate
liaving a rnnajority of votes. Well. lie did
not so do. He did not cornply w-ith the law
lu tliat particular. He returned nobocly as
elected, and lie consulted couiisel, and acted
upon the advice of counsel. The law~ miakes
provision that where there is no return. a
party rnay dlaim the seat. and lie iliay charge
corrupt practices against bis opponent. He
înay institute judicial proceedings for the
purpose of ascertaining -ho is entitled to
the seat, and ail those proceedings w-ere
taken under the authority of the law. whicli
Hon. 'Mr. M-NILLS-I rnay say, in reply to lias been the iaw, at ail events. since 1886,
the lion. gentleman fron -Monk, tlhat tliere and I forget how long before. Those proIs no responsibility attacinig to the govern- ceedings have beeîî takea. and that case is
ument for wliat liappenied in the couuity of still pending in the court. I arn not going to
West Durhanm, except in so far as thîcy are enter into a discussion as to w-hether the
responsible for tlie appointrnent of the re- act of the returning officer, in accepting muat
turning officer w-ho hield tlie eiectiou. lu receipt as sufficient. is one that the courts
tliat case the returniing officer received the are certain to upliold. It would lie presumpclieque that w-as handed to i, and granted tion on rny part to express any opinion on
a poil. He gave the party a receipt, aad, lu that subject w-bile it is under judicîal cogrny opinion, as I read the law, the granting nizance. I have no hesitation ln predicting
of that receipt, so far ns lie w-as concerned, that tlie court w-ill say that the rerurning
w-as a judgrnt as to its sufficiency, and, officer ouglit to have returned thie mnan liavhaviug decided that tlie receipt of that ing the majority of votes, leaving tbe other
cheque w-as sufficient, and having ordered an party to contest the question as to the validelection upon tlie receipt, lie w-as bouud in lty of the chieque, as a deposit of $200, ln the
duty to have returned the candidate w-ho courts lit a controverted election trial if tliey
lad the rnajority 0f votes. I have no hiesi- saw proper to do so. The doctrine in this
tation lu givinýg that as rny view of the law. case is weh stated in the judgment of the
That view w-as vers clearly stated iu the Court of Appeals in that case of Pritchard
case of Pritchnrd v. the 'Mayor of Bangor, . Bno
n
h siecs
et
h
h
ett
lu Eughand. thiat carne before the Court of .Bnoadtesrecs
and the court held that the Hiouse of Lords. and the view taken by the
Appeis flîcre,
Any
returning officer w-as exercising a judicini Court of Appeils w-as tliere uphehd.
lie decided on the sufficiency lion, gentleman w-ho w-ill taize the trouble toe
funiction w-lieu
of a qualification, and in this case there w-as rend over Lord Watson's judgrnent lu that

conion sense teaclies nue that. Tliey caîi-1
not extend their terni a day; -but if tbey
could extend it a day, tliey could extend it
sixty years. Had nothing been said about
disnhhowance, I would flot have said anything
about lt IIow. As the West Durhamn case
stands, I say it is a rnost extraordiuary case
that the officers of the governulent of this
country sliould depri.ve tlie choice of the
people of lis seat ; and, instead of beiug reprinianded, it seerns tliat the more illegally
aud corruptly tliey act, the more they are
I biave îîot
appreciated at lieadquarters.
seen auytbing i the press froin the ministers about it, and w-e find that w-lin an appeal is made la the House of Coninions to
do justice, the rnajority are opposed to retroactive legislation. They could, if tliey
,wislied to do w-bat is riglit, pass an Act
w-hicli would takze effect from a certain date,
and West Durliani w-olld lie represeuted.
But thiey w-i flot do it, and the governrnent
are taking advantage of tue improper action
of the returniug officer iu West Durhiam.
Tliey certainly have nîajority euougli in the
Low-er House, and I do not see -w-y tliey
should act in this way. Oue vote wouhd flot
make any differeuce. Tune wvill tell. and ail
secrets w-ihl corne out by and by.

[SE

ATE j

case will see precisely the doctrine that I scat to the mail wlio hiad the majority. That
T
state is there laid down, and Lord W atson election lia-s flot beeni questioned. If the
says that it niay be thiat the election miglit opposite view hiad been taken, there would
be upset on the validity of the nomination. bave been an election trial just as in this
but lt ongbit not to bie upset or questioued' case.
by the returnling officer calliîîg in question
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
That 1
luis ow-,n act or biis own judgnent.
was Eaîst Northîumberland ?
mnust be left to the courts, and that ougbt to
Hon. 'Mr. M'%ILLS-Yes.
bave been done bere. However. practically
tliere may be no great difference betn
Ilon. 'Mr. McALMIdo
not thuink the
proceeding to judgment betore a returui was Minister of Justice individually w-ould sanlenuade or proceeding to judgiment atterwards. tioîî any sncb course as w:îs taken in West
If the court sbould talce tlie vhix tîjat thet D uria iii11. Ili the otiier ense. in Kin<s Co.,
deposit wvas sutticieuut .and in tliat case the
NB.there w-as a difference. Whttook
party ouglit flot only to have been returnied, place tbere ? Tluey- brouglit the returning
but would have beeni entitled to retaini bis oflicer to the Bar off the House.
seat, then Mr. Thornton bas beeni kept ont
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-Bnt they did îîot give
perhiaps during the present session, whbicli
lie ougbt niot to have beenl. I biave no hesi- the maii tbe seat.
tation iii saying thuat the returning officers
\IThere is one offiHon. Mr. M\cC.ILLUM
ougblt to have as little discretion as possible. r-et hil West Durhain and one lin Nip~siuîrii
Thuere are certain duties devolving upoii çvho are outside the law altogether. and the
themi. I questioned, witbi a good de-il off goverliment do flot reprove them. I do not
feelinug, myself the course that wvas tali tluink tue Minister off Justice would advise
iii the case of tbe Queeni's county election. tli
to do aaytliing that w-as illegal. The
whý-Ien Mfr. King was kept ont of bis seat. aad trouble is that those xvho act illegally and
wlbeuî the returning officer there. after re- corruptly are not punisbed. That is what
ceiving a deposit off $20, and after baving 1 compflain off and notliing more.
graiîted tue poil and after -Mr. King bad
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-It seemns to me that
beeiî returned, ýsaid that lie biad uuo riglit to
graîit a poil uîîder tue circumistances, that iii sncb cases tbe law sluould provide very
the deposit w-as paid by King himself, iii- clearly, wbetber it Is lu the nomination or
stead of having been paid by his agent, that iii connection witb the contestation, that
tue statute did flot authorize hlmii to consider the receipt for tbe deposit from the proper
it at ail, and that lie returned Mr. Ring's officer sbiould be sufficient evidence off coinopponent. who liad polled a minority off pliance witb tbe law. Wliat is tbe object
votes. I thlnk that was a most outrageons off tue law ? Not to put difficulties in the
proceeding, and I do flot agree with the way of the choice of the people. Tbe decourse taken by the returning officer in that posit is only to be evidence off good faîtlî

instance any more than in this case. 1 may
sayt that iii two or tbiree cases tue returniiig
officers wrote to mie witlî regard to the
course that tbey oughit to adopt. Ini another case--I îîeed flot mention the naine off
the part3-, but I may say-that lie is a political opponent of the government, and lie
biad polled a majority of votes-the returning
officer had given hlm a receipt for a cheque
anid accepted ut as sufficient. W%ýheîî lie applied to ne for advice. 1 told imii lie bad
ailready prononnced, judgnient on the sufficieîîcy off tbe deposit, and that it w-as bis
dnty to return the man having the niajority
off votes. His duty was simply an aritbmetical duty. to add up thie votes and give tue
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

anud a. certain guarantee for the expenses.
Wlîetber ut is a marked cheque or a suni off
uioney lu certain denominations of bills,
there is no object in refusing it. No officer
will refuse to accept money of a bank or a
inarked chleque, and the receipt off that otlicer sbould be a sufficient evidence of conpliance wltb the law. The moment tbe oi11cer gives this receipt bie takes the responsihility of the genuineness off the money
or off tbe ceque, and it is for hlm tben to
look for bis own safety.
Houi. Mr. POWER-I do luot agree witli
the lion. muember for St. Boniface. 1 tluink
lbis uiroposal migbt lead to very serions
frauds. As it is now, it is provided that

[MýNAY 18, 19011

461

lot bis opponoent go into court and fIglit the
battle with Iiimn. Tlhore is nio use discussing the matter aow. I know a case of my
owa wliere inaocently-I certainly should
not have talten advantageo f it-the gentleman runniag against me was a banker
wlxere I lived, and hoe prosented biis choque
to the returnlng oflicer. That is 20 years
ago. Thie rotnrnlng officer said - I will not
taire that,' and I sald, 'wly b1055 you, that
aman's chieque is good for more than $200.
I would certaialy take bis choque for $200.'
But the returaiag officer said no, aad I
tlîlak if lie lad boen ton minutes later witl
bis deposit, I would liave boen declared
olected, but I did not want to bo elcctod
that way. A boy was sont, as if lie lind
somoebody after liim, down to the banir to
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did get the moaoy, and got it just la time.
nlot understand the lion. gentleman from St. Thie case la Queen's N.B., Is not directly
Boniface to make any suchi sugg-estion. HIe analogous to the prosent case. The courts
inerely gave bis opinion ils to xvhat hoe decicdeç that the returning oflicer ini thiat
thouglit ought to bo the iaw, and mnade case porformed bis duty witiiia the law, and
lio sucli sug.gestion. 1 1111very gid the tliat Mr. Baird wvas entitled to the seat,
amn(dIlent wvas mnade, .111(l I thinik ever one tliough lie obtainod It by a tocliaicality, and
wlio listenied to the lion. Ministor of Justice thie roturaiag officer was suminonod before
wiil ho gratified at the fairiless with which the Bar of tbe Houso to explain bis conduct.
lie stated the question to the I1ouse. anîd Immediately after the close of that session
will be stili furtlier gratifiod ln hearing of parliameat, 'Mr. Baird resigned bis seat
frotu hlmi that lie gave advico to a returui- and weat bacir to the eloctors, and was reiag- officer nlot to exorcise any power beyond elected hy a large majority. However, the
performing bis duty simply. la that case fact of bis resignlng and bing re-elected
it w-as nothing like as bad as the one does not affect the point made by the lion.
under discussion. The case iii East Northi- Miaister of Justice. This case of West
umiberland was one in whicli the candidate Durhiam ls oneo0f the worst cases we can
siniply gave bis chieque, and it wvas accepted conceive of. The officer accepted thie cloque
by the returning officer. Thore are two aad put the moaey to his own credit, and
gentlemen sittIng la the Hoîlse of Commions allowod theo eloction to proceed, and wlion
to-day la precisely the saine position. The Mr. Thoruton was elected by a majority of
Coaservative member fromn East Northum- a little over 40, bis opponent got the ear
berland is liii precisoîr tue saine position of the returniag officer tbrougb political laas the gentleman who lias been deprived of fluonice, and no returni w-as miade. I am
lis seat in West Durham. I forget the case glad this amenaient lias boen made; it
la the west. It was a party supportiflg tbe meets tlie case, and I tliink It wlll ho scarcegoverameat, but tbose parties, on the ad- ly advlsable to maire It the law tliat tlie
vice of the lion. Minister of Justice, returaed returaiag officer sliouid accept any choque
tliese mon and allowod themi to fight the given by anybody-altiougb I agree wltl
battie la court. WlViule I have a very stroag the lion. gentleman fromn St. Boniface tlat
objection to retroactive legisiation, for sncbi
if the returnîng officer accepts the cheque
tlis would ho called. in view of tlie decided
to ho made
tbe governmeat liold, espocially the and exceeds bis duty, lie ouglit
opinions
respoasible for it, and be made to pay thie
bon. Mliaister of Justice, I do net kaow wvhy
tbey did not maire tbis clause so far as It money-.Ihimself.
affects West Durbam, retroactive, to givo
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-I do not agree with my
Tborntoa bis seat, and tbeu, if lie bad cornbon. friend that the case of Queoa's County
mitted an InfrIag-ement of the Elections Act,

the money shial be paid !n on bebalf of the
candidate, and that that miay bo paid ia the
shape of a certified choque. If the sug-gestion made by the lion, gentleman from St.
Boniface were acted upon. and a ieceipr
sigaed by the returningé otfijer were suffidient, we can imagine a returning officer,
wliose political friend hiad failed to pay
the inoney, miglit give a receipt In ordor
that bis friend sbould nlot bo shut out from
the election ; and I think we lad better nlot
undertake to Interfere with this provision,
as it cornes to us. It cornes from the Houso
of Commons, where tliey are more especially
interested in elections than wo are, and 1
thlak the proposai of the lion. gentleman
might open the door to very serions fraud.

[',E NA T E
Is flot a worse case than the case of West
Durha m.

tbe case of Asbby and Whbite will find the
wliole inatter tbireshed out, first lit tUe
Hon. Sir'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I said I-buse of Comimons by the most eminent
lawyers, aud ulfimately by the House of
it was flot analogous.
Lords as a final court of appeal, wbere
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It is anialogous iu this they decided thaf the party discharging tUe
sense, that there the returning, oflicer batl duty lin sucli a case is acting as an officer
accepted ilot a. cheque, but muoney. He ac- of parlianient and is responsible f0 parliacepted money, -whichi was paid in by Mr. muent for the discbarge of that duty.
King Éimself, if 1 remiember rightly. Lie
i..
granted a poil. Anl election wvas lheld,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI,-In tbe
King lhad a tnajority of (i1 polled for lmu. North Ontario case, one judge inferfered
He refused to return M.King on the grouid with another, and a grosser act of injustice
that M\r. King had paid the miouey directly w-as never 1)erletrated flan that, as evihiiuseif inistead of having paid it by an denced by the fact thaf whien Mr. McLeod
agent, and then, when '.\r. King nsked for a w-ent back, for election he w-as refurned by
recount before the Counity Judge, tbe Judge live or six hundred 0f a majority.
of the Supremie Court intervened and proHon. Mr. JONES-The desire of the govhibifed bim from nakiLg a recount. I ohjected ia the bluse of Commions, 110f only crment ei-ideatly ls, by this clause, to SO
to the proceediug of the returning officer. w-iden tUe law as f0 take lu tUe case which
whicb w-as ail wrong, but 1 objectedl to the bas been proinenfîr bronglit before tbe
ilterference of the Supreme Court Judge, I-buse-the case unider discussion. My ow-n
viwis thaf possibly, under fthc law as it
becanse the Counity Court Judge, lit makinig
m-ill bc cbtanged, tbere -lit be more likely
a recount, is not acting iu bis capacity3
silnply as judge, but is acting as au officer to lne difficulties than tbere would have been
of parliamuent, under the express authority if tbere liad been no effort to widen the
of parliament, f0 disclharge tbe duty tbiat law to the extent w-bicb returning officers
The clause we are
pertainis f0 parlianient that the House of somnetijues have gone.
Comnions could have discharged itself if it reading, 1 believe, only difiers froin the
hiad flot delegated its power to do so to a other by adding 'or a cheque for that sun
judge wbo w-as acting, not as judge, but as drawnl upon and accepted by any sucb
an officer of parliamnent for tbat purpose. banlt.' My owa view is thaf if the law had
The case of Ashby vs. White in Entgland been left, and if liad been necessary to
settled thaf long ago. In a case in Ontario, tender the bis of a chartered batik, and flot
Mr. Justice Robertson interveled f0 prevent cheques, possibly the difficulty wbich muight
a recount. Tbere was a motion made to arise -would be more likely to be obviated.
arrest the judge and also Mr. Mc\ICarfbiy, I do nof know thaf tUe law defines w-bat an
accepted c-heque is. The ordinary terin used
whlo m-as acting on bebiaif of tUe party.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Tbat
wvas tbe case of North Ontario ?
Hon.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes. The doctrine which
1 coutended for lu the bouse of Commons
!l tbe Queent's case was there upbeld in the
Court of Appeals, that is. thaf a juilge in
inaking a recounit is not acting as a judge
subordinate to the Supremne Court judge,
but is acting as an officer of parlianaent,
specially desig-ned for the discharge of that
duty, and therefore responsible only to parhiantent and not to any higher court for tbe
manner lu whicb that dufy -was discharged.
That was maintained. If is an old doctrine.
Any one -who will take the trouble to reid
over the discussion lit the state trials in
H-on. Mr. MILLS.

I tbink ini business circles
cheque.

is a mnarked

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The terni accepfed cheque is stronger.
Hou. 'Mr. JONES-An accepted cheque, 1
suppose, must be, as a matter of course, a
inarked cheque. Lt is flot unusual in the
case of a mnarked or accepted cheque for
payment to be sfopped.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
is usually put on a cheque whien it is
nmnrked ?
Hon. Mr. JONES-Tlie initiais of the ledTle word ' accepted ' is used
by some banlis. Possibly 4f is used now by
grer keeper.

[LIAY 18, 1901]
ail banks, but my impression is Ctat is Ito prev eut fraud. If you do flot have soule
regulations, and they do iot comiply with
îlot used by ail.
BERNIER-Âccepted is a strong- then, who is to biamie but those wlîo negHon. 'Mr.
lect to do their duty ? If a public man
er terni thian marked.
undertakes to discbarge a duty, and xvill îîot
Houi. Mr. JONES-I tbink every bon. g-en- compiy with the law iu these particulars.
tieman Nviii agree that it is flot unusuai for it is flot to lie expected tlîat bie wlll l uny
paymeut of marked cbleques to be stopped. other particular. This case ini West Durhîam
W bat eifect would that bave ? It is flot de- dees iiot stand atone ; others have lest thieir
sirabie tbat there shouid bie any possibiiity seats for the saine thing-. If I bad not mnade
of technicaiities arising wbich -would bie the deposit in legal tender in several eiecwould have iost iny seat, and if I
likeiy to bring about more difficuities than 1Ios1
htIcudbai
ontko
t
we bave at the preseut tinie. IMy own view 1~is
Is tbat it is as easy for a candidate to get auy-body but niyself. I do not kuiow that
tbe money as to get a cbeque marked. and this candidate can blame auiybedy but himithen tbere can be no0 possible doubt, aud it self, and particularly wlhen the judges have
is the usual way of doing business. The ' decided that bie niegiected biis duity axîd was
couhltry was getting accustomed to that, not entitled to the sent. When the judg-es
and If the iaw had been lef t unchanged, and of the Supreme Court of Canlada nilke a
the returning officer bad instructions that decision like tbat, I do flot think there siîouid
nothing eise should bie accepted by theni, bie auiy strong desire feit l>y any meuiber of
I think there would be less liabiiity to have ilarliament to bave a retroactive Act passed
techuicalities growing out of the lawi n by tbis pariiameat, because lie ciearly uiegiected a very important diity. TIhis instance
futulre.
Hou. Mr. LANDERRIN-If you talze into shows to public men the luiiperative necesconsideration tbe changes wbicli have been sity ýwhich exists of compiying withi the law,
made in the iaw lu tue iast thirty years, and it sbould bie the duty eft he Senlate to
you will fiud it wvas iii the best interests regard and observe the iaw, and if they reof public moraiity to have stringeut regula- 1gard and observe the law, then these grievtious surrounding the Eiection Act. I re- 'anices wili flot arise. It is very mucli better
member, years age, there -was no deposit to have the Senate to take a stand and have
made and nouoe was required. I reniemlber the courage of its convictions and say thiat
then that returning officers did preciseiy as those who oiffend against the law shiah suiffer
tbis returning officer did, aud very iittie ex- for their offeuce. Tliere is no use of .shedception was taken te it. One Of the first ding sympatbetic tears for those -Who have
votes I gave in parliameut wvas !il a case iieglected their duty. It sbouid not bie a
of tlis kIznd, wbere a meniber for West question whether It is on the Liberal or ConPeterborough was elected by a majority servative side. The saine things have bnpof 57, and the man %vlio biad the xuinority pened on the other side lu an intensified
vote was returned, and was kept in lits seat form, compared with this. We should take
by a nîajority in the House. The argument it on a broad uine ; wve should surrouind the
used -%as, that bis opponeut bad îlot put in~ eiection law witb stroug and definite regulabis forni of quaificajtion !i time, although tieus, and thlen the candidates for electien
it xvas proved hie had doue se. Tliese tbiiig5 nust compiy with the iaw. If they do inot
went on until the governulnit-I thiiilz the do se, are tbe people likely te expect they
government of 'wbich tbe hon. inember froxîî wiil get wlse, beneficent or weii-guarded laws
froni those who negilect te compiy -wlth the
Hastings wns a member'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat iaws themselves? To teacb a proper regard
Hon. Sir
for the iaw sbouid be a function of the Senwas before my time,
ate ; te observe the laws laid down by parHeu. Mr. LANDERKIN-That was mak- liamnent should be one of the things %ve
shouid strive te enforce, and I do flot approve
ing the depesit lu leg-al tender.
BOWELL-Yes. of sliedding sympathetic tears for these '«ho
Hion. Sir MACKENZIE
Hion. Mr. LANDERKIN-I think it is bet. neg-lect the law and suifer fer it, '«heu the
ter than the cheque systeni, aud more iikeiy Supreme Court of Canada sa7s that this cali-

ýSENATEj

didate who neglected te comipiy xvitl the
law iii this particular shoul forfeit the
I understand this is neot nearly as
seat.
grievous a case as many others. Lt is 'lot
ns bad as the very first case I referred to,
It is flot as severe
West Peterboroughi.
as Queen's or Prince Edw:îrd Island, but
that -is ne justification for tijis. In tiiose
cases, the candidates had flot neglected their
(lnty. They had complied witb the Iaw and
obtained a majority, and yet were deprived
of tlîeir seats. I think the suggested deposit of an acceîited cheque is ne better thian
the legal tender. 1 would always see that
the legal tender was provided, and 1 thuîîk
it is just as good that way as a deposit iii
-iiiy other form.

Prince Edward Island (Mr. Ferguson)-is
simiply to autiiorize the returning officer to
ljost the information that is provided under
the general Act in form "I,' and then add:
ln Prince Edward Island bie should cause to
be placarded at the samne time and place such
notice or advertisement regardlng the qualifications of voters as ls reqnired te be posted by
the provincial law.

Lt is simply transposing the xvords 'and lu
Prince Edward Island,' etc., froin the middle
of the section to the end, s0 that lie can post
tlîei separately, as was done in the last
%r.
election. The returning officer camie to -Ferguson and asked hlm w-lat hie sliould do
lie fennid it
ndfer the circunistances ;that
impossible te put ail tlîat information in
Formi ' I '. The lion. senator saîd :.-You
will carry eut thie spirit of the l:iw, if not
The clause was adopted.
the wording of it, by giving the additional
On clause 3.
information ln another poster.' It w-as doue
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Has and nohody objected to it.
the Minister of Justice considered the nmoHou. 'Mr. MLLLS-I hiav not timie to extien of w-hichi 1 have giveni notice? It shiould amine the clause wîtih care. If tue House
corne iii here, because it affects clause 41 of 'wiil permit the rest ot the Bill to go
the election law. I pointed out, whien giving througli, w-e will report pregress and ask
notice of the amendmeut, what the difficulty leave to sit again, and lu the meantinle I
wzis. What 1 propose to do is to repeal suli- w'illI have an epportuîîity of examining the
section 'a' of section 41 and substitute the proposed amendments w-ith care. and -vill
follovving :
give the hion, gentleman an opportunity of
(a) Cause to be posted up notices of bis havlng bringing it up againi.
granted suchi poil, lndicatlng the names, resiHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELLhe
dences and occupations of the candidates nominated, in the order in wbieh tbey are to be print- referencte is te chapter euie of the Prince
ed on the ballot papers hereînafter mentloned;
which notices shahl, as soon as possible after Edward Island statutes of 1S93.
the nomination, be .placarded at ail the places
The clause was allow-ed to stand.
where the proclamation for the election was
posted up, and shall be in the form (1), and In
On clause 4,
Prince Edward Island hie shall cause to be placarded at the saine time and places such notice
Hon. Mr. POWER-The object of this
or sdvertlsement regarding the qualification of
voters as is required to be posted under the pro- clause is to enable the agent and otticers who
vincial lsw.
have a riglit to be present in the polling
Hon, gentlemen will remember that the station to have the ballot papers cetmnte(l,
ballot
election law imposes certain duties upon the and shiah be entitled te inspect sucli
formis and
returniug officers in giving certain informa- papers, and ail other papers.
protion. If yofl look. at the torin I, and thien documents,' and se on. That is a proper
tnirii te tue law of Prince Edward Island, vision, but 1 thinl, it needs seme limitation.
vou will fiud it impossible to coînply with There inay be 300 ballots to be counted
the Act, for the reason that that whichl is and inspected, and all that w-ork may not
nlecessary to post in Prince Edward Island be concluded at the heur for epenling the
is not required in other sections of the polis. I tlîiik there should be some proviso
Dominion, and that ithere is not room ni the at the end ef this clause te hinder the
formn referred te for the notice. Lt wîll be work which is doue inside thie pol fromn
observed that it compels the returnýilg offi- being protracted beyend the lieur ef opencer to place ail thîs Information wilso in that ing. Thlere is netlîing providiuia that tue
formn ' '. What 1 propose-ind it is done veters shiah be nhiewed te corne in at a cerat the instance of the hion. gentleman froni tain lienur.
LANDERKIN.
Hou. M.%r.

[MAY 18, 1901]
On clause Î,
\r. .\IILLS-Yes, the openhîîg, inust
Hon. -be at a particular hour, and the worc 111118 Hon. Sir MOEZEBOWELL-His
nmy lion. friend taken into consideratian niy
be donc l)efore that.
proposed amiendment-that is, making difThe clnuse -%as adoptefl.
ferent provision for the depositing of the
ballot ln the ballot box, an arrangement by
On clause 5,
whicli the votcr liolds the ballot lîluasaîlf ?
Hon. Mr. poWEp.-Refereiice wvas made
lion. Mr. M.\ILLS-I tlîinkc it is safer and
the other day to the fact that this Provisiil better that the returning officer should be
allows a man w-ho lias beeîi disfraiC]iSC(l respoîîsilile for everytlîing that is la tlîe box,
under the local law to swear ijiniseli on ta and lie is more llkely to lie responsible if lie
the voters' list ; and it w-as stated tlhat thc deposits it himself. By tlîat clause wve
prov ision miiglit apply ta the case of Chinese. w-ould take aw-ay the respousibility af the
1 wisli to ask xvliether the minister bas given retnrning oflicer, and 1 think there would
bis attention ta that. 1 do not k-now w-le- lie rooin for more fraud tlian nfer the
ther, under the cjrcumstanceS, there is any- îlresent systeffi.
thing in the Franchise Act ivhicb provides
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEUL-LoOmf
that no Chinaman shal bie allawed ta vote,
the provision iii the Franchise for fraud on the part of tlie voter instcad of
but under
Act, and also under this sub clause, nosv on the part of the retnrnîng officer
under consideration, lu the province of BriILLS-Yes.
lion. Mn.
tish Columbia, w-e might get a aumber of
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
Chinese 0o1 the voters' list, and I thiir sonie
Is thene any
provision should lie inserted ta prevelit that. we will let it stand.
for the caulitiag ? If the reprovision
Hon. Mr. M-\ILLS-I do not tliiink so. Thle turning officers are particular they w-ill
every Britisli subject
Intention is that
prevent tlîe scrntineers froua land'ing
should bave tue riglit ta vote, anîd if a mian the ballots.
1 can give an illustracoming froua Hong Kong happens ta lie of tion w-hidi occurred at the last election
the Chinese race and bias the proper quali- w-liere everybody w-as astonislied whlen the
fications under the Domninion law. 1 do not ballots %-ere counted t0 find that, la a w-ard
know w-hy lie should not vote.
wlhere tiiere are scnrcely a dozen, certainly
voters. very many mone>
Hon. Sir M-\ACKEN-\ZIE BOWELL-I fully not twenty Liberal
geatle- votes wvere polled for the Liberal candidate.
igree with the remarks of the lion.
Rond section. Th'le only
man. The law prohibiting Cinamen coIn- It w-as the Ridge
'Ivion- w-ny tlîat that could lie accounted for would
inýg iat this country used the word
agency of the candidate, w-ho
golian race,' and It makes no difference w-be- lie by the
came froni a distance. He bad biis aria in -at
ther lie is bora ln England or anywhlere else,
pretended that lie lad a felon,
if lie is of the Ohînese race lie bas ta pay sliag, and
and lie toolz particular pains whlen tliey
the capitation tax.
were cotinting the ballots ta smiootli thein
The clause w-as adopted.
over. He eitber substituted other ballots or
by somne means marked tliem. There is ni,
On clause 6,
question about that. The moment tlie poil
w-as taken lie started off for the station, and
Hon. 'Mr. MILLS-I bave struck ont a fen
aobody knew anything of hlm. Wliether
words In this clause, and sulistituted other there is anything ln the law ta, prevent tliat
words, simply to make it more explicit.
kin*-d of manipulation I am flot awnre juSt
Sir M JEZEBOWELL-Thls now. The deputy returning officers ln thaLt
Han.
does not apply ta the case wblere a voter has rlding would neyer thlnk of a fraud of that
kind until IIf w-as pracfised on tliem.
removed froua one rldling ta another.
jThis man w-as sent from a, distance, from
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, only ta cities anJ the ' machine' sbop, I suppose, and lie
townfs.
maaipulated tlie w-hole tbiag, and In a regular Tory w-ard there w-as a large Liberal vote
The clause w-as adopted.

[SENATE]
connted, wlîichli eyer bappeued in that section of the country before, and I bope nieveu
wull. I tbinl, there shonld be a provision t0
prevent any one toucbing the billots excepting the return.ing officer imiself.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 9,
Hon. Mr. -NILLS-This is a clause providing for the forma of ballot.

ALLOWANCE TO PRINCE EDnWAýID
ISLAND BILL.
FIRST READING.

A message was received fromn the Hlouse
of Commnons with Bill (138), an Act to provide for the furtber allowance to the province of Prince Edwaud Island.
The Bill was read the first bime.

%ILLS moved that the Bill be
Hon. Mr. -.
HMon. Mr. POWEII-I shiould Ilke to kno)v
time on -Monday next.
black bor- read a second
the object served by the heavy
der on the side of forai P.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has the
'-%r. SCOTT-In order to prevent the lion, gentleman considered that tbis is adHon.
voter putting bis mark there. If there was ding another million to the debt.
a white spot there, the voter miglit mark
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, I bave considered
It in that spot.
IL.
The clause was adopted.

The motion was agýreed to.
Mon. Mr. PERLEY, from the Committee,
reported that they liad made somne progress
DO'MINION AND PROVINCIAL JUDGES
witb tIne Bill, and asked leave to sit agaiin
BILL.
on Monday.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
PUJBLIC PRINIING AND STATIONEIZY
lion..MILLS iitroduced BillhU 'An
ACT AMEND-MENT BILL.
Act to remnove donlits concerning the conTHIRD READING.
tinuance in office of judges of Dominion and
The House resolved ibself into a Commiit- provincial courts upon the demise of the
tee of the Wbole on Bill (137), an Act to Cuown.'
aniend the -let respectîng the department
The Bill was read the firsb time.
of public printing and stabionery.
(In the Comibitee.)
Hou. Mr. SCOTT?-This legalizes a prictice which bas been in force for thie last
ten years, and the Auditor General says it
niust be made legal by Act of parliament.
Lt bas generally taken about two montbs
before the Auditor General could audit the
Tbe
accounlt from the Printing Bureau.
Auditor General must get an advance, and
lie says that tbis advance must be authorized by parliament.
Hon. Mr. SNOWNBALL,
mlttee, reported the Bill
tuent.

froin the Coinwithout amend-

lion. Mu. MILLS moved that the Bill be
rend aI lengîli aI tbe Table of the Iluse.
He said :There bas been a doubt expressed
by sonie of the judges as to whether they
liad a riglit to continue in office or nol, and
il is for the purpose of removing Ihal doubî
in Ibeir minds, I bave no doubî, nor have
bine officeus of my departmnent, on the subject, but I Ibink it is only respectful to
eminenî men, as ou jndges are, that their
views should be met in the matter. It can
do no possible hariu. and removes any possible ground for doubt.
Hon. Mu. PERLEY-Have
been swoun in again ?

the

judges

Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-Tliey w-ill n require
The Bill was Iben rend the Ibird tume and
to be sworn In1 ag-ain if the Bill carnies.
passed.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (45) an Act to amend the Pacific Câble
Act, 1899.-Hlon. Mr. Scott.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE DOWELL.

Hon. Mu. PERLEY-But have tbey not ail
been re-sworn since the deatb of the Queen
Hon. Mu. MILLS-I believe so.

j.ý1AY 20, 19011
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-I sup- tained, that there should be no expense for
made
pose the bon. minister bases the opinion translatiflg, and that the printiflg lie
he just gave us upon the theory that the from copies of the originals.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere is no objection to
on
MILLS-No. It is provlded by t lieir being mefermeci to the Committee
Hon. Mr.
?rinting.
statute already. I can show my hon. friend
an opinion communicated to me f rom ToHon. ',\r. 'MILLS-If the comniittee print
ronto to the samne effect.
-hein, I shah lie very mucli obliged If they
send the
The motion Nvas agreed to and the Bill ,vill have them copied first and
final stages under a sus- ~oples to the pminting Bureau. We had flot
passed through its
time to get them copied, and we brouglit
pension of the miles.
down the originals. We have no record ln
The Senate adjourned.
the office, and I hope the committee will not
allow the orig-inals to lie sent to the Bureau.

THE SENATE.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Let
the clerc lie instructed to have them pmlnted.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-W-e had better not give
auy instructions until we lcnow whether the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three committee wîll print thein. They may not
o*elock.
print them.
Pray'ers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh, 1
thilnr, they x-ill. I might say to the hon.
NEW SENATOR.
genitleman from Toronto that ail tbese
Hon. Antoine Arthur Desclienes -was Intro- retumas are sent to the Printing Committee
witliout a motion, and no instructions are
duced, and took bis seat.
ever given, unless special instructions art
SECOND READING.
issued to expedîte the pmlnting. Then the
cornmittee either reports favourably or unBill (104) 'An Act respecting the Nova favourably with meference to the prlnting.
.
opn.-H
Scotia Eastern Railway
If the report is unfavourable, then the tSenS'ii Mackenzie Bowell).
rite could order them to lie printed.
Ottawva, M1ouav, May 20, 1901.

THIRD READING.

Hlon. Mr. BERNIER-There will lie no
Co.mmittee
Bill (T) 'An Act to confer on the Commis- othe.r meeting of the Printing co..nmittee
powers for the now, but the Chairmni of that
sioner of Patents certain
deal with these papers acrelief of Eudora Sibbald.'-(Honi. Mr. Dan- lias poNver to
cordlng to their mnerits.
ciurand.)
Hon. Mr. O'DONOHOE-If that lie so, 1
PRINTING 0F RETURNS.
inoy say no more about it, because my p'urpose is accompllshed.
MNOTION.
Hou. 'Mr. O'DONOH0E-A. few days ago
1 moved for a returu, somie books, to be
laid on the Table of this hon. House and
the motion was ngreed to, but 1 omitted to
asit that the books lie remitted to the Coinmiittee on Printing to be printed. 1 now asic
leave of the House to move that they be
remitted to the Comml.ttee on Piiting for
that purpose, but that the originals lie me304

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE 'BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman from London Is cliairman of
the Printing Cornmittee, and if the hou.
gentleman from Toronto will commiinicate
with him, I have no doubt lie will have
them pinted as required.
Hon. Sir JOHN CARLING-I shal lie very
glad to do so.

[SEN ATE]

TIIE M'FAItF AND HARBOIUR OF
THREE LIIVERIS.
I NQUIIZY.
Hion. Mr. LANDRY ixuquired.
Whetber the different works done at the wharff
off the harbour off Three Rivers since the Tht July,
1896, have been let by coutract or doue by day's
work?
If by coutract, was it the lowest tenderer
If flot, wby?
wbvo obtained the contract?
If these works or some off these works were
dune hy the day, wbat was the amnount expended
under the beadiug ?
Who acted as overseer off these works, and at
what salary?
How much has this overseer received ln ail
uPon these works executed by day's work?
Whbo furnished the materials, and bow mu.3b
c-f these materials (stating the value in money)
were ffurnished the overseer off these works ?
lion. '-\r. MII.LS-The w-orks at Three
Rivers are doue by harbour commissioners
andti not by teDepartnient of Public
Works, anti w-e -have not the information
w-bich the lion. gentleman seehks for.
LIEMVALOF

-Mr. GEORGE WALLBRIDGE.
INQLJIRY.

Flou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL laçquired :
Whetber Mr. George Wallbridge, wbo for some
yesrs past bas been one off the harbour commisslouers in the city off Belleville, bas been removed frora that p:3sltiofl? If so, for what ressoas was hie removed, and who bas been appointed on said commission lu bis place?
lon. M.ML -M.George Wailbridge
vvas emoveti frein the position of barbour
commiiissioner at Belleville by order !l
connil. the l9tb of April, 1901, because it
w-as lu the iaterests of the harbour commission. '-\r. E. G. Sis w-as oppointed by the
saine ortier in coudiil, harbour commissioner
ini lieu of '-\I. 'Waiibritre.
BOW7ELL-I
'MACKENZLE
Sir
Hon.
tbink it w-l be a niatter of very great surprise to tbe citizens of Belleville whlen they
î-ead tbe reason given by tbe hou. Minister
of Justice. The reason, if L uuderstood lt,
i, iliat Mr. Wa-.lltbnidge w-as renmoved lu the
iuterests of the harbour. LIs that it?
H-on. Mr. MLLLS-Iu the interest of the
hai-bour commission.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-EverylWaillmitige w-as one of
cue kiiow-s that «Mm.
laid least offensive
the inost assitinous
Honi. Sir JOHTN CARLING.

mien ever appointeti ou auy commission. 1
venîture the assertion that the reason assigneti is flot the reai reasou why lie was,
Re Nvas removed for no other
i eioveti.
reason tlia',l to maae way for a political
friend, andi it was for the purpose of obtainiug another political frienti on that commission iu ortier to dismiss the harbour master,
the former comniâssioners -baving refuseti to,
do it. Let mie tell the lion. gentleman, when
thiat harbour wvas put under commuission I
bad the hionour of miuiizig the recommnendadion of the conmmissioners. Tbese were two
of the iniost respectable menit l our city,
one a [Liberal %vlioran in tbe interests of the
L.on. gentlemiani's PartY. alid the cther a
coniservative, and the tbird commissioner is.
the inayor of tbe city, whioever he may happeu to be. They reum.ined commissioners utii Mr. Ilitebie retired, aud another was apThat gentleman,
pointeti, also a Liberal.
.\I. H-auley, thouglit proper to resigul after
a few years, and w-e have reason to believe
lie resigueti, thougbi a Liberal, because lie
refuseti to join in tIse dismissal of the barbour miaster, andi uow, lu order to get rid
of the preseut hambour master, w-ho has
performed bis duty as w-el as it couiti possibly bc doue, w-l no doubt be reioveti as
soou as a majortiy eau be got agaiust hlm.
I look uponi it as about as small a piece of
tyrauuy as could be practised. I know, and
every citizen of Belleville knows, lt is nom
lu the iuterestis of the commission that M.\r.
WVailbridge w-as remnoved. for no one coniti
have doue bis duty better than lie, and there
is flot a man lu the w-hoie city of Belleville
wvbo is less partisan iu bis pobitical opinions
thon this samne gentieman. I have given the
reason why 1 believe lie w-as removed. and
a very short tîme w-l sbow w-hether 1 arn
riglit or not. It sbouid be borne in mind
thoat the Dominiou goverrument do not pay
oue cent towards the sai-ary of tbe harbour
master. Lt is paid o-ist of the fees of the
are controlieti by the hambour
harbour, wii
commissioniers. 1 reg-ret exceediugiy that
this pel'nicious principie is ca;rrieti to sucbi
au extent. in our city andi county w-e neyer
act upon thiat principie. Aithougli the town
is strongi! Conservative, both the treasurer
anti tbe tax-coliector w-ho w-ere appointed by
Conservatives are Liberols, andi bave been
for years. Lu the couinty you wl find tbe
counity dlerk andi the snurveyor, two of the

[-MAY 20, 1901]

13

Bill (142) 'An Joct to provide for f urther
best offices in the w-lole country, are lield
the harbour commîssioners Of
A dismissal of tlit ltind Is l .dvances to
by Liberals.
ýiontreal.'-(Hofl. '-\r. Mills.)
certainly enougli to disgust, as I am sure it i
w-i, every respectable man in tlîe city. I FRANCHISE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
cannot but believe that the «Minister of
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Marine and Fisheries, w ho lias acted la thîs
way, must have been misled, and wrongly
The House resolved itself into a Commitadvised. It le a pity that political reasons :ee of tbe Whole on Bill (No. 63) 'An Act to
sbould be bronglit to ýbear upon every littie amend the Franchise Act, 1S9S.*
thing that the government haive to do witli,
(In the Coimatee.)
-wlietlîer tlîey are responsible for the paylion. Mfr. .SCOTT-1 think sonme lion. genment of one cent connected witli the office
stand till
or nor. I scarcely thiak thie Minister of Jus- tlemen asked to let this mneasure
been a party to an act of Lo-day. The Bill was gone tlirougb, and the
tice would have
asked to have
tbat klnd, so petty ln its character, if lie lion. gentleman from Monde
in connection witli it. it stand.
liad known thie facts
lion. 'Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The hon.
.SOUTHI SHORE RAILWIAY COMý\PAN'Y'S gentleman from Victoria called attention to
BILL.
the fact that Chinese and Japanese were
allowed to vote if tlîey were British saliSECOND READING POSTPONED.
jects. If it were a benefit to tbem, I would
n-as received fromi tle House flot say anything against it, but it is a useA1message
0fl Conmmonls witl BiHy (106) '-An Act re- less proceeding to have tliem vote.
sp"eeinzii the Soutli 'Shore Railwvay Companiiy.'
Hon. M-\r. M.\cCALLUM-\-I do not -wisli to
say anything about it, but 1 consider that
read the first time.
The Bill was
a mistake wns made when we adopted the
Honi. 'Mr. DA'NDURAND, in the absence of franchise of the local legisiatures. If we
Hon. 'Mr. Casgrain (de Lanaudière), moved liad not doue that, -e wou]d not have the
that rules 17 and 41 be su . pended in so f ar ;muddles whicli w-e have to-day. There are
scarcely any two provinces whicli have the
as tlîey- relate to tbis Bill.
The province of Quebec
same franchise.
Hon. M-\r. OWENS-I object ta tlie suspenî- lias different property qualifications, because
sion of the rules.
if a man lias property and assets, lie can
lie lias property. In the proThe second reading n-as flxed for Tuesday. vote wlierever
vince of Ontario, the principle is oie man
one vote, but tbat is flot the case in Quebec.
FIRSI AN1D SECOND READINGS.
The reason of ail this muddle is that -%e
(67) 'An Act to incorporate the Que- have adopted tlie franchise of the, local legisBill
That
bec Terminal and Railway Company.'- latures witliout full consîderation.
the cause of ail the trouble to-day. Take
is
(Hon. 'Mr. Landry.)
the Franchise Act and tlie Election Act, and
(13,5l 'An Act respectiflg the Great tliey are botb very close together. I conBill
It
Nortliern Railway CompanyF of Canada.'- sider that a mistake lias been made.
(Hon. 'Mr. Landry.)
tlîat the goverament do not liold
appears
their returning officers responsible to them.
BILLS I-NTRODUCED.
It appears tlie more they obstruct a certain
In- party, the more chance they have of promo\-t
Bill (130) ' An -- to amend the Gas
tion. It lias been argued that, of course,
sptection Act.'-(Hon. 'Mr. Scott.)
the same voters, wlth tlie same franchise,
Bill (140) 'Au Act to amend tlie Electric tlîat vote for members of the local legislature. sliould lie the proiwr ones- to vote for
Liglit Inspection let.'-(Honl. Mr. Scott.)
to the House of CoinBill (141) ' An Act futhler to amend the thîe returil of nienîbers
Some lion. gentlemen may think
mous.
Act relating to Ocean Steaniship Subsidies.'
that, but w-e bave ditierent questions to deal

[SE ';A'£Ej
The members of the local you allow the Galicians and Doukbobors to
witb altogether.
leg-isiature have principally t0 deal with go to the pols wbven they have no vote.
-municipal affairs, and the members of thte Lookc at the way the Nipissing election 'Was
The goverrment, afler they is,House of Commons have to deai with trade carrieci on.
and, marine and fisheries- sue the writs and give notice to the people
and commerce
marine principaily, because the fisheries ail over the country that tbey are going to
-have been banded over to the local legis- hoid an election on a certain day, find ont
latures. They have to deal wit the forelga that il would be more advantageous 10
*polîcy of Ibis country, aad aIl national ques- the pa-ly lu power to pass an order in coulalions, and titat should mnake a difference as cil exlending the time, and they do so. My.
far as that is concernied. 1 do not kino-w that hon. friend, the Minister of Justice, argued
.we can change it hero vory mucli now, but very niceir about tbis matter te other day.
-the day is coming when it must be chang-ed. 1le argned ail arind it, but did Dot strike
W%ýhat kind of a franchise will we have if the point because il is necessary that every
our friend, the Prime Minister of the pro- man in the eleoitorai division shouid be aivince of -Ontario, extends the life of the lowed to vote. 1 agree with hilm but M-hose
local legisînture ? What klnd of a franchise dn-ty was it to sec tlhat the proper list was
wiil be give us if the Dominion governmnent prepared, and prepared at the proper tinie '?
Wa9s
allow týhat Act ? If he canl extend the liime The dnuty muiist devolve on somebocly.
at ail, ho cau extend it as long as he citooses. i the Secrotary of State ? My hion. frioad
is b)equ as if lie liadl notlîing te do
b:il
He bas a majority, and w-e should be careful.
0f course. be had been adv ising
i.
We caunol extend the time here. 1 draw thie wi
attention of the Ilouse.to the i7osult of adoPt- the rîýtuiiîîii oflic-er'aniff the tanid(ate. a.nd
ing this Act of the local legisiatuire. It bas lie is, rnii_,ed iii it eile w-av or aniotiier.
been said that il will save exponse. I do 1 (Io not w-ont to say anytbing furîber about
aot tbinl, it saves aay expense at ail. 'We thaI matter. and time action of the hon. Secshouid have a franchise of our ow-a, and ne0t rotary of 'Stato, becaluse I have a good deal
be ut the mercy of the wbims of tbc local te say on questions of that itind, and I do
legisiature, to take Nvbatever tbcy mray iiot w-isli lm to thial: that I have anythinig
choose to give us. A friend spoke t0 me yes- agailist bim. except that t think lie steîîped
terday, an.d said he w%-anted te exclude the b)eyond( w-bac t consider hie should do, and
Hie said the Chinese w-i soon bo I arn bouîîd to sur that te any ma w-ho
Cbinese.
bore. I do net know thgt they will comne t0 des Dlot (Io bis duty as 1 tbink, ho sbould.
the Sonate, but they wiil be in the House M'len ho goes outside of bis duty, I think
of Commons before long, and tbey moy corne 1 bave a perfect rigbit te criticizo bis actionis.
0f course, if tbey bave Lt is a sliaiie and a disgrace te the people
inco the Sonate.
menery enougb lbey muay corne. Some of ofthIis country that a returning otilcer and
Iboui are very ricb. If ten thousanid dollars luis clork sbould go and bide ail day !In erder
tbinik of lte muia
w-ere the amount-I do flot say it is-aad if 10 evade the la.Just
liding, witb ail the erder in council, and al
the Climuiese gel ricb, tbey may work mbt
the Soniate. I caunot expect, la the course the posters that iaîy lion. friend tbc Scorehe sbeuld bide
of nature, te live very long, but I would say tory of State gave himithat
that it is very doubtful if you eau excinelde Iimiiself, as lie did, aceerding te bis ew-îî evitime Cliniese if tber ai-e Britishu subjects. If demîce, ýw-licb 1 have befoe uie. HIe sw-e
cher are Br-iti sb stîbjects and compir w'itli that ho bid ail day so thut the election could
tbe law iii erery othier w-ar, il wouid be dif- net be hold. as 1 comsidor, accordiiig te law.
Just conisider the The governînoent stepped la w-ilb an ordor in
ficuit te excbtde blîcn.
w-ar the last election w-as carried on. Aýs council, und it is vol-y W-eil n-ow- t0 say thal
1 umdrsland tbe malter, many volets wbe il w-as'dnziii lte lîtteresîs of the people
w-ere aot British subjects, polled their votes. iii eider 10 giv the people1 a chmance to vote.
andi did umot compir with tbe iawv, sucu as Tbey should bave seout thal the electors were
Galicians amtd Doukbobeors, wbo w-etc driven put on te list before, if there w-as any pow-er
te tue polis. like cattie, under this laN-. 1 te do il. but lîew are yen going te reacb
do not see bow yoti cun excludo the Clîliiese lthe local legisiatures '! t is a miuddle from
if hier bave every otber qtîalificatioit. and beginiiîzi toencad. It is w-bot 1 (-uli a monHea. Mr. McCALLUM.

pMAy --0, 1901]

471

in order to engrel-yes, a mongrel franchise, neither one be posted up for tbirty days
otber. 1 say that every able the parties to put in an appeal, whicb
thing nor the
prevented the lists
man who bas the interests of bis coun- woiild, of course, bave
ought 10 see that we frorn heing- used. 1 may say mny attention
try at beart,
lists long after the
have a different franchise from what was only called t0 tbose
that we sbould flot issue of the writs for the election. I L-new
we have now, and
wbatever.
be at the wbim of the local legisiatures to nothing about them
Hon. Mr. M.NcO:ALLUM. That proves that
consldering the way
do wbat they please,
a mongrel
they bave acted ail over the country at the what 1 bave said is right-lt is
the way they acted In Prince list.
iast election,
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-That may bc the bon.
Edward Island, and in Quebec, t00, .passing
get Int the courts gen'tleman's conclusion. There are certain
a law so that you cannot
to see which candidate was returned. See townships in -Nipissing and AlgomaHon. Mr. MeCALLU3M-Âlg-oma bad notbwhat bias taken place la Ontario. It mny
whi.
be said that it was flot the fauît of the nto
owt 1
Francbise law, but it is the fanît of the gov- igt
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, Algoma flrst
Tliey sbould flot appoint oflicers
erament.
out the duties of re- forced It on the attention of the goverament.
wbo are flot fit to carry
representatiofla frorn Algoma
turning officers, men who are partisans. In There were
be dissays : 'I did not show that a large number of people would
Nipissing, the man
franchised unless n list was prepared. It
myself, because tbe Tory party neyer did
thiat it wvas first introduced.
anything for me, and 1 amn not going to do was for Algorna
way , elie franchise required tbat the lists 10 be
anything for them.' This la a beautiful
absolutely conipleted sixty
to carry ont the law. I wish to see every ï,used must be liaIs
îlays before the nomination of candidates.
nanl la the country whbo bas a franchiise,
lion. Mr. McOALLUM-But Algoina wvas
poil bis vote, but I should like to see a unilie lield there
forai franchise for the Hýouse of Commona excepted. The elections could
the mongrel franchise we nmv at a Inter date.
la place of
have. I bope the goverament will consider 1 Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-But tbey called attenthe miatter, give fair attention to lt, and tien to It first. Under the Franchise Act,
the voters' lists te be used should lie those
satsfacion
som satisfction
givethe th eopl pepl
sm
give
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Whea miy lion. frlend prepared for the severai polng unvsosSLt
last in force.
alluded to the cost of preparation of the lists, established, which Were
those lists
statenaent that 1 had furnisbed is clear that a large aiumber of
I nsked for a
ago, prepared la the unorgaaized districts, could
the Minister of Finance a few daya
Act. Section 9 of bbe
prepnred by Dr. Dawson, showing bbe re-, not lie used under that
Franchise Act provides blinI wliere, under
lative coat of the bwo ayabems. Unfortuthe votera' lists for
mately, Mr. Fielding had mislaid the paper, the laws of a province.
nny provincial electoral district are preand I amn not able to secure it aI the present;
intervLls, but lit such
moment. It shows a considerable savîng-i pnred, nlot at regular
timnes ns are fixed by the Lieutenant Govin cost as compared witli the systein wbicli
only frorn tilie to lime
prevailed formerly. I will flot quote thie ernior la Couincil. or
for the purpose of a general election or
figures, because 1 do flot wish to be inaccucontemplation,
T'ate, but the resuit wns la that direction. other election in inainediate
the lat preceding votera' list so prepa.red
In reference 10 the Nîpissing election, 1 aiu
of aay Dominquite cure if rny bon. friead bad taken the saai be used for the purpose
ion election la the territory comprised in
trouble 10 100k. mbt ail the details of that
for use In whlcb they
q~uestion, lie would not have coule 10 the such electoral district,
were prepared. If suc li lst bad been preconclusion lie lias reacbed. 1 brouglib over
pared not more than one year before the
10 the Cliamber a sample of the lista tirat
unor- date of such Dominion election. The iast
-ere prepared by the sherliff of the
were prepared more
ganized municipalities In Nipiss4ng, -which lists Ibat were avallable
than bwo years before the date of the elecas hon. gentlemen will see for thenaselves,
to provîde that
were made up on the 9th of October. Those tion. The section proceeds
otimerwise new votera' lista shall be prepared,
lists under the provincial law required 10

472

[SE-NATEI

tor and agent, and it was contained in a
newspaper publisbied the week before In
that district, that there would bie no eiecthon on the following Wednesday, or whatever day -it was, the 31st of October. Tbat
wvas pubiiciy announced. My bon. friend
comments a good deal on the sherliff abstainlng frorn appearing at the elections. The
explanation hie gave on the day off the trial
was 'If I bad been there, I would bave
been subjected to a good deal off abuse. 1
sbould not only bave been criticlsed, but
perliaps corne in for a littie rnauling, and
I thouglit it was better to stay away.' Ail
parties were perfectiy aware, two days befor the day for holding the poils, that there
was to be no election on the day named.
The writ was retnrned to Ottawa by the
shierif, announcing tbe clrcurnstances under
wiih bie w-as unabie to boid an election,
and anotber order in councl was issued ordering hlm to go on with the ehection, naining another day later on in tbe month off
SCOTT-I do not k-now how November. -Now, that is the whoie story.
Hon. M-Nr.
When the day carne, «Mr. Klock declined fo
mniy tbere were in Aigoma.
many in be a candidate. I do not know wbiat InHlou. Mr. McILNHw
fluenced hini, but I suppose bie was advised
Nipissing
by lis counsel that be had better rely ou
lon. Mr. SCOTT-Over 2,(»). Some off t'le t-le first.
But it was made perffectly
lists. probabhy olie or two ot them, miglit clear beffore the judges w'bo went into
bave been ç%-Itinu tbe 60 days. 1 do not tliis case that botb candidates were equalk-now tbat 'they m-ould. Neariy aIl off tbemn Iv ready on flic 3lst of October, tbe
-vold ot
c pepaed efoe te
mnthday narned for tbe nomination. It w-as
off Novemiber.
It becamne important to stated by the chlairman off the Reformi Cornsay wv-bat sbouid be donc.
Now, it is mittee tha-t be knew nothing off the posteqnaily fair to botb parties if the election ponernent ;tbat it was not bis desire to
is postponed. It w-as tbonght, wben the or- have i.t postponed ; tbat there was no exder in ouncil w-as first passeti directing pression off a desire on 'tbe part of tbe peothe sberiff to tise tbe 1900 lists, they could pie for a postponement, s0 there was no
be revised la tirne for tbe 7tb off November, ulterior motive tbere, so far as the people
and it w-as oniy a day or two before the are concerncd.
7tb off November, the sherliff reported that
it w-as absoluteiy impossible to bave those
Hon. Mr. MýcCALLUM-Tbat is not aciists reviscd in time. I amn advised by the cording to the report.
sicriff tbat lic stated to tue tN-o candidates,
lion. Mr. SCOTT-I bcg tbe bon. gentieor rather tbhr agents, if tbey were quite
willing, lie wouid use the 1900 lists, if they man's pardon I bave it here under Mny
,%vould siga an agreemnent not to take ex- band.
ception to that.
I arn advised that Mr.
Hon, Mr. M-\cCALLU)M-Read it.
Rilock. w-n.s not present hhmiseff, but bis
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I make that staternent
friend sald: ' We bave no objection bo your
using thc hists, but we decline to put any having rend it, that bhc president off the Restatemient ia writing', Under tbese cir- fforrn Association said it was no-t at bis lncunstances, tbe sberiff issued a public no- stance, or at tbe instance off bis fricnds. I
bicc, whîich w-as posted on the court bouse, wilh point ont tbc passage to rny bon. friend
a.nd notice w-as given to 'Mr. Klock's solici- inter on. There is a mass off evidence bere
Hon. ?Ur. SCOTT.

and' for the purpose off preparing and griving
eff ect to sucb voters' iist, the Governor in
Council shall appoint ail necessary officers
and confer upon them ail necessary powers
In the preparation and bringing loto force
off such voters' lists. That was the condition
of tbhnigs in MIgoma and Nipissing wben
attention was cailed to the fact that there
'were no iists to be diad at the office off the
Cierk off the Crow-,n do Chancery, or of the
Qneis1rinter, and then it was found that
a great number off personls were so affected.
I have a certificate f rom fihe Cierk of the
Pence, sbowing the numiber off persons ia
eacli off those uiorganizcd townsbips in the
district off N-ipisshng,. 'Now, in the district off
Aigorna it was represented there wouid bc a
total disffranchisernent off a very large nurnber off people uness autbority was given to
utihize the lists that bnd been prepared by
the sherliff of Aigoma.
Hon. M-r. McILNHwmany ?

[M3AV 20, 1901]

473

unless their
that I do not propose to go through, but I prevent the people voting,
statement I bave made is correct. naineS %erp on the lists.
know the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I doubtMcICALLUM2%-There is one point
Hon. «MNr.
Hon. 'Mr. PERLEY-Yes, the returflig
officer told mue himnself that hie lad instrucHon. --Ir. SCOTT-Wiuat is that ?
tions frin the Secretary of State to prevefit
flot deal
cCLU-edid
Hon. 'Mr.
people froin voting on election day unless
with the Constitutioflal Act.
their naines werc on fthc lists, and in that
in Assiniboia
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The judgc said, as far way a large numnber of votes
went, that there was no0 were not polled.
as any evidence
atternpt to pi-ove a conspiracy. That was
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think the Secthe assumption, that there had been a con- ret.ary of State sent any such advice. At al
spiracy-that it had been arranged by the events, the returning officer Rhonid flot have
parties interested in1 the postponeieflnt t0 obeycd hlmi if ho did. M-\y own opinion is
bave the clection postponcd, and the judges that the la)- aufhorized any man in the
mnade the statement most distinictly that ferritories to swear to bis vo-te on the day
there w-as no evidence of that.
on which votes were bcing recorded. There
in the Act, one requiriflg
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZI E BO WELL-They w-as a discrepancy two days bofore, and anbis naine to be on
said there was no evidence to prove a conother declaring that any one conld presenit
spiracy.
hinseif at the poils and vote if hie fook
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wýhat 1 say is this. un- thc ont h namned. I amn quite sure I nover
like ixnany other contestations where an un- gave any instructions contrary to that.
fair auvantage bas been taken., bufli parties,
Hlon..MNr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Tbe govwhcn tho lists were revised, had an equal eriment mnust have known soine turne before
chance. There was the full voters' list, and that an election should be hcld at thiat tune.
it w-as quite «within the powver of Mr. Klock, I consider tlic government, or saine of their
or any of bis friends, to bave namned aniy officers, w-ere remiss in their duty in flot sceother candidate. The proclamationls werc ing that those lists were prepared and ready
made in the regular way ; there was no at- to he uscd when the ciection shouid corne
tempt to returu the present member by any off. Thiey should have been prepared a conundue or improper method. Everything was siderable turne before hand.
done aboveboard, and it was qulte open to
Hon. '-\r. SÇOTT-Thcey are not prepared
anybody to naine an opposition candidate
by us.
to the sitting member. Under the circuinstances. I do not thinlc it is quite fair to say
Hall. 'Mr. M\cCAILLU-ITba.t is winat we
that improper meothods were used in eonnec- coniplalu of.
tion with that elction, more particularir
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They were provincial
whiere so large a vote was going to bo af- 11sf s.
fected by it. Surely the abject oughbt to bo
Hon. 3-.%rMA\--CDONALD (P.E.I.)-Tlie govto secure the representatiofi of the district.
froi 1,200 to 2,000 voters w'ere going orninent is pi-esumed to have, and 1 think 4t
Where
to be exciuded, what would be the effect bas beca stated hore thiat tbcy had sufficient
of it ? Had there been an clection, no doubt confrol over the goverlmellfs of the vaîlous
soine of tbein would have insisted on voting-, provinces f0 sec that thcse iists wcre proand It would have been followed by a pro- parcd by theun, and that they required thein
test. Was it flot better, and perfcctly fair to have the lists ready before the election.
for both parties, that a inter day should Tîtat las beea stafed on the floor of parliaEifher they did not sec that the
be nnmed equaily conveniefit in ail respects. ment.
and the full list prepared and printed, sa provincial governinent bail those lists prothat every man entîtied to vote would have pareil, or they bail not power to do
so. At any rate, this conclusion mnust ho
an opportunity to express bis opinion.
evident to the immdff of evem-y persoxi. that
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-In our riding, tele- until the Dominion governient retains la
grais were sent to the returning officer to

[SEiNATE]

its ow-n hands the power of giving the f ran- House, 1 notice the leader of the opposition
chise aiid making out flie lists, there will called attention particularly to this point,
flot be a satisf actory arrangement for the, that it was absolutely necessary, in the iapurpose of holding elections. That w-as con- terest of a proper election being beld, that
tended for when the Franchise Bill w-as de- isome head of a departmeat-aad I think it
bated before the House, and I thini: ever37- should be in the Secretary of State's dethiag we have seen siace proves it w-as a pirtmerit-should ascertain when the lists
are issued, that the proper vofers' lists are
correct contention,
BOWELL-The on record in bis department. 1 take it for
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE
ia Chanexplanation given by the Secretary of State granted the Clerlz of thle Crown
that could bl cery is under bis control.
Is fthc bcst possible evidence
Lion. M,\r. SCOTT-- No.
fnrnisbcd that the dufy of seeiag that the
WL-ue
Ho.Sr-CEZEB
proper lists ire ln the hands of the CleiL
he ?Lr-Ud
whose conro isKEZI
of the Crewn in Chancery sheuld lie provicd by law. I cannet understand why thiat
Hon. Mr. SCOIT-Under the premier. I
Outy is not relegated te some departmn.
of tbink. Net under mine, unfortnnately.
It slîould be the duty of the Sccretary
Hiou. Sir -MA.CIiKENZIE BOWELL-The
State, or somne other iniister, to ascertaifi
from the Clcrl, of the Crewil la Chancerv Secretairy of State's Departmcint is the prothe state of aIl the lists wlien it is decided per place for if. I10w-ever, it is iiet for me
te have a gencral election. If ihiat duty had te suate wlbat tlie poflcy efthîe governiment
beeli imipoed on sonme meinher eft fei gev- should ho. but the Sccrctary ef State w-ill
cramiient and lie hiad made tlîat iniq1iry. sec the nccessity ef having that particular
and a report biad been made te hlm ef the brandi ef the governmiients cluty placcd
state ef the lsts as they have since been' unider tlic centre! and direction et soine rercperted te bie, tieu. this difficnlty woeuld sponsilile head 0f a department. It mtîtters
inet have occurred. The equitable portieoi net if 10).000) voters w-eue te lie deprived of
ef tbe argument and statements made by tlieir votes under the circunmstances. if the
the Sccretary ef State is ail vcry well, and law, at the time the w-rit w-as issucd. disNo goveriimient bas thec
w-eul! be applicable if lie w-ere a Czar or qnaiified tbemn.
land the Czar*s autlîority te change, alter pow-er to give the franchise te a dezen or a
aad ainend the election law. or. any otherý thousand mca. if they are neot on the lists.
la-jnst -whbca lie tlîouglit pi-oper. but w-heii ,i ain net at ail snrprised that the Secretary
ofState should defend the returiar offi1 î-eflect upea tlie answ-er giveai by the bon. et
is certain
li e lias dlone. One tiar
gentlemani. w-len lits attentionî w-as callcd i cer
te a direct violation eft fle Ceaqstiar Acf,ý the retaî-ning officer did bide liimiself, and
1w- illcgally graating rigbts and privi- lie acted la a inanuier unbteceaiiiiig-ý ln a1t
lezes te Unitedl Staîcý, shipowaeus. lis officiai of tbe goverimienit. It is w-Inluowil
an.,w-er w-as *Yes. w-e kaow it is against that lie dîd net act lai the miaaner lie did
the, law-. but w-e d1emi it la the in- until lie lîad consulted tlic Secrctary ef State.
terests efte flcouentry. and ýwe proposeý and. if report lie corr-cet. lie actcd wlbelly
wlcnever we please.' and soIly under the direction ef the Secrete br1)cal flIaw
Tliart is tlic spirit li w-bleu the electiea law ti-y of Statc. otberw-ise lie w-otld have carbas heeji carried ont. No sncbi pow-er 'was ried on tle clection. It lias been said-I de
gî yen te tbe miniister. or miaisters, te set îîet vencli fer its acctiracy Iliat au erdcr
aside flic coastiîîg Iaw under circumsfances la couacil w-as passed w-lien tlic Secretary ef
ef tlîat kind. but thet w-ere set aside on a State ione w-as iii the city. 1 do net kaow
taise buisis and on taise r-eports. It w-as donc how this gentleman luanagcd te acf hlmat thîat time. because it w-as repî-esentcd hit self, but ulider tue ordiiiary pi-ecedure there
thec frade cenld uiot be carried on by Cana- mlust lie a cer-taini nîube- fer a quoim.
Ho.M.S:Iîeo-znlodrl
dian slîips. Tlit turuîed ont te b)0 incorrect.
I meitiii
u teshow tlat te gverime î ceuncil w-as produiced la cour-t.
talce ipon tbcmselvcs thc responsibuiity
Hon. Sir MCEZEBOWELL-Is if
0f settiag aside thîe la-w-leu it sulus theil,
iila
tueotlierilne reaily thait the Secî-ctary of State did
purpese. Ia reading tîte debaftes
LIon. M\r. 'MACDONALD (P.E,1.)

pMAy 2ý0, 19011

475

ail th-is by himself, by consti.tuting himself there were something over 2,000 naines
more than there were on the list as it had
four, and thereby make a quorum ?
been in force-a list that w-as two years old.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, ne.
Now, that was the iist that was in force
offi- until the new list was adopted. The object
Hon. Mr. McÂLJ-lereturning
cer swears that Mr. Scott consulted legal of an election is to obtain a fair expression
of the opinion of those who are by law quai!advisers.
fied to exercise the elective franchise, In case
Hon. &-r MACKENZIE BOWELL-The their naines are upon the list. Now, 1 say
wliole tiffair has been thoroughly exposed.
that wlien the returning oflicer discovered
The reason Mr. Klock refused to be nonmithat there were upwards of 2,000 naines of
nated the second time was, hie beiieved Le
voters on the iist that would not have an
had the legal right to %sit. Wlxether hie bas
opportunity te vote, because their final apor not wvill be tested in the courts. One
te mie
other peals liad flot taken place, it seemis
point only bas been tested yet ; the
that if lie were justified at ail, under the
must coule iater. Wliat 1 dlaim is, whetber
l postponig an electiefi. lie wouid
any number of voters were te bc deprived law,
be justified in a case of that sert. The ohof the franchise, ne govertiment, or Secreis flot to help one party and hurt antary of State, bas a right to interfere witli ject
other.
the iaw on the statute book. This is another streng veason wliy there should be
vidence
ûeALJ-b does
lIon. Mi.
semle supervising efficer to ascertain w-hli
flot show that.

an electien is beld, tbat the lists are proper
lists. The heu, gentleman says Lie did not
lion. 'Mr. 'MILLS Tht. object of the law
kneow wvlether they were or net. I take it i' that every one who i, qualified to vote
fer grauted lie did not know, but the gov- eU'lht ta have an opportiiiity of recordiug
eramnent, befere issuing the writs, ought te bis vote. and s0 the. partles Nvho w-ere qualihave know-n and acted accordinigly.
fied, so £ar as tlieir beluz Britlsli suhjects.
Mr. MILLS-It ýweuid he very diti- their age anti their property qlualifications,
Hon.
deprived
cuit for the gevernment te lnew precisely te go upon the lists. ou-lit not ta lic
of Ilhe 1h4s ini anv seetioni of tue ef votiug liecause of the iieg:igencc or dclay
Ille state
of aniy cf those -ho w ccc enmpieyed lu the
Dominion in 200 edd censtituencies.
No ene wvas pi-eI)repalratioil of the list.
Hon. Sir MALCKENZIE BOWELL-But,
vc'nted trorn voting for his candidate at the
they are put on file boere, and it i.s easy close of Novenuher. w-hio wzis entitlefi te vote
fer the Clerk ef the Ciewni in Chancery to
ove-,....
Lii Ui
11
inifermi a miembeî ef the geverumienit thatlo th
cf the extenlsion of tue tiniie -was te perfect
alis
such.llcl-llcl dos nt clii w
withinl the iists that were net iii a condition, techinilit
suci ad-sch d~s iatcnnp
1 h il
eue
the mniniig ef the law, andi sheuld bie re-1 al'Ildrtelwt
-dont'Th
tah
vi sefi.cll.uerttia
tlis, is not a serieus
Surely
et Nevemiber.
On the contrary. it
Hon. 'Mir. M-\ILI.S M-\ylien. friend knewý,s I grenndff cf comlplainit.
bethat undçer tlie law fi:s it stoed-and I del onglit te hoe a greunid of coirniendlatioli.
it in tlîat ce.1iL if. unider ene condition of things.
neot lcnow that w-e have clianged
undicer aneother
particular-the list requires te he the list 2,000 mon, may vote. ihat
for sixty days. I axîneot vote. aif whei -ai-e entitled te voe,
that liad heeni cemlpleted
wvho are adTliat 1 thinit. miyseif, is au unnecessarv it is clearly tue duty ef those
inistering the laýw te endeaveur te interperiod. Whli the lisîs aire cempieted andi
of the elocters.
certified te, if tliey are certified hofore the pret it te preserve the righit
te ho available. New, that is w-bat w-e bave doue, and in
writs are issuied. they ouglit
roturiuig officer
T1,cr was stiggested. w lieu the Bill ws be- that respect I think the
semie miember et the w-as te bie conmmendefi for Lis work. and
fore the House. by

opposition, and lu erder te go on witb the
measure it was acquiesced in,. aithougli I
tliink tliat w-as a Inistaice. 'Now. I understand w-ith regard te this matter that the
list Liad been prepared ;that ou that list

net te be subject te censure fer w%-bat hie difi.
There w-as ne ct of corruption, lui the sense

et any man heing deprived et the riglit
wn-idei lie previeusîs liad. Mr. Klock w'as
neminated. on the 3lst of Oct.oher. Mr. Me-

[~SENATE]
Neither of thei
Cool was also iininated.
was eiected. They both stood upon a footNeither of thein suffered
ing of equality.
in consequence of the postponement, so far
concerned.
as the returling officer was
Thiere were 2.000 men, or upwards, who
would have an opportunity of voting at a
later period, wbhen the new w-rit w-as issued, tliat would not have bad an opportunity of voting lu the first instance. Those
I do not
nmen çvere flot ail on one side.
know on w-hich side amajority of thein
w-ere. They were new voters. They miglit
be Conservatives or Liberals. Which way the
iiiijority of the new electors voted, 1 cannot
say, but this imuch w-as certain, they were
men w-ho bad been residents of the country
for some tine, whose naines wvere upon the
list that had been prepared, but thiat 11sf
had flot been finally revised and adopted,
and the postponemient merely gave to tbose
parties an opportunity t0 record their votes,
wlho would flot have lad the opportuniitv
if tbe election day liad occurred 0o1 the 7ith
N.ow., the' postponemient w-as
of November.
iins; lt is flot an unflot ani extraordinary
heard of tbing lu the United Kingdom; it
is flot an unheard of tbing iii Canada and
Lt bas happened
other British possessions.
Lt
in tbe past, and wili happen again.
rests nd is justifled on the grounds that
the preservation of the right of tbe electors
ls a paramounit consideration, and the elcction is for the purpose 0f enabling a inai
If is flot observing
to express bis opinion.
the spirit or the purpose of the law to take
advantage of somne technicalify and to deprive a large number of British freemeni of
the right of exercising the bighcsf franchise
thiaf the ]aw confers upon a British subjecf.
Thaf n-as preserved by the course of the
returing offlicer. and, taingii thiaf course for
the important object of preserving the rights
of 2'.000 electors, lie took a course whieh tbe
Ian- bas before justfied, and it seeins to lue,
froin ail 1 bave hieard said lu regard to this
clection, if %vas justified under tbe circuistances. It bas nîso beeni said here, thaf
w-e bave the election lists iii a muddle and
in a state of confusion iu conisequence of
our lnaving ndopted the provincial franchise.

We carried throughi
a provincial franchise.
this parliament an Act declaring that tbe
franchise w-hich had been adopted by tue
local leg-isiafures la the varions provinces 0f
the Dominion sliouid be the franchise for
fhe parliament of Canada for the ciection
of members f0 the House of Commnons.
Now, if is upon our statufe, in whichi
thaf is declared, by wvhich those provisions
are made, tînt our electoral list resf s. Lt
is niof upon the provincial franchise. if is
WVe adopted th:s course
upon our oç%n Act.
at confederafion, ammd we did it because if
It saved us the
w-as the' imost convenient.
trouble and expenlse of preparing separate
WVe deciared thiat w-iatever slîould
lists.
be the franchise for the election 0f uaembers
to the leg-isiative assembly in each province.
shiouid be the franchise for the election 0f
M'e
miembers f0 the House of Comnions.
acted uponi that statute for a period of
Wý7e
found nlo
sevenfeen or eightecn years.
ditiiculty under it. The ian- w-orketl smoothThe elections m-ere held withouf diffiiy.
cnlty.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOM'ELL-Surely flie hon. gentleman is not arguing that
w-e are ac-ting on the saie principle to-day '

LHou. M.Nr.MILLS-Yes. I do say w-e are
My
acting on the' saie pi-inciple to-day.
hon. frîend and bis frienids ini 1882 interveiicd, and undertook f0 establish a vofers' iist
whiolly independent of the lisfs prepared
for the electionl of members to the legisiative
I feit very strongly on that.
asseinhiies.
niot mereiy in 1SS2. because I had nîn nys
coîîfended for the principle tlîaf the lisf
w-hicb serves for the election 0f menibers
f0 the legislative assembly shouid aiso serve
for the' election of inembers to the House of
w-as
Commons. and n-heu our constitution
first prepared, when the articles 0f confederation ýw-cme adopted in the Quebec convention, tlc i-uic tlien agreed upon n-as thiat
thaf sbould be the rule for ail time. Subsequenfiy there w-as taken, after the delegafes reached England. the pow-er to make
11sf,
an independent or separafe eloctoral
and s0 ne retainied the pon-ver, but n-e nieyer
exercised thaf ponwer n-hich w-as conferred
Hon. Mr. i\cCALLUM-\-Hear, bear.
on the parliament of Canada in London by
Hon. M-Nr.MiNILLS-I do flot subscribe f0 fhe Canadiani delez-ates there, until 1SS2. We
MWe acted under the oflier mile. anîd the ruIe w-as
1 tbink it is n fluistake.
thaf view.
If mny lion. friemmds wiii 100k,
do not vote on tue pi-ovincial franchise as 1a sounci one.
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[MAY 20, 1901j
at the provisions of the United States COlstitution they w-ill see there it is declared
that whatever is the electoral qualification
for the retura of members to the legisiativel
assembly in the States shall also be the
qualification for the election of members to
the House of Representatîves at Washington.
Those
That is recognizing the principle.
men who framed the coastitution of the
United States w-ere born British snbjects.
They had carefully considered the Englisi
coastitutional system, and sought to adapt
it to their circumstances. They did so adapt
it, and if lias remained in force there now,
for a cenitury and a quarter, and no0 one
had complained of if ia our ow-n country.
There had beeni no petitions asking for a
There was no Donminioa election
change.
and no by-elections held in whicli any candidate came forward and proposed if hie
-were returned to parliament to undertakze to
make an independent list. The reasons for
is are, fiat w-e found the mnchinery gor
preparing the lists w-ith fie local legisiafure
firsf. The local legisiafures have varions
municipal bodles under them. They know
every indi-ridual. They are obliged to visit
li
the electors, and know w-3ho they are.
a municipal body, elected wifhout reference
to their polifical views, botli parties are, for
the niost part, represented, and so every
man enfifled f0 go on the list is usually put
there. Tiere miay be exceptions, but that
is the general mile, and so la the beginning,
-wheu w-e adopted the principle of accepting
the local list, w-e did so as a maffer of convenience, because fhey had the municipal
maciinery to prepare such a list, and the
parliamient of Canada bas no such machinery. WTe therefore adopted w-haf they did.
We said that w-bat w-as sufficient f0 secure
a fair bouse of Assembly in fhe province is
also sufficient to secure the return of a fair
bouse of Conimons for the parliament of
Canada. We acted upon thaf, I say, from
IS67 until 1882, and no complaint and no
very serious discussion w-as bad of fie subJect durîng the w-hole period of those eigbWe
teen years. Then w-e had a change.
I know,
-were opposed to that change.
every hon. gentleman w-ho sat in the Hlouse
of Commons k-now-s that the machiuery undem tie Act of 1882 proved extremely expensive, not only to the men w-ho were members at the time, but to those w-ho

expccted to becomne canidates for elecion ia the succeeding election, and
we got ri(l of that expenise. Tliat expense was so large that the preparation of
a new list was found an impossibility. If
1 remember rig-htly, the expenses were considerably over $300,000, wheu the list was
prepared, and in this $30O,000, we do not
count the expense to which the individual
candidate or mnember was put. That was
a separate and distinct expense. 'We sought
;to get -rid of that. It was a burden that
candidates and aspirants and members ouglit
flot to be called upon to bear. The preparation of a proper list ought to be the work
of the parliamient of Canada, and so it is
under the present arrangement. That was
the reason for adopting that list. There Is
no dou'bt about this, as my hon. f riend bas
indicated. Thiere ýwas a g-ood deal of disturbance andfiurest produced, and there
are many cases where a legisiative assemiNly was held in restraint by what was doue
whien we were here. They knew their list
of electors w-as a list for us as w-el as for
themselveýs, and so the fact that that w-as
*so exercised more or less Influence over
themni, i the legisiation thiat they proposcd.
The moment that we separated ourselves
and soug-ht for the preparation of a distinct
iist, of course they feit tbiemselves no lon-er bonnid, and you had a certain amount of
unsteadi-ness in the preparation of lists after that that yon had flot before. It seemns
to me at the present time w-bat w-e ought to
undertake to secure is, flot a return to the
Act of 1882, but a simple principle, such
as w-e laid down in 1873, or 1874, in whicth
we declared that the qualifications for the
return of memibers to the House of Comnmons should be the samne as for tbe return
of members to the legisiative assenibly ln
the province from w-hich thiese members of
the House of Commons were re'turned. 'We
mig-ht go a little further and m-ake the exception w-hichi w-as introduced by the government t'o w-hidi my hon. f riendl belong-ed,
where In some of the provinces there w-as
an attempt made to disfranchlse certain
public officers and create disabilities la their
case. You can correct aberrations of that
sort without Interferiiig with the principle.
If I rightly understood my hion. friend opposito, hie considered that an interference
with the principle. I did net think so. I

[SENATE]
thinkl the less legisiationi of that sort that
you have lu the provinces the better. But
if it is fourid to 'be a grievauice an evil that
onglit flot to exist iu the election of members to the House of Comuions, it is fo a
very serions thiRig to provide that, ,o far
as those officers are concerned. if they are
otherw-ise qualified, ai their naines shal lie
put upon the list. Thiat, I think. is as far
as w-e have gone. My hion. friend went that
far in 1872, 1 think it was-at ail events,
before the Mackenzie government came into
office, and that principle was neyer disturbed. That, I th'ink, w-as a souad ruie, but
,the convenience of the law that w-as in
force w-len this f ederation w-as fornaed. and
thiat continued ln force dow-n to 1882, was
found to be so grat, that ao one was
capable of mailtalning efficiently the system that superseded it, liecause, as many
as four years at times w-eut by, before a
new' list w-as prepared, and Sir John Thompson bimiseif proposed a change. The Bill
lie proposed w-as neot carried through, but
I remember discussing. the matter very fully
w-ith him, and lie w-as inclined, as bie Bill
show-ad, to returi to the principle that bad
prevailed before 1882.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
entirely.
Hou. Mr. MýILLS-Not entirely. I admiit
that lie did uot, but in ail the main feature.
biis measure proposed to adopt the principie
tliat w-as theni adopted. My lion. friend meferred to the irrespousibility of retnrning
officers. Every returning officer is, la law,
.responEible for the manner ln w-bich lie
discliarges bis duty. If a w-rong is done a
,candidate, the law provides that hie may
be prosecnted. In a good many elections
that I have contested-I do not remember
oue lietween 1882 and 1886 la w-hidi the
retumuinig officer did not make hinisaif
amenable to those provisions of the iaw
w-hich authoriza prosecution. but unifortunately the righit officer w-as, la most cases,
a man without any mens, and w-hile you
miglit bave obtained a judgmant against
hlm, you could flot anforce that judgment.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
mîiglt beat yon on the execution.
Hon. Mr. MNILLS-I can refer to many
instances w-here, althougli electad, my metura did flot take place for four or five
Honi. Mr. MILLS.

w-eels after the election, and so, that mucli
time w-as added to the tinie within w-hidi a
petition iniight be filed, because the thirty
days within. w-hidi a pnrty dissatisfied miglit
file a petition against the successful candidate only begn to rua after the successf ni
candidate w-as gazetted and sci, if lie waited
five weeks before the candidate w-as gnzatted, lie g-ave fiva w-eeks within which those
inquiries iuight bcecarried on, ini addition
to the thirty days w-hidi w-are to succead.
the present condition of tliings is
I tui
inluchillore saiti.snctorvy thanl thiat w-hie
then existed, and w-e are undertaklng -to
correct some mistakes now. and I hope w-ve
w-i. I hope, as experience shows a change
4n the law is tiecessary, w-e w-i lie ready
to make a change. Changes lu the condisometimes render
tions of society wl
changes in the law necessary but the main
thing is the experience w-hichi w-e gained lu
the holding of the election, and if there is
aniy foirm that is deficient, if there is arny
'proviision of the law that .does -not quite
meet the case, the meinbers w-ho are liaing
returned have these mattars brouglit to
their attention, and the legisiature ought
±o lie prepared to deal w-ith it. We meet
hara for that purpose. That is one of the
duties that devolve upon ns, aiîd 1 ho-pe, at
ail events, that lu this House our party
feeling.w-i not so far gat the lietter of our
judgment flhat w-e wll flot lie prapared to
make thie iaw parfectly fair. If it is fair
no one bas any ground for complaint. It
ouglit to lie satisfactory to ail alike. As a
meniber of the present administration I do
ont w-ish to remain in control of public affaiýrs w-itl niy colleague-s any longer than
a fair and honest expression of pubilic opinion will maintain us lu that position.
Hon. Mr~. McAL MIrose to asic a
question of the lion. Seoretnry of State
w-len my lion. friend fi-om Prince Edw-ard
spoke. Did tic hou, gentleman advise tlie
returning officer lu Nipissing to use the list
of 1S98 ?
Ho.n. Mr. SCOTT-I ffld at first, bafore I
looked into it. I olijacted for a long tîme
w-len spoken to. I did flot w-ant to Interfere w-ith the list, and I got latter after
latter and I said ' no, it is not part of my
duty to interfere la the matter,' and It w-as
enly w-heui reprasentations w-ere made that

pMAY 20, 1901]

so large a number of people were going to
be disfranchised that I gave the advice.
Hon. *MNr.McGALLUM-I arn golng to
read wbat took place ln Niplsslng:
On October 23 the returnlng officer wrote Mr.
Scott again, giving It as bis own opinion, a! Ver
lay-

consultation wlVh several prominefit Liberai
men of the riding, that the liste of 1900 should
These lists were flot at that tirne
be used.
finally revlsed and closed, the time for appeals
Mr. Varin went to Ottawa
neV haviflg expired.
agaîn ou the 28th day o! October, whlcb was a
by Mr. McCooi, bis
Sunday, and, accompanied on Mr. Scott at the
Liberal candidate, called
office in the buildingsHon. 'Mr. M-\cM-ILLAN-Not ou Sunday,

479

clean across Vo the soutb, Vo the United
States republie. lu order to show us *wbat
they have doue there. We are living lu a
British country, a.nd we wýant tbe people
of this Dominion to have a uniform, f ranchise to elect miembers to the House of Coinmous. Members meet over there in the

House of Gommons on the samie footing,,but
hiere tbey are eiected, some of thein by a
mongrel franchise-flot two of tbem. alUbe.
iu the province of Quebec a property qualiaepoet
o
srqieadi
lcto
aepoet
o
srqieadi
fcto
of Quebec you can vote
ail over the province
you
just as fa-st as tbe raîlway will taire
froui one county to another. flotYou canuot
k-now' but
sureîy ?
telephione your vote. I do
generally go to the there niay be an improvemielt iii that matHon. Mr. SCOTT-I
office a-nd get my letters on Sunday. 1V was ter by and by.
on Sunday.
-ortlga.
o.M.DNUA
the day
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Tbe better
BOWVELL-There
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
the better the deed. Tbe report proceeds :
doue, bowever.
out the point with hlm that the 15 lots of telegrapbiug
-ana argued
On belng questloned
1900 lists shculd be used.
Hou. Mr. NlCOILLUI%-I do ixot say thai
as to what Mr. Scott had to say, the returnlng
bad before wvas a -ood]
officer replied that he looked Wise, but said the frauch-ise w-e
nothing, Mr. Scott probably rememberlng that
I do noV say that this is sucbi a
one, and
he had already Vold the officer he was Vo use very bad franchise, but we ouglit to luiithe liste of 1898.
council was made,
On October 26 an order ln
bereafter
in the prove it. 1 want the goverîlnnt
directing that ten days would be allowed parties Vo appoint returning- officers who are meu
townships withln whlch
unorganized
we wîll noV bave auy
mnight taire objections Vothe lists. This brouglit of character so that
it down Vo November 6Vb. and the 7th belng more o! ibis kind of tbing. 1 asked tbem
election day, it was of course Impossible to hold to do that. As 1 said iu the beg-iuining, the
us
Cflcllgsauebv
odaiwt
the election on that date.
content
us
wt
oda
av
On being questloned about theadmittedt tflclhatltr
Mr. Varia
the order ln council,
with by the
MeNaniara, Mr. Klock's tions different fromn those deaitnmust have a
he had re!used Volet Mr.
and we
agent, inspect iV, although lie bad shown 1VVo 1-buse of Gommons,
He exMr. McCool, the Liberal candidate.
Iu one provdifferent franchise.
plalned bis conduct la thîs respect by saylng sligbitly have, as I sa-id before, the property
politiclan, and neyer ince we
that he was an old Liberal
-ConservaVives,
go. any favours from the should now get andqulfctoadnantrmnodsu- naohrmnodsf
n
any qaiiain
did no, propose that -tbey
rage, and lu another place you bave to earn
from hlm. .
so iuucli a year, and so on, and these are
Hid Ail Day.
men that are supposed Vo corne bere on
On -being questioned as Vo bis whereabouts the
1
lu the House o! Gommnons.
and
on nomination day, he replied that he were Mr- an equality
la
M. W. Flannery, bis election clerir,
xvrong about ItL We
the sur there Is somietbIug
hiding ail day la bis residence opposite the sbouid geV it riglit. IV is necessary, lu the
court-house, Flannery havîng gone there ln
Dominion, above ail other
im.
morning under instructions fromsherifi, testifled interests of this
Mr. Peter Grouix. the deputy
that we sbould bave a-n holiest electhat a nomination paper and $200 haed been left tbiflgs, My bon. friend speairs bere of the
on Mr. Klock's behaif on the day tion.
on bis desk
fixed for nomination, but ho bad no autbority great savîng of s0 many Vbousand dollars.
Vo reccive it, and did not touch the money or Well, 1V is quite an Item, but we bave
They lay on bis desk for several days,
papers.
baepmse
ouanw.Te o.Te
aepoie
obr
noe
until finally removed by the returaing officer'smoe
solicitor.
the exexamnted, lots o! ecouomy and this is one of
A nuniber o! other witnesses were
penses tbey bave reduced. Wbiere are we
was eliclted.
but notbing particular
drifting to-day ?~ If tbe bon. minister saved
That is the wbole case. My bon. friend
by adoptiiig
the beauty of Vbree buudred tbousand dollars
tbe Minîster of Justice shows
franchise, evea witb ail bis sins bie bas
thls franchise we have aît present. 1 do not this
the 1people of the
it, but lie goes accominpshed littie for

say that bie Is ln love wiVb

SENATEI
country. Lt is flot a drop lu the bucket coinpajred almost w-itil the ocean of expendittire
thiat is groin, on nowv iader the franchise we
have at present, and thei -we are te Say
1 ar n ot,
that we are satisfied with it.
and I wlll lie w'illing art any tinle, with my
ability, as far as it goes, to assist to ob.
tain some franchise tihat will be better for
the people of this country thani the present one.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE Lb-I arn
flot geing te prolong the discussion furtiier
thian te refer te one or two rernarlis of
the lion. -Minister of Justice, and I amnst
express surprise that lie should gIve the
answer lie did wlin I asked him if lie considered the preseat franchise law iu the
samne position that it îvas prier te the adoption of the Dominion Franchise Act by tie
late goveramient. Hie knows, and se dees
every electer, thiat prier te the adoption of
the Dominion Electoral Franchise the provinicial lists were acccpted as they were
made out, and ready fer the pellinig w-len
the election teok place. It did not cost the
Dominion government eue dollar in conniectien witli the franchise. Ail they lad to do,
,%vlieii the writs were revised and the electien toeek place, was to take the local lists
as tliey existed, for the elections iii the local
legisiature, and they were used for the
Dominion electien. flheue was no0 expenditurc at ail and consequently the position
niow, and the position then, are flot at al]
anialogous. If it w-eue, then the Franchise
Act, as it exists at the present moment lu
Britishi Columbia would lie accepted, aud
the parties there whe are disfrandhised. could
neot vote.

ries %vlio had been disfranchised by the local
legi sl:îtrres, thereby extending the franîchise. I Lknow that prier te that, lt îvas declared that .they should have a vote, but
tliat %vas 01113- carrying eut tire priniciple
whicli lias been adepted lu this legislature,
liut there were ne provisions fer brinigiing
the iists te bie supervised by tIc Dominion,
lier w-as there any provision for the reprinting of them. If you go back te the old systeni as it existed prier te, the timie Sir John
Macdonald iintroduced a Dominion Franchise
Act, thiie yen ý%vould have ne expense atre1idinig it ;and if the goe rnment were
adepting tIe princ:iple they advocated whien
tlicy came iiate l)oNer, tliey would liave
aidopted the system thiat existed and w-as
practised and cauried eut before the providing of a Dominion Franchise Act, and then
it wenld net have cost aniything. Se far as
Siu John Thempseni's proposition is cencerned, the hon. gentleman is correct te a certain
extent. Sir John Tliompson did so propose
te amend the law as te make the franchises
of the different provinces the ibasis of a Doiieiin franchise, and te extend the franîcuise la the manniier lan w-hicli this preselit
law extends it, but te a still greater extent,
and toeuct off, as muchel as possible, the extraordinary expenses w-hicli attended it.
lion. Mu. M.\cMILLA-N-But it Nvas still te
lie a Dominion franchise.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ceuli.
tainly ; still te lie a Dominion franchise, control]ed by the geverament. I amn net going
to argue that point now. Every one w-ill
lie very miucli gratlfied nt the lecture given
ns by the lien. Minister of Justice as to the
principles upon w-hicli a franchise should be

hascd. We have heard a geod many timies
that the theory lie laid down is the fundaHon. sir Mý\ACIENZIE BOWýELL-I ad- mental basis of eau
But
constitution.
Hon. MuI. 'MILLS-Tliat w-as s0 liefore.

muit iliat, and the geverament accepted tint tha.t had nothing te do ýwith the question
aîîd they lad ne vote.
as to wliether the government had the riglit
Hon. 'Mr. 'MILLS-My hon. friead put the te interfere îvith the list which was in exou w-uong.
Custeais fleuse officeus on the list lu Nova istence, wlietlier it w-as righit
Scotia, and w-e accepted it, aud continued lu It was simply a question as to whit the
netlithat way, and thiey could not vote la the law of the land w-as at the turne, and
ing more.
local election.

SCOTT-Iii Auistralia, up te the
Honi. MuNl.
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELI unpreseat, nt ail events, tliey -adopt the proderstand ail that. I amn dealing with the lîsts
vincial franchise.
as they existed prier te that. ihen when a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Donfot
Dominion franchise was decided upon hy
the Dominion, they enfraachîsed these par- give ns a lecture about Australia.
Hon. Mr. MNcCALLUM.

[MAY 20, 19011

481

saying in Ohancery, and then sent back. I do flot
think that is advisable.
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Mly
Hon. Sir MIACKENZLE BOWELL-Why
did not the government do it without going hon. friend la quite right. I do not object
to the provision, but what is the penalty in
to ail the expense ?
case that provision Is flot complied with ?
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-We have.
There may be a pena~lty for flot complyiig
Hon. .Mr. DANDURAND-The only ex- with the 'proviincial 1'aws la New Brunswick,
pense isthe prin ting of the list.
but that would flot be applicable in thie case,
Hon. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWELL-WhVat because we impose a d'uty on -the returning
officer there, and there is no penalty providdoes that amount to ?
ed in case lie ieglects to do bis duty.
Hou. Mr~. DANDURAND-It .is very little.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Subelause 9 of clause
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-It 10 provides the penalty.
cornes to over a hundred tbousand dollars
Hon. :Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
a year.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I
tbey adopted it.

amn merely

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, there bas not been
$100,000 expended since 1896-î.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
wbole time ?
Hou. Mr.
figures.

SCOT1?Yes,

The clause was adopted.

Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL, from the Committee reported the Bill without amendment.
The Bill was then read tbe third time -ami
get the passed.

BOWELL--The
I

will

Hon. Sir M-\ACKENZID4 BOWELL-T2.hein
I withdraw w-bat I saici until we have the
return.
The clause w-as adopted.
On clause 3,
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
clause adds the following words to the old
luw :
And within ten days after any change, alteration or substitution for such list of the provincial list he shahl. so and so.
What is the penalty in case he does not
do that ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is a penalty pro..
vided. I do not know if it is workable. 1
amn not responsibie for the change. But iii
New Brunswick they have a law by whic>
the sherliff, w-ho is usually the returnlng officer, within ten deys before the polling, lias
a right to make certain changes in the list,
and the 1aw of New Brunswick was followed
and those changes were not sent to'Ottawa.
The sherlff,
We knew nothing about them.
as returning officer, made the changes biself, et the instance of both politicai parties.
It w-as not asked for by one more than the
I presume w.hoever drafted thîs
other.
thought the changes should be sent to Ottaw-a. and sent to the CIerk of the Crown
:'I

GENERAL INSPECTION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
REPORT FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself into a Commlttee
of the Whole on Bill (122) 'An Act further
to amend the General Inspection Act.'
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We went through the
Bmi the other day, and one clause was held
*over for some reason or another. The only
change la that clause from the present law,
is leaving out the «-ords 'Inspector of grain,',
on the recommendation of the cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The clause was held
over at rny sug-gestion. If hon. gentlemen
will look at tbe new section which is proposed ito be suibstituted for the existing section of the General Inspection Act, they will
find that substantially the only change
made is in this clause.
Hion. Mr. ýSCOTT-Except the iaspecter of
grain.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn speaking of the
first clause of the Bill. Subsection 2 of the
new section 2 reads :
Such Inspectors and deputy inspectors should
hold office durlng pleasure.
The finst change ls that the Governor In
Council may appoint inspectors and deputy

[SENATE]
Inspectors. Ia the original Act it is only iduring the pleasure of the Governor in Coumninspectors, the deputy Inspectors 'being ap- Icil. The pleasure of the Governor lu Counpointed by the inspectors. Subclause 2 pro- cil and the pleasure of the inispector are two
vides that the deputy inspectors appointed 'different thrings. There Is an apparent conby the Governor ln Council shall bold office tradiction. 1 suppose it is our dLuty tO try
and make tUis measure as nearly perfect as
during pleasure. Then siibclause 4 reads :
Such chief Inspectors, inspectors and deputy can be. I amrnfot finding fault witb any one.
inspectors may be paid 'by salary or by fees, I suppose that whkihever officer ln the dehsBhwsnt'spr
rfe
as is determined in each case by the GQvernor prmn
aspr
atetdatdtsBilwsn
ln Council.
as hie might
That does not -ive any idea as to what ticular about the wording of ýit
aidby ees Tha, ii hehave been. Now, the objection -1s, this Bill
offcer ar
tobe
new section 'A' the only change is to insert
the words 'the inspector of grain,' which were
in the Act originaliy, but were struck out
by the Act passed 'la. 1889. It wil 'be see.
that each inspoctor, undor this clause, may
an'd shah, when thereunto required by th,,e
Governor ln Council or by the board of trade,
and so on, appoint a deputy inspector, or go
many deputy inspectors as are necessary
for the efficient and spoedy performance of
the duties of bis office. This is, apparently,
rather inconsisteat witli the provision that
these deputies shahi be appointed hy the
Governor in Counicil.

the notyundetae toa itinus
betapeent
oapit
npcoswoaet
tedpt
ed by the G overnor dn Council and the deputy
iflspectors who are to be appoinrted 'by the
The Govornor in Couacill lias
inspectors.
been given power to appoint ail inspectors,
and thon, in anothor place, the deputy inspector is supposed te be appointed. by the
Inspectior. It does flot say lie is to be appolintet] but hie shahl be paid by ltm, and
liold office at lis pleasure. That apparent
My
inconsi.stoncy should be remnoved.
humble opinion îs, the object of the department was to providé for the appointment of
inspectors of grain and depnty inispectors of
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-That was passed the grain. If so, the Bill shou'ld bave been confinod to it, and should not have wanderod
other day.
-1
Hon.Mr.PO"ý'Em tyin tolea upover so many clauses of the Inspection Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The only change in the
clause under the considoration of the coin«mittee is ' except doputy inspectors of
the clauses weregri.Te
a
rnanswthhtex

to the objection I took. The lion, gentleman
did. îlot understand it ýat the tirne.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-All
onse
texp

e.
oau

Iojc

on the lauses

ogigb

ception, as it was before.

The proposai of

tbe departmenit is, tliat the ofilcers w'hoi-

HEon. Mr. POWvEL-I ara reading this to spect grain, w-hetber inispoctors or deputios,
In other cases, the
explaîn iny objection to clause 4, -whi'dh rends may be paid by focs.
nre paid by fees, and tlboy pay
as folhows :-inspectors
4. Section 9 of the sald Act ls repealed and the deputies out of those fees.
the follom*ing is suhstitnted therefor:
The CHAILLMAN-The Speaker points out
9. Every depnty inspector, except deputy 1ln
spectors of grain, shahl be paid by and shal he
iannogrtybwe
fcto
w
h
ewe
nogut
sa
hold office at the pleasure of, the inspector by tir
acting sections.
wvhom lic I appointed, and shall, before
as deputy inispector, give sccnrity for the due
Hoiu. Mr. SCOTT-I do not thflik there is.
performance of the duties of bis office ln sncb
sum as the Minister of Inland Revenue directs,
by bond to the inispector, with two sureties te
oi
i
MCEZE
BMELA
O ELA
AKNI
i
Hn
his satisfaction, to be bound Jointly and severally
You nue getting this
with him; and such bond shall avail to the Ia- ordinary man would.
One section says that
spector for any breacli of the conditions thereof; Act into a.miuddhe.
and no inspector shal allow any persoln to act
office, the inspectors and deputy inspectors shahl
for hlm in respect of the duties of bis
excepting bis sworn deputy Inspector or deputy bo appointod by the Governor in Council,
and bold office duuing the pleasure of the
inispectors appointed aforesaid.
Thon it says Inter that deI contend thuat this is apparontly contradic- government.
frst clause putios mar be paid by the inspector, arlU
tory with the provisions of 'thc
of 'the Bill, wlihsays that those depu''tY thiey arc t, hld office at thue plea1sure of
tnspectors ýshahl be appointod to hold officelthie inispector.
Hon. Mfr. POWER.

[MAly 20, 1901]
Hon. Mr. -MILLS-Will mvl bion. frienld
read the sections which lie thinks gites fle
appointment of deputy inspectors to the
Governor iu Council.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWIELL,-ThCl
second subsection says :' Suelb inspectors
and deputy inspectors shali bold office durThen the ninth clause gives
lng- pleasure.'
the appointment apparently to the inspector,
and tliey are to bold office during the pleasure of the inspector who is to pay tbern.
MILLS-I do flot see any provi1Ho01. M2Nr.
sion wbiere the Governor in Counceil appointsý
the deputy inspectors.
The CHAIRMAN-' Sucll inispector and
deputy inspector sball bold office duringpleasure.' Shali hold office Nvîthin tbe limit
the Governor in Council may assign theni.
The chiief inspector may appoint the deputy,
but lie shall exercise bis functions iu a district assig-ned by the Governor in Council.
POWER-it says explicitly that
Hon. M-Nr.
the Governor lu Council may appoint inspectors and deputy inspectors.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbis was drafted by
Mr. Miall, the deputy of the departmnent,
and revised by the law clerk. Lt is to appoint inspectors and deputy iinspectors ol'
grain. Wbere the inspector ls îîaid by tees
lie pays bis deputy out of these tees.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It cornes to this, if an
officer of the Department of Inlanid Revenuc

bas drafted a Bill we are to swallow it witbIf so,
eut examination or ameadimeat ?
whlat on earth is the use of baving a Sen.

nte or House of Commons either? Tbe Con>.
missioner of Inlanld Revenue is not infallible, and I arn not aware that the law clerk

of that department is pilrticularly distin.
guisbed in the matter of drafting Bis.
Hon.

Sir

MACKENZIE

BOWVELL-The

EMPLOYM.%ENT

OF ALIENS

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. «MILLS moved the second rend.
ng of Bill (47) 'An Act to amend the Act
o restrict the importation and emnploymfeflt
of aliens.' He said :The haw rehating to
aliexi labour lias been ofi tbe statute-books
siuce 1897. Lt lias occnsionally been used
Lo excinde fromn emiployment in establisbiiicits iii this country men who bave been
brougbit over by emiployers of labour from
te United States. Tiiere have beeni two
or tbree suits enitered. They have not been
proceeded -ith, but a niulier of personas
have been returned to the United States
uuder tbe law as it stands. Ili this Bill,
the intention n'as to give a greater freedomn
of action than prevails lu the lawv as it
exists. Unider the law at present, the consent of the Attorney Çeuieral of tbe Doillnion must always be obtaiiied before
tbere cau be a prosecution. Under this Bill
the consent of the judge înny be obtained
instead of the consent of the Attorney

General. This country is a very large one,
and we know very well the circumistances
under whieh

an application

is made

for

prosecution. Lt mighit perhaps have been
well if, lu distant portions of the Dominion,
the respoilsibility hiad rested with the parties
undertaking to bring tbe haw into operation
against ahiens, but with a view of grenter
security agaiast the miensure being- used oppressively the consent of the Attorney Generni, or of some judge, is required. The law
la intended to reacli the abuses, if tbey may
be so regarded, that arise at tbe present
finie, in the way 0f preventiîîg parties receivinig employment or receiving proper conMost of the cases that bave
sideration.
arisen s0 far bave been cases wbere the
employers of labour colitend thiat the kind

bon. Speaker forgets that tbis goverament of labour that thiey require is flot available
at liberty
is controlled by the departmnental heads, and ithÉis country, and tbey iluust be
tbey think, to be to import tbe skilled labour in order that
wbvatever they say ouglit,
tbeir operations ny be carried on. Whbere
law.
that is the case, of course a prosecution
Hou. '.\r. DANDURAND-I suppose my
be proceeded witb. This
It so, because the could not properly
lion. friend would wish
mensure will be put upon thec statute-book
deputy heads nre nearly ail of~ bis stripe.
and made available for those who tbink they
The clause -was adopted.
liave grievances and require gentlemen of
fromn the committee, this sort to give tbem protection agninst
Hon. Mr. BAKER,
Persona broughlt in specificalhy for tbe purreported the Bill without amendment.
The Bill was tben read tbe tbird time and pose 0f entering into unfair competition with
them to prevent tbem receîving eînployment,
passed.
31i

SENATE]
aîîd after tbeir centract is ended mnay re- regarded, under the United States tlîeory of
li fact, tbis international law, as part of the United
tire frem tbe country againi.
but the offeuce -,as îlot
wbiclî was first plut upon tbe States territorïv
legisiatien,
cornrnitted. frem the point from wbicb the
statute-beok lun 1897, lias grown ont of tiîe
alieli labeur legisiatien efthne iteiglibeuring gunl -%as fired, but wbere the deatb occurThat legisiatieni bas created, in red, and that occurred in a canoe belougingrepublic.
sonue places near tbe border, a geod deal to a Society Isiander, in the immediate vithat
ef irritation, and almest every oîîe lias beard cinity of the shore ; and s0 it was beld
United
of tue oflicer of the United States, ut the the murder was committed outside of
jurisdiction, and was a crime for
city of Buffalo, wbo bas beeni empleyed te States
couid flot be put ripou bis
etîferce tbat Act witbi a good deal of barsh- whlcb tbe part3NVe have aidtrial in t'ie Unîited States.
niess against Canadians cressinig the border
opted a soiue\ývbat different utile by statufor the purpose of receiviîîg employaient.
tory provision, and under the tbeery of tlîý
li tact, if it bad net been fer tue actionu of
jurisdiction ef tbe Inîperial Partbat efficer at the city ef Buffalo, I de net uiimited
liament, the legisiatien of the Ixnperial parknow that înany la tbis country weuld bave
liarnent lias ln tbis respect beeni upbeld.
souglît for legisiatien ef tbis kind at ail,
subjeet lias comuîitted. I
because at mest points aleug tbe frentier. Wbiere a British
it bas; been bield that altlîougli ceintbere bas been a gelieral acquiescence inî murder.
be tried
tbe practice of persomîs residing on tbe naitted, lu a fereign country, hie miay
of Henry VIII., and subCanadian side going, te tbe United States under the statute
on bis returni te bis
for tbe purpose of getting eaiployment, anti sequent leziation,
country. If lie is a foreiguier* iii the
of tbese resid'iug on tbe United States side ownl
and
of the border line comijag iute Canada, aiîd empley ef an Engiisb mnercbaîîtman,
offejice i- committed. on board il Enîgreceiv-ing employment here ; but tbe law of the
ais" bc tried on ilis retbe United States bas been enforeed mu lisbl vessel, hie may
But if 110
turl to the United Içingdomi.
Buffalo, Iu some cases at ail events, m-itli
tbat it bas led te a good bias been employed on board ait Engili
se mucli barsbuess
deal of irritation, and legisiation is neces- vessel, but bas gene ou1 shtore 01n fereigul
bie
sary lu order te satlsfy those wbo f eel that, territory and there commits niurder,
cannot be tried for tbe offeiice, flot being
in consequence of tbat barsb action, tbey
bave a gruevanýce. It uis not uny purpose te a Britisb subject, o11 bis returu on board
enter iute any discussion as te tbe prin- the vessel on wbicbi be was engaged, or ou
Now.
ciples of private international iaw that will iîis returu te the United Kingdemn.
we bave, utîder tbis statute, certain proarise under this statute. Tbere are many
In tbe United visions made for tbe punlislinit of parties
tbing-s te bie considered.
States 'their courts 'bave beld tbat, an Act whbo undertake te contract witb alieîîs Outwhich, If doue in the United States, would side of Canada, for the employainît of ParWhbetber tliey bave
be iliegal, if ýdoue la a foreigu country, is tics inside ef Canada.
eutside of United States jnrisdiction alto- power te makLe sncb a contract or net, is a
getber. Tbey bave always beld tbat, evenl question on wbicb ou courts have expressedl
Judicial Cornmitteo
ag-ainst citizens et the Uni'ted States, tbey different opinions. The
l
of tbe Privy Couiclin tbe case of TcLeýod,
cannlot etîforce a United States law witb a
net lhable te pullnview of punishiiug sucb citizen fer any ef- lieid tbat McNlLeod wvas
Li-e lîad
islîmenit under the colonial law.
fence committed outside of tbeir own ter-lustralianl colonies,
ritory. Tbat was well 9ltowV nl a case tbtt Iived in ene et tbe
mail wlîo
occurred mauy years ago, and tbat was wbere it '%as previded tbat a
eitber it tbe coloîiy
tried lu tbe Circuit Court in the Stute of nmrried a second timie,
w-as liable to pullMassacbusetts, where a man namned David- ou outside ef the celeny,
NIcLeod bad abanison wus ou board a United States vessel, isbmieîît on bis returii.
liad goîîe te
and wbile tbere, lu tbe viciuity ef tIteý donied bis wife in tbat colony,
tbere a secSociety Islands, sbot a native lu a canoe. It the State of Missenri. marjried
onîd tinue, and retnruied witb bis second wife
was beld tliat if 'tbe murder lad been cointAujstraliajn colonies, w-bere lus first
niitted ou board tbe United States Yessel, te tbe
,wife resided. I-le wvas puit on bis trial and
bie igbt bave been tried on bis return te
Hie apl)ealed te thte
tbe United States, fer the vessel migbit be convicted of big-amiy.
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

[MAY 20, 1901]
not apply to skflled labour flot
Judicial Cominittee of the PrIVY Couhil, section shahl Canada, as provided by section 5
obtainable in
ommiteebeldtlit ~
and he udical
crime of bigamy was committed in t'le That is the proposed legisiation by this Bill.
OWL-t
o.SrMAKNI
State of Missouri ; that it was committed ]il
LItBill
Sirit MofE hI BOW
on.eln odie
foreign jurisdiction ; tat the legisiature of
i
fti
odsustemrt
a colony of the Empire could oaly legisiate cnein
To my mind, that cana be done
for offences committed within the limits of at preseat.
in Committee of the Wilhoie. 1 unthe province or 'territory-that the province better
derstand the Bill to lie simply an amendcould flot make any provision for the pull.
to tl.e law aiready on the statute-book,
ishmnent of a crime commit*ted abroad; tat ment
fac-ilities for -the carrying
the crime was in itself flot local, and tba-t giving greater
my
an off ence agailisi out of its provisions. 1 have expressed
McLeod had committed
offefice own views with reference to what May lie
the lawv of 'Missouri, and neot an
leg-islatiofl in.the past. It
against the law of a coloay of Australi, called sumptuary to repeat them.
and in la not aecessary
la wvhieh the legisiation was passed,
Hon. Mr. MILLS-The principie is prewhich lie had been a resident. Ia this couilcisely the saine.
try, our courts have expressed a differefice
of opinion, and an attempt bas been made
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELI-Preto undertake to so legisiate upon offences, ns
the samne, on)y it facilitates the prosefor instance where a man goes out of the cîsely
law. M-\y
comimitting au cution of those 'who violate ithe
country wlth the latent of
objection to it is that îît does flot go
unlawfui deed and cominits it ; 'bis intention only
enougl. However, that can lie discussed
before leaving and the act afterwards are far
when we go into cominittee on the Bill.
united, and some of our courts have upheld
The motion was a.-reed. to, and the Bill
legisiation of that sort, whie others have
into was read the second time.
pronounced against It. I am not going
a discussion as to wbich, la my opinion, is
THE COOK -CHARGES.
the more correct vîew. That is unnece.snry.
here proposed, and wîll SECOND REPORT 0F COMMITTUE ADOPTED.
This legisiation is
be carried, 1 bave no doulit, for there are
ýHon. Sir MANLCKEN\ZIE BOWELL moved
parties who believe we can so legisiate. For
of the
in Toronto the adoption of the second report
instance, wliere a man residiag
special commfttee appointed to, inquire iato
advertises in n New York paper for labourstatemeuits and allegatiorns containled
ers, and they corne ànto Canada, in conse- the
la certain telegr8ams and letters and la an
quence of that advertisement, aad lie gives
affidavit made by Mr. Herman Henry Cook,
tbemi employmeat, whetber we cau treat,
whieh rellected upon the privileges and digas ail off ence against the law of Canada,
nity of the Senate.
that act which was done in the State of
The motion waýs ag«reed to.
.N~ew York, ýis a question on wbicb 1 need
opinion. The courts will no
express no
AND SALE 0F STAPLE COM1\
doulit have an opportunity of pronouncillg PACING MNODITIES BILL.
on the sub.iect if an attempt is made to
THIRD READING.
enforce this mensure. In this respect 'it
from the mensure already
does not differ
The House resolved itself into a Commit
on the statate biooks. lIt is provided l)y tee of the Whole on Bill (117)-' An Act re
section S
and Sale of certail
+h- Po.ckilii
8. It shaîl be deemed a violation of this Act Staple Commodities.'
for any person, partnershlp, company or cor(In the Comaiittee.)
to sssist or encourage the Importation
poration
or immigration of any person who resldes in.
On the first clause,
or is a citizen of, sny foreign country to which
this Act applies, by promise of empicyment
(P.E.I.)--Wili
Hon. Mr. M_\ACDONALD
through advertisements printed or published In tehnrbemnse
ifr
h
xli
person
ifr
h
xli
sucli foreigfl country ;and any such of such tehnrbemnse
comiag to this country ln consequence
coming ence betweell the Act and the provisions la
an advertisement shall be treated as
the weigbtS of
under a coatract as contemplated by this Act, this first clause respecting
and the penalties by this Act Imposed shahl he varlous commodities '?
applicable in such case :provided, that this

[SENATE]
Hon. 'Mr. MbILLS-I thinlc there is 110 difference at ail. The object of the legisiatioli
is to separate the provisions relating f0 linspection from those relating f0 ordinar.5,
weiglxts.' I have nlot compared the section
with the law, but 1 w-as toid by the officer
ln charge that there was no0 difference botwý%een ithis -clause and the law as if stands.
The clause was adopfed.
On clause 3, subsection 3,

put info bags and shippcd. Generally the
quantity aiiowed for shipping wouid bo at
toast 100 tons per day. Yon cannot get a
ship unioss you agroe flot f0 detain the vessel. 1 thlak it wouid bc almost impassible
fo mark it there, and even though you couid,
I see a difficulty. If the bags were filled,
and marked se that the paint mark would
have time to dry, possibly no injury would
arise, but this stenciliing is generally donc
wlth paraffine.

Hon. Mr. i-,IcCALLUM-Where ai-e the
M\cXAY (Truro)-It seemis to
\r.
Hon. -me this wiIl cause trouble li flhe iower pro- hags miade ?
vinces. It says here:
Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL-I dlo not know.
The name or the registered trade mark of the
Hon. Mr. McNlCALLUMý-Tlioy are made in
packer of the sait, if if is packed in Canada, or
the name and address of the importer, if it îs West Lingiand.
packed elsewhere than la Canada, shall be
are
Hon. «Mr. WOOD (HaI.miltoni)-They
marked.
inarked with priater's ink, aîid it is donc
-Now, wc imnport Liverpool sait ia saclis
by machinery.
wlîich corne into the country withouf a mark
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thore
of any kind. The sait cornes lu iargely as
ballast lu lumibor ships, anti this is going is no paraffine used.
f0 cause an immense amount 0f trouble, if
lion. 'Mr. SNOWýB.%LL-Somne kind of oul
ta
uig
n
euean
these bags have to bo marked on the other hsf
I do nlot fhink oil, if wvill go through and injure the
side beforo being shipped.
nti
odn
tcno
shippers shonidl be put f0 thaf trouble. Sait it.itin
wçifhouf a direct injury to the contents
ide
is achep
aricl.
W700D (Hlamiiton)-WýAby shoulil o f the hag. The bags ai-e genieraily bags
flon. M.Nr.
they not he compeiied f0 do Nvhat our owlI thaf have heen used for other purpososi.
people have f0 do ? Thiere can be 11o ques- They are liot. as the hon. genfleman from
tion they oau get thoir sacks rnarkcd bofore Hamilton says, ncw bags got up cspeciaily
fhey afttnpf f0 I them. and thore wç%oul for titis purposo. In that case. I suppose
ho no tr-ouble at ail. Thiere is a vcry expe- flîey couid he marked by machinery ini advanco. but fhey are generaliy' bags uscd in
ditions way of doing if.
i muh esie dontŽthe first piace for ofher purposes. The
Hon Mr McAY-t
milei- iMrf.i
ýýconnfr li becus eiaw don price of sait ivili not ailow of getting aew
hyaegn
eodhn
en
hefoie titeir eyes, and fhey kmiow mlîat they mtra
cheap. 1 cari sec there wiii be diffintercaliy
ohpe
Bu
hs1
ai-e dloilig.
otîmor side. and for the nexf tweive months cuity la getting the work donc on the other
flie law wiil not he known on the other side. stde, and there wili be an injury fo flic sait
are compoIled te
WOO
Hon.'Mr (HmiltfflTheycaneýnsed in titis country if wc
OOD(Hamifon-Thy ca homark the sacks on this side. If yon use if
Hon.Mr.
enily advised of the iaw. The sait packers f0 sait hay if xvill injure the hay, or the fish,
ai-oîîo a nimeonspeope. fhhk i ISor whatcvei- if is used for. There wiil be a
sua u11gotiîat Engisit shippers should have dir-oct ini-vy wifiioît flirt benefit to anybody. Tihis legisiation is flot asked for. The
.ait adranfage over ont- own people.
Ho.Ir. SNOWBALL-I quite agi-eewitîî hags ai-e soid tweive or thirieîto tue foit.
Trnro (Hon. MiNl. Hon. 'Mr. CASGRIIAN (Windsor)_ Wýhat is
the lion, gentleman fi
of a bag of sit ?
MeKv) wvill mefemence to titis matter of flhe w-eit-lt
markiiîc sait. If hon. gentlemen were acln
'SrMAKNI
BO E
-t
qnaintod witiî the way sait is dolivcred to shon. Su-2,9
KENZ0
BOWEL-Itteto
ot
0fi
e20pnds
slips o1 the othier side, fhey wonid soc tle hod
WOOD (ilamiton)-I undorlion..
difficiiiîy. The sait cornes la barges a.d il
deiivcred af ship's side. If is there we%,ighed, stand hou- the sait is hi-ougli front flc
Honi. 'Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)

[_IAY 20, 1901]

45

ini This question was considered soîne years
this Iluse, and d:iscussed at some
bags there. 1 have seen it done imanly a ago in
it. As considerable lengtb. I think it was iinder a
time, and I kuow something about
; and the governmeflt
to the printing of the bags injuring tlie sale, former administration
print oti of &thatday saw that it wouid nlot be a
It is something new to me. WVe
and equitable thing, to insist on
the bags we put foeur in, and ship to Eng- proper
the flour, this coarse sait, which was imported
land, and it neyer deteriorates
lower provinces for the benefit
and certaiaiy foeur is more eaisiiy injuretl. into the
a 0f fishermien and farmers, being marked in
for
than sait. 1 cannot understand
way as the finer sait, wbich is
moment liow it could injure the sait. andl the samne
on the mnanufactiired in the upper provinces, and
then the very best shippers of sait
coules to a certain extent unider the
other side get their bags made new. They wihich
do
the best juî'isdiction of the excise departmnent. I
c an be printed by a machine with
the Bill appiies so much to
tîjinit that
priater's ink. and it is not possible e ven to i liot
Nvhicli is put in bngs on the other side
get it tiîrough the bag. I was in the cotton sait
which cornes out in bulk la
a time, and we were rnakilig as it does to sait
business for
for ships and is put int bags on this Bide.. I
foeur bags especiaily for foeur intended
not arny very strong opinion on the
shipment. 1 went tb a large concern in liave
mw- matter ;but it affects a very large ciass of
Scotiand, for the purpose of gettýng a
and the matter is of sucli importance
chine inade to do the printing on these btg.persons,
that it deserves somewhat careful coasiderme
The whole process w-as expiained to
It wiil be found that ia the iower
how it was cloue. lgndf how sait was shiipped, ation.
We I provinces tiîis enactinent will cause very
and it -,as shipped !in the saine -way.
discontent and dissatisfflctiofl and
are compeliirg our own people hiere to mark, serions
il wiii be rather mIte to remedy it when the
their bags agi barrels of sait. and I do not
is done. It is better te undersbtnd
see wlîy the people on t1he other side sliouldl injury
caîi it now.
have an advantage over our owni. Thiey
Hon,. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWELL-Thle
mark it on board ship as easiiy as at the
forgets-or perhaps hie lias
works, because il is shipped out of the lion, gentleman
and everybhing eau' not thought of it, that ail the manilfacturers
barges on to the ships,
or in any otiier portion of
be arranged there. I hiope the blouse wiii of sait lu Ontario,
the Dominion, 'bave this duty imposed upon
our o-nV'
see if is, bieir duty t0 protect
If the sait inilinufactirers of the
people, giving the outsider noe adantage tilemn.
mnariing. Thle county of Huron, or nt Windsor, seli a bng
over us in this malter of
are obiiged to put the weight
exact weizhit should be put on a bag as well or0 sait, they
frequentiy fili upon it and to have priiited uipon the bag
as on a barrel of sait. They
the factory from wlidl it ýis
bag-s anud cali them s0 many to the toil, but the ane of
you id they Isent, and 1 cannot see the equity of imposUlg
if you iut tbelu on the scales
a cluity of tlîat kind ujpon ouir owln sait manjudo iiot coniie to 2,240 pouinds.
facturers frein which we relieve those xvho
sait t0 wlhici i-e- iiipot fi-oui otiier counltries. Thie fear lias
lion. 'Mr. POWE R-The
liou. gentleman froni
fereiîce lias beei mnade by thc hon. gentie- beeii expressed 'by the
-fr. Snowbail) Clitalln (blon. 'Mr. SiioNwýbali) thiat the printmaii froin Chiathamf (Hoil.
ivould deteriorate the
and the hion. gentlemani froni Truro (H-on. iîîg upo-iî the bags
A moinent's revery coarse sait, quality of the Sait.
Mr. 3lcKay) as a mile is
wlîich lb is doue
not sait for table or dairy use, but for the ilection ils 1e the manner in
teacliiii lm lin is -not s0 and periiapS
"vil
use of fisherien anîd farmners.
lie w,,ouldî îît advance that argumielt again.
Hoii. 'fr. WOOD <Hamiiton)-Tlialt does
saine kiiid of materiai is used for priaIrenc.TVe
net iffake ny
is
'nk
hse bags of co:îrse sait tat
îguo
n
ifrne
flot~~~~~~~~
the fler qualibies
for ba.s contniaing
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I think it makes a very irsed
buying a bag of
The sait -is very rnuchi of sait, and every household
grent diff erence.
it ils weiglit and
add the cost of packhiig sait w.ili find prinited upoîî
clîcaper. and if you
chlaracter, wlietlîer it is finle or coarse,
and marltiîg. il maltes quite a difference il, its

sait works -to Liverpool, and

packed

lname of -the p.arty wlio manufacue
the price of a very cheap article like sait. anîd the

488

[SENATE]

it. This is the fi-st tirne I have ever heard,
'Hon. Mr. DEVER-It dries up again.
during ail my housekeeping, that sait was
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Buit
deteriorated frein tle fact of *having its
you have the weight.
quaiity printed on the outside of the bag.
lin. Mr. -SULLIVAN-0f course you have.
Hon. Mr. SNOWýýBALL-It is a differeut
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE ]3OWELL-Thàe
thing alfogether. One is doue by hundreds
if.
of tons, and the other is done by the hiua- lion' gentleman is nlot fôtilowing -me.
wlueu sbovellîng the sait into the bag wlien
dred-weight.
it is dry, it weighs 224 pou'nds, and it abli.
Sir MA'CKENZIE BOWELL-If the sorbs ten pounds of water--hion. gentleman's view were correct, even if
Hou. Mr. DEVER-It will dissolve the sait
there was a small bag and anl inferior kiud
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Let me
of înk put upon 'if, the iuk -woui'd certainiy
have a greater effect and wouid injure tue do the talking. I wvill listen to the hion. genfluer sait to a greater exteixt flan if you tlernail Nitb ail the patience imaginable
had the saine printing put uponi a ton of sait. after 1 amn through. If it dissolves the sait.
The hon, gentleman confends that the saine it injures it, but that bas nothing to do with
quanfity of ink used upon a smali quantify the ma,.rkchug of the bags. Thoen, if you buy
would flot affect it, but if you put it on a a bag of sait here whlch weighs 224 pounds
bag holding 240 pounds, it wili destroy the witli the adffitional water, you are oniy payquality, tbough -it is of a coarser quality andi inig for the quauutity marked upon the bag
flot so susceptible of absorhing the deleferi- wlien it is shipped, -which is 224 pounds. Su
ous matter ia the printing. ln Montreal, tluat the purchaser ýdoes not lose inything ln
soune sackýs of English sait and sfackt; of ftue weiglut. If if Is deterioratedi by tlie a4sait which came frein Windsor iay upon the sorptiou of ivater, that ýis not the question
whiarf,
and the question -was asked : ive are discnssing, iuor wouid this iaw inter' Mlichl wouid weigh the mnost ? Which do fere witlu that, and it just cornes back to the
you prefer ? ' They looked ait the size of the position taken by the lion. gentleman fronu
hags and said the Eljish 'bag of sait; but H-amilton (M.Wood), whetlier we shoul<l
wheii they w.ere weighied, they found oixe grant privileges to those who send anl article
wexghed 224 pounds to the hag, and the iinto this con'try whichi are not grainted to
othier, of the greater buik, did nlot weigh 150 our owu iuanufaturers. 1 thliukz it is a very
pounids. The inexperienced mari would be strong grotund, and -we shouid adixere f0 it.
clueated in buying a bag of sait to the exlion. Mr. DEVER-I n'as going t0 say tliat
tenit of 30 or 40 pouuds. The on]ly difficulty 1 xvoul( lc elle of the last memnlers of this
tliat lias suggested itself to îny hion. frieand Senate %viio would ýwislu f0 'put any
restricfrouai Chîatham (Hon. Mr. Suiowbaii) is tuai tienu upoii oui own manufacturers ýtlia we
wlien sait cornes down flue canal andI is put wvould uuot place upon tlue nianufacturers 0f
inito hags, it wiii be a great expeuse ai( auxother counfry, but the sait înanufactured
trouble to have fIeiweighit printed upon the !i Canada is a veî'y different article fron
hag. I have hieard the argument nsed be- tixe sait under discussion, which cornes froin
fore, thnt tIe sait absorbs a lot of water, Liverpool. The one is a dry sait, and it
and cousequentiy does Dlot weigh wliat il should be dry. If is put in smail bags, anud
did %v-beu it was put la the bag. Thnt is used for' dairy anrd table pulîposes. 1 biavi)
certaiuuly to the injury of the purchaser. If lio objection that thaf siuould
*be inarkedl
you biy a 'bag of dry sait, and it is inarkedl distinctly witi the wueiglit and tradeniark, if
224 jpoiiuds whien if is dry, and if if absorbs the manufacturers se desire.
Witb referelgît or tell pounds of moisture ia its trans- ouxce f0 the Liverpool sait tluat cornes out in
missionu frein Liverpool or any other Eng. ships as ballast, soiefimes as inany ais 50,lisi porLt to Canada, tiuat is not to the detri- 000 sacks in a slxîp, I shouid like to ask hion.
Meut of the inani -wo buvs it. se far as the gentlemien how could it be possible that
weighit is concernied.
50,000 sacks couid be marked with the
weighft upon ench sack, and at the same
Hoii. 'Mu'. DEVEII-Certiiiy it is.
time go into the bands of the purchaser
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wiy? at thiat miark s0 as to guarantee thnt lie
Honi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

[-MAY 20, 19011
-was getting tbe quantity mnarlted 0o lie
sack ? The bon. genitlemanl who preceded mie
gave instances to show howv inipossýible thai
would be. The sait Is put on board the sb'ip
at Liverpool, and absorbs five, teit or fifteen
Hou, gentlemen must
pounds of water.
see that w-heu sait absorbs water, it bcgins 10 dissolve, and tbickens, and the wnter
will ooze out, and when a sack of sait is deficieut l weiglht, il is because a quantity
oozes ont witlb the water. Lu the maritime
provinces they imnport large quantities of sait
for the use of the fishiernlien. This question
uvas before uis a year or two ago, and i
thiuk a deputation caille up frotu the lower
provinces, pointing out the great dificulties
and great hiardships this wouid involve. because sait is a cheap article and a heavy
1 believe each sack contains 200
article.
pouuds. We know liow difficuit it wouid b)e
to handie. say, fifty tbousand bags of sait
Lt
and have thern marlred in eacb case.
wouid cost the handlers of the sait aimost

offered for sale shall have the correct gross
weight thereof, and so on.
And then the 3rd subsection we are considering reads:
3. The naine or the registered trade mark of
the packer of the sait, If It is packed in ýCanada,
or tire niarne and address of the Importer, If It la
packed elsewhere than in Canada, shall be
marked. stamped or branded on every barrel of
sait soid or offered for sale in Canada.
Lt does flot say that the weight shall be
rnarked abroad. He can bring in the sait lu
bulk if he likes.
Hon. MiNr. McCALLIUMý-H-e
n lterwards.

eau pack it

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes, but lie' inust mark
tiiose bags witi tbe weighit ou tlîem before
it is soid s0 tbat people wiil kuow -%vhat
tlîey are buying. Lt does tiot require him
to go beyoud that. Lt does iiot require the
bags 10 be inarked before tiey are put on
so that the difflculty rnentioned
board shlî,
by the bion, leader of the opposition two
years ago, is avoided by the Bil as it stands.

Hou. Mr. DEVER-L have no objection to
the trade mark, or the weight, being put on
the bag- of sait, but under clause 3 of this
iii
Bhc we wiii have to weigh each sack when
seiiing 100 or 200 sacks 10 a fisherman or
otber custorner, and it will be aimost Worth
t11e wboie value of the sait to have to put ail
tiiose sacks of sait upon th1e scale and weigi
them separateir at the lime of sale.
Hon. '-%r. MACDONALD (P.E.l.l do not
1agtree wvith t11e provisions of the Biii as it
stands. This mialter lias been before parlialnelt ou two differeut occasions. and a
clause siuiiar 10 luis ývas iiu Bis tliat
%vere subiîîilted 10 us before. and it wvas
altered there aud 1 arn quite aware tumaI if
a Biii of Ibis kind were introduced aîîd
Holn .Mr. -NLLILS-I-oii. gentleeni wvill passed here, it would l meet witlî very great
see this clause does iîol necessilate aIl Iliat opposition ini the mnaritime provinces. where
rn. lion. friend opposite supposes. We do people dealinl sait iînported frorn tîme oid
Ilot require tlie maqrking of the bags w-vlien coulitry. It coules 10 the province iii buikthey are being Imported. We require them 10 perîîaîs, 50,000 busiiels or 50,000 bags, or
be inarke(l siînpy wlieîî they are offered -,00 or 6000 tons may corne in biîik !l the
and coasting vesseis buying- that sait
so
hî s11 s sp,
part
iîiay1b
for t sale.
go Ilîcie and take il lu buik or in bags as
îîr
nbrond Nviil mark tiîern wbien tibe'
brouglit ont lîcre. but il is muot absoiutely suits tlien. Tiey do nol mind wbether you
Tuie whoie is
Let uie cail rny lion. frioi's put lii ;-0 or .500 pouuds.
necessar.
attenîtioni 1 t1he provisions of the' Biii. '111e wiladte-f andd the take it away lu quantiseectied
ticsîls as tliey require il.
section
lion. -Ni. M.11ILS-Tiere is nothing iii Ibis
Every barrel o! 'sait packed lu buik, sold or
atiibi.I
ae0
ocîig11
offered for sale, shahl contain 280 Pounds of Bl
at!lbl.I
aeo
h
oilii
sait. and every barrel or sack of sait sold or

wiii understand that in the maritime proviInces il would not be Judiclous, nor fuir
to the dealers in sait to be put 10 t11e
sin
trouble of rnarking this sait,
ported lu large quantities. If the House decide it shahl be so, 1 suppose we will have to
subrnit but I think. on behaif of the maritime
intporters of sait, it is rny duty, as wei ais
the duty of every otiier iieniber froin th1e
maritime provinces. to point ont tliese difficuities, and itlmay be taken int consideratioui wiîetier il is not better to keep tîjis
clause in abeyance for furtmer consideration,
so tlat the goverurnent iniay 'be satisfied
they are doing that which wiil be practicable.

rDi

[SENATE]
is ouly in
barrels or
but you
toueli the

barrels anda bags. If it is put ln
bags, the weighit rnust be marked,
mnay seli a vessel load and flot
provisions of the Bill.

Hon. Mr. MAL4CDONALD (P.E.I.)-Biit the
sait mas have to be placed ln bags to be
taken away from the vessel. Lt is flot takenl
In buik on a railway. Lt is flot carried by
other commoa carriers lu bulk. They wi]l
flot carry it about the country iu buik.
It
must be put into bags, and therefore this
wouid lie looked upou as a bardship. The
sait that iq used there is eutireiy different*
it is made fromn brine, a differeut kind o;
salt altogether from thie sait that is manufactured lu Canada.
Our Caunadian sait
cornes dowu to us usuaily lu small bags, or
la barrels each marked with the address of
the packer, very muaiu as reciuired undfr
this Act.
The sait that cornes ont froni
the old country is sait that is taken out
of a mine aud crusbed so that it cau be
shipped ln buik conveuiently.
Wheu it is
brouglit out lu bags, those bags absorb
daîîîpuoss and they wouid be very differeut
lu weight wheu taken out of the slîip to
whiat they were whveii put ou board.
This
provision w-euld bear very hardiy on importers of sait fromn the old couutry. If they seil
it in bags they would find this a very great
hairdshili, and if they put those bags, as
they frequentir do, on a wharf, and ieave
them there, lu summner-tirne the sait would
dry up lu the sun, or mieit in the main, and
when moved fronm there weuld not 1)0 of
the samne weight.

it ? The object is to give a puichaser, nlo
miatter whether lie buys sait or ýsugar. .what
lie buys. Sait is a very cheap article because it is broughlt from Engiland lu ballast;
but if a .mau 'buys a cargo of sait, is tîtere
anytlîiag îxnreasonable lu demanding that
lie put it la bags or barrels wheealie seils it
to luis cuistomers, and that lie shail state
Otherwise the purchaser
what lie souls?
dooes ilotknow wlhat lie is huy13inig. lit the
prov1ince of Ontarlo tlîey mark ail thieir Sait.
and no nlatter wlîat the sixe of the bag, the
w'cighit is nuari:ed on ft anti parchiasers kinow
what they buy. Wheu a cargo of sait arrives
ii tCils country, the owner is net 'going te
seli the wvbole of it at one sale. He must
retail it, and purchasers slîonld kuîow wvlat
thîey are getting. I have beeni toid tha t it is
a fraud lu this way, that a great deai of injustice lîas beeu dlonc, and tlîat fre<îuently
a sack of sait doos net weligh w liat it slîould.
If a nmaî deais la sait, 1 do0 îot see \vlîy lie
shouid îîot be compeiledl te deai hîouestly
with the public, as weli as other trader,. If
a deailer sells sugar. or any other product,
lie is requireil te give the h)urciaser the
(li:zqlltity lie boys. I ftni iii faveur of the
Bill as ht Ns îow.

Iwould
lionî.Mr. 31ACDONALD îh...
Sug*gest te the iniister te inake ail exceptien lu tue case ef Sait impertcd for the use
of tue fislieries-. It is aui entirelv dilicrent
sait treîîî that made by evaporation iii Canada. It is a sait that athers niaisture, nai
von canniot guarantee that the weighit of a
hag of sait will ho the samie at ail tinma-. I
The CHA-ýIRM\AN-Subsection 2 has flot halve beeni told during the reicess tlîat a geunbeeii carried and the committee are discus- tieman inperted a quantity of sait te Prince
Edward Islind, and dtuniug the timie it was
sing subclause 3.
on the wharf the tide came ia, aud melted
The subelause was adopted.
It weuld
a qunutity ef sait lu 300 sacks.
On suliclause 3,
be a very great hardsbip if a man was
lion. Mr. MIcCALi,,.U-Tbe object of the Ouned for neot haviuig tue full weigbt lu
1 thiink
Bill is thiat a mani slîould get wbat hie pays these bags as marked en themi.
it wouid be a reasouable thiug te make
for.
the exception I suggest.
Sait imperted
It being six o'ciock the Chairmnan left the freni Ontario is eutirely differeut.
Lt
Chair.
is flne sait, put up ln smail bags for
oairy and family use. Lt is wiiholiy different
After Recess.
frein sait that is miiid. or rock sait, and if
the Bill passes lu its present state, I know
The committee was resumed.
it will Uc fouiid a great hardship) te thoso
Hon. Mr. McNlCALLUMN-I do not wish to whe import sait from the 01(1 country, aiff
discuss titis Bill, but lu looking over it, I wviether it is bagged on thils side or ou the
began to askz nyseif what is the object of othcr side of the Atlantic will imakle verY
Honi. «Mr. MACDONALD (P.ET.)

[,NAY 20, 1901]1
barrels, mlust mark the quantity ia the
little difference. Lt is put l very coarse or
what lie cails
froin the bags In bag or barire!, and If lie sells
jute bags, very different
a barre], of -sait, 'lie must have 280 pounds of
whicli sait is put up in Ontario.
weig.ht of the barre!. Hie
cars sat podueilsait besides the
Hon Mr JOES-s
if lie
does that with sait reflned liere, and
pructli
anda JONES-Is icoseitio
on.
td
waitb a
saf ine
unetastol
Eng- so.r Bute
the kind of sait whieh is imported f rom
is
th
de,
If so, to sah. Bt bfrrelin ortbngitg
land for tihe use of -the fisheries ?
fhrom
word to isinde în
like nothong in then
what extent is it produced? I should
a-idrhmfo
ol
h
province senators ntigi
to hlear from the maritime
predoing so. The Bill la this regard is
ta
what effect the competition f of Oaniadlai
sit.cisely the saine as the law witli regard to
Eglih
he mpotaton
saitbason
packing or dealing witlî otlier articles,
ipsorain af Engsib sat
basonte
Ithe
barre!. It
the mark the quantity on the bag or
neem bc ladil
shtl
te comite
If
prevents the pureblaser .froml being cheated
saine lminner as Canadiian. That objectionî
the article. Fie may
in Canada by the man who sellschooses, but if lie prowotid pos.,ibly lie lesseued if
if lie
for
te
as lon.ask more sel It barrel. of sait, -lie must -ive
a
fesses to
ue!if
tiiere is no eueli sait produced
280 pounds und mark the weigbt for whlîi
gentleman mentioned.
on the barre!. Or If lie
Honl. Mr. MILLS-Hori. geuntlemni wlll lie is responsible
it by the bag lie must mark fthe qunsee that they iare discussing -wiiit is flot l 1selis
the bag. That does not eeem to be
the Bill, and discussing hardsliips tiat lit! tity on
thing, and 1 cannet see how it
Bil! does flot -create. If lion1. gelltlOmieil will a difficult
puts a difficulty in the rway of the tisiierclause 3:
lcok at the first part of
because thie fishermen cau buy ilu bulk
3. Every barre! of sait packed la bulk, sold or n.:en, the 100 poursds if lie chooses to do so.
shall contain two hundred aad or by
offered for sale,
elghty pounds of sait, and every snob barre! or
HnMr DEVER-I do not wisli to make
offered for sale, shall the
sack of sait, sold orweight thereof, and la have
Hl.ir
the correct gross
Minister of Justice or the
the net weîght also, marked trouble for the
case of a barre!
govern.meat la this case, but 1 want to point
in a plain and permanent manner.
upon It
ont tibat the minister does not see the point
Then sub-clause 2
ta a commercial man woulLl see it. Tiiere
2. Whea bags off sait are packed la barrels,
a bag referred to here, but thiere is a
the number of bags contained la the barre! and is
sack of sait means 250 pounids
the weight off the aggregate amiount off sait sack also. A
shall be marked, stamped or branded on onewegt
egt
head of the barre!.
Hll. Mr. BAKELI-Two Iiundred and
referbeILNTltlas
Honl. Mr.
twenty pounds, it used to be.
ence to our sait.
lion. M.DEVER-I have no objectioni ta
Hon. '-\r. M-NILLS-Subsectioii :, provides z
'liag'
mark of ibis Bill as it stands, if you mention
3. Trhe namne or the registered trade
put into
ls packed la Canada, iastead of ' sach.' Thle bags cau lie
the packer off the sait, If it
Or the naine and address of the importer, If It l1brrl res
be
packed elsewhere than la -Canada, shallC
marked. stamped or branded on every barrel or
%r.
Holl. -- GILLMOR-Did the hion. gentieeack of sait soid or offered for sale In Canada.
an ever know a barre! of sait to lie sold
wllsectha ths s dalig
Hal.. l gntllu
l St. John ?
Hon.~~~~~~~~~ geteeIisetîttîi sdaig
witlî sait that is packed elthler la barrels or
Houl. MNr. DEVER-I bave nieyer ý,uiowi1
la sacics. Lt does not deu! witli the question
1t0 buy n small bags of sait to lie imported from Engof sait l bulk. If a iuani ellooses
If you erase the Word 'sack' from the
ton of sait, of course lie wvl! get a ton of land.
He0 mai clause, it will overcome ail the difficiiltY.
sait, and îvlll get a ton liy weiglit.
As for talking of loose sait, I thuik tliat Is
buy a wliole cargo that way, but if lie un
is simply
then lie mus[ beside the question. The question
dertakes afterwards to seli it,
by tbis Bill, Liverpool sait will
this-that
cc-nf orm to thîlaw. Tiiere is no ineoitvenilie excluded unless 'they weigli every snck.
ence imposed upon hlm -witli reg.1rd to tie
1 ani proud to see our Canadian people
purchinse of sait in bulk :but if lie is a retai!
and ta see
l lus grocery manufacture dairy and table sait,
denier, the man wbo keeps it
citles ia the miaritime provinces.
it la our
for sale, anld undertakes ta sel! lt ln bags

[SENATE]
Liverpool sait cornes in large quantities In
Hon. Mfr. MeXAY (Truro)-No. Lt is the
ships, and it would be utterly Impossible fo imlporter thiat has to mark
them, and they
weîgh five or ten thousand sacks of sait, iu -ire full when tHe sait
arrives.
case one wanted that quantity. Lt would
onily add to the cost every time you made a
Hou. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-If the imnsale,
porter advises the sbipper that hie wants
the sait shipped
Hon. Mr. MeKAY (Truro)-The explana- way, hie will be lu bags marked a certain
happy to do it. He Is not
tion of the Minister of Justice is only aul ex- going to lose
a customer because lie lm-\
piantion for saýit in 'bulk-. We do flot dis- poses some littie
direction upon hilm In
pute that. What we want to get clear of is England. M.Ny
bon. frieud from Chatham
the trouble of having to f111 sacks to mnake says it is going to
cost a very large amount.
up the quautîty, and mark the ilame of tHie I (d0 flot believe
the printing of a sack wil
packer. You caunot get 280 pouilds !i a cost a quarter
of a cent. Eacli sack cousack.
talus *224 pouuds, aud the increased cost
Hon. Mr. M1ILLS-There is nothiug l the wouid be a mere trifle. The sait matie ln
Bill requlriug you to put 280 pouuds lu a Western Canada is of a fluer quality, no
sack. You are to mark the quautity, what- doubt. Wheii the sait goes to Moutreal,
ever it may be.
Quebec, or auy of the lower provinces, to
be sold, It meets imported
Hou. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-ihere is anl coarser, and inferior sait, sait, which is a
aud they bave
[dea that Liverpool sait cornes in conipeti- got into the way of selling
it 50 mauy
tion with Cauadiau sait. Lt canuot possibIy bags to the ton. Instead of
ten bags to the
come into competition with ours, because, tou thiere may be fourteen
or fifteeu, and
nl the flrst place, the bags and freiglut cost unless the bags are marked,
the purchaser
ess than the freight from Ontario to the does îîot know liow nuucli
lie Is gettiug.
maritime provinces, so you canot put downi The public shouid be protected
by the gov.he saine kiud of sait lu competition.
erament from uniscrupulous dealers.
Our
frientis froin the maritime provinces
t Hon. Mr. MILLS-Liverpooi sait
goes ail to miake this alrnost a persoual thiugseem
for
ver Cnada.themseives,
because they seemi to be dealHon. Mr. 3lcKAY (Truro)-Anywhe.e you iag iargeIy lu sait. Ail I ask is fair play.
an get a ship it tioes.
i only ask the saine, treatment for the exHon. Mr. WOOD (HaIzmilton)--The sait hl porter of sait lu Euglaud thýat 1 ask for
the manufacturer of sait lu the west. If
iigland at present is la a large trust. A you place tbem
ail on the sanie footing I
f rienti of mine la the North of Engiand is haentig
oet
a
tlseeretar
o
4-1,~l~L rL,
andu ii
sait us
just lu the saine position aiînoûst as the
Hon. M-Nr.
SJNOWýBALL--Onie pnrty is arguCarniegie Steel Company is to-day. The
iuîg fromi one stautipoint anti the other froin
Bill as presenteti by tHe Minister of Justice another. The
sort of sait we are referriug
is a fair anti reasonlable one to ail parties. to is Liverpool
sait, whIicb cornes to the
1 do uot think Our owa people siionti be maritime provinces for
fishiug purposes only.
subjecteti to a thing that outsiders siiouid
flot be subjeét to also. If you are goîng
to give tlîem immuiiity from maqrking, their

bags, anti barrels, whIY not do tue samne
-ith our owun people.
They have as gooti
a rig-lt to have their sacks and barrels uli-

Hou. MIr. WOOD (Hamiitou)-Is not the
sait from Western Canada used foir flsfrlng
purposes ?

Hou. Mr. SNOWBALL-I do flot kuow anybranded as tHie Englishmiian lias. Thiey say thiug about it. I kuow -that the sait which
it is going to atid to tue expeuise of the cornes la barrels and bags is Upper Cauada
importer to siuiply mark the bags seeins to sait. We pay for it without any question.
me a very smiail statemeuit to mnake. Bags But the sait uset in tue fisheu'ies is another
are printed as rapitiiy as niewspapers, and ting. I know, or shouid know, what I aun
can have the weight put oui thoem as easiiy talking about. I have been engaget inl this
business for forty years, and I import
as the date ou a iiewspiper.
quantities of sait every season.
For orHon. Mr. I)EVER.

1J
[MAY 20, 1901]
to the people in the maritime provdering sait from the mines, as a rule, we hardship
to enforce any sucb obligation on them.
pay about 5 shillings a ton f reight, and take inces
is a
-wouid Vessels corne iu witb sait, and there
only euough of it for ballast. Vessels
for discharging them. Other
time
not put a cargo for 5 shillings a ton, but iimited
corne alongside to take the sait.
would take four or five bundrNl tons or vessels
marks would be ail obliterated, and thîs
sufficieut for good ballast. For the require- The
baif Bill requires that they shouid be distinctiy
ments of the country we waut about
marked.
of it iu bulk and haif of It ln bags. The
nou. Mr. SCOTT-Put a tag ou It.
object of putting it lu bags is, the fisbiug
ou ou the north side of Prince
ls carried
Hon. Mr. SNOWBALL-A tag couid be
Edward Island, and lu our own gulf. Schoois
unabie to get put on every bag and marked, but that
ners corne for sait, they are
of the law. There would
into the smalier ports, and the fishermen flot the requiremefit
to that because they could
corne out lu srnall boats and take it lu be an objection
and used again., The delay lu
bags. Those who can remove it lu bilk. be taken off
sait wouid get the ship ou
prefer it ln that way. Tbere la flot 250 discbarging the
if you require us to mark
pounda of sait lu a bag. The bags have demurrage, and
and the bags as they would bave to be marked,
been reduced lu price and lu quaiity,
the sait.
they wiil flot bold that quantlty. The you would Injure
reduced untii there is
quautity bas been
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Oh, no.
ouly about 170 pounds lu a bag. Tbe obla, to enabie these
ject of gettiug it lu bags
o.M.SOBL-haentbn
sait in
people along the shore to land tbe
the trade without
tbeir couve- eugaged fifty years iu
their amali boats. It Is for
somethlng about It. 1 say you are
by knowlug
ulence. But the sait lu bulk, we sell
not be
by imposIng a task on us which isho -uid
measure, or by the ton, and, failiug -that,
I therefore move to take out al
ton. lmposed.
the bushel, so many bushels to the
the words af!ter 'Canada' in the nlneteeuth
have a very rough mode of weigbing
We
tine.
la ail lune Up to ' sait' luIthe twentieth
and dealing wa a rule, because it
VLDAIlt appears to me there
Hou. Mr.
among people wbo are acquaiuted witb each
lu discussing this
I -wbeel-barrows and take has been a. wlde departure
other. Tbey
from 'wbat ought to occupy our mnuds
away the quantity they require by es- matter
-witb a question of this kilud. The
timated -weight. Tbe baga that are used are ia desiing
of this Bill bas been very ciearly
not new. We do not buy tbern new. We purpose
us by the Minister of Justice.
buy bags Ibat bave been used for otber pur- put before
it not to make sure tbat every purdhaser
poses and get tbemi at a very low price. la
article shahl have wbat le pays for Yt
We could xiot straigbten tbem out and stamfp of any
1 couteud, notwitlstiuding so muil lias
thein. If we couid, tbere ia nlo doubt It
about these importers of sait, it
wouid not burt the sait, but lt wouid en- been sald
does not affect the Importation of sait lu the
tail a cousiderable additioliai cost ou acany transaction betweeu the Engcount of baving to buy a more expenSive least, nor
Iisb exporter and the Canadian importer.
bag to put the sait lu. Supposiug a slip
were loaded wltb bags of sait marked as
Hon. Mr. DEVER-We couteud to the
mentioned ln this Bill. Some of the bags
Lt Is juat as well the House
break going on board. Tbey ail waste a contrary.
-when tbey shouid understand the point.
certain qujntity. Tbiese bags,
corne from the slip, xwouid vary lu weiglt.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-If I make auy iinaccurIf TOU mark the bagas on tbe other aide
ate statement It cau le pointed out aftertîcre la not one iu a buudred of tbern wouid
imported
bere. Yon wards. The Bill duos not aif eet the
weigh the samne wbeu dehivered
sait at ail. Lt may corne Iu any variety of
seize the sait, for short weiglt. If you mark
bags. This provision la simrply to preveut
the sacks on thia aide, you must do It witl
-tbe purclaser from being imposed upon. 0f
a brusb and paint, and you wouid injure
ail muen I tliuk the fishermen require this
more sait than you could do good to Îany
protection as mucb as auy men ln Oaapurcbaser. I maintif tbat it -would be a

[SENATE]
ada. They are not men wuho wouid look
very closely into these inatters, and they
should be assured that when they buy a
bag of sait it contains the quantity they
pay for. As to the trouble, it is nlot wortli
mentioning. Any man who sells an article
la wllhng to put bis naine and the quantity
lie is selling on the package, unless he waata
to humbug the people. An honest trader la
always glad to put bis naine and mark the
quantity on what lie sella. It may have
dlminished in weight or increased by moisture, but that ehould nlot interfere to prevent the protection of fisliernien which we
by this mensure aeek. to give thein.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-It is quite evIdent that
there are two classes of mnen Ia this Senate.
There Is one clasa evidently la faveur of the
inanufacturing of sait in Canada. In tbe
maritime provinces we appreciate this, but
there la another point we wish to place before the House, and it la this :Certain gentlemen, especially the hon, gentleman. froin
Sarnia,.sad this Bill will nlot interfere -witb
the Importation of sait. Tliat is a mistake.
There la a class of sait whîch is nlot mentloned at ail, which we import. There la
rock sait. A lump of that rock sait would
fiIl a barrel.
Hlon. Mr. VIDA-It is not put ln baga.
Hlon. Mr. DEVER-We import it for the
purpose of curing our slip timber and for
other purposes. That must be imported in
bulk, and It is in large rocks. It la used
aise for fertiiizing purposes. It is a very
cheap article, almost as cneap as sand.
Under tbls Bill we would have to welgb
and mark it. That wouid be more than it
la worth, and thie effect of it wouid be Bimpiy to prohibit the importation of it. Then,
again, about the sack sait intended for fish,ermenl if it is simply the sack sait, 1 suppose we wouid have no objection to the
inarking- of the bags and barrels, because,
after ail, they do flot amount to anything.
It is the sack sait and the rock isait thant
we import ln large quantities, and under
this bill I bld-I may be wrong-we could
flot import It at ail, because the expense for
the labour and trouble of weig-hirg it.
transporting it by means of teams from the
whaxf and places they keep it in-they put It
in cheap storage-until they selI would be
too great. A man wants, say, tive hundred
Hion. Mr. VIDAL.

sacks of thus sait for a country store ;every
sack would bave to be weighed, and It
would take two men to weigh that bag of
sait and put It on the scales. I do not see
bow the rock sait could be soid at ahl ln
sacks. It Is sold In bulk, but accordîng to
this Bill It would have to be sold la bags
and sacks. That la the position we are la,
and It la for this House to say wbether we
shah 'have to Import sait, as we have done in
the past, or whether we shafl have to suppiy
ourseives from Canada, aad the question is,
are we able to do It ? If we place restrictions on the foreign sait, we muast ask the
people of our own country to supply us with
sait.
Hon. Mr. MciCALLUM-Weigh
charge more for It.

it

and

.Hon. Mr. IDEVER-We ca-nnot stand it.
If pariamexU Inflicta thîs on us at present,
we f eei that ethey are coercing us into a
thlag we do not want.
The committee divlded on the ameadment,
whîdli was rejeceted by -the foliowing vote:
'Yeas, 9 ; aays, 21.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 5,
Hon. Mr. BBhRNIER-I desire again to
cail the attention of the government to the
objection I ralsed wit-h reference to this
clause. I made some remarks the other day
about it, and I do not kaow whetber the hon.
miaister lias given it lis consideration.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Will my bon. friend
mention what there is iu the clause that
he objecta to ?i
-Hon. Mr. BERN'IE'R-If we oblige the re.
tallera to mark the word ' short ' on the
boxes containing bernies, or the sinaîl fruits
imported from the United States, we practically prohibit the sale of these sneall fruits
la so far as they cannot be deiivered on the
day tbey arrive, and thea it would be a lardslip for our retailers, and it would. practicaliy deprive our province, whicl does not
produce those amail fruits to any extent, of
these delicacies.
Hon. Mr. 1fILS-My 'bon. frIend did iiot
p)oint out the particular provision la this
that le specially objecta to.

. [MAY 20, 1901]
Hpn. -Mr. BERNIER-Section 5 reads :

495

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-Where
Is It grown ?

5. Every box cf berrnes or currants offered
for sale, and every berry box manufactured and
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I could moet tell yen.
offered for sale, la Canada, shall be pia.iniy
It le bro'ught from the sou-th, some of it
xnarked on the aide ef the box, la black letters
ln the matter of bananas,
Lt lest haif an Inch square, with the word from Ca-*fooena.
'Short,' unleas It contains when level-full as a merchant 'wlll sometimes sedI tbem for ten
nearly exactiy as practicablecents a dozen lu Manitoba. Tbey are sold
(a) at least four-fifths of a quart, or
(b) two-flfths of a quart.
on certain days. I know that lu the town
'The objection radsed by the Board of Trade
ln Winnipeg la that It will practically prohibit the people of Manitboba from enjoyilg
berrnes or small fruiits grown lIn the United
States. That menus, in fact, ail tbe berrnes
ln use lu tbe Manitoba market, until late lu
the season, whien a limited quantilty can
be obtained frem British Celumbia. Speciai
-efforts bave been made te bring strawberrles
from Ontario, and heavy less bas resulted,
and lu any case the Eastern bernies do net
ripen until a menth after we commence te
receive amali bernies f rom the United States,
and the sug-gestion made by tbe Winxnipeg
Fruit Exchange is as follows:
While endorsing the Bill, as far as native
,grown fruits are concerned, we would consider

It a hardship and detrimentai to the trade of
this Noxth-west if the Bill was made to cover
Importations from the United States.

The bon, gentleman may understand the
change we seek by taklng Into censideratien this representation made by the WinI
nipeg Preduce and Fru-it Exchange.
gather frem that that If the importations
from the United States 'were exempt frem
this fermality tbey weuld be satisfied. Or
we might amend the clause se as te remove
frem its eperation small fruits wben im-

where I kve, meréhants w411 sell good, large
conaignmeuts of fruit adverlised prevlouely,
and tbey will get several cases of strawbernies aud amali fruits, and it weuld be
Impossible for those dealers 'to take tbe
time to mark the fruit and seli it. I do flot
know wbat suggestion bas been mnade, but
1 know it wouid exclude the sale of these
small fruits from tibe United States.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not see wbat serious niiscbief there could be if the first snjbStrawberries,
clause were stricken eut.
raspberries and currants, as a generai tbing,
are sold iu open boxes. The ebjeet is te
preteet the buyer. Wben the boxes are
open, the buyer has an opportunity te see
lu what condition the boxes are. If he
keepe his eyes open at ail be does -not need
any proteotion from the law.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-All thiese small
fruits are sold by sight, as a matter of fact.

Hon. Mr. POWER-That is just wbat 1
gay.
The purchaser bas a chance to, sce
±iow far the berrnes 'wàll corne lu the
box. Strawberries and raspberries will
shrink a great deal, and I think If the first
subseclion were etéicken. out the rest of tbe
clause Is ail right, because the larger fruit
ported or seld ln open 'boxes.
la flot se, Jikely to shrink ; and inasmuch as
Heu. Mr. WATSON-1 dld net know the no serious damage can be donc, and no seri'Winnipeg fruit dealers had made representa- ons f raud is likely to be pr-actised on tbe
tions here, but tihere is ne deubt that what purchaser, and as the resuits of tbis enactlias been sytated is perfctly correct, because ment are likely to be injurlous te Manitoba,
any hion, gentleman must know that ln the the best -way is 'to strike out the first subImportation of strawbernties and raspberries section, whlcb reaids as foliewa
and a1l fruits of that kind, It would be Im5. Every box of bernies or currants offered
possible fer the deaier te mark ail tbe boxes. for sale, and every berry box xnanufactured and
Hie às hiable te aIl the penalties previding offered for sale, in Canada shall be plainly markthey are sbert. Hie ceuld net possibly de it. ed on the side of the box, in black letters at
least hait an Inch square, wlth the word
The cbeapest fruit we get ln Manitoba is
Short,' unises It contains when level-fuil as
sent up .from St. Pul. The large fruit nearly exactiy as practicabie(a) at least four-fifths of a quart, or
.dealers ia St. Paul wiil netify tbeir cus(b) two-flfths of a quart.
tomers la Maniteba tbat they can send theni
.a certain quantity of fruit at a certain date,
when thcy are overstocked tbere, anid are
ivdlling te seil cbcap.

And, further, I tbink tbat legisîstion for
wbicb there bas been ne popular demand,
is always -a mistake.

[SENATE]
Hon. Mr.
hear.

MACDONALD

(P.E.I.)-Hear,

Hon. Mr. POWER-No one lias told us
that there hias been any popular demand for
this legîsiation.
Hon. Mr. WÎATSON-I cannot agree that
there Is -no dem-and for this legisiation. I
tbiak there I.s a great demand for it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I imean 'this partlcular
clause.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I can understand
this particular clause. It is not a question
of the top of the box beiug full. It is a
question of -the bottomn of the box. The
real bottom may be up haîf an Inch f rom
the bottom. You imagine you are getting
a basketful of berrnes and you are not, and
there Is a doimand for legisiation to reme-dy
thiat. But as -to how you can overcome the
particular case of Manitoba with reference
to the fruit f romn the south, it la pretty bard
to understand, without doing away witb
part of the Bill. The B3ill, and this partîdu.
lar clause, Is asked for, not only by the
consumers but by the bonest packer. 1
have read part of -the debate in the House
oe Commons, and 1 flnd that the gentlemen
wbo aire engaged in the fruit business are
lu favour of -this, because it gives the bionest packer a fair chance against the disbonest packer.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIEJ BOWELL-There
Is no reason wby Manitoba should be exempt
fromn the operation of the law aur more than
Ontario. We are in precisely the samne position as th-e hion. gentlemen frumi Manitoba
are. Our early bernies always corne frorn
the south.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-AuIid tbey are
bere aow.
lon. Sir MiNACK;-ENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
and have been here for saine -little time.
Hou. Mr. WATSON-WVe iimport ail our
strawi)elr1es.
Hou. Smi MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
1 sbould think ta;me strawberries
knlow.
would ripari the-re as well as wild istrawberries. It is only a question of the season.
The whole abject of the Bill is to proteet the purobaser. It seemis to me aIl this
discussion la du favour of the importer aud
iii favour of the seller. The poor unfortuHon. Mn. POWER.

nate fellow who is supposed to buy a quart
oi stiawberries anid only gets two-thirds of
a quart, la nioit to be considered at ail. The
abject of -the law is to proteet the consumer, and 1 unders-tand the gentlemen frorn
the west were satlsfied 'with this Iaw, w-hen
these words were put in ' as nearly exactly
as practicable.' It was found ia discussing
the question that it -was almost impossible
to make ia reg-ulatIon tbat would cover tbe
exact size of a littie strawberry box, and
consequently It would lea-d to a greaýt deal
of litigation If we made a law compelling themn to be of an exact size, because
some of the material out' of whieh It
Is -made might be a littie thicker thau other
niaterial, as bias been dndîcated. by the bon.
In somne
gentleman who lias just spoken.
cases they make a thlck bottom, just the
saine as In the case of a tumbler, when you
think you bave a good 'hooker,' you find
you bave very littie, on account of the shape
of the tumbler at the bottom, and it is just
s0 with the fruits. This question bas been
discussed by the fruit growers a go<xI deal,
and this part of Canada Is, to a certain eXtent, In precisely 'the same position àn ref",rence to -the Importation of the earlier fruits
that Manitoba and other sections of the
country are. Let the parties who seli themn
bere do the marking, and If a quart box
bolds only two-thirds of a quart when you
selil It, mark it 60. If the quanti.ty is marked short, the consumer knows that hie is not
belng imposed upon1.
Hon. NLr. JONES-I fear, if tbis Bill
passes, it will prevent the im1portation of
early berrnes inbo Canada. In aiýl parts of
Canada we get our bernies from the other
side for two or three montbs. I know that
lu Toronto strawberries are avauilable fromn
Jaauary up to the strawberry season here.
1 can rea-dily understand why fruit-growers
in Canada wouid Ibe lu favour of this law,
because It would tend to increase their business. Our apipetites would be wbetted for
tbe fruit, If we walted tili It ripened lu Canada. In the other way, we would have been
u&ing- It for somne tirne and our appetites
wo'ild not be as great foir it. A dealer ia Toronto wbo wires a dealer In St. Louis, or
New York, for s0 .many cases, cannot stipulate that tbey be taken out and marked
short.' He would have to take tbeni as
they would corne. If he made that istipiula-

[L\IAY 20, 1901]

49'i

proper size, so that the quart boxes would
liold a quart andi the pint boxes would hold
a plut. The markret of Canada is large
euougli andi Important enougli to those exigageti la this kinti of farming to lnduce them
to comply with the requirements of the law,
andi my impression is, that, though they may
flot at the beginning comply wîth it, the practice -will constantly grow towards It, and If
the producer in t3he Unitedi States puts Up a
box under tlie size here required, the man In
Canada who deals -Witli tliem, ln order to
avoid paying a fine of 25 cents on tlie box,
will cornply witli the law.
thinir
Hou. Mn. 'MACDONALD PE..we are îegislating toc inucli witli the smiall
affairs of the country. We shoulti leave it
They can use
to the people tbemselves.
tîîeir eyesiglit, andi they know wvlat tbey are
,
abot Tis ls tlie prînciple -whici w'e have
hieard condemned by tlie Party in power,
Nvlien tliey were in oppositioni-lt is an exberry aud currant boxes.
difficulty, andi if tliey tension of the principle of protection.
Tliat would avoiti tlie
buy by siglit, tliey canniot be seriousb,
Hion. Sir 'MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Thnt is
nifecteti.
the rea son I support lb.

tion, lie would flot get thein. Besides that,
the ýpurcliaser in Canada will have to pay a
higlier price for the sti-nwberries than ihe
wvould If the seller diti no.t have to mark themn
in this -way. My own opinion is, that small
fruit should be bouglit Iby siglit, as tliey
have been for years, and I think every purchaser of berrnes In Canada lias quite arniveti at the conclusion long since thiat lwheu
lie buys a box of berrnes, lie does not Ibuy nl
quart, and the top is deep and the bottom
high up. It imlay be full to the top wvhen it
leaves Georgia, but whea it reaclies Canada
it wlll flot be level with the top, because
tliree days will liave elapsed, and tlie fruit
will have settled down, and there is 11o way
of overcoming tlie difficulty wliere you iin
port the fresh fruits, because it takes tliree
days to get tliem here. I wouldsug-gest thiat
the f ollowing clause be added to the Bill :-

Hon. Sir MACKCENZLE BOW~ELL-M1ake
it wider. MNaire lbt apply to anythiig broug-lit
into the country.

Tlie clause was adopted.

eurralits.

DOMINION ELEG'rION ACT XMENDMENT BILL.

Hon. Mr. TE'MPLEMAN, from the coinmittee, reported tlie Bill witli amentdments,
Hon. 'Mr. JONES-I tiirh, if tlie lîîw wliicli were concurreti In.
-were made, it woulti be la bhc Uest interests
Tli7-e Bill wns then read the tllird tirnp and
of Canada if bhls were so chiauget as to
of tlie miles.
open boxes of berrnes and passeti, under n suspension
mnaire it apply to
Hon. 3fr. POWýER-I thinir 1 oe an apology to the lion. gentleman iu charge of the

Bill. Wý%hen I corne bo reati tlie clause more
carefully, I finti tliat lb la not open to tlie objection I made. Lt does not provide bliat tlie
box slinll be level full whien it is solti. 1t
onlly provides that Wlien the box is levei f u-1,
it shll coatain a certain quantity, andi if the
small fruit in the boxes sbninir, tlien there is
no penalty on the seller. The only thing is,
bliat if a box is not large enoughi to liold n
qîuart, it shali be mnariret -with the wordl
'sliort,' andi It does not seemi to me a great
grievance that the seller should mark 'siort.
o11 boxes whîcli are short.
Hon. Mr. MLLLS-Hle would rablier do that
than pay a 25-cent fine, and I thinir tliere
Nvill be a general demant il thle part of
luhle trade in tlie Canadian
those eng-age in
markret to asr bliat tlie boxes shoulti be a

THIRD READING.
The Ibuse resolvei -itself into a Commit.
tee of tlie Whole on Bill (64) 'An Act to
amnent tlie Domninion Elections Act, 1900.'
(Lu the Committee.)
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-We reserved the Bill to
coasider two amieadments *',hicli were proposeti by my bon. friend, tlie leader of tlie
I thinir the second of these
opposition.

amentiments would flot be an improvemefit,
as I mnentioneti to hlim, andi lie seemeti to
seule extent to agree with my conclusion. 1
accept the first amendiment, wlii reatis as
fol-lows :
1. That subsection (a) of section 41 be repealed and the following substituted ln lieu
thereof :
(a) Cause to be posted up notices of his haviflg
granted such poli, lndicatlng the naines, resi-

[SENýATE]
,dences andi occupations of the candidates nomlniated, in the order in which they are to be
printefi on the ballot papers bereinafter mentieined ;wbich notices shall, as soon as possible
after the nomination, lie placarded at ail the
places where the proclamation for the election
was posted up, andi shall le in the f orm (1),
and in Prince Edward Islandi lie shall cause to
lie placarded at the samne time and places sucli
notice or advertisement regarding tbe qualification of 'voters as is required to be posted
under the provincial iaw.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That is
the one tli:t refers to Prince Edward Island?
we accept tliat, if
Houn M.ML-e.
mv lion. friend is agreeable.
The clause was uidopted.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýELL-- My
lion. friend does flot agree to accept the secondi ameudmenit?
Hon. '-\r. MILLS-No, I think the Bill is
better ns it is, and it miglit interlere wvjtl
the returingi. officer.
L-t
BO
Sir MACKENZIE
Hou.
miglit, to a certain extent, but 1 thinik it
wouid lie an improvemefit.
On subclause 5 of clause 3,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
niiister will lookt at suliclause 5 of clause
3, where it repeals section 4S8and substitutes
another, it provides tbat 'ballot papers shahl
be nunibered ou the back of the stuli and
couniterfoil, the samne number being prinited
or writteni on the stuli as on the counterfoil,
W%ýhat I
nnd shahl le bounid,' and so on.
would like to ask, first of ail, by wliom is
this nnrnhering to lie doue? Are tliey to be
consecutive numbers?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

b'*erinig machine necessary to numnber tliemi.
would bave to take ectî
henice you
individuni ballot and put it througli the
press. First you would put number one
throngli, and so on, wçith every one of theni.
This could only lie done properly if printed
by a numbering machine. Take our couiity,
for instance. There are no less than three
daily papers, besides several weekly papers,
and there is but one numbering machine in
the lot. I think this provision is altogether
unnecessary, because it is a duplication of
whîat the 70th clause provides should be
doue. The section ns amiended reads as
follows
The vote should be given by ballot, and each
elector who la entitiefi to vote sbould receive
from the dcputy returnlng officer a ballot paper
on the back of whýich sucli deputy returning
officer has previously put lits Initiais, so piacefi
as indicated inl form B.
That is to accomiplish the purpose, whicli
the Secretary of State bas just pointed out.
of recognizinig the ballot.
And tbat when the ballot Is folded they can
lie seen 'wlthout openlng It, and on the back of
the counterfoil. on which lie hss placed a numnber corresponding to that placad opposite the
voters naine In the ballot-book.
In the first placOi you malte hlm number
the ballots consecutively, and then compel
hlm to put on the back of tlie counterfoil
the number that is opposite the voter's
naine iii the ballot-biook. 1 do flot see hoNw
you are going to fold, tliat ballot s0 that
the returning officer can see bolli numbers.
I ILLS-M-\y hon. friend will
Hon.
see there is a' stub in the book. Next the
Now, uponii te
stuli is the counterfoil.
counterfoil and on the stub are the numibers.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Theu
,Hon. Sir ?MACKENZIE BOWq5ELL-Dunt
they cannot be printed. Tliey miust be writ- tlie samne number Iliat ýis on the stub is also
tell.
put on tlie counterfoil, and then the numiber
Hon. '-\r. Ml1LLS-T-.hey may lie stamped. opposite tlie voterýs namne. What necessity
for the two of theni ?
Honi. Sir YAOKENZIE BOWELL-It says is there
*written or printed.'
Hon. Mr. M,\ILLS-There is no doulit that
is for the purpose of identification. So is
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-There would be nothîngthe other.
to prevent them belng printed.
Hon. Sir -NACKENZIE BOW%ýELL,-There
is everything in tlie world to prevent theni
being printed, for this reason :Suppose
you bave 200 voters as the maximum in
any division. there is not one printing
office lu a h-Lndred whichli as the numHon.

Mr. MILLS.

The ballot paper shonîfi be numbered on the
back of the atuli andi the counterfohl, the samne
number

bein,- printed or written

on

the stuli

as on the counterfoil, and should lie bounfi or
stitcbed in books containing 25, 50 or 100 ballots, as may lie most suitable for supplying the
polling divisions proportionately
of voters in eacb.

Io the number

[MAY 20, 1901]
There are two provisions practicalîr. and poll-book, you can trace a man's vote as
1they do In Ontario.
flot exactly in the saine forin.
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-The voting !il Ontario is
BOW'ELL-Afld
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
fromn a poll-book whicli is nurnbered tîrougl-put tbere for preciseir the salue purpose.
out. ln our voting a blank sheet is used,
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No doulit of tliat.
and wlien the voter cornes forward, lis
Ron. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Does naine is inarked down when lie is given his
flot that coxnplicate the duties of the return- ballot. Tliat gives you no indication of the
ing officer '? Would it not be just ns well to identity of tlie mian at ail, and tliat Is the
have one ? So long as you cau recognizc number referred to in section 70. It lias no
the ballot wlien it is brouglit to the return- connection whatever witli tlie othiers. There
ing officer, that is ail that is required ; but is no identification.
in order to do that, lie lias tc> look at file
Hon. Mr. MAC«\MILLAN-Not. the nuiber
number on the counterfoil, and the number on tlie assessinent roll ?
opposite the naine.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Flon. Mr. MILLS-I quite agree with w-bat
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does tlie lion.
the hon, gentleman says, and I think thc
a number reprovision In subsection 5 is, perliaps, the gentleman pretend tliere is
maining on the paper w-liih goes into the
better one of the two. Section 70 Is a dupli.
cate, iu another f orin, but it is a mensure ballot box ?
relatiug to the House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, tliey are toril off
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOMIEL-It is the ballot.
sent to us to be revised. If you would
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOMWFLL-I.arni
strike out of clause 5 those words :
not pressing this. I only pointed out w-hat
Numbered on the back of the stub and the 1 considered unuecessnry work tlirown on
counterfol, the saine- number belng printed or the returning officer, whicli is likely to coinwrltten on the stub as on the counterfoil, and plicate lis work. So long as you have a
should be bound or stltched.
ballot whicli can be identified by the stub
The only way I can accounit for it is this and counterfoil, -w-len lie liands it to the
it is to ascertain hiow rnany are beiug sent returning offlcer, tliat is ail you want.
out.
Hon. Mr. MWATSON-And cannot be suliHon. Mr. SCOTT-No. A great deal of im- stituted.
portance is attached to these words by
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-I quite agree with whbt
menibers of the House of Cominons. 1 -will
my lion. friend opposite says. Here are two
explain wliat it means. There is a double
for tlie purpose of ascertaining
-stub. The ballot is tori off thie book, and systeuls
that tlie ballot given back is the saine tliat
It is tlie duty of tlie deputy returning otticer
out. Evidently our friends iii the
to tear off one number and put it on the is given
House of commons have failed to see tliey
table. The ballot is given to the voter;
a double provision. It will put
lie brings it back folded so tliat the stuli lave made
tlie retumuing officer to a little more trouble.
is outside. That is tori off also, and put
down nlongside of tlie other as evidence
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
that it is the saine ballot tliat was given to are not always tlie iost intelligent people.
the voter. That is under section 5.
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-I think the one In secHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlien tion 40 is quite sufficient, but I do ijot proIt can have only one object, that Is to adopt pose to change It.
the systein to that wliicli is in force in
Hon. SI< 'MACKENZIE BOWVýELL-Ancd
Ontario.
1 w-i not divide the House on it.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY, froin the conmittee,
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-No.
reported the Bill witli amendinents, whicli
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-L-Yes, il
concumred iu.
a mian's naine Is on the polI-booký and you were
Tlie Bill w-as then rend the third tuine, and
place on the back of the ballot the sainE
number tliat is opposite Ilis naine in tile passed under suspension of tlie rule.
321ý

[S EýNATE]
AMEND'MENTI expressed here. They hold w-hile it did, ta
some degree, affect the business of the Pacilce cable, yet it wvas not very material.
SECOND RE/&DING.
That is the present condition. Under the
Hon. MNr.SCOTT moveci the second read- agreement made between the several colonies
lng of Bill (45)-' An Act ro rnend the Pa- lIn Australia, the subject of telegraphs was
cifie Cable Act, 1899.' H1e said: This Bill remitted ta the federal goverament. There
is for the pin-pose of increasing the amount was, hiowever, a clause-and as lion, genof Oanada's liability. Canada, under the tlemien knaw, the Commonwealth came into
Act of 1899, was 10 pay five-eighteenths ot operatian on the lst of January that the
£1,700,000 sterling. Owing to the delay in varions colonies should have charge af the
carrying out the project the price of bath telegraph system until it w-as absolutely
made with the
copper and gutta percha had gonle 111),and taken over. The arrangement
the'
on tenders being called for last year, the Easter-n Extension Company was on
16th of January, sixteen days after the federlowest tender, and the oiîe that was most
as 1 predesirable, brouglit the price up to within a ation had heen completed, but,
sume, although 1 uni not positively lai.
fraction of two millions or pounids, and the
had tiot
objeet of this Bill is to guarantee Canada's fornied, the federal governaiient
tlien talcen over the local telegraphi linos.
proportion of the two millions insiead of
£1,700,000. Since the Pacific Cable Bill %vas That is the present position.
PACIFIC

CABLE

ACT
BILL.

before Parhianient on a former occasion,
somne change has talien place in reference to
the relative position of the parties. Hlon.
gentlemen will rememnber that there were
six parties ta it-New South Wales was contributing two-eighteenths ; «Victoria, twoeigbteenthis ; Queensland, two-eighlteeniths New Zealand, two-eigbhteentlis ;the United
Kiugdomn, five-eighteenths ; Canada, fiveeigliteenths. In January hast New South
Wales, under influences brought forward by
the Eastern Extension Company, somnewhat
departed, as wie thouglit, from the original
agreement in giving certain advantages ta
thue Eastern Extension Company. There are
lines that extend across fromn Sydney ta
Adelaide, and then on ta Western Australia. Those lines are under the contrai of
the government, and thie government of
-New South Wales gave ta the Eastern Etension Company the privilege of using their
pales for the purposes of conneetiing the
offices of the Eastern Extension. We remonstrated against that as being n departure from the original agreement. The subject was referred 10 the law officers in Canîada, and the statement made by my hion.
friend on mny left was that it affected very
seriously the probable profits, so far as that
particular colony was concerned. This was
before the federation. The business of NeNvSouth Wales is probably larger than tha t
of any other portion of Australia. On that
opinion being sent ta Eng-land, the law officers of the Crown differed from the opinion
lion. Mr. PERLIEY.

lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Coulil
the hon, gentleman .say whether the arrangements made by Nevv Sout h Wales withi
the Eastern Extension Cornpany would be
binding on the federal goveramnent of the
Commonwealth after they take possession
of the telegraph system of the colonies?
SCOTT-Of course, I anly speak
i-Ion. M.Nr.
fronu a cursory reading of it, but 1 Pssume

tîmat New South Wales %oiilcl have contrai
until the lines were taken over. because
until tbe proclamation w-as made taking over
the linos, -New South Wa1.le-s seenis f0 have
the sovereignty of the lines. W e had haped,
and probably if niay result, that thie fedeî-al
syst em imar ilaf agree in the action talkei
l)y -New South Wales. Victoria did nat conlcur. Queensland did not conclir. 0f course
-New Zealand did not cancur. New South
WVales is the only one of the colonies that
taok that advantage. 0f course, the temptatian was very strong. The Eastern Extension Company off ered a reduction of
rates, if they would g-rant the privilege, aad
pressure, I presumie, was broughit to bear
on the gaverament. Similar influences were
brought to bear on V7ictoria and Queensland but up t0 the time advices w-ere received by Canada they refused. They stood
by the agreement. A rider bas been added
la the House of Commons within the hast
day or twa ta the follawing effect :
This Act shahl not bave farce or effect until
a date ta be named by the Governor General
by proclamation.

)1-NAY

,191

place of tbe cible, one aSSig-nillig it to a
Tlîat w-as added in order to uneet any pospoint on Barclay Sound, w-bore certain boomcircumstances tlîat inay have
sible cbanged
sters were said to bave obtained a tow-n
arisen, by wbicb our position witb reference site, and another at a point on the Straits of
to the cable wouid be affected.
Fuca. I urîderstood that the goveruimoat
BOWELL-l thiik bnd sent somie one to make a report as to
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE
we can discuss this, probably. better ini coin- the best point for landing.
mittee ;therefore 1 do not propose to enter
lIon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tbere w-as an Impenial
Ilito the menits of the bargain, ior of the officer sent ont. and lie w-ont to British
rider added to the Bill. But the hon. gentie- Columîbia.
I assunme tlîat the ss. Quadra
maxi dîd not answer the question I put to w-as l)laced at bis disposai. The point aphim. He informed tbe House that tixe col- proved of was on Vancouver Island. 1 sce
ofly of N-ew South 'Wales entered luto ail thmat in tbe press, but cannuot stato ht on aily
arrang-ement making certain concessions t) authority.
the Eastern Extension Telegraplu Companiy
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMA\-X-L presuine it is
wbich would affect the inicomo tixat wol
question ',
otberwise arise fromn the Pacifie cable w-beli an Imperial govenlelnt
that because tue telegrapli
built. They did
Hou. MNr.SCOTT-Yes. It does uxot coune
systein lîad nlot been talcexi over by the before us.
Commonwealth. Will the Commonwealth
he motion was agreed to, and the Bill
be bounid, under tue circunistances, to ad- was road the second time.
bere to that agreemenit, or could tîeY -set it
aside ? 1 caux understaiid that if the CoinBEITTER TERMS FOR P.E.i. BILL.
the
monlwealtii set thiat agreenment w-ii
w-illh
SECOND READING.
Eastern Extension Company mnade
New Soutb 'Wales, aside, thea the colonies
Mr. MILLS moved tbe soconid rend,
Ilon:
w-ould be in tbe saine position tlîey OcCiupie(I iuig of Bill MS) 'Ain Act to provide for furw-as enlteredl inito iii Loniw-lien tue bargain
tuer anmal allowaxice to the province or
don by wbich eaclu colony and Caniada Prinîce Edw-ard Island.' Hie said :Lt is not
agreed to pay certain proportiolis for tbe L long Bill.
construction of the line. If the CommonHolu. Sir MAKNZLE BOWELL-Auid
Nvealth bans niot the pow-er to declare thuat
iiiill andi void. thoen it places Canada in a does nlot require any oxplination eitiier. 1
different position froni thînt w-hidli suie occu- tliinlc w-e unlderstaiud it.
shc made tixe barn-ain. Perbaps
',e
,- hA
M1*
in - r.1 -ILLS-Tliere is noe difficulty in
mv bon. frîend w-onld thbînk Of tbat and 1 1i lg it. The subject lias been
answer the question wben we go into, coin- nuîders1.t.ani
frequently d"iscussed «between the goveraimittee.
tbe govlias mient of Prince Edward Island and
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-My bxon. friend
elaeare
n
aaa
I-eý riieto
quite as mucli information as 1 bave,
fiPerine
culstleitonsteuence
in
EdardIslnd
It is quite i
fiiefc
osqec
lias rend the blne-boolt.
decided judgmient on thatý EdadIlni
mainNle to express a
aservice between the islanid aud the
additioual
pon.I tiounghit mvlseif it -%as at 1
aovland for several years, to grant anl
h feeast
ndtia
aih
poain.
of $30,000 a year. The subject was
ouglit to force the colony to stand subsidy
ernmenit
miy bion.
iici
before before the goverifleut of
by tbe agreemient that m-as nmade
very full and 1
Iriend was a niieinber. A wvas nmade by 'Mr.
arrang.emuent witb tbe niigbit say very able report
Confederation. ThextesionComanywas
adeaftr
Eastrn
and Sir Alex. Camnpbell. They
\ ellibi
rwase me afe
omp
Extnsio, nd
testo
ver y strong grouinîs against the conoolz
thealt h0f Jan rganzd. fe ieOimn
0f th e island that: tliey liad been
wealboganzeIltetion
ben bd
$5.000,000, and the
'-Could tue bon. dlaînaged to the extent of
Hon. 'Mr. TEPE
of $5,000,00O, iii consequence of the
ciaini
gentleman sar if the Canadiain terminus of
service connecting tbe isiand
the Pacific cible bas been ag-reed on ? 1 inmperfect
the entire year -%itb tbe mainbave noticed somfe reports in the Bri- througbout
then made
as to the landing land. I loohked over the report
tisb Columibi aewspapers

[SENATE]
axîd the correspunidenice that bad takeni
place, and the conclusion I camne to -was
thiat wlien the Northeril Liglit was put uipon
that service, it çvas n hionest effort to fuifil the obligation. The Nortiiern Ligbit did
uîot succeed iii keepinig up the communication continuously througbout tbe year, and
the people of Prince Edward Island claimeil
that to be an absolute and unconditionai
proevision, and that if the parliament of
Canada failed to make that continuous commiuicationFlon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbî3
parlinînent of Canada failed to do an lmposil)ility.
Holu. Mr. MLLLS-Nevertheless w-e entered into flic obligation w-ith our eyes open,
and we w-ere bound to give damages.
Hon. Sir 'MACKCENZIE
their eyes w-eue shut.

BOWVELL-No,

Hlon. «Mr. M-NILLS-M-Ny lion. friend knows
that botter thanl 1 do.
H-on. Si- MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
flot au the framing of Confedei-ation.
Hon. Mr M-\ILLS-Mýy bion. friend knows
it w-ns a gov-erilment tlint lie supported
ýwhicb agi-ced to the termis of union, and
onue of tie ter-ms ef unionu w-as that there
slîould
be
Continuons
Coli n ilnica tioîî
throughout the yeaî- betweenl the island and
the iniainil.ndL.
la1 îy opinion, if the gevernaiient and parliarnent of Canîada did ail
tluat wvas possible at the tirne, tliey kept
tieji- obligations, even thongli tlîey failed te
accomplisb ail that the parties de'-lared w-as
niecessa-v te acconiplisb.
The Nortlierii
Liglit w-as neo doubt put on as an experlment, lu w-as an earnest effort mnade to fuIfil the obligation. It required a number of
yeai-s' experience te tell iii whlat respect
the vessel -was defective. if changes were
required te be made la lier structure, and la
the appliances for ber propulsions te know
pi'ecisely w-bat it w-as necessary te do la
erder te coule as nleai, the liteini fulfilmuent of tHe obligation as possible. Everybody admnits tlîat tlîat effort m-as earnestly
miade foi- some tinie. and wlîile tue experimuental stage contiinued, an obligation w-ould
scar-cely 1)0 said te have been incurred.
Wbeii the vessel w-as colitilitod atter 1ier
defeets w-e-e knewnl, and when information
w-as icquired by w-hici a miore perfect
Honi. Mr. MILLS.

1-essel could bc put upuîî the service w-itb a
view ef carrying into effect tliat terni ef
union, ne doubt somne obligation w-as incurred.
Now, everybody admnits that tbe
Stanley and the other vesse] that is used
fer that purpose amply coniply w-itb the
tel-ms of union.
This pi-ovision is made
for the purpose oif finally settliag ahl conti-oversy betwen Prince Edward Island aad
the goverameat of Canada upen that subject. Prince Edw-ard Island bas agreed te
accept it as a final settlement, and that
hecing- se, Éhis measure is snîhmitted te paliament tor the purpose of caruying inte
ellect that agr-eement.
Heu. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Thie
iinister bas given a fair statement of tbe
facts ceanected witb this subject. The only
inatter tbat I bave te express my regret
about is that be bas net censidered it in a
more libeini spirit and given our province
a mor-e liberal consideration fer the failui'e
on the part of the Dominion te carry out
the termis et union.
'We know that tbe
p)rovince, a geod ma13 years ago, made
dlaims for a large anieunt et money la consequence et this fallut-e te carry eut the
ter-nis. I amn pleased, bewever, that the
geveriiment bave genie even the short distance they bave gene in settlinig this question up te the puesent time. But it must be
w-cil undei-stoed tbat this sum is in consideratieut ot tbe failure up te the present
time te cal-iy eut tbe ternis et union la
respect te the communication betýween thc
island and the mlaiinland. Lt bas ne reference
te the future. If the gevernment sbnuld
fail bereatter te carry eut tbe terms by
vitlidrawing those hoats, or for any other
reaseni, this arrangement bas notbiag w-baue%-er te do w-itl tbat. Lt will he a subjecu
foi- futur-e consideration if aur failure should
take p)lace. 1 w-îish that te be w-cil tndestood, because 1 believe tbat the Dominion
go-eiiiîcnt lias made a pi-etty bard bargain
oni this peint %-ith the province.
At tbe
saine timie, 1 presuine that thcy bave donc
the coi-y best tlîc3 could. The province is,
innflortuiaatelv, net iii a very streng financial
IPositioni at pi-esent, and the expenditure
thcîo exceeds the revenue very materially.
We kne, tliat this ycaî- the Domninion gevornaiient have had a lai-go stirplius-$,000,000, 1 belie\-e it is elaimced by thie Minister
ef F'inance, and meaibers in the otber branch

L:NIAY 20, 19011

of tfie legisiature-anti of course Prince
Edward Island must bave coutributeti its
share towards that $8,000,000, and if we are
one-fortieth of the population of the Dominlioni, it shows that we have contributeti
a very large amounit of that surplus. 1
think1 that, under ail the circuinstanices of
the case, the governumeat have madie a
l)retty bard bargalli in allowing the province of Prince Edwarti Islandi only the
suin of $30,000 a year. Nevertheless, as the
governrnefit of that province lias cornehere
and matie the arrangement, I arn satisfiedito
accept It.

$1,000,000 to enable you to carr'y
on your -overninenit,' 1 thiink it woultidv
îîîet the case, andi thiey would have been
taking a frank, straightforward and lionest
course. But this measure-if it were iiot nuparliamentary to say it here, and if 1 were
out of door, speaking to any other individual,
1 would say it-is the worst subterfuge ever
thouglit of to cover u.p that whicli thiey
thoug-lit It necesry to do in order to maintain thieir party in Prince Edwarti Islandi.
Both parties in the past refuseti, iii caunection with Prince Edward Islandi and Cther
provinces, to pay large amounts in ortier ta
Insist theiu w'hen thev igot Into financial difillg you-this

lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELI-1 do
flot propose ta discuss this question further

fclisIam-ii
I

e'utis
on'r

oseI
ose

fw

eeutn
a

it

we
of soniething l Ontario to show haw -badly
the
than to dissent la toto from also remarks
have been treateti, andi to relieve our people,
of the hon.
the Minister of Justice anti
are taxed for ail their local iluprove-

poke, s fa aswho
gentema
-,ho hs jst
bridges, roaids anti other thinigs, of
the reasoni assigneti for giving this grant. I inints, the people in the other provinces are
wold
tiiiii: e i nuel moe Ioiist ndwhicli
sometlîing
that rellevedti t see if we cannot get
straightforward. liad lie stateti franklv
rauy
eea
h
oto
the isîant had been so badly maniaged for
lion. Mfr. 3ieKIi.I-Ontiria is the milch
sonie years baclc by its governuent that
tlîey were iu a state of baiilruiptcy, andti at covv.
it wvas necessary ta lacrease their subsitiy.

Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-M-\Y
Bath governmnts titi ali tley possibly
me
from Truro reinnts
difficulties hon. frîend
coulti ta overcon-e the natural
that thxe Globe useti
expression

tlie Of an
thalt presenteti thlimselves l lteeping
referring to this question. He says:
andtinl
navigation open lietween tlie mainlanti
You keep the milch cow, anti we will millc
tue Islanti, and no court lu tlie world would

lier.
ever iliterpret the arrangement matie ta cointhat
pel aniy country or mnidvidual ta do
\vhicli it was utterly impossible to do. They
iu
liept spending mloney la building boats
ordler ta accomplisîl tlie abject wliicli I tliink
tliey hiave, to a viery great extent, accoînplisliet h)y tlie last two steamers. As science
anti invention utivauice. just l proportion
aoecne
will thloeuetleal
of nature whichi have piethe ditttculties
senteti tlierselves lu the Straits of Nortliuiberlanti anti also lu tlie St. Lawrence. Tliere
are l)rajects allozat for lceeping the St. Laivrence open the w-hale winter ta Quebec, anti
ha
sanie siy. as far as M.\ontr-eal. Ihat may
lu the future, because no onle
accoînplislied
Izxlows wliat science will achieve. 1 dIo flot
all
ltnow that this subsidy is sufficient ta do
that is necessary ta be doue for the gaverna
ment af tbe Islandi, but, perhaps, -witlî
little more ecoanmy an the part of those

1 do not see any way of preventîng

the
it. 1 admit, 1 want our frientis froin
get
west ta join us anti see if we calinot
Quehec, of
l the chest also.
our fingers
course, neyer wants It. 1 see au lion. gentiornan trom Quebec sait il tlie other flouse
of
fliat thils is no part of the systein spolzen
the Quebec Couferelice, presitieti over by
at
Mr. 'Mercier in ISSS-tliat Quebec tices iat
it.
wv.iit it-that she is ricli eniougli witliaut

be-

1 -,as very mucli pleaseti ta hiear tliat,
cause I never thouglit it before, hur, coming
fraîn sucli anl eînilent authority, 1 arni bauntI
to accept it. I shoulti lile ta ask îny hion.
frienti opposite is this ta lie what the Hon.
one
Edwvard Blake aslced across the floar on
concession was madie
occasion when a sirnilar
ta a province-is this ta be a finally final
settliment? lie asked Sir John Mactiaalti
thiat once, anti Sir John assuret ihlm it was
but here we have thiree provinces knocking

the door anti getting- a goodi liai fromn
professilig economy anti practisiîg extrava- at
From wliat bias fallen
be floue. If the the public chest.
galnce. samnething hetter caii
niy han. frienti lere. anti what was
Wc ire gIv- fram
saiti frauikly
goverinent liati

[SENATE]
said in the House of Commons, 1 should
judge. this is Dot a final finality settiement.
Hon. M1r. MILLS-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-No.
Just as soon as a change of g-overiament
takes place, a fresh demand wiU be made.
They will find some excuse for giving them
an extra sum and cali it in liquidation of a
debt that is due to them, because some portion of the Confederation scheme is flot
carried out. If I should *hnppen to .be alive
at that time, and anythlng of that kind came
up, I shall advocate the saine theory as I
arn now propounding, and gIve honestly
and fairly the reasons why we are doing it.
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-I can give the
bion, gentleman a reason w'by Ontario could
make n claimi on the Dominion. I thinkc Ontaio and Quebec should dlaim compensation for the railways which the provincial
governiments have built, and the Dominion
government bave taken possession of. I approve of tlils grant to Prince Edward Island,
because, outside of the question of the service whilh was not given between tie Island and the inainland, Vlint province Is entitled to, a share of the fisheries award
w-blU the Dominion governmen.t got, five
anid a liaif millions, and whichi I understand
tunder the last judgment of the Privy Counicil should be reimlbursed to the provinces.
Lion. M.Nr.
PDRLEY-Ontario and Quebec
haive received large subsidies in cash for
raýilw:ays, and Ma.nitoba and the North-xvest
have sabsidiy.ed their own railways.
Hion. 3Mr. DXX-DURA-%ND-If i liad flot
been for cthe older provinces, constructing
the Canadian Pacific Railwvay the bon. gemitieman from Wolseley w-ould never have
immigrated to the North-west.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Did tue old provinces
crente Manitoba and the N.orth-west Territories ?
Hlon Sir )MACKE'NZIE BOWELL-No, but
they bongbit them.
Hon. Mr.

M.ILILS-I fancy the Dominion

treasury contributed a good dealto rd
tue opening of the \7orth-west Terrltorýes aiid
Manitoba, %vleni we constructed the Caniadjin Pacific Railway, and when we bonused
raIilw.lys with the public lands of the Nortli,west Territories. for whichi we paid a conHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

siderable sum to the Hudson Bay Company.
I ain not complaining of what w-e have done.

I think we have done wisely. 1 mention
these facts simply to point out that my hion.
friend is not lef t In that condition !i which
luis language suggests.

Hon. NIx. BERNIER-The Canadiali Pacific Railway was not built for the 'Northw-est. Lt w-as bulît for the Dominion and
the empire.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELI, lxi order that the bon. gentleman fron St. Boniface, and the hon. gentleman from Wolseley
should live there.
Hon. 'Mr. )IILLS-It was built for tUe
empire for the purpose of being a political
bond, and not for the commercial advantages. TUe commercial advantag-es of the
Canaidian Pacific Railw-ay. ime to the bene-

fit of the Nort.h-west Territories, and the
M\y hion.
country through which it runs.
friend opposite (Sir Mackenzie Bowell) bias
spoken about this contribution to Prince Edwvard Island as being one wholly uncalled

for, s0 far as any dlaim thiat that province
mîglit have upon the Dominion for the failure to carry out the termis of union with regard to conilection with the mainland. I
,vil not pretend to say whether w-e have
done more than w'e ought to have done or
not. I arn satisfied that ln granting Prince
Edward Island $30,O00 a year w'e have deait
witb Prince Edward Island gene!ronsly, so
far as compensation for nny injury that was
done ber, by the failure of the Dominion at
an earlier period to establish continuos comimunication. I Lnow that there are so>me
mexu l public life in Prince Edward I slaud
w-ho bave contended that the termis of unlioni
were absolute, that we w-ere hound to estab115hi daily communication, and that if it
v'ere a scientific impossibility, if there was
niot stifficient advanice in the science of navigation or the application of stea-m to na.vigation to, eniable nis to acco'nplislh that obj Oct, thnt ive ouglit to have given damnges
to thiein for our failure, beca use the question
of possible or impossible 'vas one tbat did
nlot in the sliglitest deg-ree iliterfere xvtb
or vary the obligation w-hicli we lhad Incurred. I do flot take thiat view. 1 do not
tl:ilc that that is a tenable vîew%,, but 1 do
admnit that if we fail to do fixe best possible
""der existing circunmstances for Prince Ed-

[MAy 20, 1901]

vard Island, w-e %vould bave iincurred ail
obligation to hier for our failure to fulfil, as
far as it -was in our power to do so, this
terni of union. This subject was discussed
between the former governn'elt and Prince
Edward Island. Prince Eldward Island's representatives went to England. They visited the Colonial Secretary. They claimed
fron' the government of Canada tire million
dollars of damag-es, In consequence of its
fallure to fulfil its obligations.

already applied. The building of the steainier 'Stanley' showed that after that construction the -overninent w-as enabledHon. Sir M-NACKENZIE BOWELL-Will
the hion. minister ailow me to make a suggestion 9

Hon. Mr. M.\ILLS-Certainly.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELIlf you
wll stop the discussion w-e wiil put the Bill
through ail its stages to-nigbt.

Hon. Mr.IILLS-I acquiesce at once 111
îy bon. friend's suggestion.
Hon. 3fr. MA\-ýCDONA.LD (II.E.L.)-l do nol
Hon. Mr. MILLS-It was pointed out in a.gree w'itîî the bon. M-Ninister o! Justice lut
reply that the governn'ent had spent on the view be bas taken of the position of
Prince Edward Island sun's beyoad the P'rinîce Eidward Island or the beuefits it
revenue which It had received. That upon lias received fron' the Domninion goverlumelit
the railway in Prince Edward Island the ex- !il consideration o! these services. The govpenditure bad exceeded any revenueý that crament of Prince Edward Island banded
railway had furnished, 1 think $600,000, fron' over to the Domninion governmcent the wharfs
the tirne Prince Edward Island carne iinto the aud piers, whicb cost a large sun' of moneY,
union up to the tin'e that that controver8y and that is tbe sun' thlat they claim they
arose. Then t.hey further contended that were giving to P'rince Edward Island to
they had expended ln various ways large make up thîs $600,000.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-Do tot
sums in Prince Edward Island, if I remen'ber rigbtly, altogether amounlting to somieta
qeio11W
1W
ueto
thing over $900,000 beyond the revenue of open pta
for the purpose of giving ber- Somne hon. «MNEM.BERS-Carried, cariled.
the Island,
hn
Hn Nr -IID'\ID(...another forai o! compensation for the failcomtin
(PEI.daîly communication. Prince 1Hon. betr waCDuntlDw g
lire to establish
Edward Island did not receive that lîberal I la bocuetter w- aittl -k o ocmmt
n~rmrs
expenditure for varions otiier purposes inocnld
Tue motion w-as agreed to. and the Bill
lieu of the faîlure to keep these tern's o!
union, and I an' free to say that if Prince w-as read the second time.
Tbe Bill w-as then read at lengtlh at the
Edward Island w-as not consulted, andi (I
not accept those large expenditures lu1 liel' Table, and passed tîirough ail its stages.
o! tbe daily coinmuni catioll1, thcy couiti not
DELAYED RETURNS.
be pleaded as an evidence tlîat slie had aiready been con'pensated for tUe losses w-bl
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-M\igul
sbe bad sustained. I admit that, but 1
aiready that our goverii. 1 ask the bon. minister if lie made tc l
have poiiîted out
the
ment did tUe best it possibly could for quiry 1 asked for tbe othier day as to
Island under tUe circuni- amount paiti for the carrying of the mai1
Prince Edward
stances, tbat the whiole thing w-as ln ex- betw-eeu Coe Hill and Apsley ?
o
fad1hv
o.M-m\iL-1a
perlient, tblat it requireti cousiderable ad
o
1bv
n'aii
ILo.M.
dition to tbe experience w-e possessed w-blc
w-e induced Prince Edw-ard Islandi to CODUn lin Sgir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lt caul
into the union la order to approxinliate more iîot possibly lie a iatter nmouu111ting to mai':1
closely to tbe fulfilment of tlhese obliga- dollars a year.
lttl
ol
Hu
r
tions than w-e w'ere enableti to do at the
begiuning. 1 say that w-as so, andi tbe point hou. frienti.
.1
at wbich oui. obligation ç%Old arise w-as
BWL-i
Hlon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BWL-i
the point w-heu w-e had accumulateti an
inquire 2
amioiint of expericace wviuieli w-e had lot Itbe bon. iniister promise to
Hou. '.\r. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Hear.
1,

v

[SENATE]
H-Ioil Mr.
Ion. Mr. MILLS-I will promise to ask, if soit Bay Railway Comîauiiy.'
H
1Dandurand.)
I remember it.
Bill (111) ' An Act to incorporate 'd'e InterHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-01 !
provincial and James Bay Railway ColnBaker.)
Hon. -%r. PEHLEY-Has the hon. minis- pany.'-(I-ofl. MýNr.
ter the returus I asked for the other day
Bill (104) 'An Act respecting the Nova
with respect to the indebtedness of the sev- Scotia Eastern Rallway Oompany, Limited.'
eral provinces ? I sbould like to have it, as --(Hon. Sir -Mackenzie Bowell.)
the session is drawing- to a close.
Bill (120) 'An Act respecting the SubsidHon. '-%r. MNILLS-I will makie n note of lary Higli Court of the Ancient Order of
Foresters in the Dominion of Canada.'ItL
(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
l'lie Senate 9djourned.
PRICE

THE SENATE.
Ottaiwa, Tuesday, Mer,' 21, 1901.
The SPEAKER took d'e Chair et Tbree
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceeding-s.
THIIID READINGS.
The following B3ilîs, reported fromn the
Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours without amendment, wvere read
the third time and passed under a suspension of d'e rules
Bill (80) 'An Act to incorporate the St.
Mary River Bridge Company.'-(Hon. Mr.
Baker.)

0F

GOVERNMENT
TWINE.

BINDER

INQUIRY.
IHon. 'Mr. PERLEY rose to:
Ask .the gDverflmeflt if they have a stock of
the different brands of binder twine on baud
at the Kingston penitentiary. and at what price
are they selling the different brands of twine.
Hon. 'Mr. 'MILLS-I ýmay say to my lion.
friend t'at the kind of binder twinie callpd
Beaver is sold at eight and a half cents.
Sisal nt seven cents, New Zealand, six and a
half cents, Monarcli, eight and a bal! cents.
These are the prices at whieh the twine is
sold for cash on delivery at the penitentiary.
Hon. M.Nr.PERLEY-Have
on baud ?

they a stock

Hon. MNr. M.NILLS-Yes. The raw material
lias since gone up and the probability is
necessary for the future
Bill (89) 'An Act respectiug the Grand that it çvill be
manufacture to asic a somnewhat hi.-her
Falls Water Power and Boom Company.'price.
(Hon. Mr. Wood.)
Bill (95 ' 'An Act respectiug the Ontario,
0F QUEBEC LEGISLAH-udsou Bay and Wýe:,tern Railw'ay Coin- DISAILOWANCE
TION.
piiy.'-(H-ofl. 'Mr. Dandurand.)
Hon. MNr.LANDRY-Before the Orders of
Bill (9S) 'An Act incorporating the Kettle
the
River Valley Railway Coinpany.'-(Hon. Mr. the Day, 1 desire to call the attention of
Minister of Justice and his col.league to cerTempleman.)
tain facts. I think lt 4s the privilege of zhis
Bill (108) 'An Act respecting the ManHouse, when a question is put to the minitoulin and North Shore Ilailway Company.'
isters, to bave the best answer that the gov-(Hou. MIr. I}andurand.)
erament can give, which is not always the
Bili (69)î 'Au Act to incorporate d'e St. case. Ou Fîriday last I inquired fromi the
Mr. Minister of Justice if he had received any
Power Company.'-{Hon.
Lawrence
Vidai.)
petition asking, for the disallowance of the
hy the Quebec leg-islature..at its
Bill (S1) 'An Act respectiug the Algoma Act passed
relating- to the contes-ted elecCentral Railway Company and to change last session,
tions. The hon. minister toid me that hie
its name to the " Algoma Central and HudHon. Sir MA-»CKENZIE BOWELL.

'LmAy 21, 19011
L-new nothing of it, at ail events is attention bad flot been called to it, and answering, 1 suppose, wholly ifi bis own naine,
but itrying to give to the House the impression that he was answering in the naine of
the government, 'he told us that no petition
bad so far been received. The minister
said that if anythlng was done in the matter, ît iunst be througb the channel of the
bon. Secretary of State. The next day 1
asked the hon. Secretary of State if he bad
recelved a petition. Wbat -was bis answer7
He said :
It was
A petition was sent from Mr. Nantel.

acknowledged at the tirne, and transferred to
It would necessarily
the Governor in Council.
go to the Minister of Justice for an opinion and
have not heard what has been doue
1
a report.
since. but it was received and attended to
promptly.
So we were ileft under tbe impression ou

Saturday last that that petition baU been
jreceived by .the bon. Secretary of State. net
on that day, Saturday, but as hie says, ou
MoNinday or Tuesday of the saine week, at
the beginning of the weelz. Wïe were told
that the Secretary of State bad immediately forwarded the petition to tbe Minister
of Justice. Wiiat is the answer of tbe Min.ister of Justice ? The MýiniSter- of Justice
speaking later on says :
That petition 1 bave net yet seen.

That was on Saturday. The petition bad
been received on the previous Monday or
Tuesday, and forwarded. i.nnnediately te the
Governor iu Council. The duty of the Minlister of Justice was, at ail eveuts, to say
'tbat bie bad received it.
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-I bave flot received it

yet.

I inquired again yesterday in miiy de-

partmieut, and 1 fouud that no papers bad
as yet corne.
LA-NDRY-It is a pity. )What
Flou. McNl.
the Prime M.\inister say on that subdoes
jEeCt ? He says
It je net wjtbin My knowledge that any sucb
petition bas been received by the Goveruer
General lu Council.
The Secretary of State says publicly, ilu
this House, that he bas received tbis petition and filed i.t with tbe Goveruor iu Coun
cil, and yet the Prime «Minister in the Flous(
of Gommons says:
It is not witbin my knowledge that any suc,
petitiofl bas been remeived by the Gýver.oi
Gezeral in Council.

Who is teliing the trutb ? Sball 1 say it
is the Prime Minister ? I cannot say that
in tbe face 0f the bon. Secretary of State.
1 am inciined to say perhaps that the bon.
Secretary of State is teilin- tbe truth. If
he is telling the truth, and the petition was
put before tbe council, it is clear, taking- the
declaratiori of the Prime Minister, that none
of the other ministers bave taken cognizauce of tbat document
Hon. 31r. MILLS-We cannot tili it cornes,
to us.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-M-,r. Monkt, in ansm-er
to that says :
I amn stating that I banded the petition to the
Secretary of State and hie gave me a written
ackuowlcdgmefit, which I sent te the petitioner,
and iu Nwbieh I plainly stated that it wvas about
to be put in the bauds of the goverumeut.
And the Prime Minister says
That must have been within a very few days,
for I arn sure it bas not yet been submltted te
tbe Privy Couneil.
Is the bion. Secretary of State doing, bis
duty ?
Hon.
now.

Mr. SCOTT-He

will expittin

just

Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-If he sent it to the
council wby does the Prime M.%iniste2r say it
bias not yet reacbied tbe counceil ? Purther

ou the Prime MIinister says:
Witbout going luto

the merits of

the case,

perbaps my hon. friend frpm Jlacques Cartier
bas noticed already that even if tbe Act were
to be disallowed. NIr. Nanltel could derive no

benefit fromn that disallowance. because, accordiug te tbe memorial wbich bas been placed iu
my, bauds, a judgrnent of tbe court. pronounced
by Mr. Justice Taschereatu, bas been rendered
between the parties. setting aside ail tbe proceedinga, and declaring tbe petition to be nul
Under such cireumatances, evenU
snd void.
tbe Act were disallowed, I do not believe Mr.
Nantel could revive that petition , wbicb ia res
My bon. friend
judicata between tbe parties.
is right iu sayiug that the power of disallowaflce
applies not ouly to laws wbicb are ultra vires
of the province, but more f.arcibly still to laws
whicb ire intra vires of tbe province; because.
as bie suggests, ia-ws wvbicb Fare ujtra vires o!
thre province do not require te he dlsallowed,
becauise tbe courts will set them aside wbeil
This law
thIeir atteution is calleà to tbem.
* was certaiuly withiu the pcwers of the legislature of Quebec. \Vhetber the legislature acted wiselv or unwisely, I ar nuot prepared at this
moment te say: but if 1 wvere to express an
opinion, I would say that if 1 bad been in the
v-ted wltb the Atle gislaturc, 1 N-ould bave
rerney General of the province against the iaw.
But tbst law bas no effect, se far as the electien
in the county o! Terrebonne la coucerned, the

SEN AT Ej
judge baving set aside the petition and ail the
proceedinga; aed if we were te disalloîv the~
Act. the disalloivaece would only apply te other
sections of the cejmmunity wvbere elections are
pending; but ive bave received no petitice fromi
anyt>udy that 1 kaow cf except Mr. Nantel.
That is an astonishieg assertion coing
frein a minister 'who a moment ago said
hie knew lothing about it and thiat ne other
petition, only that one frein Mr. Nantel, had
been received. The Prime M.Ninister gees on
saying :
And I submit, wvitb aIl due deference, tbat
be bas no more intereat in the niatter.
I want te correct tlsat statenient immediateiy.
There were two judgments rendered by 31r. Justice Taschereau, on two
different motions.
The flrst motion came
before the court on the l3th of April, 1901,
and here is the judg-ment :
The court after baving beard the parties by
their respective advccates, upen the motion cf
the petitioner asking tbat a day may be fixed
foc the hearing, upon the evidence and the
merits cf the preliminary objections filed in
this case by the defendant. having, moreover,
examined the precedure and the documents on
record, together wltb the exhibits filed by the~
d.efendant against sucb motion, and deliberated
on the whole;You wiil see on whlat the judganent la
based. Lt is on a motion asking :,or a day
to be fixed for the bearing of prelirninary
objections. The jndg-ment continues:
-censiderieg that the defendant bas opposed
the said metisn and bas coniendeà tbat the
electien petition in this case is noNv, seeing the
termas cf the law, entirely extinguîsbed, lapsed,
nuli and cf et, effect, because tbe bearing on
the nierits bas no' been commeeced during the
tbree montha foil winig the publication made by
the Cierk cf the Ccuwn in Chaecery iu the Officiel Gazette cf Quehec ce the 28th cf December,
1900. cf the no:îce of the election of the defendant.
Conlsidering- iliat tbis contention cf the defendant is well f unded, iu fact as well as in

iatr, aed that Ibis court. seeing tbe extinction,
the iapsing and the nuliity of the said electi-mn
petition, as set forth by the~ said law, is eoýv
powiecleas te grant the said motion of the petitioner.
3Rejects the said motion witbout costs.

2OtIî Apri]. 1901. and this is the judgaient
of the court.
The court having heard the parties by their
respective advocates, on the motion of the defendant ta the effect of declaring that the elction petition in this case ls extinguished, lapsed,
nul] and of no effect, and thiat it may consequently bie rejected without costs; naving, moreover, exarniined the procedure and the documents en record, and especially the certificate of
the prothonotary of this court stating that the
said election petition has net been filed, and
baving on the wbole deliberated;
Considering that the legislature of the province of Quebec, by an Act psssed at its last
session, an I sanctioned on the 28th Marcb last,
1901. bas enscted as feIllws:An Act te amend the law respecting Controverted Elections.
Ris Majesty, by and with the advice and
consent of the legisiature cf Quebec, enacts as
foll ws S1. The Ac, 52 Victiria, chapter 11, is repealed.
2. The following article is added after article
576 of the Revise-à Statutes
576a. The hesring on the merits of every
eleciion peý,ition now peedieg, or whicb rnay
hereafter be pending, muet have been coinmenced within the three months which have folloNved the publication, in virtue of article 213
cf the Quebec Election Act, 1895, in the Quebec
Officiai Gazette, of the notice bv the Clerk of
the Crown in Chancery of the election of tCe
member, otberwise the petition shail be absolutely cxtinguislîed. ]apsed, adi sand of no effect.'
Con.sidering tbat by another provision of the
same Act i is ensoted that sucb an Act shall
corne into force on the day cf its sanction;
Coilsidering that the noti-e of the election cf
the defendant, given by the Clerk of the Orown
in Cbancery, bas been published le the Quebec

Officiai Gazette on the 29th cf December last,
1401, that thie electian petition in the case bas
bsec flled on the 26th January iast, and that the
heariug on the merits bas not been commeeoed
witbin the delay cf three months fixed by the
said Awhich is retroactive in express termis,
and wbich applies te the present election petition*
Considering that the courts of this province,
and the present court especiaily, are niow dJsseized for ail p'irpo.3es if the said electien petitien, îvhih is extinguisbed. iapsed, null and
cf noeffeot hy the sole effect cf the iawv.
Doth in consequence grant acte thereof te the
Partleý w-ith-)t costa.
A, von i ay see 1)'

tlis jutltllilt. 111e (01111

does not toucb on the merits cf the petitioxi.
Lt is becausp thiere is a Inn' passed by the
That is the first judgmlent givun by' the legislature of Quebec, a law which renders
,Courts. A motion is mnade te fiX the day
the court poweriess as to gi-e a judgnient
thec court answers 'I cannot fix a day, lie- that the court in its wisdom camne te titis
cause I amn powerless te grant tîlat motion.' conlulsion. The prime «Minister did iot see
Wby ? *'I
anm powerless in consequence of tise importance of that judgrneu(nt, certainiy,
the law just pnssed by the Legislat,
s whlen lie
said lu bis remarks that 'The law
sembly cf the province of Quleboc.' The sec- lias ne effect se far as the election in the
-ond
motion camue a. fem- days after, on tbe county of Terrebenne is concerned.'
It is
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY.

1MAY -21, 1901]
onsidered, aud therefore, the bon. gentiebécause of that law tbat the petition lu the c
eau quite understand it mi-,ht lie in
was not set aside iun nan
county of Terrebonne
hle box, and the premier flot aware of the
the wuy the lion. miinister says, by a judg-t 'act. 1 called his attention to it to-day, and
meut res judicata, but because the Hon. f xe said lie would inform Mr. Monk hie bad
Justice Tascbereau had not, iu a generai 1nade a nuistake the otber day Iu sayiug It
7way, any power to toueli tbe petition itseif. m~as flot before him. It was before hlm, iu
It is the Court of Review lu our provInce )ne seuse, because it was iu the box, but it
that sits -and decides upon election pet!- was not examined with the multitade of
tions. Iu our province tbe preliminary ob- otber papers there. I do not propose to,
jections are pleaded and adjudged by one followv my lion. frieud Iu a discatssiun reWbVeni that obstacle is reiuoved, specting tbe merits or demerits of the quesjudge.
wben tbe bearing of the case comes upon tion, but that is the f act, and lu due course
its merits, tben tbe argument is iuade lie- tbe question will lie reviewed. Haviug
fore tbree judges sitting as a Court of 11ev-I
called attention to it to-day, it will probably
lew, and tbe judgment is given by the Revibe referred to-day or to-morrow to the Desion Court. The court presided cver by partment of Justice.
Judge Taschiereau bad no right to adjudge
on a petition. H1e couid niot adju1lge, and
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I presume it Nvil1 lie
the Revision Court will not adjudge eitber, put in a box that caunot lie opened.
because the case caunot go before tlue Itevision Court uniess the bearing of tbe evuclene
I-Ion. Mr. SCOTT-It just takes its course
bas been taken, aud it is only after evidence Nvitb other papers. It is not eutitled to any
bas been taken that the case is inatured to precedieuce before far more important
go before the Revision Court, so that that papers.
court could not judge*the matter either, and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The governrieut
it is lu this way tbe case stands to-day.
sbou'ld have two boxes, and put it lu the
The petition is set aside, because the court
one.
is powerless, but -if the -lct is -disallowed, proper one, not tbe wroug
wvill
the old law revives and the petitioners
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-IIow
lie lu a position to go on with their case. far would tbe Act passed by the Quebec
Jus1 eall the attention of tlue M-\inister of
legîslature affect these contested elections lu
tice to this particular phase of the subiect,
case the government bere sbould recommend
because 1 would not like the statement of its dlsallowauce ? It
night lie a mouth
tbe Prime 'Minister to lie accepted.
possibly, and the time for takiug prohence,
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The answer I gave tbe ceediugs wonld bave lapsed.
bou. gentleman the other day was strictly
Honl. Mr. MILLS-Of course 1 bave not
correct. Tbere is no use lu my repeating it.
petition and band- the. Bill before mue, nor do 1 know anything
Mr. 'Monk calied with the
iu fact, I only know of
ed it to nie. I told hlm it wouid go iu due about its contents.
1 bave
Council. In the the existence of the Bill from wbat
course to the Goveruor lu
bieard the bion, gentleman say bere in tbe
afternoon 1 instructed an official letter to lie
my hon. friend knows,
written to Mr. Nautel, whicb no doulit lie House. We disallow, tbe policy of the
measures that affect
received. The saine day the papers were
or interfere with
sent to the Goveruor lu Couneil, and 1 sup- Dominion, tbat contravene
the carrying out of a policy tbat bas been
pose placed lu a box thiere wvitli fifty or
'We also disallow measures that
sixty other documents, mauy lying there for adopted.
This is a measure tbat
are ultra vires.
As bion, gentlemen are
several weeks.
tbose miles
coniparatively, a few does not fall witbin either of
aware, there are ouly,
wbich Sir John Macdonald laid down lu
moments for cabinet meetings before the
1 tbink, very early lu the coufederatbree o'clock mieeting of the lIouse of Coni- 1868,
tion at ail eveuts, as tbe guiding principie
mious eacli day, and the box is rarely
the governinent on that occasion, tbat is,
toucbed, for the reason that ouly mnatters of to,
tbat measures tbat were clearly ultra vires
the most pressing importance. that are ocsbould lie disallowed.
cupy4ng the attention of parliameut, eau be

Honl. Sir MACKENZIE
dIo inot do that sometimies.

BONVELL-Yoiu rc

thl-

~'~.-.

, ePVlisiU

ilou otf that province.

to the

pubieC op-

Hou. Mr. 'MILLS-Measu.es that were i
contravention of the public policy of tii
Hon10. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
Dominion, even thougli tbey miglit not b. e hon. friend bas flot answered my question.
ePerhaps it is flot fair to ask it until hie bas
ultra vires, are disallowed.
In this case
tbiere can Le no doulit of the fact stated b~ giveil the subject more consideration.
if
the bon, gentleman wbio lias mnade th4 y they deci1e, 'to duisallow this Act, and it is
motion. that the goveramlent of' Quebec i enot disallowed until aifter the Urne lias exacting wçithiu its jurisdiction in passing thi spired under the old law for the contestation
0f an election, wouid the proceedings
measure.
tbat
It mny Le a vcry bad miensure
Lt may Le a measure that iaterferes with thE have taken place, in order to test the validlty
riglits of parties. but we are not supposed of an election whiech bas been held iu the
Iprovince of Quebec, Lie in a position to bie
to deal witb aIl the questions
tbat are
viclous in priniciple and that are clearly con continued ? Would '-%r. Nantel, for instance,
trarv to w-bat we consider souad publie *Lie able to conduct bis contestation of tbe
policy. so long as they are niot iu contra- seat for Terrebonne in case of tbe disventioni of sonie policy of the Dominion. *allownce after tbe expiration of the timie
for -taking proceedings under the old ]aw,
Whetber this mensure is
so vicions in
character as Io caîl for the interference its lie îarving been prevented from. proceeding
ot'
the governmenit of the Dominion. I arn nlot witb rthe case in tbe courts owing to tbe passag«,,o0f ýthe la,
now under discussion.
prepared to state.
I have iiot seeli
the
I c ageew-th the statement of the Prime
mensure.
The usual mile that bias been
adopted by goverfiments hieretofore, where M1inister, made in tbe other House, tbat it
a measure is vicions in princile but 19 is îiot so necessary to disallow an Act wlichb
neither ultra vires for interferes lu anyw-ny iii itself is ultra vires, because the parties
w-ith the policy of the Dominion. is to leave would bave tbe riglit to enter into court and
it to the public at large of the province to test the validity of the Act.
Lt is in condeal wvitb.
They may coudemiu the legis- nection with Acts which are initra vires and
are detrimental to tbe public iaterest that
Inture that: passed it.
They may elect a
legisînture that wll repeal it, and adopt the discretion of the Governor la Concil
sounder view-s.
In fact. the parliamient should lie used in eitbier allowing tbem to
0f Canada and the goverumeut of Canada go inito force or disallowing them.
In this
w-ould prncticnlly lie gnilty of a new depar- case, the Act ny bave the effect of reture aitogether if tbiey w'ere to organize lieving those wbo biad commnitted crimes
themselves into a biody of moral censors punishable by imprisoament and by fine,
xxith a view of holding the locai legisiatures from punishiment, or it mny not.
If that
were the case, it is one wlichl at lenst ouglit
0f the varions provinces responsible for
nets
w-hicb, lu thieir opinion, miglit lie unwise, or to Lie considered.
w-bicb in their opinion miglit lie unjust or
Hon. Mr. MNILLS-The disallowance of the
unfair.
Thiose mensures are for the most
Act is not retroactive lu its effect.
Every
part-I do flot say whiether it shiould Lie s0
-%ct that is not ultra vires is operative aad
or not iii this case-I arn expressing no
opinion uponi lt-but in most cases it lias ntil it is disnllowed it is iaw.
lieen feit, lioth in the United Kiugdom, lu
HIou. Sir MACKENZIE BOW%ýELL-Tbnt
dealinig wvith the varions colonies of the I nnderstnnid, but
supposing this is ultra
empire. and iii the goverument of Canada vires ?
since tbe confederation iu dealinig w-itb the
Hon. MNr. MILLS-I amn assuminig it is
legisîntion of the provinces, to 1eave mensures that are vicions in themiselves, andi intra vires; then it is operative and -will Le
whicli do not touch either tbe riglits of the operative iintil it is disallowed. and tbat is
Dominion under the constitution
or - the prospective.
policy of the Dominion, to bie redressed by
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
the electorate, filnally in ecd province, dealif it is niot wiped ont in tiîni. it ends this
ing with tbe governmeut and the legisincontest ?
Hon. Mr. MIJLS.

[MNAY 21, 1901]

Hon. '-\r. M-ILILS-Yes, if the taie lias
expired.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliat is flot a rePly
The bon, gentleman supto the question.
poses a case, where tbe disallowance is
after the expiration of the delay. The disallowance sets aside tbat Act, and the old
Act is revived. Under the operation of the
old Act six months were allowved to take
proceedings. I suppose the operation of the
old Ale c6mes into force at the expiration
I think, that is wliat
of tbe six montbs.
the bon. minister means. la that case, the
disallowance comîng after the date at wbicli
the old law 'would be revived, would the
petîtioner be deprived of his rights ?

the views expressed and the policy that he
proposcd 10 give elfeet to. andi as it is late
in tlie session and lie bas Icft tlie city, ài the
face of the medical evidence that w-as pressed upon the committee, 1 do not purpose
to proceed to-day, 9,t ail events, with tlie
iMI, and I ask that it be discbarged and
put upon the Order paper for to-morrow.

Hon. Mr. MIILLS-Yes.
Hon. M-\r. LANDRY-That should impress
the government wîtli the necessity of taking immediate action. I do not advocate
disallowance. I do not asic the goyeramnent
to disallow. 1 want to know what position
the governmfeat is going to take on that
question. If the goverament decides to disallow, If sncb dlsallowance is to be effective.
It must be done immediately, and I will Say,
also, to the bon. gentleman that it Is flot
alone for the public interest, that Âcts are
disallowed. The pollcy froni confederation
till to-day bas been to disallow Acts, flot
only w-len tbey were against the Dominion
lnterest. but when tbey were of a retroactive character, wbea tbey trampled upon
private rigbhts, or wben they were against
public morals, and in this case there Is
sometbing to be sald on that gronnd, and
I hope the bon. gentleman will not forget it
when be studies ail the reasons be may have
to disallow the Act.
ANIMAL CONTAGIQUS DISE.ASES ACT
AM.NEND«.\ENT BILL.
ORDER 0F THE DAY POSTPONED.
Tlie Order of the Day being cal'led :
Coninittee of the Whole House on (Bil 127)
An Act. t0 axuead the Animal Contagions Diseases Act.
M-NILLS-I considered this Bill
\r.
lion. -witb my hon. friend from Kingston, and
several otlier iedical men, and thie Mini3t.3i
of Agriculture who ,introduced this Bill anÈ
cnrried it througli the House of Common!
Ieft no mnemorandum upon the subj.oct, anÉe

1 do not know precisely upon wbat lie base5

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-We will take pains
to have the best opinions on the subjýýct and
have it satisfaetorily settled, and therefore
It will be la the public interest 10o bave It
postponed.
The motion was agreed to.
THE SOUTH SHORE RAILWAY
PANY BILL.

COM-

SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Tlie Order of the Day being called:
Second reading (Bill 106) Ani Act respecting
the South Shore Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved that tlie
Bill he read tlie second tume.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think, we must enjoy the privileges of this Bouse, and I caîl
attention to the fact tbat this Bill Is not yet
printed lu Frenchi.
Tlie SPEAKER-lt is marked as printed.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have not received
it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is print.'d.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not in Frenc..
Hon. Mr. BOLDUG-I have not seen thie
French edition altliough I bave looked for

it.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVLLE--It !s easy
to decide the question. If It is printed na
French, 6omebody must bave a copy.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-I bave anl Englisli
copy of it, but not the Frencli copy.
* Hon. Mr. LAND)RY-Let it stand.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I move the second reading.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want tbe Speaker
to give bis decision. It is flot po'inted ln

Frencb, and I bave a. riglit to dlaim. that the
IBill be printed la rirench before we proceed with it.

LSENAiEj
The SPEAKER-The ruie ýis that a Bill
should flot be read a second time until it is
printed in English and French.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-It is marked on the
paper as being printed in both languages.
lion. '.%r. LANDRY-It is a bad mark.

Hon. MmNl.
SCOrT-Yes.

-OIL--IsupHon. Sir M<KNI
pose there bave been what are called tramp
inspectors going round and lnterfering witli
the meters, and the objeet is to prevent that
-that there shall be no inspection except
by thxe governiment Inspector. That is the
The SPEAKER-The prima fadie evidence whole principle of the Bill, is It flot ?
of the faet that the Bill bas been printed in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, that is the prinbotb languag-es is to be found on the Order ciple of the Bill, and of the Electric Liglit
paper. lIt is nmarked. E. F. But as no bon. Bill. They are both of the saine character.
gentleman seems to have seen the French
The clause was adopted.
copy, I suppose the ýwiser course woulçl be
to let the Item stand. I un!derstand search
Hon. Mr. PERLEY, freim the coiuîttee,
is now being -made. If the Bill has been reported the Bill witbout amiendmeut.
printed in French, It wouid be manifestly
The Bill w-as then read the third tinzie and
unfair to the promoters of the Bll 4,o postpassed.
pone it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly.
ELECTIIIC LIGHT INSPECTION ACT
The SPEAKERi-Then ýit will stand at the
A'MEND-NENT BILL.
foot of the Orders of the Day.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
ACT A3MENDIE'NT
GAS INSPECTION
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rendBILL.
ing of Bill (No. 140) ' An Act to amend the
Electric Lighit Inspection Aet.'
AND THIRD READINGS.
SECOND
Fie said :This Bill is precisely similar
the second readHon. 'Mr. SCOTT moved
in principle to the Gas Inspection BIill. It
ing- of Bill (139) 'An Act to amend the Gas
provides the machinery and the appointInspection Act.' He said:- The clauses in
inspector çvho shall be the only
this Bill are very few. The first clause is ment of an
persons- authorized person to examine the meters,
to declare that only autlhoriz-ýd
loss and gain are deait with in the
tlxat Is, the inspectors-shali be per-nitted to and the
next clause is samne -way as in the former Bill. It is flot
lnspect the meter, and the
to inspeet them except the
fixing the rebate in the case of variation, allowlng any one
limited to what- inspector.
whether a loss or a gain,
ever the loss or gain may have been ~n the
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
preceding three miouths, and the 1'ast clause was read the second time.
provides that no person -except the lnspector
The liouse resolved itself into Commnittee
shahl inspect from time to time.
of the W.Uole on the Bill.
The motion was agreed to, and txe Bill
(In the Committee.)
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTTmoved the suspenis'iof
On clause 1,
rules 17 and 41 in so far as they relate to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The expression inspectixis Bill.
tor, is defined. lie must be appointed by
The motion w-as agreed to.
the department.
The House resolved itself into a Goan'nitHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
tee of the Whohe on*,tle Bill.
there one in every town ?
(In the Committee.)

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I presume wherever

On clause 1.
there ls an electric light, wherever the peoHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL,-I sup- pie require an inspector.
pose there must have been soiue abuse in
SULLIVAN-Is this making a
Hon. «-%m.
this direction or this mensure -would flot
neW officer ?
have been called for ?
Honi. Mr. LANDRY.

plAy 21, 19011
agreed to supply, and so far there bas been
no remedy for this. There is no inspector
there to decide whether the company is
giving the quanti'ty of Ilght that they agreed
to furnish or otherwise. The town, of course,
pays for the light, but the difficulty is to
say w-hether lt ls Up to the standard the
Hon. Mr. POWER-That is the practice. icornpauny agreed to supply.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-SorneHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The electiznes they send the Inspector to an ad- tric light systeni is flot owned by the town ?
However, that does flot
joining town.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-No, but
affect the principle.
by two companies, and although there 15
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I use an electric competition between the t-o. companies,
light, and no Inspector ever came arouad. stili there is a good deal of complaint. If
It Is ail regulated by the proprietor of the there is en inspector who could determine
light Does this Bill appoint an inspector whether the light was up to standard, the
to do that worlr ?
matter could easily be adjusted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The varions parts of tuie
Dominion are divided into districts. CharThe clause was adopted.
lottetown Is ln the Halifax district. There
On clause 4,
are, in the district ernbracing Nova Scotia
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýýELL-I sup- and Prince Edward Island, an inspector and
pose the adoption of the 3 per cent, an assistant. The headquarters would. be
ln the resding of -the sneter, when either too at Halifax, so at any tirne Inspection is -refast, or too slow, is the resuit of the Inves- quired, the inspector or bis assistant would
tigation heire by the officiais of the depart- go to Charlottetown to inspect the gas or
electrlc meters. In the province of Quebec
mrent ?
there is one in Quebec, one ln Montreal, one
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes.
in Sherbrooke-inspectors ln ail the great
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Who starnps the centres of population.
meter ?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is the standard onlY
for arc lighting 7
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-The inspector would.
Hon. Mr. -SOOTT-No1, it is for ail.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That Is determined
by the general Act ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I see nothing but arc
lighting mentioned here.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-That is an addition. The
The clause was adopted.
incandescent was subject to inspection beOn clause 7,
fore, and this adds arc iighting.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The only change in the
Hon. Mr. OWENS, froni the cornmittee,
regulations is subsection (c), for determin- reported the Bill without arnendrnent.
ing the standard or standards for arc Ilights.
The Bill was then read the third tirne,
The others are just as they were.
and passed.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.). Has
the goverfiment: appointed inspectors ln OCEAN STEAMSH81iPS SUBSIDIES BILL.
the different cities whrich have electric
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
ightIng for the streets and squares ? I
HIon. Mr MILLS moved the second readknow in the town I corne froni. which is
Iighted by electricity, there is no Inspector, ing o! Bill (141) 'AmnAct further to arnend
s0 far as I arn aware, and I know that coi- the Act relating to ocean stearnship subsiplaints are made -by the citizens of the dies.' He said :This Bill is to subsidize
Inefficiency of the light-that it does not ocean steamships sailing between a port ln
corne up to the standard whichi the cornpany Lower Canada and a French port. If the
33
TheY
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot say.
have an inspector here, and 1 presurne theY
bave inspectors of gas in rnany places. 1
fancy with very littie instruction an Inspector of gas couid also do the inspecting of
the arc light.

LSLN.ý'TE]
vessels employed are not able to mnake more
than eigbteeu trips in a year, the subsidy
is flot to exceed W0O, and lu any eveiit
flot to exceed $100,000. There has been sonie
correspondence with the authorities iu
France on the subject. I think they propose to put an equal number of sbips on the
route, of French register, and to make au
equal contribution towards subsidizing that
Une.

the difficulty that we experienced in dealing
with the Plrencb goverfiment in the past
will be met by tbat arrangement. because
there will be nothing to prevent the Canadian government paying the subsidy to vessels of British register, and the French
goverfiment paying their subsldy to vessels
of French tonnage.
That arrangement
meets the difficulty which my hon. friend
was called upon to face.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
the Ininister k-now w'hether under the regulattons which are to be made, or the agreement with France, the subsidy will be
granted to any ships other than those which
carry the Frenchi flag ?
Under the old
French law, whicb existed when I was deallng with this question, they would grant n0
subsidy to a vessel that did not carry the
French ilag, Vheir subsidies being regulated by the law. Hence there ivas difficulty always found in having a joint SUÙsidy, because our governmient objected to
giving subsidies to vessels that did flot
carry the British fiag. There was also a
law providing for direct Importation, otherwlse they would have imposed upon goods
by that line an extra tax. If a vessel toucbed
at any port other than going direct to
France, then It was deprived of the advantage of the minimum tarifÊ. I hope this
further concession, granting a large subsidy, will have the effect of creating and
building up trade. So far as my information goes, and the returns lu the House
show, the attempts to establisb a line between Canada and France bave flot resuted In a commensurate retura for the money
pald, particularly under the last trea:,
into whicb we entered during Sir Charles
Tupper's time. WVe got tbe advantage, under
certain circumstances, 0f what they cali the
minimum tariff. Unless a better trade eaui
be cultivnted under this extra subsidy, unless we can get some concessions, by whicli
a vessel leaving Canada can toucb at ail

Hon. Sir M-\ACKENZIE BOWELL-You
will then have Britishî vessels going one
way, and French vessels going the other.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbey will be alternate.
Witb regard to the trade, of course it is a
tentative measure altogether, because It
mîght be that we will be disappolnted in the
extent of~ the trade tbat may be developed
between the two countries, but my Impression Is that the necessity for pulp la the
manufacture of paper in France will be sucli
as to give rise to a very consîderable trade
la that article alone. In fact, 1 understand
Mr. Clergue's company expeet to produce
pulp enough for the continental market to
give employment to one 0f those vessels
imself.
Hou. Sir )IACKE-NZIE BOW%ýELL-Tbat
will be a good subsidy to the pulp manufacturer. I have great doubts as to the success of the enterprise. I hope the new Industries wbicb have sprung up may resuit
as the hion, gentleman anticipates. I am
conflrmed in the opinion 1 always beld, that
the treaty we entered into with France bas
flot proved of advantage to any extent to
Canada.
Hon. 2Nr. DANDURAND-It was perbaps
because thiere was 1no direct line, but we
bave better prospects to-day. There w-as an
attempt at navîgnting steamers between
Canada and a Frencb port lnst summer.
There were six round trips made, and
tbere was more freiglit going tban could be
carried every time, and at every trip freigbt

Englishi port, and tben go on to France, Iw-as lef t on the wharf s of 'Moutreal.
am very mucb afraid that the resuit will be
Hou. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-That
not exactly what we have a rigbt to anticipate it should be. I ask the hon. geni- wft5 the outgoing freight ?
tieman if hie bas any information on the
Hon.
Mr.
DANDURAND-Ye.s..
Tbe
subj ect.
amount of incoming freigbt was ligbter,
Hon.

Mvr.

MILLS-The bion, gentleman
0f the two goveramnents
contribute equal amounts, an)d

will see that each
practically

Hon. Mr. MILLS.

but there is a question of deviating trade
from its old channels and bringing it lu
Caniadian bottoms direct f rom French ports.

[MAY 21, 1901]
This company intend to put on steamers that
will go to Havre, and others that wll go
round to Marseilles, so tbat the trade will be
well served, and Iarn sangulne we wll bave
considerable trade between the Mediterranean and this country.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
are others to whicb 1 could refer that have
swallowed up everything tbey could get and
then want more.

Hon. Mr. DAÂNDURAND-Do not burt
anybody',s feelings.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I hoPe
Hon. Mr. BAKER, from, the conimittee,
the bon. gentleman will not be dlsappolnted. rpre
h
ilwtetaedet
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
The Bill was then read the third time
was read the second time.
,and passed.
The Bihl was then pssed tbrough it final
stages under a suspension of tbe rules.
ST. LAWRENCE AND ADIRONDACK
RAILWAY CO-3MPANY'S BILL.
HARBOUR COMMI'ýISSION EIIS 0F MONTCOMMONS ÂMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
REAL BILL.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved
SECOND READING.
concurrence dn -the amendments miade by
Hon. '.\r. MILLS moved the second read- the House of Gommons to Bill (M) ' An Act
lng of Bill (142) 'An Act to provide for a respecting the St. Lawrence and Adironfurther advance to tbe Harboar Commiis- dack Railway Company., He said : The
sioners of Montreal.' He said :Hon. gentle- objeet of tbe Vanderbilt system ln asking
men mwill see that tb!is is a Bill to enable power to issue bonds to the extent of $300,the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal to 000, which was not to take precedence 0f
obtain the sum of one million dollars to aid any claim wbicb rnight exist agtinst the
ln the construction of grain elevators. It road, was for the purpose of enabling thema
provides that the plans for the work qhahl to «nake certain îimprovements, and the
be submitted to the Minister of Public Vanderbits were prepared to, advance, out
Works, and debentures *may be lssued for of their own funds, the $300,000 and to,
which public securlty miay be given, andl make a provision in tbe Bill that Lt shahl
that the mnoneys are to be raised mn the not taire precedence of nor rank with any
usual way in whftcb the resource and pow- other crodfitors, but 'tbat tbey siball have a
ers of the Montreal Harbour Commissioners lien on the property after ail the other
debte are paid. It was supposed, when
enable them to put into operation.
tbds Bll paffsed the Senate, that that had
The :motion was agreed to, and the Bill been provlded, for, but it appears the House
was read the second tîme.
of OomTnons did flot 'think that the creditora
sufficiently protected.
The HFouse resolved itself into Committee or the road were
Hence they amended Lt by saying that the
*of the Whole on the Bdll.
bonds for the $300,000 are flot a Lien upon
the property or assets of the eompany. It
(In the Committee.)
only puts it beyond a doubt that this was
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What not taking preecedence of, &r rank equal
Is the indebtedness of the barbour of Mont- wltb the creditors.
real to the Dominion ?
The SPEAKER-There is a rule of the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I arn unable to answer Senate wbicb provides for amendrnents
the hon. gentlemnan's question. I do not re- -made to a prIvaite Bull In the House of Commember, but they bave certanhy made mnns. If tbey are of àmportance tbey ehall
prompt paynient of their obligations.
be considered in Gomnittee of tbe Whole,
BOWELL--I dîd or sent to a committee of this House, but I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
is of tibat im-.
not ask the question witb a view of oppos- do flot tbink this amendrnent
was
one of the few portance. It is onhy pn.aking clear what
ing It, because Montreal is
the intention before.
Jbarbours that bave met their engagements.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Always.
33ý

The motion was agreed to.

[SENATE]
THIRD READING.
Bill (47) 'An Act to ameud the Act to restrict the importation an.d employmient of
Milis.)
Alienis.'-(Hon. M;Nr.
PACIFIC

GABLE

ACT
BILL.

431ENDMENT

THIRD REIADING.

The Bouse resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (45) 'An Act to
amend the Pacifie Gable Acet, 1899.'
On clause 3,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not know that any good can resuitf from discuss.lng the merits oif the policy of bofli governments in connection with this calile, but
1 desire f0 ask a question in reference to
this last clause. We can understand what
the effect of tlie other is, fliat through the
delays which have taken place in the construction of flis Pacifie cable. it will cosf
the cou.ntry a good de&l more than it would
have cost had if been grappled wltli
at the proper time. I amn not prepared to find faul, either wltl tlie old
government, because fhey did ail they
could in connection with fhls project,
or witli the presenf goverament, knowing as 1 do the difficulties that were thrown
in fhe way constantly liy the Easfern Extension Company and those interested in
the other Pacific cable lines. But the last
clause in this Bill would leave the impression upon the minds of those who read it
and who understand the qu3-_stion that the
carrying out of the project, so far as Canada is concerned, would depend in a great
miensure upon the sanction of the Australasian colonies ln connection with the privileges whieh they have granted to the EastSupposing New
er'n Extension Company.
South Wales should adhere to the arrangenient wbich they have miade witb the Eastern Extension Comipany, and supposing that
the action of New South Wales in this regard is confirm-ed by rthe general parliament
of the commonwealth, what position wil
know now what
Canada lie lu then ? Wý%e
lias been 'deue. Me know that that wil

sion Company is f0 have advantages, and
reap a portion of the revenues which should
be paid to the scheme we have under consideration now, will' the Canadian government go on with the undertaking, or will
they say no ? And until that is arranged
will flot this clause prevent any further
steps being taken eI'ther by England or by
the Au&tralasiafi colonies until a final settien-ent lias been arrived at by the diff erent
parties interested ? T'hat Is the point that
bas struck me very forcibly, that it will of
necessity cause stili furthler delay, and
whatever the resiilt may be, 1 cannot say.
'Ihey have entered into this contract w.ith
the Eastern Extension Com.pany. The coxnpany whlch lias been trylng from the lieginning to destroy the enterprise, and has
thrown every possible difficulty in the way,
have, strange to say, olitained the contract
for the construction of that uine which they
have been opposing since 1887. Every conceivable obstacle lias been thrown in the
way, and now, strange to say, the commissioners whom we appointed to carry out
this seheme, have entered into a contract
with thls particular company. It will be
remembered by those wvbo paid any attention to the subject, that they first declared
that It was Impossible to lay a cable between
British Columbia and the Australasian colonies, on account of the great distance.
When they found that Canada, whlch has
beeni the prime-mlover in this, and f0 my
mimd less interested financially than England of any of the Australasian colonies except perhaps South and West AustraiaHou. Mr. POWER-Hear, hear.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW\ELL-V'ý hieu
they found. Canada ýso actively urging the
project, actuated and guided by au Imperial sentimenit, by which a cable should lie
laid round the world, touching nothing bat
Britishi territory, it bias always been a
puzzle to my mind how if is that the Colonial Secretary, and those -wvho 'have been advocafing Iýmperiuligm f0 the extent f0 which
they have, sliould have been so lax in piishing forward an enterprise which would have
more to do with the unification of the
Empire, than anythiflg else.

Bion. Mr. MILLS-If this Act were broulit
interforc lu n great mneasure \vith the rewYbeu once in into operation without first seeiug that we
ceipts of the Pacifie ele
operation, becîause if the Eaisterii Exten- ,get a fair proportion of the trade, and that
The SPEAKER.

[MAY 21, 19011
ft does not go wholly to the Eastern E xtension Comnpany, my opinion is that they
-would control the wiole thing-, and there
would lie nothing to lie done.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Perhaps under those circurnistances it Is a wise
provision to hold It ln terrorem over them,
uirtil the governent have succeeded ln olitaing it. If any one w-i look at tiat contract they w-i find the terms upon whlch
they are to lay the cable. Ail the expenditure is to lie mnet out of advances of the
money which le to lie pald by England, aad
the different colonies, and there Is flot a
single word ln the w-hole of that contract in
the way of. giving a security for the performance of the w-ork.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-N1,one whatever.

England, which is a greater distance tlian
frorn Victoria to Fanning Island, and to our
very great g-ratificalion, lie accedýýd to our
request at once, and proved the feasibility
of it to the extent that lie could wire from
England ac-ross the Atlantic ocean and back
again, and the question vms repeated at the
termi~nus lunEngland, which, as 1 have aiready podnted out, was a longer distance
than from Fanning Island to British Columbia. 0f course, with the srnallness of
the wire, you could flot only have a limited
number of words per minute, but that would
bie easily overcorne by increasing the eiectric power, and havlng a larger w-ire. So
that w-e need lie under no apprehiension as
to the feasibilîty and practicability of carrying out this scheme.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to askic f the
Eastern Exten-sion Company, or any other
cable cornpany, have laid a cale froin
South Africa to Australia, or are they about
layling It ?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-So that
If thls company acted upon the urinciple
which has guided and actuated them iu the
past, they may for years f rustrate the
wliole scheme and flot carry It out in accordHon. Mr. SCOTT-They are laying tI
an<e with the .termns of it, because there is do not know whether It is cornpleted.
no penalty cattached, but as tliey go on, -the Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--l think
money is advanced to thern, just in propor- that is one of the reasons why New South
tion to the prog-ress made. Lt is an exceed- Wales bas made sucli concessions to thern.
lngly unfortunate state of affairs, and ahHlon. Mr. POWER-I arn very gflad to Bee
most enougli to induce the colony to %ay to
England ' Under the circumst±nces, If you the suspeading clause at the end of this
bave not sufficient Interest In an Impcrial Bill, and I hope that the tirne will neyer
undertakzing of this kIad, there ls no reason corne when the Governor General wîll issue
why we should be continually urg-ing it the proclamation rnentioned in this third
upon you. I arn not opposed to the Bill. I clause. Wlien the original measure w-as liearn very anious, froun the standpoint that fore the House, 1 took the liberty of expresslaid down, thait iis cable siould lie ing rny hostility to it. 1 thouglit it was just
I %have
constructed. Lt was proved beyond a doubt an illustration of the unwise extent to
that there w-iil lie no dificulty ln lay- w-hidi Canada w-as being carried by a s0
lng a cable, notwithstanditig the extent over called Imperialîstic spirit. As the bon. genwhich it would have to stretcli from Bri- tleman w-ho lias just spoken lias truly said,
tish Columbia to Fanning Island, iind have Canada w-as muchl ess interestcd in the
At done successfully. I rnay say that this Pac4l cable to Australia than elther Engwas a grave question, between Mr. Fleming land or the Australasian coloios, and stîli,
and -myseif. W7e lied to meet it. 'When we as the bon. gentlemnan said Canadla w-as the
were in England we xere discassing- the primne mover in the whole 'natter.
possiliility and feasibulity of a !!ne heing- Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B0OViLL--Tliat
laid successfulhy over so rnany thousand
is true,-f rom 1887.
iles. Mr. Hosmer was ln London at the
Hon. Mr. POWER-And I think ber action
w-tout saying
time, and w-e aslced him,
to the Imperialanything to any one, if lie would make a w-as due, in a grent measure,
ln M-ngland, îstic sentiment or the hon. gentleman himconneotion lietw-een the cable
pertinaand that in the United States by wvhieh yon self, and, shail I say, the Scol.tish
circuit from Enghand and city of the gentleman w-i whom lie was
couhd get a round
comhave your ainswer corne back to n point in associated. Canada. is less interested

SENATE]
mercialIy and politically aud every other
way, dît this mensure titan either the Australasian colonies or England. It was with
great difficulty that tite Australasian colonies, who were Luost directly concern.Ž3d In
the matter, were induced to talze liold of it,
and become parties to thte ag-ree!nent, and
thte principal reason why I believe the Australasian colonies came into tiis agreeinent
-%as, that they had flot telegrapli -omniunication at that time. Since the tiîne we discussed titis measure before-Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW%ýELL-Whcçn
does the lion. gentleman mean ?
Hou. Mu. POWER-1897 and 1899. Since
that time the cable lias eiter been laid
fromn South Af rica, or arrangements Lav'e
been -made to lay it. So titat thte Australasian colonies have thte communication now,
and Canada litas also communication by
wvîre with Australasia, and there is really
flot nearly the sanie necessity or urg-ency
for tliis Pacific cable rtliat titere wvas wben
we agreed to make ourselves hiable for
five-eighteenths of thte principal andi nterest, of one million seven hundred thousand pounds. That made, I think, the
amount that Canada made herseif lhable
Under this
for, about $75,O00 a year.
Bill, if it becomes law, and if the
proclamation is issued, we shahl be hiable
for five-eighteenths, or nearly one third of
ten illions dollars principal. W7e sitaîl be
hiable for someting over tituce million dollars principal, and we shiaîl Le hiable in the
meanwhile for somethýing over $83,O0O a
year interest ; and 1 really do not see witat
w-e are going to get ont of the undertaking
whichi xill repay us for that inivestmint.
The position is titis :that since the original Act w-as passed, the colony of New Southx
W-alcs itas al)parently backed out of the undertaking. and we do flot know w-ho is going to assume the two-eighteenthis whiclî I
think she proposed. to assume. The business
w-hich this cable company was to get will
probably pass largely into the itands of the
Eastern Extension Cotmpany, w'bo have a
cable of thieir own now, or are about having
one, and then the construction is in the
hands of those who are, as tite hon, gentleman opposite lias said, the strongest eneinies
of the undertakiflg. Under these cirdumstances, 1 do not sec that there is :,ny prosHon.

Mr. POWER.

peet tliat if w-e go into this undertaking
Ganada wvill get any sort of return conuxuensurate with the expenditure she is asked
to make. And 1 must express inv sincere
gratificaton at the fact thaï: tlhere is a suspending clause to this Bill, and amy hope
titat tite proclamation wvîl1 never be issued.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tinik the hon. gentleman is under a misapprehiension imi snyiing
that New South M'ales lias backed out. New
Sou.th Wales bas not receded fronu the contract, but New Southt Wales bias given advantag-es to the Eaýstern E'ctensign Comnpany wiceh will iterfere with the revenue
in New Southî Wales, and probably the motive that prompted the insertion of titis suspensory clause was the fear that Victoria
and Queensland iniight do the sanie. The
Eastern Extension offered a very f avourable bld to have the early compfletion of
the hune between Southt Africa and Australia, and the offer of very largely m-ctuced
rates if they would concede the privilr-ges
that New Southt Wales Lad grantcd was, of
course, a very great temptation to the
business men at -Melbourne, Brisbane, and
the other parts of Queensland and VietD-,ia.
Hon. Sir -NACKENZIE BOýVELL -Victoria bas neveu been baickward.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
BO\VrlSir MACKENZIE
Hon.
Queensland neveu accepted the ternus that
were off ered by the Eastern Exteil<,on Coinpany for a reduction of rates. They refused
anxto be a party to tînt, anmd w ere i
ious for anotiter cable : but the \vay they
used 'Io do in order to get over the difficulty,
as most business men would do, was this
they would just send their telegraýus across
the line into New Sout.h Walos, and Lave
the beniefit of the reduction, and the telegramns would come back to New South
Wales and be mailed to Queensland.
New Zealand has always been anxi1 thinik bis
ous for a British cable.
honour, the Speaker, is wrong in bis recollection of titere having heen no icable lu
existence from Australia, not fromi the Cape,
but a direct line from Eugland to Au.itralia
at the time flhat the proposition \v-as made
by Sir Alexander CamipbAcl, iu iSS7, iii Eng-lanîd, w'hen tlic first p)roposition was

mafde

by Sir Alexander and -Mr. Floaiing for an

1L)IAY

-),

19011

lon. Mr. SCOTT--One does flot like to
ail British route. There w-as a cable iii
existence at that turne, 'lnd theïe nav,%e.beeil criticize the action taken by the Britishl
many concessions made since, and just l authorities, men in higli position, flur!ng
proportion to the progress of the negotia- the last two or three years. 1 !lave discusstions for a Pacific cable froi Ca',nad.- to ed sucli matters strongly at tîrnis, bat 1 do
Australla have the Eastern Extenlsion Coin- neot propose to do it now. it will s.:rve noa
pany been rnaking concessions to the mer- good purpose. I recognize that it is more
cantile commuflîty in Australia. I spoke of than a sentiment, that there is a very conthis contract before. 1 think it 'may be siderable commercial jimportanice to Carada
interesting to refer to one or two itemus of in the near future to have a Une to Australia,
this contract. One clause providcs that tbey and a continuance of the lin-ý up thc Chinmnust pay 12J per cent of the whole upoil ese coast, whîch is conteinplated. It would.
the execution of the conitract : that is, as be an Asiatic line, and our trade witb
insoon as they sign the contract before they Chinia. Japani and Australia às on the
ten per cent crea-se. But when we considex theu action
do anything at ýal: theil
on the engineer's certificate : and tell thnt w-e took jointly with the rcpres2mtatives
sat In
per cent w-len a certain number of from Australia, in 1894, w-hen they
miles of cable is laid, and so on until this Chamber, and ail cordially and earniestI w-ill not go ly joined in the adoption of resolutions tendthe amnount is absorbed.
through ail the itemns. This Extensýion Coin- ing to the early constructing of the Pacific
amfong
pany has a construction company within Lt- cable, the public sentiment in Canada
and they wl put ail the profits inito the public men bas grown in favolur of the
self,
their own pockets, and strange ta, say at the construction of a cable. It is rather disaphead of thnt compa.ny Is the salue niani who pointing that one of the Important parties
coinhad been at the head of the Colonial Office ta tbat agreement has-I wvon't Say
These are the difficulties we mnitted a breacli of faith exactly-but bas
in England.
have to figlit, and if I feit at liberty to re- flot lived loyally up ta the agracîelut. But
peat what took place ia referenee ta the the other parties have, up ta the present
New South Wailes delegates Nvho w-are in time, stood by the agreemient, and even
England when we w-are discussing this New South w-aies did iîot make any change
question, my hon. friend the Sp,-aker wonld la the policy she adopted in January last,
have less faith in àt than ever, unnless their stili 1 think w-e are ia honour bound to V'ieIf
influence w-as overcome in saine wvay. 1 do tonsa, Queensland and New Zealanid.
not sympathize w-ith the viewv tha.t thougli they adhere ta the original agreement, Canw-e may never get a cent out of it, that If ada is too w-ealthy, honourable and prosw-e can manage ta psy 2xpenses that is all perous ta recede fram the position sUe bas
w-e can do. My hou. friand refers ta lin- taken. The provision of that hast clause is a
penialistic feeling. Well, 1 arn truly British recent sug-gestion. We have not heard lateta -the cane, and if there is Iaiytli'n,, that ly trom Australia, and that clause w-as
wIl tend ta, unite the dlIfftýr 'nt elemlefits added ia the avent of any extraordi*lar-y
that constitute the empire and unite the dif- change taking place there ln connection w-lth
ferent outlying portions, I shahl Lie very glad the cable palicy of the comnaonwveaith. I
amrn li opes, hioweven, thnt Victoria sud
ta pay my shane.
have fiat Queensland-aud I amn quite sure N2w
Hou.Mr.DANDURAND-I
oteoigrmnfatu
eln-i
heard anything said about the coalrn,icial
ai agreament ; and aven thougbi New South
Caadaintheentrprse.Ifit Wales bas withdrawn part of the patronage
Interet of Ue etarrise
If
lnteest
Cnadain
lln
lwfrmta
htwudnresnl
were simply a question of sentilent, I am
support of the Pacific cable, stili 1 think
a
loyal
brut
Cndoa nuth ropoe tahame
bt 1do
diii. ot ropse o b moe lyalw-e are bound ta adhere ta the arrangement.
eutmyb.I
h
atrwa
than the King, and it appears froin the re- n
marks of the hon. leader of the opposition noumatter a rhat Vie resute stanibe. nt
charactar of this country if we did otherlute-rm aot theBiishnaten.i
are tey
-ise. 0f course, one feels very considerths
are ery ukewarmabou ilatte.
no. alje irritation at the policy adopted by
Han. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh,
da.

520

i[SENATE]

men in such higb position in Great Britain,
and I muet say that sonie of the Britishl
statesmen have falien very much ln my
estimation in tihe last three or four years In
connectOn witil this matter. Lt is a regrettable expression to give utterance to. 1 amn
sorry to have to do it. But thle evidence
la 8o overwilelming that one cannot be
blind to Vthe fact tilat Canada-I won't say
Canada has been betrayed, but thle trust
whIcil was formed some time ago, in whicil
the empire agreed to, join with fie colonies
In tile construction of the work, bas not
been falthfully and ilones.tly carried out.
There was one lune wiih was given absolutely Vbo
thle Eastern Extension CJompany,
unless Canada wiitbln six mcîntbs Indicated
lier Intention of jolning in the purchase.
That la thle lune up to Singapore. But Canada had no fair intimation of it until thie
six montils bad nearly elapsed. In tilat
way, and In similar ways, advantage had
been taken to give thle Eastern Extension
Company very great opportuzfties wltil regard to their lines, to tile great disadvantage of thle Pacific cable.
The clause was adopted.

After Recess.
PIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
Bill (143.> 'An Act respecting the Ottawa
brancil o! thle Royal Mlnt.--(Hon. Mr. MihIs.)
SOUTH SHORE RAILWAY BILL.
SECOND READING.
The SPEAKER-We bil got tbrougil the
Orders of tile Day at six o'clock, witil thle
exception of one Item wiici ilad been placed
at Vthe foot 0f the Order paper. 1 refer to
item No. 3, Bill (106) 'An Act respecting the
Southl Shiore Rallway Company.'
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I move thle second reading o! Vthe Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is It printed 7
Hon. Mr. DA-NDURAND-Yes.
'Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I rise Vo move In
amendment Vilat thle Bill be noV now read
Vthe second time, but Vilat it be referred to
thle Committee on Standing Orders to report
as to wiletiler the Bihl Itls present form Ia
In accord with thle notices and petîtion. I
underatand IV diff ers widely from tbe petition and notice.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.), from the
commnlttee, reported thle Bill witilout amendHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I understand
ment
therelis a petition for til Bill. One clause
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Inquiry was made In of the Bill la especially assalled. It was
reference to the report circulated some assalled In tile commlttee o! Vile House of
weeks ago In connection witil thle selection Commons and in tile HouGe of Commons also.
of a location on the western aide of Van- We are reacing thle end o! Vile session, and
couver. A Mr. Peake, of London, was sent parties lnterested la defeating tilat clause
are attempting to balk It and prevent lt
out for thle purpose of examining a location
at which to land a cabie. The governinent from reaciling committee and being discuased on Its mierits. Til afternoon we were
steamer Quadra was placed at Pis disposai
ail wltnesses Vo Vthe fact tilat an bion. genlast montil, and I learn, simply from the
tleman of til Cilamber remarked tilat it
newspapers, that a point about sixty miles was not printed
la botil languages. To my
nortil of Victoria haci been chosen iii thle very great surprise
I learned tilat Vile Bis
vlclnity of Barclay Sound, where the deptil were not generally printed in botil
languages
of water was from 25 to 45 fathoms off tile unleas specially ordered. 1 think in future
shlore, and tile condition of tile currents and we will have to look at our Frencil files
bottom of thle river were sultable for the and see if ah Vile Bis are printed in botil
purpose. I do flot know whether tile decis- languages. 1 qulte understand tile reason
Ion wlll lie final, but the parties wilo accom- whicil actuated the lion, gentleman la
askpanled Mr. Peake made that statement ing that the Frenchl version ailould be
diswhen they returned to Victoria.
tributed. We are within forty-eigilt hours
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill of prorogation, and anytiling tilat defers
thle consideration ot tis Bill will militate
was read thle third tirne and passed.
agaliat it, and la favour of those w'ho do
It being Six o'clock the Speaker lef t the 'lot want it to be examined on its mnerits.
Chair.
Here again is another move by the lion.
lion. Mr. SCOTT.

[)ýIAY 21, 1901]
gentleman from Sarnia to defeat the Bill.
It has already passed the Committee on
Standing Orders, and it bas been found to
be in accordance witb the notices and with
the petition. We could perhaps refer al
BuIs comlng from the Commous, whlcb bave
been amended and modified by the Commous, to the Commlttee on Standing Orders
ta see If the work of the Commons bas not
had the effect of altering thexu or enlarglug
their -scope, so as ta bring th4m outside of
the petitian. I consider this ameudment
should flot be accepted, and If lu the Railway Commlttee to-morrow there appears ta
be a distinct departure lu the clauses of
the Bill froxu the notices or petition,
we could examine It then. Recause I
do flot see that lu this case we
should make au exceptiou and refer this
Bill as we could refer ail Bis ta the Standing Orders Committee. 1 hope that there
will flot be a majarity lu this Ohamber ta
prevent the Bill from being examined on
its merits and justice being doue to ail
parties lnterested. I mlght say that neither
this Bill nor the petition for the Bull was
handed to me to present ta this House, but
yesterday, fiudlug that one of nly han. colleagues, wbose name Is on the Bill, was absent, 1 took It upon myseif ta move It one
stage. I amn goiug ta do so, and 1 simply
ask that at this late period of the session,
the Bill wlll be treated the same as other
Bills.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I wouid remnind my
hou. frlend that the Standing Orders Coxumittee lu deaiing witb this matter, had fia
Idea what was iu the Bill at ail. It was
simply a question wbether the terms of.
the notice bad been properly complied with.
Tbey had no opportunity of knowing the
contents of the Bill; lt was not before them.
It was merely the petition. Naw that the
Bill bad been produced, It bas been stated
ta me by an bon. gentleman that there are
two serions defects in the mensure.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Cau]d not ail
Bis be referred ta the Standing Orders
Committee at this stag-e, as this Is ta be ?
Mon. Mr. VIDAL-There was a reason
-%hy this shouid be sent ta that committee. It should flot have a second reading
lu this House on account af the discrepancy
between the notice given ta the public and

521

the contents af the Bill, and so I arn
obligcd, at the request af the hon. gentleman framL Montreal, ta take this action.
Han. '.%r. DANDURAND-The han. gentleman does flot say af bis own knowledge,
that there is a discrepancy between the
Bill and the notice. He speaks on Information froxu outside. It ls a strange wny ta
deal wlth a Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wili the hon, gentleman state that there Is noa difference between the Bill and the notice ?
Han. Mr. DANDURAND-The presumptian is, the Bill belng, reported an by the
Standing Orders Commiîttee, that It is lu Confarmity with the miles of procedure. The
presumptian ls that It la right.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-WIli the bon, gentleman assert there is fia difference ?
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-I need nat prove
a negative eitber iu the court or here.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
la unable ta say ?
Han. Mr. MILLS-I understand the Standing Orders Commlttee of this Hause meported lu favour of the regnlarity af the
proceedlngs, the notice and s0 on, with respect ta this Bill. This Bill did not originate lu this Haouse. It was deait witb in
tbe Hanse of Commans. It bas been mead lu
the Hanse of Commous, and passed tbmough
ail the committees li the Hanse of Coxumous. I suppose the House af Commous
campletely chnnged the character of the
Bill, as tbey have a perfect rigbt ta do.
Now, camparing a Bill froxu the House of
Commans wlth a notice which appeared lu
the Gazette for the purpose af introducing
a private Bill into the Hanse, I do flot see
that it would iii the slightest degree aid
the committee or auybady else ; nom wauld
the Hanse be governed, or ought it be gaverned, by a report of that sort.. The caxurnittee did ahl they bad a right ta do, and
that ls ta report on the regularity of a
notice of this kind with respect ta Its detail.
They had nothiing ta do with the praprlety
or impropriety of the legishation. It went
before the House af Commaus. The Hanse
lias remade the Bill, aitered or chauged It
for ail 1 know, ta suit their views af the
propriety of the legisiation required by the

[SEN ATEj
notice given. It coines to ns iii that forrn.
We have nothing to do w-ith the consideration of the contents of the Bill with a
view to determine w-hcther it is proper to
condernn the Bill here as to whether it
should lie considered at ail. Ail we say is,
that this is the Bill in conformity with
the notice which -was given, and that it 'was
lntroduced lu the House of Commous. Lt
was made as the House of Commons
thouglit it ouglit to lie, aud it lias corne up
bere for our consideration. If w-e choose
to adopt the Bill lu this tomi it Is our riglt
to do so, or we may rnodify il or arnd
lt, if w-e see proper, to suit w-hat w-e tbink
are the requirernents of the circuinstances,
and the objeet of those w-ho seel, tbis legishation ; but I do flot see lu w-bat way a
reference to the Standing Orders Cornmittee
can beip us in the future proceedings w-hidi
lt is necessnry to take upon this Bill.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-lIn aiiswer to the
bon, gentleman I rnay say the Standing
Orders Comrnittee bas exarned the notice
and compared the notice w-ith the petition,
and fouild that the notice and the petition
sgreed, and made their report iccordingly.
The saine Bill thiat w-as presented biere w-as
presented originnhly lu the House of Coinmlous.
If the House of Commons dhooses
to change the Bill, and malze of it another
Bill altogether, I do not see that w-e are
govemned lir that action of the othier Charnber, aud if the Bihl cornes up here to-day
so framed and so chaiiged thiat it is nio
longer iii accord w-ith the notice and the
petition, I do not see wvhy w-e have niot n
riglit to refer it to the Standing Orders
Conmuittee to see if it is truly the Bill of
w-hich notice -as given Ili the Gazette, and
w-hich w-as asked for by the interested parties.
I thiiukl our action is the righit one.
The liou, gentleman says it is îlot do 'nc witb
other Bills. That nay lie bccause we bave
not the samne grouuid of objection to otber
Bis that w-e bave to this. If this Bill is
flot in accordance w-ith the petition aud
notice, there is good ground for au objection.
Honi Mr. VIDAL-After the stateinent
made by the hon. Minister of Justice, I ask
permission of the House to witlidrawv iy
amnen d eut.
The amendaient w-as
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

itdw.

Non. Mr. BAKER-I have nio disposition
w-hatever to retard the Bill iu any wai- or
to offer any objection to its second reading.
1 rise simply for the purpose of calling the
attention of the Mlinister of Justice to its
provisions. 1 arn sure lie w-i admit that
among the mianif old duties of the Minister
of Justice lie is specially cliarged by parliarnenitary law and procedure with a sort
of revising power over private legisiation,
and I cail h1A attention to the propositions
contained in this Bill w-ith the hiope and the
expectation thiat lie will give it bis attenition, and lie present at the Railway Coinmittee to-morrow morning to assist iii the
consideration of this measure. It is sought
by this Bill to legitirnatize, if I may so
characterize It, a sheriWs sale.
Now, the
sheriff's sale that is referred to in one
paragrapli of this Bill was either legal or
illegal. If It is legal, it will stand on its
own bottoin; if it is illegal, it should lie set
aside lby the courts. As a matter of fact,
litigation is now pending; a case w-as heard
in the Court of King's Beachi, appeal side,
yesterday, Iu the city of L\ontreal, in wlhicb
the questions in controversy in this tuatter
were brouglit before the court, aud it is 110W
en delibere before that court.
I say the
principle that the courts ean lie overriden
by Acts of parliamnent is vicions iu the extreme.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hou. '-\r. BAKEII-And I call the attenition of the 'Minister of Justice to this Bill,
aud to the proposition coutained in it for the
express purpose of giving iini an opportunity to g-ive it bis attention w-lien it cornes
before the Railway Comxnittee of w-hich lie
is a member, and w-ith that hope and expectation I bave iio objection w-hatever to
the Bill being read the second tino, and it
will corne before the Itailway Commnittee
in due course. '%hlen it does, I hope the
Minister of Justice w-ill bie there to give the
commnittee the henefit of the profound legal
knowledge whidh lie is 50 wel kuowwn to
z)Ossess.
The motion w-as agreedl to on a division,
and the Bill w-as rend the second tino.
Tuie Senate adjourned.

[VNIAY 22, 1901]
THE SENATE.
Ottawa, 'Wednesday, May 22, 1901.
The SPEAKER toolt the Chair at Three
o'cloclr.
Prayers and routine proceeding-s.
DISALLOWÂNCE 0F QIIEBEC LEGISLÂTION.
INQIJIRY.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY rose to Inquire
1. Wbether ln the petItion for disallowance
presented by Monsieur G. A. Nantel, the attention of the government la general, or that of the
Minister of Justice la particular, has been drawn
ta an Act passed at the last session of the legîslature of Quebec, wbich readc as follows «

bave already lapsed, whiist it abragates at
the camne time tbe rlgbt ta prosecute for the
payment o! penalties iucurrad?
5. Daes tbe goverament, mareover, know that
a special sud retroactive provision bas been
iuserted lu tha Act iu question, briuglng under
its immediate operation ail pending electaral
actions, tbus daprivlng tbe petitionere iu thesa
actions. regularly brought before tbe courts, ot
the right ta obtain the simplest justice, sud
robblug them wltbout mercy of ail the caste
Iegltimately incurred by tbem lu tbe exercice
sud the vIndication of their rights?
6. Daes the goverament know tbat the Lieutenant Governor o! the province of Quebec dellberately sud without besitation, apparently at
lest, gave tbe royal accent ta tbis measura
fer wbich is Prime Minister did nat even dare
ta vote sud agaluet wblcb bis Attorney General
registered bis vote?
7. le it the intention o! tbe goverumeut, ln
case It should be convînced that sucb legislatian le Injurious ta personal interecte, makes
s litter o! scqired rigbtc, kuocks the comman
Isw on the bead, sud outrages public morallty,
ta dlsallow this Act, or doec it lntend, by Its
non-intervention, ta coutribute ta the maintenance o! this predatary legisiation?
8. If tbe gaverameut cames ta the decision
ta disallow tbis Act, does it intend ta do so
lu opportune tima, la order ta revive, befare
the expiration of tbe delays granted by tbe law
wbich bas been- rapealed, tbe rights a! patitioners in actions entered befare the election courts «.

(Translation.)
An Act to amend the law respecting Controverted Elections.
' Hîs Majesty, by and witb the advlce and
consent of the legisiature of Quebec, enacts as
fallows :
' 1. The Act 52 Victoria, chapter 11, la repealed.
'2. h floing article ls added at ter article
576 of the Revised Statutes
«576a. The hearing on the merits of every elecHon. Mr. MILLS-My bion. friend bas
tion petitian uow pendiug, or wbich rsy bieraasked me wbether 1 know, or 'whether the
after ha pending, must have been coiumenced
thingg
wlthin the three manthe wblch, have followed governmefit kaows, a great rny
the publication, lu vîrtue of article 213 of the wbicb be mentions la this inquîry. I do not
Quebec Election Act, 1895, ln the Quebec Officia!
Gazette, of the notice by the Clerk of the Crown know them. I bave flot read the petition.
lu Chancery o! the eleetion of the member. 1 understand that it came inta rny offiCe yeSotberwise the petîtion shall be absolutely axterday, and 1 have bad no opportunity of
tingulsbed, lapsed, nuil sud of n effect.
3. Section 14 of the Act 59 Victoria, chapter looking at It. But 1 bave been lnforrned10 Is repealed.
4. Article 321 o! the Electoral Act of Quebec my bion. friend knows whetber It is Sa or
Is aniended by substitutlug, lu the second lUne, not-that this measure of wblch hie cointhe word ' tbree ' after the word 'six.'
I bave forrned ilo
' . The repeal affected by aection 3 o! this plains, and upon wbicb
Act aud the ameudmant affected by section 4 opinion up to the present time, le one that
chall apply to the electians which took place on received the support bath o! the opposition
7th December. 1900, whlch are eoutested before
the courts, sud no mamber of the lagielative and a majority of members on the gavera.
assembly who bas voted and st lu that assem- meut side of the House. I understaud there
bly contrary to the provisions of the sald secopinion, and
tion 14 shall incur auy penalty for baving se was a perfect concurrence of
sat or voted. or fcr haviug ornltted ta take the If that was so, it le flot difficult ta underoath lu virtue of that Act, sa repealed by section stand the reason. I amn not ia a position to
3 being declared null aud witbaut effect.
' 6. Tbis Ac, shall corne Inta force on tbe day answer rny lion. friend on a matter that I
of its sanction.'
have not considered, and have had no op2. Is the gaverunent aware that the resuli
be
of sucb legielation le ta deprive the elector ai rportunity of conslderiug, and It would
bis right ta obtain justice from the courts el ail unusual proceeding for mie to express an
hic country upon el22tian petitions regularl3
opinion upon a measure, aven if 1 had caremade before sncb courts?
3Does the goverumant know tbat by thi! fully examined it, before 1 had advised the
came leglelation the penal actions arisiug fron Governor iu Council upon the subject. That
the infringement af the electoral laws are de
clared lapsed sud that the guilty parties ani > b ave flot doue, and bave had no opportuthus immorally relieved !rom the penalties whicl u ity of doiug Up ta the present marnent.
they have lncurred?
4. Daes tbe gaverumeut know tbat lu arde:r
Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Do I unta arrive at tbis result the Act in questial
restricts. as respects electicu petitions, tb Sderstand the bon. M1inister ol Justice ta say
delays farmerly grauted by the law, and euh h that this Bill received the unanimous apstitutes for tbem other delays, 'but delsys wbicl

[SENATE'i
proval of the Liberals and Conservatives in not, because he is seeking additional information. I will cali the attention of the
tbe Quebec legisiature ?
hon. Minister of Justice to an extract-he
Hon. Mr. MILLS-No, I did flot say unanimay say 14:is bad information-which may
mous. 1 said I understood it w-as passed
Yesterday he said a Bill was
help hlm.
wlth the concurrence of tbe majorjty on
only disallowed wbere lt was against the
both sides of the House.
Dominion lnterest.
Here Is a precedent,
voted whlch wllbe found in Hodgins's Dominiton
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILL-I
agalnst It, and proposed the six montb's and Provincial Legisiation, on page 178,
hotiat, so that it dld not recelve unanimous whlch reads as follows :
a&pproval.
Report of the Minister of Justice, James MeDonald.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I take Issue with the
In reporting upon a reserved Bill of the Prince
hon. inlster. As far as number is con- Edward Island legisiature In 1876, the then actceerned, what is the position o! the Conser- lng Minister of Justice reportedl to Councl,
te
His
vative party in the Quebec House ? There and assentExceliency was advlsed, the witbbold
grounds
from the Bill, one of
bis
are six or seven, and ail except one, who being that the Bill was retrospective In its
It deait witb the rlgbts of the
wae lnterested, voted agalnet the measure, effect ;that ln litigation, and that there was
parties then
and that one gentleman retired, and did not no prai ision saving the rights or private parties.
vote at ail.
I give that for
Is that bad Information ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Whlch one ?
the Information of the MNinister of Justice.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The one the bon. I mlgbt give sometbing now for the ianforminister named the other day.
mation of bis colleague, the hon. Secretary

Hon. .Mr.
mlnister ?

DANDURAND-Wblcb

bon. of State.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The other minister,
If the hon. minthe Secretary of State.
Ister wants to be well lnformed, be should
not obtain bis Information fromn a bad
source, because he niay be misled..
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I must not get any Information from the bon. gentleman from
Stadacona.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why not ?
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Because the sourcp le
mot very good.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why ? The minister
cannot say wby. Ail the members of the
4jonservative party ln the legisiative assem-

At page 1178 of the same volume
we find the followlng :
That many of the proceedings taken ln the
Commissioners' Court, and which are pending
and undetermined, are manifestly Irregular, informai and invahId; and that it he contrary to
British legielation te remove doubts ln contested proceedings by retrospective legislation, as
sougbt to be effected by this Act.
The undersigned bas the honour furtber to
reaport :
That without giving weigbt or consideration
to nny great extent to the allegations ln the
petitions, which are unsupported by any actual
proof, he is of opinion that the reserved Bill
Is retrospective in its effects; tbat It deals with
rlghts of parties now ln Uitigation under the Act
wbicb it le proposed to amend, or which may
yet fairly form the subject o! litigation, and
that there ls an absence o! any provision saving the rights and proceedings o! persons whose
properties hav-e been deait with under the Act
o! 1875.
He therefore recommends tbat the Bill, intituled :An Act to amend the Land Purchase Act.
1875. do not receive the assent o! the Goveroor
General ln Council.

bly except one, voted againet that measure,
and I def y the minister to find me one single
inember belonging to the Conservative party What does the Secretary of State tbink of
wbo voted for that mensure. If bis Informa- that ?
Wbat
Is that bad information ?
tion is good, be will rise ln his place and does the hon. Minister of Justice think of
WiI he ? No, he does not that ?
answer me.
It is
Is that bad information ?
answer.
signed by R. W. Scott, acting Minîster of
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (DeLanaudière)- Justice.
Did the leader of tbe opposition vote against
It or for it, or did be vote at ail ?

Hon. Sir MACENZIE
it must be bad.

BOWELL-Then

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon, gentleHon. Mr. LANDLIY-I subrnlit those two
iman himself know ? I asked him the other precedents. directly apply to the case that
day. Does he know better now ? I think is now before the hon. Minister o! Justice.
Hon. Mr. DeBOtTOHERVILLE.

IMAY 22, 1901]

Hon. '.%r. DANDURAND-As the bon.
gentleman seerns to know a good deal about
wliat took place in Quebec, and lias referred
to me two or tbree times, I tliinc it is but
just tbat we sbould saddle upon the proper
parties the responsibility for thie legislation
complained of.
Pirst, 1 tbink we owe it
to the provincial goverument to ssy that
lt was flot a government measure. It was
a public Bill, introduced by a private member.
Now, 1 bave obtaîned information
tbat tbat Bill was brouglit before the House
with the absolute consent of tlie leader of
the opposition, the Hon. Mr. Flynn, who
was himself to benefit by tbat legislation,
bis seat being contested in Nicolet county.
Tbere were five or six contestations.
Tbe
Bill was passed tbrougb its first and second
readings, and wenit to cormîittee witbout
opposition, If I arn well informed, (the
bon, gentleman from Montarville can correct me if I amn wrong, for lie was present),
and it was only on the.tbird reading thjat a
member of tbe opposition, called for a vote.
Tbere was not a.word of protest frorn the
lips of tbe leader of thie opposition, and four
or five members of the opposition voted
against tbe Bill, tbe leader 0f the opposition
eclipsing bimself wben tlie division was
taken. In the legislative counicil, 1 congratulate the bon, gentleman from Montarville on the fact tliat lie moved tbe six
montbs' boist, but bis party beld practically
the control of the Upper Ohamber, and
could bave defeated tbe Bill bad tbey been
so inclined.
Twelve out 0f twenty-four
could bave negatived the measure. but it
was passed by, I tbiink, a vote of two to one,
so tbis private legislation, wbidb 1 will flot
discuss nor pass judgmnent upon, except to
say tbat 1 could bave wisbed it bad been
defeated on the motion of my hon. friend
from Montarville, was passed wîtli the express consent of tlie leader of the opposition.
His position was stili worse than tbat of
the miember wbose case bas been rnentioned
bere. Tbe provincial law enacts tliat wben
a member's seat Is contested, lie must, liefore taking bis seat, take an oatli befo *e
the clerk of tbe House tbat to bis knowl,edge 110 illegal act was comrnitted in bis
election. Tbe hou. leader of the opposition
nieglected, durlnig tliat session, to take the
oatb, and tbe Act wbidb is cornplained of
covers that illegality on lus part. I sirnply
rise to show wliere the responsibility lay.

It wvas a measure initiated by a. private
member, witb the consent and concurrence
It met
of the leader of thie opposition.
witb sorne opposition in the leg--isiative
The M,\inister of
council, but was carried.
Justice correctly stated tliat there bad been
no practical opposition to the measure in
the Lower House, for there was no protest
heard from any one except at the last
moment, wben a snatclied vote was called,
Iu order that political capital miglit be
made from it at a future time.
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-If the House will
permit me, I sball answer the new information broughit Into the discussion, because
the lion, gentleman says a good deai and
knows very littie.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe lion. gentleman from Montarville can correct me if 1
arn wron.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I can correct the lion.
gentleman myseif. Tbe 'Mînister of Justice
stated tbat the Bill had been passed tlirough
the legîsiature, witbi the concurrence of botb
parties. Was tbat said or' was it flot said ?P
It was said. Wbat does tlie future, undeterrnined minister say 'P He says that ail
tlie party, except one, voted against It.
Who is rîglit? The bon. pseudo-minister
cornes forward and denies the statement of
tbe actual miinister.
He confirmns wliat I
said.
He got up to correct mie; wliere is
tlie correction ?P He imputes motives.
What does that arnount to ? He judges
otbiers nccording to bis ou sentiments.
He may tbink If a fair wny to judge people,
but it is sometimes unsound, and in this
case it is unsound. The minister-I arn aiways saying ' minister,' lie will excuse me
for styling bim so--but thie bon. member
says Mr. Flynn eclipsed liimself. Tbat may
bave been a partial eclipse, but tbe total
eclipse is for the government, and can be
seen witbout smoked glasses. Mr. Flynn
witlidrew because hie liad no rigbt to vote
on tliat question.
Wlien a memiber la
personally affected in sucb a case, lie must
wîtbdraw. He complied witb tlie law. Thie
bon. meniber says thie vote was taken to
make political capital. The Dominion government to-day is lu a position to make
political capital by bonestly doîug its duty.
Tbat is thie position 0f tlie matter now.
Tlie Minister of Justice bas ail the facts
before bim. He bas had no time to rend

S EN ATE j

them. I amn pleased to leaun that hie found
that box w%%hich w-as sent to hlmi by the
Secretary of State, and tliat lie bas opened
it, and that the document came out.
I
hope that wlien this House prorogues, hie
will have a few minutes to spare to do bis
duty and to do justice to the parties w-ho
dlaim justice fromn bim, and that lie will
flot wait until the expiration of the timie
withiu -%hicb proceedings must bie taken to
do justice, whicb ny be tardy justice. In
conclusion, I direct bis attention to tbe
precedents I haive quoted. one by the exýMinister of justice, Mr. James M-\cDonald,
and tbe other by the bon. gentleman's collengue, the Secretary of State. Tbey pronounced on the question.
They gave al
the weight of their knowledge to questions
whicb had been broulit before tbem, and
they made precedent wbich may belp the
Minister of Justice, thouglb, I admit, it will
be a wonder If lie is enlightened by the
hon. memiber on bis right.
THIRD READINGS.
The following Bills, reported witbout
amendment from the Committee on Railways, Telegraplis and Harbours, were read
the third time and passed under a suspension of the rules:
Bill (No. 105) 'An Act to incorporate the
Kamloops and Atlin Railway Company.'(Hon. Mr. Templeman).
Bill (No. 135) 'An Act respecting the
Great Northern Railway of Canada.'-(Hon.
Mfr. Landry).
SOUTH SHORE RAILWAY CO«M\PANY'S
BILL-PREAMBLE NOT PROVEN.
Hon. 'Mr. BAKER, from the Comimittee on
Railways, Telegraplis
and Harbours, to
whom was referred Bill (106) 'An Act respecting thc Southi Shore Railway,' reported
that the preamble bad noý been proven to
the satisfaction of the committee. He sald:
The reasons for tbis course are stated in

the report, and I move that it lie adopted.
The motion was agreed to.
INLAND REVENUE ACT AMENDýMENT
BILL.
FIRST. SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

A message w-as received from the House

of Commons with Bill (144) 'An
.amend the Inland Rev-enue Act.'
The Bill w-as read the first time.
lion. Mr. LXNDRY.

Act to

lIon. -Mr. SCOTT moved the second rending of the Bill. He said :This is only a
matter of form, defining certain officers iii
the department. The Bill rends as follows:
1. Section 3 of the Inland Revenue Act, chapter
34 of the Revised Statutes. is repealed and the
following is substituted therefor :
3. The Governor in Councfl inay appoint an
officer who ,hall be called the deputy of the
Minister of Inland Revenue, and who shall hold
office during pleasure.

It is combining two offices.
Hon. Sir M-NACKEN\ZIE BOWELL-Wbuiat
two, offices ? Il appears there is power in
the proposed law for the appointing of a

deputy minister, there is a deputy minister.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, 1 know. It provides that the Commissioner of Inland
Revenue shiould also be included In the
office of deputy. It consolidates the two
Offices.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thinl,
that is probably for the purpose of mak-lng a distinct provision for placing the duties, which are performed by the commissioner, in tbe bands of the deputy. The hon.
gentleman perbaps does not know, or may
not have had bis attention called to It. The
deputy minister receives $3,200 a year. A
commissioner, wbicb is the same Individual,
Mr. Miail, wbo bas been transactlng this
business for a great number of years, bas
received $800 for the performance of the
duties of commissioner and from a casual
reading of the Bill I sbould suppose that the
Intention is to impose the duties of deputy
and commissioner on one bead, and tbereby
avoid the necessity of placlng In the estimates every year tbe sum of $800 for the
commissioner.
Tbe motion w-as ag-reed to and tbe Bill
w-as read the second limie.
Tbe Bill passed tbrong-b lts final stage
under a suspension of the miles.
RAILWAY ACT AM-\EN-DMENT

BILL.

FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

A_message w-as received from the House
of Communs w ibl Bill (145) ' An Act turther

10 amend the Railway Act.'
The Bill w-as read the first tinie.
Hon. '.\r. MILLS moved the second reading of the Bill. lHe said 'luie Bill is a very

simple one and contains but one clause.

PlAY 22, 19011
Hon. Sir MACKENZlE BOM'ELL-All I
have to say is that it is impossible,. from
hearing a clause of that L-ind read to understand a measure affecting the w-hole carrying trade of the country, unless some littie
time were given to compare it with the law
upon the statute-book., and also to ascertain
why this bas been suggested, and what the
effeet will be upon the shipper as well as
the carrier. My hon. friend, the -Minister of
Justice, will understand the importance of
that.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Yes. The object of the
Bill is to regulate the relative amount co'nIng to differeut railways wbere any article
of inerchandise is being cnrried fromn one
point to another, passing over two roads
for instance, or passlng over a line of steamers or a railway. Takze the case where llnes
of steamers are ln competition with each
other. One bas a railway under its control
and the other bas flot. They enter into ac,
tive competition with eacb otber, upon the
ocean, passenger or frelgbt traffic. The one
that owns the railway, as well as the line
of steamsbips, may put downl rates on the
steamsbips to a very 10w charge, and make
Up the difference by a bigb rate on the line
of railway, and s0 practically drive its coinpetitor upon the ocean out of business altogetber. 1 bave in my mind cases wbere that
bas bappened, and the object of this Bill
is so to amend the law as to enable the
Railway Committee of the Privy Council
to determine what proportion of the charges,
part railway and part steamship, sbould be
earned by the railway company, and wbat
part by the steamsbip company, s0 as to
secure a f air amount of business to each of
the rival companles, and 80 as not to permit
one company to use the special power whicb
it possesses to drive the other comPany out
of business nîtogether.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Have
cases of that kind occurred ?
Hon. Mr. NIILLS-Yes.

railway and the steamship company-because if the railway charges so much to
tbe point of sbipmet-a regular rate-a
raîlway that bas no steamboat would carry
a bushel of grain to the seaboard for 10
cents for instance, and tben charge 5 cents
to take it across the ocean, making 15 cents,
bow would that affect the shipper if the railway cbarged 12J cents, owning the uine and
then put 24 cents on the ocean trip ? To
the shipper it would flot make,.any difference.
Hon. '.\r. M-\ILLS-Here are two uines of
steamers runing froin Boston, ýay, to Halifax, or to any other point. One of these
uines lias a rallway connected wlth It. It
may charge double the rate for passengers
not carrled by Its owgi lune, and so a person would take the boat of the one controiling the rallwny, rather than tbe boat of the
other line. The Railway Commnittce merely
undertake to fix tbe percentage of the whole
distance that sbould be cbarged for railway
service and wbat should be cbarged for
steamboat service.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I suppose it is the result of experience.
Hon. Mr. MLLLS-Quite so.
The Bill passed tbrough its final stages
under a suspension of the ruies.
JUýDGES 0F PROVINCIAL COURTS
BILL.
FIRST, SECOND
A message was
of Commions with
to amend the Act
vincial Courts.'

AND THIIRD REÂDINGS.
received froin tbe House
Bill (150) ' An Act furtber
respecting Judges of Pro-

The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. MILLS moved the second reading of the Bill. He said:. It is simply embracing two judges more than were mentioned ln the Act as it originally stood.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWý%ELL-Does
It increase the salary ?
Hon. MNr. M-%ILLS-No, there is no change
la the salary. Lt is a miere addition to the
num-ber of judges.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-I thinh
the intention of the law is good, but I de
flot %vellsee bom, you cau accomplish thE
object wbîch you profess to bave in view,
If the larger amount be charged on tbs
Hon. Mr. BAKER-lt is evidently a Bill
railway rate, and the sinaller amount on th(
steamer, biow would that benefit the ownei of sufficient importance to engage the attenof the joint mode of carr.iig-tlîat is, thý tion of the Senate, and it is extraordinary

[SENATE]
thaf it is broughit bere and liuncbed on the
Senate at the last moment, in the expiring
hour of the session, and unless there is
somne reason for sucli dlatoriness, the Senate sbauld insist on the observance of its
ru]es.
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-L arn quite willing to
give niy hon. friend ail the information in
rny possession. 1 arn satisfied the Senate
ls as competent to do business in the last
days of the session as at any other time.
Nearly two years ago the county of New
Westminster and Vancouver was divided
by the local legisiature of the province of
British Columbia. In fact, Judge Bail, who
had been judge of the New Westminster and
Vancouver district, was practically legislated
out of haîf the district of which he was
judge. He hiad incurred the dislike of the
members of the bar, .1 thiuk, iu Vancouver,
and they wanted another appointmnent. For
somne time it was desirable that the district
should be united, and that the judge should
continue ta discliarge tbe duties that hail
devolved on bimi up ta that time. I spoke
to tbe Attorney General of British Columbia
on the subject, and said that I would make
no furtber recommendation until it became
evident tbat the legisiature was flot prepared ta reconsider w-bat it bad done, with
a view of restoring the wbole district that
bad before been under Judge Bail, to bis
jurisdiction. I have waited now for some
time. Tbat bas not been clone. A judge of
the Superior Court took charge of the duties
of the county court judge in Vancouver,
and bas discharged. them there for tbe past
two years. I received a letter from him a
few diys ago, that it would, be impossible
for hlm longer ta continue ta discharge those
duties and it would be necessary, tberefore,
ta make the appointnient. I arn raking the
appointment for wbich provision was made
some time ago, botbi lu this case and in the
Kootenagy district. It will be necess.ary to
appoint two county court judges, one ln
New W1%estminster and the other in Kootenay, so this proposition is now brouglit forward, baving no other abject than simply
ta pay those two judges wben appointed the
same salaries that have been paid ta county
court judges beretofore. I bave waited long
enough ta give the local leg-isiature every
opportunity ta recoasider tbe question, s0
far as Vancouver is coucerned ;and witb
Ilon. Mr. BAKER.

regard to the Kuutenay country, su large a
population bas gone in there, a mininýg population, and there is s0 much legal business
to be attended ta, and the means of communication between one district and the other
are so far roundabout, it becomes necessary.
in the interest of the administration of justice, ta appoint a Junior cou1nty court judge
ln that district to ifLI up a place for whlch
the local legisiature had made provision la
the city of Vancouver two years ago.
Hon. «Mi. BAKER-I am sure the exjilanation will be found eminently satîsfactory, but it bas not been macle quite clear
why the competence of the Senate sbould
have been assailed by the .Minister of Justice.
Hon. Mr. MLILLS-I did not assail it.

Hlon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-Will the
new judges be barristers ?
Hon. '-Ir. M-ILLS-Certainly.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (B.C.)-And taken froin tbe Bar of tbe province ?
Hlon. Mr. MILLS-I bave no doubt.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
passed through its final stages under a suspension of the rule.
PENITEN\TIARY

ACT
BILL.

AMEND'MENT

FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINOS.
A message was received from the Hlouse
of Commons with Bill (155) An Act further
ta amend the Penitentlary Act.
TUe Bill was rend the first time.
M.%ILLS moved the second readHon. M-Nr.
ing of the Bill. He said :The sole purpose
of tbis Bill is ta provide for the appointment
of a second inspector. Lt bas been found
that it is impossible for one inspector ta
make a proper inspection of ail the penitentiaries. La fact, the inspector bas not visited
tbe 'Manitoba penitentiary since I have became a minister, and we have sent ont an
accauntant ta vîsit the penitentiaries of the
west this year ;besicles, the attention of the
inspector bas been given to the eastern
penitentiaries. I propose, under this Blill, to
take power ta appoint a second inspector.
In tact, it isý most important tbat the rules
and 1egulitions of the peuitentiarles should

LMNAY 22:, 1901]
be carefully observed, and it is most difficuIt to secure a careful observance of those
rules and regulations. The only way it can
be donce is by frequent inspection, and by
requiring the inspectors ta mahze a full report, in order that every failure of duty ou
the part of any publie officer rnay be reported ta the department, nnd formi a part of
the report that will be given ta parliament
for its information In arder that the ruies
and regulations rnay be strictly observed.
Hon. 'Mr. M-\cMILLAN-How are the duties
ta be divided ?
Hon. Mr. 'MILLS-We miglt give ta one
inspector one section of the Dominion, and
another ta the ather inspector, but rny inclination is rather ta, have tbern botli go over the
samne ground in succession, ane begiunng
at one point, and the other at the other point.
'What one bas gone over the first part of
the year cauld be gone over by the other
inspector another part of the year. Ia fact,
we ouglit ta bave an inspection every three
rnonths, if possible. Tbere can be no collusion. if that is done, between the inspector
andI any of the public officers. It is a departmnl]t in which it is important the inspectar
should bave no favourites-that there should
be the strictest lrnpartiality la the dîscbarge
of the duties of those oflicers, and that those
wha do well sbould have commendatian foi
the gaad they do.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
are only about seven penitentiaries altogether.
Hon. '-\r. SULLIVAN-I think it is a good
idea, and 1 do flot knaw of a better Bill the
gaveramient bas ýbrought in than this. 1
know sarnetbing of tbe working of penitentiaries, and it is most desirable that there
should be thoraugli inspection, and nîso that
there should be more than one inspectar.
One man is apt ta get into a groove and
bave favourites in the different institutions,
and it is highly desirable, la the interests
of the public, and alsa in the interest of improving the moral condition of the country,
that this Bill shonld be passed. 1 cordially
support it.

CUSTOMS TARIFF AMEND-MENT BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
A message was received fromi the Hous4,
of Commons witb Bill (156) 'A-n Act ta
arnend the Customns Tariff, 1897.'
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readlng of the Bill. He said :The abject is ta
allow beet-root sugar macbinery ta come in
free of duty for a certain time.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (P.iE.l.)-1t wauld
be well if wve had some explanation of the
eff ect of this Bill. We know it is praposed
ta establisb beet-root sugar factories in certain provinces. Whether that is to be dane
under encouragement by the province, or
sarne prernlur is ta be given an the manufacture of sugar I arn nat aware, but I understand It is expected tbat the Dominion
government will give sorne bonus ta the
manufacturers. I should lik-e ta ascertain
whether that is the extent of the benefits
they are going to confer on those w-ho are
starting the manufacture of beet-root sug-ar.
Haon. Mr. SCOTT-This is tbe limit of the
concessions wbicb are being rnade, for the
present at ail events.
In the province of
Ontario, a bannity is being given for the
raising of sugar beets, and the goverament
were approacbed and nsked if they wauld
not at ail events allaw machinery ta corne
in, as there were certain factories in Michigau whase awners would be willing to came
over and locate in Ontario if thiey were
allowed ta bring in their plant free of duty,
and ta that extent, at ail events, the gaveramenit are favouring the industry.
0f
course, it wauld npply ahl aver the DominIon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
point is as ta the extent ta whichi Me concession is made. 1 confess 1 cannot understand w-bat is meant by structural iran.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The proposai was made
ta bring in tbe wbale factory, to take dawn
the boards, roof. and everything of that
kind, whicb «would be a rathier preposteraus
thing to do, and Sa it is limited ta the permanent work.

The motion w-as agreed ta, and the Bill
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWLýLIt:
passed tbraugb its final stages under a sus- says :'Macbinery of every kind and
pension of the raies.
structural iran.'
Is tbat for tbe purpose

[S E \ ATE1
condemnied this 1)011e! Se _troii-ly a short
timie age, and now they aie adopting it. I
did net catch the answer given by tbe lion.
lIon. Mr. SCOTTSupposing the building
Secretaryv ef State te the question put bY
is made of iron joists or braces. they wouldl
the hon, gentleman froin Prince Edward
bie allowe(l to COiC ii.
Hias there been a law passed or
Island.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW%,ELL-To me is there one te corne down, granting
a
It seeins to be an extraordinary provision.
heunty te the producers of beet-root sugar '?
was
SCOIT-The application
\r.
Hon. -Hou. '-%r. SCOTT-No. 1 said titis was the
for the tactory to be moved over inito Can- iiiinit ef the concession being made.
ada, andi it was te imeet a case of that
Hon. S;r 'MACKENZIE BO îVELLI-Tlieni
kiuid.
I arn afraid it will be like rery maur other
Hou. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWýELL,-That
laws the hon. gentlemen have put uponl the
is, whiere there is a sugar tactery lu n
statute-book; it will prove abortive.
foreigu country, of structural iroon. they are
tue country.
Hon. '.\r. WOOD (Hamilton)-The local
to be permitteil te bring it juite
goverument have given a beunty foi, te
SCOTT-Yes.
Hon..
beet-reot sug-ar.
Flou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVEL-That
BONVELL-We
Hon. Sir MAýýCKENZIE
bring
may ho the intention, but yen ceuld
in structural itou te any extent under the are net discussing tlie action eft fie local
We are discussing wvhat
regrnlatiens to ehomade by lte Minister of leg-islature hiere.
i
re- we prolpojse te do and have dlone
.Justice for the purpese of a sugar
The late goverinent granted a
the past.
finery.
Ho. .Mr. SCOTIt is only under lte bonus te the refiners of beect-root sîigar.
titie of immigraiits' effects tuaI yen could 101 sugar manufactured fromn the beet1 knew it is a ver large amount.
bring il iii-if a -part! brinigs over part of reet.
Fîowever, titis clause maîkes if h&cause I had the administration ef that
bis lieuse.
departrnent myseif. Unfortuliatoîr, iii everv
ci ea r.
instance in the past if lias proved a
Hou. Sir NIA C XEN ZI1E BOWELL My failure.
Whiether the bouîîty
ii
lias
hon. friend sheuld net try te stuet chli te been giveil hy lte local geveriimieut te the
sugar refluers-they refused il te the proc usterns law te that exteut.
of erocting the building ili wlîkhi the w0rlk
is te be done ?

ducers ef the beet-whether that bouuîty, tegether with the free importation et the
machiuiery for the carrying on ef the work
iii be a sufficient itîducernt for them te
I atu oiîly speakitig
go on, I do net linew.
structural iren.
I ar n ot geing te oppose et what occurred ilu the past, anîd 1 hope
it.
couratlatethegoveumet onthethat the experiment miay be a success. That
tact that they are becerinig muchi more is ail I can say.
I mnust centess ltatI do
protective lu tlîeir policy.
Ia everythitig ntlike
the putting lu et the
%-ords
titat pertains te the industrial pursuits of1etrcua
Iri.
netl
mtralyitr
ilraeilyitr
rn'L
srcua
lte country they bave adepted, only iu some
cases, te a greater exteuît, tue policy ef the fore with the productioni of itou iu Ibis couîîhchthey coiîdemnied soeloe- try, and tiiero will be plenty of complaints
ugoveriment
hy manufacturers before il is in operamentlv.made
tin lonig-tUiaI is, if any attempt is made
mcii y.
Heu. '-\r. SCOTT-AIl tlîat wvas good we te hring it in-aiid more titan that, I think
ail regulatietîs made by tlîe M.Ninister ef
adepted.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE B0\ý j.ýLL-If the Cuslomus slîouldi have the appreval et tUe
beloîîged te a certain re- jGevernor iii Ceuncil hefere they becoine
hion. gentlemn
ligieus body, I wvould say it was a suddeîî law. because thîè governînent is macing tue
anîd iustauitaiieeus conversion, but I caniiiot I Mlinistet- of Custenîs liere flic absoluto lawIf the lton. iuîtinister wýill look at
lay thiat te his chtarge, censidering ho dees maker.
Tlîe govetuimeul tue Ciustoiits Act. lie %villftind titat in iuearly
net beloug te Ihat body.
must have becît coniverted, becaîîse tlieY ev eiry case whlîce tue MIiaisteor Of Clistotis
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-I arn followýilug the heon.
gentleman's interpretatien of it.
Hou. Sir -MACKENZIE BONVELL-1 i
he aw
strtchng o sy yu eu binginw

Hon. Sir MACK(ENZIE

BOWELL.

ilN A y *-, 1") 11
1
21, ()
is emnpowered to iniake regulatioîîs for carrying out the provisions of the law. before it
cornes inito effect it nmust receive the approval of the Governor in Council.
How,ever, thie former mode of coiiducting,- business, wbich 1 thinc was the safest, lbas
beeni ignored by the present gentlemien in
power, and every mnan who lias the lionour
of being at the liead of a department is to
run the machine as lie Uikes.
That
is
about it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbuik 1 mnay sas, as
far as the present incumbenlt is concerned,
lie is extremnely particular about lbaviug the
approval of the Governor iu Counceil in regard to any reg-ulations lie miakes.
Hon. Sir NIACKENZIE BOW-ELL-I bave
1 bave as mucli confidence in the present Minister of Customns
as 1 bave in any member of the government in the practical administration of bis
office.
I bave very littie confidence l ny
of tbem whlen it cames to a question of
policy, but that is anotlwr thli~g ziltogetlier.
11o doubt about that.

But the goverrument is legislating. for a man
in wbom tbey miglit flot have the saine confidence tliat they have in the present iucumibeut.
1 wauld have no bcsitation ia
placing confidence l Mr-. Paterson in a miatter of this kinid, but in 1)nttinig a law on tbe
statute-book, it sbould lie sucli as to cover
aay man wbo miglit occupy that position,
and to preveat the possibility of w-rong
beiig dlone.
Hon. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I fear
the passage of this Bill will lie a coasiderable disappointment to the people in our
province, for the reason tbey were led ta
expect a bounty was to be givea for tlie
growtb and production of beet for thie manufacture of sugar. 1 have been informed that
a gentleman, who professed to lie an agent
of the party 110w la power, went througliaut
the province of Prince Edward Island during tlie past year and iniducefi a number
0f the farmers to go into the production of
beets for the purpose of this manufacture,
and eucourag-ed them to do so by stating
thiat the goverament was about ta grant a
bounty for the production of beets for the
manufacture of sug-ar.
I do flot like to
charge the government wltb baving sent
that gentleman arounld the province, but
lie professed ta bave salue authority from
the gaoveruiment ta make that statemnent ta
34 -1

the people to induce tbem to go into this
business. I fear, too, tbat tbe manufacture
of beet-root sugar in the province of Prince
Edward Island would not prove a success.
It bas beeni tried to a considerable extent
in the province of Quebec, and I lielieve
proved a failure there. The reports given
by this gentleman were of a very different
character from that, and I fear the experiment would resuit in tbe saine way in Prince
EdNvard Island-tbat the growtb of the
beets -would niot prove a paying speculation
for the farmers. It would lie unwise to give
np wvbat is now a very mucli better system
of agriculture than the raising of beets.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I beg to assure my lion.
friend. that no0 one was ever authorized by
the present goverfiment to bold out any hope
whatever that it was intended ta grant a
bounty on beet-root sugar. The experience
of former years ln Quelic and elsewbiere
convinced tbemi that it sbould not lie dloue.
Hon. «M\r. DANDURAND-Tbe people of
Prince Edward Island could console tbemn-

selves, if they were disappointed la that, by
the fact that thieir sulisidy is coasiderably
increased.
The motion was agreed ta.
The Hlouse resolved itself into Comimittee
of the Whbole on the Bill.
(In the Comnmittee.)
On the flrst clause,
lion. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Is it
known where tbis factory is ta lie erected ?
us there nny particular province for which
lt Is desig-ned '
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No ; anywbere lu the
Dominion.
Hon. M.\r. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-It is a
general Bill ?
Hon.i. SCOTT-Yes.
lion. Mr. 'MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I understaad it was for some particular factory ta
be located la some particular province.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-No, It applies generally
to tbe Dominion. It eau lie brougbt in any
place.
Tlie clause -as adopted.
Hon. M-Nr.
SULLIVAN, from the committee, reparted tbe Bill witliout amendment.
The Bill was then read the third time, and
passed unde- a suspension of the rules.

[SENATE}

SENATE A-ND I1jOUSE OF CoMMO'NSo.7.3
ACT A'MEND'MENT BILL.

w~ho conscielnriousIv dlaims bis
iueeber
nîoney, and the Auditor General who thinks

FIRST. SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
A message was received frorn the bouse
of Commons with Bill (151) 'An Act to
amend the Act respecting the Senate and
the House of Commons.'
Hon. «Mr. SCOTT mnoved the second reading of the Bill.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second timie.
Hon. 31r. SCOTT moved tliat the bouse
resolve itself into a Conimittee ot the Whole
on the Bill.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW ELL-l
desire, more particularly with reference to
this Bill, to express my regret that the goveramient have not seen proper to consider
the whole question affecting the indemnity.
1 do not hiesitate to sur thiat the presenlt
ternis of tlic Bill enable members-I will not
suay to abuse the provisions of the Bill, but
enable members to take ail ad.vantage of the
wording of the Bill which was neyer contemplated. For instance, mnembers of both
bouses mnay corne bere at the openiug of the

pioper to taXze aniother view ot the law.
1 hope tlie MNinister of Justice and the members of the governmiient wçill consider this
mlatter before next session, so as to make
the provision that unless a member of
either House attend at least thirty days, as
provided in that law, lie should flot be entitled to the full indernnity, but that there
shiould be a deduction for the number of
(la s that lie is absent.

McM'-NILLA-N Thirty sitting
Mr.
LIon.
days ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
that is what 1 miean ; that would prevent
abuses which miglit exist under the present
law, which gives a mnember a perfect right
to drnw bis indemnity as I have indicated
bas been doue. 1 know it was a crying evil
iii the Lower House wlien 1 was a member
there, and I speak, fromn my own experience,
and I think there are very few mnembers1 say it who should not, who attend more
regularly than I have done.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
session and remain constantly attending to hion. friend sitting opposite me (M.Milis)
their duties to the best of their ability ntil occupies a similar position. I have beeni
prorogation, whether the session hasts three absent this session four days, and with the
nionthis or six mnonths. There are others exception of one session, ln wbich I lad to
who come at the beginning of the session, go to Southern California, unfortunately for
answer to their naines, and corne occasion- nie, for certain purposes, four days is the
ally afterwards, and then they are entitled most timie 1 have lost in any one session
to draw the îndemnity for every holiday and during thirty-one years 1 bave been in parevery day on which the bouse does not sit. liument. I do flot boast of that. It waS
Then there is another difficulty which arose my duty to attend. I do not object to
between the Auditor General and some gen- other people flot comning, if their busitlemen living in the maritime provinces, as ness keeps them away. or if tbey desire to
to the route whidli tbey should take in tra- stop away. WTbat 1 object to is that they
velling f0 and from the capital. Those who should have ail the advantages accruing to
travelled by the longest route considered those wbo attend regulurly to their duties
they had a perfect right t0 do so, and I amn ln parliament. There are plenty of gentlenot so sure that, under the law, they had men in the Senate and House of Commons
not the rig-ht, but the wordîng of the law Is, whose business would not permit their beiag
as I understand it, that they sliould take here ail the time. They have to look after
the shortest route. The shortest route is business or family affairs, and if the law
through a foreign country and circnmstances gives themi the indemnity, they are enI think the Iaw should
miglit arise which would render if nlot olY titled to take It.
unsafe, but impolitic to travel through that not give it. I speak as plainly as I can on
foreigan country la coninection with their, this qiuestion, and I think the 'Minister of
duties ia parliamient. This is a point that Justice is fully in accord with the sentiments
ought f0 be settled beyond n doubt so that
thiere sliould be no dispute between a ny

1 have uttered. 1 hope next session hie will
be prel)ared to so amend the law as to pre-

IMAY 22, 1901]J
vent the abuse whiclî 1 have inidicated. I
amrnfot objecting to the Bill as it stands,
but I amn objecting ta the law now upon the
statute-book. In justice to miemibers and the
country it sliould bcie mended.
Hon. Mu\I. SCOTT-Thie criticism of the
lion. leader of the opposition is w-cil founded. Anybody w-ho lias liad experience ln
either brandi of parliamneut must lie convinced that the law lias been very mnucli
abused, and the attention of the goverlumeut
ivas draw n ta it, but too late to malte tic
change thus year, after it lad been decided
ta malte any change in the indeninity. It
w-vas decided that lu the beginning of next
session the law will bie aiinended lu thc
direction indicated by the lion. gentleman
opposite.
Hou. M3r. DEVEL-I- wisli to point out,
lu connection witli thîs indeminity, that there
is also a provision goveriig. tle miileage.

tue mileage. Lt would appeau the present
Speaker feels it lis duty ta abject to that
vicw of the law, and lie decides tlîat tlie
mileage shall only bie counted by tic Short
Line. That lieing the case, it curtails ftic
mileuge of some members froin the maritime
provinîces about $50. Tint reduces tlic addltional indemuity from $500 to $450, if Ilis
decision is sound. Iu consequeîîce aif tlîat,
1 tlîink tic law sliauld be anientied or
instrîuctions given ta tue Speaker to dlecide
in favour aof thc original mode of calculatiug tic paynnent, taking the sliortest mnail
route tlîrougli C'anada.
Han. 'Mr. TEM-\PLEM-\AN-Wlîat would you
do wliere tlîere w-as no short mail route
tlîrougli Canada ?
DEV ER-We draw aur milleage
Hon. MuNi.
under thc provisions of tlie law. 1 tliink ut
one time it w-as unlimited, but finally it
w-as decided as 1 have described.

The CHAIRMAN-Not lu tlîis Bill.
Hon. 'Mr. TE'MPLEMAN-Possilily after
Hon. Mr. DEVER-I think. it sliould lie in Yukonî territory obtains representation lu
this Bill. It is lu the Act.
the Hanse of Cammons, a unember comiug
Hon. Sir NIACKE«NZLE BOWELL-That fronu Dawson ta Ottawa w-ill have ta travel
tlirougbh a strip of United States territory.
is w-bat I bave pointed ont.
If tlic hon, gentleman wants ta malte lus
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Because there is a cer- point law, law w-ould lie puy tlîat memlier's
tain dispute w-hicli involves a loss to some mlleage ? Before the Canudian Pacifia Railof our miembers of fifty dollars, w-hicli dis- way w-as opened, the hon. gentleman wlia
pute, I think, sliould not exist. I w-us pues- sits imrnedlatcly lu front ai' my bon. friend
eut w-lien the Bill of 1867 w-as passed, and ('Mr. 'Macdonald, B.C.) must bave travelled
the Act w-bich w-as passed lu 1873, and I ycar aftcr year 'thrugli the United States.
arn fully aw-are that the Bill thien specified There was no short mail route tlirougli
that the milenge to lie paid sliould lie thec Canada previaus to the opening aof the Canuearest mail route througýh Canada. There adian Pacifia Raulway.
w-as not aur route at that time, except
Hou. '.,r. DEVER-There wvas no mail
through Canada. Subsequeut to that the
short line w-as constructed tliroughl 'Main?, route, but naw w-c have twa mail routes,
and after it liad been constructed, certain aud aur present Speaker decides timat the
miembers from the maritime provinces avail- mlcage shall le aalaulated on thec basis aof
cd tbemselves of tlic privilege of coming tue shorter route.
thiat w-uy. The question then arase that lu
TEMPLEMAN-Sa it ouglit ta
Hon. MuNl.
coming flirougli the State of M-%aine tliey lie.
w-ould flot lie justified in receiving their
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Tliat sliort route is
mileage. Lt lias been a disputed point for
some timie, and reference w-as mnade ta the naot tiraugli Canada lu the east, but thrungl
Speakers of the House ot Camnions and the Stute of 'Maine. The original Act, under
the Senate for their decision. Ail the Speak- the provisions of w-hidli thc calculation w-as
ers lu the Senate, tliat 1 arn aw-are 0f, for mnade for rnuny yen-rs, provided for milcage
tlie last flfteen or tw-cnty years decided thal by the sbartest mail route tlirough Canada,
tlic amaunit sliould lie as it w-as originally- aud lu my humble opinion- tliat sîould bie
that is, that the sliartest mail route tliraugli the standard, and uilcess it is, 1 and atiers
Canada sliauld lie the basisz of calculating

wvil nat lie satisfied.

[SENATE

I

LIon. MiN.DEVEII-I dleny it.*
Hou. Mr. POWEll I quite colleur in thie
opinion expressed by the bon. leader of the
Hon. Mir. POWVEl
Insteatl of comiplainopposition witli respect to this mueastire. I ing that lie is ilot now.ciîua
ie lrl
h
o
htleln
isl
regret that, in the liurry at the close of tue ibudcnrtlt
session, it 01(1 fot seemi to lie practicable gtit
soonier. 1 quite udrtni
in
e
ie
oiul
îd1
a
to lay before parliamnent a carefully con- cnlîe
sidered measure. Tlie present condition of 1hiere inighit lie son1e possible sliadow of
tbiug s is worse than the position wlien tue excuse for the claini lie puts forward, but,
indemnity was smaller. LTnder the oLO as a mnatter of fact, everybody knows tliat
systemu a gentlemnan eould puit ini an ap- niembers of liarlaînent travel on passes.
peaxance at the meeting of parliainent nnd Tliey do Dot paiy any nilleage. A good deai
go borne and attend to bis own bnsiness for miglit lie said lu favour of abolishiug tlic
tlie renainder of the session. and draw $700) mileage altogetlier, because tlie memibers do
ont of tlie $1,000 inideiînnity, in addition to not spend( tbe nîoniey~ coiezii
anid goiDe,,
bis iiile:îge. He m-as taking uîoniey from the and the lion. gentleman lias no grievalîce
country for wliici lie wvas giviug no return. 'îvlatever. lIe onelît ratlier To congratillate
-Now, it w-i be ag-gravated, foi instend of liluseif tlit hie is ahiead of the counit'y tii
draw-ing $700 lie %villprobably draw $1.0:)0 tlie extent of several hlidreds of dollars.
or more, nnd it is very iucli to be regretted
Hon. MN'r. DEVER-It is rigit that tie
tliat tlue liurry witli wliicli work is done lu
the latter end of tlie session lias rendered it House sliould kýno-% the wlîole of the cii-limpossible to tlirow safeguards ai'ound it cumnstance. The lion. gentlemian sets Iiiiiiself up as a judge to decide this law, and
Iliat sbould be provided.
lie tells lis hiere tliere ourglit to ieP tw,--o short
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Amend It.
uines, else, w-e w-ould lie m-rong iii iîîterpretPOWER-Uufortunately we ean- ing it as m-e do.
Hou. M-%r.
I liold in niy liand tlue
not amend it. IWe eau accept or rejeet It. statute 0f 1S73.
Witli regard to tlie Talleage, I presume tlie
Mr. CHAIIR.IMAN-Tli e bon, gentleman is
hion. gentlemnan's remiarks are intended as out of order. There is nothing in tliis Bill
a criticism of my action tliis session la certiabout mileaqge.
fying to mileag-e. Thie statute is clear. It
Hon. 'Mr. DEVER-It relates to mileage.
prorides that the Speaker shall certify to
the mileage by tlie sliortest mail route.
Tbe CAR
A-o
There cannot lie two sliortest routes. AcHon. -Mr.DEVER-I beg pardon, it is here
eording to the lion. gentleman from St.
Johin, tbere are two sbortest mail routes lu thie law.
from tlie city of St. Jolin. The lion, gentleHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
muan is ist~aken in stating tbat the Act lion, gentlemani is discuissing whiat onglît to
ever contained any provision tliat it sliould lie in tlie law?
be tlie shortest mail route tlirougli Canada.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Ye.
Il lias Dot, at ahl events since 1877, containHon. 'Mr. VIDAL Tliat matter is neot liesucli provision. 110w any Speaker,
e(l any
with tlie law before liim, could certify tliat fore us.
two mail routes were botli tlie sliortest, ls
Hon. Mr. DE VER-I w isiT f0 put tbis corsomiethig 1 cannot nndlerstand, and bave rectly, l)ecause thie Speaker lias made a
neyer been able to flnd ont. Some mem- statenient mliicli requires contradiction.
ta
bers froua tlie lover provinces drew tlieir 1873 tiiere w-as no short line iii existence.
mileage, like nîy bion. frienid, by the long and luere is tue Acf settiîîg forth that miemunie, while they travelhed by the shiort liie. bers are entitled to tonî cenits, a mile commeg
aibut 1 do Dot think tlicir action w-as
to Ottawa. and going ho flieir respective,
orb.Severail nieil rs did ili do tua t. places of residence. If tiiere -was no short
Thie lion,. gentleman ouc--lit to con1gratllai e line thon, mwbat Une could it mneanl ? W'e
hiielf on tlie fact thlat lie Ilis beeti able to liad tue Intercolonial Railway and fuis Act
budreds of' doua1.1n whielî.' if tuie la w imnst have referred te il. and conlsequleaitly*
sa ve
vo
liad beenl strictlv conitl*[. ]lu w ild îlot Nwe aire eîlîiled to reeeivie oui: mileage limier
this lw.~ Thiat is Ilie niîleaýge that 1 am
flon, Mr. DEVER

MAY 22, 1901]

and tiiOse of us w-ho receivcd mnileage ou a limlited extent :that isý. te îth exteîît of
tlîat iasis. were sustainec inl our elaimis, an aniual outlay foir the first voiar of a
10.uabuî-wu
xedu
o
until the present Speaker caille luito otfice.. su:
This Act waq brouglit in by Sir John Timp- be givel on evcry ton of lead retlned l
soni, because a question w-as raised tlhat -we Canada during the fiscal year beainiing on
first day of Julv, 1902, of $5 a ton. Tbe
could flot receive mileage corning toghathe
foreign country. Aniy law-yer wlio exauîi- bounty is on a scale declining eachi year
ines tlîis statute w-ll see thiat it lias no re- durilig five years. The second year it wil
ference to the curtailment of flhc mileage of decline to $4, tlic third year to $8 the fourthl
memibers ;it w-as simply intended that w-P veai to $2 and the fifthi ycai- to $1. the
s1e tii eX0.0ýd$10aletst ailloiit ili i 11n
should be entitled t0 receive w-hatever mileage w-as comiîng to us, but bad nio reference 000 per annnri.
to the curtailing ln any w-ay of the ileage
LIon. Mr
cILNWeeis
thc sinelw-e formierly receivcd.
Unider the circumn- te
stances, 1 lîold that I and others who dlaim-fe?
Ul ave t0
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-A i-t-tintr v\-I
ed that -e should receive our rnileagc as wve
]lave receivcd if for years, w-eîe rig-lit. and be built. If somne subistantlial aid wvvre raltnot oiily were w-e rigbfi in our ow-n opinionl, cd. the refiîieî- wnuld be colistruuteti. and
but ou opinion w-as sustainied by Sir John the reliied lead wenild fini a market. if nef
Great I3ritain. fUrtir tue cirl Caaal
Thompson.
tue goverurneit bias acceded te
I-on. 'Mr. PERLEY, from flic cornîuiittee, cumistances,
their request te the exteut 1 bav-e mnentioned.
reported the Bill witblou arnendmuent.
Lt is flot a large contribution for a iiniig
The Bill w-as thenl rend the thiî-d tirnie and indiîstry.
passed.Hon.
LEAL) IIEFINING B0UNTIEý, BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READNGS.

Sir 'MACKENZ~IE BOWELL-I conimigovernrnient on aithie
rtuaethe
portant conversion.

Honi. Mr. DA-NDUR.I'ND-Ieaiî. bear.
A messag-e w-as received frorn the House,
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BiJWELL-I took
of Couinions w-ith Bill (152) An Act f0 provide tfoir the pay-niet of bomiitits ou leiai the epportnnity a ycar or two aigo te rend
the titeraiices of the bion. SecrefarF of Statle
rcfinled !i Canada.'
also of flhc present Minister of Justice
illwas
The eadthetirs tile.and
upon w-bat tbey ferrncd tlic iniquities of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT' mlovcd the second rcad- thie bonuity systein. The abstract puinciple
ing of the Bill. He said :For iicarly a ef protection wv-s alw-ays eoiffdeiIned-ulot
yeau past the refiners in the United States alw-ays. because tue Secretary of'~ttewa
bave boycottcd the silver lead industry lit once ou ou side etfftic Ilouis--bt siice lie
British Columbia. A very large arnount of was convertedEnglisli capital biad been invcsted la these
Hon. «Mu. WOOD (IIamiltoîî)-%Wheil the
mills, nd
tegratenumbroftheii,%ereSccîetary of State w-as on tic other side of
obliged te close downu. A very sniall amount the IHouse thec Conservative party w-eue aibas been gel out. A large body of genîtlemeni w-avs free traders.
frern the Kooten.ay district of British ColHou. Sir 'MACKENZIE B0\VELL-The
umlbia caile lieue about fbree or four' w-eeks
ago, and broug-lit tlie ciî-curnsfances ef their hion, gentleman f roiu Hailtoni. nlofwitbcase To the notice of tbe governînlent and standinig Ilis iali bas tuunied gray' and bas
said that unless sonie relief ,vas graîîted te got thiin, is labouriîîg under a mlisappreliciiiiropleuly w-hîat
tide over the piesent condition of things, sioîî. and is oiily retiiu
tlicy w-ould be ail obligeul te close down. lias bec", lttered 11V ileinihwr. of tlîe party of
Ihcy theuglît if, for a tirne at ail events, a w-hieil lie belongs. 1 klnow lie is oue of tbe
bouift- w-as givýeîî to enlable thlîi-a te refluie niiost avowcd olitsîîokzeu aniti c-onistenit prothe silver lcad iii Caîndn, the industîy fccfioulists fliat 1 evet- had any coîîîîectloii
After wifh-feu 1 as-sfed inii once inl getting -luis
Nvrould evcatually be scîf-supportin.s.
givilig flic niattel a good deal of considera- views 01u record 011 tluat question, w-lin lus
fiee n-adoe. 1 arn
tien the gov-criiment dec-ided te aid tbern te fî-ieuds w-ere illavcii

[S ENATE]
sorry. for I thiiu1i it lî:îd suîulletiiii t do wvitlî
bis defeat iu the electiolis wlîich I'ollo-wed, but
he is one off those peculiar politicians who
hold the strong views that have guided, and
actuated those ivith whoni lie bas flot been
iii accord for a lifetiniie, and lie supportsor rather did support, because they are ail
converted now-and heiped to returu to
power, mien who disselited fromn bis views ou
the traiff question. Hle is oueo0f those political couglomoerates wbloi no oîîe eau acconut
for, oxcept tliot lie lbas ideutified biisolf with
the party iii power, and uo matter w-bat tlieir
views are hie cannot sever himself from
themn. 1 merely rose to coug-ratulate the
government on1 the intensified. form in wlichl
they are adoptiug the policy off the old Conservative government, which they hounded
to the death for nearly tw-enty years until
they had obtaiuied pow-er themiseives. Tbey
have goîle further lu tbe itou bounties and
l this Bill than. w-as evor proposed by the
Conservative governiment.
1 congratulate
theni, and w-ill gIve the Bill my most hearty
support, but wvlieil they go to bed at night I
hope they w-i try uud reconcile tbe views
they expressed so strongly and vehlemently
a few years ago iu opposition to protection,
witb their aiction to-day, and if tbey can reconcile their consciences-but politically tbeY
hlave flot got any, so there wvîli ho0 difficulty w-hatever in their sleeping soundlyon the idea off thieir having takeu the poîicy
of their opponents. 1 know there are a great
many free traders iii tbis House, as welî as
iu the other, but party exigeudies mnake
them sw-allow w-hatever is provided for
them, and that too w-ithout choking. Their
throats have become so large îlicy nlau
iswalow- anythinig without difficully.
Hon. '.\r. IVOOD (Hamilton)-I arn very
miucli obliged to my hion. friond for the vel'y
higli character hie bas given me boere to-da: .
1 can say truthfnlly that hie himself bas beeni
Il v ery consistent protectionist for mnauy
years. But lie must admit thal lie w-as the
onlly protectionist lu the Couiserv;tiv c party
tw-enly-tive yenrs ago. Ho kuio-w-s and temeinbers w-ehl the very day Sir Charles Tnpper, w-len bie w-as tie leader of the opposition in the other House. became a protectionist. Ho cau remember tie very liour
almost-betw-een six and eiglit o«clock ou tue
*16t1i Februnry, 1876-w-lienl that gentlemian
found there was to ho uo chanîge iii t1ho
H-ou. Sir MACKEN7.if BOWELL.

tariff. He caille prepared to attacl, the governimeat for increasing taxation, but wbien
lie fouuid tbey did not do so, lie attacked
the goverument in the evening, at S o'clock,
for flot protecting the industries of this
country. On that occasion lie became the
leader off the protectionist party, and My
hon. friend bere, wbo bas been giviuig mie
sucll a character to-day, was his humble
ami subrnissive follower for mnany years.
But lie must admit that those off the party
to w-hidi hie belongs, and of w-hidi he is
sucbi a distiniguisbed ornament, were îlot a
unit even then. The late Hon. Mr. White,
off the M.%ontreal Gazette, was utterly opposed to it for a long time. The leading
Conservative papers of the country-the
London Free Press, and the Specetator off
H-amnilton. were ail opposed to it at that
tine, ntil they wvere wbipped into hune, and
so niiy hiou. frîend must flot say that we
are simply follow-iug in the footsteps of the
Conservative party. 1 tbank hlm for the
hîandsoine character hie bas given me Ixere,
and I hope bie w-i remember lu future that
the Conservative party were really couverts
to protection about twenty-five years ago.
Hn
u
MCEZEB
WL-h
hon. geutleman is speaking off Sir Cbarles
Tupper. flot Sir John 'Macdonald.
Hn -l."VO
-i
onMco-nl
Hu
r
ODSrJh
adhl
was one off tue sanie kind.
I bnd the
honour off iuitroduciug a resolution. the first
I ever ilitroduced l the House off Coinmous, to gel a conumittee 10 investigate
the mauufacturing industries of the country. Sir Charies Tupper and the present
leader of Ibis House joined in opposing getting tbat commiiittee, and said il w-as tbe
thin end off tbe protoctionist w-edge. ami the
couiîittee should flot lie grantod.
,,omnie
time afler 1 got tbe commitleo, Sir John
L\acdoiiaId camle to my seat. and asked
w-bat I w-auîed-did I w-anl protection ? 1
said. No. but 1 w-ant to go inck to tie
Gait tariff off 1S3S, tbe best tariff wo lii
for years. He said : Wood. if yot -anI
protection yoîi caunol get itl bere. For ouo
reasoni the reveniue -ould iiot permit off it.
and for lie second reason. we couli nol
protecl the frontier.'
Tbat w-as Sir John
Macdoald~positioni prior to 1876. aiîd the
nationîal p)olie ' wa' nover miention(1 until
the '26t1î off Februar v. 1S76. That vwi- Sir
John2Iacoail
poý-ihioln.

[MIAY 212,19011

I-Ion. -Mr. MA--CDONA-ýLD tP.E.IÀ) These
bistorical facts are very interesting. . 'len
people enter parliarnent at an early stage
in their lives, tbey are very liltely to change
tlieir opinions in the course of a quarter of
a century or so. I arn pleased that the
goverament bas introduced tbis nea sure,
not alone because it Is in1 accordance with
the principles which had been advoc.atedý
by the Conservative party, but because 1
believe it is a measure that is iiecessary.
and required in the interests of Canada itself. We kaow tlîat mining is becoming a
very important industry in this country,
and lend mining can be developed to a very
great extent. I rend a letter yesterday ia
one of the newspapers, that ini one single
mine in East Kootenay, whichi had closed
down to a great extent sorne six or elght
lç%eeks ago, tbey hnd takeni on 100 bands
additional in tliat single rnine w-lien they
heard this rneasure bad been introduced in
the House of Commons, aithougli it had
not then passed its final stages there. nor
corne up to this House. That single instance
Is sufficient to sho-w the advantnge that
is likely to accrue to Canada fromi the
introduction of a measure of this kind. We
know thnt rnany lead mines la British Colurnbia-and that is where they are princil)ally-liave been closed down to, a certain
exteat, owing to disadvantnges under which
tbey labour in having to pay snch a very
heavy duty on their exports to the UJnited
States, whichi was the principal and alrnost
the only market of wbichi they could take
advantage. A mensure of this kind will
cause refineries or srnelters to be estalilished within the Dominion, and 1 only regret that the amnouat of tlue boiunty bas
been lirnited to $100,000, because 1 believe
that the production will so extend within
the next year, thnt $100,000 will not suffice
to give the amount of bounty per ton that
it is proposed to grant under this Bill. The
mneasure, 1 thinik, is la the general iaterest
of Canada, and I arn pleased to give it my
support.
The motion -as agreed f0.
The Bilh passed through ifs final stages
under a suspension of the mile.
RAILWAY SUBSIDIES BILL.

authorize the grnnting of subsidies in aid
of the construction ot the lines of railwaY
therein mientioned.'
The Bill was rend tîte first time.
Hou. Mr. 'MILLS moved the seeondf rend(ing of the Bill.
Sornie
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)
days ago I put n nlotice on the Order paper
to ask the governiment about subsidies to
A
lines of railway ia Britishi Columbia.
deleg-ation carne over Iast winter to interview the governinent about certain railwnys la British Colmmia, andi I fully elpected this year to hiave seen a. subsidy
voted for a railwny frorn Kootenay downi
'to the coast, but there is no0 vote in tîtis
Bihl for that purpose. 1 now wish to know
the intention of the goverilment in this
matter. Some tirne ago the question w-as
put to the premier in the House of Comnmons, and hie snid a subsidy would Uc
given, but lie did not indicate at what tiiîne
it should be done. The question is causing
very mudli anxiety iii British Columbia.
The province is borrowing largeir for railway purposes, and lioped to be hielpcd. by
the Dominion governament in cousequence
of the large revenue Nve pay. and any benefit fromi our expenditure o11 railwuys goes
more to the Dominion than to flue local goveranient. If the goverumient are flot prepared f0 answer to-day. 1 shol like to
hiave a reply to-niorrowv.
Hon. Mr. -MILLS-It rnny not lie at al
possible to give -the lion. gentleman f0mnorrow the information wvhichi lie seeks.
Wbat is done la the Bill uow before us,
providing- subsidies for certain ronds. i, to
confine fhe granting of subsidues to tluose
ronds that w-ere already projected and undertakeni, and that ftie parties w-ere prepared
f0 go on wiith immetliateir. S0 that. the lunes
embraced in tbis Bill are Unes that are eitlier
nctually under construction, or the construction o!f whicli the parties interested are prepared f0 proceed with without delay. I did
not understand thnt thiat w-as exactly the

case w-ith the ronds f0 w-hich miy hion. friencd
bas referred. 1 understand fhe position witli
respect to those ronds is. that they are regarded as desirable. and highly beneficial
f0 a section 0f the country. if coustriicted.
but. 1 do not nnderstand that up to

FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
-A Message w-as received froin tlie House tie 1)resent tiîne there is
of Commons. w-ith Bill (1461i 'An Act f0 pany otganized and capital

any coinsubscribed,

w- it
parties
rea dv
to udn(li e
i
thle
roads referred to. if an appropr-iationt was
made. Ili fac-t. it is niot considereci desirable to loid down a Bill like this witli large
àurns of money iii aid of ronds îlîat ire itot
even as yet projected. and no c-onpany
organized or authorized to undertake the
construction. That lias been av-oided iu thte
present Bill. 1 have no doulit w-latet-er, if.
it is thouglit nccessary aitd bighl 'v important
for te public interest tbat certain ronds
sbould be c-onstructed !l Britishi Columtbia.
«iit(l if coiupaah-s are orgnîtiized to undertake tîteir construction. and are rendy to go
on. simiply w-aiting for tlie ordinary amount
of subsidy -ic-i thet govertiielit w-udbe
prepared bo give. or are i lit e habit of gving 10 undertakings of that sort. tint paliarnent, nt anotiter session. w-ilI favoxîrably
consider any projcts of tint soit iii Brit:sl
Columbia. or elsewlbere. piec-isely a, tiose
projects that are providcdl for 1'y the Bill
now before the Senate are const(leied.
Hon. 'Mr. 'MACDONALD (B-C.J
'My lion.
friend is quite riglît.
Tlterec is a iie-% road
pi-ojec-ted, but tlie liou.
iniister -wll see
wbvlat a wonderful advaîttaLre it would be 10
tie govertrnent rnnking -lie -.ntrie
,
cto1 be
able to fahi back oit tlie subsffdv if it itad
beenl grantedl titis yeaî. If it land been voted
titis 3-enr it would tiot be iisedl. The c-ontract
is tiot Set let, and the subsidy is not paid
til1 a yeaî- afte- lth, road is couiplelcul.

tîteir. rond w-len it is built. or Itarty 1-li.
for a large surn of maoney, and possibly tlïc-y
iniay obtalît a bonus or a subsidy or a grant
front Ilie provincial govci-îmenl. or if itJ
a railway tiat is really it lte ilnte-esýs of
sonte locality where tlcy reside. tley îizay
get soituig
fi-on the mnicipaiîy itself.
ltheit, tlieit-. nextiiiove, w-len titey hiave
started titis road. 15 to apidy to the Doiition attd ohitaiti a subsidy. such as %ve see
graîtted it tue preseîît Billi for the î-c--ads
w-licî ai-e referred 10 lucre.
Many or tttose
rondîs are îlot rcnhlly required it lth e u
tics 10 w-bic-b ttese subsîdies apply. Tltey
ai-e prontoted by persoîts itt tlieir owli iiiterests, or iii the iît.-rests of the patt
it
power. it soue cases, antd if lbcy
unit
succ-ced iu oblaiiig a subsidy froml parliatuent. thie probabilit3- is that tbcy put that
sîtbsidy into blîcir poekets, antd~ build lthe
road oi t îe bontd-, whictll tey itave issuc-d.
and oi thIe amounits Ibat lliey cati obtain
fhouIlie pu-ovitic;aI goveritutaîtit, or- front
tue liuîic-ipaliiies.
Tliese roads atre itor
eitiîely lu tlie interests of tlie Domintion.
-No person c-au stand up it parliament anîd
sayv tuaI all lthe roads -wtic-li have obtailel
subsidies lu parliament aire la tlie inîci-ests
of lie Domntint, and unitil w-e liti-oducLo
soute uiew systeni witii respect to t-ailw a-ty
chiarters, I liclieve il wvill be difficul 11 do
away entirely wiIlî subsidies, because tlis
sy.steiti of log-î-oliig prevtîils to su-h au
exteit-

Hon. MNr. -MACDONALD (P.E.I)
As 1
Hon. Sir M-\ACKE.NZIE BOM'ELL-Hlea-,
htave been lu the past opposed to measures
of this kittd w-hti tlte3 were brougîtt before lient-.
the Seniate at a late liour of lie session. as
Hoît. M\il. MACDONALD îP.E.l.)-To sucb
îs the case oit thie presettt occasiont, 1 must ait exteîtt titat pt-essui-e is broughît to bear
sav titat I liave liot cbaîtged rny ritt(ld ilt ou utetbers of parliantient aîtd on the mnir-espect 10 raîlway subsidies.
Siice I bave isteis tbrougli c-citain menibers, atd tltCy
c-orne lîtto tite Senate 1 believe oit cvery oc- obtaintt le subsidies.
1 uuderstatid tliete
casioti oit wbich a Bill of titis kittd bas been at-e sortie titi-ce milliotn dollars iti ratilwaiv
jinî-odîtced or proposeci,
1 bave
sPOk-en subsidies pi-ovided uîtdc- Ibis Bill.
T111itt
ag.ailist it, antd 1 sec tto reasoît to chnte
titi-c million dollars is the autoult ofliney
Ille .vew Iat
1 thîcî eîttertaned. tbal tbe w-hilii -las been pî-ocured by '.is sy'stotit if
systen of grnnili;g, t-ailway subsidies w-as iog-rolliîg, dtiitg lthe preseitt -essioit.
oite iot altogetiter 1n tlie intejest of tîte
Hot. -- SCOTT-Haif of thaI anc
\r.
stn
Domîittion or 0f the public-.
It w-ouid be
iitîercstitg to look at the mtode whicl is foi- a tevote. anîd litaf is a nwvote.
low,,ed ln obtaiîtiîtg Ibose subsidies.
It lthe
Hoi. 'Mi-. 'MACDONALD
P .> li
i rst place. parties apply for ait Ac-t of inthe log--roiiers bave 0oi.' - got a utlili i t11Id
uor-poraîltoît aîtd wlteît they bave obtaiîîc'd
a inf ?
The otite
inill-ioti and a littf
t1iaI Ac-t, w-itt pt-ovisiott' it il 'whicl etialule t1he*v obtained it soutie for-mîer sessiotn, eltber
tUen t o do0 utaut- tîinais iossibly
fr'ont tiii,- ov ertiiiieitt or- lte goveriinient
t~d'
buitîg a i-nili-oad. witl p)owûc-sý -o bond wicli rcedc-d it.
1 believe thtat it is a
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

iMXY 22, 1901,
r oatis whicli are of local benefit only
ear, tlilit there zire Inl;lîny alplise tii
money tiîat lias been paid by the Domilnion cations for roads extending away out to
iii railway sulisidies. we wvill sec Nviiat -_ Hudson Bey-flot only one line or road, but
whcn
years ago,
Some few
I have a note of it licre, severai.
large sum it is.
prliament o
bfre
andi 1 think. it amounts to very nearly tif ty tepostinw
million dollars. 1 belleve forty-citlt illlionl before the people. to construct onîe line of
There lis railway out !i tliiet section. or towartIs
dollars is the precise amouint.
been something- like a thousaîîd aLillions of James Be-y. it was looked uponi as a visLt received no support
money expended by the Dominion and by ionary scheme.
the railwfly corporations in the construction wliatever, antd 10w we see tlîree or four
of railways throughout the Dominion. The charters applied for and granted for roal1s
Domniion guvernmlefit lias pald 16 per cent, to be built away out to Hudson BaTy and
or a littie over LUÎper cent of that lMount. James Bay, and in that locality, and eacli
The provinces have paîd 3per cent, andi the of those ronds will. in the course of Onîie,
innicipalties about 1 par c mt; so that YOu malte an application to parhlianient. andi prowvill see that two hundred millions of monley blibly receive a1sulisidy if it is not r;ie
lias beenl expended by the Dominion parlia- already in -the present Bill, as we have not
nment, by tlîe provincial legisiatures, andl by heard the particular clauses of this Bill
I just refer t0 the genleral
thie municipalities in forwarding, railway rend yet.
I shoulti like to see thlar
Dominion. principle, and
the
tlirougliout
construction
Manlýiy of these ronds Nvhichi have obtaineti law, under whîcli these subsidies are protllis large amount of mouey are really of vided, repealeti, s0 that if persouis wantvery littie benetit, anti somne of theni possiblY ed railway charters they shouli lie in
will liot continue to run after they have the position to carry tliu Ont t1leiiisclvos.
earned their subsidy, or will not continue Tliey shoulti have, somje substance of their
to run as permanent roads thiat would lie for own. soine capital of their owu h"fore itpTlîeré- shoulti
the benietit of tlie locality ii 'whicli tliey are plying for a charter at ail.
situated. 1 know of instances in whicli tbis lie some reutulation miale by thîe goveraRonds that ment, soîne l:îw passeil by wivlî tiiose peois the case to soîne extent.
have receiveti sulisidies froin the provincial pie %vould have to slio% tlîeir (mli houa
govemnmleîît ani fromn the mlunlicipatities fides. tlîat tlwy ivere eble (o lmnild a roatd.
andi from the Dominion, wvhicll were ex- anti tlat tliey woul <b0 l witli itîcir. ownV
pecteti to run contlnuously two or tliree mleans, after' reeýeiviug a chairter f inco
times a day, bave mun at very uncertain pomatioui andi leiuig given power to .ssue
That would lîrevexit nîany of ilîecse
seasons. possibly daily in certain seasons, bonds.
but turing the winter time they run at very wild-cat scixoîes froni comng leore paro b wsigth
ou
anetadw
I think that tlie governirregular tinies.
Domnio no lie graing :11e
ment of the day shoulti repeal this Act, iainent aodte
whiclî grants tiiese subsidies to railw'ay these subsidies. It is quite truc tiiet soîne
companies. andi that subsidies shoulti not be of themi may be l tlîe iuterest oftb. Dl~~1opaiti for railways that are situateti within minion, but bue great nîajority of t licn are
li
n
leeoe1.mopsdt
o
the provinces or sections, iii Nhich thiere is io
I ufii axî suport1 wtoi ls
Iu suc'îî pîa ces Bitllo an iîîri
a nuierous population.
o
thlese ronds may paqy. and it is not iîîcýso;ïry Bite qant i iti ufcetsupr
overnt0 give theni a -;ubsidly f.-oui tl'
The miotioni was ag.recti 10. :uidI 1t11o Bill
nient.. Whv shlît the province of P'rince
Islanîd contribute to a sulisidy to was rend tlîe second tunie.
Edwarti
uestion is ou nie
The SPACEI Tî
Wliy
a riliroad away ouI !i Algoiaq
people of Ontario con- motion to go iuito Cormittee of the Mllîole.
siioulîti ot tlie
Flou. '-lr SCOl"Pi'Tlî' Supply Bill1 or a
lîv
'
tribute those subsidiles thLîm.ielvaýs
blite ('Cxiiif thîcy wvant 'a rail- pureiy mouicy Bill uxeverl goa 0
sliould ilot Nova 'Scotia,
roatl built tliere. contrinutc aI suliidy to mitte e of flic w1iole.
Tîîe SPEAKER-I thlikl thcre is 110) exthlat rondt if ht is a gooti ant ivaîable asset
Bis siionît gLof0 the Comiti
Wliy slionld tlie people ception. MAI
te the province ?
te tee of Uice WhîoIL.
ofthIle Dominioni gciîerally contrilaîte

viciOns systeln. in wvililever. goNernmiient
If we consider the amlouint of
it prevails.

[SENATE]

-540

Hon. 'Mr. FOLIGET-Tho Jifflies' Bill weviit
to a Couîmitteeý of the Whlole :1 inuite ago.
and it ý%vas a l1uoney Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
only exception is the Supply Bill. I thinlk
last year the Subsidy Bill was allowed
to go throughi iii the samne -av.t. but if
there is any Bill which should go to the
coinmittee for a general discussion, if there
is to be a discussion. it is this mnensure.
First of ail, there is n priuciple involved,
and then again, wve mnigflt objeet to somle
Whlether the Senate w-ould
p)ortion of it.
have rhe pow-er to separate one p~ortion froin
t11e other I ain liot p)lepared to express anu
opinioni upoii jtist 110w. but nîly impression
is that we can strike out clauses.
'.
Hon.
whlole Bill.

SCOTWe

eau

rejeet

the

Hon. . Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL I
understnnd w-e have 'the power to reject the
w-hole Bill. and 1 arn also ot the opinion we
can î'eject aliy paragî'aph of that Bill.
The SPEAKELI-1lere :ire nunihers of
conditions itteuding thiar question. There
i- no ruie.

have the riglit to alter or ainend the conditions on whcîthe subsidy is givenl. If we
tini fit lu future to take up tiiese subsidies, or amend the conditions on whichi they
are paid, we sliould have the righit to do lt.
1 wish to put myself on record on that point.
It is a very great crime, if I miglit s0 state
it-I do flot attribute it to this government
more than to former governments-that such
Bis are brought dowiî just before the prorogation, and no0 time given to mnembers
to loo1k into the merits of such measures.
We know the session before last subsidies
were granted to a road -whicb was supposed
to be in existence. The subsidy lias never
been applied for or taken up. We have a
riglit to, infer w-len sucli subsidies are
proposed, that they are proposed for n poiltical motive. 1 amrn ot blaming this gorernmnent more than former goverlments. We
learn 'something. however, as oui' ideas of
right and wrong mature, as mine have in
this particular. 1 have come to the saine
conclusion that the hon, gentleman from
P'rince Edward Island has reachied, that
the sooner we put a stop to this log-rolling,
and granting of railway subsidies the bette,.

The motion w-as agreed to andi the Bill was
Tue motion wvas agreed to. anjjd the ilouse rend the third time and passed.
resolved ltself ilito a1 t'omîxîittee oi thi'o
Lt being six o'clock the Speaker left the
M'hole on tl:e Bill1.
Chair.
(Ill thte Comnî111ice.i

After Recess.

On clause 7,
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is this
provision new ?
%r.
Hou. -- 'MLLLS-No, it was la last year's
Bill.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-They ire to be aided
by a subsidy of steel rails made iu Canada.
The clause Nvas ndopted.

THIRD READING.
Bill (6î) -n -lct 10 incorporate the Quebec
Terminal and Railway Compa)ny.-(Hon01. 'Mr.
Baker.)
THE

ROYAL

-MINT BILL.

THIRD READING.

11011 Mr. MILLS moved that the flouse
Hon Mr. BAKERL. froîji the coiiiiiittee,
resolve itself into a Commnittee of the
reported the Bill w-lthout amlendment.
ILL moedibethid radiigWhole ou Bill (143) An Act i-especting the
1101. r.
hranch of the Royal Mint.' IIi said:
oedhetrdraigOttawa
MLS
thBl.
on.
It mwill be seeni that this Bill provides for
BONVELL--I thle establishmuent of a brandi of the Royll
'MACIENZIE
Hon. Sir
should like to e:aI the attention of the min- Minit. liere iu Canada. and an expexîditure
ister to the point I mised a few muomens inay be ine:urred not exceediug $75,Oi00. for
ago. If -we liv e to coule baclc again, 1 hoPe- the pur-pose of establishing Ibis hiranli of
the Speaker wvill look into tus question as the lmiut. Thiere is a stroiig pubilic! sentito the power of the Seîîate to strik-e out, if îîîteiî ini fav oui- of the object wlichl this Bill
. for ((ilii iir iiuo
s îî îeiffed to serve. thli
aîy 1ae
w e thouglit proper. te (Io
a Bill of tI)s kiud. 1 arn quite satisilied w-e ilîciie the zold that is niined l tlie ifferThe SPEAKER.

F
Y:22," 1901]

W'hetber tile public
eut parts of Canada.
will derive aliy advantage frorn that or 'lot
is anotiier question, but thuat tiiere is a1
sentimental feeling il favour of the course
for whichi this Bill is intended to malce provision. there can be uo doubt whiatever.
It Is hardly to be expected that gold will
become a medium of exchange instead of
TPle baills
bank notes iii this country.
bave been reiarlcably safe and stable fin

tlîeir chiaracter, and tiiere caîî be no question that paper is a more coîîvenieut representutive of molley andi nmedium of exclianige
than gold or silver. We e-au represeut a
hundred pounds as easily by bank note as
we cau represent one dollar. Lt requires 11o
more space, aud as au article~ of înoncy,
it is no more incouvenieut thani if it were
for a very mucli smaller suaii. Tiai. the
coiniug of gold lu Canada may affect the
goveruiment circulation and miay affect to
some extent the banik circulation. tiiere eau
be very littie doubt. andc to tlîat extent
if will affect the profits of the goveriiiient
on the governinent notes nlow !i circulation, and correspoudingly affect the profits
of the banks upou their circulation ; but
to wlîat extent it will becorne a medium of
exchange is a mere matter of conjecture.
It miay affect it to a very considerable extent, or it may simply, after beli- coined
ilito mnoney, be exported fromi the country
and go loito circulation hli those parts of
the emlpire whiere the bauking systei lias
îlot beeni fouund so cojuplete and so convenieut as itle banking systemi of Canada,
but thiere eau lie no doubt that 'there is a
feeling amongst a very considerable class
of our people, based upon a patriotic sentiment, that the gold that is miined lu Canada
ouglit to be coiined into money lu Canada,
and this is Io that exteut a complinuce with
that feeling. Lt is a yielding to a patriotic
feeling that exists lu the country, and may
be of no other advalitage than the mere

compliauice witb the sentiment to which 1

]lave referred, but the people of this
country ýwould not be satisfied -%itbout a
v ery great deal of argument and discussion
if we w-ere to refuse to coinply wiblh their
wishes in this regard.
Hou. 'Mr. DRUMM-NOND-I desire to state

that iu whiat 1 am about to say 1 represent
iny own views exclusivelY and represenit no
interest otberwise. This Bill lias come up

a universel acclaini of lissent on botb sides,
that it is difficuit, perlîaps impossible, te
hope te defeat it, evenl if that w-ere iiny
object. It is îlot iny object te press aniy
objections whicli 1 mus subînit f0 the judgtiuent of this House to an issue, because 1
tliiik. it well that this suIlject slîould lie

threslhed ont, and as the Bill is permissive
in ifs chlaracter, and merely gives the goveriument tîte power of carrYing ont the prospectiv-e establishmient of time int, if they secl
fit to do so, I uni not disposed to go further
titi te gîve a few arguments w-hidi thcy
inay digest ut their leisure, and wlîich perhaps may hiave somethinig f0 do with a filial
determinlation. 1 arn the more readily irnpelled to dIo se, as there is au air of fallacy
runnimîg titrougliont a great deal of the debutes one hieurs in the newvspapers, and us
1 hiave to-niglit, for the first time, liud the
priv-ilege of readiig the ' 1-lsard' au'i
knowing w-bat lias beeli sniil in the Boeuse
of Comînons, 1 can perceive througli thut
also that vaguenless of ua)prehlensioIi and
doubtful logic whichl inipel mue to sfly wliat I
dIo liow. I object, lui fle first pince, f0 any
leg-isiative i erference witlî the present
financial position of the country. The circuiatiug mediumn of Canada is, probably,
without being a gold issue, as uearly one as
any country lias ever seen. It is perfect in
itseif, self -regulatiug, and lias been the eivýy
and the admiration of outside communities,
and tUe fact that there have been some
disastrous failures iii banks issuing notes
hiad had no effect whatever upon tue
holders of their promi:ssory notes, but,
as a matter of facf, in consequence
of flie systemn whiereby a deferred puy-

meut of these notes beurs interest ut a
conisiderabie rate, they hiave beeni souglit
tifter by institutions -911( have been fakeni
The public, il, fucf, haIVe
up accordingis.
îlot suffered lu auy degree from tlie faihuire
of those baniks, us far ns ftle liolders of
nlotes are conicerned. it is always dangerous
f0 intrude ou a systemn w-hidli is reusonably
nlear perfection, and 1 look witm Seule littieappreliension on auy project liaving for ifs

nîtimufe resuit the iuterfering w'ifl and
inlodifying our preseuf system., if the proposed mixit xwere f0 occnpy itseif witli the
înliufig of goid and silv' r and other coins
exclusiveY Caniadian, we couhi manage if
ourselves, but as if is perfectly obvions fliat

equipped for' flie Iurposes
to us from the Ilouse of Comons w-vitlî sucli no establishment

s N AT E j
ýE
of a mint xvould. flnd more titan a few wee1:Sý I take it andl îlis iz mvy Ir.-utlenlt Wl tii reoecupation duingii the~ \vlole ý-czir ii uitiifg Iferenee
to the relative ecoiioîy of flic papler
an
cxlsi;-elv canadiati nîcetallie curr1encey, isu as compared witli the gold issiue-tî bat
the project nom- before uis proposes t<) fill Ul) to tlic extent of the gold lield in reserve for
the frnie in coining Etglislî sovercigiis. The'flie issue, tliere is no real -profit on fle issue
consequence of thiat is, beyond ail question, lat ail. If, on the credit ot the goverinent.
flinat if inuist -be, as is stnted lu fle ill
.1 1or fle credif of flie banlks. the public are
brani 0fflieroyl
innt.
ot oilyContent
andi wel content to take a pa per
I lie goverinent and mnanagemniet of tlie hO- iote inistead, and 11o gold is to hoe beLd in
stitufionl iiiuist bc Eni.lisli.
The mnagers, 1resci-ve. flie average rate of interest for tlic
hlie deputv inasters, and I suppose flie iiiost :îime hcing is a clear. gain on1 the issue Of
i-esl)(>tsible offiCiais îtîust lie delegales froml i ta circulation. But if a goid reserve equlthe Englislî uinit. Tlie estirnated c-ost oft valentî to it is lield, thieii tîtere
is 110 gainl,
the establishmenît, aecording to the lion, flic because tlic goid itself costs ioîîey. lFor
Fl'îtîîe
\iitr
is suilposed to he u tplanît, Iinstance, thle $10,000000l
lîeld liv flic gox-eria
iiiiliiiiery- anîd bunildin1 g, soiiiC $320.000 or nient as securitv for tlieit inotes cosltit
teui
fta
es
$i330,000, the iîîterest on that siiînî and thefumliomreo
fo exat tel]
miltslians ln mor rwed.
i*
iiainteîîaîîcc of tItis building aid. platnt, al
to-etiier iii bis estinliale nî:iiig :îti iiîiiual1 llieyvwould have lad to pay ilnterest
on it.
charge of $75.000. çwliieli is providcd for injNw
i o a-a
u
usttto
ffi
lthe B3ill. Nom-, tue tii-st questioni wliicli mwill -oh1
'oî o
ae-ticîcîîe.i
sio
coulict) is. is it hikly3 to lie a ptrofitalile j majtte- of profit. O1utlie coîîrarv. if is
a -c
tr-ansactioni ? I omit aiiv reference to flic loss tîtat lias îîot been taken iîtto a- C-oiît.
question of sentimîenît, because thîcre is .9 The Fiîance Minister, lui proposiîig
flic erequestion of senttiment at flic bottoini of tîtu tion of Élis brandi of flic Royal M.\int, tooc
desire f0 sec a. Canladian coiniage.
WVc
liax-e info consideratioîî w-bat lie kiie
b0lelthe
it iii silver, -ie have if ii bronze, but tiotl facf, flic profit fliat te govertniiîn iiow- lia-iý
àli gohd, and we are driventi f use United ifî-oîî flic coinlage of silver and copper. bult
States or Englislî coins. 'lo avoid that is5 fliat is evideîitly impi-ope-. I pr-esoînel
file
alegitiniafe sentimient, f0 iuy
-ie. Btit arranigenient tlie goverîînîient iniake xvith til(tîtere is no caîl. nonle that I kiow 0f-I biave Fngiislî inuiiit at flic pi-esent moment is tuiý
itever seen any evidence of if-oui the part fo
.current clinrge, -%îiicîîl is nioderate !in
of flic public for a metallic golden coiiiage. am1ount, flic bullion is eut up, sfaniped, andc
As has alî-eady been said by tlie lion, leader jL.anded f0 tlîem.
-Now, flic silver coiîi;înc
of the House, flic public is accustomed to, cc.îîsisfs of a tokeîi,
îlil braîïded one
s
and satisfled. witb bis, and, as fat- as flic dollar, but u-ea11y colitains 'oujyl
t;() cItntm
initerest of flic countrty is coniceriied. yoii w-i i oft0
ivr
leei
lcpoi
picase nlote, flic difference between flic me- Tiiete is likewise t profit 011 flic bronze
tallic coinage 0f gold, and papet' rept-esenfiîig coin, and alfogeflie tIbese fwvo profits anilît
flic equivalent for gold, for, as I bave already f0 about $94,000 a year. To îîîyý mmiid, it is
said, the prescnt paper cur-îeîîcy 0f fli c ouii- enfirelyý unîvarrantei fo take a profit wliil
t-y is pracfically a gold coinage anîd is well w-e have at onîce w-itloton a mitf anîd ýcredif
nssut-ed
he banks bave tlie pow%ýeî of is- if f0 au expenditure xvbiclt we propose te
suing notes f0 flic exteuit of lcit Pat(l-up1 malte in building a initl. I do nlot flinkI
capital.
The goveî-îtiaeitt lias flic riglit Of fhiere -cat lie nny atrgument on tîtat quesisstîing
~$2,0,0 ~
-tt nyaglý
~ up1(
tio
We have got this profit alr-eady w-ithreserve, according f0 otte piece of iîîfotma1f- out fuis expetiditure. and w-e xviii gef ne
fioxi, of 15 per cent, accot-ding to anotie- 10 more wlicn w-c make the expendifure, because
per- ccitt-I thjini: if is ten per Centf.
Wll~ I w-l proceed to sliow, fliaf. ii iîi opîinion.
if exceeds tw-enty millions of dollai-s, tltey flic ncw- mint neve- can mnalte aniv mîouîev
niust have dollar for- dollar- of a reserve. tulote flîaî we at-e mingii already, for if is
and as flic present issue is fwenty-eig lit miil- absolutely the case fliat flîcre is no profit iii
lions of dollars, in r-ound figur-es. soîtie ili
Coinling gOl.l--iîonle
wlatever-on flic Coli
millions of dollars must be beld in resemve in fi-ai-y. I believe it to be a faet fliai
gelfi by lthe goî-erimeit for- liat issue. Yeow. flic Anstralia1n iiiinls lose mloiiey. T;tlkt
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND.

~)I AY 2~

înig of Australia. the exalaple of Australia as lîaving mnts of it., owni is
But the Position of
held out to uls.
Australia and the positionî of Caniada are
True, botUi are colonies,
totally different.
and depend-encies, but tlue local situattioni of
Australia aînd the local siturationi of Caniada
are entiroly different. Isolated from Great
Britain, isolated. fromi Europe by n very long
sea passage, it would occur to Australians
readily eliougli that ýthe gold Nvhiciî is produced in their owu country miglit be utilized for their own purposes, and whien that is
granted they drop inito the saine systei as is
t-oitenaplated hlere. and ivith the consent of
Great Britain, their gold is iinted iinto Englisli sovereigns, which circulate l Great Brihe tîlere cutting ani clippinig of a
tain.
metal inito a defluite weight, aiîd stampinig
it, costs very ilittie money, andi iii regard to
gol.d lt adds nothing to tUe value, so fliat
there is no profit on the gol'd. The profit on
the silver w-e have a.lready. TUe j)iotlt o1
the copper, or bronze, we bave .layandi
there we are. We have before uis tUe quesmatter of sentiment, a
tion whether, fromin
desire to see the thinig going on inuder our
own eyes, we shail expend tlîree Iiindrcd
and fifty thousand or four lîundredl tlîousand !i plant, andi have aîý. establishmlent,
tue running of wichl will, iii 11W opinion.
be a constant drag 'to a considerable extent.
If we coin Canadian gold bearing the naine
of Caniada and bearingý tlue deinominiation.
let us say, of two and a lialf, five and ten
dollars, that coinage wvill be totally and absolutely valueless, except as bullioln outside
the borders of Canada. Obviously it -will
The
not circulate l Eniglanid-it canniot.
United States people %vill talte verY great
cure that it does not circulate thiere, for
thcy are sharp enougli to toril our bis
back, aud we are w'eal eiîougb to permait
theirs to circulate f0 a large extent ia our
country.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýELLI-Hear,
liear ;and silver too.

1¶CU]

ni
N
:îit-'
ever ivuv
1 will Uc
theli iii turnes of lîeace-I tlîln
baclted up by instances iii Nvliclî the suddecn
ernergency arises of seliding gold to -New
York or Chicago or sailie place for (Jandianizi
purposes. Unitedi States golti is legal tenlder the very moment it reaches its destination. Let us send Canadiani gold and it 's
After (lue assay, If eau be
bullion only.
hauunded over andi sold as bullion, but not
otherwvise. Coiisequelntly, the miere fact of
rnintlng that g-old counits for nothiiiîg. If we
lad it ini dust. or lu bars, or iii any other
shape, it would be equally marketabie ani
equally available for the purpose of a sudden demnud. Take tUe other way .our
batiks, it is <mite truc, hold a certain proportion of gold-not a certain proportion:
I aiii wrong !in saying a certain proportiontliey aIl do more or less 1101(1 soille go1il.
There is a talit of a reserve, but accordilaz
to nmv reading of flie Baiiking Act, no halît
ls called upoli fo hold a specifie reserve for
ifs liahility. Ail that tue hank takps care,
of is thaf. of the reserves whiclî are îel
by the banik, not iless thani forty per cent
shiaîl be -ia Dominion notes. and I have
knowîî an incident happen lu which a greait
banît lias been fined foo hiaving inadvertently too much g()Id. Tlîat sounds like a
bîut 1h is al faet
tale of Baron MuIinchiauisc.
tîjat a batik l this country lias been tîned
However, that
for having f00 much gold.
g1- 11p.It fromin my argumient, whlclî is thiat
the banîts Nichei hold gold have, nearly ahl
of thei, -more ou less, agents or correspondents and business ln New York, Chicago
and great mercantile centres. and do
more or less business thiere, iiecessaril..
for tîleir cuistomers. and so on. and a
rernittance of gold is in almlost every
day occurrence or a frequent occurrence.
and a pure Canadian issue of gold woiild
for ilînt îmrîbose, 01.
nlot be available
ut leasf, would be only equally availale
wif h bar gold or gold dust. There i,; somneon this subject-I
timies a confusion
noticed it to exist lu the House of Coulmons-between an assay office and a miat.
To my inind the establishmenît of a g-overulment assay office, or mîore tlîan olie. Nvliort,
gold is produced. is lot oiily desirable. but
absollufely essenitial.
aui eîîîergeîîuy Nvliie-l

Hon. '-%I. DRUMMnOND-Aiid the old
fable wi.ll lie realized lu that instance also,
and the bigger bullly wvill carry the day. We
will have no chlance whatever of baving au
onflet for the various deu-&minations, of coin
Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD
lu flie United States. So that, if an, emnertlîat 17 tue right fima.
lia
say, for inistance. bea
gciîcy slîould aieetus

(B.C.)-Hear.

r..
S

'

EE

iner fear thiat I have fronm the establishîment of
\h-ua
lLM<IU
Hua. -Mr.
coules down with gold clust rnixed more or this milît, is that it may probably introless xvith foreigu maui-, as ail of it is, lie duce the question of unlimited coinage of
oughit to have the power of going to anl iii- silver, given the difference hetweeîî sixty
stitu:tion whilîcb las no interest whatever in cents aiul a dollar as a temptation. and youi
cheating hirn, getting bis gold assayed, and wili have the silver question upon us beobtaiia a certificate whichi be can take to fore you know w'here you are. 1 presurne
the nearest bank and get the money and buy the intention of the government would be
goods. So that 'l give rny unhesitating ap- to take ail the gold dust, or unmauufactured
proval, if it is a part of the governinent gold that was offered to thern, at a price.
project, to the establishment of governmenit! They would have to gîte a price fully equlassay offices duly equipped, and no reason- valent to what could bie got elsewhiere, perThey would give
able amount of expenditure lu equipplng baps a shade better.
themi properly should be a coîîsideration for' the currenit value of the gold at the time.
a moment. Now. holding that a mint eu and take ail that there was of it. Have
statistics as to the
tii. country wvould certainly yield no profit the goveriimient ar
anf Nould be ouly occupied for a very short quantity of gold w-hich w-ould hie brouglit
tinie in coiuing Canadian coins, w-e have to to their mint under these circumstances ?
cousider the question f romû the point of view Have they any ldea ho'v long that gold
xvhich ail industrial expert, or a man accus- xvould keep the mint goîng ? 1 have lad
torned to businîess. would take. We are to a calculation made that the coulage would
rfu
he
lool, upon the further questioni, can aniy not keep, it goiug moeIa
profit lie made l the coining of English months in a year, and, if so, the cost of
sovereigns ? It is contrary to ail experi- runniug the mint would l)e cousiderable. 1
ence--contrary te niy experience, and 1 look at WbVlitaker. and I find that the deputy
arn sure it is contrary to tlie experieuce minister of the rnt-who 1 presume ks the
of every man of business here-that a sinall man charged Nvitb the oversigbt lu Eugland
establishment- a rernote establishmeut, with -gets flfteen hiundred pounds a year. Tînat
the cost of superluteudeuce sprcad over a is seven thousaad five hundred dollars-aj
sinall value, can ever lie conductcd as econ- good deal more than one of the Cief Jusornically as a large one doiug a big business. tices of oae if our provinces-lu Sydney,
Tlîat is so self-evîdlent that 1 xtili not argue, N.S.W., hie gets eleven hulidred pouilds, andi
it, and I have therefore the conclusion forced lu -Melbourne twelve hundred, and the suupoinime that it is impossible to do the work perintendent beloxv hlmn gets ine lîuudrcd.
ourselves la a Canadian mint as econ- I presurne it is beyoîîd ail questionî that the
But I arni gentleman to lie sent here by the Britishi
oinically as it is doue for us.
goiîîg perhaps a shade tooý far thtere, iîias- governmeîît anfi put in charge of our minit
We could not
mucli as I do iiut actually kiow at tlis 11o- would reccive the saine.
ment w-bat charge the English mint exacts give hlm any less, and 1 can imagine the
froîn Canada for lime mere mechaulcal act feelings of the deputy minlisters and civil
of weighing anid starnipiîîg. but 1 pmesuîîîe servants generally, wlîo are receiving two
that it is 9 moderate charge. 1 will go the'ý or threc thousaufi dollars a year, w'heu thîey
lcîîgtl of salyilng thiat I (Io not believe, i- have a gentlenman witl easy duties earnling
dier any cîrcurnstauccs. that a Camiadian double. Tbat is not a very serlous matter,
ilit can cohin it chîcaper tlîan au Englisli hohvever. I corne to the point that witlî tue
rniîît can do it-that is. apart fronul tue coinage of gold it is sure f0o flow into tlic
charges. 1 notice tbiat omie lion. gcntlenuiil banks, aud as lon, as tue present provisiomn
in the Ilouse of Comnions went the lenýgth of of the Baukiug Act lasts, calliug for forty
recolînîuending the goveranmeut f0 coin pIeil- per cent of the Nvhole of tlîeir cash reserves
ty of sili-er and tlîey would nînke pleulty of to be held-in Domninion notes, a baiik mlight
money. Thîcre is the silver question il, a1 find itself on the hastday of tue nionthi lu
uutshell. There it is redivivus-by soine nie- the dilemnia. of. having a lîeavy deposit of
cromautic nirt establi;sh ilîat sixty cents is a11 olf w-hiei fiey had to g-et rifi of before
dollar,- aud get the people to take it iiillirnit- the day %v-asout, on sorne principle or other,
ed quantities w-e certainly xviii make a veliY anîd no doubi thcy woiild have to ship it
profitable tliiug of it. Buit cau 3 Oui ? One by express onit of the country and waVýsh
Hon. ýMr. DRUMM\.\OND.

[MAY '22, 1901]
their bands of it. So that there wouid be a
constant effort on the part of the bank to
get rid of the gold which would be banded
to them, or the changes in our banking legislation, which are sure to foilow with commerce here. 1 do not see that there is going
to be any equivalent returned to us for the
Institution of this new manufacture. I may
mention one objection to the denoîninations
of two and a haîf and five dollars. The
coin would be indistinguishable, 1 fancy, In
size and weight, by ordinary methods, froni
the English haîf 'sovereign and sovereign,
and in a rough way the public, if they
ever took these coins outside of Canada,
wouid be very apt to sny, 'Oh, this ls
just a sovereigu, and I wiil give you
a sovereign for It, and you would lose sixpence on each coin, or something like that.
So that, I sbouid say that two dollars and
four dollars, tbe present Dominion denominations, wouid be far better. I do not think
that beyond a few coins that may be held
by people, just as postage stamnps are accumulated, a demand for gold coinage exlsts lu this country. In calculating, therefore, the financial resuits of this new enterprise, you must add to loss already ailuded to of $75,000 a year due to capital expended, an Indefinite amount due to Inisuffidient employmeait of an expensive staff, and
a stili larger and more formidable charge
due to the dispiacement of the goverumeut
issue of Dominion notes, of whilh I estimate
there are about $18,000,000 not covered by
gold reserves. You are therefore faced by
this dilemma, if thbe public does not take
kindly to your gold coinage, your mint will
not be emiployed. If It does, your Dominion
note issue wIll be curtalled, with a correspondiug and Indefinite deficit to be charged
to this enterprise. I do not glu-e the
mint the slighitest share of the profit now
heing- made In the colning of silver and
bronze, but I debit It witli the loss which
wili accrue from the diminisbied circulation
of notes botb of the gou-ernment and of the
banks and a nuuch larger proportion to the
goverument than to the banks. Finally, I
think any goverument shonld hesitate before disturbing a financial system whichi bas
been prou-ed, tbrougb good times and bad
times, to be equal to the demands of the
country, to be safe, simple, inexpensive and
satisfactory to the community at large. I

nent to the question at baud, -and if the Bill
is passed, as I h~ave no doubt it will be, for
I have no intention to oppose it, they wihl
furnish the goveruiment with food for reflection.
Hon. Mr. 'IAODONALD (B.C.)-Thlere 19
no doubt, the great want of the country, and
of the gold-producing part of the country
especially, le assay offices. They wlll be a
cou-enieuce to the mi-ners, and a source of
profit to tbe country, and they sbould be
takeu lu hand before a mint is establ'sbed. As to, tbe profit or loss from a
mint, I am not prepared to say anything,
but the quantity of gold required In the
country la so small, that I do not tliink the
mint would pay. I hope the goverumeut
whll urge, first of &Il, the establishment of
assay offices, at Dawson and In British Columibia. The country would get a profit
fromn it and keep the gold in the Dominion.
I urge the goverument to see, before establishing a mint, -that there are assay offices establisbed.
The motion was agreed to.
The House resolved ltself into a committee of the whole on the Bill.
(In the Committee.)

Hon. Mr. MILLS-I miglit say thiere is
scarcely anything lu the observations which
were addressed to the -House, before going
Into committee, by the hon. senator from
Montreal, from whlch I at ail dissent. 1
thlnk that every member of the goverument
bas considered ail the points whicb the hon.
gentleman bas brought forward, and no
one Is expecting that any important profits
could be derived from the co4nage of gold
and siuTer lu this country, or any special
advantage wlll be derived by the people of
this country by puttlug gold into circulation,
because, to tbe extent it so circulates, it
will no doubt dispiace the bank circulation.
My opinion is that It will be found that
It wll flot pass Into circulation lu this country to any extent. It would only be durlng
a perlod when there migbt be a run upon
the banks, or some distrust for the moment
created, that tbe people would, for a short
time, ask to be paid lu gold coin ; but except under financlal excitement of that sort,
the circulating medium that is now put in
the bauds of tbe people by the banka of the
merely throw out these remarks as perti- country, is likely to continue.
I do flot
35

[.SE NATE]
thinik there will be any loss on the coinage
in this country. Tlhere is not in En.land. The alloy is supposed to pay the expense of coinage, and interest upon the value
of the gold deposited for the short period
tbat elapses betweeni the timue that bullionl
Is put in ithe *bands of government otticers
until it is converted into înoney.
Hon. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-But
gold is the principal medium of circulation
la Eugland, and flot bis. Thiat makes ail
the diff erence.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I L-now it is the principal circulation, but my lion'. friend will
see we could not pay more for coinage here.
They are to pay expenses, and interest on
the value of the gold deposited from the
time it is put into the hands of the officers of
the mint until It is coaverted Into coin. It
mlgbt be that the profits bere would be verY
much less, but it 15 perfectly obvious thiat
you could not undertake to ijay a larger
sum for coining here than -is pald ia the
United Kiugdom or la the United States. for
if you atternpted to do thlat, you would at
once have bullion from tlie United States.
or fromn other countries, sent la biere for the
purpose of being converted into money.
There would be a larger profit on the
bullion in Canada, if that were done,
than anywhere else. So that there is neyer
likely to be aniy extra sum paid in that
respect. If the coining does not paY expenses, of course tbe loss must f ail upon
the public treasury of the country, and
I have no doubt the cost of coinlng
a ponnd la Canada will be more than
the cost of coiaing a pound la England, on
account of the smnaller amount done bere
thian in the United King-dom. There is also
this fact to be borne ln mmnd, that the loss
of a bank ilote is an intrinsiC loss oulY to
the exteat of the cost of engraving and
printing the note. Whbile the individual
who bolds the note mnaY lose five pounds, if
it be a five pouad note the bank itself would
gain the five pounds, so that the loss of the
individual would be undonbtedly the gain
of the bank. The actual ioss, 1 saY, is iIlY
the cost of priuting and engraving a Ilote.
That is flot so, of course, when a gold coin
Is lost, because that is an intrinsic loss to
the value the coin represents, which is entirely different from the loss of a bank note,
and so, both ia the matter of convenlience
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

and in the
tem is, no
any system
possibly be

matter of risk, our prescrit sysdoubt, more advantageous than
of metnllic circulation that could
devised.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hns
the bon. gentleman considered tbis point :
what is to become of the gold coin made
In this country ? If It does flot enter general circulation, and take the place of bank
notes or Dominion notes, what Is to becomne
of It ? Could It be sent to Englaad ia
payment of our debts ? Would it be a legal
tender there ? You could flot send It to the
United States, for It would flot be legal
tender there. I remember a circumstnnce
whIch occurred whlle I was acting for Sir
Leonard Tilley for a short time. The demand for gold la the United States was
very great, and a large profit accrued to
the bankers who had the gold, aad sent it
there, and they made wbat migbt be termed
a rua on the Dominion treasury for gold.
They presented Dominion notes, and demanded gold for them, until the gold hehi
la reserve by the government was almost
depleted. On consultation with the deputy
minîster, we decided that the only way we
could possibly stop that rua wns to cable
to Englaad to send over -about baîf a million
la gold. It wns done Ia about ten days, and]
as soon as the bankers presented the bis,
tbey were offered British gold coin. They
said, 'We cannot use this la the United
States ; it is flot legal tender there.' Tbat
stopped tbe rua. I mention this fact te, show
you of what use gold mannfactured la Canada -would be to pay debts la the United
States. If you could, 1 could eas!Iy understand how it could be used. If it goes to the
United States, it must go as bullion, and
be re-minted, I suppose, lato United States
coin. What is to beconhe of it ? It must
eilber go into circulation or be sold as bollion. I arn fully ln accord with the sentimental part 0f 'tbe seasure.
Hon. Mr. M-NILLS-A part of the gold coin
migbt be beld by the batiks, under tbe existiug law. ns a portion of their reserve.
A part of it, if you were to coin $5 or $2
pieces migbt go into circulation in the
United States at its par value. My bon.
friend bas neyer seen gold coins of the
United States, off ered iii payrnent of a debt
la tlils country, refused for tbeir face
value ?

[MAY 9-2, 19011

547

reaches Wall street. If our Canadian banks
are obliged to have Canadian gold, I will
flot be able to get any other gold. Wheu
I send it to New York in payment of my
debt, I will have to send it as bullion, that
is to say, New York wîll receive the gold,
because gold is gold ail over the world, but
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have no doubt a very being stamped as Canadian gold, it will flot
considerable part of the money colned In be taken there except as bullIon, to be asthis country may ultimately disappear In sayed, and the value will be put upon It.
the payment of half-yea.rly interest upon It takes two or three days to do that, and
our obligations, and a part of it may go I will be allowed wh*atever the assay office
Into circulation in the neighbouring republic. says it la wortb. I wilI be a loser.
I do not apprehend that there will be any
Hon. Mr. MILLS-You will be charged the
difficulty In that regard. I do not thlnk that
It can go -into permanent circulation In this m'te of exchange.
country and displace the bank notes. If
Hon. Mr. FORGET-The rate of exehange
you were to bave a bank fallure, you rnigbt
will be against Canada, naturally. For that
have a few parties demanding payment in
gold, but it would only be for a very short reason, I thlnk our Cana)di.an banks will flot
period Indeed. I do flot apprehend that this take Canadian g-old, as 'a reserve, because It
branch of the Royal Mint, If estab]ished In wIll be good only for -domestic purposes.
Canada, is golng to seriously interfere with They will flot be able to pay their debt§
the bank circulation. My impression Is, abroad with It. And then the banks, knowthat when the patriotic sentiment is satisfied lng that they will neyer have any demand
with the experiment, they will not Insist for Canadlan gold, naturally will flot accept
upon a substitution of gold coinage for the It from the public. They will take United
States gold, or sovereigns, In preference. so
present paper cnrrency of the country.
that the circulation of Canadian gold, you
Hon. Mr. FORGET-I amn quite iu accord will find, after a few months, will be curwitih the sentimental part of the project tailed. You will have a good circulation the
myself. I think It is a good move if we first year, perhaps, and possibly It may go
are willlng to stand the cost of it. I believe up to ten millions of dollars, but after you
It Is going to interfere with the circulation have reached a certain figure, It wlll remain
of the Dominion and bauk notes in time. there, and you wIll flot be able to force any
It will quletly take the place of smali more on the public, unless, as I sald before,
notes, because people prefer very much to you prohibit United States gold circulating
have dlean gold pieces to having dirty bills, In this country, and to do that you will have
as ours are for the most part, in their to amend the banking law, and injure the
pockets. An hion, gentleman near me says trade of the country In general. That la my
that the dirtiest bis lu circulation are the opinion and the way I look at the question.
Dominion ilotes. Tl>at is the only circulaHon. Mr. M-%ILLS-Do I understand the
tion, 1 believe, you are going to Lave. It
will be a progressive circulation with the hon, gentleman to contend that If we were to
public, not with the banks, unless you pro- coin here, In a branch of the Royal Mint,
hibit the circulation of United States gold sovereigns Instead of $5 pleces, they would
coin lu Canada. Unless you do that, the then have the samne value, If they were
banks wlll take United States gold in pre- of the samne weight and fineness, as the
ference to Canadian gold. Why ? Because, English sovereign ?
while our own people xnlght use it, CanaHon. Mr. FORGET-Yes.
dian goid will not serve the object of a
Hon. Mr. MLLLS-And they would go
business man who trades in the United
In the New York m~arket the saine as the
States, or even in the United Kingdom. If
?
I have to remit to New York to-morrow a English sovereign
Hon. Mr. FORGET-English sovereigns
million dollars, as I bave had 10 do more
than once, il must be lu gold, and this are flot accepted there. If you have to regold must be availabl? the moment it mit to New York you must remit In United
351
Hon. Sir MACKEZIE BOWELL-I will
tell you where I have seen British gold coin
refused :I &%w an English sovereigu refused
In Honolulu, and a Yankee who was present
exclaimed: 'By Jove, I neyer saw gold refused before.'

LIS ATEj
State~s coin. They wiltakce other gold coin
as bullion, but flot as coin. As I have said,

1 have recmitted once or twice witliin the
last five or six -efirs a, million dollars at a
time to N\ew York. I hnad to .-et United
States gold. 0f course, the gold lias its
value, but when you remit to New York in
panicky times, or a merchant pays is debts
In big financial transactions, it must be available îmmediately the day it reaches New
York, or, If it is not, tbey will charge interest
as if the debt had not been paid. You bave
to pay iaterest until yon are told the value
of your bullion. It may take a day or two
days for that. I bave biad lio experleace on
that point. Every time I remitted I bought
United States gold on the market, because
I knew very well that I could flot send
sovereigas. They w-ere flot legni tender.
Honi. Mi. DEVER-Wlere they takea at a
discount ?
Hon. 'Mr. FORGET-It is prncticaliy a discount-tbe gold is taken ns bullion. I think
my bion. frlend froni Montreal (Hon. i.
Drummonid) will corroborate wliat I have
said.
Horn. 'Mr. DRUMM1'NO-ND-Yes, I do. When
you send gold to New York it is a case of
hurry-it must be at once. You mnust not
give the man who is to get it the option of
refusiag it. You could ilot do that witlh
aniything but United States gold. Your
gold is gold, and will be taken as bullioni
whien duly melted and assayed.

tion 0f your gold you must redeem your le-

wbo
You must pay
;gai tenders. Iteceiver General'sany man any
goes to the
office, in
city of the Dominion, gold when hie wants
it. If you do îlot do that, as I have said,
the circulation will xîot increase. At the
first, wbile it is a new thing, everybody will
be glad to get the gold. Every one wouid
prefer to have gold rather than silver coin
iii bis pocket, but there is a limit to that.
After a few moaths you wîll find you wiil
bave to do sometbing-eitber amend the
banking law, or pay gold for your legal tenders, to increase the circulation of the go]d
coi n.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-The purpose of
the few remarks 1 have made is simply to
place before the government the fact that
this is flot ail plain sailing, and that they
ougbt to consider weil before they break in
on a systemi wbich experience bas proved to
be satisfactory and equal to, the demands of
the commuaity.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-M-%y hon. friend fully
realizes aiso tbat a paper circulation is a
promise to pay. The circulation of gold is
paymeat. You cannot have a dollar la paper
put ln circulation 'without some one incurring
a liabllity to that extent. If you have $415,000,000 in bank notes in circulation, somebody la the country, or a number of persons
ln the country, must have incurred indebtedness to the bank to that extent. Not a
dollar of paper money can ho put la circulation witbout incurring indebtedness and borrowing money to that extent. That is not
the case with gold or silver put ln circulation. The gold or silver is absolute pay-

Hon. «M\r. FORGET-The move is a good
on±e. My hoa. fîieud fînîn Montreal bias
a large interest la banking. I have also,
indirectly. I believe this will initerfere %vith ment. A bank note Is a promise to pay, and
the circulation of bank notes and still more is value only on account 0f the undoubted
'with tbe circulation of Dominion notes. Lt credit of the person who has made that prois not known generally by the public, but mise, In tbis case, It mny be tbat, when the
we L-now it ln our business, that If you pie- gold is coined, you mny stimulate the busisent teni, flfteen or twenty-five thousanid ness of the country so as to require a larger
dollars of legal tenders at the Receiver Geii- amount of medium of excbange than you reeral's office in MUontreal and demaad gold quired before, and If tbat be so, the bank
for it, you cannot get it. The public sup- circulation and tbe circulation of goveraposes that tbe goveramuent is obliged to re- ment notes will hoe less interfered wlth than
deeni its notes in gold. M'ell, they will flot might ho expected by putting a gold coin ln
give you gold for it ; they say 'the notes circulation. But I bave no doubt of this,
that if, upon the experiment belng triedare legal tender.'
and it is a wholly tentative experiment-the
ADO
L (P.E.I.)-Why 9 bank circulation, or the goverament note
Hon. Mi.
Hlon. Mr. F0116ET-I do not kaow, but it circulation, is to anyv extent encroaclhed
is a fact. So if von want to mlake a circula- upon, then there will be very mucb less coinHoni. 'Ur. FORGET.

[MAY 22, 19011
lion. -. 'MILLS-No.
%r.
in.-, after that fact becomes known, Ihan bef ore.
Hion. '.\r. FORGET-It is explained in tlîis
are circulated on the credit
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-There way :these notes
of the governient, and the goverumient koep
is one point brought out to-nliglil which 1
in the treasury.
must confess I was Ignorant of. The lion. a reserve
gentleman (Mr. Forget) stated that if you
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Then why do they flot
go 10 the Receiver General's office with a redeem their notes ?
quantity of legal tender notes and demand
Hon. Mr. FORGET-They must keep ten
the gold for il, you cannot gel thie gold. If
per cent to meet their circulation.
that is the case, there is no redemption of or fifteen
Reyou go to a 'If two or tliree big bankers go to the
those notes. I understand if
ceiver General's office to-morrow and nskç
bank 'witli a tliousand dollars, or ten thonof million dollars, the govsand dollars of their notes and demand gold, them for a couple
not -bave the golci to give.
there are certain centres -where tliey are ernment would
Obliged. 10 redeem tliem in gold, buti, from
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As I
wliat lias been stated, that does not apply have stated, when the bankers came to the
to the office of the Receiver Geueral. I was Receiver General and denianded large
always under the Impression that lie bail to amounts of gold, we liad 10 pfly It, and the
give yon the gold for Dominion notes. My only way we stopped it was to bring in En.-hon. friend says no, tliey will not. What lislî gold, whicli is legal tender under our
will they offer you in return-another $10,. law, and that stopped the run. I never
000 ?
knew before that the Receiver General could
government do not refuse to redeem Dominion notes in gold. I
Hon. M4r. MILLS-The
redeem in tliat way. Tlie only redemption always supposed that if I went 10 the Reof government notes will be from the banks ceiver General with Dominion notes 1 could
-no officer of the government -will undertake get the gold.
to redeem tliem.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I have neyer been a
Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-WÇýbat banker, and consequently cannot throw ainy
Is the object of the Receiver General's officE liglit on the effeot that Ibis will have on the
then ?
circulation or on trade of thie country. My
FORGET-If yon bave ten thonu *first impression was that Canada being a
Hon. Mr.
Sand dollars in Dominion uotes, and you go *gold-producing country, it would be an ada mint.
to your bank and say : 1I want gold foi v'antag-e to the Dominion to have
of
this.' They say : 'Yes, we -will give you But bere we are told by leading bankers
They will not give you golÈ the Dominion that the creation of a mint
gold at a price.'
aI par. They say, 'These are inot our notes.' would interfere serionsly with the circulation
They will pay gold for their own notes only *of bank and Dominion notes, and aitboug-li,
If I take the Dominion notes to the Receivei *fromn a sentimental point of view, we miglit
General, lie will not give me gold. I havi afford the luxury of losing something froni
the.establishment of a mint, It is a different
tried il.
B matter to interfere wltli the banklng business
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Wýýhat did hi
of the country and injure our money market
answer?
e or our trade relations. It is a very serious
Hon. '.%r. FORGET-Hle said, 'Go 10 th inatter. The bankers have ta1,en the trouble
baul.' The governaient is supposed 10 rE o1 warn us. Their remarks sliould be taken
deem Its notes in gold, but il does flot d
r into very serions consideration.
so. For instance, If you take a bag of silve
to
not take i t-Hou. Mr. DRUMMOND-1 have nothing
10 tlîe Beceiver General he will
except this I
i- add to wbat lias been sid
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Are -%ve 10 ni
see the government, in countgoing iwîth ten thoi i- sliould like to
derstand that a man
~ing the cost of tbis, take into account. first.
Sand dollars in Dominion notes to thie 11<
ýt the expense of a mint, and, second, the
ceiver General, or 10 the bank, cannot g(
tt amount of the interest they mwill lose, to the
gold for il or lias 10 pay a discount ? If tht
full extent of the point aI which the new
is so, there is sometliing wrong.

1SENATE]
coînage ýwill displace their cir-culation.
have to do that.

You

bald a certificate foi the laymc'nt of the
said fee. ihen there is the extension of
the letters patent for a term of Iliree years
Hon. Mr. MILIiS-Certainly.
instead of eighbteen years, and at the close,
Hon. Mr. DLIUMMOND-Nowv
that is it is for a term of three years
from the
something which cannot lbe determined, but 2Oth September,
1901, instead of a termn of
when the hon, gentleman (Hon. Mr. Forget) nime years.
seriously made that remiark, 1 think, bis anHon. Mr. DANDURAND înoved concurticipations were correct, that at the start
every one would wish to have some of these rence la the amendmnents.
new coins, and poss.ibly the circulation miglit
The motion was agreed to.
ireach ten million dollars. The bullk of it
would dispiace the present circulation and MONTIRAL & SOUTHERN COUNTIES
you mîglit count on losing three or four
LIAILWAY BILL.
times the amount estimated in the Bill as
FIRST READING.
belng the annual deficit on account of the
establishment of a mint.
A Message -was received froni the Honse
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I have no doulit of what of Commons with Bill (112) 'An Act rethe -bon. senator says in that regard. There specting the 'Mentreal & Southern Counties
are, in -every community, a few people who Railway Co.'
hoard money. They do flot put Il in the
The Bill was read the first lime.
bank. They feel that it is safer lu their
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND meved a suspenpossession. Lt is earning nothingbut they
sion of the miles.
are content to have it lu their possession
rather than to have it earning somethina.
lIon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whlat
They do not want to lose control over it. is the use of suspending the rules ln the
They wonld prefer gold, for the purpose of case of a Bill which will have te be sent
hoarding, to bank notes, and a certain por- to a committee ? The flailway Committee
tion of the gold coin put lu circulation wihl will net meet again.
lie withdrawn from circulation by the boardHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I thînkl they met
ing.
this afternoon and adjourned sine die, with
Hon. Mr. FORGET-When it is taken ont an
understanding that they ceuld lie conof circulation the interegt on it is lost.
vened at a muomenits notice.
Hon. Mr. MIL11LS-Yes.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-W'ýhait Bill Is that ?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND, frem the comHon. MNr. DANDURAND-It is a Bill
mittee, reported the Bill without amnendpassed two or three years ago-the Mentreal
ment.
and Southeru Counties Railway Company.
The Bill was then read the third time, on
Hon. Mr. FORGET-It is a tram-way Bill
a division, and passed under a suspension
passed five years age.
of the rules.
EUDORA SIBBALD RELIEF BILL.
COMMONS AMENDMENTS

GONCURRED IN.

A' Message was received from the House
of Ooînmons returnîng Bill (T) ' An Act te
confer on the Commissioner of Patents certain powvers for the relief of Eudora Sibliald' w-itl î meudments.
The SPEAKER-I w-li explain the nature
of the amendments.
Iiistead et the uisual
fee requir.ed for the termn of ciglit years. flue
Commons propose te insert a fee ef twcn1tv
dollars, and they imay grant te Eudora SibHon. Mr. DRUMMOND.

Hon. Mr'. DANDUIIAND-Geing te St.
Lambert and threugh the soutiiern eunties.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVEL-It Is
an omnibus Bill.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have net the
Bill before mie. The amiendmeits are here.
ut seemed te lie objected te lu certain particulars, and a11 that the objectors coniplaiiied 0f is w-iped eut by the present Bill.
Anl extension 0f time is sought, and the
right'te am.ilamantt and niake agreements
with a certaini number ef railways.
That
is ail.

[MAY 22, 1901]
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is flot the
fault of the proinoter. It w-ab before the
House two or three weeks ago, but w-heu it
Hon. !\,r. DANDUItAND-I arn very glad returned from the Railway Commilittee it npthat my lion. friond thinks so because I pears tbey had gone beyond the demand in
wiIi give the prornoters bis name as a pros- the petition and tbe Bill had to be sent back
pective sharebolder.
so as to be amended.
Hoan. Mr. FORGET-The lion, gentleman
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I amn sorry an obmay take my naine in opposition to it first. jection bas been taken to the suspens!on of
Hon. Mr. DANDUI AND-Any member the ruies.
The SPEAKER-I do flot tbink there can
can stop the Bill and kili it now. I say tbe
promoter of this Bill bas sbown a great be any discussion after the objection bas
deal of eaergy lu bringing it before us at been taken.
tliis stage, after receiving so many cbecks
Hon. 'Mr. BER'NIER-Is It out of order
lu the other Cimber, the Bill baving beenl to appeal to the hon. gentleman's feelings '?
referred to the Staning Orders Committee,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWgELL-Thie
and then to the Railway Cornmittee. I say
the promoter deserves to have bis Bihl bon. gentleman from St. Bonifnce 15 not out
treated very leniently and exarnined into by of order.
the Railway Comimittee. If the lion. gentleHon. 31r. BERNIER-I do flot dlaim to
min examines the Bill ini its present shape, know the particulars of the Bill which is
be will see thait it is absolutely barmless. It now before this House, but I bappen to
sirnply asks for an extension and the rigbit know pretty well the county wbere that
to amalganiate nnd to make certain ag-ree- railwny is to go, and I say thiat the railway
ments.
wihl be of great advantage to that section,
Hon. Mr. PORGET-WhIen ls the time up ? and, therefore, 1 arn sorry tbat objection
Is taken to tbe suspension.
Hon. '.\r. DANDU1IAND-I thîink there
Tbe SPEAKER-Does the bon, gentleman
is stili a part of the year. Sonie work bas
from Sarnia -witbdraw bis objection ?
been commenced, according to my information, and plans have been made. 0f course
Hon. hlr. VIDAL--No.
I bave not seen the plans. I think ail tbis
Tbe SPEAKER-The lion. gentleman pershould be examined into. I move that the
ruies of this bouse be suspendcd so far as sistiag in bis objection, the Bill cannot be
tbey relate to this Bill. It is the last Bill advanced any furtber to-day.
coming before us wbich needs a littie hielp,
Hon. 'Mr. DÂNDURAND-Then I move
and I hope it will be treated as the last
tbat the Bill be read a second time to-morchild of tlue fanuily.
row.
lion. '-\r. FORGET-My bon. friend wants
Tbe motion was agreed to.
to be too sentimental. We passed a mensure with a good deal of sentiment a short
\MOrING SITTI'NG.
tume ago, and I think we bave had enougli
MOTION.
sentiment for tbis session. But I sbould
like solue furtber information about the Bill.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I move that wbien the
The bon. gentleman bas not explained aîîy- riouse adjourns to-day it do stand adjourntbing about it.
edi till twelve o*clock to-morrow, and that
Hon. 'Mr. VIDAI-I entirely object to a -we bold two sittilîîgs to-morrow, the first
suspension of the ruIes. To introduce a BillI at twvelve and the second at three. botb sitof this kind w-len the session is just abiout tings to be consldered as separate sessions
to d1ose, when it is utterly imnpossible to of the House. The House of Comnions wil
give it any consideration ini comninittee, andi meet at eleven, and if we meet an bour
entirely out of order, is altog-ether out of earlier that will gilve us time to consider
thie question. I object to tue suspension of 1aniy business that may be brought before
ns to-morrow.
tbe rules.
FORGET-It is a great BillHlon. MLýr.
lt is a very great Bill.

ILSENATE]

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-There
is nothing but the Supply Bill.
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I think thiat is ail.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Giving to the Great
Northiern Raiiway Company power to borrow the money and to give a mortgage pari
passu on the bridge as well as on the road.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose so. Thiat le
is flot much. It is only sixty millions. We the contract referred to.
cau pass a million a minute.
I Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lt Is
H1on. Mr. DE BOUOHERVILLE-Wby Is giving a guarantee for the interest by the
it necessary to have two sittings ?
government.
Hon. -fr. -NILLS-It is the usual practice,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
and If any one objects to a Bill it will be
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýELI,
killed unless we have two sittinges of the
responsible for It ?
House.

Wh'o is

Hon. «.%r. SCOTT-The Great Northeriu
Railway and the clty of Quebec, I suppose.

The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is it
the line of the Great Northern Railway
which becomes responsible to the goyernment, or is it the city of Quebec ?

THE SENATE.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The authority Is 'thnt
the Quebec Harbour Commnissioners, hiereinTHURSDAY, May 23, 190i.
after called the corporation, may guarantee
The SPEAKER took the Chair at 12 the interest for twenty years at 3 per cent
per annum on speclal bonds, to be known as
o'clock., Doon.
the Quebec elevator bonds.' 1 understaud
Prayers and routine proceedings.
there ls security on the elevntor.
QUEBEC HARBOUR COMMISSIONERS'
BILL.
FIRST. SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIL-It is n
boan by the Harbour Commissioners for
building an elevator, whlch the governinent
endorse.

A message was received from the House of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Commons with Bill (157) *'An Act to amend
The motion was agreed to, and the Bili
the Acts of 1899 and 1900 respecting the
was read the second time.
Quebec Harbour Commissioners.'
TUe House reso]ved ltself Into a Comii
The Bill was rend the first time.
tee of the Whole on the Bill.
Hon. '.fr. SCOTT moved the second rend
Hon. ',%r. DANDURA'ND, from the comnlng of the Bill.
inlttee, reported the Bill without amendHon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I should ment.
likze to kinow what charges it imposes ou tho
The Bill was then read the third tine, and
revenues of the Dominion.
passel under a suspens'on of the jules
Hon. ',\r. SCOTTI-I do not know that it
Imposes any ;I do not tliink. it does. 1 thini
THE SUPPLY BILL.
the Canada Atlantic and the city of Quebec
,would be good for the iliterest.
AND THIRD READINGS.
FIRST. SECOND

Hon. '-\r. LANDRY-It confirais anothei
Bill we

passed yestcrday respecting
Notheu
GreaRilwy.of
Great~~~
~
~ NrerlRiwy

Hon. -.r. SCOTT-Yes.
\
Hon. Mr. MILLS.

the

A message wis receiv'ed [rom tfle liolse
Commons wýitb Bill (158) 'Anl Act for
raid ing to His Mnjesty certain sins of
imoney required for the public service for-

[MAY 23,1l901j
the financial years ending respectively the ail this money will be expended this year,
but the country is committed to It.
3Otb June, 1901, and the 3Oth .Tune, 1902.'
That is not ail. We were told a few days
Tfhe Bill was read the first time.
ago by the hon, gentlemen opposite that
Hon. '.%r. MILLS moved the second read their consciences could not allow themn
to Increase the salaries of the judges, belng.
cause It would be adding so much more to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I know the debt of the country. There are two or
It Is almost a matter of form for us to deal three Items to which 1 wish to direct atten'witb a question of this klnd. This Bill le tion. One Is the additlonal subsldy to Prince
somnewhat of a voluminous character. Could Edward Island, whieh my bon. friend from
mlot the hon, gentleman give us some littie that province says Is not enougt, and they
Information as to the amouixt?
are going to demand more. That Increases
Hon. Mr. MILLS-I may say to my lion. the debt of the country directly one million
friend that the amount Is $49,045,275, and dollars, because capltallzed at 3 per cent il
there are nearly $11,0O0,000 chargeable to amnounts to that. We are to have three
-capital account ; so that the total expendi- additional judges ln the province o! Queture chargeable to revenue and chargeable to bec, two addltional judges ln British Columbia, and one additlonal judge iu the Yukon.
capital account wlll foot up $60,000,000.
That will add about $25,000 per annum for
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is the judiciary. T4iat capitalized ait 3 per
liseless discusslng a question of this klnd, cent represents seven hundred odd thousand
unless we are prepared. to reject the whole dollars added to the debt. I am making this
Supply Bill, and I do not suppose the House calculation on the basis the lion, gentleman
is prepared to do that. 1 cau only wonder laid down himself.. Then the sessional. Inhow It Is that these gentlemen can sleep at demnity whicb we have been discusslng le
night wlthout the ghosts of the former Sena- another hundred and fifty tbousand dollars,
tor Scott, no-w Secretary of State, and the or an addition of five million dollars to the
Hon. David Mills, now Minister of Justice, debt o! the country. Bo that there are six
haunting them from the moment they enter or seven millions o! dollars added to the
their bedrooms until *tney get up la the debt of the country by 'these items. Then
morning. When the Conservative govern- there is the settlement of an old dlaim o!
ment had a total expenditure of about $38,- Nova Scotia amounting to $681,000. Every
000,000, these gentlemen were horrified ; the government, froTa the tîme of the transfer
whole country was deluged, flot only wlth of those railways, Lad repudiated that
placards and circulars and election dodgers, claim, as baving no legal basis. Sir John
but the hon. gentlemen themselves on every Thompson, in bis report, said distinctly that
stump %vere denounclig It as outrageous these transactions did mot impose upon the
and robhery of the people.
Dominion the dlaim which *was made. 1
The bon. gentleman 'himself, whio site op. heard a very passionate speechi delivered by
posite, wben discussing the question in the the Minister of Finance hast uight on this
,west, prior to tbeir accession to office in question, but he neyer touched the main
1896, and whicb was repeated by bis chief, issue as to the action o! Nova Scotia. Now,
the premier, told the people, with apparent Sir Leonard Tilley was, 1 think, as keen a
solemnity, when the expenditure was under representative o! the province o! New
forty'millions, that If they were in power, Brunswick as they have ever Lhad since conthey could reduce the ordinary expenditure federation. He always repudiated the dlaim
somne three or four millions of dollars. It is whichi New Brunswick mnade in connection
charitable to suppose that at the time he
with their railway running up to Moncton.
thougbt they could. He did not have experience. He now telîs us it Is over forty- That was investigated over and over again,
mine instend of thirty-eight millions. If 1 and the Finance Minister at t-h.t time de.
read the estimates right, parliament is vot- clared they bad no legal dlaim under the
lng the immense sum of $67,326,729. 1 do lnw, or under the Confederation tict, but
not wisb to be understood as saying that now these gentlemen bave given a largeI

[SEN;A'IE]
is to continue this kind of raking up of old
elaims, for whieh there are iio legal rights,
and they are to increase the annual amounit
paid to the provinces, there is no telling whiere it is going to end. We
bave had this "finally final" settiemient
tbree or four times. The lndebtedness on
whicb tbey were allowed to draw lnterest
ln ail the provinces was readjusted somne
years ago, and that was a finally final settiemient, and 80 la this, and so I suppose will
be tbe iiext. Lt Is exceedingly unfortunate
that we are continually opealng Up those
old dlaims. I bave never, in my experience,
found where a contractor took a job and
made 'half a million dollars out of it, that
hie -was ever patriotie enougb to, say 'I1
have made ton much and I will pay some
of it back.' But tbe contractor wbo thinks
lie bas bast some money or dlaims that hie
bias, coules to the goveraiment and says
' You ai-e richi, I think you should pay me
and not allow a poor unfortunate fellow
to suifer.' If we are acting as a charitable
institution it is ail rigbt enougi. I am not
layig tbis charge exclusively to this governmeat. I merely say they have gone further than other goveraments in this direction, but it is a principle which should
be abandoaied, otherwise baving work done
by coutract becomes a farce. If you can
only have a friend to go to tbe goverument
and get them to accede to your dlaim,
there is no0 end to the demands that may
be made, nor is thiere any use lu advertising for tenders. Lt would be better to adopt
tbe principle on wbich some of the ministers woî-k, and give out jobs to your friends
without tender. Notwitbstanding the able
defence of the Finance Miniister of tbe extraordinary expenditure to -which this country
is heing put, tbe people will begin to 100kaskance and wonder wbere this is going to
stop. Wben we reached an expenditure of
thirty millions of dollars it was looked upon
as an extravagant expenditure. I admit the
terest, after baving been ia existence for country is growin. but tbis sixty millions is
ycaî-s, bave beeii settled. Tbe goveraiment not ahl of the expenditure. 1 have called
bias yieldled. Wbelaever the, governmeat of attention to six or sevea million dollars add-Nova Scotia gets into a fiinancial difficulty, ed to tbe perceptible debt of the country,

amloulnt to settle it. They justify their nction on the grouiad of the award made by
arbitrators appoilited to investigate these
two points to whicbi I bave called attention,
but lu referrinig -the matter to the arbitrators, tbey tool, the precaution to waive ail
their legal rights la connection wi'tb the
settiement at confederation and after the
union. Ergo, the judge, and those wbo lnvestigated the matter, said ' If your contention is rig-ht and the leg-al righti of
the Dominion are flot enforceti, tben you
have spent s0 miuch money and you are
entitled to so much money.' It is just like
a man claiming from another a sumn of
money to -whicbi be bas xîo legal riglit, and
the dlaim being referred to arbitrators they
say ' We think you ought to give him so
mucli moaey,' and bie gets it. A clalmant
ln another case had no legal righit to the sum
be got, but the late government referred
the dlaim to Walter Shanley, wlio awarded
a certain amounit as having been spent by
the contractor upon a road, over and
above his contract. The late government
refused to pay It. The present goverument
have paid hlmi a certain suni. If tbey recog-nize that as an equitable dlaim, they
should pay the interest uponi it and the
balance of the principal. He is just as
mucli enititled to tbe balance of the award
as hie was to the amount bie got, unless hie
made an agreement -witb the government to
wipe out bis dlaim for that sum. There Is
anotber miatter la connection with this
Nova Scotia dlaim. There is a dlaim for
lntei-est upon tis $681,000. If the goverament of Nova Scotia w-as enititled to the
$6S1,O00, wbichi was awarded thein by the
arbitrators, the Dominion g-overomnent baving set aside their legal defeace, then I say
in equity, and from every other consideration, tbey ni-e enititled to interest for the
lnst twventy years, and you may depend
uponi it tbei-e will be another claim for
interest in the future. Other dlaims for ia-

and tbere is a political issue before the
people. aad it is necessary to sway the votes
of that province, 1 veature the pi-ediction
that a dlaim for îaterest will bo brought
Up and tbey will get it. If tho goveramlenit
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL.

because it does ilot appeai in the report of
the Auditor Genei-aI, noî- la the Finance
Mliiisteifs statement of the gross debt of
tue countr-y. I instance it as a fact that
the intel-est uponi t-hat amount bas to he

[MAY 2-3, 19011
provided in the future in perpetuity, a.nd so
we are going on, and if -we continue at the
saine ratio, we will have an estimate and
vote of parliameat in a f ew years of about
$100,000,000. The basis is, '.e are a growlng
country, and I arn very glad we are growing,
but if is not good policy or good management f0 lucrease the expenditure more rapîdly than the growfb of the country lu wealtb
There is
and population would justify.
very munch more 1 should have said on this
question, but I bave simply given expression
f0 my views and îlointed ouf what lias beeu
imposed upon 'thý country by the legisiation of this session. 1 know that possibly
explanations will be given that this ls not
ahl t0 be pald this year. It matters nlot. If
the enterprises to wbicb wve have given
this money, above tbree or four million
dollars, are raîlways whichi, if not built this
year will probably be bulf next year, tbey
sbould be of a charactelr thaf justifies the
granfing of a subsidy or: if sbould not be
given. So, I repeaf, if involves the country
lu an Indebtedness of thaf amount, but we
bave f0 submit fa if with the best grace
possible, particularly as It coules from a
proposedly economical government.

chargeable to revenue and capital accouni
of $67,0O0,0O0. H1e is mistaken about the expenditure for the coming year.
Hon. Sir. 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-l di(1
flot speak of the expenditure for the present,
year. 1 referred to the votes and estimates,
because there was an expenditure last yeiu
above the estimates and we have to pay foi
It this year.

Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbere was an expenditure last year on capital accolunt. My lion,
friend has followed the leader of tbe opposi
tion in the House of Commoûs and charged
parts of that expenditure to the curreut year.
In that lie bas made a mistake. I arn not
golng to undertake to defend the expenditure which bas taken place ; ail I can say
is It bas been a profitable expenditure for
the country, and there bas been al great expansion of the population and resources of
the country in consequence of tlîat expendi.
ture, and that is our justification. If timA
permitted me, 1 think .1 could make a
triumphant vindication of the expenditures
wbicb the government bas made. I arn not
going to do that af this moment. I arn anxl.
ous that this Bill sbould go back t0 the
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Tbe lion, gentleman bas House of Commons in order thaf -we inay be
whicb will take
called the present government an economi- ready for the prorogation,
place an lieur and a haif fromn the present
cal g-overumeut, and s0 if is.
time.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (.I)-fthe
bon. gentleman is so anxious that this Bill
Hon. Mr. MILLS-Our predecessors lu
office, it la true, lncurred a smaller expendi- sboùld go back f0 the House of Commons,
the
ture for ordinary expenses lu a year than the goverument should have treated
iucurring at the present time, but it Senate with a littie more courtesy thali fhey
,we are
They
was an expenditure which was unprofitable. have doue on the present occasion.
a profitable lu. sent down a notice at one o'clock that the
Our expeaditure bas proved
vestment, and eachi year the country bas Sente 15 fa be adjourned nt 3 o'clock. After
are laid
grown in greater proportion than tbe expen. that notice is received bore, there
on tbe Table two or three Buis, one of them,
Tbe revenue was less flan
diture made.
a
$35,00O,000 a year under a biglier tariff, the the Supply Bill, approprlating $5,000,0OO
month for the next twe]ve inonths. We bava
year before the preseat goveramenit came lun;
into the varions lieada
,wbule at the present time our revenue, undei no opportunity f0 look
under whicb this money bas been appro.
a lower tariff, is upwards of fifty millions of
priated. Somne of them, 1 have no doubt, are
Now, what made fhe difference
dollars.
by the
The difference was due to the faef of thü, good financially, and may be justitied
commerce and country, but thiere are sorne wbich 1, as a
enormous expansion of the
would not feel
trade of the country, and our expenditure i representative of the people,
is less Élan if was justfied in advocating before any asseinbli,
proportion f0 our revenue
af fhe period whicbi the hion, gentleman bas of electors la this country.
menfioned. The hon, gentleman opposite 1Hon. Mr. TEM-NPLEMAN-The Prince Edlias spoken albout an expenditure this year 1ward Island subsidy, for instance.

[SENATE]

Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E1.I.)-Thaii
subsidy sticks lu the ci0I)5 ef gentlemen
from the larger provinces. Tiiose gentlemen
were inclined to look, at one tinie, on the
maritime provinces as the slireds amil
patches of the Dominion. Tlîey find noii
that the maritime provinces are the mainstay.
Hon. Mr.
West ?

WATSON-What

about

the

ferred to the capital accounit, if he had
thouglit for a moment lie would have been
lu a much better position flot te have raised
that question. If the charges which are
made to capital accounit, as proven by the
Auditor General's report, had been charged
to current account, as they oughit to have
been, the ordinary expenditure for the year
would have been millions more than the
arnount presented to-day. The present Minister of Rallways bas added to the capital
accounit of the Intercoloalal Railway thirteen millions of dollars. Take the Auditor
Geueral's report, and we find the rnost trurnpery charges-a few shingles on a buildingclapboards-the re-erection of a srnall building. and the whole amount of the heavier
rails for re-railing the Intercolonlal Railway
ail chiarged to capital accounit.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (...-h
made the West ? W as it not the people of
Where w-ns the West, 1
,
this Dominion?
should like to know, until Sir Johin Macdonald and the Conservatives came to the
front and bulît the Canadian Paicifie Rail
way and extended it away out lu the prairies ? Those gentlemen who now talk so
loudly about the West and Its production,
Hon. Mr. MINILLS-Yes, and sùould be.
how they sneered a few years ago when Il
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
ivas sald by some ot the leadiag men of the
Conservative party in parliament thiat beforc goverrnent had no right todo that. If they
many years, there would be fifty mnillionî had a 54 or 64 pound rail, and that bas been
bushels of grain grown in that very North- used until it hias hecomie necessary to put a
west. How they sneered nt that period! 96 pound rail thiere, you -have only a rIglit to
Now they can appreciate the foresighit ef charge the difference letween the original
the men who looked forward, at that tilue, cost of the rail and that whichl you now
Otherwise you
to seeing It verified, and thiat the west would pay to capital account.
thrive and grow up as the maritime pr-ovin- may charge every locomotive and every
ces are. We of the maritime provinces arc freiglit car and passenger car that is biiilt
contributing our share ln epening u the and put upon the î-oad te take the place of
We ar-e giving thern bonuses those whichi are worn out and destroyed,
North-west.
te extend thieir railways thrugli that coun- te capital account, and I should like te
try-railways whichi are et v-ery littie benefit kuow where you would stop. There is food
to us. In tact, somie et thern are oppesed te enougl inl the Auditor General's report, and
the interests of the maritime provinces, but la the r-eport of the Miffister of Railwvays, te
that is a question I do net intend te refer show that If there ever bas been, since the
to. I hiope hiereafter, when the Supply Bill world began, n gross cookiiig et accounts
cornes up, the Senate will be treated with a for the purpose of attempting te show that
littie more courtesy, and that a littie more what bas been done iu connectiofi with the
time will be given us te look inte the provi- Intercolonial Hailway bas resulted la a profit
sions which are made unlder that Bill aud instead et a loss, It is iu this case. I amn net
for whichi niembers et the Senate, jeintly going to tollow the example of My hon.
«Wlth the members ot the other branch et friend. I have said about that capital acparliament, are held responsible, and which count aill I ntended te have said lu the first
we are reqnired te justify betere fthe peeple'place, that it is a new systern.
Ho.M.MIL-o
whien we address thiem, altbough we rnay
O EL
Heun. Sir. IMACKE-NZIo
flot be directly amenable te their votes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I talce
exception te eue remark made by the Minister of Justice. I congratulate Iilm on the
tact that lie did net enter into a detailed
detence of tbe expenditure, but wheu lie reHon.

Mr.

TEMPLEMAN.

1lieu, gentleman rnay shake bis head until
doomsday, but that dees net alter the tact.
1 say, witheut the slightest tear of successtul
contradiction, that ne railway ln existence
las
h ever been managed upen that principle,

[MAY 23, 19011
and no predecessor of the present Minister
of Railways bas ever attempted to charge
such things to capital account. Why, you
are beginning to charge now the public
buildings you are constructing throughout
the Dominion to capital account. Take the
estimates, and you find it stated there tiiat
they are charged to capital account. IYon
are building court-bouses and eustom-bouses,
and cbarging tbem to capital account. Do
you mean to tell me that that has been done
before or since confederation ? These expenditures have always been charged to current
revenue, but in order to give the people an
Idea that the expenditure is kept down, you
are charging to capital accouat that which
bas nlways been paid out of ordinary revenue
in the past. Go on la that way and you will
have no ordinary e.xDenditure at ail.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-WitII regard to the
cha.rge made for re-railing the Intercolonial
Railway, I thiak it Is right and proper that
the government should charge to eazpital account the 80 pound rails on the Intercolonial
Rallway, because the 56 pound rails are not
worn out. Tbey are wortb almost as much
as they wvere when new. It is certainly
rlght and proper to charge the new and
heavier rails to capital account. It is not
that the old rails are worn ont, but that the
necessity of traffic requires a heavier rail,
and 1 suppose the old rails are put on other
Uines owned by the government.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Of
course, if the bon. gentleman thiiks s0,
there is an end to the argument.

ANIMAL CONTAGLOUS DISEASES BILL.
WITHDRAWN.
The Order of the Day being called,
Committee of the Whole House on Bill (127)
An Act to amend the Animal Contagions

fliseases Act. ,

Hou. Mr. MILLS moved that the Order of
the Day be discharged.
The motion was agreed to, and the Order
was dischargecl.
MONTREAL AND SOUTHEIIN COUNTIES RAILWAY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Honu. Mr. DANDURAND moved the second
reading of Bill (112) 'An Act respectlng the
Montreal and Southera Counties Rtailway
Company.'
Hou. Mr.MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Bills ot
this kind should have been in bere at a
much enriier period, and I amn -surprised that
the Senate sbould consent to the passage of
Bis introduced nt the very last moment of
the session-Bis for which no reasonable
explanation bias been given t9 show why
tbey were not la at an enrler period. How
Is it possible for the House to look into BIs
like this, lnvolving such compllcated questions as appear to be coanected with the
Bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER-If the hon. gentleman
will allow me to suggest, the committee to
which the Bill must be referred will net be
required to report this session.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I expIa ined yeeHon. Mr. DANDURAND-We always hear terday wby this Bill came so late. It had
of the sum total of the budget, but the Its second reading about six weeks ago la
amounts which were included la the appro- the House of Commons, and was referred
-priations of last year, and wbich are re-voted to commlttee and reportea to the Hlouse,
Dow, should be deducted when you want to and was sent to the Committee on Standing
hold the goverament responsible for the Orders to be examined in conjunction with
sums belonging to this year, because there the petition, and was returned to the Railare over four million dollars in re-votes with way Commlttee, and through these varions
-which the goverament was debited latst year, movements the Bill wa!s only passed yesterand these four million dollars should not day la the Commons. The promoters used
ail due diligence, and It was no fault of
be counted twice against the goverament.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They do not count theirs that the Bill was delayed ln the
that against last year if the amounts were House of Commons.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Dot spent.
was read the second time.
Hon. '-\r. M-\ILLS-You counted theni.
DANDURAND moved the susHon. M_%r.
The motion was agreed to. and the Bill
1pension of the rules in so far a.s tbey relate
passed through its final stages.

[SENATE]
12. An Act to make certain provisions necesto this Bill, with a view to referring it to a
sitated by the Demise of the Crown.
committee of the whole House.

13. An Act to amend the Unorganized Terri-

HEon. Mr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-Hlas a tories Game Preservation Act, 1894.
14. An Act respecting the Culling of Timber
Private Bill ever been sent to a committee
of the whole instead of to a standing coin- and the Inspection of Staples.
15. An Act to amend ithe General Inspection
mlttee ?
Act.
16.
Mr. SPEAKER-I do not remember any- tions An Act respecting ýInquirles and Investigainto Shlpping Casualties.
thlng of the kind ever being done. Inas17. An Act respecting the Guelph Junction
much as two members object to the sus- Rallway Company.
18. An Act respectlng the Atlantic and Lake
pension of the rule, it cannot be done.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I sbould like to
know who objects.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)--I objeet. I objected when the motion was
made, and I object now.
Hlon. Mr. PRIMROSE-And 1 objeet.
The Senate adjourned.

SECOND SITTING.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at 2.30 p.m.
THIE PROROGATION.
This day, at Three o'clock p.m., His Excellency the Governor General proceeded lu
state to the Senate Chamber, la the Parllament Buildings, and took his seat upon the
Throne. The members of the Senate belng
assembled, His Excellency was pleased to
command the attendance of the House of
Commons, and that House being present,
the followlng Bis were assented to, ln His
Majesty's name, by His Excellency the Governor General, viz. :
1. An Act respecting the Nakusp and Siocan
Railway Company.
2. An Act respecting the Great North-west
Central Rallway Company.
3. Au Act respecting the Klondike Mines
Railway Company.
4. An Act respecting the Edmnonton, Yukon
and Pacifie Railway Company.
5. An Act respecting the British Columnbia
Southera Railway Company.
6. An Act respectlng the British Yukon Railway Company.
7. An Act .to lncorporate the Canadian Patriotic Association.
8. An Act to amend the Inland Waters Seamen's Act.
9. An Act respecting the Mather Bridge and
Power Company.
10. An Act respecting the Niagara, St. Catharines and Toronto Railway Company.
Il. An Act respecting the Hudson's Bay and
Pacifie Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

Superlor Ra!iway Company.
19. An Act to incorporate the Fort Qu'Appelle
Railway Company.
20. An Act to Incorporate the Canada National
Railway and Transport Company.
21. An Act respecting the Ottawa and Gatineau Railway Company, and to change its naine
to « The Ottawa, Northern and Western Railway Company.'
22. An Act respectlng the Columbia and Kootenay Railway and Navigation Company.
23. An Act respecting the Saskatchewan and
Western Railway Company.
24. An Act respecting the Vancouver and Lulu
Island Railway Company.
25. An Act respecting the Alberta Railway
and Coal Company.
26. An Act respecting the Canadian Northern
Railway Company.
27. An Act respecting the Lindsay, Bobeaygeon and PontypooI Railway Company.
28. An Act to lncorporate the United Empire
Lite Insurance Company.
29. An Act respecting the London Mutual Fire
Insurance Company.
30. An Act respectlng the Eastern Canada
Saviogs and Loan Company (Limlted).
31. An Act respecting the Dominion Burglary
Guarantee Company (Limlted).
32. An Act respectlng the E. B. Eddy Company.
33. An Act respecting W. C. Edwards & Company (Limited).
34. An Act to lncorporate the Bishop of Keewatin.
35. An Act to incorporate the Ottawa and Hull
Power and Manufacturing Company (Limited).
36. An Act respectlng the Rathbun Company.
37. An Act to incorporate the Canadian Mutual
Aid Society.
38. An Act respecting Victcria Dsy.
39. An Act respectlng the Western Assurance
Company.
40. An Adt to incorporate the Sovereign Bank
of Canadla.
41. An Act respecting the British America Assurance Company.
42. An Act to amend the Interpretation Act.
43. An Act to provide for the Marklng and Inspection of Packages containing Fruit for Sale.
44. An Act to further amend the Act respectIng the Safety cf Ships.
45. An Act respe'cting the Columnbia and Western Railway Company.
46. An Act to incorporate the Vancouver,
Westminster and Yukon Railway Company.

[M\AY 23, 1901]

47. An .Act to incorporate the Kootenay Central Railway Company.
48. An Act to incorporate the Similkameen
and Keremeos Railway Comipany.
49. An Act to amalgamate the Northern Pacifie
and Manitoba Raiiway Conmpany, the Winnipeg
Transfer Raiiway Company (Limited), the Portage and North-western Railway Company and
the Waskada and North-eastern Railway Comnpany under the name of the Manitoba Railway
Company.
50. An Act respecting the Canadian Pacifie
Railway Company.
51. An Act to confer on the Commlssioner of
Patents certain powers for the relief ef John
Abell.
52. An Act to amenfi the Dominion Lands Act.
53. An Act further to amenfi the Post Office
Act.
54. An Act te incorpirate the Alberta Central
Railway Company.
55. An Act to amend the Act respecting the
Judges of Provincial Courts.
56. An Act respecting Pensions of Officers of
the Permanent Staff and Officers and Men of the
Permanent Militia, and for other purposes.
57. An Act respecting the Canadian Northern
Railway Company and the Northern Pacifie and
Manitoba Railway Company, the Winnipeg
Transfer Company (Limited), the Portage and
North-western Railway Company and the Waskada and North-eastern Railway Company.
68. An Act to amend the Yukon Territory Act
and to make further provision for the Administration of Justice ln the said Territory.
59. An Act ta amnend the Railway Act.
60. An Act to amend the Act respecting the
Department of Public Printing and Stationery.
61. An Act fer the relief of James Ward MeDonald.
62. An Act for the relief ef Lilias Mlddleton.
63. An Act respecting the Manitoba and Northwest Loan Company (Limited).
64. An Act to incorporate the St. Lawrence
Lloyds.
65. An Act to incorporate the Arnprior and
Pontiac Railway Company.
66. An Act to Incorporate the Century Lit e
Insurance Company.
67. An Act respecting the McClary Manufacturing Company.
68. An Act to incorporate the Algoma Iron and
Nickel-Steel Company of Canada.
69. An Act to incorporate the Debenture and
Securities. Corporation of Canada.
70. An Act te incorporate the Kootenay and
Arrqwhead Rail-way Company.
71. An Act to incorporate the Manufacturers
and Temperance and General Life Assurance
Company.
72. An Act to amenfi the Franchise Act, 1898.
73. An Act further to amend the General Inspection Act.
74. An Act ta provide for a turther annual ailowance to the Province of Prince Edward Island.
75. An Act to incorporate the St. Mary River
Bridge Company.
76. An Act respectiug the Grand Falls Water
Power and Boom Company.

77. An Act respeeting the Ontarlo, Hudson Bay
and Western Raiiway Company.
78. An Act incorporating the Kettie River
Valley Railway Company.
79. An Act respeeting the Manitoulin and
North Shore Railway Company.
80. An Aet ta incorporate the St. Lawren2e
Power Company.
81. An Act respecting the Algoma Central
Railway Company, and te change fts name ta
the Algoma Central and Hudson Bay Railway
Comnpany.
82. An Act to incorporate the Interprovincial
and James Bay Railway Company.
83. An Act respecting the Nnva Scotia Eastern
Railway -Company (Limitefi).
84. An Act respecting the Subsidiary High
Court of the Ancient Ord.3r ot Foresters ln the
Dominion of Canada.
85. An Act ta amenfi the Gas Inspection Act.
86. An Act to amend the Electrie Light Inspection Act.
87. An Act further te amnenf the Act relating
ta Ocean Steamship Subsidies.
88. An Act ta provide for further advances ta
the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal.
89. An Act respecting the St. Lawrence and
Adirondack Railway Company.
90. An Act ta amenfi the Act te restriet the
Importation and Employmnent 0f Aliens.
91. An Act te amend the Pacifie Cable Act,
1899.
92. An Act te remove Doubts concerning the
continuance ln office of Jufiges of the Dominion
and Provincial Courts upon the Demise of the
Crown.
93. An Act further ta amenfi the Criminal
Code. 1892.
94. An Act ta ineorporate the Kamloops andi
Atlin Rallway Company.
95. An Act respecting the Great Northern
Railway of Canada.
96. An Act ta amend the Inland Revenue Act.
97. An Act to further amenfi the Railway Act.
98. An Act further to ameznd the Act respectIng the Judges o! Provincial Courts.
99. An Act further ta amenfi the Penitentiary
Act.
100. An Act respecting the Ottawa Branch of
the Royal Mint.
101. An Act ta amenfi the Customs Tariff,
1897.
102. An Act ta amenfi the Dominion Elections
Act, 1900.
103. An Act respecting the Packing and Sale
of certain Staple Cc.mmnodities.
104. An Act ta amend the Act respecting the
Senate and House of Commons.
105. An Act ta incorporate the Quebec Terminal and Railway Company.
106. An Act ta anoend an Act passefi during the
present Session, intituled :' An Act ta incorporate the Fort Qu'Appelle Railway ConipanY.'
107. An Act to confer on the Commissioner of
Patents certain powers for the relief o! Eudora
Sibbald.
108. An Act ta provide for the payment of
Bounties cn Lead Refinefi in Canada.

[SENATE 1

109. An Act to authorize the granting of Sub- of a sovereign who was so endeared to ber subsidies in aid of the Construction of the Unes of jects.
Raiiway therein mentioned.
ad
The establishment of a branch of the Royal
110. An Act ta amend the Acta of 1899 adMint In Canada marks a new departure in aur
1900 respecting the Quebec Rarbour Commisznonetary systemn and la gratifylng to the pride
sioners.
th
To teseBill Roal Asen waspro ('f the peubple, evidencing, as Jt does, the inas ro-creasing wealth and prosperlty of the Dominion.
To teseBuistheRoya Asent
nounced by the Clerk of tbe Senate ia the
I amn glad to observe the Interest shown ln so
followIng words -many
cities and towns thraughout Canada In tbe
'lIn His Majesty's name, His Excellency approacbing visit of the Duke and Ducheas o!
the Governor General doth assent to these York. It affards an assurance that tbey will
receive a hearty welcame.
Bis.,
The subaidy granted for the establishment of
Then the Honourable Speaker of the Hlouse a 110e of steamers between Canada and France
of Commons addressed His Excellency tbe will, I arn confident, aid materlally in developing
increaslng a trade with France that will
Gavernor General, as foIllws :-and
MAY IT PLEASE TOUR EXCELLENCT:

prove advantageous to bath countries.

The Act providing for a furtber allawance ta
Cnad
The f ommns hav voed he upeoe
dadIln
fPic
de- tepoic
plies required ta enable the goverament ta
from cantroversy a long pendIng dlaima agaloat
fray the expenses of the public service.
Ia the name of the Conimons, I preaent ta tle Dominion, and has been accepted in full
Your Excellency the followlng Bill :-' An Act satisfaction for ail damages arlsing out of tbe
for granting ta His Majesty certain suma of aIee
o-ufleto
h
em
fuini
money for the public service of tbe financialaleenn-ufmntftetrs0fninn
years en'ling respectively June 30. 1901, and respect ta intercommunication between the is.Tune 30 1902.' ta which I humbly reauest Your ]and nnd the mainland durlng the winter season.
Excellency's assent.
Gentlemen of thse Hanse of Commans:
To this Bill the Clerk of the Senate, by Ilis
1 tbank you fer the lîboral supplies you have
granted towards the development of aur reExcellency's command, did thereupan say :
In His Majesty's name, His Excellency the sources. This action is axnply justified owing ta
Governor General tbanks His Loyal Subjecta, ac- the expanding revenue of the last two years.
cepta their benevolence, and assents ta tbis
)Ionovrable Gentlemen of thse Senate:
Bill.
Gentlemen of thse Hanse of Cammona
After which His Excellency the Governor
I congratulate you upon the adoption of many
General was pleased ta close the First Sesimportant measures la addition ta those named,
sion of the Ninth Parliament of the Domin- and I do not doubt but that they wilI contribute
Ion with the followlng Speech :
ta the general advancement and prasperlty af
the Dominion.
Hanaouraie Gentlemen of thse ,enate:
Gentlemen of the Hause af Gommons
The SPEAKER of the Senate then said:
la relîevlng you from further attendance in Honaurable Gentlemen af thse Senate:
parlament 1 desire ta thank you for the assiGent lemen ai thse Hanse af Camman8
duity and zeal with which you have considered
It Is His Excellency the Gavernor General's
Important subjecta that bave been
tbe many
wili ,and pleasure, that this parliament be probrought befare yan.
It bas been pleasing ta note that the Act mak- rogued until Wednesday, the third day of July
lng the 24th day of May n legal holiday has met nexi. to ba he-e held, and this parliamnent is
wîth sucli general approval, evinciflg, as It does, accordingly prarogned until the third day af
a desire ta psy a wortby tribute ta the memory Jnly next.

INDEX
PARIT 1-SENATOIIS
The foiiowing abbreviations are used : lst R., 2nd R., 3rd R., lst, 2nd and 3rd Readings; *without
reinark or debate; Âcets., .Accounts; Adjn., Adjourn; Adjd., Àdjourned ; Anit., Amendinent ; Amts.,
Aniendînents ; B., Bill: B.C., British Columbia ; Can., Canada or Canadian ; Coin., Committee; Co.,
Company; Consdn., Consideration; Cor., Correspondence; Dept., Departnient; Govt., Governinent; His
Ex., Hia Excellency the Governor General ; H. of C., House of Commons; Incorp., Incorporation; Inq.,
Inquiry ; M-%an.,Manitoba; Mesls., MNessngp.;
:U,
otion ; n., niovcd ; N.B., New Brunswick; N.W.T.,
North-west Territories; N.S., Nova Scotia ; Ont., Ontario; Parit., Parliament; P.E.I., Prince Edward
Island ; P.O., Post Office; Ques., Question ; Rein., Renîarks ; Rep., Reported ; Ret., Returned ; Ry.,
Railway; Sel., Select ; 6 in. h., Six M,ýonths' Hoist; Wthdn., Withdrawn%.

BAKER, Hon. Geo. B.-Con.

AIKINS, Hon. J. C.
Msnitoba and North-west Loan
23.4 ; 3rd R.*, 311.

Co.

B. :Int.

ALLAN, Hon. G. W.
Applications for Raiiway Charters B. :on M.
Mr. Casgraln, de Lanaudière) ta concur In
rep. cf Coin. on R. T. and H., rein., 412.
Bell Telephone Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Kirchhoffer)
ta concur In rep. of Coin. on B. and C.,
rein. 397.
Condition of Parliarnent Grounds :lnq. and
rein., 241-242.
Inspection of Fruit B. :in Coin., on 6th cl.,
rein., 283, 284, 288.

BAKER, Hon. Geo. B.
Alaska and South Western Ry. Co. B. :rep.
froin Coa.
365.
Applicaticns for Ry. Charters B. :rep. froci
Coin., 412.
Arnprior and Pontiac Ry. Co. B. : rd R.*,
298.
Dawson City Electrlo Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta ref. B. back ta Coin. on R.
T. and H., rein., 329 ; rep. froni Coin, on
R. T. and H., 413.
Errors In the Minutes :rein., 131.
General Inspection Act Amendient B. :lI
ccmmittee, rein., 483 ;rep. froin coin., 483.
Guelph Junctian Ry. Co. B. :Rep. froju Coin.
on R. T. and H., 204 :3rd R.*, 221.
Iîicerprovincial and Jaines' Bay Ry. Co. B.
'rd R.e. 506.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Amt. B.
Rep. froin Coin., 421 ;on M. (Mr. Milis) for
Srd R., rein.. 436-437.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Further Aint.
on M. (34r. Milis) for 2nd R., rein., 527,
B.
52S
Judges' Salaries :on inQ. (Mr. Drummond)
rein., 218.
3(3;

Manitoulin and North Shore Ry. Co. B. : It.
and 2nd R.*, 433.
Mather Bridge and Power Co. B. :Rep. froms
Coin, on R. T. and H., 203.
Ontario, Hudson Bay and Western Ry. Co. B.
lut. and 2nd R.*, 433.
Safety of Shlps Act Aint. B. : in Coin., on cl.
2, remn.. 248, 249.
St. Mary River Bridge Co. B. :lut.
and 2nd
R. 433 , .3rd R.*, 506.
Sibbaid Relief B. :Int.
and -Ond R.*, 427.
South Shore Ry. 0o. B. :on M. (Mr. Dandurand) fnr 2nd R., remn.. 522 ; rep. froin Coin.
on R. T. and H., and M. ta aelopt rep., 526.
Yuko.n Terrltory Act Aint. B. ; In comte., remn.,
on lst ci.. 123 ;on 2nd ci., 124 ;on 3rd cl.,
125 ;on 4th cl., 126.

BERNIER, Hon. T. A.
Census, The : on inq. (Sir M. Bowe]l) rein., 239,
240.
Dawson City Electrlc Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta ref. B. back to, Coin., rein.,
382.
Debates, The Senate : M. ta adopt ren. of
Cain., 438.
Domi. Elections Act Aint. B. lui Coin, on 2nd
ci., rein., 460.
Doukbobors, The
lnq. calied and postponed,
119, 120, 122. M. for return, and rein., 140141, 162, 163. Inq., 169, 175 ;rein., 180.
Errors In the Minutes rein., 131.
Franchise Act Acit. B.
on M. (Mr. Scott) for
2nd R., rein.. 378.
Immoral Literature, importation of :inq. and
rein., 366.
Inspection of Fruit B. :on M. (Mr. Milis) for
2nd R., rein., 223-224.
Lachine Canal Bridges :on M. (Mr. O'Donihoe) ta print return, rein., 467.

INDEX.

,BERNIER,

BOWELL, Honi. Sic M.-Con.

Honi. T. A.-Con.

-Montresi and Southern Counities tty. Co. B.:
,on M. (Mr. Dandurand) ta suspend rules.
-rem., 551.
I'acking and Sale of Staple Commodities B.
on M. (Mr. Mille) for 2nd R., rem., 452 ;In
comte., on 5th ei., rem., 494, 495.
Printlng of Pariament, The - on M. (Sir John
Carling) to adopt rep. of Com., rem., 439.
comte., rem., 45.3,
Rallway Act Amt. B. :in
457.
Royal Mint B. : on M. (Mr. Milis) for 2nd R.,
rem., 549.

BOLDUC, Hon. J.
on M. (Mr. Mille) for
Railway Act Amt. B.
in Com., remn., 453,
2nd R., rem., 440-441
454, 455.
on M. (Mr. DanduSouth Shore Ry. Co. B.
rand) for 2nd R., rem., 511.
,Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
to appoint Comte, on Printlng, rem., 44.

BOUCHERVILLE,
C.M.G.

Hon.

C.

E. Boucher de,

Dawson City Electric Ca. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdanald. B.C.) to rat. B. back ta Com. on
R. T. and H., ram., 331.
Disallowance of Quabac Legisiation :on inq.
(Mr. Landry) and raply (Mr. Mill&) rem.,
523, 524.
Inspection of Fruit B. :in Coim., on el. 6, rem.,
286.
Molntreal and Southarn Counaties Ry. Ca. B.
an M. (Mr. Dandurand) to suspend rules,
rem., 558.
Itailway Act. Amt. B. : in comte., rem., 455,
456.
South Shora Ry. Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Dandurand) for 2nd R., rem., 511.
Standing Committees, The :on M. (Mr. Mille)
ta adj., rem., 40 ;on M. (Mr. Scott) ta appoint Comte, on Library, rem., 42, 51, 52.

BOWELL, Hon. Sir M.
Address in Raply to Speech froin Thrane :on
M. (Mr. Ellis) for adoption of Address ;congratulatas mover and seconder, 14 ;war in
S. Africa, 14 ; federation o! Australian colcnies, 15 ; preferential trada wlth England,
16 ; approachlng visit of Heir Apparent, 17;
Pacifie Cable, 17 ;His Exas visit ta N.W.T.,
18 ;the St. Lawrence route, 18 ;the public
expenditure. 19 ; rogress o! Canadien trade,
19 ; postal dalivery in rural districts, 19;
th'e Alaskan Boundary, 20 : tast Atlantic
Service, 20 ;the settlement of the N. West,
21 ; the late election, 21.
Adjoilrnoîrnîn s : 31.
Allow\ance to Prince Edward lalani l. :o(n
M. (NI.
Mille) for 2nd R., rem.. 466.

Army Bac!, Limitation ut Purchase af : on
inq. (Mr. Lougheýed) rem., 201.
Bell Telephona Co's B. a n M. (Mr. MeMillan)
for 2nd R., rem., 187 ;suggests that list of
eharahoiders be printad, 343 ;on M. (Mr.
Kirchhoffar) ta amand, remn., 348 ; an considaration of amts., rem., 405, 410.
Better Terms for P.E.I. B. : n M. (.Mr. Mille)
for 2nd R., rem., 501, 503-504, 5CI.
Canada Evidence Act Amt. B. : nCan., rem.,
61.
Canadian Natianal Ry. and Transport Ca's B.:
M. for 2rd R., and remn., 221 ; rd R., 297.
Canadian Pacific P.y. B. : on M. (Sir A. Pelletier) for 2nd R.. rem,. 343.
Canada Patriotie Fund B. : let R.*, 162 ; 2nd
R.*, 189 ; Ird R.'. 2902.
Ceneus, The : cn Inq. (Mr. Landry) and reply
(Mr. Scott) rem., 393.
Century Life Insurance Ca. B. : Int., 164.
Actuaries and FiChartered Accouritants,
nance B. : 2nd R.*, 333.
M
- . for return.
Coe Hill «Mines Mail Contrs.ct
202 ;inq., 433.
o n inq. (Mr.
Complainte from Doukhobars
Bernier) rein., 178-180.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate -. on ?rd
rep. of Coim., rein., 2q9, 300; on M. (Mr' Kirch'latter) ta concur la rap., rein., 316, 319, 325.
Cook Case, The : -ln post.polnement of M. for
appaintineni of Coin..ren.. 58 ;M. 67, rein.,
68-74, 76. 78, 79, 90 97, 115, 117 ;on coinplaint of Min. Justice that advanca copies of
rem.,
avidence are marked 'conffidential,'
336, 337 ;M. ta adopt rep. of comte., 424; M.
ta adopt rep., 447 ; M. ta adopt rap.
of comte., 485.
Credit Foncier du Bas-Canada B. : on M.
(Mr. Landry) for 2nd R., ram., 324, 367; on
suggestion (Mr. Milîs) ta re.-tore B. ta order
paper, ram.. 434.
Criminal Code Anit. 13. : in Ciim., remn., .12t,
422.
Culling i! Lumber and Inspection o! Staples
B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem, 249; in
Cam., remn., 2.56, 257.
Customs Tariff Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scatt)
for 2nd R., remn., 529. 5' 0, 531.
Dawson City Electrie Co's B. : on M. (Mr. Macdorelld, B.C.) ta refer rep. back ta Corn.,
rem., 327, 329 ; on notice o! M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ram., 335 ; on M. (Mr. Macdonaldi,
B.C.) ta ref. B. ta Com., rem., 382.
Daath o! Queen Victoria : on M. (Mr. Mille) ta
join H. of C. in address, seconda Mi. and
rein., .33.
Debentures and Securities Corporation of Canada B. : lst R.1, 296 : 2nd R.*, 325 : M. to
3rd 11.*. A47.
calicur iii aints.. 339

INDEX.
BOWELL, Hon. Sir M.-Con.
Deceased Senators : Refers to Hon. Dr. AImon, 55 ; refers to decease of Sen. Ross, 334;
refers to dcath of Sir Frank Smith and Hon.
Donald MeInnes and Hon. Mr. McKindsey,
336.
Deiayed Returns 3, 168, 296, 311; Trent Valley
Canal, 340, 414, 447, 449 ; Coe Hill Minas
Mail Contract, 414, 449, 450 ; Coe Hiil Mines
and Apsley mail Contract, 505.
Delay ln Transla*ting Reports : on M. (Mr.
Milis) ta adjn., rem., 121.
Disalldwance of Quebec Legislation : n Inq.
(Mr. Landry) and reply (Mr. Milis) rem.,
428 ;on Inq. (M. Landry) and reply (Mr.
Scott) 449 ; on inq. (Mr. Landry) ; rem.,
509, 510.
Dismiasal of Charles Taylor :on Inq. (Mr.
Perley) rem., 164, 165.
Dominion and Provincial Judges B. : on M.
(Mr. Milis) for 2nd R., 467.
Dom. Election Act. Amt. B.: on M. (Mr. Mills)
for 2nd R., rem., 380 on postponement of
2nd R., rem., 411, 424 in comte. an ei. 2,
rem., 461, 462; on 3rd el., 464; on àth and 6th
els., ram., 465 ; on 7th cl., 465 ; on 3rd el.,
498, 499.
Dominion Lands Act Amt. B. : in Com., on
ci. 4, rem., 251 ; on ci. 5, rem., 251, 252.
Doukhobor Immigration : on M. (Mr. Bernier)
for return, rem., 150-153.
E!ectric Light Inspection B. : in comte., on
lst ci., rem., 513 ; on 4th ci., 514.
EmDloyment of Alhana B.,: on M. (Mr. Mills)
for 2nd R., rem., 48-5.
Employment of J. Huriey, ex-M.P. : inq., 195,
rem., 196.
Errors ln the Minutes : rem., 131.
Fiaheries, The Provincial : n inq. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) and repiy (Mr. Mlls) rem.,
431.
Franchise Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott) for
2nd R., rem., 370-371, 373, 375, 378 , notice
of amts., 426-427 ; in comte. rem., 474-475,
480 ;on 3rd ei., rem., 481.
Gas Inspection Act Amt. B. : in comte., on It
CI., rem., 512.
General Inspection Act Amt. B. * ln Com., on
lat el., rem., 441, 442 ; on 2nd cl., 442 ; in
comte., rem., 482, 483.
Grand Trunk Ry Co's B. : lst R., 118 ; 2nd
R.*, 128 ; M. ta suspend rules and rem., 132;
3rd It.*. 134.
Harbour Commissioners of Montreai B. : in
Comn., rem., 515.
.Improper Census Circular : inq., 234 ; rem.,
234-237, 268.
Incorrect Returna : Asks for more information re Coe Hill Mines mail contract, 427.

BOWELL, Hon. Sir M.-Coti.
Inland Revenue Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 526.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act A.mt B. : In
comte., rem., 416, 417, 418, 419 ; on M. (Mr.
Milis) for 3rd R., and amt. (Mr. Landry)
rem., 437, 438.
Laad Rafining Bountias B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., ram.. 535.
Manitoba and N. W. Loin Co's. B.:* M. for
2nd R. and rem., 256.
Manitoba School Lands : Inq., 27.
Marking and Inspection of Packages of Fruit
B. : on M. (Mr. Milis) for 2nd R., rem., 229,
233, bn Com., on ei. 6, rem., 286, 289 on
ci. 10, ram., 291 ; on cl. 14, rem., 293 ;on
amt. (Mr. Ferguson) ram., 306 ; on ci.. 8
and 9, rem., 309.
Montreal Southaru Counties Ry. Ca. B. : on
M. (Mr. Dandurand) to suspend rules, ram.,
550.
Nova Scotia Eastern Ry. Ca. B. : Iot. and
2nd R.*, 433 ; M. ta ref. B. to Standing
Orders Com,, 438 ; 2nd R.*, 467 ; 3rd R.*,
506.
Ocean Steamahbps Subsidies B. : on M. (Mr.
Milis) for 2nd R., rem., 514.
Pacific Cable Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
for Znd R., rem.. 500, 501 ; in Com.. rem.,
616, 517, 518.
Pacific Cabla Correspondence : notice of M.
55 ; M. 60 ; on return submitted (Mr. Scott)
rem., 20..
Packing and Sale of Staple Commodities B.
ln comte., rem., 487-488 ; on 5th el., rem.,
496.
Patent Act Amt. B. : an M. (Mr. D-andurand)
for 2nd R., ram., 263, 268.
Pensions ta Permanent Officers B. : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 425 ; in Com. on
3rd ei., ram. , 443 ; on 5th el., 443 ; on 6th
cl., 444 ; an l4th ei., 445, 446.
P. 0. Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Mills) for 3rd
R., ram., 415.
Prafereotial Tariff, The a n loni. (Mr. Perley)
rem., 166, 168.
Printing Committea, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
ta appaot comte., rem., 47, 49.
Printing of Returna : on M. (Mr. O'Danohoe)
ram., 467.
Praposed Chsnges ln Standing Committees
on M. (Mr. Mills) ta adjn., rem., 40.
Quebec Harbour Cammisabonors B. :on M.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 552.
Railway Act Amt. B. a n M. (Mr. Milis) for
2nd R.. rem., 441 ; in comte., rem., 455, 45&.
Raiiway Act Furtber Amt. B. a n M. (C
Mills) for 2nd R.. rem., 527.

INDEX.

BOWELL, Hon. Sir M.-Con.

ÇARMICHAEL, Hon. J. W.

Safety of Sbips Act. Amt. B. : in Cern., on ei.
Railways in Yukon Country :on inq. (Mr.
2, rem., 246, 248.
Macdonald, B.C.) for policy nf governinent,
rein., 205, 209.
CASGRAIN, Honi. J. P. B. (de Lanaudiere).
Railway Subsidies B. : on M. (Mr. Milis) for
R., rem., 540.
2nd
Applications for Ry. Charters B. :Int., 195
Rathbun Co.'s B. : on M. (Mr. Watson) for
2nd R., 209 ;M. to concur in rep. of Coin.
2nd R., rein., 222.
on R. T. and H., 412.
Recording Inquiries In the Minutes :rein., 139.
Canadian Pacific Ry. Co. B. : nt., 33S.
inq. and rem.,
Removal of Geo. Wallbridge
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Can. B. : on order for
468.
2nd R., being called, remn., 338.
Royal Mint B. : In Coin., rein.. 545, 546, 547.
Disallowance of Quebec Legislation : on inq.
6
Safety of Ships Act Aint. B. :in Coin., rein.,
(Mr. Landry) rein., 52 .
248 ;on M. (Mr. Mills) to recede froin
ÇASGRAIN, Hon. C. E., (Windsor).
Senate amt., rein., 368.
St. Lawrence and Adirondack Ry. Co's B. tlst
Canadian Mutual Aid Society B. : nt., 272
M.
R.'. 234 ;2nd R.', 256 ;3rd R.*, 297
2nd R.*, 277.
to concur in Cominons aints., 515.
Salaries of Judges :on Inq. (Mr. Drummona) DANDURAND, Hon. R.
and reply (Mr. Milîs) rein., 116 ;on Inq.
int.,
Algoma Central and H. B. lty. Co. B.
(Mr. Drummond) rein., 217, 219.
413 ;2nd R.', 427 ;3rd R.', 506.
Senate and House 0f Commons Act Amt. B.
Int.,
Algoma Iron and Nickel-Steel 0o. B.
on M. (Mr. Scott) to ref. B. to Com. 0f the
221 ;2nd R.', 259 ;M. to concur in amts.,
Whole, rein., 532.
311.
Shipping Casuaities B. :In Com., on el. 6,
Better Tcrms for P.E.I. B. : on Ni. (Mr. Milîs)
rem., 262.
for 2nd R., rem., 504:
Sovereign Bank of Canada B. : rd R.', 347.
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada B. : cn M. (Mr.
Standing Committees, The : on suggestion (Mr.
L.andry) for 2nd R., rein., 324.
Mills) to add names, rein., 411.
Coin., rein, 421,
Criminal Ocde Amt. B. : i
Standing Orders Committee, The : n M. (Mr.
422.
Scott) to appoint Coin., rein., 50.
Cook Charges, The :on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to
Subsidiary High Court 0f A. 0. Foresters B..
Int.. 426 ;2nd R.', 427 ;3rd R.', 506.
appoint a comte., and aint., (Mr. Landerkin) remn., 104-106.
on M. (Mr. Mille) to suspend
Supply Billa
M. (Mr.
Customs Tariff Act Aint. B. :on
rules, for 2nd R., Bill 114, rem., 182, 183.
Scott) for 2nd R., rein., 531.
Supply B.. The :on M. (Mr. Mille) for Srd R.,
Disallowance of Quebec Legislation :on inq.
rein., 553-555, 556.
(Mr. Landry) rein., 525.
Supreme and Exchequer Court Act Aint. B.
Dominion Burglary Guarantee Co. B. : Int.,
on M. (Mr. Mille) to diecharge order, rem.,
263 ;3rd R.*, 311.
320, 323.
Dominion Elections Act Aint. B. : in Coin., Cil
Trade Mark and Design Act Amnt. B. . on M.
3rd cl., rein., 499.
for Znd R., (Mr. Templeman) rem., 186, 193Doukhobors, The :on M. (Mr. Bernier) for reluS.
turn, rem., 157-159.
Trent Valley Canal, The : M. for return, and
M.
Eudcra Sibbald Relief B. :Srd R.', 467
ren.., 240, 340.
ta concur in Commons amts., 550.
Unorginized Territories Gaine Preservation B.:
3rd
Hudson Bay and Western Ry. Co. B.
in Com., rem., 255.
R.', 506.
Vancùuver and Lulu Island Raiiway B. : on
in
Judges of Provkzcial Courts Act Amt. B.
M. (Mr. Templeman) for 2nd R., rein, 271.
comte., on 3rd el., rein., 419.
451, 452.
Visit of the Heir Apparýent trein,
Manitoulin snd N. Shore Ry. 0o. B. :3rd R.*.
Western Association Co. B. :3rd R.', 347.
506.
Yukon Territory Act Aint. B. : i Coin., rein.,
Montreal and Southero Counties Ry. Co. B.
125 ;on cl. 10, 128 ;on el. 4, 185.
rein.,
Int., and M. to suspend rules, 550
M. ta
551 ;M. for 2nd R. and remn.. 557
CARLING, Hon. Sir John
suspend rules, 557.
on01M. (Mr.
Ocean Steamship Subsidies B.
Canadian National Railway and Transport Co.
Milîs) for 2nd n., remn., 514.
B. : Int., 197.
Coin., on 3rd
Pacifie Cable Act Aint. B. : i
Printing of Parliament, The : M. ta adoPt
cl., rein. 519.
5tis rep. of Coin., 439.

INDEX.
DA)NDURAND,

Honi. R.-Con.

Patent Act Aint. B. : nt., 244 ; M. for 2ud
R. and rem., 2613, 264, 26S ; preseuts petition
and rein., 343.
Quebec Harbour Commissioners B. : rep. troi
Coin., 552.
Quebec Local Election : on inq. ('Mr. Landry)
remn., 53, 54.
Royal Mint B. :rep. troin Comn., 550.
St. Lawrence Lloyds Incorporation B. : M. to
colleur in amts. aud rein.. 310 ; rd R.*, 338.
Salaries of .ludges :on inq. (Mr. Drummoni)
rein., 116, 214, 220.
Standing Committees, The : on M. ('Mr. Scott)
to appoint Printing Comte., rein.. 46 ;on M.
(Mr. Scott) to appoint Private Buis Comte.,
rein., 51.
South Shore Ry. Co. B. : M. to suspend rules,
469 ; M. for 2nd R., 511, 520, rem., 520, 521.
Supply B., The :on M. (Mr. Mills) for 2nd
R., rein., 557.
Yuk-on
Territory
Act Amendint B. : lu
comte., on 2nd el., rem., 125.

DECHENE, Hon. A. A.
Int., 467.

DEVER, Hon. J.

DRUMMOND,

Honi. Geo. A.-Con.

Patent Act Aint. B. : ou M. (Mr. Dauduraud)
for 2ud R., rein., 266.
Royal Mint B. : ou M. (Mr. Milîs) t0 ret. B.
to Coin., rein., 541-545, 548, 549, 550.
St. Lawrence Lloyds Incorporation B. :rep.
from Coin, ou R. T. sud H., 310.
Salaries of Judges :iuq. sud rein., 116, 117
iuq. sud rein., 212, 216 ; lnq., 258.
Supreme Court of the Independent Order of
Foresters B. : rep. troin Comte. ou B. and
C., 163.
Victoria Day B. :on M. (Mr. Mills) for 2nd
R., rein., 34..

ELLIS, Hon. J. V.
Ade.ress lu Reply to Speech froni the Throue
rein.. death o! the Qusen, 4-6 ; federation
ot the Australian colonies, 6-7 ; Canadian
contingents lu South Africa, 6 ;prospective
visit of the Heir Apparent, 7 ;the Pacifle
Cable, 8 ; visit of Hie Excelleucy ta the
Pacific Coast, 8 ; Canada's dleplay at the
Paris Exposition, 8 ;the St. L~awrence Canais, 8 ;revenue and trade of the country, 9;
Canada's future, 10 M. ta adopt adrese, 10.
Adjourninte
ou M. (Mr. Mille) to adjun.
froin Feb. 14th t0 Marci 6th, rem., 52.
Doukhohors, The on inq. (Mr. Bernier) rein.,
173.
Introduced, 2.
Judges' Salaries :ou
iuq. (Mr. Drumnd)
rein., 22 '0.
Safety of Ships Act Ami. B.
lu Coin., on ci.
2, rein., 246, 24S.
Yukon Terrlîory Act Amt. B. rep. train Coin.,
186.

Address in Reply to Speech troin Throne :on
M. (Mr. Ellis) to adopt address. refera to
deceased senators, Macl-nnes,
Sir Frank
Smith, 34 ;the death ot the Qusen. 34; cougratulates Speaker on his appointament, 35;
congratulates mover of address, 35 ;war
in South Africa, 35 ;loyalty of the British
people, 35 ;accession ot King Edward VII.,
35.
Bell Tel. Co. B. :on M. ('1r. Kirchhoffer) to
FERGUSON, Hon. D.
adopt rep. o! Coin, on B. aud C., remn., 410.
Lease of Rys. lu Manitoba B. :on M. (Mr.
Adjouruments: ou M. (Mr. Mille) to adju. f rom
Kirchhoffer) to adopt re-p. o! Coin. ou S. 0.
March lSth ho March l9th, rein., 118 ;on
aud P. B., rein, 199.
M. (Mr. Mille) for Easter adjint., rein.. 188.
Packlng and Sale of Staple Commodities B.
Appointints ta the Senate : rein., 64.
lu comte., on 3rd ci., rein., 488-489, 491,
M.
Bounhy ho Queeu's Co. P.E.I. Fishermen
493, 494.
for returu. 204 ; inq. for papers, 282.
Senate and House o! Commons Act Aint. B.
Ceusus, The : ou iuq. (Mr. Landry) and reply
ou M. (Mr. Scott) t0 ref. B. tu Coin. of the
(Mr. Scott) rein., 393.
Whole. rein., 533, 534.
(Sir M. Bowell) ta apCook Case, The :on M,%.
point ceinte., rein., 76, 85-37.
DRUMMOND, Hon. Geo. A.
Culliug of Luinher sud Inspection of Staples
Algoma Iron and Nickel-Steel Co. o! Canada
ona M. (Mr. Scatt) for 2nd R., rein.,
B.
B. : rep. froin Coin. on B. sud C., 311.
249
inl comte., rein.. 257.
Cheese, The Export ut iuq., 269.
Dawson City Electric Ca's B. : an M. (Mr.
Debenture sud Securîties Corporation of CanMacdonald, B.C.) ta reetore B. to orders of
ada B. : rep. froin Coin, on B. and C., 33q.
the day, rein.. 341 ;ou M. (Mr. Macdonald,
Instittute of Chartered Accountaiits, Actuaries
B.C.) ta ref. B. back to comte., rein. 383.
and Finance B. :rep. froni Coin. en B. aud
Delay in. Translatiug Reports : ou M. (Mr.
C. and rein.. 339.
Mille) ta adju., rein., 121.
Oliver Equipirnt. The :ou iuq. (M1r. Laudry)
Dom. Lands Ac Amin. B. :ou M. (Mr. Scott)
reini.. 270.
for 2ud R.. remn.. 244: lu coin., ou 2nd el., 25&

INDEX.
FERGUSON,

FORGET, Hon. L. J.

Hon. D.-Coii.

Einployment cf J. Hurley, ex-M\.P. :on lnq.
(Sir «M. Bowell) and repiy (Mr. Scott) remn..
196.
rein., 132.
Errors in the Minutes
(Mr. Scott) for
Franchise Art Aint B. on M-%.
2nd R., rein., 374, 376-377.
Guelph Junction Ry. Co's B. :on M. (Mr.
Fiset) for 2nd R., rein., 196.
Hillsboro River Bridge :inq., 39.
Iruproper Census Circulars :on inq. (Sir M.
Bowell) and reply (Mr. Milis) rein., 239.
luland Wqaters Seainen's Art Aint. B. :on M4.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rein., 197.
Judges of Provincial Courts Art Aint B. :on
M. (Mr. Milîs) for 2nd R., rein., 385.
Judges' Salaries, The :on inq. (M\Ir. Druinniond) rein., 213.
Labour Gazette, The :on inq. (Mr. Lougheed)
rein., 277.
Lease of Railways lIn Manitoba B. :on M.
(Mr. Klrrhhoffer) to adopt rep. of Comte.
on S. 0. and P. B.. rein. 198.
Marking and Inspection of Packages cf Fruit
B. :on M. (Mr. Milîs) for 2nd R.. remn.,
223-228. 231; 3rd and 4th cises, rein., 282 on 6th el., 283, 284, 289 ; M. to strike out
ci. 7, agreed to, 290 ;on Sth ci., 290, 291;
on lOth el., 291 ;on Ilth ci., 292 ;on l6th
rein.. 302el., 295 ;M. to add el. 'A
on easas. 8 and
304 ;aint. withdrawn, 307
9, rein., 307, 308.
on return subPacifir Cabie Correspondenc'e
mîtted (Mi. Scott) rein., 203.
Patent Act Arot. B. :on M. (Mr. Dandurand)
for 2nd R., rein., 264.
P. 0. Act Aint. B. : in Coin., on cl. 2, rein.,
386-387, 388, 389 ;on 3rd ci., 391.
Preferentiai Tariff, The :on 4nq. (Mr. Perley)
rein.. 167.
Recording Inquiries lin the Minutes :on M.
(Mr. Milis) to adjn., rein., 138.
Safety of Ships Act Aint. B. :in Coin., rein.,
245 ;on 2nd ei., 245, 247, 272.
on M. (Mr. Milis)
Shipping Casualties B.
in coin., on Sth ci.,
for 2nd R., rein., 212
261, 262.
on M. (Mr. Mills) for 2nd R.,
Supply Billi
Bill (114> rein., 183, 184.
on 2nd R.,
Trade Mark and Design Act Bill
rein., 186, 187, 190, 191. 192.
Validity of Provincial Prohibition Acts :inq.
and rein., 122.
on M. (Mr.
Yukon Territory Act Arot. B.
in coin., on
MNiis) for 2nd R., rein., 120
Ist ci., rein., 123 ;on 3rd ci., 126 ;on 5th
el.. 127 ;on 4th ci., 185.

~.301,

FISET, Hon. J. B. R.
Adjcurneints : n M. (M\Ir. Milis) te adjo.
frein Feb. 14tb Io March 6th, rein., 52.
Guxelph Junction Ry. Ce. B. :lot., 188 ; Ind
R.*, 196.

Montreai and Southern Counties Ry. Co. B.
on M. (Mr. Dandurand) to suspend rules,
remn., 551.
Railway Subsidies B. :on M. (Mr. Scott) to
ref. B. to Coin., rein., 540.
Royal Mint B. :on M. (Mr. Mills) for 2nd R.,
rein., 547-548, 349.

GILLMOR, Hon. A. H.
Parking and Sale of Stapie Conimodities B.
lin Coin., on Zrd el., remn., 491.

GOOBOUT, Hon. J.
Introduced,

198.

GOWAN, Hon. J. R., C.M.G.
Bell Telephone Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Kirchhoffer> to concur in rep. of Coin. on R. T.
and H., rein., 403-405.

HINGSTON, Honi. Sir Wrn. H.
Bell Telephone Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Kirchhoiter) to concur in rep. of Coin, on R. T.
and H., rein., 406.
Cook Charges, The :on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to
appoint cointe., and aint. (Mr. Landeikin)
rein., 109.

JONES, Hon. L. M.
Address lIn Reply to Speech froin Throne :on
M. (Mr. Ellis) to adopt address, seconds M.,
10 ;death of the Queen, 10 ;accession of
Canadian contingents
King Edward VII., il
lin South Africa, 11l federation of the Ausprospective visit of
tralian colonies, 11-12
Canada's exhibits at
the Heur Apparent, 12
developinent of the
Paris and Glasgow, 12
St. LawN\orth-w.%est Territories, 13 ;the
rence Canais, 13 ;Canada's trade wlth the
Mother Country, 14.
Contingent Arcounts cf the Sexiste :on M.
(Mr. Kirchhoffer) to adopt 3rd rep. of Com.,
rein., 319.
comte.,
Dominion Elections Act Aint. B. :in
on 2nd cl., rein, 462.
Interprovincial and James Bay Ry. CO. B.: 2nd
R.*, 446.
London '.\utuai Fire Insurance Co. B. :Ixit.,
221 ;2nd R.*, 249 ;3rd R.*. 311.
Mather Bridge and Power Co.'s B. :Int., 163
2nd R.1, 184 ;rep. from Cuni. on R. T. and
H. (Mr. Baker), 203 ;3rd R.*, 221.
Parking and Sale of Staple Commodities B.
in comte, on 2rd ei.. remn., 491 ;on 5th ei.,
496.
Introduced, 1.
Patent Act Aint. B. :on M. (Mr. Dandurand)
for 2nd R., rein. 264-266, 267.

INDEX.
KERR, Hon. Wm.
Coo'k Charges, The :on M. (Sir _M.Bowell) te
appoint a comte., and nuit. (Mr. Landerkin)
rem., 109-113.
Doukbobors, The :on M. (Mr. Bernier) for return, 159-160.
Salaries of Judges :on inq. (Mr. Drurnnond)
rem., 117.
Supreme Court of the Independent Order cf
Foresters' B.
loIt., 116 ;2nd R.*, 118 ;rep.
from Cern. on B. and C. (Mr. Drumrnend)
163 ; rd R.*, 184.

KIRCHHOFFER, Hion. J. N.

KIRCHHOFFER, Hon. J. N.-Con.
XNorthern Pacifie and Manitoba Railway Ce.'s
B. :int., 27-d; 2nd R.*, 33; 3rd R.*, 427.
Ottawa, N.\ortherui and Western Railwvay Co.'s
B. :Int., 257.
Privilege, A Ques. ef :corrects an errer in
Globe cor., 433.
St. Lawrence Po-xcr Ce. B. :lot.,
413 ; 2nd
R., 441.
Saskatchewan and Western Railway Ce.'s B.
3rd R.ê. 297.
Suprerne and Exchequer Ccourts' Act Aint. B.
on pestponement of 2nd R., rein., 276.
Yukon Terrltcry Act Aint. B. :in comte. on
2nd el., rein., 124.

o n M. (Mr. Snowbail) te adjn.
Adjourninents
front May Srd te May 7th. remn., 334.
Bell Telephone Co. B. :on considn. cf aints. te LANDERKIN, Hon. G.
B., rein.. 347 ;M. te amend. 348 ; notice ot
Arnprier and Pontiac Railway Ce. B.
Int.,
amt., 396 ; on consîdn. of aints., remn., 407189 ; 2nd R.*, 197.
410, 411 ;withdraws B.. 414.
Cook Charges, The :on M. (Sir M. Bcwell) te
Blsbop of Ke-ewatln Incorporation B. :3rd R.*,
appoint comte., rein., 98-100 ;M. In aint.,
311.
ift.
British Yukon Rallway Co.'s B. :3rd R.*, 202.
Domninien Electiens Act Ait. B. :in
ceomte.,
Canada Northern R. Co.'s B. : ot.. 263 ; 2nd
en 2nd cl., 4639-464.
Edmonton, Yukon and Pacific Railway Ce.'s
R.., 275 :3rd R.*, 298,
Canada Nortbern Rallway Ce.'s Amnalgamatien
B. : nt., 163 ; 2nd R.*, 184.
B.
loIt. and 2nd R., 413.
Interprevincial and James' Bay Ity. Ce. loIt.,
Columbia and Kcotenay Navigation Co.'s B.
426.
3rd R.*, 297.
Introduced, 53.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate :M. te refer
Lease of Railways in Manitoba B. :on M. (Mr.
3rd rep. cf Coin. on I. E. and C. A. te Cern.
Kîrchhoffer) te adopt rep., rei., 199.
cf the Whole, 298
rein., .298, 300 ;M. te
Saskatchewan aud Western Ry. Ce. B.. : It.,
adept 3rd rep., 312
remn., 313, 315, 31-4, 318
257 ; 2nd R.*, 271 ; 3rd R.*, 2K7.
M. te adopt 4tb rep., 368.
Cook Charges, The :on M. (Sir M. Boweli) te LANDRY, Hon. A. C. P.
appoint a ceinte., and M. in aint. (Mr. LanAtlantic and Lake Superier Railway Co.'s B.
derkin) rein., 101-104.
on M. (Mr. Owens) fer lrd R., remn., 29.6 ; M.
Dawson City Electric Co.'s B. :on 'M. (Mr.
te refer B. bock te Cern. on R. T. and H.,
Macdonald, B.C.) te refer rep. back te Cein.
297 ;remn., 297.
on R. T. and H., remn., 326, 320 ;on M. (Mr .
Dawsen City Electrie Co.'s B. :on M. (Mr.
Macdonald, B.C.) te restere B. te erders of
-Macdonald, B.C.) te restere B. te orders of
the day, rein., 346.
the day, rein., 347.
Doukhbbrs, The :on M. (Mr. Bernier) for reDelayed Returns :disallowvance of Que. legisturn, remn., 155-157.
latien, 447.
Edmonton, Yukon and Pacific Rallway Ce.'s
Delay in Translating Reperts ioq., 121.
B. :3rd R.,* 202.
Disaliowance of Que. Legislation :inq., 428
Great North-west Central Railway Ce. s B.
rein.. 42S, 429, 447, 448, 449, 506-509, 511
B. :3rd R.*, 202.
inq., 523, 524, 525-526.
Inspection of Fruit B. :rep. frein comte., 310.
Errera in the Minutes :rein. 132.
Klondike Mines Ry. Ce. B. :Tnt., 163 ;2nd R.*,
Great Noribern Ry. Ce. of Canada B. *lot.
184 ; rd Rl, 202.
and 2ud R., 469 ;3rd R.*, 526.
Kcotenay ani Arrcwhead Railway Cn.'s B.
Inquiries iu tb? Minutes, Recordbng :rein.,
?rd R.*, 297.
134-136, 137, 139.
Lease of Railways in Maniteba B. :M. to adopt
Judges ef Provincial Courts Act Aint. B.
on
rep. of Cern. on S. 0. and P. B., 19ý remn.,
M. (34r. Mille) fer 2nd R., rein., 385 ;in
19,..
cc.m., renm., 11s
on Srd ci., 419, 420
on
McDenald Divorce B. :M. te adopt Sth rep. of
M. ('Mr. Milii) fer 3rd R.; M. in ait.
te,
Divorce Coi., 221 ;M. te adept 9th rep., 275.
strike eut 3rd el., 435 ; rein., 435, 437, 438.
Nakusp and Siocan Railway Co.'s B. :Int.,
Le Crédit Fonc&er du Bas-Canada B. : nt.,
1M ; 2nd R., mc.ved, IV3 ; rein., 13 3 ; rd R.*,
281 ;on M. for 2nd R., abandons Bill, 324
202.
367
rein., 4.14.

INDEX.
LANDRY, Hon. A. C. P.-Con.
Micmac Indians, The : inq., 258, 269, 344, 413.
427 ; inq. withdrawn, 433.
Oliver Equipment, The : inq. called and postponed, 259 ; inw., 269, rem., 270 ; inq. 280.
Quebec Harbour Commissioners Acts Amnt B.
on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R.. rem., 552.
Quebec Local Election, The : inq., 53 ; rem.,
53, 54.
Quebec Terminal and Ry. Co. B. : Int. and
2nd R., 469.
Railway Act Amt. B. : in comte., rem., 454,
455 ; on 3rd el., 457 ; on Sth cl., 457 ; on lth
cl., 458.
Resignation of Senator Burpee : inq., 195,
255, 273.
St. Lawrence, Safety of Navigation on the:
lnq., 273.
South Shore Ry. Co. B. : on M. (Mr. Dandurand) for 2nd R., objects that B. is not
printed in Fr., 511 ; on M. (Mr. Dandurand) for 2nd R., and amt (Mr. Vidal) rem.,
:21, 522.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
to appoint Com. on Printing, rem., 46.
Temperance Commission's Report, The : Inq.
and rem.. 281.
Visit of the Heir Apparent : inq., 258, 414
inq., 450, rem., 451, 452.
Wharf and Harbour of Three Rivers : inq.,
468.

LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.
Alberta Ry. and Coal Co. B. : Int., 263 2nd
R.*, 275 ; 3rd R.*, 298.
Applications for Ry. Charters B. : on M. (Mr.
Casgrain, de Lanaudière) for 2nd R., rem.,
209-210.
Army Beef. Limitation of Purchase of : inq.
and rem., 201.
British American Association Co. B.
Int.,
282 ; 2nd R.*, 325.
Bishop of Keewatin Incorporation B. : Int.,
221 ; 2nd R.*, 249.
Culling of Lumber and Inspection of Staples
B. : rep. from Com., 257.
Dominion Lands Act Amt. B. : in Com., on
cl. 2, rem., 250 ; on cl. 4, 251 ; on el. 5,
254.
2nd
Fort Qu'Appelle Ry. Co. B. : Int., 189
R.*. 197.
Inland Waters Seamen's Act Amt. B. : rep.
from Com.,- 203.
Inspection of Fruit B. : rep. fram Com., 295.
Institute of Chartered Accountants, Actuaries
and Finance B. : Int., 277.
Judges' Salaries : on inq. (Mr. Drummond)
rem., 217.
Labour Gazette,' The : ing., 277, 295.

L OUGHEED, Hon. J. A.-Con.
Manufacturers and Temperance and General
Life Association Co. B.: Int., 255 2nd R.*,
259.
Railways in the Yukon Country : on ing.
<Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rem., 205.
Safety of Ships Act. Amt. B. : rep. from Com.,
249, 272.
Shipping Casualties B. : rep. from Com., 262.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
te suspend rules to adopt rep. of Comte. of
Selection, rem., 39 ; on M. (Mr. Scott) to
appoint Printing Comte.. rem., 48.
Supreme and Exchequer Court Act Amt. B.
on M. (Mr. Mills) for lst R., rem, 200 ; on
M. for 2nd R., rem., 276.
Unorganized Territories Game Preservation
Act Amt. B. : in comte., rem., 255.
Western Ass. Co. B. : Int., 282 2nd R.*, 325.

LOVITT, Hon. J.
Safety of Ships' Act Amt. B. : in comte..
cl. 2, rem., 248.

on

MACDONALD, Hon. W. J., (B.C.)
Bankruptcy Legislation : notice of M., 140
inq., 182.
Bell Telephone Co. B. : on M. (Mr. Kirchhoffer) to adopt amts., rem., 361, 362, 400, 410.
Better Terms for P. E. I. B. : on M. (Mr. Mills)
for 2nd R., rem., 502, 505.
Brit. Yukon Ry. Co. B. : Int., 182 ; 2nd R.*,
189.
Columbia and Kootenay Ry. and Nav. Co. B.
Int.. 257 ; 2nd R.*, 262.
Cook Charges, The : on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to
appoint comte., and amt. (Mr. Landerkin)
rein., 106-107.
Dawson City Electric Co.'s B. : Int., 164 ; 2nd
R., 189 : M. to refer B. back to Com. on R.
T. and H., 326 ; rem., 328 ; notice of M. to
restore B. to orders of the day, 335 ; rem.,
336 ; M. to restore B. to orders of the day,
340, 344 ; rem., 344-346 ; M. to ref. B. back
to comte., 381 ; rem., 381 ; M. to concur in
rep. of Com. on R. T. and H., 413.
Dom. Lands Act Aint. B. : in comte., on cl. 4.
rem., 251.
E. B. Eddy Co. B. : Int., 263 ; 2nd R.*, 275
3rd R.*, 311.
Fisheries, The Provincial : ing., 429 ; rein.,
429, 432, 433.
Franchise Act Amt. B. : in comte., rem., 469.
Govt. Assay Offices : ing., 278 ; rem., 278-280.
Judges of Provincial Ccurts Act Amt. B. : on
in
85
M. (Mr. M\ils) for 2nd R., rein.,
comte., rem., 415, 420.
Kootenay and Arrowhead Ry. Co. B. : Int.,
257 ; 2nd R.*, 262.

I ND EX.
MACDONALD, Hon, W. J. (B.C.)-Coon.
Lease of Railways in Manitaba B. : on M.: (Mr.
Kirchhofier) to adopt rep. cf Coin. on S. 0.
and P. B., remn., 198.
Packing and Sale of Staple Cominodities B.
lIn comte., on 5th cl., rein., 491;.
Pacifie Cable Act Amt. B.: rep. trom coin., 520.
Ry. Subsidies B. : on M. (Mr. Mills) for 2nd R.,
rein., 537, 538.
Railways to the Yukon : lnq., 168, 196, 204, 205.
Royal Mint B. :on M. (Mr. Mills) for' 2nd R.,
rein., 545.
Salaries of Judges ini B. C. : inq., 60.
Standing Ordera Coin. : NI. ta reduce quorum,
195.
VTictoria Day B. : on M. (Mr. Milis) for 2nid R.,
rein., 342.
Viait of the Jleir Apparent : inq., 255.
Yukon Tecritary, Administration of the : Inq.,
128 ;rein., 129.
MACDONALD,

Hon. A. A., (P.E.I.)

Adjo.urninenta : on M. (Mr. Milla) ta adjn. tram
Feb. 14th ta March 6th, rein., 52.
Applications for Ry. Charters B. : an M. (Mr.
Casgrain, de Lanaudièce) ta concur ia rep.
of Coin. an R. T. and H., rein., 412.
Contingent Accounts of the Sen. : an, M. (Mr.
Klcchhoffec) ta adopt 3rd rep. af Coin, on I.
E. and C. A., rein., 313.
Customns Tariff Act Aint. B. : an M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2ad R., rein., 529, 531.
Franchise Act Aint. B. : ini comte., rein., 473.
Inspection of Fruit B. : in Coin., an cl. 6, rein.,
288.
Inspection of Electclc Light Act Aint. B.
In
Cciii., on 7th cl., rein., 513.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Amt. B. :in
Coin., rein., 416.
Judges' Salaries : an inq. (Mr. Drummand)
rein., 213.
Lead Refining Bounties B. : on M. (Mc. Scott)
for 2nd R., rein., 537.
Mantreal and Southecn Counties Ry. Ca. B.
an M. (Mr. Dandurand) for Zafi R., rein.,
557, 558.
Packing and Sale of Staple Commodities B.
In comte., on lst ci., rein.. 485 an Srd cl.,
489, 490.
Pensions ta Permanent Officers B. :In comte.,
rein., 445, 446.
P. O. Act Aint. B. : in Coin., on 'cl. 2. rein.,
388, 390 ;on cl. 3, rein., 390, 391, 392.
Printing of Parliament, The : on M. (Sir John
Carling) ta adapt 5th rep. of Coin, on Priaiing, remn., 439.
Railway Subsidies B. : on M. (Mr. Millîs) for
2nd R., rein., 538, 539.
Safety of Shipa Art Aint. B. : in Coin., on
cl. 2., ren'., *248 on M. (Mr. Milîs) ta recede froin Sen. aints., rein., 368.
Supply B., The : n M. (Mr. Milîs) for 2nd
R., remn.. 555-556.

MACKAY, Fion. R., <MIontreal).
Introduced, 1.

McCALLUM, Hon. L.
Adjaurninents
an NI. (Mr. Milîs) ta adjn.
frain March 29th ta April lOth, rein., 188;
on M. (Mr. Snowball) ta adjn. froin May
3rd ta May 7th, rein., 333.
Appointinents ta the Senate : on complaint of
Mc. Perley that farinera are nat sufficiently
repcesented in the Senatp. rein., 66.
Bell Telephone Ca's B. : on M. (M r. Klrchhaffer) ta amend. rein., 348, 360. 410-403, 410.
Cook Charges, The : an M. (Sic M. Bowell) ta
appoint comte., rein., 74. 90. 97, 113-115.
Dawson City Electrie Ca's B. :on M. (Mr.
Macdonald, B.C.) to reter B. hack ta comte.,
rein., 332. 382.
Delayed Returýns : Co? Hill and Apsley mail
contract, 450.
Dominion Electians Act Ait. B. : in comnte.,
an 2nd cl., rein., 458-459, 460.
Doukhobars. The : on lnq. (Mc. Bernier) rein.,
119. 120, 169-171. 176. 177 a n M. (Mr. Becnier) for retura, rein.. 143-147.
Edwards Ca.'s B., The W. C. : Tnt., 263 ;2nd
R., 275.
Fishecies, The Provincial : an lnq. (Mr. Macdonald. B.C.) and reply iMr. Milîs) rein.,
.130, 431.
Franchise Act Aint. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nid R.. rein., 373, 374 ;in comte., rein.,
469-470, 47.8, 479.
Hudson Bay and Pacifie Ry. Co.'s B. : Tnt.,
189 ;2nd R.O. 197 3rd R.*, 221.
Inspection of Fruit B. : In comte, on clauses
8 and 9, rein., 308. 309.
Mather Bridge and Power Ca's B. : an cep.
(Mr'. Baker) tram Coin, on R. T. and 1-.,
rein., 203.
Niagara, St. Cathacines and Toconto Ry Ca's
B. : Tnt., 189 ;2nd R.*, 197 ;3rd R.*, 221.
Packing and Sale a! Staple Commodities B.
lu Coin., an 3rd cl., rein. 490.
Railway Act Aint. B. : in comte., rein., 456.
Safety of Ships Act Aint. B. : la comte., rein.,
272 ;on 3rd R.. 273.
St. Lawr2uce Lloyds Corporation B. : an rep.
froin comîte., rein., 310.
P-tanding Committees, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
ta appoint Printing Conmte., rein., 47 ; n
M. (Mr. Seatt) ta appoint Comte. on Standing Orders, rein., 50.

McDONALD, Hon. Wm.. (C.B.)
on
Address in Reply ta Speech frain Throne
ti'
M. (.\r. Ellis) to adopt address, cern.
r.rosperity cf Cape Breton,. 33-34.
Bell Telefflicne Co. B. :cn M. (Mr. Macdonal 1,
B.C.) to ref. B. back ta comite., reim., 406.

INDEX.
MéDONALD,

Hon. Wm.,
B.c.
MILLER, Hon. Wmn.-Coit.
Contingent Accounita cf the Sec. : i comte.,
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Can. B. :on suggestion
on .'rd rep. Coin, on 1. E. and C. A., rein.,
(Mr. Milîs) te reatore B. te order paper, reeL.,
29f1.
4M7.
Dawvson City Electrie Co. B. :on M. (Mr. MacDawson City Electrie Ce. B.: on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) te ref. B. back te Cern. on R.
donald, B.C.) te ret. B. hack tce Comn. cn R.
T. and H., rem., 332.
T. and H., rem., 330, 331 ;on M. (Mr. MNacJudges of Prcývincial Courts Act Amt. B. :on
donald, B.C.) te refer B. te a comte, cf the
M. (Mr. Mills) for 2nd R., rem., 383.
whole, rem., 340, 341, 397.
P. 0. Act Amt. B. : je ccmte. on 3rd ci., rem.,
Daceased Sanatora : Refers te daatb of Sanator
191.
Almon, 54-1-5.
Errera le the Minutes : ram., 131.
McHUGH, Hon. G.
Fisharies, The Provincial : on inq. (Mr. Mac.Xppcintments te, the Senate :on cemplainttot
donald, B.C.) and reply (Mr. MIlle) rem.,
MNr. Perley that tarmers are net sufficiently
430.
rF.presented, rem., 65.
Judgas ef Provincial Court. Act Amt. B. :on
Introduced, 1
M.* (Mr. Mills) for 2nd R., rem., 384.
Lindsay, Bcbcaygecn and Pentypool Ry. Co.
Racording Inquirias
in the Minutes : rem.,
B. : et., 263 ;2nd R.*, 2753 3rd R.*, 298.
136, 138.
Supreme and Exchequer Courts Act Amt. B.
McKAY, Hon. T., (Truro).
on M. (Mr. Milis) for 2nd R., ram., 276, 321.
Contingent Acceunts ef the Sen.
jei comte. on
Yukon Terrîtory Act Amt. B. : ie Comte., on
'd rep. Coin. en 1. E. and C. A., rem., 298.
3
2nd el., rem., 124 ;i
c] 8a, rem., 185.
e.
Lease of Railways ie Manitoba B. :rep. fromn
Corn. on S. O. and P. B., 198.
MILLS, Hon. DAVID, (Minister of Justice).
Packjng and -Sale cf Staple Cemmedities B.
Addrass je Reply to Speech fromn Throna
lIn comte, on 3rd cl., rem., 486, 492-.
on
M. (Mr. Elîli) for adoption ef addrass, rem.,
MOKEEN, Honi. D.
congratulates mover and seconder, 22 ;prosAlaska and N. Western Ry. Ce. B. : Int., 164
perlty cf Canada, 23 ,settlement
of the
2ed R.*, 189.
N.N%.T., 23 ;death et Queen Victoria, 23
Applicatio.ns fer Ry. Charters B. :on M. (Mr.
Australian tadaration, 23 ;immigration, 24
Casgrain, de Lanaudière) for 2ed R., rem.,
the flcukhohora and Gallicians. 25 ;the tariff
210-211.
policy ot the government, 25.
Adjournments : M. te adjo. Feh. 141h te March
McMILLAN, Hon. D.
6th, 52, 53 ;M. te adjn. tromn March 151h te
Bell Telephone Co.'s B. : nt., 122 ;on M. (Mr.
March l9th, 118 ;M. te adju. fromn March
Kirchheffcr) te adopt amts., rem., 361, 365.
22nd te March 26th, 134 ;M. te adjn. from
Century Life Ios. Ce. B. :2nd R.*, 189.
March 29th to April 101h, and rem., 188 ;on
Cook Charges, The :on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to
M.* (Mr' Snowbali) te adje. frore May îrd
appoint a comte., remn., 80.
te May 7th, rem., 333.
Franchise Act Amt. B. :le comte., rem., 480.
Administration et Justice ie Yukon Territery
Manufacturera and Temperance and General
B. : In., 118 ;2nd R. and rem., 120
jei
Lite Ass. Ce. B. :3rd R.*, 326.
comte, on lt el ., rem., 123 ;on 2nd ei., 124;
Sovereign Bank ef Can. B. Int., 281 ;2nd R.*,
125 ;on 3rd cl., 126
on 4th cl., 127 ;on
32-5.
5th cI., 127, 128 ;on 101h cl., 128 ;on 5th
W. C. Edwards and Ce. B.. îrd R.*, 311.
cl., amt. adopted, 185
en el. Sa, rem., 185
MILLER, Hon. Wm.
on 4th el., rem., 185
3rd R.. 186.
Allonan,.- te P.E.I. B.
lot., 466 ;2nd R., 501,
Bell Teehone Cc.'s B. : M. te print list of'
rem., 501-502, 504-505
3rd R., 505.
shareholders. 3143;on M. (Mr. Klrchhoffer)
Anima] Contagious Disase Act Amt. B. : 2nd
te adopt amts., rem., 348-357, 359 ;notice ef
R. m. 422, rem., 424 ;M. to diacharge erdar,
ara,365.
557 ;M. to pestpene comte, stage, 511.
Can. Evidence Act Amt. B. lei Cern., rem., 61.
Appointmanta te the Sonate :replies te cernCcý t.*ingent Accccnts cf t1e Sen.
lein cmte.
cn 3rd rep. Cc.mn. on I. E.
plaint cf Mr. Perley, 63-64.
and C. A., remn.,
2.299. 300
en MI. (.\r. Rirchheffer) te
Army Basf. Limitation et Purchase of :e neadopt rep., rem., 314.
ply te Mr. Leughoed. remn, 201.
Cook Charges, The :on -M. (Sir M. Beweil) te
Bankcuptcy Legislatien :reply te inq. (Mr.
appoint a comte., rem., 75 ;on cempiaint cf
Macdonald, B.C.) 182.
Min, cf Jus. that advaece copies cf eviciencBell Tclephoîîe CÔ'a B.
on M. <M\r. Scott)
are n'.arÈed 'cenfidentiai
rem., 3.36.
for 2nd R., riin., 187.

INDEX.
MIILLS, Hon. David-Cot.

IMILLS, Hon,. David-Co;n.

ceply ta iuq. (Mr.
Election Irregularities
On request of Mr. Kirchhoffer to postpone
Periey) 258.
i
R., rem, 411.
3rd
B. :Tnt., 433 ; M. for
Empioyment of Aliens
Canada Evidence Act Amt. B. :lut., 53 ; 2nd
-485 ;Srd R.', 516.
2nd R., 483 ;rem., 483
1
R., 59 ;ln comte., rem., 61 ;3rd R., 61.
Bucpee :reply to luiq.
Employment of ex-Sen.
Chief Justice of the N. W. Ts. :reply to Inq.
(Mr. Landry) 273.
273.
(Mr. Perley)
rem., 131, 132.
Errors in the Minutes
M. toapon
Committee on Selection, The
: eply to, iuq. (Mr.
of Cheese, The
Export
comte.. 27.
P.rummond) 269.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate :ou 3rd
reply to iuq. (Mr.
Fisheries. The Provinci ali
rep. of Comte, on I. E. and C. A., rem.,
remn., 430, 431, 432.
Macdonald, B.C.) 430
299, 300.
TI. :reply to iuq. (Mr.
Fishing Bounties in P. 1
Cook Case, The :on M. (Sir M. Bow2il) to apFerguson) 282.
point comte., suggests poatponemeut, 58 ; on
on M. (Mr. Scott) for
Franchise Act Amt. B.
M., rem., 74, 75, 79, 80-85, 96 ;complaint
2nd R.. rem., 3-73, 37, 1377, 378 ; lu comte.,
that advance copies of ev. are marked ' conrem., 475-478, 480.
fidential.' 336, 337; on M. (Sir M. Boweii) to
!nt., 233 ;2nd
General inspection Act Amnt. B.
pay counsel, rem., 447.
3rd R.', 271.
;In comte.., rem., '259
R.*, 27Y6
2nd R.*,
Criminal Code Amt. B. : nt., 278 ;
lu
Act Further Amt. B.
1General Inspection
338.
comte., rema.. 483.
M. (Mr. i
Dawson City Eiectric Co's B. *on
to nm.
Geological Museum Spiecirns :reply
Macdonald, B.C.) to refer B. back to comte.
Primrose) 181, 202.
Mr.
on R. T. and H., rem., 331 ; on M. (Mr. 1
fie
sa
n inq. (Mr. Macdonald,
Got
.Macdonald, B.C.) to refer B. to a comte. of
B.C.) remn., 280.
rem.. 381.
the whole.,
Hilishoro' River Bridg e :repiy to iuq. (Mr.
Death of Queen Victoria, The :M. to concur
Ferguscu) 39.
ln resolution oZ House of Commous, and
uetdesfthPr
vs. on M. (Mr. Perley)
rem, 27-33.
281.
n fo eturus ofter,
Senators :refers to death of Sir
Deceased
frrtrrm,21
ceply ta inq. (Sir
Frank Smith, Senator McKindsey, and Senlac
ic
mrprCou
ator D. MacInnes, 36-37 ;refers to death o!f
M. Boweil) 23-à-239, 268.
Senator Almon, 55 ; on death o! Senator
reply ta
aportation of
Immoral Literature, Ii 6.
Ross, remn., 335.
inq. (Mr. Bernier) 36
Delayed Returus :Coe Hill snd A-psley mail
2nd R.,
197
I. :lut.,
Inspection o! Fruit 1
coutract, 503 ; lndebtedness o! the provin6, 230-233 ; comte. stage
moved, 222 ; rem., 22i
ces, 506.
77 ;in comte.. rem. on
postpoued, 256, 271, 2
Deoiise of the Crown B. : ut., 122 ;2ud R.',
el., 2-2, 283 ; ou 6th el.,
o4t
164 ; lu comte., and 3rd R., 187.Src..22
288, 289, 290 ;ou lOth
283, 284, 285, 286-287,
reply to
Disallowsnce of Quebec Legisiation
Ferguson) ta amend elcl., 291 ; on M. (Mc.
Inq. (Mr. Landry) 507, rem., 509-510 ; reply'
(Mr. Ferguson) ta add
14, 293, 294 ; on M.
To inq. (Mr. Landry) 428, rem., 428, 429, I
1-302, 305, 307 ; M. ta
cemn., 295, 30
ci. 15,
448, 450, 52M.
3rd R., 326.
amend l6th cl., 325
Dismissai of Postmaster Field :repiy to înq.
Accountants, Actuaries
Institute of Chartered
(Mr. Perley) 164.
M. (Mr. Drurnfd) ta
aud Finance B.: on
Dismissal of Charles Taylor :reply to inq.
on B. sud C.. rem., 339.
adopt cep. c.f Corn.
('Mr. Periey) 164, 165.,
ut., 278 ; 2nd R.,
Interpretation Act Arn t. B. :
Dominion aud Provincial Judges B. lut., 466 ;
333 ;3rd R.', 333.
2od aud 3rd Rs., 467.
nt.,
:
.udges of Provincial Courts Amt. B.
lut., 339 ;
Dominion Elections Act Amt. B.
383, 3S4. 385
N.
347 M for 2nd R., 383 ; rem.,
rern., 379, 380, 424 ; i
379
'M. for lud R..
418, 420 ;3rd R. m.
lu comte., rein.. i15. 417,
comte., ou 2nd el., remn., 458. 459-460, 461-1
(Mr. Laudry) cern. 435,
435 ;on M4. in amt.
462 ; on 3cd ci., 464 ;ou 5th ci., 46a5; u
436.
6th ei., 465 ; ou 7th cl., 465 ; on 9th el., 466 ;
Arnt.
Judges of Provincial Ccucts Act Further
in comte., rem.. 497 ;ou 3rd el., 498 ; rd
m., 527 ; cemn., 528 ; M.
Tnt. and 2nd R.
B.
R.. 499.
agreed to, and Ird 1 t., 528.
Dominion Lands Act Amt. B. :ln comte.. cu
on inq. (Mr. Lougheed)
Labour Gazette. The
cl. 1. rem., 252; 3rd R.', 273.
reffly. 277, 2L3.
The :replies ta inqe. (Mr- BerDouk1_obors,
Lachin.e Canal Bridges *on M. (Mr. O'Donolioc)
;
'710 ou. M.
nier) 119. 122, 169, 175-16
for return. rein.. 344
('%r. Bernier) rem., 141-143, 147.

INDEX.
MILLS, Honi. David-îmn.
Le Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada B. ;on M.
(Mr. Landry) for 2nd R., remn., ô24 :suggests
restoraticn off B. te order l)aper, 4134.
Mail Service between Coe Hill Mines and
Aps]ey :reply to, inq. (Sir M. Bowell) 433.
Micmac Inidians, The :on inq. ('%r. Landry)
rem., 2.59, 269, 344, 413, 428.
Montreal Harbour Commlssioners B. :Int., 469;
2nd and 3rd R., 515.
Morning Sitting, A :M. and remn., 551.
Ocean Eteamships Subsidies Act Aint. B. :Int.,
469 ;2nd R. mn., 313; rein., 514 ;M. agreed to,
and 3rd R., 515.
Oliver Equipinent, The :on inq. (Mr. Landry)
rein., 259, 270, 281.
Pacific Cable Act Aint. B. : il comte. on Ird
ci., remn., 516.
Packing and Sale off Staple Coiniodities B.
lot., 393 ; 2nd R. mn., 452
rein., 453 ; ln
comte, on lst ci., rein., 486 ;on 3rd ei., 489,
491 ; on 5th ci., 41.4, 497.
Parliament Grounds, Condition of : reply te
inq. (-1r. Allan) 243.
Patent Act Aint. B. :on M. (Mr. Dnndurand)
for 2nd R., rein., 266.
Penilentiary Act Aint. : Int. and 2nd R. mn.,
528 ; rein., 528, 529 ; M. agreed te, and Srd
R., 5329.
Pensions te Permanent Officers' B. :in ceinte.
on l7th ci., rem-. 445.
Pcstinaster at Fishing Lake Post Office, The
reply to inq. (Mr. Perley) 202.
P'. O. Act Amt. B. :lot., 339 ;2nd R., 367 in1
comte. on 2nd ci., rein., 387, 388, 389, 390 on
ei. 3. rein., 391, 392 ;M. for 3rd R.. 414
rem., 415.
Preferential Tarif!, The : reply te inq. (Mr.
Perley) 165-166, 167, 168.
Price c,. Gcvt. Binder Twine :reply to inq.
(Mr. Perley) 50C.
Printing cf Returos : on M. (Mr. O'Donohoe)
rein., 467.
Property Qualification off Senators :M. and
rein., 53.
Ry. Act. Aint. B. : lot., 413 ;2nd R., 440 ; in
com-ite., reii., 4713, 454, 455. 456
o n 3rd cl.,
-,7 ; cn Sth ci., 457 ;on 11th ci., 458.
Ry. Act Further Ait. B. :lot., 526 ; 2nd R.
mn., 526 :rei.,
527 ; M. agreed to, and 3rd
R., 527.

Ry. Subsidies B. :lot.
and 2nd R. in., 537
r:ni., -37 ;M. agreed te. 539
3rd R., 540.
Rec'ording Inqys. in the Minutes
reply te (Sir.
La iiciir ) 135, 136, 137, lIS. 140.
Reioval cf
r.Gec. Wallbri 1g': reply tu
inq. (Sir M. Bcwell) 468.
Reyal Mint B. :lot. and 2nd R.*, 720 ; bd R.
lu.. 510
ie .,510-'41 : n c it
,' re:1..
7'45,
,,16. .4.
,S
49, mO.

MILLS, Hon.

David-Co;.

Safety off Ships Act Amt. B. : lot.. 189
2nd
R., 197 ; i comte., rein, on ci. 1, 245
on
2nd c]., 248 ; comte, stage iîostponed. 262
in comte., rein., 271, 272 ;M. for Srd R., 273
rem., 274 ; M. agreed te, 275 ; M. to postpone
coosido. off Cominons aints. and rein.. 338
M to recede from Sen. aints. and rein.. 36S
M. agreed to, 3614.
St. Lawrence, Saffety cf Navigation on the
reply to lnq. (Mr. Landry) 273.
Salaries cf Judges
reply to inq., Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) 60 ;repir te inq. (Mr. Druinimond) 116, 214-216, 217, 219. 25S.
Saturday Session, A : M.. 446.
Sbipping C-asualties B. :lot., 195 ; 2nd R., 211;
in comte, on ei. 5, rein., 261, 262 ; on Sth ei.,
26- ; rd R.*, 271.
Sinali-pox on an Atlantic Steainer :reply te
inq. (Mr. Sullivan) 395 ; rein., 396.
South Shore Ry. Co. B.
on M. (Mr. Dandurand) for 2nd R., and aint. (Mr. Vidai) rein.,
521.
Standing Cemmittees. Proposed Changes iii
the
c n M. to adjn. Hse., rein., 40, 42, 47,
411.
Supply Bills :Bll (1) Tnt. 18I2 ;rem., 182, 183,
184 ;2nd and 3rd R., 184 ;Bill (2) M. for 2nd
R., 553, 555.
Supreme and Exchequer Courts Adt Ait B.
on M. for 2nd R., called and postponed, remn.,
276
M. to further pcstpone lud R., called,
320
rein.. 321-324, 1.3S.
Three Rivers, Wharff and Ilacheur off: repiy te
inq. (Mr. Landry) 46S.
Trade Mark and Design Act Aint. B. :on M.
(Mc. Templeman) for 2nd R., rein., 193.
Trent Volley Canai, The :on
M. (Sir M.
Boiveil) fer returo, rein., 241.
Unorganized Territories Gaine Preservation Act
Aint. B. :lot.,
199 ; R. in., 244 ; 3rd R.,
233.
Validity off Provincial Prcohibition Acts :reply
te inq. (Mr. Ferguson) 123.
Victoria Day B. : nt., 33S ; M. for 2nd R. and
rein., 341 ; rd R., 343.
Visit off the Heir Apparent :in repiy te inq.
(Mr. Macdonald, U.C.) rein., 2.55 ;reply te
inq. (Mir. Landry) 2.-S
eu inq. (.\r. Landry)
rei., 451, 452.
Yukon Ry. Legisiation
on inq. (Sc.Macdonaid B.C.) 168, 196, 204. 203, 206-209,.
Yul-on Territery Act Amit. B..: M. tu concur
ini Commious amits., 441.
Yuko.n Tecritocy, Adniuiîi tî'atioii cff the :replv
te inq. (.\Ic. Macdonald, B.C.) l2,i 330.
O'DONOHOE,

Hon. J.

Lachine Canal Bridgcs : M.
il. te print retvru, 46.

for icturn, 244

INDEX.
OWENS, Hon. Wm.
Atlantic and Lake Superior Railway Co.'s B.
rem.,
R.*, 197 ;3rd R. m., 296
lot., 188
297.
rep.
Electrie Light Inspection Act Amt. B.
f romn comte., 513.
2nd
loIt, 118
Orford Mountain Ry. Ca. B.
R.*, 128 ; 3rd R.*, 134.
South Shore Ry. Ca. B. :on M. (Mr. Dandurand) ta suspend ruiez, objecta. 469.

PELLETIER, Hon. Sir C. A. P., K.C.M.G.
Canadian Pacifie Ry. B. :2nd R., 343.
Contingent Accounts of the Sen. : n M. to
adopt 3rd rep. cf Cam. on I. E. and C. A..
rem., 312.
Crim. Code Amt. B. :rep. from comte., 422.
Dom. Burglary Guarantee Ca. B. .2nd R.*' 276.
Library of Parliamnent. The :M. ta adopt rep.
of Ilirarlans, 51.
Pensions ta Permanent Officers B. :rep. from
comte., 446.

PERLEY, Hon. W. D.
Appaintments ta the Senate: complains that
ot sufficiently represented,
farmers are
61-63.
Better Terms for P. E. I. B. :on M. (Sir M.
Bowell) for 2nd R., rem., 504.
Census. The :inq., 130.
Chief Justice of the N. W. Ta. :lnq., 272.
Delayed Returns, Doukhabors, The, 340.
Dismissal of Chas. Taylor :inq., 164.
Dismissai of Pastmaster Field :lnq., 164.
Domn. andi Provincial Judges B. :on M. (Mr.
Milîs) for 2nd R., rem., 466.
Dom. Electians Act Amt. B. :rep. from comte.,
466, 499.
Dom. Lands Act Amt. B. : i comte., on ci. 4,
rem., 251.
Doukhobors, The :on M. (Mr. Bernier) for return, 160-162 ; M. for return, 311.
Election Irregularities :inq., 257 ; rem., 258.
Fart Qu'Appelle Ry. Ca. Act Amt. B. :Int.,
34T7 2nd R., 392 ; rd R.*, 427.
Fort Qu'Appelle Ry. Co. B. :3rd R.*, 297.
Franchise Act Amt. B. :in comte., rem., 47à.
Gas Inspection AXct Amt. B. :rep. froni comte.,
512.
comte.,
General Inspection Act Amt B. :la
.rem., 261.
M. for return,
lndebtedniess of the Provinces
2S1.
lot., 263 .2nd R.*, 277
John Abeil Relief B.
3rd R.*, 383.
2nd R.*, 184
Int., 91
McDanaid Divorce B.
3rd R.*, 298.
Act
Territories Representation
North-west
Amt. B. :lot., â47 ; 2nd R., 422; 3rd R.*, 427.
Ottawa and Hull Power and M'f'g. Ca. B.
lot., 221 ;2nd R.*, 249 ; rd R.*, ill.

PERLEY, Honi. W. D.-Con.
Ottawa, Xortbern and Western Ry. Co. B. :2iid
R.*, 262 ;3rd R.., 297.
Postmaster at Fishing Lake P. 0. :inq., 202.
P. O. Act Amt. B. :in comte., on cl. 2, rem.,
.382.
Preferentiai Tariff, The :inq., 165.
Price of Govt. Binder Twine :inq.. 506.
Sen. and H. C. Act Amt. B. :rep. froin comte.,
535.
Stovel Div. B. :Int., 199 ;2nd R.*, 282.

POIRIER, Hon. P.
Condition of Parît.
Allan) rem., 243.

Grc.unds :on

inq.

(MIr.

POWER, Hon. L. G., (Speaker of the Senate).
Appointed Speaker cf the Senate, 1.
Bell Telephone Cn.'s B. :on M. (Mr. Miller) to,
print list of shareholders, rem., 342.
Contingent Accounts of the Sen. : i comte, on
3rd rep. of Com. on 1. E. and C. A., rem., 299.
Cook Charges, The :on point of order raised
by Min. Jus., ruling, 77-78, 79 ; rem., 80 ;on
point of order raised by Secretary of State.
ruling, 98.
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada B. :on M. (Mr.
Scott) to let the order of the day be discharged, rem., 367 ;rem., 434, 435.
Dawson City Electric Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to ref. B. back to Com. on R.
T. and H., rem., 220, 236 ;on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta refer B. ta comte. of the
wbole House, rem., 340, 341 ; on M. (Mr.
Macdonald, B.C.) to restore B. to orders of
the day, ruling, 347.
Dom. Elections Act Amt. B. :1i comte, on 2nd
el., rem., 460 ;on 4th el., 464 ;on 5th el.,
465 ; an 9th ci., 466.
Dom. Lands Act Amt. B. :in comte, on ci. 2,
rem., 250.
General Inspection Act Amat. B. :lu comte, on
2nd cl.. rem., 442, 443, 481, 482, 483.
Inspection of Fruit B. :10 comte, on el. 6,
rem., 285, 287, 289 a n M. (Mr. Ferguson) to
amend cl. 11, rem., 294 ;on cI. (a) rem., 305.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Amet. B. : on
M. (Mr. Milîs) for 3rd R., and anit. (Mr.
Landry) to strike out 3rd cl., rein.,, 437, 43S.
Montreal and Scuthern Counties Ry. Co. B.
on .M. (.\r. Dandurand) to suspend rules, and
objectLion (Mr. VidaI) ruling, 551 ;on M. (Mr.
Dandurar.d) for 2ud R., rem., 557 on M. (,%r.
Dandurand) ta suspend rules and objection
(Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) ruling. 558.
10i coin. on 3rd el.,
Pacifie Cable Act AMut. B.
re. 17-51S.
Packilug and Sale ol Stapile Commodities B,
iii com.te. on Zrd ei., rei., 487 ;cr.i .-thî ei.,
4ý,(,
1

4:17.

INDEX.
POWER, Hon. L. G.-Con.
Pensions to Permanent Officers B. :in comte.
on llth ci., rein., 445.
P. O. Act Aint. B. : In comte, on 2nd ci., rein.,
387, 390.
Ry. Subsidies B. :ruiing that B. should be ref.
to comte. of the wvhole, 539.
Safety af Ships Act Aint. B. :in comte. an ci.
C, rein., 247, 248.
St. Lawrence and Adirondack Rv. Co. B. .- on
M. (Sir M. Boweii) to concur in Cominons
aints. rein., 515.
St. Lawrence Lloyds Incorporation B. : on M.
ta consider aints., rein., 311.
Sen. and H. C. Act Ait. B. :in comte., rein.,
534.
South Shore Ry. Co. B.
a n M. (Mr. Dandurand) for 2nd R., and objection (M.Landry)
ruiing, 512.
Standing Committees, The :on M. (Mr. Scott)
to appoint Joint Coin, on Librsry, in repiy to
(Mr. de Boucherviiie) rein., 42, 51, 52.
Yukon Territory Act Aint. B. :in comte, on
2nd ci., remn., 125 ;on 4th el., rein.. 126, 186.

PROWSE, Honi. S.-Con.
Cook Charges, The
on01M. (Sir M. Boweii) to
appoint a comte., rein., 90
M. ta adjo. debate, 91 ;rein., 93-97, 98.
Dawson City Eiectric Ca. B.
on M. (Mr. Macdonald B.C.) ta ref. B. back ta cainte., rein.,
331, 3S2.
Deinise of the Crown B. : rep. fri
comte.,
187.
Errors in the Minutes :rein., 130, 131.
Generai Inspection Act Aint. B.
i n comte.,
rein., 260.
Lease of Railways in Manitoba B.
on AI. (Mr.
Kirchhoffer) ta adopt rep. of Coin, an S. 0.
and P. B., rein., 199.
McDonaid Divorce B. :on M. (.%r. Kircbhaffer)
ta adopt Oth rep. of Coin, on D., rein., 275.
P. 0. Act Aint. B. :in
comte, on ci. 2, rein.,
390 ;on ci. 3, rein., 391, 392.
Safety of Ships Act Aint. B. : on M. (Mr.
Milis) for 3rd R., rein., 274.
Victoria Dav B. :on M. (.%r. Mules) for 2nd
R., rein., 342.
SCOTT, Hon. R. W., (Secretary cf State).

P RIMROSE, Hon, C.
M. (Mr. Miiis) for 2nd R., rein., 423.
Can. Mutual Aid Soc. B. :3rd R.*. 326.
Contingent Accounts of the Sen. :on M.%.
(Mr.
Kirchhoffter) ta adopt 3rd rep. of Coin, on I.
E. and C. A., rein., 313.
Dawson City Electric Ca. B. :on M. ('-%r. Macdonald, B.Ç.) ta ref. B. back ta Coin, on R.
T. and H., rein., 327, 330.
Delay In Translating Reports :rein., 121.
Doukhobors, The :on M. (Mr. Berniber) for retomn, rein., 147
o n inq. (Mr. Bernier) rein.,
172.
Geoiogical Museumn Specimens :inq.,
180
rein., 181, 182, 202.
Lease of Raiiways in Manitoba B. :on M. (Mr.
Kirchhoffer) to adapt rep. of Coin. on S. 0.
and P. B., rein., 198.
Printing of Parliament, The : on M. (Sir John
Carling) to adopt 5th rep. of comte., remn.,
439.
Ry. Act Aint. B. :rep. froin comte., 458.
Terminal Facilities at Pictou :on notice of,
inq., rein., 58-59 ;inq. postponed, 91 ;inq.,
l1q.
PRO WSE, Hon, S.
Adjourninents :on M. (Mr. Mills) to adjn.
fri
M\arch 14th te, March 19th, rein., 118;
<-n M. ()Ir. Snowbali) to adin. froin May 3rdi
to Miay -th, rein., 333.
Contingent Acccounts cf the Sen.
on Srd rep.
ef Com. oii I. E. and C. A., iein., 300.

Animal Contagious Diseases Act Amt. B. :Int.,
34,.
Atmy Beef, Limitation of Purchase of:; on
inq. (Mr. Lougheed) rein., 301.
Bell Telephone Ca.s B. : M. for 2nd R., 187
rein., 187 ; on M. (Mr. Kirchhoffer) ta cancur
in aints., rein., 357-3165, 397, 406.
Canada National Ry. and Transpait Co.'s B.
on M. (Sir M. BoweIi) ta refer B. ta Coin.
on B. and C., rein., 221.
Census, The : on inq. (Mr. Periey) rein., 130
on inq. (Sir M. Boweii) rein., 239 ;on inq.
(Mr. Landry) rein., 393.
Contingent Acccunts of the Sen. : on 3rd rep.
of Coin. on I. E. and C. A., rein., 298, 312,
313, 317.
Cook Charges, The : on M. (Sir M. Baweli) ta
appoint comte., rein., 87-90, 97 ;on compiaint
c-f the Min. Jus. that advance copies cf the
evidence are xnarked 'confidential,' rein., 337.
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Can. B. : an suggestion
(Mr. Milis) ta restare B. ta, order paper, rein.,
434.
Cuiiing cf Lumber and Inspection of Stapies
B. : Int., 23'
2nd R., 249
in comte., 256
rein., 257 ;3rd R.-, 25.8.
Customas Tariff Act Aint. B. :lut.
and 2nd R.
i. 529 ; rein., 529, 530, 531 ;M. agreed ta, 531;
On comte, on lst ci., rein., 531 ; Srd R., 531.
Dawsonî City Eiectric Cc.'s B.
o n M. (Mr.
Macdonald, B.C.) te, refer B. back tc. Coen. on
R. T. and H., rein., 332, 336.
Deceased Senatcrs :rcm. <-n (Bathi cf Sir
Frank Smith. Hon. D. Maclnnes. and HInn.
Mr. M\cKindseý, 37.

INDEX.

sCOTT,

Hon. R. W.-Can.

SCOTT, Hon. R. W.-Copi

Pensions, ta Permanent Officers B. : Tht., 394
Cable, 168, 311
Delayed Returns :Pacific
; ln Coin. on
2nd R., m. 425 ; rem., 425, 426
340, 414, 447,
Trenit Valley Canai, 296, 311,
n
aio 5th cl., 443 ;on 7th
3rd ci., rein., 443
Hill andS
449 ; Doukhobors, The, 340 ;Cae
ci., 444 ;on 9th ci., 4 44 ;on l4th and 22nd
Apsley Mail Cantract, 414.
cls., 445.
Delay In Transiating Reports :on complaint i
P. 0. Act. Amt. B.: In C arn. on cl. 3, rein., 391.
of Mr. Landry, rem., 121.
Printing of Returns : o n M. (Mr. O'Donobae)
Disaliowance of Quebec Legislation : rep. to
rem., 467.
inq. (Mr. Landry) and rem., 448, 449, 509.
Public Print.ng and Sta tionery Dept. Act Amt.
Dominion Elections Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr.
comte., and
B. : Int., 426 ;, 2nd R. *, 446 ;ln
Milis) for 2nd R., rem., 380, 381 ; on post3rd R.*, 466.
ponement of comte, stage, rem., 411 ;on 9th
Quebec Harbaur Commi ssioners B. : lot., and
cl., rem., 466, on 3rd ci., 499I.
2nd R., 552, rein., 55 2 ;3rd R., 552.
Act Amt. B. : lot., 199 2nd
Dominion Lands
in comte., rein., 454
Raiiway Act Aint. B.
250
comte., on lst ci., rem.,
R., 244 ;in
on 3rd cl., 457 ;on 8t .h cl., 457.
Sth
Znd cl., 250 ; 3rd cl., 251 ;4th cl., 251
Recarding Inquiries ln *the Minutes :remn.,
cl., 251, 253, 254 ; 6th and 7 th cises, 254 ;
140.
rep. tram comte., 257.
Senate and House of Commons Act Aint. B.:
Doukhobors, The : on Inq. (Mr. Bernier) rem.
lot. and 2nd R. mn.,53 2, rem., 533.
on M. (Mr. Bernier)
119, 120, 171-172, 180
Senator Burpee, Resigo ation of : on Inq. (Mr.
rem., 153-155.
Landry) rem., 195, 25~
o n inq. (.\r. Perley)
Election Irregularities
rep. ot
Standing Comnaittees, The -presents
remn., 258.
Comte. of Selection. 38, remn., 41-42 ;M.
Eiectric Light Inspection Act Aint. B. : Int., I
ta appoint Joint Cont.e. on Library, 42, rem.,
469 ;in comte., rein.. 512 ; on lst ci., 513 ;on
43 ; M. ta appoint J oit Comte. on Print7th cl., 513 ;3rd R.. 513.
Ing, 43, rein.. 44-46 M. to appoint Comte.
Employment of J. Huriey, ex-M.P. :on inq.
on Standing Orders, 49 ;M. ta appoint
Boweii) rein., 195, 196.
(Sir M.
Comtes, on Banking and Commerce, Rail;2nd R.,
Franchise Act Amnt. B. : lut., 338
ways, Telegraphs an dl Harbours, and Prilai comte.,
mn. 369, rein., 369, 371-373, 376
vate Bills, 50 «,M. t o appoint Comtes, on
rem., 469, 470-473, 478 ; on 3rd ci., rem. 481.
Internai Econoniy ani iContingent Accounte.
Act Amt. B. : Int., 469 ;ln
Gas Inspection
Debates and Rerportin g, Restaurant, Divorce,
rd R., 512.
comte. ;rein., 512 ;
and Library, 51.
General Inspection Act Aint. B. : Int., 394
Suppiy Bis : on Bill Na. 114, rein., 183.
2nd R., m. 425; rein., 425; in coin. on lst ci.,
perance Conamissic,n's Report. The :on
rem, 441, 442 ; on 2nd cl., 442, 443 ;li comte., ITem
lnq. '(Mr. Landry) re M., 291.
i
rein., 481, 482.
on inq. (Mr.
Terminai Faciiities at Pictou
Iniand Revenue Act Aint. B. : Int., and 2nd
19.
Primrose) rein.. 91, 1~
and 3rd R., 526.
gn B. : on order for
Trade Mark and Desi
Inland Waters Seamen's Act Aint. B. : Int.
186.
2nd R., requeste positponement,
189 ;2nd R., 197 ; ini comte., on isi and 2nd
rent reply ta Inq (Mr.
VIs'it af the Heir Appai
209.
ce., rein., 202, 203 ; 3rd R.*,
Lafldry) 414, 451.
Inspection of Fruit B. : in comte, on aint. (Mr.

I

Fergueu) ta cl. 14, rein., 293. 304 ;on e.
8 and 9, rem., 307.
Lead Refining Bounties B. : Int. and 2nd R.,
mn. 535, rein., 535 ; 3rd R., 537.
Manitoba Sehool Lande : reply ta inq. (Sir M.
Bowell) 27.
Act
Territaries Representation
Narth-west
Aint. B. : on M. (Mr. Perley) for 2nd R.,
rein., 422.
Pacifia Cable Aint. B. : lot., 466 ; 2nd R.,
500, remr., 500-501 ; in Coin., rein., 518, 519520.
Pacific Cable Correspandence : on 'M. (Sir M.
Bowell) for return, rein., 56. 60 ; subinite
returo. 203.
Patent Aýýt Anit. B. : on M. (Mr. Danduranfi)
for 2nd R., rein., 264.

SNOWBALL, Hon. J. B.
M. ta adjn. froin
sed
Adjournient, A- Propoi
333.
May 3rd ta May -th,
rep. froin comte.,
Ï.
Cen. Evidence Act Aint
61.
tram
Aint. B. :rep.
Dom. Franchise Act
comte., 481.
B. : rep. froin comte.,
Doni. Lande AXct Alut.
257.
:1i comte, on cl. 11,
Inspection of Fruit B.
rein., 294.
on cl.
Sefety of Ships Act An it. B. * in comte,
2, rein., 246, 247.
Paxcking and Sale of Stapie Commodities B.:
la comte. cii Srd ci., remn., 486, 492-493 ; M.
lu amit., 49b.

INDEX.
SýNOWBALL,

Honi. J. B.-cwi.

P. 0. Act AMot. B. :lu comte. on 2ud el., remn.,
Public Prinfing and Stationery Act Ait. B.
rep. froin comte., 466.
Unorganized
Territories Gaine Preservation
Act Ait. B. :rep. froin comte., 255.
SULLIVAN, Hon. 'M.
Animai Contagions Diseases Act Ait. B.
on
M. (Mr. MNills) for 2ud R., rein., 422-423 ;on
M. (Mr. Nlilis) to postpone comte. stage,
rein., 511.
Ceutury Life Ins. Co. :3rd R.*, 311.
Contingent Acecunts of the Sen.
cue M. (Mr.
Kirchbc.ffer) to adopt 3rd rep. of comte.,
remn., 317.
Customns Tariff Act Aint. B. :rep. froin comte.,
531.
Doukhobors, The :on lnq. (Mr. Bernier) rein.,
177.
Eiecfric Light Inspection Act Aint. B. :in
comte, on 1sf ci., rein., 513.
Inspection cf Fruit B. :lu
comte. on ci. 6,
rein., 2S9, 291, 294.
Lease of Raiiways lu Manitoba B. :ou M. (Mr.
Kircbbofter) fo adont rep. of Coin, on S. 0.
and P. B., rein., 198.
Peuitentiary Act Aint B. :on M. (.%r. Mille)
for~ 2ud R., rein., 529.
SinaIl-pùx on an Atlantic Steamer
cails attenticu to the quarantining of SS. Lake Superler, 395, 396.
TEMPLEMAN,

Hon. Wm.

TEMPLEMAN, Hon. Wm.-C'oi.
Supply Bill, The :ou M. (Mr. Milis) for 2nd
R., remn., 555.
Trade Mark and Design Acf Amt. B. : ut., 120;
2ud R., cailed and postpoued, 186 ;2ud R.
i.,
189 ;rein., 189-190.
Vancouver sud Lulu le. Ry. Co. B. :lut., 257
2ud R., 271 ;3rd R.*, 297.
Vancouver, Westminster aud Yukon Ry. Co.
B. :lut., 277 ; 2nd R.*, 298.
THIBAUDEAU,

Hon. J. R.

Bell Telephone Co.'s B. :ou M. (Mr. Kirchboffer) to adopt aint., rein., 354, 359.
VIDAL, Hon. A.
Bell Telephone Co. B. :ou M. (Mr. Scott) for
2nd R., rein., 187.
Contingent Accounts of the Sen.
lui comte. ou
3rd rep. of Coin. ou I. E. sud C. A., rem.,
300.
Dawson City Electrie Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to ref. B. back f0 comte., rein.,
329, 381, 383.
Debeuture aud Securities Corporation o! Can.
B. :ou M. (Sir M. Boweli) to concur in aints..
rein., 339.
Moutreal aud Southeru Counties Ry. Co. B.
ou 'M. (.%r. Danduraud) 10 suspend rules, objecte, 551.
Packing and Sale of Stapie Commodities B.
lu comte, on Ird ci. sud aint. (Mr. Suowbail) rein., 493.
St. Lawreuce Lloyds Incorporation B. :on M.
(Mr. Dandurand) to concur lu ainfe., rein.,
310.
St. Lawrence Pcwer Co. B. :3rd R.*, 506.
South Shore Ry. Cc. B.
c n M. (Mr. Dandurand) for 2ud R., rein., 510, 521 ;M. f0 ref.
B. fo Coin, ou S. 0. sud P. B., 520 ; M. witbdrawn, 522.

B. C. Southarn Ry. Co. B. Int., 182 2nd R.*,
1S9.
Dawvson City Eiectric Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to ref. B. back f0 Coni. on R.
T. and H., remn., .328.
Franchise Acf Ai. B. :on M. (Mr. Scot t) for
2nd R., rein., 369, 370.
Geocral Inspection Acf Aint. B. :rep.
front WATSON, Honi. R.
conite., 261, 4,43 ; rep. froin comte., 261.
Alberta Central Ry. Co. B. :lut.,
263 ; 2nd
Kainloops and Aflin Ry. Co. B. :lut.,
426
R.- 276 ; rd R.*, 427.
2nd R.*, 446 ;Srd R.*, 526.
Contingent .Xccc.uufs of the Sen. :ou M. (Mr.
Keffle Riv. Valley Ry. Co. B.
lut., and 2ud
IÇirchhc.fleî) to adopt 3rd rep. of cointe.,
R.*, 433 ;Srd R.*, 506.
rein., 315, 318, 319.
Kootenay Central Ry. Cor. B.
lut., 263 ;2ud
L'cuihbc.bors, The :on M. ('\r. Bernier) for reR.*, 29S.
turu rein.. 14î-150 ; nr iuq. (Mr. Bernier)
Nakusp aud Siocan Ry. Cos B. :on M. (Mr.
7
remn., 173-1 5, 177.
Kirchhoffer) for 2ud R., rein., 133.
Ceneral Inspection Acf Ait. B.
lui comte.,
Pacifie Cabie Acf Aint. B. :ou M. (-%r. Scott)
rem., 2r
for 2ud iR., rein., 50l.
Inspecticu of Fruit B. :ou M. (Mr. Milis) for
Packing and Sale c! Stapie Commodities B.
92id R., relu., 228 lui comte, on ei. (a), reui.
rep. front comte., 467 ;rep. froin comte., 497.
1.0 109.
s,
Senî. and H. C. A.ct Anit. B. :ou M. (MNr. Scott)
M.'Clary -NIf'g Co. B. :lut..
204 ;2nd R.",
f0 ref. B. te Coin. cf the Whole, rein., 533.
22"1 : 3d IZ.*. 311.
Similkamee.n and Karemeos Ry. Co. B. : ut.,
Midd et.cr Di, orc--ý B. :lut.. 91 ;2ud R.*, 18ý4
f77 ;2ud R *, 333'rd R.-, 271.

INDEX
WATSON, Hon. R.-Con.
Packing and Sale of Staple Comnaodities B.
ln comte, on Sth el., remn., 495, 496.
Rathbun Co. B. :2nd R., 222 ; 3rd R.*, 311.
Standing Committees, The :on M. (Mr. Scott)
to suspend rule to adopt rep., rein., 39 ; on
M. (Mr. Milis) to adjn., rein., 40 ;on M. (Mr.
Scott) to appoint Joint Coin, on Printing,
rein., 43-44, 49 ; on M. (Mr. Scott) to appoint
Com. on Standing Orders, rein., 49-50 ; on
M. (Mr. Scott) to appoint Private BUis Coin.,
rein., 51.
Supply Bill, The :on M. (Mr. .Mills) for 2nd
R., rem., 557.
United Empire Lite Ins. Co. B. :Int., 164 ; nd
R.*, 189.

WOOD, Hon. A. T., (Hamilton).

WOOD,

Haon. Josiah, (Westinoreland).
Bell Telephone Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to adopt rep. of Coin, on B. and
C., rein., 397-400.
British America Assurance Co. B. :3rd R.*,
347.
Columbia and Western Railway Co. B. :2nd
R.*, 298.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate :rep. 3rd
rep. Coin, on 1. E. and C. A., froin coin. of
the whole, 300.
Cook Charges, The :an M. (Sir M. Bowell)
to appoint a comte., and aint. (Mr. Landerkmn) remn., 107-109.
Dominion Lands Act Aint. B. :rep. fram
coin., 254.
Eastern Canada Savlngs and Loan Co. B.:
lut., 221 ; 2nd R.*, 249 ; 3rd R.*, 311.
Grand Falls Water Power and Boom Co. B.:
Int., and 2nd R.*, 427 :Srd R.*, 506.
Great North-west Central Ry. Co's B. :Tnt.,
163 ; 2nd R.*, 184.
Inspection of Fruit B. :rep. froin Coin., 326.
P. 0. Act Aint. B. :rep. froin Coin., 392.
Safety of Ships Act Aint. B. :in coin, on
2nd el., rein., 24(6, 247, 272.
St. Lawrence Lloyds Incorporation B. :Tnt.,
234 ; 2nd R.*, 256.
South Ontario Pacific Ry. Co.'s B. :Tnt., 118;
2nd R.*, 128 ;3rd R.*. 164.
United Empire Life Ins. Co. B. :3rd R.*, 311.

('an. National Ry. and Transport Co. B.. on
M. (Sir M. Bc.well) to refer B. to Coin, on
B. and C., rein., 222.
Dawson City Electric Co. B. :on M. (Mr. Macdo-nald. B.C.) to ret. B. back to comte., rein.,
330, 381.
Deceased Senators :Refers ta death of Senator MacInnes, Sir Frank Smiith and Senator
McKindsey, 38.
Introduced :1.
Lead Refining Bounties B. :on M. (Mr. Scott)
to ref. B. to Coin., rein., 535, 536.
Patent Act Aint. B. :on M. (Mr. Dandurand) YOUNG, Hon. F.
General Inspection Act Aint. B. : l Coin.,
for 2nd R., rein., 267.
rein., 260, 425.
Packlng and Sale of Staple Commodities B.
Lease of Rys. ln <anitoba B. :on M. (Mr.
ln Coin., on 3rd cl., rein., 486, 492.
Kirchhoffer) ta adopt rep. af Coin, on S. 0.
P. 0. Act Aint. B. : n Coin., on 2nd cI., rein.,
and P. B., rein., 19S.
388.
Rathbun Ca. B. :Tnt., 204 ;2nd R., 222.

PART II-SUBJECTS
Address ln RePly to Speech from Throne, The
AdJournments : M. (Mr. Mills) ta adjn. from,
Speech reported in extenso, 2.
March 29 to April 10, 188 ;rem., Mr. Mille,
M. (Mr. Ellis) for adoption of Address, 10 deMr. McCallum, Mfr. FErguson, 188 ;M. agreed
bate, Mr. Elils, 4-10 ;Mr. Jones, 10-14
Sir
ta, 188.
M. Bowell, 14-22 ; Mr. Mills, 22-26 ;deb. ___
M. (Mr. Snowball) to adjn. from May 3 to
adjd., 26 ; deb. resumed (Mr. Milis) 33 Mr.
May 7 ;rem., Mfr. Milis, Mfr. Prowee, Mr. McMcDonald (C.B.), 33-34 ; Mr. Dever, 34-36
Callum, 333 ; M. withdrawn, 334.
M. to adopt Address agreed to, 36.
Administration
of
the
Yukon
Territory:
Subjects referred to in Address:
(See Yukon Territory, Admin. of the), 128.
Death of Her Majesty Queen Victoria and
Almon, the late Senator:*Rem. on his deaccession of King Edward : Mr. Ellis, 4-6;
cease, Mr. Miller, 54 ; Mr. Milis, 65.
Mr. Jones, 10-11 ; Sir M. Bowell, 14 ;Mr.
Appolntments
ta
the
Senate : Mr. Perley
Mills, 23 ; Mr. Dever, 35.
complaine that farmers are not fairly repreWar ln South Africa :Mr. Bllis, 6 ;Mr.
sented, 61 ; rem., 1fr. Mills, 63 ; Mr. FerJones, il ; Sir M. Bowell, 14 ;Mr. Meguson, 64 ; Mr. McHugh, 6-5 ; 1fr. MoCallum,
Donald (C.B.), 33 ; Mr. Dever, 35.
66.
Australlan Commonwealth :Mr. Ellis, 6
Mr. Jones, il ; Sir M. Bowell, 15'; Mr. Army
Beef,
Limitation
a! Purchase
of:
Mille, 23-24.
Inq. (Mr. Lougheed) 201; rem., Mr. Laugheed,
Prospective visit of the Duke oe Cornwall
Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Mille, 201.
Mr. Ellis, 7 ;Mr. Jones, 12 ;Sir M. Bcwell,
Assay Offices, Govt. : Inq. (Mr. Macdonald,
17.
B.C.) ;rem., Mr. Macdonald, 278-280 ; reply,
Pacific Cable tMr. Ellis, 8 tSir
M. Bowell,
Mr. Mîlîs, 280.
17.
Assembling of Parliament, 1.
His Excellency's visit to the Pacific Coast
Mr. Ellis, 8 ;Mr. Jones, 12 ;Sir M. Bowell, Banking and Commerce Committee
- M. (1fr.
18.
Scott) ta appoint, agreed ta, 50.
Immigration
Mr. Ellis, 8 ; Mr. Jones, 13
Bankruptcy Leglsiation : Notice of Inq. (Mfr.
Sir M. Bowell, 21 ; Mr. Mille, 24.
Macdonald, B.C.) and rem., 140, lnq. and
Canadian Exhibit at Paris Exposition: Mr.
reply, Mr. Mille, 182.
Ellie, 8 -, Mr. Jones, 12 ; Sir M. Bowell, 18.
St. Lawrence Canals : Mr. Bulis, 8 ; Mr. Bell Telephone, The : The Speaker submlts
liet of shareholders of company, 343 ; M. (1fr.
Jones, 13 ; Sir M. Bowell, 18.
Miller) ta print list, agreed ta, 343 ; a corTrade and Revenue of the Country tMr.
rection (Mr. Miller) 394 ; rem. (Mfr. Bernier)
Bulis, 9 ; Mr. Jones, 13 ; Sir M. Bowell,
395.
18-19; Mr. Milîs, 26; Mr. Mcflonald, (C.B.),
33.
BILLS-8ýerjati»z.
Preferential Tariff : Mr. Jones, 12 ; Sir
(A) Further ta amend the Canada Evidence Act,
M. Bowell, 22 ;Mr. Mills, 25.
1893 (Mr. Mille). Intraduced, 53 ; 2nd R.,
Iron and Steel Trade : Mr.
Jones, 13
59 ; in Com., 61 ; rem., Sir M. Bawell, Mfr
Mr. Mills, 26 ;Mr. McDonald, (C.B.), 34.
Milla and 1fr. Miller, 61 ; rep. fram Con~Postal Delivery :Sir M. Bowell, 19.
(Mr. Snowball) 61 ; 3rd R.*, 61 ; R.Â. 20ý
Alaskan Bondary : Sir M. Bowell, 20.
(c. 36.)
Fast Atlantic Service : Sir M. Boweli, 20.
<B) For the relief a! Lilias Middleton (1fr.
Settiement of the North-west: Sir M. Bowell,
Watson). Introduced, 91 ; 2nd R., 184; 3rd
21 ; Mr. Mlls, 22-25.
R.*, 271 ; R.A., 558. (c. 118.)
Adjournments : Suggestion ta adjn. (Sir M.
Bowell), 51 ; rem., Mr. Milis, 51 ; Mfr. Ellis,
(C) For the relief of James Ward McDonald
Mfr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) and Mr. Fiset, 52.
(Mr. Perley). Intraduced, 91 ; 2nd R., 184;
M. (Mr. Milla) to adjn. from March .15 ta
M. (Mr. Kirchhoffer) ta adopt 8th rep. of
March 19 ; rem., Mr. Mills, Mr. Ferguson,
Com.. 221 ;M. ta adapt ninth rep. of
Mr. Prowse, 118 ; M. agreed
Cam., 275 ;rem., Mr. Kirchhoffer, and
to, 1 19.
-M.
(Mfr. Milie) ta adjn. from March 22 ta
Mr. Prowse, 275 ; order pastponed, 275
March M6 ; rem., Mr. Ferguson, 134.
3rd R.*, 298. R.A., 558. (c. 117.)
3 74

INDEX.
BILLS-Seria tiîn-Con.
(D) To amend the Yukon Territory Act, and to
make furtber provision for the Administration of Justice in the said Territory (Mr.
Mills). Introduced, 118 ;2nd R. and rem.,
Mr. Mille, 120 ;in Com., 123 ;rem. on let
el., Mr. Baker, Mr. Milis and Mr. Ferguson,
123 ;on 2nd ci., Mr. Baker, Mr. Mille and
Mr. Kirchhoffer, 124 ; Mr. Dandurand, Sir
M. Bowell and Mr. Power, 125 ;on Srd el.,
Mr. Baker, 125 ;Mr. Mille and Mr. Ferguson, 126 on 4th ei., Mr. Power and Mr.
Mr. Mille, 127 ;on cl. 5, Mr.
Baker, 126
Ferguson and Mr. Mills, 127 sub-cl. (a) of
cl. 8 adopted. 128 ;on ci. 10, Mr. Mills and
Sir M. Bowell, 128 ;progress reported (Mr.
Casgrain) 128 ;in Com., 185 ;rem., on el.
5, Mr. Milis, 185 ;on cl. Sa, Mr. Milis amd
Mr. Miller, 185; on ci. 4, Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Mills, Mr. Ferguson, 185 ; Mr. Power, 186
rep. from Com. (Mr. Ellie) and amts. concurred In, 186 ;3rd R., 186 ;M. ('%r. Mille)
to concur in Commons amts. agreed ta,
(c. 41.)
441 , R.A., 559.
(E) To amend the Trade Mark and Design Act
Introduced, 120 ;2nd
(Mr. Templeman).
R. called, 186 ;rem., Mr. Scott, Sir M.
Bowell, Mr. Templeman and Mr. Ferguson,
186 2nd R. postponed, 187 ; 2nd R. moved,
deb., Mr. Templeman, 189-190 ;Mr.
189
Ferguson, 190-193 ;Sir M. Bc-well, 19M-195
M. agreed to, 195.
Telephone Co. of
(F) Respecting the Bell
Introduced, 122;*
Canada (Mr. Clemow).
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., 187 ;rem., Mr.
McCallum, Mr. VidaI, Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Mille, 187 ; M. agreed ta, on M. (Mr.
Kirchhoffer) ta adopt amte. recommended
by Com. on B. .,.nd C. ;debate (Mr.
Klrchhoffer, Mr. McCallum, Mr. Miller and
Sir M. Bowell, 348 ; Mr. Miller, 348-357;
Mr. Scott, 357-365 ; M. to adjn. debate (Mr.
Scott) 365 ; notice of amnts. (Mr. Miller)
365 ; debate resumed, 397 ;rem., Mr. Miller and Mr. Allan, 297 ;Mr. Wood (Westmoreland) 397-400 ;Mr. Macdonald, B.C.,
400 ; Mr. Mcçallum, 401-403 ; Mr. Gowan,
403-405 ; Sir M. Bowell, 405 ; Sir W. Htngeton, 406 ;Mr. Kirchhoffer, 407-410 ; Sir
B.C.,
and Mr. Macdonald,
M. Bowell
27 and
rejected, c. 20, n.c.
410 ; M.
rem., Mr. Kirchhofier and Mr. Mille, 411;
3rd R. called and B. withdrawn ; rem.,
(Mr. Klrchhoffer) 414.
(G) To make certain provisions necessitated
by the demise of the Crown (Mr. Mille).
Com.,
Introduced, 122 ;2nd R.*, 164 ;in
187 ;titie amended, 187 ;rep. fram Com.
<Mýr. Prowse) and 3rd R., 187 ;R. A., 558.
(c. 37.)

BILLS-Scriatini-Con.
(H) Respecting the Dawson City Electric Ry.
Introduced,
Co. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.).
164 ;2nd R. and rem., 189 ; M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta refer B. back ta Com.
on R. T. and H., and rem., 326 ; Mr.
Primrose, Sir M.
Klrchhoffer, 326 ;Mr.
Bowell, 327 ;Mr. Templeman, 328 ; Sir M.
Bowell, Mr. Baker, Mr. Vidai, 329 ; Mr.
Mr. Kirchhoffer, Mr. Wood
PrImrose,
(Hamilton), and Mr. Speaker, 330 ; Mr.
Macdonald (B.C.), Mr. Miller, Mr. Prowse,
Mr. De Boucherville, Mr. Mlile, 331; Mr.
Mr.
Mr. McCailum,
(C.B.),
McDonald
Scott, 332 ;M. rejected, c. 17, n.c. 19 ; M.
(Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), ta place B. on
orders of the day, 335 ; rem., Sir M.
Bowell, 335 ; Mr. Miller, Mr. Macdonald
(B.C.), and Mr. Scatt, 336 ; M. allowed ta
stand ais notice, 336 ; M. (Mr. Macdon.ald,
B.C.) ta refer B. ta, comte. of the whole,
340 ;rem., Mr. Miller, Mr. Speaker, Mr.
Macdonald (B.C.), 340 ; Mr. Miller, the
Speaker, Mr. Ferguson, 341 ; M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta, restore B. ta orders of the
day, 344 ; rem., Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), 344346 ; Mr. Klrchhoffer, 346 ; Mr. Landry, the
Speaker, and Mr. De Boucherville, 347 ; M.
rejected, c. 28, n. c. 22 ;M. (Mr. Macdonaid, B.C.) ta refer B. back ta Com., 381;
rem., Mr. Vidai, Mr. Wood (Hamilton),
Mr. Mille, and Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) 381;
Sir M. Boweil, Mr. Prowse, Mr. McCallim,
and Mr. Bernier, 382 ; Mr. Ferguson and
Mr' Vidai, 383 ; M. agreed ta, 383 ; rep.
from Coni. on R. T. and H. (Mr. Baker)
413 ; M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta concur
-i r.ep., agreed ta, 413.
(I) To incorporate the Alaska and NorthIntrowestern Ry. Co. (Mr. Mc}Ceen).
duced, 164 ;2nd R.*, 189 ; rep. from. Coni.
on R. T. and H. (Mr. Baker) 365.
(J) Respecting Applications for Ry Charters
Intro(Mr. Casgrain, de Lanaudière).
duced, 195 ;2nd R. moved, 209 ; rem., Mr.
MeKeen, 210 ; M.
Lougheed, 209 ;Mr.
agreed ta, 211 ;rep. from, Coni. on R.
T. and H. (Mr. Baker) 412 ; M. (Mr. Casgrain, de Lanaudière) ta concur in rep.,
412 ; rem., Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) and
Mr. Aima, 412 ;M. agreed ta, 412.
(K) For the relief of James Stovel (Mr. Ferley). Introduced, 199 ; 2nd R.*, 282.
(L) To amend the Act 50-51 Victoria, Cap. 16,
Intituled 'An Act ta amend the Supreme
and Exchequer Courts Act, and ta make
better provision for the Trial of dlaims
againet the Crown (Mr. Mille). lntroduced,
199 ;rem., Mr. Milis, Sir M. Bowell, Mr.

INDEX.

B1LLS-Seriatim?-Cani.

BILLS-Seratii-Con.
Lougheed, Mr. Mills, 276 ; order postponed,
276 , M. (Mr. Mills) to postpcne 2nd R..
320 ;rem., Sir M. Bowell, 320 ;Mr. Milis.
321-324 ; M. agreed ta, 324 ; B. withdrawn,
338.
(M) Respecting the St. Lawrence and AdironIntradack Ry. Ca. (Sir M. BoweIl).
duced. 234 , 2nd R.', 256 ; Srd R.', 297
M. ta concur in Cammons amts, 515
rem., Sir M. BawelI, the Speaker, 515 ;M.
agreed ta, 515 ; R. A., 559. (c. 82.)

(7) Relating ta the G. T. R. Co. of Can. (Sir M.
Bowell). Introduced, 91 ;2nd R., 118 ;3rd
R.', 134 ; R. A., 200. (c. 60.)
(8) Respecting the G. T. R. Co. of Can. (Sir M.
2ad R., 132
Bowell).
Intraduced. 128
rem., Sir M. BawelI, 132-133 3rd R.', 134
R. A., 200. (c. 61.)
(12) Respecting the Landon Mutual Fire Insurance Ca. af Can. (Mr. Janes). Intraduced.
221 ;2nd R., 249 ; 3rd R.', 311 ; R. A., 558.
(c. 103.)

(N) Ta amend the Patent Act (Mr. Dandurand).
Intraduced, 244 ; 2nd R. maved.
263 ; Èebate, Mr. Dandurand, Sir M. Bawell, 263 ;Mr. Fergusan, Mr. Scatt, and Mr.
Drummand.
and Mr.
Janes, 264 ;Mr.
Mille, 266 Mr. Janes and Mr. Waad (HamIttn) 267 ;Sir M. Bawell, Mr. Dandurand,
268 ; Bill referred ta Special Camte, 268.

(13) To incorparate the Canada National Ry.
and Transport Ca. (Sir John Carling). Intraduced, 197 ;2nd R. maved, 221 ;rem.,
Sir M. Bowell. 221 ; M. agreed ta, 221 ; M.
(Sir M. Bowell) ta refer B. to, Cnm. on B.
(Mr. Scott) 221 ;Mr.
and C., 221 ,rem.,
Wood (Hamiltan) 222 ; M. agreed ta, 222
(c. 51.)
3rd R.', 297 , R. A., 558.

(O) To incarparate the Institute at Chartered
Accauntants, Actuariea and Finance (Mr.
Laugheed). Introducecl, 277 ;2nd R.', 333;
rep. tram Cam. an B. and C. (Mr. Drummand) 339 ;rem., Mr. Drummand, and Mr.
Mihîs, 339.

(141 To lncorporate the Century Life Insurance
Introduced, 164 ; 2nd
Co. (Mr. Clemaw).
R.', 189 ; 3rd R.', 311 -, R. A., 558. (c. 93.)

Act (Mr.
<P) Ta amend the Interpretatian
Mills). Introduced, 278 ; Znd R., 333 -, 3rd
R., 333 ;R. A., 558. (c. 11.)

Q)Furtlaer

Cade,
ta, amend the Criminal
Intraduced, 278 ; 2nd
1892 (Mr. Mille).
R.', 338 ; ln Cam., 421 ; M. (Mr. Dandurand) ta aniend 2OSth sec., 421 ;
rem., Sir
M. Bcwell, Mr. Dandurand, 421, 422 ; rep.
from Cam. (Sir A. Pelletier) and 3rd R.,
(c. 42.)
422 ; R. A., 558.

(R.) Further ta amend the Narth-west Territaries Re.presentation Act (Mr. Perley).
Intraduced, 347; 2nd R., 422 ; 3rd R.*, 427.
<S) Ta amend an Act passed durlng
ent Session Intituled ' An Act
parate the Fort Qu'Appelle Ry.
Perley).
Intraduced, 347 ; 2nd
3rd R.', 427 ; R. A., 558. (c. 59.)

the presta IncarCa. (Mr.
R., 392

(T) Ta canfer an the Cammîssianer af Patents
certain pawers far the relief of Eudara
Sibbald (Mr. Baker). Intraduced, and 2nd
R.*, 427 ;3rd R.', 467 ; R. A., 559. (c. 113.)
<U) Ta remave daubts cancernlng the cantinuance ln affice of Judges af Dominion
and Provincial Caurts upan the demîse af
the Crown (Mr. Milîs). Intraduced,' 466
2nd and 3rd R., 467 ; R. A., 559. (c. 38.)
.(6) Respecting the Supreme CourtathIne
pendert Order cf Faresters (Mr. Kerr). Intram
trcoduced. 116 ;2nd R.*, ilS ;rep.
Coni. (Mr. Drummand) and remi., 163 ;3rd
(C. 100.
R.', 184 ;R.
.200.

(19) Respecting the Eastern Cao. Saviugs and
Loan Ca., Lmtd. (Mr. Waod). Introduced,
221 ; 2nd R.', 249 ; 3rd R.', 311 ; R. A.,
538. (c. 96.)
(20) Respecting the Nakusp and Slocan Ry. Co.
Introduced, 128 ;2nd
(Mr. Kirchhoffer).
j R., 133 ; remn., Mr. Kirchhaffer and Mr.
Templeman, 133 ; 3rd R., 202 ; R. A., 5P-9.
(c. 75.)
(21) Resrecting the B. C. Southern Ry. Co. (Mr.
Introduced. 182 ;2nd R.',
Templeman).
189 ;3rd R., 202 . R. A., 558. (c. 49.)
(22) Respectlng the Columbia and Western Ry.
IntroCa. (Mr. Wood, Westmareland).
duced, 277 ;2nd R.', 298 ; 3rd R.', 383 ;R.
A., 558. (c. 56.)
(23) Respecting the Guelph Junction Ry. Co.
R.
Intraduced, 188 ;2nd
(.%r. Fiqet).
moeved, 196 ;rem., Mr, Ferguson and Mr.
Fiset, 196 ;M. agreed' ta, 19-7 rep. fram
an R. T. and H. (Mr. Baker) 204
Coar.
3rd R.', 221 ; R. A., 558. (c. 64.)
(24) Respecting the South Ont. Pat. Ry. Co.
Introduced,
Westmoreland).
(Mr. W%ýood.
118 ; 2nd R.', 128 ; 3rd R.', 164 ; R. A.,
200. (c. 85.)
(25) To incarporate the Ottawa and Hull Power
and Manfg Ca.. Ltd. (Mr. Perley). Introduced, 221 :2nd R.', 249 :3rd R.'. 311 ;R.
A., 558. (e. 108.)
(26) Respecting the Canadian Picifle Ry. Co.
(Mr. Casgrain de Lanaudière). Introdiiced,
338 ; 2nd R., 343 ;3rd R.', 383 ;R. A., 558.
(c. 54.)

INDEX.

BILIS,;SSeriatin-Con.
(27) Respecting the Atlantic and Lake Superior
Ry. Ca. (Mr. Owens). Introduced. 188 ; 2nd
R.*, 197 ; 3rd R. moved, 296 ; rem., Mr.
Landry. 296 ; M. to refer B. back to Com.
on R. T. and H. (Mr. Landry) 296 ;re.
Mr. Owens and Mr. Landry, 297 amt. rejected, and B. read 3rd time, 2947 R. A.,
(c. 48.)
558.
(29) To amend the Dominion Lande Act (Mr.
Introduced. 199 ; 2nd R. moved.
Scott).
244 ; rem., Mr. Scott, Mr. Ferguson, 244
M. agreed to. 244 ; in comte., 250 ;on let
cl., rem., Mr. Scott and Mr. Ferguson, 250;
on 2nd ci., remn., Mr. Scott, Mr. Ferguson,
Mr. Lougheed and Mr. Power, 250 ; on cl.
3, Mr. Scott, 251 ;on cl. 4, Mr. Macdonald
(B.C.), Mr. Perley, Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell,
251 ; on ci. 5, Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell, 231;
Mr. Mille, Sir M. Bow.ell, 252 ; Mr. Scott,
Mr. Lougheed, 254 ; on cl. 6, Mr. Scott, 254;
on eI. 7, Mr. Scott, 2.54 ; progrees reported
(Mr. Wood, Westmnoreland) 234 ; in comte.,
257 ; rem., 'Mr. Scott, 2.57 ; rep. from comte.
(Mr. Snowball) 25î ; 3rd R.*, 273 ; R. A.,
558. (c. 20.)
(31) Raspectîng the Orford Mountain Ry. Co.
Introduced, 118 ;2nd R.*,
(Mr. Owens).
128 ; 3rd R.*, 134 ; R. A., 200. (c. 79.)
(32) To prcvide for the marking and inspectien
of Packages containing Fruit for Sale (Mr.
Introduced, 197 ;2nd R. moved,
Mills).
Mr. Fergusan,
222 ; deb., Mr. Mille, 222
222-228 ; Mr. Watson, 228 ;Sir MI. Bowell.
229 ; Mr. Mille, 230-233 ; Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Ferguson, 2.33 ; M. agreed to, 233 ; order
frr Cam. of the Whole, called and postponed, 256 ; comte. stage, postponed, 271;
order called and postponed, 277 ; in comte.,
282 ; rem., on el. 3, Mr. Ferguson and Mr.
Mille, 282 ; on ci. 4, Mr. Fe!rguson and Mr.
Ferguson
cl. 6, Mr.
Mlles, 282 ; on
Mr.
Allan,
283 ; Mr.
and Mr. Mille,
Mille and Mr. Ferguson. 284 ; Mir. Mille,
Mr. Pc-wer, and Sir M. Bowell, 285 ; Sir M.
de
Bowell, M.Nr. Boucherville and Mr. Mille,
286 ; 'Mr. Power, 287 ; Mr. Ferguson, Mr.
Macdonald (P.EI.), Mr. Allan and Mr.
Mille. 288 ; Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Ferguson,
Mr. Power and Sir M. Bowell, 289 ; ci. bls
on division, 290 ; on ci. 7, M. (Mr. Ferguson) ta strike out el. 290 ; M. agreed ta
290 ; rein., Mr. Ferguson, Mr. M.\ille, 2J0
on el. 8, rem., Mr. Fex-gusan, 291 ; an ei. 10
rem., MNr.Ferguson, Sir M. Bowell and Mr
Sullivan, Mr. Mille, 291 ; on ci. 11, rem.
Mr. Ferguson, 292 ; an cl. 14, rem., Mr
Fergusonl, 292 ;- 'Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowei
and M-Nr. MiPe, 2).3 ; Mr. Sufli1!van, Mr
Pc-wer iind Mr. Siowball, 294 ; e. anl,eflGý.

BILLSSeria t ii-Con.
and adopted, 295 ;on el. 16, remn., Mr. Ferguson and Mr. Milis, 295 ;progress reported (".%r. Lougheed) 29-5; again in comte.,
M. (Mr. Ferguson) to add el. 'a,'
301
rem., Mr. Milis, 301-302 ;Mr. Fer301
Mr. Scott and Mr. Ferguson, 302-304
Sir
guson, 304 ;Mr. Mills, Mr. Power, 305
amt. withdrawfl, 307 on
M. Bowell, 306
cis. 8 and 9, rem., Mr. Ferguson and Mr.
Scott, 307 ; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Watson, Mr.
Mille, Mr. McCallum, 308 ; Mr. Watson, Sir
M. Bcwell, Mr. McCallum, Mr. Ferguson,
rep. from comte. (Mr. Klrchhoffer)
309
310 ;again in comte., 325 ;M. (Mr. Mille)
to axnend ci. 16, agreed to, 325 ; rep. from,
comte. <Mr. Wood, Westmoreland) 326, and
3rd R., 326 ; R. A., 558. (c. 27.)
(33) Respecting Yiclorla
troduced, 338 ;2nd
Mr. Mille. 341 ;Mr.
Prowse, 342 ; Mr.
agreed to, 346; 3rig

InDay (Mr. Mills).
R. moved. 341 ; rem.,
M'acdonald (B.C.), Mr.
Drummond, 343 ;M.
R., 343 ; R. A., 558.

(34) To incorporate the Canadian Fatriotic
Introduced,
Fund Assn. (Sir M. Bowell).
182 ; 2nd R.*, 189 ; 3rd R.. 202 ; R. A., 558.
(c. 92.)
(35) Respecting the Mather Bridge and Power
Co. ('%r. Jones). Introduced. 163 ; 2nd R.,
184 ;rep. from Com. on R., T. and H. (Mr.
Baker) 2-03; rem., Mr. McCallum, 203 ;rep.
A., 559.
adopted, 204 ; 3rd R.*, 221 ;R.
(c. 106.)
(36) Respecting the Gt. North-weet Central Ry.
IntroCo. (Mr. Wood, Westmoreland).
duced, 163 ;2nd R., 184 ; 3rd R., 202 ; R.
A., 559. <c. 63.)
(37) To incorporate the Bishop of Keewatin
(Mr. Lcugheed). Introduced. 221 ; 2nd R.*,
249 ; 3rd R.*, 311 ; R. A., 558. (c. 102.)
(40) Respecting the British Yukon Ry. Co. (Mr.
Intraduced, 182 ;2nd
Macdonald, B. C.)
R.*, 189 ; 3rd R., 202 ; R. A., 558. (c. 50.)
(41) Respecting the Saskatchewan and Western
Ry. Ca. (Mr. Landerkln). Intr:Dduced, 257;
2nd R.,, 271 ; 3rd R.s, 297 ; R. A., 558.
(c. 833.)
(42) Respecting the Klondike Mines Ry. 0o.
Introduced, 16'. 2ad
(Mr. Kirchhoffer).
R. , 184 ; 3rd R., 202 ; R. A., 558. (c. 69.)
(43) To incorporate the St. Lawrence Lloyds
Introduced,
(Mr. Wood, Westmoreland).
234 ; -2nd R.*, 256 ; rep. from Com. on R., T.
and H. (Mr. Drummond) 310 ; M. (Mr.
Dandurand) ta concur in amts., 310 ; rem.,
Mr. Vidal, Mr. Dandurand, Mr. McCalluin,
310 ;The Speaker, 311 ;M. agreed to, 311
(c. 110.)
3rd R . 338 ; R. A., 558.

INDEX

BILLS-Scriatitm-COn.
(44) Respecting the Ottawa and Gatineau RY.
Ca., and ta change its naine ta the Ottawa,
Nürtbern and Western Ry. Ca. (Mr. KirchIntraduced, 257 ; 2nd R.*, 262;
haffer).
5
ard R. , 297 ; R. A., 558. (.8.
(45) To amend the Pac. Cabie Act, 1899 (',%r.
2nd R. moved,
Introduced, 466
Scott).
500 ;rein., Mr. Scott, 500 ;Sir M. Bowell,
Mr. Tempieman, Mr. Scott, 501 ;M. agreed
te, 501 ; in comte., 516 ;rein., on el. 3. Sir
M. Boweli. Mr. Mille, 516 ; Sir M. Boweii,
Mr. Power, -517, 518 ;Mr. Dandurand, Mr.
Scott, 519 ;rep. fram comte. (Mr. Macdonlaid, B. C.) 520 ;rem., Mr. Scott, 520 ;Zrd
R., 520 ;R. A., 559. (c. 5.)
(46) To amend the Unorganized Territorlesj
Gaine Preservatian Act, 1894 (Mr. Mille)."
Introduced, 199 ;2nd R., 244 ; in coin.,
254 ;rein., Mr. Mills, 254 ;Sir M. Bowil,
Mr. Lougbeed. 255 ;rep. froin comýte. (Mr.
Snowbali) and 3rd R., 253 ; R. A., 558.
(c. 21.)
(47) To amend the Act ta Restrict the ImportaAiens (Mr.
of
tion and Empiayment
Introduced, 433 ;2nd R.. mn. 483;
Mille).
debate, Mr. Mille. 483-485 ;Sir M. Boweii,
485 ; M. agreed ta, 485 ; Srd R.*, 516 ; R.
(c. 13.)I
A., 558.
Edmonton, Yukon and
(48) Respecting the
IntraPacific Ry. Co. (Mr. Landerkin).
duced. 163 ; 2nd R., 134 ; Srd R., 202 ; R.
<.57.)
.,558.
(49) Respecting the Niagara, St. Catherines
and Toranto Ry. Co. (Mr. MeCalium). Introduced, 189 ; 2nd R.*, 197 ; 3rd R.*, 221
R. A., 558. (c. 76.)
(50) Ta incarparate the Canadian Mutuai Aid
S,:ciety (Mr. Casgratn. Windsor). lntro5
2
duced, 272 ; 2nd R.*, 277 ; Srd R
R. A., 558. (c. 91.)
n
1r(51) To Incorparate the Aigama
adu
Nir.kel-Steel Ca. of Canada (Mr.
259
Intraduced, 221 ; 2ndR,
rand).
rep. froni Caomte. (Mr. Druininani) anB.
and C., 311 ; M. (Mr. Danduran.d) ta concur In ait., agreed ta, 311 ;Srd R.*, 326
(c. 89.)
R. A., 558.
(52) Respecting the Vancuver and
Luin IIntroland Ry. Ca. (Mr. Tempieman).
duced, 257 ; 2nd R., 271 ;rein.. Mr. Templeman and Sir M. Boweli, 271 -,3rd R.*, 297
R. A., 55S. (c. S6.)
(53) Respecting the Manitoba and North-West
Loan Ca. Ltd. (Mr. Aikans). Intraduced.
5
234 ; 2nd R., 256 ; :,rd R. , 511 ; R.A., 558.
(c. 104.)

B.IIJS£-Seriatitn-Con.
(54) To Incarparate the Fort Qu'Appelle Ry.
,Co. (Mr. Laugheed). In-traduced, 189 ; 2nd
5
R. , 197 ; 3rd R.*. 297. ; R.A., 558. (c. 58.)
(55) To
Ry.
Znd
(c.

incorporate the Aruprior and Pantiac
Ca. (Mr. Landerkin). Introduced, 189,
3rd R.¶, 298 ; R. A., 558.
R.*, 197
47.)

(56) Respecting the Columubia and Kaotenay
Ry. and Navigation Ca. (Mr. Macdanald,
5
B.C.). lat R., 257 ;2nd R. , 262 3rd R.*,
297 ;R. A., 558. (c. 55.)
(58) To incarparate the Kootenay and Arrawhead Ry. Co. (Mr. Macdanald, B.C.). lst
5
R.. 257 ; 2nd R. , 262 ; 3rd R.*, ý97 ;R. A.,
(c. 70.)
558.
and
Simiikameen
incorparate the
(59) To
Kareineas Ry. Ca. (Mr. Texupleman). In5
traduced, 277 ;2nd R.*, 333 ; 3rd R. , 383
R. A., 558. (c. 84.)
(60) Ta incarparate the United Empire Lite
Ineixrance Ca. (Mr. Watson). Intraduced,
5
164 ; 2nd R.*, 189 ; 3rd R. . 311 ; R. A.,
558. (c. 115.)
(61) Respecting the W. C. Edwards Ca., Ltd.
(Mr. Ciexuaw). Introduced, 263 ; 2nd R.S,
275 ; rd R.*, 311 ;R. A., 558. (c. 98.)
(63) Ta amend the Franchise Act, 1898 (Mr.
Scott). Intraduced, 338 ; 2nd R. mn. 369;
debate. Mr. Scatt and Mr. Tempieman.
Sir M. Boweli, 370 ;Mr. Scott, 371,
369
372 ;Mr. McCalium, Mr. Scott, Sir M.
Baweii. and Mr. Mille. 373 ; Mr. Mille and
Mr. McCailuin, 374 ;Sir M. Boweii, 375;
Mr. Scott and Mr. Ferguean, 377 ; Mr.
Mille. 377-379 ; Mr. Bernier, 378 ; M. agreed
ta. 379 ; in Gain., 469 ; rein.. Mr. Scott,
Mr. Macdanald (B.C.) 469 ; Mr. McCaiScott, 471-473 ;Mr.
469-471 ;Mr.
lm,
Periey, Mr. Scatt, Mr. Macdanald (P.E.I.)
473 ; Sir M. Baweii, 474-475 ; Mr. Mille,
475-478 ;Mr. Scott, 478 ; Mr. MoCailuin,
an 3rd
Sir M. Baweil, 480-481
479, 480
ci.. rein., Sir M., Bawell, Mr. Scott. 481;
rep. tram Cam. (Mr. Snowbali) and 3rd
R., 481 ;R. A., 559. (c. 15.)
(64) Ta ainend the Dominion Electians Act
Introduced. 339 :2nd
1900 (Mr. Mille).
R. nm. 379 ; rein.. Mr. Mille, 379, 380 ; Sir
M. Bowell. and Mr. Mille, 380 ; Mr. Scatt,
"81 ; M. agreed ta, 381 ; comte. stage pastponed, rein., Mr. Scott and Sir M. Bowell.
(Mr. Mille) ta postpone 2nd R..
411 .M.
424 ; rein., Sir M. Bowell. 424 ; M. agreed
ta. 425 ; iu Coin., an 2nd ci.. rein., Mr.
Mill%, 459-460;
McCailuin, 453-45n ; Mr.
Mr. McCaliuin. Mr. Bernier, Mr. Power,
460 ; Sir M. Bowell, 461 ;Mr. Milîs, 461-

INDEX.
BIL.LS-Scriatfin--Can.i

BIIiLS-Reriatin--fln.

462 ;Sir M. Boweii. Mr. Jones, 462 ; Mr.
Landerkin, 463-464 ;on Srd ci., M. (Sir M.
Boweii) to amd. 4îst sec., 464., rem., Sir
M. Boweii, Mr. Mille, 464 ; ci. aiiowed to
stand. 464 ;on 4th ci., Mr. Pawer, 464;
Mr. Mille, 465 ;on Sth and fith cises.. Mr.
Power. Mr. Milii, Sir M. Boweii, 465 on
7th ci., Sur M. Boweii, Mr. Milis, 465 on
Sth cl., Mr. Mille. Mr. Power, Mr. Scott,
466 ;progrees reportai! (Mr. Periey) 466;
again in coin., 497 ;on amnte. proposed by
Sic M. Boweii; rem., Mr. Milii, 497 ; Sir
M. Boweii, Mr. Milii, Mr. Scott, 498, 499;
rep. from comn. (Mr. Periey) and Sci! R.,
499 .R.
A., 559.
Ce. 16.)
(67) To incorparate tha Quabac Terminai and
Ry. Ca. (Mr. Landry).
Introduced, andi
2nd R*
469 ;Sci! R.*, 540 ;R.
A., 558.
(c. 81.)
(68) Respecting the McCiary Manf'g. Ca. (Mr.
Watsan).
Introduced, 204 ;2nd R.*, 222
Sci! R.*, 311 ;R.
A., 558.
(c. 107.)
(69) To incorporate the St. Lawrence Pawec
Ca. (-%I. Kirclhaoffer). Intcnduced, 413;
2nd R., 441 ;Sci! R.*. 506 ; R. A., 558.
(c. 111.)
(70) Respecting the E. B. Eddy Ca. (Mr.
Ciamiow).
Introduced, 263 ; 2nd R.*, 275
Sci! R.*, 311 ; R. A., 558.
Ç(c. 97.)
(71) Respectlng the Hudson Bey' and! Pacifie
Raiiway Ca. (Mr. McCaiium). Introduced,
189 ;2nd R*
197 ; Scd R.*, 221 ;R.
A.,
559.
(.65.)
(73) To Incorpocate
the Vancouver, Westminster and 'Yukon 'Ry Ca. (Mr. Templeman). Introducai!, 277 ; 2nd R.*, 298 ; 3cd
R.*, 383 ;R. A., 553.
(c. 87.)
(75) Raspecting the Cen. Northecn Ry.
(Mr. Kicchhaffer).
Introducai!, 263 ;
R.*, 275 ; 3cd R.*, 298 ;R. A., 559. (c.
(79) Respecting the Lindsay, Bobceygeon
Pontypoci Ry. Co. (Mr. McHugh).
traducai!, 263 ; 2nd R*
275 ; Srd R.*,
R. A., 559.
(c. 72.)

Co.
2nd
52.)
and
In298;

(80) To Incarporate the St. Mary River Bridge
Ca. (Mr. Baker). Introduced aond 2nd R.*,
433 ; Bn! R.*, 506 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 112.)
,(81) Respecting the Aigoma Centrai Ry Co.,
an! ta change tts Damne ta the Aigoa
Centrai and H. Bay Ry. Ca. (Mr. Dandurani!). Intcoi!uzei!, 413 ;2ni! R.*, 427 ; 3cd
R.*, 506 ;R.
A., 559. (c. 46.)
(82) Respecting the Rathbun Ca. (Mr. Young).
Intradjaced, 204 ; 2nd R. maved, 222 ; rem.,
Sic M. Baweii,
Mr. Watson, 222 ; M.
agreai! ta, 222 ; Bcd R.*, 311 ; R. A., 558.
(c. 109.)

(83) To Incarporae the Kaoteney Centrai Ry.
Co. (Mr. Tempiemen).
Introduced. 263
2ni! R.*, 298 ; Bn! R.*, 383 ;R.
A., 558.
(c. 71.)
(84) Respecting the Alberte Ry. and Goal Ca.
(Mr. Lougheed). Introduca!, 263 ; 2ni! Rt
275 ; Zrd R.*, 298 ;R. A., 559. (c. 45.)
(85) To Incorporate the Alberta Centrai Ry.
Ca. (Mr. Watson).
Introduced, 263 ; 2nd
R.*, 276 ; Brd R.t, 427 ;R. A., 558 (c. 44.)
(87.) To amaigemete tha Northern Pacifie and
Menitoba Raiiway
Go.,
the
Winnipeg
Transfer Reiiwey Co., Lt!., the Portage
and North-western Ry. Ca., an! the Waskeda an! North Eestern Ry. Co., under
the Dame of the Northern Pacifie an!
Menitoba Ry. Co. (Mr. Kirchhaffer).
Iatroduce!, 277 ; 2nd R.*, 333 BcSd R.*, 383
R. A., 559.
(c. 73.)
(89) Respectlng the Grand Felle Watec Power
and Boom Co. (Mr. Wood, Weetmoreiand).
Introducai!, and! Bn! R.*. 427 ; Bcd R.*, 506;
R. A., 559.
(c. 99.)
(90) Raspectlng the Dominion Burgiacy Guarentee Co., Ltd. (Mr. Dandurani!).
Introduce!, 263 ; Bai! R.*, 276 ; Sci! R.*, 311
R. A., 559. (c. 95.)
(91) To amen! the Iniani! Waters Seamieas Act
(Mr. Scott).
Introduce!, 189 :2od R.
move!, 197 ;rem., Mr. Scott, M.%I.
Ferguson,
197 ; M. agceei! ta, 197 ;ta comte., 202:
cep. tram comte. (Mr. Laugheei!) 203 ; Bcd
R.*, 209 ; R. A., 559. (c. 333.)
(92) Tc, fuctbiec amcz3 t'-e Act i esî -eetîng Une
Safety c1 Ships (Mr. Milis).
tatraduce!,
189 ; 21id R., 157 ; in comte., 2,5 ;cein., M.r.
Mille, Mr. Fecgusc-.d, 245; an ci. 2, Mr. Ferguson, 245 ; Mc. Woad, Mc. Ellis, Mr. Carmichael, 246 ; Mr. Powec, Mr. Fergusan,
Mr. Wood!, Mc. Saowbii, 247; Mc. Maci!onaid (P.ET.), Mc. Snawbell, Mr. Baker, Mr.
Mille, Sic M. Boweil, -Mr. Lavitt, Mc. Ellie,
248; Mc. Baker, 249; progrese repoctei! (Mr.
Lougheei!) 249; comte, stage postpone!, 262;
Ia comte., 271; rem., Mr. Mille, 271; Mr. MeCailum, Mc. Wood (Vfeetmeceilani)
an! M\,r.
Fergusan, 272; rep. tram coin. (Mr. Lougheed) 272 ; Sci! R. miore!, 273 ; rein., Mr.
McCallumi, 273 ; Mc. Prowae an! Mr. Mille,
274 : M. atgceed ta, 27-5 ; ccenaidu. cf Conm
mons
its., colle!, 33S
r emn.,Mr. \î~
order paatponied,
an! Sic 'M. Boweii, 33S
338 ; Mi. (M-\I. Milia) ta recede tram Senote
oits., 36S ; remn., Sic M,\. Bcwell, 'Mr. Mille
agreed
and Mr. Macdokinld (rOE.1.) 33
ta, 369 ; R. A.. 558. (c. 34.)

INDEX.
BILLS-Scria fini-Cn.
(92 ) Respecting inqs. an.d investigations into
Shipping Casualties (Mr. M-\ilis).
Introduced, 195 ;2nd R. moved, 211
rem., Mr.
Mills, 211 ; Mr. Ferguson, 212
M. agreed
to, 212 ; in comte., 261 ;rem., on ci. 5, Mr'.
Mills, Mr. Ferguson, 261 ;Mr. Ferguson,
Mr. Mlilis and Sir M. Powell. 262 ;on el. 8,
Mr. Milis, 262 ;rep. f rom comte. (Mr. Lougheed) 262 ; rd R.*, 271 ;R. A., 559. (c. 3a.)
(95) Respecting the Ontario, Hudson Bay and
Western Ry. Co. (Mr. Baker). Introduced.
and 2nd R.*, 433 ; 3rd R.*, 506 :R.
.559.
(c. 78.)
<.97) To Incorporate the Manufacturera and Temperance and General Lite Assurance Co.
(Mr. Lougheed). Introduced, 255 ;2nd R.*,
2319;Srd R.*, Z26 ;R.
, -9.
(c. 105.)
(98) Incarporating the Kettie River Valley Ry.
Co. (Mr. Templeman). Intrj)duced, and 2nd
R.*, 433 ; rd R.*, 506 ; R. A., 559. (c. 68.)
f99) Respecting the Crédit Foncier du BasCanada. and to change its namne ta Le
Crédit Hypethecaire du Bas-Canada (Mr.
Landry). Introduced,ý 281 ; 2nd R. moved,
324 ;rem., Mir. Milis, Sir Il. Bowell, Mr.
Dandurand, 324 ; 2nd R. postponed, 325;
2nd R. caiied and postponed, 338 ;M. (Mr'.
Scott) to discharge arder. 367 ;rem., Mr.
Landry, Sir M. Bowel. 367 ; M. agreed ta,
367.
-(103) Respecting the Can. Northern Ry. Co., and
the Narthern Pac. and Man. Ry. Ca., the
Winnipeg Trauster Ca., the Portage and N.
W. Ry. Ca., and the Wý-askada and N. E.
Ry. Co. dilr. lCirchheffer). Rep. froni Comn.
on S. O. and P. B. (Mr. IlcKay, Colchester)
11S ;M. (Mr. Ki-chhc.ffer) ta adapt rc,.
19S
rem., Mr. Young, Mr. Sullivan, Mr.
Macdonald (P.C.), Mr. Ferguson. Mr. Prirnrose, 198 ;Mr. Dever, Mfr. Prc.wse, Mr. Landerkln and Mr. KCirchhoffer. 191 :MI. agreed
ta. 199 ; let and 2nd R., 413 ; rd 11.*, 42î
R. A., 559. (c. 53.)
(104) To iî:corporate the N. S. Eastern R.Y. Co.
Lmtd. (Sir M. Bowell). Introduced. 433;
M. to ret. B. to Coin. on S. 0. and
P. B., agreed ta, 438 ;2nd R.*, 467 ;3rd
R.*, 506 ; R. A., 559. (c. -.7.)
(105) To ircorporate the Kaniloctis an! Atlin
Ry. Coa. (Mr'. Templenian).
Introduced.
422 ; 2nd R.', 446 ;Srd R.*. -,26 ;R. A., 571.

(C.67.)
(106) Respectlng the Scuth Shiore Ry. Co. (i
Casgrain, de Lanaudière). Introduced, 469;
Il. (Mr. Danduranl) ta suspîend rules ; .N
objected to (Mr. Owens) 469: 2'id R. inoved,
511 ; objection (Mr. Landry) .7-1
2nd R.
postpone&., 51.2 ;21id R. iiuoved, 520 :amin.

BILLS-Serhtièn-Con.
('.%r. Vidai) to ref. B. to Coin. on S. O. and
P. B., rem., '.%r. Vidai, 'Mr. Dandurand, 520,
521 Mr. M.\ilis, 721-522 ; amit. withdrawn,
522 ;rem ., Mr. Baker, 522 ; M. agreed to
on a div., 522; rep. tram comte. (Mr. Baker)
and M. 80 sdont rep. agreed to, 526.
(107) Ta confer on the Commsr. c-f Patenta certain Powers for the relief of John Abeil
('Mr. Perley>.
lntroduced, 263 ;2nd R.*,
277 ; rd R.ý. 2S3 ;R. A., 559. (c. 88.)
(1O8) Respectlog ihe Slanitoulin and N. Shore
Ry. Ca. (Mr. Bak~er). Introduced, and Zod
R..*, 33 : Zrd R.*. 506 ; R. A.. 55q. (c. 74.)
(109) To incor c-rnte the Sovereign Bank ot
Can. (Mr. SiSlin.Introituced, 281 : 2nd
R.*, 325- ; îrd R.*, 347 ; R. A., 559. (c. 114.)
(1.10) To Incorpcrate the Deientures and Securities Corlporation of Cao. (Sir M. Boweil).
5
Introduced. 296 ;2nd R. , 325 ; rep. tram
Cote. rii B. and C. (Mr. Drummond) 339
Ml. (Sir M. Bctveli) ta coîîcur in amts.. 339;
5
M. agreed to. 231 ; 3rd R. , 347 : R.
, 59.
(c. q4.)
(111) To incorpcrate the Iiiterprovinciai and
InJames' Bay- Ry. Co. (M\r. Landercin).
troduced, 42ri 2nd R.*, 446
3 rd R.*, 506
R. A., 5,59. (c. 66.)
Respecting the Montreai and Southern
Couaties Ry. Ca. (Mr. Dandurand).
Iroduced, and M. ta suspend ruies, 550 ; Objection (Mr'. Vidai) 551 ; reim., Mr. DanduBernier, 551 ; M. for
rand, Mr. rFcrget, «MNr.
2nd R., 5--.7 remn.. Mr. ilacdonald (P.El.,
Mr. Dandurand. 557 ; M. agreed ta, 557
Ml. ta suspend ruies, 557 : objected ta (Mr'.
Macdonald. P.E.I., and Mr. Primrose) 558.

(112)

(114) For Granting ta His Majesty certain sumas
of maney required for detraylng certain
expenses of the pubic~ service for the
financiai year ending June. 1901. and for
aliior liurpcses reiating la the puLiic service (Mr.'.\Milial. Introduced, 182 : M. ta
s-us-etd ride. 152: renl.. Sir 'M. BDweii, 182;
Mr. Mil.\Ir.
Scoat. Mr. Fergason, 183,
184 M. agred ta. 184 ; :'nd and Srd R.,
184
R.A.211. (c. 1.)
(il-) Tc. awn.ed t'le Veneral Inspection Act
(:!r. Milîs). i:ttroducpd, 233 ; 2nd R.'-, 256;
i. ctnitc.. 2-ý ; rem., Mr. Milis and Sir M.
Boweii, 259 ;Mr. Prowse, Mr'. Watson, Mr.
260
Mr. Perley. 261 ; rep. tram
Yriur.
comte. (Mr'. Tempieman) 261 ; rd R.*. 271;
R.
. 58. (c. 24.)
(116) Respecting the Culiing c-t Timber and the
InitraInspection of Staples (Mr'. Scott).
R. n-taved, 249J ; rein., Mr.
daced, 233 : 'd
Bcwell ani Mr. Ferguson, 249;
Scott, Sir MN.
M. agreed ta. 2,-, :. in comte.. 256 :reim.,

INDEX.

BILLS
Mr. Scott, Mr. Fecguscn and Sir M.%.
Bowell,
256 ;McI. Scott, Sir M. Bowell and Mr. Ferguscou, 257 ;cep. frorn comte. (Mr. Laugheed) 257 ; 3rd R.-, 258 ; R. A., 558. (c. 30.)
(117> Respectipg the Packing and Sale of certain Staple Conmnodities (Mr. Milis).
Intruiuced, 31. ; 2nd R. inoved, 452 ;rem.,
Mr. Mills, Mr. Bernier, 452, 4-3 ; M. agreed
tc, 453 ; lu comte., 485 ;rem., 'Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 4&-,
Mc Milis, 486 ;on 3rd
el., 'Mr. 'McKay (Truro), Mr. Wood (Hamnilton), Mr. Sucwbail, 4S6
Mr. Power, Sir
M. Bciveil, 4S7 ;Sic M. Bcwell, Mr. Dever,
48S
Mr. Milîs, Mr. Dever, Mr. Macdonald
(P.E.I.), 489 ;Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.), Mr.
McCallum, 490 ;Mr. Joues, Mr. Milîs, '%I.
Mc'Millan, Mr. Dever, 491 ; _Mr. McKay
(Trurc) '%r. Wood (Han.iltcu), NIr. SnýNvbail, 492 :Mr. Vidai, 493 ; M. .in ai.
(Ir.
Suowballî 49? rem., Mr. DevLr, 494; amnt.
rejected, c. 9, i.c. 21. 494 ;on 5th cl., 'Mr.
Bernier, 494 ;Mr. W&t-son, NIr. Power, 495;
Mr. Watson, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Joues, 496;
%Ir. Power, NIr. MNilîs, NIr Macdonald (P.E.
1.) 497 c ep. from comte. (Mr. Tempieman)
snd 3rd R., 497
R. A., 559. (c. 26.)
(120) Respecîîug thue Subsidiary High Court of
the Auclent Order of Foresters lu thie Dcminion of Canada (Sic IM. Bowell>. Introduced, and 2ud R.*, 426 ; îrd R..,506;
R.
,559.
(c. 101.)
(121) Fuctber to amend the Post Office Act
('\r. Milîs). Iutroduced, 339 ;2ud R., 367;
in com., ou el. 2, remn., Mr. Ferguson. 3S6,
387 ; Mr. Milîs and Mr. Power, 387, 38;
Mr. Wood (Hamilton), Mr. Milîs and Mr.
Macdonald (P.E..) 388 ; Mr. Milis. '. 1r.
Fergusou, aud Mr. Perley, 389 ; Mr. Power,1
Mr. Pcowse. Mr. Snowball aud Mr. Mac-*
douald (P.E..) 390 ;ou ci. 3, Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 390 ;Mr-. Mîlîs, Mr. Mac-r
donald (P.E.I.), Mr. Prowse, Mr. Scott, Mr.
Ferguson aud Mr. MdDouald (C.B.) 391 *
Mr. Miils, Mr. Macdonald <P.E.I.), and 'Mr.
Prowse, 392 ; rep. tram Corn. (Mr. Wood,
Westrnorelaud) 392 -, M. (Mr. Milis) for
3rd R., 414 ; rem., Sir M. Bowell, 414 ; 'Mr.
SIills, 415 ; M. agreed ta, 415 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 19.)
(1229) Furiher ta amend the Qenecai Inspeciou Act (Mr. Scott). Iutroduced, 394 ; 2ud
R., 425 ; lu comn., ou lst el., cemn., Mr.
Scott, Sic M. Boweil, 441, 442 ; ou 2nd ei.,
MNr. Scott, Mc. Powver, Sic M. Boweii, 442.
443 ;progress ceported (Mc. Templenian)
443 ;agaiu lu com., 481 ; au 2ud cl., cemn.,
Mc. Scott, Mc. Power, 481 ; Mc. Scott, Mr.
Powec, Sic M. Bowell, 482 ; Mc. Milie, Sicr

,Seriatn-Cou.

M. Bawell, Mc. Baker, Mr. Powec, Mr.
Daudurand,
483 ; cep. fram coin. (Mr.
Baker) aud Scd R., 483 ; R. A., 559. (c. 25.)
(124) Respectiug the Westeru Assurance Ca.
(Mr. Laugheed).
Iutcduced, 282 ;2ud
R.*, 325,;3cd R.*, 347 ; R. A., 559. (c. 116.)
(125) Respectiug the Bcitish-Amecjcan Assurauce Ca. (Mr. Laugheed). Iitcoduced, 282;
2ud R.*, 325 ; 3rd R.*, 347 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 90.)
(127) Ta ameud the Animai Contaglaus Diseases Act (Mr. Scott). Iutcoduced, 347;
2ud R. m., 422
ern., Mc. Sullivan, 422423 ; Mc. Pcimcose, 423 ; Mc. Milîs, 424;
M.* agreed ta, 424 ; M. ta, postpoue Coin.,
stage., 511 ; M. ta wvithdraw B. agceed ta.
557.

(131) To ameud the Act cespectiug Judges of
Provincial Courts (Mc. Milis). Iutroduced,
347 ; 2nd R. m., 383 ; cern., Mc. Milîs. 383;
Mc. Miler sud Mc. Milis, 384 ; Mc. Macdouald ( B.C.), Mc. Mcflauald (C.B.), Mr.
Milîs sud Mc. Fergusau, 385 -,M. agceed
ta . 386 ; in Coin., 415 ; cern., Mc. Macdouaid (B.C.) and Mr. Mills, 415 ; Mc. Macdonald (P.E.I.), Mc. Miiis aud Sic M.
Bowell. 416 ;Sic M. Bowell, Mc. Miiis,
417, 418, 419 ;ou 3cd ci., Mc. Laudry, Mc.
Dauducand, 419, 420; Mc. Macdonald (B.C.)
Mc. Milîs, 420, 421 ; cep. tram com. (Mr.
Bak-m) 421 ; M. foc 3cd R., 435 ; M. (Mc.
Laudcy) ta strike out 3cd ci., 435., cern.,
'.cI. Landcy,
Mc. Miils, 435, 436 ; Mr.
Baker. 436, 137 ; amt. rejected, c. 16. r.c.,
17 ; '.cI. Landcy abjects ta mode of takiug
division, 437 ; cern.. Sic M. Boweii, 437
Mc. Lsudcy, Sic M. Bowell, the Speaker,
438:; cd R., 438 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 39.)
(133) Respectiug Peusious ta Officers of the
Permanent Staff and Officers aud Meu of
the Permaueut Miiitia, sud foc other purposes (Mc. Scott).
Iutcoduced, 394 ; 2ud
R. rn., 425 ; cern., Mc. Scott, Sic M. Boweii.
425, 426 ; M. agreed ta, 426 ; iu Cum. ou
3rd el., ceai., Mc. Scott, Sic M. Boweii,
443 ; au -.-h cl., Sic M. Bowell. Mc. Power,
t
Mc. Scott, 443 ; au 6th aud 7tb cis., Sic M.
flowell, Mc. Scott, 444 ; ou 8tb cl., Mr.
Power, Sic M. Boweii, 444 ; ou 9th ci., Mc.
Scott, 444 ; on l4th el., Mc. Power, Mc.
Scctt. Sic M. Boweli, 444, 445 ; ou l7tb el.
Mc. Power, Mc. Milis, 445 ; ou 22ud ci.,
'Mc. Scatt, Sic M. Boweil, 445 ; Mc. Macdouald (P.ET.), Mc. Scott, Mc. Power, 445;
Mc. Macdonald (P.E.I.), Sic M. Boweii,
446 cep. frz)m Cam. (Sic A. Pelletier) aid
3rd R.*, 446 ; R. A., 559. (c. 17.)

INDEX.
BILLS-Seriatirn-Con.
(135) Respecting the Great Northern Ry.
.0
of Canada (Mr. Landry). Introduned, and
2nd R.*, 469 ;Zrd R.*, 526 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 62.)
(136) To amend the Ry. Act (Mr. Mills). Introduced, 413 ; 2nd R. m., 440 ;rem., Mr.
Mi les, Mr. Bolduc, 440 ;Sir M. Bowell, 441;
M. agreed to, 441 ;in
Com., rem., Mr.
Mills, Mr. Bolduc, 453, 454 ;Mr. Landry,
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Bolduc, Mr. Mills,
Mr. de Boucherville, 455 ;Mr. Milis, Mr.
(le Boucherville, Mr. Bernier, Mr. McCallum, Sir M. Bowell, 456
on Zrd el., Mr.
Landry, Mr. Mills, 457
cma Sth cl., Mr.
Landry, Mr MiUls, Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell,
437 ; on 9th and 11tb clses., Mr. Landry,
'Mr. Mills. 437, 458 ; rep. from com. (Mr.
Prin'rose) and 3rd R., 458 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 31.)
(137) To amend the Act respecting the Dept.
of Publie Printing and Stationery (Mr.
Scott). Introduced, 426 ; 2nd R.*, 446 ; ln
com., rem., Mr. Scott, 466 ; rep. from
Com. (Mr. Snowball) and 3rd R., 466 ; R.
A., 559. (c. 18.)
(13S) To provide for a further allowance to
the Province of P.E.I. (Mr. Mille).
Introduced, 446
2nd R. m., 501 ; rem., Mr.
ile,501-502 ;Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 502;
Sir M. Bowell, 503-504 ; Mr. Dandurand.
MNr. Perley. 3fr. Bernier. Mr. Mille, 504;
Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 505 ;. M. agreed to,
and Srd R.. 505 ;R. A., 559. (c. 3.)
(139) To amend the Gas Inspection Act (Mr.
Sect). Introduced, 469 ; 2nd R., 512 ; ln
nom., 512 ; rep. from czom. (Mr. Perley)
and Zrd R., 512 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 2S.)
(140) To amend the Electrie Light Inepection
Ant (Mr. Scott). Introduced, 469 ; 2nd R.,
512 :e lnom.,
512 : rem. on lst nl., Mr.
Scott, Sir M. Bow3ll, Mr. Sullivan ; on
4th eI., Sir M. Bowell. Mr. Landry ; on 7th
el., Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.), Mr. Scott,
5M3 ; rep. fromn nom. (Mr. Owene) and 3rd
R.. 513 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 29.)
(141) Further to amnend the Act relating to
Ocean Steamship Subeidiee (Mr. Mille). Introduced. 469 ; 2nd R. m., 513 ; rem., Sir
M. Bowell, Mr. Mille, Mr. Dandurand, 514
M. agreed to and 3rd R., 515 ; R. A., 559.
le. 6.)
(142) To provide for further advancee to the
Herbour Commiesionere of Montreal (Mr.
111lls).
Introduced, 469 ; 2nd R., 515 ; in
ccm., rem., Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Mille, .515;
rep. from nom. (Mr. Baker) and 3rd R.,
515 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 9.)

BILLS-&'riatitei-Con.
(143) ReePecting îhe Ottawa Brannh of the
Royal Mint (Mr. Mille). Introduned, and
2nd R.*, 520 ;M. to ref. B. to Coin. of the
Whole. 540 ;debate, Mr. Mille, 540-541;
Mr. Drummond, 541-545 ; Mr. Macdonald
(B.C.) 545 ; le nom., rem., Mr. Mille, 545546 ; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Mills, 546, 547;
Mr. Forget, 547-543
Mr. Drummond, Mr.
Mille, 548 ; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Forget,
Mr. Bernier, Mr. Drummond, 549 ; rep.
from nom. (Mr. Dandurand) and 3rd R.,
550 ;R. A., 559. (c. 4.)
(144) To amend the Inland Revenue Act (Mr.
Scott). Introduced, and 2nd R. m., 526;
rem., Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Scott, 526
Srd
R., 526 ; R. A., 559.
(n. 23.)
(145) Further to amend the Ry. Act (Mr.
Mille).
lntroduced and 2nd R. m., 526;
rem., Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Mille, 527
Srd
R., 527 ; R. A., 559.
(c. 32.)
(146) To authorize the grantlng of Subeidiee
ln aid of the construction of the Linee of
Railway therein mentioned (Mr. Mille). Introduced, and 2nd R. m., 537 ; rem., Mr.
Macdonald (B.C.). Mr. Mille. 537 ;Mr. Mecdonald (P.E.I.) 538, 539 ; M. agreed to,
539 -, ln nom., 540 ; rep. from nom. (Mr.
Baker) and M. for 3rd R., 540 ; rem., Sir
M. Bowell, 540 ; M. agreed to. 540 ; R. A.,
560. (c. 7.)
(150) Further te amend the Act respecting
Judgee of Provincial Courte (Mr. Mille).
Introduced, end 2nd R. i., 527 , rem., Mr.
Baker, 527 ; Mr. Mille, 528 ; 3rd R., 528
R. A., 559.
(c. 40.)
(151) To amend the Act resecting the Senate
and House of Commons (Mr. Scott). Introduced, aed 2nd R., 53.2 ; ie Com., rem.,
Sir M. Bowell, 532 ; Mr. Scott, Mr. Dever,
Mr. Templeman,
533 ; Mr. Power, Mr.
Dever, 534 ; rep. 'rom nom. (Mr. Perley)
and 3rd R., 535 ; R. A., 559. (n. 14.)
(152) To provide for the Payment o! Bountiee
on Lead Refined in Canada (Mr. Scott).
Introduced, and 2nd R. m.. 535 ; rem., Mr.
Scott, Sir M.
Bowell, 535 ; Mr. Wood
(Hamilton) 536 ; 'Mr. Maedcnall (P.E.I.)
537 ; R.
,559.
(c. 8.)
(155) Further to amend the PenitentiarY Act
(Mr. Mille).
Introduced, and 2nd R. m.,
528 ; rem., Mr. Milîs, 528-529 ; Mr. Sullivan, 529 ; 3rd R., 529 ; R. A., 559. (c. 43.)
(156) To amend the Cuetoms Tariff, 1897 (Mr.
Scott). Introduned, and 2nd R. m., 529;
rem., Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) Mr. Scott,
Sir M. Bowell. 529, 530, 531 ; in nom., 531;
rep. frDm cnm. (Mr. Sullivan) and 3rd R.,
531 ; R. A., 559. (c. 22.)

INDEX.
BILLS

.Scriatiinî "-on.

(157) To aend the Acts ai 1899 and 1900, reapecting the Quebec Harbaur Cammissionecs (Mr. Scott).
Intcaduced, and 2nd R.
mn., 552 ; rein., Mc. Macdonald (P.E.1.),
Mc. Landcy, Mc. Scott, Sic M. Bowell, 552
3cd R., 552 ; R. A., 560. (c. 10.)
(158) For gcanting ta H. M'%.
certain surne af
money required foc the public service foc
the finencial yeacs ending cespectively the
3Oth June, 1901. and the 3Oth June, 1902
(Mr. Millsi. Intraduced, and 2nd R. mn.,
553 ; debate, Sic M. Baweil, 553-555 ; Mr.
Mille, 555 ; Mc. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 555556 ;Sic M. Bawell, 556-557 ; Mc. Watson,
Mc. Danducand, 557 , M. agceed ta and 3cd
R.. 557 ; R. A., 559. (c. 2.)
Bille AssentEd ta, 200, 558-559-560.
Binder Twine, Price ai Governeunt :inq. (Mc.
Pecley) ; reply (Mc. Mille) 506.
Bounty ta Queeo'eý County, P.E.I., Fisher'nen :M. (Mr. Ferguson) foc retuco agceed
ta, 204.
flurpee, Employinent of ex-Senator :lnq. (Mc.
Landry) ; reply (Mc. Scott) 255.
Burpee, Resignetion ai Senator :inq.
(Mc.
Landry) ; rcply (Mr. Scott) 195.
Census Officere ai the North-west Tercitacies
lnq. (Mrc. Perley) ; reply (Mr. Scott) 130.
Censua, The :inq. (Mr, Landry ; reply (Mc.
Scott) 393 ; rein., Mc. Fergusan and Sic
M. Ban cli, 39..
Cbeese, The Expoct afi ioq. (Mr. Drurnrnnd);
ceply (.\I.
Mille) 269.
Chie! Justice -- the N. W. T.'a
f
inq. ('.%r
Periey' 272
ep!y (Mc. Mille) 273.
Coe Hill Mines Mail Contract :M. Sic M.
Bowell) for cetuca, agceed ta, 202 ; fucther
informatiGn asked for. 427 ; lnq. (Sir M.
Bowell) ; ceply (Mr. Mills) 433 ; lnq. (Sic
M. Bawell) :reply (Mr. Scott) 449 ; cemn.,
Sic M. Bowell, Mr. Scott, 449, 450.
Cainrittee ai Selectian :M. (.%I. Mille) ta
appoint cointe., 27.
Complainte f coi
the Daukhoboce (Cee Douirhohoce, The) :119.
(Mc. K'crchContingent Accouats, The :M.
baffer) ta cefer .3rd report ai coin, an
I. E. and C. A. ta Coin, ai the W'hole,
egreed ta, 29S ;in in comte. ; cerm., 'Mr.
Miller, Mc.r McKay (Tcuro),
Scott, '.cI.
Mic. Vidal. 298 ; Sic M. Bowell, Mc. Mille,
Power, Mc.
Mc. McDonald (C.B.), Mc.
Miller, 299 ; Mc. Mille, Sic M. Bowell, Mc.
Wood (Westinoceland), and Mc. Pcowse,
300 ; caneidecetion ai cep. postponed, 301
'M. (Mcr. Kicchhoffer) toa dopt cep., -312
c r.,
Mr. Scot,. Sir A. Pelletier. 312 ;Mr.
Kicchhcffec. Mc. Pcirrne, ind 'Mc. Mac
lonald (P.ET.) 313 Mc'\I. Miller. 314 ;Mr.

Contingent

Accounts,

The-('oit.

Watson, 3153 Sic M. Bowell. 3 16 ;Mr.
Scott, Mr. Kirchbo)ffer, 11-7 Mr. 'Watson,
and Mr. Kirchhoffer, 318 ;Mr. JTones, 'Mr.
Watson, and Sic M. Bowell, 319; M. agreed
to, 320 ,rein., Sir M. I3owell, 325.
Cook Case, The :M. (Sir M. Boweli) called,
56 cern., Sir M. Bowell, and Mr. Milis,
58
M. afllwed to stand, 58 ;M. (Sic M.
BowelI) ta appoint a comte. 66 ;debate,
Sir M. Bowell, 68-74 ; Mr. Mille, 74, Ï5;
Mr. Miller, -75 ; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Scott,
Sir M. Bowell, 76 ; The Speaker, 77 ; Sir
MI. BoNwell,
78,
79 ;Mr.
ScDtt,
Mr.
Mills, 79 ; The Spaker, SQ Mr. M.%ilis,
80-85
'.%Ir. Ferguson, S5--S7 ;Mr.
Scott,
87-90 ; M1. t.) adjn. debate (Mr. Prowse)
agreed ta, 91 ;debate resiîmed, 91 ; '.%r
Prowse. 93-98
Mr. Landerkio, 98-100 ; M.
In aint. (Mr. Landerkin) 101 ; Mr. Eirchbaffer, 101-104 ; Mr. Danduraod, 104-106;
Mr. Macdonald (B(C.), 106-107 ; Mr. WaVod
(Westrnareland) 107-109 ; Sir Win. Hingstan, 109 ; Mr. Kerr, 109-113 ; Mr. McCallurn, 113-115 ; aint. rejeýctd. c., 30 ; n.c..
34 ; original M. agree2d ta, 115 ; remn., Sir
M. Bawell, Mr. Mille, and The Speaker,
115 ; M. (Sir M. Boweli) ta appoint comte.
agreed ta, 118 ; Mr. Milîs complaine that
advance copies of evidence are marked
Sconlidential '; rein, Mr. Miller., Sic M.
Bawell, 336 ; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Scott, 337;
Baweil) toadapt cep. af coin.,
M. (Sir M-%.
424 ; M. ta adapt firat cep. af coin., 447;
rein., Sic M. Bawell, Mr. Mille, and M.
agreed ta, 417 ;M. (Sic M. Bowell) ta
adapt 2nd rep., 483.
Credit Foncier du l3as-Can., The : emn., Mr.
Mills, Sic M. Bawl, Mc. Landcy, The
Speaker, 434.
Death af Queen Victoria, The :M. (Mc. Mills)
ta adopt cesolution of Hause af Comnians,
27
r ern., Mc. Milis, 2-7-33 ; Sic M. Bowell,
33 ;M. agceed ta, 33.
Debates and Reporting Cominittee :M. (Mr.
Scott) toasppc-int. agreed ta, 51 ; M. to
adapt cep. (Mr. Becnier) 428, agreed to, 439.
Deceased Senatars (see S2nators Deceased) 36.
Delayed Returns (see Returne Deleyed).
inq. (Mr.
Disailawance of Quebec Legisletian
cemn., Mc.
Landcy) reply (Mr. Mille) 428
(Mr.
Mills, 428-429 ;inq.
Landcy, Mc.
Iandry) 447 ; rein., Mc. Scott, Mr. Landry.
Mc. Mille, 448 ; Mr. Scott, Sic M. Bawell,
Mr. Landry, 449 ; Mr. Landcy, 506-509
Mc. Scott, Sic M. flowell, Mc. Mille, 509
Mc. Mills, Sir MI. Bowell, 510; Mr. Landcy.
511
inq. (Mc. Landcy) ceply (Mr. Mills)
523
rein., Mc. DeBoucherville. 523 :Mr.
Landcy, 524 ;Mc. Danducand, Mc. Landry,
525.

INDEX.
Dismissai of Charies Taylor <see Taylor, Dismissal of Charles) 164.
Dismissal of Postmaster Field (see Field, Dismissai of Postinaster) 164.
Divisions:
On M. (Sir M. Bowell) ta investigate Cook
charge, and M. in aint. (Mr. Landerkin),
aint. rejected, con. 30 ;n.c. 34 ;115.
On M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta refer Bill
(H) 'An Act respecting the Dawson City
Electric Co., Ltd.,' back ta Comte, on R. T.
and H. ; M. rejected, c. 17 ; .c. 19 ; page
332.
On M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) ta reditore Bill
IH) 'An Act respecting the Dawson City
Electrie Co.' ta the order paper ;M. agreed
ta. c. 28, o.c. 22 ;page 347.
On M. (Mr. Kirchhoffir) ta adopt rep. of
Cani. on B. and C. ;on B. (F) ' Respecting
the Bell Tel. Co. of Canada.'
'\.
M rejected,
c 20, n.c. 27 ;page 411.
On M. (Mr. Milîs) for 2rd R., and M. Mr.
Landry) In anit. ta strike out Srd el., amt.
rejected, c. 16, n.c. 17.
In

Coin. on B. (117) respecting the Packlng
andi Sale of Certain Staple Conimodities,
on cl. 3, aint. (.\r. Snowball) rejecteti,
494.

Divorce Commlttee :M.
point, agreeti ta, 51.

('%r.

Scott)

ta

ap-

Doukhobors, Cotoplaints tram : inq. i. Mr. Bernier) reply (Mr. Milîs) 175 ;rem., Mr.
McCallum, 176 ; Mr. Sullivan, 177 ;Mr.
Milîs, 178 ;Sir
M. Bowell. 178-180 ;Mr.
Scott, Mr. Bernier and '.%r. Milîs, 180.
Doukhobars, Complaints from The iste Doukhobors, The) :119.
Doukhobor Immigration : M. (Mr. Bernier)
and remn., 140 ,Mr.
Milis. 141-143 ;Mr.
McCalluin, 143-14-7 * -'%r. Prixnrcse, 147;
Mr. Milîs, 147 ;Mr. Watson, 147-150 ;Sir
M. Bowell, 150-153 , Mr. Scott, 153-155;
M-Nr.Kirchhoffer, 1.55-157 ;Mr. Dandurand,
157-159
Mr. Kerr, 159-160 ;Mr. Periey.
160-162
Mr. Bernier, 162 ;M. agreed ta,
163 ; lnq. (Mr. Bernier) 168 repiy (Mr.
Milîs) 169 ;remn., Mr. McCallum, 169-171 ;
Mr. Scott, 171-172 ;Mr.
Primrose, 172;i
Mr. Ellis, 173 *;Mr. Watson, 173-175.
Doukhobor Perniits M (Mr. Perley) for reIN.
turr, agreed ta, 311.
Doukhobors, The : Iq.
(Mr. Bernier) called,
119 ; remn., Mr. Scott, Mr. McCalluin, andi
Mr. Milîs, 119 : inq. pastPon"ed, 120 ; Inq.
(Mr. Bernier) calied, 120 rein., Mr. Scott,
and Mr. MeCallumn, 120 ; mg. postpaned,
120 ; Inq. again called and postponed, 122.1

Duke of Cornwall. Visit of His Highness The:
Iinq. (NIr. Macdona8ld, B.C.) reply (Mr.
Milis) ; remn., Mr. Miller, 255.
Election Irregularities : inq. (Mr. Periey) 257
reply
Ir.
Milîs) 258 ; remn., Mr. Perley
and Mr. Scott, 258.
Employment of ex-Senator Burpee :
gn.(.'%r.
Landry) repiy (Mr. Milîs) 255, 273.
Emplayment of J. Hurley, ex-M.P. (Cee Hurley, ex-M.?., Employment of J.).
Errors in the Minutes :Mr. Prowse calîs attention ta error re Stovel Divorce Bill
130 ;remn., Mr. Mills, Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Prowse, Mr. Baker, Mr. Miller and Mr.
Bernier, 131 ; Mr. Fergusan, andi Mr. Landry, 132.
Export of Cheese, The
port of) :269.

(Cee Cheese, the Ex-

Farmers in the Senate (Cee Appointinents ta
the Senste) :61.
Field, Disinissal of Postinaster :inq (Mr. Ferley) reply (Mr. Milîs) 164.
Fishing Baunties in P.E.I. :remn. (Mr. Ferguson andi Mr. Milîs) 282.
Flshing Lake Post Office. Pastinaster At :inq.
(Mr. Perley) reply (Mr. Mills) 202.
Fiaheries, The : Inq. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.>
429 ; reply ('-%r.
Milîs) 430 ; remn., Mr.
Macdonald, B.C., 429 ; Mr. Milis, Mr. McCalluin, 430 ; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Milis.
431 ;Mr. M3cCallum, Mr. Macdonald (B.C.)
432.
Franchise Act, The; Notice of aint. (Sir M.
Bowell) and remn., 426.
Ge-olagical
Museuni S<,eclmens ;inq.
(NIr.
Primrose) 180 ;rep'y Mr. Milis) 181 ; remn.,
Mr. Prlmrose, 182.
Heir Apparent, Visit of The *inq. (Mr. Landry) reply (Mr. Milis) 258 ; lnq. Mr. Landry) rapiy (Mr. Esott) 414 ; fnq. (1Mr.
Landry) 450 ; reply (Mr. Milîs) 451 ; remn.,
Mr. Landry, Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell, .151;
Sir M. Bowell. Mr. Milîs, Mr. Landry, 452.
Hurley, ex-M.P., Employment of J. :Inq. (Sir
M. Bowell) reply (Mr. Scott) 195 ; remn.,
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Scott, and Mr. Ferguson, 496.
Importation of Immoral Literature :lnq. (Mr.
Bernier) reply (Mr. Milîs) 366.
Iniproper Census Circular *Inq. (Sir M. Bawell)
234 ; rein., Sir M. Bowell, 234-237
Mr.
MIlîs, 237-239 ; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Bernier, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Scott. 239 ;Mr.
Bernier, 240 ;an
explanation (Sir
M.
Bowell) 26S.
Incorrect Returns
tract: 427.

00e Hill Mines Mail Con-

INDEX.

Independence of Senate-The Cook
Cook Case, The) :56.
Indebtedness of the Provinces :Mb.
ley) 281.

Case (see
(Mr.

Per-

Inquiries:
Administration of the Yukon Territory, 128.
Bankruptcy legialation, 140, 182.
Census, The, 234, 268, 393.
Census Oficers for the N.WV.T's, 130.
Chief Justice o! the N.W.T', 2i2
00e Hill Mines and Apsley Mlail Service, 433.
Complaints froin the Doukhobors, 119, 122,
175.
Condition o! Parliament Grounds. 241.
Disallowance of Quebec Legisîstion, 428.
Dismissal of Chas. Taylor, 164.
Dismissal o! Postinaster Field, 164.
Doukhobor Immigration, 120, 168.
Election Irregularities, 257.
Emplnyment o! ex-Senator Burpee, 255.
Eruplonment of J. 1-url-ýy, exMP,195.
Export of Cheese, 269.
Geological Museumn Specirnens, 180.
Govt. Assay Offices, 278.
Harbour Accommodation at Picton, 5,, 91, 119.
Hillaboro' River Bridge, 39.
Importation o! Immoral iLterature, 366.
Labour Gazettc, The, 277, 295.
Limitation o! Purchase o! Army Beef, 201.
Man. School Lands, 27.
Micmac Indians, The. 2-S, 26!4, 344, 413, 427,
428, 433.
Navigation on the St. Lawrence, 273.
Oliver Equipinent, The, 259, 269, 280.
Pan-American Exposition, 202.
Postinaster at Fishing Lake P.O., 202.
Preferential Tariff. The, 165.
Price o! Govt. Binder Twine, 506.
Provincial Fisheries, The, 429.
Quebec Local Election, 63.
Removal o! Mr. Geo. Wallbridge, 468.
Resîgnation o! Sen. Burpee, 195.
Salaries o! Judges, 116, 212.
Salaries o! Judges in B.C., 60.
Temperance Commission's Report, 281.
Trent Valley Canal, 447, 449.
Validity o! Provincial Acta, 122.
Visit of the Duke o! Cornwall, 255, 258, 414,
450.
Wharf and Harbour o! Three Rivera, 468.
Yukon Ry. Legisiation, 196.
Inquiries in the Minutes, Recording :on M.
(Mr. Milis) to adjo., remn., Mr. Landry, 134135 ; Mr. Milîs, 135, 136 ; Mr. Miller, 136
Mr. Landry, 157. ; Mr. Mills, 138 ;Mr.
Miller, Mr. Ferguson, 138 ; Sir M. Bowell,
139 ; Mr. Scott, 140.
InternaI Economy
Committee :M.
agreed to, 51.

and Contingent Accounts
(Mr. Scott) to appoint,

InternaI Econorny and
Committc-e Report
counts, The) :298.

Contingent Accounts
(see Contingent Ac-

Judges' Salaries. The :inq. (Mr. Drumnond)
212 ; repiy (Mr. Milla) 214 ;remn., Mr.
Drummond, 212 ;Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Macdonald (PE..) 213 ;Mr. Dandurand, 214
Mr. Mills, 214-216
Mr. Drummond, 216
Mr. Lougheed, and Sic M. Bowell, 217
Mr. Baker, 219
Mr. Mills, Sir M. Dowell,
219 ;Mr. Ellis. 221) Mr. Dandurand, 220
inq. (Mr. Drummond) pnstponed, 258.
Judges, Salaries cf :inq.
(.Mr. Macdonald,
B.C.) 60 ;reply (-.I.
Milîs) 60 ; inq. Mr.
Drummond) 116 ; remn., Mr. Drumrnond,
116. 117
Mc'%I.
Dandurand, Sir M. Bowell,
and Mr. MNilîs, 116
.%r.
M Kerr, 117.
Labour Gazette, The :inq.
(Mr. Lougheed)
remn., Mr. 1Mi11s, 'Mr. Lougheed, and Mr.
Ferguson. 277 :reply (Mr. Milîs) 295.
:M. (Mr. O'Donohoe)

Lachine Canal Bridges
for return. 344.

Mr. DeBoucherville
Llbrary ('ominitte,-, The
suggests change in entry in the 'Minutes
remn., 'Mr. 111115. and the Speaker. 52.
Llbrary of Parliament, The :M. (Mr. Scott)
te appoint Standing Cointe,
42 ;rem-.
Mr. DeBouclberville. the Speaker, Sir M.
Bowell, and Mr. 'Milîs, 42 ; M. agreed to,
51 ; M. (Sir A. P. Pelletier) to adopt rep.
of LIbrarians agreed to, 51.
Limitation of Purchase of Army Beet (see
Army Beef. Limitation of Purcliase of)
201.
Manitoba School Lands :lnq. (Sir M. Bowell)
reply (Mr. Scott) 27.
sMicmac India-i
The :inq.
(MI. Landry)
(.%I. Milîs) postponed. 259
258 ;reply
inq. again poatponed, 269, 344, 413, 427
reply (Mr. Mills) 427 ; inq. (Mr. Landry)
wlthdrawn, 433.
Minutes, Recording Inquiries In Tbe (see Inquiries in the Minutes, Recording) :134.
Minutes, Errors ;n
Minutes) :130.

thne

(see

Errors

in

the

,Miiecellan'eous Private Bills Cornmittee :M.
(Mr. Scott) to appoint, 50; remn., Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Watson, Sir M. Bowell, and
Mr. Dandurand, 51.
Morning Sitting. A
agreed to. 552.

.\.
M

(Mr .

.Mills)

551

Navigation on the St. Lawrenc~e, Safety Oif
inq. (Mr. Landry) reply (Mr. 'Milîs) 273.
New Senstors (see Senators. New).
Census Officers for
North-west Territories.
The (see Census Officers for the N.\V.T.'S):
130.

INDEX.
N. S. Eastern Ry. Co. :M. (Sir M. Boweli) ta
refer B. ta Coin. on S. 0. and P. B._ 438.
Oliver Equipinent, The : inq. (Mr. Landry)
259 ; reply (Mr. Milis) postponed, 259;
Inq., 269 ; reply (Mr. Mills) 270 -,rem.,
Mr. Drummond, 270.
Pacifie Cable Correspandence : Return submitted (Mr. Scott) 203 ;rein., Mr. Ferguson, Sir M. Bowell, and Mr. Scott, 203
M. to, print rep. agreed ta, 203.
Pacifie 'Cab% lhe : notice -of M. (Sir M.
Powell) 55 ;rem., Sir. M. Bowell, 55 ; Mr.
Scott, 56 ;M.
(Sir M. Powell) 60 ;rem.,
Mr. Scott, 60 ;M. agr4?-!d to, 60.
(Mr.
Pan-American
Exhibition, The :inq.
Prlmrose) reply (Mr. Mills) 202 ;rem.,
Mr. Prlmrose, 202.
Parliament Grounds, Condition of
inq. (Mr.
Ailan) 241 ;reply (Mr. M,%illa)243 ;rem.,
Mr. Alian, 241-242 ;Mr. Mills, .%Ir. Poirier,
243.
Patent. Act, The :Petition
Dandurand) 343.

presovnted

(Mr.

Pictou, Terminal Facilities
At :inq. (Mr.
Prlmrose) pcstponed, 91 ;inq.
renewed.
119 ;reply (Mr. S.,ott) 119.
Postinaster at Fishlng Lake Post Office (see
Fisblng Lake P. 0., Postrnaster At) :202.
Preferential Tariff, The isee Tariff. the Preferential) -165.
Price of Governinent Bindcr Twlne (see Binder Twlae, Prîce of Goverament) :506.
Printlng Comrnlttee. The
M (.Mr. Scott) ta
/.
appoint, 42
rem., Mr. Watson, 43 ;Mr.
Bolduc, 44 ;Mr. Scott, 44-46 ;Mr. Dandurand, 46
Mr. Landry, 46
Mr. MeCalluin, 47 Sir M. Powell, 47
Mr. Milîs,
47 ;Mr. Lougheed, 48 ;M. agreed ta, 49.
Printing af Parliament, The :M. (Sir John
Carling) ta adapt 5th rep., 439 ;rein., Sir
J. Carling, Mr. PrlmrDse, Mr. Bernier, Mr.
Macdonald (P.E.I.) 439 ; M. agreefi ta,
440 ;M. (Mr. O'Donoboe) ta print return,
467 ;rem., Mr. Milla, Mr. Scott, Sir M.
Bowell, 467 ; M. wlthdrawn, 467.
Privilege : Mr. Klrchhoffer calla attention ta
a misstatement ln Toronto Globe re Man.
Ry. Bill, 433-434.
Prohibition Acte, Validity of Provincial : inq.
(Mr. Ferguson) 122 ; rem., Mr. Ferguson,
122 ;Mr. Mllis, 123.
Property Qualifications of Senatore (see Senatars, Property Qualifications of) :53.
Prorogation,

The:

558.

Provincial Fisheries, The (aee Fiaherles, The):
429.

Quebec Local Election of 1900: inq. (Mr. Landry) 53 ; remn.. Mr. Scott, Mr. Dandurand,
and Mr. Landry, 53.; reply, Mr. Scott, 53.
Question

af Privilege, A iaee Privilege) : J33.

Rallways, fIlýlegrapbsag4d Harbours Coinmlttee .M.
(Mr. Scott) ta appoint, agreed
ta, 50.
Railways ta the Yukon :on M. (Mr. Mille) ta
adjn. ;rein.. Mr. Macdonald )E.C.) 168;
inq. (Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) reply (Mr.
Mills) 204 ; rein., Sir M. Powell, Mr.
Lougbeed, Mr. Mills, Mr. Macdonald 1B.C.)
205 ; Mr. Milîs, 206-2-09 ; Sir M. Bowell, 209.
Remaval of Mr. George Wallbridge (see Wallbridge, Removal of Mr. George) :468.
Reuignation of Senator Burpee (see Burpee,
Resignatian of Senator) :195.
Restaurant Cornmittee, The . M.
ta appoint, agreed ta, 51.

(Mr.

Scott)

Returns Delayed :Sale of Schaol Lands lu
Manitoba, 3 ; in lnq. (Sir M. Boiwell) for
papers re Pa:lflic Cable Telegraph, remn.,
Mr. Scott, 168.
Trent Valley Canal :296, 311, 340.
Doukhobors, The : 340.
Coe HIi Minea Mail Contract :296, 311, 449,
Indebtedneas of the Provinceas
506.
Safety of Navigation on the St. Lawrence (see
Navigation on the St. Lawrence, Safety
0f)
273.
Salaries of Judges (sce Judges ln B. C.,
aries Of) :60.

Sal-

Saturday Session, A :M. (Mr. Milîs) 446
rein., (Mr. Landry) ;M. agreed ta, 44..
Senatars fleceased
rem. , Sir M. Bowell, 36
Mr. Milîs, 36 ;Mr. Scott, 37 ; Mr. Wood
(Hamilton) 38 an orders of the day belng
called, Sir M. Powell calîs attention to
death of Senator J. J. Rasa, and moves
adjnmt., 334 ; remn., Mr. Milla, 335 ;M.
agreed ta, 335.
Senators, New :
Andrew Trew Wood, 1.
Lyman Melvin Jones, 1.
George McH-ugh, 1.
Robert MacKay. 1.
John Valentine Ellis, 2.
George Landerkin, 53.
Joseph Godbout, 198.
Antoine Arthur Dechene, 467.
Ni. (Mr.
Senators, Property Qualifications 0f
Mille) ta extenfi turne for filling declaratians, 53 ;rein., Sir M. Powell, and Mr.
Mllis, 53 ;M. agr+ef ta, 53.

INDEX.
Sinallpox on an Atlantic Steamer :MNr. Sullivan calls attention to subject, 395 ;remn.,
Mr. Sullivan, and Mr. MNille, 395, 396.
Solder Rifle and Oliver Equipinent :inq. (MIr.
Landry) 280 ;reply (Mr. Mills) 281.
Speaker, The :Lawrence
pointed, 1.

Geoffrey Power, ap-

Speaker's Rulinga
Cook Charges, The : on point of order raised
by Min. Jus., 7i-78, 79, SO ;on point of
order raised by Secretary of State, 98.
Crédit Foncier du Bas-Canada B.: on M. (Mr.
Scott) to let the order cf the day be discharged, 435.
Dawson City Electric Co. B. :on _M. (Mr.
Macdonald, B.C.) to ref. B. back to Coin.
on R. T. and H., 330, 336 ;on M. (Mr. 'Macdonald, B.C.) to refer B. to comte. of the
whole House, 340, 341 ;on M. (-%r. M%-acdonald. B.C.) to restore B. to orders of the
day, 347.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Aint. B. : on
M. (Mr. Milis) for 3rd R., and amit. (Mr.
Landry) to strike out 3rd el., 437, 438.
Montreal and Southern Counties Ry. Co. B.
on M. (Mr. Dandurand) to suspend rules,
and objection (Mr. VidaI) 551 ;on M. (Mr.
Dandurand) to suspend rules and objection
(Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) 558.
Ry. Subsidies B. : ruling that B. should be
ref. to, comte. of the whole, 539.
St. Lawrence and Adirondack Ry. 0o. B.: on
M. (Sir _M.Bowelî) to concur in Commons
aints., 515.

Standing Committees, Apointaient of-Colt.
Restaurant, 51.
Divorce, 51.
Standing Committees, The : rep. of Co~mte. of
Selection presented and read, 38 ;M. (MNr.
Scott) to, suspend rule, 39 ;Mr. Watsn
objecta, 39 ;rein., Mr. Lougheed, 39 ;rep.
allowed to stand, 39 ;on M. (Mr. Milîs)
to adjn.,
rein.,
Sir
M.
Bowell,
Mr.
DeBoucherville, and Mr. Watson, 40 ;3Mr.
Scott, 41 ;rep. allowed to st;nd, 42 ;M.
(Mr Scott) to appoint Library Comte., 42
rein., Mr. DeBoucherville, The Speaker,
SM. Bowell, and Ufr, Milîs, 42 ;M.
allowed to stand, 43 ;suggestion ('Mr.
Mills) te add names of Mr. Watson and
Mr. Young, 411.
Standing Orders, Committee on : M1. ('\r.
Scott) to appoint, 49 ;rein., Mr. Watson,
49-50 ;Sir M. Bowell, 50 ;M. agreed to,
50.
Tariff. the Prefprential : mgq. (Mfr. Perley)
165 ;reply (Mr. Milîs) 165-166 ;rein., Sir
M. BoweIl, 166-167 ;Mr. Fýerguson, Mîr.
Mills, 167 ;Sir M. Bowell, 168.
Taylor, Dismissal <if Charles : inq. (.\r. Perley) and reply (Mr. Sfills) ;rein., Sir 'M.
Bowell, and Mr. Mills, 164.

mg.

Temperance Commission's Report, The :
(Mr. Landry) reply (Mr. Scott) 281.

Three Rivera, Wharf and Harbour cf
inq.
(Mr. Landry), reply (.\Ir. Milîs) 468.
Translating Reports, Delay in : on M1. (M1r.
Milla) to, adJo., rein., Mr. Landry, 'Mr.
Milîs, 1fr, Primrose, NIr. Scott. Mr. Ferguson, and Sir MN.BoweIl, 121.

St. Lawrence Lloyda Incorporation B. : on MI.
to consider aints., 311.

Trent Valley Canal, The : M. (Sir M. Bowell)
for returo, 240 rein., Sir M. Bowell, 240
Mr. Milla, 241
Mf. agreed te, 241.

South Shore Ry. Co. B. : on M. (Mr. Dandurand) for 2nd R., and objection (.%r. Landry) 512.

Victoria, the Death of Queen (see
Queen Victoria, The) : 27.

Standing Committees, The : ou M. (Mr.
Scott) to appoint Joint Com. on Library, in
reply to (Mr. de Boucherville) 42, 51, 52.
Speech front the Throne, The :2.
Standing

Commîttees,

Appointment

of The

Banking and Coin., 50.
Llbrary of Parliament, 42, 51.
Printing. 43.
Standing Orders, 49, 195.
Railways. Telegraphe and Harbours, 50.
Private Bis, 50.
Internal Economy and Contingent Accts., 51.
Dehatea and Reporting, 51.

Death

of

Visit of the Duke of Cornwall (see Duke of
Cornwall, Visit of His Highness, The)
255, 258.
M'allridgè, Removal
of Mfr. George : inq
(Sir 3f. BoweIl) reply 0VMr. Milîs) 46S
rein,, Sir M1. BoweII. 468-469.
Wharf and Harbour of Three Rivers (see
Three Rivera, Wharf and Harbour of)
468.
Yukon Railway Legislatioji : inq. (Mîr.
donald, B.C.) reply ('%Ir. Milîs) 196.

'Mac-

Yukon Territory, Administration of The :ing.
(.fr. Mfacdonald, B.C.) 128 ;and rein., 129
r2uIy 0%1r. Nlil1h) and rein., 129-130.

