DEBATES

THE

SENATE
0F THE

DOMINION OF CANADA
1902
REPORTED AND EDITED BY

HOLLAND

BROS.

Offlcial Reporters of the Senate of Canada

SECOND SESSION -NINTH

PARLIAMENT

O TTA WA
PRINTED BY S E5.DAWSON, PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST
EXCELLENT MAJESTY

1902

SENATORS OF CANADA
ALPHAflETICAL

2ND

SESSION,

9TH

LIST

PARLIAMENT, 2 EDWARD VII
1902,
DESIGNATION.

SENATORS.

POST OFFICE AI>DRESS.

The Honourable
M..... ...... ....
AriKNs, J.%îEs Cox .........
ARMAND, JOSEPH F .........................
l3AIRI, GEORGE T...........................
..............
......
BAKER, GEORGE B. ....
BÉKQurE, F. L . ....... ......................

Home............ .Tonvmto.
Repentigny.... .... Montreal.
Victoria...... .... Perth Centre, N.B.

Sweetsburg, Que.
Bedford ............
Montreal.
DeSalaberry ....
St. Boniface, Manitoba.
.... St. Boniface ...
BERNIrER, THOMAS ALFRED.................
St. Victor de Tring, Que.
Lauzon ............
...............
BOLDUVC, JOSEPH .............
Boucherville, Que.
BorcHERvILLE, BOUCHER DE C. E., C.JLG...Montarvile ........
Belleville, Ont.
BOWELL, SIR -MACKENZIE K.C.M.G............ Hastings ..........
.. London, Ont.
..... London ..........
CARLIN~G, SIR JOHN, K.C.M.G. .........
.. ... *..... New Glaagow, N.S.
C.ARMICHAEL, JAMES W..........................
Montreal.
DeLanaudière ...
CASOBGAiN, JOaEpH P. B ............
Windsor...... ... .Wiindsor. Ont.
CAsGRAIN, CHARLES EUSÈBE...... ...............
Halifax, N.S.
....................
... ........
CHuRcH, C. E .................
Ottawa.
CLEMOW, FRANCIS................ ..... .... .... Rideau .... ........
Hil.hurs., <ue.
.. .....
WMellington .........
COCHRANE, MATTREW HENRY .........
.................Toronto, Ont.
CoM, GEORGE A .......
Montreal.
..... ..... De Lorinner ....
DANDURAND, RAOUL..... .........
De la Durantaye .... St. Roch des Aulnaies, Que.
L>EcBENE,, A. M.............................
John, N.B.
Sr. Mr. St. John..St.
.................
DE-;§R, JAMExS....... .......
. mherat....... ... Amherst, N.S.
DicKEET. ROBERT B..........................
Lindsay......... ... Lindsay, Ont.
........................
DoBsoN, JOHN ........
. ... Montreal.
...... 0... Kennebec
DaumHOND, GEORGE A. .........

ELLus, J. V..... .........

.................

..............
FERGusoN, DONALD ............
FISET, JEAN BAPTISTE ROMuALD ...............
........
FORGES', Louis J...................
... .......
FULFORD, GEORGE TAYLOR ..........
GisoN, W ................................

GILLMOR, ARTHUR H. ... .. ý.. .............
GODEOUT, J ................................
GowAx, JAMES RoBERT, C.M.G ...............
HI' NGSTON, SIR WILLIAM H., Kt ...............
.............................
JONES, I. M .
...........
KEER, WILLIAM ........
KiNG, GEORGE GzRALD ............
KicInorpE, JOHN NEEBIT ......

..........
...........
............

G ..............................
..............
A. C. P......... ....
LOL'GHEED), JAMES ALEXANDER ....................
....
.... ..........
Lovrrr, JOHN........ ....
MACDONALD, ANDREw A ...... ................
MACDONALD, WILLIAM JOHN............. .. ....
MAcKEEN, DAVID .............................
LANDEHlKi-N,
LANDRI,

St. Jean............ St. John, N.B.
Charlottetown, P.E.I.
Queen's ............
Gulf.............. Rimouski, Que.
Sorel......... :.....
...................
Lincoln.............

......

...........

La Salle........ ...
Barrie..............
Rougemnont .........
Toronto.............
Northumberland, 0..
Queen's............
Selkirk .............

Montreal.
Brockville, Ont.
Beainsville, Ont.

St. George, N. B.
St. François, Beauce, Que.
Barrie, Ont.
Montreai.
Toronto, Ont.
Cobourg, Ont.
Chipmnan, N.B.
Brandon, Manitoba.

Hanover, Ont.
Grey, S.R .........
Notre Dame de Quebec, Que.
Stadacona .... ....
Calgary, N.W.T.
Calgary ... ........
Yarmiouth.......... Yirniouth, N.S.
... Charlottetown, P.E.I.
Charlottetown
Victoria, B. 0...Victoria, B.C.
Halifax, N.S.
Cape Breton ..-..

SENATORS

SENATORS.

0F CANADA.

DESIGNATION.

POST OFFICE ADI)RESS.

The Honourable
Mille Isies .
.
Monck ..........
Cape Breton ....................
McDoNAI.D, WILLIAM. ..
... Victoria, O ...
McHuGH, G............................
Truro............
bMeKAY, THOMIAS....... ...... ..... ..............
... ....... Alma,............
MÂCItÂT, R ....................
Perth .........
..
...
... .......
MeLAREN, PETER...............
Alexandria....
.....
MCMILLAN, DONALI). .......
... ......
...... N. WVellington..
MCMULLEN, J.ý........... .........
Northumnberland ....
McS WEENEY, PETER .............................
New Hanbîrg...
.....
....
...
MERNER, SAMUEL ................
Richmond.........
MILLIER, WILLIAM...............................
Shawinegan...
..
MONTPLAI8ME, HIPPOLYTE..................
Victoria .... .. ..
....
O'BLUEN,-, JAMES.................... .. .....
Erie .... .. .......
O'DoonoHO, JOHN ............................
Inkermian.........
OWENS WILLIAM ...........................
Grandville.......
PELLETIER, SIR ALPHONSE, K.C.M%.G .........
........ Wolseley ........
PERLE Y, WILLIAm DELL.................
.................
Acadie ...........
POIRIER, PASCAL .............
Halifax ..........
POWEit, LA.URENCE GEoFFREY (Speaker). .. ... ..
Pictou....... ...
........
PRIMBOSE, CLARENCE....................
ROBERTSON, J. E .........................
. .........
Caribou .........
REID. JAMES.............. ..........
...........
Ottawa. ý...... ...
&SOOrr,RICHARD WILLIAM........ ....
;SIEHTN,, JOSEPH.................................
Laurentides ...
Kingston ..... ...
SULLIVAN, MICHAEL.......... ...................
TEMPLEMAN, WILLIAM...........................
New Westminster ...
THIBAL'DEAU, ALFRED A .....................
De la Vallière ....
..
TniBArDEAU JOSEPH ROSAIRE ...............
Rigaud .... ......
..........
THoIIPsoN, F. P .................
Sarnia....
VIDAL. ALEXANDER..............................
WAuut. DAVID .... ... .......................
.. Fredericton...
. Portage la Prairie...
WATSON, ROBERT..............................
Westmoreland ...
WOOD, JOSIAH ................................
Haxnilfbn ..
Woon, A. T ..............................
.. ..............
YEO, JOHN......... .... .......
East Prine....
YorNo. FiND)LAY M ........................
Killarney .........
MASSON, Louis FEANÇois RODRIGUE ...........
MCCALLUM, LACHLAN ...........................

Terrebonne, Que.
Stromness Ont.
Little Glace Bay, N.S.
Lindsay, Ont.
Truro, N. S.
Montreal.
Perth, Ont.
Aiexandria. Ont.
Mount Forest, Ont.
Moncton, N". B.
Berlin, Ont.
Arichat, N.S.
Three Rivers, Que.
Montreal.
Toronto.
Montreal.
Quebe.
Wolseley, N. W.T.
Sbedise, N.B.
Halifax, N.S.
Pictou, N.S.
Montague, P.E.I.
Quesuelle, B.C.
Ot.tawa.
Quebec.
Kingston, Ont.
Victoria, B.C.
Montreal.
Montreal.
Fredericton, N. B.
Sarnia, Ont.
Fredericton, N.B.
Portage la Prairie. Manî.
Sackville, N.B.
Hamilton, Ont.
Port Hill, P.E.I.
Killarney, Man.

THEE

DEBATES
0F TE

SENA.TE 0F CANADA
IN TE

SECOND SESSION 0F THE NINTH PARLIAMENT 0F CANADA, APPOINTED TO MEET
FOR THE DESPATCH OF BUSINESS ON THURSDAY, THE THIRTEENTH DAY
0F FEBRUARY, IN THE SECOND YEAR 0F THE REIGN 0F

HIS MAJESTY KING EDWARD VII.
THE SERÂTE.
Ottawa, Thursdai,, Feb. 13, 1902.
The Senate met at 2.30 p.m.
USHER 0F THE BLACK ROD.

The Speaker Informed the Senate that he
had received an extract from a report of
the Committee of the H1onourable the Privy
Council, approved by His Excellency on the
31st January, 1902, showing that Molyneux
St. Johin, Esquire, had been appointed
.Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod.
NEW SENATORS.
The following newly-appointed Senators
were introduced :
Hon. J. E. ROBERTSON, Of Montagne,
Prince Edward Island.
Hon, C. E. CucH, of Chester, Nova

Seotia.
Hon. F. P. TuoIoesoN, of Fredericton,
N.B.
Hon. F. L. BEIQUE, of Montreal, Que.
Hlon. W. GIBSON, of Beamsville, Ont
Hon. J. MCMULLEN, of Mount Forest, Ont.

THE SPI4ECI- FRO'M THE TEIRONE.
At Three o'clock P.M., His Excellency the
Governor General proceeded ln state to the
Senate Chamber, and took bis sent upon the
Throne. The Senate hein.- assembled, His
Exoellency was pleased to command the attendanc; of the House of Commons, and
that House belng preseut, His Exceilency
was pleased to open the Second Session of
the Ninth Parliament of the Dominion of
Canada, with the following speech:
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate :
Gentlemen of the Hou8e of Commons
In meeting you again at the commencement
of anc'ther session of Parliament, it ls my firat
duty to express the deep sense of our gratitude
to Divine Providence for the many blessIngs
which Canada baes received during the past year,
and particularly for the exceptIonaliy bountifui harvest In Manitoba and the North-west
Territeries.

It was very gratifying to note the cordial reception. tendered by ail classas of the people
to the Prince and. Princess of Wales, on the occasion of their viuit In September and October
lest, the ondy regrettable feature being the
limited time et their disposaI, whIeh prevented
The House was adjourned during plea- their visiting many Important centres *o! population.
It ' a, however, a great satisfaction to
sure.
kno6w thst their Royal Highnesses enjoyed their
Âfter some time the House was resumed. tour through Caiada and oerried sway the

SENATE
most pleasant recollections of their visit to tbis
part of the empire.
The assassination of President McKinley bas
elicited a universal feeling of sympathy and
sorrow throughout the civilized world and,
though Canada has happlly so for heen free
from crimes of this charaoter, the clzee proxiImity to the United States may make it advlsable to jobn our efforts to the efforts o! the
United States and other nations and to provide
by legislation for the adeciuate punishment of
those who, eltber by speech or writing, Incite
fanatics to the perpetration of sucb horrible
cmimes.
The returns of the late census will be laid
before you and, wbile the absolute Increase la
the number of ipopulation la n3t s0 great as5
mlght have been expected, the evidences of
growth in wealth and ln the general tokens of
prosperous development are highly satisfactory.
There is good reason aise to belleve that the
Increase of population durîng the latter baif o!
the decade has been very greatly ln excess of
the average of former years and that in the
near future we may 103k for a mnuch more
rapid growtb than occurred during the period
oovered by the lsst two censuses.
Application having been made by the Canadian
Pacific Itailway Company for approval of an lncrease o! bts capital, to ment the demand for
addltional rolllng stock and other bmproved
facilities, for handling the growing traffic, my
ministers availed themaeîves o! the ojiportunbty
to stipulate that the long pending question of
the power of the Governor ln Council ta regulate the toila of the company should be suhmitted to the courts for a judicial decision.
The correspondence and other papers wIll be
laid before you.
The inventor, Mr. Marconi, having met unexpected obstacles to the carrying on of bis
experiments In wireless ocean telegraphy ln a
sister colony, my ministers deem It expedient to
Invite hlmn to continue his operations on the
coat of Nova Scotia, and they availed themselves of bis presence ln Canada to enter Into
negotiations
resultlng In an arrangement
through which, should the project prove as
successful as Io hoped for, the government and
people of Canada will enjoy the beneflts of the
invention on very favourable terms, Including
rates for transatlantic messages very much below those now existing.
1 amn pleased to bnform you that the display
made by Canada of ber products, at tbe several
expositionls at whlch they bave been exhibited
during the last year bas attracted much attention, and bas already resulted ln many inquiries
and orders for our goods.

I may aise congratulate you on the catisfactory condition ef the revenue and on the
Dteady and continuons expansion of the general
business of the country as cvidenced by the increased volume of exparts and Imports.
Witb the view of stili further facilitating- and
developing our trade with other countries, It
wilI probably be found expedient to Increase the
number of our commercial agencies, and parliament will be asked ta consider the desirabllity of making addltional provision for that
purpose.
I have also plessure ln ioforming you that the
governments of Australia aod New Zealand
have accepted an invitation from my gavernment to attend a confereoce ln London next
June for the conslderation of trade, transportation, cable and other matters of interooloniai
concern. and It Is hoped that the meeting may
lead to an extension of Canadian trade witb
those important portions of His Majesty's
Dominions.
I have further to advise you that my gavernment, having caused inquiry to be made, bas
reacbed the conclusion that the establishment
of direct steamship service with South Africa
would enable Canada te secure ln that country
a profitable market for her varled products,
andi, to that end, will endeavour to arrange for
such a service.
His Majesty bas been graciously pleased to
Invite the premier to be present at the coremanies attending bis Coronation. It is to be
boped that the presenee of the leading statesmen of the sevçral colonies upon -this occasion
will afford an opportunity for the discussion of
subjects of mutual interest which may coneiderably affect the development of our trade and
commerce ln -the near future, with the mother
country and with our sîster colonies.
Gentlemen of the House of Commona:
The publice accounts for the last year and the
estimates for the succeeding year wll be laid
before y-ou withcut delay.
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate
Gentlemen of the Hou8e of Common8
1 commit the above matters and ail others
which may be submitted to yen, to your earnest
consideratoi, and I rely upon your wiedom and
prudence to deal with tbem ln the manner
which, under Divine Providence_ may prove
most conducive to the best Intereats of Canada.

Hlis Excelleincy the Governor General Wfts
pleased to, retire and the House of Commons
withdrew.

FEBRUARY 17, 1902

BILL INTRODUCED.
An Act relating to Railways.

(Hou. Mir.

The Senate then adjourned.

THE SENÂTE.
Ottawa, Monday, Feb. 17,

190?.

The SPEAKER tool, the Chair nt three
o dlock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

THE ADDRESS.
MOTION.
The Order o! the Day belig cailed:
Consideration of the Speech of Hia Exceilency

the Governor General on the opening af the 2nd
session of the 9th parliamtent.

Hon. ',%r. BEIQUE said (ln French)-I
wish, ln the first place, ta tbank the lion.
Secretary o! State for the honour he bas

done me in asking me ta move ths Address..
I feel certain that I amrn ot able ta fulfil the
duty in a manner appropriate ta the occa-

-sion, though sensible o! the pleasure which
it aff ords me ta accept the honourable task.
The journey throughi Canada of tîjeir
Royal Highnesses the Prince and Priiicess
o! Wales recails ta my mind the visit of
Ris Majesty, the King, Edward VII. Forty
years have passed away since 1800-hnrdly
a day ln the life of a people-and what
changes, whant protress ! At tat periodi
ire had hardly commenced ta open up the
,eastern provinces. Agriculture and forests
constituted their principal wealth. Since
then Industries cf ail sorts have been established and have attained already a great
state of development ; the Interiar and exterior commerce have surpassed aur hopes.
'The most Important event which bas occurred ln Canada during the last twenty
years is, withcut question, the construction
o! the Canadian Pacific R.ailway.
This
great artery, the only one which binds,
withaut Interruption the Atlantic and the
Pacific, was Indispensable for the colouization, and for the development o! the re-sources o! tbe North-west Territories and
-of British Columbia, which are nlready enjoying à state of progress and expansion

nj

which will make themt ere long the most
Important parts of the Dominion. 'It was
a great advantage to us that their Royal
Highuesses were able to cross the continent
and ascertain for themselves the Important
place which Canada occupies as an Integral
part of the British empire.
It la only toc true that it will be necessary ta promulgate severe laws against
auarchy. We have to recognize once more
that Presidents of Republies are no more
free front the assassin than KIngs and Emperors. However, If there was any man wlio
seemed to deserve ta escape the murderous
assauîts of the anarchists, it was sureiy MicKinley, he çrho bnd no personal enemy and
who bad always been equaily affable to
the humblest as ta the most powerf ni, ta
the poor as weil as to the ricli. But those
who commit these atrocities do not reason.
They do not see tat ln striking down a
mian wbo Is nothing more or less than the
representative of the Institutions of the
country, they do no harmu ta those Institutions. The only reason whiceh they give
ta explain their crime, Is that they are aitarchists. In America, ns lu Europe and ail
civilized countries, It bh become necessary ta strike at the root of nnarcby by
puuishing severely those who spread their
ideas, who excite ta crime their fattaticai
associntes who are generally blind instruments ln the bauds of able nnd unscrupulous agitators. Wbile we have neyer liad
ta record in Canada, any of these horrible
outrages, nor attempts ta agitate ta, produce
them, we should 'take mensures ta prevent
themt front occurrIng.
The oensus of 1901 for the last decade
shows an Increase of 5301,427 inhaitanitits.
The share of the pr-ovince o! Quebec ii that
increase is 160,363, being nearly 30 per cent
of the total Increase ln the Dominion. lit
1891 the population of French origiii lit
Canada was 1,404,974. In 1901, the population o! the saute origin bail reacbed 1,060,918, being an Increase o! 255,944, or more
than 47 per cent of the total Increase.
These figures are an additional proof of the
expansive force cf the French Oan'adîau
race. We shall soon have the relative statistics of the agricultural and industrial
development which' bas occurred, and there
is no doubt that the results wIll be stili
more Important.

SENATE
made great progress, ne will be seen by the
following figures :
1880 .... .... .... ... 2,877,351
1890 .... .... .... ... 4,855,757
1895 .... .... ....
... 6.983,227
1889..... .... ...... 13,368,150
40,367,683
.....
1901 ......
0f course the Increase, especially durlng
the last year, was due ln a great measure
If you
to the development "of the Yukon.
take the Items under the headings of
animais and their produets we find that
the exporte amounted to :
1880........$17,607,577
1890........25,106,995
1895........34,387,770
1899........46,743,130
1901........55,495,311
In the Items of manufactured home produets, I find the foilowing. We exported ln
1880........
3,242,617
1890.........5,741,184
1895.........7,768,875
1899........11,706,707
1901........16,012,208
If we refer to the Importe, free of duty,
whlch are the baste ln a large measure of
our home Industries, we fiud aiso very inportant figures. We have ln
1880........$15,712,000
1890.........34,516,000
1895........42,140,000
1897........40,433,000
1899........59,709,000
1901...........1,303,000
Thiere are other Items of considerable luterest, which show aiso a large degree
of progress. In bituminous coal, we lmported lu
1890 .... .... .. a 1,530,020 tons
1895.......1,696,668 tons
1901.......2,683,706 tons
The Importation of hides for the manufacture of leather shows also a very remarkable Increase. The Importe were ln
1890.........1,712,012
1895.........1,966,620
1901.........4,120,443
I might refer to the Importation of tin
plate used for canued goods. It appears
that from 1895 to 1901 the Importe increased
fromn $260,000 to $543,000. The wood pulp
1890.........
96,749,149
exported to Great Britain ln 1894 amouinted
1895........113,638863
to $178,25i5, and to the United States,
1897 .. ......
...
137,950:253
1899 .. ......
...
158,896,905
$368,875, or a total to the two countries of
...
196,487,632
1901 .. ......
$547,130. In 1901, the export to Great
If we refer to statistica applled to some of Britain had reached $M34722, and. to the
the Individuel Industries, we find remark- United States, $937,330, or a total of
able resulta. For Instance, the mines have $1.,872,052, showing an enormous increase.
Hcn. Mr. BEIQUE.
Hon, gentlemen, whiie speaking ln French,
1 was alIuding a moment ago to the fact
that the opening Up and developuient of the
North-west Territories and the province of
British Columbia were due to the construction of the Canadien Pacific Railway. From
Its inception this great enterprise was conducted with the utmost energy and foresight, and no one need begrudge the large
sums of public money which were voted to
help build the road. But white ail will aiWays unite ln wishing a continued and lncreased prosperity to the company and the
Introduction of measures couducive to that
end, such measures should be accompanied
wlth provisions whereby the interests of the
people may bie efficieutiy protected.
The Marconi Invention, ns applied to wvireiess ocean telegraphy, may yet off er elements of uncertainty and it may be premature to say what It will accompiish. It
lias. however, been very successfully employed for shorter distances, and the action
of the government lu securing the use of
the systeni is, ln my opinion, worthy of
commendation.
I am not surprised at the good resulta obtained from the'display of Canadian products nt the exhibitions which toolr place
inst year.
When I had occasion to visit
the Exposition at Paris lu 1900, I feit that
the cure taken by the Minlster of Agriculture lu making this country better knowxi
abroad could flot fait to give a powerful
Impetus to Its trade and commeroe.
The expansion of the generai business of
the country of late years may, lu my opinion, be exempIifIed by a few figures which
I 'take the liberty of iaying before this
House. Firat of ail, If we refer to the Imports, we find that lu 1890 they were $121,815,241. Iu 1895, there was a small falliug
off, and the Importe were $110,781,682. Iu
1897, the Importa were $119,218,609 ; lu 1899,
$162,764,308, and lu 1901. $190,415,525. The
exporte show a stiil greater progress. They
were as follows:

FEBRUARY 17, 1902
In wearing apparel, the exporta In 1894
amounted only to $42,191. 0f this amount,
$7,20J6 were exported to Great Britain,
$23,615 to the United States, and $1,000 to,
China. In 1901, the export of wearing npparel bad risen to $664,111. The exporta of
steel amounted In 1901 to $607,526, of which
by far the lnrgest amount was exported to
the United States, $304,58, and only $142,297
to Great Britain. The exporte of machluery
ln 1894 amounted to $150,430, and last year
they had risen to $059,299. We have made
the saine progress ln a number of other
Items which miglit be given as evidence of
the expansion of the general trade of the
country.
The proposai *to Increase the number
of Canadian commercial agenciesilavarlous
countries wlll, I arn sure, meet with the
approval of ail hon. members o! thîs House.
In this particular, the example o! the
United States couid be followed by us
wlth advantage. I find that they have sanie
1,100 consuls, or commercial agents, distributed over tblrty-flve countries of the world.
They bave'in Great Britain 222 such agents
and tbey have In Canada alone 175 commercial agents. 0f the eleven bundred,
three hundred only are pald officiais. Six
bundred are of their own natlonallty, United
States citizens, and tbe remalning- 500 are
foreigners, chosen lu their respective countries, wbo, accept the office for tbe honour
and the standing attached ta the position.
It seems ta me that followlng that example
would be the best way ta advertlse Canada
abroad, and tbese commercial agents would
be the best medluma tbrough whom ta, disti ibute such literature about our commerce
and products as can be prlnted, and It wonld
be aiso, a means of establishing commercial
relations between tMe country aud different
parts of tbe worid.*
I arn sure every -member of this honourable Hanse wlll rejolce ta bear that
a conference between the representatives
of the Canadian and Ânstralaslau governnients wiii take place In Engiand early
next summer for the consideration of
trade and other questions of lntercoioniai luterest, and that the proceedinga
wlll be conducted by our eminent Canadian
Prime Mlnlster. It gives a strong hope,' if
not an assurance, that Canada will reap
substantiai beneflts froin the conferenice.
Canada wili- also have the advantage of

belng represented at the Coronation festivities by the right hon. Sir Wilfred Laurier.
He wll 'doubtless, by bis personaiity and
eloquence of speech, leave behind bim ln
England, as be dld on the occasion o! the
Dlamond Jubilee, a most favourabie and
lasting Impression which will redound alike
to bis honour and to the good o! the country
he so, wortbily represents.
Hon. gentiemen, klndly and favourably
as my nomination to this honourable House
bas been -recelved by Engish and French,
Couservatives and Liberals, I feel that I
cannot close these !ew re-mrk without
expressiug ta ail and especiaiiy ta, the press
my most hearty -thanks. I move
That an humble Address be presented ta His
Exoeilency the Governor General, ta thank HIl
Excellency for his Graclous Speech et the open-

ing of the present Session; and, further, ta assure His Excellency that1. We unite with Hia Excellency, et .the commencement of another Session of Parliament, In
expressing the deep sense of our gratitude to
Divine Providence for the many biessings which
Canada bas received during the past year, and
partlcul-arly for the exceptIonally bountiful barvest ln Mamitoba and the North-west Territories.
2* We receive with much pleasure His Excellency's expression of gratification at the cordial
reception tendered by ail classes of the people, to
the Prince and Princ-3as of Wales, on the occasion of their visit In Septeniber and Oetober
lest, the only -regrettable feature being the
limited tume et their disposai, which prevented
their vlsiting many Important centres of population;,and we are hsppy ta knaw that their
Royal High-nesses enjoyed their tour through
Canada, and carried away the most pleasant recollections of their visite te this part of the
empire.
3. We have sharedthe feeling of sympatby and
sorrow which the asassination ef President
McKinley ham elicited throughout the civilized
world, and we are glad ta be Informed that,
though Canada has happi4y so far been free f rom
crimes of this character, the close piçcximjty
ta the Un.Ited States may make it advisable
tio loin cur efforts ta -the efforts o! -the United
Statts and other nations and to provide by
legislation for the adequate puniehment of those
WVho, either by epeech or writing, Incite faiatice
to the perpetration of such horrible crimes.
4. We are pleaaed te learn that the returns
of the late census wild be laid before us and
that, while the absolute Increase Ia the number
of population ls not so great as might have been
expected, the evidences o! growth in wealth and
in the general tokens o! proeperous develo-pment are highly satisfactory ; and alac that there
ls good reason to believe that the Increase of
population during the latter bal! of the decade
bas been very greatly In excees of the average
o! former years and that in the near future we
niSy look -for a mnuch more rapid growth than
occurred durlng the period covered by the last
two*censuses.
6. We leara witb great satisfaction that, application having beeu made by -the Canadian
Pacifie Railway Company for approval of an Increase of its capital, ta meet the demand for

SENATE
additional roiling stock and other improved facilities, for handiing the growing traffic, His Exceilency's Ministers a'vaiied themseives af the
opportunity to etipulats that the long pending
question of the power of 'the Governor ln Council ta regulate the -toile of the campany shouid
be submitted ta the courts for a judicial decision,
and we thank His Exceliency for Informing us
that the correspondenoe and other papers will
be laid before us.
6. We are pleased ta be infarmed by His Excellency that the Inventor, Mr. 'Marconi, having
met unexpected obstacles to the carrying on of
his experiments af wireless ocean telegraphy In
a sister eolany, His Excellency's Ministers
deemed it expedient ta Invite hlm to continue his
operatIons on the coat of Nova Sco'tia, and
avaiied themselves of his presence ln Canada ta
enter into negotiations resuiting lu an arrangement through which, should the projeet prove
as successful as to. hoped for, the government
and people of Canada wilI enjay the benefits of
the Invention on very favourable terms, Iacluding rates for 'transitlintic messages very
much below those now existing.
7. We are gratified ta know that the dispiay
made by Canada of hier products, at the several
expositions at which they have been exhibited
during the lait year, bas attracted much attention, snd has already resulted la many laquiries and orders for our golods.
8. We receive with much pieasure Ris Excellency's congratulations on the satisfactciry
condition of the revenue and on the steady and
contiauous expansion o! the generai business
of the coun*try as evidenced by the increased
volume of exparts and Imports.
9. We learn with much interest that, with the
Iriew of stili further facIlltating and develc-ping
aur trade with other countriesl, It wiii probably
be faund expedient ta increase the number of
aur commercial agencies, and we assure His
Excellency that we will wiilingiy consider -the
desirabiiity of making additiouei provisions for
that purpose.
10. We tbank HIs Exceileacy for lnformIng us that the goveraments of Âustralia
and New Zealsnd have accelpted an Invitation
from Ris Exceilency's gavernment ta attend a
conference ia London next Jane for the consideration o! trade, tranaportation, cable and
other matters of Intercalonial conceru, and we
imite with His Exceilency ln the hope that the
meeting May lead to un extension of Canadian
trade with thase Important portions of *ilis
MaJesty's Dominions.
11. Our thanks are due ta Ris Exceilency for
the infarmatian that lits government, having
caused lnquiry ta be made, has reached the conclusion tbat the establishment of direct steainship service with Sou.th Africa wouid enable
Canada te secure in t-hat country a profitable
market frý hier varied products, and that, to
that end, Ris Exceilencyls government wiii endeavour to arrange for sucb a service.
12. We are gratified ta leara that Ris Majesty
has been graciously Pleased ta Invite the
Premier to be present at -the ceremenies attendIng bis Coronation, and we share the bape that
the presence af the leading statesmen of the
severai colonies upon this occasion will afford
an opportunity for the discussion cf subjects of
mutual Interest whfch miay considerably affect
the deveiopment of aur trade and commerce in
the near future, with the mather country and
with our slster colonies.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

13. We thank Fils Exceilency for Infarming us
that -the public accounts for the lait year and
the estimates for the succeeding year wili be
laid before us without delay.
14. His Excellency may rest assured that the,
above inatters and ail others which may be submitted ta us wIll recelve our earnest consideration, and we thsnk Hi% Excellency for the expression af his reliance upon aur wiedomn anct
prudence ta demi wi.th them in the manner
whicb, under Divine Providence, may prove
most canducive ta the best linterests of Canada.

Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I hardly know
,lust haw It happens that 1 amn to-day
seconding the address ln repiy to the Speech
froni the Throne.
1 think I must have,
without u nderstandlng the nature of the
obligation, consented to the proposition of
the hon, gentleman opposite, who represents
the government, that I should second the
motion to adopt the address ln answer to
the Speech.
I do nat Inteud ta, make any
iengthy remarks an this occasion.
I

n

simply

seconding

the

address, as
Invited ta do
Sa.
The address of Itseif covers a great.
many Important matters.
It practically
imakes statements on subjeets whlch are
important and are not controversial, ln my
opinion, and ln secondlng the addrecs today 1 feel a great deai of diffidence,
although I arn not entfrely new ta the worlc
of legisiative bodies, because I have had
corne experience ln cannection with the
legisînture of New Brunswick.
Still, thîe
Introduction into a new flouse and a new
condition of things cause a great deal of
dIffidence on my part, flot' being acqualnted wlth the parliamentary usages
of the flouse- and I find It to be a matter
of considerable difficulty to address this
bouse.
But hon, gentlemen 1 presume
that ln connection with the obligations, and
duties devolving upon members of this
flouse, that we are here for the purpose af
denling with questions.
We are here for
the purpose of deaiing with measures. We
are here for the purpose of discussing questions of general Interest ta the people of
Canada at large, and the address which we
have before us touches very many Important
niatters.
Dealing as It does, lnx the first
portion, witb the products of Canada, I feef
that, witb regard to such matters, the Canadian people are at ail times ready to give
thanks ta Providence for the great benefits
tbey enjoy, and It is partially due to the
fact that Canadians help, themselves under
the resuit

of having been

FEBIRUAIIY 17, 1902

The energy of the
a kind Providence.
While the returns o! the late census lu repeople of thîs Canada of ours, a'ided by a spect to the population of Canada were
kind Providence, gives large and beneficial, sornewhat disappointing, I have f elt that
resuits.
there la thîs feature about It, that we have
The second paragraph refera to the visit a country here good enough for anybody to
of the Prince and Princess of Wales to lîve -in, and wlth prospects and possibilities
Canada. I arn sure that it was an educa- that are hlghly satisfactory to the people o!
tional visit, and wlll have Its beneficial Canada, and If people are not at this
effects when the King understands bis loyal moment ready to corne lu amongst us and
subjects lu Canada, where loyalty abounda enjoy the benefits which surround us, and
from the Pacifie to the Atlantic. . 1 ani the prospenity we are enjoying lu Canada,
satisfied that Canada la a greater country, we know that there is a measure of comin the judginent. of their Royal HIghnesses fort which ought to attract tbern If they
the Prince and Prlncess of Wales, than Il thoroughly understood It, and the emiwas before they arrlved on our shores. I grants from afar would find it to their
There Is
arn satisfied after their visit ta Canada they advantage to corne to Canada.
would realize they had met wlth a ciass of one feature about the questions of populaBritish subjects wlio were Intelligent and tion, the progress we are maklng iii Canloyal and anxlous to uphold the Institutions ada, the advancement of ail liues of luof the mother country ln every respect. It du.try, and that la that If they do not; corne
Is a grand country. The rallway trip acros here to enjoy these benefits, we will have a
thîs country, four thousand miles front~ larger amount of benefits to divide amongst
ocean to ocean, through one of the richest our own people. I have f elt that whlle
countries of the world, mnust have been a an increase of population in this country,
revelation to their Royal Hlghnesses In con- or In any country, i. au evidence of prospernection with what they would see, and the lty, yet the other marked conditions lu Cancondition of the people of Canada, where ada are such that there can be no question
tbey found the measure of comfort, the ln the minds of the members of this House,
manly Intelligence and the independence, or o! the people of Canada that we have enjoyed advancemexlt, growth and progress.
charactenîsties of the great Engllsh race.
Passing to the next paragraph, referring A reference ha. been made to the Canadian
to the assassination o! the President o! the Pacifie Railway. Being a business man myUlnited States, we have a subject whIch, nt self, assoclated and connected wlth a manuthat Urne, drew forth a responsive sorrow racturing industry, 1 have always had a
We sympathy fcr these larger institutions, that
from ail the nations of the world.
char- the country should be wilng to assiat them
neyer expect an assassination o! that
assistlng them
acter in Canada, and ln saylng so I pasa no lu a liberal way, but whle
la a Ulberal wéy they should keep a string
refiections on the great republie to the
of our
south of us. 1 fail to understand the oh- upon them, so that the parliament
country should feel that they had control
ject or motive whlch led to that deed, but
might
in relation to that act and lu relation to the lu a degree on any question whlch
interest the corporation as well as affect the
great loas which the United States suffered
at that tîme, ail Canada bowed and f elt .general interest o! the people.
The paragraph In reference to giving aid
grleved for the widow and for the great
nation. These things are referred to ln the to tbe inventor Marconi, for f urther investispeech as matters worthy o! some legisia- gations along the bine of hi. sclentlfic Intion. So far as I personally have any judg- vention, wlreless telegraphy, ls a subject
ment on the question, in regard to legiala- that is stil debatable-not that there rnay
tion, I would be willing to support it, looking not as a result o! bis f urther experlmentlng
to the punlahment of crimes of that char- be some resulta which willb1e an advantage
acter. Whlle I arn not certain that legisla- to.the country at large, but whether It wll
tion will absolutely prevent these crimes, ever be o! commercial value la perhaps a
be
yet I feel that for the proper conduct and debatable question. Whetber It: wlll11 passible'ta use this wlreless telegraphy o that
çonditions o! our country lu relation to theseé
questions It is weli that the law of the laud it wiil be of commercial value ta the people
la a question yet to be determlned, but It la
the watchdog, should be employed.

SENATE
well for us to be in the fore ranks of ail
these propositions, because electricians have
performed 'wonderfni thlngs, and the possibilities within their reach are yet beyond a
matter of speculation. We cannot tell what
may yet be worked out on these Unes ; so
that I amn entirely satisfied that the House
wIii. approve of a reasonable grant for the
purpose of permitting Marconi to make further experiments la wireiess telegraphy.
A paragraph of the address refera to the
dispiay made by Canada at thxe several expositions durlng the iast year. It wiIl be
satisfactory to the people to understand that
good resuits have followed from the exhibits. I hnd the pleasure of visiting the exhibition at Glasgow, and the Canadian produet attracted very great attention there.
The Canadian exhibit, among other exhibits from the colonies of this empire, were
matters of very great Interest to the peopie
of Scotland as weii as to the people of
England, and 1 was advIsed, whiie la Scotland, that from the exhibit of Canada there,
large trade relations had resulted wlth the
people throughout England In the products
whIch Canada furnished and that benefits
have followed to the manufacturing Interests of Canada. A conference of several
representatives of the different colonies o!
the empire must resuit la advantages to
the Interests of Canada. I cannot belp thinklng, and I believe the Hlouse cannot help
feeling, that these confereaces between representatives o! the several colonies o! the.
empire will resuit la a dloser and nearer relationship, beneficial alike to each of the
colonies which form part o! this great empire, and when these statesmen meet and]
discuss matters whichi are Important and o!
Interest to themselves la their own countries and understand what wouid be important In the interests o! Canada, the resuit
of such a conference must iead to good resuite and probably be o! value to the commercial interests o! our Dominion.
TUe last clause refera to the Invitation
extended to our premier to attend the coronation ceremonies of our King, Edward the
Seventh, ail o! ;vhich will be !ully appreciated by the people o! Canada, and all
will agree that la our present prime minister o! Canada, Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Canada
le to be congrstulated on her represeatative
for this occasion. Sir Wilfrid will do honHon. Mr. THOMPSON.

our to Canada ln the conference with the
other premiers who will meet at the coronation of the King, and when these great
representative men from the dIfferent colonies of the empire meet, 1 arn satiefied that
good resuits wlll !ollow and will be evidenced flot only In Canada, but wlll be of
advantage and to the general good of the
British Empire, throughout Its whole extent.
I have found It somewhat difficult to make
these few remarks, but 1 amn delighted to
feel that there le on the part of hon. rnembers of this House a disposition, on occasions o! this kind, to treat new membere
with a great deal of kindness.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
iiot think It is at ail neceseary for the hon.
gentlemen who moved and seconded the
address to make any apology, or to express
any feeling of diffidence, for the manner la
which they have acquitted themselves today. I can oaly congratulate the government on the appointinents wbich they have
mnade o! these two hon. gentlemen.
0f
course It wili be understood that I amn epeaking altogether apart from their politice. I
used that expression because I was afraid
I might be misunderstood. Ia rising to
address the House at the present moment
I confesa that, although not a very new
niember, I do so with a feeling of oppressioni wlien I reflect for a moment on the
number of senators who have passed away
since last session, particuiarly the hon. gentleman (Mr. Alin) who sat on my le!t, very
nearly ever since I have Uad tUe honour of
a seat la this Chamber. I cannot help expressing deep sorrow at the lose o! a comrade, ao eminent as a citizen, and one who,
1 think I amrn sfe In saying, was an Ideal
senator.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He was
cool, calm and dignIfied, while at the same
time a man o! strong viewe and strong opinIons. But during ail my long acquaintance
ivitIj hlm, I neyer heard hlm utter a word
that could give the slightest offence to, hie
rnost bitter politicai opponent. >He was a
nman unlversally Ilked In the part of the
Dominion la whiech he lived, and I arn sure
1 utter the sentiments of every hon. senator
bresent who had the pleasure o! hie ncquaintance, when I say tbat we deeply re-

FEBRUARY 17, 1902

gret bis absence.
We hiave also lost another gentleman wbom we nîl respected, the
Hon. Mr. Villeneuve, from Montreal.
He
was a man, also, of strong- views and betnted not, whea la healtli, to express them.
He was a good business man in every sense
of the word. He wlll also be missed. And
the latest among us Wbo bas passed away
was the hon, gentleman from Prince Edward
Island (Mr. Prowse), wlio died suddenly ln
whiat migbt also be termed the vigour of
health, about middile age, and one wbo -,vas
lenet expected to be called away to bis long
Those Who knew hlm more Intiborne.
mately than I dld, hie polîtical opponients
as well as bis political friende, speak of hlm
la the hiighest possible terme. He miglit be
a little brusque, as some of the rest of us
are occaslonaily, la glvlng expression to hie
opinions, but a more lioneet stralghtforward
man I do flot thlnk ever held a seat la the'
Senate of Canada, or la the legislature. I
could not help, before addressiag myseif to,
the questions before the House, maklng thîs
aliglit reference to those lion. gentie-,een
wliom we ail respected, who have passed
from among us. Iu lookiag at this address
I was a littie arnused at the remark made
by the seconder, that there were a great
many Important questions referred to la
the address whlcli we are now considerIng. It strikes me-as I thînli It wlll most
lion, gentlemen whio have had any parliainentary experlenc-that the address Is
noted more for what 'It does not contain,
thian for what It does contaîn.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliere
are one or two Important points la the addrese to whlch I shall caîl the attention of
the House before closing, and there are
some paragraphe ln It whlcb bave my most
cordial support, because tbey ladicate on
these pointe a pollcy similar to that whicb
bas chiaracterized the present goverument
since they have been la power, and tilat
le, foilowlag la the footeteps of their predecessors.
So long as they do that 1 doubt
not, the country wlll continue to progres as it lias doue durlng the last few
years. 1 mîglit refer to some changes. Most
of us wlll regret that the late Minister of
I'ustlce (Hon. Mr. Mille) lias been removed
from this House. He le a gentleman with
wbom I lied the pleasure of sitting ln the

House of Commons since Confederation, with
the exception of a few montbs during bis
absence, and also during the time he occupied a seat ln this chamber. I doubt flot
that lie wlll fill the new position to whlch lie
Is called-at least I hope so-wlth crédit to
hîmself, and benefit to the country. Whether my hon. frlend who le sittlag ln front
of me just now (Hon. M"r.Templeman) and
occuples the seat of the late Minister of
Justice, le to become the leader of the
Senate on behalf of the goverament, we
bave not yet been lnformed. It lias been
reported, at least through the newspapere,
that the hon. gentleman was to accept a
sent ln the goverument-he probably lias*
from the position that be bas taken; howev-er, that lias not been explalned yet-and
that lie was to become the leader of the
Senate.
Whether that le true or not, the
Secretnry of State will be able to Inforni us.
If it le not true, the Secretary of State will
permit me, ln all liumllty, to congratulate
hlm upon the long struggle through wbich
hie lias passedl la attainlng to the position
which I thouglit six or seven years ago,
when tliey came Into power, lie was entitled
to. He occupied a seat as leader of the Opposition for seventeen or eighteen yenrs. He
was à vigorous opponent of the national
policy, of the John A. Macdonald government, of the Sir John Abbott government, of the Sir John Thompson
governuient, and of the government over
which I preslded for a short time, and
1 thouglit from the abllty and flghtlug qualities lie possessed at tbat tihne, tbat lie
would surely aspîre-not ouly aspire, but
occupy, probably lie dld aspire-to the position gîven to Sir Oliver Mowat Then wben
the lion. gentleman (Sir Oliver Mowat)
passed over to the gubernatorial chair of
Ontario, 1 thought the lion. gentleman (Hon.
Mr. Scott) would become master of tlie.situl-.
ation.. But ohi no, another gentleman -vas
put over bis liend. Whether my hon. frlend
from Victoria le to follow lu their footsteps
I cannot say, but we will know probably
before the session closes. In the meantime,
the nppolntment of the Hon. Mr. Mille to a
position on the Supreme Court bencli, le oaly
another evidence of the flagrant violation of
the principles laid down by the bon. Secretary of State and bis colleagues wben they
were ln opposition.

SENATE
And hie too wll. ere many menthe are over,
be moving to au atmnosphere of greater repose
Hon.
Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL- than it la possible to enjoy as a Cabinet MinisMenibers of the present miaistry denounced ter at Ottawa.
nlot only the appointment of any member of
Could the bon. Secretary of State take tbe
the cabinet, but of any member of parlia- Senate Into bis confidence ?
ment to a position of emolument wbulle lie
Ilon. Mr. SCOTT-I could If 1 knew.
occupled eitbier one position or the otbier, because they accused any one who bad been
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL Aiid
promised a position of any kind to wbicbi
tell us wliere this balmy atmospbere la to
tbere was a salary attached, as being venal
be found ? la it In the Governor's chair of
ln character and that he could nlot by nny
Ontario, wbich very soon becomes vacant
possiblllty be an independeat member. Bow from
lapse of time ? la It to cross tbe ocean
that bas been carried out it la tiot iiecessary to
take Lord Strathcona's place ? 1 arn at
for me to detail. I could give this honourable a loas
to know where, from the wording of
Bouse the names of about twenty bion. gen- this paragrapli, the ' atmosphere
of greater
tlemen wbo bave been appointed frein the
repose' is to be found than that whicb bie
rankas of the hon, gentlemen opposite, wlio
now basks ln, as Minister of Trade and
were representatives of the people, to posiCommerce, a position he used ln strong and
toens of emolument. Tbe Hoii. Mr. Mille ls
vigorous language to condema as useless. In
the second .ludge that bias been appointed,
no place to wbieh hie may be reiegated can
and no man condemned the principIe of
these appointments more vigorously than the be do leas than hie bas done, or la doing la
lion. gentleman (Mr. Lister) wbio was bim- the department over wbich he now presides.
self appointed to the bench, and wbo, I re- Be bas been proved te be a very fine figuregret exceedingly to say, bias been lateiy bead, but he bas an admirable assistant wba
caiied to bis long home. Are we to lose an- bas done whatever may have been done ln
otbcr member of the cabinet sbortly ? I do that departrnt, and wben bie goes to that
riot know that I could, witii any degree of upper region, that balmy atmospbere, we wili
delicncy, ask the lion. gentleman the ques- weicome hlm, certainly more particularly If
tion, neither would I expeet bim to answer It is the governorsbip of Ontario, or perbaps.
it, but I find ln tbe Ottawa 'Free Press,' tbe my hon. friend tbe Secretary of State miglit
position
because bis
goverament organ, the following paragrapli : aspire to that
naine bias been mentioned ln connection with
Of the brilant company of men who Bat wltb it, but as long as lie bas the honourable poMr. Mills ln the tiret pariiwucnt of Canada, Sir
Richard Cartwright ta the )nly Liberai ieft In sition bu bolds now as Leader of the governthe Bouse to-day.
ment la tbe Senate, as 1 presume be la to be,
that la a mach better position and more digBe ouglit to bave sald "The former bineblooded Tory wbo turned Grit '"-I wiil not aified and acceptable than tbe governorsbip.
say for consideration-but under ceti con
--Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Henr, bear.
siderations, as my hon. friend tbe Secretary
of State did. 1 bave a distinct recoliection
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I arn
of a tume when my hon. friend used to pose gid ny boa. friend agrees witb me, that la
ns one of the borrid Tories, but circumstan- lii iny opinion. I find no reference la tbis
ces traaspired wbicbi led bim, like Sir Rich- address to that very Important question of
ard Cartwright, to cbange positions ; whe- the fat linu. If there bas been aiîy prother they changed tbeir views ornoIa
gress made, surely it was of sufficient Imnot prepared to sny.' In fnct, I question portance to mention It ln tbe Speecb front
very much, from tbe speeches lie bias made, the Tbroau.
I believe I arn not allowud,
and tbe Conservative utterances tbat bave under pnrliamentary rules, te speak of wbat
falien from my bon. friend opposite me, took place the otber day la tbe Commons,
wbetbier lie bas cbanged bis views, thougli but If bon, gentlemen read tbe documents
bie may bave cbanged bis position. I could tbey will find that the premier callud the atquote from Budibras sometbing whicb tention of tbe leader of the opposition la that
wouid perbaps suit tbe case, but I forbear. Bouse to wbat bie termed a lapse of memory
The paragrapli proceeds :
-tiat If tbey had been seven years negotiatHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, bear.

FEBRUARY 17, 1909,
Wbile It la true tbat the earniugs of the
lng for a fast lune and if tbey succeeded lu
to corne lu bavlng It established, Lad bave been larger than at any other
tbree years
theu tbey would be lu precisely the same ormer period durlng Its existence, the exposition al; the Conservative government penses of managlng tbe road bave exceeded
was when It left power, because tbey had the revenue by over bait a million of dollars.
been negotlating for ten years. Re forgot for rbat Is wbat we bave obtained by the purthe moment there was actually a contract chaslng of the Drumrnd County Rallway
sigined between the Aias aud the govern- atnd tbe extension of the road to Montreal.
ment, subject of course to the ratification of rben, Is it correct, lu tbls counection, that
parliament, for the establishment of that they bave loaned to the Canadian Pacific
Une. I ar n ot at ail surprIsed at tbis lapse Rullway over twenty locomotives to nsslst
of mernory, because almost anything that lu carrylug their freiglit from the great
bas been proposed by the Conservative West to,tbe seaboard ? If so, bow Is it that
party ln the past, tbat bas proved a suc- tbere bave been s0 many new locomotives
cess, they dlaim the credit of. Then there purcbased durlng tbe last few years ? That
is nothing about the Pacific cable. Surely these loans bave taken place Is beyoud a
that Is of sufficlent importance to bave doubt, because, I asked that question of a
deserved a passing notice at least. It Canadn Pacific Railway maun the otîjer
bas been taiked of for years, and there day, and be told me they bad been loaued
bas been vigorous action ln reference to ItL to them. Is it because, as bas been anand 1 tblnk the bon. Secretary of State will nouuced lu tbe public press, tbe purchascoucur çwlth me when 1 say tbat bad tbere Lng of uew locomotives could be cbarged
been a more vigorous policy on tbe part of to capital account, and tbe repairlug of
tbe dipiomats of Canada, and of the govern- flfteeu or twenty old ones that required remeut la particular, that lune migbt now be lu pairs would bave to be charged to current
working order, and wbat 15 equally of Im- account, tbereby maklng the deficit In the
portance, if not more important, It would operation of tbe road mucb less than It
have saved this country aud Englaud lu the really Is to-day ? However, we wlll bave
construction of it,. had tbey accepted the more of tbls before us iu a very sbort tirne.
.Nor bas the government auytbing lu tbe
tenders tbat were offered when 1 advertIsed,
Trade and Commerce, for address lu reference to that state of the
as Miuister of
tenders to coustruct that Une. It would Post Office Department wblcb tue premier,
have saved more than baîf a million of lu a speech lu Toronto not long ugo, lnmouey. Tbeu we have no knowledge, so far formed the public would resuit from tbe
as the Senate and tbe House of Commons magnificent management of the Postmasand the world are concerned, as to 'what bas ter Geueral. lu a very short Urne, lie told
tbe people of Toronto, tbe deficit ln tue
been doue, or wbat is being doue.
Tben 1 find no boasting lu tbis address workIng of that depnrtmeut of tbe goveruof the great success which bas attended tbe ment would be wîped out altogether. The
tbe Intercolontal Rallway present year shows a deflcif of between
extension of
to Montreal. We were told that tbe pur- $400000 and $500,000. But that la not ail.
chaslng of the. South Shore Road was If those wbo take an Interest lu these matgolng to resuit ln removing the deficits ters will examine tbe account tbey wIii flud
whicb bave been occurriug year after year. that there ls a speclal account kept for the
And expense lu connection %vlththîs service lu
Tbere Is uot a word about it
wby ? Well, the Minister of Railwnys and tbe Yukou Terrltory. Wby should thîs be ?
Canals--by tbat 1 menu tbe. goverunent- When the Nortb-west Territorles axid Manilncreased the capital indebteduess of the. toba were brouglit Into confederation. the
country during the lest four yeaLrs over four thon Postmnster General ln the Conserva'Inilion dollars, addlng to the atnnusil ex- tîve goverument neyer tbougbt of keeplng
penditure sorne $143,000 on the Interest ac- a separate account of the expenses attendcount at three per cent but last year there Ing the Introduction of the postal service
was nearly baif a million-no, quite haîf a into that vast terrltory and country. TIiat
mlilon--of a deficit ln tbe operation of the was made a charge agalnst the departmnt
and therefore the deficit was rnuch larger
road.

SENATE
than It would have been had the same of every thousand who live lu the propolicy been adopted then that bus been. vince from which I corne.
adopted by the present Postrnaster GexiHaving said this much, I now turn rny aterai. When the deficit was reduced to a tention for a moment to the address.
I
comparatlvely smaller sum than three or need scarcely say that every one will confour yeara ago, the expense of carrylng the cur ln the thanks to Divine Providence for
mail Into the Yukon country was charged the blessings whlch we have recelved durto the mounted police, who did the duty, Ing the last year, and more partlcularly for
lnstead of being charged to the Post Office the bountiful harveat ln Manitoba and the
Departuxent. With book-keeping of thîs North-west Territorlea.
It la this harvest
character you can have a surplus ln any alone that has done so much to Increase
department at any time, If when you spend the Immigration lnto thîs country. It le to
the money you charge It to another depart- the output of Manitoba and the North-west
ment and take credlt to your department we may give credIt for the Influx of large
for what vou collect.
numbera of people now going Into that counI should lke to have seen a reference try, and I hesîtate flot to say that I fuiiy
made to the last South African contingent. approve of the policy of the government lu
We know that there was a good deal of sending men to the United States to try and
higgling about its belng ralsed. There was Induce Canadians and others living there to
a good deal of objection on the part of emigrate to this country.
The large sales
the goverument to pay any expenses ln of land by the Canadian Pacifie Rallway,
connectIon with It, and there was a stipula- by tlie trust and loan companies, and by the
tion, If I arn correctly informed, and If the goverument ladicate a prosperlty unprecenewspaper reports be correct that they re- dented ln that section of the country. Why ?
fuaed even to do that until the British gov- The bountiful raine that fell lu that country,
ernment conceded the right, while we were ln June last fertillzed the soil and brouglit
pnylng nothlng, of appolnting ail the officers forth the crops and did for that country
who received commissions ln that contin- and for Canada what no government, lt
gent.
But there la nothing said about IL matters not who they may be, or what their
Perhaps any reference to It la the Speech pollcy may be, could posslbly do, and when
from the Throne might be taken by the credit le taken for brlnging lu these peoMînister of Public Works and by those pie, hon, gentlemen forget to gîve the
who thlnk and act as he does, as establish- reasons whlch induced them to corne.
lng another precedent I can say to the hon.
Thie visit of the Duke and Duchese of
gentlemen opposite that so, far as the York, now the Prince and Princees of
people of Ontario are concerned, 1 voice Wales, was a matter of gratification
to
the opinions of the people of Ontario every one, and there lo no doubt the
hon.
when 1 say that If the governument would gentleman who seconded the address
corne down, wlth the plethora of money they spoke correctly when he sald that it
have at presént, and say they wouid pay would open their eyes and give them
au
every dollar of the expense of the last con- Idea flot only of the loyalty of the people of
tingent, It would be approved by ninety-nine Canada, but of its great productive
qualiper cent of the people. It would be a fies. There le no period of
the year
credit to Canada, and whie Canada stands that they could have vIsited
Canada and
very hlgh la the estimation of British states- gone through the North-west
Territories
men and of Europeans generaliy at present, and Manitoba
to better advantage than the
from the course she has pursued lu con- period
when they did visit them.
Then
nection with this unfortunate South Afrithey had an opportunity of seeing hundreda
can war, if we came dowa and sald
of thousands of acres of wheat fields exto the mother country, 'we are pretendlng for miles and miles as far as thé
Pared not only to place our young men
eye could reach.
It was my pleasure to
at your disposai, but we will pay their expenses,' It would place us ln a stiil better go through that section of the country beIt was my pleasure also
position. That is the feeling I entertaîn, tore the harveet
to returu through that country, and If there
and I think I hold it la common with 999 out
la anything that would gladden the heart
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

FEBRUARY 17, 1902

of man It would be ta pass through Manitoba and tlie Narth-west while the farmers
were reaping a harvest sudh as that whlcb
was givea ta them last year.
I amrn l full sympathy with the next
paragrapli of the address, aud I arn qulte
sure every man ln Canada 1s, ln. deprecating
the existence of a clans 0f men who fancy
that their vocation ln lite la ta murder kings
and rulers. I happened ta be ln Seattle the
day the news of the assassInation of the
President of the United States was anThere was but one feeling
nounced.
of horror and regret shown, and I amn pleased
to say the expressions ta which I gave utterance ta an Interviewer are belng realized lu
this paragraph. I sad the state 0f saciety lu
the United States was of sudh a character
that the rnost drastic measurea should be
taken ta crush out of existence such a clans
or mnen as the anarchiats, and I amn very glad
that the gavernrnent have corne ta the conclusion ta Introduce sucli measures as will
tend ta drive, If I rnay use the expression,
out of existence, sacieties and men of that
character.
It matters not wliether It be a
despatlc goverunmeut, or a republic ln whlch
the wiII 0f the people 18 at least supposed
ta dominate aud ta gaveru, the particular
function 0f the anarchusta seema ta be ta
murder those wha have the confidence of
the people, whether It be ln a monarchy or
We shall be better able ta
a republlc.
judge 0f the* character 0f the governeut
measure after they have introduced It.
I now corne ta a paragrapi 'which ls a
somnewliat Important one. It refers ta the
census.
My hon. friend 'wlo rnaved the
address said that whie the Increase 0f population was not sa great as we auld like,
stlll It was an increase. True, It la au lucreuse, but If we taire the Increase and apply to Iii Sir Richard Cartwright's basis of
calculation when lie used to denaunce the
former goverunent because thers was not
a mare rapid Increase of the populatian, It
does nat give us a population equal ta
the natural increase of the couutry. What
lias becoime 0f the rest ? They must
have gone out of the country. But ta
take a little self-glorifIcation ta themselves,
they say there la gaod reason ta beileve
that the Increase of the population during
tlie last half of the decade-that la the
period tliey have been lu office-lias been

very greatly ln excesa of the average of
former years, and that In the future it will
increase more rapldly. I should like to ask
the Secretary of State, and 1 trust that
when lie rIses toaspeak he wIll inform the
Hanse, on what figures lie baaed that stafement. I noticed that same sentence ln a
speech dellvered by the late Minister of
Justice somewhere ln western Ontario, and
when I read the synopsis of that speech I
wrote hlm a note congratulatlng hlm upon
It, because I thauglit lie had maved trom
that narrowest sphere which cbaracterized
members of the gaverument when thcy
spoke of their own departrnents, and nsked
hlm ta send me a full report. When I got
it, I found lie lad fallen into the sme self;
glorification that appears ln the last paragrapli 0f the Speech tram the Throne. 1
thInk If you will rend that alddress ta
which I have alluded you will find the same
sentence.
1 told hlm while I had great
respect for his abillty, I regretted lie had
adopted a position which he could not @ustain by figures or tacts.
The basis of
calculation which those who discussed this
question after the decennial census of 1891
adopted, was a reference ta the Trade and
Navigation Returns.
They would there
flnd an entry of the exporta of settiers'
effects,4 and the figures used ta be dlnned
Into aur ears over and over again, and I
thlnk I may safely say my hon. friend who
is now smillng used ta Indulge ln that klnd
of argument. If It lias any torce I propose
ta apply it ta the last five years that the
hon. gentleman lias. been ln office, and ta
whIcli refereace ls made ln tlie address. It
wUl be found that the figures are just about
the mame average as la the previaus live
yearu. Having a tolerably good knowledge
of parliamentary documents, I took the returns for the last ton years, and examined
tliem ta see how far the Trade and Navigation Returus Issued under their liand and
seal would vent y their own suggestion,
and I found this ta be the case: the exporta,
of settiers' effeet arnounted :
In 1892 to.......1,227,908
1889 ta......1,537,646
The figures for 1894, I coutess, I could not
find. The trade and navigation returus of
that year are published without an Index,
and while I spent a littie time liuntiug for
the Item I had ta give It up.

SENATE
In 1890, the item was $991,735. I do flot Canadians ln the Eastern States, and In 1890
suppose the present government would lay there were 980,927, and by the last census
dlaim to that ; they would rather charge of 1900, the figures had gone Up to 1,181,778.
that to the late government. In 1897, the With these facte upon record, we have the
Item was $1.237.000O. They had flot only statement mnade la the address, or rather we
nearly reached but exceeded those of 18M.
have words put into the mouth of Bis Excellency, the truth of which cannot be veniIn 1898 they were.... $1,008,000
fied by any facts or figures In existence. In
993,'000
In 1899
1,057,994
the State of Massachusetts- another census
In 1900
1,166,533
In 1901
has been taken, and what does It show? That
1885 there were 147,352 Canadians; lu 1890
Compare those ten years, and you will find In
there were 207,000; in 1895 there were 243,that the exporte of settlers' effecta from the
country- were greater during the last live 000, and In 1900 there were 293,000 In that
years than for the tite years previously. Yet etate, showlng a constant Increase lu the
we are told, witl a good deal of solemnty- number of people leaving Canada for the
States. I do flot eay that thie dld
and 1 was golng to say somethlng else, but United
flot exist under former administrations. It
It would not be considered parliamentarythut lu the hast tive years, the exodus las is the peculiar character of the Anglo-Saxon
flot been s0 great. Tliere la a census taken race to be roaming. They are neyer satîsIn M.%anitoba every lite yeara, and what does lied; they are going from place to place.
that show * There was a census taken la Familles are raised, and the. boys, lImbued.
Manitoba la 189J6, exactiy the mlddle of the with the same Ideas as their parents, leave
decade. Comparing its figure wltl those of tijeir homes and go forth to seek their for1891, and then with those of 1901, it shows tunes somewhere else. Had It not been
the rate of increase was practically the same for that spirit of enterprîse, 1 ehould not
In the earlier and later years, so that there have been here to-day. My father thought
las been no great Influx Into that country le could do better here than he could ln
until the present year, after the enormous England, and le brought hie famlly, myharvest
The Postmaster General le not self among them, and I arn very glad, as
only master of letters and newspapers, but an evidence of. the salubrity and lealthIs also a publisher. I do not know that he fulness of this climate, to say that of the
edîts the 'Labour Gazette.' I fancy he just four children he brouglit to this country 67
controis It, but you wll find la that Gazette years ago, we are alI alive and klcklug toa reference to the great exodus from the day.
maritime provinces in) particuhar and If you
Hlon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Especially kicklook at the last address of the Governor ing.
of Nova Scotia, on the openlng of parliaHlon. Mr. O'DONOHOE-Are they aIl ln
ment,. you wilh fiad that he uses thîs hanCanada?
guage-he mentioned the fact of the
great enterpnîse whlch they had at Sydney,
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
and trusted that thie ana sfmnihar under- are ahl In Canada. Two of them are living
takinge would tend to stop the exodus of In Tweed, Hungerford, and another In
our young men to the United States. Yet Manitoba.
these gentlemen would lead the public to
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Are they ail Conbelleve, by thîs paragraph of the acidress, that
servatlyes?
the young men of the Dominion were not
emigrating to the United States, but were
remaining lu Canada.
If the hon. gentlemen would take the trouble to look at the
census which was taken a short lime ago In
the eastern States, to which tîte maritime
province men generally go. fishiermen and
others, whlle others go stilI further west,
you will fiad that lu 1880-that le the decenalal census retura-there were 717,157
Holi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
I have dealt with that portion of the address referring to the census, and I think
that the facts wlll convince the public
that that was altogether a superfinous sud
unnecessary paragraph to place ln the aiddres
What the next paragraph means I amn at a
bass to know, unless I am to draw from

FEBRUKRY 17, 1902

1

the statement ln the course of the speech moved the resointIon, because It ls evident
made by the seconder of the address that that he bias given attention to the Importwe are to help the Canadian Pacifie Rail- ations, the exportations, and the great
way. It is unusual to refer to private growth o! the trade of the country. But
legisiation ln the Governor's Speech, and un- wheu we are told that that la the resuit of
less the goveraiment have some scheme by a preferential tariff ln faveur of Great
whlch they propose to assist the Canadian Britaîn neither facta nor the figures given
Pacifie Railway by endorsing their paper, us by the lion. Senator wlll anstain the
or guaranteelng their bonds, I do flot k-now statements made. Let us look at the figures
why the paragraph ls introduced. We ail and we find these factsa: the aggregate laremember the fighit thiat toohk place by gen- crease of trade durlng the iast year
tlemen ln the House of Commons and also bas been 48 per cent ln faveur of Great
by gentlemen hiere against the Canadian Britaîn, 80 per cent ln favour of the United
Pacifie Railway. I notice, bowever, that States, notwltbstandlng a preference given
the Premier of Ontario, ln a late address la to the Engllsh manufacturer, te whlch 1
Whltby, speaks higbiy of ft, and, something may refer more at lengtb presentiy, France
unusual la the party to which ]ie belongs, 101 per cent, germany 40 per cent, Spain
honestly ndmltted the error they made la 101, Portugal 104, Italy 110, Rolland 110,
opposing the construction of the'Canadian ilth Belginai It bas increased 550 per cent
Pacifie Railway, admittlng that Sir John over the former trade of that country. Now,
Macdonnid's poiley, and which I admit was hiow Is It ? Can any oae exlin iîow It Is
carried out nt enorruons expense, was the that the United States, Iying close to us,
correct one, and redounds not only to bis wlth the tbirty-three and a thîrd per
credit as a statesman, but hias brought oent o! a differential duty against bier, lnCiinada to wbat she is to-day, and what creased ber trade eighty per cent, whlle the
she wrould not have been had not that road trade o! the favoured country *hlch the
been bulît.
preferential tarIff was supposed to beiiefit,
The reference to the Inventor Marconi oniy lncrensed forty-eighit per cent ? These
lias no hari to it, but as the seconder of -ire figures that ail cmii verify by looklng at
the addreaa said-lt la bard to Bay where the trade returns, and tbey eau auswer the
lie got Ida inspiration-I suppose It ls the question to their own satisfaction. If you
Intention to subsidize Marconi that hie ay take the percentage froai 1896 to 1901 of the
continue hlm experlmenta la Canada.
Wye trade between the United States and Canada
can ail hope that lt experimeats mny -1 am not speaking 110w of the gross tradeprove a muccess, and thiat'they may be of yon will find that ln 1001 our percentage of
benefit to this country.
trade wlth Great Britala was 31,15 per cent
The next paragraph refera to the re- and witb the United States la 1890 It Nvas
venue and expansion of business.
That 50-'80 per cent. Hon, gentlemen wiil observe
question was elaborately deait with by the lîow la 1897 the trade fell off with Engiand
mover of the address. I arn one of those during the existence of this preferential
wbo do flot consider it to the greatest tatriff. In 1897 it feil down te 27-53 per cent,
advantage, la a country like this, that our and tbe United States liicreased to 53*48 per
revenue abould sweli as it bas swolien cent. In 1898 Englind's tnade decrensed to
fromn Importations. I would aiucb rather 25-36 per cent, while the United States lasee those goods wbich are lmported, and creased 29-24 per cent. Ia 1899 the percentfreai wblch we derive a revenue, made ln age of frade wlth Great Britaîn was 24-72,
Canada, giving employient to our artisans, and with the United Statea 59-24. The figour labourera, and our meebanîca la order ures are preclaely as tbey were the year beto keep theai la the country, rather than fore. In 1890 the trade wlth Great Brîtain
have them go to the United States iooklng had falien off te 24 17, but la 1891, last year,
for employment. But bas that been the Engiand'm trade feul to 24-10, wbiie that of
resuit of wbat these gentlemen s0 often tue United States lncrensed te 60 '30. There
boat about the Introduction of wbat they ls tbe state of the figures, and. wben we are
caii their preferentiai trade ? I commend toid tlînt this preferentiai trade lias doiie so,
the figures to xny hon. friend who bas uch te ceaient the gond feeling that exists

SENATE
to-day between England and Canada we
must attribute It: to soute other cause. 1 cau
easily understand how the trade wlth Germany has increaaed with England; It Iosiampiy on account of the order ln council whlch
was recominended by the Minleter of (Justoma, and la now la existence. If gooda
manufactured ln a foreigu country bie sent
to England and undergo a finishing procesn whlch la about 25 per cent-I arn not
absolutely certain as to, the amount-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think that le the proportion.

That Is my recollection of It.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1
thought that was It but I did îîot wish to be
ton positive-then they are adrnitted as EngIlsh gouda under the preferential tariff. Now,
take buttons-that la a anjall matter-tbey
wiil send themt to Eng-laind-just the bone
Itself, and perhaps the hioles are bored lit
Eugland. Then they are relieved of the
dIfferentîi duty of thirty-three and a thIrd
per cent by sending theru to England rather
than by finishing themn in Germany. That
uppiies to scores of thiugs, so that la fact
the preference thirough the means of this
order lu council le absolutely nullified l)
Its operation.
Then hiow are we trented
by Gerrnany ?
The expression used by
people on the stump, Is 'See what advantages have accrued to us frorn the fact
of our linving this preferential trade.1
There ts ,, gentleman, now a member of
thtis House-I (Io not see hlm presentwhio was lnterviewed lu Kiansas, and hie
there told them of the magalficent effects of
the preferential trade la openlng the rnarket
of England to us. Let me ask any hon.
gentleman present, who knows anything
about the tariff and trade with Engiand,
have we one single benefit In the Eugllsh
market to-day that we have not had for
thirty or forty years, since free trade was
established la that country ? Not a single
one. If we have a surplus of grain or a
surplus of manufactures wve can go, into
England to-day on the saute terms preclsely
as we dld twenty-five years ago, s0 that
there le flot the slighteet gain to us la that
respect, while we have given theru a preference of 33J per cent and under that 33à
per cent the trade of the country bas fallen
with England and lncreased wlth the United
'States, wlth 33J againat hier on the aggregate trade.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-The hou.
gentleman wants to takre ail and give nothing. The English people have been receivlng our goods for thirty years free of taxation and you stili. want to keep a hlgh taxation agalnst tbem.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - I
should like to ask the hon, gentleman If anythlng bas failen front my lips which justified thiat remark ?
lion. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I think so.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I said
nothing about retaliation.
I have been
slîowing from the begininng the effect of
the preferentiai tariff as It affected the trade
of Great Britain. I have îlot expressed ail
opinion upon that point yet. If the bon.
gentleman wants an opinion I have no objec-*
tion to giving ItL I have no opinions of any
kind or character that 1 arn ashamed to givû
expression to, and when the Urne coines for
dealing witb the question, 1 wili deai with it
just as frankly ns I amn dealing with this,
but It would be Just as weli If the hon. gentleman, la considerlng these matters, would
nct try to put language into my mouth thiat
I did flot utter. I could give hlmt reasons
why I thnk the preferentiai tarif lias resulted In the manner which I have indicated, but I will not take the time ait present.
I wish to refer now to the enorrnous expenditure of the country. I may, however.
remark en passant, that my hon. friend from
Hamilton Is one of the radical, free tradeprotectionists that we have In this country,
and I congratulate hlm on the latter part,
liowever, much I may disagree with hin oit
the former. He Is one et the ardent out
and out protectioniets of the old Tory style.
Tlhere Is no question about that. I had
the pleasure of sittlng In the House of Coinmoas witb that hon, gentleman when lie
made one of the most elaborate statemeuts
lu favour of protection, that perhiaps amy
rnan ever made la that House, and I asslsted hirn In getting It upon record, aind hie
bas a very good knowledge of the resuits. Not
one word have they said about the expenses
of the country. I thought the lbon. gentleman to whom I referred a moment ago mlght
be lu the Chamber, but I do not see hlmt here,
lie muade a pledge la the Commone, when hie
was there, ln which hie stated that he was

FEBRUA1IY 17, 190r2
quite couvinced, If the Liberal party came from the remarks made by the bon. genInto power, that If the people would change tleman, but we are not discussing traitors
the complexions of its rulers, they could juat now, we are only discuasiug questions
reduce the annual expenditure by four to of difference between. the gentleman whom
five million dollars. I neyer heard him say lie admires so much-the Minister of Publie
a word about that during the five years lie Works, his beau Ideal of a statesman, as a
%-as in parliament supportlng the present man, and as a dlplomat-and bis colleagues,
government.
But If it were so, tiien the and consequeutly we will confiue ourselves
expenditure should have been last year about to thîs instead of discussing the ques$36,872,318, Instead of $61,500,000; It was tion of traltors. Uufortunately there are
ouly about one hundred per cent greater traltors lu ail camps, and I am Inclined
than his calculations ln 1895. The following to thlnk the hon. gentleman may find
figures will show bow the expenditure has some among bis own friends. Whether
increased during Liberal rule
tbey wIll have the same effeet as cer1893-Conservattves.. . . . .. .. 4,s,727
tain other traitors have, or whether
1894-Conservatives .. .......
43008,233
the results wiil follow their counecl 8 95-Conservatives......42,872,338
189&-Consýrvatives......41,702,383
flou with them lu the future; remaîna to
1S97-Liberals........42,972,755
be seen. I hope It may, that's ail. 1 have
189S-Liberais........45,384,281
1899-Llberais ....
hfard, îarticularly duriug the last contest
......... 51,542,635
1901-Total vote.... .... ... 61,500,000
lu these by-electlons, the admirers of the
We have flot had a single word said administration say: 'We have carrled out
about that. It Is rather a ticklish sub- ail our pledges that we made prior to the
ject, no doubt, for the two hon. gen- elections or durlng the electlons. There Is
tlemen who have addressed the House, not a pledge which, we have nmade that we
Tbey say,
more partlcularly when conaidered In vlew of have not adhered to strictly.'
-the professions of the hon. gentlemen whien too we have only a revenue tariff. They say
they were lu Opposition. Âllow me for a more than that. They are not protectionfew moments to caîl attention to the position lots, except some portion of them. Let us
whlch these gentlemen occupy as minlaters look at a few of them and see what a
of the Crown. I fancy If men like Robert position tbey occupy. The Premler-and
Baldwin and Lafontaine could rîse Up froni wben I use the single number understaud it
the grave and see the manner lu whichi this means the whole, because the memo, I have
country is governed to-day under the prin- In my hand la written lu the aingular-we
ciple of responaible government, they would find that when the late Alex. Mackenzie, who
bide their hea>do shame, and say that they was Premier of the goverument and n man
lu
no longer belonged to such a party. There of a steru cfflhracter, a man who held opinions
neyer has been ln the existence of a govern- that lie was neither ashamed of nor dld he
ment lu Canada, or ln Europe, a conglomer- liesitate to avow them, that he, rather than
ate such as that whlch composes tlue present yleld to the clamour at that time, because
goverument Is there a single question upon such it wns for protection, went to the
whlcb there Is a unity of sentiment or feel- people and was defeated. nd they nîl
stuck to hlm lîke bricks. They were aIl
ing among tbem ? We have the
free trader,'
Mr. Fielding, on one aide ; we have the pro- free traders at that time. Mr. Blake declared
fessed free trader, Mr. Sitton, as bis co- that If he came Into power lie would not
adjutor. Then we have Mr. Tarte, who thIuk of removlng protection suddenly. The
boasts he was boru a protectionlst, and edu- hon, gentleman will remember that famous
cated a protectioniat, la a protectionlst still speech of hîs at Malveru, In Ontario. They
and intends to adhere to It, and when they echoed the ame sentiment, and when Sir
dlscuss these questions they, the latter gen- Richard Cartwright styled protection legaltleman says, 1quarrel like blazes.' That is lzed.robbery and was for unrestrIcted. recinot my language ; it is bis that I am quotlng. procity with the United States, thougli Mr.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-Not like tiai- Blake averred et that time that It would
lead to annexation, they ail feUl Into Une
tors 1
and advocated It. Now they say they do
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, not require either one or the other,
and'
not like traitors. We might draw Inferences tbey bave gone so far
as to deny that tbe'y
2

SENATE
ever advocated unrestricted reciprocity. He
was for preferential trade with Britain on
the Canadian hustings prier te the electien,
and pointed eut the great advantages which
wouid accrue te this country If they could
get that preterence, as to which my hon.
triend says we want to get everything and
give nothing. But as soon as he got Inte
Engiand, surreunded by free traders, he belied-that is an Anglo-Saxon word and perhaps a littie teo stroug-he took a different
view, and declared they wanted nothing
trom Eugland and did net ask it, but was
willing te give them ail they had te give. I
wili not pursue that subject further, but 1
make the statement, that there is net a
single principle that they adveated at the
time when they were eut et office that they
have flot violated since they came inte
pewer. But what 1 amn geiug te peint eut-and I propose te close with this-is the
divergence et opinion which existe between
the members et the cabinet, and whlch le
eppesed te. the principles et respensible
geverument and parliamentary doctrine laid
dewu by Mr. Gladstone, which I have ln
my hand, that when eue minister differs
frem anether lie muet ge eut et the goverument, that ln ne case can a man dlvest hlmself ef bis Individuai responsibility-that'ne
members et the geverument can divest
themseives et responsibility for the utterances et any eue et the Cabinet, that what
eue dees they are ail respensibie fer. Let
us leok at the positien these gentlemen occupy. It will be remembered that Mr. Blair
repudiated Mr. Tarte lu a speech dellvered
at Restigouche. Perliapa I should say the
MInister et R.aiiways and Minlster et Public Works, but the ether mode et expression is a great deai sherter. He
repudlated Mfr. Tarte lu a speech delvered at Restigeuche on the questien et seudlng
a centingent te South Africa. What did lie
say upen that occasion ? He said : It ls true
Mfr. Tarte may held certain views upen the
question, and that lie bad a riglit te held
them, but the Cabinet was net with hlm
and lie did net have bis way. That may
l>e quite correct, and the statemeut made
that lie had a right te bis ludîvidual. opinioue, ne eue disputes, but what we do dispute la that lie lad a riglit te go eut on the
stump and tell the peeple lie dIsapproved et
what had been doue, and then remaîn lu
the Cabinet. It reminds me ef eue et the
Mon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Euglish statesmen et whom we read about,
I forget the werk new, but the statement la
that when he left the Cabinet door lie said
te the ether Minister wliat dld we decide
upon lu reterence te this : ' Well,'1 he says,
1don't yeu kew ? ' And the ether minister
says: «'Oh, I have fergetten, but If we bave
te lie about It we muet ail lie alike. There
muet be ne diversity et opinien.' Then Mfr.
Blair supported the Kettle River Raiiway
Bill, and Mfr. Tarte attacked the bill lu the
Heuse when It came betere them, and deteated Mfr. Blair. Mr. Blair negetlated with
Engliali and (Janadian capitalists fer the
construction et a, telegraph IUne te Dawsou. Mfr. Tarte on bis return frem Europe
repudlated Mfr. Blair's arrangement and
buiit the lune himseit, aud made the other
parties lose their meney. Mr. Blair supported lu committee the (Jrew's Nest
Pass Raiiway charter te the United
States border. Mfr. Tarte opposed It.
Mfr. Blair deciared that It was the pelicy et the governmeut te grant the charter. Mfr. Tarte denied this, and declared
tlhat It was neot se. Mr. Blair retorted,
de-*
cinring that 1fr. Tarte was not at the council and did net knew, but Mr. Tarte won,
aetwithstauding, and deteated the measure
when It came te the House. Mfr. Dobeli
declared that the s. Scotsman was lest ou
account et there net beiug liglits and teghorns on the St. Lawrence. The Minister
ef Marine and Fîsheries denied It, and a
werdy row ensued between these twe members et the Cabinet Sir Louis Davies deiieuuced what lie styled an omnibus bll
grantiug certain powers te an electrlc compauy on the St. Lawrence ; the Solicitor
General, Mfr. FitzpatrIcli, supperted the bill.
Mfr. Davies reterted and accused Mr. Fitzpatrick et being the atterney et the promoters, which Mfr. Fltzpatrick Indignantly denled, and read hlm a lecture upon the proprieties ef debate, Messrs. Blair and Debeil
eppesed ln committee the South Shore Railway Bill introduced by Mfr. Préfontaine, as
belng au attempt te legisiate others eut et
thelr rîglits ; Sir Wilfrid Laurier, when the
bill came te the lbuse, supported ItL The bill
was reported, and Messrs. DebelI and Blair
were thereby deteated. At the Manutacturers Banquet, lu Mentreal, Mr. Fieldlng talked tree trade, and* Mr. Tarte, protection,
declariug that lie was educated a protectionlet aud was eue stili, and that 'they touglit

FEBRUKRY 17, 1902
Uke blazes ln council when these questions
came up.' Mfr. Sifton repudiated protection
ln a speech In Winnipeg, and declared that
If the woollen mille could flot mun with a
twenty-three per cent protection, let thern
shut down. Of course this would be opposed by Mfr. Tarte. Mfr. i3ifton declared
that he was the only one In the Cal»lnet-and here le another, shail I say
hie
violation of the obligation which
took as a Privy Councillor-Mr. Sifton
declared ln ls speech ln the North-west a
short time ago that hie was the only one lu
the Cabinet who opposed the duty upon
lumber. He shouid have hadl the manliness
te have toid the Manitoba farmers wlien the
question corne up that the government
thouglit it la the Interests of the country, but
lnstead ef that lie said : I amn the oniy mani
lu faveur ef free trade. Then we ifnd again,
on the question of reclprocity, Mr. Tarte declared that the tirne to seek reclproclty had
ended, but If you look at Sir Wilfrid Laurler's speech down at St. Hyacinthe, you
wiil find that hie said.
The. last had not been heard of the Washington commission, and If we are returned, f urther
efforts wlll be made to et for Canadian pIrdducts their natural market.
On the question ef transportation, Messrs.
Tarte and F'itzpatrlck were again at loggerhleads la committee. Mfr. Tarte referred to
the large amount of money whlch lad been
spent ln Quebec witliout the people profitlng
by It, and asked Mfr. Fitzpatrick If h. knew
liew much haed been spent Mr. Fitzpatrlck
replied, « You know best, and hew It was
spent' I suppose probably he haed reference
te, a 1rake off'1 just then. However, I do
net knew that. Tis. la the language of the
lion. gentlemen themselves.
Hon. Mfr. DÂNDURÂND-The hon. gentleman refers to the tie when the. McGreevyConnolly scandai was being expose by Mfr.
Tarte?

19

show how much rake off 1fr. Tarte got. I
could show how much he get fromn Paquet
liow mach he get fromn Wheian, and one
or two others. But that 1s digressing.
Hon. 1fr. DÂNDURÂND-For Conservative purpeses?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I will
leave hlm with his hon. friend, and hie can
admire hlm as lie dees, and can sieep witli
hlm If lie 11ke.. These are but a few cases
lai whlcl these gentlemen have proven te
the world that tliey are net a unit I arn
net prepared te say that tley shouid b. a
unit ln council, but I do hld, and so will
any other man whe understands anything
of the constitution under whidh this country la governed, that wliatever differences
there may b. at the council board, when
tliey corne eut of the doors tliey slouid bie
one, and net be contradicting each otlier.
If these things sliould occur lu Engiand, as
they have occurred lu this country, wliere
responsibie geverument la net only practised
but lived up te, no man could remalu ln the
Some
goverument au heur afterwards.
people wl! very likeiy, under tue circumstances, think that they are a loving lot
and some might explaim, la the language o!
the piaimIet 'Beheld hew geed It is for
bretbren te dwell together ln unity.' WeU,
there is unity se long as the retentoxi
of office is la view. I would suggest te
tle hion. Secretary e! State the paraphrasing e! the eld nursery nliyme about
doge, and that lie should have the follewiug
motte put up upon the deor o! the councl
chamber; It miglit remlnd them of their
boyheed day., and suggest te tliem tle propriety o! trylng te de better. XI should read
thus:
Let doge deligît te bark and bite and scratch
each ot2iers faces.
But chuldren of one Cabinet should net quarre!
11ke blazes.'-

Hon. Mfr. SCOTI'-I desire te thank -the
hon, leader o! the. Opposition for the complimentary terme lu whlch he re!erred te tle
mover and seconder of the address. These
gentlemen deiivered their speeches lu very
good taste, and I think their remarka met
Hon. Mfr. DÂNDURÂND-No, I. arn ex- with the approval ef both aides of the
have given us an assurance
plaining what the Minister of Justice meant House. Tliey
that tbey wiil be ,aluable members of the
non: Sir' MACKENZIE BOWELL-I*wiU Senate lu tbe'future The same might be
net enter Into that point If I did I coixid aise sald o! tle etuer four hon, gentlemen
2j
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Very
lkely, I told the lion, gentleman juat now
that he was an admirer o! Mfr. Tarte, and
lie lias taken the firet opportunity to defend
him.

SENATE
introduced Into this Chamber on Thursday
last.
The other tour have ail been members.of
legisiative bodiei, and bave corne here witb
a large amount of experience, and wll
prove, I arn quite sure, most valuabie members of the Senate. I loiu witli my hon.
frlend In saying that whiie we welcome the
newcomers, yet our meniories have flot forgotten the old friends who sat ln this
Chamber. The one to whom lie particuiarly
referred, who sat upon bis ieft (Mfr. Ailan),
and to whom lie alluded ln sncb feeling terms,
was for a long time a very warm friend
of mine. It happened that ln the year 1858,
I think It was, speaking now from memory,
et a tume when members for the Upper
Chamber were elected, the late -Mr. Allan
offered blinseif as a candidate for tbe Home
Dlsttict, and wns eiected by the people who
knew hlm best. During the long time I had
tbe pleasure of knowing him-now considerably more than forty years-I neyer once
clîanged the high opinion I entertainedl of
tbat bon. gentleman. The remark made by
the hon. leader of the Opposition, when lie
said lie was a man with hlgh Ideals, was
a very correct phrase to use wlth respect to
Mfr. Ailan, and recailed an observation that
I niyseif made wben lie was nominated to
the chair of the Senate. I distinctly remember saying-, with ail sincerity, that if at that
tume among the many members of the Chamber It rested witb thls body to nominate one
to the chair, Mfr. Allan would certainiy
have secured the position, and therefore we
~could ail beartiiy endorse the selection made
bY the government of the day. Whie
brouglit up amid very strong pohitical associations, bis father and grandfather, and
married Into what was known as the oid
famlly compact, yet lie was a man who was
singulariy free from prejudice where lis
Dwn judgment was brougbt into play-more
particuiariy ln the committees of this House,
and especially when acting as chairmah of
several of the committees during that long
Interval. I have aiso to thank my hon.
frlend for the kindly manner in wblch he
referred to Mfr. M 1115, who lias been elevated to a place in the Supreme Court. He
has known Mfr. Mills for very many years,
and lias formed a very higb estimate of bis
cliaracter. I think thie opinion wUll be concurred In, not only by Mfr. Milla political
friends, but by bis poiltical opponents.
lon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Hear, hear.
lIou. 31r. SCOTT-As to bis littie chif
about acting contrary to the political views
of some of my cofleagues to wbom he made
reference, and departing froni the policy
he laid down, I presume on that occasion
they were et aIl events following the
precedent established by our predecessors,
under the administration of the late Sir John
Macdonald, when a namesake of bis, Mr.
McDonald, of Nova Scotia, passed froni Minlster of Justice to Chief Justice of lis province, a very good appointment. No one criticised or found fauit with It. I think It bas
been recognized ln Engiand tInt If the thon
Attorney Genoral dostres to go on the bencli,
it is usually bis privilege to do so. Tliat, I
understood, lias aiways been the rule.
Speaklng now of persons ivhose nanies
miglit be recalled to our memories, I tliink
we ouglit not to omit mention of the distinguishod man wbo died iast week-I think,
thie day before the House wns called together-I ailude to the late Earl of Dufferin,
a gentleman that Canada owes a very deep
debt of gratitude to for the warm. Intorest
lie aiways took la Canadian affaIrs. It was
bis good fortune to follow the first Governor
General of Canada, a gentleman wbo lad not
takon a very active part ln filling the position tliat lie occupied, that is, Sir JTohn
Young, 'ývho became Lord Lisgar. He was
oniy in Canada I think for three and a liai!
yoars. I must say lie was not a great success ; lie did not take the active part, nor
ln tact did any o! the governors before that
period, tliat Lord Dufferla dtd when lio
came to Canada. He practically adoptod a
new Unae whidb bas, I amn glad to say, been
foliowed hy bis succossors. As lion. gentlemen know-particulariy those who took an
Interest la matters thlrty years ago-Lord
Dufferin made himself familiar witli ail tbe
wants of Canada, took every opportunity
of coming ln close toucli with the people,
living at dIfferent tumes ln leading cities of
the Dominion; was present at banquets,
and spoko witli very great beauty and earnestnesa of the possibilities of this country.
Hle contlnued to take a very active Interest
ln Canada, and was always oui friend at the
Court of St James when any Canadian
question came up for consideration. -11lfe
was in many respects a very happy one. Tliat
I s, lie occupied 11gb Positions Of very great

FEBIRUARY 17, 1902
importance in the Empire. He was at different times Minister Plealpotentiary at different courts of Europe-Russia, Turkey
Italy and France, and was afterwards Viceroy of India. There is this to be said of
Lord Dufferin, that hie was generous to a
fault. I tbink b. was a poorer man the day
he left Canada than hie was the day he arrived-that ls, I think the ailowance pald
hilm here was expended lu generous hospitaiity with n free and open baud, and with
the. liberality he displayed at ail tîmes.
However, he set a very good exampie, which,
I am happy to say, has been very freely
followed by those who have succeeded hM.
My hon. friend's criticisme on the address,
are, on the whoie, rather moderate. He
refers to several omissions, which I should
note, and hie took occasion to pass over a
little chaif as to my position lu this Chiamber. As hie knows, I have had no very great
ambition to be first at any time. I am glad
to-ay to assist the party to which I beiong
ln admlnistering public affairs eltiier lu this
Chamber or outaide of ItL
The hon. gentleman bas alse referred to a
circumstauce that bas on many occasions
been thrown across the floor of this House
at me, that I changed my POlitical opinions.
it has been made so often and I have
remaiued silent under It, that probably this
moment may be a favourable opportuulty
for giving some very short explanation. I
do not care, as a ruie, about tafldng of myself, but as the statement bas been made
that I had, for seme consideration or other,
changed my political opinions, I think: It la
only fair that the House should understand
my positon. I began 1f. as a Liberal, as
a boy and as a man, 'when I commenced my
profession ln the. year 184. At that tis the
exciting question was the Rebellion Losses
Bill. I was on the platform moving a resolution ln support of Lord Elgin, who had
then signed the. Rebelion Losses Bull, when
we were attacked by a body of the Conserservative party, and put to rout. I continued to be allled to, the Liberal party until
the year 185. It se happened that it was
committed to my care to take charge of
varions dlaims of cities to be considered
sultable places for the capital of Canada.
I prepared the. papers, and liad charge of
the application of Ottawa. After the decision was given, the Lîberal party as a body

denounced the selection. In the session of
1857-58 the vote against Ottawa was carried
by a large majority. Sir John Macdonald
took up the Queen's decîsion and stick
loyally by ItL
I represented the city of
Ottawa, and certainly I should flot have
been dolng my duty If I bad flot adbered
to the governinent In s0 Important a M.gtter as the selection of thîs city lu carrying
out the Queen's decision.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
ls, the defeat of the appropriation of fifty
thousand pounds to begin the work-that le
the question on which Sir John Macdonald
was defeated.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, It was on a- square
vote. First, Mr. Pichd moved that Ottawa
should flot be the seat of government That
Is the first vote that was given. Several places were voted on, and he moved a
direct vote that Ottawa was flot a suitable
place for the seat of goverament, and the
vote was carried. It dropped there, and for
a whole year there was just that uncertainty
about I. The foilowing year, accompanied
by some other gentlemen, I waited on Sir
John Macdonald and the government at
Toronto, and asked them whether they were
prepared to take Up the question and stand
by ItL They said they were, and they made
up their mindis to do so. A paragraph was
introduced In the address announclng that
pollcy, that they were prepared to stand by
It. Recolleet before that they badl resigned,
and what was cailed the Brown-Dorion
goverument was formed lu succession to ItL
However, the.following session, 1859, a paragraph was put In the Speech, blnding the
government to stand by the Queen's decision. We only carrled It then with great
difficulty by dive votes. Certainly 1 should
have been recreant to my duty if I had not
adhered to Shr John Macdonald after that,
and I did so until Confederation. My relations wlth Sir John Macdonald were always
of a very pleasant character, even after I
nited, myself Ini Ontarlo with Blake and
Mackenzie. It may be an unnecessary thing
to state, but as so many observations have
bc-en mnade In the, last fifteen or twenty
years la this Chamber chaffing me about lt,
I have taken this opportunity to speak of a
personal matter. It ls a bit of Canadien history that should not b. forgotten.

SENATE
Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have when a power dIfferent from coal probabiy
a pretty good rnemory of the rest of it. The may be used, oit or some other substituto
'which wili flot occupy the space which coni
whole story bais flot been told.
does, because we know very well that wliat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentleman, are called the greyhounds of the Atlantic,
arnong other things, finds that no reference while tliey carry many passengers cannot
Is mnade to, the fast Unme of steamers, and I carry freiglit Now, the weaith of this counthInk lie quoted sorne remarks made by the try ls the products of the country, and we
Premier ini another place, In which lie said must liave vessels that wiil have sufficient
that the late government had taken an space to carry those products abroad. Had
equally long Urne to maire up their minds. we entered into the contract for the fast
The first legisiation on the fast Ilne was lu Une, to, whichi my lion. friend refers, la 1896,
1889. Nothing came of it. The Act re- the vessels were to be ready la 1898, and
mained on the statute-book offering to give we would have now spent tbree million of
at that Urne halt a million dollars towarda dollars as a subsIdy to a fast Ilne for that
establishing a fast lhue. In 1894 a new blill part of the ten yeara' service. Do the lion.
was Introduced increasing the amount to gentlemen think It would have been of that
three-quarters of a million dollars, but particular value to this country? It was to
coupling with It the duty of calling at some be a weekiy service. Six days of the week,
port lu France. Nothing came of that. The our letters go by New York steamers. No
year 1895 paaaed over, and In the session merchant would ever think of holding
of 196 another bill was brouglit down
lis correspondence for six days la order
whicli relieved the cornpany from callng nt to send it by a Canadian steamer while we
a port In France, a clause having been added have equal facilties to send by New York. 1
that the goveranent of the day was ern- suppose nine-temths of our
mail-matter bas
powered to also subsidize a line to France, for 10 years pnst been carried via New York
and dispose of the necessity for the fast At- -because it la a quicker route.
It Is a dally
lantic vessels calling at France, as between
route, and for us that la a convenience and
Liverpool and Quebec or Halifax. There
advantage that no weekly steamer could
ls a good deai of difference of opinion In possIbly furnish.
Then, again, the great
this country as to the benefits of a fast Uine. wealth of this country la In Its products. I
If, as my hon. friend contenda, it would venture to say that the $38,000 a year given
have been wise to close with Mr. Allax,to the Manchester line of steamers years
and it Is a long story to go into, because ago bas been of greater benefit to this
there were a gond many qualifications,-the country than the expenditure
of tliree-quarservice had not been approved, If my rnemory
ters of a million towards establishing a fast
serves me, by Mr. Chamberlain, who was
Uine. The Manchiester Une of steamers have
then, as now, Secretary of State for the
carried. our grain, our meats, oui- cheese,
Colonies, and his approvai was necessary,
butter, fruit and ail ou- products to, a maras It was absolutely essential that the Irn- ket wliere there are seven millions o! people
peril goverament should contribute their
wlvating to receive them, and that la really
share to the fast line-apart fromn that there
one o! the secrets of the great export of this
be
were many- reasons why it couid not
country-liow the export of Canada lias
acquiesced la, and so the subject was dropenormously Increased.
1 have liere the
ped for the time being. There la a broacler
figures which I shahl perliaps quote mast
question apart from that tbat many people
now, and which are worth knowing, and It
do mot believe la a fast lime as contempiated.
la ail due to, the Increased facilities for
A fast line la a term that changes rapidly.
bill to transportaton. The greater facilities given
The fast lune as contempiated la the
which I have referred was 20 knota au to farmers and to othera who are sending
hour. We know very weil now that sucli their gooda abroad have given a stiuluus
a service wouid not do. Take the 'Kaiser to our exporta and really add more materWilliam,' for Instance ; 1 think lier speed Is ially to the wealth of thia country than a
24 knots an hour, and tbere la no doubt we East uine could have done.
are just In that transition state when faster
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL -Do I
vessels are being built from tirne to, timo tunderstand from the hon. gentleman's reHon. Mr. SCOTT.

FEBRUARY 17, 1902)
marks that the government have abandoned
the idea ?
HEon. Mr. SCOTT-Not at ail. The bon.
gentleman may perhaps one of these days
see advertisementa for tenders, but wbat 1
recognize, and what I think every gentleman
who will give bis mind to It wIll recognize,
i. that there bas been no serions loas, at ail
events np to the present time-that Canada
bas flot suffercd ln consequenceo f the delay, particularly la vicw of the increased
speed that year by year is being attained
by vessels crossing thc Atlantic.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-When will the limit
of speed b. reacbcd?7

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know. The lncrease is going on day by day. I suppose
when we have a better energy producer than
coal ; that ls my Idea about it, but at prescnt, 'wherc you sacrifice everytblng to
spced, there la very little space lef t for
freIglit.
Another subi ect to which. my hon. friend
lias adverted as an omission trom the
speech, la the Pacifie cable. I think my hon.
fiicnd knows exactiy tbe position of tbat.
TIre papers were brouglit down to this
Chiamber last session, Indicating that a contract bnd been made-that thc ground had
been selected at the Pacific coast-tbat thre
work was being carried on witb as much
speed as possible. I qulte ngrce with hlm
that the Pacifie cable bas not had fair play
lu thre past, but I think neithier the government of whIch bie was a member nor thre
present government was responsible for the
delay. I do not pais any stricturés on those
who are responsible. He kno'ws themn well,
and any gentleman who chooses to study tbe
question as I bave badl to study it, can arrive at oxily one conclusion, that there la a
rivai conccrn in which public mcn ln Great
Britain bave very large Intereste, and nocessarily they look with some degree of
3ealousy on so Important a rival as a cable
acroas thre Pacific witb a probable extension round the globe tbrough Britishr waters
and on Britishr territory. The Eastern Extension bas been the oppoinent that bas irad
to be fonght duriag the last ton years since
tire Pacifie cable was first projected. That
comPany iras tbwarted It, and succeeded in
postpoining the time for laying the Pacific
cable, and has succeeded, ln that lnterval.

lu connteracting many of Uhc advaatages
finnncially that would have followed from
tIre Pacifie cable occupying the ground eight
or ton years ago. As far as our policy la
concerned, It i. to finish Uic cable ns rapidly
as possible. Our commissioner on the board
i. doing that, and I think the gentlemen who
represent the other parts of the empire are
of the same mmnd.
Tire lion. gentleman made some severe criticisms ln reference to the Intercolonial
Railway. I presume If soine of my remarks
were looked up, I would be found for many
years to have made-pcrhaps not exactiy
ln thre samne line-pretty sharps strictures on
thre expenditure on thre Intercolonial Railway with few benefits flowing from ItL As
to thre observation that we had bonghit a
number of locomotives and farmed tin
out to Uic Canadian Pacifie Railway, I
really do not know the facts, but I presume
If It i. so, that the locomotives have been too
beavy for tire bridges, because I notice Uiat
It ls proposed now to atrengtbcn the bridges
ln order to enable new locomotives to pas.
over tirem, for It appears thc bridges on
thc Intercolonial Railway were bulît wben
amaller locomotives werc uscd. We anl
know that marked changes bave taken
place ln recrut years ln the engines that
haul beavy traina--thiat the amaller engines have been entirely discarded as not
being profitable. Tire longei Uic train, the
more powerful the englue, the more profitable thre work that can be donc, and. I proanme it la on that account, If It lasso, tint
tire origines bave been farined out.
Hou. Mr. McCÂLLUM-Are the engînes
too heavy for Uic bridges or the bridges too
llgirt for tire engines ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bridges are too
light for the locomotives. Tire bon. gentleman hiad a fling at Uic Postmastcr General's
Dcpartment. I thought If -there was any
inember of the government who wns outitled to credit It waa my colleagne thre Postmanster General. Wben hoe wa appointed to
thnt position hoe found a cirronie delicit of
from $750,000 to $ffl0O.
That irad been
tire deficit, If my mcmory la correct.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thIuk
not.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-$750,000 was about the
or dinary deficit.

4-ý< ý_ 4

4

24SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
wns the case once.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But It must be rememnbüred that Mr. Muloci bas cil down the
revenues of tbe department, and given the
public the benelit of very iargely reduced
postage, and necessarily, had there not been
an enormous Increase due to the fact that
postage was very mucli cheaper, the deficit
would have been contlnued and been mucb
greater. 1 did not understand fromn the observations made by iny bon. frlend that the
deticit had run over $400,000. 1 rather thlnk
It înay be ln that nelgbbourbood. There Is
no doubt lie bas brougbt down the chronic
deficit several bundred tbousand dollars. He
lias Iii addition given tbe public cheaper
postage, and bas Increased largely the number of post offices la the country, and I thlnh
for that hie is entitled to very considerable
credit. The bon. gentleman also was of
opinion that we shonld bave made some remark In reference to tbe contingent. In
order to quite understand tbe line taken by
tlie government, 1 wlll Just go back and
reter to the time, now nearly a year ago,
wlien a number of-I wlll flot say a number, but severai-active lmpertallsts and
figbters were anxious to go to South Africa.
Tbey made an application to the War Office
direct, not througb the goverament of Canada, but eitber personally or by letter. The
question was niaturally referred to the Canadian authorities.
Hon. Mr. MeCALLUM-And you permit,ted tbem to go ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We gave our consent
but we suggested that the selection of the
officers wbo were to take charge of
Canadian troopa sbould properly bie ieft to
tbe Canadlan government. We were tben advlsed that the troopa were flot wanted. That
was the POSition-that; they were not wanted,
and s0 the matter droppedl for several
months, up to the autumn of last year. In
the meantime, as bon. gentlemen well know
the War-What was called a war before-was
Practically over. You cannot cail the operatdons ln South Africa to-day a war. Tbe
xuperial force numbers, I tblnk, 290,000
men, and according to Sir Alfred Mllner's
last statement, the number of Boers unaer
aris Is about 8,000. 'You can scarcely call
tbat warfare. The Imperial government
long ago recognlzed that the war bad practi]Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

cally termiinated, because business bas been
goiug on at Johannesburg as If notbing was
happening la tbe mountains to the nortb. I
note that recently, according to the army
e'3timates; tbe government bave eut down
that portion of the army lntended for South
,%fr*lcr by 30,000 men. Under tbese clrcumstie nces, It was scarcely necessary tbat Canada sbould be offerlng a force. Any force
that goes tbere now Is more a constabulary
than a mllitary body. The effort Is to ferret
out the Boers. Tbey are ln the fastuesses
of the inountains, wbere tbey elude the
troops, knowlng the country as tbey do, and
.ire able to makie their escape. We bave bad
a very sad Instance of lt la tbe iast 24 bours
wbere we find that by a trick, n Boer seen
leavlng a bouse, the troops, unaccustomed to
Boer tactlcs gave cbase. In the meantime
tbey were surrounded and two officers and
teu mien were killed, and a considerable
iiu:ber %vounded. It can scarcely be called
warfare, wbere you are trylng to catcb a
body of men wbo are constantly eludlng
p1irsuIt, their knowledge of tbe country
enabling tbem to get away on every occaslonî. Canada, I tbink, bas given ample
proof that she bas done ber abare la aiding
tbe inother country la tbe present war. In
addition to the contingents we sent la
the flrst Instance, we bave continued to
garrisou Halifax, wbere a regiment of the
.lins bad been always statloned as a naval
Por, and we bave also largsly contrlbutsd to
keeplng up Esqulmaît.
1 tbink we spsnd
about $130,000 a year at present, taking, Into
consideration tbe buildings that are golng Up
at Esqulmaît, besides tbe large sum we are
paylng for the maintenance of the force at
Halifax, relisvlng a regiment of tbe lins
that was tbns enablsd to go abroad. I do
uot tbink It lies wltb my bon. frlsnd to
mib ko comments, because the government
of 'wblcb be was a member wbsn tbey wers
ask-ed on a former occasion to contribute,
declined most positlvely to be at any expense wbatsver, but gave permission to tbe
Iiùperial goverament to recruit ln Canada,
on tbe understanding that tbe entire coat
nmust be pald by tbe Imperlal government.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbat
was the date ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was the l2tb of
February, 1885, that the followlng despatch
was sent :

FEBRUARY 18, 19,02-

Governor General, the Most Hanaurable, the. the Senate why the usual practice of glvMarquis of Lansdowne, G.C.M.G., to the Rt. ing notice for the appointment of commitHon. the Earl of Derby, K.G.
(Received.)
Telegraphic.
Feb. 12th, 1885-Governrnent ready to, sanction recruitlng by Canada for service lu Egypt
or elsewhere. Force should b. specially enrolled tram different parts of local bataillons
under Imperial Arrny Diszipline Act. Laurie
preferable to Williams. I would suggest brigade
of three batallions (five hundr3d) each fram
rnieritime provinces, Old Canada and Narth-west.
Laurie might command brigade, and Williams
one battalion. Melgund would like ta serve
as Brigade Major ; entire cost would flU on
Iniperlal Exchequer.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The bion. gentleman will rernember that at that Urne Canada
had a war on her own hands-the North-west
Rebeliion.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot tink it was
such a war as would prevent usHon. Mr. FERGUSON-It coat us five millions of dollars.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-On Sir

John Macdonalds motion we gave £20.000 ln
ln aid of the wounded ln the Orimean War.
Hon. Mr, SCOTT-HEad Britain been ln
real need of our aid. on the recent occasion,
it wouid have been cheerfully granted, but
the circumnatances were flot considered sufficlently urgent to justify Canada ln puttlng
Its band ln the public purse without the
authority of parliameut and paylng over a
large sum towards the raisIng and seudlng
abroad of another contingent It being six
o'ciock, I move the adjourument of the
debate.
The motion was agreed ta.
The Senate adjourued.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, 2'uesday, Pcb. 18, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
ÂPPOINTMENT 0F COMMITTEES.
INQUIRY.
MACKENZIE BOWELL-BeHon. Sir
fore the Orders of the Day are called, I
should like to, Inquire of the bon. leader of

tees has flot been followed ? The usual
course pursued in the Senate ln the past
has been ta place a motion of that kind on
the paper Immedlatcly after the usuai and
pro forma motions have been made, or ut
lea et, the neit day. I do not find any
notice given ln the Minutes of Proceedings
and I should Ilke to know why, or what
object or reason there la for the delay
which ha. taken place.

Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-In looklng up the
practice whlch governed the Hanse lu
former years 1 found that it wus
sornetimes given before the Speech was
answered, in other trnes not till after the
Speech wvas answered. In one Instance I
found It was not given until atter the ordlnary recess, so, thut no formai mile has
prevailed lu the past That la the interence I drew from It I propose lu this instance ta adhere ta the rale, and ta give
the notices Irnmediately after the Speech
frorn the Throue is answered.
Hon. 8fr MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not thlnk that le the practIce.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I wiil look It up again
and 1 think I wIil be able ta point out to
rny hon. friend that the statement I amn
rnaklug is quite lu keeplng with the practice lu past years. I uoticed one case where
the committees were nat struck until after
the recesa of the Hanse
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL -I do
not understand what the hou. gentleman
means by the ordlnary receas.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I mean the adJourument of the Honse. It waz postponed so
late, I mean on one occasion. On looklng
Up past years, I found the practice had nat
been unfform lu sme years In recent
yesrs It had been glven the second or third
day the Houme mat, withont reference ta the
answer to the Speech. In other years the
notice bail not been given untUl aftem the
debate on the Âddress wam over, and One
year I fonnd it haît not beeu given until
after the House had adjourned, and the
committees were not struck until after the
adjourument The better way wlll be, the
moment the Âddress i. passed to have the
committeel struck.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-My hon. friend
overlooks the tact that a day wiIll be loat by
the course he proposes. An Intermediate
day's notice Is necessary; consequently when
the Address ia dlsposed of the hon. gentleman wiil give notice of motion and the Senate wiIl have to rise and watt the 24 hours
before the motion can be moved, so It la
quite clear the utility of the procedure that
la laid down la, that no time should lie lst
By my lion. frlend giving notice to-day, If
the Address abould be disposed of tomorrow, the resolution can be brought down,
the committees appointed and we can get to
work. But unleas that is done we are oniy
losiug a day.

tlemen to take action witli reference. to
tbese conimittees further tlian to put tlie
Senate la a position, wlien the Address la
passed, to save time as suggested by the
hon. gentleman froni Calgary. In my experience-here-it la not very long, 1 admit,
not; s0 extensive as that of the Secretary o!
State-never has a course of this kind been
pursued before, and 1 cannot help thlnking
there la a reason for It If It la a good reason the House may acquiese ln It whatever
It may be, but we have a rIght to complain of the delay resulting from the course
that la belng pursued.
THE SIGNING 0F SENÂTORS' WRITS.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-I
do not see
the point made by my lion. friend, because
lion. tSir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
If this discussion ciosed between tire and thiuk la former sessions, when new sensix this evening, the notice couid go la, and ators were lntroduced lu this House, tlie
the committees be struck to-morrow.
documents were slgned by the Master la
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, If notice Is Cliancery. 1 see la the present case they
are slgned by the Secretary of State. Is
given to-day.
there any reason for the change ?
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-Supposing the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is a reason.
notice is given to-day, the committees can
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WiIll
be struck to-morrow.
the hon, gentleman explaîn It l
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But the Secretary
Hou. Mr. SCOTr-Tliere was no reason
of State proposes to postpoae giving notice
of motion untIl after the Âddress Is dIsposed for the Clerk o! the Crown la Chaacery
of. Let us assume for the moment that the signing tlie papers lu the lirst place. In
Address is not disposed o! to-day, but te- former years, lie was an oflicer la the
morrow, we will then have to watt 24 hours. Department of the Secretary o! State. I do
not know whether lie was when my hon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The !riend was a member o! tlie governinent,
hon. gentleman opposite aces not draw a but I have looked It up, and I find that lie
distinction between giving notice of a was la former yeara. The papers had been
motion and the consideration o! thie motion signed there. I found very considerable
by the Senate. In the House of Commons deiay arose froni the papers pasaing bcone of the first tbings Gone la to give twveen the Secretary o! State's Department
notice of motion, but nothing la doue with and tlie Clerk of the Crown la Chaacery.
the motion until after the Address Is dis- Tlie day before the meeting of parliameut
posed of. I do not propose, nor do I desire arrlved, and no commissions had been aiguto suggest tliat auything should be done ed. They were issued the day before the
until the Address lias been passed, but the meeting o! parîlament, whicli was Asli
reason advanced hy the lion, gentleman We4nesday, and were sent to the alerk o!
from Calgary Is a good reason wliy tlie the Crown lu Chancery, so I myself went
notice shouid have been given at once. lu over to the Clerk o! the Crown la Chanthe House of Commons, Immediately after ccry and took from him tbe six forma o!
the House met, the Prime Minister gave' parclimeut, and told hlm tliat lis services
notice of motion, but lie dia not act on that would not be required la the matter. Tliey
motion until after the Address had been were thea sIgned and lianded ln liere the
passed. Tliere must be some object ln tliis next day. Otlierwise they mîglit not have
delay, or tlie usual course would uot bc been ready as no action wliatever had been
departed from. I do flot ask the lion. gen-, talzeî on the day before parliament met.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT.

FEBRUARY 18, 1902
Neither the Clerk of the Privy Council nor
the Cierk of the (Jrown ln Cjhancery had
taken any interest whatever ln the preparation of the commissions.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--My
hon. friend ls deaiing ln ancient history.
Hou. Mi. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Clerk of the Crown In Chancery has been
an officiai of this House. I do not know
what be was during the time my bon. friend,
was ln office previously under the late Mr.
Alexander Mackenzie, but I know what the
practice bas been lately, and why shouid
the Secretary of State, If 1 xiay be permitted
to ask the question, go to the Clerk of the
Crown ln Chancery and take the pnpers
from him? The usual course has been-I
do net know what It is now-for the Cierk
of the Privy Council to send over to the
Cierk of tlie Crown ln Chancery the Order
In Council appointing certain gentlemen to
sents in this House, and bis duty then la to
fili out the papers and send them to the
Cierk of this House. The Secretnr of State
neyer, la the past, bas arrogated to himself
the* rigbit to go and assume the functions
and duties of the Clerk of the. Crown In
Chancery. Neither do I know any raie or
isw which Justifies It. Lt is not only as a
matter of precedlent, but as a matter of rule
and regulation that I cail the attention of
the House to the fact.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I saw no value or
benefit ln the rule other than the observance
of a good deal of tapeism among gentlemen
who did not seem to take an intereat ln
their work, becaus, as I explained, Up to
the day before the meeting of pariament,
no action had been taken ln the preparation
of the commissioners.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whose
fauit was that?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The fault of the officiais
wbo hadl charge, and I do not; thInk it wiil
occur again.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
that be the Cierk of the Privy Council?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I decided that there
was no order or law requiring the Cierk
of the Court la Chancery to aigu the
papers. He did not create the senators.
Tbey were created by His Excellency aigu-

Ing the commissions. I do flot know what
the Cierk of the Crown lu Chancery hiad to
do with the commisisons ln the beginning.
I could flot see any possible connection other
than, as I have said, ln former days when
Sir Hector Langevin was la the Secretary
of State's office that practice prevailed.
I looked up the practioe, and the Clerk
for thé Crown ln Chancery was an attache
of the Department of State, and therefore I was unabie to find that any direct
authority had been given to the Cierk
of the Crown ln Chancery to sign these
papers. I did flot see that it added to their
authenticity ln any way. He was flot the
cliannel through wbich they shouid pass.
The Order ln Council and the commissions
were the authority, and I decided tbat it
was absoiutely unnecessary for the Clerk
of the Crown ln Cbancery to have anything
to do with themn.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I suppose any member of the Cabinet could have
done precisely what the hon. Secrêtary of
State has donc.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I dare say he couid.
THE ÂDDLLESS.
DEBÂTE CONTINUED.
Order of the Day being calied
The
Rtesumlng the adjaurned debate on the consideration of His Excellency the Governor Generai'a Speech on the openlng of the Second
Session of the Ninth Parliament.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT said : Hon. gentlemen, Il,
the address that -my hon. friend delivered
yesterday he cafled attention to a paragraph ln the speech reiating to the proposed
legislation ln connection with the Canad ' an
Pacific Railway charter, and asked whether
the government had any scheme by which
they proposed to assist the Canadian Pacific
f'tailway by endorsing their paper or carrying their bonds. I can assure my hon. friend
tbat the government have no Intention to do
either one or the other. If my hon. friend
will just refresh his memory as to the terms
and conditions under which the charter to
the Canadian Pacific Rallway was granted
ln 1881, he will see the necessity for this reference. Under a clause In the Canadian
Pacific charter thé company are Independent, as far as toils are concerned, of any
control by the Governor ln Council until
their profits came up to ten per cent on

SENATE
their capital. Hon. gentlemien know very
weIl the question of interfering with the
toile of the Canadian Pacifie Railway bas
received a great deal of attention. It bas
been discussed and brought Up lni another
place very frequently, and the government
bave been called to account for allowlng, ln
the opinion of some gentlemen, undue toile
to be exacted by the company.
The addition of $20,000,000 to the capital of $65,000,000 would necessarily lnvolve the question whether, on the additional $20,000,000 of capital the 10 per cent
was to be calcuiated ? ln addition to that,
there was aiso the point wliether the wbole
of the W6,000,000 was reaily capital that was
invested ln the road. Now, those are the
points. The government tliougbt as the
company could flot Increase their capital
wvithout the consent of the Governor ln
Council, it was an excellent opportunity to
avail tbemselves of the position that they
had a rigît to take, that the company should
agree ta refer to the proper judicial tribunal
this Important question of what was really
the capital of the company on which they
were entitled to receive dividende ta- the
extent of ten per cent before there should be
any interference witb the toils. I think It
was a very Important point to bring before
>arliameiit, because a bill wiil have to be
Introdilced on those lunes by the government,
compelllng the company-and I miglit say
the company acquiesce ln the proposition
readily,-to submit this question for mudicial decision as ta wbat really la the capital
of the company on whlcb they cani declare
dividende of ten per cent before there con
be any Interference witb tbem.
The bon. gentleman commented very
strongly and earnestiy on that paragrapb
referring to the revenue and the expansion
of business. He dwelt a good deal upon It.
In bis observations lie said :
I amn oae of -those wha do not conalder It to
the greateet adva.ntage, ln a country Jike this,
that, aur revenue ahould swell as 1-t bas swallen
fromn Importations. I would much rather see
tl.ase goods which are imported, and tram which
we derive a revenue, made in Can-ada, givIng
employment to our artizans, our labourera, and
aur mechanlca ln order to keep them ln the
country, rather -than -have them go ta the United
States looking for employment. But has that
been the result of what these gentlemen s0
0f ten bat about, the Introduction of what they
cail their preferential trade?
My bon. friend speaka feelingly of the
preferential tarif! and Its results, and as I
Hon. Mr. SCOTTr.

consider thnt the Increased trade of this
country, the enlarged prosperity we are enjaying, la due mainly ta the preferential
tariff, I shiail devote a few observations to
showing whiy it bas had tbat reault. The
preferential tariff necessarily was invalved
ln the removal of the freaties with Germany
and with Belgium. They were a great obstacle that not only Canada, but ail parts of
the empire were met wlh, ln the endeavour
to briug about dloser trade relations, flot
only between the colonies tbemselves, but
the colonies and the mother country.
Mdy
hion. friend took a great deal of interest in
that question wben lie was ln the government and very strongly urged it, and the
parliament af Canada, no doubt at the Instance of the government, ln 18M adopted
a very strong memorial ta the Imperial
government, asking tliat those treaties be
denounced. The subject was brougbt Up and
discussed at tbe Colonial Conference, hield
ln Ottawa durIng tbe suzumer of 1893. My
lian. friend was president of that conference.
ln bils able address ta tbe conference bie commenta upon the treaty and the obstacle it
le ta trade between different parta of tbe
empire. He quotes approvIngly an extract
from the address ta Her Most Gracions
Majesty Y;hich badl been voted ln 1892,
when, I think,ý Sir John Âbbott was Premier of the country. I will read mast two
clauses of it :
Your memarialiste cansider that these providions ln treaties with foreiga puwers are Incompatible with the rights and powers subsequently canferred by the British North AmerIca Act upan the parUiament of Canada, for the
ragulation af the trade and commerce of the
Dominion; and that their continuance in farce
tends ta produce complications. and embarrasimente in such an empire as that under the
rule of your PLaesty, wherela thec self-governing
colonies are recognized as poasessing the right
ta define their respective fiscal relations ta ail
forelgn nations, ta the mother country, and ta
each other.
Tour memorialists furtber believe, that ln
view of the foreign fiscal palicy of increasiagly
protective and discriminative duties, It ia clearly
adverse ta the intereats of the United Klngdom,
and afiecd and aIl of is possessions, that the
parliament of thc United. Klngdom,, or of any
of Your Majestyea selt-governtag colonie, should
be thua restricted ln thc power of adopting sucli
modifications of is tariRf arrangements as maay
be required for thc promotion of Ita trade, or
Its defence againat aggressive or Injurious
measures of forciga policy.
Now, this ivould seem ta fareshadow, It
was baped a time might came wben something like a preference would be given ta
the mother country. The question was de-

FEBRUARY 18, 1902
My hon. friend from Charlottefinitely brouglit up iu a resolution moved by adopted.
the Hon. Mr. Sutter, and seconded by Hon. Itown emiles.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I thougbt the
Mr. Fitzgerald, two delegates from the Australlan colonies, and was adopted without national pollcy was ln existence yet.

dissent

I

That this conference le of opinion that anyi Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thixik
provisions ln existlng treaties between Great thue hou. gentleman le rlgbt.
Britain and any foreign power, which prevent
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-At times it is exceedthe self-governing dependancies of the empire
from entsring Into agreemenze of commercialý
re-ciprocity wlth eaeh otber or wlth Great Britain. i ngly difficuit to know where the bon. gentiemen want to place the present goi'ernshould be removed.
That certainly contemplated that a time. ment. At one Urne we are denouuc-ci as
would corne when it might be advantageous destroying the Industries of the country by
to, tbe colonies to have preferential trade taking away the national pollcy, that we
with the mother country. That resolution, are failing to stand by the Industries of thxe
although supported unanimously by the de- country, that we are rushing on to free
At anotiler, tat we are
legates of the different colonies, was stamp- trade and ruin.
ed out by the representative of the Britishi maintaining a protective tariff. Lt is diffigovernment Lord Jersey stated that it was cuit to judge what ls the mest conclusion of
qulte Impossible to move in that direction the rank and file of our frlends opposite,
as the inother country would neyer thlnk of because they differ se widely ou the policy
denouncing the treaties with Gerniany and pursued by the government, that lt is quite
They were both warm allies of Impossible to, make it consonant with comBelgium.
the mother country, and they had no desire mon sense. What I say le, that nt no time
ln the history of Canada was the prosperity
or disposition to take any sucb step.
of the country more lu evideuce than It ls
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That to-day, or that our varions industrmal Ues
le where he made a blunder.
were more fully occupled, or maklng more
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The only way It could *money than during the time the prefereutial
be done was by the very method we tariff las been ln existence.
We forced thje haud of the Briadopted.
Hon. Mr. McMILLÂN-In the woollen
tishi gevernment when we lntroduced our
The iaw officere trade for Instance.
preferential trade polcy.
le
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-My hion. friend
of the Crown, of course, declared againet
It The Britishi government were unfavour- qulte correct; the woollen men are cernable to It, because It disturbed their rela- plainlng that the prefereuce is lnjuring
tions witb two Important countries iii them, that a tariff 23 per cent la not enougli
Europe. Then British public sentiment for tbem. There are differenoee àt opinion
came to our aid, and It was through that On tbat. It la thouglit that If the woolien
British sentiment, tbat recognition of the men, with the adrantage of 23 per cent and
leyalty of Canada lu making an off er s0 freiglite and Insurance, and the additional
geuerously te the mother country, unac- advantage of being lu the home market,
companied by any qualifications, It stirred would only adopt proper appliauces, and
the hearte of the Britishi people and forced improved machinery, tbey certainly ouglit
the haud of the Imperlal geverument. That to be able to compete with those whe, proled to larger trade and the recognition of duce articles abroad. What I maintain le
Canada. as a much more Important part of! this--that the giving of that preference to
the empire than she badl occupled befort, Great Britain aroused a sentiment there
that particular perled. Now, the hoti. ge,cn that declared lu favour of tradte wlth Cantleman lu hie sftatement said he wonld ada, that It created a demaud for Canamuch rather tht the gooda we Imported dIan producte, that Canada was recognized
were made ln Canada. I venture to say as a most Important factor ln the future
Lt le qulte true that Our
that our artizane, our mechanice, our of the empire.
labourera are more hlghly paid te-day, Importe from Great Britaîn have net luhave more coijetant work than they lad Pt creased-I quite grant that-in the ratio that
Last
any time when the national pollcy -%as lui one weuld have a. riglit te expeet
before the prefereutlal trade was year, lu round figures, we lmported $a,000,existence

SENATE
000 worth of goods from Great Britain, suddenly made the whole jumup
over $11,000,000 of which were entered as
free goods. For the balance, they had the
benefit of the 3 per cent. Now, that is
a very considerable advantage to thexn,
that on an Involce of goods, where the duty
wouid be $300 as against ail other countries, thxe British preference gave tbem the
right to enter the goods by paylng $200 on
that single consignment
There was a proEit of $100, and that certainly was going a
long way. I presume the reason we have
flot bought more iargely there, Is that our
own industries have been stimulated of late
years.
Money bas been made In Canada,
and lnvested ln Industries which are more
flourishing than under what was called the
national policy.
We have hieard nothing
but a recognition of Canada's action by the
British people.
They have neyer coniplained. They bave taken it as an evidence
of Our good feeling, and we have benefited,
by the sentiment that that lias createdthxe sentiment of a nation Is very mucli
better than its laws-and If the British peopie have formed that opinion of Canada
that they owed us some degree of gratitude
for oui action, then they boughit from us
more goods, and the figures and facts wiil
prove that. Now, 1 will just take the exporta to Great Britain.
The figures are
rather startling, and they cannot be contradicted. The exports ln 1878, were $45,000,000; la 1896, $66,000,000.
That is, the
increase ln our sales to the people of Great
Britain had gone up only a Uittie over $1,000,000 a yeai. Now, from 1896 to 1901, the Increase ln thxe five years has been $39,000,000,
80 that hon. gentlemen will see that while
the increase ln eighteen years prior to 189à
was only nineteen millions, the Increase la
five years was thlrty-nine mlllions-nearly
double lni the five year.
There must have
been something to have created that. It was
not natural growth. Why did it start ln
1897 and jump ln one year to twelve million dollars, and 50 on1, until last year it
was one hundred and five mllilons?
The
sun was shining as brightly during the
elghteen years of the national poiicy. The
rain fell as liberally. There were as good
crops, and cattle were produced ail over
the country and why was it that ln ail that
Urne there was such a very smail Increase,
only a lttle over a million dollars a year ?
Something must have happeined to have
Mon. Mr. SCOTT.

ili this way.
The figures are worth remembering and I
do not think they can be explained otherwise than iii the manner 1 have iindîcated,
by showing that the British people took
more Interest ln Canada, and bouglht more
lberaliy of Canadian products. It Is quite
true, probably, that we have Improved
transportation, stimulated by the cold storage, and we have educated the people lîow
to send their goods abroad. No doubt tîa't
was doue, but even with that It must be
admitted that the extraordinary Increase ln
the sales to the British people are otherwlsc
inexplicable-ln eighteen years the increase
was only nineteen millions, and ln five years
It was thirty-nine millions. It had jumped
from sixty-six millions lu 1897 to one hundred and five millions In 1901.
Hlon. Mm. FERGUSON-The argument is
thiat this Is ail due to the preferentiai tariff ?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. Can my bon.
friend expiain It iln auy other way than
that the British people did not before that,
take as great an interest In Canadian products ? How was it that the moment the
preferential tariff was passed this extraordinary lacrease ln the demand for Canadian
goods arose ? Will my hon. friend explain
It away by some theory tliat 1 have flot yet
heard announced ? I know of flo other
way of explaining IL.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I would tbinkc
that good crops had something to do with
ItL
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Did Providence biight
the harvesa of the country during the
eighteen years of the administration of
my hon. frienda opposite ? Were there no
good.crops then ? The crop of last year
bas not been accounted for yet ln the market. One-haîf of the crop of the TerrItories
is stili within the Territories, or at least between there and Fort William. It bas flot
gone forward, so that It could flot be that
particular crop, and lt was not ln that particular year, because If my hon. friend wlll
look at the year before I thlnk hie will find
it was a little more-one hundred and four
millions.
.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would the hou.
gentleman attribute the prdportionate Increase of United States exporta to Great
Britain to the samne cause ?

FEBRUKRY 18, 1902
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Sun shone over there too.

they wIll find that my statement la confirmed absolutely. It ls adrnltted that there
Han. Mr. SCOTT-If my hon. friend wiUl was depreasion la Canada-there is no
look over the eilhteen years of Conserva- doubt about the fact-between 1873 and
tive administration lie wiIl flnd the United 1878, the five years la whlch It was the
mîstortune of the Liberal party to bie ln
States exporte were cllmblng Up rapldly.
power.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-And fair more
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Dîd the sun shine
rapidly than ours ln the last five yeara.
ln those days at ail ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-My hon. friend cannot
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-We had our share of
explain It on that ground, because our
producta had to displace the products of sunahine, but not the share of outaide trade
some other country. The British people that we should have had. The secret was
bad to take our gooda ln preference that the United States could not buy aur
ta those of some ather country, and lumber, and the people of Europe could nat
my hon. frlend cannot explaîn It away. buy our grain and cattle and varions proIt lo too strong, it la too much ln ducta, and sa our tirade dropped very conevîdence, because It is preposterous to say siderably la those years, nnd It was the only
that ln every year between 1878 and 180; tîme la wblch Canadian trade dîd drop.
there were flot opportunities for calling tire Our exporte dropped from $89,000,000 ta $79,attention of the British people to the su- 000,000 and aur general trade dropped froni
perlorlty of our produets. It certalnly was $217,000,000 ta $177,000,000. 1 wIll now, la
nat done lu a way, at ail crenta, to attract round figures, give my han. friend the beneattention. As I said before, sentiment la fit of these returns ta bear ont wbat I have
very often stronger than acts of parliament, stated, that the standard of a conntry's prosand the sentiment of thie Brtish people was perlty la Its trade with the outslde world,
aroused and there is nîo manner of doubt and 1 do nat think It can bie controverted,
that they took a very much greater Inter- aud I neyer heard it contraverted. The eviest ln Canadian affaire after their atten- dence la too patent, partlcularly If we contion was called to Canada by the preferen- suit the histories of the United States and
Great Brîtain. Ia 1878 our aggregate trade
tial tariff.
was $172,000,000, and la 1896 It had gone
Hon. Mfr. McCÂLLUII-You caunot feed to $239,000,000.
M y han. frienda wlll say
people on sentiment
that there was a great deal of prosperley
.Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-People were fed durlng durlng that tume, from their standpolnt, aithe eighteen years. They were fed by some thaughi we have the tact that many of thre
other country during that time. I main- factoies to-day are dalng a very muc> bottain that the prosperlty of a country la not ter aud larger business than they did durdue to an exchange of articles wlthin Ita ing that tîme. We know that there were a
own limita, as my han. frlend contended. good many failures among some of the new
He stated. that he dld not thlnk It was lui factories, particnlarly the cotton factories.
the interesta of -Canada that Importations Perhalis the capital was ln excess of tire deof so, large a character as have marked the manda of thre people, and they badl ta secure
trade returus of the past two years shonld outaide markets lu arder ta succeed. Frroni
take place. I do not ngree wlth hlm. 1 some cause or other there vaîs consîclerable
thlnk If we look at the statlstlcs of Canada tailure.
But I maîntaîn that aince 1896,
or Britaîn or any other- country we will siîîce thre stimulus given ta thre changed confInd'that the moat correct barometer of the dItions la Canada by the preferentlal tairiff,
prosperity of a country la Its trade wltb by tire through transportation, by tire stimuoutalde countries. We muet ail admit that lus given ta the trade of the country tirrougir
the prosperity of Great Brîtain la due to the facilities cffered by cold storage, and lnenormous advantages of that country ln creased subsîdies ta steamships, particniarly
secnrlng the tracle of other countries. Its the Manchester lune, the lncreased tirade
prosperity lncreased with Ita lncreaslng can be- accounted for ln that way aud It
trade abroad, and so It was wlth Canada. fa soxnethlng worth knowing.
Now the
If hou. gentlemen will just taire the figures whoie increase la the aggregate trade of
BOWELL-The

SENATE
Canada lii the 18 yeirs during wbich nMY at the credît of depositors inI the banks of
hon. friends contended that men could make Canada ln November last was $364,000,000.
money out of swapping jack-knives, or some- That is an extraordinary Increase, amounttbing akin to lt-that la excbanging their Ing la the five years to $165,000,000, n averproducts wlth eacb other and flot purchasing- age of $W3,000,000 each yeax, wbule the average la the elgbteen years when the National
libroad-was $67,000,000.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbat Policy party was dominant, was only $6,000,000. That Is a point wbIcbi I tbink ougbt
[s the bon. gentleman quoting from ?
to convince every one that the great body of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am' quoting from the the people must have been accumulating proTrade and Navigation Returns. 1 have not fits, because we know that the man who has
heard then' called ln question. The Increase bis liait million or quarter million, or huain the five years fron' 1896 to last June, was dred tbousand, does flot seek investment la
$147,000,00.
That is, the increase la five the banks. He ls not satlsfied withi tbe tbree
years was more tban double the increase lu per cent.
He risks bis money and goes
the former e'Ilteen years. Does alot tliat into son'ethlng better.
la some degree bear out the statenient I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-Somiemade ln the first place, that something must
have arisen co-temporaneously withi the thing lie tbinks is better.
adoptlng of the preferential .tariff wbilh
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hle may be mistaken, of
stimulated our trade abroad ? 1 have shown course, but 1 think the n'ajority of tbe
by tbe -figures that our exporta to the mother wealtby men do flot keep their money In tbe
country increased enoruiously, and thîs slin- banks nt three per cent or on caîl, except,
ply confirma the point that 1 made. There perhaps a few wbo speculate ln stocks and
is nnother evidence that 1 think cannot
bfe take It out fron' time to time. But there is
questioned ; ln the five years the wealth of the extraordlnary fact of that enormous lathis country bas iucreased as It iaever lu- crease during the last five years. The avecreased before. It la sbown by the enorinous rage annual Increase during the elghteen
business done by the banks. It ls shown years of tbe Oonservative administration
by the divideads tbey are payiug. jt ls was only $6,000,000, whlle the average- lnshown by the very lnrge number of compan- crease ln the last flve years was $33,00000.
les that have been chartered to open up new
Now, as sbowing that that bas been a
enterprises.
Nobody will doubt that vast constant Increase, I have here the figures of
sums of money bave been invested by Cana- the deposits la the last year, and 1 think that
dians ln the last five years la various enter- this includes the post office savings banka.
prises-it may be pulp mills, or mines, or From November 1900, to November 1901,
fifty other things. I think I saw tbe other the deposits were f48,900,000. That shows
day that tbe province of Ontario had last a degree of prosperity ln a country with the
year Issued elgbt hundred charters to con'- limited population Canada possesses that la
panies. 0f course tbey gave Increased fa- worth quoting. j do flot thlnk: ln any other
cilîties for the formation of companies. country of the world a parallel will be found
Companies had been formed and capital had for it, that la a period of one year the
been put ln and a charter obtained. But L saviags of the people-because that la practake the evidence of the surplus earnings of tically wbat those deposits are-s-hould have
the people. We know that the banlis only grown nearly at the rate ef one million
pay tbree and a hiait, or perhaps tbree per dollars a week, besldes aU the money Jacent. And If you look nt the returas of tlic vested la a great variety ef ventures.
deposIts Ia the banks that could be drawn
My bon. friend accused this goverament of
without notice, and the deposîts that can be baving broken ail [ta promises and of having
withdrawn by giving wbatever notice they taken up tbe pollcy of the Conservatîve
require-they rarely ever Iasist on the no- party. At another time, as I aald before,
tice, but I tbink tbey are entitled to tblrty we have been accused of not protectlag the
days' notîce--the aniount nt tbe credit of Industries of this country. We have adopted
depositors la the banks of Canada, excludlng a policy tbat la suitable to the conditions of
the post office savings banks, i Novem- the hour, and I think true statesmansbip
ber, 189, was $199,000,000.
The amounts consista la recognizing the conditions under
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

FEBRUKARY 18, 1909,
whlch a country eau best be served, wbetber
it be free trade, modifled protection, or wbatever you may cboose to cail It. My hon.
friend taunted members af the goverument
with baving cbanged their political views :
I do flot know that any statesman la entitled to very mucb respect If hleIolot open
to conviction at any period of bis life. If,
after ten, fifteen or twenty years' experienoe
hie thlnks hie bas made a mIstake, and that

Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbey were not disposed
ta sacrifice the interests of thi country.
Tbey adapted therneelves to the conditions
wbicb prevailed. As opportunties offered,
they enlarged tbe trade of tbe country by
reducing the tariff, and they bave done it
on tbose particular Unes wbere there was
least resistance, and the trade of the country
la largely beneflted by that Une of pollcy.
If to-day we were applying the tariff of rny
bon..

be beneficial to tbe country, would that
statesman be true to himself, If because bie
had prejudices ln bis early lit e, he would
flot adopt wbat was tben best for the country ? That was flot the feeling whicbi lnfluenced Sir Robert Peel wben ln 24 bours
bie changed frorn being a strong protectionlet to practically a free trader. It was not
the Une taken by Gladstone wbo at the
outeet was a very strong Tory, but
frorn bis experience ln parliament, hie
tound tbey were not the party wbich
brougbt about the reforme that modern
urnes demanded, and no he dld not besîtate
to cbange bis political convictions. Nobody
rellected on Gladstone because of that. I
migbt corne nearer borne. Sir Jobn Macdonald was not in bis earlier years a protectIonist. On the contrary, hie was a free
trader.
Ie tariff at Contederation was
fifteen per cent, and it was only ln 1808 or
1869, wben Canada was pressed, tbat bie
made any increase ; sa my hon. frlend ougbt
flot to taunt rnen witb abandonlng their
views wben tbey do wo witb the object of
bettering the condition of the country.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
we charge thern witb la professing one tblng
and doing anotber.
Han. Mr. SCOTT!-My hon. friend quotes
tbe utterances of gentlemen wha faught tbe
national pollcy, who did not; for eighteen
years believe in Its wisdorn or prudence,
but thought; it too restricted. .When gentlernen bail ta assume the control of the gevernment of this country, would they have
exercised statesmansbip to have gone back
ta the views tbey bad announced ln opposition ? They found It would be tolly to
resist public sentiment and tbey did not;
dare make those changes. It wauld take
long years to do wo.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I coinmend tbe ban, gentleman for his honesty.
3

1-riend oppGosnnc,

vnc.

a.fe
...

.ads

ben

modified ln 1M9, to the present Importa,
you would find that we would be collecting
four or fIve rnillions of dollars rnore than we
are getting frorn the people of this country.
There i. tbat rnucb saved. My bon. friend
shakes bis bead, but I could give the
figures.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Surely
the bon. gentleman knows that the government raised the tariff, and then took off the
percentage.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On two or tbree Items.
The Iran duties we cut ln two, and since
that we have ln many Uines of the iron
trade taken the duties off altogether. If my
han. friend will look et tbe 'Citizen' of
yesterday mornlng, bie will find, under the
autbority of the Treasury Board, that the
duties were taken off a number of articles
which are used ln manufactures ln Canada,
wbere the original article was the rawv
material-that 18, wbere it was flot made in
Canada-just as we took the duties off tires
and parts of locomotives, ln order ta aid the
locomotive industry ln this country. Wben
we have steel and iran works establisbed, as
I hope we will ln a few years, It may be a
matter of conaideration whetber the government of the day migbt nat restore rnany
articles ta the tariff list when we are making
tbern In Canada. Sa long as we do not rnake
tbern ln Canada-gno long as tbey contribute
ta the wealtb of this country by enabllng
aur manufactures ta get the beneflit of them
it ls good palicy ta admit tbem at a very
law rate o! duty, or ta remave the duty
altogether as we have dane.
I do nat know that I shahl occupy the time
of the Chamber any longer. My bon. friend
bas gone very tully to a number of personal matters. I do not keep a scrap book.
My hon. friend, I suppose, bas gatbered very
assIduously bis erape tram the sayings of
ininisters, and endeavours ta show they were

SENATE
Ail 1
flot consistent in their utterances.
can assure my hon. friend is, that when we
act as a governent, we act cordially together-that there are no differences between
us In the couneil chamber. Ail mnembers of
a government ought to be perfectly free to
No inan is worth
express their opinions.
very mue# unless hie has some hobby in the
advancement of the country, and it is quite
true that Mr. Tar-te bas taken Up the question of transportation, and Is endeavourlng
to educate the people up to his owil plane.
Io thiere anything wrong with that ? Le Is
an ardentHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Protectlonist.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, nationalist. Hie beleves Ia Canada, and that Caxîada's prosperlty ls bound up lu transportation.
Hlon. Sir MACKE NZIE BOWELL-I supPose hie did not tell the truth when hie said
you " quarrelled like blazes"et
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, not If hie said that,
but 1 arn qulte sure hie did not say that,
because I do not thlnk wve are a quarrelsome
farniy lit ail. If rny hion. friend could peep
into the council chamber, hie would find a
good deal of rnlrth and pleasantry, but no
quarreling, and that when we corne out of
the council chamber, we are a unit-no underrnlning of each other.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
facts do not agree.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn givlng the facts
as a mernber of the government, and I do
not mmnd taklng rny hon. friend Into rny
confidence on that subject. 1 speak truthfully and sincerely when I make the statement. I do not think It ls necessary to traverse any further the statements of rny hion.
The main point la that we, by
friend.
adapting ourselves to the conditions as thiey
exlsted, consulted the best interests of the
business of the country-I do not think ally
business mau would deny that-and the
figures botb of savlngs in the banks aiîd the
trade of the country will bear rne out iii the
Tlîey are luconstatenients I then made.
trovertible. But you do flot ivaut to go to
Everybody
the figures. It is iii the air.
acknowledges thait the trade of the country
to-day lias ilever been equalied before-that
the whole country is prosperous, periiaps
witlî the exception of the woollcn industr~ies.
and oie or two others.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hlon. 'Mr. McCALLUM-And cotton.
Hon. Mjfr. SCOTT-No, 1 think the cýtton
lndustry lias done very well.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-Over three million
dollars' wortu of English cottous were fimported la July, August and September.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If you exclude the water
from the cotton stocks of this country, would
flot the lion, gentleman be willing to gîve
150 to 200 for them ?
Hou. Mr. McMILLAN-Tliey are not paylng dlvideuîds.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You can put so inuchi
water In stocks that they cannot be made
to pay a good dividende and it la a tact thiat
many Industries have been rnaking s0 rnuch
money that ln order to divert public attention frorn thern they have watered thieir
But there Is the fict whicli canstocks.
not be controverted, that lu no period of the
lhlstory of tis country lias it been as prosperous ns it is to-day.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wlien I heard rny
bon. friend with ail seriousness-and hie can
be very serious when lie la really humorous-In apparent seriousness, at ail events,
dlaim that the preferential tariff had been
the cause of the enormous expansion of our
trade, not only with Great Britain, but wlth
aIl otiier couîîtries, durlng the last few
years, 1 arn rerninded of the Incident whiclî
Bruce mentions In is account of bis travels
When hie visited the capital'
to Abyssinia.
of Abyssînla, smail-pox broke out lu the
country. He was au astronomer, and was
observed 'in the nlght-tlme to be out on a hill
wlth his telescope di.rected on the face of
the mocon, and the conclusion the people arrived at ivas that this was the cause of the
srnall-pox-that hie was talklng to the moon,
and the moon was known to have sinister
influences, and It was solemnly belleved
In Abyssinla that these nightly confereuces
witb the moon had brouglit about the smallpox, and It almost cost Bruce his lîfe. So my
bon. frlend turned his preferential telescope
lu the direction of Great Brltain, and as soon
as that happened, the sbeep and cattle fattened more quickly, on our fields and farins,
our Industries began to be quickened In
every direction, and the rnarkets ail over the
world became greedy lmrnedlately for the
products of Canada, sirnply because this
tariff had been adopted la favour of Great
Britain.

FEBRUKRY 18, 19029
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I said stlmulated the and It was sa understood ail over the
demand for Canadian products In Great worid. It was lu that sense Kipling understood It, when lie spoke af the Lady af the
Britain.
Snows favouring those who favoured her.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I just turn at
There was no sucl thaught as giving Brionce and look at the returns of our trade
tain a sole preference. My hon. friend&seerns
with Great Britain and wlth the United
ta have forgotten that they proposed a rediStates, as shown ln the Trade and
procal tariff which wouid have given sme
Navigation Returna.
My hon. friend wil
flot dlaim that there has been any pre- countlem, whicli have been purmuing comference extended *to the United States, and mercial enrnity towards us, advantages
yet I find that mince 1897 the Increase of which wouid have been denied to sorne
our frade wlth the United States has been Britisli colonies, thougi flot ta Britain her80 per cent, while aur Increase of trade self. My hon. friend. seema ta have Ignored
He ieema ta have forgotten that
with Great Britain has been only 40 per ail that
it waî nat; until after Sir Chlies Tupper
cent notwithstanding the preferential tariff.
and the leaders af the Conservative party ln
Hon. Mr. McMILLÂN-How do you ac- the Hause af Commoni dld what tliey couid
count for that?7
ta put them on the riglit track-althaugh
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I account for It tliey amended their tariff later, an Sir
ln the sme way 1 account for the enormaus Charles Tupper'i suggestion lu order ta give
expansion of frade which has taken place them a hale af escape, not; until aiter tliey
ail over the civllzed world during the lait went ta England and Mr. Chiamberlain told
five years
It li not conftned ta Canada or tliem that even aiter the abrogation af the
the United States, but ail clvlized coun- German and Belgian treaties tliey could
tries on the face of the earth bave partiel- not give the general or rociprocal preference
pated ln this expansion, and lt le hardiy tliey proposed, but would have ta lrit lt ta
treating this House wlth proper respect for British. dominions, that it was made a premy han. friend to rise lu hlm place and, forence for the empire. If ail thase advanwith seeming merlouaness, tell us that ail tages have accrued tram the sole preference
this demand for aur products, this expan- ai clairned by rny han. friend, the government
sion of our frade, bai been due to the pre- are not entitled ta credit for lt becauîe they
ferential tarif. My bon. friend started out gave lt by accident. The goverument alrned
yesterday ln the role af a historian, malt- at anather thing altagether, wbich waî a
Thoy were forced by the
Ing smre explanation with regard ta thlngs reciprocal tarlIf
British goverument, and by the power af
which happened lu the province af Ontario
politlcaily lu the eariler daym af him the treatem oxisting and thé palicy af the
political life, but smre hon. gentlemen empire, ta maire It a British preferenco.
sittlng near me, who took an active part Ba evon If ail the advantages whicli my
lu the aiffaire af Ontario at that Urne han. friend ipeaki of had arimen tram
Informed me that my hon. friend stopped If-which I thlnk iew people af thus
short at the crucial point of the hlstory country wiil be wlllng ta belleve-rny lion.
he waî glvlng the Houie, and dld not deal friend la not entitled ta a very great amount
wlth the mast Important part ai it. How- af credlt; becaume after ail It; was notlulug
ever, *I arn not dealing wlth that, but I mare than a lucky blunder on their part.
notice my hon. irIend's memory appears
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We got there at ail
ta be equally bad when lie talki about events.
the history af the preferential tarif. My
lbon. frlend surely ha. flot forgotten that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I dld not lntend
the Finance Minîster, when ho carne ta ta have made any rernarks upon the address,
parîlarnent lu 1897, proposing that change but I was prompted ta rise rnainly 'wlth a
which they now cail the preferential view ta deal with this extraordinary argutariff, was at great pains ta explain that ment, If I may go cail It, which wai prethey dld not mean ta give any preference sented ln the House by my han. friend the
at ali-that It was not a. preference they Secretary of .State.
The bon. gentleman
were praposing, but a reciprocal
tariff. sald that It was British public opinion that
That was the very wording of the measure, came ta the rescue ai Sir WllfrId Laurier
31

SENATE
and bis government ln 1897, and forced the
abrogation of the Belgian and GerDmii
treaties. My hon. frIend's memory ls again
entireiy at fauit, but If my hon. friend will
refresh bis memory by going back to the
reports of the conference of 1897 ln Eng*land and Mfr. Chamberiain's speecbes there,
lie wiii find that Mfr. Chamberlain recounted the efforts which had been made
by Canadian governments, Conservatives
as weli as Liberais, to get the German and
Beigian treaties abrogated. He referred
aiso to the action of the Canadian
pnrliament et its recent session and said
that up to this time tbe British governinent
had failed to yield to those demande, and
added that It was because the premiers of
ail the colonies had concurred ln demanding
the abrogation of those treaties, that Britain
consented to apply for their abrogation. It
seems extraordinary that the hon. gentleman
should take the ground which he bas taken,
for we are Inclined to ask ourseives the question what could there possibly be ln this preterence to English goods tbat would create
sucli a demand for Canadian products?
What could there be la that very small
change to cause -a general expansion of
trade throughout the world, a change
whIch I neyer condemned nor found fault
I *think It is qulte riglit. But
with?
wbat we have condemned-what I do condema and aiways wili condemn on tbe part
of my hon. friend and his coileagues le that
when they gave that preference to, Great
Britain, when they narrowed it down to a
Britishi preferenoe at the Instance of.-Mr.
Chamberlain, they did not make a reasonable and modest request for something ln
return for what they were giving away.
Instead of that, the premier of Canada,
although he waa solemny pledged to the
people of Canada ln speeches made ln this
country before the electIon of 1896 to
endeavour to obtain an advantage for
Canada ln the markets of Great Britain-wbat did lie do? He told the British government and the British people
that Canada gave this concession entlrely
of good wili, and witbout any desire or any
wish tbat anytbing wbatever should be
given la return for It.

Hon. 1fr. FERGUSON-Hon. gentlemen
scei to applaud that sentiment very
mucli. 1 have no objection to showing good
will to the mother country, but the premier
of Canada vIolated bis promises to the people
or Canada. On tbat point there can be no
doulit wbatever. He put himself on record
as being as favourable to a preference ln
tbe Britisb market for Canadian products
as Sir Charles Tupper was. Tbe 'Globe'
said that it was unnecessary for Sir Charles
Tupper to lie preaching this preference for
Canada, because Mr. Laurier was equally
favourable to It. Mfr. Laurier said the
rossibiiities of tbat tariff were Immense.
It meant that our butter, our cheese,
our grain, our meat-ail those producta
of our country would get a better price
Ini the markets of Great Britain than
those of other foreiga couhtries would
receive, because tbe latter wouid bave to
meet a duty from wbicb our products would
be exempt. That ls what Sir Wilfrid Laurier said la a speech ln London, Ont., but
wbea lie went to Eagland lie threw ail tbat
away, and deciared that the Canadian goverament did not want anytbing ln return,
and went furtber and advised tbe British
goverament and the Britisb people not to
depart fromn their free trade principles, because lie sald protection bad done a great
deal of burmIn Canada.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Sir Wilfrid Laurier
saw It was absoiutely Impossible-that lie
miglit as well bave asked.for tbe moon.
lion. Mfr. FERGUSON-When did this
iigbt dawn on the mmnd of the premier ?
WVe know lie did not tbink it Impossible
when he went to London, Ontario, and made
that celebrated speech. He could not have
thouglit It Impossible when lie went to Toronto and made another speech in the same
strain. It could not be tbat lie regarded it
as impossible on tbose occasions. Whea did
the ligbt dawn? Was It wben lie reacbed
the other aide of the Atlantic?
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-He
one opinion.

always

had

but

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I amn sorry 1 cannot at tliis moment quote the exact language
bie used, but my hon. friand cannot have
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
forgotten the speeches made by bis leaders
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-He made a vfrtue of before tbe elections of 1896, and how lie can
stand before tbîs House and say it was ainecessity.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

FEBRUK-RY 18, 1902
vays Sir Wllfrid's opinion, in view of his a bald resolution ln favour of dloser trade
It vas just about the same
a peeches lu 1896, 1 canmot possibly conceive. with England.
would look at it as Urne that the same gentleman and those assoHon. Mfr. SCOTT-He
were trying to pass resolue ~verybody else wonld .and say it was un- ciated wlth hlm
tions lu favour of commercial union with
ttainable.
States. The ground taken
Hon. Mfr. FERGtTSON-Wby dld hoe speak the United
Laurier, before going to
f the immense posîbilities, of the advant- Io that Sir Wilfrid
posed as an advocate of a preferige that Canadians were to get from the free England,
ln favour of Canada. There ls
admission of their beef, grain, butter, and ential tariff
nothing lu what My hon. Mreud from Hamilaii the other producta of our country into
contri'fdt that ; It rathor conthe market of Great Britain, while the pro- ton says to
The premier posed before the
ItL
ducts of other countries were to be met firms
as au advocate of preferwith duties, If ail the while hie thought it peopleo0f Canada
ential trade vith Englaud, not a one-sided
was impossible to get a prefereuce in Great
for hie explained the adBritain ln favour of the productu of Canada? preferential tariff,
vantage would be Immense, because It mesant
[ will not foilow that subject any furtiier.
aIl our agrIcultural products
1 tinkmy on.friend will do weîî to pass that practicaily
ould be received In Euglaud free of duty,
h
eas
svecn
hon
myequel
ItI:n
ît la while the products of foreigu countrios wouid
course of his goverument lu regard to godbe met with a tariff. He made that statetht
of ucha nturI thre a ay
ohn nossetwt
lu the British prefereuce they cannot dlaim netadteel
in the viows I have attributed to Sir Wilfrid
any credit for It because they dîd flot
the staternent made by the hon.
tend to give a sole prefereuce but reciprocity Laurier lu
gentleman With reference to the resolution
to, any country that would reciprocato. They
lu the House bofore 1896.
nsrrowed it dovu atter they vent to Eng- of Judge Davies
Hou. Mfr. WOOD (Harniiton)-The hon.
it
land to a British preference, and even If
blundered Into this,
had doue ail the good that my hon. friaud gentleman uays they
te although it had been thought of aud caresays it has doue, they vould be eutitled
House of Gommons.
no more credît than auybody wbo makes fuily discussed. lu the
The hon. gentleman says it vas a blundor
a iucky blunder.
ln giving the preference?
Hon. Mfr. FERGIJSON-My hon. frieud
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Did uot one
from wiil not help the position of bis frieuds at
of the hou. gentleman's colleagues
Prince Edward Island move a resolution ln al by probing this question auy further
Ho brings Sir Louis
the House of Commous long before the Urne as hoe le dolng.
hie rofers to, offering preferential trade t> Davies' resolution up to coutrovert my
view that the goveirnmeut of Sir Wilfrid
England?
prefereui
Hou. Mfr. PERGUSON-One of whose col- Laurier biundered into this
tarifr vhich they have nov vith Euglaud.
ieagues?
that resolution vhich
Hon.Mr.WOOD(Hailto)-Irefe toThere lu nothing ln
rofer a< dose not show that thoy vero even blun(ailto-e
fr.n WOOgeD
hon
If my
n
o rofed a dorlng at that Urne, for it appears,
pr
theuo n thde Daves.f
la right, that they contornthe
Housfeene 0f omm ar-offad on. friend
resolto ie
plated a preferentiai tariff vith Englaud
t o gindad
refee
in te give ar
au vo have nov. If 50, the>' made
art' vtod t dvu.such
Cousrvaive
Hon. Mfr. FERGUBON-My hon. friend; I a ver>' serions blunder in 1897 vheu
arn afraid, ls neari>' as much out lu lits tho>' lntroducod their reciprocal tariff
whieh . the>' doclared over and over again,
history as his leader le.
now hatthrough the mouth ef thoir finance minisOOD(Hamlton-I
Hon.Mr.
ter, vas not a preferentiai tarif at ail.
Hon 1f.WODHalt)-kovtt
If thore la an>' point lu my hon.
lu a act.Thorefore,
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-My hon. frlend
kuovu that a resolution vas proposod,
but ho ls net ver>' accurate lu stating
the termis of that resolution. It was simpi>'

frlend's Interruption It la to prove that the>'
bluuderod vhon the>' Introduced that resoludon or blundered vhen the>' passod their secalledl reciprocal tariff lu 189, or that tho>'

SENAT.E
blundered In England. Perhaps tbey blundered ail the time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat Is a very strong
word te use. My bon. friend will net say
that Great Britain was net getting the beniefit of tbe preference frorn the very begluningi
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, but other
countries were gettiug It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We ceuld not belp that
until tbey denounced the treaty.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We fire beglnning
te get a little rusty In the bistory of this
question, but my bon. friend belps me eut
arnazingiy. He reminds me of tbe fact
that for a considerable period bis government coilected duties agninst Belgium and
Gerniany, which they bnd afterwards te
refund te the Importers.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey were aliewed In
corne In until tbe treaty was denouuced ami
that forced tbe band et the British government.
Hon. MINr.
FERGUSON-Until Chamberlain
put themn right.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman is
altogether wrong.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I know that I arn
flot Wrong. Wbhen tbey passed their reciprocal tariff se called, their customs officers
biere acted upon it as applying te all countries wbose tariff was as 10w, or lewer than
the tariff ef Canada.
Hen. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the bon. gentleman Is rigbit there.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tbey collected
duties on German and Belgian goods, wbich
they bad afterwards to refund.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We knew from the
beginning that Gerrnauy nnd Belgium were
entitled te the same benefit as England, and
that Is the only way we could force tbe
hand ef the Britishi government.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-M-%y bon. friend
bas d!eased. te surprise me when be makes
that staternent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am familiar witb it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Because be mnust
remember flot ouly did they net know that,
but they acted on exnctly opposite lines.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

When Sir Charles Tupper pointed out that
tiiey had flot the power to exelude Germany
and Belgium the Minister of Marine and
Fisheries, Sir Louis Davies, said that flot a
fiftb rate lawyer in that House would be
found to take that position, and the Minister
of Marine and Fisb&ies, representing the
government of Canada, went before the
Privy Council of Great Britain to contend
that tbeir tariff was ail right, and that they
could still continue ta enforce that tariff
against Germany and Belgiurn, notwithstanding tbe treaties.
My hon. friend
shiakes bis bead. Is It possible that my bon.
frjend will undertake before hon. gentlemen
In this House to deny that this was the
position tbey took ?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I say that we were
perfectly conscious ef the existence of the
two treaties, and knew that Germany and
Bieliuni were entitled to any advantages
that the mother country enjoyed In the
colonies. We resisted that Interpretation,
we did ail we could to eaU public attention
te It, and it was the enly way we couici
accornplislb our object of having the treaties
denounced.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tb'.le
bon, gentleman denied positively that It was
an Interference In any way with those
treaties.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes emphatically,
and not only did thebon. gentleman and bis
friends makre these statements In parliament
and betore the country but tbey carried
them before the Privy Council of England
and the Privy Council declared that they
were entirely wrong. As I have remarked, I
did not intend to takie any part In the discussion cf the Address, because very rnany of the
clauses are net controversial. That I freely
admit. They are far from centreversial.
They are clauses In whicb we ail very
heartily agree and there are very few of
its clauses, therefere, te whIch I wish te
refer. The speech as a whele les about
as commonplace as the observations we
pass te, each other about the state of the
weather, but there is just one point ln the
speech whicb certainiy Is e *xtremely coutroversial If you can describe a statement
sucb as that with regard te the census as
being open te any controversy. That Is
where the mrnlsters ef His Excellency the

FEBRUARY 18, 1902

Governor General put ln his inouth these
wordThere la good reason aiea to belleve that the
Increase of population during the latter haif of
the decade bas been very greatly ln OxcBes of
the average of former Yaars and that ln the near
future we may lookc for a much more rapld
growth than occurred durlng the perlod covered
by the tant two ceamuses.

given voice ta ln the speech. We have no
evidence whatever that any such increase of
the population took place towards the close
of the tast decennial perlod. There la
another clause ln the speech wlth wbich 1
have no fauit t o findt, but upon whlch I
wish ta offer a word of comment That Is
the lltb section, whlch rends as follows :

Our thanks are due ta His Exceilency for the
The last clause of that I have no fault ta Information that bis goverament having caused
find with. We may really look for a more inquiry ta be made bas reached the conclusion
rapld growth durlng the present decade, and that the establishment of direct steemship serenable Canada ta
Âfrice. a profitable market for
in the future than ln the past, but I have no vice with Southcountry wouid
secure la that
statement lni her varied produets and to that end His Ex..
hesitation in saylng that the
for such a
that speech, that there Is good reason ta celiency will endeavour ta arrange
the Increase ln the population srie
believe that
I have no fault to ftmG wlth that and hope
during the latter hait of the decade bas been
of former that sucli a service will be establlsbed, but
greatly lu excess of the average
years ls not true. As a very celebrated doc- I hope that when the government take Up
tor of divlnity ln the maritime province used. this question they wlll grapple wlth It
ta say " It lacks the essential element,"l' earnestiy and give a proper and gaod serand I must say that I cannot concelve on vice, that they will see tliat Dot only will
what ground this statement could be based there be departures and sallings at certain
or wbat reason they have ta form, tbat op- periods, and steamshlps of proper power
jalon. The bon, leader of the opposition bas and tonnage employed for thie purpose, but
shown, by the returus of settiers' effects, that these steamships wiil be equlpped ln
that the maveinent of aur people ta the such a way that they will take care af the
United States seems to be golng on towards perishable products of our country when
the' end of the decade Just as actively tbey are crossing the equatar ta South
Those of us Africa, because I can tell my hon. frlend
as at any previaus period.
who live ln the east, at ail events, kuow that If they do not take the riglit course on
that this is the case, and yet some that point, a steam iervice with S3outh
three years aga the ame set of advisers Africa will only carry probably sorne manmade the Governor General of Cauada, then ufactured goods and some of the coarse prothe Bart of Aberdeen, say that the exodus ducts, such as hay and oats. We ought ta
from aur country band ceased. It was lamnent- have a market in South Africa for many
able that the advisers af lis Excellency other things. We ought ta be able to send
living lu this country and knowing, as tbey many of the finei products of our farms
must have known, bow very different was there. Our cheese shauld ftmG a market
the fact, sbauld bave put such ivords ln bis there, and probably in some parts of South
mouth. It ls bard ta describe tbose words Africa we mlght bave a market for aur
adequately wltbout using strong language, fruit at some seasons of tbe year, and there
but -I muet say tlaat the words that are ln njlgbt be some other articles of that kind,
the speech on the present uccasion, tbaugb perishable ln their nature, whlch can only
not s0 openly wrong as thit was, are neyer- be carried that great distance, and
shlps wblch
the equator ln
tbeless lacklng ln foundatioiî. We have nxo aver
evidence whatever that there bas been a are tborougbly and properly equipped wlth
larger Increase ln aur population ln tbe lest cold - storege, or more properly speaklng
fIve years than there was ln the firat balf of proper ventilation ln the holde, and between
the decade. On the contrary, If we were to decks of these shipa. I have no hesîtatian
reason from analogy we would say thet the ln saylng, without disconnting the efforts
rate of Increase duriag the previaus ten of the government ln tbe last few years,
years, fram 1881 ta 1891, was possibly con- that we are lamentably behind ln the care
tinued Into some of the earlier years of the of perisbable products belng carried fromn
last decade. That would be quite as reason- our country aeros the acean, and unless we
able a conclusion as the one which tbey bave are able ta design means by whicb we can

SENATE
carry without injury, without ruin, as 1 the cheese we have been making
lu
miglit say, our cheese and our apples, and recent years suffered injury. I mention
other thiugs of that kind, to the Engllsb th-at incldentally as a warnlng to my
market, acroas some three thousand miles of hon. friend, not only us to wbat i. the duty
ocean lu the temperate latitudes, unlesa we of the government wlth regard to the transcan learu to grapple with that proposition, I [portation of our perlabable products to Great
arn afrald we wul corne out very poorly If we Britaîn, (whlch Is of lmmensely greater
attempt to carry these perishable producte Imnpor-tance than establlshing this trade
across the equator to South Africa. My bon. with South Afrîca,) and lu the establisbment
frlend, 1 have nio doubt, after I have made of this hune of steamers to Soutb Afrîca,
these remarks, will rise and dlaimn great that cure should be taken to make the transcredit for hla goveruieut for what they have portation of such a character that these perdoue ln regard to cold storage. As I Raid lshable producta muy be carrled. without lubefore, 1 arn not disposed to say thut they jury to their consumera lu thut very distant
have flot doue perhaps as mucli ns they part of the empire. I noticed lu looking over
could, according.to the light they possessed, the records of the other branch of parliaand uccording to the progress that science ment last year, that one of the members of
bas made lu furnisiug mem'ns for the venti- that body, a gentlemau of very wlde experilation of ships and cold storage, but It is ence-a supporter of the present goverument
notorlous that ut this preseut moment, flot- who bas a very lutimute knowledge of Answlthstandlng what lias been doue, we are ln trulian und New Zealuud conditions,
dld not
rnuny respects lu a worse positiou than we hesîtate to suy that the »province of
New
were lu five or six years ugo. I rend a Zealand wus fifty times ahlead
of Canada la
statemeut made by the Mînister of Agricul- the matter of transportation. Wbat
do we
ture flot loug ago, nt a meeting he was ad- see ? We find that the apples of
Tasmania
dressiug somewhere lu the proviuce of Que- are laid dowu lu the London market ulongbec, that the great cheese industry of Can- aide of ours
The season la different,
ada was lu grave peril Juat at this momeut but there ia an overlapplug now.
They
on uccont of this very questiou of trans- are laid down beslde ours lu perfect condiportation. 1 kuow that Professor Robertson, tion, wlthout belng wet or slack. They are
the Commissiouer of Agriculture, before the brongbt that Immense distance lu safety.
A
Commlttee ou Colouization aud Agriculture 'ç-ery large proportion of the Canadian
apples
iast year, mnade a statement of a similar are dellvered slack and wet and seli for
haif
character, and said that we stood to lose Iu price, and tbey give Canadian products
a
the year that then was upon us, and whicb bad name, because many of the consumera
bas just now passed, between $2,000,000 and do not know wbat le the cause of
the bad
n3OOO,OOO ou account of a set back that condition lu which tbey arrrlve.
My hon.
we had. got lu the British market because frlend will remember I arn not denylug
that
of the bad condition lu which our cheese badl this goverument bas made very
credîtable
arrived lu that muarket durlng the previous efforts to Improve the transportation,
but I
season.
Trade changes,
clrcumstances waut to poiut out to my bon. frlend that
change. As 1 understaud It, it was fouud altbough many of
these efforts were made
that the British market favoured a mildgr lu good faith,
and wlth an earnest bellef lu
and moister cheese. The Canadian factorles their efficiency, they dld
not turu ont to be
were advised, aud advlsed very properly, I as efficient as it
was expected they wonld
would say, to meet the views of the Brltlsh be, and new discoveries
are belng made,
consumers, aud a milder and moister cheese and new methods are
beiug adopted sncb as
was being mauufactured, but as soon au the I have referred to
lu Austrulia and New
moisture was added ta the cheese, It became Zealaud,
and we shonld not iag behlud, and
very inuch more difficuit to transport It lu we should
put ourselves ahead of the most
the bot spaces allotted for the cheese lu
advanced lu this mutter of transportation.
muny ocean steamships, and where the
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Heur, heur.
dry cheese and the bard cheese that
were formerly produced, would have crossHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Reference bas been
ed wltb comparative euf ety, it wus found made
by the gentleman who s0 very apHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

FEBRUARY 18, 1902
proprlately and wlth snch correct taste,
moved the reply to the address on this occasion, and by the hon, gentlemen on both
aides of the Hanse who have led ln this
discussion, to the vacancies that we see
around us since the last time we met ln
this Chamber. The first thought le dlrected,
as we corne here, to the fact that the hon.
gentiemin who, led the Senate for the last
three or four years has been removed to
another aphere. Probably I had more tilts
with the hon. gentleman while hie was ln
the Chamber thon I have had wlth any
other gentleman ln parliament, but I am
free to admit that lie was a very industilous
man, and had a great grasp of canstitutlonal
questions ; and I should bie morry to utter
one word of critlclsm ln regard to hlm In hie
new aphere. I hope hie may live long ta,
adorn the beucli to whlch hie has been elevated by the goverument. But there are
other changes whicli have been appropriately
and feellnglY referred to. There has been the
death of my late hon. friend. from Toronto,
wbom I have bld the pleasure of knowlng
ince I came to this Houme, and whose advice I songht and endeavoured to act upon
on very many occasions. No one regrets
more than I do the lons which this House
has sustalned ln the death of the Hon. Mr.
Âllan. Those wlio were co-operatlng wltli
hlm dally know better than others that lie
was one of the wisemt and best Men one
could meet, and a strong party man at-the
sane time,. but I never heard hlm utter a
harsh word of any one ln the House or
anywhere else. We deeply regret the las.
the House ln s ustalned ln the deatli of 50,
able and Influential a man au Hon. Mr. Âllan.
But there Is another change whicli affects me
more deeply than anything whlch has occurred ince I was appointed to this House, or
ince I have entered political ife, snd that le
the removal of the Hon. Mr. Frowse, the
member from my own province, from Murray Harbour. It wam my good fortune to be
conuected very closely personally and poltlcally with the Hon. Mr. Prowse ince confederation, and I found hlm one of tlie most
lionest, feres. and klnd-hearted gentlemen
I ever met, notwlthstandlng bis brusque
manner. At the time of Confederation lie
haed the courage of hlm convictions, when the
opportunlty required, and hie stood np as
an advocate of Confederation ln Prince

Edward Island when very few men could
be found to assume that position. He cast
a vote lu the provincial leglslature ln favour
af the prînciple of (Jonfederation, for whlch
lie lost his seat at the followlug electlon.
From that tlme up to lis death lie was a
fearless advocate of the public questions in
whlch lie flrmly and honestly believed. In
private and commercial life lie was a man
of remarkable abllty. Prom, very small
begînninga lie improved hîs position and
achieved a good competence. I remember
that wlien yet a very young man, just about
tlie tUme lie entered pollical life, lie bult
two very fine shipq for the Britishi markeL.
He loaded tliem wlth the products of the
country, and lie did what was a remarliable
thlng for so exact a man, ment tliem out
witliout insurlng them. Neither of bis slips
was ever heard of. He loat the slips and
cargo. It dld not disconcert hlm lu the least,
aîthoughl t robbed hlm of the earnlngs of
meveral years' labour at one mwoop. But lie
went bravely forward lu hm business as a
merdhant and amammed a very mudli larger
fortune lu a few yearm snd left bis famlly
in good clrcummstances. I have been assoclated 'with hlm lu prîvate lîfe, and fouud
blm lionemt lu hlm convictions, loyal to
hm frlends, and frank and fair to everybody.
1 deeply deplore the lois whlch thîs Hanse
lias mustalned lu the removal of my bite
colleague the Hon. Mr. Prowse.
Mon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-I join wltli the
lion. gentleman from Prince Edward Island,
who volced. the sentiments of the members of this Houme wltli respect to, thome
lion. gentlemen who have departed from us.
There are two of our late colleagues wbam
I have been lntlmately acquainted wlth, and
whose departure I moat deeply mouru. I
liadt occasion, mine I learned of tlie departure of the Hon. Mfr. Milse fromn our Ohamber,
to write to hlm, and I told hlm that If lie
hait amked the opinion of hlm feflow members
lu this House as ta the advImabillty of hlm
leavlng us, we would have been unanîmons
lu asklng hlm ta remaîn wltli us. Wltli
reference ta the Hon. Mr. .&Ilan, I consider
that the departure of sncb a dlgnified figure
as his from among us lias reduced ta a considerable extent the preseut value of! this
House, Inammucli as lie was one of the few
links that bound us to a past that we ail
lionour and cherilih.

SENATE
I do flot Intend to speak at iengtb on, the the British law officers declared against the
Âddress, but simpiy to dweil for a few contention of Sir Louis Davies, the Prime
moments upon some of the contentions of Minister of this country carried his point.
the hon. gentlemen opposite. The preferen- Yet my bon. friends opposite say that he
tial tariff seems to be a tborn ln their side. biundered into It 'We know that sornebody
They attack it on ail sides, discue it, and biundered In Engiand about that Urne, and
eall It a blunder of the Liberai party, but somebody biundered just 48 hours before
when tbey are asked If tbey condernn It they Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Saiisbury's govirnmediateiy withdraw and state that tbey ernment denounced the German and Belgian
have no Intention of doing s0. Yet It is flot the treaties. Tbat somebody was not the prime
best poiicy that couid have been foiiowed, minister of Canada. He had boped to be,
according to the bon, gentlemen opposite, and was chagrIned because lie hail faiied,
because they have flot fathered that policy, and he had declared It was ridiculous that
and I ar n ot sa very rnueb surprised at the these treaties couid be denounced. by Great
stand they take. Up to November, 19MX, tbey Britain. That gentleman was Sir Charles
were convinced that the Liberai party were Tupper himself. He was given the lie
flot a party that could govern this country. direct 48 hours afterwards by the action
They were convinced that the whoie science of the Impertal goverument which denounced
of government was within their ranks,' and those treaties.
of course they suif ered, were distressed'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Where did Sir
that we sbouid laet for one parliament, but
to their very great amazement they saw tîjat Charles Tupper make that declaration?
the poiicy of those men who couid flot govern
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-In London,
this country lad been approved by the over- ot-ih;ousborteanucmn,
whelrning majority in the country. Prefer- futotih t ous bfor theaorune oexit.
ential trade, says the hon. gentleman from bt thnkfu ws
it
blfortuhe t akes
Prince Edward Island, was blundered into lwenty-fnour
oribfoeth
rete
by the Laurier government. They did notwrednncd
look for the results they obtained. They
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-1 neyer bcnrd of
wanted to strike every other country, and It before.
they pretended that German trade and BelHo.M.DNUADM
o.Iin
gian trade was not to benefit by that reducHo.1.DNUÂD-yhu
rei
tion given to British gooda. I will readily iJust shows that when lie abandons bis
admit that Sir Louis Davies, wlien lie started .dut*es ln this House and resumes bis duties
upon bis journey to coavince the law officers ln that splendid garden, Prince .Edward Isof the Crown that thus reduction sbouid be land, lie le so interested ln it that lie does
Iimited to Great BrItain oaiy, and not ex- not foilow what takes place la London or
tended to German and Beigian goods, was la taa.Irnho.fedwilsmy
expressiug a legai opinion whlch badl con- ask bis coileague on bis rîglit or his bon.
siderabie weight but at the same tume lie friends at bis back, 1 do not think lie wUl
k-new full weli that If the Law Lords of tbe 1findt anybody but himself who Is not aware
Britishi Crown deciared against hlm, the 1that Sir Charles Tupper committed the
Britsb oveamet e l th dieniblunder of declaring forty-eigbt hours, or
wuid
mn of accepting the benefit of the preference praetet-orhusi
dao
la
and repudiatixig tbe two treaties, or refuslng those treaties could not be denounced.
the benefl 't wbich was off ered. At the same
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The goverament
time the premier of Canada crossed the sea of wblch Sir Charles Tupper was the bead,
and by bis fair and open deciaration that asked the Imperial government to hnve them
lie wanted no quid. pro qyo, that he thouglit denounced.
free trade Engiand had done sufficiently for
Canada by opening its doors absolutely to
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I bave no obour trade and was entitied to sorne kind of jection to foiiow my bon. friend on that
return and advantage ln our markets, ground, but we are dlscussing wbat Sir
toucbed the hearts of the Britisb people Charles Tupper said forty-eight hours beand crented sucb n sentiment that aithougli fore.
Hon. Mr. DANDtfRAND.

FEBRUARY 18, 1902
Hon. Mr. McDONALD (Cape Breton)
-Sir Charles Tupper denied that positiveiy
when charged with it, and stated that lits
speech on that occasion was mlareported.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-He had the advantage of belng far âway from the source
of Information, because it wns ln London
bis speech was made, but I wiii slmpiy
refer to the 'Asaociated Press' reports
which came here, and which foud tlueir
way the ilext morning into the officiai Tory
organs of thia country.
I arn satisfled to
accept wbat the good Tory organ, the
'Gazette' of Montreal, reported of the
speech, and my declaration wiIi stand by
it or by the statement ln the ' Mail and
Empire.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Cannot the hon. gentlemnan accept thc dental of Sir Charles
Tupper ?
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I should like to
see that statement. of Sir Charles Tupper
and compare It with the reporte whlcu appeared ln the paxers.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamiiton)-I was preaent nt the meeting of the Chambers of Coinmerce ln London wben Sir Charles made his
speech, asklng that the British goverament
give a 5 per cent preference to Canada on
ber products.
It was declared that the
treaties couid not be denounced. A leading
man there said those treaties would prevent
their gilng a preference.
Sir Charles
Tupper deciared then that the treaties coutl
be denonced, and he trIed his very best to
get them to do it, but the governinent would
flot denounce thxe treaties untIl Sir Wilfrid
Laurier got there, and when he did get to
the other aide the treaties were denounced.
Sir Charles Tupper did hîs best, but he could
not succeed.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It only shows
that whiere Tory science fails Liberai methoda wifl succeed. We are toid that this
preferenoe given to British goode has
brought us nothlng ln return. As the Secretary of State has sald, why tg it that
concurrently with the denunciation of those
treatles-concurrently with the reduction
of the duty upon British goods, our trade
has expanded ln Great BrItain ? la it not
because of the action of the Prime Mlnlster

of Canada la Great Britain, of the action
of our parliament la glving that preference
to British manufactures ? We have spent
a lot of money la Great Britain la advertising
our country.
I have heard numbers of
speakers on botb aides of poilc declare
that the presence of the Prime Minister of
Canada at the jubllee celebration, the
speeches he made at that time, the importance of the representition of the colonies ln
Great Britaîn, and the ascendency over them
ail of our own representative, have been of
greater value to Canada than ail the money
spent prevloualy for advertising purposes.
From that moment our tradte bas expanded,
and why ? Because, as every one knows
Canada was hardly known ln Great Bnitain or ln Europe. The North British colonies had not yet attracted the attention
of the ordinary man ln the street ln Great
Britaîn, but froin that moment when It was
heralded that we were glving British gooda
a preference lu our market wlthout asklng
for a quid pro quo, we were doing nomethlng for Great BrItain, our goods commanded a better price. If it la not due ta
the action of parliament and to this preference that we gave, to, what la It due ý
I have heard the question put, how la It
that the United States expanded its trade
ln the same proportion as Canada ? I do
flot tbink so, but there la one thing I know,
the consular agents of the United States
la Liverpool and London since 1896-97 have
yearly reported to their government that
Canada7s goode were displactag United
States products la that market.
I have
seen and read. reports of these consular
agents and every year they have advised
their government to beware, of Canadian
competition.
Bo that flrm that moment
that Great Britail's attention was drawn
to the possibilities of Canadian commerce
-was drawn to the fact that ire were doing something for. the metropolis-fromu
that very moment our tradte has expanded,
and if the action of the goverament'and of
parliament at thue lIme la flot sufficlent to
Justify the expansion of our tradte ln the
extraordlnary proportions mentioned by the
Secretary of State, I would point out again,
'with the concurrence of my hon. friend
from Prince Edward Island that the action
of the Minister of Agriculture (Mr.
Fisher)>
lias contributedl a great deal towarda the

SENATE
development of our trade with the mother
country. The cure taken lu the transportation of our goods by the cold etorage
system developed by the present government has undoubtedly had a considerable
effeet and I might say, whiie I arn on this
subject that 1 have flot yet heard of any
important work similar to that done by the
present Minister of AgrIculture ln Great
Britain durlng the last two trips he
made to the other side. Hon. gentlemen
ln this Chamber who have had occasion
to foliow hlm in hie work of evangelization on the other side, have eeen that he
has gone from, one big centre to another,
hae epoken to nearly ail the Important
boards of trade on the other elde, and that
there Is not a newepaper publlshed ln the
British Islands which had not reports of
these speeches made by hlm and by hie
assistant, Mr. Robertson, Who accompanied
hlm. I arn quite sure that we have badl no
more diligent Minuiter of Agriculture since
(3onfederation, and I cougratulate the hon.
minister on the trouble he has taken to do
that Important work of thoroughly inforreIng the British citizen as to the possibilities of Canada and the Importance of mntuai trade. My hon. friend who has preceded me said that the governmeut had
blundered Into this pollcy. Weil, If this
present government reaches snch resuits ln
ail is blunders, 1 expect marvels of them
wheu they do not blunder. The hon. leader
of the opposition lu answer to a question,.
said 'I have not condemned the preference
A few minutes
given to Great Britain.'
afler ln hie speech, he polnted out contradictions that have appeared ln the press between statements made by members of the
present government. I have here a speech
made by Mr. Monk, one of the leaders of
the opposition, who has condemned unreservedly the preference given to British
goods ln our markets. To-day we are askIng ourselves where the opposition really
stands on this question. 0f course they declare they would prefer a qudd pro quo policy, but they have not yet moved to have
removed from our etatute-book the preference given to British goode. The hon.
leader of the opposition spoke of contradictions between reports of speeches made
by divers mInisters who form this government He forgot that at the last election
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

the mate of Sir Charce Tupper, who was to
bnIng such power to the opposition, Mr.
Hlugh John Macdonald pronouuced in the
west ln favour of a reduccd tariff on agricultural implements, If flot free trade ln
agricuitural Imprements, whilc at the sarne
Lime hie colleagues ln the cet were clamourlng for greater protection on these very
articles. But this contradiction between
Mr. Hngh John Macdonald and hie colIcagues le not the ouly one to which I cau
point ln the pollcy of our opponeuts. The
leader of the opposition has condemncd the
goverument for not meutioulng the seuding
of a third contingent to South Africa, and
has prcssed this governmeut to pay the
whole of the cost of the scndlng of this
contingent. Iu this contention he Is at
variance wlth one of hie colleagnes ln the
other House Who playe no less a roIe than
assistant leader of the opposition, Mr. Monk,
of Jacques Cartier. I would advlse my hon.
friends to gather in caucus and decîde on
their policy on that question, because I canflot believe thcy are unitcd, whcu I have
here before me a speech made to the electors of Laval county by Mr. Monk. The
speech la ln French. I wiUl quote the portion refenning to the sending of thîs contingent and It will be seen from the remarks of the hou. gentleman that more credit le given by hlm to the action of the
present goverument than le to be fouud lu
the remarks of the hon. leader of the opposition, for he contends that If this third
contingent le not pald out of the public
trcasury, It muet be due to the action of
the Hlon. Mr. Tarte. I cousider that such
questionable motives should not be attributed which would have the effect of disturbing the ideas aud sentiments which
should nuite this whole country, and It le
because I condemn the toue lu which the
rcmarks were made that I want to Point
ont to the bon. gentleman that on thîs
score the polcy of the Couservative party la
not a unlted one If we eau judgc by the
remarks made by Mn. Monk as contrastcd
le what Mr.
wlth hie own remarks. -Here
Monk says. I quote from Le Journal whose
director he le jointly with Senator Forget
and Mr. T. Chas. Caegraiu, M.F.
PARLIAMENT AND CONTINGENTS.
Touching this burning question 1 think that I
have squarely laid ilown my views lu my

-REBRUARY 18, 1902

speech before the Cartier club. We have gained thiug wlîich this *overnment bas doue: It
our constitutionai rights after Innumerable bais given a picferenice ta British goods Il,
struggles and sacrifices. 1 have blamed and I
blame the Laurier government for having failed oru owui market, and yet we tind tlhese geuuta consuit parliament upon a question of this tlpeiiu wLo spealc of the duty of tie gaverntimportance. What ls a representative system?9 mnent tob pay the expense of thc third couIts very basis is the necessity for the government to cansuit the people through their repre- tîngent uit the saine timae condemning thc
sentatives in parliament whenever important goverumeut for havlng obtalued nothlng
questions have to be solved which affect the
whole country. I accuse Mr. Laurier of setting lu returu for the advantage whicb British
0f course
aside the autharity of parliament in ail the gooda have lu aur market.
most important acte of his administration 1 know Sir Charles Tupper said that preferDid you ever
since lie reached power.
hear of the participation of Canada In ence ta British goade Is a question of busithe wars of the empire before Mr. Laurier's ness, and that we should treatit as a quesHere ls the reason. of aur tion of business. I have no objection ta
reign ? Never.
In
participation ta the South African war.
1897, when the South Afrlcan var hiait fot yet do so, but, as thc hou. Secretary of State
broken out, Mr. Laurier iett for Englanil ta go said, we could obtalu no sucb advautagc
and represent Canada -ta the Jubiles festivities.
There a sudden change appeared In our Prime lu the British market as the bon. gentleMinister's mmnd. From a democrat ta the cors man thaught we could by a close bargain.
he became dazzled by honc'urs and titles and
anc fine morning he found hirnself, accarding ta, Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-The premier said
rumour, covered with decorations and titles and we dld flot want It.
he was forced ta accept them. Then Mr. Laurier
entered Inta an absolutely new road. A few
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-Tliere le anc
day. afterwards at a grand banquet given the sure thlng, that there cau be no chance for
he made that speech
colonial representatives
where ho assursd the mother country, in the a number of ycnrs ta corne, of Great BrItaîn
event of war, that the beacon firea on the hill, taxlng Its prlmary necessaries of life lu or-'
tops would only need ta be lighted, and the
clarions sounded snd Canada would be rsady der ta obtaiu a quid pro quo lu Uic colonial
ta furuish Its blood and Its money. This colemu mjarkct and by going ta the exteut that we
declaration. was binding upon the whole country.
larne Sir did go we sbawcd aur good will ta the
I amrn ot among those wha will
Wilfrid Laurier for having redeemed. hie pro- mother country, and at the saine thue I conmnise, but what 1 find ta be blarne lu that on eider tlhat thie gavermemnt bas donc Its duty
March 30 lest. when parlismeat was In session,
this goverament offered a new contingent ta Uic people of Canada and bas stoad by Its
without consulting the representatives af the pledgc lu glvlng thcrcby a rcductIou upon
people who are sent tac parliament ta represent thc tariff of thîs country whIcb we had proIts Intereste and have a rlght ta be consutd
It is ail
mised In aur plattorm of 1893.
on questions of this Importance.
This le ail Mr. Monk le reported ta have
said. I know he dld say more, but hie organ

dld flot report more conccrnlng the scudlng
of thîs third contingent. Througbout that
by-clection, himscîf and Mr. Bergeron, an
ex-leader of the party In the other House,
denouneed Impcrlallem qulte scverely. Now,
It sceme ta me that whcn the goverument bas dcparted, as thîs preect one
has, from the traditions laid dawn by the
other party, aDd*has done what It bas doue
for the metropolîs, the moat ardent loyaliste among the people of tble country
should be contented and satlefied. It je
ail very well ta candemui the present govment for havlng becu remise ln Uts duty
lu flot paylug the expenses of thie third
contingent. When we loak at the past record of aur opponeuts Iu bath Hlouses, we
flud notblng during their long régime whieb
showed that desire whicb now burme lu tbcm
toa nesiet the mother country ta the tune that
their speeches would Indlcate. Thereli.one

very wcil ta say Uiat British.goode have obtained an advantagc bore, but Uic people of
Cauada have abtaincd an advantagc-bave
not oniy abtalned an advantage lu getting
cheaper goade comlng from Great Britalu
but* fromi other countries as wdil. I have
seen It dcclared In the Conservative pres
Uiat Uic effcct of that preference had
gane bcyand Uic market of Great Brîtaluthat Uic reductian upon Uic British goade
liad forccd thc Âmerlcans ta reduce Uhir
prîces lu arder ta be able ta enter aur
Sa Uiat Uic preference given ta
marketL
Great Britain, wbich seemcd ta tauch Uic
hearts of Uic British people, buis nt the ame
tîme lied the cf ct of reduciug Uic prîce of
goads not only lu Uic ulnes produccd ln Uic
British Ilies, but on many lunes of goods luiiported fram Uic United States.
Hon. Mr. MeMILLÂN-What particul ar
lune bas the hon. gentleman reference ta ?
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I amn speaklng
generally of Unes similar ta those British

SENATE
goods which have benefited by the reduction
of tbe tariff upon British goods. There 15
no doubt the people of this country have
feit that the taxation under our tarif lias
gone down to a considerable extent by the
preference given to British goods, and by
the effeet lt bas bad on goods tram the Unlted States similar to those lmported from
the United Kingdom.
There 18 one remark before I take rny seat
It la conwhlch I should like to make.
We
cerning the transportation question.
have spent a considerable amount of money,
smre $80,000.000 Up ta this date, lu lrnprovIng and deepenlng our canais from the lakes
to Montreal. We have thongbt that by s0
doing we would capture our share of trade
golng frorn the west Money bas been to
a considerable extent expeuded lu deepenlng the St. Lawrence channel from Montreal ta tbe sea, and I have a sanguine
expectation that withln two years we will
have a 30-foot channel ail the way tbrough
frorn Montreal to the sa. But It lu apparent
that we have not done enough. The idea bas
been thrown ont to the public that we sbould
go one step furtber and deepen tbe French
river ta twenty f eet, ln order to brlng the
western trade and the western grain ta
North Bay, wblcb would thence be carrled
by the Canadian Pacific Railway to Montreal and the seaboard. I arn absolutely lu
favour of deepening the French river, and
uslng Lake Nipisslng and the French river
lu order ta retaîn our Canadian western
trade, and carry it lu Canadian bottoms ta
North Bay, and then transhlp fit upon the
Canadian Paciftc Rallway to the sea.
I coasider that this I. but one link-an
Important llnk-of a big scheme whlch bas
already attractedl the attention of this
Chamber. I speak of the Georglan Bay
canal project. I consider that this country should wlthln as short a time as possible
give lis full attention to the prablern of
western trade, and the necessary channels
ta bring that trade Into Canada, and retain
It, ln order that we should. profit by it. We
know that the westerners have a future
before them. We know tbat Manitoba and
the Nortb-west Territorles are progressîng
We have no
at an extraordinary rate.
doubt that before ten years the transportation problern, even If we do not wrestle witb
it now, will present itself and lrnperatively
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

force our attention. It seerns to me that we
should prepare for the mnovlng of tbe products of the west, and that tbere is no
greater, no better, and no more radical solution than the building of tbe <3eorgian Bay
canal, or rather the deepenlng of tbe Georglan Bay waterway, inasinnch as lt ls bardly a canal, and cannot very well be called
one. I know that our friends from Ottawa
bave given very much attention and tirne
ta the study of this question, but when I
look on the rnap it seems to me that it la a
question which should engage the attention
not only of the people of the Capital, because the Ottawa river passes by lt, but
that it sbould engage the attention of the
I arn convinced that
whole of Canada.
when we have a twenty-foot channel between the lakes and Montreai we wll
see cities sprlnging np ail througb the
waterway fram the Georgian Bay to Montreal, and that even If we capture but
one-fourth of the trade that goes througb
Lake Erie and United States ports we will
make sncb strides as wil surprise not only
the people of Canada, but outsiders as weILl
If we captnred but one-fourth of the trade
which la our legitimate due, Montreal and
Quebe wonld not have to discuss as to
I arn conwhich la the national port.
vlnced that there wouid be sncb a stimulated
trade along the St. Lawrence that the two
ports wonld nearly join. I know that peopie living ln the west are now attracted
by this scherne, and I have no hesitation lu
saying that Montreal realizes to-day that If
we want t6 monopolise aur Canadian western trade we mnst do sometbing towards
developing these avenues of trade and
facilitate the transportation of the western
praducts, perbaps througb the French river
to North Bay ternporarlly, tIIl the wbole of
the Georgian Bay canal and waterway ls
constructed, and thereby 'I arn qulte sure
that Canada's prosperity wlll continue ta develap. With sucb a national bighway opened
between the west and the St. Lawrence
and the sea board, there would be no
danger of lean years for very rnany
years ta corne. We are to-day arnong the
fat years. We bave had for tbree or four
years sirch a wave of prosperity as we bad
not seen for fifteen or twenty years before,
and If we simply take care to monopolize
the carrylng of our western produce, I amx

FEBRUKRY 19, 1902
qulte sure that we of this present generation, at ail events, wlill fot; have occasion
to, be plnched by the lean years that gonerally foleow the fat years such as we are
enjoylng.
Hon. Mfr. McCÂLLUM
jeurnment of the debato.

rneved the ad-

The motion was agroed to.
The Sonate adJourned.

THE SElIATE.
Ottawa, 'Wedneaday, Febniarj 19, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o 'dock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
THE ÂDDRESS.
DEBÂTE CONCLUDED.
The Order ef the Day belng cailed
Reaumlnc the further adJouraed Debaite on
the Consideration of His Exeilency the Gov..
ernor General'.. speech on the openiag of the
Second Sesson of the Nlnth Parliarent.
Hon. Mfr. McCÂLLUM' said: I may be
Perrnltted to make a few remarks with reforenoe to the changes wblch have taken place
ln the Senate since last session. I miss from
this House sorne old and rfflpected friends,
whern I knew for rnany years. They have
been roPlaced ln thls Senate by other hon.
gentlemen whorn 1 arn wefl acquainted wlth,
and whorn I welcome te this Houge. Some
Of them have been oppononts of mine for a
long time, but I have ne doubt they wll discharge their duttes preperly. I a1.0 mins the
hon. leader of the governrnent In thi. Senate,
the late MInister of Justice, who has been
transferr-d to another b fnemh ci the public
service. I respect hlm very rnuch, and I
think It ls a great plty thait lie hais been removed from the Senate te the Suprerne
Court. 0f course If fi: is hîs gain I arn willIng te put up wlth it, but nat the sme Urne,
I censIder that It la a great loss te the ceuntry that such a man as the Hon. David
Milse, who lias been ln the parliarnent ef
Canada fer a long trne, and Who was a
Minister of the Crewn before lie came to,
the Senate, appelnied Minister or Justice here

and remained ln the Sonate for years, sbould
be rerneved (romr us now. I respect hlm
for bis great abllty and bis knowledge ef
constitutional law.
However, I have ne
doubt that lie will discharge bis duties satisfactorily ln bis new office. With reference
te the appolntrnent of another gentleman
te, take bis lulace in the Sonate, I have nothlng te say. I do net know exactly who that
gentleman rnay be, but I wlill treat hlm wlth
ail the respect due te hirn whien lie cornes
te, this Chamber. I desire now te maire a few
remarks on the Address lni reply te the
Speech frorn the Tbrone.
It Is sernething new te me new-and it Is
also gratifying te me te know-that the socailed Referrn goernment et this country
are taking the Onnadian Pacific Railway under their charge. I arn an old man, and I
remember long, long ago, when the Referai
epposition opposed the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway wtth all their might
and main. They characterized the province
ef British Columbia as a "ea of meuntains,
and said that It was net worth.while to,
build the Canadian Pacific Railway ln order
to, savo that prevince te the British Crown,
and, If bufit, the Uine would not; earn
eneugh rneney te pay the o11 requlred te
lubricate the ailes of tho car wheols. I
remember the Urne when they wanted te
build only the prairie section and utiuize
what they called the water stretches. That
was thelr policy. But they are now taklng
the Canadian Pacifie Railway under their
wings and making the people bolleve that
they are the party who, consfructed. that
road. I have ne donbt that la what they
are ondeavourlng te do. I was amused at
the Secretary et State when ho teld us yesterday 'wbat an off ect this proferentli trade
bad on the preducts et this country. What
bas thîs gevernrnent done ? We have prosperity ln Canada, and I arn glad ef it. My
lien. friend said that sentiment was botter
than law, but at the same Urne sentiment
bas nething te de wlth It The prosperlty
of this ceuntry la due te, the brain and
muscle and Intelligence ef Its peeple. In the
mnatter et productien, what have thoy given
us ? Dld they give what they prornlsed ?
Wo rernember the proeut premier et this
ceuntry speaking at London, Ont., botgro ho
becarne Prime Miuter and saying : 'If
yeu return me te power, I will get you

SEINATE
a preference in the British market, and
aee what an advantage you agriculturists
wlll have. Everythlng you grow and
everything you produce wili be worth
s0 mucli more per pound. Your beef and
your pork will le woth just s0 much more,
and If you clect me Prime Miuister I ivili
obtaIn that resuit for you.' Weil, did he
do that ? Dld lie asic It ? At a banquet
given lu Liverpool, did lie not say : " I arn
ready to gîve you a preference and I want
no quivi pro quo. I wvant nothing of the
kind.' He went there to get everything
for the people of Canada and he came
back liere with nothiing but a gold niedal.
Ile sald, of course, that free trade Is better
for Great Britain and It la better for Canada
also. 1 do not forget those things. We are
told tliat the government of the country Is
the cause of our present prosperlty. Cani
any gentleman withln the beariug of iny
voice point out where they bave assisted lu
any way wliatever to brlng about this prosperlty ? I have not heard any evîdence of
It yet. The hon, gentleman says that the
goveru meut created a sentiment ln favour
of this country la Great BrItalu, and for
that reason the British people buy more from
us. Fancy the people of Great Britaîn eatlng more because they have a sentiment la
The hou. gentleman further
our favour!
stated that Canada n-as not known In Great
BrItain untIl after Sir Wlfrld Laurier went
there, and after that our producta were
iooked for. The bon. gentleman said Caniada was not known.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-Hardly known.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-We are not going
to swallow aIl that. We take It for wbat It
la worth.
Hon. Bir. McMILLAN-It wants a little
sait.
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-Yes, and pepper
too. When the premier goes over this summer, I hope ha will have somethlng better
to show when he cornes home. I hope lie
will not go over there for a certain purpose,
and then change bis mind and corne back
with a gold medal because he tells the people
of England that Canada does not want a
preference. In fact he refused the preference hefore It waa offered to Canada.
We want nothing of Great Britaîn more
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM.

than British subjeets are entitled to,
and when the government talk about
creating a sentiment by glving the manufacturers of Great Britain a preference,
tbey are giving a preference for admitting silk, and shoddy which should be
made at home. The government of this
country, xve are told, have increased the
prosperity of the people. How have they
done It *? They are deepening our canais,
witli a view to bringing the trade of the
west by the St. Lawrence. That may corne
by and by, and the people of this country
will qet the benefit ln proportion to the reduction of frelght. But If we carry wheat
from the western states by the St. Lawrence,
do we get anything out of it ? We do flot
get enougli from the toila to pay. the lock
tenders on one canal. 1 do not objet
to deepening the canais for the carrying of
the trade of Canada, but when we are golng
crazy, as we are to-day, la the expenditure
of money, it la time we began to see wliat
we are getting for It. We have a large
revenue, but it 15 the people's money, and It
should lie s0 judiclously expended, that It
wil be a benefit to Canada la the future. 1
question very much If the expenditure whicli
,we are maklng upon the canaIs, wlll be of
j9reat advantage dÉo Canada. The goverament la digging a hole la the rock at Port
Coiborne. Years ago I brouglit pressure on
the government to bring the level down to
14 feet on the mître-sîli ; they were going to
put it at 12 f eet. Now, what are they
doing ? At Port Coiborne, they are lowerlng the mitre-aill whIle they have any
Rmount of rock to cut out before vessela
cau reacli It The resuit la now that tliat
expenaive piece of work la the aqueduct
wlll have to be thrown away alao If we are
to get any more water than 14 f eet lu the
Welland Canal. The people of this country
ahould aak themaelvt>s what they are golng
to get ont of thia large expendîture of
money. If we had a Canadian shlpping
with the owners living in this country, they
couid go ail over the world, and whatever they earned above expensea would be
brought to this eontry, and that and the
lower frelghta la ai we can make out of 11L
I arn wlllIng that Canaeu abould puy her
proportion to sustaîn the Britiash empire la
any part of the world, but have we created
any sentiment in our fa7vour In Great Bri-

FEBRUARY 19, 1902
tain by fixe action of the government ? No.
What have we done ? We have sent some
volunteers from Canada. In fact, the premier says, he dld not send them, le permitted them to enlist. Fancy the premier tellIng a British subjeet ln this country he has
to have lis permission before lie can volunteer to figît to uphold the flag of the empire. To taik about sentiment because we
allow fihe sbop-keepers of England to sexxd
their goods bere ut a iower rate of duty
when we should be manufacturing the goods
lere, ls absurd. But have we done our share
lu thxe matter of sending contingents to
South Africa ? No, when they are sent
C.O.D. The only thlng that r have known
the government to do to assist the empire
was to send over dog-biscuit ln the shape
of emergency rations. The Secretary or
State salG yesterday, ln repiy to a remarli
of the leader of the opposition, that fihe goverament should flot be accused of not carrying out our piedges. Does the hon, leader of
the government menu to say that they have
carried ont ail their pledges ? Re lias toid
us lis political hlstory, but 1 do not think
It was necessary; we k-new it pretty weii,
and there are men here older than 1 amntwo or three members of tixis House, who
knoiv ail about the hon. gentleman's
polificai career. 1 have nothing to Go with
IL. I aiwaYs took hlm as a strong Reformer.
1 kuew wlen Le was whlpped around. lie
was elected by one party and acted witl
another. That was hie cixoice, and lie need
not have bothered us wlth bis politicai
history, because we have nothing to do with
It. I ask again, what have thue government
Of this countrY done to increase the prosperity 0f Canada, except by the creaflon
of the favourable sentiment ln Engiand of
which he speaks ? Have they opened up
any new market for us le They toid us they
were gOing to get reclproclty with the
United States, and If tbey couid not; get
fair reclprocity tbey would get unrestricted
reclprocity. As far as the tariff la concerned, they were to reform it.
The
oniy thing they dld was to admit corn
Into thîs country free. If tley baad not douc
so, they migît have got reciproclty wlth the
United States In hay or barley, but they
disarmed themselves whea they admitted
corn free. They went to Washington and
tley took the duty off corn to create a

49

sentiment. On severai other matters they
have acted ln the same way. My hon. frIend
on my ieft (Mr. Dandurand) spolie about the
pledges which were made to the people ln
1893. 1 happen to have a copy of them here.
They were going to give us tariff reform.
That la one of the piedges they made. They
reformed the tariff a good Geai by taking
the duty off corn, thxe oniy thing they bad
to go to the United States with and Gemand
a quid pro quo because It ls worth a great
Geai to the United States to get corn free
into this country. Then reciprocity was
another of the piedges ln that political manifesto of the great Grit party, and If they
could flot get reciprocity falrly they were
golng to have It anywny. Then thxe next
thing was corruption condemned.
Just
thinli of it. Thinli of what is going
on ln this country and bear these gentlemen.appeal to the people of Canada to
condemn corruption. 11bey have condemned
It: very much, and I stand before you to-day
and say tbat It la a serious question how
you are going to get a proper vote of the
people. You wili have to corne back to, the
old system of open vottng.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
hear.
Hon. Mir. McCÂLLUM-That la ivhat you
wlill have to corne to, because I remember
thxe swindies which commenced long, long
ago with that pure party that wanted to
put down corruption. I remember long ago
hearing about some cupboard, ln fixe ceilar
down ln Montrai. I remember tixey haa a
cupboard ln the ceilar.
Hon. Sfr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ând a
trap door la the floor.
lion. Mr. McCALLUM-Ând they abandoned the cupboard but now they stuif fixe
ballot boxes. It was lntended to benefit;
Lafiamme, far be It from me to ay that
Lafiamme bad anything to do with it I
oxaiy speak of the facts. One of the present
Supreme Court judges was lis opponent at
the time.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND -Mr.
Justice
O irouard.
Hon. Mr. MeCÂLLUM-He was defeated
by corruption, and swlndied out of his seat.

SENATE
Bon. Mr. DANDURAND-His opponeut,
Laflanine, abandoned the seat on the recount, when lie beard of the irregularlty
tint had been committed.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That le a precedent
for Mr. Brunet.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I ara only saylng
that the parties wvho preaclhed purlty of
election are the very parties who coinrnenced corruption and have carrled It on
till tliis day. 1 do uot accuse my hon. frlend
of corruption, but I know that hie is a strong
man lni lits party, and I would advlse hilm,
for the sake of this country and for the sake
of ail thiat Is good, to influence bis party to
stop thiese thlugs so thiat we wlll flot have
to go bitck to open voting. Then another
plank ln the platform of 1893 is 'another
law for the settler.' I do flot kflow that
the settler wants auy more law. We are
ail settiers I suppose, and I do flot know
what tîint mens. 'The Gerrymander Act'
1 suppose they are golng to gerrymander us
by and lîy. Is that whiat they men by
tliat ? The lion. gentleman spoke of that
ycsterdny. They are going to gerrymander
us. W7e are pretty well gerrymandered now.
Then 'Senate Reform.' The Almlghty has
rç-formed the Sente.
Hon. «MIi.FERGUSON-Hear, hear.
Hou. Mr. ]%cCALLUM-f'I say it wltlî
sorrow for these hon. gentlemen, because 1
They reforin the
give thein nil respect
Senate b>' taklng away one of their brlghtest
members-one of the brlghtest members the
goverfiment ever had lu thîs Senate. I refer
to the late Minuister of Justice who, ln this
Blouse I must say was loved by ail. It le
true I dld flot see eye to eye wlth hlm. It Is
true I often consldered It my duty and
pl Ivilege to disagree wlthl him, but 1 do flot
thlnk that made any difference so far as
is feeling towards me was concerned. I amn
sure it did flot uiake any difference so far
as my feeling towards hlm was couceruied,
I hope and trust that he wlll live to enjoy
his new position. They have reformed the
Senate by taklug the hon. Mlnister of Justice
Rway froin It 1 flnd no fault with their
action, and 1 do flot kuow what gentleman
they will put lu bis place, and It le flot my
conceru, but I will flnd no fault withl hlm
und I tbink we will get along peaceably. As
Hon. Mr. MCCALLUM.

tzir ns I arn concerned 1 have good-will
towards ail. 1 wlsh to say, however, thnt
we want more than sentiment. This Canada of ours Is part and parcel of the British
Empire, and we are ready and wiUling to
nssist lu upholding our great and glorlous
emipire, but we do flot want to be told
'flot a man, flot a dollar' for the purpose.
Look nt the position we stand ln to-day.
Look at the other colonies o! Great Brîtaîn.
Do we stand as the first colonial possession
o! the British Crown? Do we stand as
well as Australla, New Zealand, and the
other colonies? They come forwnrd willlîîgly and support the mother country, but
our men had to be drngged to enlist, and
when they wanted to send emnergency rations to South Africa the governinent sup1 believe
plled thei wlth dog biscuits.
they pald the freight on thiem and that la
about ail. 0f course thiere are a great many
questions about which there may be difficulty. For Instance this question about
transportatIon. The governinent are lu a
majority lu the Senate I think, and 1
appeal to them now. Lt bas been said that
the Senate stood between the governiment
and the people. 1 do not say the governnient intend to do what is wrong, but I
would ask the Senate to go on now Irrespective of party as I have always doue. 1
opposed the goverument which I have been
supportlng all my lite whenever I found
they dld wrong, and If they were stîi lu
pîower I would oppose them to-morrow If
necessary. Lt la true I may not be here
very long, perhape I wlll soon be wlth those
who have gone before, but I have expressed
niy feeling lu this matter, and 1 have nothlug lu beart but a feeling of klndness for
ail lu this chamber. 1 belleve every hon.
member bas a good feeling for his brother
member.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Henr, hear.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I believe tînt Is
the sentiment o! us ah. 1 amn an old man
now and I may not have the privilege of
addressing the Senate another session, but
I look to the wel!are o! my country. it Is
prosperons now. It Is prosperous because
o! the lndustry and Intelligence of the
People, and not because of sentiment. Sentiment ls very fine, but It le not ns good as
law.

FEBRUARY 19, 1902
Hlon. Mr. CASGRÂIN (De Lanaudière)I had lntended only to add my humble
quota to what bas already been satd of
those members of tht. House wlio dled
slnce Iast session and less than one year
ago, but before golng fnto tbat painful
matter, I shall endeavour to answer
some arguments brouglit up by those
gentlemen who have flot confidence ln
the goverument of the day. In reply,
lu the first place, to the hon. gentleman from Monck, I have nothing but pralse
and thanks to off er hlm for the very kind
words he lias raid of the ex-leader of the
government lu this House, Mr. Mills, now
Judge Mills of the Supreme Court, and
I amn sure If lie had been as good and
kind to hlm when lie was leading the
Senate lie miglit even have supported some
of the goverument measures he presented
to the Senate. As to the LIberal party taliing the Pacific Railway under Its wlng, as
the hon. gentleman sald mast now, sorne
years ago many members of the Liberal
party recognlzed that the (3anadian Pacifie
Railway had become a national work, buflt
with Canadian money, part of it, MoneY
cornlng both from Liberals and Conservatives, and from every province of this Dominion, and therefore we have as good a
riglit, we of the Liberal party, as any others,
to dlaim It as a national work of Canada today. As to the enormous public expenditure
-the hon, gentleman from Moncki even said
we were going crazy over It-he must rernerber that members of hi. party ln another
place where they bave mucli greater coutrol over the expenditure than we have
here, have flot objected to lt-tu fact, did
flot objeet to more than a very few paltry
amounts. I do not belleve you cn,î flnd
that they objected to votes aggregating
more than $100,000 out of the millions and
millions that have beeu spent.

be distributed lu the counties that some of
them rePresent. The leader of the opposition ia this House, ln lis speech on Mouday, badl sorne fault to find with the management of the Intercolonlal Railway, and
one of hi. grievances was that while the
Minister of Rallways and Canais was buyIng locomotives for tlie Intercolonial Railway lie was at the same time loaning locomotives to the Onnadian Pacific Rallway.
1 have not seen the report of my hon.
friend's speech but 1 think that la the remark he made.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman ta correct.
H3on. Mfr. CÂSGRIN-If the Intercolonial
Railway had been following that policy, It
would not be the only great railway ini tht.
country that i. doing tlie same thing. Mr.
G. B. Reeves, general manager of the Grand
Trunli Railway, told me that his company
lad been buyiug, as every one kuows, new
locomotives, and had loaned to thé Canadfrn
Pacific Rallway no biter than last November twenty-slz locomotives, and that for a
perlod of at least three months, and perhaps more, and the purpose of loaning
these locomotives was to enable the Canadian Pacifie Railway to move eastward that
abundant crop which providence ha. given
to us Iu Manitoba and the North-west thls
year. If the lutercolonial Railway, a government road, baad consented to boan some
locomotive, for that pprpose to the Canadian Pacific RLailway, I would oertainly, for
one, flot bave fonnd any fault with thèm
for dolng so. It la a rather awkward task
for me to contradiet the hon. leader of the
opposition, but the Information I have
gathered-and I say this with a great deal
of dtffidence-was that the Intercolonial
Railway did not; lan locomotives te the
Canadian Pacifie Railway. I amn sorry to
Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWIfLL-Has contradlct the hon. gentleman, but that ls
the hon. gentleman forgotten the general the Information given me.
resolution condernlng the whole expeudiHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
ture, moved by Mfr. Borden 7
bon. gentleman may have received that information. I said ln my speech that I had
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-I am glad that the
read the statement ln one of the newapaphon, gentleman ha. put me on the rîglit
ers,. and had aske~ a prominent officiai of
track. In generailes they condern expendithe Canadian Pacific Railway If it was
ture, but when we ask them to point ont
correct and he said they had borrowed both
the Items of expenditure tliey object to, not
from the Grand Trunk Railway and Intern man rises, because that patronage miglit
colonial Railway. Whether that la correct

SENATE
or not, the hon. gentleman lias the authority it was intended mainly for commercial purposes. It was built to unite the maritime
on which I made the statement.
provinces with Upper and Lower Canada.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-TIIen I suppose I Those who are older than I arn know
amn obliged to give my nuthority also, 1 whethier that Is correct or flot. Then
wvent this momning to the Department there la the exceedingly long mileage
of Rallways and Canais, and asked the which prevents it competing with the
I may
secretary, Mr. Jones, about it
Canadian Pacifie Railway running to
1 bad tied St. John, which I believe la two or three
I asked.
wvby
explain
bond- hiundred milea shorter.
wbose
myseif for a railroad
Having to oeil
bolders I represented, to obtain the boan of tickets and to carry freiglit for the saine
a locomotive, and they refused me, saying rates, this railway, although doing a great
they bad work for ail their locomotives, deal of good to the lababitants of Canada,
and therefore 1 was surprised to hear the and giving every accommodation, cannot
leader of the opposition say that tbey haed. compete successfully with the Canadian
loaned locomotives to the Canadian Pacifie Pacifie Railway. I oeil upon the bon, genRailway. That la why I went myself to the tleman froin Marshlieid to say If in Canada
Mr. there la a better railway train than that
department and aaked Mr. Joues.
Jones told me be thought tlrey neyer-in whicb leaves Bonaventure station, Montreal,
fact was positive they neyer did boan loco- at noon every day for Halifax and St. John
motives. I said I Intended to repeat hîs -a beautiful train for the accommodation
statement In the House tits afternoon, and of the travelling publie, and this train Is
lie went lu and asked Mr. Schrelber, and mun at a very considerable expense, whlle
Mr. Scbreiber said they neyer ioaned a lo- the number of passengers Is flot aufficient to,
comotive to the Canadian Pacifie RailwaY. Justify It.
As to the Intercolonlal Railway not giving
I have but one more remark to make to,
the satisfactory resulta which we as Cana- the leader of the opposition. He spoke
dtions and sharebolders lu that Uine would about divergence of opinion la the cabinet,
be glad to see It give, I arn sure that there and went to considerable trouble to show
are many reasons for the large deficît of that Mr. Fielding had aaid one thing and
the Intercolonial Railway thia year. Iu the Mr. Blair another ; how Mr. Tarte hiad
fIrst place this government rond is mun, as spoken one way and Sir Wilfrid Laurier anwe ail know, tbrouglb a sparsely settled other. Âlthougb very young Ini public 11f e,
country. Leaving Montreal, and after pasa- I remember full well that the governulent
ing St Hyacinthe, we have whiat Is cafled over which the hon. gentleman presided
the Drummond County Railway whieh runs were neyer noted In this country as a model
through a country now lu course of settie- cabinet as far as hammony la concerned.
ment but atml far from being densely poilu- We know if ever there waa dissension In
Many promises had been made, any government-if ever there were men.
Iated.
even by the leader of the Conservative who went on strike, It; was lu his cabinet.
Quebec bridge
the
goverarnent, that
1 really do not know why the hon. gentlewould be bult. That enterprise will now man brougbt Up that tople except to give
be carried out by the present govern- us an opportunlty to stîgmatize once more
ment but for want of sucb a bridge the as they deserved to be, and. as he called
Intercolonial Rallway at this time of the thein bimself, the seven traitors Iu bis own
year is at great disadvantage for business govemament.
between Montreal and Quebec because the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That,
croaaing of the St Lawrence la s0 uncertain.
Isuppose, Justifies divergence of opinion
O)n the portion fmomn Quebec eaatward, the
among the members of the present goveraImportant points are Rivière du Loup, Riment
mouski and Campbellford In a long stretch
Hlon. Mr. CASGRAIN-During the reof very spamaely inbablted country. It must
not be forgotten that this rond passes marks of the hon. gentleman fmom De Loritbrough one of the moat difficult countries ier, the hon. gentleman fromn Glengarry
to operate lu wlnter time. I do not thlnk asked hlm to speclfy one lndustry lu the
When the Intercolonlal Railway was bulIt country that was prospering.

FEBRUARY 19, 1902
Hon. Mr. F4ERGUSON-WVhat I said was
tbe present goverament was entitled to very
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-No, but I wili and littie credit for lt, even If it hiad done ail
use the hon. gentleman himself to prove the good iny lion. frlend said It did, hoxny case. We were together at the annual cause they bad drifted into it by a blunder.
mneeting of the shareholders of the Montreal
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I am glad to hear
Cotton Company, and Mr. A. F. GaIt the
WVc
con- my hon. frlend say it is a good thing.
president, a man ln whom we bave
There la another tlîing abolit
fidence, declared that last year was the think so.
The visit of Sir
miost prosperous season the cottoni industry that preferential tariff.
had ever had. He said more, that the pr~o- Wilfrid Laurier to London bas been ref<'rrcd
fits were so great that the slinrelioldrs4 to over and over again, nnd the question
mîglit rejoice that they were going to get ia s been asked what did lie do? We had
-9 per cent iustcad of 8 per cent dlvidends, nlways been stigmatized as a dialoyal partY.
to have anytliing to
and lie made some remarks sometbing like a We were not supposed
do with the fiag. It was supposed to he
finance minister would make on givlug us
the budget for the conîing year, and tîlat monopolized by the Conservative party.
do after
was to the effect thant îîext ycar w'ould lie a What did the Liberal goverument
better year than the past one, so that far liaving heen eighteen years in opposition
stili
from having no cotton factory on a sound wlien they came t3 power? The first thlng
basis, I think my hon. friend will admit tliey did %vasîiot to show lip loyalty mnerely,
but to be loyal ln deed as well as in words,
there is at least one.
and Mr. Laurier went to, England and sald,
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-I should like to out of the llberallty of the Liberal party,
ask the hon. gentleman If the government lie would give Britain preferential trade,
,of Canada did anytblng towards asslsting and thant preference would be 124, 25 and
that company to wbicb he refers ? on even 33à of the whole duty, so thint to-day
-the contrary tbey reduced the duty froin when you go to the custom bouse ln Monit'23 per cent to 161, and that bas been the real you can enter for two dollars as much
means of baving tliree or four other coin- British goodsans you could enter for tliree
As to, getdollars under the old regime.
panles pass the dividends this year.
tlng a quid pro quo, If there la ne thing I
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The comp:uîlos do* not admire, It le when one la înaklng a
that passed their dividende bave been badly present that lie should ask what lie la gomanaged. That la admltted by thelr own lng to get ln excbange for it. Dingland
.directors. If the government have reduced admits our goods freely witliout one cent
the duty,* and the cotton Industry ta atili of duty. Wbat more could we expect? If,
more prosperous than ever, It would Indicate after this terrible war la Southi Africa,
that tbe Liberal pollcy le right
England should find It necessary to Impose
The hon, gentleman fromn Marsbfield has customs duties ln order to raine a revenue,
spoken against the preferential trade policy then we mlgbt nsk for at preference wben
of the government.
otlierwlse there would be a tax againat our
producta, but there ls none to-day. Under
lion. Mr. rERGUSON-1 xîever said a existlng circunistances, we cannot anli Eng-Word against if.
land to Impose a tax upon the bread of
to belp Canada. Her imHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-If the hon, gentle- ber wage-earners
porta fromn Canada are emall compared wlth
man is la favour of It, I amn satisfied; wve
lier total importa--I do flot belleve more
are.
than 10 per cent of the wliole-and shall
Hon. Mr. FEDRGUSON-1 neyer satid a wve ask them to tax 90 per cent of thîsir
Word against the preferential tariff; on the importe lu order to belp our 10 per cent-?
Lt la not a reasocable tling to ask.
contrary, I snid I approved of It.
As to the present prosperlty of the country,
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I understood that the bon. gentleman froin Monck admîts that
the hon. gentleman sald we had made n Canada la proaperous. He also admits that
these are bountiful years, but the Coniserblunder, but It was a lucky blunder.
Hon. Mr. MeMILLAN-And

hie did flot?

SENATE
vatives have been making a littie fun of F ielding) whenl lie was premier of Nova
the Postmaster Generai because once hie Scotia, wlien he fornmed the coai syndicate
called hlmself 11, Wm. Mulock,' and wrote wvith Mr. M. Il. Whitney at its liead, andi deon a postage stamp 'Greater than lias been.' velopeti the coal minîes. And îîow tlîey are
The postage stamp ls îîot the oilly thiing:- developing the iron industries. As to the outthat Is greater than lias been ln this counî- put of coal from Cape Breton, we had a retry, since my hon. friends have been out cord liere iast year and wlth that expert
of power. Greater things than have been duty of one shilling a ton on the coal that is
have taken place in this country. As I was now being exported from Enginnd, this lias
comlng to this House, 1 was liandeti by opeiiet for the coal fromn Canada niew inarMr. Clergue a pamphilet with pliotogriplis kets, andi a very successf ni trade uiow being
showing greater things than have been in carrieti on ia the Mediterranean ports,
this country wiîere Mr. Clergue and bis asso- wvhere Cape Breton coal mnet wvitli great sucdantes have actually spent up to date soine cess anti wire there lias lîcen a large de$2,00O,OOO.
It was my good fortune last mnand for it.
Juiy to visIt those works, and I must say
Oaiy a few words more as to the trans1 was astounded at their Imnîenslty.
1 portation question.
That is the probread [n the 'Montreal Gazette' of to-day lem which seemis to be agitating the
that they have commenced to manufacture îninds of ail the business mîenî of titis couimsteel ingots, and lu a few months, nay a try, and of ail the transportation, railfew weeks, they will be producing steel way and steamboat men as to the
rails.
As far as Sault Ste. Marie question whether It 18 rlglit to continue
is concerned, 1 wouîci strongly advise ail the policy whici lias been Îoilowed. lit the
the members of this House to visit that past, of deepenlag and cnlarging the canais,
Immense plant, and see It for tliemselves. or whether wve slionld stay our band. I ny
It Is the greater than lias been in Canada say that 1 read iii the papers the speeches
and especialiy after tliey have hnrnessed the of the Hon. Mr. Tarte andi of the Hon. Mr.
Immense wnter power of the Sault, using Hlaggart botb la faveur of the Georgian Bay
Lake Superior as a miii pond la order to Canal. I take a slightly different view andi
turn innumerable turbine wlieels which are I may ssy 1 do not beileve la the whle of
producing electricity, converting wood into the scheme. I for one, would beieve it quite
pulp and making pulp to be shipped to the possible to imiprove tlhe FrenchiRvr andi
old country, and carloatis are leaving daily. to open that beautiful sheet of water cailed
An Immense caustic and bleaching powder Lake Niplssing, whicli is a very deep) lake,
miii lias been establislied and above ail they and have the steamers now plying the lakes,
have immense iron works. Tliey are build- drawing twenty feet of water, *ascenti the
ing a great railway, and yet my hon. friend Frenchi River and go as far as North Bay,
asks what has the Liberal party been doing "? wvhere the Canadlin Pacific Raiilvay and the
Ras Mr. Ciergue nlot been brouglit liere by Grand Trunk Raiiway could take care of andi
the Liberal party of Ontario ?i Has lie nlot transport the cargoes fromi Northm Bay eastbeen brouglit here by the concessions made ward, but the canalization of the Ottawa
to hlm by the Hon. G. W. Ross and bis gov- river would cost many million dollars, andi
erament lu Ontario ? Who are opening Up you 'wlll finti railway authorities andi railnew terrltory, and building the Algoma Cen- way men aive to this business of transportral, a road whicli Is being bulit to the saine tation Who thlak that the moment lis aistandard as the New York Central, a road most arrîveti, If It bas not already arrived,
over wiceh the heaviest locomotive wili ruai, where It wll be possible to transport by rail
a locomotive of 137 tons, with the as cheaply as yon can transport by artificiai
tender bigger than any locomotive used by water courses. 1 could Illustrate this If I
any railway now ? This is for the western were not afraid. to take too mucli of the
part of Canada. Iu the eastern part we time.0f the House, but lu one word 1 may
have the Dominion Iron andi Steel Company, say that this Is being done by the use of
anti that Is anothier Institution wlth soe
these Immense locomotives sucli as the one
twenty millions in bonds and shares, and 1 spolie of a moment ago, whlch burn la prolarger than lias been, and that was aiso due portion very littie more coal than the smaller
to the present MNinister of Finance (Hon. Mr. ones, and which have three, or sometimes
Hon(. Mr. CASGRAIN.

FEBRUARY 19. 1902

nearly four times the weig-ht, and whicbi require only one stoker instend of four, and
one driver wbere four werc required before.
By the use of a very mnuchliheavier rail and
fiattenlng the grades and reducing tlîe
curves, If a raiiway ivere built as expensively as a canal would bie, or say, for fifty
per cent of wliat a canai wouid cost, 1 ain
led to believe-and L have good autluoeity to
make lue believe-that freiglit could bie
nîoved during the twelve înoths of the
yetir as clicaply Lîy rail as It couId lit caîuals
during seven montlis of the year. Therefore,
liefore goinig into the expenditure of so mauy
mnillions l the canalization of the Frenich
river. it would bie well for the government
to inquire Into that matter..
W ith reference to possessing the confidence of tlie people, I do not think tiiere is
any doulit but tlîat the present goverinuent
Lias the confidence of the people of titis couxutry. If we doubted It we miglit have beeil
reasstired by reading the papers titis n]ornIng. wliere something, 1 suppose almost unliezird o! lit the political istory of Canada,
is related, that witlî two Liberals ruuniiig
the Conservative candidate managed to lose
lits deposit, and s0 swell Mr. Fielding's surplus by $200.
lon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tiiere ivere two
opposition candidates.
Speech
CASGHAIN-The
Mr.
Hon.
fromn the Tlirone speaks of the coronation. I sincereiy hope that If the Prime
Miiuister of Canada can bie preseuît ont that
memiorable occasion, lie wIll then, as lie did
lu the tifté of Queen Victoria's jubieée, do
honour to all Canadians, friends atnd focs
alike, and I have from. the Conserv'ative secretary of tlie Sir John Macdonald Club evideuce to prove that wben Sir Wilfrid Laurier wvas lit that grand procession foloiii.
Queni Victoria towards tlie oid St. Pnil'ls
Cînîirchlit Loudon and the streetswevre Ilned
witlu surglng nmasses o! the population of
the biggest city lu the ivorid. the clieers
rent the air. tirst for Her Mn.-jesty, ag it
sliould lie. then for Lord Roberts, aind afterivards flot fcr the British mîisters, but for
our own Prime Minister, and whien tie royal
carniage In which lie was sented passed ln
front of the platformi upon ivIlicb tliis secretary of this Conservative club stood, bie
stated that thicdheers and entbusiasmn were
sncb tbat lie himself could. îot resist, and

as a Canadian lie lifted nip bis biat and
clieered for Canada's premier.
Hon. Gentlemen of the Senate-May I lie
ailowed to add my humble quota to what
bas already been so well said of the members of this HIouse wbo have died since our
lnst meeting less than one year ago.
I ivould désire to dlaim but for a few moments the attention of this House to pay
a debt of gratitude and render a last tribute
to one of those who have left us for ever
and for whom sinoe my entry in the Senate
1 have had the highest esteemt and most
sincere admiration, 1 wishi to refer to the
late Hon. G. W. Allan.
I can not forget that is very iast speech,
In tact lits last words lie uttered liu this
chamber, were words of commendation of
a public measure I lad the honour of introducing.
A few days after I entered this House it
wns my privilege to me 'et Mr. Alian sociaiiy
and to bie is neiglibour at the dinner table
or one of our colicagues. There one couid
nppreciate the exquisite pollteness and the
courteous amiabiity which graced the
gentleman of the old regime.
The chanms of conversation wbich, lu our
busy rushing age, appear to lic somewhazt
neglected, were one of is most fascinating
qualities. Mr. Ailan would recali the anteconfederation days wlien lie sat In the old
Quebec parliament, and teacli a page of
blstory of Canada under the union witli
sucli graceful ease that It reudered the
listening as interesting as it'was Instructive.
For those like myseif of the younger -elleration, is memory wIil ever remalit engraved In our minda. as markling an epodli,
tîte survivors of whicb have now almost ail
disappeared front active politicai life.
In the early fifties In the old city of Champlain lie was Intimately associated with the
prominent leaders of my race and lie ncquircd. then those kiad sentiments of tolerance and generosity towards the' Frenîch
Candian minority wbicli cbaracterlzed ail
lits public actions Iu is uncommonly long
Forty-seven years
parinmentary carcer.
ago lie bad already attalned a higli position
lut Upper Canada-and the Queen City of the
west liad conferrcd upon him. its higliest
hionours.
He understood, as public men do in England, that municipal aiffairs exacted front

SENATE
hiim their share of bis tirne and attention,
and that under our constitutional systcrn,
the good administration of a city was as
essential to Its progress as the efficient and
bonest government off the country was liubierent to Its welfare.
H1e therefore took an active interest lit the
civie nifairs off bis native city and bis littegrity and abillty soon won for hlin the
first place. and lie wvas elected mayor off
Toronto. In this House, the consclentious
study off public and private legisiation subrnitted for the consideration off the niembers,
bis recognized impartlality. proverbial urbanlty and above ail bis well equipped
inmd by abundant reading designated him
here aiso for the higbest position ln titis
cbamber. Tbose off the hon. members over
whom lie ruled as president off the Seniate
are unanimous ln recognizing tbat no One
filled thie presidential ch-tir with more tact,
klndness and impartiallty.
In this House the bon. Secretary off
State told us yesterday that If the Senate
had been lef t to choose a speaker, Mr.
Allait would bave been unanirnously clected
to fill the presidential chair.
His conscientlous study of all public and private
legislation, subm4tted to the consîderation
off the inembers, bis proverbial urbanity
and, above ail, a mind well equlpped
withi abundant reading, quallfied hilm
for this high honour. I know that bis
tail and siender, yet stately figure wvill aiways be seen bovering lit these halls lut the
uiiernory off those wlth whior lie worked so
long, and I know that ln after years, wliei
their eyes wlll be dlmmed by age perbapa be
nîay be slilhtly forgotten, but visitors coinIng to these balls for years to cornte wll
stIli see the dlgnlfied and farnllar ffeatures
off our past president. ln thiat bistorical gailery wvhichi surrounds this chamber.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It is quite a departure
fromt my usual custom to maire any remarks
at so early a stage off the session as tbe debate on tlie Address ln reply to the Speech,
fronu the Throne, but I feel on this occasion
that I would be derellet ln my duty and
also untrue to the people wbose representative 1 arn lere, If I did flot caîl tbe attention
off parliament and the goverilment to a matter off very considerable Importance to the
People Off the Canadian North-west Territories. I arn referring lu this conuection
Mtou. Mr. CASGRAIN.

to the shortage in our transportation facilities lit that country. I do not do it ii a
hostile spirit. I do flot wisb to find any fault,
because I thiuk there is bardly any fauit
to be foiund, althougli a man would be bardly safe in saying that in some sections off
the North-west Territories where the farmners have liundreds off loads off wheat at the
station and cannot get It to market. They
-%vould incline to the opinion that there was
soine great ffault, and that that fault was
w'vith tlîe governînent and the Caniadiani
Pacific Railway, because the Canadian Pacifie Ralway cannot Eind cars to transport
thieir grain to Its ultiinate destination. I
miglit say ln this connection that there is a
striking contrast between the conditions off
to-day and thlose wbich exîsted wlhen the
government was endeavouring to get the
iuoney granted for the buildinîg of the Caiiadian Pacific Railway.
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWEL-lcar,
Ilear.

Hlon. Mr. PERLEY-It is quite wvithin
the meniories off lion. gentlernen in titis
House thiat there were great doubts as
regards the utllty off the North-west Territories. One very great rnan, perbiaps the
most erninent man in the oppositioni raîîks,
the Hon. Edward Blake, announced whien
the nioney was belng sought to build tat
road, tlîat tue freiglit off that country wouid
flot be sufficient to pay for the grease for
the axIes on the cars taking it out. Now,
a different state off things bas arisen. We
bave not at present the. axIes to put grease
on. We require more axles to put the
grease on. They have flot greased them,
bowever, and they are not gettilg the grain
out off tbe country. We bave from the last
few years acqulred. a knowiedge ln the
western country, off how to tili the soli. In
the earller blstory off the country we did not;
understand bow and wben to plougli, we
dld flot understand bow to prepare for tbe
next year's operatlons and we had rnany.
fallures, but those fallures were liot the
fnit off tbe climate nor off the soli. Tbe
tallure was the fanît orf the people. We
were ail fromt eastern Canada, and the fanmers dld flot understand how to apply tbeir
work to Canadian North-west soli. We
were unable to plougli and work lit the
manner that we shouid. The government off
t :bat day estabisbed an experimentai fanîn,

FEBRUTARY 19, 1902

and a great niany of the farmners tried experiments, one after anotxer, and so we
have been able to acquire a knowicdge
farrn
and
througli this exporirntal
througli our own efforts as well, because wc
have ail been cxperirnting. We have
4icquired a kaowledge of preparing tlie
sccd bed, and It hias been said by one
of our rnost erninent aiea-I refer to
Mr. Mackay, the manager of the experimental farni-that hie thinks lie hias iearned
to prepare the soil so that lic can produce
a crop without ny rata nt ali-that lie bas
so culivated the souI thils year-because we
hiave to cultivate it one year to get It ready for
the next year, cuitivate it at the proper time
to preserve the moisture so that It will ýbe
sufficient to raise the crop thie following year.
He lias done that on bis own fanm at Indian
Head, and the resuit is that lie acqulred, information we have now to guide us in the
future and we can count on flot liavlng a
total failure, but a fair crop every year ln
that country. If tbat lie the case, then we
want more railway faclities. I arn not findIng any fault wlth the Canadian Pacifie
Railway. Thcy bave done marvels In takIng thie grain out, but in my own town, for
Instance, I venture to say ail the elevators
are full, and wliea a farmer cornes la 25
or 30 miles wltli a load of grain, lie cannot
Eind a rnarket for It, because there le no way
of getting It out. He lias to remain for days
under expense at a liotel, walting for a train,
and tlien tlierc Is a ecramble as ta wblcli of
tliem can unload and get away ffret. .I want
to 'cail the attention of thie governmnent to
the fact that eomethlng must be donc ta enable thie Canadian Pacific Railway, or some
,cornpany, ta provide accornmodation anotlier
year, and flot ta bave this state of thinge
exlst. I eee the Canadian Pacific Railway
Ie asking for power ta Issue another t'wcnty
million dollars in bonds. We ail know there
Is a strang feeling In many parts of Canada
In favour of gavcrnment ownership of railwajs. I quite understand, accordlng to the
history of the Intercolonial Rallway, that
It le hardly reasonable ta expect thie govcrnment to own railways, because there ls aiways a great deficit In the management of
tbat Une. It Is a live question In thec Northwest Tliey tblnk the government ouglit ta
own the railways, and tliey expect theai ta
take thie wbeat out of thie country at a reasonable or proper cost. We clalrn naw wc

bave ta pay too xnuch. We comnplain 110w
of waat of transportationî ratiier t1han 0f
excessive charges, althougli it costs $120
to take a car frorn Wolseley ta Fort
William. I understand the goverament is
about ta grant tbe Canadian Pacifie RailwaY
perrnission to extend their capital $20.000,000. Would it not be a gaod plan for the
government tliemselves to take that stock,
and not ta allow foreignere to get liold of it ?
If the stock is put on the market it arn be
bouglit by anyone. United States capitalists have already bouglit the Canada Atlantic Railway, and It will no doubt have the
eilect of divertlng trade froni the ports of
Canada ta United States porte. We do xîat
want ta sec tliat. We want ta, sec aur own
ports built up aad aur grain shipped througli
those ports. It Is a niatter worthy of sonie
consideration for the goverumeat, ta take
that $20,000,000 of bonds theaiselves. It
wouid give tbem a strang controliing Inluience la thie company. I do nat suppose they
wauld take the stock with the Intention of
reducing thie freiglit rates unreasonabîr, but
tbey wauld sec fair play betwcen the coinpany and thc people. In that way tiîey
wouid bave sorne Influence over the frcilht
rates whicli are now s0 exorbitant.
The
Canada Atlantic lias beeîî sold to Unîited
States capitalists, I understand. 1 do not
know liow many sbares of the Canadian
Pacific Railway arc owuied lu the United
States, but 1 believe a large number arc
and If these $20,000,000 were gobbled Up
alsa, what would be thc position of Canada
wltli United States capital controllIng aur
railways ? It wauld be a disastrous thing ta
my mind. It would be a great lever against
as, because tic Canadian Pacific Railway
ruas near Uic frantier for a tbousand miles.
It le a matter for thie coneideration of thie
government liow Uiat capital Is ta be dispoeed of, wlietlir aur railway systein Is ta
lic landed aven ta forelgn capitaliste or not.
Ihope the governmcnt wlll take sanie steps
ta sec that our lntcnests ln tliat particular
are not lianded over to thc United States
capitalists wlio caî chiarge us what tliey
please, and ln time of dIfficulty would conI wae
tral aur Unes of transportation.
sorry ta bear my lion. frlend wba
on
prcceded me epeak of Uic deit
the Intercolonial Railway. Â few yeare
we tbrcw out Uic Drumrnond
aga,
County Rallway Bill, and the follaw-

SENATE
ing year, wlien we passed If, we saved .1
million dollars. It was argued If the goveramnent sccured the Drummond Counlty
Raiiway there would be in mûre deficits on
the Intercolonial ltailway, but I understand
the deficit thtis year is larger titan It was
ever before; I cau quite understaud that
they are carrying freiglit on the Intercolonlai Railway f00 cheap, and tlîe resuit la that
we ln the wcst have f0 lielp to pay the full
quota for the freiglit w-e send, axîd thexi
help to make uit fte delicit on tlie Intercolonial Ralwny.
Tîjat is hardly a fair
deal, and some sfeps shu nd be faken by
the governmnt f0 make e'-ery part of the
country pay Its fair sîxare.
I was pleascd when I heard the Sccrctary
of State, now leadlng the goveriiment-I dIo
flot wanf f0 make nnly reinarks in a hostile
spirlt-say fliat whien the governincut camne
Int o power, ail flicir former prejudices
against the tariff -%erc found f0 be wrong,
and fhcy adopted the î>olicy of tue Conservative party.
Ant openi confession is good
for the sout, and flic montent the lion. geîîfienian made tat confession, nîy hiope for
the country was raised a huiidred per cent.
Because when we have men perslsting, as
some do, in saying finit flic prosperity of
the couinfry la due f0 thein, tliere is nio hope;
but whdn the hion. -eintleîniit fells us fit
during the years fhey were prechluug ruin
because of our policy, f ley fouild wiieî tlicy
came into power that their abuse of flic
policy was ail wrong, anid they had f0 coufinue fthc Conservafîve policy hecause It la
riglit. I arn glad the lion, gentleman made
the confession, and I hope is govcrmnni
will stick f0 it. They talk about the prosperity of the counfry. I would like filet to
point ouf onc lndustry that lias becut establiied ln the country whlîi was liot stturtcd
under a Coîiservative goverinent.
I do
not care a siiap for one party more thtan auother.
The Reforîn party op130sC< ever-y
ateastire fhaf was liitrcduced for flic lieudit
of fhe country. They opposed flic bnildiuug
of the Canadian Pacifie Itailwny. Wluere
would we have been to-day witlîout flie
Canadian Pacific Railway ý I venture to say
there wili be forfy or fiffy millions of dollars put lnfo the farmers' pockets in
fhe North-wesf this ycar because of fhe
grain sent ouf by flic Canadian Pacifie RailwaY, and where will thaf moiiey lic spent ?
If will go f0 Monfreal and other eastern
lion. Mr. PERLEY.

cities.
Wc do miof manufacture in axehiandle. We uo nof manufacture anyfiiing.
We f111 flic soi], and we pay hieavy dluttes
oit aIl the machinery we use ln flie working
of our farms and raislng fhat wlîeat.
lit
this connection we feel somewhiaf disappointcd because flic goverilment have îuof
only rctalned flic Foster tariff, 20 per cent,
on agricuitural litilements, but have raised
flic invoice price so thaf if is xîow practieally 22 per cent If Is quife a bit lit excess
of wlîaf the reai tariff slîould be, 20 per cenît.
Wc have f0 buy those Implements f0 maise
wheaf.
Wc do flot manufacture aniything
as yef. We arc fryiiîg f0 -et up a buider
twine facfory. 1 do flot know wlîef ler we
will succeed or not. We seiîd ail ftxe inouiey
for binder fwlnc down here.
Why sliould
uxot your frade prosper, anid wlîy should îîot
your businuess lie on flic Ilcrease ? It could
not 1>0 otlierwise wlti flic nnuguîificeiîf crops
wc aie raislng lit flhc wesf. Canada is exportiuîg produce largcely f0 South Afric:î, anid
the goverximnent fake credif I suppose for ftle,
lucrease lut exports of hay, oaf s, beef and
flour sent f0 finit countfry. If credif Is due
for flic iiîcrensc ii trade ou fixai acconiit,
gîive If f0 oid Krugcr. If if iiad îiot licou
for lmi, flînt increase would îlot liave talzeîî
place.
Kruger did f; the goveriinient did
niot do If fhemselves. But who airc flic mien
who are encoumaging thaf frade ? Professor
Robertson, wlio was appointed by fh
lihite
govertiment, is one. He is n worflîy oilicer,
and I arn giad fhe govcmnmeiît lias flie good
judgmcnf f0 refain lits services.
Txeni,
again, fake fthc lumiber infercat s of Ncw%
Brunswick. Lumber is worth double fo-day
whaf it was seven years ago, anîd ftle sale
0f if brîngs money Into fthc country.
Hon. Mr.
reason 9

MeSWEENEY-Whaf

is

the

Hon. Mmr. PERLEY-Bcause thcre Is a
demind for if abroad. If Is not because of
anyfhlng flic govemfiment havme donc : you
la New Brunswick arc a lumber ýn*oducing people. I undersfand we have
sent fen millions of dollars worfh of
liay. onts and flour f0 Soufth Africa.
We were fold so fthc other day. Wc are
shippIng ncarly a million dollars worfh a
mont h this ycar so far, and the frade Is lncrcasing rapidly. Thcn fthc Yukon lias been
opcncd up.
I suppose flie governmenf
crcafcd fthe mines ln tlie Yukon.
People

FEBRUARY 19. 1902
rushed there and brought a large amount get Into power on their trade policy, howof money into thnt country. Altogether ever, but on the sehool question. That was
the Industries of the country have been de- the condition of things that existed before
veloping. At the stait hon. gentlemen op- the change of government. No man dnred
posite opposed every one of tem. Every branch out ln business or do anything that
manufacturer we were told was a high- might sustain an injury by a change la the
handed robber. Protection was maklng the tariff policy. The moment the maaufacrich richer and the poor poorer. To oppose turers saw that the new government were
lt was the pollcy of the Liberal party. I flot golng to enforce their free trade policy,
arn glad they have seen the errer of their but were obiged to continue the policy of
ways, and I hope they will do better ln thie Ithe Conservative party, they said: Now we
future. Iu doing so they wiil have my sup- are ail right, we know what the policy is.
port so far as that is concerned. Whenever The new government have endorsed the
they do anytliing that Is riglit 1 wlll support pollcy of their predecessors, and their prethem ; when they do not 1 will oppose them. jdecessors will not oppose it, and we can
My hon. friend from De Lanaudlère (Hon. 1go on and enlarge our buslness--we can put
Mr. Casgrain) referred to the manufactur- i ln new machinery and manufacture not
ers of cotton and the Montreal Cotton Co. only for Canada but for the world.' The
Why, the 1merchants said 'we can lmport goods beW'ho started that enterprise ?
Conservative party. We did not expect hon, cause the duty Is nlot golng to be reduced,'
gentlemen to obstruct everything when and the man wbo wanted to buy those
they came Into power, altliough they said things would not hang off for another year
they would do it. It was not reasonable or i expectiug to buy at a lower rate. People
right that they should do It. 1 congratulate ý had confidence la the established pollcy of
the country on the fact that hon. gentie-! the country, and that Is where prosperity
men have seen the error of their ways when ibegins. Show me one mensure that the preln opposition, and are now trying to do the! sent goverament has lntrodnced ? They
best they can to promote the prosperity or have tlnkered wlth preferential trade and
the country. What would have been the lit lu oniy tinkering; but show me one thlng
resuit If hon, gentlemen had not continued; they have done since they came Into power
the policy of their predecessors ? Ruina- i and 1 wlll acknowledge I amn wrong. The
tion and bankruptcy would have prevaiicd; National Policy was there ; they have just
ln Canada to-day had the pollcy of the Re- gone on and developed It. The Secretary of
form party been carried out when they at-; State said bis party had lef t their prejutalned power. What was the condition of dices behind them after they came Into
thînga when the Coaservatîve party was p>ower, and they have contlnued. the policy
ln power? There was a very Intelligent and, of their predecessors which they found wns
able party la opposition-a very creditable' nU right after eighteen years of violent opparty to Canada. Sir Richard Cartwright, position to 11L Wbere would the North-west
David Milîs, who bas been lauded so highly: Territoiles be to-day, If the policy of hon.
to-day, Laurier, Blake, Idackeazie-aill those' gentlemen had been carried out?7 There
eminent men denounced la unmeasured! bas been one huadred million bushiels of
terms the National Pollcy, and described! grain, oats and wheat produced lu that
what they would do wlth It whea they at- country this year. The principal point of
tained power. They sald there would not îny speech to-day ls that we are capable,
be a vestige of protection left la Canada. even under less favourable clrcumstances,
What could the manufacturers say to that?' of produclng magnificent crops ln that counThey dared flot put up a bulding, or put! try, and we want the government to take
la new machinery because they feared If steps to see that proper facilîties are givela
the Grits got into power they would intio- Ifor storing and handling our grain ; that a
duce free trade and ruin their Industries. Ilike condition of thlngs does not exist next
I bis year such as we have experienced this year,
The merchant said he dare not
shelves with stock, because .if the free and that the farmer who bringa hls grain
trade party got Into power, they would ruin. twenty-flve or thirty miles to market should
trade by a change of policy. They did not not have to pay hotel blls for days before

SENATE
lie cati dispose of bis produce ? That Is the of by the Conservative party in a masterly
condition of tbings tbrougbout the North- manner, was afforded every faciiity to make
west Territories and a portion of Manitoba. hlimself heard In the country, and, as far as
Farmers have bad to pile up their grain. 1 amn personaiiy concerned, I did for tiat
To-day In thle town wbere I live and at gentleman what very few men have donc
1 have lctIndian Head and other places, tliere are under similar circumstances.
twenty tbousand bushels of wbeat piled nI) ualiy supported the hon, gentleman at times
ln farmer"sa wagons and otlier places, wbile wben It was contrary to the opinions of rny
the owners are off for another load. In the political friends, and the Protestants of this
At that time there was strong
town of Wolseley there are a hundred ware- country.
bouses butIt by the farmers whicb cost political and religions feeling ini this town,
tbitrty-five dollars apiece and hold a thon- and 1 can assure the 1-luse that it resand to two tbousand busheis of wheiit. quired a great deal of perseverance on our
The saine thing appiies to ail the towns part to continue the support lie received
along the raiiway. It is a serions staite o! from n few Protestants in Bytown tbrougb
things to the farmer to bave two or tbree whose Influence hie was elected to parliaLt seems to mie very extraordiinary
thousand busheis of wheat that lie cannot mient
dispose of and get the money to boy wbat Ithat lie should now corne forward ut this
bie requires. If lie cannot dispose of bis ilate date and refer to bis record of the
grain promptly, lie must take the tlme wbien I)ast. la aîiy opinion it wolild have beeii
bie sbould be seeding next year, and that 1far better for lm to liave allowed the il*atIs %vbyfarmers have built these granaries. ter*to reiaîin ln obuivion, ais it liais beeli for
At the tiane hoe took il seat
orty years.
Tbey want to prepare for next yers r-f
Ing operations and have to provide granaries la the Blake goyertîment, lie wrote to is
to save time In sbipping later on. The Isupporters bere to, aslc tbeir opinion respectwbole point of my remarks is this:- that I ing the position tliey were offeriîîg biilai. le
want the government to take lime by the w-rote to mie. I repîleil that if it -%vas il coforeiock, and I sbouid be derelict ln my iýaiingoverurnent I sbould have nîo obduty If I dld not cali their attention to the' Jection, but otberwise, the people supportIlowevcr,
lack of accommodation for farmers for the ing bla wouid not agree to it.
sale and transportation o! their wheat. I lie allied blmseif witbl the Blake party. 11e
arn no advocate for the Canadian paclflc came downi bere and reine iîed quiet until
WbVIeî the day or
Rallway, but I admit they bave done mar- the day of nomination.
vels to get out the grain as they bave got nomination carne, lie addressed the electors
It out. But we have the land, we. under- and at the liour of one, these words were
stand the business and we are able to pro- uttered by Ilim : 'I nui !l perfect accord
If ho liad
duce In that country, under ordinary cir- Iwith the Blake goverianient.'
cumstances, great cropa. We will bave more: said those words before tliat hour, I liil a
settiers, and the farmers have made greater! gentleman present ready to becoxne ialiTherefore, r
preparations s0 that witb a much lesa acre-1 didate for tbe constituency.
age we wIll be able to, produce qulte as! contend that the hon. gentleman secured
His
large a crop next season as we produced last that position under false pretenses.
yVear, and we must bave ample facilities to frieilds were neyer advised that lie intended
take It ont, or thue country wîîî sustaîn l i to support the Blake governmenit as al Grit
Jgoveriiment, but that lie iiitended to go Into
serions loss.
ja coalition and that is why bis friends gave
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I did not intend to hlim nu opportnnity to do se.
Silice thleii
speak on this occasion, becausýe, as you are lie bas become a violent Grit and a strong
ail aware, I bave been 111 for some time;' supporter of the Grit goverinlent, and we
but I could not allow the remarks o! the I ind hlm at the present time occupying thtat
bon. Secretary of State to pnss witboiit piosition.
I contend hae acted very un.i
sorne contradiction from me.
I arn a li'- fairly. and discreditably ia deceiving bis
ing witness to the position occupied by that frieîids et that tirne nnd entering thîe gos'bon, gentleman since bis first advent to tbe' erament witb Mr. Blake, wblclî lie knew
City of Ottawa, tben tbe town of Bytovwn. perfectly well nt that tirne lits frlends. the
He came bere a young lad, wns taken hold Conservatives of this City, would not agree
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

FEBRUARY 19, 1902

to. 1 challenge hlm now to say whether
wniat 1 have stnted Is correct. I amn a
living witness, and there are many ln this
city who can verity what I say, and It le
unfair to those people that he ehould corne
forward at thus late perlod and give a ditferent version of wby lie became a Reformer.
Ile said the other ýday that he came her,
as a Reformer. I deny that in toto. He
came to this city as a Conservative, and
was supported by the Conservative party.
lie clainie tha,. he made Ottawa the seat
My
He was not alone.
o! government.
brother-iu-haw, the late Mr. Powell, at that
time lad a good deal of influence, and ho
wns trusted to a certain extent at the time,
but the hion, gentleman takes the whole
credit to himsel!.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-No, I have done nothing of the kind.
lion. Mfr. CLEMOW-Tlat le one o! hie
ways of doing business. He takes credit
No matter who does the
for everythiug.
work, he takes the credit for It. I am here
for the purpose of denying la toto that lie
occupied sucli a position as he has stated.
At that time lie had very little Influence.
Lt was true lie wae returned to parliament,
but 1 leave It to hlm to say who were the
mens o! getting hlm returned at that
Lt was not the Grits, certalnly; It
time.
wns the Conservative party, asslsted by a
f ew Protestants who tooli hold of hlm for
the purpose of giving him an opportunlty
It le Very
ta make a position for humeel!.
npalatable for me to have to corne forward
at this late date to, make these observations.
I should. much ratlier flot have been under
the neceeeity of doing It, but I amrnl duty
bound to the people who supported hlm at
that time to give a flat contradiction to
what he lias stated to be the course hie took
I know perfectly Wel
on that occasion.
that the lion. Secretary of State ln those
days was ambitions for a position, and there
%vas a proper way of getting It. Certainhy
It should not have been doue by deceiving
those Who supported hlm tlirough thick
and thin, coming down here under false
pretenses and accepting a position whidh lie
knew lis f riends would neyer have agreed
to lad they known the true state of affaira
I had a gentleman ready at that tîme, the
late Phillip Thompson, an extensive miller
0f this clty, who was prepared to become

a candidate if anything occurred to show
that the hon. gentleman was prepared to
change lis coloure and become a Grit or
Reformer instead of a Conservative. I
would mudli rather thie question had neyer
been brought Up. I feit very badly, as I
aiways feel when'any man turns bis coat
as a religions or a political representative.
1 have an abhorrence of any one who acts
that way.
With respect to the Speech from the
Tlirone, It contains a great many valuabie
suggestions and paragraphe, but I should
like to have seen something more. I should
Uke to have seen the opinion of the government with respect to the United States
capitalists obtaining control of our railways.
It appears to me, as the government cauflot obtain reciprocity with the United
States, they should see that United States
capItalists do not get control of the mneans
of transportation.
They are talking now
of controlling the vast mines bf the country.
They control' the steel and coal Industries
of the maritime provinces.
There Is no
knowing where this Is going to end. It is
due to the people that the government
should give some Indication o! the policy
they Intend to adopt lu this connection.
There is notblng to prevent: United States
capitalias buying up the stock of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and what would be
the result to this country If they obtained
control of that great hune for their own purposes ?
Should United States capitaliso
secure control we may rely upon It that
whatever profits they realize from their
operations ln this country will be taken over
to the United States, and Canada wIll home
the advantage of it. 1 wouhd much rather
have seen Britishi capital emphoyed to ohtain possession of these railways If it was

necessary at ail. Whetlier'It is going to'be
a benefit or not, tinie will tell; but it looks
to be a very grave matter to me, and there
le no knowing wliere It wIll stop. We hear
that the Rockefeilers and Vanderbilts and
others who have any amount of capital,
want to lnvest It In smre way, and whether
they will take thus course for the purpose
of trying to obtain control of the Dominion
is a moot subject, and the proper policy to
be pursued shouhd be considered by the government ln a way that the people will
understand. If they wish the wbole of the
business of this country to be taken over

SENATE
by United States capitaliste it is their concern, but I do flot think the people of this
country will agree ta It.
Canadians are
loyal ta British connectlon and are desirous
of malntaining their rlghts, and would iiot
under any circumstances allaw fareigners
to corne ln here and get control of aur Unes
I was pleased ta hear
of transportation.
my han. friend from Montreal (Mir. Dandurand) speal, ln favour of the Georgian
Bay canal. It shows that the people af
this section of the country are alive ta the
great importance of tbat subjeet. We may
talk of the railways, but we can -neyerctiol the extensive trade of the North-west
unleas we have a canal similar ta the
one proposed from the Geargian Bay ta
Montreal. It is true, it will cost sarne
nianey, but the benefits will be slmply
these: You are going ta transport yaur
giain at a very mucli reduced cost.
You are going ta bave thxe whole reglan of
country between French river and Montreal settled, and in the course af time it
ls going to be an advantage and every
dollar of outlay will be returned flve and
ten fold. I do flot belleve there ever was
a project of such vast Importance to Canada as this Georgian Bay canal. There ls
no other way of securing the vast trade at
the west except by the canal, and the canal
will convey your grain from yaur door to
Quebec at a very 10w rate, ta be transhipped
ln large vessels and a very great deal af
tiane will be saved and Insurance lessened
and ln every way. It- will be an advantage
ta the cauntry at large, not nierely ta one
sectian, nat merely to Ottawa and Quebec,
but ta the country as a whole. Therefore,
1 thlnk the gaveramnent niight have given
this matter some further consideration,
partlcularly because last yenr, as I believe,
tlxey liad almost miade up their .minds ta
favour the Incorporation of a company wlth a
guarantee sufficient ta bulld this work. 1
was tald that that was the case. But now
they seem ta have cbanged their course,
and there Is no knowing where It le going
ta end, but I do ask the government ta take
this matter into their serious consideration,
and see whether, before the next session
of parliament, sornething can be done ln
reference ta that work-a work unparaUleled
ln Its usefuiness and general benefit to Canada la a variety of ways. It is going to
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW.

affect the waterways in every respect, and
It will be such a great benefit that 1 do
flot see why the governent should hesîtate
for one moment la considering the matter.
The surveys wIIl be made shortly, and I
think lt wIll flot; be long before the project
la under way.
There were other matters
whichi the gavernment were goiug ta attend ta last year.
They were going ta
bulld a mnt, but not; a nail bas been drIven.
The geolagical museum was ta be bult, but
it la flot commenced yet
The graund ls
Iinrdly selected, and therefore I think that
while the goverament ls spending so mucli
maney, wblle the revenue la very large,
while the country is prosperous, they
should do something to carry out these
projects.' Natwithstanding ail this prosperity, the expenditure more than outweighs the revenue. If that is golng
ta continue, I do not k-now where lt
wiUl end.
The expenditure la Increasiflg
froni year ta year, and I do flot; know where
It wlll stop.
It ls true we are prasperous
enough, but how long wi1 It continue ?
These conditions occur periodically, and It
ls nothing but reasanable ta suppose that
a change wUll take place sarne Urne. Therefore 1 tblnk it wauld be wisdom an their
part ta undertake .the project now.
0f
course It is perfectly rIght; and fair that
they should spend money judiclously where
It la requlred for the public good, but ex.travagance should not be countenanced la
any way. They should spend what la necessary and nothing more. If they do that,
1 do not believe the people of the country
wJll tlnd fauît
WIth ail this prosperity
we shauld expeet that sorne decrease would
take place la the national debt, but there
la no decrease. It bas been suggested that
the gavernment should assume contrai of
the railways.
That proposition seerns ta
be fair, but wlth the experience that the
government bas had with the Intercolanial
Itallway I question wbetber the people
would agree to such a proposition.
It behooves us ta look well Into the actions of
our neighbours on the ather aide.
They*
want this country, and If tbey can obtain
It by mens of money, they wiil do it, and
1 have no doubt they are calculating on
sanie course of this kind for the purpose
of obtalning control of tbe country and Its
resources, and cantrolllng the legisiatian of

FEBRUARY 19, 1902
the Dominion. They may control the railways, but they cannot control the people.
The people are loyal and wlll flot selI themselves to the United States or any other
eountry, and they will be firm ln maintainIng their rlghts. I did flot Intend to say
anytblng, and I would flot have sald anythlng ln reference to the disagreeable sut>
ject of the antecedents of !he hon. Secretitry of State If 1 had flot been forced to
corne forward and give niy version of past
history so that people might perfectly un,derstand who was rlght and who was
wrong.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-May I ask the Indulgence of the House for a few minutes. I arn
astonisbed at the extraordinary attack made
on me by an hon, gentleman wbom, up to
the present Urne, I had regarded as a frlend.
Had bis memory and mine flot corresponded
as to past events, It would have been the
part of a friend to have come to me and
told me I wns wrong ln my statements. I
reiterate what I said yesterday most positively, and I suppose there are Ilving wltnesses as to the tacts. I gave as evidence
that I began my public life as a Liberal,
that I was on the platform approving of the
pollcy of Lord Elgin, and we were drîven
off the platform by the Conservative pnrty,
and that one o! the motions at that meeting
was moved by myself. I state here posltlvely and absolutely that I acted la sympathy witb the LIberal party until 1857,
when the question of the seat of government
came up, and I gave my reasons why 1
tbought It was only proper and my duty to
adhere to Sir John Macdonald and bis government, la consequence o! their loyal action lu connection with the seat of goverament
There la no doubt that Is a correct
statement. I bad la Ottawa very many
friends, and I bad hitherto regarded my lion.
* frlend, who bas Just spoken, as one of thein;
and those frlends supported me on ail occasions, belng personal !riends. But my post* tion was perfectly well known. Mien, whcn
I joined the Mackeuzle-Blake goverumeut
there was no coalition about it, because they
were ail Liberals.
No one doubted that
fact. It was well known that Mr. Sand* field Macdonald and myseîf had not been ln
sympathy. Sandfleld Macdonald came liere
la 1873 and opposed me, and that was the
ouly trne I was de!eated. We neyer were

cordial, but I was cordial witlî everyone
eise, and particularly with my hon. frienil
opposite from London (Sir John Carling).
The reason I made the statement was that
on several occasions since the hon, gentleman has been lu this chamber lie bas
brought Up My antecedents politically. I remained silent on every occasion. Other hon.
gentlemen have !ollowed bis example ln
statlng that I had been a biue-blooded Tory
and ail that kind of thlng, and I remained
perfectly sUlent. Tbe matter was aituued to
lu this debate, and I thouglit It better that
the Impression should be removed as to my
early lfe. It la not a matter o! public lutereat. at ail. It la past and gone, and
mea are judged now as they are known. I
thlnk It Is an unklnd and ungenerous attack,
and wltbout foundation, for my hon. friend
to make the statement hie did. Mr. Philip
Thompson neyer wouid have opposed me.
lie was Invariably a supporter of mine on
ail occasions.
Whea I jolned the BlakeMackenzie government everybody knew my
politîcal stripe.
There couid not lie nny
possible doulit of ItL
Hon. Mr. CLEDMO WV-I amn not taiking_
about that government at ail.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon, gentleman s.ti',
I was going Into tbat government as a conlition governxxent.
Hon. Mr. CLEMtj %V-Isaid the Blake govcrament.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If tbcy were ail of ojie
stripe, It was not a coalition goyernmeat.
Thej had defeated a coalition goverument.
The matter was discussed openiy lu the
press. I arn sorry this bas occuried. I biad
hoped tbat the frlendshlp which the bon.
gentleman !rom Rideau and I bad always
entertalned for eacb otber would be contlnued. I tblnk the bou. gentleman's remarks
were entlrely Indefensibie. If bIs rnerory
and mine differed, it wouid have been only
I
fair to bave corne to me and sald : 6 thlnk
you are wrong lu the statement you bave
made.'
I should have been glad to compare notes wlth blm.
Hon. Mr. CLEMuW-I did îiot say one
word wltb respect to the cbange o! government. I spoke of the time the bion, gentleman joined the Blake goverament.
He

SENATE
wrote me that it was to be a coalition government.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I say yes.
swear to it.

1 will

way. The cause of the deficit is altogether
owlng to other matters-extravagalce, mismanagement and general Incompetence.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW7ELL-Hear,
hear.

Hon. Mir. McDONÂLD (C.B.)-We know
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ohi, no, lîow could It that wben the Drummond County resolutioiî
be ?
was Introduced Into the Senate, it was contended by the goverument that the purchase
Hon. Mr'. CLEMOW-I wlll swear to it. 1
Tiionpson beside me, and lie said of the Drummond County Rallway would
bad M.Nr.
the Intercolthat If the bon. gentleman miade the least belp Increase the revenues of
was going to join the Blake ontai Railway, and we are perfectly atisassertion that lie
the
governuient lie was prepared to take the fied to-day that that la flot the case, but
bum, and I can get plenty contrary. There is a general Impression
field and oppose
of people In this city to say the samne tbing. abroad tn the maritime provinces that It is
1 did îîot say an3ytbing about the hon. gentle- like a concerted action on the part of the
maxi joinlng the Mackenzie governiment. 1 goverrnment to reduce the character of the
knew thiat the hon. gentleman was tlheii a Intercolontal Rallway by tncreasing Its def ull-fledged Grit, and the bon. gentleman ficit witb a view of perhaps disposing of it
knows 1 ruined mysel! for the purpose of In some way. We know that United States
capitalists are coming Into Canada, as the
assistlng hlm.
hon. gentleman for Ottawa bas just stated,
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-Oh, oh.
and that ctrcumistance perbiaps may have
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-It ta a fact. It ls some Ilttle weigbt In creatlng that view In
the minds of a large number of the people
true.
In the maritime provinces. We see by the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In wbat way did the papers to-day that yesterday the goveriubon. gentleman ruin bimself 7
ment had a caucus, and that the members
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I voted for thue bon. from the maritime provinces supporting the
of
gentleman and supported hlm In every way, government denounced the management
the Intercolonial Railway from Montrel te
and almost at the perîl o! my life.
Sydney, and with justice. W'e know for a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ob, oh.
fact that United States capital Is now bulidtng a railway at tbe extreme east of this
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-Tbere was sucb a
Dominion, 100 miles from the Strait of
strong feeling here .politlcally and religiCanso to Loulsbourg, controlled by Dr.
ously that it was dangerous for a ProtesWebb. It Io said tbat Dr. Webb repretant to support a Catbolic. I am wlllng ta
sents tbe Vanderbilt capital. Wby is Dr.
admit it, and therefore I do not tbink tbe
Webb going to butld a rnilwsîy tii the exbon. gentleman was justifted In coming fortreme east, parallel with tlîe Intercolonial
ward and takiug ail the credit ta bimself.
liway In Cape Breton one bundred
There was my poor brother-in-law the 1ate
from the Strait of Canso to
Carleton, wbo did more in one miles
member for
Louisbourg ? Is It only for what lt
day than the bon. gentleman could do In a
No, it Is sometbing bewill earn ?
whole year.
It is Impossible to make one
yond that.
Hon. Mr. McDONALD (C.B.) 1 desire ta hundred miles of a rond In the east pay,
say a few words on the question of tbe In- But we hear aloo that that company lias
tercolonlal Bailway. The hon. gentleman purchased a road In the west from Georgian
from Wolseley (Hon. Mr. Perley) said the Bay ta lifontreal, tbe Canada Atlantic. With
Intercolonial Railway brougbt flour and the Canada Atlantic In the west and 100
grain from tbe west at too cbeap a rate. miles of railway In Cape Breton, and witb
1 do not agree wtb him. I do not believe the possibiiity of another Independent road
that that Is the cause o! the great deticit to lie bult from Montreal to Quebec on the
In the operatton o! the Intercolonial Rail- South shore of the St. Lawrence to be conHon. Mr. CLEMOW.

FEBRIJARY 19, 1902
tegrity, 1 say that lie will be greatly missed. Hie did not devote lis time entirely to
lis business, but was kind to the communlty la whichlihe llved. On many occasions
1 met hlm la the houses of the slck and
afilicted, and I assure hon, gentlemen lie
neyer went to those places empty lianded.
It Is my duty to pay this tribute to hlm.
lie was a strong Conservative and a great
He was a great
strength to the party.
tlghter ln polltics. Many a battie we have
But 1 can say this of hlm, I aifouglit.
ways found him a gentleman, and when
the political battle was over, we were as
friendly as we ever were. 1 therefore take
this opportunlty to express these sentiments
with regard to one whose death will be regretted here, and no more so liere than at
has home.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD <P.E..)-I wisli
Hon, Mr. PRIMUOSE-Followlng up th to say one word la support of the
made by
remarks whlch have just failen fromt the remarks which have been
lion, gentleman fromt Cape Breton, ln refer- my hon. colleague fromt Montague reence to the Intercolonlal Rallway, , specting my late colleague, the hon. Senator
I was for many years assowould eall the attention of hon, gentlemen Prowse.
to the fact that at the inception of confed- ciated wltli that gentleman la the provincial
I have met hlm also on the
eration It was one of the stipulations upon leglslature.
whlcli the maritime provinces entered luto politîcal platform where we were opposcd
He was
confederation thnt the Intercolonlal Ral to eadli other on soute occasions.
way should be built so as to makze tlie con- a member of the government of Sir Louis
necionbeteenthe upper and lower pro- Davies, when Sir Louis Davies was ln the
am br
vinces, and to my mmnd It would lie uncon-prvnilegsau.Hew
stitutional, under the Britishi North Amen- of the goverament of the Hon. Mr. Sullica Act, to transfer that raîîway to any van, and of the government of the Hon.
Mr. McLeod. In ail these. relations hie was
Company.
a man who had the interests of bis constiHon. Mr. lIOBERTSON-It is flot my lin- tuents warmly at heart. He expressed his
tention to make any remarks 'with regard vlews la the local legIsiature, as he dld on
to the Speech frntm the Throne. 1 simply the floor of t.his chamber, fearlessiy, wltlinîse to endorse the expressions of the hoit. out favour or affection. He was not afraid
leader of the opposition and the hou. to cali a spade a spade when It was necesI know that he was an
senaton to bis rlght (Hon. Mr. Ferguson) lit sary to do so.
regard to the death of the hon. Mn. Prowse. eaterpnlsing and successful man la business.
Knowlng hlm for forty years, belng con- lie dld a great deal for the coinmunlty ln
nected wlth bhlm ln every relation of 11f e, which le lived and bis memory is cherlshed
1 consldened It was my duty to en- there, not only by the business men, but
doYse the sentiments those hon. gentie- by every one in the communlty ln which
have expressed witl regard to hie lived, and as was stated by My hon.
men
14'rst, la hîs famlly lie was a coileague who lias just preceded me, lis
hlm.
klnd husband and an affectionate father. benefactions to the poor were wldespnead
He commenced buailie will be greatly missed, not only ln lis and wldely known.
family, but in the county, generally, lit ness as a poor man. He ieft an honoured
which lie llved. Meeting him, as I did, ois and respected name behlnd hlm, and ieft
very many occasions, knowlng hlm as a bis famlly and ail connected with hlmt ln a
good man, and a man of honesty and la- comfortable position la 11f e.
trolled by Dr. Webb, lie would then have
front Georglan Bay to Quebec and fromt the
Wliat la
Strait of Canso to Loulsburg.
there to prevent hlm front buying the lntercolonlal Railway, If the government lias
entered Into auy conspiracy wlth some parties to seil that road ? And that seems to be
the impression with a great many intelligent men lu the lower provinces. It is a
serlous matter for this country, and perlaps before this parliament expires we may
see an Act lntroduced to carry out that oliI hope the people of Canada wiiI
ject.
take warnlng in time and see that they retain the control of the Intercolonlal Railway, no matter whether It pays Its expenses
for the present or not. It wlll not always
Its management is
remain ns It lis noiv.
characterized now by extravagance and
general lncapaclty.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-I wish to add to
the remarks 1 made a few moments ago,
,omething that I had forgotten-that ln regard to the Intercolonial Railway, hon gentlemen must flot forget that It lo the quid
fro quo that the maritime provinces reelved for their share ln the construction
and maintenance of the canal system of
-Canada, and 1 think this would commend
ltself to the members of this House as fair
It would be very unplay and justice.
fair to take this away from them.
Thie motion was agreed to.

on the table before long, so that when the
matter comes before parliament we shaîl be
enlightened on the subject.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is rio objection to
the address going, and I will give Instructions to have the papers prepared nis early

as possible. I do not know why thiere should
be any delay about documents of that kind.
The motion was agreed Vo.
APPOINTMENT 0F JUDGES IN NORTHW%ýEST TERRITORIES.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY rose to
T£he Senate adjourned.
Âsk the governmeat If they had appointed a
Judge to I the vacancy caueed hy the death of
the tate Hlon. Judge Rouleau, In the North-west
Territories. and If eo, who ? and If noV. why
not ? Also, have they appolnted a chief justice
THE SENATE.
for the North-west Territories, as promised
fer last session of parliameat, and If so, who?
Ottawa, Thursday, Februarij 20, 1902.
and If net. why noV ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In ans-%er to my lion.
§PEAKER took the Chair at Three
The
friead's questions, I may say that the Hon.
0'clock.
J. E. P. Preadergnst, the judge of the EastPrayers and routine proceedings.
ern Division Court ln Manitoba, lins beexi
appointed to MIl the vacancy caused by the
TRANSFER 0F MANITOBA LANDS.
death of Judge Rouleau, and Mr. Justice
MOTION.
McGuire, the judge of the court of the
North-west Territories, lias been appointed
HEon. Mr. BERNIER moved:
That an humble Address 'be presented Vo His chief justice.
Exoellency -the Giovernor General praying that
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can the liou. 'SecHis Excellency wlI cause Vohe laid before this
Ilouse, copies of ail orders ln council, docu- retary of State say where Mr. Justice Prenments, memorandums, or other papers, <reIating dergast will reside ?
to thle tra.nsfer, from the tederal to the provincial control, of public lands allotted for eduHon. Mr. SCOTT-I fancy hie will go to
cation la Manitoba, or relatIng te the payment
by this goverament to the Manitoba govera- Prince Albert.
If Judge McGuIre cornes
ment of any money-whether It be on the capi- down to Regina, I suppose Judge Prendertal or on the inter îst-derived frorn the sales
of such lands; also copies of ail correspondence gast will go to Prince Albert.
between the goveTanent or any mp-mber thereHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It ts not likely
of, and -the goverament of Manitoba or any
member thereof, or any other persons, Up to thiat Judge McGuire will go to Regina. MIN.
-this date, la connection with the above matter. Justice
Richardson is resident and senior
--e sald : It hias been stated Ia the neNvs- Judge at Regina, and bas resided there since
i
iiapers, and I have reason to belleve, that the organization of the court. I apprehiend
-there are some documents ln connection If a change ts made Mr. Justice McGuire
-with the matter to which My motion refers. mny possibly be removed to Calgary.
It affects not only preseat Interests, but
Hon. Mr. SC0TT-I will malte Inquiry.
future interests, and consequently It ts a
very Important matter. I hope the governHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hion. frlend the
ment will have no reason to refuse the Secretary of State should lie botter acpapers If there are any, and that they will quainted with the fact than I am.
be brought dowa as soon as possible. UnHon. Mr. SCOTT-I will make inquiry. I,
'fortunately, la the past returns have flot
been brought down to this House promptly. did not take enougli iflterest lu It to ascerI hope ln this matter the returas will be laid tain the détais.ý
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)

FEBRUARY 20, 1902
Hon. .Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn assuming
that, the fact that the vacancy created
tbrough the death cf Jutige Rouleau who
preslded at Calgary has now been fIuled by
Judge Prendergast, that another judge wil»
be sent te Calgary. What I desire to know
ls whether the chief justice wll resîde there
lu place of Jutige Rouleau.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will make inquiry and
Inform my hon. friend of any decision arrIveti at la connection with that.
THE STANDING COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved:
That, pursuant to cule 79, ,the following
senators be aippolateti % Committee of Selectien te norninate the Senat.ore tu serve on the
severaI Standing .Oomnmittees duTing the preeent oession. narniy :-T-he Henouro.bie Sir
Mac-k"nr'ie D'owell, Honourable Messieurs Templemxan, Ferguson. Dandurand, Miller, Ellis,
Ldougheed, Jones, end the mover, and ta report
with ai convenlent speed the names of the
Senators vo nomlnated.
He said : Ia subrnlttlng this motion, I do

s0 wlth the hope that senators will see
their way to accepting it. Shoulti It, however, be Intendeti to challenge the formation
of the cormlIttee, It may be p)roper for me
te make one or two expianations ln coninection with It giving rnY reasons for askIng the Senate te give the
goveranent i'
majorlty on the Strlking Cornmittee.
I
think It has always been an accepteti posi-

tion that the goverument of the day la
responsIble largely for the legisiation thait

la adopted by parliament. They ought, therefore, to have a preponderating Influence on
the committees of each branch of parîlament. In the past the Liberal party, the
party supporting the goverument since
1900, have'not hati their fair' representation on any of the committees. When 1
iras a member of the goveimrnent ln former
years, andi led ln this chamber, ln the years
1877 andi 1878, wlth my hou. frienti alongside of me, there iras a considerable disproportion betireen the numbers of the goverament supporters and tie opposition, the
government belng largely la the rninority.
Stili, I thiuk there was a very rnuch greater
regard for the ishes of the supporters of
the goverament at that tîrne than I havé
notice ln more recent years. I rnaie no
complaint o! the action of the House duri ng *the hast parliarnent. Thte government

5j

was untried. It might be assumed that
the goverament would be only a government of one term. Since, lxowever, they
bave been returned to power ln 1900, andi
admIttedly to-day have the confidence of
the country, It la only fair and reasonabie
that a larger consideration shouid be shown
to the supporters of the government ln this
chamber.
Speaklng now altogether from
memory, because I had flot looked up the
particulars of what I arn going to state,
the chairmanshîpi of the commlttees--I arn
excluding the Joint Committees of the Library and Printing-bave invariabiy been ln
the possession of one party, the dominant
party la the Senate. No doubt It will be
admitteti that there were fair men occasionally to be found on the other side, stiii
the dominant party ln the Senate clalmed
the chairmanships, and had them. I thlnk
it ls an unfortunate precedent, because lu
a chamber composed as we are, not liable
to be changed every five years, it le flot desirable that the same strong political Unes
should be drawn here as ln the other
branch of the legisiature. There are fairminded gentlemen always to be found on
both aides of- polltlcs to whom chairmanships might be given, andi therefore It la to
beregretteti that ln the long period to
whtch I advert, going back to 1874-1 do
not speak of times antecedent te that, aithough the sme principle may bave prevaileti-the chairmauships were aiways
clairnet by one party la the Senate. The
resolution I have drawn contemplates that
the government supporters ln _this House
will have control of the committees.
I
trust, however, If the House adopts this
resolution that the formation of the commîtees wl» In future gt ail events be
on a fair and Just basis to both sides of tbe
House. In strlking the committees last
year I do flot think that the supporters cf
the goverument were narnet lu thelr numericai proportion. Last session the number
of supporters of the governent ln this
chamber was 32. They were increased by
two gentlemen nt the end of the session.
However, at the beginning of the session
Our numbers stood 32 te 49. I finti on the
commîttees, taktng Banklng nti CJommerce, there were 30 Senators, only ten of
whom were Liberals.. On the Ualways, Telegraphs and Harbours committees, composeti

SENATE
of 40 members only eleven were Liberals.
No hon. gentleman will contend that thiat
was a fair proportion of the complexion of
the Hanse. On Private Bills, our proportion was larger-1O to 15. On the committee on Internai Econamy and Contingent
Âccounts, composed of 25, there were only
That certalnly was not a
six Liberals.
fair proportion, such ns they were entitled
to. 1 should hope, therefore, thiat the
Senate will give the subjeet their fair consideration, and recognize the principles that
I bave laid down, that the governimellt of
thbe day ouglit to be more largely represented on the committees ln the future thail
they have been la the past.
BOWELL-1
Hon. Sir MACK14NZIE
have llstened wlth no littie interest and surprise to the explanations and the reason
gîven by the Secretary of State for the
course whIch he has adopted. It wll be ln
the recollectlon of hou, gentlemen who were
present at the striking of the commIttees
last year, that when certain objections were
taken to the complexion of the different
colmmittees upan the grounds of the politîcal
opinions of certain members, the bon. Secretary of State rose ln bis place, and with
a good deal of warmth declared that no
question a! politîcs since lie had been ln
the ISenate had been lntroduced by the
striklng commlttee ln nomiuatiiig the
To-day, be bas
standing committees.
left the Impression upon the minds of
those wbo listened ta hlm that that was
the rullng passion la strlking o! committees. I bave been on the Striking Committee
sînce I have bnd the honour of a seat ln
the Senate-since 1893-and I neyer heard
the question mooted of the political leanIngs of the gentlemen wbo composed the
strlklng committee untîl last year. If
lni tbe formation o! the standing committees the proportions of the two parties were
of the cbaracter to wbichi the bon. gentlemen refers, wby did be negleet bis dutywhy dld be not complaîn tbat Justice was
flot done to bis frlends ? I state positively
that the hon, gentleman took no sucl objections to what was done by that committee in the formation o! the standing.
comm'ittees. On tbe contrary, when objections were taken la this House to the
formation of the commîttees, he defended
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

the report o! the committee and did It
warmly too, and at that time I comnplimented hlm on doing so. The question of
the political opinions of gentlemen of the
commlttee had neyer been questioned or
mooted, and wherever the Secretnry of
State or the then Minîster of Justice, made
any suggestions as ta filling Up vacancies,
they were accepted at once, as 1 take it
for granted they would be now. Thait fis
really the practice that bas prevalleil ln
the past and lt ls ta be regretted that the
bon. gentleman bas departed from that
prînciple. It Is true that ln the House of
Commons; which la an excluslvely political
b)ody, the chairman of the striking committee, as a rule ls the representative of the
dominant party. The representatives of
the goverament and opposition meet together and decîde upon what Is the relative
strength of each party la the Ilouse
o! (Jommans, and after baving ascertained
that they say, 1your proportion of sucli
a commlttee Is so many, you are entitled
ta s0 many representatives,' and on
that principle they act. That is the
practîce on which the House of Coinmons
commîttees are formed, and reported to
the House. Lat yenr, whien I nioved a
speclal coznmlttee a! very great Importance,
I showed It ta the then Minluster 0f Justice, and upon that basîs, lie not only stated
ta the Hause, but to myseif privately that
the proportions were equltable and quite
proper. 1 shouid. like to ask the lion. genitleman and the members of this Iluse,
wbat could be done other than was dan<'
wben the House was composed of a mitjority o! !orty or fifty on one side of poltics ? Was that disproportion ta be ignore']
altogether, and were the Liberal members,
largely la the minarity, ta be put on every
commlttee ? I hesitate flot to say, and I
wlll be supported by every one who bas
had anytblng to do with the formation of
these cammittees, that the members supporting the gavernment have been given
most prominent positions on ail those cornmittees, some of them baving been on four
and five committees at the same time as
the result o! their being numerlcally weak.
If that Is to lie the basîs of the formation
of the commlfttee, the Secretary of State bas
no riglit ta dlaim a majorlty on any of those
commîttees. The Senate stands to-day, If

FEBRUAIRY 20, 1902
we are to take its political complexion,
-with fIve of a majority for the opposition.
The time is rapidly arriving when, througi
death and resignation, as ln the case lu the
past, the Senate is likely to be filled by those
who are lu accord with the government,
aithougli 1 may say parentheticaiiy that 1
look upon that principle as flot altogether
correct. It was flot followed ln some few
cases under the late administration. There
are gentlemen belonging to both parties lu
this country who lu their commercial, legal'
and other knowledge are superior to the
moet of us, and I should like to see the
principle adopted, I care flot what goverumeut ls lu power, of seiecting those men
for prominent positions of this kind. The
Secretary o! State bas said Inferentially
that Injustice bas been doue to the government on account of the complexion
of these committees.
Wheu bills have
beeu opposed and defeated, It has been
from a conscienttous conviction of that
which la right. It may be that our
minds do not run lu; the sme channel
as the minds o! those who support the government
1 hesitate not to say lu this
connection that I have the fullest couldence ln the hon. gentlemen he bas uamed
on that committee who are flot ln accord
wlth myseif politically, and I hesitate flot
to say that If the party 'whlp, which bas
been introduced lu this Senate by the hon.
Secretary of iState, le flot brought to bear
upon their backs, they wil do justice to
every one lu everything that they Mlay conaider proper and right
There la snch a
thing as going too far ir questions of this
kind, and I think the Secretary of State
might have accomplished hie object without
Introducing objectionable questions. If representation on committees le to be proportionate to the political strength of the Senate why does he Ignore it ? He Ignores it
oniy on the ground that the government
of the day ehould have the preponderating Influence on ait those committees.
Supposlng that lu a f ew yeare, as appears likely to be the case when the
youngsters like mysel! and himsel! may
drop out, and others of a differeat complexion of politie corne luto the Senate,
you get into precisely the sme position
that the Senate occupied when the present
party came Into power, la the princiDle

which he le now advocating to be applied
to the goverument of the day whlch may
succeed them ?
Though there might be
only tIf teen or twenty supporters of the
governent lu the Senate, are they to have
a preponderating Influence ? I wlll yenture the assertion that; If the hou. Secretary
of State were here, or If men of hie particular turu of mmnd and hie desire to ruie
ai'd control, those fifteen meu would stand
a very poor chance of having any position.
Can he point, lu a single Instance, to any
chairman to whom he lias me! ermed wbo bas
flot acted. faIriy and squarely ? There are
mien to whorn he bas objected who have
been said to have been too ambitmary. Perhape the successors may be just as arbitramy.
It bas been said the Contingent
Accounts CormlIttee has been too extravagant and raised salaries Impmoperly. Those
o! that comrnlttee and those of this House
know who instigated the maising of those
salaries, and I hesitate not to say that It
was not the gentlemen o! the opposition
.who occupy this position.
I do not say,
elthem, that these people wvho muid the
salaries should .be lncreased, acted improperly. I do flot affirm one way or the other,
but when they attempt to, lay it nt the
door of those who weme not iu accord wltb
the govemumeut I say It le not correct and I
have every reason to believe he kuows
It la wroug, because he ought ta be acquaintedl wlth what bas been doue, and
who were the parties who advocated these
Increases o! salary. The goverumeut takze
the mesponsibillty, and they muet take the
responslbilty of the expenditure of ail
money. The Senate have certain rights lu
connection with their officlals, whlcb the
goverument have no Ight ta control, and
If the Sonate bas any regard for Its
own dignities and It own rlghts, it will
Maintain those rights Irrespective of the
Secretary of State or any of hie colleagues. I do flot desme to say any more
upon this question, further than this; that
I bave confidence lu my colleagues, no matter what their political complexion may be,
lu deallng with questions where equity
and good sense should prevail, unlese with
this proviso- they are whipped into the
hamnees to do that which they would
othemwise flot do. That le aIl I desire to
say upon thus question further than ta de-

SIENATE
precate again the introduction of the princIple whlch has been advocated by the lion.
k8ecretary of State. It may last for a littie
while, but I arn lncllned to thlnk that It
wlll flot be etlier to tlie advantage of the
governent, or add to the dignlty of the
He has Intromembers of thus Rouge.
duced the party lash and lie must take the
consequences ln the future.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-It seeme to me
the bion. leader of the opposition lias stated
the case very fairly when lie says lie las
every confidence ln tlie equlty and fairI trist. that
mindeduess of lion. senators.
lie wlll have tlie sme confidence In the
equity and falriuindedness of thie Strlklig
(Jommittee as proposed by tlie leader of tlie
governrent. The hion. leader of tbe opposition has overlooked the tact that for the
long period of twenty-eiglit years no chairman representlng the Liberal party lias been
appointed to any of the Standing CoinmIttees ln the Senate.
I understand that
la a fact. The rnembers supportlng the
governent ln tlils House are more numerOua than tliey have been ln rnany years-more nurnerous than tliey have ever been
before, and Iftg n.fot to be wondered at tliat
they feel that their riglits ouglit to be respected ln the formation of cornrnttees. 1
belleve it la a fact as the lion. Secretary
o! State lias said, that last year the Strlking
<Jornrittee dld flot recognize the members
on thîs aide of the House relatlvely or proportionately to their numbers. As the hon.
iSecretary of State bas sald, the proportionate number of the Liberals or proportion
o! the supporters o! the governent on the
respective committees wam les than 25
per cent on rnany of thern and on ail the
cornritteea It was mucli leas than tliey
ouglit to have liad.
Now, 1 do not know wliether that was by
dealgn or accident, but It seerna to me It
wa flot falr, and ln taking the course lie
haa, the Secretary of State simply deairea
tliat the supporters of the governrnent wll
be falrly represented on ail the committees.
I belleve It la the wlsli of thîs Striking Cominittee, If It is appolnted as proposed by the
Secretary o! State, to dent fairly witli botb
sides o! tlie House, and 1 do flot think tliat
for many years to corne at ail events, It wli
be poasible for our friends on the opposition
side to say o! tlie supporters of thîs governHon. Sir MACKEiNZIE BOWELL.

ment that tliey wlil refuse to accord to thein
fair play lu these niatters. I believe It la the
desi-e of the Strlking Comrnlttee to deal fairiy wltli our friends opposite, muci rnore go
than members on thla aide o! the House
have been dealt with in the past. There rnay
have been no party politica ln it, but It la
a remrikabie thlng that; la ail the hlstory
of thia Senate-at ail events during the last
twenty-eiglit years-sInce 1874--the Conservative rnnjorlty la' the Senate of Canada
have neyer rccognized the riglit of one Lilieral to act as clirman of any cornrnttee.
I do not dlaim we are a rnajorlty lu this
cliamber, but we are very near IL. We i-eThe
present'tlie goverument of the day.
goveranent la responaible for the leglalation
la this House--for the expendîtures recoinrnended by the Contingencles Cornrittee o!
thîs House, and I tlink the lion. Secretnry
of State la flot doing anything wrong lu
wliat lie la asking. He la dolng perfectly
rlght ln asklng the Senate to concur ln tlie
motion before the House, and I arn quite
sure that that String Cornrnttee will act
faly and lmpartialiy, and do justice to, botlî
aides of tlie House.
Hon Sir MÂCKENZIE BOWELL-I just
want to correct a staternent of the hon. gentiemnan. I dld flot understand the Secretary
of State to go so far as tlie new member
of the goveranment or the lion, gentleman
wlio la to become a member of the government, maya lie wll I understood him to say
that tliey liad flot had their proportion. 1
chllenged hlm or any other mernber of tlie
cornrnttee to point out a single Instance lu
whicli a suggestion was made by the Secretsi-y of State, or by the Mîniater of Justice,
to add to these comniittees membera supporting the governent, thnt waa refused.
Ia every case,
1 deay It most posltlvely.
where a vacancy occurred, tlie vacaacy was
filled up by a gentleman representing that
Party.
can
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Complint
certaily not be made by tlie opposition o!
the fact that the numbers on the goverument
aide of this chamber

have reached wlint

miglit be terrned practlcaliy a majority.
We are not, thereThait was inevitable.
fore, accepting apparent defeat in that pnrtiWe accept
cnlar respect wîtli bad grace.
It wltli the very best of grace, but permît me
to say this, that the Secretary of State lit

FEBRUARY 20, 1902,
lmportlng into the Introduction of this Motion the statement that the composition of
the committees ln the past had been made by
the Striklng Committee on the ground of
political differences, or on the ground of
party preference, la Inaccurate to say the
least of It.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-How about the
appointment of chairmen ?
Hon. Mr. LOU(GHEED-1 will corne to
that la a moment. Whea the present government came Into power lu 1M9, there were
only eight members of the Liberal party ln
this chamber. The hon, gentleman muet also
takre Into conslderation that the underlylng
principle of the representation or members upon the varions committees has
been governed by a fixed mile, namely,
that a member shonld flot be on more
than four committees. Hion. gentlemen
wlU therefore readily appreclate the tact
wlth that rifle, an uuwritten law, yet
observed with rîgour, it was impossible
that members of the Liberal party should
have representation such as the Secretary
of State thlnks they should have had, notwithistanding the fact tnit the govemument
of the day represented the Liberal Party of
the Dominion. My hion. f rlend the Secretary
of State, I thlnk, wiil be sufliciently candld
to say that he cannot recail au Instance
whlle he was on the Striking Cormlittee
lu which a suggestion was made to the com*rittee to put a Liberal on any cornrittee
thiat was not acceded to by the commlttee.
.I have been on that Striking Commlttee
almost ever sînce I became a member of
thîs House, and I certainly caunot recail any
Instance lu whIch the representation o! the
Liberal party ou the Strlklng Oommittee
ever made a motion that a vacaacy should
be filled by a Liberal member, but it was
accededà to by the majority of the cornmittee.
Therefore, rny hon. frlend surely cannot say,
lu the face of that tact, and lu face of
that which I have already mentioned, that
there belug ouly efght Liberals lu this House
when the present governinent carne Into
power, that .lt was possible to give hie friende
the representation that rny lion. frleud
thinks they are entitled to. Can my hon.
friend point to a comrnittee in the House of
Commons to-day w#here the Liberai party ls
ln the ascendancy, where there le a Conserv-atlve chairman ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hou. friend
hirneel! recognizes the logical tendency of
the ascendency of parties ln deliberatIve asIt neyer was proposed that a
sembiles.
Liberal of this House should be eiected
chaîrman of any particular cornmittee. 1
also thlnk my hon. frlend will do us the
justice to say that party spirit was neyer
Irnported into those corniittees, and had my
hon. frlend' at any Urne said there was iL
desire ou the part of tie Liberal party that
there shouid be a Liberal occupying the position of chairman, 1 arn satisfied that hie request would have been acceded to, but you
muet take luto consideration that the majorlty of the members on a cornrnttee wil
naturally elect one of themselves as chairman, and I arn quite prepared to say thnt
when the LIberals of thie House have control of the committees, that those committeerf
will be presided. over by Liberai senators.
If so, I arn satisfied there wil be no cernplaint made by the Goneervative members of.
the various committees that the Liberal
party Is not; doing justice to the Conservative rninority. They wlll accept whatever
ls given them with the very beet of philosophy and good grace. They wll make
no complaint that owing to the ascendeucy of the Liberal Party, justice has not;
been doue thern. We oniy ask hon, gentlemen to aecept the facts as tbey actually
present themselves, and ais they bave governed the business of the committees frorn
the Urne the Conservative party were iii the
ascendency lu this House down to the preeut tirne.
.Hou. Mr.- LÂNDAY-Before the motion la
put, I should like to. say a few words lu
answer to the rernarks made by the hon.
Secretary of State. He clairned a moment
ago that lu ail the committees named last
year, the Lîberai party had not representation accordlng to their etrength.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-The Secretary
of State meutioned that on the Frivate Bille
Cornrnttee the Liberale had fair mepresentation.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I made that an exception. That was the only committec on which
there was fair representation.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-You had a rnajority
on that cornrittee. Wae that- fair represen-

SENATE
tation ? The hon. nxinister gave ten as the moted to the bencli, to gi-e a representative
number of Liberals on that committee. It in this House to the French element.
1
was thirteen ont of twenty-five. Wili the tliought that eitlier my bon. friend, the
hon. minister stick to hie number ?7
member for Grandv-ille, or fixe member for
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It can be cbecked.
I De Lorimier, or the new menîber for De
Salaberry, was perfectly entitled to noeminathouglit I had counted tbem correctly.
tion as a minister of the crowvn ta this
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Wbat are the tacts ? Obamber, and that any one of
the three
I am n ot speaking of thoughts, but what are wouid do justice to the French element
of
the facte ? Were the Liberale on that corn- the whole Dominion. Wbere te
the reform ?
mittee ten or thirteen ? Mute again. We
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Hear, bear.
will take another committee-tbe Debates
and Reporting Committee. On that commitHon. Mr. LANDRY-I bear the lion. genitee there were four Liberals and fi-e Con- tieman say 'Hear, hear.'
le he the reservatives. NVas flot that fair representa- form we have been promised ? We lhave not
tion ? Was It or was It lot ? Mute again. been told yet whetlier the lion. gentleman
But there le another point I want to cail at- from Britisli Columbia bas been appointed
tention to, and the point te thie : the Senate a minister. Wliere are the ministerial exle composed of 81 niembers, of whom 24 planations ? Wben were they gi-en ? Wlien
are froni the province of Ontario, 24 froni bas thie House been told wbat took place
fixe province of Quebec, 24 from the mari- during reces? We do not know yet wbetime provinces, and 9 from the provinces ther lie bas a portfolio or not.
Does the hon.
and territorles of the west. Now, what; le gentleman froni Britisli
Columbia expect
fihe composition of that Striking Committee ? one, or bas one been
promIsed to hlm ?
Ontario lias three members. Where le QueHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Wby do you not
bec ? My hon. friend the member from Deask ?
lorimierHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-We have a riglit to
Hon. Mr. CASGRÂIN (De Lanaudiere)ask, and wliat answer do we get ? AUl the
He la as good as five.
guns are silenced.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If he le as good as
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
fIve like you, we wHI move that four of the
other gentlemen be strlcken ont. Namr Io have been spiked.
the Justice to the province of Quebec ? The
Hon. Mr-. LkNDRY-Ontaro, British Colprovince o! Quebec on that Striking Com- umbia and Quebec are
mute. Laet ycar
mlttee eliould stand ln the same position as we had two members
from Quebec on that
the province of Ontario and the martime committee,
Senator Pelletier and Senator
Provinces. Bach of those provinces has 24 Bolduc. Mr.
Bolduc's name le etricken otit.
rePresentatIves lni the Senate. Now, where Why ? Could the
hon. Secretary or iState
Ie the Justice to the province o! Quebec ln tell us wliy
? He cannot say it. Mute once
thxe proposed committee ?
more. Has lie any reason to strike ont
Hon. Mr. CASGRÂIN (De Lanaudlère)- Hlon. Mr. Bolduc ?
We are satisfied.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-None whatcve,Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The lion. gentleman
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Wliy?
la satisfied. He represents the Interests of
his province and he Is satisfied. He sliould
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Becauee I claixned one
not boast of that. If I were In hie place for ourselves.
I would be asliamed. 1 aek the goférnment
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wliy strike ont one
If they have decided to entirely Ignore the
!rom the province o! Quebec 7rigbte of our province on that Striking ComHon. Mr. SCOTT-Because
I ixever
milttee. le that the reforni of the Senate
promieed. by the government ? I thought tbought o! It.
that the government ln promising to reforni
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I hope thie second
the Senate would take the firet opportuaity, thouglit will be a better thouglit,
and that
when the hon. Minieter of Justice was pro- there will
.bc found a way on~ that Striking
Hon. Mr. LANDRT.

FEBRUARY 20, 1902

Commlttee to remove one of the members
chosen by the Secretary of State and to
respect fixe riglits of the province of Quebec.
Hon. Iir. FERGUSON-I thinli It ls very
regrettable that my hion. friend the Secretary of State sbould bave made the announicement to thxe flouse thiat lie lias just
made. I ar n ot now speaklng of the motion at ail, but the announcement accompanylng lt, that the object of the motioni
was to enable the government to get coufr01 of the committees of the flouse.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, liear.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I thinli It is very
-regrettable that the governmenit should maire
that staternent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That was the objeet ln
formlng the committee.
Hon. Bir. FERGUSON-There le a good
dèal cf candour about lt, but when the hon.
gentleman lias occasion to reflect on the
subject lie may probably regret IL I hope
at ail events that lie will, because there is
no occasion whatever for the members cf
the government to aunounce any such Intention as tliey have stated te the flouse
on this occasion, because we ail recognize
the fact that wlth the power of nomination ln the hands of the government, and
with the changes which have taken place
and whlcli we may expect wll taire place,
their powers will grow, and they wiUl be
able to assert their power wlthont maklng
such an announcement as the hon..gentleman hias made. 1 regret It the more particùlarly, because the announcement of
such a pollcy lias neyer been made la thîs
Senate before. I have the authority of
my hon. frlend, the Secretary of State hlmself, for saying It uxever was made before
1 turn to some remarirs
la this Hlouse.
made last year when fixe hon, gentleman
from Portage la Prairie (Hon. Mr. Watson)
brouglit up a discussion on the formation of
the committees--remarirs made by my hon.
friend, the Secretary of State, and I would
remlnd hon, gentlemen that the lion.
member from Portage la Prairie and some
other members tooir the ground that the goveruiment now proposes to taire, that the
political vlews of members should be the
dominant view la the formation cf the

mast

committees. In answer to tluat my hion.
friend, the Secretary of State, wlxo was au
niember of the strlking committee witli
nxyself, made thîls remark :
I have beea la the Senate 27 years, on bath
sides of the Hanse and the Vractlce bas been
te maire the changes as new members came ln
and as vacancies tram Uie ta Lime occurred.
Now, I was put on this strlking committee last year for the first time, and I neyer
heard a mention of polities. I neyer heard
the dlaim made that a member should be
put on a committee because lie was a
The priaLiberal or a Conservative.
ciple was te glve eacli province as fair
a representation as possible, and the vlew
,Was held as a prominent one, that old members who hiad served for years on the coniaxittees with efficiency and advaxtage to
the country shiould flot be hastily and unnecessarlly removed, and la the cases of removals by death or fromi other causes, lu
fihliag the vacancies fixe principle was recognlzed that they should be filed as far
as possible out of fixe new members thant
came lato the flouse-not absolutely thiat
way, because tiiere may be old members
of more experlence in the flouse, Xvho have
neyer been on important committees, and
it might reasonably be clalmed that seme
of those should go on the more Important committees, and that the new
members miglit be content, some of tlîem,
to taire their places on committees of less
Importance. However, there appeared ta
be only two considerations before the celumlttee. The one was, te give the provinces
as nearly as possible fair representation oii
the different cemmittees, and the ether was
net te unnecessartly remove old members,
able and efficient members cf the committees, and te bring new blood lato the conumittees ln consequence cf removal by
their
death of some old members, and M11
places by seme new members cf thxe flouse.
I arn net at liberty to discuss what toek
place ln the commlttee more than te say
politics were neyer mentioned there. The
pelitical views cf a member were neyer
breuglit up at ail as a reason why one marn
sliould be put on or another man lef t off,
-and my hion. frlend. then when the matter
came te be dlscussed la the flouse 'sald:
The principie whlciulbas gulded th. CoM'mittee of Selection since the formattaa of the
Senate, lias been that the newer members were
nat gîven as Important places on the commîttee

SENATE
as the older members, and it did sem to me
that precedenoe by prlority is the onily prînolple that should gulde, and It lias been the
guidlng one in the past under ail govertiments,
both Liberal and Oonservatlve?7
The hon, gentleman further stated:
While It la perfectly clear that
tions of poicy this House la pretty on aildlvlded
well quespolitlcafly, a.nd the Unes are well deûned., yet
I arn free to *say that in the commlttees of the
Honse pollties have not bien csrrled.
Hie le flot speaking now of the Striking
Committee, but the committees of the
House. He proceeds :
And In the formatIon of committees, poiticai
alliances have not bien promtinently regarded.
As far as my recolle :tiou goea, the effort, In the
formation of ail thoue comm ttees, hau been
that the différent parts of the Dominion should
he represented fairly.
And my hon. friend went further, referring, I thlnk,ý to the hon, gentleman from
Marquette, and sald :
i may- remind my hon. frleind that If I had a
few years age rai.ed that question the Liberala
would not have been rîprevented on any committie.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I muet eay that
1 ont here In my place and admlred the
manner In whlch my hon. frlend, the Secretary of State, defended the committee lait
year. 1 knew he dld nothing more than
hie duty, but he did It, and did It weIl,
and it wae the rernark amonget Our friends
on thia aide of the Houai, that he was actlng very weil lndeed: I am eorry, as I eald
when I rose, that my bon. frlend ehould
make his motion In the form he clld,
and especlally couple It wltli the announoement that It was made for the
purpose and objeet of eecurlug for the goveruiment o! the day the control, politically,
of the various committees of thls House.
My hon. frlend has placed himsel! upon
record, and nobody le so well able to gîve
an opinion on that question as lie la on hie
side of the Houai, that fair princîples were
applied lu the selection of the commltteea,
that proper principles had been adopted,
and that there was nothing to be compiained of, and that If the rule advocated by
the bon. gentleman front Portage la Prairie
last year had been applied year s ugo, the
Liberal party wouid not have been represented lu thîs House ou any committee.
If the motion had simply been made
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

wlthout any announcement of thus klnd,
I wouid not be diposed to chg1lenge IL
I look over the names of the commîttee,
and 1 have the fulleet confidence lu the hon.
gentlemen that are named on the other elde
of the House, that they would be dieposed
to be Impartial if not otherwiee lnstructed.
1 do not know how my hou. frIend'î announcement will be underetood, but If It
le to be taken ai an instruction to titis
Strikiug Commlttee that polîtical Unes are
to be obierved aud that that le to be tlie
only principle to be followed lu the etrikIng of the commlttees, I would feeu that the
lutereets of ail parties lu this Houee would
not be ai iafe ai I would feel they were
If that commlttee were elmply appolnted
without any Iustruction or announcement of
this klnd.
It la a plty that lie hias made
that itatement, and If lie lu dispoeed to
mak 'e that an Inetruction and the committee
le to act on those ues, I fiel certain that
lt will not be wefl for the peace and harmouy o! the Houie, and my hion. frleud
will have ny reaaon to regret It In
yeare to comle.
I hope he may live long
euough, because It may not be very long
when the tîde wlll turu agalu ai It did turu
before, and my hon. frlend wlill sie that althougli It la well to have a glant'e itrengtii
It le not well to use It ai a glant.
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-I do not thluk
the Interpretation put upou the worde of the
lion. i3ecretary o! State by the bon, gentleman la the correct oui. How ean lie make
out that there Ie a direction given thls committee to act upon certain iinee ? Certaluly
there le noue. What lie meant, and wliat
1 uuderetood wae tliat he wanted a faîrîr
proportion of membere belonging to. thi
Liberal party to be upon those commîttees.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
said more tliau that.

BOWELL-He

Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-And lie went
further and eald that flie goverument eliould
expeet to have a controlllng majority lu a
certain number of those commltteee, lamucli as It was reaponsible for the ligielation whlch was brouglit before this House.
If ILam appointed ou that conmimittee--it -,vill
be quite reluctantly thnt 1 will net, because
1 know that it le somewliat liard to eatisfy
tlie desirie 0f aillthe inembers of >titis
Rlouge.
Only a limited number easi be

FEBRUARY 20, 1902
appointed upon each committee, and I kuow
that It le flot pleasant work ta have ta decide between contending friends.
But I
may say that I think that ail the members
of that committee, the naines of wham bave
been mentioned, wiil set accordlng ta the
Golden ule, and do tinta others as they
would like athers ta do tinta them. The
hon, gentleman froin Marahfield seems Inidignant at the idea that the hon. Secretary
of iltate should have mentioned the tact
that political Uines should appear, or Liberal
proclivities should appear, ln the naming
of committees. Why flot be frank -among
We have been observant
aurselves ?
enough, and since the present gavernrnent
bas been ln power what have we seen ?
Party ues, stralght Party Ulnes here lu this
Hanse, wlth one or two laudable exceptians.
I amn not trying ta blacken the character of
my colleagues opposite. I do nat belleve
that I arn any better than my colleagnes
slttlng ln front of me, but I have been a'
politiclan sinoe I was out of college, and
I have taund ais rnany uolid, dyed-ln-thewool partisans ln this Hanse as could be
round ln the other Hanse.
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-More sometimes.
Han. Mfr. DÂNDURÂND-Mare, perhaps,
sometimes, but as we grow aider we grow
gtronger lu aur convictions, so that there la
no need of becoming Indignant at the tact
that the question af pitica had been mentlaned.
As the hon, gentleman has said,
the pendulum la swinging tram one aide ta
the ather. Let us recognize it, and I amn
qulte sure that when -the majarity passes
fram one aide ta the ather, the measure of
juatice that will be distribnted ta the opposition wli be at least as large, and I hope,
larger than was given ta the Liberal apposition which sat ln this chainber before.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE LL-Tiie
hon. gentleman la a lving example of that
partisanship.
lian. Mr. LANDRY-I desire ta proteat
on behaif * f Quebec, and wish ta have It
noted, that this motion is calTied on
division.
The motion was agreed ta on a division.

AN ÂDJOURNMENT.
NOTICE 0F MOTION.
Han. Mfr. SCOTT--Several members have
spaken ta me about an adjaurument, and 1
auld Ulke ta be guided by the feeling of
the Hanse. Saine han, gentlemen desire a
langer adJaurament than others. My owu
Idea was ta adjoura to-marrow atter the
committees have been organlzed, and meet
again two weeks fram, Tuesday next.
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-That ls long enugh.
Han. Mfr. SCOTT-Perhaps the Hanse will
accept tMa as a notice, and we eau take the
sense of the Hanse ta-marraw when the
motion la made.
Hon. Sir MACK<ENZIE BOWELL-If we
adjourti to-morrow It will necessitate the
meeting of the committee ta-marraw ta
atrike the commIttees of the Hanse, and we
wauld have ta adapt the reports to-morrow
or the matter wauld have ta remain. aver
until atter the adjourtiment?
*Hon. 1fr. SGOTT-Yes.
INTRODUCTION 0F GOVERNMENT
MEÂSURES IN THE SENÂTE.
INQUIRY.
Haon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Mlght
I aak the han. Secretary of State whether
It le prapased ta Ignare the Senate altogether ln the Introduction of any gavernment measures, or are we ta be here jnst
as reeordlng scribes.
Hon. Mfr. DÂNDURAND-As

ln the past.

Han. Sir MACKENZIE -BOWELL-I deny
that mast emphatically. The hon, gentleman la very apt ta interjeet 'expressions
and Insinuations which are Ûot correct
Wben I had the hanour of sitting an that
aide of the Hanse I intraduced some of the
moat Important measurea that were presented ta parliament, many of whicb I
could refer ta. Those constant Imputations
thrawn acrosa the flaor of the Hanse are
uncailed for, particularly when they are
flot correct. I think I amn nat out of place
ln Inquiring wlietlier It la proposed ta littraduce Important measurea ln the Senate.

SENATE
Thiere may be measures which can be introduced and calmiy considered b.v the
Senate who' have plenty of time to look
after thein before the rush of business
froin the other House, aiid It wouid be
well If It couid be done, that the principle
which was carried out whie I iiad the
honour of sitting on that side of the House
should be adopted to as great and possibly
a greater exteut. I arn quite sure hon. gentlemen will agree with me.

prornptly Instead of sitting nround
with nothing to do.

here

Hon. Mfr. O'1)ONOHOE-The adjournment was three weeks last year, aîîd as
my hon. friend froin Hamnilton states, several members are nt such a distance froixi
home that two iweeks would bareiy give
them turne t o go and corne, and probably
whien we dld return there wouid be very
littie to do and I think it would answer ail
purposes If whien we rise to-morrowv we
lion. àfr. SCOTT-I quite approve of the stand adjourned tli three weeks froin Tuessuggestion made by my lion. friend. He day.
will have notlced, however, In reading the
Speech f rom the Throue that no mention
THE SENATE DEBÂTES.
was made of any Important mensure.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-I would like to, nsk a
Hion. Mr. LANL)IY-There is none.
question wich regard 10 the reporting of
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Thiere will be very the debates of the House. I do flot intend
few goverument mensures this session. to, refer 10 the reporters themselves ini any
There ta one which 1 have myseif ln view, way, but on Monday last there was an imTis is
a very Important one, and If It can be got portant debate ln the House.
ready It will be introduced ln this chamber, Thursday and there la no report of it before
and I have another one ln view. 1 cannot members, and I think It Important that the
naine them yet because circuinstainces pre- debates of the Senate, If possible at ail,
vent my doing so.
However, I shaIl be should be got out early, because the press
only too glad If my colleagues wili give makes very lttie reference to the proceedme the opportunity to introduce those men- Ings of this body and Ih is a greater reason.
therefore, why the debates of the Senate
sures heie.
should be prlnted promptly. I do not know
Hou. Mfr. WOOD (Hamilto)-..s to the what the practice la, and I think we ought
adjourninent, the hon. Secretary of State to do better, particularly with the greater
Proposes to reassemble two weeks from faciilee now ln existence, and by reasoni
next Tuesday. Considering. the way they of the fact that we have ail sorts o! mnare.golng forwnrd ln the House or Coin- chinery now to spread. Intelligence rapidly,
mono, I do not think: it Io at ail likely that and therefore the House should have Its
there will be a great deal of business two debates before It early.
weeks henoe. Many of us have large busiHon. Mfr. DÂNDURAND-I have found
nesses to look after, and I think It is lInPortant we should have at least three weeks It somewhat extraordinary that no provision Io made for the reporting of the
adjourninent.
speeches which are made ln F'rench ln this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE iiowEi,-No.
chamber.
We do flot sit quite as long as
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hamiiton)-Several the House of Commons. I may say that
hon, gentlemen live long distances froin we do not ait more than five or six or seven
Ottawa and wouid not care to go home if weeks ln this chamber and It seems to me,
we had only two weeks. Ir the adjourn- that without Induiging la the luxury of a
ment were for three weeks, these members high paid official, such as they have ln the
would have time to go home and returu. other chamber, we might make provision
and I arn quite satlsfied that at the end for the reporting or the French speeches as
of that turne there would 1w' business for tbey are made ln that language.
them to do and It woilid be discharged
The Senate adjourned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

FEBRUARY 21, 1902

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Friday, Feiruarv 21, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
oýclock.
Frayera and routine proceedinga.
THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON S3ELECTION
PRESENTED.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT, from the Committee on
Selection, presented their first report He
said : Io the House prepared to adopt the
report to-day, or to have It put on the minutes and consldered at a future day ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not today. There bas been such a radical change
ln all the committees that I thInk It is but
fair to the Houae to have aufficient time to
look at thus report and atudy the complexion
of the committees. 1 dare say a number of
the gentlemen who have been atruck off
the committees would like to know the reason wby, and If It meets wltb the approval
of the House I would auggest that It stand
Nothing
over tîll a!ter the adjournment.
can be gained by adopting the report today.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think it would be better to take it up on the second day after
we meet again, because senators do not aiways. arrive here on the firat day. I rnove
that the report be takea Into consideration
o
after the approaching reces --n the second
day after the meeting of the House.
The motion waa agreed to.
LE'ASING OF I.C.R. SIDING AT SYDNEY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. MeDONALD (Cape Breton) lnquired of the government :
1. Has the Minister of Raflways leased a
sld!ing un the Interolonisi Eallwayi ut Sydney
to any person or corporaton ?
2. If eo. to whomn, ami ut what price, and for
what length of time ?
3. What lB the nameolf the party ?
4. For what pir.pose is the &ding used ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am advised by Mr.
Schreiber, the Deputy Miniater, that there
la no siding on the Intercolonial Railway at
Sydney Ieaaed to any person or corporation.

AN ADJOURNMENT.
MOTION.
Mr. SCOTT-I put a notice on the
Hon.
paper yesterday that when the Senate adjourDs to-day it do stand adjuurned until
Tuesday, the 11th Mardi next. Borne hon.
gentlemen desired that the adjournent
Lt
should be extended for another week.
was urged that gentlemen living at a rernote distance would flot have the opportunity of golng home and rcturnlng iii time,
and as It la flot likely that any business
will be pressing ln the lnterim, the government have no objection if that ls the deI move that when the
sire of the House.
House adjourns to-day It do stand adjourned till the lSth March, at 8 p.rn.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I understand that that Is an adjournmnent for
three weeka ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
not the hon, gentleman think he ts asking
too much ? It rnay be that there are several
members who have business to transact, but
If they have, the business of the country
ahouid flot stand for their conveiiience. 1
understand there are six or seven private
Bills5 ready to be lntroduced now, besides
a number of divorce Bills, whlch wll
take a good deal of Urne, and unless it ls expected that the House
will ait until the middle of summer, or to
furnish a reason to the -people of the country for what bas been relterated thousands
of tirnes, thnt we are a useleas body except
to record what ls sent to us froma the other
House, I think the hon. gentleman ls aaklng
too much, that la, If he la consulting the lnterests of the country and the intereata of
We know tint ln the other
legislation.
House the Bis are gone through very often
with a rapidity that characterizes the poiltical branch of parliament, and that the
calm and deliberate attention wih ail measures shouid recelve nt the handa o! leglalatora s lot given to them ln that chamber.
In the Senate that does flot apply. We are
rewer la number and lessa ctuated by the
feelings that characterize the other House,
for the reason they are subjeet to the will
of the people and we are xiot. Should we
give the country cause to complain o! the
action of the Senntte by remaining away

78

-

78
SENATE
-

from aur duties hli the time parliamen t for the length of time propased,
we have
la ln session ? I bave a very strong feellni., came back and found no business ready
for
on this question. 1 do uot desire ta se e us. I am prepared ta sacrifice
my private
the Senate broughit Into further cantemp t business ta be present here, but 1 do flot
than certain politicians have attempted ù< think on this occasion there need be
:>
any
bring upon it ln the past. We are reaII2r sacrifice o! the public interest
addlng to that f eeling throughout the whoi
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-As one o! the
country. 1 sympathise slncereiy wlth thosi
-long-distance
members, I must take excepgentlemen wha live a long way from th(
ta the remark of my hon.. frlend fram
seat of government. There la oniy one pos -tion
sible reason thiat can be given for such ii Hastings. The hion, gentleman lias made
long adjournment, and that le gentlemen some similar remarka on other occasions. I
living ln British Columbia and ln the North. do flot thia It la out of cansideration for
west Territories and Manitoba would not members living at a distance that these adhave tUe, ln a short adjournment ta go ta jourraments take place; certanly that shouId
their homes; but should the business of the not be the underlying consideratian of n
country be made subservient ta the Interesta adjaurnment. None of us would invoke the
o! any haîf dozen members of the Senate 1 *sympntliy of the gaverament for a long ad1 thlnk It sliould not. I speak warmly fromn journment for the simple reason that we
a conviction that I think the lion. gentleman live at a distance and It is incanvenient for
bas been listening too mucli ta a f ew mem- us ta be here. I quite agree with the exbers wlio desire a long vacation. I heard pression o! opinion that the public business
one gentleman, living ln Ontnrlo, state the shauld not be prejudlced ln the sllghtest deother day la the Ilouse that lie liad busi- gree by those adjournments, but If hon, genness ta attend ta.
No one objecte ta any tlemen wIll lok at the jaurnala o! this
member attending ta lits own business, but House, they wlll obaerve that durlng the
If lits business canflicts with lits duties la tiret hli of the session for yeara and years,
the Senate, lie shauid give up elther one or the Senate lias practically neyer done anythe other. The country looks ta membera thing. If my lion. frlend wili lol througli
ta attend ta the public business. If we ab- the jaurnals lie will find that the committees
sent ourselves on every occasion by which have rareiy done any substantial wark until
aur Indemnity ls not lnterfered with liaI! the latter haîf o! the session. It does not
the time of every session, we are lendlng compart with the dlgnity of this House that
ourselves ta a cry against this branch a! we should meet day after day, and week
after week, and simpiy have prayers and
parliament whlch It does nat deserve.
adjaurn. That le not the way ta Impreas
Hon. Mir. FERGUSON-It is flot often 1 the public with the Importance o! the f uncdlsagree with my lion. friend who lias tions o! the Senate. If I thouglit for a
spoken, but I cannot say that I aitagether moment we were aacrificing the public laagree with hlm naw. I am fully la accord terest by the praposed adjourniment, I ahould
with the observation that the public busi- flot be Influenced la the siiglitest degree by
ness aught ta be paramaunt, and augît ta my desire ta go home and attend ta my own
prevail over ail private business whatever. affaira.
I have often hieard such an argument ns the
Hon. Mr~. POIRIER-WVere it merely ta
lion, gentleman bas addressed ta the House show that the lion, leader
of the opposition
before naw. We have seen adjauraiments dloes flot stand ln splendid
Isolation, I
shortened up so that those living lii the rise ta stand by the
remarka lie lias just
North-west Territaries and the maritime uttered. 1 aiea
believe that three, or threc
provinces cauld flot go home, and we have and a bli weeks,
la rather 'too much ofai'
came ladk ta find the slate aimost dlean, holiday. We are
lik-eiy, as la former sesand had ta watt a week or twa for business sions, ta have
anather holiday, uniess the
ta came up from the Lower Hanse. If busi- session be very
short. Under these condiness shouid. be ready for us when we retura, tions,
1 thial it is better for us ta be moderand taken up reguiarly from that time for- ate.
Two weeks and a hiait ouglit ta be
ward, It is sometlîing I have neyer seen. i suffiient
for the first holiday. Samething
have seen, when adjaurraments were taken
may happen whlch miglit require aur presHan. Sir MACKENZIE DOWELL.

FEBRUARY 21, 1902
ence. At any rate, we should be on guard
here. If bon. gentlemen from a distance
wlsh to be absent for any length of time,
there ls no strlugent law that compeis them
to remain. here. They are free to stay at
home If they have a great deal of work.
We have ten days' absence allowed us, which
is eoual to two weeks more.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Fifteen
days ?
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-And I would suggest to the hon. Secretary of State that instead of Tuesday the llth of March, he
should make it Weduesday the 12th, whlch
would allow those members residlng a long
distance from, Ottawa to be here for the
tirst day.
Many of us, especially fr11
Nova Scotia and Cape Breton, cannot be
here for the opening on Tuesday, and by
making it Wednesday it would enable those
among us who wish to be here for the
opening, to be present, and I believe that
would be a sufficiently long recess to take
just now.
Rion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
think the hon, gentleman from Calgar misunderstood what I said. I did not say the
adJournment was lengthened at the Instance of senators who reuide at a distance
from the Capital. I sald the only excuse
that could possIbly be given would be to
allow those living at long distances to go
home. Whether I am Ia a position of splendid Isolation or not, ls of little consequence
on this question at least, but I have always
held the view since I have been lu the
l3enate-and I have flot seen anything to
cause me to depart from lt-that hon. gentlemen living lu Montreal and close to the
Capital are always the ones who want the
adjournment. It ls not the niembers froni
British CJolumbia and Prince Edward Island,
but those gentlemen who can go home every
evening aud return the next morniug, and
be lu tume for the session, who urge the
long recess.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD-(H amulton)l-I tbink the
hon, leader of the opposition ls not reasonable.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE LI-Do flot
say the hou, leader of the opposition. Say
the member for Hastings.

Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hamllton)-He ts a man
of business, and oughit to see that lt 1s
better to have one adjourument of three
weeks than two of two weeks each, as we
bad last vear.
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-And we wIll have It
agalu this year.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (liamllton)-Why should
we not hold evening sessions, aîîd overtakze
the business, and finish fi ln a very short
time ? Up to the present, my experience
in this place has j>een that, as a general
rule, we come here and listen to prayers,
aud then go around the town or do something else.
Hon. Sîr MACKCENZIE BOWELL-That
ls good occuDation.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD <Hamilton)-I have corne
here to work aud flot to 10sf arouud the
town.
If there ls no work to be done, I
do not see why we should. be brought back
here.
The House o! Commons, I understand, are gettiug along fsirly well with
their work, and by the time we returu lu
three weeks we msy have work for the
i-est of the session, but I prefer one adjourument o! three weeks, Instead o! haviug
another adjourument In the middle of the
session on account of lack of work.
I
think this would suit the members wrio have
to go almost to the ends o! the Dominion.
Why should they uot have an opportunity
o! going home aud remainlug a week at
home ? It takes some of them a week to
go sud n week to returu.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whst
does the hon, leader of the House propose
to do with reference to the extension of
time for the presenting of petitions?7 The
time will have expired. wheu we returu.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-On the recommendation
of the particular committees, the House alwsys extends the tume.
Hon. Sfr MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
has to be doue afterwards.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-The sense of the House
seenis to be ln fai-our of the longer term. I
see a number o! empty benches now. Some
hon, gentlemen seem to have gone away lu
the belle! that the adjournment would take
place anyway.

'SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is that
a good reason ?

THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Tue8day, Marcs 18, 1902.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, 1 think It ts a
The SPEAKER took the Chair at elgbt
pity.
The motion was agreed to on a division. o'clock.
I'lESENTATION 0F PETITIONS
PRIVÂTE BILLS.

FOR

The ISPEÂKER-Might I be allowed to
say a word with respect to the matter
brought up by the hon, leader of the opposition ln reference to the presentation of
petitions ? Rule 52 of the rules of this
House readls as follows.
'No petition for any private bill, except a bill
of divorce la received by the Senate after the
first three weeks of each session; nor may any

Frayersand routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (No. 10) An Act respecting the
Orford Mountain Railway Company.-(Hou.
Mr. Owens).
Bill (No. 12) An Act respectlng the Edmouton and -Slave Lake Railway Company.--<Hon. Mr. Poirier).
Bill (No. 19)

An Act relating to the Re-

private bill be presented to the Senate after the gina Law Library.--<Hon.
Mr. "Scott).
flrst four weeks of each session ;nor may any
repcrt of any standing or sp3elal committee
upon a private bill be recelved atter the fIrst six
THE ELEVATOR AT ST. JOHN.
weeks of any session.'

It seems to me thse most regular method
to proceed now, would be to let thse House
pasa an order extendlng thse time, because
otherwlse thse hon. gentlemen who, when we
ineet again, have a number of petitions to
present, will flot be able to present tisem
until after the committees have met and
tisen It seems to me it la an Irregular thing
for a committee to recommend that a time
whlch has explred should be continued.
I
tisink thse more regular way would be to
pase a resolution to-day extending thse
time.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY rose to Inquire of the
1government:
If there the wheat
thse goverument elevators at la anyterminuslu of the Intercoonial
Railway ln St. John, N.B., and If so, about how
much, and where did It corne from ? And aiso,
sad much wheat has been exported through
adevtr.ndwn?

-sÔTT-There la no wbeat 1.
Hon Mr.ý
te eevator at St. John at thse present
moment.
In the year ended 3let o! December, 1900, there was exported througli
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Can we pass a re- thse said elevator 135,997 bushels o! wheat,
solution of that kind without the recom- and thse year ended 3lat of December, 1901,
146,087 bushels of wheât
mendation of thse committee ?
lon. Mr. PERLEY-Where did thse grain
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The House can Zio anythlng by unanimous consent.
I more that corne !rom ?
thse tinse for receiving petitions for private
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This la the reply to
bille be extended for three weeks beyond tihe first question.
thse time at whlch It would expire, and £hat
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-It is
a corresponding extension be granted for
thse presenting of private bis, 1 more that ail the one question.
both these periods be extended for twentyHlon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no information
one days.
wisere It came from.
I presume It came
The motion wvas agreed to.
from thse North-west
Thse Senate adjourned.

Ifon. Mr. SCOTT.

The Senate adjourned.

MÂRCH 19, 1902

TME SENATE.

The hon. gentleman then eontinued:
Then 1 suppose 1 amn obliged te give my auOttawa, 'Wedne8daz,, March 19, 1909.
thorlty aise, 1 went tits marning to the Vcçpartment of Rellwaye and Canais, and aaked the
The Speaker took the Chalr at Tliree secrmtary, Mr. Jones, about IL. I may caplaIn
why 1 asked. I had tried myseif for a railroad
o'clock.
whose boufiholders I representlef, to obtain
the loan of a locomotive, andi they rcfuacd me,
Prayers and routine proceedinge.
saying tiiey liad work for ail their locomotives,
and therefore I was uurprised to hear thc ledder
LOÂNING 0F LOCOMOTIVES TO THE of the opposition Bey that they had loaned locomotives to thc Canadien Pacifie Rallway. That
CÂNÂDIÂN PÂCIFIC RÂILWÂY.
la why I went myseif ta tho departinent and
asked Mr. Jones. Mr. Jones told me lic thought
EXPLANATION.
they never-in fact was positive they neyer did
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before loan locomotives. 1 said I in-tendad,6 to repeat
the orders of the day are cafled I desire to hie statemenit in the Hou,. this afternoon, and
he went In and asked Mr. Schrieber, and Mr.
draw attentio4 to a remerk thet I made Schrleber said they neyer loaned a locomotive
durIng the debate upon the Âddress, and to the Canadien Pacifia Railway.
aima to the contradiction that was given by
On the l3th March, Iu the reports of the
the hon, gentleman front De Ianaudière Houée of Commons, I findt the following
(Hon. Mr. Caegrain). I tald the han, gentle- question put to the hon. Minister of Railman that I intended ta bring thie matter ways and his anuwer tiiere to
before the Hause, sa that I amn not taking
Mr. CLARKE-by Mr. K3m.p -aaked:
hlm by surpriee ln the matter, and 1 ex1. How many locomotive englues have been
pected he would be here. DurIng my speech ordered for the C muadian, govorninent railways
since the lot July, 1896 ?
I asked thie question :
2. How many have bqia delivered up to date?
Io it correct in this connection, that they
3. Have any locomotive engluaS belonging ta
<nicaning the governent) have loac.cd ta the the. Canadien government railways basa leasad,
Canadien Pacific Railway ova3r 20 locomotives rented or loaned to any other railway corporta assist In cerryihg tli.,ir frei.;ht (rom the great ation or company' ? If no, how many have been
west te the seboard. If se, how iIt ithst there lcased, loancd or rented ; ta what company or
have been sa many new locomotives purchaeed companica, and on whit terme, and for what
durlng the past few years.
length of tine?
4. At what dates "<ere thc engines loan-ed,
In reply to that the hon, gentleman said: lesed or rented ?
The lea 1cr of the 'opposition lm, thtis flouse, lu
Tii. M IISTER OF RAILWAYS AND) CANlis speech on, Mon iay, had sorne fouit ta find
with the management of the. Intercolonial Rail- ALS (Hon. A. G. Blair> replied :
way, and anc of hi. jr.*vanea-s was that whiic
1. One hundred and twencty-mm locomotive
the. Miniaber of R.iil#sys and Canal. was buying locomotives for the Inter3olonial Rtailway engin.s have been ordem~d for the Canadien
gceverumenrt raitways qin,.e the lot July, 1896.
lie was et the saune turne loaning locomotive.
2. Eighty-four have beenk dcli ver) d up ta lot
te thc Canadien Pacifie Railway. I have not
seen the report of mny hon. friand'e bpeeh but March, 1902.
3. EligLi locomotive englues werc hiral ta
1 tbink that ia the nernark h. miale.
the Canadian Pacifie Tiadtvay et $8 par day.
No statid length of time.
MLy answer to that was «The hon. gentle4. Four on February l5th, 1902; 2 on February
men la correct'
25th, 1902; 1 on Fcbrunry 26th, 1902:;i on Pcbriîery 28th, 1902.
He then went on to say
It lu a rather awkward task for me ta conWhat I desire to have placed on record In
tradiet thc ban, leader of the. opposition, but the Senete le thet when 1 made the steteUic Information 1 have gathered-and I say titis
with a great deal of diffideuce-wa, that the ment I made. it In good faith, on the authorIntercolonial Raiiway did not loan locomotivea Ity of a newapaper report In the Montreal
ta the Canadien Pacifie Railwaij. I arn sorry ta
contradict the han, gentleman, but that la the «Gazette,' confirmed by an offiiai of the
Information given nme.
Canadien Pacifie Railway, and I muet confeus that I was eomewhat surprieed at the
I then made these remarks:
The hou. gentleman, may hare re-ceived Uiat dental made by the hon. gentleman upon the
Informatioin. I uaid ln rny spe.h that I had euthority of two of the principa'l officers
read Uic statement lu anc af the ucwspapcrs, of the Railway Department. As I prIde myand haed asked a prominent officiai of the Canadien Pacifie Railway If It was correct, and he self on being somewhat perticular In the
said thcy Lad borrowcd both front the Grand utetements that I maire, I deemt It but JusTrunk Railway and Intercolonial Railway. tice to myseif that I should set the metter
Wbcther that lu correct or not, Uic bon. gentleman Les tLe authority on ivhich I made the right, ta show that the euthority upon whichl
satement.
I made the statement hes been conflrmed.

6

SENATE
and that to by the minister himself,
notwIthstanding the dental by Mr. Sebreiber
a.nd Mr. Jones, the Superintendent of Railways, and the Secretary of the department.
That i. my only apology, hon. gentlemen,
for bringing this matter before the House.
I wish It to, be disftinctly underatood that I
do flot attribute any intentional misrepresentation on the part of the hon. gentleman
(Hon. Mfr. Casgrain) who ha. just entered
the chamber. He made the statement, I
have no doubt In good faith, on the authority of two of the most Important officiais
of the Railway Department, but I tbink tht.
House ha. a right ta complain -when such
denials are given to those who shauld know
better, ln order to mislead the country on
a subject of snch importance.
THE STANDING CommITTEES 0F THE
SENATE.
MOTIONS.
The Order of the Day being called,
Conaideration of the Report of the Comniittee
of Selection appointed to neminate tthe senators ta serve on the several Standing Committees
Hion. Mr. SCOTT said: The duty of
the Striking Committee was ta make as
few changes as possible ln the Majority Of
the Standing Committees of the House.
When moving for the Strtking Committee,
I was perfectly frank with the House, expressing the opinion that I thought, as the
goverament of the day were charged witb
the responsibillty of legialation, It was only
reasonabie that on one or two of the principal committees, that ia, the committee whiCh
controlled the expenditure and the committee on railways, telegraphs and harbours,
the goverament should have a majority. I
shall now take up the formation of
'the committees and make such commente on the action ta-ken by the StrikIng CommIttee as may seem ta be fair
and proper. The first committee ls the
joint commlttee o! the library of parliament The only changes made ln that coinmittee as it stood lest year were the substitution of Senator Landerkin for the late
Senator Allen; the addition of Senator
Thibaudeau, of Rigaud, and the substitution
of Senator Beique for the late Senator Ros.
Thase are the only changes on that comrnittee. I therefore move that the joint
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

committee on the iibrary or parliament be
composed as follows:
The Honourable the Spoaker, and the lfanourable Messieurs :-Bakear, 13eique, Bouchervilie,
de, C.M.G., Caigrain (de Lanardière). Drummond, Gowan, C.M.G., Hingston, Sir Wm., Kt,
Landerkin, Maison, Miller, Pelleticr. Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G., Poirie3r, Seott, Thibaudeau
(Rigaud), Wood (Weatxnor3land), Young.-17.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I notice
that the hon. Secrets.ry of State proposes
ta consider each committee by Itself and explain ta the Honse the changes which have
However, he prefaced hi.
been made.
motion by erplaining the principle whIch
guided the committee on selection ln the.
formation of the sta.nding committees,
Since he ha. made those remarks I may
refer to the general principle laid down ln
the formation o! the committees o! the
Senate. When the committees are taken np
serlatim we may refer to them In detail.
Last year the Secretary of State laid down
the principle, when this subject was under
coasIderation, that the practIce ln the past
should be followed, and as vacancies occurred ln the Senate, the positions on the
committees a*hould be fllled up by new
members, and the poitical complexion a!
the members not considered. These were
hi. own words. If we look at the formation
o! the committees as they are presented ta
us, we may well ask ourselves whether due
consideration ha. been given ta the principle laid down by the Secretary of State,
or whether It ha. not been departed from1
or lgnored. Iu a great many cases the
oldest and most experienced members o!
the Senate ha'Ve been dropped and replaced
by smre of the newer inembers who have
just entered this chamber on the more
numerous and Important committees. ln
the past we ahl stood on an eqnality here.
I think an examidnation of the committees
wil prove that statement ta be correct, and
I propose ta show *that It li. correct. If you
look at the formation o! the commIttees you
will find that there are a nu.mber on only
one committee, some o! them.4 no donbt, at
their own reqnest. Mr. Aikins ls on one,
Mr. Armand is on one, Mr. Baird, a gentleman who ha. had eighteen or nineteen
years' experience ln parliamentary l! e, who
ha. been a member, If I amn carrectiy in!ormed, of the New Brunswick goverament,
and who ha. had a seat ln tht. Hanse for a
number of years, ha. been struck off

MLARCH 19, 1902
the committees, oia which lie was a very
active and Intelligent mqSber, leavlng him
only upon the Prlvate BRia Committee.
Why was that done ? Of course the lion.
gentlemen who manipulated-I do flot désire
to, us the term ofrensively-these committees
may explain. The Hon. Mr. Baker is upon
three committees. Mr. Bdicjue was introduced Into tis House at the opening of the
session. I have no doubt of his abulity, from
lis remarlis, and that lie wfll make a very
Intelligent and usef ni momber of the Sonate, but 1 find ln hi. case a departure from
the principie laid down by tlie lion. Socretary of State, that the new members were
to be put upon the least Important committees. This gentleman has been put upon
four committees, whule Mr. Baird, an old
member, is upon only one. Then Mr. Bernier la on three committees, Mr. Bolduc on
tliree, Mr. Debouchervllle on two, myseif
upon two-I May .ay, however, that la at
MY own request Sir John Carling, whio
hias had about forty-flve years' experience,
more than hli the time la officiai lfe, la
left on the Printing and Standing Orders
Commlttee oniy.
Mr. Carpitchaol la left
on one.
Mr. Casgrain of De Lanaudière,
I find, must have been considered a very
important personage ln this Sonate, aithougli
not a very old one. He lias been piaced
on four committeos, tliree of them among
the mont Important commîttees ln tlie
House, whie my lion. frIend of the anme
name from Windsor, Who lias been ln
tlie Sonate some fifteen years, and lias
been constant lni lis attendance on committees, la reduced to one. I have no
doubt the younger brandi of the famfly la
o! mucli more importance If the oider one wi
excuse me for maklng the statement, but
wliy tlie principle as laid down by tlie Secretary of Stato should be no grosaiy departed
from, I do not understand. Perliapi tlie
older brandi of the famlIy (I do not mean
to lie disrespectfui) lian a mucli better Idea
of the manner Wn
whlcli this country mhouid
be governed tlian the younger one. As lie ls
more conservatlvely lndllned lie lias been
reduced to one commlttee, whlo the youngor
member of the famlly, the advanced liberal
of tlie day, lias been given the lionour of
being appointed to four.'

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It may
lie ail ln the famliy, but It la not a famlly
compact. Tliat la quite evident, because
whlle they may agree ln good fellowship,
one thlnks one way, and tlie otlier the other
way, and I wouid say to those gentlemen
who were mo solcitous of the honour of tlie
older members, I tliak the hon, gentleman
from Windsor sliouid not have been forgotten, io-wever, lie may have dlffered from. hlm
young relative politically, or degraded to
one commlttee while a younger member of
the famiiy i. placed on four. I fiad Hon.
Mr. 'Clemow la on tliree. I suppose that is
as mucli as lie cares for. 1 liave no doulit
that It was at ls own solicitation that Senator Com was lef t on only one committee.
I do not; think lie cares mucli for committee
work. Ho i. on the Committee of Banking
ln whicli ho lias no stiglit lnterest, and
la satlsfied to bo left there. Thon,' we have
Mr. Cochirane, a gentleman who lias been
ln the Sonate and in public life between
twea-ty-eight and thirty years. He made a
specil request that lis name sld
be le! t
on -the Comxnittee on Raflways and Canais,
and If I were permitted to repeat the
proceedinga of the commIttee, I miglit say
that I tried to get hlm there, but" could
not Ho lias bean reduced from the position
lie lield ever since ho lias been ln the Sonate,
except for one yoar, to the (Jommlttee on
Printlng.
Senator Dandurand's modesty
would not allow hlm to usurp many committoes.
He was one of tlie. principal monI think I am correct-wltli the aew member
of the cabinet wltliout portfolio (Hon. Mfr.
Templeman)-h manipulated. these commîttees, because, when the committee met
lie maid: ' You can have Bo many on the comnmîttees.' In order ta free himm3eif from tho
responsibillty of erasing àny older names
from the committees, lie lias conftned himself to one, s0 wO cannot accuse hlm of
belng a monopollat at any rate. Thon, what
lias Mr. Dechene done to brIng down the
vengeance of hie politicai frlends ? Ho la
left off all the committees. From wliat littie I know of the hon, gentleman, I think
ho would make a very good commlttee man.
In the House of Commons, where lie occupied a very prominent. position, lie wam a
usof ni member, and 1 have ne doubt lie
would bo equally usoful here. It may lie
- 1fr. WOOD (Hlamnlton)-It la ail i n thé possible,
ince the lion, gentleman lias
famlly.
reaclied -the Upper House, lie le beomiang a

SENATE
littie more conservative ln bis character,
and If he Is punlsbed for that, I deeply regret it, because I tblnk be is taking a step
However, 1 leave
in tbe right direction.
hlm to settle that with bis friends, who
bave left hlm off ail the commlttees of the
My hon. friend, Mfr. Dever, is ail
House.
Hon. Mfr.
right-he bas got bis share.
Dlckey's bealth, I regret exceedingly to say,
does flot permit hlm to take tbat active
and Intelligent Interest ln the affairs of tbe
country that be formerly did. We ail know
what he was ln the pas1ý a gentleman not
only of bigb cbaracter, but above many of
bis feilows lu Intellect and ability, and as
a matter of courtesy and respect to an old
senator, I tbluk be migbt bave been loft
on the committees, notwitbstanding bis frail
bealth, but be bas been lef t off altogetber.
There seems to be no consideration for age
or servicès rendered. Mr. Dobsop Is taken
off a number of committees, but is left on
the Printing and tbe Private Bils CommitMfr.
Mfr. Drummond Is on three.
tees.
Ells, who le not an old member, but a very
Intelligent member of this House, bas the
honour of belng placed on four. Mr. FerMfr. Forget bas been
guson Is on tbree.
It is weil.
reduced also to one commlttee.
known tbat tbe hon. senator is much Interested, If flot more interested than any other
man occupying a seat ln this House, ln
navigation, and that wbicb pertains to railNotwltbstanding that,
ways and canais.
lie bas been dellberately put off that commlttee, and left upon only one. It la for
the House to. say wbetber tbe formation of
these committees bas been based eitber on
rigbt or on equity ? My bon. friend, Mfr.
Fuiford, Is on tbree committees, a very good
proportion for bim. Tbe Hon. Mfr. Gibson
le on tbree. 1fr. Glllmor bas occupied very
prominent positions ln the legislatures of
this country, not ouly lu the House of Coinmous, wbere be had tbe bonour of sitting
some fifteen or twenty .years, but also
in tbis House, and as a member of the cabinet in bis own province, yet be Is only
placed on two unîmportaut cominittees. If
experieuce and assiduity ln atteuding to the
duties of parlament are auy recommendation, that gentleman ougbt at least to bave
bad a littie more cousîderation. However,
I do not suppose It was polîtice that lnduced
tbe majorlty of the Selecting Committee to
place hlm lu tbe position be occupies. Mfr.
bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Godbout, a new meniber, le on two committees; Mfr. Gowan on three, Sir William Ringston on tbree; Mfr. Jones on two. Mfr. Jones,
Ilke myseif, was qulte content If he could
remain on the Rallways and on the Banking
(Jommittees. He ls confined to those two
cominittees. Mfr. Kerr, a gentleman we al
know, wbo bas taken a great Interest ln
legisiation, and wbom we ail dellght to bear
speaking-because bis remarks are always
interlarded witb little Sbaksperian quotations-Is on four committees. Mfr. Klug Is
on tbree.. Mfr. Klrchhoffer, wbo we ail
know, bas been a close attendant and bard
worker on committees, la reduced to two,
The Hon.
the Railways and the Divorce.
Mr. Kircbboffer was for five years chairman of tbe Contingent Comniittee, but be
was dellberately struck off for some reason or other. It was done inteutioually.
There was no mistake about it, and yet,
being chairman of that committee and baving had the responsibilitles that devolve upon
the chairman of that committee for fiye
years, be was not considered wortby of
being contInued upon It, and was struck
off. The Hon. 1fr. Landerkin ia on tbree
Important committees, and no doubt wll
do bis duty upon those, as he bas in tbe
past. Mfr. Landry seenis to have met witb
the fate of some of the others. Wby it la so,
I do flot know. Perbaps It le because he le
a little pugnaclous in bis manner when be
He bas been
is attacking bis opponents.
struck off the Important committees aud
ieft upon tbe Private Bils Commlttee. Mfr.
Lougbeed retains tbree commîttees and bas
been left off two. Mfr. Macdonald (Prince
Edward Island) la on tbree. I arn sorry
tbat Mfr. Macdonald (Victoria) is flot bere,4
because I know be ls somewbat sensitive
lu matters of this kiud. He bas been struck
off tbe Important committees ln wbich be
took a great Iuterest. He bas been struck
off one of the Important committees and is
reduced to two committees, altbougb be bas
1fr.
been lu parliament tblrty-five years.
MacKay (Ama) is ou tbree committees. 1fr.
1MacKecu le reduced to the Committee on
I suppose tbey thougbt that
Priuting.
would be qulte euough for a Nova Scotian.
Fie bas been struck off tbe other committees
Mfr. Masson's
and left on tbe Printing.
bealtb prevents hlm belng bere, and be is
WhatIeft upon the Llbrary Commlttee.
ever our political views may be, we know

MAROH 19, 1902
him to be a man of the very hlghest character. Mfr. McCallum la evldently a favourt, or perliapu they bad his Scotch pertinacity ln vlew, and knew lie wau ready, like
ail Highlandm~en, to fight bis battles againut
all attacks. They have lef t hlm upon four.
He la highiy honoured.
Mfr. McHugh la
left upon - two; 1fr. M cKay (Triro) upon
three, Mfr. McLaren on two, Mfr. McMllan
on three, Mfr. McMullen on tbree, Raiiways,
Internai Economy and Divorce; Mfr. MeSweeney upon three, Mfr. blerner, two. Mfr.
Miller seema to have been the greateut
favourite of tbem aill He lu on fIve committees.
He might, wlth that generoslty
which uuually characterizes hlm, falrly dlveut himueif of a little of the responslbilty
and throw it upon otheru who are flot upon
any commlttee, If he thouglit proper to do
uo. I flnd no fauit wlth bis being on live.
He lu one of the oldeut members we bave
here.
H3on. Mr.. MILLER-I acted upon the
principie laid down by my hon. frlend that
nelther himueif nor any of bis friends would
assume any reuponsibillty wlth regard tu
utrlking the committeeu.
We would ailow
the work to be done by the government and
ailow the government to asuume the responulbility, and therefore I did flot Interfere.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Qulte
rigit
That was the principle we laid
down. When the hon. gentleman made the
proposition to us that they were entitled to
uo many upon the comitteeu, I denled It
ln the beginning. I sald tbey were flot enttled to it numericaiiy or polltically, but they
happened to have a majority at the time,
and havlng a msjorlty they had the power,
and havlng the power they exerclsed It,
and they wanted the minorlty ta take the
responslbility of strlklng off the nameu of
our friends from the committeeu, which
we declined to do, and we aliowed them; ta
asuume the reuponslbllty. Sa that the
utatement made by my hon. frlend wau
qulte correct. Mfr. O'Donohoe lu ieft upon
three; 1fr. Owens upon two, and Sir Âlphonue Pelletier and my bon. frlend 1fr.
Miller are the favourlte oneu. These are
the only two gentlemen lni the Senate upon
flve committees,
0o that the Hon. Ilir
Alphonse Pelletier can go hand ln hand with
my hon. frlend on my left

8à

jHon. Mnr COCJHRANE-The hon. gentleman did not ask to be on any committee, uo
he got more; I did auk and got notblng.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW1OLL-Hle
got more than lie auked. I do flot belleve
he ever auked to be put on any of those
committees, but while my hon. friend ta bis
rlght did auk: to be put on a committee that
requeut wau refused. The Hon. 1fr. Poirier
lu on two committeecu; 1fr. Perley, two, and
the hon. the Speaker of the Senate-and
here there lu a departure from the usuai
Practice that bas prevalled since I have
been ln the 'Senate-has been placed upon
the Internai Economy Oommittee; and also
upon the LlbrarY Cominittee. I believe that
lu aiwayu the case, because the two Speakers
are upon that committee, and our Speaker
la aluo upon that important Committee, the
Restaurant. Mfr. PrImroue la upon three ;
Mfr. James Reid, two; Mfr. Robertson, two,
and the Secretary of State upon two. I muut
give the Secretary o! State credIt for havlng
dedflned to be piaced upon some of the committees that requlred some littie attention,
uome littie work and nome littie study. lie
thougbt he had sufficient to do ln bis dePartment and couid not spend time looklng
after the committees. Mfr. Shebyn i. upon
three. Mfy hon. friend behlnd me (Hon. Mfr.
Sullivan) made a speclal request to be placed
upon the Ralway Gommittee, and wau refused, aithough it was pointed out that it
was bis speciai request to be on that commlttee. It lu truc that durlng bis ncess he
was flot able to attend the meetings of the
committees, but It was pointed ont that during the last session of parliament, wbcn lie
bail recovered bis bealth sulliciently, lie was
one o! the mout attentive members of the
committees ta wblcb be was appointed.
However, that did not prevail, and the consequence was that he was reduced ta the
Committee on PrIvate BilAs, aithougli be bas
badl a seat lnztire Houes ne leu than 18 years,

whlle some gentlemen wbo have

mast

been

introduced have been piaoed on thrce or
four committees. 1fr. A. A. Thibaudean lu
upon one committee. The hon. gentleman
(Hon. Mfr. Tempieman), nat a very aid member but a very Important one, I admit, la the
gentleman who dld more, or one .or the
gentlemen wbo did, I t:hink, the most.-I do
not think I arn accuuing hlm wrongfullyln the arrangement of these committees.

SENATE
but I think,ý after baving submItted to the
ruling ln regard to the striking o! the conimittees, that he should not now blame me
for baving doue so, or appear to attrlbute
greedinesa ln me ln rnonopolizlg more conimittees than 1 amn entitied to. I think be
should not blame me for anything o! the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Not then.
kInd. Furtber than that, I may state-and
Hon. 8fr'MÂCKENZIE BOWELL-Wel, I think my hon. friend will justify me ln
I the etatement-that on the Selection CoinIt was coming.
it was ln prospect
mittee, I asked to be relieved o! two committjiink he was swomn in then.
Mr. LÂNDRY-He was then a min- tees, and be said 'No, do not. If they leave
Hon.
you on, stay on.'
luter in petto.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-One would suppose,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He
la on four commdttees, and I think he from the speech we have bad frorn the hon.
wil do hie duty. 1 am n ot finding fauit. I leader of the opposition, that this Striking
arn pointing ont the absurdity of laying Commrnttee was of a most revolutIonary
down a principle for the formation of com- charaeter, that we had disturbed -the promIttees, and grossly violating that principle. portions that had prevalled ln the representation on these several committees. As a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
matter o! !act, with the exception o! two
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn or three points, I rnight have read the reglad the hon. Secretary of Stat *eagrees witb marks the hon, gentleman made lait session
me. I am sure his «'hear, bear 1 was not trou- or the previous session, ibecause insny of the
Icaily sald. Hon. J. R. Thibaudeau la on two narnes he bas referred to there were :îot
committees, Mr. Thompson two, Mr. Vidai touched at ail. For Instance, Mfr. Miller:
three, Mr. Warlk one, Mr. Watson three, his naine was not put on or tak-en off, and
Mr. Wood (Westmoreland) four, Mr. Wood s0 I might state o! many other gentlemen.
(Hamilton) two, Mr. Yeo two, 1fr. Young My hon. friend, when leader of the Senate,
three. I have shown by this list exactiy was !urnlsbed with a lise no doubt, of how
how the members stand lni relation to the the committees were arranged. They were
different committees, and whetber they can neyer even arranged equitably or fairly or
corne to the conclusion that the principle on any sound principle. That I undertake
laid down by the bon. Secretary o! State to say, and my hon. friend's arrangement le
last year. when he was defending the Select- reaily what he bas made himself. It was
ing Committee, bas been carrled out eitber under bis regime that Mr. Miller was put
equitably or with regard to the age and on flve cormlittees..
experience o! the members of thls House
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did
or not. The hon, gentleman will give me flot complain of ItL
credit for saying that no matter wbat the
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-And Sir Alphonse Pel.
political complexion of an hon, gentleman
ietier's naine was neither added nor taken
was, I have always deplored the principle,
off, and so It: ls witb a number o! hon. genwbere health may have prevented a Senator
tlemen wbose nagmes bave been read and
giving the attention to committee meetings the House bas been led to believe-1 do flot
which. he otherwise would, that he should say wilfully-that the Striking Committee
be Ignored and treated with contumely by has disturbed the proportions on the Standstriking him off committees on wbicb he ing Committees of this House. That ts ai>
hadl served. as has been done by the Coni- solutely confrary to the fact, as I will show
mittee on Selection this year. If the Senate hou. gentlemen as I go on. I read to tbe
!s satisfied with the new mode of conductHouse the names on the Libr.ary Committee.
ing affaire, of course, ail we bave to do ie
Tbe House wiil have seen that there was
submlt.
no disturbance In that committee ; not a sinHon. Mfr. MILLER-I did not feel at aIl gle naine was taken off. Deatb bad recailed upon to make any compiaint tn the moved two gentlemen, and two others haX
allusion my bon. friend bas made to me, been put on in their places. There ls still
Hoin. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.
He and the hou. gentleman behind him
(Hon. Mr. Dandurand) had the whole matter
ln band. I suppose he feit the Importance
of hie position, and It was absolutely necessary, havIng just attained -the position of a
member of the Privy Gounil-

MARCU 19, 1902
room for another gentleman on the committee. There are only seventeen, and any
hon, gentleman who la not on a committee,
who desires to be on one, may be placed on
that committee. I will rmn over the naines
to show how misleadlng, unlntentionally of
course, the hon. gentleman's remarks have
been. Take the Commlttee on Printing : not
a single name was dlsturbed, except one of
our old friends, Mr. Wark.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-That
does not amount to anythlng.

commlttee

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Mm. Gibson was substituted for Mm. Wark. It was thought that
Mr. Wark could not attend the committes.
Take the Committee on Standing Orders : the
only change was to substitute Mr. Belque
for the late Mm. Prowse. Was there any mevolution there ? Has there been any disturbance i any of those committees I have
mentioned ? Take Banking and Commerce,
which is an Important commlttee of this
House. The Hon. Mr. Fulford has been appointed on that commlttee to take the place
of the late lamented Senator ÂUan, who la
no longer with us. One of our old friends,
Mm. Carmichael, who, it was thought, would
not be able to attend very often, was stmuck
off and Mr. Thompson's name was added.
Mr. Jones was anxious to go on the commîttee, and I, belng a member of the commlttec,
withdrew. I did not strike off any of my
hon. frlend's followers, but took my own
name off "and put Mr. Jones' In Its place
The only other change was to substitute for
another gentleman now deceased (Hon. Mr.
Villeneuve, the name of Mm. Thlbaudeau <de
la Valllère). That la the whole change In the
Banking and Commerce Commlttee. I have
gone over the Llbmary Commlttee, PrinLi.îg
Oommlttee, Standing Orders Commlttee, and
the Commlttee on Banklng and Commerce.
The changes there no hon. gentleman can
criticise. If there has been a disturbance
or diffemence In the members of the comntees that Individual senators were on, It was
entirely due to the arrangements that hail
been made. That la qulte clear, so far tis
I wlU
those committees are concerned.
make some remarks later on as I corne to
the next commlttee, where theme were material changes, In whlch I said changes
would have to be made at the time I stmuck
the committee.

1Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The motion put a few
minutes ago bas not been carmled and I wish
to speak to It. The hon. Secretary of State
was under the Impression that the motion
was carmied. He thlnks that ail the changes
that have been made, have been made in
that Innocent way of which he gives us an
Illustration. But If we take the report made
by the Strlking Committee, we Ilnd that
there are more changes, and more material
changes than those he mentions. Take, for
Instance the next to the one comrnlttee where
prudenee fomced hlm to stop. In that committee there are fomty members, and If I amn not
mistaken, thirteen new members have replaced elthem deceased senators or the persons that were struck out. The Hon. Mr.
Cochrane was a member of that comrnlttee.
Where la he now ? The Hon. Mr. Dlckey
was on that commlttee. He was struck off.
Hon. Mr. Forget was on that comrnlttee;
he was struck out. Tour humble servant
was on that commlttee; stmuck out, undoubtedly. Mr. MacEeen -was on that coinmlttee; struck out
Hon. Mr. -SCOTT-I dld not discuss that
commlttee. I was waltlng until 1.came to IL.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I thought the hon.
gentleman was discussing the genemal principle laid down by the leader of the opposition.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mm. LÂNDRY-On those committees
we see theme are vemy marked changes
which destroy the whole argument set forth
by, ,vhon. frlend. But I will take lt from
another point of view. When the Striking
Commlttee was proposed and adopted by
this Hlouae, I polnted out that the selection
of Mei .commlttee was not; doing justice to
the province of Quebec, and my argument
was this : the province of Quebec has 24
members In this chamber, the same ais the
province of Ontario and the <maritime provinces. The other provinces of the Dominion
have aine, maklng up the el-ghty-one mnembre. I claimed that the provinéce of Quebec
haü the nsme rlght In the composition of
the Striking Cominittee as fea- as number
gos a the provInce of Ontarlo, or as
the maritime provinces. But what dld we
see ? We saw that the province of Quebec
was represented by my hon. frlend froin
DeLorimier nalone. With al hie talents, he

SENATE
counte but one ln a commlttee when his vote
la taken. We see now the conseqnenoe ot that
nomination. I wil take it by committees,
and we wfâ ascertain If the rlghts of our
province have reoeived the attention of the
hon. gentleman and the other members of
the committee, and especially of those who
took the responsIblity of neaIng thos cmmIttees. If we taire the province et Quebec,
ln the firet Committee on the LibrMr-a
very unimportant committee-you have these
figures : there are 17 members ln that committeee altogether. Now, what la the proportion of representation ? Quebec should
have five membera and a fraction. On that
committee. Quebec la given nine, there are
tbree from Ontario, four from the maritime
provinces, and one from the west-that le,
inciuding British Columbia, Manitoba and
the North-west Territorles. This large proportion for the province of Quebec on an
=nImportant committee works to her detriment because lt acte as a compensation for
the 10w niunber given the province of Quebec ln the Important commnittees. Take the
second committee, the Joint Committee on
Prlntlng. On that comzpittee there are 21
membere, the proportion given to Ontario
shouid lie six, Quebec six, the maritime provInces six, and the west tbree. What are the
numbers ? Quebec Ie given flve.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-How many liad
Quebec iast year ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not know.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-The saine number.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That may bie, but you
muet not forget the cardinal principie that
If the hon. gentlemen obtalned power they
were to do better. Ontario' has five, the
maritime provinces eeven, and the west
four. Then takre the Standing Orders CoInxnittee. On that committee, there are nine
members. 0f these Ontario ebouid have
three and Quebec three.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-No, our share
sbouid. be two.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Weii, two to Quebe,
two to Ontario, and two to the maritime
provinces. That wouid leave three for the
west.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Make It two and

a hait.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

-j

:

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, it la two and
elghteen-twenty-seventhe.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-You cannot divide up a Quebecer that way.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-You give only one to
Quebec, two to Ontario, tour to, the maritime provinces, and two to the west Then
take the Committee on Banklng and CJommerce. That committee bas tbirty members. Bach of tbe eastern divisions shouid
have neariy nine members.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-We bave eight.
and there were eight last year.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-There are seven now.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURÂND-Eight :-Dandurand, Drummond, Forget Hingeton, Shebyn,
Thibaudeau, MacKay (Aima) and O'Brien.
Hlon. Mfr. LANDRY-That makes eiglit
for Quebec, elevea for Ontario, eight for
the maritime provinces; and tbree from the
west. Then takre the Committee on Railways and Canais. It bas forty members.
Quebec should have tweive members.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Quebec has more noiw
than. It badl any thme ln ten.yeare.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That le not the question. Quebec has ten, Ontario ifiteen, the
maritime provinces nine, and the west six.
Are we of the province of Quebec on the
saine footing as Ontario ? Are the maritime provinces on the samne footing as Ontario ? Now, takre the Private Bils Commlttee.
On that committee we shouid have between
seven and eight. We have ten now. You
takre the trouble of striking a new commlttee
to do good work. Wiiere le the good work i
Quebec ten, Ontario seven, maritime provinces seven, and the west one. Take the
Committee on Internai Economy and Contingent Accounts ; It has 25 members. That
wouId give nt least seven members to Quebec. We have that number. Debates and
Reportlng:, now, this le a committee not altogether the same as the others, and I wii]
tell you why. In the Debates Committee the
principal matter brought up Io the reports,
ln whlch the French ianguage le put on the
samne footing as the Engish language, and
I suppose on a commlttee of that sort, due
consideration shouid bie given to that tact,
and a few members of the French nationaity should be added to the committee. But
what bas been done?

ML&RCH 19, 1902
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I wlsh
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-It lias the same
I arn sorry my
to make an explanation.
proportion as it bail laet year.
hon. friend on my lef t (Hon. Mr. M.iller)
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Â very poor argushould bave mleunderetood what I deslred
ment I was struck off because I happened
'to express to the Hlouse. 1 foundno fault
to speak a little Frencli and understand wltli him nor with the hon' gentleman opsomething of translation. In what position
posite (Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier) wben
do we stand now? Out of nine we sliould
I called attention to the tact 1they were on
have from the provixice of Québec four
My lion. frlend to my
five committes.
speaking the Frenchi language on that Com1
left sta-ted the case exactiy as lt was.
mittee. We have but one from tbe province
dlid say to hlm 'No, because we, wben we
of Quebec, tliree from Ontario, four from
the maritime provinces, and one from the had a majority, laid down the principle
iiot to interfere with the commîttees as
west.
they stood, except to fill up vacancies by
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-DId the lion. appointing new senators.'
Gonsequentiy,
gentleman think that last year?
when my hon. friend said 'Relieve me ef
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I am n ft saylng what two committees,' I xnay bave said 'No,
I thouglit hast year. 1 arn saying wliat I you had better remain wbere you are.' I
thinli now. I wilh say notbing of the Div- uaderstood the bon. gentleman (Hon. Sir
We have one member ; Alphonse Pelletier) to say lie was on the
,orce Committee.
we shouid lave two at least, and 1 same comml.ttee as last year, wben the
suppose« that number from, Quebec prov- majority was wi.th the Conservatives.
Ince could le found to serve on the
Hon. Sir ÂLPHEONSE PELLETIER-Yes.
On the Restaurant CommitcomnIittee.
tee the province of Quebec la well reHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
presented. It la le a very unirnportant coin- only shows that that committee, wlien we
mittee, but I thinli we should have placed had the power, selected 'those men ln the
men there who knew something of club Senate tliey thouglit best fitted for their
management and la the ranlis of the gov- Qosition, Irrespective of their polities or
erninent to-day the hon, gentleman who lias leanings lu any way. If lie (Sir Alphionse)
taken such an active part In preparing this occupied a position on five commîttees, lt
Ilst of committees should have bad a posi- wvas by the wish of the Conservative mation, and that would bave given us fIve jority. We affirmed the principle that there
Instead of four. On the whole, the province ehould be no changes ln the committees
of Québec lias not the fair share that ehe except to fill vacancies. What I said was
would have- received if the etriking Commit- this-if tliey intended to reorganize and.
tee, of whici tlie hon. gentleman from De- form the committees on what they conlorîmier was so prominent a member, liad sidered an equitable basis, they did nlot
done justice to hie province." I hope when do ItL
those different committees where our provHon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I would not rise
Ince le not fafrly represented cornes up that
the saber second thouglit of rny hon. frlend to epeak but I wish to inake an explanation,
wlll Induce hlm to move the proper arnend- as my name bas been meationed by Sir
mente and do us justice. 1 speali earnestiy, Mackenzie Bowell, with reference to the
and I hope lie will really do so, and take ln committees. As boa. gentlemen are aware,
hand the Interests of his province, especlly there le a vast difference between the
when lie la the only member of that prov- committees, ln the number of meetings, and
Ince on the Strlking Commlttee. I thinli hie in~ the quantity and qua-lty of work subweaknees ehouid be his strength ln this mlttçd to tilem. Therefore, the Idea of
Instance, and that lie ehould appeal to the putting the Private Bills or the Printing
fair-play of the other members of the com- Committee In comparison with Rallways
xnittee to give the province which lie repre- or Banking le perfectly absurd. I think my
sente fair representation ln the committees hon. frlend, Mr. Gîbeon, wlll bear me out,
of this House, and especially on a commit- as liewas on the Committee of Printing
tee la which the French-speaking memibers whenn the House of Gommons. The Chairman, I think, with the prînter, did ail that
are dlrectly lnterested.

SENATE
was required. Gentlemen were appointed, reformed from without, aithough the means
to that commlttee for the purpose of allow- by which It could be la likely to be Invoked,
Ing thein to go home occasionally. I used no matter how bad It may be, but It might
to go on Friday mornings, but that any one be reformed from wlthin. It might Instlcould learn anything about legislation there tute many reforins, viz., as to Its durationwas ridiculous. I look upon the Private as to the eligiblity of different persons to
Bille as the cockpit of the committee, be- enter it for other reasons than for political
cause ail the sick, ail the defective ln mind, services or support of party, and various
or part of their economy, are placed on that other conditions that might be discussed.
committee. I presume It ls this way-when Hlowever, that was Ignored, and now there
the other committees are formed, those who can be no doubt about the political nature
are left are put on the Private Bille Coin- of the Senate. I neyer before feit that
mIttee, and a few others (to give it a colour It was decidedly polItical, because there
of life) are thrown ln. I served a long tinie was not; the element of party ln it. In the
on those committees, and because I went , firet place that Boston born Institution, the
home at times, I did not interfere. More-' caucus, neyer existed here to my knowover, gentlemen on the others were older 1ledge. 1 neyer was at one. That other Inthan I, and I was always taught to respect stitution belonging to party goverament,
my seniors. However, I did not look for the whip, I never heard of ln this House.
anything until I was able to give more at- I neyer was asked, directly or indirectly,
tention to the work of the Important coin- to vote for any measure. I was an humble
mittees. Wben I had ail my tume at my member who might have to be looked after,
disposai here, I asked Sir Mackenzie Bowell yet I neyer was asked, to vote. There may
to place me on some commlttee which had a have been others who were; I was not.
good deal of work to do, ln order to keep In Perhaps they regardéd me as the Strlking
touch with the legisîntion. He did so, and Comxnittee have done on this occasion, but
selecting the Railway Committee, I at- 1 neyer took any political Bide ln this House
tended every meeting, as I promised, and except on that affair of the Yukon, whIch I
soleiy to keep In touch with the legislation dld not think was r1ght. I voted as I did
of the country. I had no other object It On 'that occasion for patriotic reasons,
certalnly neyer entered my head to connect and ln the interest of the country, and not
it with politlcs or anythIng of that kind. for the purpose of interfering in any way
Therefore, when I was cut down to this with, or embarrassing the govcrnment.
PrIvate Bills Commlttee, whlch I look upon Theretore, I tbink that, taking it ail Into
as the very lowest position it le possible to consideration, I was not 'treated ,fairly,
appoint a man to-mn fact you could not and that I had a right to be placed ln some
put me on anything else but Divorce-I felt better position than I was, not for any other
that I was not fairly treated. I amn very purpose than to obtain knowledge of
giad that these gentlemen who come here legisiation. I should ire to know froin
with ail the vigour of youth are occupyîng the Secretary of State, or saine member of,
the highest positions. The Secretary of the co'zmittee, on what princ¶1ple the coinState, who has the honour of leadlng the mittees are formed ? They do not seem to
House now-and whom I congra.tuiate, is be formed on the basis of provincial reprerichly deserving of It, and well fitted to M11sentatIon, and certainly not on the principle
it-might have been dIsposed to have some Of seniority. I do not know Vhat they are
consideration for older members of the based on the education or experience of the
Senate. But contrary to the chivalry of members. I do net know, of any basis on
those gentlemen who ought to have that which to put it but politice. If that la so,
quaiity, the Secretary 0f State was fýrced ' and that le announced, It ends the malter.
to use a military terin, to rush the position, People ean then understand that the Senate
and he did.
takes Its rank on the saine level as the
I thought these gentlemen would meet and House of Commons.
negotiate for the Improvement of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was ln the past.
A great deal was heard about Senate reforin
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Not with me. I
some time ago. The Senate might have been 1neyer voted that way. It ought not to be,
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

MLkROH 19, 1902
because this Senate sbould occupy a h1gb
position In the country. The unfavourable
- opinion that people outside entertain of this
Senate, la due to Ignorance. They do not
look intelligently Into It. They look upon
it that we are lere as Conservatives or
Liberals, and that we vote wlth our party.
Tînt is an erroneous idea, and I do not
think the House is constituted on that princIple.
The Fathers of Confederation lni establishing the Senate thought there would be
enougl men lni this country of sufficlentiy
h1gh tone and patriotie vIews to sink their
personal and political feelings, Just as a
lawyer does when le asoends the benchthat the gentlemen coming ln here wouid
teel they were entering a temple of justice
to vote ln the best Interests of the country,
and that ench wouid try to lit hlrnself as
an Impartial Judge ready to devote his tirne
and attention' to what would promote the
Interests of the people ln general, flot to
elevate any particular party, which would
criticise legislation ln sudh a way as
wouid comrnend itself to tbose who
were criticised as well as to the crils
I sho-uld lke -the Secrethemselves.
tary of State to say If there be any
other grounds than the one I have suggested for the formation o-f these co-mmittees. I say it without any idea of
hamper-ing hlm ln any way. If there be
any other I should litre to know IL 'I was
under the Impression it was different, and
therefore I feel 'a great deal more keenly
the position I have been placed ln, knowing
as I do the constitution of those committees.
Hon. Mr. KERRt-Tle gallant knight wlo
leade the opposition ln this House, las ti
afternoon, ln lis speech, given one furtler
proof of his untiring industry. He bas
shown by his close analysis of the personnel of the proposed committee, tint le las
expended a great deal of time and thouglit
upon this question, and he tbonght fît In the
course of lis address, witl which I find no
fault, to mention my na-me. It s0 lappens
that I have been pro!posed for four
co-inrittees. I wisl to say tînt I am
no-t responsible for tbat. Since I entered this clamber 1 have neyer spoken
to any member of the government, or any
one out of the government, requesting to be
placed on any cornrittee. I sirnply have

tried to do rny duty, as 1 shai lin the future
try to do rny duty.on any cornrittee on which
I arn placed, flot inquiring why 1 arn there.
But It does so lappen that I arn just on~
the sme four committees that I have been
on for the last two or three sessions
flon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-HEear, hear.
Hon. Mr. KERRI-Ând I would tain.
hope that I shail flot prove a useless member
of any of these committees. I should litre
to rernind the gailant knight, If le has forgotten-end I think it onIy due to myself, although I do flot 111e to Imitate a bad exampie and blow my own trumpet-that I served
on Important cormlttees for several years
ln the other brandi of the legisiature. He
knows that for the lat thirty years 1 have
served on Important rnunicipal committees,
on university commIttees, and on other Important bodies, so tînt although an unworthy mernber. perlaps, o-f these several
cornmittees, I hope I shai be of sme use
to them ; but as I said before, on whatever
committee I serve, whether it be on one comrnittee, on two committees, on three committees, or on four committees, I shail aiways have before me the polar star of duty,'
striving to do my duty to rny King and to
rny country. I should lire to throw out
a suggestion which migît be slightly cornforting to any rnernber of this august body
who las been chagrined or disappointed at
being left frorn smre comrnittee, and commend to such that comforting text of Scripture, which says, 'In whatsoever state you
are, learn tlerewith to be content?
The motion was agreed to.
THE PRINTING COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the foilowing be added to the Joint Committee on
Printing :
'lhe Honourable Mes-ieirus :-B--rnier, Cari.g,
Sir Johni, K.C.M.G., Cochrano, Dever, Dobson,
Ellis, Fergusoir. Fiset, Gibsoai. Kiag, Macdonald
(P.E.I.), MacKay (AIma), MacKeen, Mernier,
O'Denoboe, Pelletier, Sir Alphonse, K.C.M.G.,
Primrose, Reid, Slehyi, Tempi inn, Watson21.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-L should
litre to caUl the attention of the House to
the tact that the House of -Commons have
24 members on this comm~ittee. I bave
always understood tis. was a joint com-

SENATE
mittee of equal numbers. We have only 1 BANKING AND COMMERCE COMMIT21. That i. lnx accordance wlth our rule,
TEE.
but the Gommons have twenty-four, and 1
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved that the followlng
think that la also ln accord wlth their ruie, members constitute the commlttee on Bankor If flot their rule, It la ln accordanoe with îng and Commerce:
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-They had twentyfour laet year.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In fixe
journals of last year they have fihe names
of twenty-four members. Why.should we
flot have an addltionai thnee ln onder to
have an equai number with the 'Commons ?
And If so, It wlll be necessary to change
our nule which restricte fixe number to
twenty-one. I Seil attention to thîs tact
la onder that the Senate may have Its true
proportion on the committee. It le slmply
a matter of principie. I do flot know that
it makes much difference, but I think that
It; should flot be allowed to continue as It
l. The hou. gentleman should place a notice upon the motion paper to change the
rule Which governs this House, and make
the number.for the Senate twenty-foun, the
ame as the Gommons.

The Honourable Messieurs :-Aikins, Boweii.
Sir Mackenzile, K.C.M.G., Casgraln (Windsor),
Ciemow, Cox, Danduranil. Drummond, Fergusen, Forget, Fuiford, Hin.-st-n, Jlir Wm., Jones,
Kerr, Lougheed, Mackay (Aimp),. McDon-aid
(C.B.), McCallim. M.-Milan, McSwe..2ney, Miller,
O'Brien, Perley, Primrose, Thibaiudeaau (de la
'VaIllêère) * Thompffon, Sheyhn, Wark, Wood,
(Westmoreland), Wood (Hamilton),*Yeo.-30.
The motion was agreed to.

COMMITTEE ON RÂILWÂYS, TELEGRÂPHS AND HÂRBOURS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT nxoved that the following
gentlemen be appolnted a committee on Railways, Teiegnaphs and Harbouns :
The Honourable Me.-isl'urs :-B31ilue, Baker,
Bc.lIduc, BoweIi. Sir Mackenzie,
K.C.M.G.,
Ciemow, Casgrain (de Lan..i.lière) * Dever,
Drummond, mlis. F-xrgutson, FIs.ct, Gibàox. Godbout, Jouses, Kerr, King, Klrchhoffer, Landerkin,
i.oughEbed, Lovltt, Macdonald (Victoria), Mackay (Aima), McCallum, M.cDo'nald (C.B3.). MacKay (Truro), McLaren, McHugh, McMililan, McMujlen, Miller_. ODonohue, Owens, Pelletier,
Sir Aiphosse. K.C.M.G., Poirier, Scott, TempleHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I should like to cal! man, Vidal, Wood (Hamilton), Watson, Young,
-o.
attention to thue Joint Commlttee on the
He said: In movlng the appolntmlent of
Llbrary. It stands ln the same position.
We have seventeen for thîs House, and they this committee I shail endeavour ta say a
word or two la answen to the hon. gentlehave elghteen ln the, House of Gommons.
man from Kingston, who called my attenHon. Mr. SCOTT-I thought I would leave tion to fixe absence of any princîple-or
it fil later on, and If some hon. gentleman rathen, ln explanation of fihe principle that
should express a desîre to be on the.com- gulded
thxe Striking Commlttee.' Unfortumlttee, we could put hlm on.
aately, ln the past, and I may say It has
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-But the hon, gentle- prevaiied ln the House since I have been
man does not accede to Oun wlshes.
a memben of this chamben for the last
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I dld flot make any thlrty-four years, thxe committees have neyer
been settled on any prInciple. No fixed
change ince last year.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B0UWiýLL-That principle has prevailed. It bas been practiis no reason why we shouid continue the cally a matten of caprice, qualified somewhat
by the desire of particulan gentlemen to go
Inequallty.
on committees. Each gentleman, no doubt,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
bas a preference, and If one could so arrange
The motion was agreed to.
it as to suit every one, It would be extremely
desirable. It would centainly be moat acSTANDING ORDERS COMMITTEE.
ceptable to myseif If the wishes of every
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved that the followhon. gentieman were gratified ln that parlng gentlemen be the committee on Standing
ticular. But with a pretty accurate know.
Orders:
ledge of the formation of committees ln the
The Honourable Messieurs :-Bei 1 ue, Carling,
Sir J., K.C.M.G., Ciemow, Glimor, Macdonald past, I venture to say they have been fonmed
(P.E.I.), Macdonald (Vict >rtx), MCKay (Truro), simply on the-perhaps caprice is too arbi.
Yeo, Youug.-9.
trary a word-but on no prînciple wbatever,
The motion was agreed to.
neither as regards provinces non the politiHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAROR 19, 1902
cal aspect though the political aspect ls on30
that has naturally crept lu fromn time to
lime. I have under my hand here, compiled by the clerk, the formation of the
several committees. Take, for Instance, the
Library Committee, the first one to whlcb
I alluded. You will fiad there that Ontario
la represented by three hon. members, while
Quebec was represeated by 'eight lu the
past. It la quite evideat that there was
no attention paid to the province from
One would
which the geat.leman came.
naturally say, to do what la fair we should
have regard both to the provinces from
whlch senators come, and also ta the political aspect of the senators, because 1 think
both those elements are of very preut lIportance on these commîttees, and that the
province and the political aspect of the prov ince ought tg be fairly represented. It
will be seen, however, by a reference ta the
actual figures lu past years that neither
of those prînciples has lu any way furnisbed a guide la the creation of the committees. Take the commlttee we have just
deait wlth, the Commlttee on Banklng and
Commerce: while la 1894 Ontario hail eleven
members on the co-mmittee, Quebec hadl
only eight. Ia 1898 Ontario hail eleven and
Quebec only seven. Quebec's number went
down. Ia 1900 Ontario went up again to
twclve and Quebec still remalned at seven.
Sa that hon, gentlemen wlll see thit there
was a very great dlscrepancy between the
two larger provinces. Ia the preseut liat
one has bicen taken off Ontario and the
auxaber reduced ta eleven, and one has been
added to Quebec, making the number eight
Bo that, so far as that committee la concerned, there has flot been au adherence
strictly to the old prînciple whichi prevalied
glving Quebec a very manch less number
than Ontario. I thiuk, as far as practicable,
one ought to glve to each province an
average representatioxi on each commlttee ;
that principle should. guide the committee. In reference to the political complexion of the committees, the plan adopted la the House of Gommons maight be
Pdopted here, notwithstandlng what the
hon, gentleman from Kingston says. Wltb
an experleace of thirty-eight years ln this
House, I am obliged ta say that the House
has dlvlded politlcally on very many occasions. I have hadl charge of goverument
bils which have been defeated, and ln one

case particularly, when a change of government took place, the samne Bill was
passedl by the Senate. I refer to the Esqulmalt and Nanaimo bll. I do neot propose to
go over the ground to show the very many
cases ln which the Senate have thrown out
certain bis, and where the lunes of division
were practically political, and on no other
basis. It was qulte natural when gentlemen came Up from the other chamberHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
and Nanaimo bill was
the Esqultmai
tbrown out it was done by. the votes of a
number of Liberals.
Hon.' Mr. SCOTT-The number of Liberals lu the Senate was very small at the
time."
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
does not alter the fa'ct whlch 1 have stated.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have an indistinct
Idea oit one or two Liberals voting that way,
but I would not be positive.
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
have a positive Idea.
Hon. Air. SCOTT-What are the names 1
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
the names somewhere. I thlak there were
more than one or two.
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-It can be proved
by the Journals of the House.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Then, agala, coming
to the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs
and Harbours, lu 1894 the province of Ontario was representèd by thirteen, and in
189 It; had thirteen, Quebec having ln the
former year only seven, and la 189 only
eight. In 1'898 Ontario had fourteen on the
Committee on Rallways, Telegraphs and
Harbours, and Quebec had eight. -la 1900
Ontario had fourteen and Quebec aine. On
the present liat Quebec has ten, one more
than It: had before, and Ontario has flfteen.
Thea, taking the political view of It la 1894
on the Banking and Commerce Committee,
there was not a single Lîberal from Ontario. Ia 189 there was one. la 1898 there
were two, la 1900 there were tour. In 1894
there was not a single Quebec Liberal on
the Banking and Commerce Commlttee. Iu
1M9 there was one out of aine, In 189b
Quebec had sevea members in the Banking
and Commerce Committee, but not; a Lib-

SENATE
eral among the number. Then coming ta
the Committee on Railways, Telegraphe
and Harbours, ln 1896 there were thirteen
members from Ontario, ten Conservatives
and three Liberals. In 189 out of fourteen from Ontario, eleven were Conservatires and three LIberals.
In 1900 there
were tour- Liberals to ten Conserv'atives.
1 find that proportion ruas through ail the
years.

tingent Accoants Committee, out of seven
inembers froni Ontario, la 1900 and ln the
previons year, there was only one LIberal.
In Qnebec ln 1900 ont of six members
there was only ane Liberal. In New Brnswick they had only two, and there was ane
LiberaL So that han. gentlemen will see
it was anly reasonable, when the Liberals
came ta aay strength ln this chamber,
that they shanld certalnly-and. they wonld
Han. Mr. LÂNDRY-How many Liberaia be wrong If they had nat; demanded itsecared proper representation on the comwere there ln the Hanuse at that Urne ?
mittees. They had flot a represeatation beHan. Mr. SCOTT-Â gaod many more fore. The figures prove that fact, and I
la proportian ta the naniber represented maintain that that Is one of the items.
there.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I rise ta a point of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How many ? Let us order. The hon. gentleman is qnotiag froni
judge of the proportions aurselves.
'a document. I should. like ta have it laid
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lf on the Table.
bon. gentlemen look at the Governor GenHlon. Mr. SCOTT-Certataly, I wfll lay It on
eral's reasons advanced for nat appolnting the Table when I have finished. In referMr. Desjardins and one or two others after ence ta the formation of thase committees
the electIons of 189, It will be found that ln the firat place, my view-which has nat
he stated that there were only six. I wlsh prevalled in the past-is that the fair and
It ta be dlstinctly nnderstood tbat I do flot proper way ta form cammIttees wonld be
hl~od Lord Aberdeen respoaiible for that ta consider f1rat, how are the pravinces
statement. It muet have been dane at the represented as ta their nambers, and the
Instance of the hon. gentleman's colleagues, aext woald be ta give the political represenbecanse It was not strictly correct.
tation ln the province a fair representatian
Hon. M*r. SCO1T-Then on an Important ia the cammittees. It la exceedingly difcammittee ln this chamber, the Contingent ficait ta do that ta ail cases, becanse there
A ccouats Committee, the Liberals were left are many gentlemen who desire ta be on
off year after year. To my certain knowledge particular committees. The Rallways, Telthere were gentlemen acting ln palitical egraphs and Harbonrs Commlttee and the
unison wlth myseif who were anxions ta Contingent Âccannts Cammittee, are the
.serve, and were flot permitted ta be on that committees that attract senatars more than
committee, and I maintain that they were any ather, and It la very diffcult, Indeed,
entitled ta a fair representatian an any Just ta make the praper arrangement and gratif y
principle that should have gnided the selec- the wishes of those who desire ta be on the
commlttee. Except ln regard ta those two
tion.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is the hon, gentle- committees, I state-and 1 tbjnk the facts
man answerlag the speech he made last bear me ont as I have given the evidenoe
ta the Honse-that as little disturbance as
year ?
possible was made with the existlng caniHon. Mr. SCOTT-Hon. gentlemen knoWV mittees. The facto are there ta speak for
that, as a raie, ln this chamber, 1 have themselves. No changes were made pracendeavonred ta throw ail an the troubled ticaily except on two committees, the Conwaters, and to sinooth aver matters as tingent Accounts and the Railways. I did
mnch as I cauld, and dnring the very long claim that the Liberals were entitled ta
a
years I have made an endeavour ta get-the larger represeatation on the Contingent
Accommittees ta work as smoothiy as. possi- counts Committee. I stated
so froin the
ble. If I could not'get ail I wanted I was beglnning. I stated
that the goverament
content ta take the best I cauld, and 1. oaght ta have a majority on that committhink It was good policy or I waald not tee. That is my conviction, on the prInhave had as mach as i got. On the Con- ciple that as the government Is respansible
Hon. Mr. SCOrr.

MARCH 19, 1902
for the expenditure, they ought to have
control of that commlttee. 1 have Urne and
again commented on the extravagance of
that commlttee. I do flot propose now to
go Into the figures, but It la qulte notorlous
that ln past years there bas been an absence of responsiblity, and there bas been
a good deal of log rollng, I do flot mean
to say that the Liberaila have not been qulte
as responaIble for that as the Conservatives, but the goverfiment could flot be
charged wlth responslbllity so long as tbey
had not a proper representation on the commlttee.
Hon.
retary
lie, as
sented

Mr. LANDRY-Could the Hon.
of State tell me why, ln that
a member of the government,
to be left off that committee ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Mr. Templeman
put on the commlttee lni my place.

Seccase,
conwas

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-But lie bas flot had
the hon. gentleman's experlence.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was not neoessary to
put two members of the government on the
commlttee.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Then the bon. gentleman mlght have remalned on the commlttee
and let Mr. Templeman go elsewhere.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I found there were several gentlemen who 'wanted to be on that
commlttee, and I have no particular love
for the commlttee. Bo long as the goverament bad a majorlty on the commlttee, I
thought It would be perfectly saf e. The
majorlty would accept the Instructions tbey
would recelve, and the expenditure would
be kept down.
Hon. Mr. ]PERLEY-Does the hon, gentleman mean that It would be conducted on
party unes ?
Hon. Mr. IjÂNDRY-Tbey wanted control,
over It, ln order that the government could
check the exPenditure, and for that reason,
the Hon. Secretary o! State leaves bis name
off the commlttee..
Hon.- Mr. SCOTT-But I left a representative on the committee, Mr. Templeman,
who has plenty o! lime to look after It.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-But at that time he
was 'not a member- of the government.
Hon. Sir MÂCKE1NZIE BOWELL-The
Hon. Secretary o! :State bas' dlscussed

the Contingent Accounts Commlttee ais
well as the Rallways Committee.
Does
lie propose to discuss the Contingent Accounts Commlttee again, because otherwlse the remarks must bave left a wrong
Impression upon the minds of those wbo
bave listened to them. Wben he spoke
of the extravagance and the necesslty for
the government controlling it, we muet Infer
that ln the future they are to have tlhe consciences o! ail the Liberal members in their
pockets, and are golng to control them as
they please on the commlttee. I can tell hlm
that ln the past the Conservative members
o! that commlttee were no more responsible
than the Liberal members wbo support the
goverament for the extravagance to wblch
lie refera. In !act, the leaders lni what he
terme extravagance-I amn ot prepared to
say It was extravagance, but what be deslgnated as extravagance-were members of bis
own party. In f act, are we to understand
that whatever the government decem the
majorlty of that commlttee wilI do ? I have
a little better opinion o! the members of this
Hlouse than to suppose that the goverament
are golng to twist tbem, ln their bands la
any way they please I belleve the members
wlil tbink for themselves; la the future, and
ail I desîre to say le, It was not the Oonservative members more than the others who
were responsible for the Increases of salary to wbich lie refera.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-I dld not bear the
Hon. Secretary o! State mention the changes
la that committee. In reference to the other
committees, the bhon. gentleman mentioned
the nat-es and the changes, and by whom
these gentleman were replaced, but be bas
not done so, lni this case. I thlnk the Banklng and Commerce Oommlttee should be
taken up firat The motion for the adoption
o! the Banklng and Commerce Commlttee
bas not been carrled. yét .
The SPEÂKER-Yes, ft bas been carrled.
Hlon. Mr. F'ORGET-I sbould like to know
why the hon, gentleman bas not mentioned
the changes ln the Railways and Canais,
before puttlng the motion to this House. 1
see my name bas been taken off , and 1
should like to know the reason wby. It
la a very delicate question for me to speak
about I am perhaps not well known here
by a great many hon. gentlemen, and es-

SENATE
pecially those who have been manipulating
the committee-tbat is, one of tbem. The
other (Hon. Mr. Dandurand) should have
known me. He has known me a great
many years, and be knows the interests 1
represent ln Mopitreal ln rallways and navigation. Of course I do flot like to Say anything about it, but 1 do flot kflow why the
hon. géntieman lo trying to humillate me
before the whole country by taking mY
nome off the cormlttee, where I should be
before even the Committee on Banking. 1
amn a banker and a broker, and 1 may be
of some service to the House on that commlttee, but if I arn useful there, I would
be ten Urnes more useful on the Committee
on Railways and Canais. I owe It to the
differeat companies 1 represent ln the citY
of Montreal. There are three companies
of 'which I arn president, represeflting a
capital of fIve millions of dollars. I have
always made It a point to attend the meetIngs of the Rallway Cornmittee. I have
sometimes been absent, but very seldom,
especlally when there was Important busIness before tbern. I daresay I have flot
attended ln the House as steadily as 1
should have, but whenever there was anythiag before the Senate that I thouglit requlred my presence, I made It My duty to
be here, and than a great many hon. members of this House who corne here to attend for balf an bour and go away. When
I was here I was here for the whole sitting of the House.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I can aaswer
the hon. gentleman's Inquiry. As the Hou.
Secretary of State has said, the Lîberal
members of this chamber thought they
were entitled to a fair share of representation on sorne of the most Important coinmittees. They tbought tbey were entltled
to a majority of one or two on the RalWay
Committee.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-They have four.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-They came to
the meeting, and quite naturally-and i
thlak the hon. gentlemen on the other aide
will appreciate the motives wblcb dictated
tain to thein to declare wbo should represent the regularly constltuted opposition la
this chamber upon the divers comrnittee.
We offered to the bon. gentleman opposIte to
Hona. Mr. FORGET.

allow tbern to choose nineteen representatives on the Railway Comrnittee, provided
we got twenty-oae. As the hon. the leader
of the opposition declared ln thîs chamber
a moment ago he and hîs friends decliaed to
Malte that selection, because It enta lied the
sacrifice of a number of his own frieads.
WVe were not prepared at that moment to
make 'as careful a selection for My bon.
friend as I thlnk we could have doue, If we
badl known that that would be the attitude
the miaority la that cormIttee would take.
We tried to do for the best, and why iuy
bon. friend who has mast preceded me has
been left out, and some others of hîs own
friends lu the province of Quebec preferred,
iras slrnply because he was on the Bauking
Committee, a commIittee where I thInk he bas
more experleace, wbere It appeared at ail
events to the majorlty, bis owa qualifications and his owa calling gave hlm a greater
right to be, and when it came to examlning
his own rlght to be on that committee, coinpared with the right of some of his frieads
to be there, I kaow that the principal motive
that dlctated the conduct of the rnajority
was that thoSe wbo rernained o! the
province of Quebeýc of his own party
were more faltifful attendiants of this
cehamber than blmself. I kuow that the
bon. gentleman la one of the busiest
Montrealers that We have aud one wbose
achievemeats we are the proudest, but whea
we came to sacrificing somie o~f bis frieanIs,
we tbought he coul-d not very well attend a nim-ber of committees ln the
rnorning, as be-witb myself-usually came
on the rnorning train to attend the afternooa
sessions, and as some names had to be sacriflced, his was left off, but the principal
reason for hîs belag left off was the fact
o! bis own friends delling to point out
who could moat often attend, and who deslred moat to be on the cornmittee. My own
conviction was that tbe boa, gentleman was
fairly indiff erent as to the commîttees on
which he would have served, because of
the nurnerous affaira wbicb be bas to look
after in Montreal, and whicb detain film
!orclbly at bis borne. There was a generai
desire to do for the best on that committee,
and the bon, gentleman will see that this
la tbe only comrnittee where sorne of my
hon. friends opposite were sacrIJlced. The
Hon. Mr. Coi was also reJieved f rom serviag

MAIRCH 19, 19AQ
on the Rallway Committee.
It was for
the nome reason that he, wlth the hon., gentleman opposite, was struck off-his numeroue duttes demanding hie présence lni Toronto. He was left on the Banklng Commlttee. As I say, we were taken by surprise
by the attitude of the leader of the opposition when he said: 'We wM not select our
nineteen; you.can do It youreelf.' We tried
to do the best for ail. As a matter of fact,
we should have preferred te leave the hon.
gentleman from Monfreal on, that commlttee, and If hie assertion le rlght-I arn
nlot a member of that commlttee, and caunot speak of hie past attendance-there are
members of that commlttee who would gladly make way for hlm If he can glve the
Urne lie says he could glve, because he actually dld not attend often lent year at the
meetings of the committees. But there was
absolutely no bias la the mind of any one
ln the rnajorlty of that cormlIttee agaînst
any particular colleague of ours in tis
Chamber. We thought we were entltled to
a rnajorlty of one on that cornrnttee, and
some hadl to give way to the new blood we
were infusing Into that commlttee.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-I have been accused
of not belng here lant year. I had to go
away for my health to pas the wlnter ln
Europe. The hon. gentleman says I do not
attend the Rallway Oornrittee meetings because I take the rnorning train to corne to
the capital. The hon. gentleman le wrong.
If he refera to the record of the Rallway
Cormlittee he wlll see that my attendance
there compares very well wlth the attendance of haif the members of that commlttee.
He aiso says that my business belng s0
large in Montreal, I cannot very well attend to the cornrnttee. I thlnk 1 arn the
best judge 0f'that. The Banklng Cornrnttee
does nlot requfre my attendance very often.
I do not belleve that comrnIttee meets more
tban haif a dozen times durlng 'a session.
The Rallway Commlttee le a very important
comrnlttee, and meets twloe a week. I have
attended to meetings twlce a week often,
and I think I have doue my duty, and I defy the hon. gentlernan to prove the contrary to this House. As far as my own
affaire are concerned, If 1 was flot able. to
give the time that I should give to that'commlttee, I arn the. beet judge of It, and 1
would net. accept the positon If I could net
7

discharge the duties, because If a mnan canneot give Urne to the work of a commlttee,
It le only fair he should give way to others.
Hon. Mr. BÂKER-Whatever may have
been the cause for the omission of the
name of the hon. gentlemnan frorn the Railway Cormlttee, I arn sure that ail agree
It wae a mistake and a mIefortune that It
should be omltted. To rectify that mistake
and to remove the effeet of that miefortune,
I ask this House, wlth perfect slncerity andi
ail erneetuess, to substitute the name of my
hon. frlend for mine on that commlttee, and
I hope the House wlll nlot hesîtate to do s.
Hlon. Mr. FORGET-The thlng bas been
done. I have been sllghted, and I arn willIng to remain as I amn. I shall not take the
seat of any of rny friende on the commlttee.
Hon. Mr. COCHRÂNE-It le very rarely I
addrees the. House, but I thinil the Senate
would like the explanation I arn golng. te
auk for. The Secretary of State, ln two or
three of the first committees that he rnoved,
seemed to go into detal as to why sorne
members were lett off. Now, he wants te
sprlng the mont Important commlttee on
the House wlthout a proper explanation.
I want to know, for instance, why I was
strucli off altogether. I have been a member of this House I thlnk twenty-elght
years or rnore. For a great .many years I
have been on the Ralliway Oommlttee. I
probably, lu a polItical sense, have neyer
lnterfered rnuch wlth the House, but- If
I had any ordlnary Intelligence, I have aiways frled to use If for the betterment of
my country and people, as rny past record
durlng the lant thlrty years wlll show, the
Interest I have taken ln the North-west and
British Columbia. The risil I ran, te begin
wlth, ln trylng to open up and show we
have a country there, hlstory wll prove,
and ht le not neceseary for me te explalx4
that now. I feit that If there was any commlttee I wanted to be on-I have been on
only two for the last three years-lt Io the
Rallway Oommlttee. I could not very. well
corne up here aÙ% opening of parliament.
the
As It bas turned out, It 'would flot have
arnounted to anythlng If I bad. I wrote- ta
rny friend, the leader of the opposition, ta
try and see that my naine was contlnued
on tlie commlttee. He bas explalned that

SENATE
My narne
lie dld try, but wlthont aval.
was struck off and I was put on the
1rlnting Committee, whieb le practicaUly
no0 committee at ail. 1 feel very keenly
tlhat I was left ont altogether. There miglit
bave been conrtesy enougli fot to snnb and
kick an old man ont of a committee to make
room for those who have jnst corne ln. I
slionld like the Secretnry of State, before
lie gets tlirongli wltb tbis IaIway Commlttee, to make an expianation wby sncb
and sncb names were left off aud for what
reason my own, amongst others, was left
off.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bon, gentleman lias based bis dlaimi on the
Ibrîncîpie laid down by the Secretary of
State, tliat lu the flouse of Commous tlie
commîttees are formed upon the basis of
tlie political complexion of the bouse, and
lie dlaims that the ame principie abould
preval la the Senate. The bon. gentleman
from Delorimier (Hon. MIr. Dandnrand) uaid
that tbey were eutltled to n majorlty on tbe
Rallway Commlttee. Thiat I deny. The
Conservative majorlty, If we are to discuse
the question of polltics, 15 five lu this Seiisite, bnt yon ladl the opportunity, unfortnnateiy, of biaving a majority ant the time
you formed. the Comsnlttee on Selection.
TIse goverument took adantage of it, aud
bave sacrlficed, sncb gentlemen as tiiose
wbo bave mast spokeu, the Hon. Mr. Sulivan, the Hon. «Mr. Cochrane aud the Hou.
Mr. Forget. I desire also to say that the
hou. gentleman's langutige was itot strictiy
correct ln reference to tbe position I took
on the committee myseif. We are ahl violatlug tbe ruies ln referriag to what tooli
place ln tbe committee, and 1 shiah move
that the proceedîngs of that Commlttee on
Selection be laid before tbe flouse. Then
we w.ll know better liow tbese selections
were made, and wlio voted to put tlhese gentiemen off and wvbo to keep themi on. Tlie
position I tooli was thîs, that as yon propose baving a majorîty by îsutting off a
number of old members o! the committee,
wblcb was not ln accordance with the former practice, we dechiued to take tbe responsibility of putting any of Our frienda
off. Your sald 'select your frienda.' We
gaid no. Tbe Secretary of State wll remember to put tîls question to me:
'You desire to bave ail yotur friends reHon. Mr. COCHRANE.

main on the commIttee.' I said 'precisely,
and filU up the vacancles wltli your frlenda
as was doue ln the past. If you have six
the
uiew members, 1111 vacancies wltli theni.'
Wve were sîot prepared to assume the responsibility of saylng to men wbo are more
Interested than many of us ln the business pertaning to the different committees,
punt tbemi off. The lion, gentleman took tlhat
responsibillty, and wlien tbe proceedings
are laid before tbe flouse tbey will sbow
isow It was maaipnlated. Yon have taken
advaatage of a temporary accidentai niajority at tbe time, and I suppose wve may
jndge by tliia iittle act what we may expect wiea lion, gentlemen opposite bave a
real majority. I have not liad an opportunity of analyslng the statemnent made by
the Secretary of State as to the past. It
rnay be strictly correct. I ar n ot going to
dispute it ; but lie sliould remember that
many of thse years to whlcbli e refera were
years la whicb the Liberal elernent lis tbis
House was very small, and as I calied tbe
attention of tise flouse to the filct, tliey put
la tbe moutb of tbe Governor General of
tbis Dominion a statement that tbiere were
oniy six or seven Liberals lu the flouse at
the time, and lie gave tbat as a reasou for
bis refusai tb reappoint to the Senate those
wbo baad resigned to conteat elections ln
1896. How la It possible If that statement
were correct, tbat the Liberals could bave
mny on thse committees. In the face of
the tact thiat Liberal members, wlien they
were aumerically very wealk lu the Seunate,
were put on four and five comînittees, and
some more, bow eau tbe charge lie made
of political lilas at the time ? One ivouhd
suppose, to hear thse Secretary 0f State
make bis statemeut, that the House wvas
full of Liberals at thie time, and cousequently tbey were not properly represented
on the committees. I have csslled tbe at.tention of tlie flouse over and over again
to thie*faét that the Libemals were on more
committees than Conservatives were-uecessarily so, becanse tbey were less lu urber tlian the Conservatives, and for the reatson that I bave given thjat tlsey sbould
bave representation. Tlsey were put on
tour or five committees for two reasous.
First, that the Liberals were weak, and
wvere entltled to be ou more cotumittees
tbaa Conservatives wvere, and second for
their nbllity and their adaptillity Io tise

MARCIT 19, 1902
partîcular committees on which tbey wvere CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE.
appointed; but when you eay you have the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the followrIglit to a majority on the committees you lng lion. gentlemen compose the Committee
have none exoept the rIght that a temporary on Contingent Âccounts:
majorlty gives.

lne JUonouable Messieurs :-Bernier, Bolduc,
Casgrain (das Lunaudièro), Ellis, Puiford, Fiset.
Gibson, King, Landerkin, Landry, Lovitt, MeCallum, McDûnald (C.B.), McLare'n, MeMullen,
Miller, Montpiai&ir, Owens, Pelletier, Sir A.,
K.C.M.G., Perley, Power (Speaker), Templeman,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did not make auy Vidai, Watson, Wood (Wjtug)rq.in1).-25.
explanatiou.
The motion wae agreed to.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The reasons given
by the Secretary of State for refusing to
leave the-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I beg the lion. gen-DEBÂTES COMMITTEE.
tlernan's pardon. It was îîot the Minister
that anewered, but the prospective minIster.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the foliowing
The reason given by the boit. gentleman hon. gentlemen as a committee on Debates
from De Lorimaier for remdvlng the name or and Reporting :
my lion. frlend, the member for Sorel, from
The Honourable Messieurs :-B 31 -tîe, Bernier,
the Committee on Railways and Canais 51111e,
Kerr, Macdonald (P.E.I.) McCallum,
does not nPplY to me. I amn not interested Robertson, Thomp Ion, Vidsi.-9.
ln Banking and Commerce. I amrn ot living
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I would asl. the hou.
ln Montreal. I do not go down every day gentleman If hie could flot revise that iist.

to Montreal.

I am always liu Ottawa dur-

lng the sesison. 1 was not ln Europe last.
year, eo ail those relisons whlch my bon.
frlend !ound to justify 111e actions lu regard to my hon. friend for Sorel do not

I do flot' care whlch aide It le on, but 1
sliould like the Frenchi element to be more
represented on that commIttee. It deais
witli the reporting and translation lni the
Frenchi language.

appiy to me. I want to know, for my own
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I should be glad to consake, wliat are the rensons for removing
my name from the Committee on Railwaye -ider the suggestion. Wliat lion. gentleman
and Canals. I want to know .from the would like to serve on the committee ?
Secretary of State and frorn hlmt alone what
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I propose that Hou.
are the reasons ?
Mr. Poirier take the place of one of those.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tliere was îio special Hon. Mr. Beique was named ln my place,ý
reason. A gentleman from the province, was lie not 7
a frlend o! the government (Hou. Mfr. Fleet)
was put on ln place of the bion. gentlemant
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliere are no reasons
at aIl ?

Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-Yes, lie was.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER--Could not Hon. Mfr.
Landry himeel! be placed on that committee ?

Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-No reasons wvlatever.

Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-I move that Hion. Mr.
Poirier's name take the place of Hon. Mfr.
Kerr's on the committee.
COMMITTEE ON PRIVATE BILLS.
The amendment xwae agreed to, and1 the
motlon as amended was adopted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the !ollowlng

The motion wae agreed to.

lion. gentlemen compose the Committee on

Prîvate Bille :
The Plonourable Messieuirs :-Armnand, Baird,
Bcuchervile, de, C.M.G., CarmnichaA~, Casgrain

(de Lanaudière), Church, Dev,.,r, Dobion, Fuiford,.Giilrnor, Godbout, Gowti, C.M.G., Hingston.
Sir Wm., Kt., Landry, M-Hugh, McSweeney,
Merner, Montplaisir, O'Brien, .YDonohoe, Rdid,
Robertson, Shehyn, Sullivan, Thibaudeau (Ri
gaud).-25.
The motion was agreed to.

DIVORCE COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved the following hon.
gentlemen as the CommIttee on Divorce:
The H.>nourable Messieurs :-Baker, Gowan,
C.M.G., Kerr, Kirchhoffer, LoDugh3ed, MeMuiien,
Primrose,
-9.

Templeman,

Wood

(Westmnoreland).

The motion was agreed to.

SENATE
THE.RESTAURANT COMMITTEE.

belonging to the Dominion to the law
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the commit- society of the North-west Territories ?
tee on the Restaurant be composed of the
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
following hon, gentlemen.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELLThe Honourable Messieur; :-The Honourabie
the Speaker, Bolduc, McKay (Truro), MeMillan. la that intended to relieve the country
McSweeney, Miller, Pelletier, Sir Alphonse, K. In the future of any further expendiC.M.G.-7.
ture ln addlng to that library, or is
that placed. Inl the same position as
The motion was agreed to.
the old librarlea ln the other provinces,
The Senate adjourned.
sustaied, and supported and added to by
the funds of the society, the fees paid iu
by the lawyers ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I understand we free
ourseives of any further responslblity lu
transferring thîs llbrary to the law society,
Ottawea, T1sur8dayj, March 20, 1902.
that they are to take charge of It hereafter,
The Speaker took the Chair at Three and thiat we are no longer
expected to cono'clock.
tribute towards It.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They

TME SEXATE.

BILL INTRODUOED.

are to maintain it at th:eir own expense

.j

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, at their own ex*Bill <A) An Act respecting Applications
pense. We get rid of It.
for Raflway Cbarters.--(Hon. Mr. Casgrain,
De Lanaudière.)
Hou. Mr. FrERGUSON-It would seema to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-M ight mue that the proper way to do would be to
I ask: the hon, gentleman If that la a copy transfer tbat library to the Governor of the
of the Bill as lntroduced last year, or has It North-weat Territories, and jet hlm make
any arrangement w1th the Iaw soclety they
been amended ln any way ?
think proper. We are transferring a public
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The Bill now In- asset to a law society of which we know
troduced Is, I think, the same as the one pre- notbing. We do not know Its statua, or posisented to the Rallway Committee last ses- tion, or itsa bIlity to taire care of these
filon.
booksa, or do the work of managing that
Ilbrary. It seems to me the bettèr wny
would be to transfer the library to the govREGINA -LAW LIBRARY BILL.
ernment o! the North-west Territories and
SECOND READING.
let them transfer it to the law society Ilu
Hou. Mr. SCOTT moyed the second rend- existence there, or ln any way they choose.
lng of Bil (19) An Act relating to the
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The llbrary was origiRegina Law Library. He said: This Bil
i. embraced lu four Unes, authorizlng the nally formed for the benefit o! the prof esGovernor ln Councîl to- fransfer to the law sion there, and the judges thought the betsoclety of -the North-west Territorlea the ter way, lu order to relieve the goverunlent
iaw llbrary *now at Regina. It was pur- of the entire reaponsibllity ln the future,
chaaed by the country some years ago, and would ho to tranafer It to the law soclety,
from, tixue to time has been auued to, and wbichi was an organized Institution there, so
lt ýwas tbought better to transfer It to the tlmat hiereafter, la the purchase o! the books
law soclety at Regina, on such termas as that require to be bought from time to
nay be arranged with the Departmeut of thne, the law aociety should defray that
expense. There are, I may say, through ail
Justice.
parts of Ontario, la the.varions counties,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I law libraries whlch are maintained by the
underatand that this i. transferrlng propertyl profession, and I assume ut la Intended that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

M3ARCH 21, 1902
Bill (C) An Act for - the relief of John
the profession shahl keep Up this library
ln the future. They probably would lie bet- Hamilton Ewart.-<ýHon. Mr. Primrose.)
ter custodians of It than the government.
Bil (D) An Act for the relilef of James
ail the Birown.-(Hon. Mr. Landerkln.)
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I suppose
Bill (E) An Act for the relief of Thomas
3udges agree with that ?
Henry Radford.-<Hon. Mfr. Watfon.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I shlould like to PROVINCIAL AUTONOMY FOR NORTHIWEST TERRITORIES.
ask My hon. friend If he can give us some
Information about the iaw âociety ? How
INQUIRY.
many professlonai inen reside ln Regina ?
Hon. Mr. PERLEY rose to as]. the governIt may be there are no more than two or
ment :
three there aitogether.
If the goverament of the North-west TerriHou. Mr. SCOTT-I am unable to Sive the tories have made application to enter confedprovincial autonomy, and
under
xiumber, nor can I tell the nuniber distri- erationwhat are full terms and conditions prothe
If so,
buted over the Territories. I wiil endeavour posed by them ?
to . furnish that Information at the next
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-The government of the
stage of the Bill when we go into com- North-west Ten'Itories 'have made an apmittee.
plication to the government of Canada for
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill recognition of portions of the terrItory as
No acti.on bas been taken upon
provinces.
was rend the second trne.
It, nor i. likely to be ln the near future,
The Senate adJourned.
and unless -wdth the consent of the governient of the North-west Territories, it
wouid not be proper to brlng down the
At prepaper., or give any Information.
THE SENATE.
sent they are confidentiai and lhable to be
cbanged at ûny moment.
Ottawa, Ftlday, March 21, 1902.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do, I undeistand
The SPEAKER <took the Chair at Three from the hon. Secretary of State that there
o dlock.
la no -prospect of anyithing bedng done at an
early day with reference to this matter ?
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-It would require parBILLS INTRODUCED.
iiamentary action, and 1 do not think anyBill (B) An Act relating to the Ottawa thiug could lie consumnmatbed during the
Northern and Western Raliway Company.- present seslsion.
(Hon. 1Mr. Lougheed.)
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Might I ask the
Bill (No. 7) An Act respecting the Canada hon. Secretiary of State If the matter i.
Southern Raihway Company.--(Ion. Mr. under ithe consIderation of the goverament ?
MCa)IIUM.)
Hou. *Mr. SCOTT-Yes, It le of course
Bill (No. 13) An Act respecting the Can- under the consideration of the government.
ada and Michigan Bridge and Tunnel Comlion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Might I furthe!pany.-<H1on. 1fr. McCailum.)
1 understand the
ask wby the delay ?
Bill (No. 15) An Act respecting the River executive of the North-west Territories have
hSt. Clair RadIway Bridge and Tunnel Com- been In Ottaewa on two, or three occasions
peny.--(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
discuseing the subjct wlth -thls governBill (No. 18) An Act to Incorpora-te the ment, and I might say that pubèlc sentiV'elvet (Rossiand) Mine Raiiway Com- ment throughout the whole Mt the territorles bas asserted Itself very strongly ln
pany.-(Hon. Mfr. Macdonald, B.C.
favour of 1mmedinte action being taken
Bill (No. 20) An Act to incorporate the with reference to this Important matter,'
Battieford and Lake Lenore Raihway Com- and thfs government hitherto has express..
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
ed its -wUlngness to give provincial auto-

SENATE
nomy to the- Territories upon the same beIag nsked.
Therefore, ln view o! those
clrcnmstances, It seems to me very strange
that -some action has flot been 'Laken durlng
the tpresent sessioh.
Cez'taily, the public
of the Nortb-west anticipated that this government wouid bring do'wn some measure
along those Unmes.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I think there are some
anutters that wiii have to be further considered before final action can be taken.
The ares of the provinces, whether It shall
be one or seyerai, the centres, the -capitals
of the provinces, and a variety e! questions
ef tat kind have not reaily yet been discnased sufficlently to arrive at any fair conclusion.
lion. Mr. PERLEY-I understand that
the great dIfficuity ln the ïway-and 1Iimagine that to be the case from the tact that
the hon, gentleman mys there la no action
to be taken In the very near future-la that
theY do net wlsh te do anythlng until a!ter
the next federai election on account of somie
dilicu'lty that may arise In connection witb
the ichool question In tihat country. la
that so T
lion. Mr. SCOTT-No, I have not heard
tat
mentloned. .I bave net beard any
mention of! It ln that connection.
SECOND READING.
Bill (No. 10) An Act respecting the Ortord Mountain Rallway Company.-<Heo.
Mr. Owens.)
REGINA LAW LIBRARY BILL.
THIRD READING.
Vile House resolved itef Into a Cernmittee of the Whole on Bll (Ne. 19) An
Act relatlng te, the Regina Law Llbrary.
(In the Cemmittee.)
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. senator from
Queen's dealred tome Information whicb 1
promised te give at tihis stage ef the Blill.
Hie Inquired as te the number o! the profession ln Regina. I fi there are elght or
nine iawyers praatlsing there, and that there
are between elghty and nlnety practislng
adttgether ln the North-west Territories.
This library la for the use et the profession
througliout the North-west, the court aittIng
en banc ln Regina.
The Iaw association
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Itself bas already purchased a number of
books, outslde of the contributions made
by the government.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have been lookthat there is
Ing Inte the matter, and fi
a law soclety ln the North-west Territories
and that it la thoroughly equipped for
taking care of the ia-w ilbrary. I arn quite
satlsfied on that point. Is It essentiaily a
iaw library or la It aise a parliamentary
lbrary Y
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It la aitogethe r a
inw iibrary.
lion. Mr. FERGUSON-Where la that
library housed nt present ?
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the Regina
court-house
lion. Mr. FEROUSON-Which belonga to
the territorial goverament ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, to the federal
goverument.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We are only
passIng, over the books *1 The iibrary
building In which tbey are housed at present bas flot been disposed of, I suppose '?
lion. Mr. LOTJGHEED-No, it belongs to
the Dominion government
The court en
banc slto ln Regina twlce a year.
,Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It seems to me lt
wouid have been as weii to bave conveyed
the books to the goverument of the Territories and let them make arrangements
with the iaw society.
That wouid be the
proper course to pursue, because there may
be, detals ln the transaction with which we
are flot at aèi conversant.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tais la done at
the request of the iaw society and wlth the
concurrence of the government.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We know that the
lawyers wouid take the earth If they coula
get It, but If this iibrary la transferred with
the consent of the government, *I suppose
it la ail rlght
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The government
bave no use for the iaw Iibrary and the
iawyers have.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, from the committee, reported the bill wlthout amendment
The bill was tben read a third time and
paased.
The Senate adjourned.

MiIAROR 24, 1902
THE SEKATE.
Ottawa, Monday, March 24, 1902.
The SPEAKER toak the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceeclinga.
MINUTES 0F THIE STRIKING COMMITTEE.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rnoved:
That an Order af the Senate do issue ordering that the minutes of the meeting of the
Special Committee appointeil ta strike the
Standing Committees, held on the 2lst February
last, be laid upon the Table of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thls la very unusual.
I do not remember In many years a similar
motion having been placed an the Order
paper af the Senate. No good purpose can
possibly be served by It. The repart of that
comrnittee waa accepted and adopted by the
CharnIer. It was pertectly competent for
the Cliamber ta have thrawn out the report,
or to have referred It back ta make certain
changes-any changes that the House Indicated. The hon. gentleman ls very wel
aware of the changes that have been made,
and I have no doubt lias exarnIned. the repart, and 1 cannot concelve that any good
purpose can be served by liavIng recarded
ln our journals liow ilidhUdual members of
the cornrittee voted fln the selection of
committees. It was a very delicate duty
the comrnittee had ta perfarm. There were
introduced Into the Cliember thus sessioni,
no less than six new members. A number
o! new senators were introduced the
latter part of last session, and it became necessary' to make provisioni for these senators.
In doing so changes lied ta be made in coinrnftees, many of thern very mucli to be
regretted. 1 regret myself having liad ta
miake certain changes, but the conditions
liad altered, and the new state o! affairs liad
ta be considered, and the Hanse very properly recognized the situation and adopted
Gentlemen on the comrnittee
tie report
were anxious to meet tlie views a! those
who deaired their friends ta be placed on
certain committees. My lion. friend, the
leader of the apposition. withdrew tram one
or two committees in order that some mare
aspiring gentlemen sliauld be perrnitted ta
occupy seats an these particular committees.
The hion, gentleman tram Calgary, alsa a

member of the Striking Commlttee, did the
ame. I myseif dropped out of two cammittees ln order to gIve place ta gentlemen
wbo desired ta be on special committees. It
was flot possible to meet the views and
abjects of ail, and therefare there necesesrily was some disappalntment. Possibiy
at a later date thase disappalntrnents may
be corrected. My han. frlend surely does
flot want to have placed an record that 1
substltnted Hon. Mr. Flset's name for his. He
is already aware of that tact. I tbink lie was
told of it before. I aili the hon, gentleman,
therefore, to withdraw bis motion, and If
he does nat, I ask the Hanse not to Intraduce
a precedent of that kind, because It smewliat disturlis the fair and candid action
of a committee, If their course bas ta be lndividually canvassed and criticised atter the
report cornes ta be laid an the Table. I
should hope, therefare, If the lion, gentleman wifl nat withdraw his motion, that the
House will see the propriety of nat having
the report recarded ln the jaurnals af the
Chamber.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-You promise ta do
better next tlme ?
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-We wii make some
chan ges.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliere
Is a goad deai of force ln the remarks whichi
have been made by the hon. Secretary of
State, but while, as lie says, this is a sIngular motion, unprecedented ln the history of
the Senate, lie sliauld also have added that
the action a! that special committee was
also unprecedented ln the history of this
bady. Were It; fot so, I arn quite sure that
the lion. gentleman (Han. Mr. Landry) would
nat have put this motlon upon the Notlce
Paper. For mysel!, I very mucli regret
that the hon. Secretary af State, as leader
o! the gavernment, lias adapted the. policy
of the msjarity ln another brandi o!. this
legisiature, a! suppressing Information wlien
it ls asked for In parliament. No liarm. can
possibly arise frorn laying the proceedings of
that commlttee befare the Senate, If the
statement o~f the bon. Se'cretary of State be
strictiy accurate-that la, *If everybody
knows wlio were left off the committees
and wlio were substituted therefor. 1 can
gee no reason why the proceedings sliould
flot be laid on the Table. It Ia quite true

SENATE
that my hon. friend for Prince Edward
Island, and aise my hon. friend from Calgnry and myseif asked to be relieved of one
or two committees for the purpose o! allowIng gentlemen who have been lu tbe
Senate a longer period than either of us to
remain on those commIttees. Had we accepted the proposition made by the man1pulators of that committee, then some
others who are just as much entitled-I
would say more entitled-to positions on
the committee, than either o! tbe three
gentlemen I have mentioned, would have
been struck off, and the Secretary of State
would net, of course, have made the motion
because ho was chairman, and witb bis
friands would have .had the disagreeable
duty, as they consider It tu be their duty,
te strike off certain other gentlemen, one
cf whom sits on my left and wbo has bieen
In the Sonate eince confederation, and bas
been one ef our most attentive menibers. Not
being particulariy anious te serve on the
eomml'ttee, lie would have been reiievod of
the grave responsibiiity of deciding wbo
sbould be appointed a cbarwoman at 80
cents a day. We relieved ourseivea from.
that responsibility, and for the reaeons which
I -have given. I repeat, thore can be ne banm
In having this report laid beforo the Senate.
I desired Individualiy te be rellovod. o! the
responsibility e! havIng voted for striking off
members qf committees, wbo bad been chairmen for four or flve years, and witbout any
rhYme or reasen other than tbat some now
member whe had neyer been In the Senate
before this year, and who had no0 experienco
whatever on committees, sbould take thair
place. I wish to be relieved o! that responsibility for one, and I hope the Secreta.ry of State wiil net divide tbe House upon
'this question : If lie does, we *will bave te
record our votes, and the country wilI know
who it Is that suppresses Information from
the House and from the public when it le
asked.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I was a member of the
eommittoe, and I can say fer myself that,
as far as I gave votes, I voted without any
Personal anImus, and arn indIfferenit as to
whether the facts become public or not, but
I viaw the matter this way: the Striking
Committee made. a report te this House,
the matter was discussed on tbe report of
the committea, and thls question, toecome
Hon. -Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

up properly, should have corne up before
the House adopted the report. The leader
of the opposition, in his very moderate observations, says he sees no harm In it; I
see no0 good In IL.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
repeating what was said by the Secretary
of State. He said that everybody knew what
was done, and If everybody knew, there
could be no0 barm In making it public.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The hon. gentleman did
not advise the House te vote for it, but
took the vIerw there was -no harm lu so
doing. Now, I say the matter has passed
over. No good wbatever wfll result from
disclosIng the proceedings of the committee
to the people, because I presume the menibers of the Senate can inform tbemselves
If they want te. I amn satisfled they shouid
be informed, as far as I amn concerned, but
what la the use of going back on a matter
of this k.ind when It la passed, ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT-The
hon, gentleman referred te the debate and
wbat took piace when the consideration o!
the report was before the House. He may
remember that I stated then that In order
that the Senate and the people shouid k-now
how the proceedings of the committee were
conducted, If no one else would move that
the proceedinga of the committee should be
laid before the Senate, I would do se.
Hon. Mr. FJLLIS-I was not present when
the hon, gentleman made that anneuncement
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
hon, gentleman looks at the reports, he will
see that I gave notice te that eff ect ; but
the hon, gentleman from Stadacona has
taken it up, otherwIse I shouid have done
[t mysel!.
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-Ail this shows
there should be some rule either written or
verbal, having some regard for territory,
seniority and, aboya ail for regular attendance, wbicb 1 place above any other. lu
that way many of tbose difficuities could be
avoided, and It wouid prevent these Injustices, I caîl them, because ft Is a flagrant
Injustice for an old member te be excludeti
from any committee ne matter wbat sîde
of the House he happens te be. on. I say
members who have been here for years,-

IMARCH 24, 1902
ahould have an opportunity, to keep lu
touch wlth the legislation, by being on one
of the Important committees. As I said
before, the Printlng Committee and the
Private Bills Commlttee are of no account.
There are only two committees that any
senator would care to be on. The blue nibbon ls the Railways and Canais, and next
Is the Banking and Commerce. The element
of politces has been brought in, and must
be reckoned with for the future, and if the
party in power should have a majority on
the committee, the same men wouid remain
on indefinitely. If that le to be the rule,
how can I obtain a position ? Arn I to canVasa the members of the Striking Committee ? It le obnoxious to one's sense of Independence and the position lie should assume when he entere this House. 1 am nlot
particularly careful whether this motion le
I do not see what
carried or not.
maeonry there is about it. I suppoe
any one could obtain a copy of It If deeired. I am certain ail Irritation could
be avoided In future If eome system were
adopted. 1 hold that regular attendance
should be the firet qualification, because I
know there are men on committeee who
come here only when an Important subi ect
le discuseed. It le not fair that the hard
working, careful man who. is always in attendance should be passed over. There are
other things which are unfair. It le paînful
to be mentloning girievances, after ail when
you analyse ît philosophically, It reminds
one what Cromwell eald of the mace. 1
hope. the resuit of this debate wiil be some
eystem of fair-play-mome eystem which wIll
gîve satisfaction to ail the members of this
House, one they shall feel content with no
matter how humble they are, one under
which they wll be treated with justice and
fair-play.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It le rather refreelilng to hear some hon, gentlemen opposite
addressing the House In the language they
About a year
use at the present time.
ago I took exception to the report of the
Strlking Committee,,and I ask hon. gentlemen to 1ook over the debutes of last session
and cee what their attitude was then. Talk
about fair-play In the present sessionthere are some three or four committees un
whilh the Liberals have majonlty. 1 thluk
they have four of a *majority on the Rail-

way Committee, and one on the Contingent
Accounts Committtee, and some Reform
chairmen have been 'elected. Mr. Drummond,
however, a very worthy gentleman, ls chairman of the (Jommittee on Bankiug and
Comimerce, and the government have not
taken undue advantage of the opposition
as they miglit have done, and as the opposition did of the governiment at the comLast year out
mencement of last session.
of forty I think the Lîberals were allowed
It was very unfair and
tweive members.
uni net. On the Contingent Accounts Committee, they only had six out of twenty-ftVe
That vras the justice we got
members.
from them. I auggested at that time that
some ruies miglit be laid down to give the
bon, gentlemen, who represented one party
or thie oCher a fair representation on those
committees. I am satlslied that mule le carried
out la the Hlouse of Commons, and the
gentlemen mepesenting eaeh aide, ouglit to
select their own -men for the different comI think it le but riglit and fair.
mittees.
Gentlemen have cornvlied In the House
of being left off committees they wished to
be on. They have to look to the leader
on their aide of the House for their appointment. I thlnk that la -the proper place
to look. It appiqars to me to be very unfair 'and, in fact, chllih for members of
that Strikiag Cornmittee, when they fail to
get theïr owu way, to say they -wôn't play
at ail. That ls what the lion. leader of the
opposition sald dn 'connection,. with this
committee-because lie could not have hie
own way lie would not nomînate anybody,
and therefore be was not responsible for
The gentlemen on this
the commilttees.
aide of the House nominated those they
If
thouglit ýbeet fitted for the committee.
we were to lîsten to the arguments of mome
hon, gentlemen here, that In order to have
a new -man appointed to a conimi*ttee some
senator muet die, -we would -have to wait
I
a long time for some appointments.
agree with the hon. gentleman from Kingston (Hon. Mr. Sullivan) that the membre who
are beat fitted ouglit to be selected te serve
on those committees, and -men who attend
the work of the session regularly, and
only by doing that can you secure the most
efficient work on the committees in the Intereets 0f thecountry at large. I sImply
wish to caîl attention to the fact that laet
session, when I objected to the composition

106

SENATE

of those committees, very strong grounds
were taken ln malntaining the position, and
adopting tbe report tbey adopted last year,
though it vms imanIfestly unfair, only six
members representIng the popular aide of
the House ln the country, on the Contingent
Accounts Committee, and only twelve on
the Railway CommIttee.
It was certaInly
unfair. Hon, gentlemen were laylng down
a precedent at that time wbich they thought
was right and Just, and now they complain
because they happen to be In a minority. 1
arn inclined to tbink tiTat It would be ln the
interests of the Senate generally not to Iay
down a precedent that reports of select cominitteea afrould be brought before the
House. Most of the inembera of the Sentite know faIrly well wbat the Minutes of
the StrIking Committee were, because It la
a Select Committee, and being a Select
<Jommittee, the proceedlngs are suppoaed to
be of a private character, ne I ahould understand frein its belng a Select Committee
for that particular purpose. If this motion
19 adopted, dt will hamper men wbo are
aelected for that purpose, If the Minutes
of the committee qare to be brought beforre
the House wben tbey exercise their best
Judgment. -I think It la a bad precedent
ta adopt, and I do flot know that It has ever
been done before. It seeme ta me it wauld
be well to carry out the suggestion cf the
Secretary of. State, that the bon, gentleman
shiould withdraw bis motion.
Hon. Mr. MACDON.ALD (B.C.)-It la very
unfortunate tbat Party polities should enter
Into matters of this kind.
I Bat on that
committee for the fIrat time It was orga-nized1 until last year wltb the Secretary
of State, and I tbink be cannet say ta the
cantrary-tbat tbe question of politica neyer
arase ln appaintlng members ta those coinniUittees. There are certain men wbo bave
been for years on committees, and the
trouble bas been ta find room for iiew
members without putting old members off.
Every request the hon. Secretary of State
made was granted.
We pulled harmoniously, and the question of polities neyer
entered Inta our heads.
It niay bave
occurred to others, but It was neyer acted
upon, and the ommittees were formxed lu
the best way possible.
I was put of the
Interniti Economy cammittee this year. 1
tbink notbing of that.
Yau cannot find
Hon. M. WATSON.

room for everybody. If a man la on twa
committees, It is ail be can expect.
I
wished ta get off that committee tbe second
year I was on, but the cammittee wauld
nat consent.
I wus not present at the
debate on this question the otber day,
but If tbere was a complaint that InJustice bad been doue ta any of tbe
Liberal inembers that they were not made
chairmen of the committees, it was a very
-poor and very amail thlng. By the practice of the Senate old members were chairiueui of tbe cammiutees, and 'there was a
feeling flot; to depose tbem.
They were
eiected by LIberals and Conservatives,,
,yeur after year, and there bas been the
greatest harmony la the committees, no
very Important political questions came before us In which one party claims precedence or a majarity over the other. I hope
that, as far as we can, we wIll drop those
feelings, because there la on aur part only
a desire ta do tbe rlght and proper thing.
Hon. Mr. FERGUBON-Tbe bon, gentleman from Marquette bai no right ta say
that ia serious Injustice was done last year
ta the Lîberal party ln the appointment of
the coimmitteee of the Senate.
A statement was made on another occasion that
fçr a great many years the Liberal party
were not allowed a single cbairman of a
committee of tbis Hanse.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-An
man.

important chair-

Han. 'Mr. FERGUSON-The Striking CouiraIttee last year put the iÀberal party ln
this House ln a position ta elect cbairmeu
an two committees, Private Billa and Printing. On bath thase commIttees a majority
of Liberais were placed last year.
It is
quite true tbat there were a great many
changea made last year, and thase changes
were la the direction of giving the government aide a larger voice ln the cammittees.
They were flot as great as some gentlemen
an the- ather aide wauld bave liked, but they
were brought about ln a natural way, on
aiccaunt af the deatba or resignations of ald
mnembers of .tbe Hause, and they were
braught about to such an extent as would
give gentlemen on the other side ot the
Hlouse a very certain assurance, seeing the
WaY that death bad paased through aur
ranka during the last year, that if this gav-

MARCII 24, 1909,~
erument sbould remain an power at ail
events It wouid flot be long until they
would get ail the representation ou the committees to whicb they were en'titledl accordIng to thelr numbers. The principle bad
always been respected In the Striking Oommit-tees, as far as I know, of not rnaking
changes except sncb as would corne ln a
naturai way. What bas happemed this
year ? The bion, gentleman fromn Sherbrooke, wbo bas been on the Railway Corninittee for rnany years, dIsappeared from
that commlttee. Isl place la taken by a man
only appointed recentiy to tlils Hlouse. One
bon. gentleman from Montreal, a gentleman
more thorouglily ldentified with the transportation question and the harbours in Canada than perhaps any other representative
in this House, bas dIs-ippearýd from the
Raiiway (Joinmittee. The bon. gentleman
from Kingston, an oid member, and a good
attendant at the meeting of the committee,
bas been removed from the Ralway Commlttee,
I might mention two or three
other gentlemen as well. There were many
vacanci2s, -tnany deatlis occurred ln the
ranka of senators durlng the iast year, there
were many naturai vacanc les to I, and my
hon. friend the Secretary of State tells us
truly that there was a disposition shown on
the part of members of tbe Striking Cornmittee on this aide to make It easy by
dropping out our.ieIves and making way
for others. But I amn not golng to
discuse what took place lu committee.
Thut 'will corne Up If this mot-Ion carrnes.
Wbat I' refer to happened, that old, experleuced and valuable members of committees were ruthlessly removed and new
members put in their places. A good deai of
feeling bas been the result It la a pity it
should. have occurred. I do flot think It was
at ail necessary. I exonerate my hon. friend.
the Secretary of State, from very serious
responaibiity ln counection with tliis matter, both ln the Ho'use last year and ot.berwise. I bave watched =y bon. friend and
I feel that wba-tever he did lu the matter,
be did with the very greatest possible reluctance, and I believe If lie had not been
pressed by others be would not bave
displaced old frIends, although political
opponeutis of bis, on those commnlttees
where there were no questions of polIticai
Importance coming up. I ibelieve It Is due

to the bon, gentleman to say tbat bis was
not the moving baud that bas brought about
the changes. I believe aome comparatively
new members of the House bave not been
satisfied to watt, as others of us have doue,
for vacancles cormIng lu tbe natural way,
lu order to be put ou the more Important
committees, that tbey bave pressed my hou.
friend toc severely lu the matter, and the
consequence la tbat we bave bail tbese
changes made whlcb I think are regrettable,
and regrettable more especially on account
of the feeling which they have occasioned lu
the House.
Seelng that, it ls evîdent that
harm bas been doue, that a wrong bas been
doue, It la quite rlght: that the minutes of the
committee shouid corne ont lu order that
it may be seen who is responsible for It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I was not a memben
of the Stniking Committee, so I Ignored entirely what took place at Its meetings. I
came hene and heard the discussion goiug
on, and was told of certain facts whicb
occurred lu the committee, Iu one way by
one aide of the House, and ln anothen way
by the othen aide. Bo that I do flot; know
realiy wbat took place. I want to know.
WJio wili deuy my rlght to ascertain what
took place, If I proceed lu the regular way ?
I have made a motion to have these minutes
brought before this House and iwho opposes
the motion 7
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The leader of the
House. In the name Ôf liberty !
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In tbe name of the
good feeling and harrnony lu this House.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Good feeling and»barmony ! It la a plty thet lu the name of good
feeling and harmony lie dld flot take aný
other course when lie proposedl the formation
of those committees. Who is the cause of
the bad feeling and the lack of harmony
tbat exista now ? There la no precedent,
says another member, for this motion. Why,
It la a select committee, and select committees' reports aud minutes are brought
before tbe Honse. We had a select coinmittee lest yean on the Cook charges, aud the
minutes of that select comrnlttee were
brouglit before the House. 'No one complained. I arn ast; dolng lu the case of thîs
special committee what was doue lu connec-

SENATE
tion with other special committees at
the time, and yet, ln the name of barmony,
ln the name of I do flot know wbat else,
the lion. member rises and opposes the
motion. We wIll see what the pulse of the
House ls on the question. We. wiIi see If
liberty bas anything to do here, or*what lie
cals harmony.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The politIcal aspect will
corne out, I suppose.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tbe lion, gentleman
ls ieaving it ont la the name o! barmoy
That is what lie calls ItL In accordance with
tlie l)recedents that I bave cited, I will not
witbdraw my motion. But I would flot lke
to take my lion. !riend (Hon. Mr. Gillmour)
by surprise la liaving hlm second it I tliouglit
the motion would be carrled unanimously,
and as I was flot showing any political
animusHon. M~r. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I just asked my hon.
friend to second the motion. It appears now
tbere ls a political aspect to the motion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Mon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I sbould flot Ilke to
put my lion. frtend lu a bad position
before tbis House, and If lie wiil allow me
I ask permission to witlidraw bis name and
substitute tliat o! Mr. Bernier. I suppose
that wîill be liarmony.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I intended to vote
against the motion, but.I have changed my
mmnd and.I wiIl vote for It.
Hon. Mr. GILLMOR-I do not regret that
I bave seconded the motion. I am flot quite
satisfied witb this arrangement. I have been
liere tbree sessions and have been on two
'very Inconsequential committees, and badl a
desire to be put on a committee of rather
more Importance. I made a request la reference to that, but was refused. However,
I do flot tbink it la wortli wbile to leave
my friends on tliis vote.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Speaking as a uew
member o! this House, It strikes me that
lion, gentlemen wllI bave some difficulty la
finding a precedent for this motion. The
precedeut re!erred to does flot appiy, because
the Cook committee was a speclal committee, and specially Instructed tû report the
eèvidence and findings to this House. The
tacts are, to my mind, that at the beginnIngt
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

of the session a Striking Oommnittee was
formed by this hon. body to select members
to serve on the varlous committees during
the session. That commlttee met and reported. That report was accepted by the House.
Therefore the wboie trend of the discussion
to-day lias been to re-debate the action tliat
lias been taken by this House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, no.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thie report of that
committee was accepted and acted upon.
Therefore It la business that bas beau pasaed
upon, and the decision of the House bas
been given. The motion before the House
la to produce tbe minutes o! that committee.
We bave already before this House the
customary record of the committee, the
report, and on tbat report we judge of the
committee's work. I am not going to say
that the action of the committee was entirely satisfactory or was not satisfactorythat is past and settled ; but IQt us look at
the proposition of my hon. friend froni
Stadacona ln the bearing It will bave upon
our procedure ln the House. While I may
be wrong, It strikes me that the usefulness
o! our committees depends very largeiy
upon the fact that there ls !reedom o!
Aiscussion and action ln the committee,
and we know by practice that the rules
o! the House properly debar reference
to wbat bas taken place ln the committee.. That practice gives to our commIttees a free liand whicb migbt flot otherwise prevail, and they act on measures
and the business submfitted to them ln a way
best caicuiated to Promote the public Interests. My lion. friend suggests to-day that
tliese minutes should be produced before
the House. We bave the report, wbicb
sliould be enougli, but lie wants the details.
If we establisli that precedent to-day, where
are we going to, stop ? Âny hon. member
wbo ls dlssatisfied witli the work of any
committee, wIll feel that lie lias a riglit to
rIse In tliis House and move that ail the
détails o! wliat occurred la that committee
sliould be laid bel ore the Senate. 1 do flot
think that thie Senate sliould place itself lu
Eliat position. Therefore It is flot fair to, the
committee or to the House, and I do flot
think It ls ln accord witb practice to proluce sucb proceedîngs. I bave not had time
o look this matter up. I thouglit the motion

MLA CH 24, 1902
would very likely be withdrawn, but 1 ran
lnto the library for the moment, and from
wbat I could sec ln a cursery glance at tbe
authorities ft. la a practice -which bas net
been approved ef, at least ln the English
Houme ef Cemmens, and I fancy that a ruie
that ls good there would be geed here. I de
net question tbe generesity ef the leader of
the opposition on tbat committce. We know
be i. a generous man, and we knew he has
nRothing te bide. I de net question the
ethei Secretary et State or ef
gencresityo
any other member et the comrnlttce. I fancy
thc Striking Commlttce bas nothlng te bide.
I arn net asking the House te consider It ln
that llght at ail, but te consider It ln
the llght ef the future course ef events. I
thlnk we sbould take thc report ef the comrnittce, and do wlth It as the wlmdem of the
the House secs fit ; but wbcn wc ask for the
details of what took place befere thc cernrnlttce, unless the cormlittce has actcd irregularly, or cxcccded its pevers, or donc
sernething whlch the Houe did net Instruct
It to do-uness It had met witheut a quorum
-uncas there was smre charge made which
would at lcast awakcn in us a desire te ose
that thc committee was proerly censtitntcdl
and the work preperly carried out-failing
these charges bcing rnade-and .rny hon.
friend bas net suggcstcd anything efthei
kind-I do net sec what ged it can do te
bring before this Heuse Uic details ef the
deliberations ef that comxnittcc, when the
House bas already taken action on Uic rePort. The precedent, ln my opinion, le flot à
good one, and I would ask Uic Houme te
consider ItL I ask my bon. frlend te look at
it in that llgbt and withdraw hlm motion.
Âftcr the discussion we have ha d, he wiU
probably have accornpliahed ahl he bail lu
vicw ln bringing It before Uic House, Failing Uiat, I ask, Mr. Speaker, If ln your
opinion, it Io a proper motion. But I would
prefer the hon. gentleman te witbdraw Uic
motion and net place on record such a precedent.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If my motion was
te be foilowed by anetbcr one affccting
the debates and procccdings of this Houme,
and thc decision of this Houme on the report ef the (3ommrnttee of SelectIon, it rnight
beobJectcd te, but I bave nething ef the
klnd in. view. Taking. Uic motion as It la,
bave I net a rlght te ask fer these details ?

10

Every member of this House bas a rlght
te ask for the correspondence between .any
department and a stranger ; yet we are told
that we bave no right te know the details
otfle committees.
our
e!y
of the proceeding o
I thlnk the proposition la absurd.
Hon. *Mr. TF]MPLMÂAN-I wlsh te eaU
the attention of the House to the opinion of
Sir John Beurinot on a question of this klnd,
page 516Thou1ýh it is the practice, whcnever necesmary, to report the minutes of proceedings of
the select commnittees ef the Bouse of Cernmons, It seems that the sme usage does not
obtain ln the Senate. In the case ef s. bil respecting the G.T.R., rcported in 1883 frorn the
Committee on Railways, Canais and Harbours,
smre of the members of the comm-ittce requested the chairman te submit the minutes of proccedings te the Bouse. No such course, however, was -taken, as tbere was no special motion made ln the committec, and the chairman
that it badl been the
On the sessional committees on private practice
bisl ta
of inquiry found
report net their minutes of proeedings in full,
but enly the gencral resulta arrivcd at, thougli
It was admitted a differenit praoticc prevailcd
with respect te divorce bis, and certain matters referred to select or speciui committees,
ln whIch cases evidence was taken and the
facts brought eut that lt was advisable to lay
before thec Bouse.
Hon. Mr. McOÂLLUM-Was mot this a
speclal cermlitte?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-This lu a select
cemmittee.
The difficulty ln thc case ln question aippears
te have been the absence ef a motion regularly proposed and put ln thc commnittec. As
clcarly statcd by one of the members at the
time of the discussion Inthe Senate, if it was
onsidercd desirable on any occasion te depart tram the gencral practice of the Bouse.
it could be donc in two ways :first, by Instruction to the committee from the Senste ; and
sccondly, byý the action ef the committee itselt.
The cornmittec bas net taken that action,
me that, while ft undoubtedly ls ln the power
of this House to order that these minutes
shail be produced, I thlnk It la contrary te
practice and ail precedents. It would be, ln
my opinion, estabishlng a rather dangerous
precedent, but I arn free te confess, as a
member ef that select committec, I have
ne personal, objections te the productien et
ail tbe minutes ef proceedinge. The leader ef
the opposition suggested the other day, when
thls report was bcing adopted, that I took
an offensive, or rather an active, part ln the
proceedings of that committec, an Imputation that I disavew altegether. .It la un-

SEN{ATE
necessary, perbaps, to diseuse what takee
place in the cornmittee. Ir the report la
brought down It can be seen, and I amn prepared to defend any action I took with respect to what I did lni the naming of these
committees. I thlnk my hon. frlend who
bas moved this motion would best serve
that harmony which he wisées to preserve
nt ail tirnes lni thîs House, by letting this
matter drop after the discussion we have
[mnd. I have no desîre to continue debatlng
this question, because It Is only adding fuel
to the flames, and continuing a lttle feeling
of dissension wbich, lxi my opinion, shouid
not exist ln this chamber.

that we had flot the power to do It. He only
deprecates It because lie thinka some bad resuit la to follow. If I put It lni axiother way
I hope it wiIll fot be offensive. They object
to the production of these proceedinga
slmply because tbey do flot want the Sexiste
or the public to know what they dld lni the
coînmittee, or wo*It; was that commltted
ivhat my hon. friend very justly ays was
a wrong to certain menibers. I cannot conceive it possible that any one could take
wlaat my hon. frlend bas rend and draw
the deduction from It that be does. When
i sald he took an active part on the committee I did not meaxi to say It offensively. It would
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What say, because we be the last thIng I would
both.belong to a profession
the lbon, gentleman bas read frorn Bourinot wlîich Is never
offensive to any one.
justifies the course we have taken. It says
io report aliould be made unleas by IustruclIon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-How does the
lon from the House. lIn the Cook case, and lion, gentleman interpret
that last sentence
nany others, when lt was thouglit an ln- of the quotatoxi from Bourinot
?
t estigation should take place, the committee
vere instructed to report frorn Urne to tUme
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-' The
Bourinot says: 'First by ries of the House of Lords provide for the
Ilo the House.
ustruction to the committee frorn the Sen- report of minutes of proceedings,' says
( te '-that ls
precisely what was doue ln the Bourînot.
~ooic case.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Tbat bas nothixig to do with thîs case.
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-But not ln this
ase.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
it bas, otberwise I sbould not have quoted
liou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-'Filrst, It, and I do not think
the bon. gentleman
y instruction to the cormittee from the should have rend
It If lie did not think s0
enate, and secondly, by the action of the too.
committee Itself '-that le, the commlttee can
instruct the proceedlngs to be reported to
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Ai that bas been rend
the House. Then the, rule of the House of utnd, Indeed, ail that bas been sald, bas re
Lords provIdes for the reporting of the ference to the question whetber the action
minutes of proceedînga-that Is, of con,_ of the Senate would be lnfluenced or could
mittees. It does not restrict it to one com- be influenced by the production of the MininIttee or to any comrnittee, and lIn any case utes, the object 0f getting the Information
ivhut Is not provided for ln our ruies we which la souglit. lIn this case it Is absoare guided by the miles which goveru the iutely Impossible to alter the proceedings,
House of Lords. Now, to adopt the sugges- or do anything further In connection wlth
tion of the bon, gentleman would slmply the matter. The hon, gentleman aumits
inean this, that the Senate sbould divest that, and-therefore what Is the good
of it ?
Itself of the power 0f asking for Informa. I add my request to have the
motion
tion which the members of the Senate thlnk dropped. No good can be served
by the
sliouid be given to the public, or to the production of the minutes. It is better
not
House itself.. No one, not even my hon. to proceed any further, and set a precedent
frieîîd, who bas had a very lonç parîlarnen- wl>ich at some future time rnay
come Up ln
tary experlence, ha'x-ng been Speaker 0f a jan iiwkward swny.
legisiative assembly lni Manitoba for a numThe rýenate divided on the motion, whicb
ber of years bas even indlcated or insinuated, waa adopted
on the followlng vote
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

MÂRCHE 24, 1902
Contents.
The Hon. Messieurs
McCslilum.
Bernier.'
Bowell (Sir Mackenzie). McKay (Truro).
Carling (Sir John),
MeMiliait.
Merner,
Casgrain (Windsor),
Montplaisir,
Clemow.
Owens,
Cochrane,
Perley,
Dobson,
Poirier.
Ferguson,
Primrose,
Kirchoffer.
iteld.
Landry..
Wood (Westmoreland).
Lougheed,
Macdonald (.I),-24.
Macdonald (Victoria),
Non-Contents
The Hon. Messieurs
Church,
Rtobertson,
Déchêne,
Scott.
Dever,
Shehyn,
Ellis,
Templeman,
Lovitt,
Thibaudeau (Rigaud),
MeMullen,
Tbompson,
McSweeney,
Wark,
O'Donohoe,
Watson,
Pelletier (Sir Alphonse) Wood (Hamilton),
Power, (Speaker),
Young.-20.

SUBSIDIES

TO THE NORTH-WEST
TERRITORIES.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY Inquired of the geverument:
If they have provided for or are going te
give the government of the North-west Territories a larger grant ef money to carry on the
government ef the North-west Territories than
they did last year, and If se, about what
amount ?

unfair to the people of the Territories If the
Dominion government, out of the large revenues they have, do flot provide a auma to
meet the requirements of the people there,
and flot force tbem ta resort to higher taxation than they have at present. Mr. Haultain on one occasion said If there was flot
a larger grant we would have te, get provincial autonomy and look after ourselves.
I understood the hon. geutleman ta say it
was flot the Intention of the goverfiment te
grant provincial autonomy. What are they
te do ? They can flot raise the money thernselves, and the government here will net
give tbem enough money te carry on the
government of the Territories, In ne part ef
this Dominion or Canada do the people contribute, In proportion to their numbers, se
much to the revenue of the country as the
people of the North-west Territories. We
contribute on ail the.articles we have te
use. We have te buy the manufactured
gooda ef eastern Canada or irnported goocis.
and have te contribute largely te the revenue, and If the governent foid their
bande now and refuse te give us money
for the schools, roads and bridges of that
country, It: ls meut unfair. I hope when
the government will see the matter ln lis
true, light and In the snppiementary estimates appropriate a sufficient amount te
enable the government of the TerrItories te
carry on the administration of affaire In the
way kt should be done.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The main estimates are
on the Table. I arn njot aware that there A. FRENCH SENÂTOR IN THE CABINET.
is any largely increased amount. The supINQUIRY.
plementary estimates, however, have net yet
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquired of the gevbeen consIdered. The hon. gentleman wili

get bis Information when they are bronght
down and laid on the Table.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I 'anticipated that
that would be the reply. Lt ls hardly fair
or reasonable te expect the government ef
the North-west Territories te carry on the
gov-ernment of the country In view of the
large increaise of Immigration-whIch ls
the resnît of the governmenLt Immigra-

ernment :
- Whether It is the initention of the govera-

ment to give the French element a representative In the Federai Executive in the Senate,
by appoiDting a French Canadian Senator te
this position ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le net intended at
present te make any change In the personnel
ef the goverament, either In this chamber
or the other.

tion pelicy-it la bard te expeet theni
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-What le the scope
te maintain schools and provide for sucb
of ' at present' ?
a rnpidly increasing population without
funds. Lest year there was a large shortTHE RAILWAY COMMITTEE ROOM.
age te muet 'the requirements ef the governINQUIRY.
ment. I think tbey were short about $150.000. This year the deficiency wviII be stili
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
greater, and I amn sure It would be very the Orders ef the Day are called, I should

SENATE
Ulke ta ask the Secretary of State whether presume
nothlng more wiil be necessary.
any arrangements have been made for the I dld Intend
ta bring the matter ta the notice
occupation of the aM Railway Cammlttee of the
Speaker of the other Hanse, although
raom that was farmerly occupled by the he would have
no control, but Mr. Tarte
Railway Committee af the Honse af Com- readily approved
of the proposition, and 1
mouns? That roam really beloanga ta the wauid suggest
ta the commIttee, as they
Senate part of the building. At confedera- are to meet to-marrow,
they should meet
tian, I underatoad, on account af the greater there.
number of members ln the other Hanse,
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
the Senate canaented that that roam should
beoaccupied by the Commons for rallway meeting to-morraw, of course, wll? be a very
purposea. glace last session the government Informai one. There is flot xnuch to be
bave canotructed a very lsarge addition to the dane. There la only one BiII, and the chairHanse of Commons accommodation purpose- man of that cammittee, Do doubt, will take
ly for the Ralway Committee. Our Railway steps ta see that we have the use of the
Committee room is toa amail, as hon, gentle- cammittee room.
men ail know, for the purpose far whlch it
THE STRIKE ÂT VALLEYFIELD.
has been used. On a bot day when It la
full, wlth farty members and ail -the people
INQUIRY.
who are interested ln raiway legislation,
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Before the Ordera of
it becomes almoat lntolerable for any one
the Day are cailed, 1 shouid like ta ascertain
ta remain there any iength of time. The
tram the Secretary of State If he intends
Secretary of State wiil remember we had
ta give an answer to my second question
a conversation with reference to thia matter
relatIng ta the strike at Valleyfield ?
same time ago, and he undertook ta brlng
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Ta-morraw.
It ta the notice of his cofleague and ascertain whether the Minister of Public Worka,
Han. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Why does the delay
without our taking any action or making a occur ?
demand, would surrender thefr use af It ta
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It la not easy ta get
us for railway purposes. I do nat thlnk lt
la a matter of any cansequence for any answers ta questions Immedlately.
ather committee. 1 have understood since
Hon. 1Mr. LÂNDRY-Âm I ta understand
thait, tram the bon. Secretary of State, that that as a miter of principle, the guvernthe Qommona would wilhingly allaw the ment la neyer prepared to answer a quesSenate to resume control af that room far tion the firot day ? I understa-nd an election
rallway cammdittee purposes. It bas occur- la going on ln Beaubarnole. Ia It for that
red ta me, having received a notice for the reason, I amn unable ta obtain an anewer ?
meeting of the Ra.ilway OomIttee, thst I
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I wiil get the answer
shauid caîl the attention of the Secretry ot
to-morrow.
Staite ta what has taken place, and ask If
any arrangements con be made by which
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Perthe Senate can use that room for the Rail. haps the Secretary af State has not been
way Cammittee. I think ail wlll recognize [nformed of the facto, yet 1 do nat; see how
the necesaity for lt, particularly as the ie money couid be pald without an order ln
warm weather de comlng on and we should counell, and the Secretary of State should
not be jammed Inito' a amail roam, w'here mnow ail abaut that It i. aimply a queswe have ta raise the windows and create ton ta be answered, yes or no. No, unlesa,
draughts, or suffocate.a
[s my hon. friend from Stadacana insinualLtes, the reply mlght affect the
election
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-îmmediately after the
vhich la ta take place an Wednesday.
conversation ta which the hon, leader of
the opposition bas alluded, I saw Mr. Tarte
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think It wii
and suggested ta hlm the Propriety af plac- a.ff ect the election one way or the ather.
Ing the old Railway Conimlttee room at the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
disposai af the. Senate .for the use of the
Railway Comilttee, and he acquiesced. 1, dPovernment. have pald -the muney and flot
.emanded a refund from the municipaiity,
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL.

NARCII 24, 1902
It is an unjprecedented thlng. The responasilty rests upon the municipaiiitles where
the difficulties take place and not upon the
government.
Hoiu. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Had not the
hon. gentleman better wait until he gets
the answer ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I am
drawing an Inference. I think the hon.
gentleman is right, we had better -wait.
APPLICATIONS FOR RAILWAY
CHARTERS BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved (In the absence o!
Hlon. Mr. Cagrain, de Lanaudiere), the
second reading of Bill <A) An Act respectIng applications for Railway Charters.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That Bill requires
a long explanation.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The Bill 1s similar to
the one which was before the House last
session, when It was referred to
the'Railway Committee. The object of the Bill
i. to prevent railway charters belng issued
when there are not railways behind thein.
This is a mere formai motion.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-What innovations
are made by this BillI?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-This ls a project of a
new iaw.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
would caîl the attention o! the House to the
fact that there has been no representation
from the Committee on Standing Orders
with reference to any o! these Bills.
The SPEAKER-That rule does not apph.y
to this Bill.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This is a very
Important Bill, and the gentleman who has
It In charge, who has no doubt studied It
more closely than my hon. friend has had an
opportunlty o! dolng, ought to make a fui!
explanation to the House before the Bill
goes to committee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Bill s not printed.

BOWELL-The

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would further
point out to my hon. friend that this
Bill ls peculiarly applicable to the Rail-

way Act. In fact, it should be Incorporated
Into the General Railway Act, if passed at
ail, and as the promoter of the Bill la nlot
present, and as the House wIll be regarded
as accedlng to the prInciple of the Bill, If It
la allowed to pass the second readlng wlthout discussion, It: posslbly might be te the
advantage of the Bill that it should stand
over for further consideration. It seems ta
me the government of the day should. accept the responsibllty of departlng from a
well-establshed procedure with reference
to applications for raiiway charters. The
principie of the Bill, If passed, Involves a
very large expenditure wlth referenco to
railways, and It seems to me that It would
handicap, to a very serious extent, applications whlch might otberwisa be made lu
good faith wlth reference to enterprises
wvhichi might be carried out. I might instance the case of applicants for a railway
charter In the Yukon or North-west Territories, or ln any part of Canadian territory
where very costly surveys would have to be
carried out before it became possible to
inake an application for a railway charter.
Parliament bas granted applicants at the
present time upon givlng a generai descrIptien of the character of work to be carried
out, pamely, by the production of plans before the Railway Committee, or something
of that nature, to proceed with their application, but this Bill purposes that applicants
shahl make costly surveys, that they shahi
send engineers over the route, that they
shail prepare plans and profiles and assume
very heavy expenditure before taking the
Initial step of making application to parliament for the grantlng of a charter. It
seems to be that It la entirely superfluous.
It cails upon applicants to expend a very
large amount o! money without theie being
any necesslty for so dolng. I know there
lias been a considerable opposition to the
granting of railway charters In the manner
which obta.ins at the present time, but hon.
gentlemen who have been protestlng
against the passage of railway legIslation,
have nlot been able to point out any great
grievance whlch exista, or any abuse of
the charters granted by parliament, by
reason of the present procedure.
If an
applieant comes before the Railway Coinmîttee seeking a rallway charter, he is coinpelled, under the rules-of course the coinmlttee can dispense wlth It If necessary- to

SENATE
produce a plan showing in a very general
way the merits of the application whIeh lie
has In vlew. He is further called upon to
advertise In the public press, and ln the
'Canada Gazette.' It seerns to nie the public
Interests are served by the regulations which
obtain with reference to raiiway charters,
and particularly as they obtain ln their
application to a new country, district or
territory which it would be very costly
to traverse by engineers.
Therefore, I
opposed this Bill1 when It was submltted
to the Railway Comrnlttee last session
or the session before.
The principle of
the Bill seerna to me to be unsound or
uncalied for. If It ls a principle which Is
sound, whlch the public demand, the governent of the day who are charged with
sucb leglslation, shouid brlng down a Bill1
and nrnend the Railway Act and take the
responsibllity for IL. I do not think it should
be introduced by a private member.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harnllton)-I do thlnk
the Bill lntroduced last year by the hon.
gentleman from de Lanaudière was oee
wiiich the House should have accepted.
Those who have appeared before the Railway Comrnittee lu the House ef Commons
have frequently made applications for
charters covering almost the whole country, and without any defInite plan laid
down, except that it goes frorn one
point to another. As hon. gentlemen who
have attended that cornmittee
knew.
these charters are very frequently ebtained, and put on the mnarket for sale,
and ail the Interest the parties had lu
thern was what they could make In
selling them to parties who weuld buiid tlie
road some tirne afterwards. It is unfair
that a section of the country should be covered with a charter for a railway when
there is really no intention on the part ef
the parties obtaining the charter to construct the road, and the bena fides of the
parties applying for the charter weuld certainly be best rnanifested by their xnaking a
survey of the country through which the
road was to pass, and then it would corne
before the cornrittee with some degree of
assurance they would be prepared to explain how they were going from point te
Point, and what surveys they liad made-it
would show they lntended to bulld the railway. But as It stands to-day, any man can
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

apply for a charter, particularly la the northwestern country, which the members of Our
cornmittee know very littie about, and to
thern it makes very littIe difference where
the line is to rua. The Bill1 introduced by
the lion. gentleman Is one that should be
carefully looked Into by the Railway Commlttee, and If, as I believe, It is In the
interests of the' communlty at large, Il
should be passed. To continue the present
systern of granting

charters for railways

from point to point -without any Idea of givIn- to the Railway Cornmittee the exact
location of the railway, I think is very unfair to the country, and 1 do hope this
BIRl will be ailowed to go to the Railway
Comrnittee, where It can be thoroughly discussed.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-An objection has been raised that It lias not been
printed lu both languages.
Sorne hon. MEMBERS-The Bi1ll Is printed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Tfhe
notice paper does not Indicate that It is
printed. I do not desire to discues the measure. It is very drastlc ia its character, and
shouid be fully explained. I amn not exactiy
in accord with my two hon. frlends beside
me wlio have spoken la regard to this Bil1l.
For a wonder, I arn Inclined to join wlth the
hon, gentleman frorn Harnilton to a certain
extent, and I arn of opinion that It Is of such
an Important character that the government
shouid assume the responsiblllty of dealing-with ItL Wlien it cornes up for discussion
properly, we can treat It on Its merits. Some
may think, on looklng at it that it Is a
mensure te encourage the ernployrnent ef
surveyors and engineers.
The SPEAKER-The objection having
been taken that it is not printed la bothi
languages, the Bill wIil have to stand over
tili te-rnorrow.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-This BillIis printed lu
Englsh and la French, and I would ask
that It be made an Order ef the Day for
to-morrow.
Hon. Mr,. WOOD (Westmereland)-I think
a day should be fixed for the coasideration
of this Bill when the gentleman who Introduced It will be present.
The SPEAKER-lt can be postponed If
he Is not here to-morrow.

MAlICH 25. 1902
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland)-That is
THE VALLEYFIELD STRIKE.
quite true. It appears to me-and I mention
INQUIRY.
It now s0 that the gentleman who has
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to inquire:
charge of it can consider It-that it is not
a proper Bill to be sent to the Rallway Coin- If the goverament has paid the forces calied
late strike
mlttee, that It should be commItted to a to help the civil auth.3rIties ln the to pay the
at Valleyfieldi, or has it prornised
commlttee of the whole House. The Bill amount, or part of the arnount, to which they
Itself embodies an Important principle whicb were entitled ?
To whom and when- was such p'ayaient made,
It ls proposed to incorporate ln regard to the and what le the arnount thereof?
railway legisiation of the country. This ls
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer to the first
the proper place to discuss the principle of
question la yes. The payments were made
the Bill and settle ItL The obiect ln sending
on the 17th October, 1901. The amount
bis to the Railway Committee is to enable
pald was $4,481.01.
the details of the Bill to be dlsscussed, and
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Could
allow the committee to bring before them
persons from outside who can give Informa- the lion. Secretary of State informa the
tion for or against the Bill. 1 do not know House upon what principle an exception
that it is necessary to make provision for %vas mnade ln the case of the riot ln Valleythat at this stage. I do not know what the field ? In ail other cases where there have
discussion will develop. The hon. gentle- been difficulties arising from strikes, the
man ln charge of the Bill should be prepared munîcipalitles have beeii compeiled to pay
the expenses oof calling out the militia or the
to explain it.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I trust the House will 1settiug a precedent that may lead to dlaims
make due allowances for my youth and ly by other municipalities and other corporaexperience, but 1 have an excellent pre-; tiens. I remember a very severe strike on
cedent for the course I arn proposing. I the Grand Trunk Railway upon one occaamn dolng this for my next-door neighbour, sien ivhich cost a good. deal of money. The
at lils request. The bon, gentleman whoi troopa had to be broughit frein Tqronto ln
moved the Bill la reported ln lait year's'order to put a stop to It, but the parties ladebates of this House as having stated lni terested had to pay the whole expense. 1
four lines what the Bill meant. I could know of no0 case where the government bas
not do It in that space. My hon. friend paid it. I know aiso o! a case which arose
opposite made a good speech againat lt, a year or two ago ln the county Just acrosa
but the House then decided to send it to coin- the river where the municipallty refused to
mittee. To-morro.w the House can discuss pay, but they were obiged to. Could the
It again or postpone it, but I will make a hon. Secretary o! State tell us whether the
motion to kzeep it ailve, If my hon. frieUd la case at Valleyfield bas been made an excepnot bere.
tion te the rule ?
The order was allowed to stand.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am not familiar wlti,
the tacts other than havlng a general knowBILL INTRODUCED.
ledge of them. The Militia Act provides
Bill (F) An Act to incorporate the that the Militia Department may pay the
Bishop of Moosonee.-(H-on. Mr. Lougheed.) troops and may afterwards force the municipalities to pay. There la a special proviThe Senate adjourned.
sion made for that arrangement.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is the
hon, gentleman sure of that ?

THE SENATE.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WIll the hon, gentleman tell us If Vie government paid the
amount subi ect te, reimbursement by Vie
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
municipaiity ?
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn only furnlshed
Prayers and routine proceedinga.
with the Information I have given-specific
Ottawa, Tue8day, March 25, 1902.

SENATE
answers to the questions put. 1 have not
Iooked Into it myseif. 1 did flot think It
was necessary.

nished in kind by the municipallty, may be re-

recoilection serves me, the government
denled ail responslbiiity ln the matter, declarlng that they dld flot cali out the Mlltia, that they had notblng to do with sendlng the volunteers to Valleyfield, and consequentiy were flot responsibie. The bon.
gentleman says hie bas given ail the information bie ls possessed of. Perhaps It would
be as weli If hie wouid furnish the House
ivlth a littie further Information, because
It ls laying
it ls an Important question.
down a precedent which may be applled to
nil tUIfflculties of that character ln future,
and If the responsibllity to put down strikes
ln municipalitles ls to rest with the goverfiment, lt wiii be cialmed that they shouid
ail be treated alike ln the different provinces.

o.ut together, with the reasonable cost of trans-

ccvered fromn It by the officcr commanding the
corps, ln his own name, and wh-an s0 recovered
shahl be pald over to 'the persons entitled
thereto.
6. Such psy and allowances of the force called
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It lny

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn oniy speaking froin
memory, because I have not looked Into It
for a great many years, but my Impression
la, the municipaiity ls liable. If the troops
go unpald tbrough a dispute with the muni-,
cipallty, I think the Crown Is authorized to
pay, and then seek payment from the municlpalîty.

port may, pending payment by the munlcipaiity,
be advanced ln the tiret Instance, out of the
ccnsolldatd revenue fund of Canada, by authorlty of the Governor in Council; but such advance shalI fot Interfere wlth the lablity .of
the municlpallty, and the commandlng officer
shall at once, la his own naine, proceed against

the municlpality for the recovery of such pay,

allowances and cost of transport, and siall, on
recelpt thereof, pay over the amouzt to, Her
MaJesty.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
confirmas the hon. gentleman's views, but

bas that action been taken ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I only lnquIred as to
the facts cailed for in the notice.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Âs I understand
the question, the governmnent have pald the
men, and as the matter stands now, there
is nn election going on ln that constituency.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Is there ?
Hon. Mr. McCALLU3'M-It looks to mie
that It de'pe.nds -altogother on wbo la elected, whether the government wll colleet the
money frein the municipnhity. This will be
hieid ns a club over the eIectors. (Cries of

Oh, 0Oh). It looks that way to me. from the
expression of the hon. gentieman-that they

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My impression ls ruay afterwards colleet ItL
altogetiier different-that the municipality
bars LU i>UY,

LUSL a1 clUim

111ay

ou

aIiue

wards to reimburse the municipality.

ater-

That

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I read the law.

Hon. Mr. MeCALLUM-If -tbey

do flot

was the case ln the county of Ottawa ; the pay, what then ? They may or they may
munlcipaity had to pay, but they hiad a not. There cornes the question, to my mind.
dlaim on the government of Canada to reHlon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know the
Imburse them.
facta. They mny have paid already.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have sent for the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Couid thse hon. miniStatutes of Canada, and I find ln the Militia ister tell me if the goverfiment intends to
and Defence Act, cap. 41, sec. 5, it is pro- enforce the law ?
vided :
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot answer any
When the active inilitia, or any corps thereof, niore questions.
I have given ail tIse inila so called out in aid of the civil power, the
municipalty ln which their services are requlred formation I hiad iii my possession.
shall pay them, when so employed, the rates
Mon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the governihent
authorlzed to be paid 'or actual serv; ce to ofllcers and men, and one dollar per dlem, for each isitend to enforce tise law~ ?
I give notice
borse actually and necessarily used by threm,
together with an allowance of one dollar to each of an inquiry?
officer, f fty cents to each man per dimr, in lieu
of subsistence, and flfty cents per diem in lieu
BILLS INTRODUCED.
of forage for each horse, and in addition shaîl
provide them with proper lodglng, and wlth
Bill (G) An Act respecting thse Bell Telestabling for their horses; and the said pay and
aliowances for Gubsistence and forage, as aiso phone Company of Canada.-(IIoin. Mr.
the value of lodglng and stabling, unless, fur- Kirchshoff er.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

IMIATIC
Bill (H) An Act for the relief of Samuel
Nelson Chipman.-(Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
Bill (I) An Act respecting the Montreal,
Ottawa, and Georgian Bay Canal Coinpany.-(H-on. Mr. Clemow.)
AN ADJOURNM.NENT.
MOTIO1N.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that when the
Senate adjourns to-morrow, It do stand adjourned unthl Wednesday, the 2nd of April
next, at 3 o'clock ln the afternoon. He
sald : To meet the convenience of hon, gentlemen, I wlsh te substitute elght for three
o'dlock.

25, 1902
mer occasion there was a long adjournment
and several of the members had to remain
here. We were invited to Government
lieuse on the night on which the Senate
met at eight o'clock. We ivent to Government House and lest our day. Gentlemen
came la here wno had been two or three
weeks away, sat fis-e minutes and miade
their day. I made up my3mind that afterwards I would neyer consent to an elght
o'clock adjournment. Had I been here on
the former occasion I would not have consented, and I will net consent now. 1 press
the point of order.

Hon. Mfr. WATSON-I suggest that. the
motion for adjournment be made until three
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I object to meeting o'clock on Thursday.
at eight o'clock. These adjournments until
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Of course, exception
elght o'clock are Inconvenlent to many of
the older senators,' who do not care to corne havlng been taken to eight o'clock, the obout after night unless it is absolutely neces- jection muet prevail, but If hon, gentlemen
sary. When there ls no reason why wb prefe'r three o'clock on Thursday, I have
should be called upon to meet at any other nio objection.
than the regular hour, I object to It I
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I object
bope my hon. frlend wlll nlot press It, be- to Thursday. A number of us have to recause If he does, I shall be obllged to take main here, and there is no necessity for a
the objection that there ia no aufficlent no- long adjourninent.
tice of motion.
The motion as amended, to adjourn to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Objection havlng been Thursday at 3 o'clock, was agreed to.
taken, I cannot press it.
THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN_-The hon, gentleman takes exception to meeting at eight
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the House
o'clock on account of eldei-ly gentlemen find- adjourns I should lke to caîl attention to
lng It inconvenient to corne out at. that what I think la a very grave Irregularlty.
hour ; but If that amendment la adopted, I see by a document that haî; been printed
there wlll be no dlfficulty about the elderly and dlstributed to the memnbers of thia
gentlemen comlng lm. Living in the district House, entitled the ' Senators of Canada'ý
1 do, It la very difficuit to get here at tbree I thlnk lt la publlshed bylthla House, or by
o'clock. However, it does nlot affect me, be- some authorlty-a llst of ail the different
cause I lntend to be here anyway. I men- committees with the names of the persons
tion It to show that these gentlemen could acting as members of those committees, and
not be present at three without loslng a day.
ln one of these lista I fIndHon. Mr. FERGIJSON-There la no nteH on. Mr. SCOTT-I notlced an error ln
cessity for meeting at eight o'clock.
the Debates Commlttee.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Haxnlton)-I think, Iii
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It la something more
deference to people who have to travel the serions than that. I see that the Hon. Mr.
whole day, that elght o'clock should be Gibson bas been made Chairman of the Joint
fIxed rather than three ln the af ternoon. Committee on Prlntlng. It wlll be found on
There la nothlng really to be done, and no page .12 of the liat of Senators and of the
necessity for very old gentlemen coming committees formed thls year. It la a docuout.
ment whlch bas been given to every member
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Then adjourn until of this Hlouse. I should like to know where
the next day at three o'clock. On the for- the report of that committee la.

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
committee bas neyer met.

BOWELL-The

THE SENATE.

Ottawa, March 26, 1902.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I know nothing about
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
It. The clerk Informs me that lie
understands that that bas been printed by the o'clock.
other House. Some gross Irregularity bas
Prayers and routine proceedings.
taken place. I will bave an inquiry made
PETITIONS FOR PRIVATE BILLS.
Into ItL
Hon. Mr. McKÂY (Truro)-I should like
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is it the other House
to caîl the attention of members interested
tbat elects our chairman ?
In private bills to the fact that the comHon. Mr. SCOTT-No, certainly not. It 15 mittee on Standing Orders bad before tbem
over thIrty petitions In wblcb tbe parties
an error.
interested bave not complied witb the rules
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Was there a meeting and unlese an attempt Is made to do so,
these petitions wlll flot be returned to the
of tbe commlttee ?
House, and consequently tbe bills wiIl be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I nm flot aware of IL. delayed or endangered. I make tbis stateI am not a member of the commlttee.
ment with tbe vlew o! getting the people
interested ln tbem to see that tbey are
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How does It bappen 7
attended to. Tbe principal difficulty Is under
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot tell the hon. mule forty-nine, wbere the promoters of
these bis are supposed to comply and
gentleman.
sbould comply with tbe order that compels
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The commlttee bàs not them to send newspapers to tbe Olerk o! the
been called. No chairman from eitber 1-{ouse Senate. The committee nt this moment are
bas been elected, but I recelved tbe notice, unable to tell wbetber the advertisements
the same as the otber members of the com- are complete or not, for tbe want of these
mittee, from the cierk calling a meeting of newspapers. Most of the people who attend
tbe Joint Committee of both Houses on tbe to'these matters tbink If they send their
Printing of Parliament at the tower room notices to tbe House of Commons that tbey
at eleven in the forenoon. That is an error. have done their duty. The Clerk o! tbe
committee bias on two occasions sent out
This Is the first meeting.
two different cIrculars to these people noHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I presume it was tifying tbem tbat If tbey did not send ln
tbe result of some caucus.
tbe newspapers the matter would be delayed.
They paid no attention to them whatever
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, notbing of the kind. and, of course, as soon as the House meets
I neyer beard of lit.
again, tbere wlll bave to' be some action
taken eitber to suspend tbem altogether, or
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I am not quite
satisfied witb tbe explanations tbe bon, gentle- to report tbem, to the House. I xnake this
man bas given. Tbat list bas been distri- statement wltb tbe view o! giving tbe
buted. Tbe manuscript must bave been parties lnterested a chance of maklng matgiven to the printer. Is It the printer wbo ters riglit, and avoiding delay.
did It;?
THIE TREADGOLD CONCESSION.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know anything
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
about ItL I do not suppose any gèntleman
The Order o! tbe Day baving been called.
In the chamber noiced it until tbe bon.
That an humble address be presented to His
member called attention to It.
EXCellenCY the Governor General; praying that
His Excellency will cause to be laid before this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-M1%y House copies of aIl Orders In Council, applications, agrecements and communications in writattention was called to it.
The Senate adjourned.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

ing relating to the grant or concessionr to A. &
C. Treadgold, or to the Hydraulic Mining Syndicate, of any dlaims or privileges to water

MAROR 26. 1902

rights, rnining lands, and timber limits in the
Yukon territory, or in any part of the Northwest Territories. Also, a description or plan
showing the location and area of such dlaims,
privileges and concession ta the aforeffaid parties or syndicate.
(B. C.) said:.
Hlon. Mr. MACDONALD
Sînce I placed this notice on the order
paper. delegates bave corne dawn from
D)aws~on ta interview the government on
the Treadgold matter, I (Io not suppose
they bave corne ta tbank the government
for tbe concession. Wbat they bave corne
for I do xiot know. I intend ta ask the
House ta postpone tbis motion. Several
members w-isb ta speak on it ut a future
day, and we may bear what the delegates

have ta say to the governiflelt. The question may assume a better aspect than It
does now. I asic tbat the motion be allowe4
to stand untîl Friday, tbe 4th.
I wisb aow, ta perform a pleasing duty.
It bs to congratulate the hon, gentleman
from Victoria (Hon. Mr. Templeman) on bis

elevation ta a seat ln the Dominion Council.
It Is a very high and respansible position,
and to hlm tbe people of the country will
look for their rigbts and for justice. They

will look ta him ta, endeavour ta obtain wbilt
tbey should bave ta open and develop tbe
country. I know my bon. friend bas convictions as ta what should be done and wbat
is required, and I only hope bie will have the
full courage o! these convictions and fight
the battie for us, and-give us not more or
less than we are justly entitled ta. The
position occupied by the bon. gentleman reIleves -me o! a duty which I considered
myself bound ta per!ermi periodically, and
tbat was, ta place before pariament. and
the country the financial position o! British
Columbia and Its large contribution to, tbe
publie revenue, and the disadvantages under
wbich we have been labouring for a number
of years. I now hope, however, with the
elevatian of my bon. friend te a position ln
the Cabinet that a new era will begin and
that we will heur no more complaints and
shail bave ample justice Iu aur province. 1
congratulate My hou. friend.

2. If so, was a readjustment then made of the
preceding semi-annual paym! nt putting the subsidy due on the ftrst of July last on the same
basis of population ?
3. And, further, whether subsequent to the
payment of the subsidy ta Prince Edward Island
for the current haif year, a correction bas been
made of the account by replacing the_.said suh£idy on the basis of the population as shown by
the census of 1891 ?
4. If such correction was made, lias the goverument of Prince Edward Island been notified
thereof ?
5. Did the government of Prince Edward Island, a 't the failing due or payment of the subs;dy at the beginning of the present year object
ta salO subsidy being computed on the decreased
population as shown by the census of 1901 ?

Han. 31r. SCOTT-Ini answer ta the first
and second questions of my hon. friend,
the subsidy to the province of Prince Edward
Island, which became due and payable by
the Dominion on the Ist July, 1901, and lst
January, 1902, was paid on the basis of
population as ascertained by the census of
1891.
In answer to questions 3, 4 and 5. Subsequentiy to the payment of the subsldy
payable on lst January, 1902, the Auditor
General called the attention of the Department of Finance to the fact that the census
of 1901 sbowed a decrease In the population
of the province, and held that consequently
there had been an over-payment for the current fiscal year of$4,655.20, oeing the equivaient of 80 cents on the amount of the decrease, and bie asked what steps were proposed to be taken to have this sum refunded. -The attention of 'the Provincial Secretary of the province was: accordlngiy
called to the AudItor General's contention.
No written reply -vas received from the
Provincial Secretary, but Mr. D. A. Mackinnon, M.P. for East Queen's, on behaîf

of the Prince Edward Island1 government,
called on the Minister ef Finance and discussed the subject. Mr. Mackinnon claimed
that the terms of union made no provision
for any reduction of the subsidy to Prince
Edward Island. The question was referred
by the Minister of Finance to the Minister
o! Justice, who advised that while provision
was made In the terms o! union for the
augmenting of the subsidy wben the populaSUBSIDY. tion Increased, there was no provision for a

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON inquired:
1. Whether the subsîdY due by the gov'ernment
of Canada ta Prince Edward Island at the beginning of the present year was computed and paid
on the census returus of 1901 ?

reduction.

This conclusion

bas been nc-

cepted by the Finance Department and Mr.
Mackinnon bas been nuthorized to, so Inform the Prince Edward Island government.
So It is ail serene.

SEINATE
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (1S)
An Act to incorporate the
Bill (J) An Act to incorporate the li 1- Velvet (Rossiand) Mine Raiiway Conmpany.
stitute of Chartered Accountants.--(Hoi ~-(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
Mr. McHugh, in the absence of Hon. Mi
Bill (20) An Act to incorporate the
Kerr).
Battieford and Lake Lenore Raiiway CoinBill (K) An Act to confer on the Coni pany.-(Hon. Mr. Perley).
missioner of Patents certain powers fo r
Blill (F) An Act to Incorporate the Blshop
the relief of George M. Depew-<Hon. M of Moosonee.-{-Hon. Mr. Lougheed).
Kireblioffer).
Bill (26) An Act respecting the Quebei APPLICATIONS FOR RAILWAY CHARand Lake Huron Railway Cornpany.-(Hon
TERS BILL.
Mr. Landry).
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Bill (14) An AXct to Incorporate th(
The Order of the Day being called.
Indian River Railway Cornpany.--(Hon. Mr
Second reading, Bill (A) An Act respecting
Godbout).
applications for railway
Bill (21) An Act respecting the Porib grain, de Lanaudiere). charters (lion. Mr. CasDover, Brantford and Berlin, and Goderici 1Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Better
let this stand.
Railway Company, and to change itS narnE
Hon. Mr. CASORAIN (de Lanaudiere)-lf
to tixe Grand Valley Rallway Comnpany.(Hon. '.%r. McCallurn, in the absence of Hon. it Is the destre of the House I have no objection.
Mr. M-Nerner).
4
Bill (241v An Act respecting the WindHon. 1fr. McCALLUM-Let'it stand forsor and Detroit Union Bridge Comnpany.- ever.
(Hon. Mr. McCalluni, In the absence of Hon.
Hon. 1fr. FERGUSON-It ls an Inmportant
Sir Mackenzie Bowehl).
Bill.
Bill (31) An Act respecting the Buffalo
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-It is rather an ImiportRailway Comnpany and the International
ant Bill.
Raiiway Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson).
Hon. 11r. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudiere--l
Bill (L) An Act to incorporate the Moison's Bank Pension Fund. -(Hon. Mr. Mac- amn quite wiliing to let it stand. Last year
it was unanlrnously referred by this Honse
donald. Victoria.)
to the Railway Commlttee, and I thought
THIRD READ'ING.
it rnlght go there agaîn this year, but If It
Bill (101 An Act respecting the Orford Iï the desire of the House thiat the Bill
Mountain Rahlway Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr. shouid stand till we meet again, I arn quite
willing.
Owens).
SECOND READINGS.
Bil (B) An Act to arnend the Acts relating
to the Ottawa, Northern and Western Railway COMPany.--(Hon. Mr. Lougheed).
Bill (12) An Act .respecting the Edmonton and Slave Lake Raiiway Company.
-<Hon. Mr. Poirier).
Bill (7) Au Act respecting the Canada Southern Railway Cornpany.-(Hon.
Mr. McOallurn).
Bill (13) An Act respecting the Canada and Michigan Bridge and Tunnel CoinPanY.-(Hon. Mr. McCalluxn).
Bill (15) An Act respecting the River
St Clair Railway, Bridge and Tunnel Coinpany.-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell).
Hon. Mr. SCOTT. 4

The order was allowed to stand.
MONTREAL, OTTAWA AND GEORItGAX
BAY CANAL COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW rnoved the second
second readlng of Bill (1)-An Act respecting
the Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay
Canal Cornpany. He sald: This le a short
13i1, rnerely askIng for an extension of tîrne
for the construction of that great undertaking, the Ifontreai, Ottawa and Georgian
Bay Canal. It Is true this Bill bas not been
circniated, but 1 presurne there is no objection to IL I do not want to lose any tirne
ln getting It before the Raliway Oornrnttee.
This is an Important Bill, as we ail know,

AMARCJ-

26, 1902

in the interests of the country. The com- the construction of this canal. Without this
pany have taken this matter ln baud, and canal we cannot meet the requirements of
spent a large amount of money In making that great trade. Therefore, 'on tiiat acthe necessary explorations and are prepared count, it ts also, necessary. As a matter of
now to show that this scbeme la practicable defence It is also Important. It Is now Inand feasible, and that It sbould be proceeded tended to be a twenty foot canal, enabiug
witb as early as possible. Hon, gentlemen shippers to send their produce to, t he seaare ail aware of the nature of the projeet. board at a very 10w rate, saving a large
It bas been before the House on several amount of Insurance and an immense
occasions, and I do flot thlnk It is neces- amount 0f time lu transportation.
The
sary now to make any extended remarks; United States people are doing everything
but I wIll say, that it 1s Important lu their power to obstruct what they think
In the Interests of this country, botb wlll ba a great compatitor to their transns a national and a commercial under- portation system lu the future- They may
taklng, that the work sbould be com- spend monay and may do a great many
pleted as early as possible. A company bas thînga whlch lnganuity can suggast but at
been Iu existence In England for some time the sama time tbay cannot by any means
with a capital sufficlent to meet ail. the re- reduce the mileaga to the extent of 700
quisite expenditure, and la only awaling miles which le the difference batween this
the decision of the government to aslst route and any other route known. That
the work by sanctioning portions of cannot be overcome by anything the United
the bond Issue and securlng the bond Issue States people can do. Therafora, it la hlghly
of the undertaklng as It now stands. A Important that we should undertake this
large amount bas been expended ln explora- great work aither by thîs company or
tions and hon. gentlemen wll find, whien tbi* througb some other means by whlch thîs
matter la referred to the commIttee, that country wili be benefited. to an unimlted
most elaborate plans and profiles wlll be extent I beliava this projeet is mucb greater
submltted wblch will show lu ail cases that lu Importance than the building of the Canthis route ls the best available for carrylng adian Pacifie Railway.
That railway was
the western produce of thîs country to, tide a msrvellous work for the benefit of
water. Seelng the very great increase In the country, but this canal1 wlll provide
the North-west durlng the last year-which transportation of produca at tbe lowest
no doubt wll be correspondingly great this price and with the least possible daiay. Hon.
year-it Io of vital Importance that no gentlemen wlll see, by the papers filed
f urther time shouId be bast ln the construc- before the Railway Committee, that it
tion of this great work. I think no other« la an uninterrupted mode of conveyroute, and no other means, will accommo- once, and It ls a wondarf ni thlng to, think
date the transportation of the great amount that evary twanty or thirty miles, you have
of produce ralsed In the North-west. It is the advantages of power that wiU aiso
true we have canais lu this country. It 18 benafft tha country. Iu a. vsrlety o! waya
true we have railways, but they are totaily this canal wfil devbop our minerai rasources
Insufficient to, meet the requirements of trans- to a greater extent than would be possible
portation.
Nature deslgned this Ottawa otherwisa. This route will not Interfere
canal to, be the route above ail others, for with the operations o! any railway. It
the transportation o! the wheat of that has been astablished claarly lu the past
western country. Therefore, I thlnk it la o! that railways are banefited by baving
the greateat Importance that thîs under- a canai alongsida of them. Canais carry
taking sbouid. be commenced as soon as produce at a vary much cheapar rate than
possible. I have been lu this country for a ralways. Tharafora, on that account It
grat many years, and have been engaged In is aiso necassary that this undertakIng
the transportation business, and have seen sbouid be goue into wlth as littie dalay as
the business of the country marveliousiy possible. I do not kuow what the IntaxitIon
increased by the canal system between the of -the government la at the prasant tîma,
west and Montreai. I believe that there but I have no doubt they wlll Intimate bewiil be a very mucb greater Increase from fore long the course that they Intend to

122

SENATE

pursue-whether they intend to build it
themselves or allow this company to do the
worhz. The company have also spent $150,000 ln explorations. These tacts wlll be
laid before the committee, and hon. gentienien can see the position of matters. It has
been found Impossible to complete the work
within the time, and this Bill merely asks
for additional tîrne ta carry out the project.

say that we should give them every chance
ta prove to the people of this country that
this enterprise i. practIcal and that it is
necessary. That ls my only abject ln spenk-ing. Take the River St. Lawrence. for example. Does It make any difference ta
Canada whethier the trade of the United
States passes down the St. Lawrence or
flot ? We do not maire anything out of it.
The .United States bleed us on every passible occasion and I amn nat willilng that we
should spend aur money ta accommodate
thern. I amn wllng that we should make
any reasonable expenditure for the benefit
of the people of this country, but flot for the
United States.

Hon. Mr. MCCALLUM-TIIere cannot be
any objection ta allowing the second readlng to pass grantlng the company an extension of tirne, but when tbe hon, gentleman
talks about twenty feet of water for the
canal, I would like to know how hie le gaing
ta get it. Canal. are a very good thing, but
they have seen their day. Sa far as we ean
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-When this matter
lower the freights of the people lving tui cames betore the Railway Commlttee,
plans
Western Canada, It ls a benefit ta them and and profiles will be submitted and
the hon.
ta this country, but we do not want a canal gentleman for Monck
wIll then
see
to carry 'the trade of the United States how 20 feet of water can be
obtained. I
through thîs country, because we do flot cannot give hlm the Information.
These
charge enougli ta pay the 'wages of the lack plans wiii fully Illustrate
the matter, and I
tenders. I amn only speaklng of that be- think the hon, gentleman
wIll see that the
cause my hon. trlend talked about a canal project ls pertectly teasible,
because It ls
Of twenty feet depth. How ls the traffic supported by the most practical
men ln thîs
going ta get into the Frenchi river. Then, country. When the
Bill cames before the
again, It has ta came past Detroit. How cammittee we will see whether
these stateelse ls hie golng ta get ln ? I do flot wish ta mente are correct or not.
If it is possible
appose the Bill. We can discuss it ln coin- ta obtaln 20 feet of water, there wlll
bie an
milttee, but there is a difficulty about ItL We end ta my hon. triend's argument.
cannat get twenty feet of water, as tar as I
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-At any reasoncan see at the present time. Let us think
this motter out, and not jump Into au ex- able expenditure.
penditure, and let us conslder who will bie
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I arn told-I do flot
benefited by a* woik of this kind.
know whether It ls true or not-that the
most eminent autharities, bath la Eagland
Hon. Mr. OWENS-Canada.
and ln this country, have expressed the
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM--Supposing the opinion that this undertakIng
ls perfectly
Canadien Pacifie Railway was ta have a teasible and practical In every sense,
and
railway of six tracks in place of one, whlch that there Is no difficuity ln obtalning
20
they have now ? They could do that easily. feet of water, and more If necessary.
I beThere is no better paying railway ln Amer- leve they lntend ta have a width
of flot
Ica to-day than the- Canadian Pacifie Rail- less than 300 feet of water.
The company is
way. They have done wonders.
organized and ls perfectly willlng ta build
Hon. Mr. OWENS-And we are golng the canai wlthout any assistance tram this
country until It i. fully completed and la runta heip them by this.
ulng arder, when they wIll expect merely a
Hlon. Mr. McCALLUM-They have dane srnall
advantage la their bond Issue. They
wonders and will do, mare. I have been
estimate the expenditure at $W0,000,000, and
ln favour of canals aIl my lite. I arn in
at that figure they are pertectly wiling ta
favour of them now, If we can build them
undertake the wark. It i. very Important
et a reasonable expenditure and benefit the that
the rnoney should bie expended lu this
people of this country. I do not rise 'with
country, particularly when It cornes trami
a view of opposing the motion. I rise ta
Engiand. The company ls willing ta go
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW.

MARCil 263.1902
ahead. We will see when the plans corne
down wbetber tbey are right or nlot. I arn
told on reliable authority tbat the route la
perfectly feasible.
Hou. Mr. WOOD) (Westmoreland)-I do
not know that there is any objection on
the part of members of thls House
ta this Bill.
I merely rise ta eall
attention to the tact that the Bill
bias only just been printed, and bas nlot
been dIstr!buted. 1 bave a copy ln my hand
whIcb the promoter of the measure kindly
sent to me a few minutes ago. I bave nlot
bad an apportunity af considering what the
effect of it is. So far as appears on the
face of It, the Bill merely, as the hon, gentleman says, asks for a further extension
af lime for the company. I have nlot ezamIned tbe original Act, and I do nlot recolleet
what the powers of tbe compnny are, and
consequently bave given It no consideration.
However, though it appears an Innocent
Bill, it affects a work of very great Importance and I do nlot thlnk sbould be proceeded with toa hastlly. I arn free to say,
s0 far as I amn personally concerned, I arn
heartily ln sympatby witb those who wisb
to see this work constructed. We muet
recollect, bowever, that there is a Bill
now on tbe order paper, Introduced by
tbe lion. gentleman frorn de Lanaudière, requiring, before the construction
of any Important work la proceeded
with, or even before any legIelation la Introduced ln this House regarding the construction af any Important work, or an extension of! time, or any additions ta the
work, that certain rnore stringent conditions be complied with than bave hitherto
existed. As I understand, this House generally favours the principle of tlxat Bill.
But It would appear ta me If we hasten this
Bill tlxrough to-day, before it bas been distributed, we are not going- ln the direction
whicb tbe hon. gentleman from de Lannudiere desires tbat this House should take,
but are golng In a dlrectly opposite direction. We are hastening legisîntion o! tris
important character witbout giving it the
cansideration which, ln my opinion, It
merits. There la another point tbat I tbink
sbould be considered. This work is proposed to be undertaken by n private company. I ar n ft raising any objection to
that, but we know, from tbe discussions

wbieb bave taken place ln the House o!
Gommons, and from wbat we bave seen in
the press, that the government bave bad
this matter under consideration for sanie
time ; trat the Minister a! Public Works
has made sorne very Important propesais whicb affect this wark materially, and It would appear to me that
befare we went on witb the consideratien a! -tris BIII, we shauld have, fram, the
government of the day, some 'declaration
of their palicy ln regard ta this Important
prajeet It appears ta me that parliarnent
and the country have a rigbt ta demand
tram the gavernment some declaratian as
ta their policy ln the future ln regard ta
this matter. As I have said, I amn fully in
syrnpathy witr trase wba wish te see this
work constructed, and I would not place
any obstacle ln the way of the hon. gentleman, or the company which be represents.
Under. ail these circumstances, It Is desirable, considering how few members nre
present to-day, that the further consideralion o! the Bil should stand over until atter
the recess, and that we should tben hear
tram the government on the subject. If
the bon. gentleman refleets on the matter,
he wlll flnd. trat, in allawing it ta stand
aver lie will not prejudice the passage of
the Bill or even delay it. The House wiil
meet a week tram to-morraw. If the second
reading la taken on that day, the Bill will
be referred ta .the Rallway Committee, and
there will be no meeting of trat committee
until Tuesday or Wednesday of the follawing week, so that the measure would
came before the Rallway Camrnittee an Its
first meeting after the recess. I do nat see
that the interests of the Bill would be at al
prejudiced by allowing It ta stand over.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shauid hope the
Hause will accede ta the request made by
the hon. gentleman fram Rideau. His Bill
sirnply asks an extension of lime o! the
existlng Act, which has been for mome
years on aur statute-books, and which deals
with one of the most Important subjects
that parilarnent could give is attention ta.
In reference ta the observation made by my
han. friend about -requiring additional surveys, I may infarm, the bon. gentleman that
effective surveys were made of tris very
route more tban bal! a century aga; that
the work was cornmenced, and trat bad

SENATE
Canada at that time been ln a better finanHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oi, no, 1 said nothing
cial condition, It would have been proceeded about the governrnent
being prepared.
%vith. It is the rnost Important national
work Canada could embark ln. My hon.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I underfriend from Monck bas, I arn afraid, flot stand this la a cornpany ?
gone over the route, because he le flot famiHou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. This is a private
linr with the topography or geography of
Bill.
the Ilne. It does flot go near Detroit.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Where do you go
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-And that
out ? Is It not at the moutb of French these people are prepared to buiid tbis canal
out of their own resources wlthout any
river ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, and skirting the guarantee from the government ?
Manitoulin Islands.
Hon. Mr. McNfCALLTJM-No.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Where do you
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harniiton)-Then lt beget to the rnoutIr of Frenchi river ?
cornes a question whether we are prepared
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Frorn Sault Ste. Marie. to guarantee, even at
2 per cent, the enorHon. Mr. McCALLUM-You have to go mous cost that this canal wouid Invoive to
to St. Mary's river ?
build It. I have heard varions estimates
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, from that parti- of lt; sorne go as high as $lOOJ,0OO ln
cular point. In justice to the prornoters who order to compiete ft, to make It an efficient
have undertaken the exarnination of the waterway. There ls no question that It
route, It le only fair to say they have, at would. be, for two or three rnonths of the
their own risk, spent a large surn of money, year, of very great advantage to the Northmaking elaborate preparatory surveys. They west, but every one knows that, frorn its
did apply two years ago to the government location, It would close up s0 eariy In the
of this country to endorse their bonds to fall, and open so late In the sprlng, that it
a liinted extent With the nurnerous pub- wouid not be for the advantage of the counlic works on band, and the large fIxed try, to as great an extent as It wouid be If
charges now on the exchequer of this coun- located f urther south. I suppose If It were
try, the governrnent dld not teel justlied [ocated fnrther south, the people who are
at the tirne ln supporting it, and the consid- urging it now would not be pushing It as
eratIon of the matter stands just as It did they are pushing It to-day. My Impression
before. It wouid be a work of very great is, If they were to build a railway for what
Importance, not only to the North-west, but this wouid cost, they could run tweive
to the whoie trade of Canada, because it rnonths of the year, and would do far
would give the shipplng of ail the products greater service to the North-west than by
of the great west to the ports of Montreai buildlng this canal. I think we ehould have
and Quebec, as no other route possily cau, .t thoroughiy understood that this country
and It necessnrily becomes a work of the s not golng to be called upon to guarantee,
very first magnitude. The only drawback even at 2 per cent the bonds of this comto It le the very large cost. That, of course, ?any.
la a consideration of the highest Importance
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The governrnent bas
under the present éondItions, and with the >ever
consented to pay 2 per cent. What
responsibilIties that Canada bas alreadyI *said
was the application had been rnade,
entered upon. I trust the House will ailow b
ut it was not acquiesced lu.
the Bill to go to lts second reading and be
Hon. Mr. WOOD (larnilton)-I
referred to comrnlttee. It la only a matter
underof forrn àsking an extension of time.
tand that unless the goverurnent would
uarantee the bonds, no private Comnpany
Hon. Mr. WOOD <Hamilton)-Are we to
rould undertake to spe-id. that enormous
understand by the speech of the bon. Sec- amount of rnoney la the work. I think It
retary of State that the goverument are le out of ail question to expect the
country
prepared to guarantee the bonds of this to guarantee even 2 per cent on the enorCornpany ?
mous cost of that canal1.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MARCH 26. 1902
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Some lion. gentlemen epeak of this canal as if it was ouly
to lielp the North-west. That is a mistake
altogether.
This canal would be in the
best interests of the whole country.
It
would develop the industrial resources of
a large tract of country.
Besides, it lias
been declared by the highest milltary experte that It would be a milltary route of
very great value, so we must look at this
undertaking as one of the best before the
country, and I hope the Bill will go through.

from the fact that vessels coming from the
west would be heavlly laden and would
dîspiace more water than veesels going up
lighrneSo far as the question of water is
cocretherefore, there will be no difficulty lnobtainlng suffieient for the canal,
and my bon. friende, who take a llvely luterest ln the Canadian Pacifie Rallway',
need not be alarmed, because the tact lias
been demonstrnted that canais alongslde of
rallwuys are actually feeders for them.
This canal would be so eepeclally.
Offering faclities for carrying bulky freiglits,
Hon. Mr. OWENS-I amn sure any hon. many mines wouId
be developed that are
gentleman w-ho bias given this matter fair not touclied to-day, owlng
to the hîgli rates
conslderation wIll realize that It is ene of of freiglit. Tliose
mines would be worked
the most Important questions tbat could lie in winter
as well as summer, and would furbrouglit before this House and country. The nlsli freiglit to
the Canadian Pacifie Railopenlng up of the Ottawa route lias been wny or other railwaye
that miglit be bullt
too long delayed. If the matter bad been tlirough that country.
As to the utll.lty o!
properly consldered ln the past, no doulitj the canal tbere le no question,
and as to
this route would have been opened. up long] the advantage to lie derived
froxu It, as my
ago. Surveys were made years ago-as the lion. friend froxu St Boniface lias
etated, It
hon. Secretary of State bas mentioned, halt Ie not only to serve the North-west of Cana century ago. The most eminent englueer ada, but It will serve the provinces of
of that day, Mr. Walter Shanley, made sur- Ontarlo and Quebec also. It wlll lie
o! the
veys and estimates of the route. Hie esti- greatest advantage to Canada tliroughout,
mate of the cost wae twenty-five millions and 1 trust wlien ton, gentlemen give to
of dollars. No doulit the canal lie proposed thie suliject the consideration It le entltled
building at that time was not of the magni- to, tliey, wlll see the advisabillity of it and
tude of the canai proposed to be bulIt to- not be alarmed by any question as to enday. At tlie same time, works can be car- gineering difficulties. As to the cost,
it le
rled on so mucli more clieaply now than ut a matter for the consideration of tue govthat time that a canal of mucli greater ernment as to whether It shahl be carrled
capaclty could. be built for the money. Sub- on as a government work or by private
marine blastlng and dredging can lie done capital. If tliey decide It shahl be ilt by
mucli more clieaply now. The *system of private capital, the money will lie brouglit
locks would lie altogether different, and my Into the country and ex.pended ixere.
lion. frlend from Monck need not be at ail
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Have the government
alarmed that the amount of water required
cannot lie obtalned. There le no diliculty tli power to acquire It ?
in obtalnlng a twenty-foot cliannel, or more* Hon. Mr. OWENS-Yes, under the charIf neceesary.
Muny of tlie senatore who ter tbey have that power. If the goverua few sessions ago listened to one o! the ment decide to carry it on as a -public work
moat eminent engineers ln the United States tliey can do so. If, on tlie othee hand, the
giving hie evidence before thie Railway government conelder It would flot be adCommittee of the Senate In reference to visable to expend that amount of public
this eubject, will remember that lie stated money, wliy not allow foreign capital to
on that occasion, and showed moat clearly, corne lu, and If tlie canal should cost one
after having studied the surveys of the hundred millions of dollars, It wiil lie ail
route, thut there wae no difficulty wliatever the better for this country.
Ail the coinlu obtaining a supply o! water-that with pany ask for le that tlie governinent guarthe locke proposed to be built to-day, lu- antee 2 per cent on the cost of the work,
stead of dlrawing water from the head -not a cent to lie paid until the work la
waters, as under the old system, there completed and ln operation, and tliey went
would be more water going Up than down, further lie!ore the Railway Committee, and

SENATE
stated if you have

any hesitation as to respect to IL. This is more particularly
%vhether the canal wiil be operated after called for ln view of the utterances
of the
lt la completed, you need not pay a cent Minister of Public Works on the question
untl the canal is operated five years. NÇo lu dîfferent parts of the country.
I amn
doubt this subject wviil be thoroughly prepared to vote for the Bill, but I put in
threshed out wben the Bill goes before a plea for a fuller and more ample
discommIttee, and I trust the House will ac- cussion of this great and important quescept the suggestion made by the hon. Secre- tion while the Bill1 la proceedlng through
tary of State and allow the Bill to take its the House.
stage to-day.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-If It la a question of
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have flot seen passing on the principle of the Bill at its
the Bill. As my hon. friend from WVest- second readlng, I amn under -the impression
nuoreland says, It bas flot been distrlbuted. that the question of prînciple was decided
However, I learn from the remarks of the iv-hen the original Bill was before this
hion. gentleman who bas the Bill in charge House.
At that time It was dlscussed at
that It la merely to extend the time for lengtb, and the princîple was affirmed
as
proceeding with the work. I arn sure there a good one, so far as It extendedThat
la nu disposition on the part of this House question la not before us to-day. The
Bill
to refuse a second reading t0 thîs Bill, but before us does not deal with the
proposition
the very argument and powerful reasons at large, but simply wlth the
propriety of
put before the Senate by the introducer of extendlng the tîme for
the beginning of
the Bill, and my hon. friend from Argenteuil the building of the
canal. If we have a
(Hon. Mr. Owens), furnlsh the beat possible princîple t0 discuss to-day
it ls that, and
reason that even this smail measure for ex- not the other one, wbich
bas already been
tending the time of constructing the work pronouuced upon.
This Bill deals with a
should not go Ilghtly through the House work of enormous
magnitude affecting the
without provoking discussion. 'I think the welfare not only
of the North-west Territime la opportune for ellcitlng explicitly from tories, but o! the
whole Dominion, and the
the government their poiicy with regard company should
be granted the extension
to this great public work.
We know, as- of time ask-ed for.
Therefore, I see no
bas been remarked aiready, the Minister occasion t0
dIscuss the principle of the Bill
of Public Works, who is regarded as an ln- now. The question Is
whether we are prefluential member of the administration, lias pared to give the company,
such an extenbeen committing himself very emphatically sion of time
as is given to almoat ail, and
.ln favour of the construction, as I have perhaps to too many Buis that corne
before
understood by the government,
of the this Hous.
I 'therefore, for one, agree
French river section of this canal-that wlth the
promoter of the Bill and the leader
he bas taken many opportunities to give o! the goverument,
that It should get Its
bis views before the public, and therefore second readlng now,
and the detafis of the
we might expect that my hon. friend the BIRl should be further
discussed, as tliey
Secretary of State would give us some clear wlll certaialy be
very exhaustively, before
expression of what the, poicy of the gov- the Railway Committee,
where It can be
ernment la with regard to this Important considered more
thoroughly than It can at
project. Though resldlng ln a part of the this
stage.
Dominion that woùuld not bave any local
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
interest ln It, a glance at the map shows
the wonderful possliities that It presents was read the second time.
for solving ln a great measure the Internai
The Senate adjourned.
transportation question ln Canada.
That
being the case, this Bill should not be sent
lightly to the R1ailway Committee, unti we
hav.e further discussion of lt ln this House,
and until the government have more explicitly stated what their attitude la 'wlth
Hon. Mr. OWENS.

APIUIL 3. 1902

THE SENATE.
Ottaca., Thursday, April 3, 1902.
The SPEAKER toolc the Chair nt Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceeding.-s
PRIMITIVE
METHODIST
GRANT IN N.W-T

Rge.
Mer.
8
W. znd. M.
8
W. 2nd. M.
9
W. 2nd. M.

N.Wi
N.Ej
N.Wi
N "Wi
N.El
N.El
N.Wk

9

9
9
9
9

si

si
L.S 12 & 13
Ail

TAY D

Ail

si
N.Eî

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY inquired:
What quantity of land flrst comprised

W. 2nd. M.

9
9
9
9
8
8

W.
W.
W.
W.

2nd. M.
2nd. M.
2nd. M.
2nd. M.
WV.
2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.

THIE FISHING LAKE POST OFFICE.
the

INQUIRY.

grant ta the Primxitive Methodist colo&ny ln the
North-west Territories; aiea, in what townships
Ilox. Mr. PERLEY Inquired:
and ranges was uaid land lacated ; also, has
there been a change ln the grant, and If s0, of If the government have changed the location
the Fishing Lake post office in the Northwliat tandis were exchanged, and what lands
west Territori3s, and if so, how far Cietant have
given by the government in the exchange ?
tFey located ft, what was the abject of the
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-The quantity of land change. and wha petitioned 'or the change, and
who advised it ?
first granted to the Primitive Methodist
Colonization Company wae 633,389 acres.
This area consisted of townships 22 and 23,
ln ranges 8 and 9, fractional township 22 ln
range 10, and those parts of townships 21,

in ranges 8, 9 and 10 lylng north of the
Canadian Pacifie Raiiway, ail west of the
2nd meridian. In the final settiement, made
under the general Order in Council of 30th
June, 1886, with the colonization compaiies
whIcb desired to have their agreements caucelied, and their accounts wlth the government closed, the Primitive Meth6diet Colonisation Company received patents for 37,354-02 acres of land, and $26 in scrip. The
following are the lands which were surrendered to the Crown by t'he company, under duplicate certificate of title No. 144G,
dated 13th December, 1898 :
Ait

Ail
Ai

Ail
Eh
S.Wi

Sec.
7
9
17

27
19
19

23
N.Wî
25
L.S. 5 & 6 33

Rge.
8

8

8
8
8

8
8
8
a

Mer.
W. 2nd.

W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 23nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd.
W. 2nd-

The following lands have been selected
by the company ln exchaîge for those surrendered to the Crown, but have not yet
been patented to them pending the receipt

of reports from the agents of Dominion
lands at Yorkton gnd Regina, as to how
the several parcels stand ln the records o!
the agencies :

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The postmaster at
Fishing Lake was removed at the request
of! a numerously slgned petition of the patrons o! the office, representing that be was
obnoxious to the entire surrounding settiement, and that the proposed site would be
more central. The department does not
know the precise distance between the new
and the old site, but und&.standê It Is a
few nilles.
BELL TELEPHONE CO'MPANY'S BILL.
SEC OND READINý%G.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER moved the
second readlng o! Bill (G) Au Act respecting the Bell Telephone Company o! Canada.
I He snid : I sbould lilke to point out that this
Bill varies in a very Important detail from
the Bill which was Introduced last year, and
jwhich was practIcally de!eated In the Senate.
IThat Bill contained, bes Ides the initiai
clause, several other clauses, and the main
opposition which arose was upon onme of
those subsequent clauses, and it was upon
ain adverse vote upon that clause that the
bill was withdrawn. Now, the first and the
main clause Ia the Bill last year was to authorize an Increase of capital. That clause
passed, as I recollect it, without any opposition, and therefore I suppose that the House,
to a certain extent, would be committed,
having allowed that clause to pans, and would
not; be prepared to refuse It this year. The
present Bill contaîns but that onie clause for

SE-NATE
an increase of capital, and in consequence of the country at large. This suggestion of
of that I thinkz a gooti deal of the opposition! the Minister of Justice was opposed by Mr.
whicb took place last year w1ll flot be ln- Maclean, who was extremely anious that
voked against it this session. We ask for b1is Bill should be at once pushed on. He
an Increase of capital, a request wbicb bas thouglit that this belng a sort of by-session
been made almost every session since I have tis he termeti It, and that the parties wbo
been here by companles, mercantile and fin- were down here were ail anxious to earn
ancial Institutions, and I do flot recollect their sessional allowance, tbey should take
onie single instance lu whicb the request up bis Bill and If tbere was anytbing lu it
wvas denied. It la a necessary tblng, ln ad- whicb needeti emendation, it coulti be
vanclng tbe business of the country, that amended and pushed througb, but opposlcoxnpanies should be allowed to, increase tion was madie to, that by the municipal ortheir capital. One of the outcrles wbich ganizations tbrougb the mayor of Toronto,
bas always been made ln Canada since I 'Nvbo spoke on behaif of the municipal councils
remember it, bas been to bring capital into, throughout the country and asked very defithe country to pusb forward Important nltely that the Bull of the Mlnister of Justice
works, andi It Is our duty, andi bas always should be postponed until next session. They
been recognized as sucb, to, assist financlal wanted to have an opportunlty themselves
transactions when the Increase is asked for of seelng, not only wbetber the judgment
In this way. But besides that, there Is an- whlch Justice 'Street had given ln the Tootber reason wby 1 tbink a good deal of the .ronto
case, was golng to be sustained, or If lu
opposition which took place last year to, the appeal It was to become a law that
this Bill bas been wlthdrawn or wiil flot be would be lucontrovertile, andi tbey also
invoketi. The government this year Intro- wlsbed to, consuit the municipalities and
duced a Bill whereby tbey were taklng lnto ascertain more largely from them what were
their banda the power to arrange andi deal' the points ln which they were prlnclpaIly
wlth ail matters« ln connection wlth tele- interested, and he, on bebaîf of that organizaphones anti telegraphs, anti to regulate rates, tion, backeti Up the request that the Bill
anti ln other ways exercise a control, ln te shoulti stand over until next session. Thereinterest of the country at large, over these fore, atter consitierable discussion, a motion
companies. Another Bill was introduceti by to that effect was agreeti to by the comMr. Maclean, which, to a certain extent, mlttee, but altbough the Bill bas been witbcovered the same grounti, altbough It con drawn for the present session, tbe governtaineti clauses to wblcb the government diti ment la pledged, as much anti as faitbfully
not agree anti which were opposed by the as they can be pledged, to, Introduce that
municipalities. Any gentlemen wbo were pre- Bill next session, anti to malte ft. as far as
sent at the Railway Commlttee yesterday possible, a Bill whlcb will be satlsfactory to
wben tbe Minister of Justice announcea biis tbe parties Interesteti anti to, tbe country at
pollcy witb regard to the Bill, wll back me large. Tberefore, we ask now for an iiiup in what I state, tbat the Minister of crense of capital, anti that Is the only object
Justice announceti tbat ln consequence of of the present Bill, and the Bell Telephone
confiictlng opinions whlcb had been ex- Company Is perfectly prepareti ti meet thepresseti wlth regard to the necessity of fur- provisions whlcb are madie lu aiiy goverather conslderlng some of the clauses ln bis met Bill to be lntroduced next year. Lt
Bill, be bas deci deti to postpone the consider- tba"s even been saiti, against the Introduction
ation of it until next session, anti during the of this Bill for an increase of capital, tbat
recess woulti taire tbe ativice of experts anti there is no necesslty for tbe company to have
hear what tbe different municipalities, who sncb a large amount of money at their conconsitiereti tbemselves Interesteti la this trol. Wbat fit-st matie me bave anythlng to
legisiation, bati to say, so that by tbe time do in connection with this Bill last year,
tbe House met again a well considereti and w-as the fact that tbe Bell Telepbone Coinwell digested Bill would be introduced, pany had promiseti to extenti tbrougbout
whereby the government would meet the te
tortli-west tbeir systein of long distance
neetis, tbe requirements anti tbe wlshes, not telepliones which to us la of the very
oaly of Individuals anti municipalities, but greatest importance. WVe are situatet inl a
Hon. Mr. KIRCHH-OFFER.

KPRIL 3. 1902
country wbicb la sparsely settled, la which
the settlements are largely scattered, and ta
sucb an extent that it is qulte Impossible
ta, get telegraphic communication. It ls
too expensive ta use the telegraphs and ta
keep aperators who would be necessary at
small points, and aur people fiad tbemselves denied the benefits and advantages
whilb those In a large settled communlty
have, of free communication wlth telephone
stations, and this system of long distance
telephones would be of Incalculable use ta
us. Farmers ln the country, ranchers situated long distances from their base of supplies, and small towns distant from railwvays, but stili Important centres, ail bave
an Interest la belng connected witb the
places with whicb they deal. The resuit
of the defeat of the Bll last year was that
capital could not be raised for the purpose
of extendlng tUs service, and we bave been
denied that great boon. This year we are
la the same position. The Nortb-west ls
crying out for tis, whlchl i sucb an advantage ta theni, and we are entirely wlthln
aur rigbhts, and ougbt ta have tbe sympathy
of this Hanse, ivhen we ask theni not ta
deny us any langer sncb a very great boon.
The fact Is that tbere bas ta be alsa a very
large amount of capital laid out even la the
aider provinces la extensions and repaira.
Take, for Instance, the city of Toronto, wbicb
bas opposed this Bill so very strennonsly
tram the beàinnlng. The president gives
me a statement tat there will be a sura of
$305,000 expended tlis year la Toronta--on
main "building la Toronto, $50,000 on new
arwitcbes and ixew switdi-boarde $i70,000, and
on outslde work $Sl,00O, maklng altogether a
total of $305,000 ta be expended In the city
of Toranto alane ont of capital la arder ta
give tbe service whlch a city lke Toronto la
entitled ta have. Tbey cry ont for a better
service, tbey say the preseat service daes
not satlsfy theni, and yet tbey deny the
company the capital necessary ta make It
more up ta date than it ls now. For ont8lde
wark at ather points, la tbe cities of Hamilton and Qnebec, tbe expenditure Is estlmated
thîs year at $115,000. There Is to be expended la miscellaneons works la Montreal
and la amaller places, $110,000, and tbere ls
estlmated for long distance telephone Ues
$250,000, amonntlng altagether ta $930,000,
ta be expended tbis year, and for wblcb a
9

portion ot this capital la required. Last
year the company expended on capital necount ln extensions, repairs and Improvements on their lunes, $457,000, and the president assures me flot less than balf a million
dollars a year wIll have ta be expende&*In
the next five years, In that way alone. So
If our work Is to go on at ail, and the
country la to possess the advantages whlcb
sucb a company as this can aff ord, we
must have this lncreased capital. It la flot
necessary for nie ta say on bebaîf of this
corporation that lnstead of meeting 'wltb
liastility, this company should be looked
upan as one af the great Institutions of Ma
country. It ls ail very well for people to
talk about monopalles, and about large fortunes that are belng -made out of monopolies, or of large rates af interest that are
belng pald upon capital, but we must always
recollect the danger tliat tbreatens these
monopolles by possible discoveries of new
Inventions wbereby almoat the whole of
their capital mlgbt be wlped out by a single
blow, whereby ail thelr Intricate, dflffiult
and expensive macblnery and plant may be
rendered almost uselea -foranytblng else but
ta be tbrown Into thbe soerap beap. We have
seen Instances af this klnd occurrlng frequently, and It ls not too much ta say that a
great deal of dlfficulty bas been and still ls,
experienced ln gettlng capital Interested la
enterprises-large amounts locked up whlcb
mlght by a sllgbt Invention diff erent from
the one tbey bave prove almost useless.
Capital Is proverblally tImld. It is only
necessary ta bave a suggestion that such a
thlng may occur ta bave peotple wlthdraw
the subscrlption ok funde for a purpose of
the klnd. But If people do sncceed In maklng
a satisfactory lnvestrnent and get a proper
retura for their money, tbey take great rîsks
when they go Into It, and it ls nat fair ta
cut them down when they ask for power ta
Increase their business by havlng more
inoney ta lay ont ln Improvements and extensions. This House, after the explanation
I have given as ta the necessîty for the
money and the distribution of It, and knowlng tbat It ls ahl necessary ta extend. the
company's works, will, I am sure, be prepared ta ailow this Bml ta go tbrough wlthout
any alteration.
HEon. Mr. MILLER-I do -not 2,18e sa mucbi
ta oppose the second redlng of thls Bill as

130

SENATE

to, ask my hon. frlend froni Brandon who Bill was before tbe commilttee and before
bas Charge of It, to allow the measure to this Hanse, the company positively refused
stand over till next session.
It Is well to give us an)y information as ta wbat they
known to hon, gentlemen, os bas been stated lntended to do wlth the increased capital.
by my bon. frieud biniseif, that the govern- We could not get them to -Iv'e the sllgbtest
ment during thbe present session lntroduced scintilla of Information on that Important
a general measure respeoting telegraphy subjeot. The Information furuished to-day
eud telepbony. AI'though tbat Bill las been I bave no doubt, Is ln my bon. friend'a estidropped tais session, tbe goverument Is mation, very Important and reliable, but we
pledged to Introduce a mensure aiming at should lke to bear It supported by officiai
giving full satisfaction to ail parties lu- statements and documents that wvould carry
terested In tais leglalation.
I do not agree greater conviction to the nIinds of those
with my hon. frlend's assertion tbat the Bill wbo bear IL. T'be Bill, Jf pressed thils seswhicb bas Jiust been lntroduced occuplee a sion will meet with the same opposition thait
dIfferent position from the Bill of last ses- was given to tbe Bill of last session; the
sion. Tbe main object of that Bill was to same auieudments wlll be moved.
If the
Increase the capital of the company and the Bill were dropped for this session and tuie
Bill of this session has oniy one clause, and general Bill to be snjtxmltted by the govcrnits soie object is aiea to increase tbe capital, meut next year met the objections of the
so that the Bill of last session and the mes- opponents of tbf. mnensure, tben It would
sure now before us, so fur as the promoters be a walkover for this Bill ln parhiament.
are concerned, are slilar Bis. The con- I presume there would be no objection ta
troversiai subjecta whicb were brougbt for- give the company the Increased capital
reward ln the BUi of last session, were Intro- qulred, but we cannot tell until we bave
duced for reasons wbich niy hon. -friend bas the goverument measure before us wvbetber
flot referred to.
His speech bias been a the special case of the Bell Telephone Comvery skilful effort to avold bring-ing before pany In relation to the munIipalltles wiil
tbe Hanuse this session the actual points ln be met by that Bill or not. If not met by tbat
contraversy between tbe promoters and the Bill, certainly ail the opposition wilh be given
opponents of the Bill of hast year. I said 'ta the Bell Telephone Company, legisiation
Just now tbat my objeet In rislug to, speak either this session or next session witb a
at tbis stage of the Bill was cblefiy to ssk view ta secnring the honourable carryi '
*my hou. frlend If be would not consent ta ont of the compact wbvieh tbat
campany
postpone the consIderation of this measure entered Into witb some of the municlpaîlties
untIl next session.
In view of tbe fact of Ontario, the city of Toronto, especlally,
that we are golng tio bave genes-al legisia- and wblcb tbey bave, I tbink, dlshoourably
tion by the goverument tiben, is It'wlse ta broken, repudiated and evaded. Now,
what
evoke a repetition of bad feeling and bitter- Is the real position of this question ?
This
ness that 'the discussion of tbls mensure company was Incorporated lu
1880 wltb a
exclted last session frani one end of the capital of $500,000.
Subsequently its capicountry to the other, and perhaps Iuterfere tai rwas Increased to $2,000,000.
Wben In
w1th the calm and Judicial settiemeut of 1892, tbe Company npplied to parlament
ta
thbe question a year bence ? I tbink my bave is capital Increased to
five million
bon. friend would be acting in the Interests dollars there was a very
strong opposition
of the prcnnoters of this Bill If be allowed to that Increase lu
this House, aud, strange
the question ta stand over witiiout any fur- to say, thbe gentleman
who was the strangest
ther agitation, either In parliament or ln opponent of It was from
tbe sanie part of
the country wltb regard to It, becs use I be- tbe Dominion as My bon. frlend
from BranhIeve that If this Bill le pressed It will crente don, tbe laite Hon.
Mr. Boulton.
Iu the
an agitation wblcb will resuit injuriousIy discussion on the repJort
of the cammittee,
and disadvanageousîy to the Bell Telephone after a long deibate,
tbe Bihl wus referred
Company. My bon. friend bas stated tbat back to, be amended,
eud wblle tbere, the
the soie object of this Bill Is to obtan capi- amount
of capital asked by the coinpany
tal for the extension of the compauy's was conceded
by the commnittee, but a
work.s.
We know last session wben tbe clause preventlng an
Increase of rates beHlon. Mr. MILLER.

APRIL 3. 1902
yond those stipuluted ln the prior agreement
betîveen the city of'Toronto and the coinpany lu 1891 was lnserted-that the rates
shouid not be incrensed except by the conThat
sent of the Governor lu Council.
legisiation, occupied a good deai of turne iu
this House. It was debated by the leadlng
men In the Senate and attracted a good
deal of attention throughout the country.
Âfterwards w3ien the Bill1 was referred and
came back emended, It w*as also a matter
of publie discussion ln this House and w-as
weil understood by everybody. 1 was surprised to 'hear lest year, when the amendmentis was under discussion, the circuinstances under which the amenâment ln thie
Bill of the bon, gentleman bail passed the
commlttee and the House-I -was surprlsed
to hear my bon. friend the Secretary of
State, take the ground that the aniendment
ln the Act of 1892 wvas got through the
HEouse and the committee surreptittousiy
and unk-nown ito every one Interested lu'I,
and therefore lt hnd not the force it otherwlse wouid have and that the cornpany had
good ground for repudiating the obligation
under wvhicb It piaced thern In regard to the
increase of their rates.
Hon. Mir. SCOTT-I beg my hon. frlend's
pardon; I neyer made use of the word «repudiated,' I neyer justified tAie company lu
The arndment
repudiating anything.
went through after the Bill lad been rend
the third turne. It was referred back to the
cornmittee, nnd it w-as an aftertbougbit.
Hon. 1%r. MILLER-My hon. friend badl
charge of the Bil11 In 1892.

charzed are nlot here-atter to lie incrcased without the consent of the Governor ln Council.
These are the two points, and th-,y recelved very
general assent ln the comniittee.

Then the hon. Secretary of State In moving
the adoption o! the report said :
The chaîrman of the commlttee has explaiaed
fully the purport of the amendments, and the
Bouse thoroughly understands and will probably

aijprove of them. I theref.,re move that the report of the commlttee lie conourrid. in.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW. To-morrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT. There is no necessity to
postpone the third readlng, the Ilouee understands the subje'fl now.

Therefore I was very much surprIsed wben
my hon. triend last session took the ground
that reaily there -was no no>tice of the
It was got la surreptiamendment, tat
tiously, that the promoters did flot understand w-bat thie effect o! It w-os going to be,
Now, wi'tb regard to the promoters
&c.
being hoodwlnked ln connection wltb the
amendment of 1892, that portion is answered fully by the tact that la 1897, the
Bell Telephone Company invoked thie aid
of the Act of 189-9, and of this amending
clause to have an Increase of their rates.
In 1897, they applied by petition to the
Governor ln Council for oan Increase of tbeir
rates, although at that time tbey w-ere pay.lng a dildenid of 8 per cent and had nearly
! a miion dollars test. So ut cannot be
argued'for a moment that this amendinent
w-as got lnto the Bill la any unfalr w-ny to
thîe company, but on the contrary -they
bad full knowledge of lt, and w-ere themselves the first to Invoke its use.'The matter
stood, up to 1897, la this way, both parties
looked upon 'the law of 1892 as perfectly

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bil charge of It In blndlng, but subsequently the Minister of
Justice gave an opinion -that the clause
the absence o! Mr. Gowan.
did not cover new subscrlbers, tbat 1exlsting
Hon. Mr. MILLER-It w-as referred back rates' lu the amended clause, ouly- referred
to the comilttee for furtber conaideratlon to parties w-ho huit contracts with the comand emended on two different points. WVltt pany before the passlag of the Act o! 1892,
regard to the one I arn now dlsctxssiug, the and -that therefore they -were at liberty to
Chairman, the Hon. Mr. Dickey, made tbese charge *wvhat they pleased to ail new snbremarks:.
scribers, net only la Toronto, but lu other
With regard to t.he other Fmeudment referrlng municipaitles of the Dominion where their
to the rate3, it la not a elause which places the lines extend. Hers la what the Minîster of
rates entirely under the control of the Governor
ln Council, but it is a clausc, which after the Justice sald la a letter to the Miniater of
rates were explalned to us, was introduced Railways -with regard te the legal effect o!
to limit the pow-cr ?if the company to change thie amended clause :
those rates la the direction of in increase witbont the consent of the Governor in Council, se
as te afford a protection, as far as we could to
the public, that no exorbitant rates wouid he
the resuit of this increased capital, and the
wording of thé clause shows that the rates

Ia reply to your letter I may state that I arn

strongly of opinion that the clause la the Act of
V~92, provldlng th.at the existlng rates shahl not
lie increaDed wlthout the consent of the Governior ln Councl, ls iegally Ineffective s0 f ar as

SENATE
subscribers are concerned, and that proceed'îngs witbln the recollection of any of us bave
ta restrain the company from lncreasing the
rent charged ta subseribers, would be unsuc- Petitions been so largely presented to
cessful.
tiais House ln connection witb any subAs soon as the company was In posses- Ject as ln connectlon with this Bell
sion of this legal opinion, from go blgb an Telephone Bill. What do tbese petitions
authority, they ait once began ta raise the ask ? Tbey prayed for the 'passing of
rates, aîot only ta new subscrlbers, but ta sucli legisîntIon as will prevent the Bell
aid subseribers, und to do just as tbey Telephane Company of Canada froni lnpleased.
Learning tbat the law whlch creasing Its rates as they exîsted ln 1892,
they had accepted lni good faith, whieh and requiring theni ta supply telephioues
parliament and the publie had accepted ln to persons wiiiing to pay for the saine
good faltb, as guaranteelng that there would wbose premises are upon or adjacent to,
be no lncrease ln the rates of this company a main lune or branch of their systein.'
wlthout the cousent of the Governor ln That la aIl that these petitioners seek of
Council, contalned a flaw, they taok Imme- us. They ask parliament to remove the
diate advantage of that flaw and ralsed the ambigulty. of the law af 1892, and ta declare
rates ail round. The contention last year, tbat the rates shahl fot be either lncreased
%vben the Bell Telephone Coznpany's Bill or dimlnished except withi the consent of
was before the House, wns not agalnst the the Gov-ernor ln Council. It is flot very
substance of the BIII-that la the clause for often tbat a company asking favours
the Increase of the capital-but Its oppo- appears before parliament under sucli very
nents were desirous of amendlng tbe Bill to great disadvantnge as tbis company daes
remove the ambigulty of the Act of 1892
lnbaving repudiated a solemu compact
and malze It whant parliamient thought It nmade with the city o! Toronto, and
was and ouglbt to be-we were ail prepared then, worse stili, ln flot baving kept
to give the company what they wanted If falth with parliament or the public or
tbey wauld consent ta act falrly wltb the Its subseribers witb regard to the legispublic and wlth their subscrîbers and allow lation o! 1892. I thlnk tbe best course
the aa>endment to the Act of 1892 ta be my lion. friend could pursue witb regard
couched lu language free from any anibi- to thîs Bill Is ta witbdraw It and flot to
guity or vagneness. That they wouid flot arouse any further agitation, until the
do, and on that bas arîsen amy objection generai measure of the governement la
I thlnk It la
whicb has been made to granting an la- submltted to parliament.
crease of capital ta this company. Because probable the measure o! the goverament,
the municipalitles feel that If they lose thîs froni tbe assurances whlcb bave been
oppartunlty created by the needs of the com- given us by the 1%inster of Justice,
pany of additional capital, of gettlng will be one which will satlsfy the muInterested.
Justice In accordance wltb tbelr contract nîcîpalities and all others
of 1891 with the Bell Telepbone Comn- There ls, I repeat, a danger that, owing
pany, wbicb was that rates should not to the speclal cîrcumnstances o! Toronto
be charged on domestlc telephones over $25, la connection witb tbls company, that
and on business telephones over $45-a Con- a general Bihl may flot meet the grîevances
tract whlch was Intended to be ratlfied by under wbicb the people o! that City labour
the Act of 1892, they may neyer bave so In regard to the incrense of rates and other
good an OPPortnnity of dolng so. Ail they IncidentaI matters. A very great bardsbip,
ask la that the cantract whicb the company and a very practical grievance, Is now lnhad made wltb tbem sbould be carried out flicted especially on the municlpality of
la good faltb. This tbe Company lias re- Toronto by tbe Bell Teleplione Compan,
fused to do so far, and of course, wblle they whom at the outset it encouraged In every
take tbat stand, the municipalities wiil con- legitimate way by a liberal contract for
tInue to oppose any further concessions by telephone services, notwltbstanding ail tbis,
parliament to thîs company. We bave bad they find theinselves now at the mercy
our Table loaded tbls year witb petitions of thîs company sImply on account o!
froin over elgbty municîpalitîes includlng a legai technlcallty or vagueness la 'tbe
every part af the Dominion. I daresny flot pbraseology of tbe amended clause
of the
Hon. Mr. MILLESR.

APRIL 3. 1902
Act of 1892. 1 think that It would be ln
the interests of this company to wait and
see whether the wishes of the petitioners
wlll be met by the government Bill, but
etherwise I wIll feel It my duty to ask the
House to paso the amendments which the
Senate would, had the Bill fot been withdrawn, have adopted hast year wlth the
etrong approval of pubie opinion, as expressed by the press on both sides of
I know of no great publie
politlcs.
question ever before this country where
the unamimity of the press was greater
than ln the approval of the conduct
of the Senate and disapproval o! the conduct o! the committee that re!used the
amendments whlch the opponents of the
Bill were seeklng ln the interest of the public.
I can only say to my hon. friend,
If hie does not accept my suggestion It will
flot be la the Interests of the company; It
wlll not allay the hostility of the public to
the action of the Bell Telephone Company,
but will Increase It even to a greater extent
than was experienced last session.

something done to arrange the rates o! this
Company.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tlme.
Hon. Mfr. KIRCHHOFFER moved that
the BUI be re!erred to the Committee on
Banking and Commerce.
Hon. Mfr. MILLER-No, the Commlttee on
Rallways, Telegraphs and Harbours. 1
iiever knew a Bill of this klnd to be re!erred
to any other commlttee, except when this
Bill was referred last year.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It Is purely a financial
matter.
Hon. Bir. KIRCHHROFFER-If It Is the
wish o! the House to refer this Bill to the
Committee on Rallways, Telegraphs andA
Harbours, 1 arn quite willing that It should
go to that commit-tee.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-It was before the
Banking and Commerce Committee last
year.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD) (British Columbla)-I should like to aok the hon, gentleman from Brandon If this company lntend
to Issue preferential stock to raise this
capital ?

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Certainly; but it
was Improperly referred to that committee.
It was through a mistake or oversIght. This
cornes under the heading o! telegraphs and
shoufd go to the Committee on Railways,
Telegraphs and Harbours.
Hon. Mfr. RIRCHHOFFERt-I have not
The motion was amended and adopted.
the sllghtest Idea what the company Intend
to do.
SECOND READINGS.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Columbla)-If they do, the other shareholders may
probably be cut out o! everything. This
company ought to be restricted, 'whether It
ls done this year or next year, ln the Interest of the country and of those who use
telephones. I do not think on ail occasions
this company acts fairly or ln a stralght!orward manner. I know ln Victoria the
agents of the company have been charging
some of their customers four dollars a
month and others only three, and that is
done In an underhand way. It only came
to the ears of those who pay four dollars
ln an Indirect manner. When charged with
It, the company admitted they_-had done
so. That is a dishonest thlng, to charge
different rates for the sarne service. It la
unworthy of a company paying large dlvidends. Whether the bon. gentleman goes
on with this Bill or not, 1 should like to see

Bill MJ An Act to incorporate the Instltute of Chartered Âccountants.--(Hon. Mfr.
Kerr.)
Bill (K) An Act to confer on the Commissioner of Patents certain powers for the
relief of George M. Depew.-<(Hon. Mfr.
Kirchhoffer.)
Bill (26) An Act respecting the Quebec
and Lake Huron Rallway Oompany.-(Hon.
Mr. Landry.)
Bill (14) An Act to incorporate the Indian
River Railway Company.--(Hon. Mfr. Godbout.)
Bill (21) An Act respecting the Port Dover,
Brantford, Berhi.i and Goderich Railway
Company, and to change Its name to IlThe
Grand Valley . Rallway Coexpary.'-(Hon.
Mfr. McCallum, ln the absence o! HEon. Mfr.
Merner.)

SENATE
Bill (24) An Act respecting the Windsor Niagara River road, and ran theul. both ln
and Detroit Union Bridge Cornpany.--(Hon. common under on Company, and ln ConMr. McCallum.)
,sequence of the amaslgamnation of the varions
compa nies, It has been thought expedient,
INTERNATIONAL RAILWAY COMand I believe deuirable, so fur ns legisiation
ln the United States la concerned, that the
PANY'S BILL.
words 'International Railway'1 should. take
SECOND READING.
the place of 'Buffalo Rallway,' and I arn
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved the second read- sure trorn a national standpolnt on the
lng of Bill (No. 31) An Act respectlng the Canadian aide of the river, we ought to, feel
Buffalo Rallway Company and the Inter- pleased at the change of name. I arn perfectly satisfied that the gentlemen who have
national Railway Company.
The mot-Ion was egreed. to, and the BIll the management of the rallway, and who
are Its owners, are Ca&nadian as weil as
was rend the second time.
United States capitallats. However, I wll
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved that the Bill communicate wlth the gentlemen who are
tie referred to tihe Commlttee on Rallways, prornotlng the Bill and get the desired InTelegraphs and Harbours.
formation, so that lt may be before the RailHon. Mr. McCALLUM-I do not riee to way Committee when the BIR cornes up for
oppose the reference of thUs Bil to the corn- consideration.
mittee, but I wish to Cali attention to tihe
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-I do mot wlsh to
tact that this Is a foreign company, and oppose the hon, gentleman. I bave made
when the Bill cornes before the Standing the suggestion te enaMqe the committee to
CormlJttee on Railways, Telegraphe and arrive at a correct conclusion.
I have
Harbours, the bon. gentleman ought ta be always objected te handlng over the bridges
ln a position to show who are the stock- acros the Niagara river to a foreign corholders. We do not knew who, they are; poration. We do not know who they are.
we neyer knew who tbey were when we They rnay be ail enemies ot this country.
were lncorporating thoen a tew years ago. That la 'why I notlty the hou. gentleman to
T-hey bave get control of a good deal of .subrnit the names et the ehareholders, and
Canaidian property.
not because I wlsh to oppose the Bill. 1
Hon. Mr. GIBSlON-As far as I arn aware, want hLm to be prepared to show the conithis Bill reeelved a good deal of opposition, mlttee, who the owners of this property
and very .preperly so, some lme ago, when are, because ln Case of trouble the ownerLt was .before 'this House, and that was ship on the olxher aide et the river màght
with respect to the securlng 0f ral-ways on prove Injurions to this country.
the Canadian aide of the frontier.
They
Hon. Mr. GIIBSON-I have no abjection
ddd so, however, by bargs.in and sale,
te furnish, ail the Information I Sen get,
rnutually agreed upon by tioth parties, and
but my hon. friend must recollect that fixe
I would say, living as I do ln the nelghbonrrailway waa orinafly chartered by the
hood of these raiways, that they are adDominion et Canada, and la mun to-day
mirably managed.
As far as the owners under the oeegu1sations
laid down by the Deare concerned, I wlIU endeavour to meet the
partrnent of Baiw:vay and Canais, s0 that,
requirements of the hon, gentleman and
s0 tar as the supervision and th-e rnnning
bring down the îlot of ehareholders.
So of the railway 1a concerned,
It la .being doue
far as the railway Comnpany dtself ls consubjeet to ail the Condition& of railway
cerned, it la aixnply askIing for sosnettlng
legislation ln the Dominion of Canada, the
'wich should recelve the support -of hion.
same as any ether rallway in this country.
gentlemen ln this House, because It is
The motion 'was agreed to.
merely changing the name from 'the Buffalo
Railway Company, to 'the International
TIIE RAILWAY COMMITTEEM ROOM.
Railway Company.' The Buffalo Raiiwa1y
Company owned the George road on the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
United States aide of the river.
They, should like to ca-il the aittention of the Secrebowever, bouglit out thbe Niagara Fahls and tary of State again. to. this Railway Coni-

APRIL 3. 1902
mittee accommodation. 1 bold in my band
a notice calling a meeting of the Committe
on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbours lu
the same room that we bhave occupied for
years. 1 should lke to ask Mlm iwhat steps
bave. been taken or Instructions given to
place the old Railway (Jermmittee room, used
by the Hou*se of Gommons at the disposai
of the Senate ? We are likely te bave a
large number attending thec meetings of our
commIttee, and we wili be holding our meetings lu a stuffy, dlsagreeable, roomn full of
Impure air. I supposed Instructions would
have been given so thaï: the clerk could have
Issued notices to meet ln that room which
legitimately belongs to this branch of parliament.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think I mentioned on
a former occasion, when my hon. friend drew
My attention te the subject, that I had
spoken to the Minister of Public Works,
and he et once acquiesced lu Our using iiiat
room, aud on a former occasion my hon.
frieud said he did not think It was necessary until later In the session.
Hou. Mr. MILLER-We have 'to deal witfl
the Bell Telephone Comnpany's Bil.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That -will draw a large
number.
Hon. SIr MACKENZIE BOWELL-I said
I thought lt -would make no difference before the holldays, as the iûret meeting of
tihe eommittee -was for organization and the
appointment of a chairman. I dId net say
there 'was noet likely to be any -busineos of
Importance calling together a large number
of people.
DELÂYED RLETJURNS.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I
know If the returus I asked
of February, ou the aubject
wiil be brought down some

ohould like to
for on the 2Oth
of school lands,
tîime this week.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I will make inquiry.
THE GROUNDING 0F THE SS. 'LAKE
SUPERIOR.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I wnnt to caîl the
attention of My bon. friend, the Secretary
of State, to a paragraph lu a papert which
bus just corne tbrough tihe mail, 'w'th reference to the unfertunate grouudiug of the
1 Lake Superlor' in the liarbour of St. John.
I find It stnted Iu tMis paper that very ur-

gent action had been taken to endeavour
She la on a reef and
to save the shlip.
mak-Ing wamter, aud no pumping apparatbus
could be found ln the lower provinces suitable for pumpIng her, and it Io stated here
that application was made te the goverument 'with ia viesv to allowIng' a pumping
apparatus to be brought Into the country
free of duty, lu order ta meet thîs very
great emergency, aud that the goverument
I may Just aay that the
had refused.
groundlng of this sb:ip lu one of our principal harbours-this magnificent ehip that
bas doue se much good service lu connection 'with our wiuter line-le a very uufortunate thiug, aud I wish to cali my bon.
frie.nd's attention ta this complaint, and to
soir hlm If It could net be p>ossible to have
the motter looked more c'arefully Into anti
afford this relief whIch -appears te be so desirable under the cirournstauces.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not aware tha«t
auy application has been made. I have flot
heard It referred to by any of my colleauea.
It would corne, lu the ficat Instance, before
the Minlater of Marine.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
The Minister of Oustoms; it la a question or
duty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The application for re1
lief would iprobably come to hlim firat.
have heard nothing of an application te
bring lu machinery trom the United States
lu conuection wit an accident of that kind.
1 will make Iuquiry and inform my hon.
frlend to-morrow.
Hon. Sir MACKE3NZIE BOWELL-This
being a matter ot customs duty, the application would be made to the Department of
Customs, and It would be for the Minister of
Oustoms to say what should be doue. 1
kno'w that wherever parties desire to obtalu
any appararbua or machinery ln cases of distress of that klnd, they mnake the application where they arg moat lndividually and
pecuniary Interested, ludependent of the
fact that such wrecklng apparatus and
pumping machines do exiat lu the country.
Thot I know bas been my experience ln the
past, aud I have no doubt-I say this ln defence of the Customs Department, lu whlch
I still teel an Interest-too often we have
yielded lu the past when we fonnd out afterwards it was ta the dlsadvantage of parties

136

SENATE

who had large lnvestments in wrecking apparatus whlch mlght have been obtalned in
Canada, only the parties thought the cosepetlng people living across the Uine could,
under an appeal such as thls, get their machlnery into the country. Unlesa It Io a case
of absolute necesslty, and where no pumping apparatus could be obtained ln our own
country, I should justlfy the government in
refusing the application.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-As the question bas
been brought up, 1 ehould Ilke te inake thls
observation In regard to It.
Whlle It 15
possible that there le snob apparatus In
some parts of Canada, ai present It would
be a)mnoat Impossible to get It f rom the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, end qulte Impossible
to get It from the Great Laktes, and If it
doos not exist ln the lower provinces, It
w'ould have to be brought trom the United
States.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
should be some ln the maritime provinces.
Mhey might have sent te Haiifax.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SEJiATE.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
but I would cail attention to the fact that If
objection be made, It will be necessary to
make a preliminary motion. 1 notice, in
looking at the rules, that we should bave,
to carry out the miles properly, elther to
suspend by unanimous vote mule 16 for the
time being, or give notice for à call of the
House, ln order to change the motion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On that account I ask
to bave It stand until Monday.
The motion was aliowed to stand.
THE TREADGOLD CONCESSION.
MOTION.
Hon. Mm. MACDONALD (Victoria, B.C.)
moved :
That an humble addr-,-Ss be pre5sntd to His
Excellency the Governor Generai; praying that
Hie ExceliencY Will cause to be laid before this
House, copies of ail orders ln council, applications, armeents and communications lu writlng reiating to the grant or concession ho A. & C.
Treadgold, or to the Hydraulic Minlng Syndicate, of any dlaims or priviieg,>s te water rights,
mining lands, and timber limite ln the Yukon
Territory, or ln any part of the North-west Territories. Alec, a description or plan showlng
the location and area of such dlaims, privileges
,'nd concession to the aforesaid partias or syn-

OttwaPrMy, pri 4,1.92.
e said: Knowing the delays
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three bringing down returns asked attached to
for, taklng
o'clock.
sometimes weeks, months and even a year, I
Prayers and routine proceedinge.
have endeavoured te gather up ail the inforBILL INRODUED.mation 1 could rèiati [ig to the so-called TreadBILL INRODUED.gold Company's contract or concessions.
Bill (M) An Act respectlng the Atlantic I will refer in order to the sallent
points ln
and Lake Superlor Rallway Company.- tbe contract, and should
I be wrong or
(Hon. Mr. Owens.)
m1informed, I should ask the members of
Bill (N) An Act respectlng the Great East- the government to correct me. No doubt
ern Rallway Company.--(Hon. Mr. Owens.) they know the tert of the contract as It
must have been agreed to ln Councl. I
A PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE take it that every hon. member
of tbis
RULES.
House wIll agree that the Yukon mining reThe notice of motion being cailed.
gion sbould be kept for the benefit of the
By the Honourable Sir Mackenzie Bowell, whole country, for the mîners who to11 tIbre,
K.C.M.G.:
ud for the commercial men who trade
Thut he will move that paragraphi 1 and
ther
of rule 80 of the Rules, Orders and Proceeding 2 er.
I think
agreeîng to Ibis
et the Senate ef Canada be auiended. by striking proposition will the House that
aiso agmee
the ±irst care
eut the word 'sevbint.en* in rarnaraph 1, and should be to
conserve the rights of miners,
Bubstituting the word 'eighteen' therefer ;ane.
that paragraph 2 be ameuded by striking «eut give easy communication, and the lowest
the werds 'tweuty-one,' and substiiuting the taxation commensurate
with the managewürd 'tantyfou'
thref)r.ment
of a well organized system of governSHon. Mr. SCOTT said : I would ask the ment frce from
favourltism, monopoly and
bon, gentleman to let that motion stand partlallty. If Ibis be
the proper mode of
until Monday.
governîng the Yukou how comes Il that menoen. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE2LL.

APRIL 4. 1902
centiy a company of three, Treadgold, Barwick and another, have obtained a monopoly of mining lands, timber limits and
water rights ln that country for thirty
years--yes, a monopoly for thlrty yearsIn the face of the strong aversion of the
people of this country' to combines and
monopolies ? Our largest companies had
no special rights, such as the Canadian
Pacifie Railway and the Grand Trunk wbo
spent millions ln the country, whereas this
Yukon company does nothing for Its monopoly. The parties most interested did flot ask
this or any company to come la toi bellp them
to water. So far as I have been able to
gather information apart from the actuai
contract, I find that this ca'm-pany possesses
the sole riglit to take water from the Klondike river at any point between lit entry Into
the Yukon river ani the Flat creek for generatlng power ta work and pump water ilu
the district, compriBîng the beds, banks,
vaiheys, siopes and bill of the Klondike
river, Bonanza, Bear and Hlunker creeka, and
their tributaries for tbirty years. The tributarnes of rivera mentioned are an undefined quantity, and many extend for
hundreds of miles, and cover the richest
part of that gold-producing country. No
miner, however enterprising, may for bis
own purposes, after this agreement goea Into
operation, take any water tram the Klondike river lu the vicinity of the best mining
creeks ; lie must buy from the Treadgold
Company. 1 believe the compauy la also
given the right of entry upon, and a way
through any lands and any mining ground
for the purpose of constructing its works,
the only recompense to the mine owner
being, the gravei removed by the company
would be placed ln a separate dump. I
hear, however, that this clause bas been
modified to provide for compensation ln case
of damage. The company aiso bas the riglit
to purchase Crurwn lands at a stipulated
price of $10 par acre, also the riglit to enter
upon, make entry for, and work ail mnining
locations now or haraaftar abandoned on
Bonana, Bear and Hunker creaks, and their
tributarias, free from payment excapt sucli
royalty as may ba prescribed. The company for ail thase concessions bas to expend $250,000 on its works bafore the end
of Dacember, 1902, and to deliver, by July,
1905, 1,500 cubic feet of water per minute ;

otherwise their grants and powers shall
cease. The company to be free from rents,
taxes and assesaments, except customs
duty and royalty. It is aliowed ta charge
for water $1 per miners Inch per hour.
Sucb a rate would ln ordinary cases cost
a mine $125 per day. This, howevar,
lias been wisely modified to twanty-five
cents per- hour. The objectionabla features
of the contract are the thirty years monopoly, the right over tributaries of the Klondike and Yukon rivera, as baing undefined
nnd may mean thousands of acres, also
ahtuttlng out minera from the free use of
the rivers mantioned wlcl should ha free
to ahL
Hon. Mr. SGOTT-Tlere is no objection
la this case to aIl the papers coming dowu,
and the fullest Information possible being
given on the subject referred to. I do not
know that any good. purposa can be served
by our discussing It whlle It ls very wall
known that the terms, or a modification of
them, are now being discussed betwaan raPresentatIves from Dawson and the Minister
of the Intariar, and therefore a good many
of the observations o~f my hon. friand perhaps are nat strIctiy correct even at the present moment. I do not propose ta' foliow
hlm through the varions statements lie bas
made, but I can say this, that for the hast
two or tliree yaars represantations bave been
made that there were many chaims on the
Klondike and on other streams which bad
been abandoned ln consequance of their being on too higli a plane to obtain watar.
Tliey could flot be utihized simphy because
there was an absence of watar, and It wonld
not pay any one, or two, or threa Individuals
ta bring watar to any particular dlaims,
and wbataver was done liad to be done
on a very large scahe ln order that water
miglit ba obtained for ail the dlaims that
were on highl eval, which otherwise could
not ba utllized, and which had been tlirown
up and were ln the bande of the governtuent.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
on high lavels ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thay were taken up
on ground wbere It was too higli to work
them unless watar was artificialiy brouglit
to that highar havel. This matter bas bean
under discussion for the last tliree yaars
and applications have heen made from time

SENATE
to time, and 1 understood tha-t lb was iif carried out lu its entirety as tirst promatter of notoriety iii Dawson that persoîu svided,. would have upon bliat country and
were proposlng to spend a very large amouni t the mining luterests. The bon, gentleman
of capital-from hiall a million to a million s aya thiat this will not place tbe mîners ln
,dollars and perhaps more-lu pumplng up any worse position than they were before,
water to a bigli level ln order that the claims except, bie might bave added, to tbis exwhich were not then wlthin reach of water tent, that If they should cease working
ou account of being too higli, could be uti -their
dlaims for a short period and the
lized. Various propositions were made ln dlaims should be declared nbandoxied for
the last three years and the matter was dis- *the tîme being, this syndicate or these concussed backward and forward between Icessionaîres can walk lu and take posparties at Dawson and the Department of session of what are designated abaudoued
the Interlor. It was not rushed through ln dlaims.
Wben the hion, gentleman tiilks
any way, as the hion. gentleman would Indi- o f the high levela, hie shoýuld know that
cate -by the observations he bias made. In the earth contaluing gold la brought to the
making the regulations, I arn advlsed that iower level to the bottom 0f the creek,
the intereats of the minera were well pro- *or near tbe bottom of the creek lu order
tected, thiat auy miners holding dlaims there tliat It may be there washed, except ln
are ln no worae position now thon they *hydraulic operations.
0f hydraulic plant
were before the concession waa granted. there la only one lu existence at the presThey are entitled to ail the water they re- eut time, ns far as my knowiedge exquire for the purpose of washing the earth tends lu the Yukon territory, where the
lu their dlaims. Therefore, the prejudice water la carried up luto a reservoir or
that the hion, gentleman bias sought to create, tank, and then through a pipe, forced into
by saylng that the minera bave been sacri- the crevices between the rocks and the
ficed, bias -no substantial foundation. But earth with the gold la wasbed out. There
under any clrcumistances, while modifica- can bie no doubt that wbat are termed ln
tions of the agreement are under considera- many cases abandoned dlaims, are really
tion, it seema rather premature to diacusa Mt. not totally a:bandoned, but, probably for the
No possible good can come of lt.
Tbe reasons suggested by the hon. Secretary of
original papera wlll bie brought down lu due State, that they cannot obtain a sufficient
time. As for the plan for wbilh my bion. quantity of water, temporarily abandoned,
friend aska, I do flot know whether there la more on acount of the expense atteuding
such a plan lu existence. If there le, It will the workIng o! what la termed lean pay
bie brougbt down. Ail I can do la to assure dlrt, but which, after the rise of water,
the Hous that It was tbought to be ln the are utillzed 0! ten by the original minera.
interest of the minera that this arrangement Many of the dumpa that have been wasbed
should bie made, because It was golng to are atili rich lu preclous metal. I aaw myenable a very large number of unuaed self, ast aummer, an old man about elgbty
daims to bie worked, and If the parties yeara of age washing from a dump tliat had
who had origlnally takea them up did plot already gone tbrough the operation of
propose to work them, the new eompany separating the gold fromn the earth, washthat was being organlzed would have the lug wlth a pan and cradle by baud, secure
rlght to take up those dlaims.
ten or twelve dollars between ten lu the
Hlou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Â few mornlng and three Iu the afteruoon.
of the remarks made I>y the lion. Secretary What does that prove ? It proves that
of State are somewbat pertinent to the ques- the present method and mode of extracttions, and perhapa we saal be better able ing the whole o! the preclous metal from
to -dîscuss the contents and provisions of the earth bas not yet been diacovered,
this document, which la called a concession, and that bereafter when the water supply,
better, when lt is laid before the House than elther lu the spring or by any other means
ut the preseut moment. But It ls quite evi- tbey can obtain it, that there la a ricli reward
dent that the Secretary of Stute-and I say to follow those wbo wlll re-work: this eartb.
It with aIl due respect-bas very little knowl- But the concession made to thia syndicate
edge of the effect wbich this concession, deprives-and here ls the grent objection to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

AYRIL 4. 1902
it-new Ininers, except at the wIvl o! per- to pay $275 stumpage dues for the timber
sons who hold these concessions, going Into whicli he liad taken for the construction of
that country, and wbat wll the effeet be ? an liotel, in order to give the miner a place
That instead of having hundreds of people In which to live, and the charge for grazing
going there and exploring the country up a cow in a country of that kind, of five cents
these different creeks, in order to locate per week, whicb goes into the pockets of the
These charges restrict the
dlaims, minera wilI be kept out o! the country governhment.
for the reason that this syndicate will have operations of the people to an extent you
Cross the border
possession and control of the wliole of ItL wouid scarceiy reallze.
If the hon, gentleman would consider for a into Alaska and ail you have to do is to
moment the point raised by the bon. mem- locate your dlaim, and eut ail the timber
ber for Victoria in that Indefinite expression you want for mining operations, and no
Discover a coal mine,
'the Bonauza or the Hunk-er creek and its charge is made.
trîbutaries,' lie wili see at once that they In the same manner, on the banks of the
are giving nearly the whole of the goid pro- river, as you will see it on the banks of
ducing sections of the country to tlis syn- the Saskatchiewan, In the .North-west, and
It, and
dicate. The rIchest discoveries that have you can take possession and work
there Is no charge made beyond the locabeen inade.in that wliole country are on a
tributary o! the Hlunker creek, and many tion f ee, and the annual liceuse you
other riciP depotits which have been dis- have to pay, and no royalty. I point out
covered are on tributaries of the Bonanza these things to show you the advantages,
In makiug that con- whicli the United States miner going Into
and tlie Hunker.
It ls quite evident that United States terrltory has over the Canacession originally,
territory.
there was somethlng behInd it, some reason dian miner going Into Canadian
want of knowledge Ail these restrictions tend to hamper the
for doing it, or an utter
Experleuce
o! that country.
o! the country aud Its requirements. If development
not, why should permission be given to one lias taught those wlio have given the subat ail, that the most
or two individuals to charge. a dollar au Jeet any consideration
for an output of a miner's inch liberal constructio-i should be put upon
hour
issued,
of water 7 Tliey afterwards reduced that ail the regulations which have been
My Impression Ia that If that sud, '.In addition to that, that these reguto 25 cents.
be as liberal as possible.
-concession Is ever carried out In Its entirety, lations should
there wilI have to be a greater reduction, I freely admit that I think the regulations
unleas the coneessionaires are to reeive at present iu existence are much more
the whole of the proceeds of the miner who lîberal than they were formerly, but there
does the work. There eau. be no question are regulations which should, be ameuded
that If that country Is to be f ully and thor- ln order top encourage the minera, Iustead of
oughly developed, It la to be by hardy men hampering them. I s'hould like If the hon.
who are wiuling to go into what would be gentleman's *motion had gone a Ilttie farconsidered, under many circumatances, an ln- ther. There are other concessions beaides
hoapitable country, particulariy Iu the win- this Treadgold concession. There are conter, aud who have to undergo great priva- cessions of three or four miles which people
tions, and they are hampered by the rules have been holding for some time, perhape
and regulations that have been adopted by for two or three years, by paying a smail
the government to an extent that is unknown fee, and that prevents iudustrious and yenlu any other part o! the world. Compare turesome men going into the country and
the rules that goveru the miners lu that assisting the development. No one can concountry wlth those that goveru the miners ceive what the effeet Io, or what hardship
Iu Alaska, which lies right alongaide It, these minera have to endure, and one cannot
within a few miles, where there are large understand or comprehend, without looking
goid deposits, and you would marvel. The Into the question very closely, lxow far the'
goverumeut charges so mucli stumpage for country is lield baek from being properly
the lumber that is taken from the woods developed snd the proper return given for
If a ma wants to buld a but In which to the labour of those wbo have gone there,
live. I saw one case In which a man had by the regulations wbich are In existence.

SENATE

1 have no desire to say or do anytbing that of the rules, sucli as they are. and tbe condiwiii Injure tbe further development of the
Yukon territory, and I congratulate the goverumnent on the wise selection they bave
made ln the present governor, If such lie
eau be termed, of that terrltory.
lion. Mr. YOUNXG-Hear, bear!1

tions of thait bargahi to whicb mny lion.
friend front Victcria bias referred, %vould
end lit a semi-rebeIlion. The people there
wiii flot tolerate the givlng up of a whole
counltry, as this concession la givlng It Up,
to Treadgoid. You wIll be baving ail the
difficultles, and more than the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He bas whicbi arose wb.jn the mass dItlicultlps
of people
made many Improvements, and removed rusbed into that country
Inimediately after
many of the ditticuities, so fair as bis power the discovery of gold to
any extent. and I
would permit, that existed under tlie former would urge very strongiy
upon the goveriagoveriment, and I attribute that to this ment, if tlicy wouid take
any advice front
fact: h e is a gentleman who lias llved a me lit this matter, to see
tîiat no sucli monlong tinte ln a new country. He kflows opoly la given to any
claose of people or to
ivliat the (hîfficulties are ln tlie aettilng of at any corporation. We
muet ail admît-at
new country. He lias liad a good deai of least those wlio know
anythlng of it-that
experlence ln governlng a new country, and the great drawback to
successful mlning
lias carried bis practlcal knowledge Into la the wunt of water,
and any means tha9t
thie Yukon terrltory. I doubt not, if lie cau lie adopted by whlcb
thie country la îlot
liad full power to act and to do what lie to lie given nit entireiy
te one syndicate
bellevea would be ln the best Intereat 0f for the furnishlng
of that water to the
that country, that înany of these complaints minera nt a rate whîcli
la Dot muInous, sliouid
would be removed and many of thie dîfflcul- be ndopted. But tlie
Idea of glving up for
tics wouid cease to exiat.
tlilrty yeara the wliole country to one synHon. Mr. GIBSON-Hear, bear!
dîcate, la a monstrous proposition, and 1
cannot beip
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In presentations tlinking that If the proper reliad been made to thie goverudiscussing tbla matter I try to dîveat mny- nient, If tbey have
the elîglitest regard for
self altogether of polîtical prejudices ln the future of that
country, and the developthe atte.
ment of the great weaith that la
Hon. Mr. 31ACDONALD (Britishi Colum- coal and lit gold and other preclousln it lu
metals,
bla)-Hear, bear !tbey
muet retrace the steps wbilh tliey
bave taken, and I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-And 1 hon, gentleman bas am very giad thiat the
brouglit thîs question
;pcak tlius of Mr. Rosa, because 1 speak of under the notice
of the Secretary of State,
à1m, as I find lim, and wlien 1 lIîvestigated, lu order that lie
can convey the Impressions
;o fair as My limited tinte wouid permit, whlcli muet be left
upon tlie mind of every
t lie difficuities whlch lied exlated ln that lion. senator aftcr hearlng the terme
and
t errItory and tlie manner la which lie liad tbe manner la wicli lie bas laid It
before
een governing It wie lie had been tiiere, tlicm, lit order to
make those amendimenta.
deemcd it due to lim and justice to my- I repeat tliat the fact
of the original terme
elf, to aay that lie la dolng as much as lie liavlng been so
matcrlaliy aitered, and In
t an possibly do to remove these troubles one charge alone comlng down front a dol.nd dîfflicuities, and say furtlier tliat I be- lar an Inch to 25
cents an inch, la tlie beat
ieve thiat If the gov'ernmnent will act upon evidence tbis
b
House or the country can
lie suggestions and advice wicli, I have biave that they
werc conceding to a simai!
o doubt, that gentleman wiil give tliem, syndîcate,
wvlo cxpected and no doulit wouid
p ~any of the troubles
and difficultîes wiI become very wealthy, conceding
to tbem
e remved.concessions,
the resuit of .whicbh tliey had
I-Ion. Mr. GIBSO.N-Hear, hear 1
flot the slightest conception of. I wouid
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The suggest that those who are moat interested
articular subjeet before the Hoîuse, lo one la tliis-I menu the government which
la
f Immense Importance to tbls country. It governlng the country at the
present moannot be overestimated. The carrying out ment-that those wbo bave
a practicai turn
lion, Sir MAC3KENZIE BoWELL.

KPRIL 4. 1902
of iiuiid sbould go into that country and see
for themnselves, and if they bave any regard for the pmosperity of the country and
their 0wn reputatioli as legisiators, they
will inaterially change the conditions and
pro visions of any concession tbey make to
any class of people. I horie this return
mrill coune down at a tinie that will give
us an opportunity of studying It carefully,
anid I arn inclineil to think, from what I
have learnied, that the bon. senator from
Victoria bas not exaggerated iii the slightest degree the ternis of IL. On the contrary,
1 tlink bon. gentlemen wiil find tbat tbey
are more obnoxious iii their character than
be has indicated to tue flouse. 1 express
tbe hope agalu that the Secretary of State
wîll see that we bave this report at an
early period, and that It will not be left
over toru long. And I should like to have,
whetber the motion will cover it or not,
a copy of tbe original agreement into whIch
tbey entered, tbe amendments wblch bave
Ieen made up to the present moment,
and the amendments wblch tbey propose to
make, after bearing from the governor of
thiat territory and those wbo are heme today pressing upon the govemnnient the
necessity o! niaking changes. We shiail
thenl be able to judge lmow far the govemument bas goiie In handing over te a few
of their friends immense concessions lu
that territory.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-No friends 0f ours.
Tbey are Engllsh capitalist.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I wi11
not be led away !rom the subject now under
discussion, but I should like to say seinething-perhaps It would nlot be Judiclous
j nat now-in reference to their friends and
capitalists. Those wbo pay any attention
to current events uuderstand wbat ls meant
by the word 'capitalist,' and we understand
ns a mule wlho tbose capitalsts are, and we
understand a littie fumther what those capitalists do u-ben it is necessary that tbey
should be asked to be drawn Into the fold,
to do certain thlngs for the benefit of the gentlenmen who rule and control, unfortunately,
this country, at the present time. Hiowever,
we will leave that for some other occasion.
I desire to confine nmy remarks as exclusim-ely to the matter before the flouse as
possible.
I cau only express the pleasure witbi wbicb I listened to the bon. gen-

tieman from Vý1Ictoria, and I hope this flouse
and the country will be put in possession
of ail the facts, lu order to .enable theui to
judge of the manner lu which the Yukon
territory and the North-west have been governied in the past.
lon. Mr. TiEMPLEMAN-It ls nlot my Intention to foilow the hon, leader of the opposition or to diseuse the question whicb
bas been brought before the House by rny
lion. friend froni Victoria, but I do wish to
express rny surprise, proi)ably because I
have not full knowledge of the miles of
order that prevahl lu this flouse, that on a
question on the order paper a debate of
thils kind eau be precipitated.
It may be
the mule, but I was of! the opinion thiat when
these piupers %vouid be brouglit down, I
n ogwitb othier hon, gentlemen migbt take
soine part lu the discussion of this question, but I find that the lion, leader of the
opposition and niy hon. friend froîin Victoria have proceeded to debate the details
ot a question of which this flouse is îuot
apprised. They have proceeded to debate
It and to censure the government for enterlng luto a contract which is nlot before
the flouse, a coutract whichi I have nlot
rend, and which 1 know notbing of.
I frankly confess my inabiiity to repiy to
the hion, leader of the opposition. and consequently I will not pmoceed to do so ; but
when these papers are brought down, lu ail
pmobability we wIll have something to say
In respect to them. I have nlot rend the contracts, but I have rend Ia the press what
pu.rported to be a synopsis of the provisions
o~f this contract with the Treadgold syndicate. On the merits of the proposition to give
to a company of capitalists the rIght: to
bring water Into the gold districts o! the
Yukon, I think it a good one-that is, the
genemal question of giving to a company the
right to bring water Iu whereby the placer
and hydraulie dlaims on the mountain. sides
could be wiorked at a profit. No small mine
owner, and no number of small miners
could brIng water In In that country. Lt wihl
take the expenditure of a large amount of
money, s0 I simply say the generai proposition to give a company of capitalists the
rigbt to bring water lu there to seli It to
the miners ls one that I approve of. I do
nlot know the details o! this contiact. 1 arn
free to admit that If it is In the power of

SENATE
any syndicate to charge 25 cents Per niiner's
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The papers are
Inch per hour for the water necessary for unanimous ln condemning the concession.
the %vorking of lacer claims lu that couDi- Lt seems to be uuderstood ln the Yukon conatry, it xnight possibiy be found too higli. try what that concession menus, I do not
If It ls correct that under the provisions of know my hion. frlend's source of Information..
thils coîîtrnct the smnail mine owner coule be Probably hie bas obtalned It ln the sarne
frozen out, so to speak-I bave-heard tnat way as the Yukon papers got it, but it apcharge made on the streets and ln the news- pears the Information la correct My lion.
ipaIers-tlieu posslbly thiere wvould. be some friend bas been able to tell this House thant
Nvay toi change the cofltriict o11 wliat I be- the first contract witb Treadgold and bis
lieve to be better Iines. 1 arn only discussing nssoclates contalned provisions which have
these miatters lu a generai way ;I do flot alrendy been receded frorn, one of them in
kîî W the provision of the couitract. It may regard to tbe price to be charged per miiner«s
lie the ride of this House, stili, I think Inch for water. It was orlginally olie dollar
it is unfair to introduce a discussion on a per lnch per hour and it lias been reduced,
question whcn the papers have yet to be as my hon. frlend from Victoria says, to '-5
brouglit dowîi. It seeîns to me the proper cents. and even that reduced rate my hon.
time to do so would lie when the papers are frienti opiposite (Mr. Tempieman) admits is
before us.
altogether too high. Takiug tins fact alone,
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The prac- that the concession made by the governent
tice of the House is, wheri a member makes to Treadgold ln the flrst Instance authorized
a motion lie gives lis reason for doing s0. a charge of one dollar per mlner's Inch per
I gave my rensons and lnidlcnted as far as biouc and lias since been reduced on account
of pub>lic
clamour to 25 cenits, Iwlich
I coule ýwhnt 1 wvanted.
Hou. MNr. FEIIGUSON-I arn quite sur- it appears Is stili entirely too high-takiug
prlsed to hear my hion. friend froni Victoria,' this one fact into consideration, Is it any
a member of the government, comipiaining wonder tbat a great deal of excitement and
of my hon. friend his coUIengue from Vc alarm bas been occasioned arnong the miners
toria for precipitating, us lie says, a discus- of the Yukon country ln consequence of this
sion on tlîls question. My lion. friend bas concession ? When we learn now, tnit sncb
very pointedly clired up that objection, and Important modifications liave alrea dy been
1 thiuk even mv hion. friend. thc inember of made ln the contract, and 'wlien I liear the
the governumeut wvlthout portfolio, is now Secretary of State tell the mover of the
sntisfied that the mover of this resointion motion that hie thinrks It Is not useful to go
la perfectIy ln order in brlnging it up as hoe on witli a discussion nt this moment because
lins doue. In fact, there la nlo other way what lie bas described as the contract: may
that 1 arn aware of by wvhich a discussion not be now the ternis of It, that modificaof tiuis very Important question could be tions are golng on, ail that Is calculated to
ralscd nt present, except ln the way it bas convince this House that a most Improvibeen brought up ; and as for the necessity dent bargain was made ln the first Instance,
of a discussion upon the question, I think grantlng a ricb rninlng country away lu that
tiiere can be no doubt whatever upon that improvident, carelesa manner that this conpoinît.- A concession of very great impor- cession was made to Treadgald and lus
Possibly ail the members of
tance was made to Treadgold and bis as- associates.
sociates, and that concession bas created a the goveramneut mnight not have been
very great amounit of excitement and alarnu aware of the nature of the concession
ini the Yukon country. 1 have been iii re- ia the first instance, but now they are
ceipt of letters and newspaper clippîngs seriously seized of its importance and
which have heen sent within the iast few are dealing wlth It, and I hope that when
weeks, ail clippings from papiers pnlished ail the papers corne dowa lt wlll be found
ia the Yukon, and ail condemning in the that not ouly the modifications indlcated by
strongest ternis this concession to Tread- my bon. friend the mover of this motion,
but other Important modifications will be
gold.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BWL~Ee
found to have been made in this contract,
the government organ condemna it.
s0 that It wlll not prove so detrimental to,
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

APIRIL 4. 1902
the Interests of tbe Yukon country as it is yes, ail necesary measures have been
threutened ta lie ln the form ln wbichlit taken to recover the amount from the mufirst became known ta the publie. There ls nicipality.
just one point whlch lias not been proHon. Sir MACKENZIE B WL-ib
minentiy brouglit bef are the Holise, and
whicb I uam credibiy lnfarmed is a fea-

ture of tbe contract, and that is that
this syndicute wauld obtain contrai and
possession of ail abnndoned claims lu the

I ask the bon. gentleman when these Instructions were given ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I answered that question wben it came np before, the time I
re.ad the section of the Militia Act.

terrltary described in the contract, whicb I
am toid le about the whole o! the Klondike- Mon. Sir MACKENZIE' BOWVELL-Tbe
country that le richl n gold. I arn ifrmed provision of the Militia Act is that the govtbat it would be the enseet tbing lu tbe ernment have the riglit to puy, and to lnwarld for tbem ta caver the country ta an struet the commanding officer to take proenarmous extent by tbat conceesian-qulte ceedings ngainst tue municipality to rean easy matter for their friends and emis- caver the amount which they have paid.
suries to make entries and dlaims and aban- Wfiat niy lion. friend usked wus wbiether
don tbem lu arder that tbese dlaims mîglit that action had been taken by the goveradrap linto the hande of the Treadgold Coin- nment, and the hon. Secretary of State said
pany,-not ouiy the dlaims which are natur- yes. What I ask is, could lie inform the
aily abandoned by men whD became discour- Hlouse when it was tuken-buas It been since
aged or broken down lu bealth, but purp-'sely tbis question was brought up in the Senate ?
dlaims tnken up by tbeir emissaries and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was long before paribandoned s0 that tbey would fail linto the
possession of the campany. From wlant 1 liament met.
have lieard of this concession and iearned
TUE HIAUBOUR 0F GLACE BAY.
frorn the discussion upon it, flot only front
MOTION.
the remarks of the hon, gentlemen aiongside me, but from tue observations of the
Hon. Mr. McDONALD (C.B.), rose to
lion, gentlemen an the other saide of the
Caîllthe attention et the Senate ta the necesHause, I amn naw most tboroughly convinced sity of Inxp.oveni.ents to the harbour of Glace
and ask for
Breton,
thut a most extraordlnury contract was made Bay, Cape between N.S.,goverument or ail carresany memthe
pondence
lu the first Instance, one rivailing Ili its Ler theraof, and any persan or persoa or corpc,ration lu reference ta said harbour.
dungerous character the natariaus agreement wbich was at one time proposed to be He said : 1 promised some of my constitumude with 'Mackenzie and Mann by %vbicb ents at Glace Bay to call the.attention of
they wauld absorli aimost tbe whole 0f the the goveramenit ta tiîis matter, and If the
minlng lande lu that Yukon country.
Secretary of State wlll give me bis attention for a few minutes, so that lie may be
The motion '-s agreed ta.
able to bring the matter ta the notice of
the Minister of Public Works and the MinTHE STRIXE AT VALLEYFIELD.
Ister *of Marine and Fisberies 1 shouid be
INQUIRY.
very mudli obliged ta hlm. The rlsing tawn
Mon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
of! Glace Bay le 'well known. It bas to-day
Upon what autharity the government founded a population of about 8,000, and perbape
itself lu paying the troops called aut ln aid af within a radius of four miles of tbe barbour
the civil power ln the repressian af the lest
there la a population of 20,000. Ail thnt
strike at Valley'field ?
Wbether the gaverument bas taken the neces- population get wbat they consume from
sary measures ta cau53e ltself ta be reimbursed abraad, and the only way of Importlng goods
the amount paid ?
If nat, whether the governinent proposes ta ta -tbe place is elther by ruiiway or by
take these nieasures, and when ?
water. The harbour of Glace Bay 1is an
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer ta the first aid harbaur, artificialiy made tbirty-flve or
le, section 34 of the Militia Act. I think I tbirty-six years ago. Since the Dominion
rend tbe Act wben the lnquiry was made Coul Company las ceased shlpplng coal, the
before. The reply ta the second question biarbour bas gone ta decay. It ls pretty

SENATE
Niell dllapidated. to-day, and the faclities
for discharging cargoes are very poor and
unless the Dominion Coal Gompany put the
wharfs into repair, in a few years it wiIl
be completely impossible for that population to get imports by sea. Therefore there
is a necesslty that the government should do
somnething for that important town bY
building a publie wharf for its inhabitants.
l'le government of Canada bas alreadY,
from 187d9 to 1884, expended thousands of
dollars In Im.proving and dredging out that
harbour lu the Public lnterest.
Previens to that trne, only the smnaliest
vessels were able to load -coal at tifat
port. After the Federal government had
dredged out the harbour to a depth of
twenty-two or twenty-three feet, laige
steamers or ships were able to take cargoes
of coal fromi that place. Not only the town
of Glace Bay, but a large portion of the
maritime provinces need this Improvement.
Tiiere is Prince Edward Island that fands a
large, ready, and profitable market for ail
Its produce la the town of Glace Bay and lu
the neighibouring towns, and the harbour la
most useful to the people of Prince Edward
Island in that respect. The people of the
north shore of New Brunswick and the people of the southera shore of Nova Scotia
find a market there for their lumber. The
fishermen from ahl parts of the maritime
provinces sometimes would be able to take
alielter la that harbour if the government
would oniy build a public wharf. I think
It wouid be easy to do so. The Dominion
Goal Company practlcally own the harbour.
Their charter, which was obtalned formeriy
by the Glace Bay Goal Company fromi the
Nova Scotia government, gave them the
rlht to dredge that harbour. They dld so
by connectlng a lake with the sea by euttlng tbroughi the beach which separated
themn, and lu doing so cnt through the
King-'s rond. The company own the land
on both aides of the harbour, but unlesa the
government make arrangements with the
Dominion Goal Company and secure the
rigbt to build a public wharf there, I think
they could do It by expropriating a portion
of the company's land; but outslde of that, 1
dlaim that we have a place wbere the government could build a wharf Independent
of the Dominion Coal Company. At one
time the Queen's highway, now the King's
Hon. Mr. McDONALD (C.B.)

blighway, crossed thle beach through wbich
this entry to the harbour bas been cut. That
road is stlll the Klng's hlghway, except that
It bas been cnt In two parts by the entrance
to the harbour, and therefore la owned by
the people, and couid be ntllized. for public
purposes. I remember at the time the entrance was made that tbe Glace Bay Mining Co. objected to the people ia the vlclnity
using this King's bigbway to the point
wbere the Glace Bay Mlning Go. built their
wharfs, and they extended a chai> across
the road. One of the magistrates of tbe
pince at that time got two men and cbopplng axes and cnt down the poats and
warned the company that If the chain was
put up again some one would be arrested on
a criminal charge for doing so, aad It bas
never been lnterfered witlb since. That bieing the case, 1 think the government ought
to be able very soon to beip this large population by building a wbarf for them. I will
read you a clause of the Act wbich graated
this charter to the Glace Bay Miaing Gompany In 1864. It Is chapter 72 of the Acta
of that year. The clause is as follows
The public shaIl at ail times, after the completion of sald work, have~ the right ta use the
sanie, paying such toill

heglalature.

as shahl be lixed by the

They have done that, but the wharfs on
wbicli tbese touls were collected are getting
useless, and the Dominion Goal Gompany
may not be lnterested enougli to keep theni
In repalr for the sake of the smali wharfage
they wvould receive, and unlesa tbey are, the
place wlll go to muin and the large population
in that district will thus be compelled. to
get their Importations by rail, atid tbe freigbt
charges by rail are slmply enormous aow.
The rallway companies raise the rates in
wlnter time and lower tbem in summer ime
for that port. I wiil read an extract froni
au article publîsbed In a Nova Scotia paper
on the subject :
The whoiesaie grocery trade 0f Halifax are
JistIy indignant witii the freight departments of
the Intercolnnial Raiiway
and the Dominion
Cj ai Company's steamship service between Halifa-x snd Cape B~reton.
Thcy say the present
transportation charges on stapie grocerles are
exorbitant and th it they are serlously affecting
the volume of Halifax trade wlth the Sydney and
other districts thereabout. To illustrate the
advance, a wholesale house submitted the 'Herald' a copy of the Intercolonial Railway rates
in force hast summer, aiea those in force to-day.
Tk2e difierence Is as foilows:

AIPRIL 4. 1902.
Chasa I was 24c., is now 36c. per 100 ibs.
Class II
21c.
32C.
C18.5.III "18c.
"
27e.
Class IV
15e.
"
23C.
Thus a barrel of sugar which la the summner
was 25c. (speciai flat rate) le new 69c., or 23c. per
one hundred pounds.
For ahlpments from- Halifax via Dominion
Coal Company's boats to Louisbourg the present
rate le 40c. per barrel and from Halifax to points
on the company's railway, the rate le 70c. a barrel. A puncheon of molasses from Halifax ta
Loulebourg now costo $1.40 and for any other
point on the Une there js an additional charge
of $1.30. Halifax merrhants say that If the railway can afford to carry sugar at 25 .-ents a barrel ln summer, there la no reason why it shouhd
demand such an enormous Increase in the winter montha. Just as soon as the St. Lawrence
opens and Montreal begins to compote for the
provincial trade, freight rates from. Halifax ta
Sydney pointe will of course be reduced, but,
la the meartime, consumers throughout the
affected districts must pay just a hittie more for
their supplies than the condition'of the Halifax
market would otherwis;e warrant. We are quite
willing to acknowhedge the justice and advisability of Increased freights during the winter
months when expenses are higlier and there la
a saoler aggr3gate of goods, but there should
certaInly be a maximumý flxed by the mInister
of the departinent, beyond which no officiai
ahould be alhowed to exceed. The people of
Sydney are quite able and willing ta pay a reaminable froight charge on anything they import
wliether It be fron Halifax or ehsewhere, but we
thlnk that eyery fair-minded man who compares
the smaie of charges of last entamer with those
o! the present time must reach the conclusion
that If the Intercolonlal Raihway could afford to
bandie sugar for 25 cents a barrel. ln July, they
can surely afford, ta do It for consid-arably les
than 69 cents, its present charge-in mid-winter.

You wIll see from this the necessity of
dolng something for that large population.
1 arn sure If the matter ls brought praperly
to the notice of the Minister of Public
Works, he wiil see that thls là done.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Âre
those charges on the Intercolonial Railwmy7
Hon. Mr. 'McDONÂLD (Cape . Breton)The Intercolonlal Railway and the DominIon Goal Company's Rallway combined.
HEon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
railway from Halifax to Glace Bay la the
Intercolonial Railway, Is lt flot ?
*Hon. Mr. McDONÂLD (Cape Breton)No, the Intercolonlal Rallway ruas to Sydney and the Dominion Goal Gornpany's Railway frorn Sydney to Glace Bay. I trust
the governent willl brIng down the correspondence that 1 ask for.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn sorry to say the
correspondence does not exlst now, that ail
the papera were burnt at the time of the
fire ln the western block.
10

Hon. Mrn McCALLUM-There were no
.
ballots among them ?.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shalh draw the attention of the Minister of Publie Works to the
remarks of my hon. friend.
Hon. Mr. McDONALD (Cape Breton)Borne correspondence took place last wlnter.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If s0 lt can be brougbt
down. I wlll call attention te the moatter.
Hon. Mr. MacKEEN-I bave been listenlng to the remarks of the hon, gentleman
frein Glace Bay la support of the construction of a wharf at that place, and whlle I do
not wlsh to be understood as making any
observations Inimical or hostile to the communlty la whlch I have spent ail the best
years of my life, I must say It appenrs to
me It would be a lttle unwise for this
House to attempt to legisiate ln a matter
that Io probably beyond the controI of parliament. Thot harbour bas been la pos.session of a priva.te coznpany for the last
40 years. It may be descrlbed as a long
narrow channel, extendlng inland some 500
or 600 feet, speakIng from memory, from the
sea, with an average breadth of from 130
to perhaps 150 feet. The water la this barbour, whea I was there, ome 6 or 7 years
ago la charge of It, had a depth of 20 to
23 feet, ahl of which had been dredged from
low water mark down ta that depth by the
company who had charge of the property.
The shores of that channel were lined by
plers, or rather I would say wharfs that
were used fer the cornpany's purposes ln
shlpplng coal and ianding merchandise for
their own purposes, and those of the peopie around. As the hon, gentleman ha.
said, they work under a tariff of harbour
rates, regulated by the Governor ln Council. I must go a hittle furtber and say that
these rates were reduced one-haîf by the
company's own motion. The outward end
of this harbour i. protect,,.d by crIba 50 to
75 feet square, to proteet the harbour from
tbe Atlantic sea. As far, au I rernember,
ail this work, the dredging Inside of the
harbour, the piers which surround It and
the criba which protect It, was at the expenoe of the Little Glace Bay Goal Company.
There may have been some allght dredglng
done by the government of Canada, but 1
think my hou. frIend wilU agree wlth me
that It was of very lirnlted extent and con-

SENATE
sequence. The bulk of the dredging was somie. I have never heard of any myself,
done outside. Lt bas.been done at stated but although I arn net, as I said before,
times, 1 amn free to admit. Here is a. pro- hostile te any movement or object that Is
perty that has been owned for the last 40 for the benefit of that cemffiunlty, 1 tblnk
years and been la complete and uncontrolled we are perhaps a littie prevlous In taklng
possession ef this company and their suc- tils, matter up at present.
cessors, and for us to deliberately and arHon. Mr. LcDON.ALD (Cape Breton)
bltrarlly say we will assume possession of _I fear my lion. frlend bas misapprethat property, Is, I tbink, more than Is lbended me ; I did net ask this House or
wlthin our rlghts and it seems te me thiat 1the gevernrnent for any legislation witb rewe would be acting la a way that wouid be' spect te tîxîs matter or te arbitrarily lmunwarranted. I bave ne brief tramn the coi- poeuo
h
oino
eiCmas
pafly, and I have beard nothing la regard te ý l
wanted was thant the governmuent
this. I arn net dlsputlng the matter. I do' sol
osdrti
atr
n
fpsil
n fpsil
hsmatr
flot know what action the cempany may sh1 dcnie
a public wharf fer the population
tak, bt I
wold eemto e t beraterbuild
tak, bt l eemte e t beraterliving ln that district. As I said, the popuweld
prejudicial to the lnterest:9 et these people lation wlthlu a radius of four miles of
If this Hense were te pass any legislation GaeBy1
bu 000 n
ssedl
iag
tad
e import2,00and
Ba
against the Interests of the company or te lcesig
fovng
plac
arouse their prejudices. Thiat is, If tbere saeasn.Teiport ulclang
bas een e
crresondece.sueîx
a large population as thiat te land
Hon. Mr. McDONALD (Cape Breton) tie large quantities of goods wvbicb tbey
I amn net asking fer legîsiation. That Is use aud consume, la a very Important nuitnet required or necessary.
ter'. The goverument of Canada is buildHon. Mr. MacICEEN-Then I misunder- ing thr-ouglheut the lengtbi and breadth
stood the purpert of the hion. gentleman's ef this Dominion public wharfs for a
remnarks. I understood hlm te say that they muuch less population than we bave lu
Glace Bay. As my hion. friend hias speken
wanted a public wharf.
se strongly on the mnatter, I v-eumre
Hon. 'Mr. McDOXALD (Cape Breton)te say thiat perhaps the Dominion CeaI
Hlear, hiear.
Comipany Is net lnterested ln keeplnig the
lion. Sir MAC KENZIE BOW'ELL-Hle harbour of Glace Bay lu repair. W'bat they
wants the governient t' build a public lose lu one wvay they make lu another, and
wharf for them.
witbeut any hesîtation wbatever 1 shiould
Hon. Mr. McIKEEN-I understeed that say it la their interest that the barbour
was ItL I arn net saying tbe company are should go te rula, and net allow any exgoing te object te this application, but If ports to .be landed there nt ail. What tbey
we wvere te pass a vote grantlng meney for Iosé la wharfage they more than make up
the building et thiat wharf-whlch of course lu freights on *their railway from Louisbourg
we cannet de--where are we geing te buid and Sydney and the intervening tewns. I
it ? We must go and tear eut the old wharfs have quoted an extract from the Halifax
-et the company te put ln this wharf, nad ' Herald,' on this very matter, on the questhant would bie a very higih bnded action tien et rallway rates and water rates te
te take, but going furtber, I sbould thiiikj that town. For instance, a car of fleur by
that the expendîture et a few liundred dol- rail frein Halifax te Glace Bay costs $45;
It shows
lars eught to support those old wharfs the saine by water costs $15.
sufficiently te conforni te ail the purpeses the difference la frelghts la the wiuter
of the public. It would take very llttle time and ln the summer time, and that the
inoney if tbe cempany did It. Wbat I con- rates have been ralsed very largely since
tend, and what I want te maintain, la that the navigation te that port bias ceased, and
It would be beyond our province te takze if the barbour coninues te, detberierate
any action la this matter until we knew navigation te that port, or the experts et
the mind et the conxpany la tbat regard. goeds te that port, will cease entirely. This
Perhaps my lion. friend lias aorne cerres- is the conclusion of the article te which 1
pendence wlth the company -or knows of refer la tbe ' Herald'
Hon. Mr. MacKEEN.

AIPRIL 4. 1902
Wlkat understanding, If any exists between I think, the government of
Canada should
the Intercolonial Rallway and the Dominion Coal
Company, we do not kuow. One cau draw bis take steps tu cee thaf the people of thaf disown conclusions froni the tact that the latter trict are not lmposed upon, and that a pub-

cccru uow refuse to accept frelght for Sydney.
That le, the Dominion Goal Company refused to accept freight at Halifax for Sydney luteuded for ports Iutervening between
Sydney and Loulsbourg.

lic wharf or landlng place be made on public
property-the Klng'e bilbway, owned by
the public, and nt a point wbere It le dlvlded lu f wo by the barbour. The Dominion
goverument bas already epent fbousands
of dollars lu dredging thaf harbour. PreVlous to that two companles operatlng ln
that place were able to ship coal ln large
vessels. Immedlately after the Dominion

The article pro-

ceeds :
The only point where they would corne lu contact with the Intercolonlal Rallway. This Urne
last year the Coal Company offered a through

froight from Halifax to Sydney of 22 cents a

bairre!; to-day they charge 70 cents to shorter Governmneut dredged out the channels, the
liaul points and refuse Sydney freîght ,iltogether.
'Ihey are probably doing this out of pure love coal company were able to send their coal to
fvr the People's railway, and ln the meantîme Montreat, and the larger steamers cau now
the I-aIlax board of trade wlll put _!tself dovn take their coal to Moutreal, and
uobody is

toe
auealug 0fi tlat
sris

tateUi Domiio asklng that the government should arbitrarThemeaIngoftha Istha te Dminonlly impose on
Coal Company ean control ail frelghts fozi Lt mnay or cau the Dominion Goal Company.
be done by correspondence. 1
Glace Bay and all freights for ail towns did îîot correspond
witb
and villages betweeu Glace Bay and Louis- stood the representatives thein, but I underboth ln the local
bourg on the one baud, and Glace Bay and legislature and
the federal parliameut were
Sydney ou the other, and If tlie harbour f0 do so, or had
some correspondence witb
goes to ruin and 11o frelghts can be landed them. I expected
action w-ould be taken lu
tiiere, the wbole population of tat districtte
aerbfethstuod
ustIf
will be at the miercy of the Dominion Coal the demands
of the people of that town.
Company lu getting freights from Louisbourg, beeause the Dominion Coal Coinpany's steamers run from H{alifax f0 LouisEo.
Mr. MaI.cICEEN-If
I misapprebourg, and send their freights froni Louis- liended the bion. gcntleiuan's remarks, il
bourg, over the Dominion Goal Compaay's 1seeiis to me lie lias put rather ail extreme
railway~~~~I sieycerIterpretation
hn
f0Sdlu
~~~~
on mine. I said nothing, as
that if you allow the harbour to go I0 de- 1! as I can remneniber, against the opening
fa
struction, yo n-wil1 be plaLing the wîîoîe 1of fliat harbour, or the glving of a1 grant
poplaionoftha
dstrctnt .he ery o ito lt under I)roper condions. What I say
poplaio ditrc at lietlnîercyu on
0f tlîat
tara
a
os
the Dominion Coal Comapuy. I arn brlaglng
t fi
ite1rciloso
u
'r
up tlîis matter ln the interest of thle tow-i tuî udertake to dezil w-ith prlvate rlghte
of Glace Bay. I have been î-cquested to do
piât
l)roperty wlthout havlng some
s0 by the Board of Trade nt Glace Bay,
alrnenltWti
u
westeef
and by the leading merchauts of Bridge- That is my contention.
1 kaow this
port. and Glace Bay, and 1 say witbout 1ProPertY ls as iucli the property of that
any besitation, If wlll be a great hardshlp Comnpany, eveî-y Inch of It, as nîy bouse
If I oue. îot Wit regrd t tue.iid l)roperty that I lit-e on belongs to mue.
is
Domin ion Coal Company, or the Glace 1'%' contention le -not lu regard tu the rates
Bay Miniug Company holding unînter- at ail. I wIll say, further, tbat I have never
rupted possession of that harbour for forty liad anuy commuication, and do not know
years, lîcre Is the Act I have quoted, what the Intentions of ftle Comnpany are lu
especlally .providiug for public rigbts lu regard to this niatter. 1 have never heard
finit harbour, but allowlng- the Dominion of It, but w-bat I do say le, tlîat for us to de-

Coal Compauy's rights ou

their wharfs. bate It here, before we know nytbing as

That Is ail riglit.
Tbere is no objection
to that ; if they continue to have proper
wharfs to, discharge their frelght on,

to the conditionîs or agreements, they are
wlIllung tu makie, Is premature. Tlîat Is my
whole contention.
Tbere inay be corne

tbey wl! bat-e the sanie riglit to collect rlghts- It seenis to nie strauge that the
wbarfage la the future as lu the past. If Company, wbichi is a progressive one, and 1
the Dominion Goal Company will repaîr bave no doubt falrly alive to Its own Interthat wharf It Is ail rlgbt, but If tbey do not,
loi

-est,

ehOuld. allow tiiose plers tu go down.

SENATE
It is a matter I amrn ot very well advlsed last session the Committee on Railways,
Telegraphs and Harbours, according to tbe
upon at the present.'
speeches of bon, gentlemen I have just
SECOND READINOS.
quoted, declded aimost unanlmously ln favBill (C) 'An Act for the relief of John our of the prIncIple of the Bill. If I can
Hamilton Ewart.'-(Hon. Mr. Prinirose).
take It for granfed that the Senate bas nof
Bill (D) 'An Act for the relief of James changed lts opinion since lat year, and that
Brown.'-4Hon. Mr. Landerkln).
the principile of the Bill meets wlth the apBill ()14 'An Act lncorporatlug the Mol- proval of this House, It would ahorten the
sons Bank Pension Fund.'-(Hon. Mr. Mac- discussion conslderably, and I mlght be aIdonald).
lowed f0 move the second reading witbout
APPLICATIONS FOR RAILWAY CHART- further remarks, and ask that the Bill be
sent elther to a Commitfee of the Whoie
ERS BILL.
House or to the Commlttee on Raiiways,
SECOND READING.
Telegrapbs and Harbours, as was doue hast
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (De Laiauilère) session.
moved the second reading of Bill (A) 'An
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN--Better send it to
Act respecting applications for Rallway
Charters.' He said: I do not know whetber a Commiftee 0f the WhVlohe House.
It is the desire of the House to proceed
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This is an extremely
with the discussion of this Bill uow.
important Bill la my judgmenf. It proHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Ex- vides thiat before a petit ion can be reporteci
plain.
on by the Standing Orders Comm itfee of
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)- eltber House, certain detalîs shahl be furThis la the same Bill that was presented last nisbed. In my experlence, biad a Bill of
Year. It was referred to the Commlttee on this klnd been enforced for the last twenty
RalIways, Telegraphs and Harbours after a years, the country would be minus very
very lengthy discussion, and when lt camne many railways that now exIst, and uiany
before the committee, lt was met, 1 ur.der- railway charters before the chamber to-day
stood, wlth favour, as sbown by the Debates could not be enterfalaed. It mlght be carof hast year, wben tbe blill was reported t'O rld ouf la some parts of the country-thaf
the Senate. The Hon. Mr. Baker reported la, f0 furnish plans la detail of the characan Act respectlng applications for Ritilway teristies of the country, over which the line
Charters, and said that While they approved waa projected. It mlgbt be done la an old
of the principle of thé Bill, they recom- setfled country, wbere If was well known.
mended that, owing to the late perlod. of the la the settled parts of the Ontario peninsula
session, tbe promoter be allowed to wlth- It mlgbt be comparatIvely easy to take the
draw If. Followlng that, Mr. Macdonald levels of tbe country and prepare the plan.
(P.E.I.) spoke decidedif ln favour of the But taire a number of the rallway charters
Bill, and said, he regretfed very much that before us to-day. There Ia the Yukon Pacithe promoter of the Bil had declded f0 ac- fic, and the Nipigon Ralway Company, and
cept thie report, thaf sucb a Bill was lu we bave at least two charters for Unes ruathe interests of the Dominion. He said : '11 nlng to James' Bay. It wonld be abaolufely
belleve that If a measure of this kind had Impossible f0 grant charters to those coaxbeen lafroduced may years ago, If would panles If thls Bill were f0 become law. No
have inured to the benefit of the people, and promofers would ever tbink of incurring the
would have preveuited speculation ln char- enormous expense this Bihl would ental on
ters'. One who bas now lef t us for ever, tbem f0 ask for the charter, and we ail
the Hon. Mr. Allan, also spoke ln favour of know tbat promoters are the persons wbo
head the way. Tbey are the pioneers In
the Bill, sud I find la bis speech he sald :
The principle of the Bill, I think I rnay say railway legishation, and I deny, as a matter
without contradiction, was univereally approved of fact, thaf tbey make any money, howby ail the melabers of the zomznitt-cp. but it was
theuirht to be too late la the session to take It ever fair the prospects -may appear. I bave
up now and discuss It.
been ver-y familiar, for forty years, wltb
I do not know wbether It la necessary to rallway charters, and I think I eau bear
dîscuss the princIple of the Bil, seelng thaf festimony to the fact that the ploueers of
Hon. Mr. MacKEEN.

APRIL 4. 1902
the raiiways do flot miake any money-tliat even made, we kaow very well that atter
they 105e their money. They are always the line is laid out, the persons who origiliopeful to believe that they are going to naliy made the surveys, flot being familiar
make some money, but when the capitaiist with the topography of the country, they
cornes in, and he sees tbat the attention liave had to deviate perhaps eigbt or ten
of the country bas been called to the con- miles from the liue. Could the Canadian
struction of a particular lino, tbat is advan- Pacific Rallway have been built on the north
tages have been pointed out and it is bound shore of Lake Superior If they had to furto be reasonably feasible, lie picks It up nish this Information ? It would have
Tbey get thrown them back three years. I arn quite
and turne aside the promoters.
notihing out of It ln n1nety-nine cases out of sure the Bill wouid not go through the other
a hundred, and It is really the promoters chaniber. There is also this tact to be conef rallway legisiation that we are Indebted sidered, that If the committee of either House
to for the construction of many of our lino~s. choose to lay down an arbltrary mIle, thiat
In raliways that I bave known it wouid cost tbey wlll xîot approve of a Bill unless cer- Iot less
than one to two thousand dollars tain evidence is produced, It ls perfectiy
a mile to provide the Committee on Stand- competent for the committee to do so.
lIng Orders wlth 'the Information which In that way 'they caa throw out any 0f
would be required under this Bill. It says these Bis. They do not requlre an Act
they muet provIde a map or plan made frorn 0f parliazuent to do it. Ail they need to do
nctual snrvey, showing the route of the pro- is to make a rule.
Feitteen, twenty or
posed railway according to the preiixninary thirty years ago, we were not neariy so
survey thereof.
I think tbere are two pox-ticular as we are to-day wlth refereuce
raiiways projected to James' Bay, one froin to granting these charters.
I can rernenNipigon and one from a point further east, ber perfectly weli when we did not cati
and we wouid require to have a survey from uipon the applicants to subrnit even a pian.
a point on Lake Huron to James' Bay. In Tliey iiamed the point of startlng and the
reference to the raiiways ln the newer sec- point they proposed to reacli, and that iras
tions of Canada, even the inatured plans 4ubou*t ail the Information we got.
As
tnat are made for the Railway Departrnent years went on, from time to time, rules and
under the Railway Act, are not easlly pre- regitions were made by the coinrittees
pared. The Railway Act Is very speciflc 111 of the Hlouse of Commons and the Senate.
requiring detailed plans *to be made before requlring additional Information.
I think
the promoters or the persons who lioid the now-I speak subject to correction-that we
charter caxi enter upon the work, not oniy requIre a na*p of some klnd showing ln a
have plans to be prepared, but the levels muet general way the direction the road would
be takea, and the fullest possible Informa- take. I beard the report to-day on a very
tion ls required for the Minister of Railways .Imnportant road, the Atlantic and Pacific, a
and Canais before the nuthority caa be given rond starting fromn some point on the Queto go on with the work.
bec and Lake St. John road, and ' unning
Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That ls west probably 150 mlles north of any surveyed lands: it wouid be perfectly Imposwhere there ls a subsidy.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No, ln ail cases. lu sible to make a' survey of that. Une ln adIt could not be doue. There are
the case of a rallway a profile mnuet be made vance.
from nctuai levelllng, and showing approxi- other lines projected to Jamnes' Bay; la tact
mately the ground surface, the proposed James' Bay seeme to be regarded as an
.gradients, the crossing of rivera and water ideul spot for a depot, s0 maay promoters
courses, highways and railways, &ce. That are asking for charters for linos to that
Information could not posslbly be obtained point. But If a oommittee of thie House,
In reference to the roads 1 have mentioned, the Standing Orders or the Rallway Comand fifty other roads I could name, If It mittee, chooee to take a stand, they, can do
were necessary to adduce that as an addl- it. They can say: 'We wlll not grant a
tlonal argument, but the tact le that In al charter unies. you give us tuiler Informathe newer portions of Canada where rail- tion.' It le the province of co-minttees of each
ways are projected, and where plans are Hlouse to make sucb regulations as wHil

SENAT1P
suit them with regard to the granting of banks, railways, insurance and
loan comcharters. The coinmittee can throw out a panies-can get a charter at once.
Bill if the Information they seek, is not rurHou. Mr. FERGUSON-Did I understand
nished. I thlnik It would be rather unfor-th
o.gnlmnosyta
htwste
tunate to crystallize it Into an Act of parîla- pthe
on genlemn ?0sytata
a h
met O oreIt
would flot pass thepacceiEnld
other House: they wouid flot tie their bands.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, you have flot to
Before any progress ean be made, before wait, nor have you te, put Up any
money.
the holders of a charter can enter upon any
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWnELL-M.Ny
man's land to mate a survey, they have hon. fricnd
referred particulariy to railway
to do certain things. The B-ailway Act is charters.
very specific as to what Is required :
11o1. 3Mr. SCOIT-It does flot apply to
Surveys and leveis shall be mnade and taken
I aia mereiy speaing
of the lande through which the railway is to raiilvny charters.
pass, togethcr wlth a map or plan andi profile of tue principie. The principile of grnnting
thereof, and i ts course, direction and the lands charters rendiiy
hais been found of very great
Ir,tended ta be passed over and taken therefor,
benefit, and lias stimulated enterprises. Five
&c.
or six 3-cars ago some gentlemen were imAnd It goes on to describe the map andl
pressed with the idea that those charters were
profile to bie furnishied 'before the authority
granted too readiiy and that they were used
can *be obtained to commence the construcfor spedulative purposes, and that in the
tion of the raillway.
general interest restrictions shouid be inmHon. 31r. CLEMOW-After the Charter la posed, and a cuxnmittee composed of thç'
ieading minds o! the House of Communs
granted ?
made a very long report on the subject. Thelr
Hon. -%r. SCOTT.-Yes.
But I venture conclusion was this: that a great part of
the
to Say that many a raiiway that is of vast industria i enterprise
ln Grea t Britala wit 'iIi
importance to this country would not have the
iast 30 years was due toq the fact thaýt
been undertaken at ai If a iaw such as the any seven persons
couid uite and get a
Bill before us had been on the statute-book, charter
any day without putting up money
because It -wouid have entaiied too large an and withuut
hiaving to comply wlith any
expense for the'first promoters to undertakle. extraordinary
regulations. A large amount
I do not see what benefit will bie derived of money.from
outaide was brouglit lato the
froni restricting charters. There has beeîî country
>wing, to that tact-capital froni
a generai Idea that a charter should not be France, Germany
and other countnies, and
granted to a company unlese they showed the
charters were tak-en out lii.Great Britain.
they that were solvent and .prepared. to go RecentIy
la Canada the province of Nova
on. We have had on our statute-.book for Scotia
has adopted the Engiish rule of grantthe laet thirty or forty years an Act de- ing charters
for ail industrial enterprises
dhinIng to grant charters unhess the promo- outside
of those I have named-ralways,
ters had a certain amount of money, uniess loan,
insurance and banks-wlth that freethey were British citizene, and contalning dom
whlch I have mentioned, and without
other provisions of a similar character,
requiring the appicants to put Up auy
and what has been the effeet ? It has re- muney.
The province of British Columbia
stricted the carrying out of a number of
bias aiso adopted elmilar leglelation. It has
enterprises: but the parties found a way
net been found to have the deleterious Inof evading It. They got charters la the
fluence that many timid persous fancied It
United States.
The provinces have been would have.
In Ontario they have abanahead of the pariament of Canada ln grantdoned the prîacele of requirlng notice, and
ing charters.
In England enormous bene- I -propose next
week to submuit for the confits have fIowed froim freedom ln granting
sideration o! this chamibier a bill changlng
charters. There you ean go to thé registrar entirely
our system o! granutlng charters,
who Issues charters, and have your charter
giving the utmost freedom to parties Who
the next day by paylng your fee.
Any apply for charters-that la, aliowing any
five
seven persons applylng for a charter for any
Persons who asc for a charter for any
Industrial purpose-exchuding of course,
Proper purpose, se long as it does ixot
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

APIIIL 4. 1902
infringe on private lnterests, to obtain a
charter withou;t putting -up any money as
wve now require. At preseut the regulation
is that they must subseribe fifty per Cent
of the capital and pay texa per cent of that
fifty per cent, and deposit It with the
Iteceiver General, and other regulations
which have been found te siniply check
enterprise. In a country like Canada, whiere
there -are such vast opportunities for the
developmeut of enterprises that corne to the
surface every day, persons meet together
and propose to forni a company to work up
some project. WhIeu they fiud that tlbey
must have fifty per cent of the stock subscribed. and ten per cent paid up, and then
wnlt three months for notice ln the ' Canada
Gazette,' they ofteu cool off and abandon
the enterprîse. That Is the effect of it.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOIO-Does not this Bill
apply ouly to railways li
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, but the prînciple
Is the sanie. I have sbown that the principi'ý
lu regard to lndustrial enterpràses Is to givta
the greatest possible freedom ln the
formation of compaules. The saine principle
ought to apply to rallways. When a charter
la obtalued It la for the hiead of the Railway
Department to lusist at the proper tuwe,
before the work ls commenced, ou having
plans lu the elaborate way required by the
Rallway Act. I do flot thiuk, under the
circumstances, the Bill will meet with the
approvai of this Cham-ber, ftnd I arn quite
sure that It w'lll mot be adopted by the
House of Commons.

Mou. Mr. FERGUSuN-Wh7ile I agree
wlth some Points lu the remarks of the
Secretary of State, I must say, at the saine
time, I auj lu entîre agreernt with tue introducer of thîs Bill wlth regard to' the
existence of a very great abuse lu Canada
in connection wlth the grautlng of rallway
charters. Any of us whio have been a nurnber of years ln parlament, especlally those
of us who have been rnernbers of the Railwny Commlttee, bave observed upon what
very lusufficient data the applications for
charters have been made, and uufortuuately
grauted, and we have ouly to keep our eyes
and ears open te be cousclous of the fact
that a great many of these charters have
been got out for purely speculative purposes ; that there are men lu tbis country

who are watching for opportunities of obtaining charters to sel them to any
bona fide rallway Comnpany tbat really means
to construet a road in Canada.
No
later than this moruing 1 made rny
own observation ln the committee, and
1 amn conselous that we bave several measures of thiat kind before us. I amn convinced that we should do somethlng to
check this almost Indiscrlminate granting
of railway charters, under whichi a great
many abuses bave sprung Up. I arn, however, ln agreernent wlth the Secretary of
State ln regard to another point. 1 do flot
think that It would be advisable that parliament should tie Its own bauds to the extent
that It is proposed to do lu the Bill before
us, but it la high tirne thiat wve so arnend
the rules of the House ais to ernbody lu
them the provisions of my lion. frlend's Bill,
and then, shouid a really meritorious proposition corne before us, by unanirnous vote
the rude could be suspeuded, and the Ruse
could exercise its own undoubted powers la
granting a charter to a good proposition, notwlthstanding the existence of tîjis rule.
Were we te pass this Bill, it would materially tie the bands of parliament.
We could, of cou «rse, repeal the Act, but it
wou)d take a llttle whlle to do so,
and it would require the assent of both
Houses of parliarnent, and of the Governor General. My hou. frieud*s object could
be reached- just as well ln a safer and
better wny, by amending the rules of thils
House, so as to require prornoters of railway companies te corne te us withi a great
deal more precise Information than has been
the custom te dernand, before proceedlng
te consîder their applications. The Bill beifore
us Io defectîve, however, lu a very Important particular. In fact, what my hon.
friend proposes to do by legIsiation wouid
be better doue by mile of parliament. But
there is,. to my mmnd, legisiation. requlred la
connectIon wlth thls subject which la not la
the Bill. It would be no use, by a rule of
this House, or by auy other means, to Insist
that promoters of rallway Bis should corne
down with thls very precîse Iuforrnation,
uless power was given them to enter upon
private property, and make thae examinadions essential to a realiy good survey and
plan and profile. There Io no power under
the lnw by whlch prornoters caui enter upon

SENATE
private property to maL-e sucli exaniinations,
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-I uîiderstood the
and wbiie I know there are many parts of bon, gentleman to say that they couid get
Canada where charters are granted where jtbe charter the day atter tbey applied.
thiere would be 'no difficuity, I can wel
1 Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the day after.
understand that la the older and settieÉ
parts of the country there would be greal
Ion. Mr. FERGUSON-If my hon. friend
H
difflculty ln encroaching upon private pro- wiil look carefuily Into the Engllh law on
perty to get the Information.
Wre miglt tbat question, hie wiii find thiat they have to
legisiate to give this power, on condition do a good deal before tbey ean get from
that tbe promoters wouid deposit wIth the Board of Trade the certificate, wbicb
the government, say wltb the Cominlttee bas the effect of an Act, and, in tact,
of tue Privy Councl, a sum that wouid be the project bas to be very far advanced
considered suflIcient to cover any probable before tbey can get this certificate. The
damages to prîvate property that wouid British Parliament bas neyer tled its own
arise durlng the survey. I can easiiy see biauds wltb regard to anything. It couid
thiat it wouid neyer do to aiiow mere pro- grant a ralway charter anywhere la the
ioters to go over the country, entering Unilted Klngdom. It bas neyer abaadoned
private property to maake aurveys, witbout its own powers, but bas' gîven certain powany provision being made to properiy lndem- ers to the Board of Trade wlth reference to
nify the owners of sucb private propertv for the makiing of raiiways, and persons cau
danmages. 1 bave bere on my desk wbat 1 make application, but must show that tboy
have made agreements witlh the owners of
might eau an up-to-date rallway measure.
ail i)roperty wbicbi ls to be traversed for
i)assed la tbe Island of Cuba wlthln tne the
purposes of the railway, for compensaJast montb, and Promuigated by the governtion for damages, and thiey miust show that
ment of Cuba. I flnd la It a provision to
they have posted tlhelr notices. Having done
meet sucb a case as this. It ls there pro- tliat, the Board of Trade
Is bound to makie
vided tbat any person or company propos- in lnquiry under
the law to find whether
lng to build a raiiway mny enter upon ail these pre-requisites
bave been coinprivate property, or haVe aCCess to Luie public piied wltli.
Whea they Iind tbiat to be
records, for the purpose of getting Informa- the case, they Issue
a draft certificate, a
tion, but tbey are required to malze a deposit copy of whichi la sent to both Houses
of
witb tbe Rallway Comuîittee of the State parliament, within seven days of
the time
sufficient to cover nny possible ixîjury thaqt lt ls granted by the Board of Trade,
and
migbt arise to private property* la connec- if, after six weeks, parliament
takes i10
tion with the making of the survey. The action by resoiution ngainst the raiiway,
ainount that ls there required to be deposited the charter becomes Iaw. That is the
ls tblrty dollars for every kîlomnetre, wiceh way I read the English iaw ; I may not be
I thluk wouid be about $45 for every Engisii right about it, but I tblnk, that ls the iaw
mille. Hav-lng done so, there la a vcry with regard to tbe subject. As the Engsimple and easy process under the Caban lisbi parliament retains to itself the power to
law, wiceh ls iargeIy modelied la Its generai gîte a charter under any clrcumstances, I
principles on the (Janadian iaw, but wbich ts tbiuk we shouid reserve that power here.
We should not proceed to tie our hands. I
la many respecta more up-to-date than ouirs
suppose tbe systemi of legallzing raiiwnys
with regard to thîfs and to othier matters. by the
Board of Trade is caiied for la
From. the Inquiries that I bave been making, England by the
congestion of work la the
I thlnk my bon. friend, the Secretary of Imperial Pariament, and this as weil
as a
State, ls not aitogether right witb regard vast amount of such legisiation la deait
to the procedure la Great Britain on tujis with by what we might cali a department, but tbe British parliament bas flot
subject.
divested Itseif of the power of grantlng a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I was speaking oni1y of charter or passing any iaw which It might
Industriai companies. I was not speaiidng deem rigbt or proper to pass. While that
ls the case, and a charter can be got la
of ra ilways.
Engiand wlthout znaklng a speclal applicaHon. Mr. PERGUSON.

APRIL 4. 1902
tion to parliament, it is also true that very
serions and Important steps have to be taken before you can commence to buld a railway. After you have got your certificate, or
smrultaneously with the granting of the
certificate, you have to depoajt In cash
an arnount equal to 8 per cent of the cost
of the road ln smre public departmnent
or it rnay bie ln the forrn of securities or
matIsfactory bonds to double that amoutAil this le prelinary to building a railway ln Great Britain. 1 ad-mit frankly that
la Canada we should not bind ourselves, by
too firrn or too fixed a rule. The conditions
la Canada are different from the conditions
ln Great Britain, and conditions 'ln the
eastera and settled part of this country are
different frorn those that prevaîl ln the
wiest, and very different frorn those exIatIng ln the great unexplored country lu the
north, wiceh I hope will ere long be developed by railways. I do flot tbink the
best way to open those reglons ls by grantIng wlldcat charters to ail those 'who seek
them. "I fear that in rnauy cases the granting of these charters throws an impedlment
ln the way of raUroad building rather than
otherwIse, and that great care should bie
taken la grantlng them. I arn told the Canadiau Pacific ]Raliway, owing to the dliiiculties tbrowu ln their way by the applications that are contlnually made and
the readiness of parliarnt to grant
charters to mere prornoters, finds it almost
better to go Into the mark-et and buy out
these prornoters than to corne to parliarnot
and look for' a charter themseives. They
complaîn that tbey are lu rnany cases bled,
and bled by men who have spent next.to
nothIng themselves, and who have just stepped Into the breach and stand to a certain
extent ln the way of those wbo are wIllng
and anious to buiid a railwayv. This
belng my view, I think that my bon. friend's
mensure le deserving of very serious conideration.frorn the House. He bas done a
very distinct public service lu bringing It
up. There are very few members of this
House who will deny that abuses exist
and that charters are being grantedl too
freely and wlthout proper prelirninary surveys, by the parliarnent -0f Canada.
1
believe It would be ln the public Interest,
If, as the hon. Secretary of State has suggested, we were to arnend our mile la that

i

particular by requiring somethIag to be donc,
much as rny boa. frlend has embodled la hls
Bill, only have It done by rule, and then we
would not be bound absolutely by It ln ail
cases. If we found there was really a merltorlous proposition -before us, we could casily, by a unanimous vote, overcome the rule,
and proceed wltb the legislatlon on whlch
there would be so much unanlmity. I hope,
however, that the bon. Secretary of State
wilI assiet my hon. frlend, the Introducer of
this. Bill, and the members of the House, la
trylng to flad a remedy for wbat we rnuet
ail recognize as a very serious abuse.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I understood tbe hon.
Secretary of State to say that lu England
the law under the Companies Act was to
permît companles, other .than raiiway,* lnsurance, batik and boan companles, to be
freeiy organlzed, and I believe hie le qulte
rlght lu bis statement. Under the Act of
1862, and wbicb bas been Introduced la British Columbia, as hie has stated, and lately
lu Nova Scotia, mach bas been the practîce
and the law. Ail that la necessary-to form
an association le for a given number of persous to sigu and file an application wlth the
registrar aad get thelr certiflente. Tbey have
t0 subscrlbe a nominal arnount of shares,
and a' corporate existence la gîvea t0 those
persons, and they are entitled f0 commence
business. I would bie the first' to congratulate the hion. Secretary of State If lie would
lntroduce n measure of thant kiud as mooiî
as possible lu thîs House. It bas beeiî very
badly needed. I do not sec wlîy the tîrne of
parliarnt le occupled lu putting throughi
a number of charters, whea it could be
done, ns [t la doue la England, by Mling
au application wlth the proper authorlty. They do not get any special powers ; It ls merely the formation of an organizatlon entitling them f0 do business ns
n iudîvîdual would do business. However;
It la dloeereut witb -rallway companles, biecause under the Rallwny Act the company
has extrnordinary powers, so to speak. The
rallway cornpany has flic power of exproprlatloa, and it should not be obtaincd by the
mere Mling of a rnemoraadum of associatlon. itecourse mnuet be bad to parilarnent.
I amn eiîtireiy la accord with the bon. Secretary of State and the bou, gentleman who
bas juat spoken la regard to this matter, that
It would bie very unwlse f0 fie the banda

SENATE
of parliament by a Bill such as this. It
may be that the rules of thîs Hanse could
be amended with advantage ln the direction
iudicated by the hou, gentleman who bas
just spoken, and as he properly pointed out,
the Bill calis upon the promoters to do
what ? To do a thing which they have no
power to do-to commit a trespass upon
somebody else's property. It is calling for
an lrnpossibility. The lion. mover of the
Bill seenms to lie under the impression that
there Is no power to enter upon land for the
purpuse of making surveys, even under the
Railway Act, but hie le altogether mistaken. Section 90 of the Railway Act reads :
The cornpany may, subject to the provisions
ln this and the special Act contained:
(a) Enter into and upon the land of any persen .whomsoever, iying ln the intendled route
or line of the raiiway, and make surveys, examinations or other necessary arrangements on
such Iminds for fixIig the site of the railway, and
set out and ascertain such parts of the lands as
are necessary and proper for the raiiway.
Sureiy the first thlng whlch la necessary to
be done, lu order that eurveys may be made,
is the creating o! a corporation, and giving
theml power to enter upon lands. Whether
parliament prescribes that indemnity should
bie pald or not, power must bie given them
to do this, otherwise tbey would flot have
the right to go upon my nelghbour's property to make surveys or otherwise, and
therefore it would be placing the promotere
under the 'necessity of dolng somethilng
whichi they had no right to do before they
couid appiy for the charter ? In other words
It would be inviting them to commit a trespase for the purpose of complylng 'with
this Bill. It le perfectly weil known
that lni a number of cases, the surveys
contempiated by this Bill are quite expensive, and it would Involve the joint and
several liabiiity of! the promoters untIl the
company was organized. It Io well known
that until the company le organized, the promoters aire jointiy and severally responsible
for ail expenses. They are considered os
a commercial 6ûrm, and It would deter the
promoters o! railway enterprises from, baving anythlng to do with these mattere, because they might Involve themeelves In a
large amount of expenditure, and also lu
Iaw suits, and I say, therefore, that the
first step should be the formation o! the
company. 1 perfectly agree, for my part,
that the law inight be more strict, but It
would Die something that wouid eall for a
Houn. Mr. BEIQUE.

change both in the miles of this House. and
the mules of the other House, and In the
Railway Act. We should not De too strict
as to the formation or raiiway companles.
It should bie facilitated as mucli as possible,
and la thiat respect 1 agree wltlî the hon.
Secretary of State ln saying that ln a new
country sucli as this, no unnecessary impediment shouid De offered. I agree aiso ln
the statement which bias been made by the
hon, gentleman who bas just spoken, that
we should not encourage traffic la maiiway
charters. But It cern to me ensy to condliate the two things.
Let us facilitate
the organization of companies, but, on the
other hand, let us prohibit the sale of
stock or the transfer o! charters before
any stock has been paid, or as thîls might
De difficuit to do in a practicai way. let
us exact that iii a short time after the
formation of the company stock shial be
subscmibed to a specifie amount, and that
a certain amount shaîl Die pald, as was
suggested by the lion, gentlemen who lias
just spoken, and la that way we wiil
have the guarantee that unless these pronioters are semions, and that unlees it De
done within two or thmee months, then
the charter wlll lapse, and they will not Die
ln a position to traflc the railway charter.
Pmomoter& who corne to this House or to
the other Chamber, ani ask for a charter, should bie prepamed to, give some evidence o! good faith, and that they do not
lntend to, keep that charter hanglng over the
heads of others, but are ln eamneet, and have
the Intention o!f proceedlng w1t. the work.
Then a tîme shouid De prescribed ln the Railway Act so as to guard against thîs traffic
whlch has been alluded to, and which le a
real mieclîle!, but I do flot think It conld
be accomplished by a Bill o! thîs kind.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I was very much astonished to hear the promoter of thxe Bill
say that the prînciple o! this mensure was
endomsed by evemy member o! the Seliate
last year.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (De Lanaudiêre) Every member o! the committee.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I could hardly believe
that we weme going to have retrogressive
legielation ln thîs good Conservative Senate.
I amn sure our hon. !mlend, the promoter or
the Bill, could flot bave given thîs matter

APRIL 4. 1902
very mucli consideratien, except from a professional standpoint. First and foremost
let nme say te this House that the diticlty
that the englneer, or the promoter of the
Bili, would have ln the first Instance -would
be to get somebody to have faith enough In
hus enterprise te furnlsh a sufficient sumn of
money te engage a staff of competeut
engineers to niake a survey et the proposecl
railway. Every one knows that
la the
struction of a railway there Is a great condeal
of expense, and that the best spent money in
the construction of a rallway la that whichi
is expended la the engineering departmient
before the construction ef a railway. As
a matter et tact, while a great deal lias
beeu sald this afternoon that mlght be said
againat prometers and charter inengers, 1
tbink -we are sl.mpiy going te ýthe othier
extreme wlhen we are forcing thoe. who
have brains and net very much money ta go
ta rallway cenipanles who alene eau furnisù
the meney to precure ail the necessary prefiles and plans, as to the course et construction and the quantities-an accurate plan I
think the Bill calls for, whilh is imposs ible.
Ne rail1way company ever prejected a hune
wlthout runalng three lines, and one of the
three la selected by the chief engineer as the
most suitable aad econemical. Se that you
weuld be compelling a company te corne here
ui;der large expense, and many et eur railways would neyer have been bulît If this
state et affairs had exIsted la pat years.
The ralway cempanles will have central ef
the work et the premeter because he could
not get-any one to furnish hlm wlth money
for the surveys. It la Impossible te carry
on the work ln any other way. I amn sure
that many thînga came Up before the Railway Cemmlttee to-day, but I arn net at
lberty te speak et them here, and much lnformatien.ceuld be glven whlch would be
et far more Importance la my Judgment
than a mere survey, se long as the point
freni whlch the rallway la te start and
where It Is te finish are mentiened, and I
think one of theni perhaps that should be
Inslsted upon would be a lat et the promoters and- the names ef the steckbolders,
and the arneunt of money they had subscrlbed.

Hon. Mr. McICALLUM-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-That le far more lImportant than the profiles and plans that
rnlght be preduced before the Rallway Cernmittee. If I understood the hon. Secretary
ef State arîglit with regard te the proposa]
that he intends.brnging la a Bill te slmplIfy
matters ef this klnd se tbat raiiways la the
future may -haveHon. Mr. SCOTT. No, net railways.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I was golng te sny,
lii reference te ralways, that la the United
States ail they have te apply for there is
a charter under the Joint Stock Companies
Act and they can build a rallway witliout
golng before the State legisiature or the
federal gevernient ef the United States.
Wi.th regard te the course of legilsîntien la
England, If ny hion. friend, the Secretary
et State, wili tura back te the early days
of the promotion ef railways, lie wli fiad
the ceat ef raîiway legîsiatien was greater
by thousanda et pounda per mile than the
cost et construction, and that was dene
purpesely, because at that particular lme
the Imperlal governinent was fieoded wltb
railway charters. Such Is net'the case here.
There. were many men la the early days
ef the country-and there will be many lu
the tuture-who bave projected a railway
traversing an unknowa part ef the ceuntry, and came dewn ln ail hoaesty to us te
secure a charter, perhaps without any
meaey at their disposai, and we now propose te ask theni to furnlsh the Standing
Orders Cemmlttee with profiles and plans,
which would' be next te impossible. I
therefore hope the hon, gentleman ln charge
ef the Bill wll see bis way te wlthdraw It,
becatise I thlnk It la retarding legialatIen,
and putting these ralway charters ef the
future la the banda ef a few who have
meney.
Hon. Mfr. McCÂLLUM
journment et the debate.

moved

The motion was agreed te.
The Senate adjourned.

tue au-

SENATE

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Mondaj,, April 7, 1902.
Tbe SPEAKER took, the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
RULES AND ORDERS 0F THE SENATE.
MOTION.
The order of the day being calIed.
By

the

Hon.

Sir MACKENZIE

BOWELL,

K.C.M.G. :
That he will maie that paragraphs 1 and 2
of Rule 80 of the Ruies, Orders and Proceedings
of the Senate of Canada be amended ty strlklng
out the word 'seventeen' ln paragraph 1, and
substituting the word 'elghteen' therefor ; and
that paragraph 2 be amended by striking out
the words 'twenty-one,* and substituting the
wcrde 'twenty-four' therefor.
Ho1n. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL said,
Before proceedlng with the motion I bave
to ask the Senate to unanimously iiiiow the
suspension of mule 16.
Those wbo bave
iooked at the paper will see that the motion
ls for the purpose of incmeasing the number
of senators upon the iibrary committee by
one, and upon the printing committee by
thmee, ln order to give ai> equaiity of numbers upon these two comniittees,
as be-'
tween the Gommons and the Senate. I find
upon iookiug at muIe 16 tbat it provides as

otiîerwise we may make an arbitrary rule
and find tbe House of aommons wiI bave
appointed a less number. But for the present year 1 see no objection to ItL We can
alter it again If necessary. They do flot
seezn, ln past years, to have acted on any
tixed principle ln the House of Commons.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--The
lion, gentleman may be correct. I know the
practice in the Gommons was to put a certain number on each committee. However,
this motion miglit be allowed to stand and
a motion piaced upon the paper to-morrow
making the mile elastic.
But the Senate
wii remember that there were great difficulties and trouble and annoyance in
the formation of the committees, as to
numbers, until a speclal committee was
appointed, and their report was to restrict
the liumber appoiîited to each committee.
It was thouglit better to do that
than to leave it open.
There are some
committees upon wbiclî every member of
the House %vould like to sit, sucb ns the
Railway Committee and tbe Banking and
Commerce Committee ; hience tbey were restricted. If It ls thougbt at the next session
of parliament that me sbould make ail the
cominittees elastic, or oniy these two committees elastic, or so vary the rules as to
give an equaiity upon botb committees,- I
thiuk, that would be the better wny. In the
meantime, I beg to muove

foiiows :
That paragraphs 1 and 2 of Rule 80 of the
No motion for making any order of the Senate
a ritanding order can be made uniess the sena- Ruies, Orders end Proceedings of the Senate of
tors ln attendance on the session shall have Canada be aniended by striktng out the word
been previously summoned to consîder the .seventeen' ln paragraph 1, and kiubstituting tho,
word 'eighteen' therefor ; ani that paragraph
came.
the
Notice would bave to be given for a 2 be amended by striking outwordswords 'twenty.ne,' aud substituting the
«twenty-four'
theref or.
special summons, unless by a unanimous

The motion was agreed to.
vote this ruie ls suspended for the purpose
of enabiing the motion of wbichi I have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
given notice to be put.
wouid the bion. Secretary of State suggest
ns to filiing up those committees *?
The motion was agmeed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Perhaps our Specini
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I find, on Information
Oommttee bad better meet.
received from the ciemk of the Senate, that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
the House of Gommons bias not been governed by any positive rule as ta the number going ta suggest the Hon. Mm. Ferguson for
on eltber of those committees. It bas varied the Library Com'mittee.
lu past years, running some years as 10w as THE POSTMASTER
AT VERNON RIVER,
twelve and up as high as twenty-four. So
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.
that it wiii be better tbat our rule should
INQUIRY.
be also einstic--one that wouid enabie us
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON inquired:
to name as many members on the com1. Whetlier
ls true
mittee as the House of Gommons bas named, oestmaster at itVernon that DJaniel MacDonald,
River, Prince Edward Is-

APRIL 7, 1902
land, bas been, or la to be, removed.from office?
THIRD READINGS.
2. If se, for what reason ? Have any charges
been preferred against hlm ? if i;o, state the
Bill (7) An Act respecting the Canada
nature of the charges and the name of the cote- Southern Railway Company.-<Hon.
Mr.
piainant.
3. If chargeu. have been preferred, has an ln- mecallum.)
vi-,tigation taken ',iace, and by whom ? What
Bill (13) An Act respecting the Canada
has been the finding of the party entrusted with
the Investigation ?
and Michigan Bridge and Tunnel Coin-

Hion. Mr. *SCOTT-Tbere -muet be some
very serions misunderstanding a-bout this,
because the answer given by the departinent
le, that there bas been no change ln the
postmaitersbip of the post office at Vernon
river.
Mr. O'Neil ls postinaster, and no
change le, contemplated.

pany.--(Hon. Mfr. McCalluni.)
Bill (15) An Act respecting the River
St. Clair Railway, Bridg'e and Tunnel Coinpany.-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie BowelI).

Bill (20) An Act to incorporate the Battieford and Lake Lenore Raiiway Conipauy,
as amended.-(Hon. Mfr. Perley.)
Bill (1S) An Act ta ineorporate the Velvet
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO-N-There are two post
(Rossland) Mine Rallway Company.-(Hon.
offices at Vernon rIver. The Vernon River
bridge post office is the one to which I refer. Ufr. Macdonald, B.C.)
We will allow the question to stand cor- APPLICATIONS FOR RAILWAY CHARrected as ap.plylng ta Vernon River bridge.
TERS BILL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Very wel, I abaial try
BILL WITHDRAWN.
and get the answer to-morrow.
The Order of the Day being called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the motion
BOUNTY ON PIG IRON.
for the Second Reading (Bill A) An Act.reupecting Applications for Railway Charters.
Hon. Mfr. McCALLUM-I desire ta make
Hon. Mr. WARK Inquired:
a f ew remaries on what I consider a very
1. Who were the shIppers of 6,000 tons of pig
If hon, gentlemen think
iron on board the ship 1Priestfield 1 froma Sydnoy Important Blill.
that -we have enough rallways ln Canada
to Glasgow about the end of February?7
2. And of (;,600 mure tons after by the shlp now in' the dnterests of the people, and ln
'Oscar' from the same place to Liverpool ?
3. Wli such iron be entitled to receive bounty, order to gis-e thein facilitiez ta take the
anàd at what rate per ton?
producte of thelr labour to market, of
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It la nlot customary te course we will pass -this Bill. But If not,
give the naines of either 'the exporters or It la net the turne ta place obstructilons ln
the way of rallway building.
My hon.
Importera of goods, 'but as regards the Iron
triend who lntroduced this Bill la hike many
in question, there were six thons.and tons
shipped per Priestfleld, and 4,260 per Oscar, a young man who omes Into jparliament
both, however, for Glasgow, and none by and bas an ldea that he la going ta revoluthosé vesseis for IAverpool.
Sncb fron was tionîze the whole proceedîngs ot parlainent
He says, further, that the coinentltled to recelve beunty at the rate of $2 by a Bih1.
per ton, as having been manufaotured froni mittee was uanimous ln faveur of the BIU
hast Year. In that respect he la very much
foreigu ores.
mistaken.
I was a memter of thrat coinmlttee and I was just as much opposed ta
BILLS INTRODUCED.
lt hast year as I arn no'w, but the 'committee
Bill (2*2) An Act -to Incorporate the Board considered, out of courtesy ta a youug meinof the Presbyterian College of Halifax.- ber, that they 'would let hlm, off easy and
give hlm another year to see If he cotnld
(Hon. Mr. Ferguson.)
not think better of the intereats of this
Bill (29) An Act ta Incorporate the
Sov- country.
When he says that they were
ereign Lite Insurance Company of Canada.unanimous I tell hlm that they were only
<Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
unanlmous ln allowing hlm ta wlthdraw It
Bill (47) An Act to Incorporate the Can- for a year. I was not ln favour of the Bil, and
adian Manufacturers' Associatlon.-(Honi. I waa there. Has the tion, gentleman conMr. Jones.)
sidered 'wbat would be the resuit; of this Bill

I

~i~iSENATE

If It were passed ? Some lion. gentiemei ni country and see rwliat the people
waut and
says It Is unworkable. Weil, I beileve It hs go to the municlpailtles and get tl
i.
to vote
Some hon. gentieman says we sliouid amen4d money to aid ralway projects.
I amn speakthe ruies of parlament lu order that thi s ing of what I know.
In my own iocaiity
Bill miglit work.
We have -the power 1x Sbefore confederation, when Win. Lyon Macour owu lianda. Are we going to tie our -kenzie
returned from exile tcl Canada, the
selves ? I have been a member of thEe flrst county lie represented
was Haldlmand,
Itailway Committee, ln one House or thieInl whicli I lived.
I know Iiat he got a
ollher, o! pariament, for twenty-elght yearî 8charter through parihiment for
the Buffalo
contuusly, and I have yet to iearn of au~ 7and Brantford Railway.
I took stock lu
harmi that lias corne from iegisiation ob -It, and the munieipalitles took
stock.
We
tained lu that way.
Thiere were vague ail took stock to encourage It. That
was a
rumours a year ago, but let the lion. gen - new thlng. Thiere was 110 sucli
thing theu
tleîaan corne down to particulars, becnuse as steel rails. It was
Iron rails, and they
If people get charters froin parliament, aud Idld flot understand how to
build raiiways
can seli theni lnstead of building the road as they do IIow.
MWbat was the resuit?
ive sliouid kuow it. They should -be marked We bast ail the money
we invested, but we
imiu lu this country, so that they would have
the railway.
îlot get a chance to do It a second turne. 1
amrn ot going to bie cnrried away by rumours. *Hou. Mr. OWrENS-Hear, hlear.
1 cousider w-e have not liait the ralways
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-And people would
ive waut lu thîs country. 1 listened to the *pay ten Urnes more than they have pald
discussion on thîs Bill tue other dny, whicl rather than lose the ralway. That la onie
was very interesting, about the practice lu case that 1 kuow of, and It Is so ail over tihe
Eugland lu reference to raiiway charters. country. 1 kîîow vers littie of the promoWblat they do lu Engand Is not applicable ters of railways iii thîs country, but
I hapto thîs country.
WNe are a dîfferent coun- peu to live in a very littie corner lu the pr-otry. AUl the local goverumeuts ln this coun- vince of Onîtario, and I know
somethiiîg
try have nsslsted lu -building rallways to about It. It Is golng on
ail over Canada,
miy knowledge, and the Dominion govern- and If uy hion. friend considered
wliat hie
nment ii
is in powver lias doue the saine. was dolng, lie would not have
lutroduced
Bis for raiiway subsidies corne before the thils Bill to retard tlie
progress of this couiiSenate and ecd one of us lias Ilis own opin- try. I know some
of the promoters. 1
ion of theni. If one thinks the governmcent know meu
whio hiave given their Ilves to the
are giving a company too mnuch per mile, promotion
of raiiways and have made no
lie eau. find fanit, 'but the governmen±t are money
out of It. Not one of thein to my
held responsibie thiat tliey do not pay any knowiedge
lias made anythlug. 1 wiil naine
înoncy waiere it is -not earned, I have
some of tliem, I wll naine Tliompson of
yet to learu that the muouey thiat the people
Welland and IMr. Laidiaw.
have voted to railivays has beeu squanderThiere are men wlthlu the sound of -ruy
cd. Nothlug Is more certain than that we
volce whio kniew Mr. Thompson. Thie people
shiouid have rallway communication withi
made lm mnember for Welland afterwvards
the uusettied disticts o! this country, la oras miucli from gratitude as any.th-Ing. But
der to allow settiers to take their produce
did lie make any money ? I kuew hlm to
to the markets of the wvorld. I consîder
bie for seven or elght years promnoting that
these railway promoters are siandered.
1 ralway, when the Great
Western Raiiway
have knowvn nny of them.
Some have of that day and ail the
people of Hamilton
gone to their long home, to the great loss
were opposlng hlm. 1 know I liad to leave
of .the country. Thiey have gone lameaîed
my home and go to, Toronto wlien the matter
by the communlty lu whicli they iived and
was before pariament lu order to enable
by the people whio benefited Ï)y ralway prohlim to get that charter. The oniy man lu
motion.
I hope we wlll have more proHamilton at that date who supported hlm
moters la this country.
Usuaihy rallway
was the Hon. Isaac Buchanan, w-ho Is dead
i)romnoters have not a very large amount to
now. Mr. Tliompson got the charter and
their credit ln the banks; but they have
bramas and energy, and they go over the built the road. I have known others. There
was George Laidiaw, whose ane Is well'
Hou. Mr. McCALLUM.

APRIL 7. 1902,
known ln the province of Ontarlo. He bulit lils undertaking, and If lie does lie le the
thie Toronto and Niplsslng Raiiway, the first ralway promoter I know of wlio
lias.
Toronto, Grey and Bruce Rallway, and the My lion. frlend fromn De Lanaudière (Mr.
Cred.lt Valley Rallway. 1 must speak of Casgrain) is very mucli mistaken ln suppossomething else. One of tlie men, and lie la lng tliat tlie Senate was ln lis
favour
dead, Robert Hay of Toronto, largely assist- last year, because I noticedl two gentlemen
ed Laldlaw ln pushing forward tlie Credit spoke against the Bill ln the Senate,
after
Valley Rallway sclieme. I bave known lim tlie report of tlie commIttee came ln. Wliat
to asslet LaIlaw to -tlie tune of $M000. case has my lion. frlend made out before tliis
Laldlaw liad no money, but lie liad braîns, House ? Have there been any petitions to
Dld he get rilih on building rallways ? No, parliamient against tlie grnuting of rallway
lie dled poor. Then tlie Hon. Hamilton Mer- cliarters ? I lave flot heard of ny. If
a
ritt was a promoter o! ra!iways, aud pro- man gets a railway cliarter sud does
iiot
moter of a great many other thîngs besides' promote It as lie should do, out witli
lii
railways. He promoted canais. He built and give otliers a cliance. My lion.
friend
tlie Welland Canal, and promoted the Wel- from Mnrslifield had to go to Cuba
to gain
land RaIlway, wlicldl
runuing to-day. Did experieuce lu building railways. We do flot
lie maL-e any money out of It ? No, not a want to go to Cuba or Great Britaîn
etber.
dollar. 1 could speal- of otliers tliat liav-e W1e liave tlie experience liere, and
wc are
gone tic camue wvay. We have railway pro- doing very well. We lave spent
millions
moters to-day, and I liope tliey will do a and millions of money lu tlie Dominion
of
great deal more, unlees it la tliouglit tliat we Canada between tlie local and thie Dominion
lave too many rallways. We knDow what the governmelts and tlie municlpaîlties, and
we
meinber for Southi Norfolk lias donc. lie are flot Lalt donc yet ; but as lnuch
promotcd and built thc road fromi Port Do- «a I respect thc provincial land surv-eyors,
1
ver to Wiarton. Dld lie make any moncyl do ixot want to retard tlie prosperity of tlie
out of It ? No. Has Mr. Beemer miade nny. country lu order to give tliem cinployment.
money out of ail tlie ralways lie bas pro- We sliould consider wliat w-e ouglit
to do
moted ln the province o! Quebec ? If w-c lu tlis matter. Are %vedhludren bere
that
bave raiiways enougli let us say so, and w-e slipuld not bave control cf our own
busistop, and w-e will save moncy, but wll thie nese? If we sbouid so fir forget
ourselves
people of this country be satisfied ? 'My: as to poss tbis Bill, does aur one
suppose It
lion. frlend ouglit to know better than to 1w-hi pass tlirougli the other Cliamber
? I
bring a Bill licre for css legislation. I doubt If It wll ever pacs thec House
of Coinalw-ays go for tbe w-bic people, flot for a nions. To show tlie encouragement
my lion.
class. This Bill is lu thie luterests of pro- frîend liad to go on w-itli it
this year, a1
vIncial land surveyors. 1 liave many a couple of members spoke of it
ln this w-av on
friend among tliem. I respect tliem. They that occasion. One member
said of It :
are vcry useful lu tlieir profession, but w-e 'Tlis ls a vicious Bihl :' I agree
w-itb h1w.
are flot goiug to alter tlie miles of parlia- I consider It le opposcd to tlie
best'interests
ment or pass tliis BiUl-not wltli my consent of tlie country. 1 bave no Interests
to serve
at ail events--to piease tliem. I w-as sPeak- but tlie Interets of my country,
and I being of Mr. Beemer, and tlie-e le John R. lieve tliat la the position lu whlicli
tlie Senate
Bootli, of Ottawa. I liope lie wlll maL-c mon- as a w-lole stands. My bon.
fricud tooli It
ey, lic deserves It, but really lie w-as not tlie for granted, because tlie House
treated liim
reai promoter of tlie enterprise of thc Parry courteously .last year, as tlie Senate
aiways
Sound Railw-ay. The original promoter w-us doce, thnt thls Bill w-ouid be accepted
tlis
H. J. Huburtus, wlio used to be the ' Globe' year. 1 tliougbt lie would,
durlng thc recorrespondent lu thie House o! Commons. cess, reflect on wliat lie w-as
dolng ; tliat
He lias tramped from liere to Parry Sound. lie wouhd sec how le wouid retard
tlie promore tliau once. He w-as thec promoter, but grecs of tlie countr-y, because lie
listened t0
lic did flot bave two dollars to jingle one whlat people called rumours, but
so far a
against thc otlier as tlie resuit of liii con-' ny knowledge of ralway promoters
Is connection w-itli the enterprise. Tliat I knowv. cerned, tliese rumours
are slaudci-s. Tlis la.
1 hope Mr. Bootli w-i maL-c money out of w-bat tlie hol, gentleman said hast ycar:

SENATE
ý

The abject of this measure la to prevent
speculative charters being granted by parliament; as provlding ail the necessary data
should be furnlshed, ta the House in which the
Bill la ta originate.

-

!--7--

-

what the Dominion of Canada bas apent for
rallways. I know nt one time la the province of Ontario the opposition ta Sandfleld
Macdon'ald'a government found fault wlth
Then Mfr. Lougheed goes on and shows It hlm because be set aolde $1,500,000 ta assiat
la a vicions bill. Then a senator tram Cape rallwaya rning north through the then
Breton (Mr. MacKeen) blows hot and cald. sparaely-settled districts, spd on that pollcy
He says there Is some good In It and some of oppoaing aid ta rallways Mr. Blake appealed ta the country. There are men here
that la flot good. He Bays :
1 think It Is known ta us ail, that one charter who must know what I say ta be true, and
was obtalned ln this Hause and- afterwards sold that waa bis stock armour agaInst Sandfield
for $60,000 without one dollar havlng been ex- Macdonald, that, and the murder of
Scott
pended. As regards the application of thîs Bill
ta the aIder pravinces, I think it lu almost per- .at Winnipeg. Hie came ta parllament when
fect. Cauntries which are fiGw so well opened I waa there, and I happened ta hold"the two
as aur eastern Iîr.vlnces-which are so intersected by rallways, and where the zapagraphy seats at that tîme, before dual represen.
of the cauntry Is sa well known, It woyuld be tation was done away with under Mr. Costiof Immense Importance ta my mmnd ta, have In- gan's Bill. I remember the time well.
My
formation of the charactcr the Bill cals for In
hon. frlend the Secretary of State must rethe bands af the corniittea.
member It. Hie was speaker in the local
1 arn glad they have ail the rallway comlegialature then, If 1 mistake not. He waa
atunîcatlon tliey want down there, but It la
made speaker by the Sandfield Macdonald
flot the case In my part of the country.
goverament, and there la no doubt he got
Then he says :
My vote.
No railway can be bulit wlthout surveys-and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It n'as by acclamation.
lvhether they are made preparacary ta the charter or subsequent to the granting af the charter,
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Then. the han.
It la pretty much the same ta the englneers, I
wauld take It ;but ta ask any campany or any gentleman dld not want my vote, but it n'as
Investar ta expend we will say anywhere fram
$2,000 ta $50,000 as the case may be without any there for hlm If he dld want ItL The bon, genguarantee whatever of success ln getting a char- tleman n'as there and cas correct me If I arn
ter, ls perhaps a lIttIe h-ard. I do flot think wrong In 'what I say. 1 must
say for that
we wauld succeed In gettlng any Investors to
do that lu a country Ilke the Yukon ;ail the 'great man, Mr. Blake, he waa everything
samne, 1 thlnk the spirit of the Bihl laI the by turas, but nothing very long. Hie n'as the
rlght directian, and with Borne amendment it
hope and aspiration of this great Canada of
will meet wlth the approval af thîs House.
ours. He n'as calied, and I almoat believed
Wben we are told there are rarnaurs of lt, Canada's nobleat- son. Where la he tocharter selling, the hon, gentleman ongbt to day ? Dolng battle wlth hîs tangue and his
be prepared ta corne down with partîculara. money agaInat the British empire of which
Ia ail my experience la parilament 1 have we form, a part. I may be allowed ta dineyer known anythIng of the klnd. I do not greas ta makre that staternent. When he
pretend ta know ail about railway building, carne into power that one million five
but I kaow sornetbing about It. Do we want hundred thouaand dollars n'as flot enough
ta go back ta fif ty years ago ? What would ta build rallways. He added $400,000 more
we be wlthout rallways ta carry ont the pro- to It, making $1,900,000, and he mortgaged
ducts of the country ? We wonld be locked the province of Ontario for twenty years for
Up ail wlnter, as we have been In the past, $100,000 a year, maklng $2,000,000
more ; so
until navigation opened. The men that I that, with one strokre, the
province of Onhave spoken of wbo have gone ta their long tario assisted railways ta the tune
of $8,home, have erected monuments ta thelr me- 9W0,000. I say that la order ta
show that ail
mory la the hearts of the people whlch la local gavernments have been promotlng
railmore lasting than granite or brasa. When ways, and 1 hope they will continue
ta do
bilatory la wrltten fairly, It wll show thrat Ia ga. Whether the governmeat
be Reforrn
how the people of thîs country feel about or Coaservatîve, we must
hold them resthose railway promotera. There may have Ponaible, and fIrat see that
they do flot give
been some black oheep among them. The too mnch
ta any rallway, and hald tbem
sale of a charter for $OO,000 may be true, responsible for the payrnent,
and see that
but It la a drap la the bncket compared ta they do flot pay money until It
la earned, and
Han. Mr. McCALLUX.

AFRIL 7, 1909,
then It will be ail riglit There ls no use
dwelling on this matter, I arn sorry my
young friend bas brought into this House a
Bill which, If he lad considered the matter
at ail, be would have seen at once was
going to retard the progress and prosperity
of the country. I beg to move that this
Bill be not now rend a second time but that
It be read a second time this day six montha.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I have
listened to the Interesting address o! the
hon, gentleman from Monck. It enibracett
a lot of ancient history, but it hnd very littie
to do with the principle o! the Bill which is
under consideration. He referred to varions
contractera, who have bulît many ronds lu
this Dominion, and In the province of Ontario especlally, men who conterred great
benefits on the country by building those
roads, but the Bill which Io under consideratien bas no reference ta people of tint class.
It la Intcnded to applY te people wbo make
applications to parliament for charters for
raiiways whidb ithey never Intend to buiid,
but charters whiah they destre to put on the
market and oeil, not for the benefit of the
country but for their oawn indivîdual benelit.
The bon. senator from Monck referred to
men w'hose nemes are identificd wi-th thxe
hlstory of Canada, men «who have bult some
o! the best works ln thc country. lieu of
tint class are net in'terfered with by tie
Bill now -before us. Tis mensure refera to
quite a different cas o! peuple. The bou.
gentleman from. Monck asked whèt had we
to do with this Bill wben there were no
petitions presentedl ta us for it, but 1 would
ask rthe hon, gentleman If we are not to
take any action on a rnstter whicb is necessary for the good of the country until petitions are received here for it 7 I tuke it
thnt we are more advanced.
Whcn we
see that it Io necessery to legisînte on any
subjeet ie do not wnit for outsiders to
move. We taire It Into our own banda, and
if we see a Bill ls necessary, a Bill is Introduccd, and If It reccives the approval of a
majordty of the Senate, what docs it matter
to us If it ls rcjected -by tbe otber; branci
of parliamenit ? If we know that It is
Éoiug to be rejected there, tint ls no suffidlent reason for declining to give it aur attention. If It 1s a good mensure It should
bave our sanction.
I expressed my approyal of a Bill of this nature wicn it was
il

introduced last session. I have beard nothing said by any hon, gentleman which woui(i
Induce me to change iny opinion reapecting
this mensure. We know many charters are
a.pplied for ln the Dominion of Canada
which are neyer carried out. The statute
books are fllled with Bis 'whicb have
been passed on applications to parliament
for railways whieh fraye neyer been bult,
and never will be '0ullt ln some cases.
How often do we see petItIons coming up
here for mensures that have passed parliament three, five, seven and 1 think ln one
case iten yenrs ago, 'wblch have nlot been
cnrried out yet, but they were applying to
parlinînenrt for leave to extend the time for
the commencement of the work until they
ean dispose of their charter and receive
some remuneration ln that -way. The
hon. Secretary of State ln speaking o! this
Bili, went, I tihink, further thon necessary
in bis opposition to the measure.
He
weakened his case by dragging ln here
the applications that are made to the imperil parlia-ment for charters for industrial
corporations.
Wibat lbas that to do with
the Bill now under consideration ? If It
bad not been called to bis attention by some
hou. members, we would be under the Impression that ralway charters were lu the
same' position as cbarters for Industrial corporations, but when It was caiied to bis attention he had to admit tînt railway charters and banking charters and certain otàier
charters were not dn the same position, but
the incorporators bad to make application te
parlia ment and show where the ronds were
to '0e bulît and whiit tthe cost of them was
te be before they couid obtain those charters. The Secretnry o« State aiso referred
to Canada os being a new country lu which.
sncb a Bi1ll was net applicable, tint It
migit under some circumstances be aplicable ln' a 4settlied or old country, but
would net do ln Canada.
In contradiction
to tint statement, I mast refer bon. gentlemen to an aplication whichi la at present
before parliament, or coming before pariament, for a transcontinental raiiivay to extend fr-ar the city of Quebec on the St.
Lawrence out to the Pacifie, end on the
wbole of that road, from one end to the
other, lt will '0e found that ithere bas been
a survey, the beiglrt of land at every mile
along the rond bas been given ln a map,
the very paso tirougli wiich It bas to go

SENATE
ln crossing the Rocky Mountains bas been
murveyed, and ail partieulars given respectIng that route, even more than requlred
under the present Bill. I believe that
rnany of these charters that have been
granted by parliainent are beld ln suspense and are blocking the way of thiose
who rwould be desirous of opening roads
lu the same direction, buit canuot do 80,
because some charter-monger 'bas a wildcat seheme which had passed througi
In that way lie Is blocking
porliament.
the leg-Itimate enterprise of mien desirous of
building a rond iii tbe same section. Entertalnlng this opinion, hon. gentlemen. I teel
thut I amn purs4llng a proper course ln supporting this measure. It may be true that
ln some respects It'goes furtber than soine
hon. members desire, but tis measure
can be arnended -ln com.mittee if It is
There tire few
given tbe second readiug.
hon. gentlemen whoc wiil not admilt tbat
there slîould be some restriction pldiced on
people who, merely corne bere and ask for ai
charter witbout funds at their back, wlthout any iden of building a rond but rnerely
for the purpose of getting the right over a
certain piece ot ground wbich they appropeiate lu that way, neyer intending to buld
There they are, biocklng eome
the road.
person whio would be la position to bulidl
Holding
a rond over the saie ground.
thiese views 1 shall support the Bill, as 1
did last yetir, and 1 dissent entirely f roui
the views expressed by the hion. gentleman
from Monck. We see applications made to
parliaiment to bulld a road withinu thiree
years along à certain Une. At the expiration et tbe time lirnit, those sarne people
comle to parliament asking to, have the
time extended for three years more lu
order to commence the rond. At the end
of the second tterm it la quite possible t'bey
may flot have doue auytbing, and tbey
miake a thlrd and tourth application to
parliameut. That should be put a stop to
ia some *way, and If this Bill did nothing
furthier than stop these wildcat enterprises, it would be a benefit -to -the Dominion. We know that the taxpayers of tiiis
country are paying very large amounts Indeed for railway subsidies, and possibly
many of these parties would flot receive any
encouragement from parliament if it were
not for the application coming unt a tie
whien it may be beneficial to -the governulent
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)

to grant a subsldy for a rond -in a certain
section. It cornes usually just before Uic
Dominion election, aud tlien we bave Bis
curning lu bere ou the iast day of the
session grantlug $3,400, $O,800 or $1O,OOU
a aille for tihe purpose of :building such
railways, eud In some cases the very promoters caunot tell w.here the road begins
or where it ends. Hon, gentlemen mnust
admit that under these caireurnatances it is
dealrdble 'to place sonie check, not on legItImate railway promoters, such as the .hon.
gentleman trom Monck referred to, but
upon those wbo mnke applications for wildcat charters, and I regret that some bon.
gentlemen ot the Senate oppose the Bill,
but nioue so deterrn.nedly as the bon. gentleman trom Monck. Ail other hon, gentlemen
wbo addressed the House admltted it was
possible thut a measure of this kind, if it
were ernbodled lu the miles of thbe House,
might be beneficial. If It .were crystallized
lu a Bill, -would it injure legitimate promoters ot rallways ? I say lt wouid not.
It wouid keep out of the wey those who are
illegitininte proinoters of w~il(lcat enterprseý.
Hou. Mr. CÂSGRAIN (de Lanaudière>-.
have listeued with a great deal of pleasure,
as hon. gentlernen will readily understand, to
,the speeches whilb have been made, îîot
ail lu favour of the Bill whicii I have hnad
the hionour of introducing. lu order to show
that I liad proper encouragement lu c aming
before the House with titis mnensure, 1 refer
to the Debates 0f last year, where the chairman of the Raiiway Committee reported, ln
reference to au Act respecting Applications
for Ruilway Charters, that whiie they npprove of the prInciple of the Bill, they reconimend that owlug to the late period of
the session the promoter be allowed to
withidraw It. Hon, gentlemen have heard
the hion. senator tromi Prince Edward Islanid
expresslng bis views. The hon. member wbo
spoke on that occasion was the Hon. G. NV.
Allan, and I wlIl just rend one phrase fromi
Ilis speech wvlcb I tliink gave nie enougit
encouragemnent, coniing froni sucb a bigh
tuuthority, a inîn whiose opinion bad been
I
lu this 1Ionse.
respected so inucbe
thonglit, under the circumaiitances. 1 was
perfectly jnstlfied iii reintroduciïîg titis Bill.
The Hon. Mr. Allan sa id :
The principle of the nill, 1 think I may sav
wlthout contradiction, was uulversaily approved
by ail the members of the commlttee.

A]?RIL 7, 1902
That wll be found ln his speech, and any
hion. gentleman eau verlfy it by referring
to page 412 of tast yeares Debates. The
favourable reception of this Bill last year
gave me some encouragement, and I may
eay that, outside 0f thie House, some very
Important railway people thouglit the Bill
was a move ln the rlght direction. Some
very prominent membere of the House
asked me If I was golng to introduce the
Bill again this year. I took It for granted
that they thought well of the Bill. 1
admit that it mny 1ook presumptuous for
one who bas been for so few yenrs ln this
House to Introduce legisiation, wbich niany
of the members of tils House thlnk some
older member should have taken charge of,
but I realiy fait to see why any one wbo has
the honour o! a seat in parliament, whether
ln this Hlouse or the other chamber, If hie
truly believes ln is own humble way that
a certain mensure le ln the interests of the
country, should flot have' the courage, even
If It doee not meet wlth the approval of the
mai ority, to rise la ies place and submlt
the measure -and let it be f ully dlscuseed.
If It is rlght let It be paesed ; but If It does
flot get a majorlty, let It fait on Its own
mente. The hon. Secretary o! State test
Frldny sald that pioneers ln rallway enterprises dld flot make nioney. He mlght have
added that pioneers lu legislation otten have
a thanklese tas], before them. They have
tu devote a great deal of time and study to
public niessures wlthout hope of any
klnd of reward. I thought this wae a move
ln the right direction. I do not claim tlie
Bihl le perfect. Perfection la not of this
world. But I thlnk It is a step lu the rlght
direction. I dld not orig'lnate this leglelation. It lias been ln force for yemirs and
yenrs ln France, Germany and Spain. I
had occasion to Inquire, and I found that
the mIles and regulations lu those countries were much more etrîngent than anythlng contalned lu this Biîl Stlill, I muet
say that I believe, and I will keep on believing, that ny private member'0f this
House lias not only the rlght, but It la hie
du-ty If he thinks It ls rlght, to introduce
legielation. I do flot belleve that ail public
legîsiation should ueceesarily emanate from
the g.werument. The government ln that
case would be rullng the country and there
'would be no use for senators or mnembers
of parliament. I wieh to say a few words
ni

about the real object of the mensure. This
Bill seeme to have been much better understood lest year than it la to-day. After the
explanation hast year the committee were,
to my mmnd, apparently ln favour o! the
Bill and the chairman hilmself reporte« It.
The Intention le flot to .restrict railway develo.pment. On the coutrary, It la.tmofaclitete
rallwny construction. It le to prevent: large
tracts of territory belng bet apart for the
sole benefit of one ralway company, and
preveatlng others from building wlthin thiat
amen. We know that ln Canada ail that
le neceesary now le to take the Initial
and terminai points, and there le no lumit
to the deviation that may be made froni
the stralght Une. If a charter le granted to
buld a rallway from Ottawa to Winnipeg,
or Ottawa to Toronto, then.it le qulte possible for those who secure this charter not
to go lu a straight line to either of these
pointe, but to diverge aud take ln almost any
town they Ilke on the line, claiming that
they have the rlght to bulld to any town
between these -places. There la nothlng la
the Railway Act to say that they shail go,
as far as possible, la a stmalght Une. There
le no limit to the deviation allowed. If e
plan wae used before parîlament, then It
would be possible for parliament to say :
We will grant your charter pasaIng by thie
town or villnge, but not to go ail over the
province to the nerth and to the sou-th,
without any regard to ttheý lne.' So soon
as any one comes tu parliament nsklng for
a charter between those tu-o points, the
ownem of the charter will eay : 'Oh but
that le wlthln our terltory. You are taklng
terltory over whlch we bave controL'1
When once they have their charter they are
entltled, without applylng to parlament, to
extend branch lunes six miles on either
aide, maklng a strlp of country twelve miles
wlde. These charters are granted for one
hundred, two hundred and five hundred
miles. Five hundred miles by twelve miles
la widthi-theme you have an enommous territory of some 6,000 square miles aitogether
wlthln a sort of monopoly lin the bande of
the one company. One company has got
the absolute control, tiret, for two years, before they begin work, and after they have
begun work, thiey have, accordlng tu the
Rallway Act, seven years nitogether, and
very often they'come before parliament and
reaew and get an extension of time, thue

SENATE
holding an enormious tract of country for
their own purposes for years, and preventing other people from building. No one
can enter into that territory without paying
toil to the owners of that charter. As to
the objection that tliis la a Bill to give work
to land surveyors or engineers, I must gay
that It would rather tend the other way, because JI Is well known that those who get
railway charters, ln order to keep those
wn-1ldcat charters ahive, actually employ engineers, and If there wias a tendency ln thls
B3i1 at ail, it would be against engineers. 1
think the hon. member from Cape Breton
did justice to that, when the samne argument
was brought up last year by the hou. gentleman froni Calgary. Now, as to the Bill
itself, It says:
(I.) Before thc consideration of the petition
for such Act by the Committae on Standing Ordern of the House in which the Bill is to originate, the applicants for such authority shalH
deposit with the Department of Raiiways and

Canais(a.) A map or plan, made from actuai snrvey,
sbc.wing the route of thc proposed raiiway acccrding to the preliminary survey thereof. or
the site and nature of tha .îew works.
'Before the consideration of the petition.'
After Iaquiring froni legal gentlemen, I
found there was really no other tîme to demand details until the consideration of the
petition. It was the ouly time. The hou.
inimber for Qneen's spoke ln favour of some
parts of the measure, and thonght that the
ameuding of the mIles of the House mlght
meet the case. There is this one objection
to the amending of the mules, that the
rules can be suspended, and the Bill provides in clause 2, that:
If the conditions liposed by the next preeedir g section or any of theni, are flot complied
with, the Committec on Standing Orders, or the
Honse ln which the Bill la to ariginate shahl
r'ort accordingiy ta that House, an& thereupon,
unless otherwise specighhy ordered by that Hanse,
or unless otherwise provided for by the Standing Orders thercof, aIl further proceedings upon
the Bil- shah] be suspended until the said conditions have been comphied with.
So tlint the hands of parliament are not
Inuanny %vnytied up by this legislation. If
the House finds auy good reason why any
of these clauses should be dIspeused with,
the Power to dispense with it la ln the Bill.
The bands of parliament nre not tied. The
hon. gentleman froni De Salaberry made,
appareutly, a vemy strong point wheu he
spoke of trespassing upon private property.
He rend the law, subsectIon A of clause 90;
HRon. Mr. CASGItAIN.

of the Rallway Act. This is not fatal to
the Bill by any means, because a simple
aniendment-I remember the lion. member
from De Salaberry laid great stress on that
objection-would cover the point. If the
Bill had gone to committee a third clause
could easlly have been Inserted, reading
lîke this:
For the purposes of this Act, the Miaister of
Raiiways may grant to the appicants the powers
cantained ln subsection A of clause 90 of the
ýRa!lway Act.
Not any more difficuit: than that. Now, as
to the enormous cost that would be entailed, supposiug thîs ivas exacted, the hon.
members of this House may not ail of them
be familiar wlth what a prellminnry survey is. It ls not nt ail a location of the
uine. It la net putting lu the curves, establishing grades, or making up the quantity,
but a prellminary survey-a general survey
of the land, very cursorlly doue, and a report by the engineer, and levels takzen, perhaps, with an aneroid barometer, or level.
The Secmetary of State says this might cost
two thousand dollars a mile. There would
be nothiug 11k-e that, or haîf or quarter 0f
that. About one-fortieth of It wouid be the
extreme cost ln the woods and mough coun.try, and lu the prairies ten to fifteen dollars
a mile would cover IL. If a company wishiîIg to build a railway, and wishing to bave
a char-ter for say one hundred miles, cannot scrape up a thousand dollars, how and
where are they to get the funds to build
a rallway ? Why let theni get a charter,
If they cannot stand the expeuse of a preliminry survey? They also require the
report of au engineer. The report wvould
liot be more than a statement thiat the route
Is feasîble, and the rond requIred, because
wheu we are granting a charter we are often authorizlug a route over grouud where
It would be Impossible to build a railway,
and the expeîîse would be much greater,
if, after having stamted and built a few
miles, you come to a part o! the country
)viere it Is alinost impassable, witl, any
reasonable expeuditure, for railway purposes, and tlîat part 0f the road lias to be
abandoned. WNould It not be more prudent
lu the Iiîterests 0f the people to have, before
commeucing the enterprise, some Idea of the
country thîrough ivhich the rond is to mun,
and the amoulit of money required ? The
systeni that prevails lu Englaud Is much

APRIL 7, 1902
more complicated, and, 1 may say, referriflg
to that speech about trespass, that it la
aliowed in Eagland. Engineers are flot prevented from entering even the moat beautiful parlis and carrying on their enginet'iug operations. I have asked.old engineers,
and thcy tell me that surveys bave neyer
been blocked on account of the unwillingness of the people to let the operations be
carried on. In England a complete plan,
showing ail the buildings, farms, fences,
watercourses, rivers, ravines, even the topography-a complete plan bas to be provided.
Besides that, there must be a booki of levels
giving not only the name of the owner
of the land. but also the name of the occupant, the total quantity of land held by the
occupant, the portion required by the railway, and the probable cost of acqulring
the land. That ls only from the technical
point. Now. from the business standpoint,
and this is Important-I am not a financial
man, and I expected some one more versed
ln finance would have brought up that
point-the financial ability of the people to
carry out the enterprise, la a very Important
question wbich would be discussed. In
IEngland and in other countries, before obtaining a charter the promoters must satisfy
parliament that they are able to carry ont
the enterprise. They must give an estimate
of the cost, a close and detaiied estîmate
of the land purchased, &c., and, more than
that, they must also show the probable returns. That is where parl4ament ls wise,
ln having the probable returas from
the i nvestment, so that If the pùxblic, on the strength of a royal charter,
choose to Invest their money, they are protected by the parliament of England against
putting money into a project whilh would
flot be remunerative either to the shareholders or to the bondholders. What do we
do Iu Canada ? We grant railway charters.
Those charters are taken across the water,
and bonds are floated lu England. In England, where parliament lias so jealously
guarded the lnterests of the public, capitnlists Invest their money with a feeling of
securlty. I have had some personal experience in what bas been done by proInoters going over to England and raising
moaey on Canadian roade, getting bondholders to invest their money, because wltb
a charter emanatlng from the parlament
0f Canada they naturally Inferred the same

precautions were taken here as In Engiand,
that the enterprise was a safe one, and the
probable returns wouid justlfy the expenditure. But ln Canada we have nieither the
English system nor the system which prevails la th United States. The system In
the United States, la my humble opinion,
ls better than ours, because there you canniot seli a railway charter. There are, properly speaking, no railway charters. Any
company of men have mereiy to register
their Intention to build a railway, and they
can proceed to build it, but they cannot
monopolize one Inch of land, except what is
ocùpied*by their own riglit of way. Any
other men or syndicate can do exactly the
ame thing. Consequently there le no necessity for seliing railway charters la the
United States, because It le in the reach of
every one. WVe have neither the United
States nor the EnglIali system. We have the
English system of granting a charter. On
the other hand, we have a system which
places large territorles la the hands of a select few, to the great detrimeat of bona fide
enterprîse. When the company have suffidient friende la parliament they manage to
obtain a charter. This charter le held over.
They may raise some money on IL. Some
years afterwards their friende la parîlament may change places, the charter is flot
contlnued, and the foreiga capital invested
la the enterprîse ls la great danger of being
That
lost, and bondholders are deceived.
some change la the system la necessary, 1
believe. Whether thîs BiIh would be exactly what la wanted, I am not prepared
to say at the present moment, but I thought
wlth the help of my colleagues la thie
House, It miglit have been possible to devise a measure which would contrîbute to
some extent to remedy thie great evil. If
promoters are unable themmelves to buld
roads, there le one thing they are able to
do-that ts to pester the great rallways of
this country trylag to sell their charters to
the Canadian Pacific Railway. to the Grand
Trunk Railway or the Canada Atlantic.
If you will speak to the officiais of those
ralways yon wlll find from one end of the
year to the other, they are constantly being
approached by promoters trylng to sell
charters for a few dollars-at first for many
thousands, but afterwards for a few dollars
each, for a charter granted by thts parlia-

SENATE
ment. Speaking of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway and the Grand Trunk, these railwnys neyer undertake to ask parliameat
for a charter without having prevIously
done everythIng, and more, called for ln
this Bill, because these ralIway companies
Intend to pay for the work. Promoters do
nlot care what the amount of expenditure
may be, because they have very littie money
tlhemselves; but those who intend te pay
for the property take good care to have a
proper estimate made of the probable cost.
and the probable returns. There Is one
other objection which has been raised, anèd lt
is this, thiat a company engaged ln getting
these surveys made and planned and profiles prepared, might, after ail their expense, fail to get a charter from parliament.
Weil, hon, gentlemen, I have too
mucli confidence ln the parllament of this
country to believe, If a rallway charter was
In the public Interest, that this parlianient
wouid refuse It to men who hiad expeuded
their money la pronioting a necessary line.
I have entire confidence that If It was a usefui project parliament would grant a charter,
because I believe that parliament is coniposed of the most public-spirited men ia
the country, belonging to the two great
parties, and I do not believe, and could flot
bring inyseif to believe, that It would be
passible for parliament, after a company had
gone to the expense to prove that a road
would be useful and ln the Interests of the
public, to refuse a charter. I refrain froni
using too many technical words, because
one might be Inclined to believe 1 was
tailking la favour of the engineers, but on
the broad principle of bringing down a
public mensure I wish to say, ln closing,
that my sincere desire was to try, In my
humble way, to do some good for the
country. My task le ended, and I have the
satisfaction of knowing that I have de
my duty to the best of my ability, and I
shall cheerfully abide by the decision of
the Senate. 1 may say, la closIng, that 1
had a short conversation with the Secretary
of State who tells me that the Railway Commission which will meet this summer will
deal with the railway companies generally,
and probably some steps will be taken hl
tlie direction indicated la this Bill. I therefore ask the permission of the House to
withdraw the Bill for. the present session,
H-on. Mr. CASGRAIN.

and trust that the
justice to the subject.

goverament will do

Mr. McCALLUM-I would rather have a
division.
The SPEAKER-Does the hon. gentleman froni Monck Insist on a division ?
Mr. McCALLUM-No. Don't do it again,
that's al.
The Bill was withdrawn.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SIENATE.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (0) 'An Act respeoting the Algoina
Central and Hudson Bay Railway ConiPany.'--(Mr. LanderkIn.)
Bill (P) 'An Act respecting the Manitoulin and North Shore Railway Conmpany.'(Mr. Landerk4In.)
Bill (39) 'An Act to incorporate tbe St.
Lawrence and Northern Railway Company.(Hon. 'Mr. Godbout.)
Bill (44) 'An Act respecting the TUlsonburg, Lake Brie and Pacifie Railway Conipany.'--{Mr. McCahium.)
Bill (52) 'An Act respeeting the St. Clair
and Erie Ship Canal Company.'--(Mr. MeCahluni.)
Bill (Q) ' An Act to incorporate the Metropolitan Bank.'---(Mr. McMulien, ln the
absence of Mr. Jones.)
CHARLOTTETOWN AND MURRAY HARBOUR RAILWAY.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON Inquired:
1. What sections and how many miles of the
raiiway from Charlottetown to Murray Harbour
ore now inder contract ?
2. Dn the coatracts in progress Include grading, rackiaying and baliasting, or what do they
3. Who are the contractors, or contractor ?
4. Were these contracts; awarded by tender
after publie competition liad been Invited ?

APRIL 8, 1902)

5. What amount of money lias been paid on1
these contracta up to the 3lat of March ultimo ?
S. At what date or dates la the work cin these
contracta sevErally requlred to be completed ?
7. If these contracte, or any of them, are baaed
on a prie per mile for grading, tracklaying and
baliasting, or any o! these cperations, give said
price.
8. If flot baaed pu a price per mile, state on
ivliat basis regarding price thcse contracts bave
been made.

Hon. Mr-. SCOTT-Tlie answers thuat I amn
Iiustructed te give to thue House are1. Section No. 2, Mutcb's Point te Village
Green-] iJ miles.
2. The coutract Ineludes :-GradIng and

completlng tlie roadbed to formation level.
also fencing, but doea not include ballastlng or tracklaying.
3. '%Villard Kitchen is the contracter.
4. Yes.
5. $53,939.44 lias been paid on contract
section No. 2-Mutch'a Point to Village
-Green, up to Slst Marci, ultimo.
6. The date for completion, named ln the
contract, was 31st December, 1900, but the
tume lias been extended.
4. Thuis contract la not based on a prie
per mlle.
S. Seliedule prices.
Hon. M~r. FERGUSON--Work ia belng
done on a great deal more tlian that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wili call the attention
of Mr. Schireiber to the lion. gentleman's
statement.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think the answcr
ia net compléte.

nlot got their fair and proper pice for wlieat
this year-tliat the 'buyers bave obeated
them Ia some way or otlier. I receîved a
letter the other day froni one of the nxost
Intelligent farinera of Assinibola In whicli
lie eomplalned that the farineras lad been
cheated out of 25 to 29 cents a bushel. on
My idea was, -If we could
their wlieat.
get thle prIce of whent in En3gland, and the
coat of transportation, we. could see if tbe
farmers liad been paid a fair price. It ls
a very annoylng tliug to have almost every
maii you meet tell you that lie lias been
1 do net
cliented by tlie grain deaiers.
tlIlnk It iyself--et least, 1 do nlot tlnk they
have been cwliented to the extent that they
I reeived to-day a paper ,whlchi
believe.
wlll verify my statenient, and, 1 think,
justify me in asking for this information.
It would lie a very great advantage to the
goverament wlio are encouraging Immigration to the Norh-west Terrîtories, to liave
this matter settled s0 that Immigrants wvli
know that they are nlot coming to a country wliere tiley wlll be roblied of one-lialf
or more of the fruits of their labour. It
las very detrImentai to the settiement of the
The article In. tfhis paper whlch
country.
1 amn goIng to read to the House will gii'e
an Idea. of 'what they are publighIng to t.he
workM, and the governiment wIll, theinselvea
see the Importance of gettlng!,the Information, If they do nlot already possess It, se
that -the farmers wll ace wixetlier they are
robbed or net. The article 1s as follews:

The Big Wheat Steal.
The plain fact is that the farinera of the west
THE PRICE 0F WHEÂT IN THE N.W.
are out by millions.0f dollars. The cool, calculating scoundrels of the grain ring, taking adINQUIRY.
vantage of circunistancea. bave pluclced and
inquired of the gov- piundered. robbed and fteeced the heipleas farHon. Mr. PERLEY
ernment :
If they have cn record la the Departanent of
Agriculture, a statement showiag the pries wbich
Manitoba bard wheab of the different grades aold
for on the English market during the paat live
inonths ? If not, will they obtain the Information and lay the same on the table of the Senate
at as early a date as possible ? Also, the transportation charges on wheat par bushal from
Fort William to Liverpool ?

mer wlthcut mcrcy. Mild language la wasted
in sucb a case. We belleve the thief on the
cross was a stainless Innocent i~ompared wlth
tbese vultures who planned a achome in cold
blood to deliberateiy rob the farmer of the fruits
ùf ls toil. These men are going about with fat
wailets. but the place where they ouglit to be la
the penttentiary, doing bard labour on a ulim
diet.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLFIMÂN-What peper la
that from ?

.He snld : I might say that I amn aware
tlim question la somewhat ont of the reguHon. Mr. PERLEY-Â Nortli-west paper
lar order of questions, 'but 1 arn lnspired published at Moosomin.
il *Is called the
one 'World.'
to ask It froni two or tliree causes.
la, that tliere are serions complainta on the
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Wliat aide of poilpart of the faf-mers, I thlnk ail over tlie
that tliey liavé tics la it on 7
Territories and Manitoba,

SENATE
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Conservatve, but
that does flot mirke a difference.
At one
tinie the farniers wanted to brlng a delegation of 100 here durlng the session.
1
was notified and asked If that would flot.
have the effeot of lnduclng the goveruîment
to see that some redress was given te the
farmers of the west. I thlnk It would be
advlsable for the governmnent to, answer
these questions. My object ln gettlng the
goverument. to, do It Is, to have it authoritative. Wben the Information cornes froi
the govemniment the people wlill take it wltl
a good deal more confidence lthan they
would bave If It came froni a private lu
dlvidual That Is w'hy I noir this question,
ln order tbat the farmers May flot be humbugged.

If tbey can obtain some Information on the
subject, ln or-der to ascertaln whether the
complaint Is based on facts, as stated in
thbe noepaper.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In addition to lnqulrlng of the grain Inspectors,
tiAey might aiso .Iuqulre of the Canadit
Pacifie Railway what the rates were.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie
COMnpanles, «Il Of t1i6m.

transportation

THIRD READING.
Bill1 (12) An Act respectlng the Edmnton
and Slave Lake Railway Companiy.-(I-on.
Mr. Poirier.)
QVý%T

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On Inqulry at the DeBill111H) An Act for the relief of Samnuel
partaient of Agriculture, I was Iuformed Nelson Chilpman.-(Hon. Mr. Kircbbloffer.)
they never hiad any record of the grai
Bill1 (M) An Act respectlng the Atlantic
sales, or dellvery, or the ocean frelhts. i and Lake Superior Railway
Comnpany.aise lnquired at tbe Department of Trade (Hon. Mr.
Owens.)
and Commerce, and was answered that tihey
Bill (N) 'An Act respectIng the G~reat
hafi no record there, and tbey did not*thiuk
Eastern RaIlway Company.'-(Hofl.
Mr.
the la-formation wças availabie, except arter
a very special inqulry, as tu many Instances Owens.)
the î>rices cbanged from week to week, and
JOINT STOCK CO3IPANIES BILL.
more particularly the transportation rates
FIRST READING.
changed, botb ocean and Inland frelbts. 1
shall be viery glad to, see Mr. Parmolee, or
Hon. Mr. SCOTT lntroduced Bi1ll (R) 'An
the Departmnent of Trade and Commerce, Act respectiiig the Incorporation of Joint
and suggest to bum that bie migbt possibiy Stock Companies by Letters Patent.'
He
get somie Information froni the grain lu- sald : Tbe object of this Bill1 Is to give
spectors. I was under the Impression tbnt greater facilities for the Incorporation of
there was considerable rivairy to secure the companles, asslmilatlng the law to tbat now
wheat of Manitoba and the NoI'th-4west, It for some years exlsting In Englnnd, whlch
being so, superior to the whent grewu ln bas been found to, work very advantageousMinnesota and furthes, sou*th.
I nieyer ly. Ini England, bion, gentlemen know who
heard of mullers of tbe United States or bave given any attention
to the subject, any
Canada enterlng into a combine, and I un- seven persons can unIte
together and make
derstood t.bere was coneiderable competiou an application to
an official who Is known
between theni to secure the largest share of ns the registrar.
Tbey file wltb hlm
the output of Manitoba and North-west articles of association,
wbicbi are practically
wheat. I may, however, be mistaken. Thei an agreement
between theniselves to take
condition of thingis my bion. friend bas de- a certain
amount of stock ln the proposed
scribed could only arise froni tbe existence company,
giving tbe name of the company
of a trust, because there must be a comn- and Its objects
and purposes, and on the
bine If the price le unduly reduced below the
filing of that paper, tbe registrar Issues
mark-et rate. There are numbers of buyers
the certificate and the company lo Ipso facto
every Year, and eue would suppose tbey
nt* once Incorporated.
A few years ago
would keep the prices up to normal level.
a committee *was formed for the purpose of
Wben My lion. friend's remiaies are printed,
ascertal.nlng whether tha't extreme freedoin
1 w-I11 caîl the attention of the Departmnent
of giving charters was realiy ln the publie
of Trade and Commerce to thei, and ask
interest, and after a very exhaustive inquiry
Hou. Mr. SUJLLIVAN.

APRIL 8, 1902
the committee came unan-imously to the conHon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
It Is only for
clusion that it was very beneicial that every those who apply for charters for the whole
facillty should bie given to private enter- Dominion. There will only be one centrai
prises to uite together for the formation office with authority to Issue charters, but
of limited.liability companies, and that any they will bie promptiy issued, publication
obstructions or obstacles placed In the way wlll be dispensed with and the payment of
oniy check the. development of business. Rny money down will be dispensed with.
The large amount of business that Io car- The varions details will probably corne ln
ried on ln England was ascribed mainly to better when the BillIis before the House.
the facilities given for the formation of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has the Bill been
those companies. That Is the general scope
distributed ?
of the Bill. At present it takes about ten
or tweli-e weeks to get through an Act of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, but I have had it
Incorporation. It practically takes quite. as revised and changes made, and it ls ready
long to get a charter under the Joint Stock to bie printed.
Companies Act, as It does to get an Act of
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Will we
pariament. And the consequence .Is, very have the Bill
printed to-morrow ?
many people prefer coming to parliament to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thought we might
secure Acts of Incorporation.
In the. first
place, there is the publication ln the 'Canada take it up on Thursday, but If It Is the deGazette,' and then the parties are obliged sire of the House it can bie postponed tiil
to do more than they are compelled to do Tuesday next.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Milght
under Acts of parliament that are granted
to private companies. They are obliged. to 1 ask the hon, gentleman whether that Bill
subscribe one-half of txe whole capital stock. is somewhat of the saine character-I
If It is two milidon, they muet subscribe for should judge It is-nas the Bill whichk was
one million, and they must paY up 10 per introduced by the late goveramenit which
cent on the W0
per cent of the capital stock. they failed to carry, simplifying the mode
That payment of 10 per cent must lie deposit- of securing these charters ? I presume lt
ed practically with the Reeiver General. ls from the explantion the hion. member
Formerly they could place the amount on lins gI'ýen us, but I think it goes a lttle f urdeposit ln the bank ln trust for the company, nher, of whiceb I am flot prepared to coinbut there was a change made some years p)lain just now. I should like to caîl the
ago oblIging the parties to practically de- hon. gentleman's attention to the fact that
posit the money to the credit of the Receiver the Ontario government Impose a tax upon
General. where it is held in suspense until *what they caîl extra-provincial charters, and
the company actually go into operation. to ask, whether such tax is constitutional. I
That sometimes takes front eight to ten do not know, but it seema to me to bie quite a,
weeks, and ln the 'meantime parties are hardship. You obtain a charter from the
deprIved of the use of the money, and they Dominion government to do business hi ahiy
very often chili off, get tired waitIng and portion of the Dominion, and the province
apply to withdraw the money anid abandon of Ontario-I do not know wbether the other
provinces have adopted the saine thingthe enterprise.
will îiot permit you to go on and do any
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD {B.C.)-What business until you first take ont a license
time will it take to do this under the Bill 1 from them. You have to pny for a license
to do business under a Dominion charter,
.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The proposaiIoi that and then they' tai you a yearly sum ln adIt can bie done within two or three days. dition; and besides that, you have to re-regisAn examInation wçould have to be made ln ter every year, and have to make out very
the office.
At present the charters are ls- voluminous returns. In -fact, it is a prysued from the office of the State Depart- Ing into the whole business of the company.
ment.
I do not know whether that question has
been brought under the notice of the JusHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Would tice Department or not, but lt seems strange
there bie regloters ln every province ?
thant this parliament should give power to

SENATE
transact business to a company of any kInd, ago. The governmnent of the province of

and then the province have a right to step Ontario bave aiso very neariy assimilated
In and say : 'No, you shall fot do business their practice to the Engish practice-not
In this province until you pay us a tax.'
quite so rnuch as the provinces of Nova
Hon.Mr.
OOD(Hamlton-IsthatnotScotla or British Columbia. I have referred
that flont freely to the Acta ln ail these provinces
i of hmilon-l
Holinth r
with a vlew to getting any suggestions tbat
t
the local governen?
uvo
ainbv they
and ave beyflotthe todo s
iglt
~ 1 tiiougiit might be of value ln the general
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That Act- With regard to the second question,
la just what I amn asklng.
which I think la an extremely Important
one, the provinces, no doubt, for reasons
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-It is a mat- wicb It ls quite unnecessary for me to
ter of revenue for the local government, inention-first, the desire to obtain ail the
and tbey have a perfect rigbt to do It or tees possible, and the desire to avail themthey certainly would not do It, but I tbiakl, selves of every opportunlty of adding to
perbaps the Bill which the hon, gentleman tiieir revenue-have gone, I think, beyond
bas introduced may Interfere wlth the same their power. I do'not know bow far the
Une of grantlng charters that now exista case to wblcb my hon. friend refers may
ln Ontario, and It wiil overide thathave gone. My own view of it bas been
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL..It tliat they bave a right to tax federal comYou get pa,îies, provlded that tax la not a discrimindoes not override anythlng.
a power to do business through the atlng tax, provided tbey tax ail companles
Each pro- on the anme level. They have no rlght to
whoie of the Dominion.
l'Ince bas the rlght to grant charters to do single ont companies holding charters from
business wltbiln the province. *What I com- the Dominion and tax them at a higher
plain Of 1a that this parliament, which la figure under aimilar conditions to con'supposed to bave power to dominate the panies holding charters from the provinces,
lvhole Dominion sbould be prevented by the and I arn quite sure If the question ls tested
local legisiature from exercislng that power la court, the court wlll decide It was beAttention bans been
wbichi the constitution gives it, and I want .yond their powers.
to know fron' the department whether they calied repeatedly to Acta that have been
pnssed lu the provinces la wbIcb efforts
tbilnk tlhat ls constitutionai ?
were nmade to discriminate against charters
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-That point bas obtained fron' the federal government.
It
been tested and decided ln favour o! the bans oniy arisen within the last two years,
provinces 'by the PrIvy Councîl.
and attention havlng been called to It, the
hope was expresaed that tbey would disHon. Mfr. SCOTT-In reference to the firat continue, or bring the law Into, barmony
point brought under the notice o! the witb the old iaw-that la, If they place a
Rouse, I maY saY that I arn entirely and tax upon the provincial companies, they
personaliy responsible for the Bill la its ahould put no higher tax upon federal compresent shape. I bave no doubt the same panies. So long as tbey do not discriminate
views have struck other people, because it against federal companies, I think It is
bas been an apparent abaurdity, for a great quite withln their lune. They wouid bave
many years, that we should have aurround- no power to go heyond that. In the Bill 1
ed the Issue of letters patent with so manY have lntroduced I have retained the referobstacles and obstructions, and It really ence to the several sections 1n the 1w as
seemas the poIicy was to prevent companies it now exista, so that hon, gentlemen can see
being Iacorporated under the Act. I have fol- ail the changes that bave been made, If any.
Iowed iargely the English Act, and con- la the law as it 110w stands.
sulted the Acta In British Columbia, ln
Nova Scotin and In Ontario. I may say that
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Has the hon.
la Nova Scotia they have adopted the Eng- minister introduced the same provisions as
lii Act ln Ils entirety, witb very littie ln the Engiisb Act witb reference to returas
change.
TPhey did the anme la British to be made by the comfpany to the govern-.
Columbia, I think either two or three years ment ?
-Hoiu. Sir MAOKENZrE BOWELL.

APRIL 8, 1902
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I have gone further
than the Ontaria Act. I have Introduced
what la calleci the Inspection clauses. Iu
England one-fifth of the shareholders lu
value have a riglit to apply ta a judge of
the hîglier court ta ask for the appointment
of an inspector ta examine into the affaira
of the compauy, and If the judge is satIsfied that the motives of the party are
fair and reasonable and not lnstituted by
malice, lie appoints an Inspecter who lias
power under the Act ta maire a very careful
examination inta the affairs of the company.
That clause bas been lntroduced and I have
alse lutroduced a clause. The Engîlli Act
compeis ail companies annually ta make a
return ta the registrar of the names of the
shareholdera, the aniaunt of stock actually
subscribed, and the amount p)ald up, the
amnount unpald, and the amount lu defauit
1 have thought that that was nlot actually
necessary, and the better way would be
that a company should be called upon ta
make that returu when asked for by the
Secretary of State. If the attention af the
Secretary of State was called ta any company not glvlng Its members a full expianation of Its affairs, then ail they had ta
do was ta ask that a report be made ta the
Secretary of State, givlng the Information
that was reauired. Tlîat clause la ln, but
the returu is only te be miade on demaud. As
iii many o! aur earlier statutes, we have
added that If the request was made by par.
lament, companles should maire a return,
but aniy -on request.
It was thought It
would not be necessary, where s0 many huadreds and thousanda of companles are lu
existence, that lu ail cases they should file
a return.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I qulte agree wlth
my hon. frlend lu reference ta the point lie
bas mast dealt wItb. The Engllsh Act lo
extremely cumbersome lu the matter of prylng Into the domestlc arrangements of conpanles wlthout auy goad results belng obtalned therefrom. It seems ta me to be uncailed for that a conpauy, for instance, a
private corporation, sbouid be compeiled annuaily ta maire a return ta the governent
of their stockhoiders, and the amaunt of
stock paid up, and o! nany other domestlc
concerna o! that nature, which shouid not
be dlsciosed ta the public, and which cannat
cantribute ta public utility. 1 quite agree

wltb what my hon. friend bas said, that
every faciiity shouid be given ta sharehoiders and others ta makre denand upon
the conpany for the purpose of securing as
much Information as wouid be necessary
ta apprise those Interested In the company
ta becone selzed of the company's business,
and o! any other Information desirable ta
obtain, but there la nuch of the nachinery
In the Engiieli Act whlch couid witb advantage be rejected, and I am very glad ta
see tbat my hon. friend bas le! t It out of
the Bill.
Han. Mr. WOOD (Hamiiton)-I should lke
ta kaow whether those réturns apply ta
companies now ln existence, or only ta those
ol)taining charters under this Act ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It .would not be retroactive.
Lt would only napply ta cofipuies whIch came la under the law Itself.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What provision
have you made for existing companies coinIng under the Act ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have made this provision, whlch la Important and an Innovation of my own. 'Phere is a clause lu that
Bill which authorizes the parties holding «i
provliial charter ta make application ta
tihe Secretary of State .and take a charter
out under the now proposed lnw, and enabling them ta do business over Canada.
I go further: Fliat any company duly incorporated in ible United Kingdon, or ny
conpany duiy lncorporated lu any foreigu
country, on moking application ta -the Secretary of State a.nd satIsfying hlm that tue
company la ln good standing, and that aîo
public or privute Interests will be affected
by recognlzlng it, la ao enabled, on conplylng with certain necessary conditious, ta
take out a charter lu Canada. I thlnk that
Is a very valua-ble feature, for 1 find naw
there are ln the United States a considerable number of companles thnt are belug
organized for the purpose of developing
Industries iii Qanada and brlnging capital
Irito Canada.
My opinion la we wlll get.
mare United States capital into Canada for
the developinent of aur Industries tlin frai
tue other side o! the Atlantic, and I bave
thauglit It weil that where campanies organized un the United States apply for
charters bere, If they satisfy the authorities
tibat tbey have been duiy Incorporated, and

SENATE
are a Company of character and possessed of
capital, they shouid be Incorporated here.
Au Ac't w'as passed bere three years ago
authorizing minIng conipanies which beid
charters of Incorporation ln either British
or f oreign lands to a.pply t» the Secretary
of State for a liicense to mine, and inany
companies are now working under licenses of
'that klnd ln thbe Yukon and ln the Northwest Territories. Ail they have -to do is to
produce their charter and give substautiai
evidence thut Jt lias been properiy Issue<l
and that the company Is ln good standing,
and a license ls granted themn to carry on
their business under thaît charter. As a
fliftter of faet, many foreign companies
are reaily doing business ln Canada without any autbority -whatever. They are recognized practicaliy by the courts, and no
notice 1s taken of ItL
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-As ordinary cornpanies ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. Nearly one-third
of the Insurance companiles of Canada are
American. They, ehowever, bave to deposit
with the Receiver General a certain sum of
money, depending on tàbeir capital and the
amoun-t of 'business tbey do lu Canada, lu
order to secure the parties who may be assured In Canada. I mention that to shiow that
we do now nliow foreiga companies to do
business ln Canada.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is very
muoh lu that wbich my hon. friend fr011
Hastings lias said witb reference to the
confiict existing between the federal powers
a.nd tihe provIncial autiborîties as to federai
charters. 0f course nothing -that tUs governrnent can do eau possibiy disturb the
righits of the provinces to powers within the
competency of the province ; but lt seenis to
me tlhat this goverument could wi-th very
great advantnge to the public, and particularly to incorporated. companies, approacli
tbe varlous provinces o! the Dominion and
arrive at an understanding to obtain tbroughont the wbole of the Dominion toucbing
those federal corporations doing business lit
the varlous provinces and over whiceb the
provinces may exercise authority. The coufilet has become so acute between t1ie
federal power and provincial authority, thiat
we find the legisiatures of the varions provinices frequently passing legisiation of a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

most vexatious character so as to handicap
and prevenýt federal companies from doing
business. Business of recent years bas as-sumed sucb a coniprebensive nature, that
any ambitions corporation-that la a corporation tlbat wouid corne within the purview of the province feels that tbey are
cailed upon to take out a federal charter
for tbe purpose of doing business througlhont the Dominion. It la only a cornpany of
a very narrow and contracted kind tbat
wonld be content to do business w'ithln any
province alone. Consequently we find the
legislation of *whiioh I *bave 8poken hostie
ln ternis against those conipanies. It seenis
to me iis governmnent sbould be able to
approacli tbe provinces and have an understanding w.itb reference to .tbat class of
IegisiatIon.
Our courts are constantly
dealing with tbis question, and of course
friction ls prornoted. by rea son of It.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-In 'what province ? There is nothing of the kind. in
Quebec.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn more farnitliar witb the legisiation of the west. If any
one will look at the statute-books ln most
of the Engiish-speaking provinces, hie will
find legisiation o! sncb a character ns I have
spoken of, directed against the doing of business by companies empowered by the f ederal government to do business throughout
the Dominion. I refer to those companies
which could be Incorporated within a province, and wlth whIch the province bas
power to deal. I arn pointing this out and
particularly to the Secretary of State at this
tume, as it Is a matter wbich shouid have
been deait with before. Take for Instance
the territorial assembly, a legislature that
can only legislate subject to legislation o!
the Dominion parliarnent, and yet that
legislature, altbougb it is subordinate
te the Dominion parliarnent, and bas
not ail the rights of a province, bas
passed legislation o! a most aggravating
character, compelling companies that bave
been incorporated by letters patent to do
business tbroughout the w-hole Dominion, to
take out license, and conforni to restrictions, which have resnlted lu rnany conipanies withdrawing froni doing business ln
the territores, and aiso preventing rnany
companies froni doing business ,wlthin the
territories which otherwise would. There Is

ApeiIL 9, 1902
a large and undeveloped district of country
which affords an excellent field for corporations such as boan companles, and other
corporations of that character ; yet we fiud
this legisiation on the statute-book blocking.
them. Appeals have been made to the Dominion government for the purpose of disallowing this legisiation, and the Dominion
government, although I fancy dlsapprovlng
It. yet permits that legisiation to remain on
the statute-book. That, I would point out
to my hon. friend, Is something for the Immediate consideration of the Dominion government, s0 that the legisiatIon may be disallowed. The time for disallowance is iiot
explred. It ls the duty of the Dominion
government to maire full examination of
this legisiation for the protection of those
compa nies wlch have been chartered by
them to do business throughont the territories, and If possible to wipe out that clas
of vexatious legisiation, which ls capriciously passed and has the resuit of handicapping the expenditure of capital.

authorities, and making It very embarrasslng
for companies whlch hold charters from the
Dominion, to do business, which Is contrary
to the constitution of the country.
Hon. Mr. LOUGEBED-Why should not
those Acta be disallowed ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman's
strictures are well founded. When I referred to the Act passed by the North-west
Territories, I found it was just what my
hon. friend hias described. It was an Act
puttlng federal companles on the samne
basis ns foreign companies. In their definition they make aIl companies forelgn
that do not hold their charters from the
territories, or the particular pro&lnce. No
doubt that Act is ultra vires, and It probably
will be disallowed, but the other provinces
'are also sinners lu that regard-Ontario,
Manitoba and British Columbia. They are
al encroachlng on the powers of the federal
authority, and naturally there bas been hesitation to dIsallow the Acts beefluse It leads
to great embarraisment, and because many
parts of the Act are In the rlght direction.
The subject lias frequently been before the
Justice Department, and they have discussed
It and got Into a controversy over It, and
there Is just that disinclination to d1sallow
It when they make a haîf promise to amend
It The only plan to adopt ls the rather
severe one of disallowing those Acta, because there is that disposition In all the
western provinces, which does not exist In
Quebec or the maritime provinces. Iu Ontario and the west they are constantly lnfrlnglng on the prerogative of the federal

INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is my view of It
at any rate.
The Bill was read the first Urne.
The Senate- adjourned.

THE SERATE.
Ottatwa, Wediicsd«iy, .4pril 9, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
DISMISSAL 0F THEE POSTMASTER AT
VERNON RIVER BRIDGE.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON Inqulred:
1. Whether It ls true that Daniel MacDonald,
pobtmsaster at Vernon River Bridge, Prince Ed-

ward jelaud, lias been, or la to be, removed from
office ?
2. If sa. for what reason ? Have any charges
been preferred against him ? If so, state the
nature of the charges and the name of the coinpluinant.
3. If charges have bean pretcrred, lias an Invtst1gatlon taken place, and by whom ? What
has been the findlng of the party entrusted with
the Investigation ?
Hon. M~r. SCOTT-The answer sent me by
the Postmaster General reads as follows
Mr. Macdonald was removed fromn the postmnstership of Vernon River Bridge because

of bis active polItical partisanshlp during
the last Dominion elections and because of
keeping lntoxlcatlng liquor on bis premises
In connection with tlue election, and allowlng the post office to be made use of as a
central place of meeting for party workers.
The departmnent being fully satisfied as to

the accuracy of the charges did not deem
a formaiIinvestigation necessary.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then
no Investigation ?

there was

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No more than was made
by the department.

SENATE
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon, gentleman says there wfts 1o Investigation othier than by the department ?
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-No other than by the
departmnent.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Lt mnay
be just possible the work is going on without a contract being entered Into.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Possibiy.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That wvould be
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Could Inconsistent wlth the former answer, 'that
the lion, gentleman state who made the in- the work was done by tender. 1 asked that
question, and the answer was yes.
vestigation ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume, froni the
answver of the Postmaster General, hie MILITIA REGULATIONS AND ORDERS.
received Information whichi was sufficient
INQUIRY.
to convince hlm the charges were correct.
lion. Mr. LANI>RY iquired of the govHoni
NIr. FERUGSON-Was the post- ernment:*
miaster notidied of the Investigation ? He
1. In whist year were published the last regulations and orders for the Militia of Canada ?
writes that hie neyer Ileard of ItL
2. Ras the French version of these regulations
ever been publlsxcd, and In what year ?
CHARLOTTETOWN AND MURRAY HALL3. If such version has neyer been published.
why ?
BOUR RAILWAY.
4. Does the goverament lntend to put at the
disposai of the Frenchi officers of the Canadian
INQUIftY.
mulitia the French version of the aforesald reHon. Mfr. FERGUSON inquired:
gulations, and when willIit be distributed ?
1. What sections and how many miles o! the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answcr sent me
railwaY f,'oi Charlottetown to Murray Rarbour
by the depnrtment is as follows
are now und3r contract ?
2. Do the contracts ln progrcss loclude grad1. 189S.
Ing, traclclaying nnd ballastlag, or what do they
2. N'o.
include ?
3. Who are the contractors, or contractor ?
3. Because the Issue was a provisional one.
4. Were these se0ntracts aivarded by tender
4. Yes, shortly.
after public competition had bein invited ?
5. W'hat amount of money bas been pald on
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is it still a prothese contracts up ta the 3i1st of March ultimno ?
6. At what date or dates Is the work on these xlsional oîîe ? Is there a niew Issue or the
coatracts severally required ta be completed ?
saine one.
7. If these contracts, or aoY of them, are
t-aied on a price per mile for grading, trackHon. Mr. SCOTT-I do xîot know.
Iayiog and ballasting, or any of these operations. give ssid prIce ?
S. If no' based on a price per mile, state on
SUPERIOR COURT JUDGES 0F
what basis regarding pl'ice these contracts have
QUEBEC.
heen mnade.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-I have already given
MOTION.
the anSwer to that question that Was furHon. Mfr. LANDRY moved:
nished me ; I have lnquired of the departThat an humble address be presented ta Ris
ment and they still adhere ta tlîe Correct- Exceliency the Governor Geuerai ; praying that
His Excellency wiil cause to be laid upon the
ness of that answer.
table of the Senat2 a copy of the Orders in
Council appoInting:
Hon. 1fr. FERGUSON-My opinlion is1. The Honourable Mr. Wurteck, one of the
and I ami quite certain of Its correctuese- judges of th-3 Court of Appeal for the province
of Quebee, chairman of the commission for the
that other sections besides this one are
rcvision of the statutes of the Dominion of
unider construction and have been for a Canada.
2. The Roourabie Justice Fraa.;ois Langeller,
considerable time.
It is quite impossible
one of the judges ot the Superiar Court of the
that the answers can be correct.
province of Quebec, a judge 0f the Court of Appeal
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-The hion. gentleman's of the sanie province, In the rooni and place of!
the said Ronourable Judge Wurtele.
question reads ' under contract. 1 They
3. Cancelling the aforesald appointments.
Together witli a copy ot ail correspondence
=vy attach importance ta that-; I re.illy d]o
exchanged on thc subject of these appointments
flot k-now. The question ls how mnany sec- and the cancellation thereot.
tions and hoiv many miles are xunder conHon. Mfr. SOOTT-I rn not aware that
tract. I scarcely think. they ivould use that
there Is any Order Ia Councl. Thiere le no
objection to it.
objection to the order going, assumlng that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

APRIL 9, 19021
the hou. gentleman believes there las auch present form without an amendaient, it wiil
an order. If there ls It: will be brought tle Up the bands of the government for the
next ten years. For the next two years a
down.
company wll bave contrai of the workThe motion was ngraed ta.
that is, the government will flot be ln a
position to undertake any portion of the
BILLS INTRODUCED.
work whetber it is commenced or flOt. Âfter
Bill (37> Ail Act ta incorporate the the next two yenra, and for efght years
Sprague's Falls Manufacturing Company atterwürds. the amallest amount of worl4
(Lirnilted>.-(H-on. Mr. MHelug-h.)
which may be undertaken by tbe company
Bill (49) An Act ta confer on tîhe Coin- wll. be aufficient to give themn control of
missioner of Patents certain powers for the project and prevent the gavernment
the relief of John Westren.--(Hon. Mr. tram interferlng withi their operations. It
Kerr. i
ill therefore be seeu that tbe bands of
Bill (4(i) An Act ta lncorloratc the Strait the government will ba tied UP for the next
of Canso Bridge Comnpany.ý-on. Mr. tan years. and that there la no release passible exoept ln one way. There Is n proIlellugh.)
vilsion In the original char-ter of thia coinMONTREAL, OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN
l)flfy that the gavernmant may at nny turne
BAY CANAL COMPANY'S BILL.
take over the work, and the way Is fixed ln
the Act by wbich thia can be done. The coinTHIRr) READING.
pany appoint an arbitrator and tha gavernHon. '.%r. CLEMOW moved the thîrd ment appoint an arbitrator,
and tbey two
readlng of Bill (I) An Act reapecting the appoint
a thîrd arbîtrator, and theaa tirMantreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal bîtrators are ta settie the
amount whicb the
Company.
government are to pay the compnny ln case
Hlon. Mr,. WOOD (Weatmoreland>-Before tbey taka It ovar, but that clause contains
tiiis Bill Is finally dispoaed of, I should like thia provision:
ta direct the attention o! the bon, leader of
That the arbitrators ia such valuation may
the Hanse ta the point ta whicb I calleid takre Into account the expenditure of the coinpany, ,its property, the business of the canal and
attention whien the Bill waa bafare thie other works thereby
authorlzed and Its past and
House for second reading. It la well known proapretive business, with the Interest tram the
time of the inveatmnent thereof.
that the Minister of Public Works bas
suggasted ta the cther House, or through
Now, It appears ta tue It wauld be very
the press In a public speech, that bie has difficuit lndeed for amy set of arLitrators
under eonsideration. the prapriety of the before this work la completed ta estimate
government taklng Up a portion of thia Ita prospective business. That miglit be a
canal as a gavernment work, that la the very good way of.aettling the value whlcb
pDrtion between Georgian Bay and Lake the gaverninent should pay the compnny
Nipissing. There is also, as we ail know, ntter the work i. campleted and In operaan opinion entertained by a great many tion, but durlng the tan yeara that construcpeaple ln the country, that a work a! such tion la gaing on, If the gavernment decide
great Inmpartance as titis sbauld be a ta take tha work avar at ail, It would apnational work. and thiat It sbould ultiniately pear to me tbey wauld bave to proceed
beiong ta tbe governmant and be entlrely upon saine different basts. It is not for me
under government cantrol. I amn not.pre- ta suggest tliat biasis; it would be a matter
p.irad ta say nt present tbat 1 andorse tnt of negotiation wltb the company. A reasoncpinion. but I ivish ta caîl attention ta this. able plan would appear ta me ta be ta pay
tbat vary Important changea may taira place the company for nuy expenditure wbicb
within the next ten yaars, public opinion tlîay bi incurred Up ta the Urne the gainaay develop In tbat direction, and it inny ernment had decided ta take lt over, and
become necasaary for the gavernment, with- a rensanable percentage of profit upon the
ln the next ten years, ta acquira possession inoney wbich tbey liad lnveated. That
a! thîs Important work, and finish It, If wvould appear to me ta be a reasonable
commenced, and own It aftarwards as a way for the government ta acquire possesgai-erament work. If this Bill passes ln its sion of the warka during the period of con-

SENATE
struction.
The niethod, and the onIý rshouid be made longer, but 1 do not tbink
method propased ln the Act, appears to mi that 1s necessary. This conipany bas already
c
to be really impracticable during the perio(1 expended sonie $90,OOO ln niaking plans and
of construction. The suggestion wbich
1surveys. They bave surveyed every Inch
ruade before was that the governmen t of the route froni Montreal ta Lake Huron,
should negotiate with the conipany, alnd lu order to arrive nt data which cannot be
wben they are passing this Bill, altering misuuderstood. I hope hion, gentlemen wlill
a clause ln the charter, they shouid aisc be satisfled with this explanation. I do
.deal witb this other clause, and in view oi not know what the Secretary of State may
the Importance of this work and the lengtl Ibe able to say, but I presunie it wIll be on
of tume It wili be locked up during the con. the same Unes. Whatever the goverament
struction, that sanie provision should bE undertake ta do they wiii carry out, and 1
miade by whlch the governient could ace banve no doubt this work wiil be found ta
quire possession of it on reasonable termE be of great advantage ta the country. It
If they desire to do so befare It Is corn- wouid bave been of great advantage had
pleted.
it been carrled out years ago, and it would
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-It is altogether be- have been constructed If poar Ottawa hand
tween the government and the conipany. flot been slde-tracked, as usual, ini favotir
Whatever that arrangement may be, I do of other places. I do flot despair of seeing
not know, but tbere Is one thing very cer- the canal lu operation, even at my tume of
tain, the goverument are nat very likely lite, and once it Is ln operation tbe country
to take this out of thé bands of the com- wIil be as surprIsed at Its value ns tbey
pany so long as It Is under construction, were at the resuits which followed the conbecause during that time tbey are not caiied struction of the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
uponl to pay a solitary dollar. That may As I understand, the government Intend ta
ease tbe hon. gentlenian's mmnd so far as ninke sanie proposition ta this company,
that Is concerned. Wbatever arrangement which us acting lu good falth. It continues
the government make, they wili of course ta dIaburse its money liberally and to niake
carry out So tar we have notbing to reiy Its plans as perfect as engineering skiil can
upon except the charter. What the uiti- suggest. I hope the Bill wlll be ailowed ta
mate arrangement niay be with the govern- Igo ta the other House, where It will be disment, no one can say. I have no doubt the cussed as tbey thInk proper.
government will nct Ilberally, seeing the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The han. gentleImportance of this work, Iu order ta arrive man tram Rideau division does nat seem
nt a solution of the wbole difflculty. We ta appreciate the point- taken by the han.
bad the other day an eminent engineer bere gentleman tram Westnioreland. 1 did not
who gave bis opinion, which I arn sure know the hon, gentleman had raised tbe
every one who heard hlm, Ilstened to with point at the second reading, but when this
deligbt, and I have no doubt that he Is Bill was before the cammittee yesterday,
ready to proceed with that work, whIch I asked the engineer who was explaining
wili be carried o11 steadily ta the entIre the project ta tbe comniittee, If the conisatisfaction and benefit of the country at pany had taken Into consideration the
prolarge. Whetber tbe governnient«Intend to bability of the government proceeding
wltbi
take this canal over afiter It Is constructed, tbe French River Improvements,
a question
1 cannot say, but these are niatters wbich whbIch I understand bas already
received
wIil be settled before the ivork Is finlshed; serious consIderation tram
the goverument,
therefore there can be no niisunderstandlng and which the Minister of Public
Works
ln the future. I would have no objection bas Intlmated wll be proceeded
wltb at an
to the government taking over this work early date as a governient
work. Now ut
If tbey are satisfied they could do it as must be manitest ta the governieut,
as
economically and quickly as the conipany, wveli as ta every hon, gentleman
lu this
but so far our experience bas been ta the chamber, that
tbere wiil be a confllct of
contrary.
Halwever, that Is apart from authority or of rlghts with reference
ta that
this Biii. Tbe Bill sIniply asks that a cer- portion of tbe wark.
The Bill unquestIontain extension of time inay be granted ta ably gives
ta the conipany the right ta carry
the campany . Sanie gentlemen thought it out this scbemne
ln its entIrety, lncluding
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland).

APIL 9. 1902
the French River portion. If the governument should proceed with that part of the
work, what will be the relation of the goverument to the company, or the attitude of
the company, ln regard to this Invasion of
Its rights, to the government ? If the government have glven consideration ta the
French River improvements, they should reserve to themseives 'powers ln this. Bill by
which the rights of the company should
be restrlcted to that extent. It is a matter for my bon. friends who represent the
government here to state what- attitude the
governmerit ls prepared ta take on the question, but there wili seemingly be a conflict of
rights, judging tram the Information given
by the government ln regard to the French
River.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Thls la
entireiy ln the bands of the government. I do
not suppose any work wiiI be done unles
the government corne forward with a su!>
sidy. I think my hon. frlend would neyer
suggest for a moment that a great wark
of this kind should stand stili. Where would
the other great works of the country be If
that theory hail been acted upon. Where
wouid the Canadian Pacifie Railway have
been If we bail waited for the gavernment
ta taire It; Up ? Supposing at any time the
government should wish ta taire this aver,
they Can do sa at a valuation.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland)-I think
the bon. gentleman bas not; apprehended the
point of my remarks. If the goverument
wished ta take this work over after this Bill
passes, -they have only one way of doing
it, and that la the way fixed ln this charter,
by arbitration, but I dlaim that during the
course of construction the government canflot take It over. It la reaUy Impracticable
ta take It over that way, because, according
to the wording of this Âct, they muet taire
Into consideration the prospective earnlngs of
the canal, of which it would be Impossible ta
form any estimate. The point I 'wlshed
to, cali attention ta iras thhs : SuppasIng tbe company, as they have ten
years ta Complete this wark, expend say
$100,000 an it and then suspend operations that locks it up for the whole
a! the ten years, because the work bas been
cammenced, and the Company has ten years
t> finish ItL The gavernment cannot take
It over during that time, or make any other
12

arrangement for Its completion, unless they
step In, as provided under this section of'
the A&ct, and pay the company the damages
whlch may be assessed, including the prospective earnlngs of the canal. The suggestion I wished ta make was, that there
should be Borne provision which would fully
protect the Interests of the Company, and
which should pravîde some equitabie arrangement, ln case the company fall ta go
on with the work, by whlch the government
can take charge of It at any time during the
perlod o! construction and let it ta another
company or build It themselves on paying
the exIsting company the amount expended
by them with a reasonable sum as profit.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I think
the time within which the company shauld
commence and complete the work mlght
reasonably be shortened, but there la no
danger of the goverument taklng this up at
any time. If they choase ta do so, it le quite,
open for them, and there should be no
obstacle In the way of this company going
on with this great national work. I hope
myself ta see It go on.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-One or two frieuds
have rather foreshadowed the pollcy of the
gavernment. They have titated what la
practIcally known ta, everybody, that the
government bas made no arrangement with
this company. The matter has been discussed, but no conclusions have been
reached, and under these conditions our debate la purely a hypothetical one. I do not
agree wlth the hon. gentleman fram Westmareland that shauld the government of
Canada at any tixue propose ta take aver the
work, and there were only one hundred
thousaxid dollars expended on It that
a company that contemplated expending
M00,000OO would have dlaims for damages on the future working of the canal.
It Is Idle ta enter on that branch of the
subject at present. The government have
not corne ta any conclusion as ta the course
they would pursue on IL They have flot
given the company any encouragement. The
Company gat a charter tram parliament.
They stili hope, no doubt, that the time may
corne when the people o! Canada may sufficiently appreclate the work ta Induce the
government ta aid is construction, or build
Lt ais a public wark, and take it off the con-

SENATE
Hon. Mr. OWENS-No, no.
tractors' bande, but so far as the government are concernied, tbey are perfectly free
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Tbat would
as to the policy of the future.
make It over $100,000,000, and I bave beard
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe bon, gentle- a mucbh larger estimate for the compleman le begging the question. Supposing tion of the work. I do not tbink we sbould
the government go on with tbe Frencb put on the statute-book any law tbat would
River improvernent, wbat relations wll tbey lnduce foreigu capitaliste to corne lu bere to
Invest mouey tbat there was no possible
have wlth the cornpany ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot answer a bypo- chance for them to get out of the coltintry
again. It Is sirnply, as 1 said before, iuthetical question.
other Chignecto work to darnn the credit
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-A member of the of tbe country for years ho corne. I hope
government bas stated tbey may bulid the this Bill wlll ziot be allowed to go ann furFrench River section as a publie work.
ther. Tbe canal will neyer earn enougb to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A member of the gov- pay the lock tenders. I arn quite sure the
erniment bas some freedorn la stating wbat country bias bad enougb of that sort o!
bis views are, but the government bave not work. Our St. Lawrence canais differ altocorne down witb any policy'on that subject. gether from this. Tbey bave a mucb longer
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Is it tbe In- time for navigation, yet even tbose of our
tention of tbe cornpany to proceed at once canais that bave a longer period of 'aia
witb tbe construction of this work without thon do not pay to-day the Interest on the
first baving a contract witb tbe governent money spent on tbem. To lnvest $150,000,ho pay 2 per cent on the expenditure ? If 000 to $200,000,000 on a scbeme of Ibis klnd,
tbese people are prepared to go on and take Is preposterous 10 tbink about.
their risk, there sbould be no trouble with
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
the Bill, because I arn qulte satisfied thiat
no goverument, s0 far as I cau remember, seeme 10 me tbat tbis wbole discussion bias
ln tbe past, ever hhougbh of cornmitting the taken a very wide range, aitogether beyond
country to an expenditure of $2,000,000 a the Intention of the bon, gentleman for Westyear for the purpose of constrùcting that moreland. He was only pointing out the
work, -and I amn quite satisfied that the gov- provisions of tbe present law and the extent
erament now ln existence are hoo Intelligent to wbich It would affect the governrnent
and too able a governent to bave com- In case Lniey sbould assume the responsibility
mithed Ibis country to any sucb scheme as of carrying on the work, bie said uot one
that proposed by tbe Bill now before tbe word either against or ln favour of It, but il
House. Therefore, I would ask the lion. seems 10 me, frorn the expression of tbe
gentleman If tbe company are going to take Secretary o! State, that the goverrament has
tbat risk themselves, wbetber tbey are not arrived at any decision as to wbat course
going to get the governent,, or any one else, tbey Intend to pursue on Ibis question, and
to guarantee that two per cent Interest. It therefore cannt give an opinion on a byappears to me it would be like the Obignecto pothetIcal. case. Tbe very fact that the govunderhaldng. lu tbat case the foreign bond- erriment bas flot a policy Is the strongest
lbolders are nfter tbe governent nil the possible reason wby provision sbould be
time asklng tbem to relieve tbose who bold made lu the law 10 protect tbe country ln
tbose wortbiess bonds ln Scohland and other case these parties sbould go on with the
places. If thls scberne ls undertaken, It wIll work and the governmenh afterwards make
be sometbing of the saine kind, because I up their minds 10 assume the responsibtity
arn satIsfied no Englisb capitalist, unless the of cornpletlng it. If I understood tbe bion.
governent guarantee tbe interest wilI ln- gentleman frorn Rideau a few momenhs ago;
vest one dollar ln any sucb enterprise. The be sald the cornpany bad already spent $90,enigineer wbo appeared before tbe committee 000 on Ibis work.
yesterday, certainly a very Intelligent gentleHon. Mr. CLEMOW-Yes.
man, admitted frankly tbat the estimate of
ah
$W3,000,000 rnigbh be faly increased by
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Supleast twenty per cent.
posing the scbeme propounded by the MinHon. Mr. SCOTT.

APRIL 9,1902

179 -

APRIL 9, 1902
179
ister of Publie Works, of coustructinig the selves lu the manner It la proposed ta conFrenchi River section of this canal by the struct It, we know wbat took place
lu the
governmeut is carried out and becomes past-tbat utter the war of 1812
the British
the policy of the government, tlien,
goverument spent a greut
under the
statute which
has been ! dollars ln order to construct many Million
a little dltch
read by the lion. senator from West- to enable us ta get
arouud by the Ottawa
moreiand, the government wouid take to the upper laktes, wheu we
consîder the
ut once the responslbilIty, flot only of re- magnitude of thant work at thut
tlme, as
paylng that $90,000, but of paying ail pros- compared with the position of
Canada tapective profits wbicb mlgbt arise upon any day, and Its importance lu
the eyes of the
fraffic that might take place ln the future. world, we should not be too pesslmlstlc
lu
AUI that the bon. gentleman asked was tliat looking ut these great projects.
ln maklug the ameudments, to whIch no one
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamllton)-Wby dld
has taken auy object:ions, provision shouid
be made to protect the country lu the evr ýt not; the hon, gentleman, when ha was head
of that taking place wbicb I bave Indlcated. of the goverument take action on It then
That ls the position taken by the lion. gentle- If lie was so enamoured of It ? Hîs purty
man. He did not speak of the feasibllity or was elghteen years lu power and tbey dld
practicubility of the route or its prospective niotblng witb IL
succeas. I bave beard statements of a sîmiHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
lar character to those of tbe bon. gentle- hon.
gentleman's Interruption la totally Irman from Hamilton made, lu reference ta relevant. He
might juat as weil ask wby
other greut enterprises lu thîs Dominion, the Canadian
Pacific Rallwuy was not bult
and they have been seriously at fault, fi!ty years
ugo. If bie will look ut the bitsvery much ta the interest of this country. tory of
thîs country, hae wlll find that. the
1 heard It declared on the floor of parlia- connection
of the easteru portion of the
ment by the most eminent leaders of the Dominion
wlth the Pacific was proposed
hon. gentleman's party, that the Canadian years
ugo. He may remamber that a gentlePacific Railwuy would neyer earn euough ta man
came down bere and proposed ta build
pay for the greuse to lubricate the urles of
sucb a Une long before they were lu a posithe trains. I heard unother gentleman say tion
to coustruct ItL I might us weli ask hlm
that ail the weultb. of England could neyer
wby bie dld not astabllsh the large wholesale
construct that road ln ten years. 1 heard
business that hie now carnles on, fi!ty years
another animnent rallway man, ta wbiom my ugo,
wben bie iuas a good deal younger than
hon. friand from Monck culad attention
lie 1a uow. He was not lu a position ta do,
yesterday, Mr. Tbompson, then representiugI It,
and cousequeutiy did not do lt. But
the couinty of Welland, declare upon lits
when lie grew up, ha was able ta do thut
responsibiiity as a railway man, that tie tles
whicb hae could not bave doue wban hie wus
upon the eastern section of the Canadian
youngar. This country la able now ta do
Pacific Railway would be aIl rotted out be- wbat
It could not do wheu the Canservatlve
fore the tias could be laid on the western government
was lu power. The lion, genend o! the 'rond. Ail these predictions bave tleman
should ramamber a country grows
beau proved to be the utterances of faise just
as an Individual grows, and bas tha
prophets. The Canadian Pacific Rallwuy
ablllty to do that to-day whlcb It could flot
stock stands to-day at 115, notwlthstandiag bave doue
tweuty-fiva years ugo, and, Morethe glooniy predictions. Whlle I umnifot' over, Is
justled lu dolng it ; I tbink the
enamoured of this scheme from a financlal Secretary
0f State, us tbe bon. gentleman
stundpoint, It 1s a acliema wbich sbould bie
from Calgary sald, rather bagged the quescarrled out lu the defance of thîs coun- tion.
It strikes -me, and I tblnk It also
try. We are not called upon to dlscuss strikes others,
thut there la vary mucb ln
that aspect of the question now, but* tbe
point ruised by the bon, gentleman from
I believe it la Of sufficient Importance
Wastmorelund, and thut the fact thut the
tô this part of the empire that the lmgovarument ha no policy on this question
pal goverument shouId asalat.lu the con- la the
best. possible reason wby we sbould
struction 0f that canal and lnterest theni
protect the country ugaluat àny difficulties
_
124

-

SENATE
whicb might arise ln the future, and at the Bibi before. Now, I arn satisfied witb it
same time protect the country againat any and am assisting to promote it.
serious loss owing to the expenditure whlch
The motion waa agreed to, and the Bill
the company rnay have incurred In promotwaa read the third tIrne, and passed.
Ing a great national work.
SECOND READINGS.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third tirne, and passed.
Bill (22) An Act to Incorporate the Board
of thxe Preabyterian 'College, Halifax.(Hou. Mr. Ferguson.)
THIRD READINGS.
Bili (47) An Act to Incorporate the CaiiaBill (26) Au Act rcspecting the Quebec
Manufacturers'
Associntion.-(I-Ioni.
and Lake Huron Ralway Company.-(Hon. dian
Mr. Jones.)
Mr. Landry.)
Bill (14) An Act to Incorporate the Indian
Bill (21) An Act respectlng the Port Dover,
Brantford, Berlin and Goderich Railway River Railway.-{Hon. Mr. Godbout.)
Company, and to change its name to 'The
ALGOMA CENTRAL AND HUDSON BAY
Grand Valley Raiiway Company.'-(Hon.
RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
Mr. Mcçaliurn.)
SECOND READING.
Bill (24) An Act respecting the Windsor
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN moved the seconid
and Detroit Union Bridge Company.-{HIon.
reading of Bi (O) An Act respectlng the
Mr. McCallum.)
Algoma Central and Hudson Bay Raiway
BUFFALO RAILWAY COMPANY AND Company.
INTERNATIONAL RAILWAY COMHon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I sbouid tike the
PANY'S BILL.
hon. gentleman to explain what point on
Hudson Bay Io to be the terminus of this
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM moved the third railway. This Illustrates the imposslbllity
reading of Bibi (31) An Act respecting the of profiles or aurvey being made on ail ocBuffalo Rallway Company and the Inter- casions. I ahould tîke to know-the bon.
gentlernan no doubt bas atudied the matter
national Rallway Company.
Hle sald : This la a Bill, which on a former weii-what particular place the company
occasion. I opposed very strongly, but hav- propose to locate the terminus at.
ing seen a blst of the stockholders, I amn Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I understand
satisfied that they are men who are good James' Bay la to be the point.
honest Canadians and loyal to the counThe motion was agreed to and the Bill
try.
was read the second tIme.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Conserva1SECOND READINGS.
tives ?
Bill (P) An Act respecting the Manitoulin
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I hope they are.
The hon, gentleman may consider that an and North Shore Railway Company.--(Hon.
objection, but I do not. My reason for op- Mr. Landerkin.)
Bill (44) An Act respectIng the Tilsonposlng the Bill last year waa I know tbat
on the other side of the river there are a burg, Lake Erie and Pacific Railway Corngreat many men who are not frlendly to pany.--(Hon. Mr. McCallum.)
Great Britain or to Canada. That bas been
Bil! (25) An Act respecting the St.
proved, because they have corne across these Clair and Erie Ship Canal Cornpany.-(Hon.
very bridges, which I do not want to aee Mr. McCalburn.)
in the hands of the United States, and we
have three of thern ln the penitentiary METROPOLITAN BANK INCORPORAfor crime comrnitted In this country. They
- TION BILL.
would have destroyed the Welland canal
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
and drowned a lot of people If they could. I
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved the second
refer to this to justify the position I took reading of Bill (Q) An Act
to Incorporate
and the strong opposition I gave to the t he Metropolitan Bank.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 10, 1902
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object to the second
reading of the Bill. It bas not been distributed.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Thur8day, April 10, 1902.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Seeing these Bills on
the order paper, I sent a page to the dis- o'ciock.
tribution office, and lie tells me tbey are
Frayers and routine proceedings.
not iii the distribution office.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How is it they are
mnrked ns printed, when they are not ?
Bill (T) An Act to incorporate the St.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is a mistake by some- Joseph and Lake Huron Sbip Canal Comnpany.-<HI-on. Mr. Lnnderkin.)
body.
The second reading was postponed until
to-morrow.
BOARDS 0F TRADE'INCORPORATION
BILL.
FIRST READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT Introduced Bill (S) An
Act amending the Act incorporating Boards
o! Trade. He said: In the province of
British Columbia a number of the mIning
towns have been recentiy appiying for the
Incorporation of boards o! trade ln their
respective communities, and It bas been
fonnd that as they bave not 2,500 of a population withIn the limite of the town, the
Incorporation cannot be proceeded with. In
the Act authorizing the Incorporation o!
boards of trade there Ia a definition given
to the word district.' If the town bas not
2,500 population, a! there Is In the district
2,500, then the bonrd o! trade can be lncorporated under the Act. The definition o!
a district reads as foliows:
District means a city, town, village or judIcial
district withn and for which a Board la estabiished under this Act.*
In the province of British Columbia tbey
have not judicial districts and thec Justice
Department bas given the opinion they
could not be Incorporated, and It bas led
to a good deal of dispute. I propose to
correct it by this Bill.
Hon. Sir M.ACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
saine difficulty migbt arise ln the Yukon
district, and it would be as well, whiie the
hon. minister is dealing witb it, to add
that district
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, it ls just as well
to add that.
The Bill was read the first time.
The Senate adjourned.

THE GEOLOGICAL MUSEUM.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER rose to Inquire of the
goverument :
1. Has the govcrnment begun the works of
constructicn of the new Geological Museumi ln
accordance wlth the ministeriai statements of
last year ?
2. If not. when does the governient propose
to begin these weirks ?
3. Will there be a sufficient amount voted ae
this year to commnnce ln earnest the construction of the mflseum ?
He said : A sum of $W0,000 was put ln
the estimates, last year, for the construction
of the new Geological Museum, which was
to be called, very appropriately, the Victoria
Memorial Museum. The minister at that
time did not know wbere the building wouid
be put, wbether on Nepean Point or elsewhere. He ignored also the question as
to whetber it would be solely and mereiy a
geologicai museum, or whether it woul<1
linclude the Supreme Court, the Exchequer
Court, the Fisbery Exibit and the Art
Gallery. He stated that If it were to be
solely a Geological Museum, the cost would
be liait a million dollars. As to the Importance of the building, hie expresçqed hlimself
ln the most emphatic and the very strongest langunge, stating that hie imself and
bis coileagues were ' criminal ln delaying
the construction of that museum, s0 long.'
Now, lion. gentlemen, a year bas elapsed
silice tbose ministerial declarations were
made, and we see-I see at leait-no trace
o! any beginning of our national museum.
Wý7e not know more than we did lInt
do
yenr is to where It Is going to be located.
We do not know the plan which the government have adopted, wbether it is going
to be solely a museum or whether It ls
going to Include the Supreme Court, the Ex-

SENATE

Icountry,

chequer Court, the National Art Gallery
and perhaps, when fully developed,
and the Flshery Exhibit. I thlnk, hon. ahead of any other country lu the world.
gentlemen, It le time that we sbould know Reading the latest reports to hand, 1 find
so'niething about IL What makes the situa- that the whole output of our mines in 1886
tion more grievous 15 the fact that the miis- was, In round numbers, ten millions of dottry, and the Minister- of Publie Works par- lare.
In 189 It had more than doubled ;
ticularly, deemed thexaseli-es 'criminal 'last it was 22 millions of dollars. Fiour years
year for nlot havlng commenced the con- later, It had more than trebled the last flgstruction before, and they muet certalnly be uire. It had run up to 64 millions of dollars
lu -a deplorable state just now, after an- 'ail toid.- That ls an Immense stride. an Inother year la the state of criminality, or I crease ýof slx-fold since 1886, and multiplied
might add, mortal sin, Ia whldh they bave three times la the last four years.
-No
been plunged for the last year. Mr. Tarte, doubt, the report to be issued this year WiI
particulariy on account of the disciplinej show a still larger lacrease. It le unfortuof the partîcular church to which he be- nate that we pay s0 littie attention to that
longs, should not stand ln a state of perdi- brandi of production, when we pny sO mucli
tion and damnation more than one year. 'attention toe others.
The Geological SurWVe should know somethlng about ail ibis. vey and staff formn n teclinical bureau. deThe Importance, and the necessity-tbe uir- voted specially towards glIig the people a
gent necesslty, for building that museumi
knowledge of the undeveloped we-alth of
need not dwell upon.
It ls admltted by the country, and tbey should be properly
everybody we should have another miuseu,
cared for. We should have the new museumu
lsolated, not exposed, as the one we bave at once. I would lie- the goverament not to
now, to any conflagration which would de- erect, especlally If the building le to be put on
stroy collections whlch are very valuable, Nepean Point, such a building as the Printmany o! them unique, specîmens that could Ing Bureau. If we wish to make Ottawa
neyer be replaced-a treasure accumulating anything like a Washington of the north,
since confederation and long before. It le that building will bav-e to be pulled down.
the duty of the government to take Imme- It ls archltecturally almost a disgrace to the
diate action on this matter, and If they do clty. It may answer the purpose it was innot, it is the duty of the House to urge that 'tended for, but It certalnly does not harmona proper museum be constructed, a tire- ize with the naturaI beauty of Nepean Point,
proof building, in which the priceless accu- the continuation of our Major's Hill. That
mulation of specimens shouid be beyond the building will have to be puiled down ere
rendh of fire and accident. We are proud long, la my estimation, If we are not to make
of the strides that aur country la maklag unslghtly a city destined by nature to be
In its deveiopment. We are glad to see the beautiful. If the government Intend to buiid
goverfiment here follow closely upon, and, a Geological Museum, I would ask them very
la some respects, even going ahead of the earnestly to consider architectural beauty,
other goverfiment la doing everything they without, o! course, Impalriuig the utilit3- o!
can to promote the development of our Do- the building. Going- back to the Importance
minion. We muet nlot forget, however, that of this question, I flnd that la aImost ail
the mineralogicaI branch to which I refer is branches of minerai production we are toone of the most Important departments of day la a position to compete witli the rest of
our, national resources. If we have made the world. Starting with Nova Scotia, we
strides la commerce, la Importe and experts, bave there bituminons coaI, we have iron
our progress has been stili larger in the de- ores, we have fluxes, and we. have gold la
veIopment of our minerai wealth. I, for one, quantities oaIy surpassed In the Dominion
believe that our Dominion o! Canada, as It by the gold fields of the Yukon Terrltory.
ls -now, stretching from Halifax to BritishInl fact, the Nova Scotia gold fields now are
Columbin, and very lkely ia little later on, pronounced by experts to be equal to the
extending to Include the rich Island of New- best gold areas of Austi-alia.
Comlng te
foundland, when the French shore question New Brunswick, we have there gypsuin,
le settled-that our Dominion abounds la mnanganese-the fineat manganese deposits
minerai wealth of ail kinda, from dlamonds la the world. True, It Is handicapped now
down to structural inaterlals as much as any by speciai legislation which puts it on sudh
Hon. Mr. POIRIERI.

APRIL 10, 19092
a basis that It cannot be prospected, but
the tact of the matter le, we have in New
Brunswick and Nova Scotta, the finest manganese to be found. Coming to the province
of Quebec, I read In to-day's paper a report
of Mr. Obalski, In which he states that the
output of asbestos alone, for iast year
amounted to $1,285,000. The asbestos of the
province of Quebec la the best In the world.
So with .phosphates, which are well comparable with those of Norway and Sweden.
Quebec bas chromic iron and mica, unsurpassed in any country ln the world.
Ontario la developing Into a gald mining country. Two or three years ago large
deposits of corundum, the finest to be found
were discovered in central Ontario and the
mines are being developed largeiy. The
nickel ores of Ontario are unsurpassed ln
quallty and extent, and we have New Ontarlo, which ls undeveioped so far, also
abouiiding la minerais. I need not mention
the Yukon, or the province of British Columbia, where are to be touad ail the preclous
minerais that are mined anywhere else In
Coal aiso exists there la imthe World.
mense quantities, especially In tbe Crow's
Nest Pass-that la, I find It so stated Ia the
'Toronto Globe.'

Plans and specifications are now being prepared-I think are nearly completed-and
there le a aum of money already la the estimates from last year, $50,000, towards the
construction o! the work, and an Itemn la
also la the estimates o! the present yeux,
so0 that I have no doubt the work will be
commenced during the present seasoii. It
lo the Intention of the gaverament ta begîn
at as early a day as ls practicabie after the
plans and specifications have been prepared.
It was thoughit Important, ln erecting a
building o! that cousequence, lu order ta
have It thoroughiy fireproot and adapted to
the conditions for which It was ta be used,
that the architeet shouid go into outalde
countries and examine buildings elsewhere. He le now giving us the resuit o!
that inquiry ln revised plans that are, I beIleve, now about being completed, and just
as soon as they are compieted, tenders wiil
be calied for and the buildings put under
way.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Could the hon. minIster tell us If the governmeat has decided
whether it ls golng ta be soleiy a geological
museum, or If the Supreme and Exchequer
Courts and the art gailery are ta be ln the
same building ?

in

Hom. Mr. SCOTT-I am not ab~le ta speak
defInItely, but I do not tiiink It la lntended
the Supreme Court room should be ln that

Hon.

Mr.

TEINPLEMAN-The

best

Canada.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I ask the goverament If. they propose to do anything ln thîs
motter. The money ls not wanting. There
la an abundant revenue, and the hon. gentlemen on the freasury benches know how
ta spend It. I do not say they spend the
revenue lavishly or wrongfuily, but I hope
they w4l]i expend at least hait a milioIn dollars of it la the erection of a geologicai
museum la the city of Ottawa, which will
be a benelit not oniy to the city but to the
Dominion at large.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In answer to the hon.
gentleman's question, I amy say that I
thlnk we wiil ail agree as to the Importance
of the early construction o! the geologîcal
museum. That has been recognized for
many years. I presume the reason it has
not been undertaken betore Io due to the
pressure there ls for public aid for the very
many enterpises that are constantiy being
brought ta our notice, owing to the enormous expansion of business la recent years.

building. It may be that the art galiery
might be there, although I am not really In
a position ta say how far that proposai

mlght be carried out. The probability la
that it will be exclusively for the purpose
for whlch It was designed.
THE

PRI'MITIVE METIIODIST
GRANT.

LAND

INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY rose ta Inquire:
If the date given ln -the answer ta the question asked on Thursday, Srd instant, 1viz., 30th
June, 1896,' re the final settlemient wi.th the
Primitive Methodist Coiiomization Company, ia
the correct date ?
Has there been no change made with the
company In regard to thoae lande siace the date
given tu the answer of the- 3rd Instant ; &ae,
regarding the $26 scrip referred ta, what la
meant by It ? Does It apply ta each quarter section, or how much landi does it apply ta. or
what daes it mean ?
He sald I am lnspIred ta ask this question
[because I understand some of the residents

164

SENATE

in the colony complain that there le very STATION-HIOUSE AT PICTOU, NOVA
great dissatisfaction existing between the
SCOTIA.
settiers In the colony and the bead of the
INQUIRY.
Colonization Company. 1 understand that
thei company's grant comprises some lande *Hon. Mr. PRIMBOSE rose to Inquire of
tbat were called scrubby, that they were the goverament :
flot s0 readily worked for agricultural
Wbhetber fi Is tbeir intention
make provision
purposes as other lands occupied by settiers In the suppiementary estiniatestaor otherwtee for
the erection of a new station boumi and the
on the plains. I understand tbe government
Fecuring of
the
have exchanged those scrubby lande for *requirements suitable grounds, adequate ta pasof the Intcrcoionial Railway
good lands on the plaine, that many of the senger traffc at Pictau, N.S. ?
settiers wanted for their sons and other
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe supplemental estipersona there, and I understand tbere le a
mates bave flot yet been prepared and I
great deai of dissatisfaction as between the
have not seen tbem. Tbey bave flot been
settiere and the company and the goveruconsldered by counil, and I am flot In a
ment In regard ta those lande.
That
what prompted me to ask this question. ia position ta answer the questions.
I
have been requested to do it by those. perHan. Mr. PRIMROSE-I just wisb to say
sona.
a tew words witb reference ta what led me
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer sent to me ta place this question on the Order Paper.
by the Department of the Interior le as The station at Picton ls, In a sense,
follows : The date ' 30th June, 1886,' la that the terminal point of the Intercolonial Railof tbe Order In Council defining, In general way there, Inasmuch as freigbt la carried by
termes, the mode of dealing witb the colo- rail ta the waterboard by steamers, and
nizàtioa companies wbicb, deeired a settle- vice versa carried by veseele and steamers
ment. Thbe dates of the Ordere In Council and transferred ta tbe railway. Tbe stationproviding for the final eettlement with the bouse le the one, witb very sligbt alteration,
Primitive Methodiet Colonization Company wbicb stood there ariginally. Tbe wbole
are Iet July, 1886, and l7th September, freigbt traffic, as also the passenger traffic,
1886.
There bas been no change lu the of that Important station le canducted In
settlement so provided except tbe excbangee that lttle bit of a building. It la very small,
of lande mentioned ln the reply to the in- one end of It being used as a gentleman's
quiry of the 3rd Instant. Tbe amount of waiting room and the other as a ladies'
$26 In ecrip was to make Up tbe emaîl de- waiting rooim, and the office Itself ls sandficiency In tbe area of land to wbicb the wicbed between the two, a verv smaîl
cam.pany was entitled under the terme of office, witlî a very large staff of clerks,
the final settIemient.
This scrip does flot very poor ventilation, and the wonder ta
aPPly ta the lande of the company, but may the merchants of tbe place le bow the busibe accepted at Its face value ln payment ness can be conducted satisfactorily under
the cirèumistances. The freigbt business is
of any Dominion lands.
large. I have under my band a etatement
SECOND READING.
of the freight brought fram Pince Edward
Bill (39) An Act ta Incorporate the St. Island during the months of .Tanuary and
Lawrence and Nortbern Railway CJompany. February by the steamer 'Milita '-monthe
-(Hon. Mr. Godbout.)
during wbiclî the steamer bas ta go througb
ice ln passing over tbe guif tram the Island
Tbe Senate adjourned.
ta the port. It will give the Hanse somne
Idea of the volume of frelgbt that la carried
for the tume which I specified, and If tbe
THE SENATE.
bon. Secretary 0f State le In a position ta
answer the questions wbicb have been put
Ottawa, Friday, April il, 1902.
on the Order Paper by the hon. Mr. FerguTbe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three son. I think my statements will be verIfIed
o'clock.
still further, that there la a very large and
very Important volume of freigbt .business
Prayers and routine proceedinga.
carried on there, and that the station-bouse
Haon. Mr. PERLEY.

APRIII 11, 1902
-------------------

with Its appointments te utterly inadequate
to the proper management of the business.
The idea was that a location migbt be provided furtber up town, towards the centre
of tbe town, and the freigbt business be dissociated from the passenger business, the
new station-bouse and grounds being used for'
passenger traffie, leaving tbe present stationbouse and grounds for freigbt traffie. This
proposition would, ln a large measure at
least, meet the difliculty and simplify matters, and put tbem somewhat In tbe position ln wbicb tbey ougbt to be placed, and
1Iimagine tbat one of the prime objecte of
the management of the Intercolonial Railway, as of ail other railways, la to cultivate
trade and so Increase tbeir revenues, and
under the circumatances wbicb 1 bave reclted, I tbink it would be only a wise and
legitimate movement on the part of tbe
managers of tbe Intercolonial Railway to
make the arrangement wbicb I specify.
DurIng the moatb of January, tbe steamer
*MInto ' made 21 round trips between Picton
and Georgetown, carrying 311 passengers
and 26,518 packages of freigbt Duning tbe
montb 0f February the ' Minto'1 made 16
round trips, carrying 851 passengers and
28,875 packages of freigbt. Twelve tbousand
two bundred packages of freigbt, weigbing
625 tons, were brougbt from the island,
wbile 16,675 packages, weighing 850 tons,
went forward. I bope, nfter tbe short statement 1 bave given to tbe House, tbe goverfiment may be able to take sucb measune. as wiil tend to Improve tbe situation
very mucb ln regard to matters wbich I
have recited. I tbank tbe Secretary of
State for the courtesy witb wbicb be bas
answered my questions. 1 arn quite aware
tbat tbe question bas been put In a form
that might be deemed Inquisitive, but there
are two kinds of Inquisitiveness, one commendable and ln the interest of tbe country,
tbe other migbt be considered as bavIng a
flavour of Impertinence. I have only to say
tbat thxe latter le nlot tbe character of my
question.
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-Tbe bon, gentleman is
quite within bis rigbts la asking tbis question,* and 1 shall be very glad to send a
copy of bis remarka to the Minister of Railways, because it resta witb hlm, after ail,
to make a recommendation to council.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I desire to add
my testimony to wbat bas been said by the

bon, gentleman fnom Pictou witb regard to
the inadequacy of the terminal facilities at
Pictou. Tbe province to whicb I belong is
deeply Interested ln those facilitiez, because
tbere is a very large trade between tbe
ports on tbe Prince Edward Island side and
Pictou. 1 may say furtber, that the trade
bas very mucb deveioped ln recent years,
owing ln tbe first place to the expansion
of business. and the development of business ln Sydney, Cape Breton, and aiso on
account of the very large increase of oun
exports to Great Britain, making conuection witb sbips sailing from the port
of Halifax. I amn ln a position to say that
tbe freigbt business between tbe province of
Prince Edward Island and Pictou le to-day
and bas been witbin the last two years
very mucb larger than the freigbt business
witb Pointe du Ohene. In previons years
it was altogether tbe other way. Tbe langer
part of tbe business went by Pointe du
Cbene and found an outiet from the province that way, wbile ln tbe hast two yeans
a large volume of our exporta fanda an outlet by way of Pictou. The consequence
of that 18 tbe facilities are very mucb overtaxed. I bave many opportunities of observation et Pîctou, and I do not k-now
of any railway point wliere I find the facilities'so utterly inadequate for the amouat
of work tbat ts beiag done as at that place.
1 mnighit add to wbat my hion. friend bas
said, that our winter business bas bitherto
been almost entirely witb tbe port of Pictou,
but tbere bas been an extraordinary development of freight trafice between tbe province and tbe mainland ln coasequence of
better communication tbat bas been afforded by tbe steamers that bave been employed witbin the last f ew years tban those
previously on tbe route, as the returu for
wbicb I am about to move, wIll no doubt
show bon. gentlemen, If tbey will take the
trouble to look, at it. I wisb, therefore, iiot
ln any local interest et all, but la the general
Interest of tbe province I represent, as well
no doubt to a great extent la tbe Iaterest of
the eastern part -of Nova Sctia, to phead for
'better railway facilities at tbe port of
Pictou than tbey bave bitherto had.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-I should like to
add my testimony to wbat bas been said
by tbe bon, gentleman from Pictou and the
hon. gentleman from Prince Edward Island. It ts almoat Inconceivable bow the

SENATE
traffic at Pictou bas increased of iate years.
Whiie there iast winter, the captain of the
' Minto ' told me that the vessel takes as
much in one trip now as the 'Northern
Liglit' tookIn a month. The accommodations
at Plctou are altogether inadequate. This
last wiuter, on account of the 'Minto' meeting with a smail accident, she was stopped
sailing for two days, and the freiglit shed
became so overcrowded that there was no
rooni for freiglit. The station is aitogether
inadequate for the trafie that is conducted
hi it. Lt la uncomnfortable, old, and flot at
ai fit for a place like Plctou. I sbould Ilke
the Secretary of State to press on the government to improve the accommodation at
Pictou as rapklly as possible. It Is just as
mucli a niatter ot importance to us la
Prince Edward Island as It Is to Pictou.
The iincrease la due largely to the trade with
Sydney, Cape Breton. That trade is lacrensing v-ery rapidly and wili continue to
increase for years.
EARNINGS

0F STEAMERS
AND 'STANLEY.'

'MINTO'

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON rose to Inquire of
the government:
Wb.at have been the carnings and expenses of the
rteamers 'Minto' and 'Stanle.y,' giving the
figures separately for cadi boat, and for freight
an(l passengers for the foliowing routes and
ser-sons:1. Eetween Prince Edward IsYIand ports and
Pictc. for the season of 1900-01 ?
2. Betwec*n Prince Edward Island ports and
Fictou, for the season cf 1901-02 ?
3. Between Prince Edward Island porta and
Tormentine, £.Ir tie season of 1901-02 ? And
also, wlll inquire what number of single and return trips were made by each of the steamers
above nanied on each route and during each secson. separately, and the date of each trip?

'Minto' ran between Charlottetown and
Pictou, and Georgetown and Pictou, and
made 80 single trips on the foliowîng d.ays :
December 13, 14, 154 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 25, 20, 27, 28, 29, 30; January 1, 3, 4,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21,
22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 31; February 1, 2,
4, 5, 19, 20, 21,. 22, 23, 25, 20; Mardi 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30; April 1, 2, 3,
4, sud 7 returns trips on the following days;
January 2, 5, 30 ; February 27 ; March 2 ;
April 5, 6. In 1900-01, the 'Stanley' ran
between Georgetown and Pictou and made
54 uingle fripa on the following days : December 16, 22 ; January 10, 11, 12, 14, 15,

16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 ;
Mardi 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 18, 10, 20, 21, 23, 26, 27 ; April 2, 3,-4,
8, and made 13 return tripe on the following
days : December 25, 27, 28, 31 ; January 1,
Iu
2, 9, 29 ; March 28, 29, 80 ; April 1.
1901-02, the 'Minto' wns running between
Charlottetown and .PIctou and Georgetown
and Pictou, and made 22 single trips on the
following days : January 6, 7, 8, 9 ; February 18, 19, 22, 24, 25, 26 ; March 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 18, 19, and made 46,return tripe on the following daya : Jauuary
10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 10, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,
25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 ; Februnry 1, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 20, 21, 27 ; March 12, 13, 14,
15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29. Iu
1901-02, the 'Stanley' was running between
Summersîde and Cape Tormentine, and
made 14 single trips on the foiiowlug days :

January 15, 16 ; February 8, 10, 12, 13, 18,
20 ; March 3, 4, 22, 23 ; April 2, 3, and made

laya :
48 retunn tripe on the followlng
January 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 17, 18, 20, 21,
23, 24, 25, 27 ; February 14, 15, 17, 21, 22, 24,
25, 26, 27, 28 ; Marclh 1, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12,
SCOTT-The answers to the 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31;
Hon. M1%r.
questions put by the hou. gentleman are April 1.
as follows
EMIGRÂTION FROM THE UNITED
1. Enruinga ' Minto' freiglit, $8,711.29;

passengers, $3,984. Expenses ' Minto'1 $41,Earnlngs 'Stanley' freigbt, $4,322.34.
509.20 ; passengers, $2,054. Expenses 'Stanley,' $32,154.39.
fneight, $5,538.45,
2. Earnings 'Minto'
Expenses ' Mlnto'1 to
passengers, $3,039.50.
3îst of Marcdi, $39,821.55.
3. Earniuis 'Stanley' frelglit, $851.70o;
Expenses 'Stanley, to
passengers, $1,844.
In 1900-01, the
31st of Mardi, $17,671.05.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON.

STATES TO CANADA.

MOTION.
The Order of the Day being calied.
By the Hon. Mr. Benien
That lie will ask the governmont if they ad-

vertise Ini the United State3 with the vlew of
promoting Immigration ia Canada therefron ?
And If so, what are the naines of the newspapers
in which suph advertisemaents ane publsbed, the

cilles or towns where they are publiahed, and
the costs of such advertisernents la each case ?

APRIL 11, 1902
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Â very long paper wlill
have te be prepared ln answer to titis question, and I thiuk It weuld be better If my
hon. frlend would pût It ln the form, of a
motion for a returu.

years, and lias proved hlmself te be a good
transiator. We very often have comimittees
wliere one or twe may differ froi the
others, but that 1s never considered a reasun
wya report sliould be laid over.

Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I have ne objection.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, bear.
I beg te move, that an address be presented
te the Governor Generai asklng -for the
Hon. Sir' MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
naines of the newspapers iii which adver- seems te me there Is sonie ether object ln
tisements are publlslied for limmigra ti5n pur- view.
poses.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I merely say, la answer
Hou. 31r. SCOTT-There Is ne objection te my hou. friend«s observations, I knew
to the motion.
nothlng about the facts. I dld net kuew,
until he made tlie statement, that thîs genThe motion was agreed te.
tleman liad ever been lu our service.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Such
Bill (35) An Act to Incorporate the Nip- ls the tact.
Issing and Ottawa Rallway Company.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not kaewing anythlng
(Hon. Mr. MeMullen.)
about tie matter, It ls rather a leap In the
dark. The report before us gives ne inforTHE TRANSLATION 0F THE DEBATES.
mation wliatever, and I am net iu a posiMOTION.
tion te express any Intelligent opinion. The
Hon. Mr. POIRIER rose te meve the report ltself ls a bald oee; It may ba ail
adoption of tlxe first report ef the Standing rîglit and prebably ls ail riglit. I have no
desire te ebject te It. My enly object ln rIsCemmIttee on Debates and Reportlng.
lng was te ask that the report stand, as a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I would ask hon, gencouple of gentlemen who are Interested lu It
tlemen te let this erder stand tili Tuesday.
ceuld net le liere to-day. I de net kuow
I have been asked by some members te
wheier this translater lias ever been ln
have this report stand.
our service before. He may have beau. The
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-If it ls the intention boit, leader of tbe opposition says lie lias
of the government that It should stand, I been for several years ln Uic service et the
bow te their decision, but otherwlse I wouid qienate.
prefer te proceed with It.
Heu. Mr. LANDRY-WliVy ara net the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What gentlemen te whom. the Secretary of State
object Io there la asking te have a simple re fers presaut ?
report of this kind stand?
Hou. Mr. DÂNDURAND-It ls the member
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I really know nothing fer de Salaberry division (Mr. Belque) who
about the facto.
A member of the coin- wautad te lay bis vlaws before the Senate,
mittee said lie differed frein bis celleagues but lie had an Important -engagement lu
Montreal this evenîug, and requested that
ou an Important point. It involves
considerable sum. ef meaey, appointlng a atrans- this matter be 'adjourned until Tuesday,
lator, and 1 have net yet had an eppertunity wlien lie couid be here.
ef inquirIag into the necessity fer It, and
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hon, gentleman
this gentleman wlio ls on the committee a member
e! the ceinmittee ?
sald lie could net be here thus afternoon and
Hou. Mr. DÂNDURAND-Tlie lion. tuerasked te have It stand over.
ber frein de Salabarry is.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It ls
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He laid bis views
net; addlng, as I understand, any addltioual
betore tlie committee.
expense.
This gentleman wlie is new recommended for appeintment lias been ln
Hou. Mr. DÂNDURAND-Yas, but lie
the service of the Senàate for two or three wants te lay thein befora the House.*

SENATE
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The Ing and I am flot quite sure but that coinhon, gentleman from de Salaberry bas been niittee might think it advisable to reconihere ail afternoou.
mend something along the lne I have sugHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes, but he had gested. I thiuk we would have our work
doue more effectually and prornptly, because
to leave by the 4 o'clock train.
1 quite understand those permanent transHou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My lators, appoiuted by the year, draw their
statement that this translator bas been Iu salaries ail the year and bave only a couple
the employ of the Senate was made on the of montha' work. I would suggest, for that
authority of the chairman of the committee reason If nothing else, that that sub-comnand the report recommends that he be con- mittee which was appointed might be able
tinued : that la my authority.
to report, before thia report of the committee
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I was on the com- Is adopted, and they mny see fit to, recoinmittee last year, but arn not this year. My mend changes. The chairman o! the Derecollection is that the work of translation bates Committee might meet those gentlehad got very far behiud, and that we bad mnen, nnd knowing something about the
to deal with that question last year. It was work doue by the translators, see If the
suggested that we should put one man on whole of the work miglit not be doue by one
the permanent staff and thus make a new staiff o! transiators, so that they could be
appointment, but it was feit that If we did put on the work needed most at a particular
that the work would continue to be behind turne.
a year or two before It could be brought up.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I happened to be
We therefore made a temporary engagenment with two men to bring the work up, a inember of that cornrittee and heard the
and the committee, I understand, bas now discussion, and I thlnk the committee ha%"e
decided to appoint one main permanently, taken the moat practical way to get the
%vorkdone at the proper tirne. They nmade
and thua keep up the work.
a report to the House and it is for the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I eau hardly agree House to, say whether we will adopt the
with the remarks of the hion, gentleman. It report. Recause an hon. gentleman chooses
appears to me If work fails behiud during the to go to Montreal are we to put off the worl.
session, It would be much better to have two of the Senate ? I want some better reason
transiators during the session than one per- than that given. The report o! the coinmanently appointed, because the busy part mittee was almost unanimous. I do not
of the work Is during the session. I also thiak there was any division. The conathink, on account of having delay lu the niittee considered, as far as possible, how
printing of the French edition of the Deto get the work done ln time, and how to
bates-I understand It is on account of the get it doue ln the most economical way postranslation-lt miglit be well If the whole
sible consistent with efficieucy. I arn not a
service o! translation could be put under
F"rench scholar and could not go Into the
one head transîntor who could put the dittranslation of English and French.
ferent transistors to dIfferent parts of the
worli. Sometimes there are long Bills to
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-You are not looktranslate ; other times there are extensive iug for the position ?
debates, and ail the transiators could be
turned on that partîcular work. It seema to Hou. Mr. McCALIUh-No, but if any
me instead o! having transiators for the lion, gentleman who takes the responsibility
several different branches of work ln con- of being a senator of this country and la
nection witlî the Senate, it would be better lut on a committee, chooses to go away
If the whole matter was reconsidered, and whea there la an Important report to be
the translators were ahl put under one ni-de, it la is affair. He should remain iai
ehie! transiator. I might say, ln connection bis place and see that this work Is doue
with the Internai Economy Cornrittee, we properly. I ait here glued to my seat ail the
appointed a sub-committee yeaterday, for the turne, when I have anything at ahl of impurpose of exnmining into, the work doue by portance to do. I tbink It is the duty o!
the several officers around the Senate build- every senator to do what he thinks la right
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

APRIL 11, 1902
-ln the interests ýof the country and flot go
away when work le to be done.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I heard the suggestion of the hon. gentleman frorn Marquette.
1 lnqulred lnto such matters and I found that
ln the House of Commons the Idea was that
the plan suggested by the hon, gentleman
would not work. I was told by several officiais ln thls House also that It was impractîcable. I was told so even by the head of
the transiators here. As to the report ltself,
there ls really no change except this, that It
makes a permanent offcer of one we would
otherwise be obliged to employ ns a temporary officer. Whether he ls paid as a
permanent officer or as a ternporary one
makes no difference as to the expense,
whlle lt would make a great difference In
the effIciency of the work. We have at
present an experienced man. He Is a good
transiator, and I thlnk it ls better to organize this board ln a proper shape so that
we should have the translation in proper
trne. This House wlll remark that the
Frenchi speaklng membera of the Senate
do flot abuse their privilege to speak ln
their own language. Under the clrcurnstances I amn sure that the House wlll flot,
object to havlng this officer appolnted so
that we mny at least have the translation
done lnx proper time.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I would eall the attention of the leader of the opposition and
of the House to the fact that we are already
very late wlth thiis motion. That It was flot
brought up sooner ls due to the fact that the
sarne gentleman who wishes It to be postponed now asked me to, walt until ho could
be convenlently here. Therefore, Instead of
calllng the committee before, I delayed on
his account and only called it yesterday.
To-day he la away, and on his account the
report is to be postponed. As there la money
lnvolved ln the Bill, I thlnk I should. be
acting courteously as chairman of that eommlttee If I should acquiesce in the request
of the leader of the governrnent If lie Insiste
upon It. The governrnent ls responsîble for
expenditure, and If the leader of the goverxment desîres me serlously to postpone the
report, 1 shahl do so ln consideration for
hlm and for the government, whose duty it
la of course to render an account to, the
country for the expenditure of the public
nxoney. But I would caîl the attention of

the House to the fact that this sesgion so
far we have had 140 pages of the 1Debates'1
translated, elghty pages prlnted, and not one
page yet distributed. I feel we have delayed
long enough, and I shall only consent to
postpone the consideration of this report If
the leader of the government says he
wlshes It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The renson given by
the leader of the government does flot seem
reasonable. 1 do not see why, because an
hon. member doea not attend to, his duty,
we should keep back the publie business.
We members of the French commrnity la
this House do not ask rnany favours, but
when we ask whnt we think ls only our
right, we are opposed by the leader of the
government or by some other member who
la not willing to do his duty here. 1
thlnk the government, under those circumstances, should accept the report of the
comrnittee.
The fact that one member
dlffered frorn the commlttee le not a reason
why the report should ho put aside ti1j another day. When the Strlking Comittee
made their report there was some division
and no one ventured to corne up and ask
that the report be postponed because there
was a division In the committee. The goverlmrent under these circumatances should
do for us what they do for any person else.
When 1 aay 'Us' I am speaking of the
French element-that they should do for
Us What they do for any one else, and
allow that report to be taken Into consîderation at once. If the people lnterested ln
that report find that private business takes
them home, let thern take the consequences
and not put the whole House ln the position
we are lnxto-day.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no desire to
thwart the report of the cormlittee. If the
gentlemen forrnlng that cormlittee, for
whorn I have the greatest respect, have
made up their minda, that It la' the best
thlng to do, and not an extravagant action
on their part, I have no objection to the report passing. I only desire to elîcit Information. I know nothlng about It. The report
la very bald and glves no speclal reasons.
We have heard the reasons juat now why
the report was made.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I do not lntend to
deal at length wlth thîs report, but as the

SENATE
questions put by the leader of the government are pertinent-as they always are-I
will give somne information. I will take the
report as it cornes. The first paragrapbi
reads :
Your comniittee recomxnqnd that an order be
gîven the Klng's Priater that the French version cf the Senate debates be printed and distrlbuted to Senators from day to day, thîs daIiy
Issue to bc, or consist of, one hundrs-d copies.
As I bave just stated, we have had so far
not one copy distributed to the Frenchi memnbers. Hon, gentlemen will ail admit that
If we are going to have that Frenchi version
of the debates, we should have it ln tempore
opportuno or never. Theretore, that part of
the report I believe svlll pass unopposed.
The second portion of the report refers to
the appointaient of a permanent translater
whose namne is Mr. Chapman. Last year,
nfter Mr. Bouchard was appointed-Mr.
Bouchard was appointed a permanent officiai about two years ngo-last year lie was
given two assistants, oaa 0f theni Mr. Chapman, and the other Mr. McLeod. Durîag
the session Mr. McLeod died and %vasreplaced by Mr. Laferriere. So that last year
we bad ona permanent translator, the saine
as this year, and three extras. What we
ask tbis year Is to have two perm anent
translators, instead of being subject, as
wa were last year, to the nacessity of looklag for transiators. And let me tell lion.
senators that the translation of the debates is not an easy job. It is mucli mînre
easy to translate French into Engllsh than
English Into Frenchi. Wliy it Is I do nlot
know. I do not mean to Infer that there
Is any superiorlty la the Frenchi over the
Eaglisb, but it la more difficult to write
French properly, and the Frenchi language
Is such that if It is not well written It Is not
French. As an Instance 0f that, I will refer
to the fact that ln the House of Gommons
they tested the transiators of their debates.
They had scores of applicants froni ail parts.
I may say, of those froni the province of
Quebec, some were professlonal writers,
and only two of them passad successfuliy,
sbowing that it is iîot an easy task to properly translate the debates. With reference
to Mr. Chapman, as far as I rnay be counted
aLJudge la the matter, I arn prepRred to say
that lie is a very competent writer liotb In
Enghiali and Fren ch. He le a poat, whIdh
does not spoil the matter. We have ail
Hon. Mr. POIRIER

written more or less poetry. Mr. Bouchard's
report on hlm la most favourable, and as far
as 1 can judge myseif, hie 18 most acceptable. He cornes ln on the recommendation
of the committee to be appointed pernianently, s0 tbat we may nlot in the future
have to walt months and years for the report, and then have an inferlor translation,
but that in the future we may bave the reports distributed ln due tinie and bave good,
prol)ei aceeptabie Frenchi. Hon. gentlemen,
I bave been honoured with the chairmanship
of the committee thls year 1 would nlot for
one recommend hlm. WVe have biad enougli
of such translation, for example, as that
whicb adorns the preamble of our laws, for
Urne immemorial :
Sa Majesté, par et avec l'avis et le consentenient du SéLnat et de la Chambre des Communes
du Canada, décrète ce qui suit.
1 will ask hou. gentlenmen who bave a
knowledge of Frenchi wvat tbat is, If that
preamble which' goes to France and the
clvllized world Is wrItten in any known
language, wbether it is French, Englisb,
Micmac or Volapuk. If we are going to have
sucli a thlng as translation ln this House,
we should have competent translators or
none at ah, and this le one of the reasonp.
ivby the committee bas made this recom
méndation. As a matter of expenditure, we
are nlot to any appreciabie extent lncreasing
the cost of translation. If the hon. Secretary
of State wishes to have figures-and It le
is duty to wish to be well posted-if lie
wishes to have comparative figures I can
give hlm somne of theni whicb may possibiy
go to some extent towards making this -report acceptable. I obtained frein an s'apioyee a statement of the comparative cost
of the Frenchi and Englisb versions of our
H-ansard of the past few years. I do not
warrant the accuracy of these figures. I
could not go te the prlntiag office myseif.
lie told me hie bad gone, and I took is report. Lt Is la Frenchi, and I will translate it
as I proceed. It is as foliows:
I have been able to get some information from the paymaster of the printing
office, charged to prepare a statement lndicatlng precisely the total cost respectlng
the Eagllsh and Frenchi versions of the debates of the Senate, and that employee
told me that aithougli the work was nlot ail
completed to -date, hae could give me the
followlng figures : For the year 1900, the

APRIL Il. 1902*
cost of the English version per page was
$2.96. The cost of the Frenchi version per
page was $2.37, a dlfferenoe ln favour of the
French version, of 59 cents per page.
As
to the other alleged fact, that the translation has cost more per page since 189
lncinsive-tliat is, since we have liad a
permanent eniployee, here are the figures :
In 1898, the translation of Mfr. DesjardinsI miglit bere draw a pareutheses, It is
five years since the Senate declded to
have the debates trauslated into Frenchi.
Mfr. Desjardins was appointed to do the
work at so mucli per page-a dollar and
a haif per page. He lins doue the work
since the time of his appointment until two
years ago.
In 1898, during Desjardins's
time, the cost per page, ail toid, was $3.20.
In 1899, when Mfr. Bouchard was appointed
a permanent employee, the cost per page
was $2.45, a difference In favour of economy
of 75 cents per page, In 1900, the translation under the present system cost $2.37,
and ln 1901, $2.31, thie difference Iu favour
of the translation ln the session of 1900 over
that of 1898 belng quite considerable. The
difference ln fai-our of the translation of
1900-1 over that of the session of 1898 by
Mr. Desjardins was 87 cents per page. You
wlll see, therefore, tliat we are not addlng
to the expense.
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Before the
liop.
gentleman leaves tliat question of the printlng of the Debates, wlill he please explaJn
why the printlug of the Senate Debates costs
40 or 50 cents per page less than the House
of Commons ' Hansard '?

brouglit lu lis place. I amn appealing to
my Engish-speaklng colleagues, sud I urge
that it la better to have competent translators. 1 therefore ask, since the bion. leader
of the goverumeut lias consented that I
mîglit go on wlth this report, that It lie
adopted now.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
surprised to hear the lion, gentleman from
Victoria, wlio, 1 understaud, ls a practIcal
printer, ask the question lie did. If lie wîll
compare tbe two books hie wlll fiud that
one ls printed lu long primer, aud leaded at
tliat, aud tlie other ls brevier, two sizes
smaller.
Thiere would lie about liaif as
mucli again ou the Gommons 'Haxsard'
per page as tliere la on a page o! tlie Senate Debates.
Hon. 1fr. TE«MPLEMAN-As a cousequence, the House of, Commons 1Hausard'
la qulte as cheap as the Senate Debates, and
perliaps cliesper.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Tbie
lion, gentleman asked why was the Sonate
report so mucli clieaper than tlie Gommons.
Tlie e.xplanation ls as I have stated.
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-Yes, but tlie
hon. gentleman was polutlug ont several
Rites o! ecouomy. As a practical prInter,
the leader of the opposition knows that, as
there must be 25 per cent more readiug matter lu a page of the House of Gommons
'Hansard ' thani ou a page o! the Senate
Debates, there ls not necessarily auy economy wliatever, and that the House of Comnmons 'Hansard ' may lie, after ah, as far as
the printlng o! lt 19 coucerued, cheaper tlian
the Senate Debates, sud cousequently tbere
la no point ln the argument of the hon, gentleman wbho was speaklug.
Hou. 1fr. LANDRY-I thluk the hon. minIster misunderstood what my hon. !riend
sald. He was comparing the English sud
Frencli veraions, and not the Senate Debates
and the Gommons H ausard.'
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-No, wvhen lie
rend from statistlcs given to hlm by some
person lu the priuting office, lie referred to
the cost of printiug per page of the Gommons 'H1-ausard.'

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I am not lu a position to explain that, because it la not wlthlu
our report. It would require sending to
the Printlug Bureau and consultlng the psymaster there, aud 1 have flot doue that. It
could easlly lie sscertalued, I suppose. If
we are going to have a Frenchi version
of our debates, we sbould have It dlstrlbuted
as qnickly as the Euglisb version, aud the
translation should be a proper one, aud we
should not lie put to the uecesslty every session o! looklng for this Tom, Dlck and
Elarry wlio are preseutiug themseives as
transIstors. These may have some qualifications ; but it would take a session before a man could translate properly and .Hou.
Mfr. POIRIER-I must have been
ive miglit have him put away then for mlisunderstood, or I did not express myself
political or other reasous, sud another one properly. It was s comparlson between the

SENATE
English and French editions of our Senate.
If we are to make a comparison with the
other House, I will add that in the House of
Commons they have aine sessional transiators for the ' Hansard.' Those men have
sucli a severe task that I have been told
oxie of them generally dies every session,
because at the end of the session they have
to work froni ten to sixteen hours a day,
which is too mucli for any mian. As agalnst
nine transiators, we have one. Now, we ask
for two, and I think the proportion is fair.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I desire to point out to the chairman of the
comuiittee thiat I thInk bis view of the
government's responsibility ln this matter is
îlot strictly correct. The responsibility of
the governnient with regard to the expenditure of money begins and ends when theY
make the appropriation for the contingencies of the Senate. The Contingent Account ls piaced at the disposai of the conimittee as we thlnk proper, flot as the government would dictate; otherwise under our
system of government we would have to
have every proposition for increasing a salary
submitted -by the goverument to the House.
Under responsible government that la the
principle, but they give a certain sum, when
the estimates are brought down, to be disposed of and expended as the Senate thlnks
proper, and this la one of the cases. 1
merely wish *to point out the difference.
Upon the general principle the hon. gentlemn iîs quite correct.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I believe it was the
intention of the committee that he sbould
be paid a thousand dollars to do the work
that falls to hlm durlng the session, but
that lie abould remain at work as long after
the session ns is necessary to complete
that work.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I did make that
motion to the committee, and my Intention
was that It shouid be for a year-that the
thousand dollars should be for the year.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then correct the report.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-If the report is altered
to cover that It would be satisfactory.
Hou. Mr. POIRIER-The last motion was
not presented to me in writing. 1 have no
objection whatever to bave it put per annuni, Instead of per session. With the per*mission of the House, I ask, to have it
amended, because It was not a writteu motion-simply a verbal one.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I thlnk that la hardly
explicit enougli, because It seems to me we
are entlrely ln the dark as to the work required by this gentleman employed by the
commlttee. It la only fair that every meniber of this House sliould understand the
nature of the report brouglit down. There
lias been no number of days estimated that
this gentleman will b&employed in the work
of translating during the session. If we are
to Judge from the work doue s0 far, we are ln
tenineteentli day of the session and supposlng we were to double that, and the translation were to take 40 days, we would be pay-

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I must confess, after I 1115
4na.
.1
v.a.
*or
A
J
' JlW
10 A
tregr hon gbenteman fron1 estimate as to the number of days this gentlelf
thMoitivim
Montagn
luregrd o asenees tht Iman will be required to do that work, and
vise wlth some fear and trembllng, I was we are asked to appoint him whether he la
out of town wheu the commlttee met, and I fit for that position or not. It seems to me
should like to ask the chairman a question. that the suggestion made by the leader of
The rads:the
pragrph
government, to allow the matter to stand,
Your committee aiso recommend that Mr. wotild be the correct one for the Senate
William Chapmuan be appolnted as a permanent to adopt. We are simpiy toid by the
tranisiator for the debates of the Senate, and
that he be paid $1.000 for bis sessionai work.
icommittee
that the gentleman ls to recelve
one thusand dollars a year for the work
Does that men just as ft appears there, of translation requlred by this House. Iu
or does it men lie ls to do other work, or vlew of the fact that a commlttee lins been
la he a transiator for the committees, and appointed for the put-pose of revlslng the
If lie does other work, is lie to be paid dutles and reporting to thue House on every
separately for lt ?i Does the paragraph gentleman lu the service of the Senate, we
menu this, or ls It a tliousand dollars à are bore departing from that recommendayear for bis services, or simply for the work tion by at once appointing a gentleman perhe does for the session ?
manently. The word 'permanent' miglit be
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

APRIL il, *l902,
omitted from the report, and lie might b
,e Hon, gentlemen are very anxious the de.employed for one year, and thon we woul 4 bates
of theo Senate sliould bo translatod
be ln a position to know wliat bis capacit y
and prlntod ln Frencli at as eariy a date ns
Is. That would be a business way of brine~possible after the House rIsos. If tbat is
Ing the motter before the Sonate. I, tberf~the case, this gentleman cannot be expected
fore, move tint the word '.permanent' b
e to stand around doing nothîag ail the balleft out of the report.
ance of the year. The explanation we liave
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-In answer to the boic from the lion, gentleman from St. Boniface
gentleman's remarks I would ask liow h
e la, thus gentleman
lias been ln the dnrk so long. Wben he wa s twelve months for Is to give lis services for
a tbousand dollars. Tliis
in the House of Commons lie had there th,0 report will roquire f urther coasideration,
riglit to see, and wliy didn't lie see. Wba t because I
understand, If
w-e are asking liere Is juat whnt is done tbere rect, lie con quit work as thie report la corsoon as theo transTiiere are nine transiators on the staff of tii! lation of the debates ls compietod,
becauso
House of Commons who are paid each i
employed for-to transthousand dollars a year. The lion. gentle Lthat la wbat lie is and nothing furtlior.
-late
thie debates
I
man nover saw nnything wrong In It there think thnt surely, with this report
and disIt Ia only wlion lie was made a member ol cussion wo have lieard liere, thc
Debates
tuis House tliàt lie commenced to see. BeforE Committee lad botter reconsidor
this report
tint lie was ln thie dark. Now lie wanta tc Pand have
some furtiier understanding. It
get ont of tbe dark. I liope lie 'wIU flot presE miglit possibly lie tint Mr.
Chapman would
bis amendment. The lion, gentleman urgejd not
take the position for a yeur nt a salary
on tlie ground of economy. He Baya : 'You
of a tliousand dollars. Thnt la the underare golng to givo him $25 a day,' and standing, tint lie la
te be employod nfter
lie moves to strIke out the word 'perma- the translation of tlie debates
la completed.
nont.' How wiIl that Improve tlie position?1
*Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliero
The remedy doos flot suit tlie diseuse thnt
lie wants to cure. I do flot considor the amn- la force ln wliat the lion, gentleman from
eudment is relevant to the objection lie Marquette says, and If I miglit mako a suggestion la the way of amending thls report,
made.
make It rend this way :
Mr. GIBSON-îI do not propose to lie lecTour
tured by the lion, gentleman from Stada- Ohapmancommlttee aiso recommend that Mr.
be appointed a
cona. I notice, sinoe I came to this House, for the Sonate, and paid permanent translater
one thousand dollars
lie lias been ln the habit of jumping on tiiose per annum therefor.
wlio differ from hlm. As far as any on, The lion, gentleman from Welland (Mr-.
liglitenment I liave had witb regard to wliat Gibson)
says lie basod has ameadment upon
took place ln the House of Gommons, I bave' tbe
want of knowledge of tlie capabllitiet
learned for the first time this morning that of thus
gentleman wlio la recommended.
it was the purpose of tus committee to em- Frobably
lie may not bave lieard, from tlie
ploy tii. gentleman permanently for one position
Ia whcli lie alto, tlie explanation
year. Wliat I raise an objection to 1s, tliat given
.by the Clinirman, on the autliorlty
tlie word 'permanent' sliould be put ln that of tlie assistant
clerk, as to tliis man's
report, wben we are not; la a position to capabilities,
and also
know wliotler thie gentleman ia fit for the of bis qualifications the Cliairman spolie
as being ail that Is
work to be performed. Tliat Io wliy I made necessary.
If we Bat for anotlier six
the motion, and I do not propose te lie lec- montis, as far.as
I am concerned, I sliould
tured by the lion, gentleman. 1 am respon- flot require
any furtier Information, as I
sible for wliat I do or say ln this House.
am no judge of a man's capabilîties to transHon. Mr. WATSON-Tlie report rends as late correctly. Ail the Information that.caa
foilows :
possibly be given bas been furnished, and
The co-mttpe aiso recommend tbat Mr. Wm. givon on the autliorlty of tiiose wlio bave
Cliapinan lie appointed a permanent transIstor been
engaged on tlie work of translation for
for the debates of the Sonate.This la apparently ls special work. Accord- a number of years. My bou. frlead from
Ing te wliat we bave lieard this afternoon, Stadacona informa me that thie gentleman
who desired to bave the 'report postponed.

SENATE

THE SENATE.
adrnits the ability of '.%r. Chapman to do
the work. I suggest to strike out the words
Ottawa, Monday, April 14, 1902.
'For the debates'1 and the words 'for his
sessional work' and make it read thus :
The SPEAKER took tbe Chair at Three
that o' dock.
Permanent translater of the Senate, and
he be pald one thousand dollars per annum.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Carrled!
MAIL SERVICE IN BRITISH COLUMBIA.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I must admit that
INQUIRY.
sitting where I do, there are many things
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) rose to
on ln the House which I cannot hear.
going
Inquire :
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I should like to know,
If the government b'as taken into conslderation
as a member ot the committee, whether thxe represontations made by the British Columthis gentleman wlll be an officer of the com- bia Board of Trade, as ta the Inefficient mail
service ln Inferlor steammrs front Victoria ta the
mittee or of the House ?
vest coast of Vancouver Island ? Wfll an lnbe granted this year to make
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A ecased sinbuidy ln keeping wlth the increasing
thxe service more
servant of the House. The committee wil requirements of the parts af the provInce referred ta
control him.
He said : No doubt the hon. gentleman for
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-After ail the
discussion that bas taken place on this Victoria knows ahi about the requirements
and I have
question, would it not be a better way to of this service as weli as I do,
put this motion on the paper because the
reter this report back to the committee ?
service over there ls very Inferlor and beHon. MEMBERS-Nýo, no, no.
cause the passenger traffic Is growing
I hope
monthly and yenrly very largely.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDERRIN-The members
he will be able to informn the Hanse that the
as to the meaning
of the committee differ
government will do something ln this matter
of the report, and It would look the proper
and that there wlll be an improved service
back. It may be
thing to have it reterred
on that route.
the wish ot the committee to have it as It
stands, or they might, atter discussing it,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Communications of this
change the report.
kind ought strictly to came toi thel Department of the Secretary of State and then be
The amendment was agreed ta, and the
sent ta whatever department ls Ilkely to
report 'was. adopted.
take.it up. I have caused an inquiry ta be
made ln the Department of the Secretary of
SECOND READINGS.
State and I cannot find any reference ta it
whatever. I sent over to the Post Office
tbe SovBill (29) An Act to incorporate
Department and they have no cognizance of
ereign Lite Assurance Company of Canany application of the ki.nd. Perhaps the
ada.--<Hon. Mr.- Gibson.)
bon, gentleman wll let It stand for a few
Bill (37) An Act to incorporate the days and I will make inquiry. If I had auy
Sprague's Falls Manufacturing Company, dlue as to where it went ta, I would be glad
(Limited).-(Hon. Mr. McHugh.)
to trace It.
Bill (49) An Act to confer on the ComHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-A1 right.
missioner of Patents certain powers for the
relief of John Westren.--(Hu(n. Mr. Kerr.)
THE MINERALS OF NOVA SCOTIA.
Bill (Q) An Act to lncorporate the MeINQtTIRY.
tropolitan Bank.-(Hon. Mr. McMullen.)
Hon. Mr. CHURCE rose ta Inquire of the
The Senate adjourned.

government :
1. Was there any correspondence between the
gavernment af Nova Scotia or any member

thereot. and the Domihnion government or any
department thereef. during the perlod commnene-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL .14, 1902

195

ing tram January 1, 1s78, to Decemiber 31, 1882,
on the subject of the transterring of the minerl that day snd the government Of the DOno, and that smre of the managers of the
of Nova Scotia to the Dominion goverfiment'
2. It so, on what terms and conditions was m? in
principal Mining areas of the province had
such transfer to be made ?
cealso entered into some correspondence, flot
3. What money consideration was the province
l
ihte
ef N1%ova Scotia to receive from the Dominion ol
oa
ihtelclgvrmnbtas oenmnbtas
goverament as compensation for transferring with the Dominion
government on this
cver its rights to leasing, licinsing and prospect- matter,
udm
bett
tng tities of ail kinds ln the mines aud minerais
sigti
us
,adm
betl
sigti
us
of sald province, to, the Dominion authorities ? tion 1s, to ascertain If
that is the tact, .and
4. Was there any correspondence between any what 18 the
nature of that correspondence.
Of the mInlng managers or other offiaers of any
mining company in said province of Nova 1 might say I do flot; do
this with any view
Scotia aud the Dominion goverfiment or any to uttaching
blame to the goverfiment lu
department tbereaf, on the foregoing subject?
oe
ewe
5. If so. will the government
8,b'ueta
teiinsprebeen188nd82,ecueta ad1
and conditions upon which said state the trans- matter wonld have
proposed
been fought ont lu our
fer of mining rights was to be made.
local arena, long ago, If sncb au ides had
1H1said : 1 rish to make a few remarks prevaiied. But I want to set the matter at
on this Inquiry. This question of the royalty rest. The government of that day were
on mines and minerais of Nova Scotia be- handicapped. The mines yielded only $80,came a very serious and, I mlght also say 000 to $100,000 yearly. We could resort
a brnig qesionjus.afertheconedea-to self-taxation, If we chose to Impose
tion of the provinces. Under the terras of I
oIces
h
eeuadI
e
the British North America Act the main came a very serious question la 1882,
whesource of supply of revenue of the Nova ther the fier government would not bave
Scotia goverfiment was that recelved from to resort to direct taxation to keep up the
the Dominion of Canada, and that Item up service of the country' ln a proper snd effiuntil witbiu the last fer years ras the cient manner. We had either to do that,
prinipa Itm, Mre tan ne-alfor find nme means to augment our revenue.
frmig
principal em frevene
morethnponc e-f The old rate of royalty, fired after the GenDf o
t
celved 'fromiee r ev e ue towards manannre- era l à iining Âss o c at lo n 's r ig hts l u a l the
ail sources h at h e r o vn ce
coni ares of Nova Scotis, had been handed
the oca whn Itbecme leumentover to the provincial
serice
anthorities, after the
iipon the goverament to do no under the
terms of the British North Amerîca Act. late Judge Johnson sud Governor Archibald
had gone over and negotiated for the transEuring the perlod between 1878 and 1882 fer,
ras sIxpence of the currency of Nova
t Lie mining Interests of the province rere Scotia. which, wheu we-brought
ln the deciiot in a very flourishlng condition. The
mal ystmwatecnsndhtwste
loal trade, wiceh la the greatest mining rate
ndustry of the province, was not lu a very that which prevalled at confederation, but
ras ouly collected on round coal, that
iourlshing condition ; consequently, the re- la, coal
whlch wonld no.t go through a threeTenue from that source only amounted .to quarter
Inch screen bar. AUl that would not
70,000 or $80000 a vear. On a change of go
tlxrongh that mesh was cousidered round
roverfiment, whick took place In 1882, It was coal,
aud the rest culm. That culm accu'ound that the outgoing goverument badl mnlated;
It conld not be sold; It had not;
,stimated.a revenue of some $100,000 to, b. become
an article of value, aud coniequently
terived from the mining royalties during the the
revenue was .coilected only on the rond
'ear 1882. The government that came coal. The
CJumberland mines are some of
n, Of which I ras a member, suc- the greateat
we have, sud an arrangement
eede4, ln collectîng about that much, wa
made to take a royalty not prester than
he estimate of the
preceding
Pro- tixat on round coal, for the mun of the mines.
41
incial Seeretary belng an accurate one. By the
~ut during the terma between 1878 snd 18M2, NVWe Act o! 1879 oui. currency was debased.
had alwsys connted the English sh «Illing
lie revenue of the province fel 'so low that as
25 cents, Your curreucy was of the cme
tbecame a very serions matter to know value
as that of the Uuited States, couseow to augment that revenue rithout n- qnently
oui. sixpence became 9 7-10 oents,
uiy burdening the people. It was gener- sud dei
was the basis of calculating the
[ly spoken of, sud believed that corresponrevenue, a very swkward lgure. Horever,
ence ras hnd between the goverament of when the
local government changed lu 1882,

S EN A TE
we had te decide what to do to augment tune to the province of Nova Scotia tbat tbe
Our revenue. We made Up our mmnd that negotiatien was flot successfui, because we
ail con] soid shouid pay a uniforrn rate of would have been in a very bad position cern4j
1Cents ail round, and we found that we pared wlth the one we occupy now. If there
got more revenue ont o! a given output of be any correspondence on the subjeet, 1
the succeedlng years than before, because would be obllged to the hon, gentleman
ail coal sold shouid pay a nniform rate of who leads the governrnent If he would fur7j, cents per ton. That is our iaw now. nlsh It at a comparatively early date.
We oniy charge on the coal that la
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have rnade a,* ery
sold.
The coal trade became rather
flouriahing, and we raised the royalty carefui lnqulry, and arn unable te find
up to 10 cents ail round. You have ail any correspondence wbatever, uniess the
hieard o! the Whitney syndicate. The syn- lion, gentleman couid give me sorne clue
dîcate carne to us, and got some concessions, to the department where It Is to be found.
not very large concessions, but they were I have been unable to trace It between
wliIing to pay us something for them. They 1878S and 1882. Officiai communications
agreed to pay 12J cents a ton on ail tbe coal from the provinces ouglit to corne to the
they soid, wbile ail the other mlne-owners, Secretary of State's Department first. A
and lessees of ceai areas, only pay us 10 careful Investigation was made there, but
cents. Under the operations of this agree- no trace of the correspondence couid be
ment we raised quite a revenue. The mines found.
and minerai business of Nova Scotia, I arn
Hon. Slr MACKENZIE BOWELL-WVouid
glad to say, bas lncreased. When I flrst
not the hon, gentleman be more likeiy to
took office some years ago, we raised $100,000. Now we are estimating haif a mil- get the Information If he changed bis inlion dollars revenue from mines and min- qu!ry into a motion for papers ? I llstened
erais. Tbe total arnouat received from the wlth a great deal of attention to the hon.
Dominion, lnciudiug subsldy, interest on gentleman's speech, and It remlnded me of
moneys here on deposit, &c., arnounted te old tirnes, when be used to bold forth ln the
over $400,000 Only two years ago, our royalty other House. He should have gone a littie
frorn mines and minerais becarne greater ,further and told tbe House that the national
than the subsidy frorn the Dominion gov- policy saved Nova Scotia at the tirne to
ernrnent, and within ten years I anticipate wblch he refers, wben It was ln financial
that we can easlly coilect tbree-quarters ef difficulties-that the duty paid upon coal
a million, dollars, and I hope to lire to see and other producta asslsted the province mathe time when. we wili collect a million terlally In being relleved frorn Its troubles
dollars In royalties frem mines and min- at that time. I bave no doubt the Secretary
erais. This would be a great boon, for the of State would consent to the hon, gentlereason that the eniy other Important source man maklng this a motion, and tben be
o! revenue la Crown lands. We bave prac- would be able to get ail the papers.
ticaliy no timber lirnits lu Nova Scotia.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I qvIlh to say a word
Forrneriy ail lands were granted absoiutely to my old and esteemed frlend the leader of
in tee simple to those whe got thern. Now, the opposition, who refers to former tîrnes
we are leasing them, but fuliy seven-eigbths ln the other Chamber. I amn glad to see
of the tiniber lands have been granted ln hlm. here, se actlveiy leading the opposition
Nova Scotia, and the tîrne wiii cerne very la the Senate. I do not want to Introduce
soon when we wIii have ne revenue cern- party Issues ln this matter. I arn a free
paratîveiy from Crown lands, because tbey trader by conviction, and a supporter of a
wli ail have been disposed of. It was revenue tariff, owlng to our circurnstances.
thougbt at one tîrne that tbe governent Ail I can say la this : a gevernment existed
of that day would bave been willlng te ln Nova Scotia wbile tbe national policy
seli the rnnng rights te the Dominien was ln operation, which failed to make
goverunent fer a consideration. It was botb ends meet successfuiiy,
and wltb*,
stated at the Urne fer about dedbie the that same policy another governent carne
arnount ef tbe royalty that was then coi- ln and rather more than rnade two ends
iected. It was a great plece of good for- meet. However, I sbould be most happy
Heu. Mr. CHURCH.

APRIL 14, 1902
to adapt the suggestion of my hon. friend
later on, if, after some conversation with
the hon. Secretary of State, I fiad It necessary, la order to arrive nt ivhat I wilh to
obtain. I tbank hlm very much for bis
suggestion.

Nova Scotia to-day is over e3,000,000 In
debt with ail that steady increase of revenue
from 1882 to date, an Increase altogether
attrIbutabie to the Impetus which the
national pollcy gave the coal trade of that
province

Hon. Mr. MCDONALD (C.B.>-I canuot
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I do flot very weii
allow the remarks of the bon. gentleman understand the ruies of dlebate in -tfls
froin Lunenburg to pass without some ob- House, but It seems to me that a long disservation.
It would seem that be wants cussion sometimes arises out of these harmta leave the Impression that the governinent less InquIries. I made no reference to the
of Nova Scotia la 1878 to 1882 bad applied govern-ment did flot even mention the govto the Federai governinent for a transfer of ernment, but I had to give dates. I said
their mining rights ln consideratioii of a cer- distinctly I was flot finding fauît wlth the
tain amount of money. I do not kanow that governmeat In power frein 1878 to 1882. The
that le correct. The bon. Secretary of State hon. leader of tbe opposition ln a mid
bas stated that there Is no correspondence manner pointed ont another way la which
la bis department. I presume If the gov- I might bave accomplished my object and
ernment of Nova Scotia of that day had made a reference to the national policy.
made any such application they would do
Then the lion. gentleman froin Cape
It la the regular form to the office of the Breton imports other matters into It. I
Secretary of State, but 1 know, spenking could go on and discuss these matters at
from mem ary, that the newspapers of that length, but I do flot wish to do eo now. I
day, not froin 1878 to 18829 but froin 1874 to k-now exactly what the revenue of Nova
1878 were loaded with correspondeace from Scotia wae and I couid put my bande on the
the mîning Interests which worked the mines figures year by year.
When the governof Nova Scotia at tbat date, appealing to the ment, of whlch the presefft Finance MinFederal parliament for assistance to relleve Ister wae Premier, came into power, we bad
thein from the royalty which tbey were ob- nothlng like a million dollars revenue. It Is
hIged to pay to the local gorerninent, and only ilthin the last two or three years we
thus enable them ta carry on the work. have had tbat revenue, and then ail over
They were flot able to obtain that, and per- the province we bad heavy demands upon
baps that Is the matter to which my bon. us. I arn not going to diseuss the national
frlend f rom Lunenburg referred. As ta the pollcy. It le not my intention at ail. I do
statements he bas made ,that the goverfi- not thlnk these broad questions should be
ment of that day, froin 1878 to 1882, was discussedl on a inere lnquiry. if the matter
flot able to make ends meet, to make tbe le to be discussed, 1. arn qulte prepared to
disbursements equal to the revenue, the maintain. tbe bonour and Integrlty of the
fact la, that tbe goverament of Mr. Holmes government of wbIch I was a member for
of that day reduced the debt of the province, yeare. However, I think the country is
wlth the Insigaificant revenue of the day- satiefied down there and I hope it Is satisvery littie, It la true, but reduced It. He lied generaily.
managed to carry on the goveràment of the
province and gîve cox*iderable money to
DREDGING 0F MAHONE BAY.
meet the requirements of tbe province for
INQUIRY.
education and for ronds, and at the same
Hon. Mr,. CHURCHI rose to Inquire of the
tIme ho reduced the debt of the province to
something like $300,000. The goverument government :
1. Was any petitian or petitians recelved by
0f whlcb my hon. friend w-as a member
or any departmnent thereof, from
came la afterwards, and wltb an lncreaslug the governmnt of Mahone
the inhabltaats
Bay and Bridgewatar,
revenue of one million dollars laet year, as in the county of Luneahurg, Nova Scotia, praycompared witb the revenue of perhaps $400,- ing for the dredging and deepening of tht harrcspectiveiy.
the
000 ln 1882, the governinent of whicb my bours ofoftheqe port, 1878, ta the 3letbetweea DeIst day
January,
day of
hon. friend w-as a member w-as not able to cember, 1901, Inclusive ?
2. Or was there any carrespandence trom
maire both ends meet. The Province of lhable persans of the places, above named, reto

SENATE
the Department of Publie WVorics, as to, dredging and deepening of these harbours duriag the
pcriod of tlme above mentioned ?
3. If 0o, state the nature of such petitions a2d
correspondence and what action, if any, was
taken thereon by the govcrnment ?
4. Ia It the Intention of the govarnment to
dredge and Improve the harbour of Mahone Bay
as soon as the dredge that la now building for
service in the maritime provinces ls cornpleted ?
5. 1s it qlikeiy that sucli servicc wlll be performed Ia said harbour during the autumn of
presont year or ln the sprlng o! 1903 ?
He said : This la a question of a local character, Involvlng an answer whIch must
show dereliction on the part of aoniebody.
It covers a perlod during whlch two goverument a of the Dominion have been In power,
the present one and the one precedlng If.
There can be no doubt about the necesslty.
1 will briefly explain, that during the year
189, If my mernory la right-and 1 think It
la--during the regime of the Mlackenzie administration I was then representing the
county In the Comnions at the time f0 Whieh
the hon, leader of the opposition has referred, and 1 succeeded ln havlng a dredge
go Into the harbour of Mahone Bay and the
harbour at Lunenburg, whlch la the principal town ln Lunenburg county, and they
perforrned efficient service ln dredglng at
the finie. That Is a period of 26 yeara,
and frorn that time up f0 the present hour,
although that county la one of the foremost counties ln Nova Scotia, la the principal couaty, go far as regards the fIshlng lndustry of the province, nothing has
been done. 1 have It on good authority that
representations were made to both governments, the present government and the paat
governrnent ln regard to this matter. There
have been gentlemen on dIfferent aides ln the
other branch of parliarnent during that
perlod, and whether they pressed upon the
government of the day that they were supporting reapectiveiy thia Important matter,
I do not know, however, I do know that
nothIng has been done. I wish to say that
Mahone bay la a growing and Important
place. So far as shlpping la concerned, If
la second only f0 Lunenburg. Lunenburg
la the great fIshing- counity of this Dominion.

Out of the total fishing output of $20,000,000,
last year our county of Lunenburg caught
and sold about one-twelfth, and she la
ahead o! every other county, Digby standing
second. We have a fleet of 175 deep sea
fishing vesseis, which draw fromn thirteen
f0 twenty feét of water when laden. These
Hon. Mr. CHURCH.

vessels corne and go several times durlog
the season to discharge carpoes of fish and
export sanie wb.en cured, and then there are
sorne vessels whIch draw a greater
depth of water that enter this port. Large
timber Tessels corne there t0 be laden, and
cannot enter and depart frorn the hai-bour
at 10w 'water, owIng to the fact that It requires dredglng. HavIng only been dredged
26 years ago, there la a necessity for it
being done now. There was a large gang
mli over the mouth of the Mush-a-Mush
river, and that mlii was filling the bay with
aawdust, but the sawdust Iaw la now euforéed, and If the hnrbour were dredged,
there would be nothing but what cornes
down from the hili aides, and what cornes
from the ocean. I have seen vessels detalned
there for *hours because of this want of
dredgIng. The niud is soft and a dredge
would do the work ln a very short rime. I
think froni what I have sald the House will
aee that this la a matter of very great Importance. I know that application has been
made to the Minister of Public Works wlthln the last few montlhs, and furtiierniore a
large petîtion, well signed, wiiT corne up.
calling upon the government, through hlm,
to look after thia matter. 1 understand one
or two dredges are now being bulIt expressiy for work [n the maritime provinces, because It was found that a dredge whlch
might be suitable for dredgîng other parts
of the Dominion la flot so well suited to the
harbours on the Nova Scotla coast. This work
which la of very 'great Importance, lias becorne necesaary, and If negotiatlons have not
taken place and terms have flot been miade,
the goverument, I trust, wlll sec at once that
it wiil be done.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In answer to the first
question I rnay aay that petitions have been
recelved. That pracicall.v answers the second question. The Jtitions for dredging up
to lffl were destroyed In the fire of llth
February, 1897, but no action was taken, as
there was no dredge available at any tirne
before that. As for the fourth question, II
is Impossible 'to say at what particular
pointa the dredge will be used. The department consider the rnost Important places
should first recelve attention.
As fo the
possibility ln-the future. It is Impossible to
*forecaat what they will do. It will depend
largely whether n dredge can be bired to

APRIL 14, 1902
do that work. I wlll cail the attention of
the Minlster of Public Works ta the remarkse
af my hon. friend and he will give It; consideration. The demand for dredging al
over the country ia vei' great, quite beyond
the possibility of the avallable dredges, and
the minister states that the dredging ln the
mont Important places will be done first.
GRADINGO0F THE P.E.I. RÂILWÂY.

work Is belng done by day's labour, nor is
any work authorized by the department,
to be proceeded wlth beyond the eleven and
a hait miles.
When my hon. friend's remarks are printed, I wIll obtain a copy and
send It to Mr. Schreiber. There ls evIdently
a mlsunderstandlng some where.
THE FISHERIES ÂWÂRD.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I wish to cal! the
attention of my hon.. frlend the Secretary
of State to a telegrarn whIch I find ln au
Ottawa paper with reference to a staternent
made by the premier of Prince Edward Island an Thursday evenIng last during the deilvery of his budget speech ln the Prince
Edward Island legisiature. Mr. Peters
stated that the province would receive one
million. dollars as Its share of the fisheries
award by May next. We are very near ta
the niontb of May, and If this statement 19
correct-which we must not doubt coming
as It does tram a premier of so reputable
a province as Prince Edward Island-the
arrangements with regard to handlng over
the money must at this stage be pretty
nearly complete, and 1 hope my han. friend
the Secretary of State will be able nat only
ta canfirm this statemeut made by his friend
Mr. Peters the leader of the government of
PrInte Edward Island, but he wlll be able
to anaunce ta the House what day next
mbnth the million dollars Is ta be banded
over.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I may say that I naticed
also the remark made by Mr. Peters, and
was somewhat surprised, as it was the first
I heard of ItL 1 thaught It rather extruardinary that an action of such Importance
hadl been taken without my being aware
of ItL It Involved a gaod deal of money,
mare than the million dollars Prince Edward
Island claimed.
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B.O.) There Is
no electIan camflug on la there ?
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do 1
understand the hon. Secretary of State ta
may that It hasn fot been decided by the
gavernmet-the questian of the rlght of the
maritime provinces7
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.

INQUIRY.
Han. Mir. FERGUSON rose ta luquire
Whether the wark of grading now belng done
on the railway tramn Oharlottetown ta Murray
harbour, ather than on section 2, lB belng proceeded with by day'. labour. If not, he will
ask how this work la belng done.
He sald : The question which I amn asklng
lo a sequel ta same questions wbich I asked
my hon. friend the Secretnry of State last
week, the answers ta whIch were nat sat!sfactory. I Inqulred on that occasion with regard ta the gradlng and ballastlng and
other work on the railway ln course of
construction between Charlottetown and
Murray harbour. I Inquired of the government what contracts were made, with whom
were they made, and so forth. The'reply
I received was that a contract was only
made on one section, No. 2, and that no
other contracts were made. It was. stated
further by my hon. friend that a cantract
ou this section No. 2 was awarded by ten-'
der ta Mr. Kîtchen. If so, I arn informed
that no persan saw the advertisement for
such- a contract. There were tenders calledl
for earlIer than tbat; and the cautract was
awarded ta Mr. McManus, who entered upon
It and atter some tIme he abandoued the
work and subsequently It carne, In some
way, Inta Mr. Kitchen's hands. However,
that le not the point that I wlsh particularly
ta get Information upon at thîs moment. It
having been stated ln the return lu reply
ta the questions that I asked a few day.
ago that no contract existed on any other
part cf this railway except section No. 2,
ýand It belng stated ta me by correspondents
an the spot thlat work la going on on other
parts of the rallway beyond section 2, the
suggestion was made by my hon. friend
hîmseit that the word coutract mlght not
caver the way lu whlch this work was being
done.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-BeHou. Mr. SCOTT-The answer which I cause Quebec, Nova Scatia and New-Brunshave, signed by Mr. Schreiber, Is that no wick wauld be deeply lnterested ln the dis

SENATE
tribution of the maney.
No decisian bas Committee of this House together ta inbeen corne ta ?
crease the number of Senators on the joint
cammittees ln accordance with the decision
Haln. Mr. SCOTT-No decision.
of the Senate ? If the Gommons la jealous
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No decIsion ?
of tbe number af their members on these
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
committees, I do flot see wby we shouid flot
be jealous of ours.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It Is too bad.
Haon. Mr. SCOTT-At any convenient
THIRD READINGS.
tIme, perhaps Thursday next.
Bill (L) An Act Incorporating the Maisons
The Senate adjaurned.
Bank Pension Fund.--(Mr. Macdonald, B.0.)
Bill (52) An Act respecting the St. Clair
and Erie Sbip Canai Company.-(.%r. McCalium.)
THE SENÂTE.
Bill (44) An Act respecting the TilsonOttawa, Tue8day, April 15, 1902.
burg, Lake Erie and Pacifie Raiiway Cornpany.-(Mr. McCaiium.)
Tbe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
a'clock.
INCORPORATION 0F BOARDS 0F
Prayers and routine proceedings.
TRÂDE BILL.
SECOND READING.
Han. Mr. SCOTT moved second readlng (Bill S) An Âct ta amend the Âct
respecting the Incorporation af Boards of
Trade. He said :-The abject ta be attained
by the praposed amendment la ta enable the
boards at trade af the several towns of
British Columbia ta be Incarparated. OwIng
ta a section In the. RevIsed Statutes, Cap.
130, giving a Ilmited deflnition ta the word
'district' whicbi cannot be appiied ln British
Columbia, It bas been found necessary ta
Introduce an amendment affectlng only that
province. I propose at the next stage, when
the House goes Into commlttee, ta adopt
the suggestion of the bon. leader of the
opposition to extend It tao the Yukon, wbere
the conditions wiil be somewhat similar.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (U) An Act respecting the Western
Alberta
Ralway Campany.-(Hou. Mr.
Lougbeed.)
Bill (V) An Act ta Incorporate the Firat
National Bank of Canada.--(Hon. Mr. Lauderkin.)

'Bill (W) An Act respecting the St. Lawrence and Ad.lrondack Rallway Company.(Hon. Mr. Beique.)
Bill (X) An Act respectlng the Montreai
Bridge Ccompany.-(Hon. Mr. McSweeney.)
ANNUAL TRAINING 0F CANADIAN
MILITIA.
INQUIilY.
Han. Mr. LANDRY rase to Inquire:

The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
1. Whether lt la the intention of goverument
was rend the second tdne.
teoeil out the-miiitia-to do Its annual training
THE JOINT

COMMITTEES.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
notice tbat the House of Commons seem ta
be jealous of the number of their members
on the joint committees. As I understand,
a gentleman was placed on the PrInting
Committee, thougb not a member of the
House at the time, and bis name had ta be
struck off. Tbey bave now added hlm ta
the committee, since be has been re-elected.
I sbauid like ta know wben the hou. Secretary of State proposes ta caîl the Striking
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

lu camp as ordinarliy, or whether the officers
and non-commissloned officers only will be called
out for training this year ?
2. And ln the latter case, where wlll the exercises take place, and how long wll they last ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am advIsed by the
Departuient of Mihitia that the subject la
now under consideration.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the
the Day are calied, I wisb ta call
tion of the Speaker ta a notice
wblcb I gave on the 9tb of April,

Orders of
the atteno! motion
for Tues-

APRTE 15, 1902
day, lSth of April. It is on page 174 of the
Minutes and Proceedings of the Senate.
That motion does not appear on the Order
paper to-day, and I want to know why ?

iated to lead to 111-feeling between the two
Hlouses of parliament. I have given very
briefiy the reasons why I acted as I did.
If the bon, gentleman had given me notice
The SPEAKER-In reply to the bon, gen- that lie proposed to bring the matter up, I
tleman from Stadacona, I have to sar that should have prepared a written and more
this notice fias falled to appear for two or elaborate opinion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I shall give occasion
three reasons. The practice of the Senate
bas been that a notice shall be read by the to the bon. Speaiker to render his decision
member giving it, in his place, or that'the more elaborately, because I give the followmember shall state the substance of the Ing notice
notice. Neither of these eourses was adopted
On Thursday, April 17, 1902.
lit conuection with thîs notice. The notice,
Hon. Mr. Landry wiii move :
as I nm Informed by the Olerk, was fianded
That on Wednsday, the 9th Instant, about
ln just as the House wns about to adjourn, tour o'clock ln the atternoon, the Hon. Mr. Landry gave notice of a question hie lntended to
and it went on the Order paper without
put to the government. notice wfiich was handed
havlng been read by the Cierk. It ls the over to the Cierk of the Senate and which. was
duty of the Clerfi to examine the notices wc.rdecl as fcliows :
«For T uesday, April 15, 1902.
which are sent la, and If fie sees anythlng
By the Honourabie Mr. Landry :
objectionable lu- n notice, anytfiing that fie
'1.-April 9--That hie wll Inquireconsiders contrary to the order of the House,
WVfetfier tha goverament knows that there
to cail the attention of the Speaker to the was, qulte recentiy, tu the legisiature of Quebec,
a member who caused himse-if to be paid iargeiy
fact.
for hie good offices ln the distribution of minHon. Mr. 3IILLER-That is ln the House Isterial. patronage. by extorting from empioyees
$500 for keeping them In their
of Cumulons, le the rule the samne ln the sxuounts of causing himeel-f likewise to bie posipaid
tions, and
Senate ?
rather high amounts for new appointments, demandlug also an usurlous percentage for the
The SPEAKER-I say that ls the prac- remission to Individ'uels of fines incurred for Intice. It is the rule ln botfi Houses. The fractions of the lo.nse law, selling hie Influence
etther way or botfi ways, wfien
Clerk was busy and dld not fiav-e ie to and hie vote,question of supporting or of opposthere was a
appenred ing certain measures or of absenting fiimself at
read this notice, consequentiy It
convenient for
on the Order paper for the next day. On tInres the goveramient himseif ?that this toli-gate
Ignorant
1 Ie
the foiiowing day the Cierfi consulted me L-"eper flac row disappeared from the provincial
with respect to the matter, and I advlsed Ecene, and that fie le nxow ln pursuit of a more
federsi epherc
position ln
hum to omit the notice from thie Order lucrativethe Intention the the government ?to se.l Is t
of
paper. As to the reasons why I so advlsed cure for itef the services of this distinguished
empioy the
It intend
the Cierk, I may state that the hon, gentle- seccalist ?Z And dloesby the job to by the day ?
or
person narned Béland
man not fiaving given notice that fie preIf by the day, what wiii be the salary ?
' At what percentage, If by the job? '
posed to bring the matter up, I am n ot preThat the Olerk of the
pnred to give an elaborate opinion on the aforesaid .2otioe and haed it Senete eccepted the
reguiarly printed ln
subject. But I instructed the Cierk, as I the Minutes of Proceedings, of the Senate of Canada, number 18, uncler the head of Notices of
did for tfiese reasons : that, as I have ai- Motion, on the Ord-3r paper of Thursday, the 1Oth
ready said, the notice had not been given of April, Instant.
That the Cierk of tiie Senate in re.-eiving eucfi
ln what I considered the regular wny. In
bis
a notice and ln
the next pince that the notice deait wltfi simply foiiowed causig it to be publisfied sucfi
the custom laid dowa ln
a matter wfiich was not the business of this cases.
a notice of
House, and did flot come properiy before orTheta according totobeusage wfien it fixes motion
a date
put,
of
question
relate to any ef the for Its prasentation, is elways published. day by
'the House. It did flot
business of the House, and it ls a ruie that day until such fixed date.
weil
That. contrary
questions or notices which are not relevant aforesaid notice to thatbenn eettIed practîce the
suppressed and its
fias
to the business of the House shall fot fie publication lnterrupted since the 1Otfi Instant
the said month,
day
given and $hall not fie received. In the up to the l5tfifor Itsofreading before thewficf wa-s
Senate.
the day fixed
next pince--and the more Important reaThat the Order paper of the lSth Instant does
son-this notice was, in my judgment, out ijot contain the aforesatd notice.
That the striking out of tiiet notice fias been
of order, because It; reflected upon a meni- dons In the absence of an order of this House
ber of the other Chamber, and was caicu- and contrary to thie rights and privileges wfiicii

SENATE
tis Hause has always enjoyed in the dlrecto3 aalso wvith rny bon. frieud opposite, iii a large
Of Its own internai business.

Tliat this House condenins that unjustifiabE mensure, as to the propriety of the notice
Interference whlch bas been substltuted to iti Itself wbicb was stricken, by the order of
own autborlty and re-affirms its determtned ln -the Speaker, frorn the minutes.
Perhaps it
tenlian to maintain the proper exercise of it~
awas flot a notice wbicb shouid be placed
own rlghts and privileges.
The SPEAKER-I bave to inform the on the minutes of this House, aithougli
bon. member that unless tbe House dec.idei there was Much provocation for It by the
otberwise, I sball rule that that notice Is notice wbicb was placed on tbe minutes of
the otber House by a member of that
not ln order.
House. The Important point bere is this,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will tbe bon. the however, wbether the Speaker bas, once a
Speaker inform us w-by It is flot ln order ? motion bas got on the ýminutes of the
The SPEAKER-I have already toid the House, power to order the Clerk to strike
that motion off. 'Pbe Speaker of *theHouse
bon, gentleman.
of Gommons undoubtediy bai thiat power.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I amn making a mo- He May, w-bile a motion
Is belng rend, give
tion.
bis opinion that it is .not ln order;, tliat It
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harnilton)-I rise to a coatains Irrelevant or improper matter, and
question of order. Tbe bon, gentleman bas tbat it must be a!mended or refused,
been told by tbe Speaker tbat tbe question but I do not believe It would be possible
wbich be wlsbes to put on tbe paper Is not for the bon, gentleman to sbow any autborIn order, I contend tbat that Is quite suffi- lty wbere sucb power is given eitber to the
cent, and tbe bon, gentleman bas no rigbt Speaker of tbe House of Lords, or the
Speaker of the Canadien Senate. I bad octo question tbe decision of the Speaker,
casion to consider this matter w-heu I w-ns
-Hon.
Mr. LÂNDRY-I amrn ot questioning Speaker of this House,
and w-bile I found
tbe decîsion of the Speaker. I arn asking it to
be a practice tbat the Speaker 0f
bim to tell me w'by tbat notice is flot In or- tbe Comme-ns
bad the power wbicb Is
der, and I bope the Speaker understands claimed, by
the Speaker of tbis House, I
tbe matter better tban the bon. gentleman could fiud no
autbority to justify the
from Hamilton.
assumption of any such pow-er as the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Every one must recog- Speaker bas exet'clsed on the present occanize tbat this Is a very cowardly attempt sion. I regret that this motion w-as placed
to libel and siander a member of the atber on the minutes of our House, because 1 do
House, and I tbink it Is qulte beneath tbe nofr tbink it is desirable to place motions
dignity.0f tbls House. Tbe bon, gentleman on our Orders w-hicb might cause recriminaproposes to make a charge, under bis prîvi- tions and bitterness betweea both Houses
lege as a member, that be would not make of parliament. .Had the question been prooutside of this Chamber, and I do not tbiuk perly brougbt up by HIs Honour the
it ls proper for tbis Chamber to lend Itseif Speaker, or by any member of the House,
to an attempt of that kind. It wouid lead I tbiuk tbe probability Is tbe motion would
to bitter feeling between the two Chambers, have been strieken off our Orders. But it Is
If we attempt to discuss a charge wbich another question to aliow the Speaker to
could not be proved, and I tbink the hon. assume an authority w-bich bas neyer becu
gentleman should wit*hdx-aw the motion un- exercised hithe-to, as I believe, and as 1
der tbe ruling of the Speaker-. I trust lie wll believe, until I see some autbority to
the contrary-a power w-hicb bas certainly
wll not attempt to force it.
never been assumed by the Speaker of this
Hon. Mr. MILLER-The matter is a i-ery Flouse before. This Is
the first Instailce of
serions one. I agree with His Hlonour the the kind, and If
ailowed to pass witbout
Speaker tbat it Is necessitry to rend a no- comment would
estabUIsh a precedent not
tice of motion befoî-e handin, it ln to be justified by the
usage of the Senate.
piaced on the minutes of Our proceedings, 1 think it wouid
flot be wise to pass
and I do not know whether that cour-se w-as this matter over
lightly, but if w-e are
adopted ln this instance or not. If lt w-as to establish a precedent
It sbould be done
not, it wýas certainly an lrregularity. I agree accoa-dîng to the miles
of tbe House. I perH-on. Mr. LANDRY.

APRIL 15, 1902
haps migbt think that the Speakero! this
House should be given more authority iii
relation ta sucb matters as tbe one we are
now considering, but I would wish it to be
done by an alteration of our rule, or ln some
way to bave the autbority of the bead of
the House praperly defined, and jiot liabie
to discussions of tlis kind.
Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-1 do flot
'tbink there le anythlng ln our raies that
authorizes the Speaker to decide such a
question, and If the House will look at May,
page 186, they will see quite the cantrary.
He saya :
The position of the Speaker of the House etf
Lords is soinewhst snomalous, for though he is
the president of a deliberative ass3mbly, he is
invested with noa more authortty than any othair
niember.
Therefore the Speaker had no right to do
Nrbat lie bas done ln this instance. 1 think
this authority Is sufficient to show that the
Spéaker had no power to settie sucli a question. It is only thia House could decide It.

Hon. GENTLEMEN-Henr, hear.

The SPEAKER-lt Is not in conformity
with the dignity of this House that sucb a
notice as the one ln question should appear
upon Its minutes. The House at large bas
fia opportunity to stop the appearauce of
sucb a notice, and it Is the duty of tbe Clerk
and of the Speaker to see that fia imliroper
1 connotice appeara upon aur papers.
sidered It my duty, and a very disagreeabie
duty I feit it ta be, ta Interfere and prevent
the further appearance of that notice. The
course suggested by the hon, gentleman
from Ricbmond is the praper one ta be
taken. If the bon. gentleman from Stadacona. feels aggrieved at the opinion wivbi
I bave expressed that I should not allow tluis
notice ta appear on the minutes, he has bis
remedy in an appeal ta the House, and I
quite agree with the bon. genfleman from,
Richmond lu thinking it desirable that tbere
should be an expression of the opinion of the
Senate an the question. If the Senate decide that this notice should appear, I shali
Hon. Mfr. MILLER-The best way would
be satisfied. On the other band, If tht<Y
be. to more non-concurrence ln the Speakeras tbInk. that it is such a notice as sbould not
ruling, flot that I bave a desire to bave an appear, I shaîl be better satisfied.
adverse ruling ta the Speakees decision, but
I think the matter Is an important one, and
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I do nat wish ta proI would not be averse to giving the Speaker long this discussion, because I do not knlow
greater power with reference to improper wbetber the bon, gentleman who bas just
or Irrelevant motions piaced on the paper.
glven the notice of motion desires ta test
Hon. 31r. DeBOUCHERVILE-I want ta the sense of the House on the question,
but I cannot see wbat application ta the
read furtber from May:
Upon points of order If a peer, lie may addTess point really at Issue a great many o! the
the House, tbouga If flot a member bis office is remarks of tbe ban. Speaker have. In -the
limited to the putting af questions, and other firat place, It makes no difference wbetber
fermai proceedings.
the Speaker of the Hanse o! Lords is a peer
The SPEAKER-I may say tbat there Is or not. We ail know the Speaker of the
a littie difference between the position of Hanse of Lards need nat be a peer.
A
the Speaker af t'his House and the Speaker celebrated Instance an record Is that of
af the House of Lords.' The Speaker of the Lard Braugham wha sat twenty-four bours
Lords la flot necessarily a peer or a member on the woolsack without being made a
of the House. Gentlemen bave acted as peer. Besides, I wish ta say that I have
Higli Chancellor of England wha have no doubt tbat His Honour thé Speaker,
not been members of the House of ln the course lie pursued, acted wltb the
Lords, and there la a reason wby the single desire of maintalning the dignity o!
Speaker there may flot do thinga wbich the the Hause and preventing improper mations
Speaker bere may do. I quite agree witb from appearing on aur paper.
I do flot
the bon. gentleman from Richmond that the w.ish ta attrIbute any other motives ta 'the
Speaker of tbis House has not the autbority Speaker, but es I think this la a question
which tbe Speaker of the House of Com- on wblch there must be strong differences
mons bas, but my view* Is tbat the Sepaker o! opinion froni the Speaker foy men wbo
la the member of this Hause wbo accupies have given parliamentary usage sanie study,
the Chair and who Io cbarged witb the duty it wauld be weii that the notice o! motion
should not be ailowed ta go on the minutes,
of protecting the dignity of the House.

SENATE
that it mîglit be fully discussed when ii ttold iuy motion was set aside'because 1
coules Up on a future occasion. I do noi t dld flot comply witli the practice and usage
tbink we sh'ould establish a precedent con. o f this flouse, or
of the House of Lords.
trary to the usages of the flouse, and whict
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I shouid like to ask
no mntter liow It may be decided, Is of th(
hig.hest Importance; It sliould be as authori. the hon. gentleman if lie Is quoting front
tatively decided now tliat it lins arisen foi *the practice of the House of Commons or
the House of- Lords ?
the first time.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tlie paper I have
lianded to the Clerk Is a notice of mxotion
for Tliursday next. I do not as]. by that
notice tliat my former notice of motion
be put ln the minutes of the House. I ask
only that this House sliould affirm Its
riglits and privileges ln reserving for Itself
the power to strike- out or -declare that
notices of motion or motions are out of
order. My motion is only to aiiirm tbat
this Flouse is wIllIng and determlned to
stand by itsý own privileges and riglits. i
am riot asking nt ail to have that motion
put la the minutes. His Honour the Speaker
said my former notice of motion was refused for tliree reasons. First, because I
lianded the motion to tlie Clerk of the
House witliout readlug it. If that -le a
good reason, then the question that I put
'to-day was irregularly l)rinted on the order
paper. I gave another notice to-day-just
to-day.
Tlie goverament answered that
question. and let it be known that that last
question was put ln tlie same way ln tlie
order paper ns any former one I ever
gave notice of.
Generally I neyer read
the motions of whicli I give notice.
I
genernlly sead tliem oi-er to the Table of
the flouse, and that is the usage that bas
prevalled a long time. If the lion. Speaker
wvlil look ln the debates of 1875, lie will
find n decision given by the Speaker of the
day, the Hon. Mr. Cliristie, wlio said there
wtcs no rule on that question, tliat some
members read their motions and some bianded them over to the Clerk of the flouse, and
If we consuit May on that special question,
wlint do w-e find ? May says :
Public notice may be given o! an Intended
motion If the time of the House be not otherwiî-z
engaged atter the consideration of private business la concluded and before the commencement

public business, or subsequently after the
close of public bu3in,-,ss. Notice of motion may
also be given at any time during tbe sittiag o!
the flouse, hy deliveriag the terms o! the motion

-o!

ln writing at the Tahle.
That le -wbat I did, and I did It ln conformlty
with May and the usage, and now I arin
Hon. Mr. MILLER.

lion. Mr. LANDRY-It is uiuler the chai)ter 'Method and order for transactio:i of
business ln parliament,' and w-e Enîd here ln
that chapter that the division of the orders
coming before the House ls ns follows :
When the House meets'on ordinary occasions,
daily prayers havlng heen read, the private and
pub'lic business of the Huuse is taken, in their,
appointed order. 1. Prlvate business. 2. Publie
petitions. 3. Unopposed motions for returns.
*..4.
Motions for leave of absence. 5. Notices of motion. 6. Questions by members. 7
Motions of the adjourament of the flouse under standing order.
The fifth order of routine business is notices
of motion, annd notnvItlstanding that particulnr phase of the publie business of the
flouse, lt Is noted by the author that notices
of motion .mny also be given at any tîmne
durIng the sitting of the flouse, by deliverlng the terms, of the motion la writing nt
the Table. That Is on page 2.30. At page
225 of May, we find the followlng :
On the morning following a sltting of the
flc-use the record of the transactions of the past
sltting styled the Votes and Procecdings ls Leiivered at every member's residence, together
with the Notice paper o! the flouse, which contains the appointed business for the next sitting, bath private and public, together with th-l
notices o! motion wvbich were banded in at the
Table during the past sltting.
I think, nt
matter, If
and I find
is settled
alone.

ail eveuts it should be a disputed
we cnnnot ngree on that point.
It strange that n disputed matter
by the ipse dixit of one man

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thie hiou. gentleman
has flot answ-ered mny question.
Hon. Mr. LANDlLY-I am quoting fromi
May, from the chapter that applies to both
Houses, and 1 do flot see wby 1 should
make a distinction w-len the author himself
does flot mnke-any. He does flot apply it
solely to the House of Commons, but to
botli Houses, and itisefor that reason tliat I
rend the cliapter from xýh!ch I quote,
'Method and order for transaction of business ln parlia ment,' not ln the flouse of
Lords, not in the flouse of Commons, but

APRIL 15. 1902

in parliament. The same nutlior at page
206 bias the foilowing:
Interference on the part of the House with
tbEse questions la of infrequent occurrence, but
on one occasion, June 7, 1858, when a noble lord.
proposcid to renew a notice of putting certain
questions the House resolved-Not the Speaker.
- the flouse resolved that the said questions had
been s-ufficientiy answered and ought mot to be
reuewed.
'Who gave the decision ? Was It the Speaker or was It the House ? Then on page 232
we find the foiiowing :
'As the notice paper la published by authority
of the House, a notice of a motion. or of a question to be put to a member containing unbecoming expressions Intringlng its rulea or
otherwise Irregular, may, under the Speaker's
order, be corrected by tlte clerk at the Table.
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-For a question to
lie put to a member, says May, the iregularities must lie corrected at the Table.
Further% on lie gays that the House,
also by order, dlrected that a notice of
motion be taken off the notice paper. The
House, by an order, lias directed that
a notice lie taken ont of the paper. Tliat
la the Honse, not the Speaker. I amn
quoting this té show that the first reason
given, and perhaps the second reason aisé,
ln my humble opinion, does flot apply to the
present case. Wliat I am asking to-day la
only what thîs House lias always enjoyedthe riglit to Interfere ltself In those motions.
The motion, the Speaker gays, appeared
to lie ont of order. I do not dlaim tliat It
was ln order; my contention la, that If It
is ont of order the only thlng ta do la to
cail tlie attention of the Speaker ta the fact.
The Speaker may rule, and If bis ruiing la
accepted by the House, then It ls an order
of the House that la given, and the motion
must lie expunged fron. the Order paper;
but to do the thlng outalde of the House,
when the notice lias been already printed,
when It la ln possession of the House, I
think la an Irregular proceedlng, and it la
for that reason I have gîven notice of motion to-day. The han. Speaker's lastreason
la because it reflects on aL member of the
Hanse of Gommons. Any one who will attentlvely read the motion wll flnd it dîfficuit to conclude that that affects a member
of the Hanose of Goàjmons. Wliere daes that
motion attack a member of the Honse of

Commons ? Somebody may jump ta conclusions, but no one can see on the face of the
notice prima facle evidence that It is a reflection on the conduct of a member of the
Rouse of Commons. It is nothing of the
kind. Take a stranger who knows nothing
about the composition of the two Houses and
give hlm the motion to read, and lie wIll
neyer discaver that It attacha a member of
the House of Commons. At ail events, If
the Speaker was led ta that conclusion by
wliat lie knew outside of the motion itself,
If lie was under the Impression that it was
really a motion out of order, I claini that
under those circuinstances itw~as bis duty to
cali t'he attention of the House to the fact,
and this House would bave to decide the
matter. The Speaker complains that lie was
not notified that I Intended ta bring- this
matter up to-day.
The SPEAKE11-I did not complain; 1
simpiy stated the fact.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Tlie motion Itself
said It was coming up to-day. '%Vas T notilied, wlien lie struck it ont of the Minutes
of Proceedings ? _Np one had the courtesy
to notify me. Had I been asked to take
It out, I miglit have yieided. Had it been
explained to me that the notice was ont of
order, I wouid have withdrawn It. My motion is made to-day merely to affirni the
privileges of this House, and not to have
the motions put ln the Minutes of ProceedIngs of this House.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (H-amiiton)-If the
speech of the lion. gentleman were followed
out to its logical conclusion, It wonld sumply mean anything couid be put on the minutes of this House, no natter how offensive
to anybody Inside or outside of parliament,
and therefore I think it shonld be decided
now who la the proper party to protect the
dignity of this Chamber. So far as 1 caii
see, the Speaker ls perfectly justified ln
giving Instructions to the Clerk té refuse
to allow anything to appear on the journals
of the House that 1s utterly opposed to what
is straightforward, upriglit and honourabie,
or aff ectlng a gentleman lu the other House.
We should assert the rIglit of the Speaker
to be the protector of the dignity of this
House, because If the lion, gentleman were
to carry ont bis idea, the most offensive
things miglit appear on the minutes, and

SENATE
tbey couki flot be objected to until they sulting the Hlouse.
It was the property of
aPPeared. That should flot be, and the the House, and shouid have
been deait with
Speaker is the only one who should have by the flouse. I am
not finding fault wlta
the riglit to expunge anythlng of the kind. I the Speaker in this Instance.
He acted, no
simply make these remarks because I thlnk doubt, as lie thouglit best under
the clrcurnthe lion, gentleman ls pushîng bis position stances, but we should express
our sense
aitogether too far. In the first place, the of the fact that thie flouse
governs Itself,
motion sliould have neyer been made. I do and that the Speaker only
bas the power
flot think tlie Speaker would have objected given blm and no more.
There is a
to the manner In whicli it was made, If It difference between this flouse
and the
wvas not for the substance of the resolution 'House of Commons. The tact that
I'am adItseif.
dressing you, bon, gentlemen, and flot the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe hon. gentleman Chair, ls sufficient to show tliat ln the posiaa be riglit in wlslng that the Speaker tion of the flouse towards the Speaker
should have that power, but that wish of and the position of the Speaker towards us,
bis proves of itself that the Speaker has not we dIffer from the other flouse. If we grant
this, mucli to the present Speaker, another
actualiF the desired powver.
Speaker may wisli- to encroacli ou our
Hon. '-%r. POIRIER-I thlk our Speaker priviieges
again. It is a delicate point, and
deserves coxnmendation for the zeal lie bas the Speaker
will permit me to say. ivithout
shown lu protectling the dignlty of tlie appearing
Ito recrIminate, that lie lias aiIlouse.
*
The motion of my hion. frlend ready encroached
too mucli on our privishould not bave been printed lu our min- leges
In the matter of our mileage. It lias
utes. That being granted, so far as 1 arn
been decided by competent auýthorities sucli
concerned, and I belleve it is the opinion of
as Sir John A. Macdonald, Sir John Abbott
the House aiso, tlie other point ls a serions
and Sir John Thompson, that we bave no
one. It affects the relative position of the
jurisdiction outside of the provinces of
Speaker and the Hlouse. It is a question of Canada
; that our mlleage should be paid
priiIege, and It is therefore qulte proper
by tihe distance travelled witbln the Domintliat we shouid deal with that question Ia- I.on,
that whatever we may do outside of the
teiligently and calmlyv. My opinion In this Dominion,
parliament bas no jurlsdiction
matter is, tbat tbe motion should not bave over
ItL Our Speaker took jurisdlction lu
been gli-en at ail, but the diligence of the deciding
the mileage question ln a different
Speaker. whicli I have just been praising, way.
Our Speaker, to Rny knowledge, went
mit
have been exercised hefore. so as not further
and took upon himself to locate one
to allow the motion to appear on the Orders. member
of this flouse as living et a certain
Tlie SPEAKER-I knew notblng about It place, wblle lie was actualiy living lu anuntil It appeared on the Orders.
other place. By thus changing the place of
Hon. 'Mr. POIRIER-According to the residence of a member to make a saving of
ordinary course of things, the Speaker expendIture, lie wnonged th-at anember of
miglit have known.
I am not attaching our bouse. This is another Ilttie encroacliblame to lim. He was supposed to bave ment but Ilttie encroacliments aggregate a
known. We are bere dlscusslng a question big encroachment_ My opinion is that the
of privilege, and it Is just as well that every flouse sbould express its sense of Its privîlone of us should express bis opinion, In eges, wlth ail the respect whlch we owe to
my opinion, supposIng the Speaker had the Speaker, and which lie certainly deknown of the nature of the motion, lie serves, s6 that some. fixed mile sbould be
should have prevented It from belng prlnted establlihed.
and reported to the House. But once on our
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--It seems hardiy right,
minutes, it becomes the property of tbe
where a point of -order ls belng dlscussed, to
flouse. I am one of lah9se wlio have the
brlng In sucb an Illustration as the one the
greatest respect for the Speaker, but I arnm
bon, gentleman lias brought Into this mat.convinced that lie should flot have taken It t
:er. It is an entireiy different question,
upon bimself to strike that notice from, the
ind cannat affect this question at ail. The
Order paper on blis own motion, wlt.bout couion, gentleman did flot seem to me to be
Hon. Mr. WOOD.

.APRIL 15, 1902
making bis observations with bis usual its functions to deai witli the matter, nor the
fairness wben, even hy innuendo. lie refers Speaker placed liiself ln a position to eubI tblnk the House
to the action of the Speaker. The dlfficulty jeet hlm to criticisin.
improper action of the lion. sliould retain ail the powers vested lu it,
arises from'the
gentleman from Stadacona hlmselt ln the according to the autbority laid down, and
way hie brouglit ln bis motion. Had lie should not abdicate auy of those riglits to
Comadopted the ordiuary practice of the House, wliicli it le eutitled. Iu the House of
lu possession mous It: is different The ruie there prethe House would have been
notice of
of the whoie matter. But lie did flot do ceeiy provIdes (Rule 31) tînt a
ou the motio*n may be handed lu nt the table of tbe
that. He got It lu some other way
record. and the Speaker takIng notice of House. Therefore a' distinction evidently
It, as Speaker of tbe House, deait wlth it obtains hetween the practice of tbe Senate
as it stands. It Is only fair to regard that and the practice of the House of Commons,
vlew of the question dealing wlth the case. and lu overlookiug that distinction the
I rose, however, rather to protest againet bion. gentleman froni Stadacona bas made a
thie hou. gentleman's Introduction of au en- mistake.
tlrely different matter whlch by no proper
Mr. MILLER-When a motion apway could affect this question at ail. 1 feei 1Hon.
peare on the Minutes, 'wlether rfght or
this way about It, that the Speaker acted,
wroug, bas It been removed ln the proper
there being nobody else to act. at thie riglit
way ? Tliat le tlie simple point.
tIme. and wbether lie Is strlctiy lu accordthe practice or not, It seems to
ance wlth
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-IL bave
me that lie ls tnking action that the House corne to tbe conclusion tliat this discussion
mnust sustain. If It wants to proteet lis own will bave a good eff ect lu the future. 1
*digni-ty.
bave long beeu of tbe opinion, since I bave
Hon. Mr. LOUGEr!ED-The dlfficulty In l 'ad tbe lionour of a seat ln tîls House, that
this particular matter lias arisen froi niy tbe Speaker le not vested wi.tb sutticlent
bon. friend from Stadacona mlsinterpreting power to coutrol sud to maintain the digwhat is tlie rule and practice of this House nity of this House. Had lie had that power,
wlth reference to notices of motion. The I ha~Ve no doulit lie would bave called the
practîce Is very cleariy laid down lu Bouri- Secretary of State to order a f ew moments
not,. page 366, that a notice ot motion sliould ago wlien lie accused a Senator of acting
from a cowardly and libellous motive lu
be read before being handed to tlie Cierk :
notice of a briuglng tint notice before tlie Senate.
When a Senator intends to give
miotion it !s usual for hlm to rise lu bis place Caiiing a member a coward la not, I tbiuk,
at the tirne fixed for routine business and read wvithln tlie strict miles of proprlety and dothe notice whlch la lianded to the clerk s0 that
it may appear ln lis proper place on the minutes. corum. If the Speaker *had the power lie
from
I amn sorry I caunot accede to the posi- miglit also liad told the lion. member
mules
tion taken. by the lion. gentleman from Hamilton, tbat wlienever a Speaker
riglit
Stadacona as to bis riglit to liand the no- upon a question, auy member bas the
to that ruling,
at tbe Table. It la quite apparent If to rise lu bis place and object
tice
That is
the notice le banded lu at the Table, the and at tlie ame tIme to discue it.
The
-Cierk of tlie House canot exercise lis dis- laid down clearly lu the aut-horities.
lion. member from St. John, I tbluk, laid
cretion as to wlietlier It sliould appear on
ln mefereuce to
the motion paper or not. If the notice of down the correct principle
of discussion upon questions of ibis kiud : that
motion. ls read, the House ls tbeu seized
bave becu
-the motion, and upon any hon. gentleman irrelevant matter sbouid not
brouglit lu. Had the Speaker the poWer
risiug to a point of order, the question cau
of tbe. House
be decided as to wliether It le lu order or whicli le vested lu the Speaker
of Commous, lie no doulit would bave called
flot. If Hie Honour the Speaker, wltli
liebaid drawn atten-cioeèd doors, had pointed out to tlie House hlm to order by saying
the tion to a matter aside from the question bethat a notice of motion had appeared on
ln this House
Order paper wliicb was ciearly out of order, fore the Chair. The practice
le not exactly the same as -tbat ln tlie Com-the House would bave pronounced upon the
-question, and would not thus have abdicated mone.

SENATE
1 bave given notices of motion, and bande d the paper. I arn qulte sure it
did the lion.
thera to the Clerk after the House rose, bu t gentleman from Stadacous
no banm. Any
In most cases *i h ave read tliem from m' y one wbo wiil study it wlIR find
that there
seat, and I think after this discussion tha .t Is notblug lu It unusual. Apart
from tbat, 1
ail future difficulties wUll be avoided If w e arn rather pleased that this
discussion lias
lay down that practice and adhere to It. l'ail ataken place, and I think If we act upon
the
quite lu -accord
wlth the bon. gentiemai n suggestion of the bon. member from Richfrom Richmond tbat some action sbould b e mond-eitber by a tacît understanding or
taken by wbicb the Speaker should havi e by so amending our milesthe power to rifle out of order any questioî
that lie considers contrary to thie usages, 0] 1 Hon. M. MILLER-Ameud tbe ruIes.
calculated to lnterfere ln any way wltb th e Hon. Sir
MACKENZIE
dignIty of tbe House. I arn strongly of tbai t1to give tbe Speaker tbat BOWELL-So as
power that lie lias
opinion, but the point la wbetber, under th Sexercised,
and wbicb cannot be questioned,
circumastances, the Speaker, bas flot acted
thea It
ln a way that lie la not iikeiy to repeal tcleariy would be his duty, as laid down
In May, wben a motion Is rend that
after tbls discussion. Tbat ne acted ln a
lie tblaks Is ont of order, or reflects upon
conscientions nianner, I bave flot tbe sllgbt
any gentleman lu tbls House, or any one
est doubt.
Bourinot lays down tbe ruIe
else, toi caîl the attention of tbe Senate to
tbat no notice can be placed ou tbe Order
it, and the senator could decide ns to wlîetal)er whlch reflects upon any member of
tber It sbould remain on the Orders or not.
liorlianient.
Whether tbls motion did or
îiot 1 amn not prepared to say, for the After this discussion, and tbe general understauding aud feeling tbat prevails, I lhope
simple reason, speakiug for myseif mndiniy lion. friend froni Stadacoina wiil liot
vidually, wben I read tbe motion l- was
as Ignorant as a chid nborn, aud I persist ln tbe motion of wbich lie bas given
found other senators lu precisely tbe sanie notice. He bas accomplislted the object
position, aud I could not kuow until I made be bad ln vIew, and haviug doue so, lie
sbould be satisfIed, and we wlll avoid any
special inquiry, tbat the gentleman whose
name appeared lu that motion was a mem- furtber acrlmonious discussions on a quesber of the House of Commous. Then I tion of tbis klnd. I would sulimIt to a good
examined the records toi ascertain wbat had deal froni the Speaker, even If lie did exbeen done lu the House of Commons, aud ceed bis duty to a certain extent, for the
found that a notice bad beeu placed on the reason tbat I tbink that bis Influence for
notice paper of alniost a similar cbaracter, good would be materially affected If we,
and I found tbat that gentleman had madd even tboughb le were wrong, placed on the
au attack upon the senator froni Stada- records a motion of censure. A case like
cona. Do flot uuderstand me to say that tbat wblcb gave hirfi a reason for dolng
because a member of the House of Commons wbat he dld will not, 1 arn sure, occur again,
did that wbich was wroug, a member of thIs aud consequently be will not lie placed lu
House sbould follow tbe same Une. On the a position to mepeat It. Ir 1 migbt gis-e adcontrary, we should set tbem an example vice, I would advise the bon, gentleman to
of gentlemanly conduct, and teacli tbem at let tbis matter drop, as I tbiuk It would
least better manners. But ou readiug that lie la tbe Interests of the dignity of tlie
motion on tbe minutes of the House of Com- House.
nionts, I failed to see tbat tbere was auytblug
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Witbdraw,
witliparticular lu ItL The gentleman inquired
diràw.
whetlier tbe bon, gentleman was pald as a
Hon. M1r. LANDRY-I do not see liow I
census commissioner. It would be, I presume, for organization purposes lu auy par- could witbdraw tbe motion. If the bon.
ish lu the couutry. Tbat was quite legiti- Speaker la wilIing not to mule on tbe case,
mate and proper, but the gentleman I arn willing to wlthdraw my notice of
tbougbt, I suppose, that lie could bave wbat motion.
ruiglit be ternied a bot attack ou a member
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Wilbdraw,
wltliof this House, by putting sucb a notice on
draw.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 15, 1902
Han. Mr. DANDURAND-I do nat see
that there ls anything before the Honse. A
notice of motion bas been given ;It bas
been ruled out of order, and there bas been
no appeal froni that decision. There
1s
natbing now before the Hanse, and I understand the generai consensus of opinion 1s
that the Speaker was right la deciding as
he did, becanse tbe notice af motion had
nat been read. If that notice af motion
biad been read, the Hanse at the time would
bave been able ta act npon It ; either a
mnember of the House or the Speaker biniseif
could have deciared that the motion was ont
of arder, but that notice of motion having
been slipped la withont baving been read,
we ai comrnend the action of the Speaker
ln protecting the dignity o! the Hanse by
not aliowing It ta be entered la the minutes
of the Hanse.
Hon. '.%r. 3IcCALLUi%-I do nat 'wisb ta
say anytblng on the point of order, bnt 1
feel strangly with the Speaker da this matter.
Stili, he made one mistake. In my
opinion he sbonld not bave taken the notice
froxa the Order paper witbout consulting
the Honse. That ia the oaly thing, and I
ama sure after the discussion which bas
taken place be wvill not do s0 again-that
ho wiil cansuit the Hanse before takIng
anything off tbe proceedings of tbe Hanse.
I have every confidence la the Speakerls
destre ta do wbat Is right. I 'want to support hlm, but I do not want ta make hlmi
an eiperar.
Af ter this discussion I ani
sure no sncb thing wiil take place again.
I think tbe motion had better be withdrawn.
~We do not want ta censure the Speaker. He
'made a littie mistake, and we are ail lhable
'ta do that sometimes.

THE CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENÂTE.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the adoption
of the 2nd report of the Standing Conimlttee on Internai Economy and Contingent
ÂAccaunts.
Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I wisb ta
express my dIsapprovai of the last part or
:this report which re'commends that one of
the messengers la the readIng room be
rernaved ta another place. There is a grent
deai of work ln that reading room, and
takes twa men'a tume. One cannot be there
during the *wbale day. There are a grent
mnany papers to be sorted and looked after;
there are two messengers ln the Hanse of
Commons reading room, and I have been
assured ithat those men are occupied thc
wbole of the time. There are 'the sanie
number of papers there as are ln the Senate
room and If there are two mien required ln
the Commons, then there are two men requIred ln the Senate and I sbanld like
the commIttee, fot ta int on Ithis part of
the report, but let the present arrangement
Âfter the session da over, of
continue.
course one of those men goes ta the messengera room and ls not In the readlng room
at ail, sa that theie la no econamy ln the
matter. It is aniy a questian af giving
assistance for three *monl3hs ln the reading
raom. I da not; know the feeling of thc
Honse la the matter. Those mernbers wbo
go ta the reading room knaw the amount of
work ta be donc there. The room cau not
be left alone. Some one must be there ail
the trne, and one man cannot be there
canstantly. I should like the committee to
drap that part If they feel justified la
doing 80.

Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-With reference to
that, part of the report, I imay say that it
ls a recomimexdation fram the Printlng
Committee.
The Contingent Committee
bave no contrai af the messenger ln the
reading roam. It la the Stationery Cammittee, and they reported that they couid
do with one man ln the reading room on
condition rthat he were relieved for an hour
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn wIihing to with- or twa each day ta, go ta, bis meals. The matter was brought up la this way. A request
'draw.
was made by the ohief messenger for
The notice was withdrawn.
fnrthei' assistance and the question of
Han. SIr MiACKENZIE BOWELL-I thiuk
that the suggestion made by the hon, gentleman tram Stadacona 1s easlly reached.
If he wonld ask permission ta witbdraw tbe
motion of whicb he bas given notice, the
Speaker's ruiing draps, and there Is an end
of it.

SENATE
economy of course, was considered, and it of salary of the different clerks anid emwas thought that there 'was no particular ployees. For tIstance, men who were mesneceslty for two men to be ernployed In aengers* had their salaries increased, and
the readhng room, and one certainly cari do some of them whoae occupation waa very
ail the work. Of course, it la quite neces- ltttle more than that of an ordinary labourer
sary that he should be relieved for two or had a large Increase, much to the horror of
three hours ln the day, but it was under- the economical Secretary of State, and constood that Borne one messenger shouid go to sequently thoae who controlled. the old comnthe readlng room and relieve the messenger mittee were condemned for extravagance.
ln charge during ment lîours, and there la do0 I flnd that one of the firat reporta brouglit
doubt as far as the work Is concerned, It can down to this House la to Iricrease tbe salary
always be performed by the one mari who of a packer, an ordtnary man who cari nati
la In charge of the reading room. I do flot n few boards together or pack up a few
thtnk, it ta fair to compare the reading room boxes. This economical committee appointo! the Senate with that of the House of ed at the Instance of the goverriment who
Commons. As long as so'me peraon la there want to control the expenditure for whtch
tri charge to eee thbat papers are not takeri the goverament are held responaible--at
from the room which will not be returned, least, s0 he told us at the ttme--reports
or that extracts are flot cut out of papers, as followa :
it appears to me that la ail we can ask for,
' Your committee recommend that the
and there la no doubt that It: will be a aalary of Wma. O'Nell, packer tIn the strimatter of ecoriomy to have only one persori tlonery office, be tncreaaed from $600 to
lni charge of the readtng room.
I think $650 a year, auch Increase to, date from
the Stattonery Committee fully understand the SOth June.'
the dattes to be performed by the gentleman
That ta commendable. It la only to comln charge and fuliy uriderstand that If a mence from next year, anid It does flot inmessenger Is allowed to go tri there for clude the laat year ; but I could flot resiat
two or three hours each day to relieve the the duty whtch I thought devolved upon me
man tin charge, that the papers will be and each senator, to cait the attention of
protected and we wIli have the use of an the Secretary of State to the fact that they
extra measeriger who Is now employed lri rire responsible, according to his own showthe readirig room.
Ing, for thia moristrous increase that he
Hon. Str MACKENZIE BOWELI,-r amn ad took place lni the past. There were
fully tn accord with that portion of the re- certainly noue of them to equal thts. I arn
port, from what experlence I have had tln riot prepared to say I would vote againat
the readirig room and the amount of work givIng thia mari $650 for the work, but I
to be done. The measenger can be better must aay there are thousanda of men lai
uttlized duririg the session of parliament by this Dominion who would be glad to takie
the head messenger ln attending to the belîs, the position of a packer, which requires
because we somettmea have to watt, and no special akili, for $650 a year, which ta
complaints have beeri made tri that respect. the corisideratIori paid ordiriarily to a skilled
That, of course, la due to the messengers mechanic. I hope the hon. Secretary of
belig taken away from the hlousekeeper. State will control those gentlemen wlo
If thla were not done, a new mani would support the govennment tin future, arid flot
have to be put on the staff. I dealre to aliow them to put their handa Into the
cati the attention of the Secretary of State coffera of thia Dominion and deplete theni
and the Senate to one portion of that para- by acta of this -irid.
graph. It wtll be ln the recollection of those
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Iri reply to the hon.
who were present, that the hon. Secretary leader of the opposition, I may say that we
of State took very atrong grounds tri refer- are purauirig a policy of economy, because
erice to the- goverrimerit havlng coritrol of he must admit that lni making the changes
the Contingent Accourits Commîttee, on ac- we are takung a measenger out of the rendcount of the extraordunary extravagance of Ing room, thus aaving about $400 a year,
the old commIttees, arid lri tnstancung that, because he bas been empîoyed tri the readspeciai attention was called to the increase ing room ail the year round, and bis services
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

APRIL 15, 1902
wiii be availabie to answer the ring of the
bell, and we wili save the expense of an
additional messenger. If we save $400 ini
that way, and increase one saiary by $50
a year, we are saving something. I understand O'Neil is a man skiiled In the Stationery Department, and qulte an assistant
to Mr. Young, being a practical man and a
good paclier as well, and it was recommended to our committee that his salary lie
lncreased. I understand lie la entitied to
some increase. He lo oniy getting the same
Increase as other members empioycd a similar time In the service.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I was not liere when
this discussion tooli place, and I do flot
know exactiy what was said, but I assume
that the point 1 arn raing bas not been
raised. I feel that one of our employees la
suffering a bardsbip-very lkely it is unintentionai, but hie suffers a hardship. I refer
to paragrapli 4, wbich reads as foilows:Your committee, atter fully .considering the
duties performed by two messengers ln the
reading room, recommended that the said duties
be performed as formerly by Mr. Win. Lambkln
without any assistance, and that Mr. Arthur
Ralph return to his duties as messenger.
The facts of the matter are these : When
Mr. Lambkin went to South Africa to figlit
for his country, Queen and empire, hie was
replaced by Mr. Ralpli, witb the idea that
sliould hie return hie would get bis position,
wbich was quite correct and fair. He did.
thank God, return safe, and was restored
to bis position ; but Mr. Raipli, who replaced
hlm, who durlng is absence In South Africa
liadt been taken from the packing. He was
flot restored to bis former place, and In good
justice, hie should bave been. Now what la
bein-g done ? Justice ls being meted ont.to
Mr.' Lambkin, and Mr. Raîpli la degraded;
or it amounts to iowering down in grade.
He ls 'taken down to what la consldered an
Inferior position to the two positions lie
held before this, by tbe recommendation
of this commlttee. I feel hion, gentlemen that this is a hardship. Mr. Raipli, as
our employee, bas been dutiful, effective,
and an Intelligent servant, and I for one
wili certainly protest by my vote ngainst
bis being made to suifer for baving fiiled
Mr. Lambkin's place In bis absence. The
usage, the Intention of the House bere bave
aiways been to deal fairly and liberally
14J

with our employees, and to give an increase
to those deserving of It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I thinli the hion.
gentleman from Portage La Prairie must be
a student of Bleak House. I would Infer
that f*rom tbe manner In whIch lie goes
about saving money. Richard Jarndyce, In
Blenk House, had a peculiar way of economising. He would iay ont to expend fifty
pounds ln a certain way. He would determine tbat bie would make that expenditure,
and tben cbange bis resolution, and tbus
save fifty pounds wben lie éhanged bis
mInd. My hon. friend ls pursuing the saine
method of economnising. He takes n nmessen-ger from, the reading room and brings
hlm In the bail to answer the bell at the
saine salnry lie 'lad before, and stili lie
fands we are savlng moaey. I do not see
it la that way. I wisl to maire this observution in support of what my lion. friend
from Shediac has said with regard to our
messenger, Mr. Raipli. I did not notice, until
the point vras made, that this messeuger,
who was the packer origialy, and who
was piaced ln the reading room to take
the place of Mr. La.mbkiln when the latter
went 1» South Africa, is not put bnck to is
former position when we bave restored our
officiais to their former positions. Mr. Raipli
is very uaassuming and faltîful, an old servant of thls House, and If tbe facts are as
stated by my hion. friend from Shediac, that
lie should now, after Lambia le restored to
bis position in the reading rooin, aad
Ralpl' services are no longer required
there, be repiac 'ed la the posiýtion of packer
that hie hadl before.
An old messenger
sliould not be put In the position of answering belîs around the halls. I think it la
only necessary to mention It and the conimittee will look Into it and provide a remedy.
Hon. Sir ÂLPHONSE PELLETIER-As
clairman of the sub-committee on stationery, -I shouid like to maie an expianation as to the reason why we had to
mùake the change suggested. The firet point
raised is that the increase of fifty dollars
should not have been made, and that we are
preachtng economy ln one way and Increasing salaries In another way. The members of
the committee unanlmousiy decided that
O'Neill, having performied the duties for two
years very falthfully and ably, It was just to

SENATE
put him under the sanie salary as the genýtle- distribution of papers. He remains ini the
man wlio previously occuipied the position reading room and takes care of the papers.
had received. I think Raipli had a salary of
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-But lie Is a messen$650, and O'Neill was appointed ouly at
$(300. We thouglit there was no0 reason why ger nevertheless.
O'Neill, who, is a good officer and a very
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I move
efficient man, for tlie duties hie lias to per- that clause 4 of the
report be not 110w conform, should flot get the samne salary as the curred ln. I hope the House will
agree
previons packer. A good many salaries were to, that, because
I arn perfectly certain, from
Increased. two years ago, and O'Neill was my knowledge of the
readlng room, thnt
the only one without increase, iFud it is only two messengers are
required there.
justice to give hlm au increase 110w. We
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The committee are
had 11o other motive ln our recommendation.
The increase of fifty dollars Is really flot an flot only economical, but they seem to carry
increase, because the man who occupied It to the verge of cruelty. I find on the
that position two years previous to hlm re- first page tliey pay Mrs. Kimber $50, and
celved $050. That is one point. My lion. they state ln the paragrapli below that It
frlend from Shediac was protestlng against Is to purcliase the Black Rod. To buy the
degradlng one of the miessengers. IVeIJ, Black Rod froni Mrs. Kimber for $,Pu Is, I
there waýs no0 talk of that-I believe I amn thlnk, pretty smaii. I should bave been
speaking the unanimous sentiments of -the disposed to give lier Ilfty dollars, and let
sub-commlttee-when we appointed hlm. We lier keep the Black Rod as a souvenir of
declded to send Ralph to the messengers' lier liusband. It nigh-t lie useful to lier
rom~, wliere hie was formerly. We did this for cullnary.purposes.
because we tliouglit that two messengers ln1 The amendment
was declared Iost.
the reading rooni were too many. The remark liad been made by several members
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-M.liglit
that whlle Mr. Lambkîln was there before hie I suggest to the hon, gentlemen tliat If tluis
went to South Africa, lie was doing tlie duty man O'Nell Is more than a packer, we
alone, and very efficiently. Then 'wvhen lie should say so. If lits duties are of a more
went to South Africa, at bis own request, onerous and responsible eliaracter than a
Mr. Raîpli came down to the reading rooin, packer's, wliy flot say so, and not; let the
but after the return of Mr. Lambkln, several outslde world Imagine you are glving au
members mentioning that two messengers ordinary labourer $05 a year.
there were too many, we were obliged to, reThe SPEAKER-I would respectfully sugInstate Lainbkin. There was no0 reason wliy
gest to sulistitute for the word 'packer' the
we sliould lot reinstate hlm, and we did reword 'assistant.' He Is really the assistant
Instate hlm. As to '.%r. Raîpli not being put
back to the statlonery room, we liad no de- ln the stationery office.
sire to do hlm an Injusice. H1e Is a messenHon. Mr. WATSON-Well, change the reger the samne as the others.
port ln that way.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-He suffers nevertlieHon. Mr.POIRIER-I wouîd ask the chatrless.
mian of the commlttee If lie could, even by
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-His a title, do something to set Mr. Raîpli riglit.
Would It be agreenlile te liim or to the
salary Is the sanie.
House to have hlm appointed, just pro forHon. Mr. POIRIER-Tlie position is not
ma, assistant ln the readlng rooni ? Wlth
the sane.
sucli a tItie, If the other man wants to go
Hon. Sir ALPHONSFM PELLETIER-The liack to Southi Africa or leave, Raîpli would
packer does the sanie work as a 'messenger. have the r'iglit to succeed.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-And so Is the newsHon. Mr. WATSON-Tliat Is a matter cerpaper man a messenger.
tainly I cannot speak for the committee
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE' PELLETIER-The on. Any suggestions of tînt kind whidh
newspaper man bas nothlng to do 'with the the House may makre the commlttee
cau
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIEP.

AFIRIL 16, 1902g
consider. I would just say, as far as Mr *Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It will corne in due
Raîpli is concerned, I understand when hg Dtime, I suppose ?
took that position he was told the probablg
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ob, yes, I think, we wll
chance was he would not be back lu th(
get it to-morrow. I hope so.
stationery room If he left it. He tooi li -perhaps
chances, and weut to the reading room, witi
BROWN DIVORCE BILL.
the probable chance of Lambkin not comine
back from South Africa, knowing very wel
THIRD READING.
that he lost his position ln the stationery
room. I understand Mr. Young is weil
Hon. Mr. LANDERKINI moved the third
pleased with the man lie lias there now.
rending of Bill (D) 'An Act for the relief
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Is thE of James Brown.'
second messenger to lose bis place entire1Hon. 'Mr. CLEMOW-I haie, read the
ly ?
evidence in this niatter and certainly it
seemied to mie the most extraordinary eviHon. Mr. WATSO.N\-No.
desîce that I have ever seen in a similar
The report was nmended by substltuting case. If hon. gentlemen
believe the two men
'assistant' for 'packer,' and as amended
who swenr so positively, of course there
was adopted.
can be 110 doubt about the guilt of the respondent. I think, It ls an impossibllity to
SECOND READILNG.
believe such evidence. These two men corne
Bill (35) An Act to Incorporate the Nipis- forward voiuntarlly and swear positiveiy
sing and Ottawa Rallway Company.-(Mr. that the offence was commltted. I do not
nccept their evideuce as reliable, and thereMcMullen.)
fore I have corne to a determination to
The Senate adjourned.
oppose this Bill, ln order to show tbe
country that the Senate ln the future
will not pass such Bis without a certain amount of credibie evIdeuce which reaTHE SENATE.
sonable men couid accept. One man swenrs
Ottaiva, lleditcsday. April 16, 1902.
that lie had connection with this woman
once. The other man swears to eight or
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
nine times. There Is not one collaterai evi00'clock.
dence lu support of the evidence. This was
Prayers aud routine proceedings.
doue on the rond and ln the bush, but no
one is produced who saw theni together at
THE- PRIMITIVE METHODIST LAND all.* Therefore, nil the circumstances
which
GRANT.
are moat Important lu matters of this sort
are removed. I place more reliance, in a
ORDE't POSTPONED.
grent many cases, upon circumstantiai eviThe Order of the Day being cailed:
dence than upon direct evidence. WhVlen we
By the Honourabie 14r. Perlcy:
have a variety of circumstances poiuting to
Tinit he will asic the goverument if they
gult, it is more couclusive and rellable than
have made ary exchange of lands with Mr.
Bee or any one el-se lu behaîf of the Primitive direct testimony.
Methodist callIng during the past two years,
ard if not, la there aay excliange in contemHon. Mr. McMILLAN-Perhaps they were
plation or waiting the report of the Dominion
purchased.
lands honiesteaid lospertor, and what lands?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Stand.
Hon. Mr. CLE1O W-I cannot tell that.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Wheu wilI the hon. It is au unpleasant thlng for me to briug this
gentleman be able to' give an auswer to matter before the House, but I thlnk we are
lu duty bound to consider and discuss it
the question ?
at this time and give our deliberate opinHon. Mr. SCOTT-I really do not -now. Ion on
the question whether these Bis
I asked the Department of Interior yester- should
pass on sucli evidence. I was not
day and they sald they were looklng it up. in the room
when the evidence was taken,

SENATE
and I do flot know anything about it. If
bon. gentlemen doubt the testimony, as I
do, they çwiII fot vote for the Bill. I say
positively I do flot belleve one word of it.
I have no feeling in the matter, but I think
lt la necessary that the case sbould .be yentilated. If hon. gentlemen corne to the
sarne conclusion that I do, tbey wiil oppose
the Bill. Other bon. members may say
that the evidence ls conclusive. If I could
conscientlously believe It, I would support
the Bill, but I cannot, and, on that ground,
I do flot tbinl, the petitioner ls entitled to
the relief lie asks.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I arn sure
tbat every bon, gentleman In this House
bas the bighest regard for the hon gentlemnan's capacity for dealing witb questions
of! this kind. We recognize the fact that
lie ls the Minister of Divorce and bas introduèed many divorce Bills, and that lie 15
not opposed, on general principles, to divorce. In this case lie has given a dissertation on bis views of burnan nature, and I
respect tbern largeiy. But we mnust be gulded by the evidence, and we have nothing
else but wthat cornes before us.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-That Is If tbe cornrnittee belleve ItL I do flot belleve It.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-And the comrnittee are the best judges wben tbey find
a case sncb as this. Two credible witnesses
corne forward and prove the only act by
wbicb we are entitled to grant a divorce.
We get that evidence, and it Is flot controverted.
There Is nothing tbrowing any
doubt on the credibility of the witnesses,
and we bave no other course open to us
except to report tbe Bill. I respect any
bon. gentlemnan's prejudices In thls matter,
but the cornrittee bad only one course open
to tbem.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I do. not object to
the action o! tbe comrnittee, but I want to
appeal te rnernbers o! the House as to whether tbey believe that evidence. The cornrnittee rnay flot have taken tbe trouble to
Investigate the character o! these two men;
I do flot know wbether they did or not, but
to rny mind it Is so Improbable and it looks
to me, so to speahk, lke a purchaseable
thing, that I have-made up rny mmnd net
to support the BIîI.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Being a member
of that cornrittee, I rnay be pardoned If
I say tbat tbe bon, gentleman frorn Rideau
bas flot been very complimentary with reference to the ability of tbat cornrittee
botb to tak-e and to weigh evidence. M1y
bon. friend says that tbe evidence wblcb
he bas read, he regards flot only as improbàible but impossible, and also extraordinnry. I should judge tbat my bon. friend's
knowledge of hurnan nature would lead
huai to thue conclusion that the evidence
whicb was taken before that comrnittee on
the part o! the two witnesses is neither improbable, impossible, nor yet extraordinary.
It seerns to me It reveals a condition o!
buman nature wbich need not be doubted
for one moment, and in fact lt is the very
class o! evidence wbicb almost witbout exception is accepted as the very best evidence to establisli an act of adultery. MUy
hon. frieud shakzes bis iead andl seenis yet
to regard the fact of the cornrittee accepting tbis evidence, as a most extraordinary
thing. I rnight say that the respondent hn
this case was served with the papers
aad did flot appear. The two wituesses
who estabIlshed. the case-and establisbed
it beyond a peradventure-came there reluctantly. They were subpoenaed and
c6mpeiled to attend. True, tbey might
bave perjured tbemselves like gentlemen, but tbey were quite willing, when
confronted witb tbe !act of their bav-,
Ing been guilty o! the act. to admit it.
They mentIoned tbe circumstances in sucb
a way as to lead any bon. gentleman who
will read that evidence to corne te tbe -conclusion that their statement was an accurate one. There was flot a member on that
cemittee 'who had the eligJhtest doubt as
to the truth of the staternents made by
those witnesses. Tbey were workingmea.
They perhaps miglit be terrned Illiterate
men. Tbey were flot men of fine sensibilities. They were flot men wbo regarded
themselves as placed la a very embarrassing
position by reason o! the evidence wbich
they gave, but tbey were, you migbt say,
tbe average witness who would appear In
a court of law In such a case as the present.
The case ls not one In high hife, where the
evidence rnigbt have been of a very mucli
more elaborate and romantlc character, but
the case was one occurring la real and,

APRIL 16, 1902
perhaps, the lower strata of lite. As I have
said, every lbon. gentleman who sat upon
that cornmittee hiad flot the aliglitest douht
as to the accuracy of the staternents of these
witnesses, and the members of that committee are accustomed,' not only to examiaIng -wftnesses, but to weighiag evidence and
to weighing It carefully. During my twelve
years on that cornmittee, I must say I iîever
listened to evidence with whicli I was more
Impressed as to its absolute truth. I think,
under tbose circumstances, the chamber
should accept the report of the cornmittee
on the ground I have mentloned.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-I arn very glad rny
hion. friend from Rideau lias taken the Initiative in this niatter, for I have on two
or three former occasions been opposed to
sucli uncorroborated evidence a this Is. 1
rernember a case last year lu'which the lion.
gentleman wlio lias just resurned lis seat
liad spoken, and liad made a strong speech
upon the occasion. I objected to the evidence for the reasons tliat the person who
was guilty lad corne forward of lier own
accord and gave evIdence that she liad
committed this offence. Upon this occasion, 1 think the case Is a llttle stronger
than it was then, because lere we have a
man corning forward and admltting that he
bad comrnitted this crime %vith
this woman,
and at the sarne tîme acknowledging lie Is
a rnarrled man witl a famiiy living close by.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-His wife was away.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-I do not think It
would be necessary to do that if bis wl!e
had been in China. But I take the same
view of! the evidence that my lion. friend
frorn Rideau does. I do not belleve ItL 1
simply cannot believe It I do flot belleve
it ls human nature for a man to corne forward and acknowledge gullt of that kind.
If lie does lie is lower than the brutes. It
la not hurnan nature. It looks as If thiat ev-dence liad been purcliased for the occasion.
My hon. friend says the witnesses .were
subpoenaed to corne here. There have been
a great many occasions on 'whichi people
had been subpoenaed to attend committees of thîs House, but did flot corne forward, and they refused to attend. These
two men could liave done that. Take It
home to your neiglibouriood and ask yourselves how many men o! your acquaintance

would corne forward and swear posltively
they had liad connection with a married
wornan. I hope there are very few men In
thls country wlio would do ItL I wili second
the motion for the six months' hoist In order
to show the country that we will not pass
tiiese Bills on trivial and uncorroborated
evidence.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wjien I looked
over the evidence, I rnust say I was quite
disgusted with these stivo witnesses, and
hiad there been *any unaterlal contradiction,
I woul be disposed to doubt the propriets
o! granting a divorce but wlen we rerneniber that 'thls respondenit was charged witb
adultery and served witli ail the proper notices, and that alie d4d flot corne forward
to clear lier character, I think we have a
right to take this evidence as conclusive.
Had the worn appeared and denied ernphatically under oath the staternents ot
these two witnesses, I think It -wouldbe quite
a serious inatter, and I do not say ivéat 1
would do In that ease, but II would have put
the matter In anotlier posion aitogether.
But seeing that ehe was served withi the
papers, and that alie did flot appear to defend the case and deny t)ie charges, I think
there can lie no question about ber gulit.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-There was no quesCion about the service of the notice?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Belng a meniber
of .this conmlIttee, 1 simpay want to add a
word to what lias been aald by the Chairmn and the bon. gentleman frorn Calgary
(Mr. Lougheed).
I f ully endorse the remarks 'that have been mo de by these two
hon, gentlemen with regard to this case.
There la one point -that lias flot been referred to, whIoli Is thaît this wornan deliberately, and without any cause, without
any prevlous Intimation, and wlthout auy
evidence on lier part of any discontent, le! t
lier hiusiband, and rernaiaed away.
That
tact of Itself la very strong evidence thnt
tliere must be something wrong on lier part.
Then, as has be-en truly sald, sIe was
served wltli those papers.
Hlad she any
grievance igalnst lier liusband, lad le been
untrutîful or unklnd to lier, she liad every
opportunlty o! corning before the committee,
and makzing bier represe'ntatlons and opposing the divorce.
SIc presented no de-

SENATE
fence ut ail. With regard to the ev'idence
of the two men, 1 rnust express rny eiineere
regret that bumaity does -stoop to sucb a
l-w point tbat meit will bie guilty of the
crime that these men cormItted. It Is to
be regretted, but atter having been dragged
before the court and compelled to give their
evîdeace, they did so, and tbe committee
unanimously came to tbe conclusion, utter
reviewlng the whole case, that .tbe woman's
treatment of bier busband ln leaving lm,
added to the evidence of these two men,
entltled the petitioner to the relief prayed
f or. The comrnittee aiso came to the couclusion, from bis general appearuace, trou'
bis conduct before the comrnittee and bis
generul character, tbat the busband was a
1
deceut, respectable, well-behaved man.
tbink every member of the comrnittee camne
to thut conclusion and that of Itself, added
to the opinion that the cornrIttee fornied
otbierwise, justified us ln deciding tliat bie
Sbould be released.
Ho0n. Mr. lMcCALLUM-Mly hion. friead
gives tbe man a good character. I bave n0
objection to that. I bave ao fault to iad
wàthi the man, but it Is a great pity the
womn did not corne bere to defead the
case. Was there any inquiry made as to
ivblether she xvas able to corne and defend
lierseif ? Just tbink of tbese two men
coming here, one of tbern a marrled man,
to swear away a woman's character. Thini,
of thu.t. Any man guilty of sncb a crime
would go to tbe ends of the eurth and hide
imseif before lie would corne bere. That
Is the -way It strikes me. As for the peti
tioner's respectabiity, I cannot suy anythiag
about it.
I did not see im as the boa.
gentleman from Wellington did, but I bave
stroag doubts ns td tbe evidence of these
rnen Who corne voluntarily forward., Were
tbey cornpelled to corne here ? Wbo cornpelled tbem to corne ? Were not they paid
to corne ? Were tbey not paid by the gentleman bie speaks of to corne here and give
evIdence against this wolnali ?
I arn la
doubit about the case. I do nlot cure about
voting for a divorce ualess the evideace is
very clear. I neyer did, but la this case 1
cannot believe the evideace given by thesetwo men who corne voluntarily forward to
help this man to get a divorce.
The question arises la rny mmnd that they bave probably beea paid to corne bere. Tbey were
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.

not compelled to corne to pubisli their owa
sharne. I wilýl have aothiag to do with it.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I was la charge
of this Bill, but did not know the nature of
the evIdeuce that w'as to be adduced. The
very tact alluded to by the hion. senutor
from Wellington, of this woman leavIng ber
husbund, makes a stronger case to rny miod
than the evidence of the two wltnesses. If
there la aay grouad ut ail on -which I wouid
concede a dlaim for divorce, It Is the tact of
hier leaving bier husbaand and rernaiaing
away under the clrcumstaaces. But wbien
1 read the evidence I ¶vas forced to tbe
saine conclusion as sorne hion. gentlemen
here wbo bave spoken, thiat the evideace
is not suchi as would warrant this House lu
granting the petitioner a divorce ; aad aithougb I bad charge of the Bili, I lntead to
vote agaîust it, rnereiy on the -round that
I bebieve those two witnesses are not credible wltnesses-that the mea %vhio carne f orward to swear away the chai-acter of this
wornun and ut the saine turne to publsli
their own shame, are not witnesses who
sboubd be belleved. I thiak It would bie a
prernlum on rasculity for this House to admît the trutb of wbait men of such churacter would say. Heuce, feeling strongly on
this matter, I arn constrained to vote ug-alnst
the Bill, though I Introdueed it.
Hon. Mr. KEILR-I bave lstened withi
i-ery great attention and interest to this discussion. 0f course, I coacede the rie-ht of
this Senate te reject any report tbat cornes
fi-om any committee-tbat tbe Senate is not
bouad by the report of any cornrittee. But
I suppose tbe Senate would require pretty
strong reasons for talzing such a course.
The comrnittee was ia number about comnplote, and unanirnous la Its conclusions.
For myseif, I bave alwuys approached applications for divorce with a good deal of
reluctance, and I always try to fiad sorne
proper ground on wbicb to reject a petitiou,
for I would ruther vote ut any tîrne for the
rejection of a petition for divorce than la
faveur of It.
I watclied those wItnessos
who were cabled, not only the petîtloner, but
the others. I thbnk. the other rnembers of
the cornrittee did the samne. WMe
xvere sitting there discharglag two-fold functioas,
both as jury and as judges, and ut tbe close
of the evidence, I asked myseif tbis questionu suppose tbe saine evideace that has

APRIL 16, 1902
been submitted to tlxis committee to-day on
this application iras submuitted to a jury
empaueiled to pronounce a verdict on tbe
case, could tbey corne to any otber conclusion tban tbat the allegations of the petition
had been made out? The witnesses appeared to be Intelligent, and only for the
vîery disgraceful conduct tbey had been
guilty of, one would suppose they moved iiu
fairly respectable soclety. It Is Impossible
fer tbis Senate, and I say It witbi ail possible respect and deference, as a body, ixot
havlng seen tbe witnesses, not baving beard
their evidence, not bavlng watcbied closely
their miapaer of givlng evidence, to corne
to as safe and correct conclusions as the
commlttee did irbo watcbed the evîdence.
ivatched the demeanour of the witnesses
and ail the surrounding circunistauces.
For rny ow-n part iren the evidence w-as
aIl ln, I hiad no hesitation In saying that
this case ls only top plain. 1 regret tbat
it is so plain. I felt It necessary to say
thîs mucli lu vindication of the action of
the comrnittee. I arn sure that tbe evidence
could not have been more closeiy scrutinized, but I arn not surprised at the
bon.
gentlemen who have risen and sald it is
Incredible. One would almost think it Incredible, but during an experience of many
years, ei-ery year ln courts of lair hearing- evidence of a sinilar kind, a protessional man ivould not be so surprised. It
Is lamentable that human nature should fail
so 10w as the nature of these tiro witnesses.
At the. same time, I could only corne to the
conclusion, and the committee couid only
corne to the conclusion, that notwlthstandlng ahl these circumstances, the witnesses
irere swearlng actual fact. I have no besitation ln saying, that I should vote for the
adoption of the report preferring at tbe
sme tie, If I couid see my way clear, to
vote agalnst It, for, so long as I arn a member of that committee, irberever I bave any
doubt about the evidence, I shahl alirays
vote for the rejection of a petithon for
divorce.
Hon. Mfr. CIIURCH-I should like to gh-e
au Intelligent vote on Vils question.
I
have lstened attentlvely to the trend of this
discussion.
A great deal bas been said
,about the cliaracter of tbese rnen irbo came
forward against tbis poor iroman wbo, froin
the report of the Chairman and others of

the committee who bave spoken, I think,
we must consider iras guiity of the act
cbarged against ber, and that is a reason
wby this tribunal, or any otber, sbould
grant relief to the party irbo lias been lnjured, and pronounce against the party wiro
A great deal bans
committed the crime.
been said about the woman; but irbat about
the husband ? It appears that this mani,
from the statements of members of the
committee, iras a respectable man. Under
the circumstances, 1 vlew bis case with syiflpatliy. I bave littie or no sympatby ivith
the iroman, according to thxe account subThe
mitted to this lion. Senate to-day.
busband is said to «be a credible and good
man. He may ivant smre one to look after
bis bousebold. I shall vote for the report
I think they bave done
of the committee.
their duty Intelligentlr.
Wbile ou rny feet,
I mnust, sqy, as a Nova Scotian, tbis wbioie
procedure appears very strange to me. We
bave no sucli procedure as thîls lu Nova
Scotin. We bave a court of marriage and
divorce, and ail these cases go before a
judge, .who examines tbe evidence, and pronounces bis decision accordingîr. I reaiiy
tbink the time bias come irben divorce
cases should flot; corne before the first body
of representative men ln this country-that
some ether tribunal sbould be cbarged witb
Under the
the settiement of sucli cases.
circumstances, I shaîl stand by the report
of the commIttee, and give my vote lu favour
of the .Bill.
Hon. Mfr. CLEMOW-I move tîxat the Bill1
be not now read tbe third time, but tbat it
be read tbls day six montbs.
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVANX-Aithougli I do not
believe la divorce, and wouid vote against
[t, I do flot tblnk I can give a vote on tbls
Bill. As a Roman Catbollc, I must vote
againastdivorce. At the sarne tirne, 1 kuow
there Is a committee autborized by tbls
House to examine Into sucli cases, and
That
grant divorce on proper grounds.
cornmittee 'bas a very arduous and dlsagreeable duty to perform, and If ire irant to beleve it 15 for the benefit of the morals of
thls country that divorce sbould rern~ under the jurisdictlon of this House, It Is our
duty to give that commlttee every possible
support that we can. As a Roman Catbolic,
and view&ng that as the best that can be
done la this country, I amn Inclined to sup-

SENATE
port the commlttee, but I do flot think any
man here ean gîve an impartial vote on tis
case.
I have flot read ail this evidence,
and I suppose tbere are many more who
have not rend It, and I do not see how
they eau form any opinion. As to what
men 'wJll do, men wlll do nything. There.
Is nothlng so cruel and brutal that men and
women have flot done IL The ImprobabIlIty of the event occurring 1 do flot tbink
ought to weigh la the mind of any Intelligent man. Now, I thînk there is a medium
course to pursue. This case could be reterred back to the commIttee. If they will
be Incliued to take that view of It, members of the House at ail events would have
an opportunlty of lookling further Into the
evIdence.
BlIt so far as I can go, recognlzlng the very arduous and painful duties
which this comm.lttee have to perform-and
1 presume they are the best seleçtion that
could be made of the legal talent of thîs
House, men of hlgh legal standing in the
country-I would be incllned to support theun
as far as 1 can. I shail therefore move, If
any one will second ft, that the report be
referred back to the committee for further
con sideration.

to theniselves.
These wltnesses dld îîot
elevate themselves, la my opinion, ln any
degree whatever by the facts that they related ;nevertheiess, they seenied to me two
lntelligent-looking, simpie-minded
young
fanmera of the country. They were rather
ashamed of tihe position tbey oecupied, but
nevertheless they seemed to me to tell the
trutil, and I, as a member of that committee, do flot Vhink that this House would
be doing the rlght tihing to reject their evidence.
It would be reflectlng on the Intelligence of the commlttee If the House
dld not accept this report
I do. not thlnk
the suggestion of my hon. frlend from
Kingston can be carried out, Inasmuch as
It would be altogether unlkely the evidence
could he taken over again.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I dld flot lntend
that the commlttee should go over the cvidence. I simply put that in the wfly of a
postponement, s0 thnt the members of the
Senate, If they Intend to vote on this report, wouid have tume to consider IL.

Hon. Mir. TEMPLEMAN-If there Is any
desire on the part of the House to postpone
consIderation of the report, to give hon.
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I do not know gentlemen an opportunity to read the cviwhat la to be galned by referrlng this case dence, that Is another matter.
back to the commlttee, unless the whole of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I mlght suggest
the 'evidence Is to be heard over again, that the commlttce, If the report were rewhich I presume could not be done.
It ferred bnck, would not have the slightest
would *be utterly lmpractlcable.
As a meni- hesitation ln making a report as to the
ber of the Divorce Commlttee, 1 rise'slmply character of this woman.
We adhercd
to corroborate the expressions of opinion of strlctly
to what mlght be termed direct
my colleagues on that commlttee. It seems
evidence, flot hearsay, but there was evito me an extraord-lnary thing that after a
dence as to the character of the woman
committee cuznposed of seven or elght membefore her marriage and since she deserted
bers of thls House have devoted several
her husband. Wc consldered the evidence
hours to a careful examination of the evidence submitted to them, and they corne was Incontrovertible as establishlng the
here wlth a unanimous report, ail agreeing charge of adultcry, and we thought It unto the finding of the committee, that some necessary to go outslde of that.
gentlemen, after readlng the évidence,. take
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I do flot look upon
n different view of Lit.
It seems to me my motion as being a reflection upon the
tat one of the essential conditions on whicii commlttee, 1 should be the last man to neto found a correct opinion on the evidence flcct on a commlttee. Wc know that judgcs
gîven, Is to listen to the evidence as It is often give an opinion, and the jury may
belng* taken, to see the wltnesses on the not agree with that opinion. We are the
stand, to hear w.hat they have to say, nnd jury. The commlttec, I have no doubt, disthe manner in whlch they say It. I, as one charged thLeir duties consclcntiously, but
of that committee, was fully Impressed wlth they cannot look upon It as an IlfrIngethe fact that these witnesses told the truth, ment of their rîghts, If the House differ
however discreditable that truth may be from thelr conclusion. How often do we
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

APRIL 16, 1902
Eind juries differ from. the direction of the truth or not. There Is a way a witness
judges. This is simpiy differing from the wiii speak or behave by which those who,
opinion expressed by the committee.
hear hlm wiil understand If he speaks the
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I do flot see any truth or Intenda to decelve. I think every
member of the committee ls competent to,
sense ln referring the report back to, the
form a judgment as tothe testimony o! those
committee. I cannot see for what purpose
two witnesses, and tbey have ail agreed
it should be referred back.
that It is to be received. The committee
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-To aiiow mem- la entitied to the support of this House..
bers to read the evidence.
The hou. gentleman from *Rideau Implies
Hon. '.%r. MILLER-That la not the way. a charge of perjury against two men agaînat
If we refer back the report, It wouid be whom no charge of any kind la made. Why
with a knowledge of the fact that other shouid these two Innocent mien be charged
evidence had been discovered, or with In- here pubiicly and openiy with perjury ?
structions to the committee to change their It is nothing more nor legs than that. It
report ; but If it la mereiy time tbnt 19 ls a very grievous charge to, make against
wanted to study the evidence, the proper them, and I think the circumatancea which
course wouid be to move to discharge the have been brought before the House do. fot
order of the day, and that It be an order of require that thîs report should be postponed,
the day two or three days, hence. I muet or anything further done with It than to
say, for my own part I do not see any ne- accept the report of the committee as preThe evidence which bas been
cessity for sucli a motion. The case la one sented.
of the simpleat, so far as the facts given aliuded to, together with the absence o! the
to, us by members of the committee wbo, woman from ber husband tell against ber,
have spoken are concerned, and I con and the opinion wbich. the committee formed
flot see any reason for a postponement of of the man was favourabie to hlm. He
the matter. Therefore, as there la no reason was quite unsuapiclous that his wife was
for referrIng It back, I amn prepared to vote acting badly until tbe evidence became go
strong that he could flot refuse to believe
on the question myseIf.
It. I think the evidence of that man ahouid
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I entireiy concur ln the be taken and reiied upon. It was menremarks of the hon. gentleman from Rich- tioned, I think, ln the course of the examimond. Notwlthstanding the tact that my nation that the woman wouid agree to his
hon. frlend from Rideau division says that golng on with the divorce If he paid ber a
he Implies no censure wbatever on the com- tbousand dollar&. She wanted to, make
mittee, I think the motion which he bas some money out of it. That ls not a good
made conveys a very strong censure upon Indication. 'If she was a good woman and
the committee, andQ worsg than that. I vaiued ber character she would. not take
think It is an Insiiiting motion to the com- any amount of money and let the case go
mittee.
-on. The tact that sbe dld flot appear ln
ber oivn defence or make any accusation
Hon. GENTLEMEN-No, no.
against the witnesses-tbat she' refrained
Hon. Mfr. MILLER-I do not regard It lu from making any vIndication whatever to
that light. It tg flot a proper motion to the commfttee, denylng the charge-everymake.
thing appears - to me to be againat ber.
Hon. Mfr. VIDÂL-It la a weil known fact Aithough I have strong prejudice agaînst
that that committee je very carefuliy se- divorce, I think -the commlttee shouild be
iected-that It contains the most eligibie sustained ln this case ln the judgment at
men ln tils Senate to deal with legai mat- which they have arrived.
ters. They had given the greatest attenHon. Mfr. KIIICHHOFFER-There seemas
tion to this case. None of them like divorce to me to be a misaaprebension as to the way
or care to encourage it. but It ls their duty ln which this debate haî arisen. Thia s lot
to hear petîtions and examine evîdence. a motion to adopt the report. The report
SEvery one of those members was competent has aiready been adopted by the House, and
to judge wbether the witnesses spolie the thîs debate la on a motion for the third

SENATER
reading of the Bill. 1 do flot see hoýw, on a
The SPE AKER-The question is now on
motion of that kind, the report could be re- the motion for the third reading of the Bill.
ferred back.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I risc to a point of
Hon. Mr. MILLER-The Bill could be re- order : the members should be called lu.
The' SPEAKER-No one asked that the
ferred back.
members be called ln, and It Is too late now.
Hon. Mr. KIROHHOFFER-Yes, but not
The Senate -divided on the motion, whicbi
the report. 1 do flot see how the committeoŽ
could alter a report that lias been adopted was carried on the foliowing division
by the House. If there are any gentlemen
CONTENTS:
ln this House who have flot read the eviHou. Messrs.
dence, and wish to do so, and wouid like Boweii
McKay (Truro),
(Sir Mackcnzie),
Mc:Laren,
to have tbehr mlnds disabused of any doubts,
Carling (Sir -John),
MüMullen,
there is no objection to the order belng dis- Church,
Miller,
charged and put on the Order paper for Pllis.
O>wens,
Ferguson,
Reld,
next Monday or Tuesday.
Fulford,
Gibson,
Hou. Mr. McMILLAN-Six months.
Gillmor,
Kerr,
Hou. iMr. KIRCHHOFFER-No, -we want KIrchboffer,
Lougheed,
to do justice. There Is flot n meniber of tùe Lovitt,
committee who as any interest whtatever ln Mackay (Aima),

Robertson,
Temiplenian,
Vidal,
'Wat son,

Wood
(Westrnoreland),
Yeo,
Young-26.

granting a divorce. We want simply to see
NON-CONTENTS:
Justice doue. The duty is n very disagreHon. Messrs.
able one, but we discliarge it to the best of
Bernier'
Landerkin,
our ability, and we are renhly the only ues Bolduc,
Laudry,
McCallum,
who eau properly judge of the evidence ln Bouch.ervilie, de
(C.M.G.),
MffHugh,
the case, because you have to see and hear. Casgrain (Windsor),
MeMillan,
the witnesses, and bear other extraneous Clemow,
Montplisir,
Cochrane,
P<.wer (Spt?aker)-1.
circunistances connected. with It, ln order to
,Fiset.
welgh the evidence properly. These coliatThe Bill wns then rend the third Urne and
erai adi-antages are denied to those who arc
not ou the committee, and therefore the passed.
members of the cornmittee are the ones best
SECOND READING.
qunhified to judge ou the evideuce. Thiere
Bill (U) An Act respecting the Western
was not a member of the committee who
had the slUghtest doubt with regard to the Alberta
Railway
Company.-(Hon.
Mr.
case. The House eau rejeet the Bill If tbey Lougheed.).
like. I long ago made Up myl mind never
Bill (46) An Act to incorporate the Strait
again to figlit for a report of the cool- of Canso B1'idge Company.-(Hon. Mr. 'Memlttee. There are a certain number of Donald. C.B.)
gentlemen lu this House wbu, canuot give au
Indepeudent opinion on lt-they cannot vote
INCORPORATION 0F BOARDS 0F,
on the evldence-they miust vote on couscienTRADE BILL.
tlous seruples, and therefore justice cannot
REPORTED PROM CO«MMITTEE.
be dune entirely Irrespective of what their
The House resolved Itself into a Committee
views may be. Hon, gentlemen eau do as
they please with -the Bill ; the commit-tee of the Whoie on Bill (S) 'An Act to amend
have done their duty, and If It ls referred the Act respecting the Incorporation of
back to them there la xiot a rnember of the Boards 0f Trade.'
committee who wll not ife-affirm the report
Iu the Oom'mittee.
alre-ady given, and unless you bring the parHou. Mr. SCOTT-The object of the Bill la
ties together again, and re-examine thein, 1
t0 enable boards of trade lu the smailer
cauinot see what Is to lie gained.
towns of British Columbia or lu the Yukon
The nineudment xvias declnred iost.
Terrltory to estabuiali and incorporate bourda
Hon. Mr. KIRC}IHOFFER.

APRIL 17, 1902
of trade. It is found necessary on account
of the legal Interpretation of the wvord 'district,' whicb does flot apply ln Britishl Columbia. I propose to add the Yukon Territory to the Bill, as the eolpdItions there are
similar to the conditions ln British Columnbia.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the committee, reported the Bill witb amendments, which
were concurred la.

mittee. I tbink there are a number of suggestions wbich can be considered more advantageously ln a smailer committee.

Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It cau
be discussed just as well in a Committee of
the Whole House, because If It Is referred
to a amall committee, that committee will
report and then It will have to go back
to Committee of the Wboie to discuss the
whole matter again. The suggestion can be
made in Committee of the Whole just as
JOINT STOCK COM~PANIES INCORPOR- well as ln any otber committee. I bave
some suggestions to make myseif, and there
ATION BILL.
is a freedom of discussion ln the Committee
SEOOND READING.
of the Whole wbere It is more conversaHon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- tional, and I think the object can be better
ing of Bill (R) 'An Act respectlng the in- attained that way.
corporation of Joint Stock Compauies by
Tbe motion was agreed to.
Letters Patent.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I bave been reBILLS INTRODUCED.
quested by Seuator DeBoucherville -to ask
Bill (75) An Act to Incorporate tbe KnaPP
that this Bill be not proceeded with to-day,
as the copy had not reacbed bis bauds and TuI>ular Steamship Coimpnny.-(Hon. 'Mr.
lie wished to give It f urther consideration. Dandurand.)
BIh! (79) An Act to Incorporate the Crowu
Hon. Sit MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
can take the second rending now, and dis- Bank of Canada.--(Hon. Mr. McMillan.)
cuss its provisions on going into committee.
The Senate adjourned.
There is no great objection to the principie
of the Bill, and we can discuss it fuliy clause
by clause.

THE SENATE.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. It ivill be better
understood wben tbe details are gone luto.
Ottaiur, Tliursday, April 17, 1902.
I merely desire to foreshadow tbe proThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
minent features of the Bill. The law as It
stands was enacted ln 1877. I bad charge o'clock.
of It In the otber Obamber in tbat year,
Frayera and routine proceedings.
and very little alteration bas been mnade ln
BILL INTRODUCED.
It since that time. The object of the present
Bill le; to assimilate tbe law of Canada witb
Bill (Z) An Act to incorporate the Union
the iaw of England, wbich removes very
many obstructions existing ln our law, and Life Assurance Company.-(Mr. Landerkin.)
probably, as the bon, leader of the op- THE PRIMITIVE METHODIST LAND
position suggests, it would be better that
GRANT.
I go more fully into the «Bill at tbe next
INQURY.
stage.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY Inquired of tbe govte« ill
Themoton
as gred t, ad
1enet
was read the second time.
If they have made any exehange of lands with
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move that the Bill Mr. Bee or any one else ln behaîf of the Primnitive Methodist colony during the past two
be referred to a committee of the whole years, and If not, le there any exchauge in conHouse to-morrow.
templation or waiting the report of the Dominion Lands Homestead Inspec*or, and what
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If the hon. Secretary lands ?
of State bas no objection, I wouid suggest
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The government bave
that tbe Bll be referred to a special com- agreed witb the Reverend Mr. L. Bee, on

SENATE

222

behaif of the Primitive Methodist Colonization Company, Limited, during the past
two years, to make an exchange of certain
lands.
The following lands were surrendered to
the Crowni by the company, and lu exchange
therefor the' company havel selected the'
several parcels enumerated bereunder. .
Lands surrendered to the Crown, under duplicate certAificate of titie No. 144 G., dated 13th
December, 1898.ocainIamstsldnwndIil
Ail section ..
7 21 8 W. 2nd Mer
Ail section ..
9 21 8 W. 2nd Mer.
Ail section ..
Ail section ..
E j section..
S.W. 4 sec...
W. j section.

N.W. J sec..

17
27
19
19

23
25

L. S. 5 & 6, s. 33

21
21
21
21

8 WV. 2nd
8 W. 2nd
8 W. 2nd
8 W. 2nd

21

8 W. 2nd Mer,

21
21

Mer.
Mer.
Mer.
Mer'

8 W. 2nd Mer.
8 W. 2nd Mer.

to the depai'tment and they assured me that
they were giving me the fullest answers to
the bon. gentleman's inquiry. It is quite
impossible for me to say whether the' answer
la correct or not, I am unable to tell.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-This ls the answer to
the question i asked the' first time. I have
asked this questions three times, and the
answer I hanve received to-day is the reply
whici sbouid have been given on the' tirst
t
ocso.Iamstsidnw
n
iifo
ask it any more..
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Before the Orders of
Day are caiied, 1 shouid lke to bring Up a

question of privilege. Yesterdny I handed lu
Lands seiected to be taken by the company to the Cierk of the House a notice of motion,
ln excbange for those surrendered to the whicb was returned to me w'ith a memoranCrown.dum
on the part of the cierk stating that lie
N.W. j section..
6 22 8 W. 2nd Mer.
couid flot receive the motion because dt hiad
N.E. j section.. 18 22 8 W. 2nd
N.W. j section.. 14 22 9 W.. 2nd Mer.
Mer.
not been rend tn the House according to thte
N.W. j section.. 16 22 9 W. 2nd Mer.
rules of the House ; end moreover, because hie
N.E. j section.. .18 22 e W. 2nd Mer.
a eevdfonteSekradsic
r
N.E. j section.. 32 22 9 W. 2nd Mer.
bdrcie
rmteSekradsic
r
N.W. 1 section.. 34 22 9 W. 2nd Mer.
der flot to receive it. The' notice of motion ltS. à section. .. 34 22 9 W. Znid Mer'.
self deals with public biusiness, askinig for
S. à section. .. 36 22 9 W. 2nd Mer.
L.S. 12 & 13, sec. 20 22 9 W. 2nd Mer.
correspondence wbich took place between
Ail section.. ..
2 23 9 W. 2nd Mer.
the' goverfiment, the' Deparinnent of MIIItia
Ail section.. ..
4 23 9 W. 2nd Mer.
and some officers of the' mllitia force, ln reS. à section. .. 19 21 8 W. 2nd Mer.
N.E. j section.. 19 21 8 W. 2nd Mer:
'ference to tbe nomination of honorary coloWliee te o sleced ae aailblenels. Thiere Is notbing ln the' motion itseif
lnds
Were theilak
to see
ar
atlbe
that couId be suspected of being out of ortepareo
bn
taken th se
o
ettrs, adte
der. The only point is that -the motion hacd
theefo infavur ompnyandthenot been read. If we consuit the rules 0f
f tt'

depnrtment is awalting the receipt of the
report of the' agent of Dominion -lands as
to whether, according to bis records, tbe
remuinder of the lauds selected are available. No other exchanges bave been made
and noue are under contemplation.
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-I must say I am very
mucb sm'pi-ised, because titis is the' third
time I have bad to ask tbls question, put-

ting lt witb ail the lngenuity of w.hicb I arn
capable, and it is only now tbat I receive the
answer whidhi I should bave had the' flrst
time I askced the question. I am surprised
at tbe governmnent-I wilI not say hmbuggingHon.
der!

GENTLEMEN-Order ! order!

or-

thls House, I think. we cannot find any of
tbem which would warrant the refusaI of
a notice.
Bourinot was quoted from the
other day, and bie sa'ys that it is usuai for a
member giving notice of motion to rend it
to the Chamber, but what 1 contend ls tbat
Bourinot does flot give ail the usages foilowed here. I bave been a mnember of the'
Senate for ten years, and bave made motions

more tban once lu this buse, of wldci

1

gave notice every time, and every time 1
là.auded It: over to ùhe clerk at the table
wlthout reading it to the bouse. I neyer

bave rend them, except the one' I read the'
other day when I brougbt Up a similar ques-

tion of prîvilege. Thiat is tht' first notice i
have rend lu this bouse. My practice bas
aiways been to baud my notice 0f motion
bon. Mr. SCOTT-I couid flot quite catch to tht' cierk, and it bas always
been ticcepithe observation of my hon. friend. He ask- cd. If there ]s a rule on the
subject, 1 suped a nuruber of questions. I sent them over pose the' clerk wouid be governed
by lt, lbut

flou. Mr. SCOI"r.

APIRIL 17, 1902
I asked hlm, ln a letter that I wrote ta hlm,
ta show me the mile which obliged hlm to
refuse my notice of motion. He answered
by sending me a book, and pointing to a
certain paragraph. I asked If that was the
mile of the House, and he amiled, and that
is the only answer I got. In the absence of
any mule, what le the practice ? The practice, as I have sald, If what we are doing
every day constitutes the practice, ls bath
ways. The practice le ta rend motions or
hand them ln ta the cierk in wrlting, and
both have always been accepted by tMis
Hanse. But, as we ail know, the ruies of
the House of Lards appiy ta this House
when we have no special mule governIng any
particular case. In this Instance, what is
the rule of the Hanse of Lords ? I cail attention of tbis House pamtlcuiarly ta the
usage ln the Hanse of Lords. In the Hlouse
0f Lords the routine business is divided, as
ln our Order paper, la diff erent Items, the
public business, the priva-te. business, bmInging up petitions, reading petitions, as we
have It here, natices of motion, and motions.
NotwI.thstandlng the fact that there la thîs
division of the womk by the mules and usage
of the Haouse of Lords, we find ln May, at
page 230, this paragraph
Notice of motion may alsa be given. at any
time durlng the sitting of the Haou», by deliverlng the terme of the motion ln writing at
the table.
That ls the doctrine laid down by May ln
I campiied with the
his tenth edItion.
usages of this Hanse and with thase of
the House of Lords. Was there anytblng
ln -my motion that was aut of order 7 1
did flot give the notice of motion with the
avowed Intention of *making the mnotion
to-day, but only to-marrow, na that the
Hlouse would have time ta a3ee my motion ln
priat on the Order paper of!to-day, affordiag
au opportunity for hon. gentlemen ta decide
whether It was ln order .or not. I knaw
some members of this House rend their
motions ta the Hanse. A great many of
the membems do utherwise. When my hon.
friend on iny ri-ght .(Mr. Poirier) rend hie
motion -the other day ln French, he did not
effectualiy bming lt ta the cognizance of the
English members. What is the diffemence
to those members of the Hanuse who do
not understand French whether it was
rend to the House or handed lan? Ail
that the House wants ta know le befare

the motion cames up, what its mjature
is, and that is gained by the publication
of the motion some time befome It in bmoughit
up. I am wiliing to comply with the wishes
of the Hanse, but I am nat ready ta compiy
wlth the wishies of the ciemk. That ls the
question, and I say the clemk hbas no recognized authomity ta refuse n motion that
I hand ta him. If the Hanse orders him
ta do no, it is ail right, but I want ta iay
the case befare the Hanse to-day, ta:. show
that in this matter, as a member of the
Senate, I cannat consent to be governed by
the will of the clemk. I arn wiiling toanccept the ruling of the Hanse, whenevem the
Hanuse thlnks -fit ta establsh a mule, but
until then I think I am in my; right wben
I follow a usage I have foiiawed for teuî
years, and which is the usage in this klause
I bring this
and ln thq House of Lords.
matter ta the attention of the Hlouse, and
reserve my right at a future day to preseut
a motion which might define the rights of
hon. members of this Senate.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I gathemed from the debate we hadl the other day, whea a motion
hail been presented ta the ciemk, and was
afterwamds mejected, that theme was no absolute rule which justified that action, but
theme was, as I gathered, a unîvemnal cousensûs o! opinion that the Speaker very
pmoperiy Interfered in a case of that kind.
It was au extreme case, and the suggestion
was made that the mule shouid be aitereti
sa that the Hanse itself might be possessed
o! the contents of a motion when a notice
No further
of motion wan heing given.
action was taken. îIt was simpiy an expression of opinion which seemed ta be
pretty general, I suppose It wan ln purnuance of that unwritten iaw of the Hanse,
expressed by a number of nenators at the
time, that the clerk muet have decllned, ta
meceive the motion. I am quite aware thiat
the usage has been as the hon. gentleman
has sald an very many occusions, thàt probably there han been no unifarm mule.
Where a motion han not been rend, of course
the Hanse has not heen seized of It, and It
only appears on the paper the following
day, when, If It i. objectionabie, the notice
Practicaliy
of motion la given pnbiicity.
the objec4 that the mover mlght have had
ln view is attained of giving It publicity,
and theref are It probably mighit be well
that we should amend aur mules lu the direc-

SENATE
tion of compe]ling the moyer of a motion to the fact that there was no distinct rule
to rend it so that the House would under- In our proceedings that directed the manxstand the motion before lt went on the ner In whlch resolutions -should get on our
Order paper.
Notice paper, but that Bourinot cleariy
polnted out that when motions were made,
observation
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thie
they should be read to the House. Now, in
made by the hon. minister does flot settle
the absence of any fixed rule o! this Clianithe question ?
ber directing that resolutions shahl be rend,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
we have Bourinot who states thiat the proHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-In the meantinie per custom Is, when a resolution is IntroThat was
must I be governed by the good-will of the duced, that it shahl be rend.
the rullng given the other day.
clerk ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There was no rulîn.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Read your notice.
Hon. MNr. LANDRY-The clerk has the
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-If we are f0 couinoUce. It is a question of principle. If I duct the business of this House properly,
read the motion I comply wlth what I arn and keep off our notice paper resolutions or
complalnlng of. I want to know If I bave a motions that should mlot appear, they should
riglit to do wha.t I have done, and who ls be rend to the House whe-n they are handed
golng to tell me -if I have that rlght ? MriII to the c]erk. Thieu the House would be
It be the Clerk of the House, or the Senate ' seized of the matter that the niember proVhat ls wbat I want to know.
posed to brlng Up for consideration, and if
Hon. Mr. WATSO-N-It appears to me the they, when the motion was read, thouglit It
bon. gentleman is looking for trouble ail was somethlng that should not appear, then
it would be for the House at the moment to
along the Uine.
decide that It should flot appear amongst the
Hon. 3fr. LÂNDIRY-I rise to a point of
prlnted proceedings of this House. Froni the
order. This is the second time motives have
discussion thet took place on the very samne
been lmputed to me. I did not object to point a
few days ago, I would consider the
the Secretary of State when lie did so
clerk was perfectly justlfled in declining
because lie was not cognizant of the faets,
fo place my hon. friend's question upon
but the hon, gentleman had no riglit to Imthe notice ilaper when lie dld flot first rend
pute motives.
It in the ilouse. I think it should have
Hon. 3fr. WÂTSON-It is more thian tlie been rend to the House. He hiniself. knew
second time; lt is the fourth or fifth time. that on a prevlous occasion n dlfficulty of
The second offence we miglit forgive, but 'this kind had arisen, and: ln the face of
it Is the continuation of the same kind o! that lie proceeds with another question on
thing that I object to. It was dlstinctly the very same lines, and now tries to load
understood by the House yesterday, and the dlerk with the responslblllty o! rejectby the Speaker, that the practice of givlng ing IL. Our procedure, whatever it may
notice was by reading the notice to the have been In the past, Is good rule, and
House.
Notwlthstanding that, the hon. should be adhered to, and it should be ungentleman follows It up hy putting la derstood as the Intention of this Honse,
anothier notice wlthout readlng ItL
that when any hon. gentleman proposes to
Hon. M1r. LANDRY-And I will do It put a resolution -on the notice paper, la order to guard our prooeedlngs froni having
again.
questions placed on them that should not
Hon. Mr. WATSO.N-Thlat will be another appear nt ail, the questions should lie read
time.
What I suggested at the openlng to, the House and then the House should be
of my remarks Is borne out by the lion. responsible for lts appearlng In our prlnted
gentleman's remarlB, hie ls looklng for proceedings, and It would prevent: ahl this
trouble.
trouble.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-In the discussion
Hon. Air. LOUGHEED-Â couple of days
we had in the House the other da-y. the ago I undertook to express my opinion upon
Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell drew attention this question. If Is hlghly desirable that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

.APRIL 17, 1902
it should be settied, inasmuchi as there does
nlot seemn to be any expressed ruling on
this point by any of the prev-lous speakers,
or by the House, so far as one could learn
from Bourinot, or any other authority upon the subject. It seems to me to Interpret the-rule which we have, narnely, one
intermediate day's notice in writing must be
given of al notices. It seems to me 'we
cannot interpret that rule otherwlse than
by holding that the notices must be read.
Otherwise, If the notice is haiîded ln at the
table and placed upon the Order paper for
the next day, lt mnust be nianifest to liou.
gentlemen that it wiIl be impossible for
the House to have the adv-antage -of the
in termediate day's notice which is already
provided for lu our rule. Rlule 13 provides
that that time shall be given. The Commons
rule le entirely diff erent. There it is expressly provided that a notice may be laid
on the table before five p.m., and that it shall
appear upon the motion paper of that particular day, and two days' notice of that
particular motion shahI be g:ven. But we
have no rule analogous to that ln the Senate. It is impossible for It to appear ou
the notice paper until the following day coneequently, If the motion is not read by
the member lu his place, but simply handed
mni at the table, as I have' aid, it le quite
manifest that the rule would be meaningless, and the House would not have axiy
notice of the motion. I think it le highly
desirabie, In order that we may have an
Intelligent grasp of the subjects 'which are
to be diseussed, that we should have a sufficient notice of the motion betore it comee
on for discuesion. 1V' can only be done in
tha t way, In my judgment.
Hou., Mr. MACDONALD (British Columbia)-Supposing a notice of motion la read
now, the House doee not k-now anything
at ail about It.ý Hon, gentlemen bear it
read and do not take it lu, and do not understand it, so that it le Impossible to diecuEF
a notice of motion the day It is given. -It
must go on the Order paper and be taken
up, eay, 24 or 48 heure afterwards. The
hon. gentleman from Wellington eaid the
clerk: very properly kept *the motion off
the order paper. It la Impossible for the
dferk of the House to make hlmself a
Judge as to whether my motion, or another hion. gentleman'e motion, le to go on

the Order paper or not. It is not bis functien, and hie has no right to do It. It is for
the House to say, nt-ter they have seen it on
the Order paper, xvhether it ls a proper motion to corne before the House. The Speak-er gave his rulàng, but he knows it was
done la a sort of extra-judicini capacity, and
he was not really entitled to do it, and the
clerk bas far lees right to do it. How caiî
he conetitute iniself a judge of my motion
or anybody else's motion? I tbink the
House should corne to soine understandlng,
and pase an order about this question to say
that anything of this kind, reflccting unjustly on auybody, lin this House or out of
this House, should be brought to the attention of the Speaker by some memiber of the
Honse, and not by the Speaker himself, or
the clerk, refnsing to place it 0o1 the order
paper.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-Referring to Bourinot
at page 366-I think It le the page referred
to by the hon, leader of the opposition, or
corne other member of this House-we find
the following :
When a senator Intends ta give notice of a
motion, it le usual fer hlm ta rise in bis place
at the time fixed for businc3s and read the
netices, which le handed ta the cierk s0 that It
may appear In Its proper place in the minutes
of proceedings.
Referring ta the 'Debates' of this House,
In 1875, et page 210, I find that :
*The Hon. Mr. Bellerose inxuired whether. by
the rules of the House, members had ta read
the notices of mxotion before they were handed
ta the clerk or whether It was oniy optional.
The Speaker beiieved there was no expressrule
on the eubject. The practice la the Hanse of
Commonu and the. Senate had been. for the
L-embers to read the notice of motion. The
practice In the Commons was for the hon. member te state his, motion when, readlng It. The
hon, gentleman then, read bis notice of motion.
It seerna to me that i. equlvalent to a cullng. It was accepted by the House and
sanctioned hy the readIng of the notice 0f
motion. Unlese the hon. member le able
to show that thie practice has been departed
from ince that date, It seems to me that
this tends to establsh the practIce as it
existed then.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Columbla)-These were not -the grounds on which
the motion was taken off the Order paper.
It was flot because the motion was flot read,
but on other grounds.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But the question came
up in tbe other House as to whether the
practice was to read the notice of motion,
and the Speaker affirmed that It had been
the practice and the House assented to IL
It seemed to me that that was the sense
of this House the other day, If I amrn ot
mistaken. The hon. leader of the opposition, and members on both sides of the
House, agreed tliat, to put ail end to wbat
was described the other day as an abuse,
the better practice would be to read notices
of motion instead of mnerely handing them
to the clerk.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbat
was the bon. gentleman reading from just
now ?
Hon. Mr~. BEIQUE-The decision of Hon.
Speaker Clirîstie ini lS75, page 210 of the
Debates.
Huqi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
order to put an end to this discussion, we
should adopt sonie raie. This question flrst
arose ln 1875. If lion. gentlemen wlll look
at rule 50, page 91 of the rules of the House,
they wlill see a bead-note there-I do not
kiio% by what authorlty it appears. It says
nt the head, under notices of motion or lnqlry:
Must be read by senators whŽ3n given.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-These are not the
riues at al].
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I sald
s0. I sald there was a note at tbe head
of that Rule, by wbat autborlty I did flot
know. 1 was calllng attention to raie 50,
page 91, ln whlch there ls a head-note placed
there by some authorlty I dld not «know
about. I sald that the rules provîde that
wben the Speaker caîls for notices of motion, notices iatended to be moved on a
future day must have at Ieast one Intervening day's previous notice la wrlting. Wliy
and by iwhat authorlty that note was put
there I do flot know. That Is a point I desire to caîl attention to. Bourinot says, at
page 360, that wben a senator lntends to
give notice of a motion It is usual for hlma
to rise -in bis place and read the nortice before hianding it to the clerk, so that It may
appear ln the proper place on thse minutes
and proceedlngs.
That ls the strongest
opinion I have seen yet, but In order to preHon. Mr. MACD.ONALD (B.C.)

vent these discussions la future, if the
goverument does flot take action I will assumne the responsibility of placing on the
paper a aotice to-morrow deflning the manner ln whlcb these notices shall be gîven.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Perliaps
alter the mules.

we

should

lIon. Mr. IMILLER-The usage of this
House, as I understand it. lias beeii to read
notices of this kind. I think it is a good
usage. I flnd, from liiquiry within the last
few days, that many inembers have been
la the habit of not reading- them. I think
It Is not at ail regular, and our usage is
qulte enougli to establlsh a precedent. There
Is another reason wlsy it is more necessary
la thîs House to read notices than ln
tbe other House, and that Is because our
Speaker bas flot the power of the Speaker
of the other bouse. A notice may be put
on the minutes of the other bouse before
a certain bour, and not rend, but if thé
clerk call the attention of the Speaker of
that House to It lit aiiy tiiue before the
pmlntIng of the minutes, bie bas the power
to strike It out If it ls irrelevant, or inliproper. I do not consider the Speaker of this
Chamber bias that power, altbough I should
lîke to give it to hlim, and therefore It ls aIl
the more necessary that notices la this
House sbould be read before they go on
the Table, la order that the Speaker, or
inembers, or the clerk should bave the
opportunlty of knowing at the eariiest
moment wbiether or not there le anything improper or irrelevant lu the motion.
Then the printing of It mîgbt be prevented
by a member of the House, or the Speaker.
But vemy often wjsen the Improper motion
goes on tbe Order paper, perliaps the object
of putting It on le accompiisbed If It once
gets on our minutes. Some steps should be
tak-en, as I suggested the other day, to place
the matter beyond controversy, by addîng a
rule to our standing orders on the subjeet.
bon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It seems
to me that we are golng outslde of the
question. The bon, gentleman from Stadacona. bas placed a notice of motion on the
paper. He bas gîven that notice. The bon.
gentleman from De Saiaberry bas clted. the
case of the Hon. Mr. Belierose who, on one
occasion asked wbetber bis motion shouid
bie read, or wbetber bie should put It on

A1'RIL 17, 1902
the Order paper. Then the Speaker, Mr.
Cbristie, sald that it was the practice ta
place it an the paper.
Hon. Mr. BEIQTJE-No, ta bave It read
befome it was put on the order paper.
Hon. Mm. DeBOUCHIERVILE-That ls
wbat I iutended ta sur. Weil, that ls
flot a rule. It is merely the opinion of the
Speaker.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is the usage.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It is
simply tbe opinion of the Speaker, that it
oughit to be read. But ta prove that it is
îlot the usual practice the bon, gentleman
from 'Stadacona bas sald-and nobody wii
doubt bis word-that he bas very aften
given notice of motion by merely putting
the paper before the clerk ; therefore
usage cannot be proved ta be as lias been
stated. The bon, gentleman fram Calgary
ays that the necessity for a notice of It
la that members may. know whiat la golng
ta be brought before tbom. How does the
bon. gentleman knaw that this notice, put
before the cierk yesterday, was for to-day.
I have not read the motion, but I understood It was oniy for to-momrow. Therefore, there was one full day for the notice,
giving the full time se that ail bon, gentlemen could know wbat it was. I intend ta
caîl attention ta this : the question i. not,
bas the hon, gentleman the rigbt ta put
bis notice before the clemk. The real question is, who bias tbe righit ta tell the clerkbecause I do not suppose the clerk would
act of bis own free wlI-wbo bas the iglit
ta tell tbe clerk not ta accept that motion.
There must be somebody else besides the
clemk. I understand the Speaker gave the
order.
.The SPEAKER-No, I did flot. The
clerk gatbered from the discussion yesterday tbat tbe sentiment of the Hanse was
In the direction ln whicb lie acted, and the
clerk, baving acted, asked me my opinion
on the subject, and I told bixa I tbougbt ho
badl acted properly.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I
amn
very glad the hon. Speaker did not tell the
clemk ta act ln tbat way. He did not give
the order.
The SPEAKER-I do not Intend ta sholter
myseîf behind the clerk, beca use If the
15j

clerk bad ask-ed me in advance I should
have told hlm flot ta put it on.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-But be did nat do it.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-He did
nat do it, therefore,' lt was the clerk that
took upon bimself ta decide that a notice
given by que of our confreres sbould be
tbrown aside, and I tbink, If the House
does flot want to do away witb ail its
privileges, tbat we sbouid not allow that
ta be done la the f uture.
Hon. Mfr. CHURCH-As a young member
wanting to know bow to do thiags praperly,
and withont desiring ta waste the time of
the Hanse, I should lîke ta be Informed an
tbis matter. I once heard a ceiebrated man
at the ather end of the Chamber rise lu bis
place ta a point of order, and If it were
praperiy expressed you migbt say that be
rose ta a point of disorder. I do not say
that this is a point of disorder, but It seems
ta me that there was a consensus of opinIon the other day tbat any hon, gentleman
wbo wisbed ta found a motion or Inqulry,
sbould firat rend it ln bis place, before bandiug it to the clerk. I, as a yaung member
of this Hanse, would certaly feel myseit
bound, after the expression of opinion In
this Hanse, ta take that course.
Now I
findt a gentleman who bas been a member
of this Hanse for many years caming forward and putting bis question la the bands
of the cierk, after beariug that expression
of opinion. Weil, it does look ta me as If
It were a sort of challenge againat wbat
certainly seemed ta me ta be the expression
of opinion of the great majority of members of this House..
Hon. Mfr. DEVER-There was no vote.
Hon. Mfr. CHURCH-No, but silence of ton
gives consent and Consent la 0f ton expressed witbout yea or nay being given. I
bave oniy been bore a few weeks and I
bave seen that frequently, simply because
nabody opposes wbat seems Ïo be the *desire of the Hanse. I amn very glad ta hear
aid members of this Hanse, the bon, leader,
of the opposition .and the hon, gentleman,
from Richmond, state that If the mile la
not clear and definite and weli defined now,
It shouid be se, and I trust It wlil be made
sa. Tbe clerk of the Hanse bas laid himself open ta censure fram the bon. gentie-

SENF'ATE
man who is now seeking to bave bis motion
recognized. He acted on wvhat appeared
to be the consensus of opinion of the grent
majority of this House the other day. The
hon. Speaker says if tue cierk lied applied
to hlm lie would have directed hlm to do
what hie did. I only rose for the purpose
of receîving Information. I had the hionour
the other day of putting two Inquirles
to wbich I received courteous answers,
and I want to know in the future
what I bave to do. Following the practice
as I bave found it here, listening to
the arguments the other day, and to what
1 concelve to le the opinion of the majority, I shaIl feel myself bound to put
MY motions in writlag and read tliem before
banlling thein to the Clerk of the House. if
there Is no absolute rule to that effeet, there
should be a rule, lecause I do not tbiak, in
a question of tbis kind, that any latitude!
should be given. An lion, gentleman miglit
p)ut a motion in the bands of the clerk, and
the c]erk miglit not feel lie lad the riglit
to refuse It. If miglit reflect on a member
of another body, and miglit get on the Order
Peper and lie nmade a matter 0f public
notoriefy before nny action could be taken
to have the matter rectIied. I tîhinî ln
thîs case, the hon. gentleman froni Stadecone is pressing flic metter rather too far.
If does not become me to give an old member edvice, but I thlnk It is ilis duty to,
ilthdrew the motion and get if on the
notice paper ln %he proper w-ny.

quite la order in the course lie pursued upv
to the present time lu handing that motion
to the clerk if there was nothing objectionable in the resolution itself. It Is for the
IHouse to lay down a rule, and then If they
decide that a motion must be read, the hou.
member not foiiowing the rule wiIl be out
of order, but I maintain the senator fromn
Stadacona was quite ln order ln the course
lie foilowed.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-It iuay lie advislle to make It compulsory th.it cver.ý
motion bie rend before hianding it to the
clerk, but the question does not present
ltself at preseat. If we teke into consideration inatters as they are at present, wt0
must come down to the conclusion thant the
gentleman from Stadaconà was riglit. First,
tiiere is no rule of the Hlouse on the siil>
ject. Then, as to that, the hon. gentleman
cannot be out of order. If we rofer to tut'
practice, we come t0 the same conclusion.
It is truc thflt Bourinot lias been quoted,
but ftle expression used by Boyuninot hiniseif
Implies tînt tlîe contrary mai bie donc.
]3ourinot saYs ' It Is usuel.' These words
lmply, as I have said, that the contrary cen be done also. Even If nofhing of
the kind was lmplied, we have departed,
froni the practice mentioned by Bolirinot.
The hon, gentleman froia Stadacone hane
s(Iid that lie îîever read bis motions to the
House, and that they have always been nccepted. I have very often done the samne thing
and the notices of motion were always accepted. *Therefore, .It is a well established
practice, and I fail to understand why we
sliould be out of order now in doing what
we have been doing for years, bandlng our
notices to the cIerk at the Table, and neyer
liaving tbem refused. But Bourinot is flot the
oniT authority to which we may refer. 'May
savs very clearly that a notice of motionf
may aiso bie given nt any time during the
sittlng of the Hlouse by dellvering the termâ
of the motion ln writing nt the table. That
Is as clear as possible, and under the circumstances it seems to, me tiat the clerk,
exceoded his duty ln refuslng to put the
notice of motion on the Order papier.

Hon. 'Mr. MACDONALD (Prince Edward
Island>-I do not take the samne vlew as,
the bon. gentleman who lias just nddressed
the House on the action we took the other
day with regard f0 the motion of the boni.
gentleman from Stadacona.
Thc reason,
the members of this House expressed thielr
dissent t0 that motion was, if refiecteti on
a member of enother brandi of fthc legislature. On that there was a general consensus of opinion, but as I understood it,
there was no decided expression of opinion
respecting the manner la wbicb thc motions
were to be made. It Is within my recollection that since I have been in this Iluse,
every session members have made motions
by bending theni la to the clerk, and havHon. Mr. SCOTT-I propose te give e~
ing them entcred on the Order paper without notice ln the foliowing words : That toreading tbem from their- place. The hon. morrow I shall move that the following rulel
member from Stadacona, I take If, w'as be made an order of the Senate : Every
Hoir. Mr. CHURCH.

APRIL 17, 1902
senator desirous of making a motion or
Moen. Mr. LOUGHEED-My lion. fmiend
asking a question shall read the saine from gave is notice of motion for to-morrow.
bis place in the Chamber liefore handing It
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, but lt was given
to the clerk.
yesterday.
Hon. 3fr. LOUGHEED-Tlie members
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-That le my vindicacould net bave had notice of It untîl to-day,
tion.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Coium- consequentiy an intermediate day could net
have elapsed. We bave te bave a clear day,
bia)-Does It go far enougli? Who is to bie
the judge, wliether it shall go on the Order and If we bave notice ef It to-day, and It
be rend to-morew, we certaiuly canuot have
paper or flot ?
an Intermediate day's notice.
Hou. 3fr. SCOTT-Wlien the matter cornes
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If -tue lion, gentleman
up te-morrow it can be elaborated
If necessary. There Is no doulit the past usage of wiil look nt the deliates of the Sente, lie
the Senate bas been, with occasional ex- will find that ene of the Speakers of titis
ceptions, to read tbe notice, and there 1« House (Hon. Mfr. Alian) decided that quesno deulit the clerk was quite justied lut tion In 1889.
the conclusion lie drew, because there was. Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have iook-ed fer
a general expression of opinion from the it, and cannot find It. It mulst l)e a clear
miembers of the Cliamber that the Speaker day.
acted properly In stopping tlie otiier notice
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-It was on a question
Hou. Mfr. LANDRY-I think it is quite breuglit Up liy 3r. Katilbach.
tbe contrary.
Hon. 3fr. MILLER-It must bie a clear
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He acted ou it at ail day.
events.
Heu. 3fr. LANDItY-That question was
Hou. 3fr. LANI)RY-If the lin, leader of declded by Speaker Allan. He decided If a
this House thInks proper te give notice notice was given to-day, it ceuld net conte
to-day of a motion to estabhieli a raie, that Up untIl thie day nfter to-mommow.
is proof that the ruIe does now exist
lion. 3fr. MILLER-Thnt le iglit.
and If thie rule dees not now exist, wvhy dld
Hoil. 3fr. LANDRY-But there Is nething
the Clerk of tlie Honce write lue a
letter teliig me that it wa *igaixîst tie lu thnt whichi says it iust lie lut writiug.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The House had
rules of the House. and wrhy, when 1 asked
hlm te point eut tilat special rule, did 4e ne notice of the motion w-len It was net
just give me w bat tlie leader ef the opposi- rend.
tion bas quoted as rule 50 ? I eaUl tbe
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Thie hon, gentleman
attention of tbe bon. gentleman, and of this dees net uuderstnud what I menu. I mean
House to the fact that rule 50 Is net a rule the Speaker decided wbat w-as the meaning
of the Senate, and 'I challenge any inember of thnt rule, and is decision dees not agree
of this House to say tat It Is. It Is inrely w-ith what -the lion, gentleman said ln comna littie memorandum. mnade liy 1 do not ing te the conclusion that It must lie rend,
know whom. The lit. leader of tue oppo- aud net lianded In lu writing.
sition bas been misled by sonte ene
wbo
Heu. '-%r. LOUGHIEED-It la a matter of
represented It as a mule of the lieuse. lias
I
was showxî It yesterday liy the clerk, and I opinion.
went te hlm and as]:ed lim if it w~as a mule
Heu. Mfr. LANDRY-It Is a matter of opof tbe House, and I ouly got a sinile. In mnien. aud lie wlll flnd the opinion ef the
mile 50, mule 13 Is alluded te. Rule 13 an- Speaker In the debates of 1M8.
I am net
swers wbat the hou, gentleman from Cal- opposed te the ruling of this lieuse, saying
gary sald a moment ago. Hie said one Iu- tînt In the future we must pmoceed In sucli a
termediate dny's notice In w-riting must be w-ay, but I dlaimi as a matter of riglit tliat
given, and lie concluded tInt It must there- until tbat mile Ie established I saal not refore bie given In xvriting, othýerwise we would ceive ordeme elther fromt the clerk or frein
net have time.
the Speaker.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-A change
Hon. GENTLEMEN-No, no.
of the ruies cannot be made without a
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-I wouid like
longer notice than the Secretary of State
to eall the attention of the House to rule
lias given.
16, in order to get an Interprétation of it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELI-It It provides that :
would be much better to change the rule
No motion for maklng any order of tho Senthan to make a speciai rule. Rule 13, which ate a standing order can be adopte3d unless the
senators In attendance on the session shail
remis this way:
have been prcvlously summuned to consi4er the
One lntc rmedlate day's notice la writlng must same.
be given of alI motions deemed speclal. and any
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We ail understand that.
motion ls deemed special which initiates a subject of discussion.
They have to be ail speclaliy summoned.
I was going to suggest something iike this;
THE TREADGOLD MINING SYNDIinstead of maklng a new mile, to make mule
13 read sometbing iik-e this
GÂTE.
One lntcrmedlate day's notic,- la writlng must
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Columbc given o! a-I motions de-cmed specil, the
saine belng read by the niember givlng said bia)-Before the Orders of the Day are
motion to the Senate at thie turne it is given, caiied, 1 wish to cali the attention of the
and any motion, &c.
bon. Secretary of State to the distribution
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That will cover It.
of the Treadgold Mining Syndicate papers
Hon. 31m. MILLER-I tliink It would be prevlous to the papers coming down here.
just as weil not to come bastily to a con- What I wisb to ask the Secretary of State
Is there any addition
clusion on n motion. WItb regard to the on 31onday Is this
The dates
question of ruies, I remember that a muling to the papers we now have?
on a point of order in this bouse, decIded are June 12 and June 29, and December 7.
by the Speaker, became binding on thîs Thiere are three different papers iii this
distribution. -%
Wbat 1 shouid like to, know
House, Ia 1875.
on 3londay la, if the Governor in Odunicil
The SPEAKER--Tuie bouse will perbaps have any alterations to these now before
ailow me to say a word. I understood the us.? I wilI ask that question on Monday.
hon. gentlemnan from Stadacona, wben be
Hon., Mr. SCOTT-Ail right.
raised this question of privilege, to state
that be Intended bringing the matter for.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Tbere is
maily before the bouse to-morrow, and ask- a question of priviiege before the Huse.
Ing d ruling of the bouse. I quite concur The -bon. gentleman from Stadacona bas
wltb the bon, gentleman from Richmond In brought a question of prîviiege before the
thlnkling that whien this question bas been House, and w.e have to decide wvbet1ie the
ruied upon b>' the House, It covers the wbole clerk had the right to strike out bis motion
ground, and that there Is no necessity for or not. If we do not decide lit one w'ay,
maklng a special ruie about the matter.]if we wlll décide It another way. If we pass
the House solemuly décides the matter,lIt It over we wili admit that the senator was
stands for ever, and I hope the bon. gentle- wrong Iu puttlng before tbe clerk a notice,
man wlll carry out his declared Intention o! of motion, and the clerk wns rigbt in rebringing up the matter In such a way thgt fusing wbat the senator ashked hlm* to do.
the House can mile.
If we do flot décide against tbe cierk, then
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWîýELL-Tbien we decide against the bon. member froui
I wiii give notice o! the motion I have Stadacona.
mast read, and wben It is discussed, we cau
The SPEAKCER-The bon, gentleman did
take the two motions, tbat 0f the hon. flot catch wbat I said.
I sald the hon.
Secretary of State and this one, and so inember from. Stadacona stated be proposed
*word It that lt wiil suit the case.
to bring up this question of order to-morrow,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-In glving this notice, formaiiy; he simpiy rose to a question of
wouid It not be weli to understand lit fur-j privilege to-day, but be did not conclude
ther, nnd give the Speaker power to ex- with any motion.
amine those motions ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If I amn allowedHon. Mr. LANDRy.

APRIL 17, 1902
Han. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman bas
spoken baîf a dozen times, and we surely
sbauid have some order ln the Chamber.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the Orders
of the Day are proceeded wltb, I want to
point out what the Speaker said for future
I amn not going to discuss what
action.
1 tblnk the Speaker dld flot
bas passed.
catch wbat I said, wben lie says that 1
lntended to bring It Up to-morrow. I said,
at a future date. 1 dld flot point ont any
date ln particular.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (F) An Act to Incarporate the Blshap
of Moosonee.--(Hon. Mr. Lougheed.)
Bill (K) An Act to confer on the Commissioner af Patents certain powers for the
relief of George M. Depew.-(Hon. Mfr.
Lougheed, ln the absence of Hon. Mfr. KIrclihoffer.)
Bill (2-2) An Act to Incorporate the Board
of the Presbyterian Cohlege, Halhix.--<Hon.
Mr. Ferguson.)
Bill (37) -An Act to incorporate the
Spragne's Falls MNanufacturing Comnpany,
(Limlted).-(Hon. Mfr. Gillmor.)
Bill (49) An -lct to confer on the Commission of Patents certain powers for the
relief of John M'esteru.-41Hon. Mfr. Kerr.)

Bill (29)An -let to incorporate the Sovereign Life Assurance Company of Canada.
-(Hon. Mfr. McCallunm, ln the absence of
Hon. Mfr. Drummand.)
Bill (39) Au Act ta Incorporate the St.
Lawrence ani Narthern Railway Company.
(Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier.)
Bill (M An Act respecting the Atlantic
and Lake Superior Railway Company.(Han. Mr. Owens.)
Bill (N) An Act respectlng the Great Eastern Railway Company.-(Hon. Mfr. Owens.)
Bill (0) An Act respecting the Algom1a
Central and Hudson Bay Railway Campany.-(Hlon. Mr. Landerkln.)
Bill (P) An Act respectlng the Manitaulin
and North Shore Rallway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Lsnderkln.)
Bill (S) An Act ta amend the Act respecting the Incorporation of Boards of Trade.(Hon. Mr. Scott.)

OTTAWA, NORTHERN AND WESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
THIRD READING.
The Order of the Day being cafled:
Thlrd reading of Bill (B) An Act ta amend
the Acta relatlng te the Ottawa, Nortbern
and Western Railway Company.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED said: The promater of this Bill, Mfr. Campbell, of Montreai, wben lie was before the committee
yesterday, expressed bis desire that instead
of the amendmeat being made which. was
suggested, and wblch ivas embodled ln the
report, namely, that the consent of the Governor la Council sbould be first obtained,
that the. words 'the Ottawa and New York
Railway Conpany' be stricken ont of the
clause. Hon. gentlemen will remeniber that
the ban, gentleman frein North Wellington
suggested It n-ould be goad pahicy te submit the agreement between this company
and the United States road ta the Governor
in Councl befare the ratification of the
agreement. It n-as suggested la the alternative by Mfr. Campbell that as this precantion n-as taken on account of the United
States road being mentianed la clause 6,
lie would willingly consent ta the name
of the road being strlcken ont and the clause
ta remain as it stood. As the abject of the
amendîuent n-as to protect Canadlan Interests in the event of an amalgamation ivitlh
the United Sta-tes rond, I think flint by
striking out the naine of that rond, the Ottaw-a and New York Rau-nay, lt w-i ahviate the'necessity of the amendinent which
the bon, gentleman frein North Wellington
mov-ed, and of whlch the committee apThe Impression prevaiied amoug
proved.
several members of the cammlttee tbat the
committee had accepted the suggestion of
Mir. Campbell, but n-len the report n-as
brought down, It n-as found that the flrst
suggestion n-as embodied ln the report. 1
uaderstand the prrnoter of the Bill has
dlscussed this wltb my bon. friend frani
North Wellington, and as the leglalatian ls
being passed n-itb a vien-, I understand,
ta the early absorption of tbe rond by a
i-ery large rallway company bere, and as
it n-i lnvolve saine littie turne ta brlng it
before ihe Governar ln Council, I move that
the Bill be not now read the third turne, but
that It be amended'by itriklng ont the words

SENATE
' if the consent of the Governor in Council ers coming in, so, that the reason lie assigns
lie first obtained,* and aiso the words 'The cannot appeai to the common sense of hiol.
Ottawa and New York Rallway Company.' gentlemen, but It does appeaI to lion, gentleMy hon. friend from Wellington states thuit men thmat these ronds shall have an amalgalie is satisfied the Bill should go as it was mation wlthout the consent of the Governor
presented to the cornmittee, having had an la Council, or some authority. Therefore I
explanation frém the.promoter of the Bill. object to the proposition the lion, gentleman
I move that tlfls Bil lie flot now read the makes.
third time, but that It be amended by strikHon. M~r. FERGUSON-I cannot agree
.ing out the words of the ameadment, namely,
' If the consent of the Governor In Council Is wlth nîy lion. friead. The proposed anmalobtained,' and that thue Bill be now rend the gamnatioîi cannot lie made witiiout the autliorlty of tis parliament, and I think that
third time, as anended.
lon. Mr. BEIQUE-I wias present gt the Is autliority enougli. I do flot see wliy any
Rallway Comniittee when thils Bill was coînpany shîould lie obliged to go to tlîe
Governor la Concil to ratify a Ibargaýi
amended, and I uaderstood that -the nmendwliich thîs parliament lias ratified.
ment wns-and I lntended to draw the attent ion of the committee to lt-to introduce a
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tiien I shahl -ive
provision whlch It lias been the practice to it as n notice of motion for to-morrow.
Incorporate in sucli Bis, providing for the
approval of the amalgamntion liy the GoverSECOND READINGS.
nor In Council. It bas been the uniform pracBill (W) An Act respecting tlhe St. Laîwth'p In ail] these railway Bis, whlen an amalgamation Is to lie made, that It must lie withi rence and Adirondnciz Raiiway Comapny.the approvai of the Governor In Council. (Hon. 'Mr. Beique.)
1-11115) An Act to incoiporate the Knapp)
(7
Thiat wvns the object of the
ameadment,'
.and now the lion, gentleman from Calgary Tubular Steamslîiip Coiip.nniy.-(Hlon. 1%1r.
asks nothing short of strlking out the I)andurnnd.)
ameadment of the Comnuittee on Railways,
Bill (79) An Act to, incorporate tule Crownl
Telegraplis and Harbours. I think It Is Bank of Caniada.-(Hon. Mr. McMlulleni.)
good leg-isiation and thnt the practice sbould
l)e foIIowed ;I do not see what objection JOINT STOCK COMPANY'S INCORPOthere could be in tlis case. to have tlue apRATION BILL.
probation of the Governor In CouniclI.
The House resoived Itself inito a CommitHlon. Mr. Mc3TJLLEN-I miglit say that
la committee, when the ameadment was tee of the whoie on Bill (R) 'An Act rej)roposed by me, my reason for doing so specting the incorporation of Joint Stock
was because there was a United States line Companies by letters patent.'
Included aioug wlth the others. Since then,
(Ia the Committee.)
I have learned on good authority that the
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I wi]l explaîn the
limie thiat the Bill refers to is about being
clauses ln tlils Bill Iii whichi changes have
ieased, or la practicnlly leased to, the Canadian Pacific Rallway. Under those circum- lieen made, 1 suppose 8.0 per cent of tue
stances, I have no desire whatever ta press clauses are iii tlie haw as It now stands,
which lias been tested for the last 20 or 25i
the aniendment.
yenrs, and thierefore 1 'have made no chianHlon. Mr. ELLIS-I sustaîn, as far as my ges ln those clauses whicli
1 thouglit were
vote would go. the proposition ta amead the applicable to ti
altered condition of th,
Bill as the commlttee reported It, not for the present Bill. The
interpretation clause
reason asslgned by the bon, gentleman, cornes first, and
tlie oniy change 'there is that
because 1 do not thiak that is a good reason loan companies are omltted. The Act
lias
at ail. I do not thlnk there Is the slightest no0
reference to ioan companies. We passed
hiarin lii amalganiating with n United States an Act two years ago, coasolidating
the
rond. Ouir own ronds are ia our own coun- inw Ini reference to loan companles,
and it
try and we can control theni, and there is is eatireiy lef t out Ia reference
to this parnotbing to prevent United States stockhold- ticular Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 17, 1902
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I understood the hon, gentleman was to explain
the whioie Bill to-day. There Is oniy one
point on whicji I wish to be lnstructed. Is
there a clause under whleh the local riglits
hre protected ? That is to say, can the federal government wlth this law give Incorporation to any educational system ?

stands now upon the statute-book regulating
the granting of patents.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That clause will corne
la at the end.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I find.
la the Bill introduced la 1891, w-hich received the approval of this House, whlch
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That question does îîot dedIt wilh lan companies and companles of
arise under this Bill ln any sense.
It the kInd, having the same object ln view
stands just as it did under the old law. 1 that the hion, gentleman lias indicated this
rnay say that ln a number of the provinces Bill lias, simiplifyiug- tue mode of obtainiug
tlîey are passing legisîntion. In some In- letters patent, it went f urther and laid
doiva
stances It bas been considered, alithougli I schiedules as to the character
of the returns
do not now express any opinion, that they whichi shiould be made to parlianint
and
bave been encroachlng on the federal also the tees whIlh should
lie charged for
power. The riglits of the provinces are not obtalning letters patent, also anotlier achieaffected by the new law. Tboy stand just dule, Aïving the names and so ou of
tliose
as they were, and the federal goverument Who are connected witli
It. Whether tlîe
cau claini no power that tbey did not re- lion, gentleman thinks that
is necessary or
ceive under the British North America Act. not, is a question to consider,
and I thîink
Âny legisiation by us could not affect the it would lie well If provision
were made lIn
riglits of the provinces.
the Bill regulatlng the rate and the aiuounit
that should be pnid by parties applylng. Iii
On the first clause.
the debate which took place at the tume, au
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-T-.here explanation was given. My lion. friend the
-is no objection to the first clause, but Secretary of State took somfe lnterest iii It,
I was under the Impression, whea thc and particularly the present Speaker, who
Secretary of State rose the other day, was then a memiber of the Senate. dlscussed
that lie had the Intention of explaiing the different clauses nt some length. The
the Bill more fully at the comrnittee stage. simple object of tliis Bill which I hiold iii
I understood hlm to say thnt the provisions wy hand, whichi w-as introduced in lS94, and
of this Bill are similar to the laiv as it whichi received the sanction of parliamuent.
stands upon the statute-book to-day, regu- was to simplify the mode of obtaîning these
lating the obtainlag of letters patent for letters patent, and incereaslugd tue tees that
carrying on business and that the proposed should be paid for obtalnlng theni, or to reBill only simplifies the metbod of obtalng peat the expression used by the Secretary
charters. I notice, however, that there Is of State at that time, when lie was on this
oaly one repeallng clause. I arn speakIng of aide of. the House, the objeet Is to slmplify,
the Bill generally now, because I may for- and te get more money, to whichi I repled
get 4t when we reach these clauses. I lind that is the object of the Bill. What I dethere Io no reference to the repealiag of any sire to ask is, whether the government lnclause or any portion of the old Act with tend, as they are tak-ing the powver to rewhich this may corne la conflict except one, gulate the tees, to adopt that principle or
and thiat clause la simply one enablng com- not, or whether they lntend to reduce the
panies, after making the deposit which Is fees that ire to be pald la addition to the
necessary to be made, upon application for slmplfying of the mode of obtaning them.
a charter, to get the money back again. I suppose the saine mode obtains now as la
It lays down the mode by which the rnoney 1874, of obtainlng those letters patent, and ln
ican be withdrawn from the bank. I would order that those who were not present at
suggest to the hon, gentleman, if hie hasnot that tume niay underotand exactîr what rouconsldered that question, whether It would tine lias te be gone through, I wlll read a
flot lie better to have a clause repealing ail short extract ln whlcb at thiat tirne I exother laws Inconsistent wlth thîs, or that plalned te the House whiat had to lie done.
this should take the place of the law as it It was slmply this. I said :

SENATE
By way of Illustrating thc simplicity of the
procedure under this Bill, as cornpared with that
under the existing Act, I niay point out that
parties desiring ta obtain a charter under the
present law must, llrst, petition ta be sent ta
the Secretary
th'e Secretary of State .second,
of State sends it ta the Justice Department ;
thîrd, the Justice Department examines petition and returns it to Secretary of State; fourth.
Secrctary of State enters It ln a book, and
&ends it ta Finance Department ; fifth, Finance
Departmeirt examined papers, and returns ta
Sceretary of State wlth report (th,ýt le, Lhat It
does not Interfere wlth any other bill) ;sixth,
If approved by Justice and Finance Depart'mente, Secretary of State prepares a report ta
Council ; seventh, If Coiîncil approves. reports
returned ta Secretary of State: eighth, the Secretary of Stste sends ta Justice Department ta
preparc draft of letters patent ;nlnth, Justice
Departmeat -prepares draft of letters patent
and sends to Secretary of State ;tenth. Secretary of State engrosses draft, signs lt, and pubIlshes ln officiai Gazette.
HÀon. Mr. SCOTT-Thea the four inonths'
notice anterior ta that.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-I was
going ta say that.

This was the process ta

obtain letters patent, and bas been tbe practice for years, ever sînce the law bas been
on the statute-book. Then, as the Secretary
of State says, that bas ta be publIshed la
the officiai Gazette before the parties get
to work. The present law. as 1 uaderstand
It, transfers the whole power ta the Secretary of State, wbo Is called the registratr,
ta grant letters patent, without any of this
process. Now, would he have the power, ln
case an application were made foir incorporation witb a tîtie similar ta tbat of a
compRny still ln existence, ta say we canflot grant it. I take It for granted hýe would.

Tbey appfled ta
England, and received a patent from the
Britishi government, but It cost then 00
pounds sterling. I do not propose that there
should be auy sucb charge bere. But I do
tbink, la order to prevent bogus coxupanies
from being organlzed, and companies, thit
are organized simply for the purpose of selIig out or for soome other Improper purpose, or without any -Intention of proceedlng -with tbe enterprise that they propose-i
lu their charter ta go ou with, that there
sbould be a suflicient suni lmposed upon
them to prevent that abuse of the iaw.
Thiese are points wbichi sugg.ested tbemselves to me la iooking over the Bill, and 1
thougbt It well to eall attention ta theni ln
order that we migbt know wbat it Is proposed to do.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn very mucli
oblged to the leader of the opposition for
the manner ln wbich be bas gone over
the details, because It will save explanations
later on. La reference ta fees under the
law, the Governor la Coundil ls charge-I
with the fixing of the fees, but since the
over nearly ail tbe iworld.

time the hon. gentleman refers ta the tees

Lave been largely Increased. Before the
Bill goes througb, 1 will lay a table of f ees
'before the House, In regard ta tbe retura,
tbere la very fnll provision made bere tbat
a certain proportion of the shareliolders
are entltled at any time ta cali a meeting
and bave the affairs of the compaay fully
examined, and the Secretary of State is
empowered at any time ta caîl on the coinpany ta gîve the fuli detail of its shareHon. '-%r. SCOTT-Oli, yes. If you issue bolders, the amount of -stock subscribed,
a titie under a mîsconception you caui cancel the amount paid up, the amount unpaid, and
't
so on. AIl tbat information can be given.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-These
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-In the short tiUe,
are the only points ta which I wish to cali wby not cail it 'Joint Stock Company's
attention. Wbat do tbey propose ta do ln Act' instead of 'Company's Act.'
reference to the fees ? Is It proposed ta lnHon. Mr. SCOTT-This Is ta take the
crense the present sum, as provided ln the
Bill I bold Ia my baud, or leave the fees as Place of the Joint Stock Company's Act.
thiey are at present ? The Eaglsh Act bas
On clause three,
been referred ta. Tbe amount of money
requIred to get letters patent in Eaglaad is
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-Would lt not be advery hlgb. I gave an Illustration la this visable to ameu)d this clause ? Lt bas came
debate, of one case lu wbhich a* Nova Scotia ta my knowledge on many occasions that
company required letters patent for com- parties wbo bave jolned the compaay wblle
mencing some business, and It was refused tbe company la la course of formation are
because lt was tbougbt the powers were too left out of the Incorporation on accolnt of
extensive, and that tbey were to operate tbe wording of the law whicb bas been on
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APIRIL 17, 1902
tbe statutc-book for a gaod many ycars ;
tbereforc I wauld suggest that ln the faurtb
Une tbe follawing words be addcd :-' Wbo
bave became subscribers ta the memo. of
agreement hereinatter mcntioncd, and I n10lice ln the Ontario Act they bave adopted
a wording o! that nature.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave no abjection.
I do not think It necessary, because they
must ail slgn the mema. of agreement,
and give an undertaking, eacb witii thc
atber, thant they 'will continue ta be shiareboiders and psy their shares.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I sce this difficulty about that: 'supposing you make a
subscriber a pravisianal member of the coinpany, and bie procceds fia turthcr ; supposing lic dies ; supposing shares are flot
alatted ta hlm, lic bas no substantial lnitercst ln It nt ail. Haw are you gaing ta
get rid a! hlm ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The mere tact tlxat bie
bas subscrlbed shares ls suilcient. Tbc
memo. of agreement ls sent ta tbe Secretary
of State, asklng for tbe Incorporation, and
then the public are canvassed, sbarcs are
subscribed on duplicate memo. o! association, and according ta the wording af tbls
clause, tbey do not form part of tbc comnPanY at ail. I could refer the bon. seîîator to
a decisian ln Quebcc,- wherc tbe question
came before the courts, and It was bcld tbey
wcre not members o! tbe campany, and It
bas gîven risc ta litigation. If tbe bon, gentleman refers ta clause 9 of the Companies'
Act of Ontario, be will flnd tbat tbey adaptcd a wording sucb as I suggcst.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In tbe contract thcy
arc obliged toasigu, page 22 a! the Bill, it
provIcles as follows:
NEW MEMORANDUM 0F AGREEMENT AND
STOCK BOOK.

as bereunder ind hereatter writtean. and ta biecorne shareboiders ln such company to the sad
amnounts.
In the application, tbe naines of tbose wlio
are chosen as the flrst provisianal directors appear, so there is no necessity foè tixat,
and 1 bave no objection to it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If it
la JR the Ontario Act, It must be good, of
course.
Hon. Mr.
ANDJUlAND-The petition
ouiy covers the case of those wlîo subscribed
atter the mema. bas been flcd.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But yau did litclude tbem tram the fact that they becoine
slharebolders.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We are making
it cicar.
The clause was amended and adopted.
On the tourtb clause :
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Sub-clausc (a) provides :
(a.) The proposed corporate naine of the
cornpany, which. shall fot be that of any other
kzrown cornpany, incorporated or un-incorporated. or any naine liable to be confounded therewitb, or ot.herwlse, on publie grounds, objectionable.
It la' frequently tbe case that another
naine ia adopted, witb the cpnsent of an existing company, and I sec that ln Ontario
tbey bave a provision ta tbat cffcct. As it
ls bere, If It la the naine of anather company
it must. be excludcd.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bad consIdered. tlxat.
as 1 bave vcry often to consîder simîlar ni>plIcations. One must exercise discretion la
that direction.
It dcpends on wbethcr
tbcrc la any substantial abjection ta It or
ciat. The parties may ngree.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbcre may bie other
parties Interestcd besîdes the twa coinpaniez.

We the undersigned do hereby severally covHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tben th.e law stands
enaint and agree each wlth the other ta becotue
lnoorporated as a cornpany under the provisions ns It la.
of The Companies Act, 1902, under the naine. Hou. Mr.
POWER-It wauld be better ta
of the........ conpany of ........... (Linlted),
or such other naine as the Secrctary of State let the clause stand as It i.

rnay give ta the company, with a capital or
-do
lars,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In the
divided Into ........
shares
of .........
dollars ech.
lnterest of the public, I do flot tbink any ane
And we do bereby severaliy, and not one for
the other. subscribe foi' and agree ta take the company should be allowed ta assume the
respective amounts of the *capital stock of the naine of nather company, even thougb It
said company set opposite our respective naines be witb .
tde consent of tbe ôtber. Take

SENATE
stocks, for Instance-one miglit be buying
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-Under our law
the stocks o! an Insolvent company, wben you cannot do it at the Urne of the applicaby the naine lie would naturally suppose tion for letters, except as regarding real
tliey belonged to another company.
estate.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-OII. njo. 'My lion. friend
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-1 wll not insist.
What I wanted to cover was sucb cases as wll see tliat subsection (g> contempiates
this. Very frequently I have to get letters that :
(g.) The aniount of stock takŽn by each appatent for companies incorporated under the
laws of Quebec. They obtain letters patent plicant,of the amount, If any, pald in upon the
stock
each applicant, and the mauner in
from the (Iovernor la Council, and adopt of wiiich the saaie has bean vaid, and is hield for
course, the samie nanie, witli the consent the company.
of the old company. It is practically the That Is wbiere the stock is takien by the
samne company, nnd this wordlng excindes transfer of land to the conipany.
this being done. I do not lnsist, because It
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You caninot inOi
bas been the practice of the Department of
State to permit Its belng done, and 1 assume any sncb provision as that.
lion. Mfr. BEIQUE-I think section 26,
that the practice wîll lie continued.
is ample enougli to cover a case of tlîat
Hon. -,%r. LOUGH-EED-I mig-lit point out klnd. Under section 26, whicli is a coliy of
to my bon. friend thiat I regret no provision section 27 of the old law, it is provided:
lias been miade for the issuance of stock
26. Every share in the company shall be
at the time of application for letters patent deemed to have beca lssued and to bie held sulito the owners o! an enterprise whlich Ject to the payaient of the whole arnount thereof
In cash, unless the sanie
ny bie turned inito a company, say a going agreed upon or determined lias been otherwis-e
by a contract duly
concern for personalty or for other valu- made in wrlting or by a by-haw approv-ed by
able consideration. Now, one Of the par- the shsreholders lu accordance with the provi&lona of section 20
ticular features of the law o! New Jersey, tract or by-law shall of this Act, butthethe conle filcd with
Secreand one reason probably why s0 inany com- tary of State at or betore the issue of sucli
shares.
panies become Incorporated there Is this,
Ho10n. Mr. LOUGHEED-A by-law may be
that a going concern can turn its undertak-.
Ing into a joint stock coalpany, and bave passed for iess tlîan its pair value. 1 tisink
stock issued, as nxiy lie decided by the direc- that is the meaning.
tors, for the amounit of the purchase money.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-No. This clause is
Tliat la a dlfiulty which, confronts appli,ample enougli to cover a case of tbat kind.
cants almost every day wlio ay desire to Under the oid
iaw, as embodied in the
couvert their business Into a joint stock Company's
Act, It Is Iimited to coutract-s
concern. They get «rer It by a kind o! mnade
and filed with the Secretary o!
fictitions financlerlng and fictitious sales. State before
the Issue of the stock. But
There Is no reason, wliy it sliould iiot be la
this clause, the limitation does not
done open and above-board. In New Jersey exist, and
It would permit what the bon.
lt Is permitted to lie done. The directors member
contemplates. For instance, ln a
Place a valuation on the property taken over number
of cases, there wvere agreements
by the company, *and separate stock is lodged
with the Se-cretary of State, purlssued for that particular class o! property.
suant to section 27 of the Company's Act,
It appears on the face of the stock, the cou- providing
for the Issue of paid-up stock,
sideration given for the property In question, because
there was an agreement which
and a distinction la drawn between that provided
for It, and the moment it w-as
stock and stock wbicbi Is sold to sbarebold. lodged rwi*th
the Secretary o! State the
ers for casb consideratiou.
pulll was notifled of it. and xvas suppos-d
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-WilX 1it rank dir- to lie properly Infornied, and thierefore- the
public was not taken by surprise.
ferentiy for divldends ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
Is It done uniler our law 9
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOXV! LL.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That referred to
real estate only. The Act lias always provided for the company tnking over real es-tate and Issuing stock tberefor, upon the

APRIL 17, 1902
condition that an agreement lie entered into,
and filed with the Secretary of State.
Hon. Mr. B'EIQUE-Read section 27 of the
Company's Act. It says ' Every share ';
It Is net iimited at ail. I may cite Instances.
The Dominion Cotton CJompany was organlzed for the purpose of taking over tie
oid Hochielaga Cotton Company, 'whichi was
purchasing- the other mils, and I had the
Company organized witli a capital of $100,000 only, so to give life to the company ;and
an agreement was then made witli the different milîs whereby the company as thus
organized with a capital of $100,000 purchased the other milis, and agreed to pay
the purchase price ln paid-up stock to bie distributed to the shareholders of these other
companles pro rata to the shares that tliey
lield, and im-mediately after the agreement
was filed witli the Secretary of State, then 1
had ail application made to increase the
capital frein $100,000 to $5,000,000, and the
samne thing was done ln the Canadian
Coloured Cotton Compa.ny. 1 could namne
haif a dozen companies, wliere the sanie
thing was done. It is nlot limited at ail to
real estate.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Permit me to Cali attention to the fact that subsection 5 of section 5, whidh pros-ides that the stock may
bie paid by real estate la certain cases only:
then section 27 is general, and says that that
las oniy subject to section 5, &c. If those
words *had flot beea put there, section 27
-would have &been
contrary te subsection 5.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-I
should like to ask, for the sake of information, frein a iayman's standpoint, do I understand the lion. genîtlemani front Calgary
to say that if two companies desire to amailgamate by selling the stock of the one centpany to the otiier, tînt the mail holding
the stock lu the oue company thiat is to lie
transferred -to another canno&ý take tdie
stock of the one ln excliange for the otlher,
or must lie lie paid cash ?
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Hle can take the stock
at par or at a reduced figure.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A mail
may own $1,000 of stock iu Company A. and
Coinpauy B is about purchasiîîg the assets
of Company A. A shareholder owns $1,000
ii Company B ; eau lie not take the stock
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Was tat iiicor- of Comipany A ln lieu of that wliidh lie
poration under the Joint Stock Compauy's trànsfers ?
Act ?
Hon..MLr. SCOTT-If tlîey make au agreeHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
ment ratified by the two companies, lie eau.
Hon. Mir. LOUGHEED-MNy lion. friend
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEDi-The two comtmust have turned lt ln as real estate. A mii paies must have the power of amalgamasucb as lie mentions witli madblnery would tion.
lie realty. Subsection 5, of section 5, chàp.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
11M 49« Victoria, reada :
lion, gentleman frein Calgary says you must
Snch aggregate shafl be paid la to the credit
of the company or trustees therefor, and shall take -the cash. There Is a law on the
lie standing at such credit ln, soute banik.
statute-book of Ontario whidli provides for
And so on. It lias aiwnys been the trouble the union of campanles of that kind, and
ln ineorporating companles under the joint that yon can take the one stock for the
Stock ComVany's Act that yen eau turn lu other.
real estate and taire stock : therefore by
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As an illustration,
filing an agreement witli the Secretary of bere is a property eonsisting of reni estate,
State there is no reason wbhy persouaity and personalty-ten thousand of real estate
should not occupy as good a position under and ten tliousand of personalty. Under thc
those -conditions as real estate, inasxnudl as Act as It .now stands, a company at the
it Is usually personalty that Is transferred. time of applying for letters patent eau take
But under the present law the company bas over the ten thousand dollars of real estate,
to enter Into an agreement outside of thîs. aud Issue pald up stock for it with tie
The stock Is issued as paid up stock, and lt owners,. by enterIng Jnto an agreement andi
leads -to a very great deai of trouble. It Miing It with the Secretary of State." Tliey
lias been a -standing compiaint for soine cannot do.similarly with reference to the ten
years.
tliousand. dollars personalty.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Where a large miercantile concern wanted to convert themselves
into a joint stock company, and take in
thieir faniily and friends, there would be no
difficulty lu doing It under a contract.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In that case the
promoters enter into aný agreement to purdbase a certain running conceria, and then
they pay for that by issuing paid up stock.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
it is a point the hon. Secretary of State
shiouid consider, because it is an important
one.
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-I wiil hand to
my lion. friend an article recentiy w-ritten
by '.%r. Diii, of the Newv York bar, the gentleman %who legal adviser incorporated al
as
those large trusts, and whio is cousidered
the best authority la the United States on
that question, and la tfiis article thiat phase
la particularly dealt -wlth. 1 may say that
îl have been approached' iby professional
aien frui Toronto and elsewhiere on the
subject.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the hion. gentleman
would draft a clause, I would bie glad to
coasider It.
The clause was adopted.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I wish to caîl attention to the remaining section of thiat
clause. In section 4 it la provided thiat the
applietation shaîl give the corl)orate naine
of the company wbich shall not be that of
any other known company incorporated or
unlacorporated, or any ame hiable to be
confounded theérewithi. Now, whien we corne
to wlhat Is to be proved before the Secretary of State, I think one of the most essential points Is thiere left out. It says that It
must bie proved to the satisfaction o0f the
,Secretary of State that tue îîame Is ixot the
name of any other known incorporated. or
unlucorporated company, and I thinkL we
shiould add the words : 'Or any namne lhable
to be confounded thierewltb.' 1 thînk those
words are essential in this clause 5. 1 think
It should be also put in as a fact to bie establshed to the s.-tisfaction of the Secretnry of State.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Âre you golng to
require statutory declarations ?

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Statutory declarations.
The liat is kept lu the offce of ail the coinpaxiies lncorporated ln the provinces.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, provision la
made for forai. It should lie made obligntory upon ail the applicants to attach a
On clause five,
declaration, and the -nature of the proof
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I wishi to direct the shiould bie deflued.
attention of the committee to the fact thiat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wle get that later on.
the language used In this clause is very.
awkward, and flot strictly grammatical.
Hon. Mr. POWER-As n matter of inforHon. Mr. -SCOTT-It la takea from the mation, I should like to ask whether, If it
Ontario statutes, and where language has should hiappen that there ls a company lnbeen la a law drafted for some years I like corporated or unincorporated lu one of the
provinces, If the Secretary of State ia not
to retain ItL
allowed to give the new company to bie InHon. Mr. POWER-I do not think we corporated under the Dominion parliament
should take the Ontario statutes for a the ame of one of these provincial commodel. I do not know much about Ontario panles. I should like to know If It la the
legisiation, but I -have heard a good maay Intention thiat It will be allowed or shaîl not
gentlemen who were authorities say that bie allowed ?
they were not the best models.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is laid down very
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thInk clearly that It la flot to interfere with any
the hon. Speaker la quite riglit. We have lucorporated or unlncorporated company.
heard of judges saying they could not InterHon. Mr. JONES-Could the Secretary of
pret the Ontario statutes.
State bie prevented from using thiat name If
Hon. Mr. JONES-They have liad a long, It is the desire of thiat company ? Would
it be possible to take over the company, and
undisturbed experlence.
have a Dominion instead of a provincial
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We can recast that
charter ?
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 18, 1902
Hon. Sir'ACKENZLE BOWELDL-Oh, no.
The Intention is to prevent one company assuniing the naine or naines of another coinpany.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-There ls just this
about It, that sometimes a company whicli
lias been organized under the Dominion
charter may wisli to have its powers extended ; and 1 am n ot at ail clear that ýit is
a good thing to hinder that company froni
taking the naine of the provincial company.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tiat
would be the sanie company. If a company
doing business ini the province of Quebec,
under a particular naine, being restricted In
Its business operations to that province, deaires to bave a Dominion patent, they miglit
apply for a Dominion patent for the purpose of doing business througliout the wboIe
Dominion. The bon. Secretary of State
would not deny theni the riglit to continue
thaf saine nane ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Oh. no0. Provision is
made for that.
The clause was adopted.

this motion stand tili Monday. There are
a number of gentlemen wlio take an Interest
la the niatter and know the locality, and
they would like to be liere to discuss It.
They are not present to-day. If lie does
not feel. justified In consenting to that, 1
1shouid faîl back on the rule that a clear
day's notice lias not been given. But I
do not think I wil be required to do that.
I think lie wli be courteous enougli to let
it stand, out of deference to the wislies of
a number of gentlemen who desire to be
present.
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-My lion. friend
mighit naine Tuesday ne-3t, instead of Monday, because some gentlemen Interested Ini
the matter wiil not be liere on Monday and
prefer Tuesday.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Then I wli let it
stand tili Tuesday.
The SPEÂKER-The motion stands tilI
Tuesday.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I wishi to ask liow
it is that a motion of that kind, which requires a clear day's notice, lias been allowed
to be prlnted and brouglit up to-day, against
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS, frOin the committee, rethe ruies of the House ?
ported that they liad made some progress
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-It was openly
witli the Bill, and asked leave to sit agali
read to the House yesterday.
to-morrow.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-But the clerk of the
The Senate adjourned.
House, who lias sucli a supervision of those
n;otions shouid lave seen that It was
agninst tlie rules of the House and set it
THE SENATE.
aside.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-But the Senate
was seized of It and no one objected to ItL
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tliree
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to know how
o'ciock.
it liappened ? If tlie lion, gentleman could
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
tell nme liow it liappened that the clerk did
not see ItGASPE AND WESTERN RAILWAY COMHon. Mfr. DANDURAND-No one slipped,
PÂNY BILL.
It on the Table of the House. It was .read
MOTION POSTPONED.
In the House.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN rose to move :Hon.
Mfr. LÂNDRY-That le not an anThat the 49th and 5Oth miles of the -Senate s1 rt
y usin
be suspended ln oo far au they relate te thle I swrt
usin
petitians of Michael Connolly and others, of
Hon. 1fr. LOUGHEED-The clerk perMontreal ; praylng for' the Paslng Of an Act Incorporating theni under the name of the Gap haps did flot regard It: as a
motion.
and Western Railway Oomepany, as reconi- If he did flot regard It as a special motion,
special
mended ln the sixteenth report of the Stand-hecud
akitrunbetody
Ing Committee on Standing Orders.
h ol.mk
trtral
ody
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British ColumnHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Then wliat ls a
bia). I have to ask my lion. friend to let speclal. motion ?
Ottalca, Friday, April 18, 1902.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-A
causes discussion.

motion that

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There will lie a discussion on this one.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Then
specil motion.

this Is a

Hon. ',%r. LANDRY-For that reason the
notice ls given ln a way which la agalnst
the miles of the House.
The order of Hie day was discbarged and
placed on the orders of the day for Tuesday next.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
BiII (16> An Act respecting the 'Manitoba
and North-westermn Riiway Company.Kîrcliboffer.)
(Hon. M-Nr.
Bill (53) Ali Act respecting the Canadian Northerin Raiiway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. KICrebloffer.)
Bill (59) An Act respectlng the James
Bay Rallway Comupaiiy.-(Hon. '.\I. DeBoucherville.)
BhIl (57) Anl Act respecting the Ontario
Power Company of Niagara Falls.- (Hon.
'-%I. Gibson.)
Bill (42) An Act respecting the Kiondike 'Mines Railway Company.-(Hou. Mr.
Kirchhoffer.)
Bill (66) An Act mespecting La Compagnie!
du Chemin de fer de Colonisation du Nord.('Mm. Beique.)
Blil (70) An Ac t to Incorporate the Ross
Rifle Company, Lilmited.-(M2r. Gibson.)
Bill (72) An Act to Incorporate tue Pacifie, Northern and Omenica Ralway Coinpany.-(M-Nr. 'Macdonald, B.C.)

sald :I took the opportunity yesterday of
stating to this House that when this Bill
was before the Railway Commlttee, Mr.
Campbell, the promoter of the BiII, consented to strike out the words 'Ottawa and
New York Rallway Company,' rather than
consent to the amendment moved by the hon.
gentleman from Northi Wellington that the
-agreements should first recelve the consent
of the Governor ln Council. The Impression
of the committee, I tink. was that the
wvords ''Ottawa and New York Railway
Company' sbould be strIcken out, and tlîat
the necessity of submlitting the agreement
shiould flot bie lmposed upon the compaily.
The hion. gentleman from North Wellington,
upon afterwards belng apprised of the fact
that the intention of this Bill was to promote a sale being made of the varions properties mentioned therein. to the Canadian
Pacifie Rallway Company, at onice with,drew bis opposition, and said that hie bid
no objection whatever that the Bill shiould
go through ln the formi ln which it was
printed, and hie also Informed me that hal
hie known at the Uie it was for the purpose of facllitating the sale of these roads
to the Canadian Pacifie Railway Company,
lie wouid not bave moved the amenaient.
i-Ion. gentlemen wlll observe, froni looklng at the Bill itself, that there is really no
aecessity for submittlng the agreement ini
question to the Governor in Council. It lias
been arranged between the shiareholders of
the company and the absorbing companly,
in ternis manifestly agreeable to ail parties,
otherwise they would flot be here. As the
report was adopted, the ameadment practlcaliy became part of the Bill, and I therefore move the ameadmient of whlch I gave
notice.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-That matter was
OTTAWA4 NORTHERN AND WESTERN
RAýILWAY COMPANY BILL.
dlscussed in the Rallway Commlttee, and
It 15 not enough to say that the hion. member
THIRI) REA DING.
from North Welilngton, who moved the
The Order of the Day belng called for the amendmient, consented. The consensus of
third reading of Bill (B) 'An Act to amend opinion ln the commlttee was, that that wns
the Acts reJating to the Ottawa, Northern a rlght'and proper amendiment to, have, and
and Western Railway Company,' as amend- 1 thlnk It is well to retain some control over
ed.
ail those amalgamations by reserving the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved : that the rlght for the Governor la Council to approve
Bill be not uow rend the third tume, but that of any transfer or amalgamation between
It bie amended by strlking ont thèr words dîfferent roads. We ail know th&at the trend
'If the consent of the Governor la Council of opinion at the present time la for monois first obtained,' la the sixth clause. He poliing the different Unes of railways, and
Hon. Mmi.LANDRY.

APRIL 18, 1902
the public ought to be protected. It le lu
the Interest of the public to say that the
Governor in Council should bave to give
their consent before any transfer or sale Is
made of a railway. I for one object to seeing that amendrnent struck out. I think It
le a rlght and proper thlng to put lu ail Bills;
and the government then le responeible before any arrangements are made between
companies for tranefer or sale. We know
that the rigbts of individuals, and corporations are often literfered with by smali
companies having agreed to do thinge for a
bonus. I know of cases In Manitoba and
other parts of the country where that lias
oecurred. The road is absorbed by a large
corporation, and the people have no recourse.
So long as the irýad belongs to an Indepeudent
cornpany, the municipallty bas some recourse, and I think it le well to state ln ail
Bille, where they nek for power of amalgamation, that the consent of the Goveruor
in Council muet be obtulned before tbe amalgamation takes place.
The Senate dlvlded on the motion, whichl
was adopted contents 19 ; non-contents *11.
The Bill was then read the third trne and
passed.
THIRD

READING.

Bill (35) An Act to lacorporate the Nipiseing and Ottawa Rallway CompanytHon. Mr. Ehhls.)
SECOND READINGS.
Bll (X) An Act respectlug tbe Montreal
Bridge Company.-(Hon. Mr. McSweeney.)
Bill (Y) An Act to Incorporate the Union
Life Assurance Cornpan y-(Hon. Mr. Lauderkln.)
B311<E) An Act for the relief of Thomas
Henry Rtadford.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
FIRST NATIONAL BANK 0F CANADA
INCORPORATION BILL.
SECOND READING,.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN moved the second
reading of Bill (V) An Act to Incorporate
the Firet National Bank of Canada.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-Before that motion
le Passed I should like to luform the hon.
gentleman that there le already a bank of
that name ln this country, and therefore
16

we muet change the name. There are s0
mauy banks applylug for Incorporation that
we muet look luto it when the matter cornes
up in committee. I do not know whether
it is necessary for us to Incorporate any
more banks. My own opinion le that we
have sufficieut banke. I would flot favour
any more, because I thlnk the present bauke
are equal to performlag the financlal businiess of the country. However. this wll
corne up more properly la committee. I
understand It can be doue lu commlttee.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Oli, yes.
Hon. %Ir. CLEMOWV-I merely referred
to the matter because there le a bank
of that name, and I do flot thlnk It would
be fair to them to lucorporate another bank
of the same iiame.
Tfhe motion was agreed to, and the Bll
'vas rend the second time.
JOINT STOCK CO'MPANY'S INCORPORATION BILL.
ORDER

OF

THE

DAY

POSTPONED.

The order of the day bein- calhed:House again lu Commlttee of" the Whole House
ou- (Bill R) An Act respectlng the incorporation of Joint Stock Companies by letters patent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Two gentlemen who
bave taken a very great lnterest ln this
Bill have corne to me and asked me If 1
would not let It stand tili Monday evenlng.
I acqulesced wlth very great rehuctance.
Tliey pressed upon me that It was Impossible wlth their engagements to be here,
and as they wanted to make suggestions, I
felt somewhat enmbarrassed ln refusln.
Wlth the approval of the House, I move that
the order of the day be dlscharged and
placed on the orders for Monday. If the
House would consent to sit on Monday evenIng, we miglit postpone the afternoon sittlng. I amn qulte -well aware that It le maklng an unreasonable requeit of the House.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
understand these gentlemen wlll not be back
untîl Monday evenlng, and consequently we
could flot wehh go on ln the afternoon wlth
It. We would have to 'proceed at elght
o'chlck. I see no reason why we should not
Bit for a couple of hours on Monday. I
have flot the slgbtest objection.
The motion was agreed to, and the order
of the day was postponed.,

SENATE
ST. JOSEPH AND LAKE HURON SHIP
CANAL COMPANY.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN moved the second
reading of' Bill (T) An Act to Incorporate
the St. Joseph and Lake Huron Shlp Canai
Company.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Expiain.
Hon. 3fr. LANDERKIN-I migbit say.
tlîat this canal is to be built fromn St.
Josephi to Lake Huron.
Hon. 3fr.
Joseph ?

McICALLUM-Where.

is

St.

Hon. 3fr. LANDERKIN-The point whlch
It la proposed to conneet with on Lake Erie
la in the neighibourhood of Port Stanley,
and fromn there it conneets with Lak-e
Huron. I have îîot been fuily'advised ln
the matter, but If It goes to committee, thie
promoters wiii have an opportunity to explain the proposai and whll be able to give
reasons for It.
Hon. Mr. McCAILUM-Tbjlis la a Bill containing 29 clauses, and It. bas juat been laid
hefore tHie flouse. It looks to me like speculative legisîntion. Part of this-Bill, except the
word 'St. Joseph,' Is a copy- of another Bill
which bas been passed by this parliament,
and the promoters of the projeet are doing
their best to carry It out. I believe they will
carry It ouit and make a great saving of timne
between Lake Huron and Lake Erie. My
h'on. friend- cannot tell us wlhere St. Joseph
la. I think that this can lbe nothing else
than a specula-tive chai-ter, because It Is coverlng gronnd aiready covered by a charter
to other parties. Tiiere wiii be two years
Hi commence work and seven years to finish.
If I thoug'ht for a moment they wouid be
able to do It, I wouid not oppose the Bill. I
do not say that It shouid not go to committee, but I say that we sbonld take action
agalnst any speculative charters of this
kinid, whichi are simply obtained to niake
other people pay them something so thât
the hoiders of the charter can make money
ont of It. The Bill does not even say where
they*are going to begin or where they are
going to end. I shahI asIc my ýhon. frIenfi,
when the unatter cornes before the committee, Hi be prepnred with maips to bhow us
where this canal is to ho constructed. Is it
- Hon. Sir MACKÇENZIE BOWELL.

going to run paraliel with the De troit river ?
The object Is, to get from Lake St. Clair to
Lake Erie, and I think the measure is
drafted in [lis way in order to cover Uip
what they intend to do. I do iîot accuse the
hon, gentleman of anythlng wrong. I arn
satisfied lie would flot be a party to wrongdoing. I feel sure thiat wlien hoe finds out
what the Éill really is, ln place of proinoting It Jie wili oppose It. I have nothing further to say, but wiii let it go to coinmittee;
1 have suchi confidence in the hon. gentleman that 1 know lie wiil not be a party to
sucli a scheme.
Hon. '.%r. LANDERKIN-I have sncb confidence ln this Conminttee of Raiiivays, Telegraphs and Harbours that I wiil asIc them
to consider the measure, and 1 have -more
confidence In thiat committee, lniasurnch as
I arn a memnber of It 'myseif. That committee wiii be able to deai with it. As to is
being a speculative charter, it is no0 speculation for me. I bave been asked by a very
respectable citizen of Canada to introduce
this Bill, and If hon, gentlemen wIil read the
Bill, they will get an Idea who 'the promnoters are. The House wiil get ail the Informnation desired ln committee. I have no0 Interest In the matter, except to Introduce the
inieasure, and If the committee flnd, upofl
refiection, that It Is flot la the interests of
Canada to pass the Bill, they can dispose of
it as they think best. Mlien It goes to coinmittee I Intend to consider the Bill, witli
the other members of the cocnmittee.
The motion was agreed to, and the fi
wiis rend the second time.
AN ADJOURNMENT.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Some gentlemen on the
opposite side of the House have suggested,
as there was notbing on the Order paper for
Mon.day, that we might adjourn untîl Tuesday. I cannot go on wilib my Bihl before
Tuesday. I therefore move that when the
House adjourns to-day It do stand adjourned
until Tnesday next.
The motion wais agreed to.
The Senate adjonrned.

APRIL 22, 1902
THE SENATE.

Ottawa, Tue8day, April 22, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
GÂSPE AND WESTERN RAILWÂY
COMPANY'S BILL.
REPORT 0F STANDING ORDERS
MITTEE ADOPTED.

COM-

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN rnoved:
That thà 49th and 5Oth miles of the Senate
be suspended ln se far as they relate to, the

petition of Michael ConnoHdy and others, of
Mun'tresii; praying for the passing of an Act
lncorporating them under the narne of the Gaspé
and Western Railway Cornpany, as recommended in the sixteenth report of the Standing Comrnittee on Standing Orders.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Colurnbia)-I regret exceedingly having te oppose
any motion brought forwar-d b-y rny lion.
friend from Kingston. Re does flot trouble

the House of ten, and for tliat reason I regret to have to appose bis motion. SomeUrnes, houwever, we ought to adhere to the
rules ef the House. There are cases when
a Standing Coxnmittee wlsely recomnxends
a suapension of *the mules. That is esçecially sa when t.here ls ne opposition te a Bill
and ne petition agalnst It and when there
are public works proposed that xnlght igo
on If a charter was granted by parliament.
There are other cases where very Important measures are oppesed by emInent counsel, as being unjuet'or Injurious te the peopie who are not properly notified. In such
cases I do net think. the comrnlttee ouglit
to recommend the auspension. of any et Its
rules.
In the* case now before us, the
notices are Inemplete, and 1 arn Inforred
that If the legislation should be had that
-the petîtion cails for, there would be great
Injury to the bondholders of two lunes, that
la the Baie des Chaleurs and the Atlantic
and Lake Superlor Rnilways.
I cannot go
Into the merîts cf the measure, ef course,
on thîs motion: I shail confine myseif te
the non-observance of the miles e! our
House. The rules provîde:'
A notice inserted In the 'Canada Gazette,' in
the Englieh and French languages, and in one
newapaper lu' the Engimh. and in one.in the
French language in the district affected, or ln
both languages ln one paper, if there be but
one ln the uaid district, or if there be nu paper
yublisbed therein, then, ln both languages. in
164

a paper lnathe nearest district ln which a newspaper ls published.
That le what the mule cf the House mequires.
The reporet cf the Standing Cornrnttee on
Standing Orders reports with regard te
the petition the feilowlang:
Toum commîttee have exirined the folHowing
petitien :
0f Michael Connolly and others, ef the city
of Montreai ; praying for the passing of an Act
Incorporating -hem under the narne of 'The
Glaspé and Western Rallway Comnpany,' and find
that the local notices required by rule 49, have
been published la one newspaper ln the French
language only. Reasoz being given to your
commrittee why the local notice had not been
published in the English language, they recornm'end the suspension ot the 49th and 5Oth mules
ln. no far as they relate te, this petition, as it
,aill be competent for the comrnittee te whem
the Bill shalq be re!erred, te provide th-at no
Injury te, any party shall arise tberefrorn.
That is the fanding of the Standing Comrnittee on Standing Ordere.
If this matter
had -net been contested, I thInk we rnlght
probably have adopted the recommendation.
of the commlttee and suspended the rule,
but belng etrongly ,contested, we should
not. There are gentlemen la this Chamber
who know more about the bearlng ef the
question than I do, and they wlll prebably
explain te the House. It is net my Intention te move an aînendrnent te the motion
cf my hon. frlend froan Kingston. I merely
ask the House te negatîve hls motion.
Hepi. Mîr. MiIKÂY (Truro)-I think It rny
duty at this stage te make an expianation
of this matter as It appeared before -the
cornrittee. As- bas been mald, It was necesmary that this petition should. have been pubIlshed la the Engill and French languages
ln two papers. It turne out that there la
only one French paper la the district and
no English paper. The notices were publmhed Ia the 'Canada Gazette' and ln the
French papers, accordlng te the mule. The
prorneters of the petIion made an effort te
do the next best thlng. In the adjoining
district an Engllsh paper was pubiished, and
they sent the notice te that paper. It wam
accepted and a draft made oh the petitiener
for the rnoney. He pald it and dld not discover that that English paper had gene eut
of existence sme tirne previeus, and this
was net known untîl It was toc late to pubI1mb lt ln another English paper. The prometers thought that the notice wam ln that
Engllsh paper, and that It met ail the mequirements et the mule. Ia addition to that,

SENATE
we had before us a petition from the inhabitants of the place asking for an amendment to the Bill. That was presented to us
merely to show that the liotice had been iveli
understood. lu the distriCL Then we bail
before us the solicitor of the bondholders.
One of the objections to the suspension of
the rule was the argument that the bondholders h.ad not reeived any notice on
account of it not being printed ln an English
paper in tbe district. I presume,- and the
committee presume, .tbat the bondhoiders
wouild get tbeir notice lu the 'Canada
Gazette.' lu addition to that, we had the
solicitors of the bondholders before us, which
would show that they knew the notices bau
been given in the 'Canada Gazette.' That,
to my mind, shows they were not taken by
surprise, and fromn the fact that petitions
largeiy signed were before us asking for
amendments to the Bill, the committee considered that the people ln the district had
received due notice, and that Is one of the
objects lu giving notice In a paper published
ini the district. Further, Bourinot says that
the mile may be suspended (I quote from
page 712) :
WVben the commlttee bas been convinced
that the public in the Iocality specially affected
bave been madle fully aware of the proposed
ILgislation.
WIth tbat evidence before us. we believed
that the district was f ully aware of the
legisiation asked for, and that the bondboiders had received notice. We have been
recomniending the suspension of rules aiready this session. We suspended miles 49
and 50 ln the case' of the Boss Rifle Company Bill the other day, and of the Western Alberta Railway Comnpany, whose notice
had been running for oniy three or four
weeks. People who are so very delicate
about notices now made no coznplaint in
these cases. Whien this petition was before
the House of Commons they passed It ln
short order. They made no recommendation. They reported that the miles had been
compled with. It bas been said this Is bad
legisiation. It may be bad legisiation ; I
am n ot sure that It is not, but I maintain,
It was not the duty of the Committee on
Standing Orders to look Into the merits of
the legisiation. That Is the duty of the
Râilway CommIttee, and I feel it my duty
to vote f0 have the mules suspended. The
Bill, when it cornes before the House, can
Hon. Mr. McKAy.

be looked after, and the House can see that
no legisiation is passed injurious to the bondholders. The case la quite strong ln Itself.
Hon. Mr. FISET-I bave no objection to
mules 49 and 50 being suspended, but that is
not the point. I have received from the
parishioners ln Gaspé and Bonaventume over
2>0 petitions which I have submitted to this
House, ail of them against this Bill. It la
g9od ground for this Chamber to mejcct the
Bill. If they would look at tîxe petitions I
have presented, I arn sure hou, gentlemen %vouldl)e unanimous ln rejecting the
Bill, because It ls oniy a specuintion that
the promoters want t0 make.
Hou. Mr. OWENS-I quite agree with the
last speaker, that the Bill is a vicious olie,
and ln many respects not a serious one.
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I object t0 a discussion on the merits of the Bill. It Is not before the House. This is mereiy the entrance
of the Bill ; you can show that the House
ouglit not to suspend the rules, but not discuss the merits of the Bill.
Hon. '.%r. OWENS-We are not tmying to
discusa the menits of the Bill. I had occasIon f0 be at the meeting of the Conimittee
on Standing Orders when this Bill was betore them. In so far as the notices for this
Bill are concerued, notice was only given lu
one Frencb paper ln the province of Quebec,
and we must not lose sight of the fact tiiat
this railway Is ln the province of Quebec.
If there was not an English paper lu that
,district, there cetainly were English papers
la the other. districts of the province of
Quebec. In the city of Quebec, where
there are Influential English people, there
are English papers which are generally read,
and the public would naturally look in the
papers ot Quebec for the notice. There was
no notice sent to any English paper of Quebec or elsewheme ln the province. The promoters of this Bill came before the committee to show that they bad sent notice
to a defunct paper, whlch had been pubIlshed In the province of New Brunswick,
and consequentiy parties interested in thlis
road and this legishation, would not be lookIng for It there. It was only a snmall local
paper, and ut had gone out of existence;
The
therefore there was no notice given.
chairman of the committee, who did perfectiy right to bring the matter before the

APRIL 22, 1902
House, bas said that the bondholders were
aware of this Bill being before the Senate
because the solicitor was present. but was
be the autborized solicitor of the bondholders ? H1e carne bere to say that this
Bill lad passed the cornrittee of the Hlouse
of Commons, as tbe chairman stated, in short
order. It passed In short order because no
person was aware of It, neither the bondholders nom any one else interested in the
matter. The solicitor of tbe bondbolders
heard of It rnerely by accident the night before, and came before the Comrnittee on
Standing Orders to opppose It, and as lie
stated, be had no opportunity of communicatlng wlth the bondbolders In England, or
other parties lnterested, and it was impossible for hlm te receive instructions conceriiIng lt from. the bondbolders. Therefore, the
fact that the solicitor of the bondholders appeared before the comrnlttee ls only evidence tbat the bondbolders had no Information, because the solicitor stated posltlvely
he had ne~ard of It by accident onîy the
ei-enlng before, and had no opportunity of
cornmunicatIng with the bondholders, and
no opportunity to receive instructions from
them.
Hon. Mr. MeKAY (Truro)-Tbie solicitor
was a member of parliament and recelved
the Canada Gazette.
Hon. Mr. OWVENS-Wre had the word of
the solîcitor that tbe bondbolders biad recelved no Information about It.
Hon. Mr. tEMPLEMAN-What bondholdens ls the bion, gentleman referring to ?

lon. Mr. MACDONALDJ (Prince Edward
Island)-Âs a member of the cornmittee I
should like to say a word on the matter.
We know that several petitions bave corne
before the Standing Orders Committee in
connection witb which the miles had nlot
been strictly cornplied. wlth, and those petitions had been reported to the House, and
on every occasion on which a report to tbat
efleet bas corne from the cornrnttee, the
Hlouse bas ndopted the recommendation of
the comrnittee. I do flot see wby there should
be any distinction made between this P,11
and other Bis lu a sirnîlar position wlîirhî
bave corne before the Senate. The notice
is ail we have to do wltb here. .We have
nothing to do with the principle of the Bill,
or the bondholders at the present moment.
This is a matter to be deait witlî by the
afterwards be referred.
We have here
to adopt or reject the report of the coinrnlttee, and no reason -bas been given
why this report should be deait with differentiy frorn other reports under sirnilar circumstances.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I thlnk .this Bil!
sbould bave a chance to be deait wltb on
Its merits.

The cornmittee report that the

notices were incompIete and, havlng done
their duty and reported this to us here, we
can, and I believe we should, give the Bill
a chance to be considered on Its merits.
No one has been taken by surprise that I
know of. As a proof of It, the hon. gentleman from Rimouski stated that he had;
hlmself got no lesýs than 20 petitions showlng that the public are well aware of the
nature of the Bill

Hon. Mr. OWENS-The bondbolders of
the Atlantlc. and Lake Superior Railway
who are affected by tbe legisiation. We
Hon. Mfr. FISET-The petitions n-ere
cannot go into the merits of the Bill or we against the BIIL
could explain how they are afiected. There
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, but they are
are other parties lnterested, ns shown by
the petitions ngainst thîs Bill. The notices evidence of the fact tbat the petitioners
were nlot givep, and I shail vote with the know of the existence of the Bill.
hou. senator frorn Victoria -that the mIles
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-The nature of the
be. Dot suspended.
Bill must be known, since the hon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I ar nl a very pe- bas received 20 petitions, as he says, agalnst
culiar position. Sometirnes I have asked lt. It is but justice to the prorn9týrs, is
-permission of this' House to suspend tbe well as the opponents of the Bill, that It
rules, and It was graciously accomded me, sbould be judged on Its mente. No wrong
and I tblnk, under the circumstances, what can be done if we examine how far those
I asked for myseif I should not refuse to petitions which were sent to my hon. frlend
others.
are based upon facts. If they are un-

SIENATE
challenged, the Bill wil be killed where to corne bere, and If correct, gives him adIt sbould be kilied, but I do flot believe we mission. These Éttdes are set forth, and,
should deai more *harshly with this Bill, You know them well. The duties of tbia
when no surprise bas been sprung on any- committee are simply to investigate the
body, titan we bave with others under right by wbicb a Bill shahl be presented.
similar circumstances. I, for one, arn not One of the requisites by wblch a Bill quaicommitted ln any way on the Bil]. I shahl fies is that due notice shahl be given. By
give it the chance that other similar Bis pure accident I have been entrusted with
have badl In titis House, and vote for the titis Bill. It was only ln -the absence of the
suspension of the rules.
promoter that I was asked hurriedly to take
Hon.Mr.IIILERWe hve iothiii tocharge of It. As to the insufficiency of notice,
Ion.thth mer. t ofLE-W
th
iithifitd to there never was a lamer and more untendog th e ssnts
mfotion
111 ii conseidr- able excuse advanced than that of these
ingthepreen
moion
I va gîeiitogentlemen. The bonds are beld by Engunderstand the report was adopted on the îîsh bondhoiders. God belli
them 1 say;
ctstiiîg vote of the chairinan iii order to but tbey have notbing to
do witb titis subl)rlng It before the House. Fr-oni the state- ject. If any bondbolders
nment of the chairman. I was Incorrecthy ln- titis sciteme, let tbem corne are interested iii
before the other
forrned, and therefore the report Is before cominittee wbich la due course
is enius as adopted by a large rnajorîty of the powered by tlils 'Senate to exam
ine sucli mlatcommittee. I thinkz we sbonld flot, without ters, and do justice to ail. The
only objecthe best of rea sons. reverse the rep~ort of tion-and I was present nt
the meeting of
the Committee on Standing Orders.
thue comrittee-was made by Hon. T. Chase
Hon. Mr. SULLIVA-N-On first loolng nt Casgraln-a gentleman at the head of thte
titis report, It nppears to be one of ordinary Quebec bar, wbo Is a niember of parliaroutine, but It is ndt so. opposition to it ment. A clever pohitician, .a sharp, cautibas rendered It one of the rnost important oua lawyer, who k-new weli what was going
Bills that bas come before the Senate. 1 on, and who said bis clients. boudholders
ask, therefore, your earnest attention to the of another road, did not know anything of
few words I shahl address to you on the titis matrter ;If so, It Is certainly bisow
subject. Although the Senate Is flot directly fault. 1 was not a member of the coinresponsible to the peophe, It must certainly m!ittee or I would bave told bun so. I
retain the confidence of the public-at lenst wilI tell thelHouse why. Ail the publication
0f thte tboughtfui and intelligent. Besides required was done by the promoters of titis
thte important duty of gunrding the rights Bill. Tbey advertised it in Frenchin the
l
of minorities, and of scrutlnizing carefully 'St Laurent Gazette,' with a circulation iii
thte legisiation of the House of Commons, that district of 800 subscribers. Thien tbey
li mugt have bigit ideals before it;-,t must tried te advertlse ln an Englisit paper calhed
cultivate a noble patniotism, a bigit regard the 'Telephone.'
Tbey sent the notice to
for trutit and justice, purity of conduc.t, ln- the propnietor of that paper, enciosing a
side titis Chamber and outslde, and a nice citeque for the amount, and ite sent theni
sense of honour as that term is best under- back a recelpt thanking them very cordially
stood ; It sbould bave a sturdy Independence, for titeir patronage. Strange tbat paper did
and above ail, it sbould be the champion of not then exist. It only shows the depravity
tbe laws and customs of parliament. The of ituman kind, titat titere are depraved
Senate relegatesl, as thte House of Gommons mien la that county as la otibers, particularly
does, varlous du-ties to its comnuittees. Thie about thte Baie Chaleur. To come to the
committee to which titis Bill was referred, point 'about 31r. Casgrain, do you Imagine
titat of Standing Orders, guards the portais for a moment that Mr. Casgrain would take
of the Senate. investjiting- carefully thti an Insignificant journal ln a country disrlgitt of any Bihl te corne before this House. triet to send to the Enghisit bond'bolders ?
The proper Idea of these guardians is not as Hle bad the ' Canada Gazette' before hlm.
a soldier witit a sword, or a policeman wlith It was pubIlsbed ln that 'Gazette' the
a club. It Is ratber that of a courtly usher, time required by law. Any one guarding
who, witb an agreeable smihe of openness the Interests of tbe bonditoiders would bave
welcomes a visitor. It examines bis right sent titem a copy of the 'Canada Gazette,'
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

APRIL 22, 1902

so that you can see there is no ground for the entrance of ail measures. Talk of lnthat argument. We are a company asking sufficlent publication.
Bis have passed
a charter. The bonde may affect us, and with only three days a week, or without
80 may many other things. I do not see notice at ail. We did flot turn out many
how they couid give notice to every one 0f other Bills which gave far leas notice than
the bondholders, as bonds may pass from one this. The bon. gentleman from Rimouski
to another, although 1 venture to say that says there are twenty petitions against this
the bonds of these people wiI not pass from road. Where are they ? I am told there
those who have them. If yotf reject this are more than twenty ln favour of it. Will
motion, what do you do ? You censure tihe not the hon, gentleman give evidence of
committee which passed it and its chair- these petitions. Are they on the table,. or
man. They acted, as they thought for the wvhere ? Speaking about its being opposed
best. -You not onily censure them, but you to- the law ,and custom of parliament,
open the door of the Senate to Intrigue, here is what Bourinot ays, and I commend
and to aIl sorts of abuses: Stamp that ît to thse lion, gentleman from Victoria, and
out now for ever and rise to the dignity I ask hlm to withdraw bis motion wben I
and level that the Senate ougbt toi occupy. read it :
Do flot let any one come here to tramp on
Terpr
fti
omte sams
n
it. wa
no; atonshedto ee hatthevariably accepted by thse House as conclusive
first gentleman who opposed this Bill, was and tiser4e can flot be found a single .instance
one. I am accustomed to see perform various since 1867-68 wliere thse House lias directly oversîngular feats ln tise Senate. He opposed ruled their dsi!on.
the motion and did not give any reason for There la thse authority. I defy any man to
doing so. Then 'when it was to corne up coîîtradict thse statements I have made. Do
again the hon. senator froru Victoria op- not; establîis a precedent founded ou sucis
posed It. He seemed to regret opposing a sandy foundation as this. Think of what
me.
Weil, from what 1 know of tise you do. You would exclude a man trying to
hon, gentleman, I arn cure had he iooked present a Bill to this Senat'e for no other
Into tise matter he would not have eu- reason than because an bon. gentleman
dorsed thse sentiments implied by negativ- istands up and says he bas not had suffiing this motion. 1 sald that It will be a dient 'notice. My hon. friend from Argenvote of censure on the comrnîttee. It wouId teuil spoke against this motion also. I was
also be a vote making a dangerous precedent astonished. I had a hîgiser opinion of him
la thse Senate. It is something unliea*rd than to suppose he would.take sucli a course.
-of. To prove the truth of what I say, 1 have, I thins, laid before you sufficient to
and also to shoiw. tisat it la cofltrary give a favourabie impression of this motion.
to our. cuetom, 1 will read from Bourinoît If I have said anythlng but the truth I pledge
and may as tise Speaker to declare It myseif to vote against it. I defy any one
out of order. -It la contrary not so mucis to say that I have flot stated the frutis.
to the written law as to the custom of the Having advised you as to what I conaider
Senate. The constitution of Canada la based the proper course, I can taise my seat saying
on custom as well as on written law. 'Tprutis la powerful, and wll prevail.' XI11
Thse law o! custom ln England Is as strong it do so wlth you ? We will see.
as any law ln thse land. Neyer, since 1867,
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Tbe hon, gentlebae there been such a motion as tisis brought
before thse Hous. The negation of thia man discussed the Bill. Tise Bill la flot bemotion wouid destroy ail public confidence fore tise Hous. Thse question la, have the
ln tise Senate. You maise me and every promoters of tisis Bill given tise proper
senator feel that tise Senate la disisonoured. notice required. by parliament ? It la flot
You are cailed honourable, be isonourabie a bard thing to do. Tbey bave lost time.
lu your conduct After a lengthy descrip- There la no grouxid for any excitement ln tise
tion of tise duties o! tise Standing Com- matter. The miles of tise Hlouse say what
mittee on Standing Orders of whicis I need notice sbould be gîven. Have they complied
not read tise details, lie gos on to confirm wlth tise miles ? Not even tise hon. gentletise argument I have made, tisat the duties man froni Kingston bas ahown tisat they
of this committee are simpiy to allow gave tise proper notice.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I assert that they- Hon. Mr. McKAY-Surely then they inust
have,
have hiad notice.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-lf the hon, gentleHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Arc not tve
man wlll look at the rule again hie wiIl see better informed than the committee ? There
that they have not. Have they publlhed It are inany serious objections to the Bill.
ln the proper number of newspapers ?
WVe know that the whole district throughî
whilb this railway wouid pass objects to
Hon. M~r. SULLIVAN-Yes, they have.
the granting of tlîis charter. In cases
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-As I understand whiere wve bave been lenient, we wvill coniIt, they have not. The bon. gentleman is tinue our ieniency, but insist upon the miles
discusslng the Bill, showlng the advantage since the peopie interested are oppi)sed to
of it to the country. People comlng to par- the Bill. Lt is because of the Bill itself tiîat
liament ought to treat the Senate wlh pro- we iîîsist uplon the form, but It Is a good
per consideration, and give proper notice. reason why we should treat differentiy Bis
I have no feeling in the matter. I care no- coming before us w-heu people do not obtbing about it but to have the rules of ject to them being receîved. We slould
parliarnent cnrried out.
I shial bave to then be more leniexît on a question of provote that the ruies be flot suspended.
cedure, but when we have the represenHon. Mr. SULLI VAN-Are there not tative here ln this Chamber of the district
hiundreds of Bis passed tlîrough this House affected by this Bill. saying tlîat everon the saine principle as this.by suspension body la bis district objects to this Bill, tlien
perbnps we should be a little more severe.
of the rules ?
Honi. '-%r. LANDRY-Before tue questioni
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-If we did wrong
yesterciay It is no reason why we sbould do is put I slîould lilce to cail the attention of
wrong to-day. I want to discontinue that. my hon. friend froin Kingston to the posiIf it is a bad practice we should flot continue tion I took w-hen the nIatter first caie
it a moment longer. I bave no feeling la the before this House. There was a report
matter. I rose to say that 1 consider it my froni the Standing Committee recomnîiendduty to vote agalnst the suspension of the l1ng the suspension of the rules. Tbe suspension of the ruie wns asked, but by perrules.
sons w-ho forgot the lTth rule of this Hlouse
Hon. '.%r. DANDURAND-Tbie hion. gentie- wieci says that 110 motionl to suspenîd,
man froni Kingston bas sald that we would modify or amend nny rmie or part thereof
censure the Committee on Standing Orders shahl be ln order except on une day's notice
by rejectlng the conclusion to wbicb they ln writfng, specifying the *rules té be inodicame.
The hon, gentlemen undoubtedly fied or suspended, and the purpose of such
thoughit that they were laying down the suspension. Surely the lion. member cannot
saine principles that governed them ln otiier reproach me withl lnsisting on the obsercases, acting In accordance witli them and me- vance of the rules of this House. I rose to
portedl recommendlng the suspension of the show that the rule hnad not been coinplled
rules ; but we are a Ilttie better informed wlith. If there hnd been a vote taken, as
than the hon, gentlemen ivere at the tUne will occur to-day, surely the demnnd to sustbey came to the decision. I quite under- pend the rules wouid bave drawn froni the
stand bow such reports are made on Bis Speaker or the House a decision that the
whiere there are no serious objections suspension could not be granted.
elther by the people of the country wbich
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-If the hon. gentiethe Bill aff ected. or la the clauses of iýi
ilra
ute
i
iisptvtlel
the Bill itseif. A number of these re- fgtn
idij
Ports have been adopted, buf wbat have fgtn
idil
,ve to-day ? We have the knowledge froni
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-' But any mule may
the hon, gentleman fmom Rimouski that ail be suspended without notice by unanimous
the municipalities tbrougb wbich tbis rail- consent of the Senate.' But you
could not
w-ny is to be built object to the giving of get the unanimous consent of the
House.
fuis charter.
because there is the sanie opposition agninst
Hon. Mr. MeCALLTJM.

APRIL 22, 1902
the Bill that you find to-day ln this House,
and because you could flot get unanirnous
consent. I asked that the rules of the
House be complied with and that one clear
day's notice be given for the introduction
of this notice. I was sîrnply cornplylng
wlth the rules of the Bouse, and the hon.
gentleman from Kingston bas no rightHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I said the
hoil.
gentleman did flot give any reason for opposing It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I had no reason to
give.
No one can ask for a reason wben
I Object to a violation of the rules of the
House.
I opposed the suspension of the
ruies, but -I dld not say I was opposed to
the Bill.
I arn a constant victimn of the
putting in force of the ruies, and I sbould
have a voice ln this case. I do it as a matter of princip]-e. The hon. gentleman wlio
fights in the name of principl'è sbould understand that I arn doing the sanie. The
position I took the other day meant slrnply
that I wanted the rules to be followed. Today I shahl vote for a suspension of the
rules. I said so before, because I flnd that
lu this particuhar Instance the suspension
of the raies may be granted because the
notice has been suffidlently made public to
the iaterested parties.
The fact tbat the
bon. senator from Rimouski says that there
are twenty petitions agalast tbe Bill proves
that the peuple are aware that the mensure
Is before the Senate, and that la one of the
strongest reasons why we should support
the report of the comrnlttee.

ei-idence of fraud ln this matter, the hon.
gentleman frorn Rimouski says that bis
name la on the petition although he is opposed to ItL It was put there improperly
by sornebody. In a case of the kind, one
feels that be nmust oppose the measure froin
tbe outset. Unfortunately I know a good
deal about the merits of the question, and
therefore I feel that I mnust oppose the Bill
frorn the outset.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
position taken by tbe Secretary of State is
an extraordinary one. He rnay have good
reasons for opposing the Bill, but the proper
place to give thein is before the Rilway
Commlttee.
He may have private informnation of which no other member may bave
any knowledge, and that may suggest the
propriety oîf taking the course whicb be
proposes to take, but %-e are not to presurne,
because be has private kno'wledge of the
demerits of this 'whole -transaction, tbat
therefore the rest of us bave, and if it
cornes before a proper commlttee, the Conirnlttee on Rallways, Telegraphs and Barbours, wvben these objections to whicb bc
has referred, thiese frauda wblch hie bas
rnentloned can corne before that committee,
and i-e eau reject the Bill if tbe staternents
be correct. I arn not prepared to discuss,
nor~do 1 tbink it would be proper to discuss the nierits or dernerits of this Bill at
preseut.
We have hnad some experience
conuected with the Baie des Chaleurs ronds,
and the demands mnade by certain parties.
Beyoud that I do- not propose tu go.
The
staternent rnade by the hion, gentleman frorn
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-It has been sald that Rimouski, and It was enlarged aud Intensithere -are twenty petitions against thîs Bill. fied by rny hon. frlend ('Mr. Dandurand) la the
Are there any means by whlch we could very best renason to my mind wh.%, we should
see those petltion îsa? If they can be secn ln this case, as we have iu the pnst, sustain
I may say
by the Railway Coimmlttee, that la a good the report of the conilttee.
reason why the Bill should go to the Rail- further, my uwn.Individual opinion la, I amn
ln accord wltb the hou, gentleman froni
way Cornmlttee.
Monck.
I have two or three tumes this
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-1Ilnvara*bly take a session expressedl the opinion that the Standvery liberal view of this niatter of notice, ing Comrnlttee on Standing Orders are too
and my desire Is to sustain the action of lenlent la rnaklng their reports, and It would
the commlttee of this Hlouse. Bu t one an- be better If they adbered strlctly to the
not divest oneseif, If you have it, Of i'rules unless ln a case of absolute neceasity
knoywledge of a case, and It must override; that a Bill should pass or better reasons
one's judgment otherwise formed.
1 do 1be given than we have ln thia case.
know aomething about the Bill, and I do not! Bourinot hias polnted ont that ln thlrty
thlnk dt- la a measure which sbould go or forty years there has been no case ln
through tbîs Bouse. It ahould be met at the wblcb the Senate have rejected a recornoutset with a negation. I understnnd, as
o! this Cormlittee on Standing

jmeudation

SENATE
Orders, but mark you, that does flot bind
If the government hias taken into considerauy meiber of tbe Senate to support the ation, the representations made by the British
of Trade, as to
Bill either ln principle or ln detail.
If Columbia Board Inferior steamers the inefficient
m~ail service ln
frein
-we ado-pt the report of the committee, as It ta the west cost of Vancouver Is'iand Victoria
? Will
an increased subsidy bie granted this year to
is presented to us to-day, we should only
make the service more ln keeping with the
be doing what we bave doue a dozen tlmes Increasing requtremicnts of the parts
of the
this session, and aimost every session we province referred ta ?
have had. When tbe Bill cornes before the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There must be some
Committee on Railways we cau deal with mistake. because I have iuquired everyIt on its merits. Tbe fact that the whole whiere whetber such a petition was sent
to
neighbourhood, as I understand froin the re- thxe government aud I cannot find any trace
marks of the lion. gentleman from Rimouski o-f it. Tliere was a subsidy given to a liino
-bias petitioned against the Bill1 itself shows f romi Vancouver nortb, but none fromn Viclthat tbey were flot taken by surprise, that toria. MNyban. friend must bave beeîî misthey miust have known that a Bill of this informed, because I can flnd no such peticharacter was to be introduced, and tbey tion ia any of the departmcnts.
only know that tbrough tbe publication iii
the newspapers. If they had that knotvHISTORLO SITES 0F CANADA.
ledge, then if there ev-cr w-as a case lu %vhiedi
INOUIRY.
w-e are justified la following the precedents
that we have adopted-I w-as going ta say
Hon. Mr. POIRIER rose ta:
ImProperly-it is this. But I think the re- Draw the attention of the gov3rnment ta the
laxation of ail o-tr rules, and the free and state o! dilapidation and ruins ln whicb the
easy manner In wich w-e have been legisiat- ancient fartresses, the aid battlefields and lie
historie sites of Canada are ta
inlng, ouýght ta be stopped. The fact that ny quire whether the government be found, andtake
propose ta
bon. frlend from Stadacona bas -brouglht this some measures for their preservation.
matter so prominently before the Hanse w-i
He said. On reading over this
be a lessan ta, us la the future.
I thlnk again, I find that my question bias
those w-ho opposed this motion have gîveu scopie than I intended ta give it.
good reasons w-hy the report of the coin- as if ail the aId battlefieids and
inittee shouId flot be rejected.
I give noa si'tes of Canada were ln a state
oPillion as to the merits of the Bill, gooa, Nviceh I did flot mnen ta asscrt.

motion
a larger
It ieads

historie
af ruin,
In fact,

bad or indifferejît.
Froin w-bat I have -there fire quite a number of aid fortresses
Bean of Bis f ran t.hat section of the coun- ln a fine state of preservation to-day, some
try, I *mIght bave grave donbts as ta the of whicb bave actualiy been restored. But,
propriety of this one, but I do liot think going aver the list of tbem, I find tbat my
this is a case la -blcb we sbould depart iuquiry is correct as far as the aldest forts
from the precedent w-hidi bas beea estab- are concerned. Tbe forts 'which have been
llsbed ln the past. Lay down the princîple restored and are lu a good state of presarIf you like for tbe future that the ruIes vation are those connected w-ith the wars
sbauId be adbered ta strictly and It shahl of 1812 aud the Fenian raids. For example,
bave uiy support.
ia Ontario, Lundy's Lana, near Niagara
The Seiste divided ou the motion, w-bicb Falls, wbere perhaps the most bloady enw-as adopted : Contents, 28 ; non-contents, 27. gagement ln the w-ar of 1812-11, w-as fought
first-class
Hon. Mr. THIBAUDEAU (De la Vallère)- is ia aa monument state of preservation. In
tact
bas been raised there by
1 eall for the yeas aud uays.
a local Historical Society, aided by the DeThe SPEAK~ER-The yeas and usys can- partment of Milîtia, and tbey bave
the
not be dhemanded after the vote bas been grounds of the old fort ln a realiy commeudtaken.
iable state. At Chrysler's Farm, In the
MAIL SERVICE TO TIIE W EST COAST Icounty of Dundas, a monument bas been
OF VACOUVR
ISAND.built
by the Historical Society also, aided
0F VNCOVERISLND.by the Department of Militia. and Defeuce.
INQUIRY.
Tbe site of the battlegr-ound of Stony Creek,
-Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Coînum- ýat Hamilton, uow called the Gage
Homebia) i nquirad :
,I stead, where sncb signal success w-as ohHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIII 22, 1902
tained by the Canadians, under Coi. Harvey, bas been purchased by the ladies of
Hamilton. It is intended to bave monuments erected on the battieground as weil
as on the Burlington Heiglits overlookxng
Hamilton. In fact, the people of Hamilton
are going furtber ; tbey have purcbased
Dundurn Park, tbe old homestead of Sir
Allan McNab, intending ta use the castie as
a niuseum for bistorical treasures. On tbe
otber baud, Fort Ainberstburg, opposite Detroit, wbere sanie of the engagements of
1812 took place, is now a beap of ruins. Sa
also Fort Erie, opposite Buffalo, af Fenian
celebrity. The Loyaiists of Ontario are nat
uamiadful of tbeir past glarlaus records.
They bave lately--tbanks to the Bey. Mr.
Forneret-erected a pretty memal churcli
in tbe aid historic townsbip of Adoiphustowm, iu the Bay of Quinte. witb apprapriate
tabiets. But the oidest forts of Ontario are
sadly negiected. For exaniple, take Fart
Frontenac, or Cataraqul, at Kingston. 0f
the aid farts biowu uîî by tbe French, tbe
foundations alane remain. aud tliese are
galng ta decay, very littie belng done ta preserve theni, altbougbl It is occupied by the
nîilltary. Toronto tares a littie better. Its
old French fart, Fart Rauville, bult in 1725,
ras compietely demoiisbed. but the Historical Society of Toronto, aided again by the
goverument. sanie twenty years ugo. erected
a cuira on the aid site. It is fairly ivYeli kept
and at ail events the grounds are secured
as public grouads. Otlier farts, sucli as the
fart at Sault Ste. 'Marie, the theatre of exploits of Cadotte, first, and of the Englisb,
afterwards, bave been aitogether negiected
and abaudaned. Quebec tares about ln tbe
saine way as Ontario concernlng its old
forts. Those counected witbi tbe mars tvltb
the United States are ln a good state of preservation, wbile the aidest forts are very
sadly aeglected Indeed. For exemple, ut
Cbiateauguay, wbere tbe buttie of Cbateauguny was fought, the Departaient of Militia
bave erected a monument îîerpetuating that
glaonos event. The fort of Clmteauguay is
the enly ane I cau lind taken bold of by the
Department of Militia, mitti the exception,
bowever, of Eccle's Hill. lu tbe county of
Missisquol. Here a battie ras fougbt, in
1870, agninst aur friends the Fenians, tbe
commander on our side being 3f.Chamberlalin, for a long tume Queen*s Printer bere,
and whom most of us bave kunown. .Acairn,

simular ta that of Fort Rauvilie, lu Toronto,
bas been raised there by *tbe Department of
liilitia, and piaced under the care of a local
bistorical society. Neither sbaft, nor statue,
nor cairn tells the present generation where
Dallard Desormaux and bis 16 Immortal
campanions laid down tbelr ives, somewbere
nt Carillon, ln the county of Argenteuil, ta
sav-e Mantreal and tbe French coiany from
tbe feraciaus Mohawks. Tbere Is notblng ta
mark tbe spot wbere that feat of anms, perhaps the mast glaonos in tbe annals of Caniada, was performed. Of course, the fart
of the clty of Quebec ltself is in a fine state
of preservation, but bon, gentlemen mli nemember that the wbale of the fortifications
of Quebec are of comparativeiy recent struceture, and tbat of the oid fortifications, notbing nom nemains but perbaps one or two of
tbe clty g-ates, St. Jean and St. Louis, mbicbi
bave been renewed and compieteiy nebult.
But Quebec bas not forgattea is beraes.
The statue of Champlain, Its faunder, bas
been erected witbin Its precincts, and a
sbaft nises hi.-Ila bnonoun of Wolfe and
Montcalm, ta tbe equal giary of tbe victon
and of the vanquished, the embleni, the
symbol o! the unlty of the two races that
fought one agalnst the other, lu 1759. and
mha nom live and mli ever ive side by side
lu a'ity and good miii, nat oniy within Its
mais, but ail aver this Immense Dominion.
Iu Sorel, Tbree Hivers anà Montreul, natblng, or very littie, remains of the oid biockbouses. The site of the aid French fort at
Tbree Hivers bas been con'eerted into a
public park, althougbi the praperty of the
1Mflltla Department, wblle In Mioutreal ail
tbat can be seen ta-day a! Its aid fortifications are twa oid tomers of doubtful origin. But aur metrupoiis, like Quebec,
bias flot fangotten lts faunden, de Malsonneuve, to whom a fine monument bas
been enected ln one nf lts squares. Two
ather aid battie grounds a! the province of
Quebec are under the fasterlag care of tbe
Department -of Militia and Defence, that of
l'île-aux-Noix, ln tbe caunty of St. John,
wbere many fierce encouaters bave been
wltnessed, and that at Chambiy, mbicb latter ruas back ta 1711. Ia New Brunswick,
none actuaily of the aid farts exlst. In St.
John, the theatre of the heroism of Madame Latoun, the spot where the aid fort
mas, Is ta-day a matter -of conjecture. It Is
not knama where ut staod. It 18 a plty, be-

SENATE
cause thiat is a spot irbicli should be coinmemorated by soine monument ; but it behooves tbe city of St. John to take care of
its past glories. Sucll other old fortifled
grounds as Jaimsec, Gaspareau, Baie-Verte,
are laid waste and uaiooked after. There
was, not many years ago, in New Brunswick, a fort, the only one dating bnck to
the Urne of the great war for supremacy between the French and the English, whlh
was ln a remarkable state of preservation.
I remember whien I w-as very young hiaving
gone thiere myseif and hav-iug tzaking soine
United States and Canadian tourists wlio
wanted to see lt-I refer to Fort Beausejour.
There wlere at that time seven of the old
Frenchi canion stili rnounted. Lu fact, the
structure w-as a fine speciaien of the oldtime fort. Under an luglorious Minister of
Militia the cannon w-as sold for scrap iron
for the manufacture of stores and plougbshares, and nothing remains of those valuable works. Lt is a lone and deserted pilace.
Lt ls on the line of the Intercolonial Railway, near the boundary betweea -New
Brunswick and -Nova Scotia. Lt ls to-day a
barren and desolate field, and the youag
generation wlio read history cannot go, as
at One time they could, and learn the history of their country from the very mouments thiat made It. That fort, whichi was
au object lesson. is gonie. and gone for erer.
This ls au irreparable loss for ail trne to
coule. If -e go to the province of -Nova
Scotia, w-e find there again that the old
block-houses have ail been demolished, except the one at Windsor. At Annapois, the
oid Port Royal, 1 remember liaving seen,
flot many years ag-O, a block-house wlxich
had stood two or three sieges, one by the
Eaglishi when It was taken, and two in defence of the place for Engiand. That
block-house was demoiished by the guardlan, wlth the authority of the minister, for
the purpose of making fuel. Sc, AnnapolisRoyal Is, to-day, wlthout its oid fortification. The fortresses, however, were rebult
by local societies whea they heard that the
Dominion gorerament was abouit to seil
these old historical sites. They saved thein
from destruction and from the go-ex-nmtent.
This happened ln 1892. They are to-day la
a good state of preservation. So also are
the oid fortresses at Luneaburg. An hon.
friead from the other House just tels me
that there are two biock-houses at LunenHan. Mr. FOIRIER.

i burg which have been restored and rebult.
The oldest of them aIl is nt Windsor. It is
well cared for, and so are the grounds. If
ire go further, to that great historic fortress
of Louisbourg, we find It a field of desolation and ruin. I was sent there myseif last
full by the Royal Society to examine the
old fortress and xeport on ItL I found that
during the course of the year the owners
had been able to find along the foundations
and the debris about ten thousaad of the
old bricks, which they sold for eighit or nine
dollars a tbousand, and tliat Is about tlîe
end of that unique battlefieid-unique lu the
annals of Nortli America. Hon, gentlemen
ilI remember that the fate of this country
once depended on the old fortress of Louisbourg. Lt liad been bulit by the Freachi at
an immense cost, something
like 25.000.000
or- 30,000,000 francs. The Englishli ad to
take thie fortress of Louisbourg before tbcy
could take Canada. Lt w-as taken tw-ice, the
til-st time by the Amuericaus and the Engllsh combluieil the nîliltia of tlîe United
States under Peppereli and the Engishi uuider Warren. Lt iras takeni the lirst
time lui 1745, and retnrned to France by the
treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.
Lt ivas taken
thrteen 3-cars Inter by the Engiish alone, the
second ln eoxnmand of the forces being the
iei-o w-ho the year afterirards took Queijec,
General WVolfe.
Hou. Mr. ELLIS-I uiiderstood the lion.
gentleman to saty that Lonisbourg iras flrst
captured by the troops of the United States
and Brti.Ta
san error. Lt miust
hiave been the colonial troops.
Hou. Mr. POIRIER-In 1745 it was captured by the troopa of the Amierican colonies, that is to say by the New Engiand,
militia, ln combination with the Eagiish,
but the second capture was effected w-holly
and solely by the Englislh. That was the
difference I wished to make. After Louisbourg was takea, the troops captured Quebec, the consequence of rhicli w-as the
cession of the whoie of New France to
England.
Those historie battleflelds recaîl aothing that is bitter. The two parties at war were equaily brave, and
equaily did their duty, at least so far as
the capture of Quebec, and the second siege
of Louisbourg are concerned. If we today wish to preserve what remains of those
oid forts, it is to cominemorate among us

APRIL 22, 1902
a spirit, îlot of rivalry, but of union, and
of peace foundcd upon those acts, the performance of w-hidi refiects discredit on none,
but ratier military giory on both. I would
refer to Louisbourg cspecialiy. It is really
a great pity that tbose immense ruins should
be lcft to decay and perish.
Not oniy in
view of the historicnt events they represent,
but lu view of thc future prospects of Louisbourg, those grounds should be marked as
a public garden for public purposes. The
people of thc United States have aIready
begun to, corne -.Vithcr, and before mauy
years they wll gather there by thousands
and thousande, as the Arabs go to Medina,
to view -that port, whici they justly consider
as one of thc most glorious aciievements of
their armas. Every American who knows
enough history to go back to 1745, will visit
Louisbourg to sec whcere thc great feat
w-as pcrforrned by one 0f their own countrymen. Uuited States capitalists are now
building n rond connecting Causo w-ith
Louisbourg. I amn no prophet, but it Is only
ncecessary to open one's cyce to predict that
Louisbourg w-i again corne to, the front.
It le, lu rny estimation, thc fincst seaport
on tic Atlantic coast. It ls the nearest to
England. It le so, rnuch ahead of the ports
of the two Sydncys, and of the other adjacent ports that the Sydney people have butlt
docks thcre in order to takc iii tiieir coal,
and no- thc Dominion Steel Company take
in their ore lu winter, whlcl Sydney and
other ports are block-ed by tce. The port of
Louiebourg ls open the. wbolc ycar round.
WVith these advantages Louisbourg muet
bave before It a great future. The piece of
land wherc the old fortification etood le occupled by squatters. The new town la not
bult there, but at thc other end of tint port,
tivo or tirce miles away. Thie old place le
occupied by six or seven persons wlho have
been there for ten, .twenty, or tbirty ycars,
and saine longer. Sorne have prescription
ln their favour. Those grouadsecould be got
aow on easy terme. Sorne doubts exiet as
to w-ho are to-day the légal 0w-ucrs or passessors of the site of old Louisbourg. Iu 1882
the Impérial goverument vested in the Dominion governmeut the old and more receut
milltary prop erties of Nova Scotia. These
comprise lands la Lunenburg, Liverpool,
Shelburne, Yarmnouth, Digby, AnnapolisRoyal, Guysborough, Sydney and Picton.
Loulsbourg le not iucludcd lu the liet. On

the other hand It was neyer banded to the
Nova Scotian government ; so that the titie
to Louisbourg munst still be with the Imperlai authorities. The Nova Scotia government make sorne dlaim to it, by virtue of
the iaw of prescription ; but wtiie occupation would give a good titie to squatters or
oid occupants, I fait to sec how the Halifax
authorities can step lu. Howevcr, they are
desirous that something sbould be doue for
Its preservation ; and the Hon. Mr. Longley,
wlorn I consulted about this matter, told
mec-and I expected nothing cise frorn a
gentleman of such a liigh and seholarly
standing-'tbat tliey would cbeerfuiiy concur with the Dominion governmrent, ln taking means for the preservation of old Louisbourg. Wý%hile I wae there 1 was lnformed that the Aniericaxis, whio arc entcrprising ln ail matters, secing thc future
possibillties and value of the site, had
taken an option of ail the grouild whcre the
oid Louisbourg fort stood, except the buryIng ground where Frenchi and English soldiers eleep together their eternal siamber.
Waiat 1 want to call the attention of flie
'goverument to, ls this tact, thIat If they
thought proper last session to spend sixty
or eiglity tbousand dollars for the pu.rchae
of the Plains of A.braham, whiere it la not
at ail sure that the battie betrwcen Wolfe
and Montcalmn w-as fouglit, for the mere field
-the samne goverliment shouid redecm frorn
the bauds of strangers a place whcre fortifications once stood, the mrost formidable lu
America, where two sieges were held, where
batties were fought, wbere biood was shed,
and wbere to-day the soldiers of Englanfi
and France sleep side by side. 1 say that the
government who were justified ln spending
'that muchi money to purchase the field of
the Plains of Abtlaham, should, ln my estimation, corne do-wn and do somethIng towards saving from destruction and froni
vandalisrn those ruina whicb are of sucb
generai Interest.
I remember reading Iu
Macaulay these words : 'A people that takes
no pride ln the noble achieveinents of remote ancestors is flot likely to performn noble
achievernents wblcdx wiLl be remembered by remote descendants.' Let us keep
the memory of our anceetors.
I Io lot; at
ail piead for us to do as -tbey are doiug Ia
China, to look always behind and adore
'what bas gone before us. 1 caîl attention
to the eid, fortresses tand battlegrounds be-

SENATE
cause tbey are a part and parcel of our bistory that are visible, and inasmucli as nonc
of us wlll condemn the reading and iearuing
of our history by our children, we shouid
join bands Inuhaving the monuments of old
preserved for our descendants. It Is useless to thlnk tîjat we are going to build for
ourselves a great country if we oniy look
forward to material achievements, to comnmnerce, trade and navigation. Th4lt is ail
rlght, that is a part of the monument, the
miost useful, I)erhaps, but certainly flot the
most noble and the most refined. A couutry lives not by bread alone. Lt must also
bave what makes equfiibrium : éducatio,
art, religion, poetry. And history Is ail that,
ours more pnrticularly. The present must
stand on the past, and past gIories are a
sacred heritage. lu France, iii 1887, they
passed a law for the preservation of ail the
ground of historical and artistîc value. We
have niot so mnny sucli grounds in Canada.
These few glorious battlegroV9nds, and above
ail that of Louisbourg, lu my estsimation,
should be preserved for ailI tme to come as
a public park ut least ; thej shouid be put
under tue ane category ns are to-day those
smnaller grounds I bave referred to, wbere
the engagements of 1812 were foug-ht
A
museum should be opened ut Louisbourg for
the preservation of xvhat remu lus of Its oid
and valuabie relics. Every earthly thlog,
that is found within and wlthout the walls,
capable of being- carried away, la -torii down
and taken home by the tourists. The old
cannon of .Loulsbourg are to be found
everywbere in North Amerlea, except iii
Louisbourg. The Americans, those Plgrxus
Abroad, excel above ail In the art of demollshing old monuments and taking the
pleces home-the Eagiish come next
Vandaiism la practised oa a large acale at
Louisbourg. The Goths and the Vandals demoiahed tbe temples of Italy, and used tbe
wooden fixtures for firewood. The blockbouse at Annapolis-Royal was pulled down,
some tifteen years ago, to make tirewood
for Its caretaker, one Mr. Hall, wlth the
sanction of a barbarian, I mean a minister
of the Crown. The Vandais and the Goths
meited into coin the artistc treasures lu gold
and silver, they found in Constantinople.
One of Our ministers of Militla and Defence
soid the old cannon of Fort Beausejour,
lu New Brunswick, to foundry men, and
put the thlrty pleces of gold lu the DomInHr>u. -Mr. POIRIP2R.

*ion Treasury. The Vandals and the Ostrogoths made lime ont of the statuary chef s*d'Suvre of Rome and Athens ; our goveruments, ail of tuem, Tories and Grits, provincial and f ederal, allow the iast bricks
and ornanientai atones of Louisbourg to lie
soid for building chimucys, basements and
wells. I now appeal to, this our present
government to put a stop te that wanton
devastation, aud do something for the preservution of at least the re'maining rumns of
old giorious Louisbourg.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-The hon, gentleman
asked me to say a f ew wÔrds about the
Nov-a Scotian forts with which I am somewbat familiar. I dld not qulte understund
the scope of bis motion as expiainied by
limseif. He says that It is lu regard to
the old historic sites 0f sieges and4 batties.
Historic sites, lu my mind, wouid embrace
other scenes than those wbere batties w-ere
fouglit. However, hie as treated it particularly lu that hune. 1 listened to hlmi witm
mucli pleasure wlth regard to bis remurks
on Loulsbourg, tbat great fortress whiceh the
Firench put there as the key of the Gulf of
St. Lawrence. As hie justiy sald, until this
fortresa, the Duukirk of the continent~ of
America was taken, Great Britain could ijot
liLve possession of thîs portion of North
America over which the Union Jack now
fies. But there are othier portions of Nova
Scotia wblch the hon, gentleman bas not
alluded to. I do Dot profess to know mucli
about the historical events with regard to
New Brunswi ck, except as far as I have
learned fr-om zny readlng generaily lna duition to, what L learued at scho-oi. Referring
to Nova Scotia, we find that Port Royal was
'settied about 100-1, and that old fort with
the aurroundinga ls not kept ln the state iti
.which It shouid te. StIll, however, some
'old buildings are preserved.
The parade
ground la falrly well preserved. The people of Annapois continue to take quite a
'prîde lu this oid historie for~t because it wvas
a place of mucli Importance lu the .beginning
of the 17th century, aud the Historical
Society of Halifax, of whlch the Speaker of
this Senate la a honoured member, bas preserved the history of our province from the
'first. The settiement of the American cou'tinent beg-an by the Spaniards.
The
ýSpaulard gave way to the Frenchi, and the
'contest 'between the French and Engliali
'contlnued for mauy yeara as lu Europe.

APIL 22, 1902
When peace 'was brought about after the along the coast at several points.
Many
battle at Quebec, a peace honourable to of those old blockhouses were more
or iess
ail alike. We trust the two nattons, France ln a good state of repair when I was
a
and England will live harmonioualy aide by boy, but unfortunately they have nearly
ail
saide and bulld Up a great co.untiry here. gone down. One of these wns erected
on
There are uther fpots In Nova Scotia besides the peninsula at Chester, and another
at the
Annapois.
In the county of Lunen- town of Lunenburg, another at Kingsburg
burg although now settled principally la Lunenburg county. These have ail gone
by Germans, was originaliy settlec. by down. And at the mouth of La Have,
a litFrance. T-hat is, they bult the first tie beiow Fort Point, there were cannon
settlements.
In the early
part of placed on Oxner's point. The canion are
the 17th century a year or two inter than stili there. T-here was an oid lady,
a near rePort Roy-al, there was a French fort at the lative to a gentleman who
represents the
mouth of the La Have river. There is n county of Lunenburg ln the
other Chamber,
spot there known as Fort Point, so cailed be- who lii'ed on this point. An
American pricause tbe French erected a strong fort there. i-ateer came in; the men
were nway liaitA portion of the masonry is there, stili ing ; she took a
lirebrand ani fired two
more, t.he granite foundation of the oid shots. The Americans
tbouglht there wns a
French chapel. la there. If you look nt the large number of troops there
and they saiied
Inscriptions there you wili find the names of away. This is an bistorte
spot The caiîFrench people. When Capt Argail sniied nons are there ; I have
seen thein myseif.
from the New 'Enginnd colonies lie went to If you go to the adjoining
county of Queens
the mouth of the La Have and destroyed you wiil fid historie
spots also. We rend
the Frenchi settiement there. The Frenchi of the French going along
there at one
lied. There ls a amali pond near the fort place. They saw a sheep
on the shore
ln which it la aald their valuabies were there and they calied it Port
Mouton.
thrown to Bave them. The people ln There la another point, Rossignol.
Wle have
the surrounding district, -mostly all of Chebogue and na-mes Ilke that lu
the county
German orlgin, have appropriated this of Yarmouth. Those blockhouse
sites could
old French ceznetery as a cemetery be at a very littie expense worked
by atone
for ai] the people and there the bod- or ireon tabiets, to commemorate the
events
les lie, German, Frenchi a'nd Engilali aide of the war. There la no doubt
owin- to
by aide, until the grent trump shall blow the bravery of the men and women
too on
hereafter to take them ail to the better land, the const, the Americans couid
flot get a
we hope. Now, here la a place that 1 thlnk footing there and these spots should be
comwhose history should be retaiaed. True, memorated. It wouid not cost much
to do
during the tinie that I had the honour of a it My bon. friend hae spoken of
Annapolis,
seast ln the other branch ef the legisiature, but what of the beautiful country, the
I aucceeded In getting a lighthouse but on Annapolis valley, and Grand Pré, where
the
that point because It la n promineut pince Acadiens went ln and reclaimed the land
on the La Have river. That, of course, to n from the ocean and raised eropa to aupply
certain extent cominemorates the apot, aud their rieighbours. Theie de a spot there,
the old name, Fort Point wIll linger ns long and it la rather a sort of reflection
on
as the country stands. As regards hgock. the history of the province
of Nova Sco-.
houses erected during the war ot 1812-15, the tia. I refer'to the expulsion of the Acapeople of Nova Scotta on the Atlantic aide dîane. Ail of you Frenchi Canadiana have
were very much laterested ln that wnr. The rend of the expulsion of the Acadians.' It
Ulnited States fitted, out prîvateers who cne ha been tihe subject of mucli debate wheto *the province of Nova Scotîn. They went ther It waa juatillable or flot. For reasona
loto several -porta on the coast aad the peo 0f.atate thia policy may have been required.
pie had to defend theniselves as best tîîey Perbapa it waa not neceasary for them to
could. The raw militia of thie country ivere live on this land, but I, as a Nova Scotian,
equal to thie emergency. A few captaîns think thie way ln which it was done
and men of miîîtary experience were sent to was Aitogether too harali and
aevere
guide and direct theni, and they bult block- and hstory hereafter Witt
say so. The
bouses at the expense of the government people were separated,
the husband torn

- SENATE

froin the wlfe, and both froni the ebldrein, Tennyson was at the zenith of bis faine, in
and deported to different parts of the United bis ode of welconie to the Princess Alexandra
States. Wba-t happened ? MNany of thein on bier marriage to tbe Prince of Wales, bie
went into the woods ; rnany of tbem came said: ' For neither Saxon or Norman or Engback and a great many Acadians of Nova glisbi or Scotch are we.' But ail of us Dailes
Scotia, who are among our best Cltlze!Is, lu our welcome to tbee, Alexandra ! Alld
and have made their mark ln the history uîay we now lot say that as regards our
of the province, came back and settled counltry, that neither Saxon or Nornian or
du DIgby, ln the couuty of Richmond, In Englisb or French or Scotch or Irishi or Gerparts of the imnu are we, but ail of us un'ited lu respect
Cape Breton and *different
are scenes the bistory of for the his-tory of tflee, Fair Canada!
These
country.
wvhieb, I tblnk, should be preserved. The
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I bave
history of our country bas flot yet been wrlt- listened w.Itb interest, as I bave no doulit
ten. We owe a great deai to Longfellow, ail have, to the historical addresses froin the
who describes la bis 'Evangeline,' Grand
two hon, gentlemen who bave just spoken,
Pré. It appears he neyer b-ad been tbere, and I only rime for tbe purpose of saying
but he got bis facts from Nova Scotians, and
one word on the subjeet. I shall not go Into
put them down admIrably lu bis book. We
the historical facts respecting the settiement
owe a great deal to Parkman, wbo bas wrltIsland, furtber than to
France. Now, of Prince Edwand
ten about the pioneers of New
say that ln Prince Edward Island we have
I thiîîk somue of tiiose historic scelles and
monuments also w-hich have historical inincidents should be comme'morated ln smre
whieli sbould be preserved. At
suitable way. 'There la no greater object terest, and
there are two
to a boy going through bis native the eutrance to Charlottetown
lesson
forts going to decay for the want of a litcountry than seeing a monument, bowever
tbem. Port la
Inexpensive, and asklng what It commemo- tie attention beiug given to
Joie, now Charlottetown, was, wben tbe
rates. Take the French settiement ln my
held Prince Edward Island, a place
own county, there tbey commenced tarin- French
of smre importance, when :the Frenchi bad
Ing and fish-ing. Tbere Argali came Iu and
and It is dedestroyed them. Go to Grand Pré. The very extensive settiements,
sirable, I sbould say, that those forts, one
people there settied the country of Evangeline, have doue, but sometbing to mark each aide of the barbour of Charlottetown,
by
the sites, but more should be doue. I should be looked after and preserved
te take
tbiuk on the sites where blockhouses the governinent If they are going
stood some tablets ahould. be put up. Go care of monuments ia different parts 0f the
of thc
to the United States and enter the old country. 1 merely eall tbe attention
government to the fact that these and
state bouse at Boston and you wîll find
lu that province, as
bistortc matter to commemorute the tInie the other monuments exiat
foot ln Jamestown. the fact bad not been mentloned by tbe bon.
Englishman set bis
There ls something to notice and learu aud gentlemen who addressed the House.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My bou. frlend froro
a boy going there wlll leurn more lu an hour
under the guidance of somebody wbo under- Aerdla bas brouglit under the notice of the
stands It, than lie wlll by porlng over a Senate a most Important subject, and I am'
school book for months. The hlstory cf our quite sure th-at -bis remarks, and the recountry bias yet to be writteu. I do trust marks ef my bon. frlend from Luneînburg
that somebody will yet write the blstory of and my hon. frlend from Charlottetown,
Acadia. It took lu New Brunswick and part will be read w1th very mucb interest by the
or Maille and Prince Edward Island. It was people of Can'ada. He bas chosei 'a most
a large country. Wben the Frenchi plauned opportune period for bringing it under the
te bulld that tortress at Louisbourg they notice of the Senate and the people of tbis
showed their sagacity. But the Latin race country, lnasmucb as just at this moment
appareutly are not good colonizers ; tbey do there la a patriotic sentiment prevalling
flot succeed well. The Anglo-Saxon came Iii over Canada, and I tbink an auxious desire
and won from tbe French, and now they are that we should preserve those monuments
bionourably living togetbher and working aide wbich point to the herolsm of those who
by aide to bulld up a strong nation. Wheu bave gone before us, and te wbose services
Hon. Mr. CHURCH.

Wuuasqsu siq nj da;s PUB 'uoilous JO aD;ou o4 su sainx anusC aril
kÇau alIU4 o; allit 40a pînorqs I os pus 'uolluq pui;
I '9,LSI jo salua aq4 nI a;uua8 art; jo,
-o;Idutsi St;aaur o; ruaam ;or pip ;ulod lusrj aDuuPin2 puu uOflum.1Ojur aqi
aoj paqsliqnd
*;sixa o; panurIuoz Il 013 alnn pJO aq; tigju aq £aq4 ;uri; papuammoia.; os(u
;aioda.î aqjI
-ai o; SVi rpjqài 4paIsaZ2ns ssui as.rnoi "aluas aq; Sq pa;dopu aam
jru
arp
.nanj;ouy «PUIS siq; ;al o; pa;uasuoa I PUs puv Saluar att; q;oq pute 'tunuum aq:T paliod
'aurn o; a--jods pus .iaâo amna3z aq .xaqusnpt aq; -aix oslu Saq4 4nq 'sain1 aiT o; s4uarupuamu
2uir&Bar aaojau *puoumrppj rnoij usrnat;ua2 acT4 Ljuo ;ou pa;.zodai Çaql «s.Îaq4o amos
*uoq OFR JO aauasqu aq; ni uoltps Suu a3iu4 puu liallin .sonue a41 'a;o S.inanaS *uoq
aqi juliq; I puu t.li3adS arT4 JO pasodmo;)
io; a-111 4ou plnoqs I-LLjOOS
*.jý -u0]
ssii aa;;iuuuoa ;uill *a.npaao.id jo ULioJ
"aan;asîd aq4 aaaq ssq 173tu
2uruuWu uoT;Intosa;[ s sssd Çldmirs ptnoqs puu îsnuum aq4 pam.îa4 si jusqàk ;nq 'gainar
ami ;snt pns 'do.1p osl73 aului pus nIot;or aril Sino Ion aslAai o; aa44imm.oz u ;Uloddu
,o4 a4unaS aIT4 2allsu noi4nosa.i u paàom 1
sit ;at ptnorts aq ;sq;i 'a4;s;S JO S1;î
ffl uj 4uq4 pu I *;sud aq; ni uodn pa;au
aq;l
o; sa211s Prnomi I 'snu[puus;s.apunsnu
aAsq ami atdîjrr.îjd aq4
tîrWu uolinîosai
narr;.nj Suse 4uaAaad o; .xap.o uç puv 'aplnB
.rno- aq ptnoxt i ISt;3 'tsnuîrn aq; pus salua Sq puu do1p suol4ouI qjoq loij .a44aq pin
aq; pa;dopu puu a;uuaS GqI. I;sq; Iauj aq4
JOîsnr jo ;afqns v sa;i;l4
muO.j 'amn
o; ruas saop ;î Inq
'.1a4
,lui t[DiîrîL îîw1adi pamzaap si uoilotm
-lurn slq; o; aauaajo
ut, aaaq; punoj IUOA12Ssi Il amIlI arr;i l luas aiqI o;£ui puv
uoi;;-M
aq o; 2uu.iq4SuusiS 0aaan
2uAI .aq.maîu arr; £q puair 2uloq
.Iuiql ;ou
op Ilons
arr; Ilîpaode pomaap muoilonu ju JO uaAI2accrug
aq
1 *9L8t ut paidops a.aA ttaTtm saIni aq4 lsnm 2'u!;t. ni aullou s,Livp alpamJalui
Guo
o; 1-Uaq 01,02 Ioli a-luq 1 -9LSt ut paidopu
-: algues ar; J-) .IGp.o ut, apîum
a.xam i nairt satn.1 at; u UT. Il~ îUJ asnswaq aq amia gulAtolîol ai[j miii; eAoU uAi arrm elqlteq
'paInr.id noilipa 4sui aq;l PUs 'apura sem Stda1 'flaogo alznupz, iS eiquJrtnoo
a'l £El
SIIT; uaqm& asnojH aq; jo slupuo arrIJO .10
'3119ato
eqi o; il Sn!pui G.IoJoq auas
arr; Bi 0alid siq
-1.lato aq; jo JO aqlia ;.mud atil no mnau: 2uIrq4ou mnoi; ans ili; puaiz tÎs3s
uallsanb v 2nrt3[sî JO0
stu
'satni ati; 4on pui, jununum aqr; suai
uoilomz
i unrîr JO 9no.isap .ro;îuaeg 1.18.45
-: a;snags arr JO .xop.o ue apula
pto; sum. 1 qzalita pun 'Sup ilaq4o arr; not;
aq auru Sulmofloj arr; ;srn eAotu tiTà aq ;iqj,
-uaffl palzaip 1i rtlui& o; a4ou ati; iuq4 si
-: ;;oaS *.rpq aeqs.nouon att; Xa
'o; uoï;uawp Irva o; Sr.ujnailiîd a.xor a.itsap
pativa 2ataq tou
1 ;sqmj *palanpuoa aq Iuqrs a;suag aq; jo
jo saaçqoi auj
t32nlpaazad aq; ipIqnti ut .iusu
ar; uaiop
2ui.îvt si înnum aqj,
*a.npaioid .111
ui su apln2 o; 'asano;) jo 'aiu sainni aqIj
-a4uuaS aq4 jo miuq aq; loir ais 'a4;snaS
*papualnt £Iltul2fjço aq uuq;
angj; o a4oýi Sq pa;dopu aiaaii lunaumr puv ;uu.t2 IL'.TaqlI a.ior s .oj -lsl3 o4
pasodsip aq
saini rj;oq suoisuaao asoq; q4oq nodn ;sql Ilý, arq 'ailsoddo spuar.ij
*uoq Sm Sq apura
pnuj art; îaq;arjai 'srrr; si appiap o; a;suaq sau[aaads ;iot.ltd aqi
2urpua1 ia;iu '-juTqI
aq; ioj noi;sanb aIT; 'aioX
*ro os pusa 'py I ;nq 'Sus o; atquun tub, 1 no Sauotu
t,l.taurv q1a.om rtsT4t1 aq; 'a.1fpaz>od jo o; papualui aq saauftd Iaqlo SCunr puads
AIOH
tunnuu aqi 'salna ar[; uluioo Itînts paItI.îd aqi)ur? îphrr1o.rr1Pb put; IISuamffnuom
Aaas
aqa noi;îpa aiau aq; Inq; 'plu~s a.tq 1 su *a.ffl o; ituod8 aq pltio.i*. rns
atqs.napisnoa u
'2uÏpnarumoaa.i a.îaq aAnq 1 rt3trt.u s;iodai .rua.e 3;'uasa.uIl art; lurp PUB
'uorina4ls
;u 2ui
aq4 pus ',L69T jo spuuq SU niu pioq I riautAl -Al-, SUM& arq
4111 amn paru.ojui aq 'nor;om
aail;muuoi arr; jo ;iodaa arj; Sq pamnwna.1 i0il 04 smIl*rtr; JO .ialstuili
aqi J ljo4ulu;
'9181 ni pa;dopu semi tsnusr sun; pus satni aqI.j 2i1.1 p III *Sua Mnuoma
asoqi JO rioç;
asaq; ;nrr;-p1sZa.i ;sn ni s.1aq4o su ttam *L'A.asa.id aqn ixoj a.in;rprradxa
tu.îaqiî Sj.OÂ
su .1apa»O u uaaq aAnuq 1 Sus Stajus Sura u jo ato.ildu pjnnomi
upuuuo jo affload. aq;
I--asnlH aq4 JO aaul3pln2 ait; .oj amni
In; qnop on aàsq I PUB ';aaçqns Suri; aoBa
aril Situai suai ýjujq4 i[lq rntq;
uo1J pa ->Iods a.iuq orm nuaa;ua2 rrioq aq;
Sq apura
'i:xsdap aàuq aui îa.iaaoq ;srq4 aiGrs o; asaq;
s.w .naqI o; LIr;ujjç jo .1alsiutç a1q; JO
alla
Siaiaux 1 'Sel jo £4jorqu aq; o; siaj uor;nra;;u
art; 2urmuap ut ainstald 4ta.i2 SaaA
-ai il uaqj, .'uaàl2 naqma s.naquiam Sq puai
1-1111 Wpi I *Sup-o; S.î;unoa i111 su upur
aq ;snS, '.Quupsaq aq; îapun a;ou amsus ati;
*rruQD jo uot;luijasa1d aqi a.âxo S11natla.nd a.m

TTTJiv

SE-NATE
Hon. Sir

MACKENZIE

BOWELL-AlI the figures separately fer each boat, and

righit, let them stand.

THE STEAMERS 'MINTO'
'STANLEY.'

AND

INQUIftY.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON rose to
Inquire of the governmnent what services thse
ste..mers 'Minto * and ' Stanley' were eagaged
ia durlng thse years 1900, 1901 and 1902, other
tijan their services in keeping up winter communication between Prince Edward Island and
thse maln&lsnd: also, an account of their expenses and earnings whlle engaged In those
services durlng those years ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised tisat In
1900 thse 'Minto' was not engaged ln any.
service other tisan keepliig up wlnter communication

with

Prince

Edward

Island.

The 'Stanley, was engaged tisat year for
a short time ln the Fishierles Protection Service, at a cost of $4,457.34, the expenses belng cisarged to thse Fisiseries Protection Service and not included la the account for tise
Prince Edward Island service.
Ia 1901, thse 'Minto'1 was employed for
two weeks In the Llghthouse and Coast
Service, maklng a trip to Sable Island ; slie
was also used for thse trip wlth tise Governor General la July and agalin dunlng tie
visit of the Duke and Dnchess of York, at
a cost of $15,000. Thse expenses were pald'
out of a speclal appropriation.
In 1902, the steamers 'Miato' anS 'Staniley' bave not been employed so far la any
service other tisan keeping up winter comnmunication betweea Prince Edward Island
and thse malaland.
Thse ' Stanley' is generally nsed for placelng and lifting the large automatlc buoys
la Prince Edward Island, spring aad fali.
Last faîl tisis service was perfornsed by thle
D. G. S. 'Aberdeen.'
No revenue was recelved for tisese services.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-My reasoni for
asklng tiss question was tbat on the 7tb of
Aprîl, la the proceediags of the Senate,
notice of a question was givea by the hon.
senator frons Charlottetown, witis regard to
thse expeases and earnlngs of tisose steamers.
A f ew days afterwards, thse leader of the
goverameat made a reply which will be
found on page 207 of the ' Senate Debates.'
The inquiry was :
M'bat have been the earalags and expenses
,Of tise steamiers ' Minto 1 and 'Stanley,' glvlng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT,

for
freight and passengers for the following routes
and suasens :
1. Betwecn Prince Edward Island ports and
Fictou, for the season of 1900-01 ?
2. Botwe,2n Prince Edward Islandi ports an i
Pictou, for the seauon of 1901-02 ?
3. Betwecn Prince Edward Island ports and
Tormentine, for the season of 1901-02 ? And
aiso, wIl1 Inquire what number of single and return trips we.re made by each of the steamers
above named on eaeh route and duriag each
season, separately, atnd the date of cach trip ?
The answers were :
1. Earnlngs ' Miato' freigàt, $8,711.29 ;pasExpenqis ' Minto ' $41,322.34,
sengers, $3,984.
Earnlngs ' Stanley ' freight, $4,509.20 ;passenExpeneos ' Stanley,' $32,154.39.
gers, $2,064.
2. Barnings ' Minto ' frelght, $5,538.45 ;ps
sengers, $3,039.50. Expens--s ' Minto ' te 31st of
March, $39,821.53.
3. Barnings ' Stan-ley ' freight, $851.70 ;passengers, $1,844. Expenses ' Stanley ' to 3sut of
March. $17.671.05.

The answers given bere by the hon. leader
of the goverament to the first questions
were somewbat mleadlng to thse hon. gentlemen of this Senate, as wiil bc notieed by
comparison with thse answers given to mny
Thse total expenses of
questions to-day.
these steamers for thse year were charged
entlrely to thse expense of wlnter comimunication between Prince Edward Island
and thse mainland. In thse answers givenl
to-day It; will be notlced those steamers were employed durlng thse sunsmer
Thse bon. genseason In other work.
tleman sald thse steamer ' Minto ' wns sent
down to Sable Island last summer, whichi
was an expensive trip, and aiso taken Up to
Quebec durlng the visit of thse Prince of
.Wales, ail of whili was very expenlsive,
and accordlng to thse figures given liere
those éxpenses were charged to our winter
communication with Prince Edward Island.
Now, as a matter of fact thse steamers are
oaly employed In wl'nter communication
during three montiss of thse year. Ail the
rest of the year they are employed In other
works, sucis as fisherles protection service,
placlng buoys Ia thse guif, going to Sable
Island, also tise trip Up to Quebec searchlng
for wrecks, and tise total ekpenditure
for thse year was cisarged against tisose
steamers, wile oniy thse earnlngs of thse
three montiss for thse wlnter service are
credited. In the minds of bon. gentlemen,
thse Island was deblted wlth the wisole deficit which occurred between thse yearly
eanulgs and expenditures mentioned by the
,leader of thse government. I have made a

APRIL 22, 1902
calculation, just ta point out how the matter stands. I want ta draw a compar!son and place matters ln a true llght. In
1900 and 1901, the expeases as givea by the
leader of the governinent for the steamer
'Minto' were $11,832.32.
The earnings
were $12,695.29 ; leaving a deficit of $28,6-97.05. In 1901, 1902, the expenses of the
*Minta ' were $39,821.55 ; the earnings were
$8,577.95:; leaviag a deficit of 31,243.60.
The total deficit of the 1Minto'1 for two
years, accordlng ta the answers by the
leader of the government was $59,870.65.
The steamer 'Stanley' lux 1900, 1901 had an
expense accouat of $32,15U.9. Her earnlngs
were $6,560.20 ; leavlng a dellcit of $25,$591.39. In 1901, 1902, the expenses of the
'Stanley' were $17,675.05.
Her earnlngs
were $2,695.70 ; leavlng a deficit of $14,979.85. The total deficit for the twa years
amounted ta $40,570.74.
The total deficit for bath steamers for the
above years was $100,441.39. This loaked
very serions, and made evldently a bad
Impression on the mIads of the- han. senators ln this Chamber.
I want ta point
out the real state of the facts. I may
flot have them exactly correct, but they are
nppraxlmately correct at ail events. Those
steamers are only employed ln the wlnter
navigation between the Island and the mainland, about three months of the year, and
during those three manths, they enru ail
the earnIngs they make la the year. Therefore o! the expenses of the year, only onefourth should be chirged. against the province of Prince Edward Island, and the
total earnlngs should, be credited ta the Island, because It la only Ia the wlnter season
they earn anything. The expenses o! the
'Minto' as given for 1900-1901 were $41,322.34; the earnlngs, $12,695.29. Expenses
for ane-fourth of the year, or the three
months while engaged in the Ice service would be $10,330.n8 whlch, taken fram
the earnlngs, $12,695.29, would leave a surplus of $2,864W70 o! earnings over expendl.ture. The 'Mlnto' ln 1901-190-9 hsid an expense account of 339,821.55. Her eanings
were $8,577.95. Calculating oné-fourth o!
the expenses at $9,995.38, It would leave a
deficit o! $1,377.43. This wauld give a surplus on the twa years' operations of the
'Mlnto' of $987.27.
The Steamer 'Stanley 1 dld not make
such a gaod showing as the 'Minto'1 The
17J

reasons I will notice later. Her expenses
for 1900-1901 were $32,154.39. Her earnings
were $6,563.20. Take as the expenses of onefourth of the year $S,038.59. This leaves
a deficit of $1,475.39, as against that
year's operatlons.
For the year 19011902, the fourth part o! the expenses of the
' Stanley'1 was $4,417.75. Her earnings were
$2,695.70, leavink a deficit on the wlater's
operations of $1,722.06. The total deficit
la two years la the operations o! the 'Stanley'1 was $3,195.45. Subtract from that the
surplus earned by the 'Mînto' for the two
years, and we have a deficit o! $2,210.1S, as
representiag the actual deficit ln the expense o! winter communication wlth Prince
Edward Island. Naw, that Is a very dl!ferent showlng !rom that given la the
first place, according ta the answers given
by the leader of the government ta the ban.
gentleman !rom Marshfield, of $100,441.39
deficit But hon. gentlemen, the summer
steamers 'Northumberland'
and 'Princess'1 recelved a subsidy of $12,500, for the
aine months of the year they rua ; that Is,
$1,388 per month. Surely, If we give a subsldy of that amount monthly for carrylag
the mails la summer, It Is oaly fair to credit
the wlnter steamers wlth an equal sum
for carrylag the mails la the wlnter
season for three xaoaths. The sum o! $4,16-1
therefore should be credited ta the steamers
1Minto ' and 'Stanley' on that accaunt. This
will leave a surplus for the twa years
operation o! our wlater service of $1,553,82. Now, what 1 made up this calculation for la ta disabuse the mlnds of the
hon. gentlemen of this Senate o! the Idea
that those steamers were s0 very expensii-e
ta the Dominion gavernment.
I have endeavoured to give the true state of affairs.
The winter service to Prince Edward Island ls as Important to Nova Scotia as It ls
ta the Island. I should. ire to caîl attention ta the fact that the expenses of the
steamers the last two or three years have'
been very much lacreased on account af
the rise la the price of coal. Coal Is now
nearly twlce as expensive as It was two or
three years ago, consequently the expense
af those steamers ls very great They use
a great deal o! coal because they are very
fast steamers--16 kixots for the «'Mlnto'1 and
14 for the "Stanley'. The Georgetown and
Pictou route la the best route, and the -onewhlch must eveatually prevail ; but 1 have

SEINATE
no objection to experimenting at the west end
of the island, and if there is a better route
discovered there let us adopt it. But 1 think
the experlence of last winter will be rather
against It, and we will flot only incur a
greater expense, but danger of losing those
fine steamers. 1 thinli, If I amn rightly luformed, last year the ' Stanley ' ln this experiment, was on one or two occasions ln
great danger, and it would be a serious matter if anythlng should happen to lier, and
stili more serious if a tragedy shoulci occur
and life were lost. It Is fortunate that the
service has been so successful-in twenty
years there lias flot been an accident. I attribute this entirely to the wisdom, experlence, care and judgment of the captains
who command those steamers. They are
men of splendid character, careful ani
honest. One of them was attacked
sllghtly last year, but lie will survive
It. I would submit that the proper course
wlth regard to the management of those
steamers, partlculariy ln the depth of wlnter,
15 to let the captains use their own judgment. They ar'e experienccd men. They
have been at the work over twenty years,
and are thoroughiy reilable. I wouid ask
that the bon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries should give the captains control over
the times and the places ln which they shouid'
run. Especiaily ln the depth of winter. The
orders should be to let them mun between
Charlottetown and Summerside and the
mainland as late in the season as they possibiy can, but ln the depth of winter their
orders should be, whenever they see anything like danger to the steamers, to take
the Georgetown and Plctou route. Those
captains wouid not go to the Georgetown-Plctou route any sooner than they
would be compelled by the difficulties
of navigation to go, and I arn qulte confident
If the two steamers are kept together on the
Georgetown and Pictou route ln the depth
of wlnter, that our wlnter communications
would be almost daiiy. Last winter the
'Minto' kept up daily communication
between Georgetown and Pictou, and even
the winter before last, when they were both
running on this route, there was only an Interruption of a day or two, and if the captains are allowed to take that route, 1 believe we wouid have very littie complaint in
regard to our wlnter communication. I deHon. Mr. ROBERTSON.

sire to bring also to the notice of the Senate the fact that this winter steam commnunication is a part of our ternis of confedieration. Previous to entering confederation, our local government was about taliIng action on the question. When we entered confederation it w-as guaranteed to
us by the Dominion, that we sbould have
comunication between Prince Edward Island and the mainland the year round.
Thèse steamers are supplied by the government to keep up winter communication, and
I must say they are doms 'it nt the present
time pretty w-eh, and the people of Prince
Edward Island wouid be perfectly satisfied,
provided they saw the most feasible route
adopted, and the captains were not too mucli
handicapped -by orders fra-m sub-departments and men personally interested.' Those
men of experience know more about the
steamers and the navigation of the Straits
than any one lu tie departiiîent, and if the
route is trusted to them. 1 arn satisfied. no
steamers or lives w-i be lost, and communication ln winter between Prince Edward Island and the mainland w-i be falrly
satisfactory, considerlng the difficulties to
be overcome.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.L.)-I quite
endorse the remarlis of the hon, gentleman
from Montague on this subject. It does not
miatter w-hether the Dominion government
expend a hundred thousand dollars ln keeplng up communication w-itli Prince Edward
Islandl. By the terms of confederation they
are bound to keep It up, Wvhether the steamers are sinking money or malng It ; at the
samne time, that matter should be placed
fairly before the people of this Dominion,
and they sliould be aliowed to see that there
is no serious loss to the Dominion by kzeeping up winter communication. The expenses
of the 'Minto'1 have ben fairly stated by the
lion. gentlemen from Montagne. I did not
knôw anything w-lth regard to the figures
lie w-as bringing forw-ard, but I made up
figures myseif, and they qulte agree witb
the conclusion he has nrrived at. 'Since the
'Minto' w-as piaced on the route lier expenses average for encli year about $3,500
per montb. She has not been engaged during the past w-inter for mucli over six
w-eeks-nt ail events, she bas not been three
monthis lu that service, and lier earnlngs i
that time nînount, as stated by the lion.

APRIL 22, 1902
gentleman from Montagne to $12,695. Her
expenses would flot .amount to more than
$10,050 for the tbree months. That ls the
whole outiay that is due directly to the
carrying of the mails between Georgetown
and Pictou. That route bas been succeasful-,mucli more successful than lt ever was
expected to be at the time this experiment
was first trled, and there la no fauit to be
found witb the goverament for the inanner
in which that mail service bas been conducted. But. there is a disposition on the
part* of the people In different parts of
Prince Edward Island to have the service
continued from the particular locallty lu
wbicb tbey reside themeelves. Eacli person la disposed to thlnk <bat If the boat
came to the place where lie resides, If there
ls a harbour there, It would be the best
place. This year the government saactioned
sending one of the boats to run between
Summerside and the mainiand. Thatt, 1
tbink, was a desirable movement on the
part of the goverument, because It la
well to put such questions as that to test
and decide by actual experiment whether
that Is the proper place for the service or
not. This winter bas been particularly favcurable for an experiment of the kind, and
a service conducted there, ln my opinion,
ivould be mucb better this year than it
could possibly bave been In any of the past
years wben we had au ordinarily severe
wlnter. Summerside, In my opinion, is not
the beat place for the boats to rua, because
there la a large bay into whlcb the tce la
driven by certain wlnda, and wbere It would
be in a severe winter almoet Impossible foir
a boat to rua into the barbour at sucb a
time. Another place that is proposed
la from Tormentine to Traverse, wbere
tbe distance across tbe straits la but eîgbt
or nine miles. Unfortunately, at Cape Traverse tbere la no barbour. An attempt
was made to bulld a pier 'tbere some years
ago. but tbe saad accumulated about it
go that tbere la flot enougb water for the
boat to continue to ply tbere. But If we
bad a harbour' at Cape Traverse, I have no
doubt that a boat could run very succeasf ully during a great part of the season ;
Bear in mind that the greateat extent of
open water la betweea Georgetown and
Pîctou, where tbere is a wide distance
between the land on eacb aide. It bas
been found the moat deairable place

for the boats to, run. Tbe fact la, that
two boats on that route could keep tbe
communication up as effectually duriag the
wiater as in the summer season. The
Stanley ' and ' Miato'1 durlng tbe paat year
ran wltb great succeas on that route. At
one time thîs year, tbere were a few daya
lu wliîcb the 'Miato' was not able to run,
flot on account of the ice, but owlng to,
an accident to ber macbiaery. Apart from
that, she could bave kept up tbe communication between the Island and the mainland almost every day during the wbole
season. I arn giad that tbis matter bas been
brougbt up, and that the case wll appear
more on Its -merits before the people of tbe
Dominion, beeause, as I said before, tbe peopie were diaposed to think that the wboie of
thbe rnoney wea expended for 'tbe purpose of
kleeping up winter communication wltb
Prince Edward Island, wblcb was flot the
case, as part of the expenses sbould be
cbarged againat tbe otber services performed.
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-I rise to express
tbe pleasure 1 bave feit la listening to the
very able analysis of the true position ôf
nmattcrs made by the bon. senator frrom
Montague, wbo bas placed the matter before the public ln sucb a llgbt that tbere
can be no mîstake about it. There 'vas
a chance, a very great chance, of arriving
at a conclusion flot justfled by tbe facta,
from a statement of figures givea by the
Hlonourable tbe Secretary of State In reply
to the question put by tbe bon. gentleman
from* Marsbfield, but now that the aaalyais bas been so thorougli, I tbink any one
reading it can very soon arrive at a juat
conclusl.m as to, bow tbe matter stands.
Iiistead of a large deficît, lu some cases
tbere bas bea a surplug, and la the other
cases the deficit wbicb does exiat la go
paltry that, la comparison witb tbe services meatioaed, la not wortb coasidering. If sme of tbe good people up here
wbo bave very littie acquainnce wlth
ivbat cau be done by a proper steamer In
an tce field sucb as we bave la the gulf below could see sucb a steamer at work,
they would be very niucb amazed at the
resuits. As my hon. friend bas said, winter communication bas been kept almost
witb tbe regularlty wbicb characterizes
the communication durlag tbe summer

SENATE
months.
I want to empliasize what fll
frorn the hion. senator frorn Montague lu
regard ta the captains. I know that to the
tirough cornpetency of these men Is ta be
attributed, ln a large measure, the success
of the service. I hope, now that the matter
Is properly placed 'before the public, that
there will be no misconception in regard ta
it. When I made the remarks which 1 did
the other day in reference to the accomnmodation at the Pictou terminus, I had ln
view only the trade during the montlis of
January and February, *as those will remember who heard what 1 said ln regard
to the matter, and wlien it coames to be
spread over the year, we see what the resuit
is, by the figures that have been mentioned.
I arn very much gratified that the hon. gentlemnan's analysis turns out as lie finds itthat there is flot a deficit, 'which one would
be led to suppose there was from the figures
mentioned. 1 have no doubt that the Secretary of State gave the figures as they
were supplied to hlm, and embraclng as
they did, the expenses and receipts for the
year en bloc, an unfair Impression was
thus created.

charge for carrying the mails, and one department of the government aetties with
another. Wlien ail tliat Is 'brought into the
question, it wiIl lie found that the deficit
is nlot very considerable. However, I think
bon. gentlemen wlll bear me out ln saying
that cost is nlot a matter of prime, importance. As the hon. gentleman from Montagne has remInded the House, and the
Houae lias often been reminded of it before.
the terrms of union eaUl for communication, continuons and efficient, by steam
between Prince Edward Island and the
mainland, and the advantages of that communication are not aIl an one side by any
means. Our trade Is o! advantage to our
sîster provinces, perhaps, just as mucli
as their trade Is to us. But I must do
justice ta this Hause, and I think I can
extend the observation to tlie House of
Commons, that neyer, since I have been ln
parliament, have I beard the representatives
of any of the other provinces complaîn of
these expenditures. They have often listened ta us with a- great deal of patience
when we were pointing out how Inefficient
the service was ln days gone by, and 1 arn
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wilI call the attention happy to say, as a resuit of aur speeches on
of the mInister to the erroneous conclusions the subject, and the patience and attention
which were dra-wn from the figures furnish- they gave to our observations, the service
ed, and I have no doubt a proper correc- lias been lmprovlng until now It lias reached
a reasonable degree o! efficlency. I arn
tion wiii lie made.
proud ta lie able ta say that ln this House
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn very mue> we have not recelved
criticlsm or opposition
pleased that this matter lias been furtlier from the other provinces. They. have
not
inqulred Into, and 1 miay say, as my hou. maintained
that the expenditure was. unfriend, the Secretary of State, wiUl bear nme reasonable, all they have souglit
to find ont
out ln saylng, that I made my Inquiry very ls If It lias
been efficient.
explicit, is I have made Inquirles of the
same nature In other sessions. I have looked
BILLS INTRODUCED.
at different Inquiries I .have made an this
subject for ten years, and find tliat I have
Bill (43) An Act respecting the Vancouver,
been very careful to ashk for the returns of Victoria and Eastern RaIlwiay and Navicosts and expenses for the time actually gation Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr. Kîrclihoffer.)
occupied ln that winter service. It would
Bill (W) An Aet to incorporate the Mediseern they were not carefully Iooked Into, cine Hat and Nortliern Alberta Rnilway
and that amounts have been Included which Company.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
should not have been. It Is very desirable
Bill (64) An Act ta Incorporate the Cosmos
when we get these returns, that we should
be absolutely sure that they are a correct Cotton Company.-{Hon. Mr. ULvitt.)
Bill (68) An Act respectIng the Central
answer to the motion or Inquiry that lias
called thern forth. The questions relate Counties Railway Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr.
sriply te the winter service, and of course McDonald, C.B.)
that Includes the 'mail, and we know the. Bill (71) An Act respecting the Dominion
goverarnent does nlot get its mails caried Cotton Milîs Comnpany, Ltd.-(Hon. Mr. Forfor nothing. Even the goverfiment railways get.)
Hion. Mr. PRIMPLOSE.

APRIL 22, 1902
Bill (69) An Act respecting the Canadian
Pacifie Raiiway Company.-(Hon. Mdr. Dandurand.)
Bill (74) An Act respecting the Ottawa,
Brockville and St. Lawrence Railway Conipany.-(ýHon. Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (83) An Act to Incorporate the Canada
Northern Express Company.--(Hon. Mr.
McMullen.)
Bill (88) An Act respectlng the Medicîne
Hat Railway and Goal Compan.v.-(Hon.
Mr. Young.)
Bill (91) An Act respecting the Temagami
Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson.)

Bill (70) An Act to incorporate the Ross
Rifle Company (Llmlted).-(Hon. Mr. Gib-'
son.)
Bill (72) An AÂct to Incorporate the Pacifié
Northern and Omineca Rallwgy Company.(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
Bill (H) An Act for the relief of Samuel
Nelson Ohipman.-4Hon. Mr. Klrchhoffer.)
It belng six o'clock, tHe Speaker lef t the
Chair.

Âfter Recess.

JOINT STOCK COMPANIES INCORPORATION BILL.
NATURALIZATION ACT AMENDMENT
The House resumed in Commlttee of the
BILL.
Whole consideration of Bill (R) 'An Act
INTRODUCED.
respecting the Incorporation of Joint Stock
Hon. Mr. SCOTT introduced Bill (Z) -An Companies by Letters Patent.'
Aet to amend the Naturalization Act, chap.
(In Committee.)
113 of the Revised Statutes.
On clause 8,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think, to make the
the lion. gentleman tell us the nature of it ?
elghth clause« agree with the amendment
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le wlth the object of whlch was made to clause 3, the folwing
having some central point w-here there shall words should be added after ' thereunder
be a registration of ail persons natural- named' i n the second lune-' And such perized. It la found that, by the careless way sons and others who have become subscribit la done, af.ter a f ew years the naturaliza- ers to the memo. of agreement, or thereafter
tion papers cannot be found, and It la to becoràe shareholders ln the cornpany.'
compel those .who have registered ln the
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hlamilton)-I did not
several provinces, to make a return to the
to fbe in -the chamber when this Bill
Secretary of State In order that the regis- happen
was ln Committee of the Whole before, or
ter rnay be kel>t clear. Froni time to Urne In1 should have done then what I take the
quiries corne from abroad to ascertain If soliberty of doing noir. I am opposed to the
and-so le naturallzed, and the record canirbole polcy of the Bill. I th.Ink It le a Bill
not be found.
that is xîot; at ail required. Letters of incorporation are usually 'obtalned froui the
SECOND READINGS.
local authorities, and from. this source the
Bill (16) An Act respecting the Manitoba provinces derive a consIderable revenue. I
and North-western Railway Company. of do not think: it becomes thie House to take
C.anada.-(Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
away froni the provinces -a source of revBill (53) An Act respecting the Canadian enue that is of coneiderable Importance to,
-Northern Railway Company.-(H-on. 3fr. many of the smaller provinces, because If
Klrchhoffer.)
the cost of the letters patent froin this parBill (59) An Act respecting the James Bay Dasment is anything lîke what It la supRallway Company.-(Hon. My. Klrchhoffer.) posed to be, barely the cost of printing,
&c*, lnstead of the varieus provinces receivBill 157) An Act respecting the Ontario lng any benefit, the whole country wili be
Power Company of Niagara Fahis.-(Hon. flocklng to the Secretary of State for letters
Mr. Gibson.)
of Incorporation ; therefore, I think the Issu-,
Bill (62) An Act respecting the Klondike lng of letters patent should be left In the
Mines Rallwiiy Company-Hon. 3fr. Klrch- hands of the provinces, instead of this parliament tnking the whole thing ln lts own
hoffer.)

SENATE
bands. it may be said that the Dominion get legisiation under certain circumstances.
want to grant letters of incorporation to The Senate, ln its, wisdoim, bas thouglit
companies doing business ail over Canada. proper to decline to grant that
legisiation
A cornpany that Is large enougbi to, do busi- except under certain conditions.
These
ness on so extensive a seate can afiord conditions the company
have refused to
to await the action of parliament-can corne cornply wltb ; but if tbey are defeated
here
Into open court and get what It wants fromn to-rnorrow, ail they have to do is
to go to
parliament after a thorougb Investigation the Secretary of State and get
incorporation
by members of parliament wbo corne from under.clause 69 of this Bill. That is not
ail sections of the Dominion, and are flot wbat It sbould'be. Clause 69 rends ns
folsectionai and have a rigbt to know what iows :
these people are asking for wbo want to do
Any cornpany heretofore
any
business ail over the Dominion. The Incor- purpose or object for whichincorporated for mnay
letters patent
be lssued under this Act, whether under a speporation of tbese companles is a very Imor generai Act, and
portant matter, and aitbough I have, for ciai and avalid corporation, now being a subsistIng
rnay apply for letters
iny part, the most unbounded confidence patent under this Act, and the Secretary of
ln the present Secretary of State, we d'o not State rnay direct the Issue of letters patent lncorporating the shareholders of the said comnexpect to have hlm here wltb us always. pany as a cornpany
under this Art.
He may be eievated to some higber spbere
So tbat, Supposing the Bell Telephone
within a very short time, and we do not
know who may corne after him. Sbouid my Company sbouid be defeated ln this House,
lion. friend, tbe leader of the opposition, unless they complied with the terms decorne into power withlîi the next ten or manded, tbey couid go before the Secretary
fifteen years, we do flot know what kInd of of State and get incorpoi7ation and defy
a Secretary of State lie wouid be lntroduc- the action of parliament.
ing Into this parliarnent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
Hlon. Mr. McCALLUM%-Read the clause
neyver Infroduced a Secretary of State.
1f urtber.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hlamilton).-I do flot
Hon. Sir' MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
know tbat I would have as mucb confidence
'hbetter watt until we come to tbat
ln the next Secretary of State as Ia the
present one. I would not like to have the clause.
Important business of conferring let7ters
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hlamllton)-I amn perpatent controlledl by a single lndlVldual. 1 fectly wllIng to abide by
±he wisdom of
think that an Important company, sucb as the House, but this la the only
time I intend
requires to do business aIl over thîs Do- to say a word ln reference
to, the matter.
minion, couid corne before the House of and 'white I amn on my
feet I tbougbt I
Commons and tbe Senate and get Incorpor- would make the remarks I Intended
to make.
ation la open court. I wlsb slmply to enter I slmply enter my protest against
the Bill
my protest against this Bill as being alto- as a wbole. I tblnk it
Is not necessary.
gether uncalled. for. The w*bole thlng should Tbe rlgbts of the various provinces
are
remain as it Is to-day ln tbe bands of tbe belng lnterfered wltb, -and
the Bill should
varions provinces, wbo are more ln touch be w1tbdrawn, at ail events until next
seswith the people. I prefer tbat It should sion, and the varlous provinces sbould be
rernain, as It la to-day. in tbe bands of the made aware of the nature of the proposed
Secretary of State. .lust ainotber point: legislation, and If tbey do not maise objecIf you look nt clause 69 of this Bill, you tions, I bave no objection to the measure
will see that the Secretnry of State takes golng tbrougb at anotber session. No barm
power there to grant incorporation to a cau be done by the postponement
of tbe
cornpany that may now be incorporated- Bill for another twelve *montbs, and the
a company that perhnps could not get in- Secretary o! State would consuit the wlshes
corporation again frorn this Dominion under of the country If bie would accede to, that
present circunistnces.
To illustrate rny request.
ides
the Bell Telephone Company bas
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn very sorry the
been before this House two yenrs trying to
bon, gentleman was not bere during the
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamiltan).

APRIL 22, 1902
earlier debate, when he would have heard
the rea8ons given pretty plainiy by myseif
-and others who spoke, showing the absolute
necessity ,for this mensure. It la flot new
legislation ln any sense. We have been
Issning letters patent for the lat thlrty or
forty years. The last Bill on the subject
was ln 1877. Since then large experience
bas been gained. It was based on the
English iaw, but the English law changed
wltb the times, and the objeet of thiff Bill
la to bring it up to the times. There are
numerous companies now golng to the
various provinces who would otherwise
corne to the Dominion, simply because they
eau get absolute freedom ln carrying on
their business throughout the province.
The province of Nova Scotia bas adopted
the English iaw just as lt la.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Why Interfere -with the provinces ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Simply because there
are companies that wiah to have charters
from the federal power. They belleve they
can do business better under a Doinion
charter. They can go to the several provinces If they wish. One of the largeat
companles recentiy established advertised
Its prospectus to-day, a company wlth a
capital of three million dollars, wbo propose to do business ou a large scale down
lu Gaspé. Naturally, you would say t-hat
company would. go to the province of
Quebec, where its property la situated. But
the province of Quebec has not kept up
with the tîmes. It bas an old-fashioned
law that nobody can work under. Wbat
does this company do? It comes to the
province of Ontario for a charter to carry
on business lu Gaspé. They would prefdr
to corne to Ottawa, and no doubt would
corne, If this Bill were passed, so as to enable themn absolutely to do business over ail
the Dominion, where no doubt they wlll do
business. Iu reference to the charges, we
have no desire to deprive a province of any
revenue. The tariff la quite as hlgh as the
provincial tariff.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-There are ne rates
rnentioned.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That has always been
the law. I wili lay on the Table to-morrow
a copy of the tariff charges. My hon. friend
wiii see that the argument he uses, that
people wili corne to Ottawa because tbey
can get charters cheaper, bas no foundation
In fact. Our charges wiil be at least as
high as, If not higher than those of the
provinces.
The CHÂIRMAN-I desire to cal attention to the mile of the House which prevents discussion on the genemai principie of
the Bill wben In comrnittee.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-WIU this legislation Interfere with the powers of the provinces to grant charters ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not the slightest.
TX.. ý

IL
*.

A,.9

TTT T

I

T

~
1

4 .,AA

A

.,

establish the same scale of fees as the
provinces do for grantiug charters ?

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, quite as high.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-The province will
be eutitled to charge a féee. Wiil this Bill
luterfere with the rights of the province to
tax companies?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-That maises a legal
question. I think the provinces have exceeded tb~eir power. They mlgbt as well tax a
party doiug business under an Act of parliament as tax a com'pany which hoids a charter from- the Dominion. In order te obtain a
revenue, they have forced. companles that
hold charters fromn the fedemal power to
take ont a hIeunse from the particular provInce. That Io now under the consideration
of the MInister of Justice and some correspoudence la going on with regard to it.
They are perfectly within their rlghts to tai
a fedéral corporation on the same plane that
they tax provincial companies. The tax
ahould be levied equally for revenue purposes, but they sbould not single ont a company doing business under a federal charter
for special taxation, because that la discrlminatIng ag-ainat companies holding
federal charters. Howevem, that le a bmoad
legal question.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Goyernor lu Coun- not kunow whether I uuderstood the bon.
Secretamy of State rIght a few minutes ago.
cil makeés the rates.
I understood him to Say that a corporation
Hou. Mr. WOOD-That is very unsatis- doing business ln the city of Quebec ohfactary.
tained a charter ln the province of Ontario

SEINATIE
whicb enabled them to carry on business ln compels us to pay first, for a license to carry
on business, and then a fee annually, and to
the whole Dominion.
make a return giving certain Information as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
to capital, the amount .paid up, and varlous
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In Quebec, any- other details which they tblnk necessary, 1
way.
suppose, foe the protection of the people of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have Ontario. That is the constitutional -point to
always understood the object of obtalnfng a which the Secretary of State bas calied atDominion charter was for the sole purpose tention, and to which I called attention, it
of enabling a company to, do business ln any will ho remembered, a few days ago, wheii
this question firat came under the consideraportion of the Dominion.
tion of the Senate. It does seena to, me a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
most extraordinary position for the province
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wble
a province was restricted to giving power to
carry on business wlthin the province. That
is wbat I understand to be the Constitution
and the law.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Quite rigbt.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
point raised by the hon, gentleman from
'Wellington (Mr. McMullen) is as tn whether
this Bill would Interfere with the province Incorporating companies to do business. 1 do
not think lt would. The point realiy is,
whetber the provincial govornment or legisInture bas the rIglit, under the constitution,
to tar, what tboy term an extra-provincial
charter.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey cail them foreign
companies.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is, a company which obtains power to carry
on business over the whole Dominion is
called a foreign company, nnd they tax that
company as If It were a Company obtaining Its power and charter from the local legisiature. I speak now from a fact wblcli
came under my own notice. I amn connected
witb a amal Company that, for the purpose
of carrying on business ln any portion of the
Dominion, obtained an Act of Incorporation,
not under an Act of this character, but a
speclal Act of parliament, Incorporating the
company to onable them to do business
eitbor ln Quebec or any other province of
the Dominion. Since the passage of this
law by the Ontario logisiature, we are taxed
the same as If we had taken out lettors
patent to do business there under the pro
vincial law. Hence, we have la addition to
paying for our Act bore ; we bave to make
special returns every .year to the Dominion
government, and the Ontario goverament
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL.

to take, to deny the right-because it is virtually a denlal of the right of the Dominion
to give authority and grant power to carry
on business through the whole Dominion.
The local legisIature step lu and say :No,
you shall not carry on your >business la this
province uniess you pay us first a fee. and
thon an annual fee in addition. Tliat is the
point on which my hon. friend the Secretary
of State tbinks the province bas exceeded its
power. That Is the point on wbicbi i think
this government sbould bave taken Issue at
once, and tested the question. I amn ot
golng to argue the principle 0f the Bill, after
the ruling of the chairman, but as I sald
when, the Bill first came before the House,
I amn la favour of It, for the reason that
iii 1894 1 bad introduced a mucb more eiaborate Bill, dealing with tbe whole question,
and the only fault I have with thîs Bill is
that lt does not caîl for a sufficiently -large
fee froin the parties seeking Incorporation
so as to prevent: the possibility of bogus
companies being Incorporated. The hol].
Secretary of State said ho would lay a
schedule before the House. I understood
hlm to say ho had banded me a copy.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I brougbt two copies, and one of theni bas been taken. I wili
bring copies to-morrow.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
think a more simple mode of obtaialng charters than those Ia existence ln the past. is
desirabie. As I pointed out before, no less
than ton procedures, If 1 may so cali them,
of routine frein one department to another,
and from the Treasury Board, is an unnocessary construction. 1 amn in favour of the Bll
so far as JI goes. It requires some amendment. and the Socrotary of State bas so far
acceded to the req'uests which bave been
made by members of the House to make it

APRIL 22, 1902
more perfect. I think It la In the Interestis
of the country that the Bill shonld be carried. It does not Intertere at ail 'with the
rIghts and privfleges of the provinces.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As there are no
clauses of this Bill refcrring to tees, and as
the gavernment is ready to charge a higher
tee, I wauld enter my pratest against It, because I do not think the reason given by the
hon. gentleman opponsite le sufficient ta jnatif y the goverament In acting la that direction.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Keep bogus companies ont.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-In arder to prevent
bagua companles lncorpoi-atIng, yon would
fleece the hanest people who want sImply
the chance ta do business together by arganizIng under the Joint Stock Campanies Act.
I do Dlot see why..for fear of one or two
black éheep, a hundred others shauld be
overtaxe<l when thcy simply corne ta put in
their money together for a venture In their
intereste, and for the development of the
country as wcll.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Does
the hon, gentleman know what It costa In
England ta get out a charter ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.-I have heard
amount, and It is exorbitant

the

Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In anc
case I know of ut having cost £600.
Han. Mr. McMiULLEN-Hon. gentlemen
wiil reahîze whY I Put the question to the
Sccretary of State with regard ta how far
this Act miglit Interfere with the rights and
privileges of the province. We know perfectiy well that many of the provinces are
driven ta their wits' end Ia taxation ta try
and realize the sum annually that wIll meet
the demande of their treasnry. We know
that many of them, notwithstanding the privîleges they enjoy, even exercising ail. the
rights of granting charters, ind charging
tees for them, otten mun bchind, and are unable ta provide a revenue by the taxation
they have now ta meet tbeir demanda. If
an Act of this kind were ta go stili further,
and take away trom thcm revenues they
now enjay, I am afrald it wanld encourage
a dcmand suggested some ycars aga tu mecast the terme of contederatIon, whereby a

larger sum per capita should be retnrned
to the provinces, and this undoubtediy, If It
interferes with taxation that they now Impose, will be a further argument in that
direction. I have no objection to the Bill
myself, but If It le going to seriously Interfere with the rights of the provinces In the
matter of cohlecting tees for the organization of companies of thiti kind, we shouid
very seriousiy study the whole question before we attempt to take away tram them
any rights they now enjoy. 0f course, If
they had the power to Impose a license on
any company for carrying on business under
a Dominion charter, they would nat, In that
case, be deprived of any rights, but the Secretar of State ls not prepared to say they
would have that right. He is flot prepared
ta admit that a company taking out letters
patent under this Act would flot be subjected to local fées and exactions for the
right to do business In any province. They
would have the right, under a charter isned
there, to do business In any province. If
they have that right, and are not at nil
amenable to any existing provincial lnw
with regard to the lcense, It takes away
fram the province a certain sum they are
now receiving for granting charters. Before we go on with the Bill, we should have
a définite statemeat from the Minister of
Justice In some way to clear up that point,
whether we are at ail interfering with the
rights of the provinces In passing this Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We are in no way lnterfering .with their rIght to Issue letters
patent, so far as provincial business ls concerned. They have a right to tax companles In the province, so long as they do iiot
discriminate. If for the purpose of revenue,
they Impose a tax of whatever kind or nature, they have the power to do so, provided they do not discriminate againat a
company holding lis charter from the f ederal power. They should put that company
on the same plane as ail other companies.
They have nat the rIght, although they are
exercising It, of demanding returus, except
for the purpose of discovering whether tbey
should came under higher taxation. Their
revenue, I presume, is based on the amount
of businessdonc. So long as they do flot
charge higher taxes on federal than on provincial companies, they are clearly within
,their right.

.SENA-TE
Hon. Sir MACKE.NZIE
BOW'ELL-l
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The expression In the
might state also that the Bill before the Bill bas been adopted by many of the proHouse does flot give to the Dominion par- vinces.
lament one Iota more power than exists
Hon. Mr. POWER-It bas not been adoptunder the law on the statute-books at present. It merely simplifies a mode of obtain- ed by the province of Nova Scotia.
ing letters patent to carry on business.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, because they take
the Engllsh Act In Its entlrety.
Hon. Mr. POWER-What la niow before
Hon. Mr. POWER-I make this suggesthe commlttee is clause 8.
tion, because In different places through the
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I have no objection to Bill, there are references to thils agreement.
the ameadment proposed by the bon, gen- and I tlîlnk there la a llabiiity to confusion.
tleman from De Salaberry.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The term Is more famHon. Mr. BEIQUE-In connection wlta Illar, and better understood by the people
this clause, I would call attention to the fact of Canada than the term articles of assothiat there la no sanction to the notice to ciation. I have no objection to putting
be given under thils clause S. The compan- 'memortndumn of agreement' wberever the
les are compelled to publish a notice la the word 'agreement' appears.
local papers, and there Is no penalty If they
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Some distinction
do not publish it. 1 would suggest thiat
elther a clause provlding for the sanction should be drawn between a memoriidum
be prepared, or that It be mnade the duty of of agreement and an agreement which mnay
the Secretary of State to publish the no- refer to the transfer of property or the issulng of stock.
tice.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Of course the letters
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have neyer hieard of
Ruy attempt to evade the law, and it bas patent could only recite what Is lu the membeen on the statute-books for thlrty years. I orandum of agreement.
thought where no complaint existed for 25
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It may refer to
or 30 years, we migbt allow the law to stand different agreements whIch constitute the
as It la.
baisis of Incorporation. I would ie to point
ont that It seems to me this clause does vioHon. Mr. BEIQUJE-It raises thîs ques- lence
to the principle which underlies the
tion, as to whether the company can comBill, namely, expedition la iacorporating a
mence operationa before glvlng notice.
company. I understand the underlylng priaciple ls, that on application being made, a
Hon. Mrý. SCOTT-I tblnk they can.
company may nt once be lncorporated wlthHon. Mr. BEIQUE-ihe Point should be out Joss of time. Now, clause 8 seems Indefimade clear. Why provide for a notice, if nite as to when the act of Incorporation
whien it la flot gîven, It bias no effect at realîy takes place. It seems to
me also the
ail ?
insertion in the 'Gazette' was a condition
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wisb to direct the precedent to the Incorporation talng-place.
attention of the Secretary of State to the Does the corporation become an entity befact that in the Englsh Acts-and I under- fore or after those two weeks ?
stood from the Hon. Secretary of State that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It becomes incorporated
it was deslred to follow the Englsh Actsfrom the date of the letters patent. Thev
probably could not do business, but they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not in many details.
are really lncorporated. 0f course, notice
Tbey are too cumbrous altogether.
must be given to the public. A fortnight la
Hon. Mr. POWER-I notice there Is a re- not too much.
ference in this Bill to a memorandum of
The clause was adopted.
agreement. Now, the expression whlch la
alwaya used In the Engllsh Âcts, and whlch
On clause 12.
I thlnk ls a much better one, Is a memoHon. Mr. McMULLEN-I notice, la readrandum of association.
ing another clause, that Immediately on the
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT.

APRII 22, 1902

issue of Jetters patent, a notice bas to be
inserted in the 'Canada Gazette' and at
least one paper In the county, giving*public
notice that the powers have been granted.
If the company sbould apply for powers
that miglit In some way be dangerous or lnconvenient to some other lncorporated comnpanles, there Is no notice of the company
applying for extended powers. The only notice they give ls when the lettera are granted. Would it flot be better, In case of a
company applying for such au extension of
powers, that tbey abould put a notice In the
'Gazette,' and also In a local paper, stating
tbey are applying to the Secretary of State
for additional extended powers. If thxe public shonld become aware of the fact that
tbey are making auch application, tbose interested ln tbe change perhaps would. bave
a full opportnnity to make representations,
and off er arguments why these powers
should flot be granted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You are going back to
the very objection that exista now, that is
glvlng antecedent notices, whicb bave flot
been found worth anything.
Hon. Mr. FOWER-I do flot think the objection of the bon. gentleman gbould be
dealt wlth In sncb a cavalier manner as
that. 1 notice some of tbe arguments ln
favour of the clauses we bave passed are
to tbe effecit that they are thue existing law.
Now, tbe amend.ment which the bon,. gentleman from. Wellington proposes to Insert Is In the exlstlng law. I do flot tbink
a month ls an unduly long time. The company bave organlzed ; -they bave got from
the Secretary of Stnte a charter givlng
them tbe powers wilch they ask for ; tbey
go Into' operation, and then they wlsh to
extend their powers.
Hon. 3fr. DRUMMOND-I't nuight bc a
very serions thing for the compnny to l>c
kept six montbs wlig
Hon. Mr. POWER-You bave to consider
something besides tbe convenience of the
gentlemen wbo bave the charter. There are
hundreds apd thousands of people. posslbly,
througbout tbe country who arc Interested
also, and the company should flot be ailowed to make a sweepiig change lu their
charter wlthout letting the public know
something about It.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Tben adopt the
suggestion of the bon. gentleman from WeIlington.
Hon. '.%r. POWER-I have just suggested.
that the section whlcb corresponds with the
clause we are dealing with. contains the
very provisi on the hon. member from Wellngton wishes to insert. If be moves to lusert It, I shall be glad to second bis motion.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGL{EED-It seems to me
that some protection should be afforded to
ail the shareholders with refereîice to the
application made by the comnpany for additional powvers. I ain not ini favour of
retaining the section of the preseat Ac't
which simply provides for the notice being
pubhIshed la tbe 'Canada Gazette.' I think
this la a delusion and a suare, giving notice
simply la the 'Canada Gazette.' If there
is any publication ln the Dominion of Canada that is flot rend by the people Interested
In snch matters, It la the 'Canada Gazette,'
and It appears to lue we should get over
this, wlthout establisbing the precedent of
advertislng everythIng in the 'Canada Gazette.' This difficulty referred to by the
bon, gentleman from North Wellington
could be overcome by every shareholder recelving an adequate notice fully setting
forth what the Intention of the comapany
may be with reference to the application.
Hon. M~r. POWER-This notice does not
affect the shareholders. It is Intended to
.
affect the people outside.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It la hardly logical
to permit tbe formation of a company wlthout any notice, and when tlie shareholders,
by a majorlty of two-tbiids, desire to lacrease the power of the company, whlch
ls notbing but a private conupany, that it
should then be necessary to give even onemonth's notice. It seems to me that thls
ls agalnst the prineiple of the Bill. The
Bill la Intended to do awiy with the necesslty of glvlng notice before Incorporatlng,
and If we are la favour of tat prIncIple.
whlch la the prînciple governlng now In
England and ln ail the provinces. surelv*
it would not be logical to exact a notico
even of one month or flfteen days, merely
because the company desire to Incrense their
power. I cannot see 110w the public can 1)o
lnterested agalnst a prîvate company lu-

2~SELZSUITE

creasing its powers, or going into another
brancb of manufacture or extending Its business. Tbey can do so wbeu tbe company
incorporate at first, and It ebould be open
to tbem to Increase their powers wlth the
consent of the sharebolders, and the autborlzation of tbe-Secretary of State.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It strikes mne If you
require notice in tbe first Instance to be
pubisedHon. Mr. DANDURAND-You do not require notice.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If you increase the
powers It Is practically a new charter you
are grantlng. Posslbly their extended poivers would be practically a new cbarter, or
a new company, and 1 think It Is only fuir
that the public should lu some way be npîrised of their intention. and thus be protected. Clause 15 sirnply provides for a
notice la the officiai 'Gazette' after they
bave been granted tbe increaise of powers.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Titere seauns to me
to be the saine reason for glving notice for
the addltlonal powers as for tbe original
powers. It unay not amount to mucb lu
eîther case, but If It Is necessary in the first
Instance, the same reason exiats for granting lucreased powers.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Tbe wbole
principle is viclous altogether. It is to uny
mind smuggling legislation througb witbout
glving notice to the public.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbie hon, -gentle.man's governunent would flot do that.

Hon. Mr. WOOD-It should be brougbit bc.

fore tbe public. Tbe very discussion iwhicb
bas taken place on thîs point shows me that
there la great necesslty for baving wlder
and more notice and more discussion by tbe
public, lustead of by the coqnpany interested
itself witb the Seoretary of State. It is doue
almoat lu camera ; nobody knows anything
about it, and -the wbole tbing goes tbrough.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-On reading
clauses 12, 13, 14 and 15, I amn satisfted tbey
provide for every conceiyable contingency.
The hon, gentleman froun Hamilton bas declared hlmself a champion of provinciali
rights, and a monopoly of provincial letters
patent. He le; afraid of the Secretary of
State grantlng powers wbich would not perHon. Mr. BEIQUE.

baps be justifiable. What are we doing
now ? We are copylng word for word the
very Ontario law with whicb lie Is so thorougbly satlsfied.
Hlon. Mr. MCMULLEN-I amn ot a lawyer.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Tlhe bon.
gentleman is akniost one.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-But I bave read
ail those clauses, and I do not see that wha t
1 suggest is provided for In clause 15. because It provides simpiy that notice shaIl be
given nfter the eddltional powers are granted. My object ls to give notice before the
powers are granted, so that If anybody is
lnterested lu the lncreased powers they shail
have notice of the fact that the couipany
has applied for increased powers. anîd anybody wbho bas objection would bave au opportunity ef advancing bis argument before
the powers are granted.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-The priniciffle of
the Bill Is to abolisb the notice. Onie of the'
essentials of tbe Bill la counter to the opinIon expressed by tbe bon, gentleman front
Wellington. One of tbe principles of t1ils
Bill la to do away wlth the three moutbs'
notice ln the officiai 'Gazette' for obtainiug
letters patent, and tbe montbi's notice for
stipplementary letters.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I do not
see the necessity of notice. This Bill is
not iptended to appiy to ralroads or bank-s
lt la merely for tbe incorporation of companies to do general business, manufacturlngof boots and sboes, clotbing and so ou, and
wby should It be necessary to notify the
whole community of tbe Intentions of baîf
a dozen people to band tbemselves together,
so tbat tbey migbt be enabled to do business
as any one Indîvidual would. do. An mudlvi.
dual would flot require incorporation, and the
only differetice between an Individual doing
business, and five peop 'le doing
business together, Is that the one Is flot; incorporated.
1 do not see why notice sbould be gîven to
ithe public of people banding tbeinselvel; together to do un ordinary business.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-We arç.at the preseut mioment passing an exceedingly Important Bill. We are laying the foundation of
a system wbereby charters wlll be granted
companies for ail kinda of business ln titis
Dominion. We are not only doing that. but

APRIL 22, 1902

we are passing a Bill which provides that
these companies at any time that best suits
themselves, can, by a two-thirds vote of the
stockholders, apphy ta the Secretary of
State and have extended powers wlthout ncqualnting the public with what tliey want,
or for whiat purpase they Intend to use those
puwers. Iu my opinion. If there is any duty
whatever that devolves upon parliament
more than another, It le that we should protect the rights of the public lu ail aur legisiatian, and see that no Bill Is passed whereby
the public may serioushy suifer by powers
that are granted ta corporations. We know
perfectiy well the resuit of extended unlimited powers being granted across the Une. We
see the condition of things iu that country
gettlng worse ail the time. That Is caused
undoubtedly by the enormous powers that
these campanies exercise by briuging together enormous arnounts of money, whlch la
utilized lu many cases lu opposition ta the
public will. When we are passing iaws we
sliouid endeavour ta guard the righits of the
public lu every way we »posslbly can. I
have nu desire ta Interfere with, or say a
word agalnst any number of men coming
together ta do a lawfui business under that
Dominion Act. I have no desire ta say
that If their business extends tliey should
not have addltionai facilities for conductiug
their business, but I want ut to be open and
above-board, that the public will k-now that
these men have appiied for lucreased priviheges, and then If these privileges are
granted, the public -is aware o! the fact that
they have made application, and If auybody
objects lie lias the power to do so.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It just refers to
the due passing of the resolution authorizlng
it. That would flot necessariiy lavoive an
Inqulry being made into the inatter of the
proper notices ta sharehoiders, or the legaiity 0f the Issue.
Hon. Mr. POWER-How could a resolution be duly passed at a meeting If the
meeting liad flot been duiy caiied ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-So long as the
resolution is passed by the vote of twothirds af the sharehoiders, representing at
least two-thirds ln value of the subscribed
stock, es prescribed. under section 12, It seemis
to me ta preclude an inquiry beiug made
behind that fact as ta whether the meeting
was properly called. Wbat about the other
third of the shareholders ? I kaow It provides that a notice slhah be sent of the
speclal meeting betng cailed, but I do
not think It involves the Secretary of State
looking Into the legallty of that notice or
the calllng of the meeting.
Hon. Mr. ýPOWER-When you say that
a speciai general meeting lias to be cailed
for the purpose, you menu legaliy and regularly called, and If It le not regularly caUled
the whole proceeding là; nuli.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-It is concelvable
to me that It; mîglit be desirable to héar
opponents of the proposed scheme, and you
would provide ln clause 14 ouly that the
applicants shall establisli certain facts. You
have no provision that the Secretary of State
shall hear opposition ta the proposai. It is
qulte conceivable to me that the proposed
extension of the* powers of this company
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie miglit be a very hard thlng lndeed for some
other company. It miglit not cuver the
Bill provIdes for that.
ground, and they miglit apply for permisHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That section
sion for the construction of a tramway or
iniglit be lmproved by tlie hon. Secretary of
steanxshlp UeState pravlding. that proper notices be sent
ta the aliareliolders. Lt seems ta me that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They could not.
le an InsIgnificant matter campared with
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-That la excluded
proper notice being sent to the sliareldfrom the aperation of the Bill.
ers.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The samne facts must
be proved as with regard ta the original nat see any dificeulty-if tlie lion. Secretary
of State wll only thlnk of It for a maIssue.
ment-ln acceding to the suggestion of the
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-'rl1ie Se'cretary o! lion. gentleman from Calgary. There would
State Is not called upan ta observe thant be nu dilfiulty ln supphylng the Secretary
£act
o! State with the Information o! whtch lie
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
should be ln possession. Ail they would

SEINATE
have to do w-ould be to send to the Secre.
tary of State a copy of thie resolution caling
the meeting, a copy of the proceedings of thE
meeting, and to show in that thie numbei
of shareholders and the stock that they held
that gave the authority for making the
change. That would carry out the suggestion
thie hon, gentleman bas made, and It would
be an evidence to the Secretary of State
and It would be evidence upon record, o!
tRie correctness of thie proceedings on the
part of thie company. I do flot see any particular necessity for It myseif.

*pallies organized in England, simply from
the facllity whicb was given to organize
there. Surely wlth the experience of England before us, we should flot throw obIstruction In the way of autborizing com*pallies to expend their own money and do
their own business. Five persons, flot being
* ncorporated, can go on and do business, but
a! ter belng lncorporated they must give ail
manner of notice to the public, and must
flot do this and that because they might be
lnterferlng wlth some private interest Surely that Is an assumption that is flot warranted In any way.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The experlence lu
the past might not be the experience In the
future. Durlng the fourteen years the lion.
gentleman speaks of, bas there been no attempt to encroach on the rights of auy
exlsting company ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The officiai who acts
under tRis power is flot a mere automaton.
He must taire precautions that vested rights
are not interfered wlth, and due regard Is
had to thie rights of ail parties interested.
That Is done constantly now. Thie main difflculty w-e have had to contend wlth Is thie
long delay of thie notices In the 'Gazette,'
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Certainly, and it lias
wbich nobody pays any attention to. I have
had charge of the issue of letters patent for constantly been stopped. If they take à
ten or eleven years, during five years of the naine which Infringes on the namne of sonie
Mackenzie administration and for thie last other company, 'the Secretary o! State can
six years, and I do flot know of a single In- cancel the letters patent.
stance where thie advertisement had thie
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-How is the Secsllghtest eff ect, ( r where anybody referred to
retary of State to know If there is no notice
It, or it ever was noticed at ail. There was a
given ? I arn afraid If we depart from the
uatural impatience, and the people withdrew
notice preliminary to the npplicatlon in tRie
their money and went somewhere else to
first Instance, the experience of the last
get letters patent. The othier day I had a fourteen
years wv1li be of no0 use to thie Secgentleman up from Montreal, whiere a coinretary of State, because the fact of the nopany wanted to Increase their business. They
tice belng required may have deterred parbadl paid lu ail tRie calis, and required more
ties. I think it Is a dangerous thing.
capital, and asked to bave the capital enHon. Mr. SCOTT-People are constantly
larged in their own business. It was tled
up there, and -tbey could flot do It them- endeavouring to get names to which they
selves. Thiat Is one Illustration. It la oc- they have no righit. For instance, the naine
curring constaiütly, and I arn gettlng letters 'The Canadian Company' would be a very
ail thie time, askIng when thie Bill wIll go improper one. Every company Is entltled
through, by people who want to take ont to have thie word Canadini added to somoe
letters patent. 1 gave some evidence of the other naine. In the office of the Secretary of
effect of the absolute freedom wîth which State we keep a record of ail tRie conipanies.
letters patent are granted in England, and both provincial and federai, and we have aIi
It was proved before a commlIttee appointed opportunlty o! looklng to see if auy rIghlts
by the Board o! Trade, that the effect. of lire encroached upon, and If rights are enthat was to bring to thie United Kingdom croached upon, the nlost ample authority
enormous sums of money. Persons from existe~ to cancel the letters patent, aud give
outside countries came there in order to es- a new ninme. Mye have power to cancel.
tablish companies, because of the f'acilities and It Is aiso presumed tRie Secretary of
tiîat were given. I read thie figures here State wili exercise l)roper precaution lu issuthe other day. The amount of capital ln- liig letters patent.
vested In France and Germany was three
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Are they granttcd
Riunured million less than thie capital of conilu Engiand without notice ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 22, 19092
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND:-Ând In Ontarlo, not understand what the object le ln retainNova Secota and British Columbia.
ing a clause of Viat kInd.
The clanse was adopted.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I wlthdraw my
suggestion Vint Viere should be a minimum
On clause 16,
figure mentioned, because It occurs to me
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I would draw that ln minlng companies shares of very
the attention of this Chamber to a danger small ainount are issued. I think we can
here. Under that power, since we have abol- remedy Vie matter by amending the criminal
ished lotteries, people hiave started to work law.
to see If they could flot operate In some way,
The clause was adopted.
and 1 have heard that they subdivided
shares down to 25 cents, and laid solde a cerOn clause 17,
tain amount of the shares of the Company,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is this to be doue
to be divided by a drawiag. Under the
criminal law, the property held ln common wlthout the consent of Vie shareholders ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
can be drawn by lot, so that shares can be
divided down to 25 cents. Then those people
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Clauses 18 and 1D
pretend to be operating under the law, If sbould be read with this.
îaot absolutely under the spirit of the law,
Hon. Mr. MeDONALD (C. B.)-I wish to
under the letter of the law. We might
know whether this clause ls consistent with
limit shares to ten dollars.
ltself. It says:
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It muet have the approThe directors of the company
any
val of the Secretary of State. Any attempt tUme, alter nia-ety per cent of the may atstock
capital
to malze Improper use cff It can be stopped. of the company has bee-n talon' up and flfty
per cent thereon paid in, &c.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
This does not; provide for aniy percentage
this clause In the present law 7
to be paid upon Vie Increased capital. They
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
may increase their capital to ten millions
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What and flot pay any percentage on IL.
ls the obJect of lt ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There le not much obHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have neyer heard of ject ln doIng that.
Its.being used. I do not know.
Hon. Mr. McDONÂLD (C. B.)-We have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If it Vie Bell Telephone Company appiying for an
gave the power to the company to reduce Increase of capital from five to ten millions.
the value of the shares one-haîf, I could Tbey may start with a capital of $100,000,
,ad when 90 .per cent Io paid ln the dlrecunderstand It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have never known It tors cau increase the capital to one million.
Hon. MT. SCOTT-Yes. The mere power
acted upon ln any case.
to have a capital ls of no use umilesa It ls
Hon. ';Ir MNACKENZIE BOWEILL-Clause
subscribed
10 reads:
The directors of the company mnay at any
The dlanse was adopted.
tlne make a law subdividing the existlng
sharea Into sbires of a smiller amount.
On clause 20,
That is, If the shares be $100, the dIrectors
Hon. Mr. POWER.-It wIll be noticed that
may reduce thein to $50 each, and thereby
Vie power to be exerclsed under Vis clause
give a nman two shares instead of one, or
Io a very Important one. As suggested by
they can reduce It to $20, and make five
shares instead of one, or reduce the liabllity some hon, gentlemen, It may be Increasing
the capital from one million to five million,
of Vie shareholder to a nominal suni, thereand here le ail Vie directors have to do :
by ImpaIring Vie security of creditors.
Thie directors uh«îl, on such application,
Hon. Mr. DYANDURÂND-That does not produce a copy of such by-law, under the seal
of t.he company and signed by the president,
reduce the capital.
vice-president, or secretary.,18

SENATE
Lt may be sigaed only by the secretary.
--and estabiish to tht. satisfaction of the Secretary of State the due passage and sjproval
of such by-Iaw.
I think it should require sometbing more
than the signature of one officer. Lt ls a
very Important subjeet, and I inove that
subelause 2 be amended ln the 7th lUne,
by inserting after the word 'president' the
word 'or,' and after the word 'vice-president' the words 'and the' so that it *111
rend 'and signed by the president or vicepresident and the secretary. So that we
would have the signature of two officers.

otherwise we would be exposed to this evil :
that it will Ïbe easy to forai a compauy
with a hundred thousand dollars of capital,
or a capital of a million, but It wili not be
necessary to have ten dollars subscrlbed.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Not leas than ten per
cent of the capital must be subscrlbed before a company can obtain Incorporation.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The Bil does not provide for that
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I have It ln my draft.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-Whnt proportion
of the stock ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ten per cent of the
Ail by- stock.
tbink tbat is a good suggestion.
laws of these companies gîve power to the
The aggregate of stock so taken shall be at
vice-president to discharge the duties of least ten per cent of the total amount of the
president in bis absence.
stock of the company.
I amn putting this in as a clause ; I diS not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-There ls no objection
propose calling In any cash. The people pny
to that.
a pretty large fee on gettlng their license.
The clause was amended and adopted.
On clause 21,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.-Before we proceed
further, I desire to cail attention to whnt
I believe to be a very Important point. I
amn in favour of the principle of the Bill la
doing away with what I consider an unnecessary formalty. These applications,
notices of npplications, and nîso the subscription of one-haif 0f the a'uthorized capital stock and the payment of ten per cent
on It, are required as the law stands ut
present, but If we remove that provision, as
la intended to be done by this Bill, we should
guard against companies existlng merely on
paper and commencing business when they
are Inerely on paper, and the Bill as
drafted would open the door to a
before
,company commencing business
The provisions
five cents was paiS.
which were adopted ia England, ln 1890,
which have the effect of guarding against
that, should be embodied In this Bill. I cal
the attention of the hon. Secretary of State
to the amendments to the Companies Act
of 1900, and I hope he wull see his way clear
when we meet again, to have these provisIons introduced ln this Bil Under these
provisions, before a comipany can commence
business, a certain aniount of stock should
be subscribed, and a certain proportion of
the subscribed stock should be paid in,
Hon. Mr. POWER.

Hlon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Does the hon.
Secretary of State propose framing a clause
embodying that ?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. It la ln the Bill
as I have it here. There are certain clauses
I propose to cail the attention of the committee to.
Hlon. Mr. DRUMMOND-If It is necessary
la the first Instance, surely it ls necessary
with regard to any Increase of the capital
as provided for ln this Act, and it should
apply to both.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume the company
once doing business having paiS up ninety
per cent of Its stock, it would not be necessary to aiake any provision of that kind.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have drawn attention to it at this stage becanse 1 think
logically a clause to cover the point should
be inserted here.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 23,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In reference to the
amount required to be paiS on subscribed
stock In England, It would be so very simili
I thought with the restrictions we hiad lt
would be scarcely worth while. The amount
payable on application on each share shall
not be lesa than five per cent If the con-

APRIL 22,1902

1 275

APRIII 22. 1902

275

ditions have not been complied with forty
days after the Issue of the prospectus, ahl
moneys received on shares shaîl be repald to
the applicants with interest, and In the
event of the money flot belng s0 paid, the
directors of the company may become hiable.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Does It not say
that a certain portion of the stock must be
subscribed ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Flfty per cent, la
It not?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I do flot ýfind the
amount. Five per cent on each share, what,ever that may be.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-There is no limitation here.

necessary to pass the Act of 1900, for the
purpose of safeguardlng shareholders and
the public. As the hon. gentleman from. De
Salaberry says, If we are taking away the
useless obstructions in the Ipatter of organization of companles, we ehould be careful
ndt to taire away any safegnards to the
shareholders and the public, and the hon.
Secretary of State cannot do better than
simply to copy out the sections of this Englsh Act of 1900, and Insert them in bis Bill.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hamilton)-The Euglsh public look upon the unpaid subscribed
stock as good securlty. If there Is ten per
cent pald up, they consider the unpaid part
of the stock quite as good security as thougli
It had been paid Up.
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No. In England they
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Did I understand
pay a very small fee, and we insist upon a the hbon, gentleman to say ten per cent of
very large fee.
the entire stock ?
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHIEED-Unless there is a
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hamilton)-They pay up
subscription for stock, there is clearly no ten Ver cent of the whole amount and the
liability.
remainder la looked upon as much better
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I had a clause providing security than If It hadl been fully pald up ;
that the parties, under the articles of incor- I know that as a matter of fact, because 1
poration, must subscribe ten per cent of the have dlscussed. It with parties on the other
side, and they always think the unpaid
capital payable within a limited time.
stoék is really the best securlty, because
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Yes, but unIess If anythlng happens to the company -they
there la a requirement, or a certain propor- have something to fal back upon, w-hereas
tion la fIxed, that would result in an ai- If the whole thlng were paid up and squanSurdity, because a couple of shares could ha dered, they have nothing to faîl back upon.
subscribad for, and ten par cent paid on the In England it lo looked upon *ln that light.
couple of shares, and the parties would have I do not know how It Is In this country.
complied with the requirament of the Act
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-SupIf my bon. friend says he in not going to
Brmit tha subscrlption of stock, and ten per posing the capital stock of the company be
cent la to, be paid upon what la subscrlbad, a million dollars, and five hundred thousand
It la manifest that ail the appicants have Is sub9crlbed, I understood the hon. gentIés
to do la to subacribe for a minimum num- man to say the Engllsh Act does not provide that you should pay ten per cent upon
ber of shares.
the million dollars.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-The hon. Secretary of
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I amn merely
State seems ito set very lttle store by thîs
E9ngish Act of 1900. I think It shbould be sPeaking with reference to Engish publie
our modal. That Act was passad after a, opinion.
great dea] of dellberation, after experience
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
et the bad effeets of the go-as-you-please
systam. which badl existed s0 many yearaj ln but the Point raisied by the hon. gentleman
England; and we have arrived here, in this from Calgary was this: If You have a commatter of Organizing c0mPanies, at pratty Pany with five hundred thousand dollars of
capital, should there be ten Per cent or flve
nearly the same point that they have arVer cent of the capital stock pald In, or If
rIved at lu England, where they found at
You could commence operations wih a sub184

SENATE
scription of two hundred and fifty thousaud
dollars, would you pay the five or ten per
iCent on the two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars of subscribed stock and flot on the
wbole of the capital stock ? That is the
I understand that ln most
point raised.
incorporations of this kind, partlcularly lu
rallway charters, the provision is that you
should pay such a percentage upon the subscribed stock, not upon the capital stock,
and would It flot be well for the Secretary
of State to consider that point wlien lie refers back to the other clauses. I thlnk the
suggestion is 'a very safe one. Otherwise
you miglit have a million dollars of capital,
and miglit have a tbousand dollars subscribed and nothlng paid on that.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 25,
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-I would suggest that
we should leave out the words 'by by-law.'
As a matter of fact, I know it is the practîce to do this by resolution, and I do not
see the necessIty of a by-law. In our practice the stock ls subscrlbed for. We do not
follow the practice lu England of allotting
the stock on applications.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thlnk
it is safer the way It la.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-It is not mucli trouble
to pass a by-law.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
mlght pass a resolution wlth a very saILll
number of shareholders present, or wlth
very few directors present, but there ls a
certain formallty about a by-law, of which
You Must, as a ruie, give notice, so that the
directors and those who are lnterested, have
a better knowledge of what you are dolng.
Lt may be a llttle more cumbersome, but
1 think it ls hetter as It ls.
The clause was adopted.

embarrassing, and there bas been a violent
luterpretation put upon It lu order to meet
the cases intended. A very large number
of letters patent have been lssued lu order
to enable Indîviduals who have been doiug
a good business, to become companies, sucli
as the Ross Comnpany -and the Birkett Company. After business got to a certain stage
they preferred making it a joint stock company, and the stock was put in as capital
under that clause. But lt is difficuIt to say
whether the clause warrants It.,- After a
very careful examination in England, b.v
jurlats and the commIttee rippointed by the
Board of Trade, It was decided to strike it
out altogether.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-I think this clause
should remain and should even go further.
1 understand that la Eiigland they provide
for it, but the public have to be notifie(].
Ail contracts of that kind have to be deposlted wlth the registrar, and the prospectus of the compauy whlch ls -made public
makes mention of ail contracts of that kind.
But surely It ls flot lntended to shut the
*door agalnst a company organized under a

provincial law aud having been lu operation
for a number of years. If tbey inteud to
extend their operations In another province
théy can do so, and they have to take letters patent from the Dominion. It seems to
me provision should be made whereby they
can Issue stock to the shareholders of the
old company lu paymeut of the assets whlch
they take over. Otherwise the company
would have to be Ulquldated and the stock
subscrlbed, and would have to be pald lu
cash. Where would be the reason of anythlng of that klnd ? 1 have come to the
conclusion, for my part, that this provision
ls a very wlse one, and I think It should
rather be extended, but, as drafted, the
clause does not provide for giving the proper Information to the public. Not only
should contracts of that klnd be deposlted
On clause 26.
wlth the Secretary of State, but there should
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This has been a pons be saine notice given of it, and there should
asinorum to a good many people, and lu be a sanction for flot complying wlth the
a report of the Board of Trade lu England, section.
before the recent Act was passed, tbey recommended that that clause be stricken out
Hou. 'Mr. LOUGHIEED-I might point out
of the Act. The clause -lis repealed lu Eng- to niy hon. frleud that lu a well known work
land. It Io not lu the Ontario Act, and it of Rollins & McNaughton, In deallng wlth
has not been adopted, as far as 1 can find. this section of the Engllsh Aet as repealedlu British Columýbia. Lt has been found very section 25 lu the English Act-they say :
Hon. Sir MACKENIE BOWELL.

APRIL 22. 1902
As section 25 Io gone, for which relief mucli
thanks.
Furtber on the Iniperlai Board of Trade
says :
The Companies Act, 57, Is one of those
sections whioli las given rise tW a great deal
of litigation, and lias ln its operation cauwed a
good deal of injustice and it lias also beeu
found a public inconvenlence. The language
of the Act seems to Indicate it was passed
without inucli coneld'eraticn. Tliey think It
caiinot lie amended with advantage and shouqd
bce repealed.
I thinli wltli this expression of condemtnatdon before us of the aection in operatIon lni
England before It was repealed, 'wet sliould
flot pass It bere.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Tliey
tuted something else.

bave

substi-

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I think not.

277

thlng, and It Is about time we had somethlng substantial.
Hon. 1fr.,SCOTT-I propose to let It stand
at present.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I want to make one
or two suggestions wlth reference to this
clause whlch. la golng to be retalned. In the
second Une the word ' to' Is a mietake.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tliat Is a typographlcal
error.
Hon. 1fr. POWER-Then It says 'unless
the sanie lias been otherwise agreed upon or
determined.' That does not make any sense
at ail. Then It says 'by a contract duly
made ln wrltlng.' It refers to section 20 of
thîs Act, lnstead of section 19.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That la a clerical error.
Hon. Mr. POWTER-I ami pointlng out these
tlings. The lion. Secretary of State dld not
see theni before.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, I beg pardon, I dld.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Tlien the word 'but'
lu the slxti line la not the proper word. It
should bo 'and' because thero la no contradiction between the two things.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We wlll lot It stand.

Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-The bion. gentleman
wlll find under the titie ' prospectus'1 that
the machinery la provided for the sanie
thlng.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I confess that when I read this clause 1 remarked
to my lion. friend to my riglit, that I would
have to read it tliree or four Urnes before
I' could understand It. Re sald 'Oh, well,
that Is nothlng strange, for the ludges ln
The clause was allowed to stand.
England did'n't understand It and could flot
interpret it' I was therefore reiieved from
On clause 29.
thinklng I was stupld ln not bein-g able to
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wlsh to direct the
compreliend Its real meaning. But unless attention of the commlttoe to the caro whicli
there la sorne other provision meeting the has been taken In the Engliali Act of 1900.
suggestions made by the lion, gentleman wlio We know liow these things
are doue lu this
lias spoken, I thInk the Secretary of State country and liow regrettable
lt le that a
slioild let It stand or strike It out at once.
littie more care la flot takou. Section 2 of
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I have not the amend- cliapter 48 of the Engliali statntes of 1900
ment at liand. I propose that ln the Issue says that a person should not be capable of
of the letters patent, provision should be bolng appointed a dfrector of a company by
made for gettlng the direct authority to tlie articles of association and should not bo
take over the goods and property lnstead of a proposed diroctor lu any prospectus lssued
cash, whieli the new conceru was brlnglng by or on behli of any cumpany unloss lie
Into, the company. The majorlty of the lias ftled a consent hI wrltlng Woact, and
cases are the transposing of an ordlnary lias undertaken In writlng Wo
taire and pqy
business Into a joint stock company. The for ibis qualification shares, and so on.
dlfficulty lias been whiee no cash really
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No man can be a dlPasses, wliere It la merely goods and leaserector unless lie aigus the application and
liold property. It lias been done under
the agreement, and lu seletlng tlie provithîs clause, but done ln violence to the
sional directors, referonce la made to that.
clause. It could be doue more easily by
Under the articles of agreement the directors
setting It forth ln the letters patent.
ust bo selected from among tliose wlio
Hon. 1fr. POWER-Âs far as I can make stibscribe for stock.
out, up to the present time there ls nothlng
Mr. POWER-If we liave uot tlieAe
whlcb compels a shareliolder to, pay up any- 1provisions lu this country, I tbink: it la tîme

IHon.

SENATE
we had. We should begin to look a littie
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamllton)-It ls better
after these companies and see that they are to have hiaif a dozen Instead of three.
composed of men who have substantial
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A
stakes ln them. Then section No. 3 gîves
company which I was lnterested ln had
the qualifications of directors.
seven directors, and we decided to make
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does the number three. We applied to the SecJI; define what the qualification shall be ? A retary of State aad he gave us power to,
by-law may provide that a shareholder who reduce It to three and we have done so, but
holds one share may be elected a director. we had to advertise It ln the officiai
Other by-laws may provide that he must ' Gazette.'
own or have subscrlbed and paid Up the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do not see la
calls upon ten or fifteen or twenty shares. this Bill any direction that some of the
Does the English Act declare how much he directors should be British subjects domisbahl pay up ?
clIed ln Canada.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The original Act of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
1862 does.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We make that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There la ample provi- a condition wlth ahl Bis before this parsion ln our own statutes that no person liament.
should be elected a director unless he la a
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Not now. We have
shareholder, and holding stock wbich ls not
abandoaed that altogether.
ln arrears.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I wlll draw the atHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There tention of the hon. member for Calgary to
Is a dlfficulty ln the Ontario Act. 1 know clause 10 of the Imperial Act, where it is
a company that passed a by-law deciaring provided that the shares may be foundersthat the directors should not be less than shares. They are not pald ln cash. They
five and more than aine, and the Secretary are issued as pald up. Paragraph E of secof the province refused to accept tha:t and tion 10 provides for the number and amount
simply asked 'where do you get the author- of- shares and debentures issued as agreed
lty for maklng a sliding scale ?7' The to be issued, as fully pail up otherwise than
resuit was the by-law had to be changed ln cash.. They repeaied section 25, whlch beand the number defined, and if you in- came unnecessary because there were other
crensed it afterwards you had to apply provisions which were substituted, and
to the Secretary of State of the province la more ample than section .25 of the Act of
order to get the approvai, and to advertise It ln the ' Gazette.' 1 do not thiak there
The clause was adopted.
is any -provision of the kind ln this Bill.
Would not the directors, under this clause,
On clause 32,
have the right to change the number of dlHon. Mr. POWER-Would it not be better
rectors ln the Interest of the compnny ?
to say 'for holding a general meeting of the
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-The shareholders, yes. Compaay '? In my humble judgment, that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In the notice is not sufficient.
Ontario Act, while it gives power to the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-On the contrary,
Company to declare what the number of the I think lt Io too long.
directors shall be, you have to fix It once,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. They are remonand you cannot change It wlthout mnking strating agalnst the 21 days.
another by-law.
H3on. Mr. POWER-I am speaking of the
Hlon. Mr. WOOD (Hamlltan)-I tliink that character of the notice. The only notice the
three directors is altogether too smali a shareholders get Io the notice given in some
number for any company that comes for newspaper publshed where the chief place
Incorporation.
of business of the company ls situated.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It deHon. Mr. DRUMMOND -In the absence
pends altogether on clrcumstaaces.
of other provisions.
lIor;k Mr. POWER.

AFIRIL 22, 1902
Hon. Mr. POWER-Oertalnly. Take the
city of Montreai, and you may taire a company which is made up almost altogether of
Engliah-speaking people. The requirements
of this paragraph would be complied with
by publishing the notice of the meeting ln a
Frenchi weekly paper, or a paper which pousibIy the Englsh shareholders would neyer
see, and vice versa it might be published ln
some obscure English newspaper which
would flot be seen by most of the people ln
the town. I think the proper way wouid be
to give the notice lu writing through the
post office.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In some companies
where there are from one to two thousand
sbareholders, it would be absolutely Impossible. You are assuming that the shareholders are meeting for some dishonest purpose.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-It might be.dorie
by giving notice to ecd shareholder Ini
writing or by advertisement.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would suggest that
the time be reduced to ten days.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have put It fourteen
days.

1Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-It means a meetIng of ail the shareholders. It does flot
mean an annual meeting.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In the
next clause there la provision for a general
meeting, and If the officers are flot; elected
at that meeting, it provides how they shafl
ho elected. Should not the same notice be
given for a special meeting as for the annual1 meeting?7
The CHAIRMAN-We have put It 'notice of the time and place for holding a special or generai meeting,' and It ls fourteen
days..,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
wilI suit.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
moat companies there are provisions declaring the period at whlch these proxies shahi
be given : that la some days before a gelieral meeting is held. So that it would prevent a fluke. You desire to carry some speciel motion or make some Important change,
and you might go a few days before the
meeting was held and secure a lot of
proxies.

Hon. Mfr. DRUMMOND-In the Banking
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-I think It lu absurd to make It 21 days, because It hampers Act a proxy will last for two years.
the operations of the company.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-The clause says that
Hon. Mr. McIDONALD (C.B.)-Supposing
the chairman has the casting vote. That
the shareholders reside In British Colmreally means that the chairman votes twioe,
bia ?
and I do-not think that this lu an equitable
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Then they send a provision. Supposing he ls a gentleman
who holds a large number of proxies, and
proxy.
hie party, apart from himuelf, le ln a very
Hon. Mfr. McDONALD (C.B.)-If I were considerable minority, and he votes firat and
called to a meeting ln Roslandmakes a tie, and then votes again.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Hle cqknnot do that.
would flot go. He would send a proxy.
Hon. Mfr. DRUMMOND-He could not
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What vote on his proxles over
again.
ls the difference between a speciai generai
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-That has been lu opmeeting and a general meeting ?
eration for thirty years.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-The general meeting
Hon. Mr,. LOUGHEED--Such a condition
is understood to be the annual meeting.
o! thingu could not arise. There muet be an
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This equality o! votes.
clause provides for the calling of ail general meetings, for holding general meetings
Hon. Mfr. POWER-But I do not see how
of the company. Wby uhould you not say the chairman 'has a rlght to vote more than
'generai or special meetings ?
once.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamiiton)-He has flot
that right.
Hon. Mr. POWERý-Yes. I thlnk lie has.
There are a number of hon. gentlemen present wbo have occupied such a position, and
I ask them to say whetber the cbairman Is
flot ln the habit of votlng ln that way.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamiiiton)-No. I neyer
thought of such a thing as voting twice.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Is there any hon. gentleman bere wbo wilI say that It la not the
practice for the chairman to vote.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Every
shareholder bas a riglit to vote. He Is a
shareholder and can vote, andl then the
chairman lias a casting vote.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-It is possible to
be too grandinotheriy and I must say that
la a commercial company, having for its ohject the nalng of money, we have no rîght
to protect the shareholders againat tbemselves. They must.give a proxy to somebody.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamllton)-Naturally
they give It to the man who bas been couducting the business for years. It la doue
sensibly. Tbey have every confidence In
him, and simply to refuse to give hlm n
proxy agaîn would be a very uncalled for
provision to Insert lu a Bill.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-The Banking
Act bas a provision that a proxy Ia net valid
for more than two years, and that ia someHon. Mr. WOOD (Hamiiton)-I arn con- what ln the direction suggested by the hion.
nected witb a good many boards, and my gentleman, but I must say tbat 1 do not
experience la that the chairman seldomn think- It is uecessnry lu ordinary companies.
votes.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (IEamilton)-Tliey cau
Hon. Mr-. DANDURAND-A sh areholder be renewed ln two years by the same nuvotes as many Urnes as he has sbares, and thority.
If there is an equaiity of shares on eacb
The clause was adopted.
side, then there Is one casting vote.
On clause 33,,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If this were not
done there would be no way of determining
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We inserted lu
the matter.
subsection B, of clause 32, the words. 'genHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I tbInk the sugges- eral and speclal meetings.' Why should we
tion made by the hon, leader of the oppo- not use the rame words bere ?
sition la a valuable one, that the door shai
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-It Is unnecesbe closed to the abuse of having proxies sary.
which may have been given two or three
Hon. Mr. riERGUSON-Then It la urnnecesyears before. they were acted upon, and I
should be Indllned to go still further. The sary ln the other place.
practice has been adopted by myseif, and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-The
others that I know of, to appiy for proxles, directors should be elected annually..
That
aild get the proxies from the shareholders means at a general
meeting. There is a difand re-elect ourseives. We sbould try to ference,
as I understand it, and a confuclose the door to abuses. Sometinies it is sion as to what constitutes
a general meetvery important ln the Ilterests of the coni- ing. If
tbe directors are not elected at the
,pany that new blood be brought on the
general meeting, which la the annual meetboard, and that some changes be made, and
ing, they are, by this provision, to be elected
It: Is Impossible, because the directors have
at a subsequent general meeting. That must
certain advantages over the shareliolders
be a special meeting. The interpretation
at large, and tberefore I think we should
given of a general meeting ls that It Is the
enact that the proxies be flot dated more
annual meeting, and that Is what Is underthan two or three months previous, or say,
a yeai-, and I do not know If I would give stood by the directors generally.
HFon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-It la a mianoeven that tIme. I think It would be advlsable to prevent one sharehoider hiolding too mer altogether.
many dIfferent proxies, and vote upon them
Hon. Mr. TOTJGHEED-If we are going
in bis favour.
te amend that clause by putting In ' speciai
Hou. Mr. POWER.

APRIL 23.1902
APRIL 23. 1902
or general meetings,'
throughout.

we have

-_)?ý
1
~81

to do

It

Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot wlsb to be
credlted wlth suggesting the word 'special.'
My suggestion was 'a generai meeting.'
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-A general meetlng called for that purpose la a speclal meeting.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Tney
have to be elected at a meeting cailed for
the purpose, and that must be a special
meeting.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-It la unnecessary to put ln the word 'speclal.'
The CHAIRMAN-Then it le understood
that I strIke out the word 'speclal,' which I
lnserted a f ew minutes ago ln clause 39-?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the commlttee, reported that they had made some progress
wlth the Bu, and asked leave to ait again
to-morrow.
The Senate adjourned.

THE SENATE*.
Ottawa, WFedizesdaij, Âpril 23, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'ciock.
Prayers and. routine proceedîngs.
COLD STORAGE FOR CANADIAN
PRODUCTS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON moved
That an humble address be presented to Hie
Excellency the Governor Generai praying that
Hie Exceilency will cause to be laid on the
table of the Hanse, ail correspondence whicb
has taken place within the last twoa years between the goverament of Canada or any department or officer thereof and any steamship
company or agent of such company, eugaged
in the transportation of the produce of Canada
front any port ln Canada to Europe, regardlng
the ventilation of space an steamships used for
storage during transportation of perishabie
productm such as apples and cheese.
Aima, copies of ail clausea ln contracts with
steamglhIp aiompanies rélattng to, the ven;tilation
o! the holds or spaces between decks af steamers empioyed as aforemaid.
Aima, a statement givIng the namnes of ail]
steamahips and the owners. thereof which have

been equipped with means of generating cold
air and-distributing the maine throughout their
holds and between decks, ln terms a! the appropriation mAde for -such purpose during last
session o! parliament, giving the cost ta the
governinent ln the case. of each steamer.
Aima, a stateinent showing the daily minimum
and maximum temperatures maintaned.during
each voyage in the hoide or between the decks
of steamers equipped in terms of the said
parliamentary appropriation o! last session.
Aima, a statement showing the comparative
remnîts In the transportation of apples betweea
steamers equlpped as above; described and
steamers without any speclal means of ventilation.
And aima, a statement giving the rames aud
awners of steamers, which It is proposed to
equip as aforesaid, for the approachlng season,
and giving the port of departure fromn Canada
of sudh steamers as weii as of those already
equlpped as a!oresald.
He said : I rise for the purpose o! inaking
a motion on a question o! very grent Importance ta the farmers, and ini fact to the
whoie people of Canada. It refers to the
question o! ocean transportation o! perishable produets of Canada, and 1 do flot think
It is necessary for me to ndd a word ns to
the very grave Importance of thils question.
I amn sorry to say thnt, notwithstanding the
efforts that have been made by governiments
for many yeara back on thus question, -we,
are atili apparently very much behind othier
countries ln the matter of ocean tranusportation o! perishable products.
The products of Australia, New Zealand and of
California are laid down on the markets
of Great Britain la better condition, iiotwithatanding the long distance they are
carried, notwlthstanding the fact that many
of these products have to be carrled over
the equator under the great heat prevailing
there-notwlthstanding ail these dlsadvantages, It la a fact that our perishable products as a whale are placed on the British
market la worae condition than the products of these distant countries.
I have
only ta point ta one or two facts la confirmation of thus statement. I have only ta refer
ta a statement made by the hion. Minister
of Agriculture at a meeting held la Whitby,
Ontario, ln the early part of the present
yenr, ln which hie spoke as foiloiws:
We are iosing the position we gained years
ago.
He was speaking of cheese more particulariy.
We are ioming the position we gained years
ago. There i. no doubt whatever on ts point.
Reports recelved from England are full o! complaints regardlng the quality o! aur cheese.

SENATE
The reports state that our cheese bas been and to the shlpowners who lnstalled plant for
cured at too high a temperature and bas sutfered from beat lu transit. These are flot iso- the purpose, was found fairly satisfactory,
as far as butter is concerned and poultry
Iated compla.ints, they are geneal.

In the course of bis speech, the Hon. Mr.
Fisher expiains why this Is so with regard
to cheese. A few years ago it was observed by Prof. Robertson and others that
British taste wlth regard tu cheese bud been
changlng, that a softer, moister and milder
cheese was more ln request there than
heretofore, and that our cheese was considered too dry and bard, and the cheesemakers of Canada were advised, and
advlsed -wisely, I have no doubt, to make
a milder and moister cheese. But provision was flot made at the same Urne, or
ln advance, for the transportation of this
quallty of cheese, and it was found that
the temperature ln the curlng rooms of
Canada, and the ocean steamers that would
have sulted the old dry cheese, waa flot suited for the different quality of cheese uow
made under this advice, and, as a conse
quence, speaking elsewbere, the MInister of
Agriculture, to whom I have already referred, sald
Duriug the last season, however, they got a
rather severe cag.tigation, If 1 may cail it that,
lu the English market. We bad report after
report showlng that Canadian cheese was flot
dolng as well as it had been doiug in the past,
that jt was arrlviug very deficient lu the proper quality and that the prlce of our cheese
was not as good iu proportion to the prlce of
other cheese lu the English market-as It had
been iu the past. The resuit was the farmers
and cheese makers of Canada lost lu the last
season somewhere about $2,000,000 èu the quailty of their cheese alone.
I maL-e this statement on what will be admltted to be very high authority, and atter
quotlng these remnrks, hon, gentlemen will
admit at once that the subject Is one of
very earnest and pressing Importance. PassIng frorn the cheese to fruit, the samne conditions are found to lurgely prevuil. I miglit
here remark that about half a dozen years
ago, attention was called to the subject of
cold storage on ooean steamshlps, and It was
generally believed at that tie
that cold
storage, a temperature down to about the
freezing point, would meet the necessities o!
almost our entire trade in what are regardeil
as perishable products, such as meut, butter, cheese, fruit, &c. It bas been found.
however, by experience, that that is flot the
case-that that sysvten of cold, storage, aithough qulte expensive to the government,
Hou. Mr. PERGUSON.

and other meats, but for the transportation
of such producte as cheese, eggs and fruit,
It was found to be altogether nsuitable.
At such 10w temperature, eggs, cheese and
fruit wouid corne out of the steamshlps
on the other side ln a sweaty condition.
and would not command a good price, and
would keep a very short tume after haviug
been broughit out o! the sbip. It was found
by practicai experience that a different teniperature is necessary for the products 1
have 3ust named, whiclh are very Important
products of our country-cbeese, eggs and
fruit They do not require cold storage ln
the sanie seuse as butter, poultry and ment
require it. What they need is a cool tenperature, and au even temperature, soînewbere between forty or fifty degrees. Perhaps they would stand a little higher and
would do better wlth a lower temperature.
Chieese and apples mlgbt stand it a lîttie
higber wlthout very serlous lInjury, If the
voyage were not greatly prolonged ; but I
believe it is a settled fact, that these are
about the correct .temperatures for the safe
transportation of the products I have nained,
uand It has been found that thiat is not slipplied ln the ordinary ships with no ventilation, nor Is it suppiied by absolute cold
storage, such as was installed ou ocean ships
some years ago. Hou, gentlemen 'who have
had any experience lu this subject, are
aware that lu the holds of ships where products of this kiud are stored, a great deul
of beat Is generated, and after a certain temperature Is reached, the product itself begins to heat, and that the temperature
wlll rise raply to a heiglit almost incredible to those wbo have flot studied the
question and learned the actual faots. 1
had a letter sent to me last year when we
were discussing some fruit question lu this
Hlouse, by a large fruit exporter in Ontario,
who told me o! bis experience lu accompanying a consignment of apples to Liverpool. After bie was out five or six days, lie
made bis way to wbere the fruit was stored,
and found tbe temperature was 110 degrees.
It was unnecessary for hlm to say, as hie did
say lu bis letter, that on arriving- nt Liverpool the whole consigriment was found to
be rulned, and be.did not get enough out of

APRIL 23, 1902
it to puy the frelght. Lat year a 'proposition was nmade lu parliament by the Minister of Agriculture, and an appropriation was
sought for and obtained for the purpose of
instaliug on the ocean-going ships saliling
froma Canadian ports, another system of produclng cold air, by which, through mechunical menus, cold air would be geuerated on
the ship, and distributed through the spaces
where these perishable products were stored.
in order to -maintain un even teniperature
duriug the voyage. A vote of $140,000 was
obtained last year, nnd it was estimated ir
that vote were repeuted for two years. it
ivould meet liaif the coat of installation of
Plants on board the ship sailing from Canadian ports, and engaged lu this lade, whieh
would maintain an even teniperature, and
the owners of the ships would be calledl
upon to defray the other haif of the
expense. It la a natter of very great
regret, and oue of rny objects lu makiflg this
motion le to bring out the facts lu regard
to It, that the 3Minister of Agriculture had
not been able-I arn not going to Impench bis
honesty or faitbfulness ln the matter ut ail,
1 assume he did ail le could do-but it le a
natter of deep regret he was not able to
aval hinseîf of tînt vote to a greater extant than the equipping of four stearnahips.
Instead of having elgîteen or twenty equlpped that way, he la not sanguine of havlng more than tan or so added to the number
that ha equlpped lest year, brlnging the
number up for next year's trade to somethlng like fourteen or sixteen ships. I aiso
noted, wlth regret, that he does not anticipate that any slips so Instai¶ed and fltted wili sal from any Canadien port
0f course we knov
except Moutreal.
very well the larger quantity of perlsbabie
products la carried from that port, and It
would be quita proper and reasonable thnt
the largar nùbar of shipa so equlpped
sbouid sal from that port, but I wish to sny
a -word for the port 0f Haifax. Hlailfix
shlpped last year uenrly double as many
appies to the British market as any other
North Amarican port-uas much as nny other
two North Amet-ican ports. That tact, wheu
once stated, Indîcates that some ships ought
to be fittad nt the port of Haifax as wsl
as they aie fitted at any other port. Hon.
gentlemen wIli perhapa be somewhat surprlsed when I say to then that I believe

that nearly one-lialf of ail the apples and
pears that were shlpped from Canada last
year errived and were delivered in a more
or less damaged condition ln the British
market, on account of Injuries received durThat, of course, le a
ing transportation.
very strong statement to maire; it lndicates
an enormous loss to the frult-growers and
farmers of Canada, but I 'beileve it ls neyertheless correct. I amn basfng tba.t statemeut
on a bundle of catalogues and sales lu Lon'don and Liverpool of apples arriving by
dIfferent steamers, and ln which the apples
are classed accordlng to the condition
lu which they are found on arrivai, tight,
wet, slack and s0 on, Indicating the temperature which they underwent during the
voyage.
When we corne to realize that
such le the condition of our fruit trade,
and put that lu connection with what I
bave already quoted from the public statements of the Minister of Agriculture with
regard to the cheese lndustry, 1 think I
need say littie more to convince hon, gentlemen of this House that there should be
no tîme lost and that there shouid be no
expense spared in the matter of pushing the
question of transportation Up to the possible lirait of knowledge and skili lu the
way «f procuring an even temperature on
shipboard.
I have In my hands a statement with regard to one of those ships tlxat
was last year fitted up lu this way, a boat
belonging to the Donaldson. Une of steamers
trading between Montreal and Glasgow, the
Marina.' I have a statement published
ln the 'Canadian Horticulturist' signed
I
by Wm. Wilson, of London, Ontario.
thlnk Mfr. Wilson went home ln some public
capacity ln connection wlth the Glasgow
exhibition.
At ail events, he took sorne
charge on his golng home of a carloa'l of
pears shlpped from the Niagara districts for
Glasgow, and shlpped on this steamer
' Marina'1 that is frtted with cold air, *generated in the shlp and distrlbuted by fans.
I will read to hon, gentlemen the resuit: of
that shlpment of. a carload of 600 boxes of
pears. He eays :
I reached Montreai October Srd. The car of
pesos packed by Mr. Murray Pettit arrived on
the 24th lu excellent condition, ýand were very
carefuily transferred by the agents of the
Donaldson ss. line Into the cold storage corupartmeat, of the s. 'Marina.' The goverument
fruit inspectors (Mr. W. A. McKinnon and
others), a! ter examining these pears, expressed
themselves satisfied with the fruit, and were

SENATE
pieased to observe that nlot a single package of the whole 600 wae either bruised
or broken.
We lef t Montreal on the atternoon of the 25th, and from that time the
coid storage compartment was closed until the
arrivai of the ' Marina ' in Glasgow (November
7), the temperature of the compartment was
taken every four hours, night and day, the
highest register belng 41 degrees, and the 10west 37 degrees. Thle pears were unloaded on.
the mornlng of Novernber 8th, and on examination were found to be just a little riper than
when packed, very little of the maturlnig process having taken place during transit. With
such a complete cold storage system as this I
arn certain the rnost delicate of our Canadian
fruits, if carefuiiy and properiy packed, can be
landed In Britain In 'perfect condition' awl
commani the highest price obtainabie. Condition is everything, and the day these pears
were exhibited for saie their appearance aad
perfect condition was se strlklng (not one pear
being deteriorated) that buyers offered ta take
the whole shipment at prices fuiiy 50 per cent
In advance of the figures at whlch the same
vari3ty of pears was seling.

cheese and fruit, but we are not getting
Our products In the British market In as
good a condition as they should arrive. I
bad a little experience myself with a carIoad of appies. ahipped by the ' Evangeline'
last year. The ahip carried 22,000 barreisentirely too many. I- do not think there Is
auy sbip afloat la Canadian waters that bas
sufficient capacity to carry that quantity
and carry them properly, and much less the
'Evangeline.' I estimated my ioss at $150.
I saw the retura 0f sales sent ta others as
well as ta, myseif, and the loss amounted ta
from a dollar ta a dollar and a haif a barrel
on these 22,000 barrels. It is due ta the
ownera of tiie steamers ta say tbat she was
delayed during tbe voyage by an accident
ta one of lier engines, which caused her ta
put into St. John's, Newfoundiand, and the
The average price at which pears were voyage wvas proiong-ed four or five days
sellnqg at Glasgow at that trne, was about on tbis account, and such ventiiating arsix shillings a box, and three shillings rangements as ahe had were depeadent
higher wouid be nine shillings. That would for their working on tbe engines of the
be ninety pounds or $440 on the single car- ship, and when the engines did flot work
load of pears. The depreciation in price to the ventilatlng apparatus was idie and on
tbe owner of a shipment In the ordinary that occasion It resulted in ioss or destrucway and with ordinary resuits, would be tion of that cargo of appies. While speak$430 or $440.
We bave oniy ta carry tbis ing of the Furness Company, I want tbe
caiculation over the haîf million baTreis of hon. Secretary of State, in mnking any
apples and pears we sent over iast year, and, new contracta with tbat company, ta rewe nt once leara what an enormous loss the niember tbe fact that. during tbe ast
country is sufferIng for the want of bav- two seasons tbey bave brokeii faith witb
'Ing the proper facilities on shipboard for -the governmeut and with the shippers ot
carrying these products safely. There eau- 'Nova Scotia withi regard ta transportation.
not be any doubt to-day that if the sanie They had on their Une with London, under
plant were lnstalled on ail the steamers contract with tbe governinent In the season
sailing froni our ports and carrying perish- of 1900 and 1901, boats that bncI been
iable products, tbey would arrive on the fairly well adapted for tbe service, the
other aide In perfect condition.
Tempera- 'Halifax City.' 'St. John City' and 'Lonture is, In fact, everytbing.
Mr. Fisher don City.' Juat at the beglnning of the
Ia another part of one of his addresses maL-es fruit season tbey soid these bonts and
suppiied their places by steamers not at
that very remark. He says :
ail suited for the transportation of fruit.
The question involved is really one of temperature. The matter of manutacturlng the Some of them, I tbink, were mere ocean
cheese bas not se mucli to do with It.
tramps and others of theni, altbough good
The fact is that Canada bas been manu- steamers for other purposes were whoily
~facturing an excellent cheese for many unfit to, transport fruit. The resuit was
years. It goes witbout saying that we are that In the autuma of that year, and
producing good fruit. We are la the pro- up ta January, when the great bulk of
per latitudes for the production of good the fruit was going to; the London marfruits, of tbe juicleat fruit, and tbe juici- ket, tbere were no avaiabie proper steamness of tbe fruit makes it more difficuit of ers ta carry it, and the result was a
transportation.
It is known that fruit of great deal of bass ta those provinces,
tbe best quality Is grown In the nortberti Nova Scotia
particularly.
After tbat they
latitudes. We are tbe producers of the best
buiit two new boats suppo33d ta be imHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

APRIL 23, 1902
J)rovements 0on the previous ones, and lu
saime respects tbey were: these were the
'Loyalîst' and the 'Evangeline.'
They
contInued on the service until the middle
or January of the present yeur.
lui the
midst of the season, wlth the cellars and
the storehouses of the valiey of Annap~olis
*full of iipples on whicb the people expected
to renlize iîigh prices, these steamers were
taken off, and fromn the 23rd of February,
to the 27th of March, thiere was no departure at ail from Halifax for London,
and lion, gentlemen must know that the
vast buik of the apples of Nova Scotia are
marlzeted lu London; but this year, owing
to the circumstances I have referred to, a
conisiderabIe part of thi have round their
way to Liverpool and Glasgow, and saime of
them found their way to London via Liverpool at ruinous expense. I wlsh to make
a statement, and I hope my hon. friend
wlll press it on his colleagues, the MinIster of Agricaltire and the- Minister of
Trade and Commerce, in wlîose departmnent
1 believe this matter of subsidizing and
making contracts with steamers is carried into effect-I hope my lion. frlend wiil
cail their attention to this matter that lu
making flDy neiv contracts there must be
a provision that no snch things will happeu
as have bap.pened ln the iast two years.
1 am cailed upon to make these remarks
more pointcdiy because somie friends of
mine, representing these parts of Nova
Scotia ln the other branchi of puriament,
made a representation, a copy of which
they kIndly sent to me, I wbicli they calléd
attention to one Instance in which the
Furness Company wlthdrew their bhats.
They do flot mention the fact that this cecurred twice, once la 1900, and once la 1902,
lu both'0f these years the buats were
withdrawn in violation of the contract
which they aàade* with the goverament
of Canada and against the lnterests of
the fruit-growers of No-va Scotia. The
abject of my motion ls to bring out ail the
information thiat is lu the possession of the
governmeut, by which we can get the correspondence which bas taken place between
the goverument and the different steamship
companies, ln order that we may ascertain
fuily whnt are the hindrances aud what
stands ln the way of the vote of parliament
of iast year being fuliy Impiemented, aud
why it ls that a larger number of boats

have not been fitted Up lu the way which is
settled as the proper way for carrying fruit
cheese and other products of a perishabie
nature. Tlîe abject ls to bring ont ail this
Information and to find ont how the question sltands at the present time, and what
prospects there are for next season's trade,
a complete fleet of ships sallng from our
ports, ln order that these great lasses
may not be sustained by the producers
o! Canada next season and lu the following yetirs. The loss the people cf Canada
have snstained fromn this matter, is very
much greater even than the damage to any
particular quantity of fruit. The cousumers
la the British market, 'when they fiad Oaaadian fruit bad, do flot know why It is bad.
They get a barrel o! apples and find it ls
damaged. The flavour is gone, it ls bad to
look at and wurse to use. They do not
know how It happened, but they know It is
Canadian fruit. They make up their minds
that Canadian appies are bad, and wlill fot
use them again. The coasumers of cheese
find the cheese is off fiavour aud is flot good;
they know It is Canadian chease, aud they
c'ondemn it aad will flot buy It again.
The damage to these products on the ocean
ls Injnring our trade flot oaly with regard
to the particular article and the immediate
loss thut the owner sustalas, but it damages ur trade lu the future by preventing
ithat free use o! our products which would
otherwise take place. I feit sa keeniy on
this subject that, at the opeaing of this
session, I was disposed tu move for a coinmittee o! parîlamient for the purpose o! takIng evidence on this question. I amn satisfled that ln the muliplIcIty o! their duties,
members of! the goverameat, flot having
time to thiuk of this question, du flot a1l
-realize its Importance. If we bad a committee and summoned before It the. receivers o!
these producta ln London, Glasgow, Liverpool and other places, and'if they wouid
tell their story about the manner ln
whlch these products were delivered ou the
other aide, It would open the eyes of parliameat and the goveruimeut on thîs question.
It is flot a matter ln which. a little e«pense
shonid deter ns at aill The good naine of
our products is o! sncb prime Importance that action should be takea promptiy
to put the producers In Canada la as good
a position as the producers of any other
country. I had* Inteuded tu move. for

SENATE
a comrnittee. The Fruit Growers' Associa- be very well applied, jndeed, if we were to
tioa of Nova Scotia passed a resolution in investigate the question, and get evidence
whichi they asked that a pariiamentary In- and examine the witnesses and find out the
vestigation should take place, but in view whole story of the transportation of perishof what I k-now and what I read with re- able products. If the Department of Agri.
gard ta what Is beiug doue by the Depart- culture succeeds ln brlnglng the steamship
ment o! Agriculture, I thought possibly the companies Into lune and they do what la
matter might be left over for another year riglit and reasonable, there wlll be no necesand possibiy the maximum of good results sity for any such action as that. Before
mlght be obtained f rom. the efforts they are sltting down, I want to impress on my hon.
putting forth with regard to ventilatiug the friend the Secretary of State the Importance
holds o! slips, durlng -:he transportation of hiavlng steamers plying between Halifax
of perishable prodacts. Feeling that pos- and London equipped ln this way. I want
sibly that resuit would arise, and seelng the to inake this suggestion pointedly, because
dimfculty of bringing proper evidence be- I arn aware that some gentlemen representfore us-because' if we do not bring such ing the fruit Interests of Nova Scotia have
evidence, I have no doubt the agents and suggeated aomethlng lees than the beat meana
employees o! the steamers would come bie- for that service. I am informed that they
fore the cômmittee and insist, as I know have been told It is out of the questionthey are ln the habit of insisting, that the that lt ls Impossible te get any steamship
damage to these fruits dld not arise from icompany that will make an arrangement
any fault o! theirs, that they were bad whea as far as the trade between Halifax and
they were shipped, and overheated or ln London la concerned, that will put iii the
bad condition before they were handed over menus of generating and distrlbuting cold
to them. I arn not golng to say it is air through the ships. Ail it ls alleged that
not possible that may sometimes occur, eau be got for the service is the Introducbut I think it should be very rare, because tion of cold air by what is called siroco fans,
It ls a very easy matter for the Department or somethlng of that kind. We know
of Agriculture, under the arrangement which that la very much'-better than nothing,
ha been made with the rallway companles but It Is not the maximum gain that eau ho
of Canada to carry the fruit and cheese obtalned. The figures I have put before the
from the curing rooms and cellars o! the Ilouse about the trade doue at Halifax last
farmer aud deliver them on the shlps at year la. fruit-larger than any two Nortb
3lontreal or Halifax, wîthout runnlng any American ports put together-would warrisks at ail. and I think in very few in- rant a strong effort being made on the part
stances hlgh temperatures are met* with. o! the government to equip the steamers
There are refrigerator cars, and when they thiat ply betweeu Halifax and London as
are aupled very little injury la sustained. well as they are equlpped plying between
I have no doubt If the committee were any other ports.
appointed, and If we lad proper testimony
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The practice is to
from the other aide, that would put
temperature, does the hon, gentleman inean
the matter beyond ail question ; otherwIse,
one minimum and maximum, or a dally
there would be a good deal of contradictory evidence put before the coin- maximum and minimum ?
mittee, and the owners of the shlps would
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understand It is tak-en
endeavour to get clear of the responsibility, every four hours.
aud would leave It ln a state that woulcl not
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The practice la to
be altogether satlsfactory. However, if
take It every four hours. I thlnk the daily
I Put it off for another year, and I find
minimum would be qulte enough. There
matters are not more satisfactory than ls no
necesslty for takIng It every four
tbey have been in the last two years, I lieurs.
will, If I amn here, and circumstances do
Hon. gIr. SCOTT-Thie Senate is very'
not very materially change, move for a
inucl Indebted to the hon, gentleman from
committee o! Investigation, and I think that
Prince Edward Island for the very interthe time of a cormlittee of this House would
esting and Important matter hie las brougît
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

,287

APRIL 23. 1902
APRIL
to the notice of the Chamber, and I must
tbank hlm for the calm, temperate and
fair way ln whieh lie bas discussed the
subject. I tbink he fully recognizes that the
Minister of Agriculture and bis assistants,
Professor Robertson particuiarly, have been
glving their best attention to the improvement of the system ; -but tbey ail, feel that
It ls as yet realiy ln the experimental stage,
We supposed tbree or four years ago, whexi
the government commenced to pay the
several steamers one-half of the cost of
fitting up vesseis for cold storagc, that we
had then solved the problem. However,
the results have not justifled tbe anticipations we had formed, and It ls quite evident that the mere iowering of temperature
ls not alone sufficient. It requires in addition to that ventilation whicb, I presume, la
very difficuit to supply on ships equipped as
tbey have been. The Minister of Agriculture, I can assure my hon. friend, is f ully
alive to the Importance of the subjeet, takea
the deepest Interest ln It, and la quite wilIng to go any reaconabie lengtb to meet
the fair demand of the cheese men and fruit
growers. Canadian fruit ls, as he a1lstly
remarks, the best that goes to the British
market, If it were sent there la the prime
condition In whîcli it ls possible to put it on
tbe market. That being the fact, wè ouglit
to be stimulated to do everytbing we can
to secure these excellent resuits. I shahl
be very giad to bring down the papers, and
also to caîl the particular attention both of
Mr. Fisher and Sir Richard Cartwright to
the observations made by the hon. senator,
With the hope that It may lead to more
satisfactory resuits ln the future.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (50) An Act respecting the Niagara,
St. Catharines and Toronto Railway Company.-(Mr. McCallum.)
Bil (73) An Act to incorporate thue North
Shore Power Rallway and Navigation Company.-(Mr. Watson.)
Bill (78) An Act respecting the TrainsCanada Railway Company.-(Mr. Watson.)
Bill (93) An Act respeoting the Hudson
Bay and Nortb-west Railway Company.(Mr. Kerr.)

287
23. 1902
Bill (103) An Act respecting the Lake
Champlain and St. Lawrence Ship Canai
Company.--(Mr. Landry.)
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (43) An Act respecting the Vancouver,
Victoria and Eastern Rallway and'Navigation Company.-(H]Eon. Mr. Ells.)'
Bil (63) An Act to Incorporate the Mediciue Hat and Northern Alberta Raiiway
Company.--(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (64) An Act to Incorporate the Cosmos
Cotton Company.--(Hon. Mr. Lovitt.)
Bill (68) An Act respecting the Central
Counties Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
McDonald, C.B.)
BIII (71) An Act respecting the Dominion
CottoDi MiilB Company, Limited.-(Hon. Mdr.
Forget.)
Bill (69) An Act respecting the Canadian
Pacifie Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill (83) An Act to incorporate the Cauadian Northern Express Company.-(Hon.
Mr. McMullen.)
BUI (88) An Act respecting the Medicine
Hat Raiilway and Coal Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Young.)
JOINT

STOCK COMPANIES INCORPORATION BILL.

IN COMMITTEE.
The House resumed ln Committee of -the
Whole consideration of Bill (R) An Act respecting the Incorporation of Joint Stock
Companies by Letters Patent.
(In tihe committee.iOn clause 84,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The committee rose
after passing the 33rd clause. The neit
clause relates to the powers of directors.
In that clause and a number of clauses
following, the changes proposed are very
few, and my own opinion would be that
where It la flot proposed to make any change
ln the clause and It lias worked very well,
and it ls understood, It wouid be better to
leave the language as It exista ln the present law, on the principle let weii enougb
alone. The mere fact of making changes
for the sake ef change I do not think ls a

SENATE
good proposition. Changes ought anly ta be
made by those wha have had experience in
adm'inisterlng the law, and who have noted
the difficulties ln the way of worklng it.
You wll find at the end a regulating clause,
wblch places ail those subjects under the
contrai of the shareholders at their annual
meeting, and they only operate until the

Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-As a mile the
general manager of a company engages the
clerks and other employees connected wlth
an establishment. Ail that this refers ta is
the offIcers, the general secretary or permanent officers who are appolnted by the
directors, but the ordlnary employees are
slmply employed by the general manager.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There Is no doubt
of that whatever. At the saine time, we
should confarmi ta the actual practice ln
commercial life as much as possible; but
heme the duty Is thrawn on the directors of
passing by-laws for the eniployment of servants. The abjection ta this Is, that such a
On subclause c,
by-law must be submItted ta a meeting of
Han. Mr. LOIJGHEED-M7hile this'is a the shareholders. I might
mention it as a
duty cast an the directors, it is almost Im- case ln whlch
It ls not anly unnecessary,
possible ta carry It out. They employ ser- but ambitrary.
In every action brougbht
vants almost every day, and ive have agalnst
a campany the fimst plea set up by
thrown on the directors here the duty of the
company Is that the party has not been
passing by-laws for the employment of serappointed by by-law of the company. The
vants, and further, the by-law must be concourts set the plea at naught ; they hold If
fimmed by a genemal meeting of the sharethe company take advantage of the services
holders.
of a servant they are hiable. It seems ta me
Hon. Mr. POW5ER-Thls by-law does not objetianable that the sharehalders should
need ta be conflrmed at a genemal meeting. be required ta canflrm an unimpartant by1 would like ta direct the attention of the law of thiat kind.
hon, gentleman ta the first paragraph, which
Hon. Mm. BEIQUE-If the effeet of the
says that the directors of the campany may clause *was ta makze
It compulsory on the
administem the affairs of the company ln ail board of directors ta
provide for the memuthlngs and make or cause ta be made for neration o! employees
by by-law, I would
the campany any contract which the coin- entirely agmee
with the hon. member fmom
pany may by law enter Into. I shauld sup- Calgary, but
It seems ta me it la only perpose employlng an ordlnary servant would missive.
The first portion of clause 34 says
be covered by that. I do nat agmee with the the company
may enter Into aIl klnds of
hou, gentleman ln thlnking that the employ- contracta, and
make by-laws for certain purment of officers and servants should not be poses, but
It does not exclude their rlght
done under a by-law. It Is a great deal
ta make appointments by mere cantracts.
better that there should be a genemal mule, Subsection
2, refers memely ta the remuneraso that kissing should flot go toa much by tion o!
the president or any director. 0f
favour.
course that Ia a matter a! considerable conHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That sequence, and shauld be brought before the
depends on what Interpretation you put ou general meeting for confirmation, because
the word 'servants.' Does It mean the ser- the aharehalders at large are intemested ln
vants who sweep the office, or merely thase any remunemation which is allawed ta the
who are permanent, the secretary, the treas- presldent or directara, because the by-laws
uirer, and such officers ? I think that Is are made by the president iind directma,
the objection which the hon. gentleman from and they should not bave the fixing o! their
Calgary takes ta the clause. If the interpre- own remuneration without some confirmatation of the word servants be as bmond as tion of It
I have lndicated, It would seem almost abThe subsection 'was adopted.
sured ta say that a by-law shoYuld be passed
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Under the clause as it
ta employ a night-wntcbman, for Instance.
exists, ahareholders are called upon only ta
Han. Mr. SCOTT.
ers then change or repeal them as they
thlnk proper. Na compaay can be managed
unless the powers mentloned in this clause
are given ta those engaged ln the active
management of the campany.

APRIL 23. 1902
approve or disapprove of the by-laws passed.
They ought to have larger pawers. If they
desire to amend or change them, or to Introduce new by-laws *they should have that
power. I have prepared sen addition ta subsection 2, ta that effect.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-That is a
vote of want of confidence ln the men eiected
ta transact the business of the company.
OnIy the directors have power ta do the
things they are appointed for, they can act,
and havJng given them the pawer, 1 do flot
think it la right ta take It arbitrarlly away.
froni theni.
On subsection 2, of clause 34,
2. No by-law for the isgpe, allotmnent or sale
of any portion of the unissued stock at any
greater discount or at any less premnium. than
that which has been previously authorized at
a general meeting, and no by-law for the re-

Hon. Mr. CLB)MOW-If the shareholders
declare that it can be done, can It not be
done ?
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We liadt better let this
clause stand. There ls no doubt It la doue.
We authorize It constantly ln charters we
are grantIng, under pawers given ta private
companies, more particularly railway camnpantes.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-But not companles organized under the Joint Stock Coinpanies Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la done constantly.
The stocka of varions campanies are being
sald constantly under par.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Have
the directors the power ta, say they will seil
shall be valid. or acted upon unil the sameý stock at less than par ?
has been contirmed at a general meeting.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The dIrectors have not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I might say, with
reference ta this paragraph, that inferenti- the power.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
aliy one cannot came ta any other conclusion
than the power is given ta Issue stock at a a different thing froni Issuing mlnlng stock
discount. It is evidently nat sa intended. It ln British Columbia. There they seil stock
is flot pravided ln the Act that there shauld for lea than par.
be an Issue of stock at less than par, and I
Hon. Mr. FORGET-The way It ls usunlly
certainiy cannat see the application of this, done when a company ls formed, If It ls a
other than ta create confusion ln that parti- raIlway company or a navigation company,
cular regard. This subsectian had better bonds are Issued for the cost of the rallway
stand.
or of! the boats, and afterwards It ls capitalHan. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have Ized at two or three millions, as the case
been inforined by lawyers that ln the organ- may be, and generally that stock represents
lzation of a company, they have no power ta' half water, sometimes alI water, and sanieauthorIze the Issue or sale af stoc4 at a dis- Uies only 10 or 15 per cent of money, and
count. If that be correct, this paragraph la the stock ia distrlbuted ta a syndicate which
unnecessary-a portion of it at .least. If bas formed the company, called the provisthey have the power ta Issue stock below lonal directors, and those directors divide
par, then It ls necessary ta regulate It. The among themselves the four or fIve millions
bon. senator from Calgary tells me that O! Stock which coat ten cents on the dollar,
there 1s no such power ln any law upon the and It la llsted on the stock exchange for
statute-book, -and that the common law pre- whatever It brings, and very otten It goes
at a premium. In Toronto a foreign tramvents the Issue of stock under par.
way company was formed and Issued flve
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-If duly authorIzed by
millions o! stock for nothing to the syndithe shareholders.
cate who liadt organized the company, and
Hôn. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes, that stock, for which neyer a cent was pald,
Is selling at five per cent premium. There
that Io what hie says.
was also a syndicate formed In the Toronto
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-If that ts the law, It
Tramway CJompany, and they lnvested $000,ls not carried ont.
000. They baUtl a railway and lssned bonds
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-If one purchases to pay for the cost of It, and the $f00,000
$100 of stock, does hie contract ta pay one was capltalized at $6,000,000, and that stock
hundred dollars ta the conlpany?7
la eelling to-day at $121, because the value
19
muneration of the

president or any director,

SENATE
of the franchise niade it worth that. It is
On clause 35,
a good company and paying a good dlvIdend.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It strîkes me that this
1 do flot think you can reach those men by is an awkward way of deallng with prethis BIil
ference stock. There Is a similar provision
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They taken from the English Act in the Nova
would flot be under tbis Act. It would be Scotia Joint Stock Company's Act, but there
ls no such provision as that the by-law shahI
under a speclal charter.
be unanlmously sanctloned. You can reHon. Mr. FORGET-Supposlng they want- quire as large a proportion of the stock as
ed to incorporate under thîs Act ?
you please. and It ought to be a large proHon. Mr. SCOTT-They could flot do it. portion, but you cannot expect any by-law
to be sanctioned unanimously, and the conHon. Mr. FORGET-This clause speaks sequence is that the directors will be always
of the remuneration ef the président or thrown
back on the proviso in the latter
directors. Does this men that the salary
part of the clause. I am not finding fault
of the president or directors should be ftxed
with the proportion, three-fourths. ThRt
by the stockholders ?
part Is ail rlght. You should provide that if
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It means the directors the three-fourths or four-fIfths, or whatever
first fix It, and that the by-law must be proportion you please, agree, then the byapproved by the shareholders at the next law shall go lnto operation without an apannual meeting. That has always been the peai to the Governor Ia Council. It Is a
clumsy thIng to have to go to the Governor
law.
In Couneil.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Wlll It flot crente
many difficulties, because ln a great many
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It has to be sanctioned
companles the president Is the chief officer, by two-thirds of the stockholders.
and sometîmes lt la ln the Interests of the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think that ls not
company Itself that the public should flot enough.
know the salary you pay your hlghest
Hon. Mr. FORGET-It ls hard to get threeofficers. I -thlnk If we enacted that the
sharehiolders every year should vote a cer- rourths of them to vote. They sometimes
tain amount for the président and directors, live la different parts of the world, and you
cannot get their proxies la time.
and let themn use It ns they think bestHon. Mr. POWER-You may not have
Hoa. Mr. POWER-No, it would open the more than haif of
the shareholders present,
door to aIl sorts of things.
and two-tirds of those present could deHon. Mr. BEIQUE-It would be a one- cîde to Issue Preference stock, and encumber
slded bargaîn ; It sbouid be confirmed by the propelrty of the other shareholders.
the stockholders.
Hon. Mr. FORGEDT-Say two-thirds of
the capital stock-two-thlrds ln value.
Hon. Mr. riORGET-But the sharelholders
Hon. Mr. POWER-If you say two-thirds
n~ould appropriate a certain amount, and let
the dîrectors vote it as they thlnk best..
of ail the shareholders, 1 am satisfled.
Hon. Mr. WOOD <Hamilton)-The shareHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
holders are always advised and should be
la the way It Is done.
nt the meeting.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-The direcHon. Mr. SCOTT-It is ail la the interests
tors should submit to the shareholders the
of the company. We can put lt two-thirds
amount of money they wish for remuneraln value of the capital stockz.
tion and for the directors, and then divîde
The clause was allowed to stand.
It themselves after lt la voted by the shareholders, and after It Is once voted it goes
On subelause 4,
on from year to year.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Would the hion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It works very well.
Secretary of State expinin why the preference stockholders ln subsection 2 sbould
The subelause was allowed to stand.
Hon. Mr. FORGET.

APRIL 23. 1902
have special rigbts la regard to this election
of the board of directors, and ordinary
riglits as stockholders la clause 4 ?
1Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Â time cornes ln the
history of veryi many companies when the
common stock has been paid up, or the
parties are unwiiiing to pay for any more
common stock, and they agree among themnselves to Issue preference stock at a fIxed
rate, either aocumulative lnterest or lnterest at 7 per cent. Those people corne
In at a late period and corne ln geïxeraily
to, belp the company out of a financial
difficuity. .They are putting their money
la at an Important criaIs and it la ouly fair
that their Interest shouid be rather higher
than the interest of the common stockhoiders.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-That la represented by a guaranteed preferentiai dIvidend
whicb they get, but la clause No. 2 you
give them, la addition. special rights to
select a etated proportion ef the board of
directors.*

Hon. Mr. POWEB-It can do no harm.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-It can do no good.
There la aothing to suggest the rIgbts of
creditors belng Interfsred witb.
The Issue of preference stock la for the benelit of
creditors, because it goes te secure the payment of the debts and It would be useles
to Introduce that paragraph.

On clause 37,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Â gentleman mnade a
suggestion to me that this clause was soniewhiat lnvolved and bas drafted n propossd
clause whlcb la the ame la meanlng, but
more clearly sxpresaed, which I will muove
to substituts for this clause.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I tbink there is a
serions change ln tbe ameadment proposed
by the liou. Secretary ef State.
Clause
37 refers to two-tbtrds la value of the subscrlbed stock of the company, and that
does not exist la the ameadment whlch the
bon. Secretary of State bas la bis banda.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
It la those
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The common stock present and repressnted
by proxy.
would have a very much larger votiug
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If a
power than the preference stock, because It
man holds a proxy of another It Ia the
Is always very much larger. The preference stock Io Ilmited to a leas aum, and ame as If that man wats present.
therefore, after the preference stock Is taken
Hon. Mr. POWER-There la no question
up, the common stock would override and about s proxy at ail.
no one would take the preference stock
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I would
uniss tbey had some controlllng Influence.
suggeat atrikiug out the worda 'those preThey weuld be apt to be outvoted.
sent' and take la the whole company.
Hon. Mr. POWER-In the Act frem which
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I.move this amendmieut
this bas been copled, there la another subbecause It la cleariy the plan carrlsd out.
section which rends as follows :
Nothiag la this section shall affect or impair Those who cnnnot attend and who. ssnd
thelr piroxles la faveur of a particular kubthe rights of creditors ef any compaay.
I thiak that mlght be embodied la this BiII. ject should count se long as there la a
vote of two-thIrds la value of these preseut
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
or represented iby proxy.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Surely that Is
Hou. Mfr. POWER-My point la not about
covered by clause 3-1, wblch gives the dlrec- proxies at ail. My point Is that the power
tors power to make a by-law.
sbould not be exerclsed unss two-tblrds of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How can that the shareholders vote for It.
affect creditors ?
Hon. Mfr. CLEMOW-Don't they vote b.v
Hou. Mr. POWER-It may. not be neces- proxy ?
sar'y.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I t dos not matter
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat liad reference to whether they vote by proxy or net, s0 long
that particular statute. We passedl au Act as there la a two-thirds vote for It. The
la 1898 allowing companies te Issue prefer- original clause la better than that pro'posed,
ence stock, but i la entlrely out of place because it requires that at least two-tblrds la
bers.
value of the subscrlbed stock of tbe coni-

SEINATE
Ilon. Bir. BEIQUE-I have prepared a
pany shall concur ; lu the other onue, it !s
only two-thlrds ef those then present, ni clause which I handed to the Secretary of
you might have only one-third of the stock State, to this effect, that a company shall
not commence operations until ten per cent
of tbe Company present.
la pald on the stock. 1 tixouglit this should
Hou. Bir. SCOTT-Not at ail. It ls Imposbe lnserted betore clause 34.
sible.
Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-As we
Hon. Mir. FPOWER-But It does happen.
have to go back to a number of these clauses
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The BihI bas been whilh have been allowed to stand, and the
drawn by a gentleman who thiorou.ghly un- proposition tg to maL-e an amendinent, 1
derstands ItL
%vouldsuggest that the proposed aimendment
Hou. Mr. POWý%ER-Probably acting as be put on the notice paper, and every oee
wlll have an opportunlty of reading It.
counsel for sonie compauy.
Hon. Mr. CLEM.NOW-It must be twoThe clause was adopted.
thirds of the stockholders present- or by
On clause 39,
prexy.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I-s there
tion to let tluat clause stand ?
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-No, the
stand, with my ameudment, for
Mr. BEIQUE-Subsection 2
struck out.

any objecclause cun
submlssion.
slxould be

The second subsection was struck out, and
the clause was allowed to stand.
On clause 38.
38. The directors may, from time ta time,
make such calîs upon the shareholders ia respect of ail moneys unpaid upon their respective shares, as they thiak fit, at such Urnes and
places and Ia such payments or Instalments as
the letters patent, or this Act, or the by-laws
of the company require or alhow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The very -prluciple of
the Joint Stock Companles Act is, as explalned by the hon, gentleman from Hamilton a day or two ago,. that the great securlty
for people advanclng money, is lu not havlng'all the shares pa4d up. If the company
la lncorporated for $100,000, say, aud It Is
ail Vald up, the security for borrowing ls
very mucb less than If 25 per cent only were
paid up, because yen have the shareholders
for security. This clause Is based on the
assumption that the money paid lu by the
shareholders is to the good, wbereas it may
be ail hast. That clause ought not to be
there. It; is evldently taken from the Leen
Cempanies Act. They keep their capital,
and the larger the capital they have, the
grenter their securlty. If a joint stock conipany la a losiug concera, the shareliolders
can have no objection to borrowing, because the shareholders cannot be hehd, but
only the Company.
Hon. Mr. PoWEkt.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I would Cali attention
to the tact that thils clause ls copied fromn
the Act passed lu 1877. At that time the
legal rate of Interest, where no rate was
specified, ivas 6 per cent Siuuce then, wê
have passed a statute reduclng the rate of
lnterest to fixe per cent ; and my suggestion
la that we shouLd alter this and say tliat
the party shall be hiable for lnterest at the
legal rate, five per cent.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-If -a man subseribes for
stock, he sbould be made to pay it at a
hlgber rate of Interest.
Hon. Mr. DANDUItAND-The comipany
snlght, la that event, have to pay more than
fixe per cent for the money whIch a su>scrlber failed to pay.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Speaking of making
cails, 1 thInk we should lImit the caîl to ten
per cent, and at intervals of not less than
thirty days. Supposlug a company tries to
make two or three catis, those calis sbould
net be ail made at once. There should be
an Interval to protect the weak shareholders.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The shnreholders cau
fix that.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-But sometimes It is
necessary to protect the small stockholders. The large stockholders may* combine
together and force the calls s0 as to get Coutrot of the company.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Itmaight be necessary to caîl Up more than ten per cent.

APRIL 23. 1902

293

Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-The general for the balance, se that they get -the value
practice is to cali Up texi per cent in thirty of the aebares.
days.
Hon. Mfr. FORGET-Not if they are conHon. 3fr. FORGET-But it is not so pro- fieated. They lose the whole.
vided here. As my hon. friend opposite says,
Hon. Mr. DRU3fMOND-Say a cail la made
cails could be made by the by-laws. Supo! tea per cent, and the shareholder fa ils
posing the mien controlling the company
to pay ; the directors act on that and forfeit
choose to make a wrong by-law, the stockholders may vote against it without effect, hie stock. Notwithstanding that, the sharebolder is stîli hiable for the other ninety per
and the weak men would be gobbled up.
cent, and may have nothing to show for ItHon. Mfr. SCOTT-The Interests of the not even the stock.
company are paramount to everythIng else.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-He gets credit for what
You cannot arbitrarily Iay down rules for
the stock sells for. This bas been the laiv
the domestie -management of the company.
for thirty years. Can anybody point out
Hon. '.%r. DRUMMOND-The board of dl- where It has worked an injury ?
rectors mig-ht avall theniselves of the perlod
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I migbt say that on
Intervening between two annual meetings
xnany occasions the matter came profesto pass a by-law whlch would be valid until
confirnied, and make the calls anything they sionally before me, and I was puzzied
like. Therefore, if It Is thouglit well to as to the wvorkiug ef the clause. .The
clause shonid be remodelled.
Thiere is
inake a limitation It shouId be doue.
something ln the suggestion made by the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have seen ln some hon, gentleman from Sorel (Mfr. Forget).
Acts a provision such as that suggested by 1 tlnk It is only fair that the sharehiolder
the hon, gentleman opposite (3fr. Forget).
whose stock ls forfeited should remnain
Hon. Mr. DRU3IMOND-It ls well it lhable to the company àf the stock when sold
shouid be stated ln the Bill. Ten per cent does flot bring enough to pay the balance
every mouth ls not too mucb. I thlnk the on the stock ; but the point ls this, If the
hon, gentleman froni Sorel ought to put lIn stock when sold brings more than 100 per
cent, -should the -surplus go to the shareIs clause.
holder wbose stock is forfeited ?
The clause was adopted.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-Certainly it oughit to go.
On clause 41,
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-The clause does not
Hon. Mfr. FORGET-Do you think It ls
provide for that, because, under the word.
just to give power to the directors to cou- ing
of the clause, the stock ls confiscated
fiscate, the shares ? Supposing those shares
by the company. The sale may be made
become valuable afterwards, Uos the cernby auction or by private sale. It may be
mittee not thInk. If the sbares are coniisa -colluslve sale, and It seems to me some
cated, they sbould be sold, and the proceeds notice
should be glç;en te the shareholder
given to the estate ?
whose stock ls forfeuted. That ls another
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-That ls provIded. I point W-hlch should be prov-ided for. The
move that ln the second lune the word other point is the one I comnuenced to ex*resolution'1 be lntroduced. As a matter ef plain. As a matter of practice, the demand
fact It le almost lnvariably done by renolu- for a cali is made by a resolution, not by a
tien and not by by-law.
by-law. There la no necessity of golng te
Hon. 3fr. FORGET-B'ut you give the the formality ef a by-iaw and It seems to
company the right to confiscate the shares me It would be better to use the two words.
and keep theni. Wouid It be fair to conHon. 3fr. SCOTT-The clause had better
fiscate the shares of an estate, say, and flot stand.
give theni the value ef them ?
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Is It not possible to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They do.
have a clause Inserted somewhere Ii this
Hon. 3fr. BEIQUE-It la provIded by the Bll, that, as the hon, gentleman froni
clause as drafted that they are Ilable only Hamilton sald, there -was a great guarantee

SENATE
to the creditors of a company wheu its
stock was nlot ail paid up. Take a company
of $500,0O0, ten per cent pald up ;the sharebolders are supposed to be stili responsible
to the crediters to the extent of $450,000. 1
bave had soine experience In Montreal ln
an Insurance company, and ln some building
and boan compaules, wbere the capital stock
was so much and s0 niuch pald up, ani the
creditors tbought they were safe, because a
considerable percentage of the stock bad nlot
been paid up. One of these companies got
into trouble, made bad lnvestnients. When
we went to look ut the stockbolders' list,
tbey were ahl men of straw. The stock had
been transferred to men of straw. The sEcurlty to the credItor was goue. 1 know ln
the case of an insurance company ln Montreat, those who hud sustained losses found
that tbey couid not get more than 25 per
cent of their ciaims.
Hon. Mr. SCOIT-There is a clause whicb
meets that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
clause as it stands bas been un operiation
for a great number of years, and wlth the
suggestion made by the hon. senator froin
De Salaberry, te put ln the word ' resolutien' as well us 'by-law,' It will effect ail]
that la necessary. The suggestilon made by
my hon. friend from Sorel would be offering
a premlum to those wbo 'bad taken stock
to divest themselves of the liabllity whlcb
follows the taking of stock. If you say to
hlm, that If he faIls to puy you, then you
shahl seil bis stock, and If at the tîxue It is
ata premium you are to hand hlm back the
surplus. This clause provIdes that If a ma>
takes stock lu a company and refuses to
puy the cahls, the company has power to
forfelt the stock, and lu the interest of the
credîtor who bas louned money on the
strength of that man, or others holding the
stock ln the company not paid up, you
deprIve hlm of the security wlxich he bas
by relleving the man of the respousillity of
paylng the balance of the stock. I .think
the provision la a wise one. I slxould like
to see the word suggested by the hon, genltleman added, so as to avoid the necesslty
of passing a by-law.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Suppose we umend it
that way.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I upprove of the suggestion made by the lion.
Hon. Mr. FORGET.

gentleman trom De Salabcrry. Wlth what
littIe experience I bav-e had, I found it
necessary lu one case, when a mail positively refused to puy the balance of bis
stock tbough he wanted to remain a stockbolder, and ln case the enterprise sbould pay
a dlvldend, then he would coame forward and
dIaim ItL Whut we did was to net under
thîs clause, and forfeit bis stock.
He
reiieved hlmself of paying any more, and
we got rild of hlm.
Hon. Mfr. DRUMMOND-According to tbe
by-law as it stands, the process Is simple.
A man fals to puy bis culi. The directors
declure bis stock forfeîted, it beconies the
property of the company, and tbey are
bound to dispose of ItL The Inference, it
seenis to me, is that it is for the benefit of
the person wbo la suffering, and as regards
creditors, he is hiable for the balance of Iiîs
stock. 1 do not see bow we can very wll
improve ou ItL
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-If the stock
could be sold at a premium the stockholder
would not allow it to be coutiscated.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
mighit seil a-t a premium to-day, and ut less
than par to-morrow.
Hon. Mfr. FORGET-It might be coufiscated by sharp practîce. A cuil must be
mnade payable at such a date, and supposing
it Is a mistake-thut they bave no right to
puy for it-then the compaur 'would forfeit,
and would that be rigbt ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is about as fair as
you can make ItL
Hon. M~r. CLE31OW-I thluk some reasonable notice should be given.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-It never bus been.
Hon. *.%r. CLEMOW-There la no limit
bere.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la the notice as prescribed by resolution and by-iaws.
If a
resolution la passed, the anuouncemniet is
made that the stock must he paid in laixty
durs, and that period must expire.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND--Tbere is no
question thut If, by accident or otherwise,
by somne unforeseen circunistance, the stockholder's stock wus sold ut a premium after
It was confiscated, be should be entltled to
the difference.

APRIL 23. 1902
Hon. Mr. FORGET-That ls what I want.
Hou. 'Mr. POWER-In order to carry out
the views of the hon. gentleman from De
Salaberry, 1 move that clause 41 be amended
by inserting after the word '-by-iaw,' the
words 'or by resolution.'
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I move that the
words, 'or.by the' be erased, and replaced
by the %vords,'resolution or.'
Hon. Mr. FORGET-That wvili do.
Thie amendment was adopted.
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-I tbink some notice
sliould be gWven to sîtarebolders wliose stock
is forfelted.
Hon. 31r. FORGET-Yes.
The clause as amended was adopted.
On clause 42,
Hon. _Mr. BEIQUE-The entering of suits
should not deprive the company or the right
to forfeit the shares. If they commence an
action and cannot recover, they should have
the power of forfeiting the shares.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They couid
shares, and appiy the proeeeds.
The clause was adopted.

seil the

On clause 44,
Hou. Mr. DRUMMOND-What proof wil
be requlred before extracts cau be taken
from the books ?
Hou. .3r. SCOTT-It
proved.neyer

will

have to be

Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamlltoff)-They may
do It out of pure Inquisitiveness. Tbey
may bave a small debt against the company,
and want to find out the Inside business.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Strlke out 'and creditors.'
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The law provides for
an attnchment of shares by a jud.gment creditor, and there are no means to ascertain
whether a debtor ls possessed of shares or
not, or what amount of shares be ls possessed of. I think the clause should be enlarged, so as to allow a bailliff or an officer
of justice tbe bearer of an execution to see
the transfer book, so that be may attacb
sucb shares as are owned by the debtor.

Hon. Mr. l)RUMMOND-I do flot abject
to the Information which is sought for in
this clause beîng added, but that you should
have a stand and deliver clause like this,
so that any person cau wallk into the business office of the company and demand that
information and bave your books turned
upside down, I think Is a perfect outrage.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is only a creditor or
sharehoider.
Hon. 2fr. DANDURAND-I wvould suggest making It a judgment creditor.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-That: would
cuver the grouud to a certain extent.
Hon. 13r. SCOTT-It bas been on tbe statutes for thirty years, and neyer caused any
difficuity.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Oh, yes. In England a man possesslng one or two sbares
went In and demanded Inspection of the book
of the company wlth regard to the stockbolders. It was clearly the provision of the iaw
that be wvas entltled to that Information,
but they refused absolutely to give It to,
hlm, and on an appeal to the court, the judge
ruled that as bis application was due to jan
animus against the company, be sbould be
denied it aithough the clause provided for
It. Igut why should the company be put to
that expense ? I have seen suchi cases
again and ngnin before the court.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We have not hiad such
an experlence ln Canada.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I hope we
wlll bave.
Hon. Mr. POWER-But I tbink the shareboider of a company bas a right to go to
the books and see what condition its affaira
are In. This suggestion of llmlting It to a
judgment creditor I think ls unsatisfactory,
because a creditor migbit wishi to see the
books to find ont wbether It was worth whlle
suing..
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-He sbould flot
see them, and I should adopt some form
whereby a man having a bona fide riglit
only should obtain the Information.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I move that the
clause be amended by adding 'and of a
judgment credItor of a sharebolder.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-It would not do
to strîke out the word 'creditor,' because

SENATE
a creditor wants to obtain the information
before hie becomes a judgment creditor.
Hon. Mr. DRUM-%MOND-We want a regular proceedlng.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
should be a good deai of latitude given to,
the creditor to, ascertain who are stockhioiders, and whetber they have paid up.
The clause w-as adopted.
On clause 46,
Hlon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-Let us assume a
company should nieglect to keep such books,
perhaps carelessly or inadvertently, are we
to understand thiat that company forfeits
its right, and creditors of the comipany becorne prejudiced, and so on ?
Hon. Mr. DRIJMMOND-I think they
shouid be lhable to a penalty, or something
of that kind. This clause-is absurd.
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-AIId obligations
may be created after that, and w-bat is the
position of the company witb regard to Its
creditors ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Insert the w-ords ' be
liable to.'
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-I object to that.
I move that It be amended so as to make ail
the directors hiable to capital punlshment.
Hon. 31r. BEIQULE-I think the suggestion
of the hon. gentleman froni Iennebec is a
good one. The clause shouid provide for a
penalty for every day thiat thiere Is neglect
la keeping these books, and nlakiDg the
directors jointhy and severally hiable.
Hon. Mr. DILU.IMOND Make it a penalty
of $50 for encli refusai.
Hon. Mr. POWER-They, have been doing
business under this for tÉirty years.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-I suppose a good
many companies that are doing business are
outiawed. I believe there are some companles w-ho do not keep books.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We can frame a clause
showing w-hat penalty they w-I pay.
The clause w-as adopted.

now are quoted on the stock excliange, and
shares are represented in a nuniber of
cases by scrips, whichi is transferred by deiivery endorsed In blank, and transferred
by one broker to another. The effect of this
clause is, that these transfers whicb it is the
practice to make on the stock exchange
wouid have no effeet at ail, and no value as
agaiast the judgment creditor of any person
appearing on the book as a tranisf eree. These
transfers have no value until they are
l)laced on record on the book. It seerns to
nie It is eatrapping the public to a considerabie extent, and 1 arn Inclined to think it
w-ould be better to aniend the elause so that
these transfers ray be good. I may cite a
number of cases. The Canadian Pacifie
scrips are used that way, and the saie wvitl
a nuxnber of other conipanies. There are
serips for shares, and on the back there is
a transfer, a power of attorney, and these
serips are delivered from one to another,
and they remain for two or three mionths
without being entered on the books of the
coînpany. If ln the nieantime a judgment
creditor of the party whose name appears
on the scrip w-as to make an attachinent on
the shares, he wouid be entitled to recover.
and the party who had bouglit the shares
w-ouid have no standing at ail.

Hon. Mir. FORGET-You could flot mneet
this case at ail with scrip. The first point
Is that you caillot issue scrip when the
stock Is flot ahl pald Up. For Instance,
if you Issue a
serip. and sell that
scrip, and there is only fi! ty per cent
paid up, you are the possessor of the stock,
and the stock remains ini your naine la the
register of the company, and the company
looks to you for it. If you seli your stockz
ith the scrIp you wiil insiat that the min
takes tîje scrip In the books, because if lie
does xîot, you wili stili remain responisible.
So tlhat la this case, you cannot give scrip,
nor lu the case of banks, on account of the
double Ilabllity. You caillot iissue scrip iii
banks. For the saine reason, you cannot
do it If the liabliity of the company is not
f ully discharged. Then I corne to paid up
stock, and I say tliat scrips are Illegal. Youi
cannot issue theni, uniess your charter ai10w-s you to do lt, like the charter of the
On clause 48,
Montreal Street Ratniway. It bas power to
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I desire to make a re- issue scrip w-ltl the Power of attorney on
mark w-lth regard to this clause. The stocks the bnck of it. So to-day you couid not
Mon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 24. 1902
seize these shares. 'For instance, Jones 1 Bill (463) An Act to incorporate the Strait
inay appear to have a tbousand shares ln lof Cause Bridge Conipany.-(Hon. Mr. Mcbis naine, and bie bias disposed of thein, per- Donald, C.B.)
baps, for a year, but you cannot go and
SECOND) READINGS.
seize that thausand shares ln bis naine, because the street railway lias a speclal chatBill (91) An Act respectlng the Tiningarni
ter for It. Tbe Richelieu Navigation Comn- Rallway Carnpany.--<Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
pany camne before parliainent for permission
Bfi (66) An Act respecting La Compagnie
to Issue scrlp, and since then, we have been
du Chemin de fer de Colonisation du Nord.
doing so ; but ln the case of a good rnany
-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
joint stock companies you cauld nlot do
Bill (50) An Act respecting- tbe Niagara,
It, because the stock would not be ail paid
St. Catbarines and Toronto Railway CoinUp.
pany.-(Hon. Mr. McCallurn.)
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn surprised that
the lion. senator who bas just spoken would JOINT STOCK COMPANIES INCORPOabject ta It. because If any parties are InRATION BILL.
terested surely tbey are those wbo are dealThe House resunied, ln Coinxittee of tbe
ing- on the stock excbange. Tbere are a
Whale, consideration of Bill (R) 'An Act renuniber of conipanies w*bose stock is pai
up, and wbho are ln the babit of issuing specting tbe incorporation of Joint Stock
scrips. I amn not inistaken ln tbat. I eau Conipanles.
cite, for instance, tbe Royal Electrlc Coin(In the carnrnttee.)
pany. Tbey did it for a long turne, and 1
On clause 48,
kna-w of a nurnber of otber companles who
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-In arder to conlssued scrlps.
clude the discussian whIch took place on
Han. Mr. FORGET-Was It done legally
this part relating ta transfer of shares yesdonc terday, I move tbat the fahlowing be added
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, It was not
regularly. Any company bias the rlgbt to use ta the clause :
scrlps. Any compaay lncorparated under the
Thepresent clause
law bas tbe rlght ta use scrlps, but this scrip, panles whose stock la shahl not apply to coinlst-d and deait wlth on
with the forin of transfer on tbe back, Is no the Stock Exchange by means of scrlp coin>mcnly la use, endorsed la blank and ttanifergood. because as far as tbe creditor of tbe
able by dellvery which shaîl constitute valld
sbarebolder whose naine is inscrlbed an the transfers of the scrlp. The scrip :iolder shall
books of the company Is concerned, hoe can net,- bc.-ever, lie entitUed ta vote upon the
until they
follow the shares, sa long as the stock la neot shares the books of arc reglstered la his naine
the compafly.
upon
transferred an the books' of tbe company.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No objection ta that.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, frain tbe cormlittee, reported that tbey bad made saine progresp Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbere should be
wlth the Bill, and asked leave ta sit again registratian witbiu saine specified trne ;
otherwise the balder of stock ineed not disto-morraw.
close bis ownersbip, and the Information
The Senate adjourned.
whlch the public rnay need In reference ta
wha are the holders need iiot necessarlly
appear. I amn entlrely ln favaur of the prinTHE SENATE.
ciple embodled ln the ameudment, but it
seemas ta me tbat withln a reasonable tinie
Ottawa, Thur8day, Apri 24, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three there should be registration of tbe stock ln
sanie way.
o'clock.
Han. Mr. FORGET-These scrlps general-.
Prayers and routine praceedlngs.
ly apply ta paid Up stocks-flot'stocks where
THIRD READINGS.
calîs are still due.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Stock as well as
Bill (U) An Act respectlng the Western
Alberta Rallway
Carnpany.-(Hon. Mr. ather personal property sbould be subject
ta claires of creditors ngainst the bolder.
Lougheed.)

SEINATE
Hon. Mr. FORGET-The paid up stock is
flot.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-In law the paid
Up stock is.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-No.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Âssuming you
bave a judgment or execution against the
owner of paid up stock, there ls a way of
getting at it, and unless lie is regIstered as
the holder of that stock ln some way or
other, It wouid be Impossible to pursue hlm.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I cannot help feeling
that this proposed ameudment 15 a Ieap ln
the dark. I do flot thlnk yeu wlll find a
precedent for that legisiation ln the work
of any legisiature.
This transfer book,
whlch is kept ln the Secretary b! State's
officeHou. Mr. SCOTT-No, it ls kept ln the
company's office.
Hon. Mr. POWER-At any rate, it wll
be noticed that in the clause as it stands lu
the Bill, there Is this exception:
Except for the purpose of exhiblting the
rIghts of the parties th-ereto towards, each other.
You wiII be openiug the door for a good
deai of fraud If you make an unregistered
transfer good except for that purpose. As
between the parties to that purpose, the
man who gives the scrip and the man wbo
takes It, the scrip is good evidence IIow, and
I do flot think it shouid be made evidence as
agalust anybody else.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I miglit point out
again, the wbole principle of the Act Is,
that, upon certain steps being taken, there
may be made a disclosure as to who are
the holders of shares. Macinery Is also
avaliable for a creditor realizlug as against
a stockboider, for the satisfaction of any
dlaim whlch lie may have. Now, if a purcliàser o! this scrip can put it ln bis pocket
sud make no discIosure to the public, it
would be utterly impossible for a creditor
to realize, as against that sharebolder, whatever dlaim lie may have ln law or equity.
It practically niakes a man execution proof
if lie desires to be. There 15 no0 way of
ascertaining what the shareboider lias.

flot see biow the creditor of the company
can hav'e recourse against the stockhoider.
It is oniy iii case the stock is flot ail paid
up that lie wouid have a dlaim against the
unpaid portion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Are you speakiîg
of the creditor of the shareholder ?
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Can you protect the
creditor o! a sharebolder ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-At the present
tume, a creditor can ascertain froni the books
of the company, if a man is the 0w-uer of
certain shares iu the company, aîîd they
thenl become subject to the liabiiity of the
debtor.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hlauilton)-If the shares
are ail paid up tbey bave noue against the
couipany.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGH-EED-Tliey are just as
susceptible of being reiflized agaîust as
lands or other property.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-If-the creditor of the
sharEitolder Is flot the creditor of the coinpany, lie bas no riglit to know anytbing
of the affairs of tbe company. In the case
of an executioa judguieut against the salaries of certain officiais ln a compauy, you
niake a declaration that the company does
flot owe xnoney to the officiai, and uothing
further Is necessary.
Hon. 3fr. LOUGHEED-I am' speaking
110w of the dlaim o! a creditor against a
particular shzarehoider of Jiat company.
Even thougli the shareholder bias lu bis
pocket a number of shiares paid up, under
thîs suggestion, It would be utterly Impossible to realize on theni. He need flot register, according to the suggestion now made,
whereas the whoie prlciie of the Act is
and bias been that publicity sbould be given
of the sharebolders hav~ing interests ln tlie
company.
Hou. Mfr. DANDURAND-For the protection of the creditors of the compauy.
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Âlso against the
sharehoider. Otberwlse you put a premium
on a man making huniseif judgment proof.
Ailh li as to do under this clause is to put
the scrip la lis pocket and make no disHon. 3fr. FORGET-you want to protect closure, and bis creditors know notbiug
tbe creditor agalnst thie comp.any, flot the about It.
creditor agalnst a speclal stockholder o! the
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-It is quite coincompany. If the stock is ail paid up, I cau- mou
for the credîtors to be unprotected by
Itou. Mr. LOXIGH-EED.

APIRIL 24, 1902
law. The salaries of our civil service em- shares are sold from day to day, a certain
ployees are protected against seizure. WTe amount Is pald ln cash to the broker and
have hundreds of cases where a man lavests the broker carnles the stock ln lis name.
lis money without incurring any nisk that It la resold the day atter, or* tlree or tour
It wlll be seized. He can iavest lu deben- days after.
tures payable to bearer, and we do not conHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It would xiot
cern ourselves about the private credîtor of affect that case.
such debenture holder. A man ean carry
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-And from day
thousands la hie owa pocket, and lie le perto day the stock passes, and may pass a
fectly free and safe except under certain machinery by whlcli we can draw hlm Itito hundred times ln the year, and you would
court aad force hlm to admit lie lias some cause those Institutions to reglster that stock
cash, aad lie will be lield ln coatempt if lie whlcli ls pald, w-len It is absolutely. indiff erdoes flot pay lis delta. But in the present ent to tliem to whom they pay the dividexîd.
case, tliere are people far more lnteresting provided tliey pay the party la possession
than those wlio advance money to a party of the shares. It seems to me there ls îîo
wlthout secunlty. If tlie holder of scnlp wants necesslty to force them to register cxcept
to vote, lie will rcgistcr lis stock. People when they go and vote. I thlnk the hou.
wliho deal la stock, and bankers here, wll gentleman from Sorel wlll bear me out
bear me out wlien 1 affirm that liundreds wlien 1 say that there are some of those
of tliousands of dollars have been advanced shares that will change hands fit ty times
upon stocks whilh are flot reglstered la tlie in the same year, and perliaps oftener, and
name of the owner, and it seems to me that I think It would be a hardshlp to enforce
these people are far more Interestlng than registration.
the credItors -of private Individuals wlio
Hon. Mr. FORGET-If you say tlxese
happen to le shareliolders, and they -are very shares must be registered every six months,
few. There Is not one per cent of the popu- or every year, I think It wlll be practlcally
lation wlio have dlaims against shareliolders lmpossible, because hundreds of thousands
who wlll flot psy their debts.
of dolla rs' wortli of shares change hands
Hon. Mn. LOUGHEED-Allow me to ask every day on the stock exchange. To-day 1
a question. If a person ln tlie open mnarket have them la air possession, and to-morrov
buys shares as a security or Investinent for I give them to the clearlag-house auad tliey
the purpose of holding, wlll you point out to go to a bank, and the next day the loans
me where the lIjustice is ln requlnlng that wlll be dliaaged and they go to a second
that party, wlthln a reasona:ble time, should bank, and 10w can the last owner of the
register hlmself In the books of the company scnlp tell If the last transfer çYas made six
months before or thlrty days before. He
as the liolder of those shares.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Why sliould you maire wlll have to go and Inquire at the office, take
a distinction for a company whldli Is golng the trouble to send a note to the office and
to Incorporate .under this law from a corn- ascertain whea these shares were last transferred. It would give a great deal of
pany lncorporated by a special charter ?
trouble to the company, If every slxty days
HEon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tliere Is no dis- or three moaths we would rush In there wlth
tinction.
a hundred thousand ahares and maire lnHon. Mr. FORGET-But there wlll be a quirles about them. How could they give
distinction.
us the Information? .They wouid have to
Hon. MIr. LOUGHEED-No, lecause tbe have a -great number of clerks attendlng to
law requires tliem to register the transfer. the transfers. The company do flot care who
I agree that It lu a liardshlp as It la at pre- owas the scrlp. I have scrlp ln my name for
sent. I think the suggestion is ail rîglit up the last ten or fttee4 years on the register,
and I do flot know where they are. They
to a certain extent.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If there is a limitation, have been passed for years and years and golng round different cltles. When a dlvldend
say thIrty or slxty days.
Is due 1 recelve a note that so-and-sù holds
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-Tliere Is one scrlp, such and sucli a number, and dlaimfeature that ls lost siglit of, that those lng the dlvldend on It. Some letters corne

SENATE
from the west and even from New York,
and we have to send a cheque for It. But
If thosa people in the west have to send
their scrip avery six montbs to bave tbem
registered, it would be a bardship, and
would flot give any better security to the
creditor. I do flot see the justice of a
special creditor having that privilege.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I think the
owner of the shares bas sufficient incentive
to registar, In the fact that at a certain
moment ha rnay desire to withdraw bis
dlvldend, and If every six monthis or every
year he desires to do so, ha must register,
or be wiii leave It in the bands of a broker
or a bank to withdraw the dIvIdend and
transfer it to him. But the owner of that
share bas suffIciant interest because he
will generally want to draw bis divldend.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-What doas tha
Secretary of State think about this point ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I would'suggest sixty
dnys.
Tbey migbt register withln sixty
days and the scrip would be free for another sIxty days.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Bill makes
no provision for the Issue of scrip. The
hon. gentleman from .1ontreal took tbe position that special powers would bave to ha
givan to Issue scrlp.
Hon. "Mr. LOUGHEED-Then the argument of my hion. friand could not be applicable to the condition arising under tbis Bill,
If special powars bave to be given for the
Issue of scrip.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Paid Up shares would
ha scrip.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Not la the sansa
mentionad by my bon, friand.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Oh., yas.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not wish to
Impose any restriction that would ba unduly
barassing, but it seems to me the principIa of tbe Bill throughout Is that thara
sbould ha registration In the books of the
company, and If you do violence to tbat
principla In this section, you have to consistently foliow It up tbroughout the Bill.
I arn wiliing the clause should stand.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Thera sbould ha a
registration to protact the cradItor of the
coaipany if the stock Is flot ail paid up.
Han. Mr. FORCET.

That is what the Bill provides for, and flot
for a creditor against a stockbholder.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-Tbis Is an important
Bill. It is entitled 'An Act respaètIng the
Incorporation of Joint Stock Companies hy
letters patent.' We juniors at this end of
the room, 'The Noble Six', bava taken no
part In this discussion, axcapt the hon. Mr.
Beiqua, and the bon. Mr. MeMullen ; the
others bave been silent. By way of relieving tbe mnonotony and tedium of this affair.
I should like to make an announcernent. it
Is of a personal charactar, and I wiil make It
In a pIayful manner, and as II; is parsonal I
hope the Housa will pardon me, I sbould
lika to go down to my home to gathar May
flowers naxt month, but If this Bill is to
drag aiong ln this slow way It is doubtfui
if we will get throughi In time, particulnrly
if tbere are other lika measures to corne
before us ; I think tha author of the mensura should bava some faIr knowledge of
the subject after It Is passad. I fear the
venerable author of this Bill will bardly
acknowledga being Its fathar whan wa are
through with It. Wa bava struck the 4Sth
clause and this Is the fourth sitting of the
committea, I do flot know much about scrip.
1 am not a waalthy man and expect to ahie a
poor man and will not bava much scrIp to
take care of. But I hope my scrip wihI
ail ha registered and ail othars who niay
hold scrip will hava It duly registered under
this Bill, and avarytbing made so safe and
,water-tight that this Bll will neyer corne
Up for amandmant in future years.
A
judge In Nova Scotia once sald that the
mrnInng law was not water-tigbt, and I told
him that he could select thraa mining men,
hast acquaIntad witb the mining laws of
Nova Scotia, or Australia, or England, and
take thrae practical mining enginears, and
two judges hasides himsalf, and I would give
those nina men power to maka a mining law
and wban thay would consIdar It for thraa
rnontbs, they would Imagine they biad a perfect law. But I should iindartaka to tell
them that thera would ha twanty casas
which thair law would not provIde for that
would arise in ona yaar, and ha admitted
It. I helieve that It Is not possible to covar
ail cases that may arise. undar property and civil rights, and. aftar the gentlemen have exhaustad ail tbair commercial
knowledge, and the iawyars ail thair lagal

APRIL 24. 1902
-Ingenuity, and we get this law through,
as we think, correct and everytbing watertight, after it becomes law there will be a
good many coutentions with regard to ItL
From a common-sense point of vîew, and as
a junior layman of this House, I thlnk It
would have been just as well to have
passed the law as Introduced by the
Secretary of State at first, and let it
go to the business men of the Dominion on Its trial, and on the actual administration of lt, the weak points would
bave been discovered and il couid have
been amended froin turne to time untîl we
got a tolerably good law. I should Ilke to
gel home soou to pick some May fiowers,
and If we are to have four more silllngs
to get through the remainder of the clauses
I would say, 'Gentlemen, burry up.' 1 tllik
the House underslands ail about the Bill as
far as they ever will. The seance should 1101
continue for one minute longer than necessary, 1 think Il la my duty to be present, but
I feel lîke absenting myselt from Ibis chamber. I think we should pass the Bill as il
is, and leave it to ils operallon.
H on. Mr. SCOTT-There is a certain degree of excitement and nervousuess about
the BI-11 whîch la uuwarranled. This clause
bas been uuchanged for 30 years and the
brokers and the banks have worked under
Il and nobody bas been burt. It is only
when attention has been called to a clause
that people get nervous and exclted as to
Its consequences, but when we know very
weIl that no Injurious resulta have followed
ln the hast thlrty-five years, a clause of that
kInd might as well be passed. It la a long
test for a clause where, for thlrty or forly
years, no trouble bas arîsen under It and
nobody has been Inconvenienced by IL Ninetenlhs of the remaînder of thé Bill Is the
old law as Il stood for thirly years.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I should lîke to
caîl attention to the fact that thîs law was
passed thirty years ago, but new habits
have crept ln and we must conform 10 thxe
usages of trade and to the fact that we have
by practice amended that haw. It ls the natural evolutîon of thinga. We know that a
law will remain on the statutes of England
a long lime after Il falîs Into disuse. Here
la a point whlch Is not acted upon and a
dîfferent order of thlngs prevaîls now. By

universal practice we brlng the law up to
what the commercial requIrements demand.
Hou. Mr. FORGET-I may tell my hon.
frlend also that the scrlp practice on the
stock exchange In Canada has been lu use
only since 1881 or 1882, and there were then
only one or two klnds of scrIp. Untîl the
last two years they were very littie used.
They are comIng Into use now that the coinpanies have the legal right to Issue thein.
Some companies came before pariament
lately asking for power to Issue thein.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink I arn withln the
mark lu saying that nlne-tenths of the scrip
on the stock excbange now that is bartered lu the way my hon. frIend described,
ls Issued by companies that have been lncorporated by Act of parliament, and not
under letters patent. This Bill only applies
to companies Iucorporated under letters patent. That appies chlefly to mercantile
establishments or Incorporated companies
who desire to be Incorporated also under
thls measure. Railway companles, telegrapli
compaules and steamship companies, Invariably have special charters, and are flot affected by this law. It ls only the Industrial
companles tuat ask for letters patent, ani
work under this statute.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Why would you not
give the same prîvIleges to companies that
are going to be incorporated under letters
patent to Issue scrlp, as If they had a speclal Act 7
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Personally I cau see
no prejudice that could arise, whether the
arnendmeut la adopted or not. It is only
lu very rare cases that Injury can arise, so
I do flot attach so much importance to It
as some hon. gentlemen do.
The amendment was agreed to, and the
clause as amended was adopted.
On clause 55,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-À suggestion has
been made to me by a practitioner lu Toronto to add a subsection ta thîs clause,
whlch I shail hand ln at the TableIt will be observable that though the sharebolder wlll have a dlaIm against the company by way of set-off, yet under the lauguage of this clause he would still remaîn
liable on hls shares.
The clause was allowed to stand.

SENATE
On clause 56,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to direct -the
attention of the hon, gentleman ln charge
of the Bill to an amendment which 1 think
sliould be made Iu the second Ilne of this
clause, after the word 'trustee' by addlng
.of or for any person named ln the books
of the company as being so represented by
hlm.' As the clause stands, a man bans
slmply to cail himself a guardian or trustee,
or executor, without stating for whom lie Is
guardian, trustee or executor, and the stock
ls protected. He may flot really hold the
stock la that character at ail, and he sbould
be obliged to disclose the person for wham
lie holds It.
The amendment was agreed to, and the
clause as amended was adopted.
On clause 15.
Han. Mr. FORGET-The company should
be prevented from paying divîdenda when
the affairs of the company do flot warrant
it; I wauld add the words 'dividends not
earned' or something to that effect. My
Point la, not to declare a divldend when It
la not earned.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The oxily objection
is this, a company may have a very large
rest-an unnecessarily large rest, and they
may consider It advisable ta pay their dl1vidends for the purpose of keeping up their
standing. It may flot do the company any
harm, but they would be precluded from so
doing under that ameadment.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-No.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If you have
lmpaired the capital you faîl under the
clause.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-It miglit go furtber
and provide that dividends should only be
pald out of profits.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 61,
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is no penalty
lmposed on the company if it fails to give
notice of Its place of business, and I think
there should be. That is a defect to whieh
attention was called ln the earlier part of
the Bill by the hon, gentleman from De
Salaberry. If you provide that a company
shaîl do so-and-so, and then do not Impose
a penalty for their not dolng it, it is left to
their own discretion ta do it or not as they
please.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In taklng out the letters
patent, tbey must ame the place before
they can get them.
Hon. Mr. POWER-But there ls no penalty Imposed.
Hon.- Mr. SCOTT-Then they do not get
the letters patent.
The clause was ndopted.

On clause 69,
Hon. MLr. SCOTT-This clause w-hidi provides that existlng companies may apply for
charters under this Act, is taken from the
law as It now stands.
I lntended ta euHon. Mr. SCOTT-If the Company large the application of that clause by subweathered the storm there would be no sequent clauses. It is to allow companles
liability. It ls only ln cases where the Incorporated ln any province of Canada, or
capital ls impaired, and the Company fail any company Incorporated under the laws
to pay 100 cents on the dollar, that the di- of the United Kingdom, or any foreigu coinpany to came ln and Incorporate. The adoprectors become Ilable.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-If the directors have tion of that clause will be found a very great
convenlence. There are many cotnpanles lusome reason to declare a dividend, and
corporated ln the United Kingdom and the
the business has not been good enougli,
United States which are now dolng business
Wh-at do they do?7 They re-value their
n Canada, but not under our lnw or under
assets, and by doing so find enougli profits
the coiitrol of our law, and It is souci better
to declare a dividend, and a year afterta have them corne under the law, and camwards another set of directors cornes ln and
?el them ta niake returns.
We have nifind that thîs bas been.done, that the profitsr ~eady
on our statute-book an Act whlch
had not been earned, and on re-valulng the
,vas passed sanie three or four years ago,
assets, find they were over-valued for a iuthorizing
the Secretary of State to permit
dividend, then you have impaired. tbe comforeign campany to corne and do business
pany's capital.
inder what is called a Ilcense-to Ilcense for
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 24, 1902
Instance, mining in the Yukon, or mining
In the North-west Territorles, and it bas
been found to be a very great convenience.
Companies already established bring their
capital here, and open business which bas
been found beneficial to the country.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Does the
bon, gentleman Intend to Include telephone
companies ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Certainly flot. 1 may
tell my hon. friend that no Secretary of
State would ever authorize the Issuing of
letters patent to enlarge the powers of any
company that bad already souglit powers
from the Dominion parliament. They would
necessariiy bave to go there, and In order
to remove anything like timidity on that
subject, I propose to enlarge the exception
of companies which come under this Bill,
exempting specialiy telegrapli and teleplione companies, because they are the subject of discussion, and at some future time
the government of the country may take
themn over, and It would be highly Improper
under nny conditions to grant letters patent.
to them. It does not follow, because the
Secretary of State la empowered to grant
letters patent, that lie will aiways do so.
He assumes a very large responsibility, and
naturally It wouid only be In those cases
whiere lie felt that the law justified and
warranted It. Rut In order to make it Impossible for any future Secretary of State
to do so, I propose to Insert a clause requiring telegrapli and telephone companies
to corne to parliament With reference to
outaide corporations, before obtainlng authority under titis Act, tliey must Ile a certified copy of their charter, designate a principal office In Canada and furnish other
Information.
Foreign companies are now
doing business la Canada, and are Ia no way
amenable to our jurisdicton.
The courts
recognize them, and no one interferes with
their business, but this ls Intended to briug
them under the Jurisdictlon of the Act in
order that the public may know more about
their capital and the property tliey hold.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The bon. gentleman
said that no Secretary of State would do
certain things. We do not know what kind
of a Secretary of State we miglit
have at a future time, and under this
clause there ts really -no clieck upon

the Secretary of State u-batever. There
are no pre-requisites to the giving of
this new charter.
A company which
lias a charter fromt the Dominion parliament, or fromn one of the local legîslatures, may corne In and get a charter under
this Act wlthout any one knowing anything
about ItL That la one of the things I object
to. Whea a company proposes to change
Its base la that ivay, the parties who may
lie interested should lie notified. I wish to
caîl attention to the tact that la Nova Scotia, where they have an officer called the registrar of companies, who does all the work
tînt Is to lie done under this Blill by the
Secretary of State, when a company wlshes
to make a change of this klnd, tliey require
speclai action on the part of the company,
and special notice. I think we sliould la this
larger sphere have at least as efficient a
safeguard as they have there. There Is no
provision la titis Bll that the shareliolders
of the company sall agree to the change.
There, although they have a special officer
to register and do the work which the Secretary of State does here, In this partîcular
case tliey go to the Governor la Council to
provide that sucli a serlous change shahl not
take place withiout the authority of the
Governor In Council and without consideration. They take particular care to see that
there is no sur-prise, and everything ls done
deliberately, and with notice to the sharehoiders of the company, and I thiak there
should be something the samne klnd here.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Âýpplying the principle
upon which this Bill la based to the law as
it stood before, there would just b)e the
samne reason for making the announcement
la advance and getting the certificates of
the shareholders as.the law stood since 1877.
The clause only requlred that they should
make application, and as far as outside coinpanies are concerned, it ls to lie presumed ijo
outslde company la going to take out letters
patent la Canada to become incorporated
unlesa wlth the approbation of Its shareholders, and the shareboJders are people living outside of Canada altogether.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Secretary of State
ls not dealing w.ith the case I put. I amn
not deallng wlth corporations outside of
Canada. These corporations are regarded
sImply as Individuals, and there ls no objec-

304

SEINATE

tion to dealing with thern in the same manHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no objection to
ner as If they came for the first time. I amn that.
speaking of the cases deait with in clause
The clause was allowed to stand.
09-' Âny company heretofore incorporated.'
On clause 89,
That means by Act of parliament or under
the existing iaw here. With regard to the
Hon. Mfr. POWER-This clause provîdes
corporations whicli now exist ln Canada, I that It should be the duty of the company to
think they should not be allowed to change make a return Io the Secretary «f State any
their bases wlthout better notice.
time a written request may 43e made thereHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If this legislation for. I tbink It should be the duty of the
la ln the interests of the public at large It company to make that return every year
certainiy shouid be assurned that it is equai- whether It la requested or not.
iy to the advantage of those companies and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are thousands
to the advantage of the public that they of smail companies no one takes any Intershould be lncorporated under tlia Act; also est In.
I woul 'd point out to my hon. frieud that it
Hon. Mr. CLEMO W-If there la one etatela oniy a Company that couid bave origment pubiished, that should. do.
naily been incorporated under this Act that
Hon. Mr. POWER-In the English Act
can avail Itself of the advantages of clause
69. The oniy difFicuity I see la that no0 pro- of 1862, there is provision that this returai
'vision ls made as to the Initiai steps wbich sliah be made every year.
shahl be taken to effect that puripose. WIIl
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-If sny sharehoider asks
lt be doue upon the application of the direc- for 1t, it wiii be done. I thought It
was
tors or at the Instance of the shareholders, absurd to cumber the department with
those
Or done at a general meeting or what arc returns that no one would look at. If any
the conditions precedent to the appication doubt is thrown on the honesty of a con'being made ?
pany's report they might be cailed uponi
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la slmpiy the publi- to make a return, -but I do not think I
cation Iii the ' Canada Gazette,' as required wouid require it otherwise.
In Acte of
ln the formation of companies. The pro- parliament we otten say If the company
duction of their letters patent, wiiatever that la caiied upon to makre a return they shall
mak-e a return, but 1 do not see why a
waa.
return shouid be made unless It la required.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Should not the
who happens to be the Secretary of State
for the time being, wIii no.t himself person- scale of fees be Inciuded ln the A&ct ?
ally attend to thia business. In all probaHon. Mr. SCOTT-The tarif£ of fees la
bllity lie wIll delegate the duty of acting as made by Order In Councli and changed fron'
regîstrar of joint stock companles to some time to lim2e.
particular offioer.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I thlnk It ahould
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
be Included ln the Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Te one of bis subordiHon. Mfr. SCOTT-It wouid be very en'nate officiais, and the secretary of a great
barraaalng If it were In the Bill. The
Company, which may wish to make a change
moment an Order la Council la paased, It le
ln its base, can go to that officer and almpiy
prlnted and dlatrIbuted.
appiy ln person. The secretary sends ln an
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-How many people
application and the change ls made before
the ahareholdea'a or credItors of the company see the Order In Councli?7
or people who have deaiings with the comHon. Mfr. SOOTT-When any person
pany know anything about It. I contend wants It, It la anppied te
hlm.
that that la Injudiclous legislation.
Hon. Mfr. FERGtISON-People who are
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why not provide
proposlng to be incorporated under lattera
that upon a resolution of tée shareholders patent will
examine thia Bill for'ail InforIt miglit be done ?
mation, and I think It abould be ln the Bill.
I[on. Mr. POWER.

APTtIL 25, 1902
It would be very mueb more convenient to
the publie to have the seule of fees forai
part of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As expedition lu
the Incorporation of companies ia the cardinal principie In this Bill, it seems to me to
be manif estiy coutradlctory to that to say
you shall write to the Secretary of State's
before you determine -to proceed. There Is
no reason why a copy of the Order ln Couricil shouid flot be embodied ln the sebeduhe.
Even professioual men are flot in a position,
without communicatlng with the Depnrtment of State, to ascertain what the fees
are. It does not necessarlly follow that
Orders ln Council are published lu thle
atatutes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The usuai way Is, where
parties are applying for letters patent, to
nsk for Instruction. A priuted book is sent
them, whidh gives ail information including
fees and ail details. That is printed and
read, and ia distributed every few days.
Companies are constantiy applying.

THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY'S
BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, from
the Committee on Railways, Telegraplis and
Harbours, reported Bill (G) 'An Act respectlng the Bell Tehephone Company of Canada,'
with several amendments.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-This report
and the amendments which have been read
to the House are the resuits of an arrangement whleh la satisfactory to ail concerned.
We are anxlous to have the Bill sent as
soon as possible to the other House. 1 have
1spoken to Senator Miller, who bas been in
charge of tbe opposition to this Bill, and
asked hlm Ifhe would have any objection
Sto, my moving concurrence this afternoon,
1and be said be would not, that lie was will1ing to facilitate lts passage now. 1 do not
know whether any one else bas any objection to the Bill. If not, I move that the
amendments be concurred ln.
The motion was agreed to. The Bill was
then read the third tîme and passed, under
a suspension of the ruhes.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbat is scarcely
the modus operandl. They go to tbeir ST. JOSEPH AND LAKE HURON SHIP
sohicitor and the solîcitor turns up the
CANAL COMPANY'S BILL.
statute wbich should contain ail tbe Inf orWlTHDRAWN.
mation.
Hon. Sir ALPHEONSE PELLETIER, fromi
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The statute Is large.
A little bookiet is sent out which contains the Com.mittee on Railways, Telegrapha and
ail the direction *s, so that they have ail the Harbours, reported Bill (T) 'An Act to IncorInformation at hand. I hope my hon. friend porate the St. Joseph and Lake Huron Ship
wllh not press that, because there are reasons Canal Company, recommending that tlie praallowed to withdraw. the Bill.
1 do not care about mentioning why the moters be
The report was adopted.
clause should not be changed.
The clause was adopted.

Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN moved that the
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, froni the commlttee, tees, less the cost of printlng, be returned
reported that they had made some progress to the promoters.
witli the Bill, and asked heave to sit again
The motion was agreed to.
to-morrow.
THE RULES 0F THE SENATE.
Tbe Seîîate adjourned.
MOTIONS WITHDRAWN..
The notices of motion being called,
By the Honourable Mr. Scett tOttawa, Fridap, April 25, 1902.
That be wili move. that the fo'ilowing Rule lie
The SPEAKER took the Chair ut Three nmade an Order of the Senate tEvery senator destrous of making a motion
o'chock.
or asklng a question Ehah! rcad the saine from
lis pliace ln the Senate before handing It ta
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the Cierk.
20

THE SENATE.

SENATE
By the Honourable Sir Mackenzie BoweIl,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
K.C.M.G.:
the other two motions are dropped ?
That he wili move thnt the foliowxing Rule ha
mnade an Order of the Senate:Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
One intermediate day's notice in wrltlng must
te given of alS mctions decmed special, the
SECOND READINGS.
sane being read by the ineiber g:ving such
motion ta the Senate at the time St ls given,
and any motion ls deemèd specil whicii liBill (71.) An Act respectlng the Ottawa,
tiates a subject of discussion.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE

BOWELL sald:

1 w-as going to suggest to the hon. Secretary
of State, as bis motion does flot cover wbat
we really intend, and my motion would
necessitate the changing of the ruSes and
perhaps notification to ail the members of
the Senate, tbat it would be better to let
both drop and accept this motion lu their
place :
A senator. when giving ' Notice o! Motion,' or
of ' Asking a Question,' shall read the same froin
his pilac-3 in the Senate before handing St ta
the ClArk.
1 thlnk the bon. gentleman's motion igbt
be Interpreted to mean that a mnember givIng a notice sbould only read St wben he
ruoves the motion. If my suggestion meets
the case, It wIll relieve us from tbe necesslty of maklng a speclal cail of the senators
to change the ruSe. It is merely affirming
what bas been tbe practice of the Senate
for a great many years, aIthough St bas
been departed from, and it seems to me It
is simply carrying out what tbe Senate
approved of and adopted Ia the past wvflen
tbey consented to concur In tbe report of
the committee, and also of tbe manual of
i[nstructions.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I do not tbink the
manual of Instructions 18 any autbority.
The hon, gentleman does not propose to
maL-e It a standing order ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Just to affirm tbe principle.

BOWELL-No,

Hon. Mr. MILLER-Tbat wouid be sufficient.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I quite concur in the
proposition of my bon. friend. One or two
senators bave asked me wbetber the motion

w-as coming Up to-day or not, and I said
No. Perbaps St would be better to Seave St
until Tuesday.

Brockville and St. Lawrence Rallway Company.-(ýHon. Mr. Gibson.)
BilS (78) An Act respecting the TransCanada Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (93) An Act respecting tbe Hudson's
Bay and Nortb-west Rallways Company.(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
Bill (103) An Act respectlng the Lake
Champlain and St. Lawrence Sbip CanaS
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Bernier, In absence of
Hon. Mr. Landry.)
JOINT STOCK COMPANIES INCORPORATION BILL.

REPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
The House resumed In Commlttee of the
Wbole consideration of Bill (R) 'An Act
respecting the Incorporation of Joint Stock
Companles by Setters patent.'
(In the Commlttee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTiT-I w-ould caSh the attention of the committee to clause 5. We corrected clause 3 by exchudiag telegrapb and
telephone companies from the operation of
the BilS. I bave an ameadment to clause 5,
to, add after 'by-law of the company,' 'or
by by-haw of the directors approv-ed by vote
of the sharebolders.' 1 move tbe adoption
of the amendment.
The motiol'w-as tagreed to, and the clause
as ameaded was adopted.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Clause 26 was ahlowed
to stand. I mentioned at the time that that
clause created a good deal of controversy.
When thîs BilS came up one of the judges
of tbe courts of Toronto wrote me about St.
It bas been struck out 0f tbe Act in Enghand.
It Is a very common transaction for a nierchant to transfer bis business to a joint stock
company. It la put in at say $23,000. If
that Ss a fair and reasonable amount the

Hon. Sir MACKENZIEBOWEL-I thlnk law approves of St and allows tbe transaction to go, and be would get $25,000 stock
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I accept the suggested in the company Sn lieu 0f the goods transferred : but if the company afterwards fals
motion.
so too.

.lon. Mr. LANDERKIN.

APIRIL 25. 1902
and it 15 found that the transaction was a
fraud-that the value of the property was
not $25,000 as stated, then the party wouid
be liable to the creditors of the company,
owing to that fraud. It is a good transaction as between the. sharehoider and the
company, and It la a good transaction to ail
the ivorid If the value is as represented. If
the value is flot as represented, then under
ithe WInding Up Act, a judge wouid direct
that the party committlng the fraud by
transferring to the compauy property above
Its value would have to pay the difference.

preferred these words : 1If autborized by a
by-iaw, sanctioned by a vote of not lesa than
two-tblrds ln value of the subscribed stock
of the company represented at a general
meeting.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The clause to
wbich the hon, gentleman refers la the
Ontario Act word for word, and as there are
decisions upon It, It seems to me we should
adhere to It.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I prefer to adhere to It.
The words that I propose now wouid be In
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then lieu of subsections (a) and (b) of clause 87.
It la more specific.
,you strike out this clause ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I have moved to Hon. Mr." POWER-There la no objection
strike out clause 26. -It is flot in the Ontario to the splitting up of a and b ln the way
the ameudment proposes to do it, but as to
Act.
the first portion of 37 I have this objection.
Thie motion wvas agreed to.
The meanlng of the beginning of 37, as It
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In dlseussing stands ln the Bill before us, Is apparently
-clause 3-4, we spoke of omitting subsectkon that at leat two-thirds ln value of the
(d), tiiat is the subsection ln reference to the subscribed stock of the company shahl apemployment of servants. I would therefore prove of this by-law, and the ameadment
move that section 84 be amended by add- does not contemplate that. The amendment
lng thereto after the word 'by-iaw,' the contemplates that two-thlrdà o! those who
foliowing : 'except by-iaws respectlng the are present at the meeting may approve.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Two-tblrds in value.
inatters set forth in subsection <b) of this
,section.' That la to say, ail others wIii have
HQn. Mr. POWER-But at the meeting
±o be confirmed at a general meeting of the
thiere may be present only one-thlrd of the
.shareholders witb thîs exception.
stockholders.
The motion w-as ngreed to. and the clause
Mr. LOUGHEED-Allow the .first
as aende
wasadoped.Hon.
~~of the clause to stand.
amne
as~~~~ pe.Part
a
On clause 37,
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Tben adopt Mr. BeiHon. 3fr. SCOTT-This question lias corne que's ameudment.
before banks. Parties Issue bonds and beTite ameudment as modified was agreed
fore the bonds are sold they get advances on to, and the clause as amended
was adopted.
them. Objection was taken to the way ln
On clause 38,
which the power la set forth-rather to the
,wording.than to the prlnciple-by soine counHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The object of the
sel for banks ln Toronto. The Ontario Act company may be entirely to take over a
w-as changed to read as I read It going concern, and thls would flot asslat It.
the other day. The reason for the change
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think thîs
lu -the section la, It bas been found to be
Indefinite. Bankers have objected to it on wouid cut ont a case hike the one the hon.
this ground : It la often necessary after a gentleman refers to. The payment wouid
loan frorn a bank to obtain a f urtber loan, flot necessarily be ln cash. He might pay
or when one has been paid off, to get a new for It lu gooda.
loan. The clause was drafted by a lawyer
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
lu Toronto to read: If authorized by a by- are many cases of thls kind. A person
law sanctioned by a vote o! flot lesa than carrying on business may desire to forma a
two-thirds lu value o! the sharebioiders then joint stock company o! It, simphy to bring
present lu persou or by proxy. Mr. delque ln members of bis famlly, and he juat'aliots

SENATE
the stock to bis Bons or bis daugliters as the
case may be.
The largest mercantile
establishment In the town where I live bas
doue preclsely that. The business was
owned by one gentleman and he turned it
Inte a Joint Stock company, by which bis
sister and twe of his principal managers ln
the business censtitute the company. I
thlnk I would let It stand as It Is.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la Mr.
Beique's suggestion. Perhaps we bad lietter not adopt
ItL
The clause was agreed te witbout amendment.
On clause 41,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
clause does flot go far eneugh. Suppose
a company bad failed to keep the books for
a year and the creditors were affected liy it,
there is no penalty for it. I think ten
dollars a day is not enough for a continuance ef the wrong. I would suggest that
persons who bave been guilty of flot keepIng
books should be suliject te' a penalty of say
$50, or $100, or $10, or $20>a day for every
day they neglect te do what the law cails
for atter ihey bave been found eut.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk the $10 would
be retroactive.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It would lie frem
the date of this Act.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWnELL-They
may bave been violatlng the provisions ef
thls law for twelve months or two years.
There Is ne penalty for that. The penalty
Is oniy after they bave been feund out.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Suppose a year
hence they were discovered to have vielated this law, they would lie hlable from
the time ef the passing ef the Act.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-It miglit
take the whole of the capital of tbe cernpany to pay Up tbe fines. It weuld lie
better te bave a sulistantial penalty in tbe
first Instance, and then they would lie
careful net te do sncb a thlng again.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbose penalties
are seldem Invoked, and If yeu make them
tee enereus, almost lnvariably they come
te Parlament or tbe legislature for relief,
and almeat lnvarialily tbey are relieved, or
the penalty or fine remitted.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

The clause was adopted.
Hon. 31r. POWER-It may lie remembered
that the hon. gentleman from De Salaberry
called attention to the fact that there
was no0 penalty for negleet to carry out
the provisions of the Âct with regard te givlng four weeks' publication in a local paper.
I thlnk the Secretary ef State should provide some penalty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If we could agree on
the amount.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Twenty dollars a day
15 mt an 'unreasonalile amount.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It may lie a lilemish
on their charter If tbey do net put in -the
notice. I shaîl Instruct the iaw clerk te
have a penalty Inserted ln clauses 8, 15 ami
31, with the apprevai of the Honse.
Hou. Mr. POWER-In the Engllsh Act
there la a penalty for net glvlng proper
notice.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
been f urnished liy the Secretary of State
with a statement of tees ln pamphlet ferm.
Would It net lie lietter, and relieve the Secretary of State of a good deal ef trouble, te
have the fees form part of the Bill ltseif.
The Bihl leaves it eptienal with the Geverner iii Council te regulate the fees. New,
the fees fer grantlng these charters are laid
dewvn ln this pamphlet ef informati on.
Why net make It a part of the Act ? It
seems te me that persens deslring a charter
would prefer te knew, when looklng at the
1ct, exactiy -what they have te pay witbout
lnaking application te the Gevernor in
Council, and it wenld relieve the Governer
ln Council from the respensibîlîty ef alterlng or amending the tariff. I thlnk It would
lie a relief te the goverfiment and Inforniation for those who apply fcS letters
patent, te have these fees ln the Act.
Hon. 3fr. WOOD (Hamnilten)-l think peopIe sheuld lie in a position te know wbat
It would cost them before applying for a
charter.

Hon. 31r. SCOTT-We have found It most
convenlent te send the instructions relating
te applicants when they write te the department for them.

This table of

been a very varying schedule.
lie cbanged from time te time.

fees has

It had te
«You couid

APiIIL 28. 1902)
nlot Change it in the Act. There is no provision for companies of over a million
dollars. There are at present, companies
applylng for incorporation with capital of
two, three, five and seven million dollars.
It would bind us down too closely to lnsert
the ehedule ln the Act. We have to change
the fees from time to time. Since the change
of government we have changed lt.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I arn
suggesting that there shouid be no power
te change the tees. However, I do not press
the amendment
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The principle has been
to ndjust the fee to the size of the capital.
A small company would nlot pay as high a
tee as a company with a capital of a million
dollars or five million dollars. 1 tblnk it
would be better to Ieave the clause as It is.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Suppose yo
set a liercentage on the capital.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (AA) An Act incorporating the Maritime Stock Breeders' Âssdciation.--(Hon.
Mr. Scott.)
-Bill (9) An Act respecting the United Gold
Fields of British Columbia, Limited.--&Hou.
Mr. Templeman.)
Bill (54) An Act to incorporate the Essex
Terminal Rallway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Casgrain, Windsor.)
Bill (65) An Act to incorporate the Yukon
Pacific Railway Compiiny.-(flIon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (84) An Act respecting the Bay of
Qulnté Ra.liway Company.-(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
Bill (40) An Act respecting Pensions to
Officers of the North-west Mounted Police.
-(Hon. Mr. Scott)
Piltage
1Pltg

Mr. Scott.)
ct(on
A
A
ct.
r
c.-Hn

ed

h

THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It Is
based on a percentage now. Has any variaBill (Q) An Act to Incorporate the Metrotion from these fees as eet forth lu the politan Bank.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson, ln the
pamphlet taken place ?
absence of Hon. Mr. McMullen.).
Bill (79) An Act to Incorporate the Crown
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, that Is the last
Bnank of Canada.--(Hon. Mr. McCallum.)
revised table of tees.
Bill (57) An Act respecting the Ontario
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Thiere would cer- Power Company of Niagara Falls.-(Honi.
tninly be a great advantage in having them Mr. Gîbson.)
inserted ln the Act, because a copy of the
The Senate adjourned.
Act Is found ln every lawyer's office, and
every person contemplating forming a company can get the Information without corTHE SENATE.
responiding with the department, and It
Ottawva, Mondaji, April 28, 1902.
would relieve the government of tliis responslbility, and of pressure belng brought
The SPEAK~ER took the Chair nt Tbree
to bear upon them to meet somne particular
o'clock.
company's case. They would be stronger
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ln the matter and be relleved of trouble,
and It would be better under ail consIderaBILLS INTRODUCED.
tiens.
Bill (105) An Act to nmend the Bis of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That bas nlot been our Exchange Act, 1S90.-7(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
experlence. I hope my hon. frlend whhl not
Bill (BB) An Act to amend the Bank
press It.
Act.--(Hon. Mr. Ellis.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, 1 BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY'S BILL.
do nlot press it.
AN EXPLANATION.
H1on. Mr. WO OD (Westmoreland), from
Hon. Mr. MILLELI-I ish to caîl the atthe committee, reported the Bill witli several tention of the Senate to the very misleadamendments, which were concure u
ing report lu the Montreal 'Star' of Satur-

SENATE
day hast, relatlng to the passage of the Bell
Telephone Bihl thî-ough this Huse. The
'Star' Is a wldely circulated papier, and the
Inaccurate statements of its correspondent
should not be allowed to go uncontradicted.
They are lntended te, let the company down
softly, and ininimize the victory of the
munlcipalitles la their fights agalnst the
corporatlon's unjust and arbitrary pretensions. The followlng ls the language of the
Star's' reporter:
As a matter of fart it is questionable wliether
the promoters, of the Bill have really made any
conc-ession, so cleverly have the changes in the
ainenduients been worded and one sençator who
la aleo r- lawyer, la the authority for the sÉatemient that it wll cost $50,000 to fSud out what
the .exact meanIng of the aniendmieats la,
In the Raliway Committee of the Senate,
1 moved three amendments to the Bell Telephone Company's Bill. The object of the
first was to compel the company to furnish
telephones andi telephone service, on the
application of ny person in any clty, town,
village or territory whereln the company
bas, or may hereafter have, a main or
branch telephone service. This amendment
the company accepted.
My second amendment, whlch w-as not
eonsidereid vltally important, and whIlh
liad relation to the payment and recovery
of rates, w-as struck out, and a subsection
substituted for it, placing the provisions of
the clause iii the discretion of a judge
referee te be nauied by the Governor ln
Council. This w-as vlrtuaily ail the municipalities wanted.
The tbird amendment and the chief'contention of the municipaities, was, to, give
the government absolute control of rates,
according to the spirit, if not the letter, of
section 3 of the Act of 1892. This section,
however, only gave power expressly to the
Governor ln Council to prevent any Increase
of rates. The Bill as amended gives authorlty to 'increase or dlminlsh' ail rates at any
time, which ln the present outiook of telephony Is exceedingiy Important, and much
more than the Act of 1892 contemplated.
The mu-niclpaitles got ail they asked for
without a word of alteration.
Counsel for the municipalities were qulte
satlsfied wlth the Bill as amended, and they
are men of ii
reputations lu their profession, especlally a corporation lawyer.
The other subsectiou ndded to my hast
amendment merely relates to procedure beHon. Mr. MILLER.

fore the referee, la cases of litigation, about
wvhich there w-as no difference of opinion.
If any ' member of the Senate w-ho is also
a lawyer,' 15, as the reporter says, authority
for the statement that It wi take $50,000
to find out the exact meaning of the amendments, I w-ould like to mneet hlm, ln order
to reileve hlm from the hallucination under
whilh lie Is labouring, and set his mind at
rest on the question.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (68) An Act respecting the Central
Counties Railway Company.-(Hon.
Sir
Aiphonse Pelletier.)
Bill (88) An Act respectlng the Medicine
Hat2 Rallway and Coal Company.-(H-oni.
Mr. Watson, ln the absence of Hon. -Ni-.
Y ou ng.)
Bill (43) An Act respecting the Vancouverî,
Victoria and Eastern Railway and Navigation Com.pany.--(Hon. Mr. Templeman.)
Bill (63) An Act to incorporate tthe Mýedi1et-ne Hat and Northern Alberta Raliway
Company.--(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (16) An Act respecting the Manitoba
and North-western Rallway Company of
Canada.--(Hou. AIr. Kirchhoffer.)
Bill (X) An Act respectlng the Montreal
flridge Company.-(Hon. Mr. McISweeney.)
Bill (72) An Act to incorporate the ]Pacific
Northern and Omineca Rallw-ay Compauy,
-(Hon. Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
Bill (75) An Act to Incorporate the Knapp
Tubular Steamshlp Company.-(Hon. MiNl.
Casgraln De Lanaudière.)
Bill (59) An Act respeeting the James' Bay
Rallway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Kirclihoffer.)
Bill (62) An Act respectlng the Klondike
Mines Railway Company-(Hon. Mr. Kirclihoffer.)
NATURALIZATION ACT A.LMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (Z) An Act to amend the Naturahizatlon Act, chap. 113 of the Revlsed
Statutes. He sald :The object of tbis
Bill is to require the clerk-s of the courts tun
the varions provinces to make a return to
the Secretary of State twlce a year of the
certificates granted to ail persons w-ho

APRIL 28. 1902

becorne na.turalized, to have the namnes of
persons wbo have been naturalized at une
central point, s0 that the public can*ascertain who are or are nlot naturaiized. It bas
been found ln the past that certificates bave
been iost-or misiaid, and after a few years
tbere la really ne0 record kept, it bas been so
carelessiy done.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la mnrked on tbe
order paper as being distrlbuted ln Eng-lsb
and Frenchi.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readIng of Bill (40) An Act respecting the pensions to officers of the North-west Mounted
Police. He said : The objeet of this Bill
Is to encourage tbe mien ln tbe North-west
Mounted Police to remain la tbe force, by
holding out to them the prospect, If they
serve for tbirty or tliirty-five years, that
tbey wiil be then entitied to a retlrlng allowance. *It applies to any offlcer ivho Is retlred for any cause but misconduct or inefficlency frein the service. He Is entltled to
a pension -not exceeding one-fiftleth of the
pay and allowances of is rank or permanent
appolntment at the time of bis retirement
for eachi conipieted year of service. It la
practlcally the sanie basis us adopted under
our Superannuation Act. Af ter twenty-fivle
years' service lie may voluntarily retire, but
If bie does so, bis pension wlll be twenty
per cent less than If lie were retired coinpuisorlly. If after tirty-five years hie retires lie gets the full benefit of the superannuation, wblch Is the rule that appiies to
the Civil Service. Tbey contribute to the
fund wbicb Is heing- created for the allowance. The Bill aise provides that under
certain circunistances the widow and the
chldren-boys, until tbey attain tbe age of
eighteen years, and girls until tbey attain
the -age o! twenty-one, or niarry-may be
paid a small limited sume not, *bowever, If
tbey have other means of support, or in the
case o! a girl If she marries before the age
of twenty-one. Tbat la, the case will depend
entirely on the circunistances of the fanilîr.

Hon. 3fr. LANDRY-I do not object to the
second readlng of the Bill, but I do object
to belng led into error by the Orders of the
Day.

Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-In the usual way,
but It la nlot dlstributed. I want to cali
the attention of tbe Speaker to the fact
tbat on the Orders of the Day the letters E
and F are used te denote tbe Bills printed
The motion was agreed to, .and the Bill and distributed wben the Orders of the Day
were printed. Tbose letters appear at tbe
was read the second time.
end of this notice, but tbe Bill is not disNORTHI-WEST MOUNTED POLICE PEN- tributed. If we are to bie strict with tbe
rifles, I asl, tbem to bie applied.
SION BILL.
Holl. Mfr. SCOTT-I arn villing to let tbe
SECOND READING.
order stand until to-morrow.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbe bon. gentleman is
quite right. It occurred several times a
fortuiglit ago, and I called the attention of
the officer ln charge to the fact, and asked
that greater attention ho given to the subject, and nlot mark the Bis on the paper
' El and ' FI until tbey were printed and
In soine
distrlbuted ln botb languages.
cases they were found so *marked on the
paper wben tbey baëd not 'been distributed.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRtY-I wltbdrnw my objection to the Bill to-day.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I should like to
know wbetber the Bill is lutended to bie retroactive ln Its application.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-It will apply to ll
officers now ln the force.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHIEED-Is tbis modelled
somewhat after tbe Impertal Pensions Act ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I fancy It la. It bas
been carefully drawn. We will bave ail the
detals ln the committee.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tume.
PILOTAGE

ACT

AMENDMENT

BILL.

SECOND READING.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved the second rendlng o! Bill (76) An Act furtber to amend
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I object to the rend- tbe Pilotage Act. He snid : A few years
Ing of tbis Bill, because It la nlot distributed. ago the Pilotage Act was amended, sand

SENATE
steam vesseis and vessels propelled partiy
by steam and partiy by sal that were theýn
exempted were those trading between the
provinces and Newfoundiand, and to points
north of New York. However, It lias been
found- that the Act really applies, If strictiy
carried. out, to ves»els operating from
the upper lakes to lower St. Lawrence
points, and It Is flot desirable that tixey
shouid be under the compulsory pilotage
iaw, because as a rule their officers are
nien permanentiy employed on the boats,
and quite equai ln capacity to tlue ordinary
pilot of the river. The object of this Bill
Is to exempt ail vesseis, drawing flot more
than sixteen feet, that trade between the
upper lakes and upper St. Lawrence and
lower St. Lawrence, practicaliy vesseis that
trade from port to port.
Hon. Mr. CHURCU-Do the provisions of
tluis Bill refer to the navigation' of the St.
Lawrence river only ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The law is uîot changed.
The Bill recites the iaw as It Is at present
so far as the maritime provinces are concerned. It merely recites 'C'1 which was
the particular subsection ln the original Iaw
that reiated to the iower provinces, and
therefore the iaw is repeated ln sections 1 ta
3, which are practically thue sanie as they
110W exlst. No change lias been made there.
Subsections 4 and 5 are new. Four applies
to vessels employed between any port ln
the maritime provinces and any port in New
foundland. Five applies entireiy to vessels
when flot loaded beiow 16 feet. 0f course,
ail vesseis trading la the upper St. Lawrence draw not more than thiat, because
they couid not pass througli the canais and
points on the lower St. Lawrence If they
dld. It does flot affect the pilotage question ln the maritime provinces at ail, and
lias no bearlng on that.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The oniy exception
Is ln the ports of Halifax, Miramichi and
Picton.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That ls the law as It
now stands.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is siunply f0'
extend some exemptions f0 the places that
are enumerated in the hast two sections.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

SECOND READINGS.
Bill (54) An Act to Incorporate flue
Essex Terminai Ralway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Casgrain, Windsor.)
Bill (84) An Act respecting the Bay of
Quinté Rahlway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Ferguson, ln absence of Hon. Sir Mackenzie
Bowell.)
CANADA EVIDENCE ACT AMLEND.NENT
BILL.
FIRST READ)ING.
A message was received from the House
of Commons with Bill (115) Ain Act
further to amend the Canada Evidence Act,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This Bill ls iptended to
remove somewhat of a scandai that lias
existed in some criminal trials of recent
years, ln one case within iny recoilection
ivithin the last six montlis, where some 18
or 20 expert witnesses were caiied-medical
men, I am sorry to say-on one side, and
an equai number on the other side, rather
ieadlng to the confusion of the court, and
this Bill is to limit the number to five
sucli witnesses on encli side, unless the court
make an order that furtber eu-ldence of a
pimilar klInd may be given.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does thaý extend
to ail Dominion courts ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, it is the Canada
Evidence Act.
The Bill was read the first time.
The Senate adjourned.

TUE SENATE.
Ottaiwa, Tuesdav, April 29, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceediugs.
NORTH SHORE POWER, RAILWAY AND
NAVIGATION COMPANY BILL.
MOTION TO SUSPEND RULE.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Colchester), from the
Committee on Standing Orders, reported
Bill (73) 'An Act to lncorporate the North
Shore Power, Raiiway and Navigation
Comnpany,' recommending the suspension of
Rule 49.

APRIL 29. 1902
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the suspension tieman from Sorel, tbat this report shall
be taken Into consideration to-morrowv.
of the rule In accordance witb the report.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-In view of -the extraordinary nature of this Bill, I request that
the report be allowed to stand until to-morrow1.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-According to the
rule of the Senate. a company is supposed
to be advertised ln every province to w'hlcb
they desire to extend their business. Or
course ln the House of Gommons tbey advertise ln only one paper. In tliis case the
company asked for power to do business
outside of the province of Quebec, and they
only advertised ln the province of Quebec.
The principal part of 'their business, I
understand, Is manufacturiug. Tbey asked
for power to own steamships aiso. The
commlttee saw fit to suspend the ruie and
allow the company their charter under condition that the manufacturing operations
be coaflned to the province of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-W-ýe baâ better understand wbether this Is a railway
Bill or a trading company's Bill. It must
be both combineti ln one. From my recellection, the practice ln the House of Gommons bas been to refuse ail sucb Bis as
that. If a railway company want a Bill
give tbem a Bill as common -carriers.
Wben they go Into trade andi interfere witb
business carrled on by private individuals,
tbey are flot te monopolize andi become
large departmental stores to cruali out ail
the smaller people. The bon. gentleman
shouiti explain to the House-what this Bill
is te be, whether a trading cempany's Bill
or a rahlway company's Bill.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tbe merits ef tbe
Bill will be discussed wben it is referred to
the commlttee. The object of the motion
now Is to get It before the CommIttee on
Railways. The Commlttee on Standing Orders saw fît to recommend the suspension of
the rule, where the applicants have coniplied
with the rule of the House of Gommons, but
flot witb that ef the Senate. Tbey confine
the manufacturing operathons to the province of Quebec.

NOTICES 0F MOTION.
MOTION.
Hon. Sir MÂCKENZIE BOWELL moveti:
'Ilbat a 'jenator, when giving notice ef motion
or o! ssking a question, shali1 read the same
fro)m his place In the Senate before handing it
to the Olerk.
He said : This motion is for the parpose
of settlng at rest a question wbicb bas been
ln dispute ln reference to the ghving of notices. I ivould ask, permission, ln mnaling
this motion, to add the following -%vords
to It, 'in compliance witb the manual of
proceeding-s of the Senate.' This manual
wvas adopted by tbe Sonate nt the time the
rules were adopteti. My object in adding
tiiese words is to make it a little plainer.
If there is no objection, I include these
words la the motion as it appears on the
Order paper.
Hon. Mir. MACDONALD (Britishi Columbia>-The motion of the bon. gentleman does
not go far enougb. What led to this motion was this : A notice o! motion was
struck off <lie Order paper by direction of
the Speaker. Some lion. menîbers salidthen
that,;t was not o of the functions of tbe
Speaker to do so, and that attention shoulti
bave been calleti to It by a member of the
House. This does not go far enough; wlio
is to be the censor now to say wbether a
motion shahl be publistet ln the Orders
-of the Day or flot? I thhnk It shoulti be
fairly understood that any motion to be
struck off should be done by the Speake'r,
nfter attention' bas been called to It. If
that is not done aow, I hiope some day the
leaders on both sides will take It up, liecause it 18 nolOieft entirely undecided. As
I salid the other day, suppose I give notice
of motion to-day, this House couli neot pesslbly be seizeti e! It te decide whetber that
motion shoulti go on the Orders or not.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It seems teome
that tbe motion o! the hon. leader of the
opposition, wbich bas, I tbink, the support
of the leader of tbe goverament, fully
covers the point. He provides that la givThe SPEAKER-As I understand, the lng notice o! motion or of asklag a quesbon, gentleman from Portage la Prairie tion, It shahl be reand from the place of tbe
lias acceded to the request o! the bon. gen- senator la the House. My bon. frienti fromn

S ENAT E
Victoria says that under this rule the it for the present, and gi-e no tice that 1
House will flot be seized of the purport of will moi-e It on Thursday Iiext, SO thaft
the resolution. I take it that the mere tact tiiere wlll be more than one clear day's
of the reading of the motion to the House notlce. That will give H-is Honour
thue
gives the House full knowledge of the reso- Speaker time to look up ail the authorities.
lution, and if It is in contravention of any
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I understand the leadrule, If It Js an Improper motion, I presume er of tbe opposition, knowing
bis motion
it would be the duty of the Speaker, on to-day was on tbe paper,
had asked perhearing the resolution read, to rule it out 0f mission to make the change,
and so far as
order. I think the motion fuliy covers the' I was able to hear, there
was not one dispoint. It mieets the approi-al of the leader seuting voice. Tlien
bie proceeded to read
of the goi-ernment, and if the motion is flot the amended notice,
and no one objected
seconded, la the absence of that bion. gen- to the change, and lu that
way the leader
tleman, I wilt be pleased to second It. .
f the opposition, It strikes me, placed binuHon. Mr. MACDONILD (British Colum- self In order to make bis motion if lie saw
bla)-Â notice of motion. la not before the fit.
House until the day It Is supposed to corne
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If thnt Is the case,
up for consideration. Mben I glu-e notice
some of us must be ln the wrong.
of a motion, I gLu-e notice that on a certain
day I will move it.
Hon. 3fr. YOUNG-It is the lion. gentleHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, you read man.
it
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-No, I am not.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British ColumHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
bla)-But It Is not before the House until I should like to caîl
the attention of the
moi-e it. It la oniy a notice of motion, and Speaker to the fact that
the hon. gentleman
the motion la not before the House.
bas already spoken.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I thlnk. this motion
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (Hlamllton)-I do tbink,
la not In order at ail. Why .do we give a when we are to
make a change, we should
notice of motion ? Just to put the House In revert to wbat
la the rule In the othier
possession of wbat a member Intends to Hàouse. It
la Inconvenlent to have a dismoi-e at a future day. Tbe motion that cussion
arise on a question. Tbe question
was put In your bands to-day, Mr. Speaker, sbotild be put,
and wben the answer Is
was flot the motion whlcb was given notice given, that sbould
be the end of It. Then,
of. In the motion to-dày there la an in- If further Information
la requlred, It should
cidentai phrase whlch says 'in compIlance corne up
on resolution.
This practice of
with the manual of proceedings.'
That dlscusslng a question, It seems to me, la
brîngs Into discussion qulte a new question. wholly out
of order. It used to be the
I think for that reason the motion whlcb practice In the
House of Commons, but they
has been read fromn the Chair la *not in have done
away wlth It as being Inconaccordance wlth the motion gi-en, and la venlent
We sbould confine ourselI-es to
not the samne motion at ail. I, as a member puttlng
a question and getting an answer.
of this House, nsk you to rule that the
The motion was aliowed to stand as a
motion la out of order, and there must be
notice of motion for Thursday.
a clear day's notice given.
TTn~ U4._

r

'Tt7T7,,ý...

1-

>viv nLu-Le

hon, gentleman la qulte correct In the position hie has taken, but I think the House
wlll remnember wben 1 rose I made tbe suggestion that I would add those words If there
was no objection, and no objection being
ralsed, I added them; but, as tbe hon. gentleman has taken exception to It, and as,
this la Blot a motion so paramount that lt
sbould be passed to-day, 1 wlil withdraw
Hlonl Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

BiIh (W) An Act respectlng the St. Lawrence and Âdlrondack Rallway Company.(Hon. 3fr. Beique.)
TH CAEO
PAIADMSN
TECS
FCPANAASN
MOTION TO ADOPT THE REPORT 0F THE
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the adoption
of tbe third report of the Standing Coin-

APRIL 29. 1902

Bank of Montreal,
mittee on Internai Economy and Contingent Accounts of the Senate.
To wham this may concern.

Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-l expected the
chairman of the committee to explain this
report. I amn a member of that committee,
and I do flot desire to find any fault witb
the committee, but I do flot think thzey gave
this question proper consIderation. Our action, If carried out as recommended by the
committee, will have a far-reachIng effect
on the position of the parliament of Canada
before the -worid. A clerk of this House
wrote a letter to the chairman of the committee Informing them that he had been
appointed a captain lu the contingent going
South Africa. The following is the letter :
To the Chairman af the CommIttee on Internai
Economy and Contingernt Acer-unts, the
Senate.
Sir,-I have the honour
lA
nform -,ou that I
have beene appointed to I
captaincy la the
Fourth Canadian Contingent now lieing mobilized at Halifax for servire In South Africa.
I sbauld particularly like to ac"pt this If
your honcurable comm.ittee sua fit ta recoInmend that I be granted leave of absence, with
continuance of my salary during iny term of
service wh1ch la nominally fliteen months.
Tbis was donc two years ugo wh-n the Senate
was good enough to glve muea year's 'leave In

oz-der te take a commission in Lord Strathcona's Horse, and is nc>w agaiv beinZ granted
univcrsxily throughout the civil service.
I have the honour ta bc, ai r,
Your obedient servant,
AGAR ADÂAMSON.

I do not know this young man. I have
only spoken ta hlm once. Are we ta refuse
this young man, who lg ready to take his
life In -his hands-who is ready ta leave
bis wife and famlly to defend the bonour
of his country? la
Ist
ta be said that
the parl-4ament of Canada cannot afford
to pay hlmi bis salary white he la away ?
I find no fault with the committee, but I
repeat they did not consider the far-reaching
effélct that thîs report, If adopted, will have.
The monetary Institutions of thîs country
have given ail the young men In their employ that wanted ta go to, South Africa the
ame thing that Captain Adamson aska.
Have the atockbolders of the monetary Institutions of this country found fauît with
the directora for having doue so ? No, they
have approved of their action, and If ive do
flot do the same, we wiIll be condemned by
the people of Canada. Here la a circular I
got from the Bank. of Montrenti:

Ottawa.

I amn authorized by the vice-president of tihe
Bank of Montreal, the Hon. G. A. Drummond,
ta say that ahl officiais of the bank who applied
for permission ta join the new contingent for
South Africa were grantedl anc year's leave of
absence with full .pay. And that others wishlng
ta go will be treated In a similar manner.
I may say that three have already gone ta
Halifax this week.
(Sgd.) W. J. ANDERSON.
Manager of the Bank of Mantreai,
Ottawa.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-What date is that ?
Mr. McCALLUM-Two or tbree days ago.
Are we s0 poor that we cannot afford ta pay
this young man as the monetary Institutions of this country are doing with their
employees ? I for one wlll clear myself, as
far as I can, of what 1 consider would be
an injustice. If the committee had considered thia question, I arn satisfled tbey would
have reported dIfferently. I do not wish to
speak of the arguments whicb were used
to Induce the committee ta make this report,
but 1 hope the gentlemen will repeat theni
here, and sec If they wiil hald water. 1 arn
flot doing It, because It would be out of
order. There ls anc gentleman bere, the hon.
gentleman from Barrie (Mr. Gowan) who
bas glven ont of bis own funds ta encourage the volunteers of this country, more
than balf the amount that the adoption of
my amendment would involve. Are we ta
stand bere and say that we will baggle
over the amount ta be paid this young man?
It la not the IndivIdual I canaider, but the
principle invalved. Haw much bas this
South African war coat us ? It la truc, it
bas coat us a lot In blood, but nat tn money.
When aur volunteera who have been fightlng ln Africa, came home, In every -clty,
tawn and village, and at every cross-rond,
the people will meet and gîve them au ovation, as they have donc In the past and will
put their banda tn their pocketa and buy
watches for tbem. Do bon, gentlemen think
the people of this country will approve of
tbe action of the Senate In being no penurlous as not ta continue this young man's
salnry, when the monetary Institutions of
the country eau afford ta pay the salaries
of their employees under sîmilar clrcumstances ? How can the bon, gentlemen justify thîs report ? If we are toa poor ta pay
this young manns salary, let us pass round

SENATE
the biat. I should like the members of the
coimmittee to make the salue speeches hiere

a monetary point of view, thain the other.
WVel, I went through thiat service and re-

want anything cut and dried ; let us have
It before the world. I move :

the Surgeon Général and of parliament, and
also of ail wlio had any need of my services.
I hiad charge of ail the medical supplies and

- -

That the report of the Standing Comniittee on
Internai Economy and Contingent Accounts of
the 25th of April be not adopted, but that it be
referrefi back to the sald commlttee wlth instructions to amend the same by strlking ont
the word 'but ' and Insertlng the word ' and '
after the word ' contingent,' and leaving out
the wQrd 'not,' and atter 'absence'* add the
followlng
' If Captain Adarnson cornes back
alive, and Is fit to perforrn the duties of an afficiali l' the Senate, that lie lie given the samie
'position that be now holds.'
Hon. M1r. SULLIVAN-I amn so situated
that I oug'ht to explain îvhy It is that 1
should support the hon. gentieman.for Monck
ln the resolution hie lins moyed. It Is the
first
ie ln my life tliat I have adverted
to any military career of my own, but of
course brave men ore always modest. I
arn one of the oldest surgeons, by the way,
ln the province of Ontario. I was appointed surgeon at the time tlhat the volunteer

companies were chnanging from the old mliitia, and we succeeded the corps whlch
were called "lThe Sanguinary Flrst." Another term wvas used, whlch would be unparliamentary for me to repeat here. This
corps had a very marked record. One of
their principal acbievements was a celebrated charge they made on a distillery
in Prescott; which they succeeded ia capturing. rirom that Urne on 1 had flot mucli
to do wlth mllitary affairs until the Fenian
raids. When the Iast Fenian raid occurred,
and the news was fiashed over the wires
that there was a disturbance ln the Northwest, I received a letter about It, and lmmedlately went home to Kingston. I found
that the surgeon who belonged to ' A' Battery of the Canadian Artlllery had declined to go with the expedition. 1 waited
a while, to give an opportuiity to others
who were younger than myseif, that they
mliglit go. I then thought it would be
a disgrace ta the town If one of the medical profession did not volunteer, and I at
once wrote that I would go. I collected the
uecessary Instruments and appliances, so
as to be ready and avoid delay. In reply
the Surgeon Qenerai appointed me to another position, that of Purveyor Géneral,
which turned ont to be mnucli better, fr021
HOn. Mî. McCALLtr.

L an sof

ue .uiniser ot

comforts provided by
sent

by

différent

-iiitia.

the goverument or

citizens

and

towns or

frlends. The Senate j>assed a resolutionî,
without any solîcitation, on my part, to ailow me the amnount of the Indemnity. This
was a great surprise to me. I gave no intimation that 1 wanted such n resolution to
be passedl lu any way. Now, If they pass.ýd
thils resolution with reference to, me, a sen-

ator, liow sadly the Senate of to-day miust
have degenerated, If they should refuse to
pass the resolution of the hon, gentleman

from Monck.

I trust they have not degen-

erated.
1 thlnk, as lie said. that the~
comnaittee did not reflect on ItL
As
the bon. gentleu*,t said, this Senate must
surely be a guidlng liglit to the people
of this country, and every one, evea the
Medical Council last year, passed resolu-

tions granting ta the students who have
gone to South Africa ah the riglits tley were
entitled ta wiiout any expense, ,lust as mucli
as If they had remained at home and gone
Up for examination. This spirit pervaded
the whole country. It lias flot fallen away,
I trust and I hope the people of cilis country will not tnke this report o! the coimîttee as an example o! the feeling of the
Senate.

I consIder myseif that It m-as right

ta give this little expinnation nnd nt the
same time ta show that It Is not necessary
for me ta dilate on the great advantage of
these contingents ta the country. There is
nothlng lu the whole history of Canada that
lias at ail equalled the benefit that these
men have conferred on the Dominion. They
have given us a position which It would
take-I do not think I am speaklng too extravagantly-fifty years for Canada ta attain
ta, had not 511db an opportunity been presented to show Its devotion ta Britain, and
also, above ail, ta show the sort of men that
Canada bred. That these men, bath ln
mind and body, and ln ail the qualities that
constitute a successful soldier, possess lu the
hig-hest degree.

I think that ln

ltself

Is

worth ail the money Canada expended, aud
I hiope, therefore, there will flot be any
hésitation lu the hon. gentleman's wltlidraw-

APRIL 29. 1902
lug that portion of tbe report, and makiug a number wbo bad been accepted for service
iu one of those contingents, among others
this motion nanimous.
an officer from the Iniand Revenue DepartHon. 'Mr. PRIMROSE-Tbere seems to ment, and some others wbose names lie
be one phase of this matter that bas es- gave me, but wbicb 1 bave forgotten. tliat
caped the attention of bon. gentlemen who lu ail cases tbey were granted leave of
have spoken before me, aud tbat is the fact, absence, but In no case wbatever were tbey
for I amn iustructed that It Is a fact, tbat receiving their pay as officiais. I do xîot
this Is flot the first time Mr. Adamson lias think it would be wise for the Impression
voiunteered to go to South Africa. He w-as to go abroad that this gentleman. Captain
on one of the previons contingents, and in Adaimson, Is being treated differently in the
that case bis saiary was paid wbile lie wils Senate from other government officiais who
away. Now, I should like to know what are going to South Africa. 1 do not perdiff erent circumstances there are in this case, sonally particularly desire to oppose the
that lie sbouid be refused bis salary, wben views of the Senate If tbey are prepared to
lu the former case bis salary was allowed. vote that Captain Adamson shouid receive
I cannot but tbink, as the previous speakers his salary, but 1 amn not afraid to say Iu this
have said, that the matter bas niot really House that the report of the commîttee
received that consideration at the bauds meets my views exactly. Mr. Adamson bas
of the committee which its importance already, on one occasion, been treated very
warrants.
Here is a yong mnan, wlîo liberaily by the Senate iu being relieved of
la takiug bis life lu bis bauds. giviiîg bis duties here and recelving double pay. Mr.
up bis faniily ties and going forth to Adamson does flot go to South Africa as a
support the bonour and IntegrIty of the priv-ate, but as a captain.
great empire and the noble fiag wblcb we
Hon. Mr. PRIMROSE-Senior captain of
ail acknowiedge, and I sbould be very sorry
indeed to think that It sbouid go forth to the contingent.
the worid, especiaily unlder the circumHoa. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Tbe pay of a
stances I bave mentioned, that hie received captaiji, as 1 understand it, la very liberal
bis saiary on the flrst occasion, and bie now Iideeci.
goes a second time and bis saiary is deHou. Mr. McCALLUM1%-Wle do flot pay ItL
nîed to bim. As bas been said by the bon.
gentleman from Mlonck, many of the moueHon. Mr. TE,%PLEMAN-I k-uow ;it is
tary institutions of Canada bave ailowed
probabiy two-or three times the amount
tbeir empioyees to go and bave pald their
salaries, and I hm ln a position to say that lie is receiving la bis capaclty as an attache
I bold wbat I consider to be uadonbted and of this Senate. The fact that be wiii receive
thorougbly reilabie Information that em- wble in - South Africa a very higb salary
ployees of tbe departments of this gov- indeed, ougbt to be a matter to be taken
ernment are going- forth and are receling luto consideration In decidlng this question.
their pay. Wby are the samne priviieges to There la another point which wili decide me
be denied to Captain Adamson ? I do not in voting this way. Captaln Adamson is
like to use strong adjectives, but I thlnk receiving a very excellent position Indeed
tbe outside world wouid consider our ac- iii the contingent. I know a number of
tion, taking ail the facts into consideration, youug meu, lieutenants, captains and otbers,
as a very smail aff air indeed. I liope the wbo aý~p1Ied to be taken on this contingent,
and wbo bave flot been appointed because
flouse wli support the ameudmeut.
the number of applicants was too great, and
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMA.N-I simply rIse tbey could flot take them ali-men wbo are
in consequence of a remark wblcb bas been flot at the present moment la empioyment
dropped by the last speaker. I took occa- of any kind or receiving any saIary. It was
sion a few moments ago to ask the Minister quite rigbt, la the earlier days of the war,
of Militia la respect to tbe treatment tbat to treat our officiais ln that way, but 1 realiy
was beiug accorded to otber officiais of the tbink the time bas passedl for us to be
governiment wbo are golng to Suth Africa, giving our employees leave of absence, reand ha toid me that wie there rere ut
talnlug their positions for tbem, and pay-

SENATE
ing them during the time they are absent, to do sa. Tlieir action
wvas according to
particulariy those nmen who occupy pro- usage and the constitution.
and they were
minent positions in the force and receive amply sustained In the
action tbey took.
high salaries. I could well understand a It may be the commlttee
besitated to foiprivate In the ranks belug treated in that low Iu the safe etrain, but
I tbinh- bad the
'way, and I for one wouId be very happy to tact been brouglit before theni,
that ail the
vote, lu such a case, that a man sbould not large Institutions of this country,
the banks
oiy receive bis aalary, but thnt bis posi- In. Lo-wer Canada, ln Nova -Scotia
and New
tion be retained for hlm. Whatever the wlsh Brunswick, and certaIly In Onïtario,
and 1
of the House is I will bow to its decision, but belleve ail the large -financlal concerns,
Dot
I for one prefer to sustain the report of the oniy gave tbeir employees who volunteered
committee. I thiuk it la a proper report and leave of absence, aud promised to 'hold
their
should be adopted by the Bouse.
Position for them untîil tey returned. if
Hon.Mr.PRENROS-Thebon genle-they did return, but aiso allowed them their
Hn. Mr.s PRI
basIfrain
S-e
on. gheuMie- pay durring theîr absence.
It Is a versmtir saf
hel ba inoao
floas tbes Mrin- amail iatter, 'but 1 fer~ one would blusli for
lege been grttnted to any employee iu the tisgetlgsaueI
hyfle
ad
departments of the goverumeut. Now, It lI wbiat the mouetary Institutions of the counquie cncevabe
tatundr
te pessretry bave done. My bon. friend from Britofuies oncibiets
upne the psure isb Columbia, I find, la not personally adof busIistro wlc ilatsuoithe sahouierst verse to ît, and hie speak-a properly ns a
0fe
Miister 0fa lit
itl is scanrat minister of the Crown of other cases in
beit excte thbe utsol
b epconvernt
which thbe goverusieut of the country rnay
wit ai th 0 bi deartent ~be calied upon to do what this House does
niunti
have to Say that I bold In my band the out of its
contingent 'funds, or what I hiope
Dames of at leat two gentlemen empioyed ()Wî
,î
aiwn
ha on
a
i
in the departmnent to wbom this privilege salary during
bis absence. Buit according
lias been accorded. I will not give the to ail 1
bave beaxid, I do flot suppose thiere
Dames unless the Bouse calis for tbem- are a dozen
public employees who are In
otne on a prevlous occ.asion, and one on tbe sanie position,
but If there -Were a iiunthis.
'dred, 1 tibink dt wonid ýbeIJttle the noble acHlon. Mr. TEMPLEMIAN-I arn apeaking tion of the goverfiment In spending the
large
of the present tume.
sums that they bave spenit b» aid the mother
country In.
Hou. Mr. PRIMiIOSE-One la lu April, lîttle their ber l'Our of peril-it would beaction If wve faiied iii this inatter
1902, and one on a previous occasion.
to mieet the wlshes, 1 belleve, of the people
Hon. M". GOWAN-Tbis la a case lu of Canada. It la a very amail Sum, but
I
wbicb tbe comnilttee dld flot foilow the tblnk the principle
and precedent point
noble example set by the goverument of titis to the duty of flot bellt-tling,
the grand accountry ivbea the voice of the people called tion of tbe goverfiment In
yielilng to the
on tbem to reuder aid to Britain lu bier bour mandate of the people
In spending money
of need. 1 tbînk that anytbing t'bat la doue to send meu to South
Africa, seeing that
for the volunteers la but a compliment to tbe goveramieut and parliament
bave Set
the example of tbe goverument, and lu tbls the puce.
matter, a smail matter In Itseif, I would be
Hon. Mr. FEItGUSON-The principal obexceedingly dlstressed to -lndtbat a brancb jection I bave
felt towarda supporting
0f the legislature
0f this great country motion of niy bon. friend froni Monck the
I.s
paused to consider tbe trlfling suin that in tite dissimliarity
tbat will be created
would be necessary la order to really do between the
position of Mr. Adanison in
wbat the giovera-ment of the country did On the force, and
that of bis comrades. Thiat
the greut' occasion wlien tbey sent the firat ia a very serions
conusideration*, and on firat
contingent to South AfrIca.
The goveru- blusb, I feit lncllned to give such weight
mient did not besitate to take, as it were, ta 1t, that 1 could
not vote for the motion
their lives ln their banda, and to cause a of my boa.
friend.
At tbe Sanie tîme, I
very cousiderabie expenditure to be made feel thias,
tbat wbîie Canada bias earned a
before they had tbe autbority of parliament great deal
of credi-t Iu tbe estimation O! the
Hon. 'Mr. TE11PLEMAN.

APRIL 29. 1902
empire and of the world ln the matter of
the support we 'have given Great BrLtaln
during lihis confllct ln South Africa, ln men,
I -felt Ühat we have ixardly carne Up to the
mari, of our obligations ln the way of putting our hands into our pockets and meeting our fair and reasonable share of the
expense. Wità that feeling so strong on
my pmnd as It la, I thiuk that this H1ouse
can hardly afford to refuse to thie servant
of their own the consideratIon that institutions sucb as the Bank of 1%Lontreal, aud
1 arn told large mercantile Institutions of
the country are giving to 'those of their
1
employees .who are going ta the front.
see objections ta the vote, but representlng
as 1 believe ive do, ta a very large extent,
the sentiments of the people of Canada,
with regard ta the loyal support fhat la
due ta the empire ln this great South
African trouble. I feel that we cannot
afford ta refuse to -this servant of ours,
that consideration wilcb private Institutions
give Ibo their men -who go to the war.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I took a llttle part
lu the committee lu movlng the resolution
that is embodied In -the report to-day.
Whllst I dld not take occasion there and then
ta express my opinion, sti-l as the hon.
gentlematn frorn Monck desires every one
ta express bis opinion on the subject now,
I have no
I arn wllling ta give miilne.
objection te this young man going te South
AfrIca.
He went there once and fought,
no doubt, wlth oredit to hlmself and the
country.
He recelv;ed bis pay ns a commissloned officer, and the Sena-te voted hlm
1
bis pay bore. Now hie is golng again.
oly say thîs, we -have granted hlm the
privdIlege, ta go and are keeplng bis position
apeu for hlm. lu the distrIct frein wbich
I corne, there are many youn-g men wbo
want ta go ont ta South Africa, and I caunot get itbem positions on ithe contingent.
If we bave ta @end young men out and gîve
tbem commissions, and pay tbem besides, it
shows a waut of loyalty on the part of the
people of Canada If we cannot get tbem
ta go eout on one pay.- A large nuimber of
go
young men lu niy district are wllling Vbo
out ou troopers' psy, and caniiot get a position on the contingent. It wIll show more
layalty ta let our young menugo on single
psy than bave ta psy double ta get tbem
ta go. I bope Captati Adsmsou will corne
back, sud there is no doubit he will do more

credit ta Canada than by g'olug out withi the
Impression that ho had ta get double pay
to go. 1 shail support the report of the
eommlttee lu Its entlrety, and I tbxlnk wve
are doîng bonour ta aur ountry sud ta the
young pan as welL
Hon. Mr. COX-The mistake the committee made, If any was made, was lu grantIng Mr. Adainson leave of absence for the
second tIme. As the bon. gentleman wha
spaken bas said, there ls a large
bas
number of persoa wbo are auxiaus ta go,
and canuat get the opportuulty of golng.
The committee, theref are, lu that respect
made a mistake ln grantiug Mr. Adamsan
permission a second 'tune ; but If they did
grant permission-if there were special circumstauces that warrauted thern lu dolng
sa, I tblnk they should flot have departed
from the rule of aîlowiug bis salary ta go
on ; but they ought nat ta bave allowed the
second application wben there are so mauy
persans who are auxiaus to go sud cannot
get ou the contingent;
Han. Mr. BERNIER-It bas been remarked that the comrnlttee could nat have taken
proper consideration of the case of IMr.
Adamsan. I think I rnay say that due consideration. was given ta the application.
There waa a special meeting called ta conaider It, and ail the rernarks made bere
passed tbrougb the rnlnds of members of the
committee. After fnlly consideriug the case,
we thought that the decisian we carne ta
waa the rlght one. It Is very regrettable that
thîs discussion shonld be forced on the
Hanse at the present stage. I tbîuk the
comrnîttee ahonld. have gone the lengtb of
refuslng the leave of absence entlrely.. It
is sald this youug man la takiug bis lfe lu
his bauds. That is doubtful, wbeu we bave
sncb prospects of pence, but the proposition
that is before this Hlouse ls practically the
grantlng of a bouuty to this gentleman.
Wbeu we àdopt the principle of glvlug
bounties, It wlll be the duty of parliarnent
ta pass n vote maklng bounties apply ta, al
others wha serve lu South Africa. There
ls uo reason why a gentleman, lu very good
clrcumstauces lu every way, should get a
bonnty, while others, wbo also take their
lîves lu their bauds, do uot get any bounty,
especially when many of thein are nat Iu
such good positions as the 'gentleman. wbo
Is applying for this bounty now. Under ail

mast

SENATE
the circunistances, the commnittee bas done
very well. It bas afforded the young man
opportunity to go to the front If hie wishes
to go, and at the sanie time retains bis place
here. When bie returns after flfteen months'
service hie wiII get bis place, wbile others
are flot so favourably situated. The conimittee have done as niuch as tliey sliould
do for him.

valuabie services on a formier occasion, aDd
lias been llberally treated by this lionourable
House by belng paid bis salary, and iiVseems
to nie that lie sliouid not bave asked a second time for the favour wbich was granted
to hlm on the first occasion. 1 oppose the
amendnient because It would be creating a
bad precedent, placing bum at a considerabie
advantage over his companions ln South
Africa, and creating in the niinds of bis
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The lion. meniber for companions,
wlio are also members of the,
Queen's (Mr. Ferguson) stated bie would be
civil service, a feeling tliat tbey are not
lnclined to support the report of the coin- treated
as Ilberally as lie is being treated.
mittee were It not that lie considers that the For these
reasons I n'ill support the report
country has flot fulfilled Its fuli obligation of the
comniittee.
towards Great BrItain.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOI"FER-I have bepu
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In the matter of
so, often and so long chairman of committees
nioney.
that Ilihesitate very mucl inl supporting any
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This question, it seems motion whicli is calcuiated to refer back a
to nie, Is a niatter to be settled rather by the report to a comniittee ; but 0o1 this occasion,
popular brandi of this parlianient than by I mnust confess that wlien I read thie report of
the Senate, and tbe question bas been de- the comnittee, while it miglit not be exactly
clded by the government, and apparently calculated to stagger liuninity, It certainly
with the consent of the wliole House, that staggered nie. Thie way I look at this
on this occasion the Dominion of Canada affair Is this :ln the Senate are a lot
sbould not bear any portion of the expense ef old gentlemien wlio, no doubt, have served
of sendlng this contingent to Southi Africa. their country theniselves ln their youtb.
Therefore, it seenis to me we are not called Tliey bave eithier carried their niuskets or~
upon to discus s the question before this niarched at tbe liead of their men, as tbe
Chaniber, etlier to confirin or condenin the ,lion, leader of tlie opposition la this House
principie lnvolved. I amn ln accord with the lias done, wlien called to the front. 1 have
lion. member froni Monck wben lie said that done so myseif, 1 bave received two medals
a principle was lnvolved, but I do flot draw for liaving scrved the country twice. I arn
the saine conclusion that lie did as to wbat very proud to wear theni, but as I said bethat principie Is. The principle involved is fore, we are past the time when we ciau
the one whicb bas been properly referred go to serve our country.
to by the lion. Minîster (Mr. Templenian> :
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Had you double pay?
that the government bas decided to adopt
the rule, that the country wiil bear no share
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-No,. but 1
of the expense, and that, aiso, thie Minister would have been very glad to get -It. I
of Militla bas adopted as a rule tliat no the Senate there was a feeling of pride
officiais of the government, If granted leave ivien the first contingent were ordered
to
of absence, should recelve pay froin the goy- the front, and wlien ive found we liad a
ernment while tliey are absent. It seenis gentleman connected with the Senate
wliom
to me it would be altogether Illogical for we looked upon as our representative at the
this Clianber flot to approve of the report front. He bore biniseif well, and came
of thie conimittee, but to support the motion back with sucli a cbaracter that lie lias
ln amendment, because It would create an been offered a higlier position, to go
out
exception, whicli for reasons already stated, wltb tbis new contingent I think the Senate
wouid be glving an undue advantage to this sliould stili look upon itself as being bonyoung man over bis companions. A number oured by liaving a representative of the
of young mea have off ered to take their lives Senate-because It Is the only way we can
la tlieir liands, as bas been said, and bave send a repersentative now-chosen and sent
been refused the opportunity. This young to the front on this occasion. I do not
unman lias liad tbe opportunity of rendering derstand that la any wny Captaln Adanisoli
Hon. Mr. BERNIER.

APRIL 29. 1902
lias stipulated that lie rnust bave bis saiary
given to hlm by this House before lie wil
go to the front. On the contrary, 1 understand lie lias offered his services, and tliey
have been accepted, and tliat it is only the
Senate ltself whicli bas to give hlm tlie gratuity of paying bIs salary while away. He
does nlot stipulate that he shall get it, or
lie will refuse tlie position.awarded hlm.
There is no reason, therefore, wliy lie sliould
lie looked down upon, because lie lias flot
taken that position at ail. He does flot say
'l must get double pay or I wlll not go to
the front.' 0f course lie expects to have
lis position kept open for lir, but it is for
tlie Senate ltself, 111e ail otber large employers of labour, flot only to keep the positions open, but pay tlie salaries of tlieir
ernployees whule they are at tlie front.
Wli%7en I lieard my bon. friend from the
Nortb-west (Mr. Perley), whorn I bate to differ from ln any way-I ahways second tlie
motions lie brlngs forward, and se does lie
for me-but wben 1 heard lilm state here
that it was enougli tbat Mr. Adamson sliould
be allowed to go to the front, tlie phrase
seemed very familiar, and I cast over ln my
mlnd wliere I Lad heard it. That was one
of the resoens given by tlie government of
the country, that tliey ailowed the members
of the civil service to enllst for the purpose
of figbtlng for tbeir country. That is not
the way ln wbicb I 1ook at it at ail. Wlien
Canada went Into thîs war It sbould bave
gone *heart and seul, and should pay al
the expenses connectedl wltli our share of It.
I arn prepared to pay rny share-poor as 1
amn compared wltb other gentlemen-for the
Canadlan contingent, and then tliey wll
be representatîves of the country, and we
will be able to point wlth prîde to everythlng they do. On thîs occasion, whlle It la
not stlpulated by Mr. Âdamson in any way,
the gentlemen who brouglit that report,
looklng to the feeling that lias been sliown
ln thls House w.ltb regard to tbat portion
of the report, sliould tbemselves adopt the
amendment of the bon, gentleman from
Monck, se as to make thîs appear nlot to
have been forced upon thern, and say, witli
the feeling that la sbown ln the Senate
to-day, we wll ask leave to arnend our
report, and Introduce those words. The
chaîrman of the commlttee, I arn sure,
would feel that way, and I expect hlm to
corne forward ln support of It.
21

Hon. Mr. CHURCH-My sympathies to
sorne extent are wltli the lion. gentleman
frorn Mon-ek w-ho rnoved the arnendment. 1
amn glad, to a certain extent, to agree with
rny lion. friend from Kingston, but after
al, smaîl as this matter may appear te lie,
there dlsa princîple Involved lu 1t.
I neyer
knew, unitil I carne liere a few weeks age,
that this gentleman wlio la to be a captalu
ln the contingent was ever ln South Africa.
before. I do net know the cîrcurnatances
under whici lie went 'before, or wbetlier a
promise of a year'a psy wns made hir or
not. At ail events, the Senate gave hlm a
year's pay. He came back safe and sound,
and I have no doulit Le d4d credît to Canada, but ail young men tliroughout tbdis
Dominion who have been ln Southi
Afrîca bave done credît to Canada,
and bundreds of tbem are leavlng who
wdll do credit to 'thelr native country.
I
lok upon it something 111e this : The case
of tlhis young man wonld commend ltself
more to m.y judgsnent If, wlien expressing
bis willingness to the comrnIttee to go, lie
liad neyer sald one word about bis year's
pay.
I believe lu the end tlie Senate
would have done the riglit thing by hlm,
ahd I would bave been prepared, as one
member of the Senate, te do what la riglit to
this young man, particularly If. -le
carne
bnck wounded,
and lncapacitated
lu
any way to support bis farnily liereafter.
We should be careful nlot to put a
premiurn on Young men da tbe civil service
golng ont of th~e country under tliose conditions, because we k-now In connecrtion wltb
thîs very contingent thiere are scores of
Young men In ail parts of the Dominion
who would be very glad to go, and probably,
physically and intellectually, tliey are not
lnferlor -to this Young man hirnself. But
they 'have not gone; they bave not bad the
opportaxntty.
Taklng thîs Into consideratien, and Wsheving ln. the general principie
ef standIng by reports of -committees tu
tbhis House, because the gentlemen selected
to fill those positions are selected for their
fitness -to serve the Senate-behieying tliat
tbey have considered this matter wisely
and well, and, on the whoie, taking a general view of thie case, wel should stand by
tbeir report. The cornIttee bave looked
Into the matter very well, and I think the
fa-et that there are rnany olihers wbo would
be glad If given an oppor.tunlty to go and

SENATE
serve their country, withaut any stipulation
wbatever as ta holding thelr positions and
pnying their salaries while tlhey are away,
sbould welgh witli us In this regard. Thiis
I would saj' as a member af the Senate, if
I shouid bave the pleasure of being here
wlien this young man cames back, and
lie sliouid be Incapacitated ln any way, I
should be glad ita do wbat I could to mnake
bis lot a pleaeant one.
I have an ldea
that ail money votes tînt corne out of the
treasury of titis country sliould origlnate
in the House of Commons. Tbere are cer'taila salaries wb.lab are flxed by statute
whicli go w!thaut saying, and tbis body
could deal wtll It so tac as it applies ta
thein.
I do not know exactly what the
powers of the Commlttee an Internal Econamy are, but It appears ta me this Is a matter whicli lies outside of their ordiaary
powers.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It is a
contingent fund given to the Senate, and
they cau deal witb dt as tliey piense.
Hon. Mr. CHURCHI-If the Senate ln
Its wisdom should see fit to send a dozen
of Its young men ta the front, and there
were another dozen of young men la the
district of Ottawa, equally good indlvldualiy,
1 think It w4nxld be unfair ta tliem that these
twelve employees of the Senate shouid be
selected, and die otliens aliould not bave
an opportun.ity ta serve their country.
1
do not say thus out of nny 111-feeling ta
the young man. I do not kaow hlm personaily, 'but ns the lion, gentleman froin
New Westminster says, lie lias a good po>sition and lie suifers notbing materially by
goin g on the contingent. If lie cames bnck
ente and sound, bis position will be as good
or better tban If lie remained liere, aud 1
belleve the Senate 'will do the riglit thlug
by hlim wlien lie returns.
Han. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland)-I entirely agree wvitli the views wbicb bave
been expressed by saine bon. senators, that
It is liigbly creditable ta Canada rthat sa
many of aur young men are volunteering
ta go to the war in South Africa, aud I
would even go as far' as my bon. triend
behiad nme did a littie whIle ago, and
say It would plense me better If tus contingent wae made up, nat only of youug
Canuadilans, but tint the Canadian goveraHo0:1. Mt. CHURCH.

ment were paying ail the expenses of the
contingent and sending it as a Canadian
contingent to assist the mother country in
the campaign in Southi Afrîc.9. So far as the
committee ïs concernied, 1 do flot think
the smali aniaunt of
money
whIch
Mfr. Adamson would bave taken train
the treasury, If bis aary lad bi±en
paid diim wlille lie was away, was
a matter whleli was considered at all.
I do flot thinak it lad the sliglitest weigbt
witb the committee, and I do flot know that
1 sliould have said a word to-day, except
that It appeared ta me, from thie remarks
of those wbo support the amendment
to the report of the committee, that there
was a feeling ln thîs House that the
commlttee had ln some way desired in tais
report ta discriminate against Mr. Adamnson, or to show want of appreciation of
the services lie bad rendered, or Iiis
patriotism ln 'voiunteering to go to Soutli
Africa the second trne. 1 hope there is na
Impression of that kind, for I do not thlnk
thère was a single member 0f fliat coinmittee who failed ta appreclate the patriotisin of this young man, and bis self-sacrifice
ln oifering ta go a second turne ta Southi
Africa. The rezi point whicb weighed wltli
me was the point which was referred ta by
the lion, gentleman fromn Prince Edward
Island. The fouadation of ail the arguments which bave been presented in favour
of amending tbls report bas been, tliat If
this young man Is not paid his salary wlile
be is away, lie wll be discriminated agalnst.
Now, la rny judgment, If lie Is paid 'bis
salary wlhule lie is away, ie wlll be placed
ln a more advaatageous position than a
majority of thase wlio are bis comrades in
South Africa. The lion. gentleman wlio
moved this ameadment rend a note train
Mr. Drunimoiud, of the Bank of Montreal.
thnt somneof the employees of the bank wbo
are going on this contingent wouid. be pald
their salaries wile tbey were away. Tint
may be so, and there may be otber Instances la whicli yaung men who go on the
contingent will be placed ln tbnt position,
but thase wlll be tbe exception. It wili
not be the mIle. The majorlty of tliosewbo
go wili only receive thie regulur pay, and
for my own part, 1 do flot think tint this
Senate will be acting wlsely la this case,
if tliey placé this young man ln the excep-

APRIL 29. 1902
Even
tional position to whlch I refer.
taking hlm ln comparison wlth the other
members of the civil service who may go,
we had a littie conflict of statement between a member of the government and
the hon. gentleman from Plctou. I cannot
say whlch ls right, but I think the statement
of the mnember of the' government who has
spoken must be accepted as representlng
the vlews of the government, that other
civil servants who may volunteer their services on this contingent wvlll flot l>e paid
their salaries while they are away. If such
ls the case, we would certainly be placlng
this young man ln an exceptional position
If we allowed hlm to draw his salary while
he was away in South Africa. There la
another point whlch I confeas welghed with
me as a member of that committee, and
that Is, that this lis the second time he has
applied. It bas been stated here, and la
wevll known to the committee, that there
w.ere a large number of persons volunteerlng, ready and anxious to go, andi that Mr.
Âdamson's being accepted simply meant,
that some other ypung man la the country,
who was able to filI the position, has been
obliged to remain at home. I do not know
whether there la another case. There bas
certainly been no mention of a case where
an employee, even la a bank or ln the civil
serv-ice, or any other position la this country,
hias been twlce granted leave of absence to
go to the war, and received bis pay butb
times. I tbink there ls qulte a difference
between granting to a young man la the
employ of a bank or la the civil service hi.
pay for the first time be goes, and grantlng
It a second time. That is a consideration,
whatever It Is wortb, whlch welgbed with
me. I merely wish to say, la conclusion,
that I thlnk It ls unfortunate that this debate bas been brought up, and 1 regret that
the report of the commlttee was not accepted. 0f course If It la not la accord wlth
the vlews of the Senate, I cheerfully submlt
to whàt the majorlty of the Senate may do,
but I would have very much preferred myself, If the matter had been left as repoited
by the cormlittee, and If this young man
goes to, Southi Africa and achieves distinction there, I quite agree wlth what bas been
said by several speakers, that wben he
cornes back, If It ls thought that he ls deservlng, be will be deait wlth generously
by the Senate as one If Its employees;
21J

2

but we have gone as far as we fèlt justified la going, la granting leave of absence
and keeplng bis position for hlma until bis
retura.
Hon. Mr. GIBSOIN-As a member o! the
commlttee, it Is due to me, after the challenge thrown out by the hon, gentleman
from Monck, that we dare not say on the
floor o! the House what we said la commlttee, to make a few remarks. I amn bound
to say, for the honour and credît o! every
gentleman who lielongs to that commlttee,
that much more lias been said on the floor
o! the House to-day than was sald la commlttee. Lt ls quite true we are not privileged to sny la this House what we aid la
commlttee, but I cordially endorse every
word of the report presented by the chairman of the commlttee. I endorse that report on the very grounds that the hon, gentleman from Westmoreland endorsed them.
Lt la quite true, Mr. Adýamson went away
to South Africa and came'back, and was
falrly and decently treated by the Senate
at year, and It la true that monetary Institutions and large corporate bodies that
are rich allowed their employees to go, and
on their retura their places were kept for
tbem, and thelr salaries were pald. This
was done la the case o! Mr. Âdamson.
While the bon. gentleman fron 'Monck
bas quoted a. statement he bas received
wlthin the last day or two to the effect
that some other gentlemen belonglng to the
Bank of Montreal, are now going to South
Africa, are en route to Halifax, and that
the same privilegea are to be extended toý
tbemn as were extended to the gentlemen
who went on the first contingent, may I asic
the hon, gentlemen If these men were there
before ?
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM%1-I do flot know
whether they were or not, but the bon, gentleman ls maklng qulte a statement about
what took place la commlttee. I wlll tell
what was done la commlttee before we get
thrQugb.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I dld not make any
statement of what was done la commlttee.
The reason I support the report la the
fact that this commlttee deait generously
by Mir. Adamson la allowing hlma to, go a
second time, when there are ao many gentlemen, Insîde and outaide of tbe service

324

SENATE

here, willing to go without any consideration being given them at ail. In Mr. Adamson's case lie is to receive, I arn credibiy
informed, $2,500 a year.

seen this young nman, even if he did volunteer a second tirne to go to South Afrîca,
granted leave of absence wltli tbé continuation of bis salary ; but 1 arn rather surprised
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-From whorn does to find, frorn the staternent of Hou. Mr.
Templernan, that tbose who are uow volunhe get that ?
teerlng to go, officers of the Dominion, are
Hou. Mfr. GIBSON-Frorn the British gov- not allowed or eucouraged by getting their
errent. If tbis cormilttee le obllged to salaries contluued whie tliey are away.
have the report sent back to tliem, of course
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMAIN-I do not know
we must bow to, the wiil of the House, but
that they have asked for ItL
I for one would be Iu favour of withdrawHon. Mfr. McMULLEN-Wî%hle that le so,
lng bis leave of absence altogether, because
If I understood the letter arîglit, bis appli- I would not lke to force on thie House an
cation ls slmply a dernand on the cornmittee exception lu the case of Mfr. Adamson. I
that tliey wouid have to pay birn or lie understood tlint lu rnany cases tliey did get
would flot go. The comrnlttee refuses to their salaries contlnued. I certalnly thlnk
pay bis salary. With one or two exceptions, that tlie Bank of Montreal le deallng very
the cornmittee were unanirnous lu rnaklng generousIy witli Its offirers. I wouid bave
their report aud I submit no argument bas fancied tbat an Institution presided over by
been sbown to reverse that report, and it is men of the ability and far-seeing character
for the House to say whether It will sup- that they mnust bave la tbe Bank of 'Montreai would no doubt deal generously witb
port the report of the cornrittee or not.
those volunteerlng to go to South Africa.
Hou. Mfr. McMULLEN-I was a member I would have suggested that tliey should
of thie cornrittee, and was there wlien the be allowed to draw tlieir salaries until
question was decided. Iu Canada, In rny peace was declared.
The prospects are
humble opinion, we sliould treat very gen- we rnay have peace lu a very short time.
erousiy, and very kindly, every volunteer I would have liad no objection to piacing
in our force. We ail feel very proud of the Mfr. Adamsou lu full pay bad It been the
record they made for tlierselves ln Southi rule lu other departments, allowing himn pay
Africa. They have unquestlonably doue until peace was declared, If other civil sercredit to Canada. They are, under present vants were being treated that way. I must
conditions, the only force that we bave to admit that wlieu thie question carne up berely upon in case of any trouble arising fore, 1 was not a-ware lie liad already been
between us and any other country. We granted leave of absence and pald full pay
are not lu a position to keep a standing during.the tirne lie was away. There Is
arrny. The ouiy way we can secure tbe no doubt many of our youug men wouid be
active and liearty co-operation of our volun- very glad of the opportunlty of goiug now.
teers lu that we shouid deai geuerously It Is a more desirable time to go now, than
and kiudly wlth tliem, recogaizing their ser- It was when tlie war was preeentlng very
vices when they render a desirable service serions and dangerous aspects. To-day we
to the country and to the empire. I arn hope and believe It Is ou the wane, and lu ail
very glad to learn that that course lias been probabllty, peace may be deciared lu a
adopted wltli every single returniug volun- very short time, and those who are volunteer, s0 far as I know, of the several forces teeriug uow are not runnlng tbe sanie rleks
that went to Soutli Africa. I arn glad to as those who volunteered a year or two ago,
feel that the people turned out so nobly and and when tlie war was at Its helght. I dareuuanimously to recognize their work, and say mauy young men would be glad to volthe services tliat tliey had rendered to unteer to go there for the purpose of betthe empire In riskiug their lives to fight terIng their, position, and perliaps not rethe battles of the country to -which we b-- turniug at-ail. That may ble the case with
long. While I admit ail this, and arn glad many of tliern. 1 arn sorry the discussion
to say that so far I thlnk we liave treated bas corne up lu this shape. I would prefer
our volunteers very liberaily and very cre- to, see It settied otherwIse. If tliere Is any
ditabiy, I ivould have been glad to have douibt lu the mlnds of senators present
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

APRIL 29, 1902
as to the statement of the hon. minister that
none of the volunteer civil servants are
treated in this way, and that it would therefore be unfair to make exception la the
case of Mr. Adamson, I would be very
glad to see the debate adjourned. for
the purpose of getting that point settled, because If It le settled that noue of
themi are belng pald, I would not care to
make exception la the case of Mr. Adaxnson;
but If it Is granted la aay case, I would
have no objection to granting it in Mr.
Âdamson's case. In the absence of that Information, and la view of the fact that Lie
went away before and was paid for Lis
time whule away, and la vlew of the fact
that there are so many others anxious to
go and cannot go, I wouid not ln this case
make an exception by grantlug lm leave
of absence a second time, and paylng Lis
salnry la full.
Hon. -Mr. WATSON-As chairman of the
committee, I wisL to say a few words. I,
like others, regret that this matter lias Leen
dlscussed in the Senate. The matter was
thoroughly considered by the committee,
and while there were two opinions expressed wlth regard to Mr. Adamson's application, the minority who objected to the
report was very smail. They viewed the
matter as Las been expressed by the boa.
gentleman from Westmoreland (Hon. Mr.
Wood), and I miglit say that Lie, la Lis
statement to this House, lbas expressedl my
opinion. I know tbat a great number of
v-oluateers have made application to go tu
South Africa. A number of officers have
made application to myseif. 1 have recelved telegrams f rom'captains la the west
Who, If not superior to Mr. Adâmsoa, are
as good as the best, and they were refused
because others Lad been taken la preference. WLlle wve have a number of outslde
officers wantiag to go to South Africa who
have not salaries or positions to f ail Lack
upon, I think they ouglit to be at least
on an equal footing with Mr. Adamson. Mr.
Adamson wanted to go out two years ago.
He made application and got leave to go.
The lion. gentleman wLo was chairman of
the Contingent Accouats Commlttee nt that
time, states to-day "that Lie was sLocked
when le Leard this report. I was rather
surprlsed nt hlm making this statement, Lecause we have the report of that commit-

tee, miade some two years ago, when Mr.
Adamson's application to go to South Africa
was reported upon, wben 1 tiiink the sacrifices made by Mr. Adanison were mucli
greater than they are to-day. Recause we
must remember tbis: at that time they badl
the whoie war before them, and at the present time it is practically for poil'lee duty that
the volunteers are going out. So far as we
-ire concerned, tue war le practically at an
end, and we are allowing Mr. Âdamsoa to
go out te do police duty ln South Africa.
Mr. Adamson made application two years
ago to go to South Africa wlth the first
contingent, %vlienthe demands on the menî
were niuch greater than they are to-day,
and the commlttee at that tume were generous enoughi to give Mr. Adamson permission to go. The report of the Contingent Accounts Committee was submltted on
the 20th Marcli, 1900, and they recommended that Mr. Adanison be granted leave of
absence for one year, but Lis duties here
were to be discbarged by a competeat person to be pald out of bis salary. Now, if
Mr, Âdamson's duties were discharged by a
competent person during bis absence, I
should say tbat the competent person would
be worth as much. as Mr. Adamson to the
Senate. In tliat case the pay to Mr. Adamson would. be uothlng. That was the report presented fby the hon. gentleman from
Brandon hlmself to the House, and yet Lie
la sliock-ed at this report. I want to cali
attention to Mr. Adaxnson's application to
the couxmlttee. The committee acted without any feeling towards Mr. Adamson.
They judged this matter as a business proposition. Mr. Adamson sent thls application to me, addressed to the chairman of
tue Commlttee on Internai Economy, on
April 23, and 1Ilmmediately called the commlttee toguther, becnuse hie lnformed me
that Le bad to report at Halifax on the
3Otb. This Is the communication:
To the Chairinan of the -Commlttee on Internai
Ecoaomy and Contingent Accounts, the
Senate.
Sir,, I have the honour to Informn you that I
have been appointed ta a captalncy la the
Fou-rth Canadian Contingent now belag mobi..
llzed at Halifax for service la South Africa.
1 should partlcularly like to accept this If
your honourable commlttee .see fit to recommend that I be granted leave of absence, wlth
continuance of my salary during my term o!
service whlch la nominally fifteen mpýnths.
This was donc two years ago when the Senate
s-as good enough ta glve me a year's leave la

.q (b
_?

S
3f~

NA TE

order to take a commission in Lord Strathcona's Horse, and is now again being granted
universaliy throughout the civil service.
1 have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
AGAR ADAMSON.

Now, Mr. Adamson wauted, apparently, to
put the commlttee on their mettIe to see
whether they were prepared to send him to
South Africa, paying bis sary while be
was arway In addition to, bis aliowance as
a captuin. This Is notbing more or less
than a 'bounty to a civil servant as against
cthers who wishi to go to South Africa and
cannet fiud a position. 1 say I arn lu
entire sympathy, as a member of tbat
commlttee, -with the imajority. Tbere was
A
very littie debate In the cominittee.
great deal more 'bas been said In the House
to-day than nt our meeting. But that was
the view the comrnittee took of this matter,
and 1 consider the report is fuir. 'Mr. Adamnson was grunted leave of absence two years
ugo. He went to South Afica and came
back. Af ter be came back. the cornmittee
thought tbey should be generous to hlm,
and tbey granted blm the difference la pay
between wbat bad been paid bis substitute'
and wbat he should have received himself.
This la Mr. Adamnsou's second application
to go to South Africa. He no doubt dld bis
duty before wbile be belonged to the Stratb-.
cona Horse, and I think that be, having

the pay for the position' he bas secured

is worth $2,500 to $3,000 a year. If it were
one of our messeugers here with a salary
of $000, going as a full private, witlî barely
euough to pay expenses, 1 %vould say it
was a different matter ultogether, but this
gentleman has a position lu whicli be will
receive $2,500 to $3,000 a year. He la fairly
well paid, and I do not tblnk we ougbt to
allow our syrnpatbetic feelings t0 ruîî away
Ne
wvith us In a matter of this kind. W are
iaforrned by a mernber of the governînent
that other officers wbo are going to South
Africa from other departrnients of the public service are not being paid, and I dIo xîot
think we sbould make an exception of Mr.
Adamson. I bave no particular feeling iii
the matter myseif, so far as the arnount is
concerned. It would be qulte as easy to
make a report that 31r. Adanison slîould
be paid as not, but there are sonie diuties
devolving upon a commlttee of this H-ouse
for the purpose of conserving the funds of
the Senate, and also doing iwbnt we consider is fuir and rlght. The cornrittee
considered the whoIe niatter, and brougbt
lu their report, and I trust, us a inember
of the comrnlttee, and one of a large majority of the comrnittee, that the House w'ill
sep fit to adopt the report.
Hou. Mr. 31ACDONALD (B.C.)-I tlîink a

treatment, greut many of the hion, gentlemen who, have
once received that generous
should have allowed sorne others who spoken are mistaken as to the puy of otlicers
wished to go, to have an opportunity to go lu the British Arrny. It Is il. shillings and

out witb this contingent. I for one, regret
that this matter bas been brought up. Stili,
at tlhe same time, as a member of tbut committee, I amn prepared to support its report. Tbe cormlittee, by a large rnajorit-'.
endorsed the report, and I trust tbe House
will do the same. Occasions of tbis kind
give some hon, gentlemen an opportunity
of making loyal speeches. Tbis la not a
case of loyalty, or of tbe empire wanting
men. We bave any amount of men volunteering to go to Soutb Africa, certainly Mr.
Adamson's equal, and tbey cannot bave an
opportunity of golng, sirnply because men
like Mr. Adamson can go, receivlug captaln's pay. For these reasons, the House
oug'ht to udopt our report, and Mr. Adamson is being falrly well treated in being ailowed a second term of absence of fifteen
months and bis position being beld for hlm
until he cornes back, because I understund
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

7 pence per day-that is about $1,000 a year.

Hon. 31r. WATSON-I have simply the
report of the experlence of a gentleman in
my own town who wa out there fifteen
months, and he cleaned up some $3,200. The
salary Is flot large, but the ullowances ai-e
large.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-In India
they get about two shillings extra pay. We
bave nothiug wbatever to do wlth outside
people who volunteered and could not be
accepted. We are dealing wlth an otlicer of
this House, und hlm only. Some hon. gentlemen have spoken us if It were a grent
offence that he bas applied a second finie.
Thatis the greatest feather ln bis cap. that
he applied a second time. ,Any saal thing
we can do to belp him we ougbt to, do. If
Is a very small and lll-advised econorny thut
the cornmittee reporfe6. Instead of the hon.

APRIL 29.,1902)
gentleman froi 'Monck finding fauit with
the committee, hie bas denît very leniently
witb it. My opinion la we sbould do ail we
can tn encourage young men to serve their
country. This Is the only case wbicb bas
come be fore us of a man volunteering for
the second time. The only point the bon.
gentleman made was lu favour of Mr.
Adamson. He told us he found a substîtute
to dlscbarge bis duttes here lu bis absence,
and that be ouly got the balance of bis
salnry after that man wasr paid. The wbole
of the work was doue during his absence
by a man lie paid hiniself. Wby could not
that be doue îîow ? I hope the House wvill
agree with the iimendment witbout a dlvisloii, and grant Mr. Adamson bis puy during
bis absence. It would be a generous tblng
for thîs H-ouse to do, I;ecause lie does not
go there for houour and glory, but to figlit
the batties of his King and country. No
doubttlbe will find a substitute, as lie did
before, to attend ta bis duties here, and
wbat will be coming to hlmi will be a very
smaîl amount.
Hon. Mr. PItIMROSE-I risc for tbe purpose of explanation. The bon, gentleman
from Westmoreland, lu the course of bis remarks, made use of my iiame. I presume
he made sanie reference to the remarks
whilb fell froni me, but 1 did nlot catch
tbem.
Hon. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-You gave notbiug
ta Mr. Adamson ast tume. It was no suvlug
ta the Senate lu any way. He slmply got
the balance of bis salary, after paylng a
substitute ta do bis work.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I regret exceedingly
that this discussion bias taken place.
I*
thlnk It wlill have au Injurious effect lu the
Dominion generally.
It will be misconstrued. We have'nothing ta do with what
other people do. I belleve that other goveruments and large Institutions have contrlbuted towards getting proper persans ta
MI1these positions. I think It Is a. feather
lu the cap of Mr. Adamson ta, be appointed
a second tume. It shows that the Minister
of Militia and the authorities bave great
confidence Iu hlm, seiectlng hlm wheu we
have so many applications for appointmeut.
I, for one, would flot wisb that any kind
of slur 'would lie cast on the Senate by their
action lu thîs matter.' I hope the cr*v of dis-

loyaity will flot be raised against tbem, for
wbat tbey are doing lu this case. I for
onie would deplore that anytbing of a
disloyal character sbould be attributed ta
us. I think the country cannot do too mucli
for those men who have fought lu defence
of their King and country, and this Dominion might have doue a great deal more
than It has doue. We should flot have sent
C.O.D. contingents over the ocean when
assisting lu the defence of the empire. We
should bave paid the wboie of the expenses of the contribution.
I do flot thlnk
there la a man lu the couutry, ricli or poor,
wbo would not have sanctioned that course.
I conteud that It Is a matter purely for the
Senate to cousider. It la not wbetber 'Mr.
Adamson has been pald this or that before,
but whether we should grant hlm this smal
Indulgence. And wbnt does It amount ta
after ail ? The paltry sum of $1,000 a year.
It is ridiculous to consider the matter la
that light. We should be only too glad to
see that the goverument have appointed
this mau ; we should appreclate their action
In doug wbat they have doue for hlm. I
do flot tbiuk we should consider what his
remuneration la to be, but should treat hlm
generously and fairly, and when he returiis
pay hlm bis money lîke men, and flot cavil
over' It at ail. There la flot a man ln the
country who would disapprove of sucb a
course, sud there would be an uproar lu the
country If we adopted the other course.
Depend upon it, there will be a great deal
said about It, and as far as we are concerned, we will not be charged wlth a disloyal act because the majorlty have thought
proper ta adopt a different course. The
memabers of the commlttee have consldered
the matter, but they may have been a littie
too hasty. They might be wIlllng to alter
their report to meet the objections whilh
have been raised very temperately by members of the Senate. Let us keep our good
name. We have a first-rate name lu, the
country, aud let us flot forfeit that for the
paltry sum of one thousaud dollars. It la
too Insignificant to consider, and therefore
I hope the commlttee wlll see their way
clear to change the report to meet the
wishes of ail parties concerued. We have
only one feeling In the matter. It la flot a
personal feeling. I merely take the act of
the goverument In selectlng that man,, and
It shows me that they have confidence lu

SEN-ýATE
hlm, and if they have confidence in hlm we see what a far-re aching effect it would have
should flot be slow in acting upon that.
to refuse to give - a tbousaud dollars extra
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-We were flot influenced to, Captain Adam son to go to South Afrîca.
by the considerations which the hon. gentle- I do not want t bat fact to g-o before the
man from Rideau (Hon. Mfr. Clemow) refers worl(l. I have a.n Interest ln the country,
to. The whole matter bas been so well and 1 believe tihe Interest and the bonour
stated by the bon. gentleman fromn West- of every senator Is the samne as mine. My
moreland that It Is not necessary to go over opinion niay flot be worth much. but I have
it again. It is merely whetber a precedent a rlght to, tbat op uion and shall boid it.
can be created at this moment. Mr. AdamiHon. Mr±. COX- -I shouid like to move that
son put the case bypotbetlcally-that lie the report be referred back to, committee
would go If certain things were donc ; tbhe withi instructions to, reconsider the leave of
commlttee did flot see quite the samne as absence ln consiequence of the applicant
lie.dld, but gave hlm leave of absence. The baving aîready se ~rved lu tbe samne capacîty.
hon. gentleman from Toronto macle the obo.M.LN >RY-The hon. member bias
servation that the committee should Lave
on Mr.hLÂN[ovan ameadment.
refused hlm leave altogether or sbould have f
ih
omv
Hon. Mr. MILILER-Tbe hon, gentleman
pald hlm bis salary. I do flot think there is
very much logic ln that. The cominittee bas already spot ,en and cannot moi-e an
could flot bave refused 2%r. Adanison, and amendment.
would flot refuse anybody leave to go. M_
1r.
The SPEAKER -The bon. gentleman does
Adamson was given permission to go, and xîot persIst la hlis ameadmient. The quesblis Place was to be kept open for hlmn, but tion Is now on tiie amendment.
the money consideration did not enter into
Hon. Mr. MACI )ONALD (B.C.)-I caIl for
the matter at ai.
the yeas and nys
Hon. 3fr. McCALLU3I-I am flot going to
Hon. Mr. MeCA LLU3i-Yeas
and nays.
speak f urtiier, but I wlsh to, say that I
Mr. MILL ER-Cail la the members.
Hon.
thhlik the question Is misunderstood. The
member for Pictou says the government are
The SPEAKER -The members cannot be
sending men and paying their salaries the caled In after thue question lias been put.
samne as Is aSked for ln the -case of Mr. 'The House div ided on the amendaient,
Adamson. Weil, I hope they are. If they mbicb was lost on the foilowing division
are, they deserve credit for lt-at least tbey
Contents:
shall have ail the support I can gîve them
o
for that action. It ls rumoured-and I fancy Caling (Sir Jcbn), i.Messieurs
MacKeen,
It can be proved-that ln one Instance tbey Caagrsin (Windsor)
Mccailum,
aliowed a Man to go, paid bis salary, and, Olemow,
McDonald (C.B.),
Lever,
McKay (Truro),
la order to equip hlm, thiey gave hlm six D)obýn,
McMiiilan,
hundred dollars la advance. If they did so, Ferguson,
Mi ller,
al rgh. Iftheydidthat soKirchhofier,
I sa tht Isah I thy dd tatsoGowan (C.M.G.),
s SY tat
Owens,
I
ight
Primro3e,
mucli the better. It must have cost Cap- Macdonald (VictorL a), Strlivan.-18
tain Adamson something to prepare himseif
Nol a-Contents:
for this work ln the first place, and if lie
Hoij Messieurs
is going there the second time, certainiy the Baird,
McSweeney,
knowledge he acquired when there before Béique,
Pellietler
Bernier,
(Sir Aiphonsa),
must incrense the value of bis services for Bouchervilie, de
r.rley,
the British Crowu. I ani not going to, say
(C.M.G.),
Pow-er (Speaker),
Reild,
anything about what to><>k place la commit- Cojuci
Scott,
tee.
They say Captain Adamson gets s0 E1115,
Shehyn,
Forget,
TE-mplemnan,
mnucb pay and they say he can afford to go,Gibeon,
Thoipson,
bec-ause bie bas a rîcli wife. That il a nice Gilimor,
Výdal,
thing to say about hlm. They brouglit this King,
Watson,
Landerkin,
Wood
Up tlbemselves. I arn deallng miIdiy with Laîîdry,
(Weetmorelancl),
the committee's report when I say tbey did Lovitt,
Wacd (Hamiton),
flot give it enough consideratIon. I do flot Macdonali (P.El.),
Ypo.
Mackay (Aima),
Young.-32.
accuse tbemn of anything-. but tbey did flot MeMullen%
Hon.

Mr. CLEMOW.

APRIL 29. 1902

329

Hlon. Mfr. LANDRY-I ask that the narnes council. Whatever action may be taken,
I thought it was a great outrage.
bc read.
The clause was adopted.
The Clerk then read the narnes.
On clause 7,
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I eall the attention of
the House to the fact that the hon. gentleHon. Mr. POWER-I am nlways rendy
man from de Lorimier dld flot vote.
enough to critielse Bis which .corne before
Hon. Mfr. DANDURÂND-I arn paired the committee. In the present Instance, It
with the Hon. 3fr. Baker on ail questions. Is only rlght to say that I think thîs Bill
I would have voted against the amendment. lias been very carefuily, skilfully and wel
drawn.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-And the hion. gentleThe clause was adopted.
man from Acadia did not vote.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS, from the commlttee, reHon. 3fr. POIRIER-I did not hear the
ported the Bill without amendrnent.
motion put to the House and I should like
to be perfectly correct ln my vote.
NORTH-WEST MOUNTED POLICE PENHon. Mfr. WIATSON-I eall attention to
SIONS BILL.
the fact that the bon. member for King's
REPORT FROM COMMITTEE.
did not vote.
The House resolved itself Into a CornHou. Mfr. IROBERTSO-N-I arn paired
mittee of the Whole on Bill (40) An Act
with Hon. Senator McLaren tili to-morrow
respectlng pensions to officers of the Northand therefore I could not vote.
west M ounted Police.
The SPEAKER-The arnendrnent Is lest
(In the comrnittee.)
and the.question Is now on the motion to
On clause 1,
report.
adopt the
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Last year parlarnent
The motion wns agreed to.
passed a law applylng 'the priniciple of peuNATURALIZATION ACT AMENDM.%ENT aluns to the mllitia, and 1this Bill contalus
mrnan clauses sirnilar to that Act passed
BILL.
Iu the session of 1901. There is this addiREPORT FR031 COMMITTEE.
tion to it, that provision -is -made In the
The House resolved itself Into a Corn- present Bill for pensions to widows and
mnittee of the Whole on Bill (Z) An Act to cbldren under certain circumstances, where
amend the Naturalization Act, chapter 113 the father and hiqsband performed long serv1ices.
of the Revised Statutes.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-This Bill Is really a
copy of the Militia Pensions Bill of last
On the first clause.
year, se far as it affects officers. with the
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-There le necessary substitutions, and. further, the
a question which will corne up appropriately men of the North-west Mounted Police have
ln discussing this matter, with reference to been getting pensions for several years.
the deportation of a young girl frorn the
The clause wae adojpted.
United States side, who did flot go there to
on clause 3.
work, but sirnpiy to seek a sick relatlve.
Ras it corne to the notice of the goveruHon.' Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
ment, and If so, have tbey taken any notice dos not apç>ly to privates ?
of it ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, they are called
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-I arn qulte unable to constables.
answer the question. I saw the report ln fie
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
newspapers, and I was not present at the
early part of the council meeting. I wil but the officer who may have been a eonBut ls a concertainly niake sorne reference to It in stable la entitled to this.
(In the committee.)

SENATE
stable wçho never attains to the position of
an offcer entitled to it ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ob, yes; tbis is for the
purpose Of puttlng the officers of the mounted
police on the same plane as the officers of
the m9litia force. Last year we passed a
Bill giving the officers of the militia a pension and their widows and children certain
pensions.
W7e are noiw assimîlating the
mounted police law to the actual militia
law.
Tire clause was adopted.
On clause 4,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbere
nIust have been a change of opinion 4n the
mincis of some of the senators, wiio were
very mucli opposed to anytbing ln the character of superanîîuation.
1 do not see the
bon. gentleman here who used to take such
stroug -rounds on that point.
I suppose
as they becoqxne older, tbey become more
Conservatîve In their views, and are prepared Io accept the laws which have been
on the statute-books for a number of years.
I should like t:o have heard the hon. senator froua Wellington (Mr. McMulen) on the
subj oct.
The clause was adoptoeI.
On clause 9,
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-There
Is a provision l this clause whIich wlll be
bard to, carry out. le, it to be optional wittb
the head of the departonit to, decide whe(lier a pentsioner is wealthy ?
The CHAIRMAN-I suppose that is limited by clause 8.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-If he had Independent
means aud -was able (o live wlthout IL.
That is what it means.

Sion to the widow of an officer has justifled
it, I do not see why any distinction
should be made. -You mlgbt go furtlber
and say tbat you would not pay a wealthy~
party any-tblng at ail for bis services.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe sanie provision
exists ln the M411tla Pension Âct passed
last year-' If the applicant Is already, iii
the opinion of the minister, wealthy.'
In
this Bill the Governor lu Councîl appears
to take the place of the Mlnister, and it
%would be for the government to decide wbether the applicant was already wealthy or
not. This provision Is taken froni the EngIlsh Royal Regulations wlth respect to pensions and compassionate allowances to widows and chidren of deceased officors. 0f
course, if the woman la ricli there is no reason w.hy the country should pay lier a penSion.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is there qiiything
ln the Intorpretation Act describing what
ls ineant by belng wealthy '
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It just depencis on whlether tliey have means enough to livo witliout It.
Hon. 3fr. FERGUSON-This is iii addition to (lie pension be will be entltled to
ifeceive ln consideration 0f.contributiing to
the fund ?
H-ou. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, tihe %vidow coulti
only reach It after bis suporannuation would
ha:ve ceased.

Hion. Mr. FERGUSON-This is entirely at
the discretion. of the Governor lu Concil.
The government are not requlred to gîve it
to auy, bout are forbldden to give it lu certain cases. Tbey grant a pension to the
wldow and compasonate alwance to eacl
of the cildren, and section 9 says it shaîl
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Now, not; be granted ln certain cases.
Is that a good reason ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la almilar (o the iaw
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-It Is a gratuity.
A on the statute-book with. regard (o (tie miliman bias been pald for bis services and we tia.
are paying some(hing =ore.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It miglit have
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wo been passed without sufficient discussion.
are recognizing tlie principle of granting
Hon. Mr. POWER-The provision is borsupport or aid Io wives and chidren of
offcers who have served, but we make an rowed froni the Engliali Army Regulations.
exception (bat If the person beconues
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That certainly is
wealtliy sue shahl not bave It. If tlie ser- a guarantoe that
it lias licou well considervices whicli justify the granting 0f the pen- ed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 29. 1902
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I do flot
think It Is a very desirable provision, eveii
if It la embodied ln those Acts. We have
ta Judge from a different standpoint altogetber. This Is a new country, under different regulatians and different conditions aitogetber from those ln the old country, and
because this bas been embodied ia a former
Act, I tblnk is flot a sufficlent reason wby it
sbould be embodied ln this measure, if we
do flot consider It is a wise provision. 1 do
flot tbllk it sbould be left ta the judgment
of the minister, or 0f'the governmeat, to
decide whetber the person is entitled to a
pension-wbetber lie Is so wealthy that he
la to be deprlved of that pension. 1 tbink
If lie bas served ln the militia or constabulary of the Nortb-west Territories. for a
term of twenty years, It shows he bas devoted bis time during tbat perlod, whetber
lie wvas wealtby or poor, to the services of
the country 'and earned bis pension.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-This refers ta
the widowv and cblldren.
The CHAIRMÂN-Clause 9 simply qualifies the class of cases la clause 8.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-If the
applicant is wealtby and does not require
the pension lie wlll not take ItL
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Supposing tbey would Inlierit from a relative
by the deatb of father, mother, or anybody
else, and become wealtby, wauld that deprive tbem af It ?P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No gavernment would
be very critical ln the Interpretation af the
Act.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbat Is provlded for
ln clause 4.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We must prevent tbe
abuses wbich bave occurred la tbe United
States Pension Fund, where.aid men about
ta die married young wlves to give tbem the
pension. Tbere are wldows drawing pensions wbose busbands served ln the war af
1812.
Tbe clause was adopted.
On clause 13,

331

wldow remiarries, ber pension sbould lie
suspended from tbe day following that of
ber remarrlage, and ln case af the second
huaband's deatb and she Is a widow again,
she sbauld be entitled to the pension. I do
not tblnk tbat clause sbauld be there. If
sbe cbaases ta marry gnd deprive berself of
the pension, I do flot tbink she should liecorne entitled to It again.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is the militia Iaw
at present and I tbink It desirable ta retain
IL.
The clause was adapted.
On clause 17,
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
they commute, under this clause, tbe same
as under tbe Superannuatian Act ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I think we lay
down certain spectl terms upon wblcb tbey
They
will receive their superannuation.
pay a larger sum and get a larger amount.
They pay five per cent
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
bon. Secretary of State la, I tblnk, nilataken.
The superannuation law under the aId systema provided that a man should psy sa mucli
annually out of bis salary, and wben superannuated lie was ta draw a certain percentage af the salary la proportion ta the uumber of years' service. Ânotber Act was
passed since the present gavernment came
Into power, enabling any ane wbo la living
under the Superannuatian Act ta declare
that lie may pay'so mucli per annum and
draw at the end of bis service, the total
amount with a certain percentage.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Or la tbe event of bis
1deatb.
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
whlch goes ta bis fnmily. Do I understand
that that Act le lntended ta apply lii thie
case ?,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I da not tbink so. Tbe
Civil Service Retirement Act applies bere If
the applicant wltbin six montbs from tbe
passing af the Act, announces bis desire,
&c.

there
'Han. Mr. McMULLEN-I tbink
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED, irom the commitshould lie an amendment ta subsection 2 of
Tbis clause says tbat If the tee, reported the Bill witbout amendment.
clause 13.

SENATE
PILOTAGE ACT AMEND'MENT BILL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. We are repealing
the section and substltutlng this clause for
REPORT 1'ROM COMMITTEE.
It, but a part of that clause Is merely the
The House resolved ltself into a Commit- repetition of what Is already the law.
tee of the Whole on Bill (76) An Act further
Hon. -Mr. LANDRY-The addition to it
to amend the Pilotage Act.
bears on the lakes.
(In the Commlttee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thls Bill substitute S
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It does not affect the
the paragraph In the Bill for paragrapli 5
9 St. Lawrence ?
of the Pilotage Act. Clauses 1, 2 and 3 ar e
the same as In- the law at present. Ail thos e
Hôn. Mr. SCOTT-No. It is a more convessels nnmed are exempt. Clause 4, by a venlent way to take the whole section and
subsequent amendaient, takes lu any vesse 1niake the changes.
froni Newfoundiand. Clause 5 Is entirel
y Hon. Mr. ELLIS, froni the committee, reuew.
p9rted the Bill without amendment.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thint
BILLS 0F EXCHANGE ACT AMENDthat is a good provision. What about those
MENT BILL,
vessels saillng on the lakes that draw more
than 16 feet ?
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They cannot gel t Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved
the second readthrough the Welland Canal and cannol Ing of Bill (105) An Act
to amend the Bis
reach the lower St. Lawrence.
of Exchange Act, 1M9.
He sald : This
makes no change In the law, but It appears
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does that legisiation that
some of the judges have held that
Just add a clause In relation to the vessels
the clause Is rather abstruse. To-morrow
called ln the Pilotage Act exempted shlps ?
we wlll give the explanation. I thlnk It Is
clear, but It has been held flot to be clear.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
It allows the drawee two dayvs to decide
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How does this affect whether he will accept
a draft or not, and
the St. Lawrence vessels ? By the present If he does not decide,
It Is hiable to be prolaw, are those vessels already exempted ? tested. It Is slmply
mnking the law clearer
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, not strictly. Tbey than It Is at present.
take on a pilot nt the Long Sault, or the
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Lachine Rapids.
was read the second tume.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Clause 59 says that CANADA
EVIDENCE ACT AMENDMENT
the followlng ships, called in this Act exB'ILL.
empted shlps, shahl be exempted froni the
compulsory payaient of pilotage dues. Those
SECOND READING.
vessels are enumerated In subsectIons A
Hon. Mr. SCOTT mov-ed the second readand B. Then cornes subsection C, wbich
exempts ships propelled wholly or la part lng of Bill (115) ' An Act further to amend
by steani, travelling or trading la certain the Canada Evidence Act, 1893.' He sald:determlned circuaistances. Among the s5hips This Bill Is linltlng the number of expert
that are exempted are those employed in witnesses. In a case a short tume ago eightrading la one or more Of the provinces. teen or twenty doctors gave evIdence on one
The St. Lawrence Is la the province of Que- side, and the sanie number on the other
side ; thls limits the number to five, unless
bec.
the court considers It proper that further
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This Bill copies the wltnesses should be exandned.
law la that respect.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They are already ex- was read the
second tlime.
eaipted.
The Senate adjourned.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 30. 1902

THE SENÂTE.
Ottawva, Wiedisesday, April 30, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Threc
ocelock..
Prayers and routine proceedings.
TRANS-CANADA RAILWAY BILL.
REPORT FROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, from
the Comrnittee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours, reported Bill (78) 'An Act respectlng the Trans-Canada Railway Comnpany,' without amendment.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved that the Bill
be read the third time to-rnorrow.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-This Bill appears to
go through the House, as it went througbi
the Railway Cornmittee, witbout causing
the least sensation. I recollect the timeand I amn sorry that 1 see so few menibers
o! this House who eau say the saine thlngwben the first Canadian 'Pacific Rallway
was agitated lu this country.
It couternplated, aceording to the ternis of union
with. British Columbia, the construction o!
the existing Canadian Pacific Rallway lu
ten years. The goverument that made that
bargain with the governent of British
Columbia were eharacterized as mad men,
fit for the lunatie asylurn, and ail who supported thern were set dowu lu the sarne
category. We were told the road would
flot pay for the grease for the ales. We
were told that it would bankrupt the country,. that It was a scherne of recklessuess
with the simple object o! retaiuing power.
What do we find to-day? Virtually we have
before us a Bill for the construction of a
third trans-continental railway over Canadian territory, and undertaking to acconiplish It wIthin ten years, and this coinpany bas not the backing o! the government of Canada, but Is simply au undertaklng of prîvate capitalsts.
They are not
styled 'madmen, to-day, and I do not beleve they are madmen.
I arn almost as
enthusiastic with regard to this Bill as 1 was
thirty years ago over the construction of the
Canadian Pacific Railway.
1 believe ln
that uorthern rallway. I believe it is going
to be .constructed lu tîme, although I may
not live to see its accomphlshment.
1 behIeve It Is a necessity for the lndustrial

333

development of this country, for its na'tional
strength and greatness.
We have learned
a great deal in thirty years, but the courage
of the great statesman who inaugurated the
poilcy of connecting the Atlantic and the
Pacifie oceans, over British soil by railway,
the magnificent conceptions of statesmanshLp of that great man, Sir John A. Macdonald, are now beginning to be appreciated.
I arn glad to-day to be In a position to pay
a tribute to those magnificeut conceptions,
and I cannot help, lu this counection, addressiug a remark or two to my hon. friend
the Secretary of State, who was reportedand I believe correctly reported-on the
public bustings o! the city of Ottawa to
have sald when the first Canadian Pacific RaIway was under consideration,
that Dot ail the resources o! the British
Empire conld accornplish that great work
lu forty years. I have no doubt the bon, gentleman, according to bis lights, was honest
on that occasion, but it shows the diff erence lu grasp and foresight o! Sir John A.
Macdonald. My hon. fricnd (Hon. 31r. L)ever),
who carne lu shortly after confederation,
will vote for this Bill, I presurne. We are
the only two to-day ln this House who voted
for the first Canadian Pacific Railway, and
have no reason to be sorry for our action
%we
on tha± occasion. Who would have believed
tbirty years ago that Canadian Pacific Railway stock would be to-day 120 or 130. That
is something better. than the gloorny prospect of bankrupting the country preached
thlrty years ago. What would this country
be to-day If the pollcy of my hon. friend opposite had been carried out-the policy o!
the 1water stretches 1 and so forth which
w'e ail heard *0, much about during the
Mackenzie regine ? What would this country be to-day without the Canadian Pacific
Railway ? The Canadian Pacifie bas not
only been uecessary to the developrnent of
this Dominion, but It bas been one o! the
greatest material services the Dorninion has
ever had lu Its power to render to the empire.
It la 'a contrast and a happy contrast,
to-day, to see a Bll golng through this
House for the construction of a third Canadian Pacific Railway, when I and lihose who
acted with me at that tirne, recollect the
flerceness of the war that was waged against
the first Canadian Pacific Railway. You
heur men to-day glibly talking o! the land

SENATE
we gave away. Not only the goverument
that inaugurated that policy, but mcn of
fortune, ln the way we estimiated fortunes
that day la Canada, tooli their financial lives ia their bauds, and weat Into
that great enterprise. They were considered
madmen too, and might have lost everything if it had -not been for the patriotlc and
statesmanlike conduct of the Conservative
governiment, and especially of Sir Charles
Tupper. whien they fouad themselves
temporgrlly embarrassed, advancing thern
30 millions of dollars to get thern out of
thieir trouble. That boan they repaid wlth
interest wlthin the time they asked for It,
and on that too the Coaservative party were
denounceq as maklng a reckless bargaîn.
They were told that not a dollar of that
money would be pald back, but it was paid
I)ack a year or two wlthin the time it was
proniised. I amn happy, myseif, to be able
to looki back upon these tlilngs, and to sec
this vindication of the conduct of tue men,
mny humble self among the number, who
%vereridicule-d and scoffed at for the course
we pursued ln supporting our first Pacifie
Itailway. DId flot these men who took their
financlal lives ln their hands deserve to
make fortunes ? No men tooli greater risks
than they dld ln the colossal undertaking
that they assumed, and when we talli of thegovernment that day givlng away land lavishily to the Pacifie Railway, 1 ask what
would have been the good of those lands, if
it had flot been thiat they were opened up
and developed by the construction of the
Canadian Pacific Rallway ? 'Why, thcy
would yet be inhablted by the buffalo and
the half-breed lnstead of being the happy
home of a great population.aud destiaed to
beconie the sent of n grent empire.
Hlon. Mr. WATSON-I arn pleased to know
that the hon. gentleman supports the Bil11
which 1 have moved for third reading tomorrow. At the saine time, as one who
hias had some knowledge of the. development of the western part of Canada whlch
lias been referred to la such glowlng ternis
by my hon. frlend, I cannot allow these remarks to pass without glvlng my opinion at
least as to the wisdom of the original contract for the Cauadian Pacifie Raîlway.
Probably It would be as well, for the Conservative party at least, not to have revlved
the record of the past, knowiug that there
Hon. Mr. MILLER.

were some matters la connection with the
original proposition to build the Canadian
Pacific Railway that do flot redound particularly to the credit of the Coaservative
party, and which contrlbuted to the defeat
of that party la 1874. There were two propositions. One, I consider, presented mucli
better ternis than the coutract adopted by
the Conservative party after they came
back to power. The proposition that was
subrnitted and passed by the parliament of
Canada for tue purpose of opening up aad
dcvelopiag the North-wcst, was a charter
granting the company a monopoly for 21
years, glving them twenty-five millions of
dollars la cash, 25,000,000 acres of laad, aud
handing over.a large portion of the railway
constructed at the public expense to that
corporation. As a matter of fact it lias been
cleariy demonstrated since, that sufficlent
ivas given the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company to build and equip that rallroad
ont of the treasury of Canada, without costlng them one cent and the company to-day
own the road. Since that contrate was let, it
lias been proved that a great mistake was
made-that If the policy of Mr. Mackenzie
had been carried. out at that tirne, It would
bave been much better for the North-west.
(Cries of Oh, oh, hear, hear, and laugliter.)
,I know what 1 arn speaklng about. I have
gone through the pioncer days of that Northwest. I amn one of those who suffered by the
mouoply granted the Canadian Pacifie Railway, and arn suffcring to-day on account of
the exorbitant freiglit rates charged by that
raUlvay. The feeling is growing to-day, that
if that was to be doue over again, the govcrament should bulld and own the road. We
find that the popular Chamber of tlîls
parliameut dlscussed thec other niglit the
subjeet whether the Intercolonial Rallw-ay
should be extcnded not only to our Northîwest, but through to the coast, on account
of the fear of United States capital gettiag
coatrol of our Canadian railways, which of
course are la the mnarket, open for sale at
any time. Some people talli about loyalty,
and British connection, and Britala ruling
the waves, but we find evea the people la
Eaglaud are prepared to seli British bottoins
for United States gold. Wc find members
of the House of Commons suggestiug titat
the goverumeat should exteud the Intercolonial Rallway tlirough the North-west,
and to the coast for the purpose of malatain-

APiIIL 30. 1902
ing a Canadian road, and securing for us
better rates. The proposition of Mr. Mackenzie was to retain the main line, as a
government highway, and to grant 6,400
acres of land per mile to any company
that would build brandi Unes througbout the
prairie section. In my experience of 26
years in that c.ountry, I believe bad
that poliey been carried out the Northwest would bave been worth a great
deal more to Canada to-day thani It ls.
The Conservative government assisted tbe
company to build the railway at an enriier
date than tbey agreed witb the people of
Britishi Columbia to complete it. They extended it beyond civilization, and for
years a large portion of that railway did
not pay. A portion of it does not pay today, and the result has been the Dominion
government have hiad to give large land subsidles, and cash subsidies, and tIfe province
of Manitoba bas to give cash guarantees,
and subsidies for the purpose of providing
those very colonization roads that the coinpanies wouid bave been only too giad to
build for tbe small land subsidies off ered by
Mr. Mackenzie, If they bad bad an outlet
from Winnipeg to Lake Superior. Tbere la
no question In niy mmnd, and experience lias
sbown, that it was a great'mistake to give
that contract to the Canadian Pacifie Railway as It was given. No doubt a great
many people of Canada were under the Impression tbnt it was a wise policy, but at
tuis late- date, It does not rest witb bon.
gentlemen to criticise tiose wbo opposed
the letting of tint contract, becauie I amn
satistied If' the pollcy of Mr. Mackenzie
liad been carried out at that time, retainIng the road as a public highway to the
head waters of Lake Superior, and giving
assistance to roads In the -prairie country,
it would have been better for Canada
to-day. So far as this road to the nortb
ls concerned, I arn glad rny lion. friend la
supporting the Bill, but a part of that road
follows the Mackenzie line. There la no
question at ail that the route by the Yellowhead Pass sbould bave been adopted In the
flrst place. The Canadian Pacific Railway
Company saw fit to divert the route to the
soutb by way of the Kick-ing Horse Pass,
wliere they bave a 44 per cent grade. The
main objeet of ail railways to-day ls to carry
lairge tonnage on a train. We know railways

tbat were operated a few years ago took
about eight liundred tons of freiglit to the
load; now they take 1,800 tons. On the
Mackenzie route, tlirougli YellowlieadPass,
tiey were ixot troubled with snow-slides,
and had easy grades. That route ls souglit
to lie openéd up to-day by the Canadian
Nortliern, and Inside of live years we probably will bave another transcontinental
road. If this Bill goes tlirougb, we will
have tliree sucli ronds. There is no doubt
the Yellowbead Pass is superior to the KickIng Horse Pass, because tbe steepest grade
on the Yellowbend la only 2j, wliile tiiere is
a 4j grade on the ICicking Horse Pnss. The
ordinnry locomotive on the prairies could not
take even one load of freigbt up the KickIng Horse Pasa grade. When tbe Canadian
Pacific Raiiway was diverted to the souti,
the object was to go as near tbe boundary
Uine as possible, to control tbe whole trade
of the north, liavini 20 yeurs of a monopoly.
Take the Cauadian Nortbern route, frorn
Rainy River, wliere it sti:ikes tbe province
of Manitoba, and I venture to say tbat tiere
Io not 50 miles of that wliole route that will
not be a paying road. The local freighit
will pay the expense of running. A few
settlers Ia the easterly part of the Northwest liad to provIde freigit to pny for the
runniag of hundreds of miles of the Cariadian Pacific Railway. The railwny land
grants, at that time, were exempt from taxation, and it Is a question to-day as to wlien
tliat exemption will cease. It la a question
to-day, and bas been discussed In tlie otlier
brandi of parliament, as to whetlier tbey
have the riglit to exemption from taxes for
20 years. Tjiere are some seven millions of
acres of land whicli thie Canadian Pacific
Railway Company stili holds whlch have
not been taken over, and are exempt In
Manitoba and tlie Territories. It would
hare been a wonder If the Canadian Pacifie
Railway Company could not bave bult the
rond with ail the privileges granted tliem,
witi -the credit of Canada at tlieir back.
The road bas been built by the people of
Canada, and It la owned and controlled by
the Canadian Pacific Railway Company,
and the people of the North-west are complaining of the exorbitant freiglit rates tliey
have to pay. It would be mucb better If the
people of Canada, wben tbey bult that
road, had owned it, and liad sme say about

336

SENATE

the freight rates. No one is more pleased
than I arn to see that the Canadian Pacifie
Railway has been a success. No one is
better pleased than I arn to see that the
stock of the road ls wortli 126. It is an
Institution of Canada, and it is creditable
to Canada that the stock is wortb so rnuch,
but I say, at this date, I arn surprised that
any gentleman will atternpt to justify the
action of the government of some 25 or
80 years ago, lu adopting the poIicy of givIng any corporation sufficient to build a
railway and allowing them to own it and
control the rates to lie charged to the
public.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I must
express rny surprise at the remarks made
by the bon. gentleman from Portage la
Prairie, w-ho, 1 think, w-as ln parliament at
the Urne the Canadian Pacific Railway
Bil was passed. His wliole tirade against
the action of the late government bad
as rnuch to- do with the remarks rnade by
the hon. gentleman from Richmond as
they would have If hie had been dlscussing
the propriety of building another road,
Ail
or the question of transportation.
that the hon. gentlem~an from Richmond
dld was to justify the action whicb
hie took at the tirne, when rny hon.
friend opposite and bis party opposed the
great sclerne of a trans-continental raiiway.
He congratuiated tbe country on Its advancement, arising principally, If flot wholly,
frorn the construction o! that road, and
contempiated stlll greater developrnents of
the great North-west ln case of the construction of the two roade which are now
under discussion. There la a couplet ln one
of Watt'a hyrnns rwhIch mlght be applied
to the Secretary o! State. 1 regret to see
It Io not applicable to the lion. gentlernan
w-ho bas just spoken, that:
While the lamp holds out to burn
The vilest sinner may return.
He ias 8 wedded, or tblnks lie laso wedded,
to the opinions he expressed at the tîme to
which he refera, that lie wÔuld be Inconsistent were he now to acknowledge lie w-as
wrong. It la a great pity lie could not take
a lesson from the premier o! the province
ot Ontario, who, but a !ew days ago,
announced that the great error o! bis 11f e
w-as bis opposition to the Canadian Pacific
lion. Mr. WATSC-N.

Railway and the policy whicb w-as then
the policy of the Conservative government.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)Oh, oli.
lIon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
rny lion. friend say that I arn w-rong ?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)I aliouid like to know whetber lie used those
'words-tbe greatest error o! lis life.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
lie made a great mistake.
Hon. Mr. OASGRAIN (de Lanaudiêre)But flot the greatest error of bis lite.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Well,
1 think It w-as one o! the greatest errors of
bis life. The liou, gentleman can put it iii
Nvhatever language lie pleases, but the expression w-as that lie made a great miistake
and the resuits wbicli !ollowed that policy
bave been the development of this country
tliat neyer would bave been developed under
other circumstances.
WbVen the hon. mernber for Marquette' talks about the policy of
the Mackenzie goverunent, one marveis at
bis audacity-if it la not unparliamentary
to use the word in this assembiy-at this
'stage and after tbirty years' experlence.
Does lie flot know-of course lie knowsthat the Mackenzie government offered better ternis for the construction o! the prairie
sections of that road tlian were containedln the pollcy of Sir John Macdonald ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
If there is anytbing of which I feel proud
as a public man, and If I had neyer done
nnything else ln rny whole life ln connection witli thie administration of the affairs
of tliis country except that I was a member
of the government wbich pursued tliat policy, considerlng the results wbich !ollowed
it, I would be quite w-illing to rest my reputation there. What have w-e presented
to us to-day ? We have the Canadian Pacific Rallway, witli a marvellous amount of
rolling stock, unprecedented in value and
lu quantity ln the history of the world, and
yet it is unable to bring out the products
of that country. We have, ln addition to
tliat, tbis Canadîan Northern Rallway, for
whieb we bave passed a Bill to-day, to ex-

APJIIL 30. 1902
tend another line to the Pacifie, bringing ont
millions of bushels of .wâeat to the liead of
Lake Superior, and stili there are reinainlng ln the granary of the North-west and
Manitoba, millions and millions of bushels
which they have flot the capacity to take
te market, and yet the hon, gentleman tells
us to-day, ln this year of our Lord, 1902,
that the policy that was to, bring out the
wliole product of that country by water
stretchesHon. Mr. WATSON-No, I did not say
that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I know
the hou. gentleman did not say that, but
that was the policy of the government which
lie thouglit preferable te ours. The hon.
gentleman spoke of the policy of the Mackenzie government being better than the
one adopted by Sir John Macdonald's gevernment.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I said It would have
been better te own and contrel the road te
Lake Superior.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Is the very section cf the rond iwhich the
hon, gentleman says neyer pald a cent and
wlll flot pay a cent, the whole cf the road
ln Ontario from Callender te the head of
Lake Superier. It passes through n country wblch produces no traffic whatever,
and It Is the Incubus which bangs upon the
Canadian Pacific Rallway and makes 1t,
to a certain extent, net as profitable ns It
would be otherwise.
Yet the hou. gentleman now tells us that that portion of-therond sheuld belong te the goverument. It
passes through an unsettled portion of the
country, and unlees mines are" developed
and furniali frelght-wbleh mines were net
known to exist then-there neyer can be any
freigit. They have been develeped te a certain extent, but ît 19 a surprise, and must be
to any oue who k-nows anytlhlng of the bistory ef this country, to see, as I saw to-day
ln the paper, the goverument of Ontarie,
and the Liberal- members, taklng cred.lt fer
the development and growth of certain portions of Ontario, owing te what they are
dolng for New Ontario. To prove their
statements, they mention the different
towns and villages that have grown up
along the route of the Canadian Pacifie Ralway as the resuit of their pol22

lcy. Ail these portions cf Ontario "were a
wllderness and Inaccessible before the construction of that road. If there Is any development along that portion of the rend
running through Ontario, Up te Rat Portage
more partlcularly the nortkern portion of
Ontario, to-day and these towns exlst and
the people are taklIng up and settllng the
arable portions of that section, it Is ewing
te the construction of the Canadian Pacific Rallway.
I repent, the proposition
made by the Mackenzie government u-as
not one that contractors or capitalists
would teudli upon any consideration.
It
was before the country during the larger
proportion of the time that that government was in power, and yet ne one would
t0-uch It, anid while 1 agi-ee with the hon.
gentleman who bas spokien, that some of
the concessions that were made te the Canadian Pacific Ltallway mighit have appenred,
and do appear at the present day, te
lie of an extraordinary dhnracter, they
were necessary under the circumstances
of that time, and as the hon. genitleman frem Richmond sald, they took net
ouly tbeir pelitical but their financlal
lves la their hands whien they attempted
and promlsed te censtruct that rend, particularly from the opposition they were recelving from the party the hon, gentleman
pretends te represent te-day.
The coinpany were, as the hien, gentleman from
Richmond sald a few minutes ago, ou the
verge of bankruptcy upon two occasions.
On one obcaslon they asked the government
fer an advance of $6,O00,000 te asslst thein
ln golng on.
That -met wlth the most
vehement opposition of the Liberal party'lu
the House of Commons. The money was
advanced.
Every dollar o! It was repald
ln cash befere six montha lad explred.
Suibsequentiy, other difficulties arose of a
financlal character, whlcl weuld have renderefi these who were engaged in the undertaklng bankrupt. The construction of the
read weuld have ceased, and I hesîtate net
te say that It would. ln ail prebabullty, have
affedted the gevernment o! the day just as
well as the centractors.
Sir John A. Macdonald, and these w1th whom lie was assoclated, liadt the boldness te come te parlianient, and ask them for ne less than
thlrty millions ln order to enable them te
proceed wlth that great work.
Before the
time elapsed for the repayment o! lt, twenty

338

SENATE

millions in cash was repaid, and ten millions We have seen that kind of political tactics
of land taken from the Canadian Pacifie almost e' very day of our lives. We cannot
Railway at a price about one-quarter or help reco gnizing that fact. because it is the
one-half of what It is selling for to-day ln practice of certain politicians.
I -am flot
the market. And the resuit has been what attributin g it to My hon. friend's party
we ail glory ln knowing to have been the more tha: n to any other, but just as soon as
resuit, that It has added to the prosperity the polie:y of the goverfiment was known,
of this country to such an extent as no other then a sy ndicate corne forward and pretend
enterprise ever did, or, 1 hesitate not to to the co untry that tbey were prepared to
say, ever could do. 1 arn surprised to hear go on an .d construct that road upon more
anybody at the present day make the state- lîberal te rrns. The government of the day
ments which we have heard.
1 do ilot -and I a.in quite prepared to take my share
tbink the Secretary of State, notwithistand- of the r esponsibility-rejected that pi'opoing the gloomy view hie took of the situation sition-kn.owing it to be politically bogts
at that trne, would rise and repeat the state- and with out sufficient foundation to jusments of the hon. gentleman from Mar- tîfy the government lu accepting it. The
quette. Being a meimber of the Mackenzie exemptiox i of the lands granted to the Cangoverament at that tirne, 1 would flot ex- adian Pa clflc Railway frorn taxation was
pect birn to say that they had made a mis- necessary ,or we could not have got the
take. Not by any means. That would be company to accept the land. If the policy
8carcely natural, but I arn convinced thiat that the hou. gentleman has suggested
had
,lie has sufficient love for bis count'y, and been carr led ont, and the goverfiment
had
sufficlent breadth of mimd to admit tbat the undertake
n to construct and own that road,
.poilcy which folio wed that of his own gov- It wouîd flot have been bult to-day.
It
ernment hias resulted in the benefit of his wvould ha
.ve destroyed dozens of goverfi-country and made the Dominion whlch, nients be
fore It would have been posunder other circumstances, could not have sible to
complete a road In tbat way.
been made. I arn not going to discuss the Any one
who bas paid the slightest attenroutes to, which the hon, gentleman refers. tion to thi
e construction of railways knows
I do flot propose to discuss the particular that no
goverinent could do what that
ternis of the contract There are conditionsCopn
has done. No goverfiment could
In that contract which, probaibly, If our niompa
step before getting power fromi
knowledge thlrty years ago werel the sarne parîlamen
as it Is to-day, we mlght not have asseated parîlarnen t. They would have to come to
to, but I do say this:; The laws upon the how wou t for millions and millions and
statute-book, and the documents which are who baveId they have been met ? Those
In existence and the facts sustain the posi- ary aff air bad experience of parliamenttion that at the time it was the best bar-ouay s know the answer to that witby explanation from me. The Cangain that could possibly be made, and noou
other contractors were prepared to step Inl adian Pa Lcific Rallway syndicate went
and take that 'work upon any better terrns Into the mnrket and bought millions of
other than that famnous, what wiîî I calî it- dollars wo rth of materlal wben opportunities
No government
famons round robin whlcb was proposed presented tbemselves.
in the House of Commons after the bargain could bav e done that. If any governinent
had attex Ipied to construct and own that
was made.
Individuals who hnd thewa assr s a goverfiment road, I venture
There were certain
capital enough, probably, wltbin tbemselves bt to-dltIon that It would flot have been
y, and Canada would have been
to bulld thirty, fifty or a bundred miles of
thin
rallway. They came down with a proposi- i h n ;ignificantly isolated position she
tion for no other purpose, and with no other occupled prior to the construction of that
Intention, than to hurnbug the people of railway. I have spoken longer than I Inthîs country by laying a scherne before tended on this question, 'but I could flot
them which was apparently of a 'more allow the remarks of the bon. gentleman
liberal character than the contract Into from Port :age la Prairie to pass wlthout
wbich the government had entered witb replying. I join heartily with the bon.
the Canadian Pacific RailwaY Comnpany. gentleman
frorn Richmnond In bis expressions
lion. Sir MACKENZIE B0WELL.

APRIL 30. 1902
of opinion at the gratlfying result of the
construction of the Canadian Pacifie Railway. The Nortbern Canadian Railway la
to bie constructed some bundreds of miles
forth of the Canadlan Pacifie Railway, and
Is to mun elther tbrough the Yeliowhead
Pass or the Pine River Pass. There is a
great difference between 'the two, because
the Pine River Pass Ia some tbree bundred
miles furtber north than the other, and
would corne ont at Port Simpson, whule
tbe Yellowbead Pass route would corne
out at Bute Inlet, and any one who bas been
at the head of Bute Inlet knows wbat tliat
means. It means the construction of a
road for sixty or seventy miles through a
country of tbe saine character as the Canadian Pacifie Railway had to encounter ln
building down the Fraser river. I speak
frorn personal knowledge. I have been at
the bead of that Inlet and have studled
attentively the cbaracter of the country
wbere sncb a road would have to pass, from
the fact tbat It was discussed at the tirne
the road was Inaugurated. 1 arn proud o!
the tact that I was a member of the governrnent that had the courage to grasp the
great question which presented itsel!, and
still prouder to know tbe results whieh have
!ollowed the completion of that road.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hlamllton)-I would not
bave intervenecl ln this debate but for the
rernnrk of the hon, gentleman (Hlon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell) who said that the second
syndicate formed to build the Canadian
Pacific Railway was a bogus concern. I denounce that statement as unworthy of the
bon, gentleman. If hie knows anytblng, hie
must know that the rnernbers composing
that syndicate were, man for man, equal
ln ability and capital, to any man ln tbe
other syndicate, witb the exception o! Lord
StiratcomZ.
For the bon, gentleman -to
corne here to-day and represent as a bogus
proposition the off er made by sncb men as
William Hendry, Edward Gurney, and other
men, some o! them ieading Conservatives
where .1 corne !rorn, and characterize those
men as belng party to a bogus transaction
is sornetbing I cannot stand. It la nnwortby
o! the bon, gentleman at this late date to
characterIze these gentlemen as belng engaged ln any bogus operation. I bad some
little to do with it mysel!.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
bear.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (HamUlton)-I know what
I arn talking about, and whea I tell bon.
gentlemen that that syndicate deposited w1t
the govel!nment a certifted bank cbeck for
the Immense surn of $1,500,000 and that
there was not $100,000 ln bard cash put up
by the syndicalbe that got tbe contract, hon.
gentlemen wiUl wonder, as I do, that the
lion. gentleman bas the ternerity to tell us
that the syndicate was bogus. When hie
rose to reply to, the hion, gentleman fromn
Portage la Prairie (Hon. Mr. Watson), I
supposed hie was going to contradict the
staternent hie made that the Canadian Pacifie Railway bad got everytbing they possess from this country.
The cornpany
bult tbe road, baving everything given to
thern.
They pledged their lands and their
snbsldy ln order to get the rnoney to start
with,, and yet we are told that they did
sncb an enormous work. Tbey did one tbing
that was very rnuch against tbe interests
of the settlers ln the Nortb-west
They
bult the road soutb o! wbere Mackenzie
had located lt, and now, in order to get the
advantage o! railway facilties tbrougb tbat
section o! the country, another road bas to
be built rnnch furtber to the north, wbere
the Canadian Pacifie Railway sbould have
gone ln the zirat place, and through the
Yellowhead Pass, thus avoiding the enormous expense of building througb the Cascades Range. We are told that the Canadian Pacifie Railway bult the road ont o!
their own resourees.
Hon. Sir MACRENZIE BOWELL-Who
said so ? Nobody sald they built it out
of their own resources.
Hlon. Mr. WOOD (Hlarnlton)-Tbe whoie
discussion bas been about what the Canadian Pacifie .Railway Comnpany has done,
and why could they not do It when everythlng was given to thern ? They got the
money and got the land. When they wanted a.luan, a-Il they had to do was to corne
to the government end get that loan, and
tbey repaid it ont of the sale of the lands.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I said
nobody would have done lt witbout those
concessions.
Hlon. Mr. WOOD (Harnilton)-Had the
policy o! Mr. Mackenzie been followed out,

340

SENATE

the country woffld have owned the road,
and instead of being burdened to-day with
the enormous rates that are charged to-day,
the country would have been very mucll
better off iln having mucli lower freight
rates than now prevail.

Lake Superior te use the water stretches to
get to the prairie country. They opposed
the building of the railway north of Lake
Superior. The Conservative party of that
day said :
'We want a railway througli
our own country-a through railway.'

Hon. 31r. MILLER-That is nlot the ex,perience with the Intercolonial Railway.
Hon. Mr. 'WOOD (Hamilton)-The Intercolonial Railw'ay was flot bullt through the
The North-west
same sort of a locality.
bas been year after year increasing its produce and traffic, whereas the country
through which the Intercolonial Railway
run is almost at a standstill, s0 far as
new' enterprises and new traffic are coucerned.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-At a
standstill, except the expenditure of money.
Hon. Mr. 'WOOD (Hanîilton)-We own the
rond at any rate, and whatever we spend
on It belongs to the people and not to a
I simply rose to draw the atCompany.
tention of the House to the uacalied-for
statement made by the hon. leader of the
opposition, and I think It is due to this
House and to the gentlemen who composed
that second Canadian Pacific Railway syndicate that the hon, gentleman should rise
and 'withdraw his statement, because they
are just as honourable gentlemen as any of
the men connected with the Canadian
Pacific Railway wpre or ever will be.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The sanie
Party opposed. the Rocky Mountain section
aiso.

Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-I do not desire
to say very much on tiis question, but 1
have been la parliament during the whole
o! the history of this transaction.
Hon. Mr. WOOD
bave I.

(Hamilton)l-And

so

Hon. Mr. McCALLU3Il-Ob, no, not ail
the time. The hon. gentleman was lu parliament until the people defeated him for
his conduct ln reference to the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway, but
I was here ail the time represÈnting a
western constltuency.
I know sometlîing
of the history of this matter. Flou. genitlemen talk about building the railway as
a government work to Lake Superior; but
how were they going to reach the prairie
country ? What about the water stretches
scheme ?
Tbe policy of the Mackenzie
governient was to build the railway to
Lake Superior. and then from the bead of
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton).

Hon. Mr. McfCALLUM%-Yes,
the3- stigmatized British Columbia as a sea of monoitains, and they even advised the giving uip
of the province of British Columbia, and said
It was better It should go to the United
States.
They were ready to forfeit that
province If they could only carry out their
own policy.
The hon, gentleman from
Hamilton speaks of syndicates. There was
a syndicate organized at Duluth, I remember speaking of it in the other House,
the time Mr. Blake was a prominent member o! that House. He had a meeting nt
Montreal to which the public were nlot admltted oniy the faithful of the party, by
ticket. I remember asklng Mr. Blake
across the floor of the House if hie would
be kind enough to send me a ticket.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (H-amilton)-Did lie send
11 ?
Hon. Mr. MýcCALLUIM-No, and lie did uuot
want me there. I don't suppose he was
afraid o! me, but lie did flot send me the
ticket. My hon. friend from Portage la
Prairie tells the House about Mackenzie's
pollcy to build the road to Lake Superior,
but he said nothlng about the water
stretches.
The real policy was to go
through the United States to reacli the prairie section. We have had some experience
of dependIng on the United States. When
we wanted to go from Lake Huron to Lake
Superlor, the House will remember what the
United States government did at Sault Ste.
Marie : They closed the canal against us.
The policy o! these men would have made
us subject to the United States. It Is very
well to talk to-day about rallway building,
but what did hon. gentlemen opposite say
when the Pacific Railway scheme was
inaugurated ? That the whole resources of
the empire could not build that railway in
ten years. Two or tluree Canadians and
two or three Scotchmen built It wlthin the
time. Even Alexander Mackenzie himself,

APRIL 30. 1902
before his death, admitted that tbey did
wonders-that they had done more than hie
ever expected could be done i the tirne.
But hon. gentlemen will remember, talking
about syndicates, there %vas more thian one.
The syndicate formed at Dulntli was a
bogue syndicate.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamllton)-I do
know anything about that.

flot

Hon. Mn. McCALLUM-It was organized
prevent the building of the Caniadian Pacific Railway thnoughi Canadian territory.
Its object was to secure the whole of the
trade of the North-west to the United States.
I arn sorry t0 hean that any one at this late
hiour of the day bas the audacity t0 get up
in this House and say their terms were
more favounable than those of the Canadian
Pacific Railway Comnpany. The Canadian
Paciflc Railway Company have carried ouf
the promise tbey made to the people of thie
country. If Ie true at one time, when they
were bard up, the government of Sir John
Macdonald fook their polifical lives ln their
hande when they advanced the company
nîoney to see thern through. Whaf did the
men, who to-day say the government ehould
build the railway, say at thaf fime ? They
hield that Canada would neyer eee a dollar
of that money returned. They saJd parliament mighf »as weil throw If into the sea.
But what was the result? We got the rnoney
back.
We have our country settling up
rapidly. We have got a railway that means
everyfhing f0 the country, and we have the
province of Brifish Columbia. We did not
give that up to the United States ; it Ie not
a province lost to the Brliih Crown, and
to-day, these gentlemen who opposed the
pollcy of the governrnent of Sir John Macdonald talk glbly about this country being
builf up since the succese of the Canadian
Pacific Railway has opened the eves of the
,world to the resources of the Dominion. The
Prime Ministen of the province of Ontario
opposed the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway and trled to rua down the nesources of that western country in order to
prevent; the building of the -road through
northern Ontario. I can ref er to that gentleman's speeches la the Hansard of the House
-of Commons, I thiak in 1878, where hie refers to our great North-west as an unknown
country, and to Bnitish Columbia as notbf0

ing but rock and brush. To-day, that party
have dlscovered that they have a New Ontario. But that is only within the last three or
four years. They are booining New Ontario to-day, for fear they will be swamped
ln the corning election for the course they
pursued ln the past. My hon. friend frorn
Portage la Prairie wants to give thei a
helping hand. by showing that the government of Sir John Macdonald did sornething
wrong ln encouiaging the Canadian Pacific
Railway Cornpany. Are we to stand here
and be lectured by the hon. gentleman for
that ? I will flot, for one. While I have a
tongue ln my head, I wili express my opinIons, -and I do not cane who is displeased,
because I arn a living witness of the difficulties that had to be encountered by those
who inaugurated and carried through the
policy of building the Pacific Itailway. I
know those who opposed It. I know them
ail, yes, sorne of them from thein cradles,
and I k-now their inconsistencies just
as weIl as anybody ln thîs country does.
When they corne héne for political purposes,
and try to make black white and white
black, It is more than hurnan nature can
stand. How could 1 keep quiet when my
hon. friend from Hamilton nises and finds
fault with the leader of the opposition foi,
the 'course that hie took ln supportiag the
contract with the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company ? I arn a living witness to the fact
that the hon, gentleman from Hamilton
used to say that the hon, leader of the opposition was the best Minister of Custénms
we ever had.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Thiat Is quite rigbt.
Hon. Mn. McCALLUM-It is quite rlght,
but the hon. gentlernan says hie la slandering
the men who cornposed that second syndicate. I know that several bogus syndicates
wene gotten up at that time to try and prevent Canada frorn building the Canadian
Pacific Railway.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harnilton)-Did a syndicate that could deposit $1,500,000 hi hard
cash look like a bogus concern ?
Hon. Mr. MeCALLUM-I did not call It
a bogue syndicate.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harnilton)-The hon.
gentlemnan's leader did.

342

SEINTATIE

Hon. Mr. McOALLUM-There were two
or three syndicates, ani 1 say there
were bogus mies to try and prevent tbe
building of the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
The bon. gentleman from Hamilton Is often
astray-he carnies bis poiitics too far. He
carnies them into the Senate, where we do
flot want polities. He bas only corne bere
lately, and bas flot got tbe modesty to leave
bis polities outslde, but wants to force them
on the Senate on every occasion, and niake
a noise.
Hon. Mr. McDONALD
the worst.

(C.B.)-He is flot

Hon. Mfr. McCALLUM-No, the bion.
gentleman Is one of the best. 1 bave no
better friend liu parliament ; still I cannot
sit bere, witb ail the respect I bave for rny
hon. friend, ami remain sulent, when bie attemp'ts to show us tbat bis party could have
done so much better lu building the Canadian Pacifie Railwny than the Conservative
goverament dld. It wouid take me fromn
suarise to sundown to describe one-tentb of
the inconsistencles of the parties who are
trying to make tbemselves the champions of
this country now.
Hon. M1r. GOWAN-I do not propose to
enter into any of tbe controversial questions
wbicb bave been discussed here. In truthi
I arn not qualified to do so, but a littie circurnstance occurs to me whicb rnay be of
some interest to sorne of the hon. senators
bere. I remember very well wben tbe
sceere was first conceived of building a
railway across thils continent, and I amn
afrald It found little favour outslde of Canada, but tbere were men la Canada strong
of heart, and conviction, wbo were willing
to risk their aIl la the undertaking. 1 bappened to be la England sorne tbirty years
ago, I think la '1870 or 1871, and had tbe
bonour of meeting at dinner one of tbe rnost
distingulshed statesmea lu England and a
member of tbe then cabinet. He spoke to
me in very klnd ternis of Canada, anti I
wa-s pleased to bear what be sald, being
tben, as I amn now, beurt and soul Canadian.
After a wbile bie said : 'You Canadians are
most wonderfully enterprising people. You
have Iofty conceptions of tbings. You can
do a great deal tbat other nations cannot
accornplish. 1 understanud you have conceived a sceere of actually building a road
Hon. Mr. WOOD) (Hamilton).

frorn the Atlantic to the Pacifie, but let me
tell you that the engineering dîfficulties are
Insuperable, and the financial difficuities are
equally insuperable.' I bappened to know
sornetblng of the explorations that were
made, and I gave the best answers 1 could
to wbat he said, and witb regard to tbe
financial difficulties, 1 told hlm there were
men ln Canada who were wllling to risk
their aIl la the undertaklng-patriotlc men
who wouid risk everything they had-and
one of the largest banking Institutions on
this continent was willing, as far as they
could properly do so, to back up the scheme.
But hie still was of tbe idea that the engineering and finanlial difficulties were Insuperable. But owing to the pluck and determination of our people that road was
built, and we are now proud of it whatever
party we belong to. We are proud of that
road coanectiag the Atlantic with the Pacifie, and I arn glad to say that the Statesman to wbom 1 have referred lived to see
the design carrled out-wbat an Intelligent,
Industrious, enterprising and self-reliant peopie could accomplish.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I arn not desirous
of extending this debate to any great length,
and I certainly would not have risea on this
occasion had It flot been for the staternents
which feIl froni the lion. gentleman froni
Monck and the hion, gentleman froni Richmond, and the leader of the opposition.
These bon. gentlemen stated that the policy
of the Mackenzie governrnent was to open
up tbe Nortb-west by water stretches, and
that tbey bad proceeded witb the construction of locks and canais for that purpose. 1
sbould like rny hon. friend, the leader of the
opposition-because bis rnerory 1 presume
Is falrly good-to say whetber, before the
Conservative governrnent carne into power
la 1878, the Mackenzie government had let
the building of that section of the Canadiau
Pacifie Rallway wblch runs froni Lake Superlor to Winnipeg, and that It was then under construction.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
quite true.

(B.C.)-That is

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Tben why do
hon, gentlemen try to-day to say that the
policy of Mr. Mackenzie was to open up the
Nortb-west by water stretches ? I think it
is tume we sbouid post ourselves ln this

APRIL 30. 1902
Chamber se that our statements will flot be
directly contrary te the faets. It Is true
that was the policy of Mr. Mackenzie. Then
wlth regard te the trans-continental scheme,
Mfr. .Mackenzle's policy was to bui]d the
road across the prairie section of the Domtalon, and as that section got settled up and
there was evidence to show the necessity of
its continuation to the Pacifie, It should be
then built to the Pacifie. That was Mr.
Mackenzie's pollcy, andl It would have been
carried out had lie remained in power. Now
we are glad indeed te know that there is teday a charter asked. for another trans-continental rond. The hion. gentleman frein Richmond claimed v-ery great credit for the Conservative party, headed by the Hon. Sir
John A. Macdonald, for the manner ln which
they carried through the construction cf the
Canadian Pacifie Rallway. We ai feel proud
of the Canadian Pacific Railway. It is an
honour to Canada and a credit te the men
that are at the head of It, and Its management Is well and abiy conducted. They dld
recelve large subsîdies frein this country
and they had an ardueus task. when they
underteek te construct the road. They have
carrled eut their scheme very well, but I
do net think It la wise te enter Into a minute
investigation of the laceptien and everytning
connected with the start of the scheme
whereby that rond lias been bujît. I earnestiy hope, in cennection with the trans-continental line, wlhich ls prejected by the
charter that ls new before us, that 've wili
iiot have a set of charter-mongers who wll
seil that charter fer $360,000. I hope the
country is net geing te have that experlence
wlth the second lune. I Bat la the etner
House fer elghteen years, during the whele
turne the Canadian Pacifie Railway seheme
was earried eut, and I say, as far as dishenesty and extravagance and corruption are
concerned, it Is the blackest page in the history cf this'Dominion. We neyer get at the
bottomn of t.hose contratt. We neyer got at
the bettein of section B centraet. We neyer
get at the bettom of the Onderdonk contract. We were prevented freminlnvestigating. those things, and I would say te
hon, gentlemen here present that I belleve
the less that ls said about the inception cf
that scheme, and the manner la whlch It
was carried eut by the party that held
power at that tlme, the better. The

beet evidence that the people. of this
country did net appreclate the course adopted ls the fact that cur hon. friends have
been relegated te the opposition aide cf the
.House. They are ln opposition te-day. I
(Io net for a moment say there were net
good men cennected with the Conservative
party, but I say there were transactions
conneeted wlth the Inceptien of that sclieme
whicli were ne credit te Canada, and 1
hope, ne inatter how many trans-continental
schemes we may have aftël- this, Nve will
neyer have one which lias sucli a black
record as that ln cennection with the first
scheme. My hon. friend speke of New
Ontario, and said the developinent cf that
section never would have been accem.plished
If it had net been for the construction of
the Canadian Pacific Rallway. That May
be quite true. Mr-. Mackenzie, as I have
said, let the first section of that rond, which
passes throughi seme four hundred miles
of that very district. But where weuld
New Ontario lie te-day If the hon. leader
of the oppositien had bis way ? It would
lie attadhed te the province of Manitoba,
and it weuld net be New Ontario at ail.
There would be ne New Ontario. Se that
've have net bis party te thank for having
New Ontario to-day. The &overnment cf
New' Ontarlo, headed by Sir Oliver Mowat,
fenglit for the riglits cf the province of Ontarie aleng that Uine, and defeated the party
te which the hon. leader of the opposition
belengs, and secuared that territory, whichl
ls a rich Inheritance fer the province ef
Ontario, and Ontario ewns It te-day. Then,
hie taiks abeut oui- having made an advance
te the Canadian Pacifie Railway of $30,000,000. At that lie, ne doulit, the Canadian
Pacifie Rallway 'vas la a condition that
necessitated the country asslsting thein. I
believe It 'vas 'vise that we should have
doue se. He says that 've got back every
dollar. We dld net do that. We reeived
$20,000,000 and 660,000 acres ef land. The
land that 've seld the Canadian Pacifie Railway fer a dollar an acre we took back at
~dollar and a haîf.
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
lion. gentleman is just as wrong. la that
statement as la hls other statements. It
'vas a dollar, and a quarter.
.Hon. Mr-. McMULLEN-It 'vas an Increase
at any rate. My hon. friend said sème-

344

SENATE

thlng about thie other syndicate. I surely
thought the leader of the opposition, being
an old member o! this House and an old
member o! the other House, and a man
wvlth a remaricable memory, would have
known better than to, cast the aspersion hie
did on the second syndicate, by saylng that
they were a bogus syndîcate, and that they
had not. means enougli to, build forty miles
o! road. The hon, gentleman from Hamilton says they put up the necessary deposit.
They put up more than the necesary deposit. The deposit demanded by the gov-

erument was $1,250,O00.

That is what the

first syndicate put up, and the other syndicnte deposlted a millon and a hiaif.
It is
flot fair to, say they were a lot of bogus
men or that It was a bogus syndicate. We
are proud to, think that the Canadian Pafie. Railway bas been fiished.
It is a
credit to, Canada.
It lias been the great
ploneer Institution o! this country, particailarly o! the North-west. If we bav-e other
roads bulît through the North-wvest of this
Dominion we will -be glad o! it, but I hope
that any other trans-continental uine cons-tructed In this country will have a more
savoury record In connection wlth its Inception than the record associated with the
Canadian Pacifie Rallway In the commencement of the seheme for the purpose of building that rond.
Hon. Mr. WIOOD (Westmoreland)-The
only point I wish to refer to In this debate,
is a point which It appears to, me has uot
been sufficlentiy noted, and whichi appeared
te me to be the whole pîth of the argument
whlch was presented to the House by the
hon, gentleman !rom Marquette at the beglnning o! this debate.
Hîs whole speech
-was a de! ence of the policy of the late
Mackenzie goverument as opposed to the
poicy o! the Sir John A. Macdonald governmient In the construction of the Canadian
Pacifie Rallway, and the bon. gentleman's
dlefence, as I understood it, amounted to
tbis, that If the policy o! the Mackenzie
goverilment liad been carried out that road,
îîistead o! belonging to-day, as It does, to
the Canadian Pacifie Railway 'Company,
î%vould be a goverument road under government control, and operated by the government to, the great advantage of the people
o! the North-west.
I have, In prevlous
debates In this House, expressed my own
Hon. Mr. MCMULLEN.

views as opposed to the government ownership of railways, or ra.ther to, any extension
of the goverilment ownership of railways
in this Dominion. I have flot changed my>
mind, and I do flot think the hon. gentleuian, if lie hail refiected for a moment.
would have advanced sucli an argument
as that ln favour of the policy of the Mackenzie government, and I may say thiat if
-%e are to accept that from the bon. gentleman as the policy of the MackenzIie govci ment, and If those would be the resuits and the position to-day if the policy
of the Mackenzie government liad beýen carried out, we must congratulate ourselves tha t
tlint poicy did flot prevail. Refiect for just
one moment. What would have been the
position of this Dominion if that road ha<]
been bult at the expense of the governinient, inistead of being built as it wvas by
the Canadian Pacifie Railway ? That road
hias invested in It, besides the money whieli
las been granted by the Dominion, to whichi
the hon, gentleman referred, at least troll)
one hiundred to one hundred and flfty millions of capital. If It bad been built as il
government road that would neeessarily
have lncrensed the debt of thdls Dominion by
that amouint of money, somewhere from one
hundred to, one hundred and fifty millions.
~the hon, gentleman has not attempted to
show what advantage the Dominion would
have derived under those conditions whicli
it does not enjoy to-day. I arn at a loss ho
find any. He says that the people o! the
North-west are complaininig o! the usage
they receive at the hands of the Canadiani
Pacifie Rallway, .that the rates charged there
are excessive and are the subject o! coinplaint. I am flot prepared to discuss that
question, but I amn prepared to venture the
assertion that If that road was owned and
operated as a government road to-day tbe
rates Would be nothlng less than they are
now; and I doubt If It could be profitably
operated even at the rates whlch are in
existence ithere to-day. I wIll not be Ilke
the hon. gentleman-I wlll give some facts,
at least, lu support of the position whlch
I take.
We have but one rallway In this DominIon which Is owned and operated by the
goverument, and that Is the Intercolonlal,
to which the hon, gentleman refers. 1
will not say lie expressed the hope, but
I think hie sald that It had been sug-

AIPRIL 30. 1902
gested that the government railway should
be extended from Montreal westward
to the Georgian Bay, and ultimately to
the Pacifie coast. That -Idea, I believe,
bas been suggested in the House of Gommons. It was strongly advocated, I think,
by an hion. gentleman who represented a
Manitoba c.nstituency In the House of
Gommons, that our government system of
railways sbould be extended and that the
raiiways of the Dominion should ultimately be owned and operated by the governnment. This, however, bas not, s0 far, I
think, been a live question, and I do flot
think that any niumber of people will serionsly undertake to advocate such a proposition. In support; however, of the position
whlch I take, 1 must just direct the attention of the House very briefir to our experience in this Dominion of the results of
the operations of a railway by the goverameut as a government rallway. We have
the speech delivered by the Minister of
Ra iiways and Canais ln the House of Gomnmons only iast week explalning the resuit
of the operations of the Intercolonial Railwa y during the years that that department
has been under bis control, and what bas
hie stated to us ? He bas told us that they
have added to the capital account since
1896 some tweive and a hait million dollars.
What bas that been for ? Nearly one million and a hait was for the extension. o!
the rond fromn Lévis to Montreai.
Something more than two millions and a hait
bas been expended for rolling stock; expended on rails and fastenlngs, $400,000;
for building, renewlng and strengthenlng
bridges, $W0,000, $77,000, and $167,000 ; for
lncreased accommodation, M6,000, $154,000, $M0,000, $729,000, $733,000 ; on the
ferry service at Ganso, $317,000 ; upon
station buildings, ilding and miscellaneous expendItures, a number of Items whlch
total up a littie over a million dollars.
These are ail expeaditures on capital account, and go 10 Increase the debt
of the Dominion. Now, I want to state this
proposition for the serious consideration of
gentlemen In this House, the majorlty o!
whom, I belleve, are practIcal business men,
and understand a business proposition when
it Is presented. If the Intercolonlai Railway -lind been operated by a private coinpaay for the last ten years, It would have
been operated wlthout any cost to this Do-

345

minion, without any Increase to the capital account, or to the debt of this DominIon. Any company, either the large coinpanles whlch exist le thîs Dominion at the
present fime, or a new company which
might be organized for the purpose, wouId
have undertaken to operate that railway,
to have charged no hlgher rates tban have
been cbarged, elthier for freight or passenger service, to have maintained their service as efficlentiy as lb bas been malntained
and to bave done lb without receiving one
dollar from the Dominion. What benefit
then bas anybody la this country-wbat
beniefit bas the maritime provinces received
from this addition of twelve and a hait
millions to the debt of this Dominion ? For
my own part, I can see no benefit wbatever, and I believe it: is a mistaken policy.
I believe that the tinie bas corne, and
corne some years ago, when further lncreases to the capital account of the Intercolonial Railway should have ceased, when
any Improvements which were required
sbouid have been made from the earnlngs of the road.
If the Canadian Pacific Rnilway bail been rnanaged In the
samne way, wbat would have been the resuit ? We would have not only, for the
construction of the road, the bundred or
moré millions I bave spoken 0f added to the
debt of the Dominion, but If tbe saine po]Icy bad prevalled la regard to it as bas prevalled wlth the Intercoloniai Railway, for
every new englue bouglit and every sidlng
extended, or new station bouse built or rail
purchased we would have had to corne to the
Dominion excbequer and ask for the money
for It. Will any one say that a pollcy like
that would have been for the benefit et the
people of this Dominion ? And so far as
rates are concerned, If the experlence la
the maritime provinces of the Intercolonial
Rallway are any guide, the people o! the
North-west would have had no lower rates
or ne better accommodation ln any way
tban tbey have at the 'present time. My
oely .object la rlsing la thîs debate, was to
meet that one vlew whlch appeared to
be presented by the hon, gentleman frorn
Marquette, and I thlnk by the hon, gentleman from Hamilton, la some remarks
hie made, that this country *hadt sustalned
a serious loss and that the people o!
the North-west were suif erlng hardshIps
and inconveniences because this road bail

SENATE
been built by a private company. On ibate
bas arisen which covers the railway
the contrary, I believe it Is a fairer and Ipolicy of this country for
the last t-wentytruer statement of the case, and a state- *five years.
1 bave some littie knowledge
ment which is capable of being sustained myseif of the events which
were connected
by ample proof, thant if tbat policy had *witb the adoption of that policy. I
had tbe
been adopted, and resulted as the bon. pleasure of sitting witb
the venerable
gentleman claimed to-day, it would have leader of the opposition
in the House of
resulted ln the building, owning, and oper- Commons when the bon.
gentleman fromn
ating the Canadian Pacifie Railway by Hamilton was there,
and beard the
the goverament instead of by a private arguments pro and
con about the building
company, that there is no act of the great of' the Canadian Pacific
Railway.
I
Sir John A. Macdonald wbicb deserves was a supporter of Mr.
Mackenzie, and if
greater praise or higber commeadation from I bad remaiaed ini parliament,
would have
the people of this country than the policy supported bis pollcy to the
end.
At that
wbich hie pursued in lîandlng that great time I believed bis policy
was safe, cautions,
uadertaking over to a private company to n nýd prudent.
However, the other policy
bie constructed and operated by tbem ra- prevailed, and I do flot
stand bere at prether than as a government work.
sent to arralgn It. I believe a better polcy
HQn. Mr. CHURCH-It Is very instructive migbt bave been adopted, but the Canadian
to the junior members of this House to Pacific Rallway bas been a great success
lstea to this debate. One of the six wbo and can be pointed to by the people of this
came in here this session bas addressed the country as sbowing the enterprise and the
House and therefore I mny take the liberty indomitable pluc], of the people of Canada.
of doing the saine. 1 acquit the hou. gentle- That the government tool, their political
man from Richmond of any Intention to pro- lives la tibeir bands showed more boldness
v-oke a debate. I do it conscientiously, bie- than prudence. I do flot thin-k I would have
cause 1 do flot believe bie had any idea that sald anytb-ing ln this debate, because perthis debate would spring up the way it bas; ha-ps It is well for us juniors to bie Infôrmed,
altbough before hie took bis seat I whispered rather than take up the time of the House,
to my hon. filiend near me that the debate If the policy of runnlng and expense of the
would take the course It bas taken. The I'ntercolonial Railway -had flot been brought
speakers bave gone very far afield.
I do flot know whether the hou.
We la2.
have beard the policy of the late Alexander gentleman from Marquette is responsible
Mack-enzie and the late Sir John A. Mac- for that or flot, but 1 do flot tbink it
donald brougbt forward here la reference to was fair to this House. It bas been talked
the building of the great Canadian Pacifie 0f ln the other House; perhaps that is a
Railway.
We bave also heard the policy better place to, dlscuss it.
The estim'ates
of the development of New Ontario brought are flot before us now. When .tbey are
uninto this debate. As I take It, the matter der discussion much lattàtude Is allowed to
before us is, to know whether we shahl members lu debate. The expenses of the
sustain the report of the commlttee whicb Intercolonial Rallway are flot before us toreported favourably on a Bill for the build- day, la any sense that we are seized of them
ing of a line 0f railway known asthe Trans- now, to enable us to criticise what the MinCanada Rallway. It is a road, as I under- Ister of Railways has done. I do flot think
stand it, that will rua parallel to a large it is fair. «WNhy ? Let us take the bistory
portion of the Canadian Pacifie Railway, of the Intercolonial RaIlway for a moment.
but several bundred miles north of it, and Wheii w4e went into confederation parts of
there appears to bie a consensus of opinion the Intercolonlal Rallway bad been built by
aIl round that It will flot hurt the Canadiau the maritime provinces.
It was felt that
Pacific Railway, but that It Is absolutely there sbouid be a line of railway to connecessary la the interest of the people, who nect ihese provinces, anld eventually with
are not so well accommodated by the Cana- Canada. True, the Dominion took over the
dian Pacific Railway as they should be, roads and gave us tŽhe cost of them.
It
that it should be built. I take It for granted was part of tbe schexne
of confederation,
the Bill will pass without any opposition like other
tllings wbich have been a part
In this House.
Now, on this Bil a de- of that
scheme that I do not hear hou.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland).

APRIL 30. 1902
gentlemen eneer about. Wbat bas happened ? Talk about rates. It ie well knownl
tbat from a business and commercial standpoint, the Intercolonial Rallway was bult
too far to the nortb. It was not a direct
route to tbe provinces by tbe ses. Wbat
bas happened? A governent selzed witb the
responsibllity and. duties of governing thîs
country properly and wisely, saw fit to ex-.
tend the Canaian Pacifie Rallway througb
a portion of the state o! Maine, thereby offerlng a shorter route, and It bas becorne a
rival to, our national road, and cousequently
a great deal of frei-ght which should go over
tbe Iutercolonlal Rallway goes that way,
and tbat accounts for tbe eaninge of the lutercolonial Railway being less than thiey
should be. I do not think It ie fair to be
cbarging this matter of the expense o! the
Intercolonial1 Rall'way as a damper upon
public lrnprovements. If the present MinIster of Railways and Canais and the goverament of wbich hie is a prorninent member
bave not done their duty àn this regard, the
wbole matter wiHl be threshed out lu the
next appeal to the country, and the people
will dec.ide wbetber tbey bave doue right or
wrong. Corning to the merits of the BIII
bof ore us, in itself, I thlnk It la a good mensure. The road ought to be built. Hon, gentlemen are ail agreed upon that. I rejoice to
know tbat the great Canadian North-west le
developlng, and that tbe yield of grain le s0
great that the Canadian Pacific Rnilway
alone canuot carry the wbole of It. If a
route furtber to the uortb le needed, ail
tbe better for Canada. We bave a great
Let us see to it that we lmnDominion.
plernent, as far as possible In the public Interest ail great undertakinge and wot'ks
brought to our notice. By çloing so, we will
be dolng our duty, and we wlll not be called
a bouse of waxworks In tbe future. That
statement was made by a promînent man
In the other Chamber. If we discuse matters wltb the vim and spirit that I bave
witnessed since I carne here, that cannot
truly be sald. Thbe great Horwe, wben In a
United States clty, beard tbe rernark made
by a public man of that country, a vaingiorious Ainerican :
'No pent-up Utiza confinies uwr
powers,
The whole boundiess continent Is ours.
Mrhat a colossal untrutb was this statement, as tbe larger bal! of this North Arnenican continent lies nortb of the boundary

347

lne, and forms the Dominion of Canada.
And it was once said by Americane: 'You
are too far north to compete with us.'
To wbicb Howe replied : 'I deny the sof t
impeachiment. We live in a clirnate.so cold
that In the winter season Jack Frost makes
our people lie close together In feather iteds,
anxd frorn that contact wiUl corne a heaitby
vigorous race of peopie that ivili possess
brain, brawn and muscle, to bold their own
and dominate the best Interests 0f our portion of this fair continent.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This discussion
bas taken a very wide range. Some antiquarian of the future, after the Trans-Canada rond bas been bult frorn the Atlantic
to the Pacifie, may take the trouble to inquire wbat were the views of the Senate o!
Canada with regard to that rond nt the
Urne tbey undertook to consider a charter
for this cornpany. He will naturally turn
to this debate upon the Bill, and If hie sbould
do so, bie will be surprIsed to find that so littde was sald about the Trans-Canada rond,
and s0 rnuch about other raiiroads. I bave
recently been watohing the surveys and
the Information gained in that way, and
readlng over attentively the literature supplled to tbe members of parliarnut by the
Trans-Canada Raflway Cornpany, and I bave
corne to the conclusion tbat this cornpany has a good project.
This le flot
the first tirne they bave been before parliament. They got a charter Iu 188S and have
renewed It frorn Urne to tirne. Tbey bave
built sorne of the road, not rnuch, but I bave
corne to this conclusion, tbat this compaili
bave, and I thInk tbey are very well aware
of It themselves, a most valuabie franchise.
I look to-day w1th a great deal more laterest on this nortbern country of ours frorn
the Pacifie to the Atlantic than I forrnerly
did, and I do not; know that 1 nif alone ia
that respect. I beleve that most o! the
public men In the country, since tbe Yukon
developrnent, bave learned to k-now and appreclate more bigbly this grent northiern
country of ours than tbey did before, and I
bave examlned -thesurveys and reports made
by Henry O'Sulllvan for the province of
Quebec between Lake St. John and James'
Bay, and arn convinced It le a very valuable
country wlth great resources, especlally In
spruce tImber'and agricultural lande. 1 amn
satisfied wben a Uine of railway traverses

348

SENATE

tMackenzie

James' Bay and Hudson Bay to the Atlan
government was, instead of
tice ocean to the Saguenay, what Is prac building the Canadian Pacifie Railway litically an open winter port on the St. Law * rediately, to utilize the magnificent
water
rence, there will lie an extraordinary de- *stretches of Canada for the purpose
of
velopment ln that part of the great north Iopening
communication with the Northas well as ln other parts of our northern west. I understood hlm to deny
that procountry. I have flot studled the difficultes position ve:-y emphatically, and then
lie
of rallway construction iminediately west of %
vent on to show why lie denied it, nnd lie
James' Bay. We have flot been suppied referi'ed to the fact that the Mackenzie
adwith detalled Information from James' ministration, before they had
gone out of
Bay westward to tlie Peace river, but we power, liad let a contract
for building a
ail know sornething of the value of that raiway frorn tlie head of Lake Superior
Peace river country. I bave therefore to Winnipeg.
the greatest confidence lu whnt lias been
Hon. Mfr. McCALLUM-And the Fort
said by tlie lion. gentleman frorn Richmnond
Francis lock too.
ln the opening of this discussion, that
altliougli I may not live to see It, and many
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-1 arn referring to
members of this House wvill flot live to see wliat the lion, gentleman frorn Wellington
It, the day will corne wlien we will bave said. To my mind lie lad completeiy and
not only tlie Canadian Pacifie Railway einphatically proved the stat 'ement of miy
system traversing this country from east to lion. friend Sir Mackenzie BoweIl with rewest as It does to-day-not only the system j gard to the policy of the Mackenzie adminof whlch Mackenzie & Mann are the pro- istration. It was really to bulld that secmoters, and which la rnaklng sucb strides tion between the prairie and Lake Superln spanning the continent, but we wilI have lor, but it was snid to be absolutely nonn trans-c ontinental lune stîli furtlier north, sense L,) talk aibout building a railway
where the distance wlll lie ahorter and the nortli of Lake Superior. The great water
gradients easier than by either of the other stretches were to lie used, and anybody
routes. Nothlng'gîves more prornise to the m-ho spoke about building the railway
people of Canada than the fact that the old niortli of Lake Superior was a madman.
ideas about the value of the.northern coun- My hon. friend from Wellington mlglit have
try are being dissipated, and one by one gone fartlier and clalimed the M,%ackenzie
l)rejudices in that respect are being re- government were wrestling wvitli the transmoved. We are learning that we have a continental railway by the fact tliey put an
most valuable country in the north, that Act on the statute-book off ering land
and
Canada, instead of belng as was said in rnoney as Iiberally as Sir John Macdonald
the days of confederation discussions, a did afterwards, wvhen lie carried
into effect
country with length but no breadth, lias a contract to bulld the Canadjian Pacific Railnot only length but breadth of a most valu- w-av.
But side by side with the legisiaable character la the way of the resources tion were the declarations
of the leader
which that country possesses.
of the governrnent of that day thait It was
I suppose I would lie almost transgressing not the pollcy of lits government
to bulld
were I to ait down witliout notlcing one or that rond for a
long time to corne. The
two rernarks
that
have been
made bargin witli Britishi Columbia was repudiatduring the discussion witli regard to ed ; it was said îît was a rnad
bargain whichi
the other phases of our railway situa- called for the
building of that road ln ten
tion. I was partlcularly struck wltli the years.
The policy of Mr. Mackenzie was to
vlew that my bon. friend from Welling- utilize
the magnificent water stretchies,
ton presented to the House ln contradiction to
build the road from the water stretches
of my hon. frlend the leader of the opposi- to
Winnipeg and over the prairie section,
tion wlth regard to tlie policy of the Mac- and defer the building
of the British Colkenzie governrnent la relation to the con- umbia section
indelinîtely. As for the secstruction of the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
tion nortli of Lake Superior, that was a
I understood the hon. gentleman to deny proposition
that could only lie defended
very positively the staternent of my hon.
by madmen. That waé the poiicy of the
friend to my left, that the policy of the Liberal
party at thie time.
I arn Dot
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

APRIL 30. 1902
challenging the integrity of Mr. Mackenzie
and bis friends. They were honest. They
beiieved that the proposition they weire
makin-g was the best and safest proposition, but, as was stated admirabiy
by my hon. friend wbo opened this discussion-tlie hon, gentleman from Richmond
-it affords a contrast of how narrow their
conceptions were, how slight tbeir faith lu
the polley and future of Canada was as
compared with the conceptions o! Sir John
Macdonald, the great statesman who grappied with this question and gave to Canada this great trans-continental rallway
without impairing the resources of the
country, but on the contrary, building
up this country from one end of It to
WýNheni I heard the hou. genthe other.
tleman from Portage la Prairie address the
House and cali in question the statesmansbip whlch gave the Canadian Pacific Railway to Caniada, I refiected for a m,>
ment and asked myseif would we have the
opportunity of bearing the stentorian vaice
of my hon. frlend representing one of the
fineat of the provinces, had we flot had that
legisiation of Sir John Macdonald's. Maitoba, instead o! being a large, rich and
populous province, -sendlng men of ability
to bath Houses of parliament, bearing tbeir
share o! the general burdens, would bave
been traversed to-day by Indians and bal!breeds.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I was there five years
before there was a rallroad.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The bon, gentleman may have been there and rnigbt stili
be there, but bis manly presence would
have been missed la this House as n representative o! that noble province Manitoba.
I bave only one point furtber ta refer to,
and that Is the observation made by my
hon. friend froin Wellington, wbo generally
addresses the House wltb great ability and
wîtb Information. I was rather surprised,
coming from a source for whlch I have
sucb great respect, to bear him, drawlng
in a subject -whicb dld flot properly belong
to our subject at ail, and charging the goverament of Sir John Macdonald with refusing to allow an Investigation into the unfortunate charges wbieh were made and the
unfortunate circumstances whlch deveioped

349

at the time of the attempted construction of
the Canadian Pacific Rallway, ini 1871 or
1872. The hon. gentleman's memory is certainiy very much at fauit when be says
that no Investigation was permiltted. regarding the Huntington charges. It will be
borne in mmnd that an Investigation was
affered-that a commission was appointed
to take evidence, and that the parties wlio
formulated the charges at 'that time were
iuvited to caine before the commission, but
they declined to do so. Tbey did not present theinselves at aIl. Instead of the goverament decllning to investigate, the partics wbo made the charges did not appear
bef are the commission, and press tbem. 1
bave to apologize to the House for havingcriticised the course the discussion bis
taken, having myseilf somewbat drifted
into the saine groove as my bon. friends
wbo previousiy addressed the House. Hoýwever, I could hardly 'help referrlng to these
points, because 1 tbought it was necessary
to make thein clear. Our memories are getting a littie rusty, and it ils only after we
bear statements made that matters corne
back vividiy before our recoliections, but
we remember now very well that It was the
termos wltb Britisb Columbia tbat imposed
the policy on Sir John Mlacdonald and the
people, of Canada ta construct a railway
withlu a definite period. la ten years. That
governinent remalned ln power a couple o!
years afterwards, and failed, aithougb it
tried to carry out the contract. The govvrnment tbat followed them were oniy haîfhenrted, and It was left for Sir John Macdonald agaîn to corne bàck to power, and
initiate the seheme, and carry It to a successful completion. It Is a matter o! great
pride and gratification to those of us who
followed Sir John Maedonald la tbose years
and supported hlm ln those trying times
when be was carrylng this stupendous.
load upon bis back to find that this work.
of bis bas been completedl ln a manner that
Is nôt only a credit to bis memory, but a
credit to the Dominion of Canada, and a
source o! admiration, even to gentlemen
lîke my bon. frIend from Wellington, wbo
opposed It at the turne, but wbo ls now one
o! the greatest admîrers o! this great Canadian railway of ours, bult tbrougb the
efforts o! Sir John Macdonald.
The motion was agreed to.

350

SENATE
BILLS INTRODUCED.

Bill (96) An Act to incorporate the Manitoba and Keewatin Railway Company.(Hon. Mfr. Watson.)
Bill (99) An Act respectlng the Montreal
and Southern Counties Railway Company.(Hon. Mfr. McMullen.)
THIE CORONATION OÂTIH.
NOTICE 0F MOTION.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY gave notice:
Qu'il demanderaLe gouv.crnement a-t-il été mis en possession
et a-t-il transmis à qui de droit la protesta-

tion des citiyeus de la ville d'Halifaex, contenue
dans la motion suivante proposée le 22 janvier
dernier par l'honorable L. G. Powcr, président
du Sénat :
m
" Comme les croyanoes relgiu i-a des catholiques ne diminuent en rien leur loyauté, et ne
les empêch2nt pas de vers-cr leur sang pour la
cause de l'empire, les catholiques protestent
contre le fait qui leur est pénible de signaler,
pour qu'elle soit rejetée par le Souverain, la
foi qu'ils prof asent, et demandent respectueusamsent que zette mention inutile et offensante
Eoit entièrement biff4e du serment."
Quelle réponse le gouvernement a-t-il obtenu'e?

Hon. Mfr. DRUINMOND-I amn giad the
motion of the hon, gentleman has been put
in French nnd not ln Englieli. The word
'demander' If translated Into English wouId
be rather peremptory to the King and I con-

Is dated Downing Street, 1lth May, 1901,
nnd le as follows:

Downing Street, May il, 1901.
My Lord'-I have the honour ta acknowiedge
the receipt of your despatch No. 81 of the lSth
March, forwardlng an Address to the King tram
the Commona of Canada respectlng the declaration which the Bill of Righls and the Act of
Settlement reqqire the Sovereign to make at
the meeting of the- first parliament or at the
Coranation.
2. The Address has belen laid before the King
and will be referred to the commitipe of the
House of Lords, for the appointment of whlch
the Lord President of the Council Is about ta
move wlth a view to the consideration of the
farm of oath ta be taken by the Sovereigu on
his accession.
I have the honour to De,
My Lord,
Tour most obedient humble servant,
(Sd.) J. CHAMBERLAIN.
1 amn not aware that any action has been
taken. I have noticed ln the press reports it
has been ailuded to on one or two occasions,
but no resulte have flowed from ItL
NOTICES. 0F MOTION.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved:
That in compllan-e wlth paragraph 50 of the
Manual of Proceedinga o! the Sonate, a senatar deairous of giving notice either of a motion
or of an Inqulry which he Intends to make,
shall first read sald notice tram his seat lu the
Senate, to the Hoase. before handing It to the
.Clerk for Insertion in the Minutes of Proceedings.

gratulate the hon. gentleman on has'ing put

He said: The suggestion made by the
bon. gentleman from Victoria, in connection
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-The bon, gentleman with giving the Speaker certain powers,
le referring to a notice already on the paper, had botter De made a substantive motion.
and not the one I arn now reading. I take It roquIros some littie consideration. This
occasion of this Incident to notlfy the offi- motion, of which I have gîven notice,

his motion ln French.

ciais that I do not want my notices to be
corrected as I have put them ln French. I
want them as I have put them.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY rose to Inquire of the
government :

simply setties a disputed point as to what
the practIce should De, and I should
prefer that It bo confined to that point.
Hlowever, I may say I arn entirely la accord
with the views of the bon. gentleman froni
Victoria, that wo should give some powors
to the Speaker. It Is very well to say we
are acting upon the procedents and practicos
of the House ot Lords. Perhnps that may
be, to a certain extent but I have long felt
the neceseity of the Speaker having some
powere other than those which he possesses,

Whether th.? petition whic-h the House of
Commons sdopted on March 1, 1901, demanding
tram His Majesty the King the amendinent of
the Act relating ta the succession to the Throne
(Settiement Act) by the elimination of ail ex.pressions that might wound the religlous convictions of any subject whatever of the British.
empire, has been forwarded to blm?
When ?
'What la the answer, and from whom does to conduct the affaire of tbe Senate more ln
it came ?
Wbat steps has this petîtion brought about, accordance with what are the rules' and
and wbat resuîts has it obtainpd ?
practIces of parlament.
Hoil. Mfr. SCOTT-The petition ln quesHon. Mfr. SCOTT-I ontirely concur lu
tion was duly forwarded to Hie Majesty the the suggestion that wo shouid settle for over
King, on the l8th March, 1901. The answer this debatable point, wbich so frequently
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

APRIII 30. 19f)2
arises lu regard to these notices, and I quite
concur ln the opinion expressedl by the hon.
leader of the opposition. I think it would
be much better If the proposai of the hon.
gentleman from Victoria were made an independent proposition, so that we could
maire changes ln it If necessary.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Yesterday I caIied attention to something defective ln my hon. friend'a motion, and to-day
I have hurriedly drafted a notice of motion,
but If the House prefers to have It as a
separate motion, I wili give the notice of
motion now.

351

carefully considered when the House was ln
committee, and a number of amendments
ProPosed and properiy discussed, and many
of them adopted, and Incorporated ln this
Bill. The law cierk of the Senate was lnstructed to see that ail the amendments
were carefully Inserted ln the Bill, and It
lias been examined, to my certain knowledge, two or three times between tlie law
cierk and tlie printing office. 1 think It is
rather Important that the Bill shouid get
through this session, and it would lie better
to let It: go through this year than to risk
the loss of the Bill altogether, as there are
a number of companies relying on this, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That would be better.
I fear that any further postponement would
endanger the passage cf the Bill in the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There is very littie
necessary beyond what ls contained ln the other House. I tlierefore ask the Senate to
notice of motion of my lion. friend, because consent to its passage now.
a notice is read in the House when the
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Speaker ls In the chair. The House is then was read the tliird time and passed.
In session, and If there Io anythlng wrong
ln a motion that requires action, the SpeakTHIRD READINGS.
er'. attention will be called to it, and the
Bill (64) An Act to incorporate the CosHouse can act. The Hlouse Is liere with
mos Cotton Company.-(Hon. Mr. Lovitt.)
funll power, and when a motion Io read on
the floor anything objectionable ln it wWI Blill (47) An Act to Incorporate the CanaManufacturers'
Association.-(Hon.
be hoticed, and the power Is possessedl by dian
the House to prevent It; appearing on the Mr. Ferguson.)
minutes. I think the motion of the hon.
Bill (40) An Act respecting Pensions to
Officers of the Nortli-west Mounted Police.
leader of the opposition ls quite sufficient.
-<o.Mr. Templeman.)
Hon. Mr. EL.L.,-Wili the words 'desirous
Bill (Z) An Act to amend the Naturalizaof' ln the notice be caiculated to raise any
tion Ad, Chapter 113 of the Revised Staquestion ln the future ?
tutes.-(ýHon. Mr. Scott.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This notice was given
Bill (76) An Act further to amend tlie
for to-morrow, and nlot for to-day. If it 1s Pilotage Âct.-<ýHon. Mr. Scott.)
to come on to-day, I wll raise an objection.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The SPEAKER-I read the notice as It
BIR (100) An Act to Incorporate 'the Toappears on the minutes. But I tuink the
hon, gentleman la right. Tlie.notice 'was ronto and Niagara Power Company.-(Hlon.
Mr. Watson.)
given for to-morrow.
Bill (117) An Act furtxer to amend tlie
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-±naen, Unorganized Territories
Game Preservation
It can stand.
Act, 1894.-<Hon. Mr. Scott.)
The motion was allowed to stand.
BIRl f121) An Act furtlier to amend tlie
JOINT STOCK COMPANIES INCORPO- Âcts respecting: the North-west Territories.(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
RATION BILL.
Bill (124) An Act to amend the Civil SerTHIRD READING.
vice Retirement Act, 1S9S.-(Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the third read- Scott.)
ing of Bill <R) 'An Act respecting the InBill (133) An Adt to amend the Rocky
corporation of Joint Stock Companles bv Mountains Park Act, 1897.-(Hlon. Mr. TemLetters Patent.' He sald: This Bill was pleman.)

SENATE
BILLS 0F EXCHANGE ACT AMINENDMENT BILL.
REPORTED FROM COM.%IT'r;rE.
Tbe House resolved itseif into Comrnittee
or the Whole on Bill (105) 'An Act to amend
the Bis of Exchange Act, 1890.'
(In tbe Cornrittee).
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The object is to remove
doubts ln the rninds of sonie bankers and
the legal fraternity as to tbe true meaniag
of section 42 of the Bis of Exchange Act.
1 do not realiy see tînt it is subject to any
anbiguity myseif. But the object is that
the drawee shahl have two days withln
whiclh to make is decision, and If he decies on the day the Bill Is presented,
lie sbouid mark il on that day, but If be desires to postpone it till the second day, tic
has the rIght to do so, and mark It lu thnt
way. Sorne question has arisen.as te whether tbat view of the iaw is correcthy set
forth, and this Bill bas been drawn with
the approval of tic counsel and bankers
who desire to make the clause more chear.
The drawee can date It on any one of the
three days, but hie must honestly date It on
tic day on which hie does accept It. If It
ls presented on the third, aithougli lie bas n
right to accept It on the fifth, bie cannot say
'On the fifth I will accept it.' He inust
accept It on the day hie nctually does accept
it, and nlot postpone it for two days. This
measure reaily makes no material change
ln tbe iaw, but makes It more convenieiit.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I think
this Bill makes sorne hittie change ln the
We know bills are often drawn
law.
agnlinst goods that are shIpped to a pnrty In
one of the iower provinces, and the bill
cornes forward for acceptance before the
goods arrive. It is the practice of the banks
there, at the requcat of the drawee, to hold
back the acceptance at bis request until tic
arrivai of the goods, even If It should bie a
longer time tian three days, and whien the
goods corne to hand the party on whom the
bill Is drawn accepts It. That Is tie practice DOW, and I think It Is ln accordance
vrith thc law. I do not see why there should
be any further change made, which perhîaps rnay lead to a different practice to tat
which prevails at present. It Is accepted
by ai parties, and Is acceptable to everyone.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-la the case rny hon.
friend subrnits there is no change. If the
banker ls nsked nlot to present the bill for
tbiree, or four, or five or six days, those
goods whichi the bill represents have not
arrived.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harnilton)-But the
banker knows nothIng about that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, but you cannot
make any provision that the bill shouid be
heid over for a particular tUrne. The man
should nlot have drawn the bill at the particular date hie dld, uniess lie advised the
bank not to present it. That case is nlot
altered by tbe proposed Bill. The drawer
hands a bill to tbe btrnk, and it is sent on
to the agency. The drawer Instructs thiat
the bill should not be presented until a particular day, at whicb time it is beiieved the
consignment wil have reachied the cousignee.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harniitoi)-If there are
no Instructions given and the bill is sent
forwnrd, the bank presents the bill, having no Instructions at ail, but the goods have
liot corne forward and may flot corne forward for a week or ten days, but accordlit.
to the iaw you would have either to accept
or let the draft be protested.
Hlon. Mr. DRUMMOND-The banker has
no option. If lie does not present the bill
and demand acceptance at the time it is
due, bie becornes personaiiy responsibie f or
the consequences, and the law Is flot iiltered.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harniiton)-I think the
iaw as It stands bas worked satisfactoriiy.
I have neyer heard of a case wliere It bas
not worked satisfactoriiy, and I do nlot sec
the necessIty for a change.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-The date at
which the draft is passed to a custorner for
goods, Is n matter between birn and the
customer. He may draw at any period, but
it baving been arranged, the banker has
no option beyond bis Instructions. If lie
ailows It to stand over until the goods arrive,
bie wouid be held responsible for the payment of the bill.
Hlon. Mr. DLIVER-I do not tbilnk this Bill
would rernove the difficulty. Goods go forward to tbe place of destination, but the
nierchant wbo slips tbose goods, draws a

APRIL 30. 1902
bill of exebange upon the customer. He
sends it to the bank and the bank presents
It to that customer. He asks the custorner
to accept that bill on that date. The goods
do flot arrive, and If the consignee acoepte
that bill the goods rnay neyer arrive, and,
as a man wbo bas bad sorne experience In
this business, I say that that iaw shonld
be nltered, and that no man sbould be bound
to accept a draft until the goods are In bis
possession.

353

sbipped and may be two montha ln reacblngr
there, but the goode are sold for cash, and
tbey are drawn against. The Importer mnuet
bave bis arrangements for insuring ther
goods, and witb the reoeipt of the bill of
lading, and bis lnsuranoe policy be ts thorougbly protected agailnst tbe Ioss of the
goods. This bas no reference to Irnporting
goods.
It ls a different tbing aitogether
from goods being sbipped in the way rny
bon. friend states.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He is flot bound.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Tbe point ls this:
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Tben the draft wili goods cornng frorn abroad over the sea are
subjeet to very littie riisk. We receive our
be protested.
bill of lading and tbe sbip ls responsibie to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat is the proper us for the articles ln the bill of lading,
but
tbing to do.
It Is a different case wbere goods are shipHon. Mr. DEVER-Tbe bon. Secretary of ped frorn points dn Upper Canada to the
State said tbere rnigbt be an uaderstanding lower provinces.
that the bill sbould stand over. Now tbat
Hon. Mr. FORGET-On the Intercolonial
ls flot so.
Railway.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Tbere Io bardly
Hon. Mr. DEVER-I arn not ln business
a bill presented for discount at any bank at nresent. but when I ws ln buinessq
wbicb does not contala tbe last Instructions when I received
a sbipment of goods, the
of the drawer, and it very often takes this arrangem2ent
was that cash sbouid be paid
forrn:
No proteat for non-acceptance.' for tbose goods on delivery.
I was preTbat ls a matter of bargain and It does not pared to pay
for tbem. The bis of exaffect tbe relative posItion of tbe drawer cha.nge
came at sIgbt, and tbey wanted me
and acceptor of the bill. Everybody lni to accept, and
I saiid 'No, tbe goods have
business bas bad tbe experiente that be*bas not corne and 1 do not tbink
the parties wbho
paid for -oods whicb be neyer recelved, for are sending are very
responsible, I do not
ln rnost cases the sbipper does not become care about
binding myseif to that bill of
responsible for tbe carrying agent. Snp- excbange until I know
that the goods are
posing It takes place across the sea, the fortbooriing.' The goods
did not corne for
moment tbe seller of the goode pute tbem on ten or fifteen days. Supposing
I bad acboard tbe ship tbey are at tbe risk of tbe re- cepted the bill and the
goods neyer carne ?
ceiver. He bas to Inaure tbern for bis own I had to telegrapb about tbern,
but If they
benelit, and be bas to accept tbe bill and badl not corne I would bave been
a loser.
psy for It wbetber be gets the goods or not.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
This Bill does not affect tbe case.
bas notbing to do -witb the question.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-The bill ot ladinè
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Tbe bon. gentleguarantees tbe prices of tbe gcods to tbe rnan's position would not be ln tbe
leat
consIgnee.
affected by ut.
*Hon. Mr. WOOD (Harnllton)-But tbey do
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, frorn the coinot Insure tbe goods.
rnittee, reported the Bill without amendHon. Mfr. DEVER.-You can take the bill ment.
of laddng to tbe bank.
CANADA EVIDENCE ACTA.MENDHon. Mr. WOOD (Harnilton)-Very large
MENT BILL.
quantities of goods are Irnported and paid
REPORT PROM COMMITTEZ.
for a rnontb before tbe goods arrive. The
goods are aold for casb, and a alght draft
Tbe House resolved Itself into a Cornle made upon the buyer, and tbe goods are mnittee of the Whoie on Bill (115) An Act
23

SENATE

354

further to amend the Canada Evidence Act, 1The SPEAKER-That can be done after
1803.
1they are concerned.
(Ia the Committee.)

The motion was agreed to.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I move that the
Hlon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-This reBill be reprInted with the amendments.
fers to civil or criminal proceedings. Does
not the civil procedure rest with the local
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
legisiature ?
might be better that the Senate should be
put In possession of the views of those who
lon. Mr. SCOTT-I fancy our powers oppose the BIIL I wish to inform the House
e'xtend t o regulating those proceedings, but of the views taken by those who are opIf It is beyond our powers it wili not affect posing it George Edwards, who Is here on
anybody.
the part of the chartered accountants, wrote
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman me a note stating that he was going to Tofrotu de Salaberry suggests that there are ronto to cousuit wlth the committee of Chartered Accountants, and would wire me their
civIl trials ln the Exchequer Court.
decision. This morning I received the foiHon. Mr. BEIQUE-It seems to me the iowing telegram :
wording might be changed. We might state
Toronto, April 30.
that it should apply to the Exchequer Court. Bon. -Sir Mackenzie Bawell, &c.
have decided
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This taOntario charteredasaccountants ln committee
accept the Bill
amended
Is ouly as to expert witnesses.
yesterday, provided the promoters do flot seek
ta obtain f urther amendments.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-I will let dt stand and
So that after consultation they have come
tind out !rom the Justice Deparflnent
to the conclusion to accept the Bill as
about ItL
amended, and that may do away with any
Hlon. Mr. SULLIVAN, !rom the Com- further discussion upon the general prinmittee, reported that they had made some cipie.
progress with the Bill, and asked leave to
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I have nothing to
sit again.
do with the chartered accountants whatSECOND READINGS.
ever. I am not acting for tbem, and did
Bill (AÂ) An Act to incorporate the Mari- not think o! them at ail. It was only the
time Stock Breeders' AssocIation.-(Hon. nature of the Bill that strucc me, that It
was wrong In principle, and that It asked
Mr. Scott.)
for powers ultra vires o! this parliament.
Bill (9) An Act respecting the United Gdld We had the opinion of the Minister of
Fields o! British Columbia, Llmited.-(Hon. Justice, and he declared they were, Intra
Mr. Templeman.)
vires. I thouglit the principle of combinadion was permitted by 1t, and above ail the
INSTITUTE 0F CHÂRTERED ACSenate was asked to -confer on this body
COUNTANTS INCORPORA-'
the power to grant degrees and to hold exTION BILL.
aminations. There was no curriculum and
no mention made of wbat they were to be
AMENDMENTS CONCITRRED IN.
examined on. There were some others. The
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved the adoption name, &c.,
was improper, and It ls only right
of the report o! the Committee on Miscel- the Senate should be possessed o! a full
laneous Private Bills on (Bill J) An Act to knowledge o! this Bill that 1 wish
It printed,
Incorporate the Institute of Chartered Acbecause these ameadments are s0 lengthy
co tintants.
and It wouid take some time to compare
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-As these amend- them with the original. I at first moved
ments involve important principies, la my the rejectIon of the Bill ln toto, and the
estimation, and having been contested very committee was small and the majority
much la the committee, I would ask that against only one., There was barely a quothe ameadments be printed.
rum ln the committee.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

'9oci 'si rl.1dy a.spljE

fe
uouii)/ ni oB2e si[aaài aaq; JO omi; amos iDarqns
sTi[4

.£aÂI

uo apein I qîln~ S.xinbui aql o; eAuS ale4S
JO
exna il; puari; moq Sui q;)qqm xamis
Luni Inoqîe guoflsanb emas arn 2uiiu
Jelinoila vl *ue aq;l lu paapnj pasT.1d.ns iqan1u Xiai, sen
s1i Pat.izzoa I eâpaîALUo u~r;g N114 !r &utIguu2a
PG.1joloudc uaeq puil &eql lîql amn 2nîl;î;ou 1 ;eq4 igxiuai o; Ueq;T .aq;.xnj 'azuls slq; lu
.18Aa) inflimA se2ii3quO&aaql 30 &-41inX a-m pnnoj ;snf uopom: siçq4 no uàio Lui jo suoi;e.asqo
leuiunjaÂoâ aqi ;nq,4 Xia dumn I uopinpuoo uI
Luv aiem o4 asodoad :Tou op I
plus aH
pui wcoam

pnu

Ilqildrnauozoax ê.Iir>t

j1fj

îîirno

GiGqi leqi tAon: 1

oqM

.. dlqsnrnfllid tuirod aAflDIZ,
noilsoea P1130 eqn 2U.1nP P13mr Pîînoa(

poe131dslp

il JO rno4loq elq;i i olllod uiq4 aao011 "m.i
lsop.Id xq;oq o; lauioqua

PUB noiju;îap JO si..afqo 2nîrnoaeq, 9.iarnieli rwail L;.iid

jol 2inî;eem JO ovI v01 sva jo esn apînr aq
-TIoc! 81D; GAus puw peu2lsw9 LjpuZ aÂwq prnoà& o, aoWo lecd aqjs peA&ouî puB 'noiloala Gq xj; t;î.
1 U -neu 'Guica;îbou os Xiiîsavau LIUo sîoà Il uoflWouno uï sesimai.d 911 110 Ioflbil 2uiloz>xoi
dea3[ uoi;oole uoluimocq Is&î air; 2ijnp pip
ÇliGq sucs le sana1 04 .IpiO ni peznlip Il pa4SîAL -UTl
L;.uîed ai; 31 -Pula 'eowo0 ;eod aqI inoqe snolinuu "I13*d *e2plaEH i-11h uou.19A iv jGiimiSod el;î
511191 Ou1 Sq svtA 1 'iofla %in 'nlo£ 9.11198
I piu(o
jPI11t fl '30..1Il rpe2ao- -U .iovqz

s19u.i

-qnh

lI ir;m .;u Snp nain ssaulenq v su amut)n aolgo Is0c eti; JO uoisse.god a'r; niT .10.pOÂlazt
m.zodeî .10 suor;x;od 'a.xa;;el liv JO sa;do 'oenoH
gAui
pq2ru
lJodoi 1(0118 lzz»a lWqàL 30 sualp«12
-ai Lî?m erqli;lxaun Isoui puu e ;auni
Blin a.1o;oq pIVI eq O; snia ili LOIIGNeoOaIR 1
i
GUI1 papj.UjSI Mii 'BAOqi VI am1 pouodGJ oqàk 9111 Ivit 2ulSiJd
!1.G8 .1OUiG&0) GT4oAo
eipcuegU0xa
sj o; pelu.e&zd aq sueippî erquinir im ;îqj
-10O 91qii61;tn Gifi 1lrP $Aoid L£SiG LIA Il1
'.ie~ux silrm %UT1 noilvwaàuÂn 'lm JO .1nouoÂ GvI
am ;nî.zS Lino 111AL luemniaAos aqi 31 pni '.9
-0w.reqo pull s;ij2jj uao Si alti alpuiA o; )DUwqo
gàmNOSLOW
HR'i
i Pa2.xeip Â;xed Mir SulAiS ln0lr;yA '(sollirod
JO3010a Sailso .191fl0
q ~Ii.inou .1fl00 Lîi qpl
2u1190;i SflOiipm v eAD( Lim oqm)
s;ejndýeixA
2
0h14 J1 O
Lq apiui 0 .iuip v dOaOi 0$ *uGatu
-Wa1A02 0GI11 .103 .11531111 LJGaA Il Igplgai0o 1 AOt
*Snleaha exl UTj "VI TITIJuIeqA eGir; 10 j0
SUI pGUIRsO. .PUi? GHoir P&1ijfl5J I Éll3fîpamuil
PUB pOA; puî flac! aI>r o; ;n" I caq'& 'urd

URIISYNbtsoa

-DI

r.IvssIisa

*s2jpaooxda4noz pue siaLj

3izola.o 1 Inoqu TI;I Ginpo.d 2uiddiqu 3.IiqA 9'15
110 "iA I nofl.Ola JO SVP eqj no0 si el3j GU.
r11Sîrns;P LSM2nmnIg arn JEMxîs2
ea1ir.j
GSiqo Gir; 8.18h00 qolqjA 'noflloa* noluTiH0G 5Ig
aq;2nIMp aSi1AL L.iic .103 in;;aem J0 eaind

- 8? es0 ap911 a$WI GQ aouapisg1 81VAlId lux
JO es9110i9J1 'doqa 'aolWo Icod aqIr peàioni .10
'Beslme.d
LSm 10 puI4 An, 10 sionbil snons;.zîda
idalq a950h SMt gnangui o; nSîidiî eai suTJflP
nos.zad £nV poersa.i; 181oA o; pOpnalnj aq xLii
irOlqA Ulliq POIrs, 1010A 13 1109J9sd LUi PaBBAw
-nVO1 xrorqla ut anqi
1U
ren anoiÂ.1Jd 61
LuOJ, .104110 sc ni.ad Lni alualinq
Olf
I j00.1(
n. pun «Pnt' o; 2 nl-uî2aq.moi; uaql UT 111fL11 JO
r-.10A agule D110 Si W9îe11 Isu; AuGp xLeAÂ;bsod I
'paluTs Gaàque S..Siiqz> 1

;e jeuq

air; -Ioo4 UcRsVSas atIl

~OT'T dlx~y

aàDpà?jntlt

'eOlirno

ZIYERS KHI

e l os p.ilaa 'r;îà JAoi

: 2111211e! 2u;ol.0Ioj air; JO asn SaýpiUci aq
aiq; Lq uaÂîZ îa&isue arr;
o; 2alîîajaî1 ia4;e 'ii)iAt~ Ili 'UI»PÀD&
air;
'uh1oal;orieiro ;e1 pairslrqncl îadud 1u.aq;'
;napuadapnr a-ir; o; ;4a> e lua;;îm1 sei
pregnoajç -In~ julr aÂ.xasqo m&on I Inq
'ami; air; ;e do.1p o; .Fam;;u air; pamir i
'iaÂam1oHl *sasodiand uoiloera 1OJ BasTiaid
sit no0 pasil aq o; sîonbir sfl095Tids pa.Aorîe
peBq îa;seuuisod aMr ;eyq; punoxZ air; no. a;)Io
;sod atilni aBurp e api peq ;uampsjdap
aqi;sq ;u19.12 jamsue air; paxeaq 1 uaqài
ParTISUOISU SeUAI L;,411qep;adsaî ir2r; Liai, JO
;uerraiaui e aq o; Miqi &C"u1I puu 'rai& £.M.&
puoCanP -.n Ai01
i
I asneaaq iamisae lelr
;e pasladans qanui Lia suAi I *asnoll sir

JO

-peuiflotu asenas alLIL
opeai2u SUM Uor;oui airl

'al;nS J jlîajxa

*uoT;Tsoddo

-ir;îi plnom Laq

;eq[

araq;

mit

Lus pinom s4uauod

-do aq; Inq 'slnuimpuauie aq4 Idaaau p1nom
Saq4 Sus o; l;q2.
air; aAlq plnom s.1a;ocu
-o.1d aqj, *Lei& ;eq4 ni Zuilrads ajaai ;eq;r
s.îaoo.xod aq4 SBAL il ;eq4 ui.2aîai aq4 JO
sp.1om aq; uloij ;lq2noq;I 1 -41 o; Uor;soddlo

ilaqr; 2 ulàiE.1pTflTAi eie Laqj, .- 4j idaa
Latr; Lus LxLNsD

iliT

~

J~

-uli air; 2uisoddo
sagiud uoij Satiloa II
smial SI! ut 2nç
-peîsm aplil u si pualij *uoq £um Lq puaiî
ui2ajpl oirl-XoSflflDUi
*.il-Z iIOH-

U7061 Il -IK1

O

356

SENATE

In vlew of such a letter ais that, published
over hie own signature, by a gentleman
'wbom I can vouch 'for ns a moet highly
responsible and respectable merchant lu
Prince Edward Island, I feel that I ami
justMfed la movlng that ail correspondence
In regard to this subject ehould be brought
down to this House, and this wlll, of course,
luclude the naine -of the person who made
'thîs charge agaînet the postmaster, In order
that House and country may see who le
tellng the truth in the matter.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot propose to
make any commente on the observations
of my hon. frlend, becausaý 1 an not la
possession of any information on the subject other than 1 gave the Hlouse a few daye
ago. AIl I can do le to draw the attention
of the Postnaster General to the letter the
hiou. senator bas read, and If there are any
letters or documents 1 can brlng down, I
shall be glad to do se.

affirm that It does ? Now, I shall try to
prove that It does flot exist. If I take Up,
the Manual of Proceedings of the Senate
and read paragraph 50, it provides :
The Speaker cails 'Notices of Motions.'
Motions Intended to be moyed on a future day
require at least one, Intervqning sitting day's
previous notice in writlng <R. 13). Sa also
notices of Inquiries, or of questions to be put
to ministers affecting Individual, lo-cal, or geleral interests, or the admInistration of the gevernmnent In ail its branches ;or to senators with
regard to Buils, or other matters under thp-ir
charge.

I eee nothing In that which justifies the
hon. member In saylng that, ln cempliance wlth thiat article, we miust read our
motions before putting them In the bands
of the clerk. Theré le nothing In that except thue small paragraph which precedes
that rule, between brackets, 'which says
'must be read by senator when given, lOth
May, page 231.
If we refer to May's tenthi edition, page
231, we find nothlng ef the kind there. I
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Surely there muet rend It over two or three tinies and there
be papers.
le nothing of the klnd to, be found there.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I nbsolutely know no So thie smali paragraph, whlch le flot a
rule of the House at ail, but which was
more about It than my hon. frlend does.
put there, I do flot know on what autihorlty, states a thing which is really untrue ;
NOTICES 0F MOTION.
I would therefore ask the hon, gentleman
to strike out the words to which I refer
MOTION.
and let the motion be put witheut It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL noved:
Hn Mr. MILLE¶-I. quite agree with
That In complianee with paragrapli 50 of the
Manual of Prcceedlngs of the Senate, a senator the hou. gentleman froin Stadacona, and
on glving notice elther of a motion or an In- perhaps I know more than most members.
quziry which hie Intends to make, shail first read of tuhe House of the hlstory o~f the mnuaI
aild notice from hie seat In the Senate, to the
lntended.
House, before bandlng It to the clerk for in- to whlch hie refers. It neyer wae
to have anythlng like the force of authorin the Minutes of Procegdlnés.
sertion
lty, and wae wrltten under these circumHýon. Mr. LANDRY-I would aek the stances: When the late Mr. Lemoine was,
nover of this resolution if ho would con- retirlng from the posltlôn of clerk of the
sent to strike out the worde 'lu compliance House, Sir Alexander Campbell asked hlm
wlth paragraph 50 of the Manuai of Pro- to make out some notes of the proceedceedings of the Senate,' for this reasen : Inge of the House, from his long experience,
Ia saylng that In paeelng thie motion we which hie thought would be useful to hie
comply wltb paragraph 50 of the Manual successor In the office of clerk, and might
of Procedure of the Senate, we etate a be useful to hiniseif ae leader of the House
thlng whlch, in ny humble opinion, doee and to members generally. I frequently wae
flot exiet, or If it existe, it le uselese to go In Mr. Lemolne's rooni durlng the latter daye
on witb euch a motion. Either the thing he was clerk of the House, and tnlked over
existe or It dees flot exist. If it existe, the pointe hoe was setting down In that manrule le well known, and we do not want ual, and when It 'wae submitted to the
to, brlng Up another resolution to state what House here, It was accepted, not as an
existe already. If It doos net exlst, why authority at all, not as having the binding
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MAY 1, 1902
force ot rules, but merely as a heip to members who wlshed to consuit It ln proceedlngs comlng before the Houe. During the
last revision ot our raies by the committee, of which I was a member, I was sur-prised to find that tus 'manual was taken
up as an authority, and published with our
mules,' giving it an autborlty that It was
neyer intended te possess. I knew myseif
that it contains many mistakes. In iooking
over it on severai occasions, I found it asserteti as the practice of the House what
was flot the practice, and I do flot think
It shouid have been given the quasi authority which It acqulred by having It printed
ln the same book with our ruies. The case
cited by otu hou. friend who has asked for
an amendment to. the motion, ls a case in
point. It shows there Is no such autbority
LniMay-tiiat the manual is Incorrect. There
are many instances of the Mame klnd. I
think the amendmont whlch has been suggestod to the motion of my hon. friond the
leader et the opposition la one that should
b. made, othemwise hie motion wouid have
no effect at ail, because It attempts te stand
on a precedent which does flot exist, as my
hon. friend has shown by hie reference to
May'.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELII
have flot the siightest objection to accept
the suggestion et the hbon, gentleman from
Stadacona, suppgrted by the hon. senator
from Richmnond. At the sanie tlxne, aithough flot havlng the. long experience of
my hon. triend on my ieft (Mr. Miller) I
muet differ from hlm as to the Interprétatien which he iias put upon this imanuai
of procédure and Its force ln hls House.
And I differ from hlm for thW reason : On
the 2lst March, 1894, I moved the foilowing
resolution, seconded by the Hon. Bir. Angers :
That a special committee be appointed to conaider and revis. or add to the rules, ordears andi
foime of proceeding o! the. genate, andi that
oeuch comm4ttee do conelst of the Hon. Mesura.
Â)ian, Dickey. Miller, Powjar, Pelletiqr, Bellerc se, Scott, Macdonald (Vi-ctoria), Macdonald
(P.Mi.I.). Lougheed and. the Liover, with power
to report from. time wo tline.

357

the tact of his long expérience and the tact
that he had beçn a Speaker of the House.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-No doubt that committee was appointed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-On
the 29th of the same month the Hon. Mr.
Power, from the speciai committee appointed
to consider and revise, or to add to the ruies,
orders and forme of proceedings of the
Senate, presented tlheir first report.
Ordered that it be read, and the same was
then read by the clerk as foiiows :
The Senat3, Com4ttae room No. 2, Tuesday,
29th March, '_194. The. speciai convwittee appolnted to ccncider and revis. or add to the
rules, ordars and forme of proce-adings of the

Seiate, with power to report frorn time to time,
beg leavo to make thua th#-ir iir»t report. Your
cominittee herewith submit copies of the ru-les
and standing orders and forme o! prou,.iiigs as
revised, which, they recomenend for adoption.
Your committ2-e aiajo recommend that the new
editionr, wiien printed. shail contain the ruies
aud standing ordera and manual o! proceodings. the, British 1jorth Aiarica Act o!
1867, and its amrndmenzs. and also His
Ex*lency the Govcar GeneraV's commis-

sion and Ixa6tructions, that the. pages of the
voilume b. numbered continuousty. that a table
o! cortents of the, whole b. affixed, and also
separate Indexe. to the. rules andi statutes, and
that the volume. be bound similarly to those
hercinbef or. in use, &c.

If the form of procedure be not a part ot
Ille Instructions given to this House as to
how they shall proceed upon ail questions,
tbon the miles are equaiiy nuil and void, because thie same report that contains the
ruies contains this manuai of procédure,
which were both adopted by the Sonate,
and to my mmnd, are Just as binding upon
us as the rules themseives. The rules
guide us ln conducting business and the
manual directs how It shail bo doné, how
the proceedings should b. conducted. Both
being adopted by the. House, I thougbt I
was wlthln the miles ln adoptlng those
words ln the beginning of the resolution affirming what had been don. ln the
past and that it be a guide ln the future,
admitting at the seume Urne that during a
portion of the period I have been ln the
Honse and since the adoption of these
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I dîd flot attend the ruies and amanual, we have departed frowIt. Coming from the House of Com-muns,
meetings of the committee reguiariy.
whore this procedure was flot necessary, and
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOW TEL-o
int i:n vlng studied the miles very cioseiy,
but I remember dustinctiy puttîng the lion. 1 did precisely what my hon. friend from
gentleman's name on the committee trom Stadacona bas done upon a couple ut occa-

SENATE
slons, just handed the motion, of which I
intended to gwve notice, to the clerk ln order
that it miglit appear the next day. Tliat is
my justification for the course that 1 have
taken ln adding those words to tihe motion ;
but to avoid ail trouble, with the consent
of the seconder, whhle we may differ as to
Its actual force, I arn quite willing to act
upon the suggestion, and I think the motion
wiUl accompieh the same object If we strike
out the words 'ln compliance witb paragraph 50 of the manuai of proceedings of
the Senate.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the House will
allow me, I wiIl cail attentioa to the diff erence between the rules, orders and forme of
proceeding of the Senate and the manual
of the forme of proceeding of the Senate.
Those two things have been confused by
the hon. member. What is stated as havlng
tiken place on the 21st March, 1894, le
quite right. A speclal commlttee was appointed to consider and revîse, and add to
the ruies, orders and forme of proceedinge
of the Senate, but those forme of proceedlngs
of the Senate are not what le calied the
manual of proceedlngs, which ls quite a
different thing. If you look .at the beglnnlng of the book you wlll see 'rules, orders
and forme of proceedings of the Senate.'
That fret part of the volume contains the
ruies, the orders and the forme. You have
the forma at pages 44, 45 and 46. The
special commlttee appointed to revise those
rules, orders and forme adopted what ls
now the first part of the volume. That la
the reason of their appointment-to consider, revise, or add to rules, orders and
forme. of proceedlng. When they reported
on the 29th March they said :
Your cosmittee submlt herewith a capy of the
ruiez, standing orders, and forins of proceedIng as revised, whlch they recommend fer adoption.
Then they recommended that the new edition, when printed, should contain what
they haed. just proposed for the House to
adopt, the ruies and standing ordera, and
ther add as a simple recommendatIon, that
the volume also contain the manual of proceedings, the British North America Act
and its amendments, and also the Governor
General's commission and instructions ; ào
there are in that volume three or four different parts.
Hon. SIr MA&CKEýNZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. MILLER-Did the House adopt
the British North America Act ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, but they ordered
that the British North America Act and the
Instructions given to the Governor General
should with the manuel bc embodied ln the
book, the firet part of which they adopted.
These are different thlngs altogether, and
It le thelr confusion whlch probabiy led the
lion. leader of the opposition to put in the
words 'ia complianoe with paragraph 50.'
There is no such rule bindlng the House
as paragraph 50. At ahl events, supposlng
thiat should be the case ln this particular
xnatter, I have juet polnted out to the
House the îrregularity of the thing, because
in that particular paragraph nothing of
the kind existe, and more than that, there
la a manîfeat error. That 50th paragraph
of the procedure refers erroneously to the
1Oth edition of May. It le for that reason
that I wanted to brlng the matter to the
attention of the House, and If any expianations are held lucld enough, every one wili
understand the difference which I pointud
out between the rules, orders and proceedluge of the Senate and Ita manual of procedure. Now I caîl the attention of the
Senate to another fact. If this motion ls
carried-and I do not see why It sliould
not bu carried-I will bu ln this position: la
the future I muet read my motions. Upon
what authority ? On the authority of the
order which wlll be adopted to-day. Then
la this to have a retroactive eff ect ? If
It bas not a retroactive effet why certain motions wblch I handed over to
the clerk have not been prlnted ln the
Orders 0f the Day ? Why did hie take
upon hlmeselà to keep out those motions
and flot have them printed ? It ls for the
House to pronounce on those questions.
The clerk has in hie possession motions
whIch I handed to hlm and which hie
refused to publIsh. He should have either
published them or taken the sense of the
bluse, that le through the Speaker the
Ebouse mîght have been consulted on the
propriety of pubiishing or keeping back
those notices which I gave to the clerk.
If this propoeed rule becomes one of the
orders of the House, I amn bound to read
my motions, but untîl It becomes one or
our orders, I am free to do wbat I bave
done. The other day a member of this

MAY 1, 1902
House quoted a decisioa given by one
of the Speakers ln 1875. What was that
decision ? (It wlll be found at page 210 of
the Debates.) In 1875 Senator Bellerose inquired wlietber, by the rules of the House,
members had to read the notices of motions
before they were handed to the clerk of the
HEouse or whether it was only optional
What was the answer ? The Speaker belleved there was no express ruie on the supJeet : There was no rule. What does lie
say further ? The practice in the old legislative council and ln the Senate had been
for the members to read the notices of
motion. That is one of the practices followed by the members ln glvlng notice of
their motions. The other method was the
one which lias been followed since that
date, as well as before-simply lianding
the motions to the clerk at the Table. 1
am not the 'frst one to do that. I have
been liere for ten years and this is the way
I neyer read
I have givexi my notices.
them before. The hon. leader of the opposition says that lie hlmself lias been gullty
ln that respect, If It was a fauit, but It was
not a fault except ln the judgment of the
cierk of the House. Corning back to 1875,
what does the Speaker go on to say. He
says : The practice la the House of Gommons was for an lion. member to state lis
motion witbout reading it ? How woo.ild lie
state has motion witliout readlng It ? Hle
muet* give the substance of IL He muet
rise and tell what the substance o! the
motion ls. Is that tlie practice la the
House o! Gommons ? Everybody kaows
tliat that it not the case. Wliat la done to
simplif y this ? A member o! the Honse
of Commons biande over lii. motion before
five o'clock and it la prlntedl la the Orders
of the day following. What la ahowa by
the decision of the Speaker la those day.
Is that there Io no rules. The Speaker
believed that there were no expressed
rules on the subject and wliy, If tliere
were express raies, ehould Mr. Bellerose
rise and ask If It was optional or not ?
It Ia because botli practices were followed
ln those days as tliey have always been followed since. Coming now to tlie question,
one of two thlngs will happen. If this ls
to be a binding rule, I arn ready to sulimit
to It, and ln future read ail my motions,
but untIl It becomes a bindlng, raie, I. ask
lion. gentlemen of this House If I arn going

to be dictated to liere by the cierk of the
House, and If after receiving a notice o!
motion from me, lie ls going to keep It la
bis pocket and not give it to the Senate ?
I may be overpowered liere, I do not know
by what means, and 1 do not care at ail.
It ig not succeas I want. I arn on my feet
to advocate a principle. If I amn going to
be put down on thîs qaestion, ail riglit. P-it
as the old Engliali adage says, 'Every dog
lias bis day,' and when we corne to the end
of the session I will not forget what the
raies o! this House are.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I was very glad indeed.
to concur la the suggestion that the notice
should be altered la the way indicated, liecause I thouglit it was going to lead to
peace and harmony. Anything that points
ln tliat direction always meets with my approval, and I tliouglit there was a pretty
universal consensus, If that change was
made, that we woald accept it as part o!
the unwritten law o! tliis Chamber, and I«
was sorry to hear the lion, gentleman frorn
Stadacona say tliat, notwithstandlag its pas.
sage, lie was golng to be independent o! it.
If tliat la the Une to lie takzen, the motion
wMl fail.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I just said the contrary of that. I said until It passed I claimed
the riglits I had.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I assume it ls going to
pass withln the next five minutes.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I amn bere to sulimit
to It ; I bave been speaking of wliat took
place some days ago.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn glad to bear thie
bon, gentleman say tliat. There ls no necessity for me to make any further observations, except to say that a great many of
thie raies of the Britishi House o! Gommons,
the highest body of constitutional govera-ment la the world, are unwrltten, and I
suppose we would lie governed by the ame
prin ciple, that wbere a body of gentlemen
acquiesce la a particular rule, It is mudli
more convenient to con!orm to It unless
there la some good reason for departing from
It, and I arn glad to hear my bon. friend say
that If this le adopted no more cavllling wll
take place, and that lie will regard It as a
-rIealthougli not strictly la conformity wltli

SENATE
the laws whlcb. govern the practice ln this
House. I do flot tblnk It Is necessary to
discuas that. We are ail agreeable that this
shail be observed as a rule, and I tbink that
is sufficlent and we wiil be governed by It.

motion that we adopt the British North
America Act. It simply refera to the mules
and forma of procedure, so there wvas no0
ground for the atteinpt to turn the position
whicb I take, because I bappened to mead
the full report, Into ridicule by innuendo
te show to this House that I liad intimated
that we 'lad adopted the Britishi Northi
Anierica Ac *t- I. otudlously avoided usiuig
the word rule, because I knew It waa not
a mule, and I us--d the other terni 'fornis of
procedure,' because lt waa iidopted wvitl the
ruies by the Senate of Canada.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have been misunderstood. I dld not 'want to tlirow ûny
ridicule on the bon. member. The oniy thing
I said was this : thiere was a certain confusion ln the worda 'forma of proccdure.'
Wliat was adoptcd, as lie says, was the rides
and standing ordera and forma of proceedInga. If you look lu the mules youi find the
I make a difference
forms of proceedinga.
between the forma of proceedinga and the
marnai of the fomms of proceedinga.

Hon. Mr. MILLER-The amendmnent suggested by the bon. gentleman fromn Stadacona must be made to the motion. It 18
plainly shown that the precedent cited in
the matnal of proceedings ls incorrect.
WI7th regard to thc commUtae appointed.
tri 1891, to revise the miles, 1 was Put On
that committee, but I dld flot take any
interest In it, for reasons of my owfl.
1 was flot aware until tbe rules were
publialied In book forin that the House
had even lndirectly countenanced tlwe
official character which the publication gave
to the manual of prizedare, because,
as I sald when last addressing the
House, 1 am aware of mistakes ln the
manual of proceedinga-not many, but
enougb to destroy ail Its authoritative character, and no one was more surprised than
1 was myself when I found It was printed
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It la
The book says
wlth the rules, glvlng It a cbaracter which It meme camping on a word.
neyer had and neyer was intended to, bave the 'MÈnual and formas of proceedings.'
la relation to our proceedlngs.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-What -we cai the
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The jules la this :'Ruies, ordera and forma of
Hon.
Senate of Canada.' You
bon, gentleman from Stadacona has stated proceedinga of tbe
aucl ivili find the formas of proceedings at page
a number of turnes that there was no0
different proceedinga, whicli formi part
rule. If lie wii read the motion of whicb 44,
of the ruIes. The manual la quite a differI gave notice, lie wil flfld I do not refer
neyer adoptto It as a muie. Wbat I said was in comn- cnt thing, and the marnai waa
cd.
An attempt
pliance with the paragraph.
was mide aiso to turn the position I took
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-I have ilot venitured
into ridicuile bj saylng the House did not to offer any remark on this very Intricate
adopt the Britishi North America Act. I question bitherto, but havlng liad an exîîever said It did, neither does the resolu- perience of thimty ycams la thia House, I
tion read ln the House affirin that. If the feel I bave a might to speak on this subbon. gentleman wlll take tbe trouble to read Ject
I know tînt tbe practice of the
After House bas been tbat which the lion. genlt, lie wii find lie ts hypercriticai.
Ibe report was read, It was theni moved by- tisenan froin Stadacona lias frequently meinyseif, seconded, by Mr. Power, that mules ferred to, that la, of banding la notice of
14 to 18 of the Senate be auspended ln so motion wlthout meading it
That lias been
fir as the sam-3 relate to the apeclal. com- the usual practice.
If It la meally denulttee appoinited tto revise and add to the airabie that the contents of a notice shouid
mules and orders and forma of the proceed- be known in order thnt the House may fom
Tliat ivas carried. a Judgment as to whether theme lsanny
lngs of the Senate.
Then 'the Hon. Mr. Power moved, seconded impropriety in the wording of it, 1 think
liY the Hon. Mr. Pelletier, that the r eport the course pmopoaed to, be taken la of no use,
be adopted. The'question of concurrence for suppose this motion carrled, and my
being put, the saine was resolved ln the bon. frlend from Stadacona, or aaybody
affirmative.' Now, lt dues not aay ln the else, banda ln a notice wdthout reding
Honl. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY il 1902
It, some aernber cails hlm to ordeoe. The we should have some clear cut mile wltb
Speaker bas to decicle that question of order. mefemence to at least a part of our procedure,
Does flot our rule absolutely require that more especlally that refermlng to givlag nowben tha Speaker decides lie must mention tice. Recent events have brought that weakwbat order has been -violated ? Here there ness lui our manner o! procedure here to the
would be no order violated. The distinc- front We want no better evidence tbat that
tion drawn by the hon. gentleman troni appears to be the opinion of the House tbax
Stadaeona between the 'Ordere' and the the fact that we found two notices on our
one by the leader
'Manual,' I tbink It Io clear and unanswer- Order paper not long ago,
House, of the flouse on tbi~side, and one by the
able, that the first are bindlng on the
both
and the other la there to give Information leader of the flouse on the other side,
Speaker, as to the almlng at the very saine object and that Is
to the House, or to the
ordinary way of dolng tbings. I thlak the to prevent, If possible, anythlng appearlng
right way to secure the desired process ln our minutes iu the shape of a motion
would lie Just as set forth in the Orders whicb kould be contrary to the dignity of
tbemselves, to niove that a notice, under mile tubs honourible body. That; is the wbole tblng
16, be sent to ail the members of 'the flouse, we are trying to secure by thîs notice of my
that a certain order ls proposed to be amend- bon. frlend the leader of the opposition. In
ed, and the notice 'of the armendment given. the discussion wbich bas taken place to-day,
That would have been a very simple and the fact bas been brought out thiat we biave,
effective way of doing It. As to the by our present raies, placed our officers la
reason for wlsbing tbis alteration to be a very unenviable position, because wblle
made, 1 muet confesa It has no weight in they are tied and cannot defend themselves,
my mind. I belleve that whien a member tbey are open, througb the loose practice
reads a notice of motion, very few other that we have badl la tbe past, to beiug crimembers li the flouse get an Idea of wbnt tIised by an bon. member wben they are
bie is saylag, and much more so If there only doing tbeir duty In so far as the
should be an ambiguous sentence in It, bonour and dignlty o! this Senate are conwbicb would require consideration before cerned, ln their opinion. WVe bave another
pronounclag It out of order. That could weakness ln connection witb this, and that
neot -weIl le done thein. The ad practice ls thtat our Speaker bas flot sumlclent authorle, to my mind, much more effective and ity. Wbat Is everybody's business Is nosensible, that a notice of motion sbould ap- body's business. The motion wbicb my bon.
pear (wlthout reference to the clerk or friend froni Bmitish Columbia bas given noSpeaker), on the record of proposed pro- tice of, wblcb goes a little furtber la the
ceediigs of the next day. Lt doesfl ot direction of glvlng the Speaker more P.Owem,
make It a matter of permanent record, be- le a'very proper one, but we should, coasicause If there Is anytblng Improper la it, der ail these tbings la one motion, in my
every member of the flouse an see wbat opinion. We have before us to-day tbe quesIt ls and form hie judgment on it, and la tion, is thie thxe genemai pmactice or ls It
up
that case tbey -would see that if there was not-that ls, of an bon. member standing
an impropriety, the notice sbould not ap- la bis place la the flouse 'and readlng bis
From the evidence of
pear In the Journals of th-e House. There notice of motion.
would be an end of it, and no barm would hon. gentlemen wbo bave preceded me, It
be done. It appears to me the end to be la clear that that lo the general practiceattalned would lie =ucb more certalnly not always the practices, but the geneacbleved by bavlng thýat notice In print rai practice, to- read a notice o! motion.
before a Judgxnent wae -formed ion It. I do We muet have eltber one practice or the
not tblnk, wlith ail deferenee to the Speaker, other. We bave come to tbe cross-roade,
and confidence in his judgment whoever hie appamently, and we sbouid make it clear
may baippen to be, that the Speaker sbould wbat les the practice of the flouse. If the
have the power to say a notice sbould not motion my bon. frlend. bas moved sbouid be
appeaT la the Orders.
carrled, the effect wili be a member wll
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It ls qulte evident that bave to stand up ln bis place and rend bis
the general feeling of this flouse Is, that notice to the flouse. My hon. friend. from

SENATE
Stadacona wishes to take consolation out
of the fact that it does flot censure hlmand there Is no desire to do that-for flot
having ln the past rend bis notices of motion. He cannot get away from the fact
that lt was the general practice, and the
good sense of this House admitted that the
Speaker had acted in the best intereats of
the Senate on the former occasion, and I
thlnk that should be 'of ltself sufficient to
notlfy flot only one member, but every member of the Hanse that lie should be careful
to present only matters lu the shape of motions whlch should properly corne before
us. My own opinion is, that we should revise our rules with respect to the powers of
the Speaker-not giving the clerk authorlty,
but the Speaker himself. The practice of
the House of Gommons lias been quoted.
The Hlouse of Gommons practice works well,
because the Speaker there has power that
aur Speaker does îîot possess by our practice, and if our Speaker had the ane power
as the Speaker of the House of Gommons,
the necessity of this discussion to-day would
flot arise, because hie would be oaly exerclsing what ls bis plain duty, as the rules o! the
House of Gommons set out. That ln my vlew
la the position aur Speaker slaould occupy. 0f
course it follows always that every Speaker's decision ia subject to appeal ta the
Hanse. We (Io flot la any way deprive ourselves of any authority or right, because
even lu the Hanse of Gommons, the Speaker's decislon Is open ta the consideration of
the House. I would suggest ta my hon.
friend, because by unanimlty of opinion hie
was permltted ta drop out certain words,
that hie add after the word 'compliance
wlth ' la the motion, tihe words «'the general
practice of the Senate,' and tliat wlll meet
ail the requiremients of the present circurnstances, leaving It ta be understood that ln
the pnst we -have been doing as bis motion
wlll rend. If my hon. frlend will amend the
motion as 1 have suggested, it wlll meet
.with the general approval of this Obamber,
and wlll be a standing order o! the House.
It would clear Up the abjections Whlch have
been raised witlh reference ta the inanual,
although I agree Wilth the leader of the opposition that w'ben the committee appointed
ln 1894 reported, Vhey placed a great deal
mare value an Ébhat manrial than the bon.
member from Sradacona wcuid lead us to
believe to-dany.
Renlember, It -wns no
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

hasty action, because this cammittee was
appainted ln 1893, made their prelim-inary
report In 1893, and I gather from the re'cord this report wns allowed ta stand aver
until 1894, s0 that members of the ilanse
iwould have an apportunity of looking Into
-the work of the comxnittee, and seelng
.whether It met their views or not.
Tbat
committee was revived in 1894, and reported the rules whlch we have to-day, and
also the manuai of praceedlug, and If you
ivili notice on the firat page o! our miles the
wording which my hon. friend mentioned
,i moment ago la not wiiat appears on the
fly-leaf, but take the firat page and we
rend thîs:- 'unies and Standing Orders of
the Senate of Canada.'
Then we go over
further ta the manual o! the forma o! p~ro-

ceeding, and we find there the very words
used ln the report of the committee on
paige 69, 'Manual of the Forma of Proceeding of the Senate 0f Canada.' Prac-

ticaliy word for word as wag used la the
repart quated by my hon. friend wvho lenda
the ather side a! the Hanse.
Sa it was
evident, after one year's deliberation, the
members a! this Hanse decided that the
proper manner 0f proceeding was la ac-

,cordance with tihat cammittee's report, be,cause It was adapted unanimously, adopted
nder suspension ef rules; therefore there
could flot have been at that date eny dif.fercace af opinion.
I submit they have
greater welght than an ordinary suggestion
that is la aur praceedings. I take it if we
-w1sh ta be exactiy In arder and form, we
wonld bie so by uslng the forma laid down
la the matnal of proceedlng.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUGHERVILLE-I would
call the hon. gentleman's attention to ruis
123.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-My hon. friend quotes
rule 123.
I amn very glad that hie bas
called my attention ta Ébhat, because It la
that very rule that bas misled my lion.
frîend fram Stadacona. Rule 123 lays down
the forma whlch shail govern the praceeding ln divorce:
123. The sutbJolned form

varlcd to suit

the

circumstances of the case, or formas to, the like
effect, may be used in proce-dtugs for divorce.
A special portion of our -work which required special forame and rules to lis absolutely distinct.
That does not datract la

MAy il 1902
the slightest from the argument that the
manual o! proceeding was laid down to
guide us in our proceedings, and was adopted unanimously by this House la 1894.
Another point I shaîl call attention to Is a
decision of Speaker Christie ln 1875. Note
,this, that the decision was given la 1875,
and this -manu-al of procedure. with that
note lu It which says that a senator s4ial
stand up in bis place and resd bis notice
o! motion, was passed lu 1894, long after
that decision was given, and evidently with
the intention o! establishing a practice
which we are re-affirmiag practically today by the notice of motion now before
this honourable House.
Hon. 'Mr. CHURCH-I bave listened wlth
a great deal o! Interest to this discussion.
It lias brougbt forcibly to my mind an old
quotation:- 'to be or not to be, thiat is the
question.' If hon. gentlemen who bave
ibeen here for a quarter of a century, more
«or less, and hiid to do wltb the revising of
-the rules, from wblcb quotations have been
given this afternoon, differ so muoh asto
the meaning of this rule, and If la that
way they also differ as to the practîce la
carrying out that rule, surely we younger
mem bers lu tbiis House must be supposed
to be altogether at sea. There Is a very
signifieant question wblch should now be
asked, borrowed from our Unlted States
nelgbbours, 'wbere are we at V' We do flot
know wbere we are at, at aiL My bon.
frlend from Stadacona bas brought up some
I admire hlm for bis
very fine points.
lngenulty and pluck, but sometimes be fights
a little too long. I tblnk the leader of the
opposition and the Secretary o! State are
sincerely -auxlous to bave tbis dlfficulty
cleared up, and they bave gone to a great
deal of pains, partlcularly tbe leader of tbe
opposItion, to afford a reasonable solution
o! the difficulties we bave got Into la the
past week or two la regard to some matters
I
comlng before this honourable body.
agree largely with the hou. gentleman wbo
bas just taken bis seat. It appears to me
very strange, especilly when I first bad
tbe temerity to address this House, and
could not address the Speaker, but bad to
address some fifty or sixty senators. Lt
seems awkward to address nobody ln part1jeular, but hon. gentlemen, It bas been my
practice for a quarter of a century to ad-

dress the Speaker la the popular branch
of this body, and lu the legisiature of Nova
Scotia. I agree that the Speaker of thils
House should have more power. It is iiot
only wltb regard to this matter on whicli
bon. gentlemen differ, but 1 do hope we
may get some rule so plain that ail wlll understand it, and the House will li-e up to
it. But there ls another matter here. It
la utterly Impossible la this Huse, as 1
view it-especlally when there is anytblng
of importance going on, anything that members generally would like to express thelr
vlews upon-to know wbo lias the fi oor.
Yesterday, to my knowledge, four members
bad the floor at once, and the one who rose
first had to speak fourtb. In the popular
branch of this parliament, and la the legislature of Nova Scotia the Speaker is %upposed te catch the eye o! the gentlemen
who are rlsing to speak, and wboever hie
says bas the floor takes It. But here we
get up, tbree or four o! us,' and nobody
knows who bas the floor, and the one wbo
lias been bere a good wbile, keeps on talklng, and gets the floor at hast. As 1 understand, the Speaker of this Senate Is to ail
intents and purposes simply a machine. He
propounds certain questions whlch are
brougbht before us, and when the Orders
of the Day are read, unless some difference
o! opinion arises between the members, hie
cannot interfere. As lias been stated by
the hon. gentleman who bas just taken bis
seat bis ruling is subject to the decision
o! the Senate and very properly so. Ia the
House 'of Gommons, and tbe leader of the opposition wlll bear me out, many tîmes questions o! great Importance on points of order
arose, and If th e Speaker could flot settie
the point then and there, be took time to
consîder It, and brougbt ln hîs decision next
day, and In aIne cases out o! ten, those decisions belng carefully consldered, and authorities consuhted, were accepted wlthout
comment. Recently 1 was la the gallery
of the other House, and a question o! some
klnd arose. The Speaker declded, and the
hon. gentleman who bad very strong views
lu regard to It, lmmedlately bowed to tbe
decision. It appears to me that a committee of the very best men here, versed la
the practice and wbat sbould be tbe practice, men capable of establishlng a precedent shouhd be appoînted by this body to

SENATE
bring in a new set of rules, giving the
Speaker more power. The matter sbouid
be so arranged, that we would get rules
whicb would save valuable time. I think
the leader of the opposition and tbe Secretary of State are perfectly able to trame
a rule. The debates may be more exciting
la future, as there is younger blood getting
into the Senate, and there may be more desire to talk, especialiy on the part of men
who have been -a long time In publie bodies,
and therefore, we may want something more
fixed and binding to govern our discussions
here. 0f course the senators are ail bonourable men, and will act lu an honourable
way, but as regards the doing of >business
here, I think there Is too much laxity Ia the
raies. I do not desire to biame any one particuiarly. I am simply' speaking of the
practice in the Senate since 1 have been
bere.
The SPEAKER-As I understand it at
present, the leader of tbe opposition, who
moved the original motion, bas consented
to a change being made, and, If I am correct, it now reads:
That a senator on givlng notice elther of a
motion or of an iaquiry whlch he Intends to
make, shall first read sald notice from his seat
In the Senate, to the House, before hanoding it
to the clerk for insertion ia the Minutes of
Prýceedings.

that notice left off tbe Journals, when we
express by our motion, that the Senate Intended to justify the Speaker at the time.
Hon., Mr. LÂNDRY-I caîl the attention
of the hon. gentleman t0 this tact : I am
not alluding to the motion that the Speaker
ordered to be strack out the other day. That
is not the question at ail. Since that time
1 have handed In motions and one of themn
wn s witb reference to honorary colonels
ln the volunteer force. I am flot speaking
of tbe motion whichi the Speaker ruled out.
1 accepted tiiat raling the other day. It
Is with reference to a sabsequent motion
that was handed over f0 the clerk of the
Hoase, and the clerk of the House wrote me
tbat he had the autbority of the Speaker
to exclude it trom the Order paper.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I move that we add
to the motion the tollowing words:.
In conapliance wlth the g3neral practice of the
SE nate.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P. E. I.)-It is
well known by members who bave been
bere for some time that that bas not been
the general practice of the Senate. During
every session that; I bave been la this House
motions bave been handed Ini at the Table
withoat being read. No hon. gentleman
wbo bas been here for ten years n deny
that that hias been the case.

Hon. Mr. IVATSON-I move the followHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I am surprised
ing amendment, to add after the word
* with' in the first lune 'the general prac- at the hon. gentleman from Marquette Introducing the most contentious factor that
tice.'
could be introdaced into the discussion when
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I rise to a point of
unanimity prevailed as to the adoption of
order. That motion is irrelevant.
the motion. If my bon. friend had considered
The SPEAKER-The amendment is lu from the time this was first mooted down
erder perfectly.
to the present time, In wbat way he couid
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The word ' with'1 is have made it more controversial than it Is,
no longer in the motion. The bon. gentle- be coald not have succeeded better than
muan ask-s to put w-ords after the word embodying In the motion the language he
stuggests.
WIIl my hon. friend undertake
witb.'
t> pass a refiection upon the discussions
Hou. Mr. WATSON-We miigbit bave an wbicb have taken place for the last ten or
,opportanity of snying whether we are pre- fifteen years upon a controversial subject ?
pared to support the action of tbe Speaker.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have a perfect right
A consensus of opinion was expressed here
before that matter bas been placed on to.
tbe Journais of the House by that member
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I qaite accede f0
whicbi sbould not have so appeared.
1 that, but it simply mens that the different
tbink the Speaker was perfectly justified in views wbieh obtained upon this question
excluding it, and 1 do not thini, It is rigbt many years ago are now pronounced f0 be
to pass a vote of censure on him for baving entirely wrong by the amendment of my
Hon. Mr. CHURCH.

MAY 1, 1902
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I understand tie hon.
gentleman from Marquette moved this
amendment because lie understood that it
would be a reflection on the hon. Speaker
of this House if we adopted the original
motion. For my part I cannot agree wltli
that, because I thlnk that the resuit of the
whole discussion has been to show that the
general practice of the Senate hais been
qulte loose ln that respect and that la a
niumber of Instances, If not ln the majorlty
of cases, It has been the practice to hand
notices of motions to the clerk wlt.hout
readlng them la the Senate. But I entirely
agree wlth the hon, leader of the opposition
in tlie reinarks he lias made for the purpose
of sliowlng that tlie rules. as adopted by
the Senate, were to the contrary, and I entlrely approve of what lie sald la this respect, especially when lie bases bis contention on the report as adopted la 1894.
The report of 1894 was to the effect that the
rules of the House being silent on the point
under discussion, the Inanual was to be
adopted, and the manual of course, was addlng to the rules. Tlie raies being sulent and
the marnai making an express mention of
the course whlch was to be followed by
do not lion. gentlemen of this flouse, I say the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I
by the
know whetlier the hon, gentleman from moment this report was adopted
wlien I gave Senate It was an expression of opinion on
Marquette was la the flouse
emnotice of a motion giving the Speaker power the part o! this House that the rule as
paper. bodied ln this paragrapli 50 of tlie manual
to eliminate a notice from the Order
that
I wlshed to maire that motion at the time should be followed, but it Is quite plain
opposi- ini practice hon. members of this flouse
the motion of tlie lion. leader of the
to me
tion was brôuglit up, but at the request of have departed from, It, and It seems
lion. that the hon, gentleman fromn Marquette
the lion. Secretary of State and tlie
the element
leader of tlie opposition I wif make it a ehouid not Inslst on Introducing
dis- o f general practlce as lis amendment does.
separate motion and It will corne up for
cussion on Monday, giving the Speaker
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Elear, liear.
ample power to strike off the Order paper
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn surprised at the
any motion whlchlei out of order.
lion, gentleman from Stadacona Inslating on
Hlon. Mr. BERNIER-I rise to a point ci
same question so repeatedly
order, I sulimit It la not la order to put lie *brln2ging tlie
A notice o! motion was
Ibefore this flouse.
fore this flouse a motion whidh states facti
handed to the clerk and that notice was
which are controversiai.
considered by a majorlty of this flouse-aiHlon. Mrt. BEMIQUE-Il rise for taie purposi most unanimous--as belng an abuse o! the
of joinlng witli the hon. gentleman fron privilleges o! lion. members of this flouse.
Calgary ln asklng the lion. gentleman fron The lion. Speak~er deemed it In tlie Interest
Marquette to witlidraw bis motion.
and. the dlgnlty of the Senate to order the
Lmotion to be removed froïm the record, and
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I bave risen to
lie was supported by the Senate, and therepoint o! order, and I skl for a decision.
t fore I think that It would be no reflectiofi
Tlie SPEAKER-I do not think the poin
on lis conduct to adopt tlie main motion
of order le well taken.

lion. frlend. As ail parties are prepared to
accept the declaration of wliat should be
the practice hereafter as embodled in tlie
motion of the lion. leader of tlie opposition,
wliy Introduce tlie contentions factor whlch
lie suggests ? We have been discussing
wltliout belng able to arrive at any conclusion as to what lias been done ln the past.
May, Bourinot and aIl the autborities we
lave been able to investigate do flot pronounce on wliat the practice lias been.
Different lion, gentlemen have expressed
their vlews as to what constitiites the prac.lce, and why should we now, at tlils
late stage, after we have agreed upon
a satisfactory solution of tlie question, open
Up an old sore and pronounce arbitrarily
upon what really lias neyer been decided
satlsfactorily tg lie tlie practice. I would
point out to hon. gentlemen that this discussion lias extended now over several
weeks, and there ls a large Order paper
before us tliis afternooli, and surely It would
comport more wltli the dlgnity of the flouse
to deal serlously witli the more important
business tlian to diseuse the differeilce lietween tweedledum and tweedledee.

o; passed Put? auoiq siq o; poana

aq pui

B? 'POuzanOD Si e;Vp att; su? XJ se? ;idoxa :pj2g.
'Lîc;znijst;us lou SUAi ql;jBaq siq ;nq 'a;)U
si S~uBumafla2 nuoq attl-jjLOOS -inI -uoH
-pua;;u Siçup ni Semi eq Iat4aqA& MOU[i 401
OP 1
-rpno(U B '3jujq4 1 'aoj aaaq pauprîj
-~ ON StuJa4 ampis aq
su
110 puca- att JO Suoipas jaîq; no paqnaffoad. 4
-ai Pau
'uLsiq4 inauiuuc ;0 2n;uadc aq
4u dn amnrr ail *1061: 2upnp a;uuas Otti J, sum i3iJoM. aq4 ulznno ni aapio un? Lq Wtti
Os.readdu ;j mon noaq~ IZ *og nq uorpas LSuu
laqnxaur u? 13[uq;

I 'sSp .inoj Siuo sUir al
,£la£ 19RI &lq jo Lup q402; ap n Uca 80.?oSl no auop 2uloq sum&.JM
on 4cql 'sulB&i
att; a.xcjaq sSup .xuoj 'ju!iqi 1'asno;H atp p jo jaaujZ«ua jajtp aq; jo S;p&jq;nv aq4 uo
iapupql arl; pnu uoistAlp jlf)
aqI sluasaida eSnOH lu~ JO .IOO]j aqq SSOIDB uaJOAi.o
Oq'A pnajaj *Uoq L£m Lq paanpo4.tjsUAi a- ;'q; seildai att; jo aaBJ aril ul 'SJBnTpjoBlq,
un~ *uo
*amî; ;ao1qs &aA B OeBuuS att; uj uaaq puiq a]E -xa Isom si WLqj-XOSnfDllg
*a&v4uanaj 131 înoi
104u;BU aq; 'anaq.O(
uopupuoa aq4 £q uolina
*in *nOH aq4 -lq2lu 128I palp 80tIirw3 in4 ,-xe loi uas uaaq suil 4euproo aril *îpzunoC>
JO anc l;uq4 anas aq, o; aODnOUo; Lýnl UT uj.apa10 £q 'siapua; ;sap aq; .xapun popnos
îIott3noIam SSI si ;î 'uodn palajua Oit? XB<J
su 3p.om et[; .xoi sODT.d exil W penulnow
aTt; jo s.iapio aq; aiojoa-jID
g»Ai uoiloas exau
*in~ .*uoH
etil *alqu0osB3 paeunou
-Oid s.xaaul2ae aq4; qm sarid 41 'î1O;Zu
*HKRHODHa 'HOJLYNcRrs 51 1Yri ,,IHJ,
-Uca aîqpsuodsaa v Oqp 1j2uIpaoaoDI, epauR.K
S13A
;aitquoa ain pue 'JUOqJBHl SLraiur
(-,xw
4i~UH.jaaf
uau: spjwu&io; 4ulod eiplnl
moij salira fTl Balle.
-pueai? ni Sp~V aq; Pu 4V Lxoý.uaj, uoinA
-Âoo Z uoilpas loi ;notnoslaaA&pB ai.qxd Lq
aq4 puante 0; .?at;.iJU ;av UV' (C'r) 1IIR
io4pa; PÂTM ;am zsdaP Dmîj-: SA&OIIOJ Sie
s i
;ras .aMSfUB arrj-MJODS 'in *UOg
*GcflU(OUINi 'I'ia

z parmsi OCI
1Bn.p aaojaq poap
âxjaq sp.xa&ol siepua; ions aoj soo
ai[; fjjA ueim 'os II
nojiOhi SUApuoz auW esnnaaq 'earpo4ai aq
! z noîoi-ee uuip jato .znoq
~ . 0IBJ i
o;0 paptaqui SUAI ;I-xOsflf)ucLI UJn .11 0 Io-.11H &vaanw O1 U.M04011O1.JBq UI0J
-uoflinJJin3oa li .zoi s.rapué;j
;n.mnaa&os Gq; JO -1*;uafli

*Uoq Lur Lq il ol; Pei
SVUMnoPUno;;B Lur
.aýjui 'lzaa.xoa si Siomantr Lmilj 'pessud ssà.

cIDnd a;î.tuT oý

9ai si je

poirubul NO)SflDll)La

u'n

eq

H

uIDnco ur .Iap.x0 aqjà '11unoo ai .apaço aq
a.iojaq no jnaài aq 'oN-jZQDS
*x *uo]

OTIOP SUAi IJ PUY-MOSIflDR
J3 'lq"OE
'ti gnçc 2Zuai SUp1OAL Moult ;on Pp.Juau
aq;,

oe;21 paaa su&iO

eolt qj,
*pnjtu SmI
passa
-landap aqq &r4uapAR-MODS
u1q *UoH
jaAa BOapl qans ON -aIubadS aq; no uollal
L 4naujaAO2 -ai SUS 2nç;suiO jo 'Laajfpnl JO S143aarp
aq; Lq anop 2ulaq SUAL MiOM. Ifl 'UOaurJBd uoffaffl LUIS
Pq I 4tti 'asnu ua I Bn
-op aîp JO, Lîî.OrpUnB atý Uc puelil *Uoq~ Sm -nul OAISOd I5cM aq; UT 'IMOABSIp o; ams
Lq uOAIM sjButIap ibtfl JO souoaq ;1na& Inq -ap I-q,15tMoa aIIZNcExOYjç ils *Uoi
'ttZî.x Hlt si ;ti-NOSflDHfLi un-*O
.OJO
j;po

sJU O; ailsop I 'JaAaMOH *JOiBO<Ids att4 u0 trop
-zauoi Bu Suil OjOuri aqnçýJ :ttI WI pasod

atm a.i peujuBuoa- s).id aitLpeaq;s wu jar
-ueo slti o4 salir fTia ain puoSaq UaA~SBA
-jaoai att; jo aor4Bflp.oa B '.aqio
*.tj

-dns aq
;tt2im Il ;q2noq4
Il ulp
-ipIj& %~ uo4;,afqo ou eÀÂutj I '(2unol *an
Lq pamuuuozo 'JaOaUT21u
IDor amt tnoj 11odr mtoHg) £aiialMj tnoij utuiafa2 mucq arTt Xq
-O.?B no 'apura~
luuaa;ý aq; o4 lnanbasqnS pa&ot ;uaupuou
oqi 2uîaq Slp PUB anura
*jaant2na IBaoT ati jo 'sdBttaad 'InAoiddBo att; -0î;ua2. uoî aqp Sq passaidia os 2nIpunsiap
tq14A ne ;nam i .o .iue aip 5JBaddB? :î il -un aqlI 2uîaq ;uiquý-1-OsLVM Jjj[ *uoH
tinoqUt -JOqlaiqoS *a'N (n aods I Pau '.j pajuap
-4uamipuemtsii eno UC srsuîr o; ;OU allanbaix
oq Pau Il o;4 ssLBAI,l JO Jaa;SIUT
ea JO nroi
tUOij ugW6flua2 *.not aq; 2Unr;n&uj n{ JiBIBD
-naflB atmý PaOUa I 'Uo 2UT02 suai ?j[JoAL Iwtt moaj utm4uia2O *noq oqý
ulor a.oalem
1
;uauiawW
atn apitn PtraT.j' n*UqS ui .alj
*uoillsoddo OTfl JO lepual arg £q poluasaxd ou

HLYNZS

MAY 1, 1902

367

who bas answered to the call. 1 amn sure
that ail those -wibo have bad occasion
to aneet hlm, wlll concur with lue
ln saylng that by his death we lose a kind
and bonourable confrère. For those wbo
have known. hlm, it may be sald that by bis
lntegrity and energy he had just attained a
very enviable position ln his province, and
was just arrlving at the stage te enjoy 11f e
and to be crowned with the reward he had
earned during his lite. I may. say-and I
have only one word to add-tbat I consider
his death a very sad 1055 to bis family partlcularly, and to bis many triends, and a sad
lose for his county land division, and ail bis
numerous employees. As for us, I thInk we
lose an hon. gentleman who would, lke ail
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I cer- the members of this House be an honour to
talnly %bave te express the same regret as the Senate.
the bon. Secretary ot State. The hon. seaTHIRD READINGS.
tor w&s a gentleman with wbem I bad ne
persenal -acquaintance, and consequently 1 Bill (70) An Act to Incorporate the Boss
ean only speak et hlm.la bis public career Rifie Company, Iàmited.--(Hon. Mr. Watfurther than that I beileve that every one eon, absence of Hon. Mfr. Gibeon.)
who, knew hlm held hlm ln the highest posBill (Y) An Act to Incorporate the Union
sible eeteem. It was my good fortune to
Mr. Longhave met hlm personally and casuaily for Lite Assurance Company.-(Hon.
daye, and I arn sure It muet be beed.)
only a few
Bil (83) An Act to Incorporate the Canaa matter et yen' great regret to all who
have rse la thie House when they hear of dian Northern Express Company.--{Hou.
a young preminent man like Mfr. Dechene Mr. MeMullen.)
Bill (71) An Act respectIng the Dominion
Passlng away. I wlsh te express my very
great regret at the lose which the Senate Cotton Mills Company, Limited.--(Hon. Mr.
bas sustained. I believe Mfr. Dechene was Forget.)
universaliy eeteemed by those who knew
BIh (91) An Act respecting th1e Timagami
hlm, as acourteous, quiet, gentlemnanly man. Rallwsay Company.--(Hon. Mr. Watson, ln
Hon. 8ir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-I can absence of Hon. Mr. Gibeon.)
Bill (50) An. Act reopecting the Niagara,
hardly refrain, atter the very @ad annoncementj whlch bas juetibeen made to the House, St Catharines and Toronto Rallway Coinfrom expressing my sonow and regret. 1 pany.-(Hfon. Mfr. McCallum.)
f ully enderse wbat bas been 80 well said
Bill (66) An Act respecting La Compagnie
tby the hon. Secre.tary of State and the hou. du.Chemin de fer de Colonisation du Nord.leader et the opposition. It wae my good (Hon. Sir Alphonse Pelletier.)
fortune to know perbape a good deal more
Bill (74) An Act respecting the Ottawa,
of our late lamented confrere than these Brockville and St. Lawrence Rallway Cerntwo -bon, gentlemen. The bon. senator for pany.--(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
several years represented the county er
Bi11 (78) An Act respecting the Trans-CanL'Islet ln tbe Ho>use et Commons, whieb ada Raiway Company.--(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
countj' forme part of the division of Grandville which I now represent here. I kneiw Bill (84) An Âct respecting the Bay of
I Quintd Railway Company.-(Hen. Sir Macthe hon. senator from bis cbildhoodI.
had very many trlendly relations wlth hlm, k-enzie Bowell.).
Bill (54) An Act to Incorporate the Essex
and I alwaye feund hlm very courteous,
polite, energetic, and ready to Tender ser- Terminal Railway Comnpany.--(Hon. Mfr.
vice to any one. Deaith visite us very otten, Clemo-w, ln the absence of Hon. Mr. Casand this time lt le a very young member grain, WIndsor.)
the other world last evening. The deceased
senator was a gentleman who was very
highly respected la his own county, the
county of L'Islet. He had been elected for
tbat county la 1896 and re-eiected in 1900.
He tool. a very warm Intereet la ahl that
affected the country. He was president ot
an Agricultural Society and carried on a
very large and profitable business. It wili
be a matter of regret te aIl those who knew
bim personally that this gentleman sbould
have been called away at se comparatively
early an age. He was net more than fit tythree or fIfty-feur, and a gentleman who
was very higbly esteemed and respected by
nil those wbo knew hlm.

.

368

SENATE

SENATE
Act respecting the Lake with cheap money. 1 wish to give this
Bill (103) An
Champlain and St. Lawrence Slip Canal company power to manufacture these implements at the cheapeat possible rate.
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Berniezl.)
B'il (53) An Act respecting the Canadian
Hon. Mr. FORGET-You do not want to
Northern Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. oblige them to do so, do you ?
Louigleed.)
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton).-The farmers
Bill (105) An Act to amen d the BUis of of the North-west mny sometimes be unExchange Act, 189.-41Hon. Mr. Scott.)
reasonable, and may want their agricultural implementa perhaps cheaper than our
CANADIAN PACIFIO RAILWAY COM- inanufactur'ing companies can auppiy thein.
PANY'S BILL.
We had a deputation from these agriculTIIIRD READING.
tural Implement manufacturera urging an
Hon. Mr. JONES, in the a.bsence of Hon. Increase of the tariff up to 35 per cent, but
Mr. Drummond, moved the third reading of the governinent thought fit In their wisdom,
Bill (69) An Act respecting the Canadian to refuse that. The manufacturera, thiuking
they couid not compete with our neighbours,
Pacifie Baiiway Company.
asked for -the 35 per cent- It la a most
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton) moved that
extraordinary, thing that our agricuiturai
the following clause be added to the Bill implement
can compete
manufacutrers
as*subsection 2 of section 9.
with thein in the markets of Australia
2. In order further to develop tirc settlement
of the ccuntry w'est of Lake Superlcr and to and India, and other foreign countriea, but
stimulate competition In the supply of neces- right at their own door cannot compete
earles and convenienceo to settiers, the corn- with thein. They want to have the tariff
liany may construct, maintain and c)pera-te rolling milils i'nd foundries. and may manufacture Increaaed, but 1 amn glad the -goverumeut
and aeil agrIcultural 7nachlnery of all kinds.
concluded they lad ample protection and
He said: 1 moye this amendment In the would not grant their requeat.
lnterests of the farmers. Whien this Bill
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon, gentlewas before the Rallway Committee yester- man hiad better watt until next year before
day, the whole discussion arose on how the he saya that.
Bill was going to benefit the farmers. They
Hon. Mr. WOOD ýHamIItonr)-I arn speakhave given the company power to smeit
Soine United States
iron and make steel, but hon, gentlemen ing o! the present.
manufacturera are now making arrangeail know how little use a pig of iron or an
In Canada
Ingot of steel la to a fariner unlesa It la menta to establial large factories
for the purpose of aupping the market of
put into practical shape for the tarin. I
wish to give thein the power to bulld roll- the North-west. I have conaiderabie Intering milii and foundries, so that they can est In the North-weat. I amn doing a large
cast pig-iron into the necessary thinga farin- business there, and ln British, Columbia,
ers require for operating on their farina. and '1 want to see the farinera proaperous;
The company can roll the Ingot of steel therefore, I wiah to give thia company power
into bar steel, so that it can be manufactur- to inanufacture these things at the cheaped Into machinery of varlous kinds to be est possible rate, but tbey must seil thein
uaed on the farm. The general wish of the to the farmera on. their own land, as they
committee seema to be to give the farmer must manufacture. the iron on their own
everything at the cheapest possible rate. land. I should like to ses thein get power to
They even give the company power to tend sell ail over the country. I thought It was
money. believîng that a -large company In the Interest of the fariner that we should
like that would tend money at a much give the company theae powers. They. have
lower rate than the ordinary boan companies not asked for thein, but they cannot have
eould. One hon. gentleman aaid it was to too much of a good thing, and I am willing
be free trade lu money, and that it would the company ahould have the power to
be in the intereat o! the fariner. I amn manufacture agricultural machinery of ail
quite satisfied that the farmer, if he haa kinds.
cheap agricultural implements, Is as much,
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Has the company
or perhnps more aatisfied than he would be asked for these privilegea ?
368

Hou. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER.

MAY il 1902
Austraila, Canadian manufacturera have,
and I tbink it là to their credit te say it, a
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I do flot tbink It là very congiderable business lu those colonies.
desirable to give them legisiation which And why? r arn glad te lie able to give
they have flot sought for.
the reason te hon. members.
Canada can
Hon. Mr. JONES-I do not rise te oppose compete with foreign manufacturers tihere,
the amendment, but to object first te the becauise the prices obtained lu Australia.
wording, wihich I amn incllned to believe from the farmers are so rnuoh higlier thair
my bon. friend did not very carefully cou- they are lu Canada, that they are able t(>
sider. Possiibly this tmendment -as writ- go there and make money, w-hen at home
ten under circurnstances when the hon. gen- they woild be unable to do so. The same
I reason may bu given lu Europe. In Great
tleman was flot in the right humour.
amn bound to conclude there must have been Britain and Irelaud, -lu France, Gerrnany,
socme snob reason as that. The Insinuation Russia, Switzerland, Norway and Sweden,
In the amendment on the milling and manu- Ltaly, and ail trose coqutries, prominent
facturing industries of Canada, I tbink ]à *manufacturing industries ln Canada are.dounfair and uncalled for. He suggests that lng business, and lu no single country that
this amendment be added, giving the Cana- I have narned outaide o! the Dominiondian Pacifie Railway this power, for the I say tbis posItiveiy, because I know wherepurpose of stimulating ciompetition' ln the of 1 speak-in ne country except possibly
supply of necessaries and conveniences to the United States, do the users o! agriculsettiers.
I subinit that any one desiring turai Implements purchase their implemeuts
to settie ln Capada, on readlng that, would s0 cheaqpiy as the farmers of Canada do.
conclude that 'the conditions in this Domin- I think Itlài a very creditable thing to be
Ion are such that it là doubtiui If tbey sboul.d able to say, because it canuot bu denied or
corne to a country w-here the competition dieputed, that ln Canada the farmera buy
iàso8 lirnited sud the conditions sucb that their Implements for less money than lu any
the raiiway companies shouid be asked to other country en earth, except the United
1 will except them.
¶Dhey are
enter into the manufacture of macblnery States.
and other necessary articles for the use o! a very large country, eigbty millions of
settlers, for the purpose ostensibly of get- people, with a tremendeus 'business absoting rid of a dlifclulty wbich was a menace lutely preserved t0 themselves. The largeat
If there are two indus- manufactories ln the worid have grown up
to the country.
tries ln Canada that we can fairly bu proud there, and the usera of implements there
of, It là the milling and manufacturing lu- get their goods as cheap, possibly lu some
terests, and especially the manufacturing states of the Union somewhat cheaper
I than anywhere else. I believe there là
industries as they affect the farmers.
thint every hon. *gentleman lu this House no material difference in the price of imwili admit that there is no manufacturing plements; generally lu the United States alid
indu«try ln Canada that la better taken lu Canada, but ln Great Britain-lu Engcare of, ln Canada, and to some extent out- land itself, there là no Ilne o! implements
side of Canada, thun the manufacturers wbdj coming witbin the range of the motion
are speeially dealing 'witb the fariners of *whieh bas been moved, ln which the user
the Dominion. ,The hon. gentleman says, does not pay on an average 25 per cent
with reference to tariff matters, he ex- more than the- user ln Oanada -bas to pay.
presses au. opinion as to what they shouid The mover o! the resolution bas said to
do.
I amn not going to discuss that at the House that the Canadlan Pacifie Railpresent, but, he asks, If the manufacturers w-ny Comnpany have not a-skéd. for this legisof Canada are asking for au increase of laition. I think that would be self-evident,
tariff to enabie them to hold the trade o! but If tihey %hadasked for it, so far uis I
Canada, bow can tbey compete lu Australla, arn concerned& I wouid not abject to their
As to having lt, provided it was 6urrounded. by
India, and other foreigu countries.
India there là no competition, because there such safeguards as wouid enabie other
are substantially no Impiements sold there. manufacturers to obtain as reasonaible rates
They are' sold by Canadians, or Americans of frelght over the trans-continental line
wlio are' their great coxupetitor .s. As to as the cornpany themselves 'oi get. 'I
2-4
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-No.

SENATE
arn one of those who are ln favour of CanaI belleve ln competition
dian competition.
I amrn ft a believer lni
amnong Canaidians.
competition corning fromi countries that refuse to have competition from other countries under reasonabie conditions.
BOWELLSir MACKENZIE
Hon.
Bonuses on pig Iran for Instance.
Hon. Mr. JONES-I do not kno~w that the
bonuses on pig Iran enter materiaily Into
this discussion, but If the bon. gentleman
who rnoved the resolution ia able to advise
the House just bow tbey operate, because
he has a very large Interest lni the direction
of pig tran, and I believe also of lumber,
he mlght enlig'hten the Hanse, and possibly
that Is the reason 'we have this legisiatian
There ls, ho'wever, this special
proposed.
reason, ta my mmnd, why the petitian of
the Qanadian PacifIe Railway Conmpany as
to their o'wn. lands sboiuid have been given,
and I think kt wIll cornmend itself ta the
better judgment of this Senate. This parliassent years ago gave the Canadian Pacific Railway Company large tracts of land,
tlsnber lands, minerai lands, and farrning
lands. It le desirabie, ln the interests of
the country, and of the raliway thaît tbey
should be able witb these to make frorn
them such use as would be In the best lnterests of the, railrway company, a.nd o! the
country, and any gentleman 'wbo knawis the
condition of things ln north-western Canada wlli admitl thait this legisiatian will
tend to the settlesnent of lands there that
have been dased to settlers for î'easons
which wlll be obvions from the legisiation
wèIch la now sought .by the rallway company. If It dues tend to the conversion of
timber into luiber-for the supplying af the
tfrmers on these lands, or adjacent to them
-If It does tend ta the production of Iran
and steel, becauase of the minerai wealth
that la there, beyond what it would if it
were soid to other cauntries, and If It does
further, as Lt undaubtedly wili tend to the
settiement o! the lands by farmere, surely
that 'will be ln the best lnterests of western
Canada, and w'iIl have that additionai Influence taowards the settiement of the country la which we are ail so much Interested.
I ar sure it la the hon. gentleman's inten-tion not ta press this motion. Lt Is a mistake, purely ln Jest I believe, that this motion
is Put on aur arder paper, because It goes
Hall. Mr. JONES.

on the records, and can always be pointed
out against the interests of Canada by those
who are only too ready ta undertake to influence the people nat ta settie in the Dominion, that we are so anxious to get-that
we are paying so much money to get, and
that It ls sa necessary to bave.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not know If I
ongbt not ta ralse a question of order. The
point 1 want to make Is that this la a private Bill. Notices have been gli-en, anid
the Bill, to pass la commlttee, must compiy with the notices. Here ls an outside
party who asks that other prîvileges be
given this company which are not covered
by the notices at ail.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamllton)-Tbe notice
aeked for a good deai more than they gat,
and it was struck out ln the Hanuse a! Gommons.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The hon, gentleman
says that the company have not asked for
these pawers. If they dld nlot ask for them,
they did not give notice of tbem.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He ls
not serions.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-We have no right
here ta add sections to that private Bill
wbich are not covered by the notice.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thinl,
it ls a pity that the hon. gentleman from
Toronto bas taken thîs matter seriously. He
bas made a very good speech, with whicb
I muet confess myseif fully la accord, but
I do not think the hon. gentleman !rom Hlamîlton went quite far enongb. I wonid snggest the proprlety of his going a littie f urther. I prepared an addition to bis amendment: after the word 'foundry' ln hie motion, to add 'givlng them power to open
wboiesaie and retail hardware stores, and
ta seli articles ln said Une of business nlot
exceeding a certain percentage, and If It
daes exceed that percentage, It shall form
part of the revenues of the country,' and I
tbink It would be weii to add, 'tbey shall be
compeiied ta build churches on ail their
The
lands for different denaminations.'
wboie thing seems ta me ta be a motion
that might properly be turned Into ridicule,
and does nat deserve the serions attention
gîven ta It by tbe hon. gentleman from. Toronto. I cannot possibiy conceive tbat the

MAY il 1902
hon. gentleman was serlous. If lie was, he
should have gone a great deal f urther. To
ask the Senate to adopt such a motion is to
turn the Bill into ridicule. There is a great
deal of force ln the objections taken by the
bon. gentleman from Stadacona, that to add
to a private Bill powers that the promoters
neyer asked for is out of order. The sooner
we drop this sort of nonsense the better.
The SPEAKER-Do I understand the hon.
gentleman from Hamilton withdraws bis
motion V.

371

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This ls flot amending
the section of the Canada Evidence Act,
but adding a clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It adds a clause ln reference to the lmitation of witnesses, limiting the number of expert witnesses to five,
unlesa the judge demande more.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It cannot create a
special jurisdiction ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
It oniy applies
where we have jurlsdiction.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the Commlttee, reHon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-It appears
to be the sense of this House that the mo- ported the Bill withont amendment.
tion sbould be witbdrawn and of course I
MONTREAL AND SOUTHERN COUNcomply.
TIES RAILWAY COMPANY'S BILL.
The SPEAKER-Leave le given to the
SECOND READING.
hon, gentleman to withdraw bis motion.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved the second
The motion for the third reading of the
readlng of Bill (99) An Act respectlng the
BIRl was agreed to, and the Bill was then
Montreal and Southern Railway Company.
read the third time and passed.
The motion was agreed to.
CANADA EVIDENCE ACT AMENDHon. Mr. McMULLEN moved that the
MENT BILL.
Bill le referred to the Commlttee on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbours.
REPORTED FROd COMMI'rTEE.
Hoh. Mr. FORGET-I should like to have
The House resumed ln Commlttee of the
Whole consideration of Bill (115) An Act some explanation of this BiIL It bas not
further to amend the Canada Evidence Act, been printed lu French.
1893.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I understand that
(In the Committee.)
this.is a Bill for the purpose of accommoda.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Attention was drawn ting a rural district south-east of Montreal.
yesterday to, the fact that where the clause It ls intended to lie an electric line, and wll
reads 'where ln any trial, criminal or civil, largely run on the highways for the ac&c.,' it ought not to apply to civil cases, as commodation of farmers la that district. It
the procedure ln civil cases would be under does not come ln opposition to either the
the jurîsdiction of the Dominion authorltles. Grand Trunk or Canadian Pacific Railway.
It ts to, enable the farmers to bring their
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Not ln Dominion vogotablos to Montreal markets ln time
ln
courts. It would only apply to Dominion the mornlng.
courts.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-There ls a Bill hike
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This Bill is to form part this already ln
existence. It was passed
of the Act relating to witnesses and evIdence, three or four years
ago. I object to this
Passed ln 1893, and tbe second section of Bill because It bas not been prlnted
ln
this Act states tbat It appiies to ail civil as French.
well as criminal proceedings, so far as the
The SPEAKER-It bas already been read
parliament of Canada bas jurlsdiction. Tbat
the second time and referred to committee,
settles It.
and the objection comes too late.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The word ' civil' Isl
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would call the
unnecessary.
Speaker's attention *to the tact that BUis
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I had the opinion of Nos. 96, 99,' 100,
M24
and 133 are not prlnted
the Minister of Justic 'e who thinks it Is bet- ln French, or If printed,
-are not dlstrlbuted.
ter that the expression should be used.
That ls contrary to the notice given at the
24J

372SE.NATE
bead o! the Orders o! the Day. That la the
fourth or fi!th time I have called tue attention o! the House to this irregularity. I do
not know wbetber some one la paid to continue the Irregular procedure, but I cail attention to it now for the last time, and la
future I shahl oppose every Bil which bas
flot been distrIbuted.
SECOND READIN.GS.
Bihl (100) An Act to Incorporate the Toronto and Niagara Power Company.--(Hon.
Mr. Watson.)
Bill (96) An Act to lacorporate the Manitoba and Keewatin Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (73) An Act to Incorporate the North
Shore Power, Railway and Navigation
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
UNORGANIZED TERRITORIES GAME
PRESERVATION ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

cession line is not suitable, and one of the
adjoining lots should be taken, and it is to
authorize the government of the Northwest Territories, wben that la- required, to
take proceedings to close up one road and
open another.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
land there belongs to the government, except the mining locations. Any one wbo
lias travelled those roads would think that
they were establisbed for no other purpose
than to spend money. Tbey are constructed
first at the base of a mountain and then go
up the mountain, and it would be rery lnteresting to those who have seen those
roads to know the reason of running themn
wbere they bave been located. I bave
seen roads where the descent would lie
about two or three miles, where you would
bave to switch back again, and it would
cost an Immense amount of money, and
after Investigation It would lie found you
could reach the point up Bonanza creek and
Eldorado with one of the latest and most
delicate buggies you could get, and travel
full trot ail the time. And yet thousands of
dollars have been spent ln constructing
the road up and down and round the hilîs
with switchbacks this way to keep from
tumbling over, where you could get a road
without the slightest difficulty almost as
level as the roads of Ottawa. If they bave
not bad the power tbey should have it now,
to prevenit the waste!ul expenditure o!
money that bas cbaracterized the administration iii that country ln the past.

SECOND RE-4,DING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (117) An Act furtber to amend
the Unorganized Territories Game Preservation Act, 1894. He said : The only oliject of the Bill is to postpone the Limie i%-lhen
buffalo and bison cau be k-illed.
Hon. M~r. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Are there
any more bison '?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A rare one may lie
found.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Does this
think it refera more particularly to the apply to Manitoba as well as the Nortb-west
musk ox.
Territories ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Nortb-west TerriThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill
ltories. Manitoba bas tbe power Itsel!.
was read the second time.
NORTH-WEST TERRITORIES ACTS
AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND> READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (121) An Act further to amend
the Acta respecting the North-west Territories. He said :Tbe object o! this Bill
la to give to tbe North-west Territories
Council power to open new trails or ronds.
Tt la. !ound ln the Nortb-west, thougli In a
lesa degree tban la Ontario, and Quebec,
that the line laid out for a highway or conHon. Mr. LANDRY.

BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
thougbt it was the power given to tue Yukon
Territory. I find It refers to the North-west.
1 understand lt applies only to government
lands.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I find it applies generalIt applies to road allowances. In the
first place tbe surveyors who surveyod the
section laid off roads and then tiiere were
certain trails tbe -inhabitants were using
from time immemorial, and those trails were
preserved wherever tbey were convenient to
iy.

MAY 1. 1902
the people and tbey found they could lm- tatIve according ta the laws of the different
prove on that when the country became bet- provinces ?
ter known and more iargely settled.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Manitoba
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is not that an Interls flot included ln the Territories, I 'under- ference with civil righta ?
stand.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It ls puttIng asîde
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-There the iaiws of the provinces and maklng laws
was the same demand by Manitoba ta take for them.
away the trails and straighten the streets, ln
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No. The iaw- of
order to keep the territory gained by that, in
the city of Winnipeg. This does flot apply tbe province setties wbo is ta be the legai
representative.
ta that at ail.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-ýOh, no.
bave exercised that power scores of tinies,
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill was and sametimes letters of Indemnity are
taken ont ta prevent any difficulty. An offiread the second time.
cer dies and the amount standing ta bis credit
CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT. ACT
seu.d 1;e .paid ta saie person, and tbe dîlffiAMENDMENT BILL.
culty la ta decide who lu the legal representative.
This gives te the Treasury Board
SECOND READING.
the power to aay : 'We wHI give it ta the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readwife or the mather.'
ing of Bill (124) An Act to amend the Civil
Service Retirement; Act, 1898. He said : The motion was agreed te, and -the Bill
This Bill consits of three lunes, and reads as was read ithe second tume.
follows
ROCKY MOUNTAINS PARK ACT
If a persan dies while in the civil service, the
AMENDMENT BILL.
amriunt ta bis credit ln the retirement fund shail
be paid to, bis legai representatives, or ta such
SECOND READING.
persan as the Treasury Board determines.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the secHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How la It now
ond reading of Bill (No. 133) An Act ta
payable ?
amend the Rocky Mountains Park Act. He
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I fancy ta tbe legal re- sald: This Bill is for the purpose of lnpresentative, and there are many cases creasing the size of the Rocky Mountains
where children have ta be considered.
Park ln thje North-west Territories. I arn
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The advised the park lu now about 20 miles
difficulty ln the past bas been that there 1u square, and it le proposed by thîs Bill ta
no power ta pay It any other than the ad- makre it 70 miles square, glving lt nearly an
ministrator or legai representative.
The area of 5,000 miles. I tbik thls le a dedifficulties that bave presented tbemseiveu sirabie tbing ta do.
are these : You might be oWing a man two
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WiUl that Interfere
or three hundred dollars or only -fifty dollars, with any settiers ?
and the expense of taking out letters of
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-None wbatever.
administration would absorb a good deal of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbere are several
the money. Would tble caver also arrears of
towne wlthln the district of land, I fancy.
salary due the man ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-No, I underHon. Mr. SCOTT-No, It la oniy tbe amnount due from the fund. There is always stand not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WiII it take in the
an allowance of two months' saiary at deatb
and the balance would go ta the legal repre- town of Anthracite ?
sentative.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I think not.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the legal represen- 1Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think it mueqt
tative named ln the Bill tbe legal represen- 1affect prîvate praperty.

SENÂTE

374

Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I learned from
the remarks of the Minister of the Interior,
who introduced the Bill in the other flouse,
that no land6 within the area liad been alienated from the Crown excepting a sinal
quantity for iumbering purposes, and eawmille where licenses have been Issued, and
those licenees would terminate very soon.
Thie park le contiguous to another large park
set apart In the railway beit in British
Columubia.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It eaye
to the eaetern boundary of British Columbia.
Hon. M.r. TEMPLEMAN-I will try and
get a map In committee.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There je another
question which It seeme to me ehouid be
eettled satIefactorily In regard to this. That
le the application of the territorial ordinancee. That question ehouid be deflned. It
seems to me to be doubtful as to the force
of tbat application at the present time. We
have two legielative bodies, the territorial
assembly, and the ordere in council that are
issued from time to lime by way of regulatione ; they frequently came ln contact with
one another, and It is a question that sbould
be eettled satisfactorily so that the people
living within the distict ehould knoçw how
they -are settled.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT!I-If it le a great national
pari. It should be under the federai government.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Pridau,, May 2, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.

Prayers and routine proceedinge.
THE CORONATION

OATH.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquired of the governmentWhether the government has tbeen put in posbession of and ta whom has it tranemitted !n
due course the protest of the citizene of the
clty of Halifax contalned In the fo2(lowing
motion, moved on January 22nd last, by the
Honourabie L. G. Power, Speaker of the Senate .
' As the religlous belle! of Catholics does not
diminish their loyalty, nor restrain them from
sheddtng their blood In the cause >f the empire.
they protest against and resent the sIngiing
out of their !aith for special rejection. by the
Sovereiga, and respectfuliy ask that this unnecessary and offensive refe»renpe be entirely

biotted out.
what answer has the goverument recelved ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On the 12th February,
Hie Honour the Lieutenant Governor of
Nova Scotia, tranemitted to the Secretary
of State a letter from Hie Grace the Ârchbishop of Halifax to the Rt. Hon. Secretary
of State for the Colonies, accompanied by
a statement of proceedinge at a recent meet-

ing of a Catholic body of that city, where
resolutions

were paseed protesting againet

the Declaration taken by the Sovereign on
hie accession to the Throne, which he requeeted to be tranemitted to Hie Excellency
Hon. Mr. LOLJGHEED-I think the govto the proper quarter, In which letter Hie
of the park should be ns complete
erument
Honour adds :
as possible.
If I may bc ailowed to express an opinion- on
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill such a subject, I may add that the tenor of
these reeolutlons bas my hearty concurrence.
was read the second time.
That resolution was sent to Hia Excellency
MARITIME STOCK BREEDERS' ASSO- on the 15th day of February, the day it
CIATION BILL.
wae received, and forwarded by Hie ExTHIRD READING.
The flouse recsolved. Itself into Committee of the Whole on Bill (AA) An Act to
Incorporate the Maritime Stick Breeders'
Association.

celiency to the Hon. Joseph Chamberlain,
Se'cretary of State for the Colonies, and on
the 14th March the following acknowledgment was received:

Downing Street, March 14, 1902.
My Lord,-I have the honour to request that
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED, from the commit- you will acknowiedge on my baba!! the receJpt
tee, reported the Bill without amendment. o! the letter from the Roman Catholic Archbishop o! Halifax, o! the 12th ultimo (incloscd
The Bill was then read the third lime In your despLth No. 74 o! the 17th ialtimo) forand paseed under suspension of the rules. warding the minutas and press reporte of'
meeting held at Halifax on the 22nd o! January
The Senate adjourned.
last to protest against the form of the Royal

Hon.

Mr.

LOUGHEED.

MAY 2, 190237
Declaration taken by the Sovereiçn an- bis accession.
I have,

&c.,

(Sgd.) J. CHAMBERLAIN.

Governor General,
Thse Rt. Han. the Bari of Minto. G.C.M.G.
&c., &C., &c.

No furtiser answer was received.
PRINTING 0F NOTICES 0F MOTION.
Hon. -Mr. LÂNDRY-Bef are the Orders
of the Day are called, I may be allowed ta
express the hope that the notice of motion
which I read tram my seat yesterday wl
be prlnted ln the Order paper to-rnorrow.
It Is not printed ln the Order paper to-day.
I arn speaking o! tbe English edItion. I
have made Inquirles and I was told tisat
the transiator did not receive It ln trne to
make the translation and get It In the bande
of the prInter.
INSTITUTE 0F CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rnoved the thîrd readlng of Bill (J) An Act to incoripoate the
Inistitute of Cbartered Accountants.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Before thse motion
la passed, I desire ta say that the Bill was
That
ordered ta be printed as arnended.
bas neot been .doue.
1 was; the only anc
wbo asked for It, and I do net wlsh ta delay the Bill at this late stage, having no
feeling against it, other than I wish ta explain to thse House. - Therefore, If the rest
of the Senate are willing tsa-t it shauld be
But I
gone on witb now, I arn satiafted.
sought lu every way ta get this Bil-went
ta the cierk, and everywhere, and I am
sure It bas not corne ta thls House, as ordered by the Senate.
I leave It ta the
House ta say wbetber tbey will insist an
that or not. If they do nat, I shs. go on
aud make a few rernarks.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I tbink îît wouhd
be a pity ta lueist, because If the Bill le
atherwise rigbt, a delay now wouhd jeopardise the passage of tihe measure s0 late ln
the session.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I 'rn -well aware
that this le an unusual stage et which ta
make objections, or any remarks about a
Bih,.
Why I make these remarks, arises
frein the tact that the rule or practice of

explaining a Biâl at Its second reading is
more honoured ln the breach than ln 'the
observance ln thie Senste. The title of the
Bill ls misleeading a.nd would require explanation ln order that the Senate should know
what It really le. The headlng of the Bill le
'Au Act to Incorporate the Institute of
Chartered Accountants.' So far, ail right
No one, I should -say, would bave any objection to an Act of Incorporation, but this
goes further, and requees other powers,
which I consider educatlonal--powers whlcb
I do -not think are ln the jurisdiction of
this parliamrent ta grant. The history
of the Bill le that it was rejected last
year by the (Jomrnittee on Baniking and
Commerce. We sent the Bil, on -motion of
Hon. Mr. DeBouchervIlle, to the Minister
0f.Justice for bis opinion, and after waiting
sorne days, he replied that it was not beyond the jurisdictioù. of this Senate-tbat
it was inétra vIres, and se we proceeded to
diseuse It.
Before en tering on the dis-.
cussion, I atternpted to reject the Bill ln
toto, but was defeated by a majority of
one- We then discussed the clauses. Under
this BU acording to the opinion of the
MinIster of Justice, any cailing or occupation or trade would have a right to corne
here and ask, mot only for Incorporation,
but for any powers which belong to, and
are necesary to the callinýg or trade, and
which this Senate would have no right
to grant. For Instance, the prcxfesors of
the tonsorial art, the butcher, the baker, the
candiestick maker, ould take advantage of
this BIhI-sa also conld the legal profession,
the profession of .dlvinity, the medIcal profession. Dr. Roddick, who has a Bill whicb
i. a most Important one te, the inedical professlon of the wh-ole of Canada, and which
he bas been workin!g at arduously for the
last fIve years, could very easily, by a Bll
simihar te this, obtain thse powers that he bas
so, long worked for. *Thse clauses that I
strongqy objeet to are two In nuxuber. (I amn
speaking now of the original B&Ih.) Thie first
clause 2, deflning the objecte and powers o!
the Institute, i. as tollows:
2. The objecta and powers of The Institute of
Chartered Accountants, hereinaftb3r reterred te
as «the Institute,' shall be ta promote be al
Iawtui means the study and practice of accouiitancy ; and for the sald purposes,aio To hold such examInations as may be
fudexipedient ;
(b.) Ta grant diplomas of tellowship and certlficalos of ellciency ta Its members;

376

SENATE

(c.) To establisb an ' Associate ' and a ' Fel Iow 1 cIass of membershlp ;
(d.) To determJne the rights, priviieges, termns
and conditions of eaid classes.
The nexrt clause to wbieb I object is the 82h,
wiceh provides that:.
S. Any person while a member of the institute
shahl have the right to us-i after his name, ID
the case of a Fellow, the Initiais F.C.A. Can.
(Feilow of the Institute of Charterod Accountants, Canada), and in the case of an Associate,
A.C.A. Can. (Associate et the InstItate of Chartered Accountants. Canada); but no person who
ie eot a nviember of the institute shah bhave the
righit to use elther of the said Initiais or to s0
designate hlmseIf.
These clauses appear to be very objectionable. Tue powers asked for bere belong to a nniversity or educational or scientific Institution. Tbey do nlot belong to anytbing connected with tbe state. Tbe state
does not liâterfere except to give to the
university permission to confer degrees. As
you ail know, degrees are of value according to the grade 0f the degree, but particularly of value according to the Institution
A degree from the
wbich grants them.
UJniversity >0f London is far superior, lu*
the estimation'0f the learned, to a degree
from. a unlversity bn-ring the same titie
la some of the western states. Âny man,
I suppose, bas the right to write any letters
after bis name, and I think It Is a terrible
thing that If a man sbouid write any letters after bis name, if be sbouid write,
say, A.S.S., and some Institution hnd those
capitals, tbnt be should be hiable te prosecution for that and be compelled to remove
tbem. I do not know -whether sncb a law
exists ln England or not, but I do think It
does, from the fact that some time ago,
(I do not vouch for thbe authen'ticity of this
tale), a gentleman appeared at a botel
ln Oxford and signed nfter bis name
F.R.S. Now, a Fellow of the Royal Society is the designation of tbe most scientific body in England, and Is coveted
by ail men wbo have an Inclination to
science, or make it a study. There was
a grent fuss made about hlm, and when he
came to settie bis bill the landiord found
he was short of money, and remonstrated
with hlm on account of bis being a Fellow
of the Royal Society. The man said, ' Wby
I nm no Fellow of the Royal Society. I am
an oyster pedlar, and tbat F.R.S. after my
name means, Fried, Roast and Stewed.'
I do nlot know that I conld not put F.C.A.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

for some other purpose, and 1 do nlot think
I should be prosecuted. I need nlot follow
Hon. gentlemen
this line of argument.
see my object, and wlll see that it wouid
flot be riglit to pass such a Bill as this.
Moreover, such Bis as these faveur combinations,» wbich I do flot tbink is wise
or judicious. 'I have a case ln point. 1 do
nlot mention the profession, but It is essentJally a mechanical one, and, belng such,
bas no relation te the most learned titie
MRark another effeet ; wben
of doctor.
these men are combined together, and empowered, after examination, to grant this
degree of D.D., and another letter after it,
they become a combination, and boys or
students (you could scarcely cail tbem
students), who wish to enter this calling
are req.nlred bo pay about a thonaand dollars
before they can do so. Therefore, men are
charged a large amount of money for that
whieh prevlously they would not have had
to pay anytbing for. Tbey Impose other
restrictions under the sanction of the legîsiature, ln. order to protect their calling. It
rnay be wise, but I do mot think it Is.
If it is. tbe opinion of this House that
these clauses are barmiess, and If it does
nlot confliet witb Its dignity to- allow an
association of men like the accountants,
for whom I bave the great est regard, and
whose cailing I respect ever since 1 rend
the history of Micawber. I have the bighest respect for the accountants, and I
should be sorry to thlnk of obstructing
these gentlemen In obtaining any concession they consider necessary for the practice of, their caliing, or for the advantage
of the public. Therefore, If the Senate
wishes to retain these clauses I have
We struck out some of
nothing to say.
them, but there were se many amendments,
I thougbt It better to have the Bill prlnted,
so that we could see what the Bill was as
If the hon. chairman of the
amended.
cornmittee will tell me that these objectionable clauses have been removed-because I
presume he bas a copy of tbe amended Bill,
and can f ully explain them-I will be giad
to witbdraw any objection on that score,
becanse I wonld not advance my opinion
against that of gentlemen ini this Senate who
know a good deal more about these things
than I do, but It struck me at the time tbey
were vûry objectionable. I may say siso
that I would be very glad to have It pass as

MAY 2, 1902
amended, if the Senate agrees to carry this
motion, on account of the lateneas of the
session. If the Bill had been explained
at the second reading, it could have
ibeen fully discussed. However, I will fot
attempt to prevent the Bill proceeding lu
due course. 1 have no feeling lu the matter,
and oppose it merely as a matter of imperative duty, and that belng so I leave thue
matter ln the bauds of the* House.
Hon. Mr. ]LÂNDRY-In answer to the invitation of my hon. friend, and ln justice to
the promoters of the Bill, I think I shall
cail attention to the report of the nmeudments made by the committee, and submitted to this House and adopted by us.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-When ? I have neyer
seen them.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-They wlll be ifound
on page 302 of the minutes. The hon. gentleman takes Issue specially ou account of
the second clause, ln which It la sald that
the objecta and powers o0f the chnrtered accountants should be to promote by ail lawfui means the study and practice 'of acThe words 'the study and '
countancy.
have been erased. Iu the next paragraph
the words ' dîplomas of fellowship, and'1
bave been erased. Coming to the elghth
clause, page 2, line 35, leave out from 'purpose' to '-9.' Thut strikes out the whoie
of the 8th pnragraph, so that the 8th clause
la erased.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-That ls right..
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I thik this meets
the objections of the hon. gentleman from
Kingston.
HÀ=. Bir. SULLIVÂN-I want to ask the
chairman If the whole ef t.he second clause
ls struck -ont ?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-No.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Are. the
tiens struck. ont ?

subsec-

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Not ail.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-What are retained T
I thought they were ail struek out.
Efon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The word 'Institute'
tuae been atruck out, the word «association'
Irne been put lu. The clause reade:

Thse object and powers of the Association ef
Chartered Âccountants, bereinatter referred to
as thse association, shall be to promote by ail
lawful meaus the practice- of acuntaucy, and
for the said purpoues(a.) To hold such examInations as may be
foun-d expediant.
(b.) To grant certificates o! eMciency to Its
members.
(c.) To establialu classes of msmbership.
(d.) To determine the rlghts, privileges. terue
and conditions of naid classes.
The third clause Is ei.imkrnated altogether,
aud replaced by the following :
The m.nsbr.4nip of the association shall be
composed of .111mombers lu gond standing of
ouasting provincial iucorporaterl Institutes and
associatiour who shall apply for membersh;p
within one year a! ter the passinc. of this Act,
anS of .uch others et whose qualifications and
iltiueas the councti approvea.
I thlnk that meets ail the objections Which
have been raised by my hon.. friend.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. triend
from Kingston was net exactly accurate
lu saying that this Bil was presented iaet
year and ws rejected by the ComuIittee on
Bank.iug and Commerce. It was not preclsely the same BIR. The BiR o! hast year
propoeed to Incorporate au Iustitute O!
It
Âctuaries las well as of Accountauts.
la true that botis existlng Actunrial Associations, ýand' exlstIng ÂccountancY Assoc.lations, ralsed objection to the Bill ou that
occasion, but I rememiber very weil that thse
atrongeat objection, the fatal objection
againet proceeding any further %vltb thxe
BUi at that time was Its proposition teo deal
with the actuarlal question, lnasmuch as
no adrtuary ln Canada bad applied, or, was
cuuneoted with i.t with the exception of
one, and ail the others appeared to be
against It. -I watched this Bill w1th some
luterest this'year, I attended the meeting of
thse Private Bille Co'mmittee wheu it was
under consideration, and I found that the
objections to It were that Iu thse first ln»ance It; Interfered ln. Its namne w.ith another
body esta'blished lu Ontario, and Ixhat
it-pruposed to grant degrees as evidecee
of proficien-cy lu acceuntancy, which also
encroached upon thse terme used by
another institution ln Ontario ta Its students,
lu granting diplomas of effiency. In louklng
over the BIR very carefully, every possible
objecttion on this score bas been removed.
Clause S bas been entlrely ediminated from
the Bill, nnd this association, as 4t la now
cahled, bas nu power to grant diegrees. Uts
educational purposes have been very much.

SENATF,

378

Indeed I think.
eliminated frorn the Bi.
tbey are sirnost entirely elirnlnated, and
rny bon. friend, Who is nlot present ln the
Huuse -to-day, the lion. leader of the oppotien, read'a teiegrarn a day or two ago ini
the House frern the Institute of Cbartered
Accounftants of Ontarlo, Who have been the
objectors to the B-ill, and wbose counsel
appeared before the Private Bis Cornrittee,
te say thbat they withdrew ail objections to
the Bill. That being se, I thlnk we sbouid
ne now delay the Bill an un-necesaary moment, as 'the objections whieb were raised
to lt have been entzlrely remeved, the Bill
baving passed the ordeal ot exarninatIon by
the Minister of Justice, and as the coinrnittee have evidently deait very carefuliy
wltb Ht,and made all necessary amendrnents
to rernove the objections which bave been
ralsed, I think we ought to pass it as
quickiy as we cau In order to give -an opportunity to becerne law during the present
session.
Hon. Mr. SUTLLIVAN-It was the Hon.
Mr. Drummond who told us the Bill bad
been rejected. by the committee. The ouiy
tbing I object to la giving to any body of
rnen-I don't care wbo they are-power to
fi tities Indicating any proficiency, or want
of proficiency, on any of their members or on
anybody. If they like-to do that among
tbeiseives. as other societies do, they can
make knights comnianders and knights
grand cross by the dozen If they Ilke, but
the principle I go on la that this Senate has
no right to give autherity to anybody, or
society, to grant certain certificates and
privileges connected with thernselves which
are of an educational character, and which
should be got frem educatiénal Institutions.
If tbis la ellminated 1 amn perfectly satisfied.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It Io ellrninated.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Then I arn satisfied.

to bon. gentlemen In the Chamber. The comrnittee took the precaution to get the opinion
of the Minister of Justice upon the constitutionai question, and bis opinion was
sucli as to clear the way for the passing of
the Bill. The constitutional difficulty belng
removed, the only further question to conaider la wbether the Bill la In the public
Interest, and whether it would serve a useful
purpose. I bav~e not any doubt that this
Bill will serve a very useful purpose, and
I should be pieased If the House were unanimons In Its passage and would give it
lis third readlng te-day, so that It might
get to the other branch of parlianient and
stand a reasonable chance of becoming law
during the present session of parliament,
I therefore strongly support the third reading of the Bill..
H3on. Mr. DEVER-As one of the members
before whom this Bfi was brougbt In conimittee, I have te express rny regret that
any opposition bas been shewn to it to-day,
because If any BiB befere the comrnittee
this session received a severe Investigation,
this Bill bad It. The parties opposlng each
other were very particular, In tact moat
anxious to carry out their respective views.
One hon. gentleman went se far as to make
a motion te suppresa eue of the paragraphs.
The iawyers on bath aides, and the parties
obWeting te the Bill, and aise the parties
prornoting the Bull, finally became receneiled by the witbdrawai of certain expressions ilu tbe Bill, and it became s0 satisfactory te both parties, and te the cornmittee
generaily, that many members hed shaken
banda on the rnatter, se pleased were they
that tbey had corne to be unanirnously
in favour of the measure. Tbey gave expressien to their hope that ne furtber opposition
would be shown to it. This was the feeling
among the members of the comrnittee, and
I amn surpriaed to-day tjiat there shouid be
any other feeling In this House. A Bill
whlch was s0 satisfacterily passed In the
committee should be passed In this Heuse
witbout furtber opposition. I arn surprised
that the bon, gentleman from Kingston,
atter expressing* bis satisfaction with the
amendments and bis regret that he opposed
the Bill, sbould again oppose it to-day.

Hon. Mr. KERR-This Bill bas pass'ed
through a somewhat trying ordeal, and, as
I understand, when it ieft the comrnittee,
those. who appeared as promoters of the
measure, and those Who appeared In opposition to It, have vlrtuaiiy by the amendment
corne together. I believe it is generally
understood -that ail opposition arising eutaide was quieted, and that the opposition
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I expressedl ne
to the passing of the Bill wouid be confiued sorrow. In consequence of the eloquent
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MAY 2, 1902
appeal of the hon. gentleman I withdrew to perform the dùtles now performed by
any opposition.
the police magistrate. lt dloes not involve
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill the appontment of any other officiai.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
was read the second time.
THIIRD READINGS.
GAM E PRESERVATION ACT AMENDBill (115) Ân Act further to amend, the
MENT BILL.
Canada: Evidence Act 1893.-4Hon. Mfr.
THIRD READING.
Scott)
The House resolved ltself into a CommitBill (121) An Act further to amend
the Acta respecting the North-west Terri- tee of the Whole on Bull (117) An Act further to amend the Unorganized Territorles
torles.-(Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
Game Preservation Act, 1894.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
(In the Commlttee.)
Bill (101) An Act to Incorporate the
Hon. 1fr. FERGUSON-I understood, the
Nipegon Railway Com-pany.-4Hon. Mfr. buffaào was extinct.
Gibson.)
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-So . we ail believed.
Bill (116) An Act to amend the pro- There may perhape be found hoere and there
Vision with regard to toila, of chapter 1 of
a few buffalo.
'the ata-tutes of 1881, respecting the CanaHon. Mfr. SULLIVAN, from the coindian Pacifie Rallway.--<Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
Bill (120) An Act to amend the Domin- mittee. reported the Bill 'wlthout amendment
Ion Lands Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
The BIR wau then read the ith-ird time and
Bill (1W5) An Act to amend the PetUpassed.
tion of Rlght Act.-(Hon. Mfr. Templeman.)
CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT ACT
Bil (137) An Act to amend chapter
41 of the statutes of 1901, respectlng the
AMENDMENT BILL.
Administration of Justice la the Yukon
THIRD READING.
TerrItory.-(Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
The House reoelved ltself lnte a ComBill (138) An Act to amend the Act
respecting the Judgea et Provincial Courts.- mitte opf the Whole on Bill (124) An Act to
amend the Civil Service Retirement Act,
(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
1898.
YUKON TERRITORY ACT AMENDMENT
(In. the Commlttee.)
BILL.
Hon. 1fr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I think
SECOND READING.
this la one of t.he most mast Acts ever passed
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT nloved the second read- by the partiament of Canada. Lt seems
lng of Bill (113) An Act further to monstrous If a man, after contributing.for
amend the Yukon Terrltory Act and the years to the superannuation fund, should
13e sald: die before his retirement, bis family lose
Auo ln a'mendnient thereof.
The object of this Bill la te appoint one of every thlng. I thlnk the Bill le hlghiy comthe police magistrates an extra Judge ln the mendable.
Yukon, with a view of glvlng a Court en
Hon. Mfr. WATSON, from the comm-ittee,
Banc and abolshlng the preaenyt appeal t» reported the Bill without amendment.
fouind
the Bri*tish Oolun*>la court, which la
The Bill was thon read the thîrd time
very Inconvenient. An uappeal where cases
lnvolving an amo'nnt of $2,000 and upwards, and passed.
can then be made to the Supreme Court of
ROCKY MOUNTAINS PARK ACT
Canada.
ÂMENDMENT BILL.
Hon. Mfr. FEEGUSON-Does it Inv'olve
THIRD RE2ADING.
the appolntment of another judge ?
The House reeolved, IteIf Into a ComHon. 1fr. .SOOTT-The Qovernor In Cou-n- mlttee of the Whole on Bil (133) An Act
cil I authorized te name one of the judges to amend the Rocky Mountains Park Act

SENATE
(In the Committee.)

any apprehension as to its interfering with
existing settlements, because the territory
is described as such parts as are now vested
lu the Crown. We are simply withdrawving
from settlement a larger area of country
than before, but we are oniy dealing with
what la now vested in the Crown, s0 that
we cannot possibly interfere with any existing Interest, either mining, iumbering or
anything else, so far as I can sue.

Hlon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-When moving
the second reading of this Bill 1 bad no
map before mu, and was unable to describe It as fuliy' as my hon. friend from
Calgazy desired. Evidently tihere wns some
misapprehensIon as to the extent and
boundaries of the present park at Banff.
My hon. friend from Calgary asked me if
this new pari- wouid inalude the tiown or
Anthracite.
I notice by a amail map witb
Hlon. '.%r. FULFOILt, froso the committee,
which I bave been furnished by the depart- reported the Bill without amendment.
ment, thet Anthracite and the town of
The Bill was then read the third time and
Banff are at present within the area of the
passed.
National Park at'Banif.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-How large a place
la Anthracite ? I neyer heard of it.
Hon. "Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It ls a coal minQuite a number of miners are
ing town.
located there, when the mines are Ia operatien.' The Increased size of the pari. is
verî rIàrge. The present park has an area
of about 260 square miles; the Increased
area la 4,900 miles. The form of the park
la a triangle, the base of It being the boundary between the North-west Territories and
British Columbia, the boundary being thu
top of the Rocky Mountains running In a
north-westerly -direction.

YUKON PAOIFIC RAILWAY COM~PANY
1BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the second
reading'0f. Bill (65) An Act to Incorporate
the Yukon Pacific Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wlsh to cali my bon.
frlend'a attention to clause 7. It will bu nucessary to amend It when the Bill is referrud
to the committue, In order to definu a very
Important question, 'that tb:ey shall notapproach nearer the United States boundary
than five miles.

Hon. Mr. MACD)ONALD. (B.C.)-How will
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
the 1ýhoot1ng and tishing In the park bu re- was ruad the second time.
gblated or controlled ?
BANK ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-That ls not
within the scope of this Bill. The Bill ls
Hon. Mn. ELLIS-1- should like if the
slmply to Increase and define the boundaries House would give prefurence on Tuesday to
or the park.
the Bill (BB) : 'An Act.to amend the Bank
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (BC)Isuppose Act.' One or two gentlemen who are going
the Bill to protect the game will cover that? away desire to make some observations with
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-This la te In- regard to It, and it would be convenient if
crease the area of the park. 'lhere is In it could bu made the finat Order of the Day.
the park a large -and incruasing. herd of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It will bu the finst Order
buffaio. There are other wild animais, of alter the third readings.
course under control, such as moose, elk and
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I think It ls
others, 'and It la the desîre of the goveru-ment that these wild animais should pro- a great mistake to bring this measure before
pagate and icrea se. I will lay this smaîl the Senate this yuar. There is no chance
map on the Table, so that hon. gentlemen of Its going through, and it sbould bu a govcan have an Idea of the area and bound- ermuent Bill. Any Interference by a private
arlus of the park. The park- as increased individual with the Bank Act would bu veny
lijurious, and I ask my hon. friund not to
will surround the present park.
proceed with the second reaýdlng. He doua
Ilon. Mr: FERGUSON-In looking over net expect to put the measure through the
the clause, 1 do not think we need be under House -of Gommons, and we should not create
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

MAY 51 1902
a discussion at this time on a question which
is of the utmost importance to Canada.
Our banking institutions should flot be inUntil the Urne arrives for
tertered with.
renewing the charters nothing sbould be
done. At any rate, the government should
be a party to 1tL
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The bon. gentleman bas a perfect right to present a Bill
to the House, and ask the Ruse to consider aud deal wim IL.
understood it wilI
The '.iFJEs-tl
be the first Order of the Day for Tuesday
atter third readings.
The Senate àdjourned.

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Monday, May 5, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o dlock.
Frayera and routine proceedinga.
THE .CORONATION

OÂTH.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to draw the attention of the membera of the Senate to te
following document, publlshed ln the month
of. June laat
«To the Renourable Joseph Chamberiain:
Right Hanourabie Sir.
«The University of Lavai hias er.luted Ilfty
7cmr. It was Rer MaJest? Quoan Victoria who
.lgned, at. Webtminetir, the Royal Charter
which gives civii existence to the fiast French
Cauiadlan University ln Canada. ThiW document
ls very roearkable ,It wiii romain for ever as
the mont evident proot ef the breadtb of 'view,
ansd the nobiltty ot sentiment of the Queen,
ofhe
vhose lite wili form the subject of oncet
mest beautful pagas ot the hittry of the 19th
cenrtury.
'In 1SC0, Laval University received a 'riait
from. His Majesty King Edward VII, thon Prince
ef Wales. Our institution vas very young then;
neverthelqws It go lnterested- the young Prince
vith the generous, heart and brilliant intelligence that he founded a prize that bas beun
awarded evey year for torty years, and wbili
lu the month of June lat gave lise te a competition ln vbich morc than four bundred pupils
teck part..
1'You wilI understand that the University owes
gratitude to the Royal Fanîliy ; and this gratitude I&strive, te show 'te It by giv!ng te cociety
évvry year eLligb'tenecl citizens and convmnc3c1
Cbrîiana

.381

'Its pupils are to-day everywhere in the differont parts of the Domninion. The tangue whili
tbey speak, the CathollIc religion which they
profseu, the teachtng which they have recolved
at the universlty, are far from injuring their
loyaJlty. They are ftrmly attacbed te the prestut
conditions of their national lite ; they are proud
te b. living under the shadow of the flag etf a
nation whIch holde the flfth et the habitable
wosid, vhich ceunta four hundred nslleons of
subjects, which by itsoif alone dose one-third
et the commerc et the venld, which marches
boldly at the head ot the nations as a colonial,
indu&tial, arýd commercial power ; they aqppreciato the advantagcs ot the liberty whlch thcy
possesa. thoy cee wlth pleasure their Institutions
and their works flourlshing wîthout Impediment,
and onjoylng the respect which ibis great nation
kunows how te render te what ve have to be
respectsd.
. As those pupils belong tw the gevernîng dlais,
thoy have Influence upen their felew-cltLsen.and
they communicate their sentiments te thos vhio
surround them. Thug thse Catholic French Canadians f001 happy. and forcîgners that visit
them are struck by this air of contentment, et
jey, and bêppinesa. whlch tbey do net notice
oioewhere in the same degree.
1Ail the thousands et pupEis te vhom the
,University bas given lntellectual lite are fervent Catholics, cenvlaced eues, burt aUl are &as
loyal subjecta. They slncereiy love the Church
visose children they are ; but they aise love
the nsbion whose ottizens they are. They*vonerate the'Pope who'direce them tor the salvatien ot thelr souls. and they boueur the King
te whom Qed has given them as subjeots.
Theretere, they are palned te ses His
Majesty. the King oblged, en thse day of
bis coronion. te talce an oath ln wbich are
cxplicltly denied truths whlch tbey admit,
tbey vouerate. And ln the
visici
dognue
professera and et the Pupils
name efthei
et the University, lu thc namm ot the tbousonde c.ý citizens vhom the University bas
f ermed, and whe are perhape the most loyal
subjeato of Ris Majesty in Canada, I humbiy
veirturO te pray you te use your great Influonce te have changed a torm et ouâth which is
se contrary te thse breadth of m viwicis OCnadians are plessed to recognize, for many long
yeers, ameugat thse stateemen et the mother
country wfth whem they bave bad rele.tien-s.'
And aaked:
Ras thse government been put ln possession
ot the petitlon of the University of La.val?
Bas Uic government sent it te thse Ren. the
Becretary et State fer Uic Colonies?
Wben was il: se entt
What vas thse answer recoived T
Wh'en, and by vhom vas it given ?
HEon. Mr. SCOTT-The government have
no knowledge whatever upon thse subject. I
thlnk the communication was sent frem thse
University of Lavai te His Excelieucy, and
forwarded by bim. It did not go through
the government. I noticed by the papers
at the time that sucis a petition had been
sent to Engiand.

382*

SENATE

Hon. Mr. FERGIISON-Work la going on a
THE PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND RAILgreat deal more than that.
WAY.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will caîl the attention cf
MOTION.
Mr. Schreiber te the lion. gantlemar-ls Litatement.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think the answer le
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON moved:
rot complote.
That an humble address be preseoted ta His
I called my hon. friend's attention te the
Excellency the Governor General ; praying that
His Excellency will cause ta be laid befove the fact that work was geing torward on other
Senat., copies of ailparte of the road besides section No. 2, and
1. Notices calllng for tenders f or the con- my bon. frlend told me that he did net
struction of any portion of the railway tram know It, and It was then settled
that the
Chexfottetown to Murray Harbeur.
2. Tenders recelved la consequence of such question sbould stand over tili the following
day, when I repeated my question, and zny
notices.
S. Opecifications fur the construction of said bon. friend replled as follows :
railway.
I have already givea the aaewer ta that ques4. Orders in Councll awarding or authorizing
tien that was furalshed me;, I have lnquired
contracte on any part of said raiiway.
6. Correspandance between the Department of the department and they stili adhere ta the
et Raiiways or any officor thereof, and any ten- correctness of that answer, &c.
derer or cantractor for any part of the sald
On the 14th April I made the followlng
railway, regsoeding the performance of werk
thereen.
inqulry :
6. Aiea a statement showing when the work
on sait! railway, other than on section 2, was
Whether the wark cf gradiag new
commenced. and the authority under which the on the railway fram Charýiotetawn being done
te Murray
work was entered upon.
Harbour, ather thanen section 2, la beiag proceeded with by day's labour. If net. haw ls
He said : It will be In the recollection of this work being donc ?
hon, gentlemen that on the 8th AprIl last
My bon. frlend's reply was:
I made the followlng inquiry :
The aniwer
1. Wbat sections and how many miles af the Schreiber. la which 1 have, signed by Mr.
railway tram, Charlottetown ta Murray Harbour day's labour, that ne werk is belng dane by
ner is any work authorized by the
are now under caatract *?
depsrtment te, be praceeded
beyend the
2. Do the contracta ln progress Inolude grad- elevea and a haIt miles. Whienwith hos. frlend's
my
ing, tracklaying and ballasting, or what do they remarks are printed, I will abtain a copy and
Incluae ?
send It te Mr. Schare.ber. There la evideatiy a
3. Who are the'conrtractor, or contractor!?
mtminderstanding somewbmere.
4. Were these contractas awarded by tender
atter publie competîtion had beýn invlted ?
Some days sub sequently, as my hon. friend
6. Wbat amount et money has been paid on
these contracts up ta the 31st of March ultimo? wlll remember, he very klndly sent me over
6. At whs.t date or dates ls the wark on these foi perusal a letter addressed te hlmself
contracta severally required ta be completed ? by Mr. Schreiber, ln which
Mr. Schrelber
7. If these contracta, or any of them, are
based on a price per mile far grading, tracklay- alleged that, as far as the Information the
Ing and ballasting, or Sfly or these operatiens, department possesaed was concerned, the
give said price.
8. If net baaed an a price per mile, itate on anewers prevleusly. gîven were correct but
what basla regarding price these cont.racta have it liad sînce corne to the knewledge ef the
been made.
department that the contracter for No. 2
My hon. friend the Secretary of State gave section was proceeding to do work on the
rest ef the road, and that orders had been
the foilowlng reply:sent te have that work dlscontlnued.
On
1. Section No. 2, Mutch's Paint. ta village
Thursday last I made another lnqufry, and
Green-lj miles.
2. The contract Includes grading t~nd cein- I may say that ail the time thîs was going
pleting the roadbed te formation level, alse
fencing, but daes net inolude ballasting or track- on my Information was undoubted that
iaying.
work was proceedlng on the whole of that
S. Wiile.rd Kitchen le the cantiractor.
ri ilway, flot merely on the eleven and a
4. Yes.
5. $53,939.44 has been paid an contract section haIt miles whlch the government sald was
No. 2-Mutch's Point te Village Green, up 1.0 belng proceeded with, but on the other forty
31st March, ultimo.
6. The date fer completion, named in the odd miles, that the work of grading was
contract, wns 31st Deceniber, 190, but the time going on ail over the road by Mr. Kîtchen,
has been extended.
7. This contract ls net based on a prîce per although I was assured across the floor
on the authorlty et the Department et Railmile.
8. Schedule prices.
ways and Canals that no such work was
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 5, 1902
authorized or being done. On Thursday
last I lnquired:
Whether it ia the intention of the govez'ument to Invite public tenders for the construction ef the railway from Charlottetown to Mur-

seaction 2. If oo, wlien
ray Harbour. other tn
will the notices for such tenders be issued ?
In rep ly te that question my hon. friend.

said :
The answer sent me ls as fallo'ns
The department invited tenders hy publie advertisement for section 2 covering 11J miles
from Mutch's Point towards Murray Harbour.
and the contract was awarded accordingly te a
respouaible contractor, at prices which the enigineers pronounced reasonable. The next sectien was continued at the prices for the work
as setlfled under the firot tenders, by Order ln
Counel.
The contract has been sent for execution by
the contracter.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That Is mont extraordinary, In the face of the replies that were
given aoross thc fleor of the House on the authord'ty of the chief engineer of railways. thait
ne work ws being douc on any section but
No. 2. wben now it appears that by an. Order
lu Councl, the werk was prosecuted on ether
sections of thc road on the sme terme au No.
2.
Hon. Mir. SCOTT-Tbe bon. genUteman la right
except as far as -thc date le conjcerued. &fter
my lion. friend made the.ststenicnt thst work
w«s going on, I calied the attention of te
Miniater of Railways te Itand he denied It,
and I speke te Mr. Schrelber about IL It appears the contracter vent on v te c approyal,
perdhapa, ef the locai engineer. Subsequent tO
the utatement made on a report fromt the local
engineer, confirmed by Mr. Sobreiber, a continuiation of Uic vork was given beyoDd te
li mlles te thîs contractor sat achedule prices
contained ln thc first contrat
Non. Mr. FERGUSON-That ls ail right, but
what becemes of the denials given 1by my hon,.
frient on tee airthorttY ef tee dePaz*meént, that
work vas being donc by the goverument T
Hon. Mr'. SCOTT-Evidently the department
did net know tee vork vas golng on.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And it vas donc by
Order ln Council !
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, he vent on betore the
Order ln Council. The Order In. Couneil vas
passed, ï! my memory i. correct, afler my attention was called to it by mY hon. fricnd.
I have rend these questions- and replies
for the purpose of shewing whnt Wii Prebably astonish hou. gentlemen, that this contracter, havteg a contract for cleven and

a half miles, and oniy eleven and a hait
Miles of that road, vent on with the construction er the remninder of the rond, tbree
or four times as much as this eleven 'and
a hait miles, withont the nuthority of the
department, and that the Minuster et Rail-

ways.denied that he knew anything'at; ait
about it-that la the statement of My hon.

triend the Secretary of State. Mfr. Schrelber. wrote je'ttera on the authority of which
my hon. friend stated several times to this
House that no work was going on except on
tliis section No. 2, and that notlwthstandIng these statements, this cotactor was
building the road for the government about
which ail these denteas had been made durIng aUt this period of Urne. It may surprise hon, gentlemen to be told this, but
the whole story le ln the answers the hon.
gentleman gave to my inquirlet. It le very
hard to conceive It possible that this contracter -would have proceeded with the work
wlthout any contract with the governmentwithout the authority of the Minister of
Railiways, or the deputy mli iter or the
general manager, but merely that of a local
engineer who, it would seem, took upon
himself the authorlty to instruct this man
to buiid 'that railway. I may mention ln
connection with this, that Mfr. Kitchen la
weU known to be a particular friend of the
Minister of Railways. Whether his friendship la ef auch a nature as would warrant
hlm In building railways for the government without the authority of the Minister
ef Railways, and depending te be paid. for
his werk afterwardi, whcther he had prenious authority to go on withi the work or
net, I do not know, but 1 do know that
aince Mfr. KItchen commenced this werk ln
Prince Edward Island, on section 2, when
an eletion vas ln progresa there, and one
ef the candidates supporting the gevernment had a form of recosumendatien ready,
printed or typevritten, I forget vluich, aithough I saw one of the documents myseif
with the proper blank for puttlng ln the
name of the elector te whom It vas te be
given, and during the progres of thoat campaign, these letters to 1fr. Ritchen were
given out by the goverument candidate, recommending votera to employment with Mfr.
Kitchen upon thîs road. It aeemed very
extriirdinari that, If Mfr. Kitchen was
a centractor, that applications should be
made te hlm as a matter of patronage for the governiment ef the day. I
mention this, because I aaw myseif one
or twe of these forme which were given te
the voters. It was a matter of notoertetY
that they were given. A great many were
given, and when we now find that Mfr. Kitchen, without any authorlty from the Minieter er .Rail'ways and Canais--at least, that

384

SENATE

i1. wbnt we are told, and we are bound to
believe it-without any autbority from, or
the knowledge of tbe Mînister of Railways
or the deputy minIster, proceeded ta build
the railway ln thls way, we cannot 'help rernembering what took place when these lettera were being given to votera ail over the
constituencles affected by the railway ln
question. I f eit a great deal of surprise when I was receiving frorn day to
day the answers which rny hou. friend
the Secretary of State gave me. I have n0
fault to find with hlm. I believe he was
giving the answers falthfully, as they were
communlcated to hlm, and that he was flot
I
keeping anything that he knew back.
amn very far from charging my hon. friend
with purposely deceling the House. The
whole course of the discussion of this questiou ahowed that he had no desire of any
kind that the truth should flot be communicated to the House. But my hon. friend
wil scarcely contradict me when I aay that
the truth was not communlcated ta the
House, through the Ignorance, k would seem
or the Minister of Railways and the deputy
minîster, as to what was going on In their
department. They were ln sucb a state of
Ignorance as to this work, that they gave
rny bon. friend Incorrect and rnisleading Inet
formation. In order that the ihl
of the case may corne out, I now make tme
motion of whichl 1 have given notice.

lon. Mr. SCOTT-That may be; I do not
recoiiect the date.

Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-Evidently the governent have departed from the policy they
used ta advocate when they were ln opposition, that ail public w'ork should be let
by tender, and given ta the lowest bldder.
It appears this work was let without tender. This la sometfring strange. I do flot
wisli ta say anything further about it, but
the goverament ought ta remember what
they promIsed the people of this country.
I do not accuse them of fibblng, but It
seerna tbey do not know what they are doing, or else tlhey wanvt ta hide the facta as
far 'as this work la concerned. However,
they ought ta rernember what they proniised the people of this country, and this
wIll not sound very weli ln the eare of the
public. Trhe government do not even say
whethier they are building mhis road by day's
labour. Because the contractor la a friend
of the minister la no excuse. We ahould
have a better excuse than that. We ahouid
get value for ail the money that we pay
for anything o! that kind, and the work
ahouid be let by tender and ta the iowest
bidder. It appeara we do not get that new.
Even during hfackenzie's tirne he used ta
do that, but the bon. gentlemen now la
power have departed from that principle.
They have dritted from their rnoorings, and
wher.e they are golng eventually I do not
know.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-There la no objection
The motion was agreed ta.
ta the motion going. It is quite clear that
gentleman knew a good deal more
the hon.
STEÂMSHIP LINE BETWEEN CHARabout the transactions to which he refera
LOTTETOWN AND LIVERPOOL.
Of course, I am not in a posithan I did.
tion ta explain ho'w It was that the stateINQUIRY.
ments were given me wblch afterwards had
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON Inquired of the
to-.be contradloted. I presume It arises ln
done by achedule government :
this way : the work being
rates, they were thought probably as 10w
1. What steamer, If any, has been engagpd tg>
as could be got, and as the man waa ln piy between Chariottetown and Liverpood durIng the preveat season ?
possession of one part o! the work, the bal- .2. Will Charlottetown be the last port o! deextended te hlm, be- parture o! said steamer ?
ance of the work was
round trL.s wiii
3. How
lieving it was ln the public interest ta do when wiil many service be started be made and
?
the
be brought
so. However, ail the papers wiIll
4. Wili the steamer employed be provided
down and the dates also. The Order la with coiS storage suitabie for carrying meat,
?
Council, If rny recollection la correct, was poultry, and butter steamer be provlded with
5. Wiii the said
passed subsequent to the first and second means of generating cold air and dlstrlbutlnig
the same through such portions of her space
questions being asked.
]Ton-. Mr. FERGUSON-I think It must
have been subsequent to. the third.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON.

as wi.il be used for carryinq such perishable
products as cheese. eggs and appiee, and will
an even and suitable temperature la such space,
be guaranteed ?

5

MLAY 5, 1902
6. Will sufficient space be reserved for freight
offerlng at Char'lottetown ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The answer I recelved
from thxe Miuter of Agriculture i. as follows: No vessel la yet engaged, but an
arrangement has been made with the Montreal agent o! the Manchester Liners Company and the contract Is being made out for
signature. The vessel Io the 'Manchester
Trader.' Charlottetown wlll be the last
Four
point o! departure from Canada.
round trips wll be made, starting about
10th July. The vessel is fltted with cold
storage chambers and fitted with speclal
ventilation for the bolda lu whlch apples
and cheese wll be carrled. There la no
guarantee given as to the temperature ln
these holds. Space wll be reserved for
ail freight !rom Charlottetown.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (106) An Act to amend the Post
Office Act.--(Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
Bill (112) An Act to amend the Immigration Act.-4Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
Bill (114) An Act to amend the Exchequer Court Act.--(Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
Bill (123) An Act to incorporate the
Canada Eastern Rallway Company.--(Hon.
Mfr. Thompson.)
EWÂRT DIVORCE BILL.
BILL. WITHDRAWtN.

Hon. Mfr. GOWÂN presented the 11th
report of the Standing Committee on Divorce on i3ill (C) #'AnAct for the relief of
John Hamilton Ewart #recommendlng that
the petîtioner be allowed to wlthdraw the
Bill, and that fixe fee of $200 pald by the
petitioner be refunded to hlm, les. the
expense o! prlntlng the evîdence. He sald:
The petitioner was unabie to give the evidence that would satlsfy the commlttee, and
aska heave to wlthdraw the Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
THIRD REÂDINGS.

Bill (9) An Act respecting th e United
Gold Filds of British Columbia, Llmlted.(Hon. Mr. Young.)
YUKON TERRITORY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved ltself Into a Coninmlttee of the Whoie on Bill (118) An
Act f urther to amend the Yukon Terrltory
Act and the Acts ln amendinent thereof.
(In the Commlttee.)
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The object of the Bill
is to enable a Court of Appeai to be formed
at Dawson. Heretofore appeals have aiways gone to British Columbia. We now
propose that each of the Judges In the
territorial courts shahl have the crîmînai
jurlsdiction vested ln the police niagistrate,
and the police magistrate can sit as a judge.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Is It proposed to
make the police magistrate a judge ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, he wUll oit ln
appeal.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-W11 he be appolnted as a judge of the court?7
HEon. Mfr. SCOTT-He would have to be.
One of the judges wll be selected, I do not
know whlch one.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (British Columbia)-Is this man a barrister ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yea, he must be a
barrister of five yeas standing.
HEon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-There are.onhy
two judges there now ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Ând you are appolntlng a third ?
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Âny one of the
tbree may act ? ,
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-Ye.*
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHÈED-Is there a police
magîstrate there now ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-But hereafter any
Bill (93) An Act respectlng the Hndof the tbree judges may act ?
Raliway Com- one
son's Bay and North-west
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes.
pany.--(Hon. Mfr. McDonald, C.B.)

25

386

SENATE

Hon. 1fr. VIDAL, from the committee, for the distribution, because these Bis
corne from the distribution office ln the
reported the Bill without ameadment.
The Bill was thea read the third time, House of Commons.
and passed under a suspension of the raies.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I cail the Speaker's
attention to the note under the words Orders
CANADIAN PACIFI C RAILWÂY TOLLS of the day. It reads as foliows :
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
Note.-The 2etters *'E, ' denote those printF
ed and distrNbtted In bath languages when the
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Orders of the Day were printed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rendIn the French edltion the word ' distrifng of Bill (116) An Act to amend the buted ' la put ln also. 1 notice now that the
p.rovision with regard to To115, of Chapter v.rords 'and distributed ' appear no more la
1 of the Statutes ef 1881, respectIng tbe to-day's issue. 1 see now how the change
Canadian Pacific Railway.
took place. I caiied attention to the tact
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tbat Bill bas not that bills marked printed and distributed
were not distributed the ether day. If hou.
been distributed yet.
gentlemen wili look at page 305 they wli
see the follewIng note :
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-I think so.
The words 'E. F.' denote those pria ted and
lion. Mfr. LANDRY-Not la Frenchi.
distributed ln both languages when the orders
Orders 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 are marked ln the of the day were prlnted :E prIated ln EngOrders of the Day as belng distributed, but Ilsb. and F, printed ln French.
noae of them have been distribnted la
Tiien on page 318 w~e find the foilowIng
French.
note :

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It is very curious we
eannot get nt the bottom of It.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-We wIii get at the
bottom of It, as I wli oppose the second
rea ding.

The letters 1 E. F.' denote those priat-id and
1distributed in bath languages.
To better bis position an officiai bas resorted to a new departure agan. Tbe words
' and distributed' bave been erased, and to
suit the cireumstances It reads to-day 'those
prlnited ln both languages.' It bas aiways
been the custom before to make the niote
read 'those prInted and distributed,' but
there bias been a departure to suit the circumstances. I want to know wbo gave the
order for tbat departure ? Is there an
erder of the House ? Who is going to admiaister this House ? I dlaimn that this
Bill bas not been dlstributed and 1 oppose
its second reading.

Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-I bave given orders
that no Bill shahl be marked as priated in
Frenchi unhees it is printed. In tbe House
of Commons tbey wili not allow a Bill to be
lntroduced until'it is translated la French.
Probably we couhd foroe the translating on
a littie faster If we adepted a similar raie,
and did net aihow Bills te come to this
Chamuber unless they were transiated. An
Important Bill was passed on tbe first-0f
May, and I unquired whether it was IntroHlon. Mfr. SCOTT-Theu cail the next Item.
dnced la the House of Gommons and was
informed that It bad flot been. On making
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Tbe rest of the
furtber inquiries as to tbe cause, I was told Orders are la tbe same posItion.
the raie was that ne Bill sbouid be introHon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the suggestion
dnced until it was translated, and therefore
our Bille are stopped at the tbresbold unles of the hon. Secretary of State were carried
ont, that we would not perm2it a Bill to be
tbey are transiated.
introduced ln this Honse until it hiad not
The SPEAKER-The Bis are translated only been priated ln Engii, but traaslated
ln the House of Commons and this Bill bas and printed ln French, 1 am afraid it
been printed ln French as weIl as la Eng- would be very inconvenient the last day of
lisi. but bas not 1-een distributed. The the session, nnless the hon, gentleman and
officers of this Flouse are not responsible bis friends reform.
,Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 5, 1902
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Not if the hon.
gentlemnan's frienda did flo kick.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-Âfte r the House
of Commons pammed the Bis we would have
to go off! on a tour until they were printed.
The SPEÂKER-This particular Bill hadt
been translated when the Orders of the Day
wvere., printed, but had flot been distributed. The hon. gentleman wiil mee that II;
might cause a good deal of inconvenience If
the Bill was flot put down with theme letters
ln our minutes, because It Is aasurned, as
a general raie, that a Bill that has been
printed ln both languages at the Bureau ln
the morning, when oui minutes go to press,
wiii be dimtributed before the House meets
ln the afternoon ; and that has flot been the
case in this Instance. The trouble seerns
to be ln the distribution office.

say ao. The Order paper la exactly exact,
and It la hardiy worth whiIe to hang Up
business for such a triffe us the fron. gentleman speaks of.
Hon. Mr. LAÂNDRY-If the hon. member
will refer to page 318 he will see that the
words 'and distrlbuted 1 have been erased.

Hon. Mir. ELLIS-The hon. gentleman wili
quite understand that when a Bill Io *distributed and printed, the Order paver states
that tact, and when it Is flot distributed,
but smlpy printed, the Order paper says
The Order Paper is quite right. It
mo.
would have been an error to have said the
Bill was dimtributed when It was not, and
ln vle'w of that fact, I think myhlon. friend
mhould aiiow the Bill to proceed, and flot
hang Up the business of the House.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The most Impor,Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I sent up to the dis- tant thing la to ascertain who la to blame.
tribution office and they tel me It bas flot If the printing has been done, why are the
been distributed, and Ia flot there appar- Bills fot dIstributed ?
entiy.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-The delay, I premume,
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I wouhd point ont to ia ln the translator's office.
the hon. leader of the Senate that If the
Hon. 1fr. FERGUS(IN-The Order paper
BiII had flot been distribnted at the time the
Orders were printed, and wam marked simp- says they are printedl ln both languages,
ly ' printed ln Engiish ' or 1printed ln and there must be smre delay ln sending
French' I would have made no objection, thein from the Printing Bureau to the disbecause I wouhd not be taken by surprise, tribution office.
but when they corne and tell us that it has
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No, the delay la in the
been distributed when it has not, It Ia putt- transiator's office I had a similar instance
Ing on the Order paper a statement whicfi of It ln a Bill sent down on the lot of May
la not true. If It hadt been distributed at to .the House of Communs. I wanted to
the opening of the House, and rnarked onhy know why It hadt fot been lntroduced. I
as printed ln Engiish, I wouhd flot have knew It had to be tranmiated ln this House,
raised any objection. I do flot want to be but they hadl to go over It again, and It was
rnisied every day by the Order paper. I delayed two or three days. It wus ail In
should like to know who gave the order to the translator's office.
change the Orders of the Day.
Hlon. Mr. DeBOUCH[ERVILLE-It: seerna
Hon. 1fr. MACDONALD (British Colum- to me to be quite umeleas to have translation
bia)-How are they changed?
If "we have not got distribution. For exHon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-They are changed ample, I have smre douhts abqut Borne of
by striking ont the words 1and dlstrIbuted.' the clauses of this Bill I do flot thlnk I
The ruhe used to be that Bilas were marked understand It properly. We should have it
'E. F.' whien tfley were printed and dis- In Frenchl. Wben the order Io rnarked 'E.
tributed. The words 1and distributed ' have F.' it i. understool we have the Bill before
been erased frorn the Orders of the Day. us ln both languaes
By whose order was that done ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is no doubt this
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The hon. gentlemnan Bill was translated a fortnIght: or three
rnight have found fauht If It had been the weekm ago. The arnendrnents were probably
other way-if the Order paper had stated rnade at the hast stage of the BiH, and those
that the Bill was distributed, but It does flot arnendmentm have flot been printed ln con25j

SENATE
sequence of the delay ln the translator's word 'distributed,' which bas been taken
office ln the House of Commons. That is out of that note since the 3Oth of April.
where the deiay cornes ln. It Is the fault of
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Because the hon. genthe transiators that the Bill has flot been tlemnan fouud fault wIth it.
sent to the Prlnting Bureau.
Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-I did flot find fault
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-We should flot forget witb It, 71 have not found fault with the
this point aiso, and this Is flot; the fault of words being there, but because being there
the Hlouse of Commous : I call the attention the addition of the letters E. and F. gives
of the House to the tact that from the flrst thern an erroneous meaniug when such Bis
day of the session up to the 30th of April, lndicated as prIuted. sud distrlbuted. were flot
every Order of the Day rend as follows:
really -distrIbuted. What I find fault with
Note.-The lattera ' E, F' denote those .vrint- now, Is, that sme one bas taken upon hlmed and distMbuted In h.oth languages, &c.
self to strike out wbat has been the cusOrder tornsry notice to thls House-that le, words,
Wbenever you find a Bill ln the
paper marked 'E.' and IF.' that denotes that have hîtherto appered on our orders.
that the Bill has been printed and distriHlon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-It may have
buted ln Engiish and French. I called the been the proof-reader.
attention of the House that day to the
The Order of the Day was discharged.
fact. I was told that the Bill was printed
and flot distrlbuted. I then called att.tIltion DOMINION LANDS ACT AMENDMENT
to the note I have quoted.L Sinoe then,
BILL.
smre one bas stepped lu and taken away
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
the words 'and dlstributed,' and now the
*
Orders of the Day appear without the word
The Order o! the Day for the second read'diitributed' ln that note.
Ing of Bil (1W0) 'Au Act to amend the Dominion Lands Acts,' belng called.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That is rigbt.
Hlon. Mir. SCOTT said: I assume that one
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Wh o did that
of the reasons for placlng E. and F. atter
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Whoever had the duty ail these Orders la the tact that ln ail
of preparing the paper.
those cases the Bis weee prlnted and disHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I thInk the hon. mIn- tributed twvo or three weeks ago, tbough
not ln Senate form. If the hou, gentleman
ister does not see the point.
looks over bis file of Bills, he will dind that
Hon. Mr. SCJOTT-Perfectly wel.
when a Bill is Introduced in the Houe o!
Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-Why la not the word Commons, and bas passed the second readlng, he receives a French copy of Iît.
dlstrIbuted' lui the note ?
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHER VILLE-lt may
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Attention was called
to this before, and I made lnquiry as to wby be ameuded.
it was they put the words 'printed and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It may, but sornetimes
dlstributed' there wben the French edîtion the arndment Is trifling and sornetImes
was flot distributed. I was told that the there is no ameudment at ail. The Bills are
officer believed, froin the representations distrlbuted lu the Senate atter everythiug
made to hlm, that, when the Order paper bas been finally arranged for their passage
was being prepared, before the House met, tbrough this Chamber. It 18 a very trflig
the Bis prlnted ln French wouid be dis- objection to take to a Bill that It bas not
trlbuted, and belleving that sucb would be been reprinted lu French In the Senate
doue, he had entered the words E. and F. form.
aud put lu the word 'distributed' lu order
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I would not have
not to lose the whole day.
taken objection If I bad not been rnled by
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That proves preclseiy the letters ' E.F.'. When the Bull bas not
that the hon, gentleman does not see rny been distributed, let them omit the letter F.
point at ail. I amrn ot speak'Iug of the letThe Order of the Day was dlscha'rged and
ters 'E.' aud ' F.' I arn speakiug of the made an Order for to-morrorw.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

agRoH mjq4 jo tio4aljq aloqài OIf ni pJJflaaO * Oif JO .xap.o aî4 Lq auop aq pinoiqm mZulî
aSoq;ý luq; Pula 'Lj.xoIflu miq puoSaq mUoj;
miq Sultgou jvrý in pîoi mîq -palvu1me.Z
-aun; uiioJJ0d o4 uuq4 um&op pil.l ILîia
;mnf eAÂq 1 au 'pu93J *noi lmi au TPUIUUUui
-adm suoIpuBJ uliqioa tuLojJSd pinoqm emnow4
pu'? 'poq luqi JO aoiîPî.1d aq4 Sq pellîni0.1 oxq4 jo ixaiqwedS aeq4.;nq; .omjf
a.oux
au mieagutu .zeqo pum lzaIuadg oeql JO iaà&od si 41 4uffl apa;liOa luAi .iaqmaru LlaS .Iunq4
açj Pui 'm3pl.Ia JO asSfO] aq; JO xauuui puu -mn aiojaq miou uognîomo.1 etg paaud
aqi; .044V pal;npmuoa si e4vueg Oïfl Bomaq
-a.id Ij 'flH atp jo maplm tàoq uo m.xapueI
de;m q O:qîu Ton pinoqm amj *0;paeau aq oaq4 &q uoluido jo uoissaadxa 4vi jo eauanb
4an pipoqm uOflOm: SiqI 'e.zoje.,q4 'tulq; I -amuoa UT pus 'm;Ua.ae nllnx.aa ai '4uasaid 4
*eidgaq4 JO ffld aq4 no .xamod *pq; JO miq aq uu3ipieaod aoul aajIuadg aq; aà12 o;
agizJaxa ati; .xoj pejlua ;,uq4 2u;.unaao Bulq4 auop aq pjnoqm Bulq;suios 4oq4. amnoH glifl ui
-SUi JO 10218 S£BP à&oj 13 îl4uf 'maUn .aAau
suljJ O nolmadxa jîaauaz B SMuA 3.1aq4
oq 0munoa slip JO iaqmam 1 nooq mîq aq
'SJBpio aifl MoJ Uoiloux JO eanou-1.io noîpa
m.îluaL;&Iaql an; UT m111 pvj 0111 nT 's;mol2nm -w. aq o4 aouaiajai q;i o2m mlup uapfoj
aq tpjqm aanpoaoid JO aporu .1; Idopit 401 4noqie amoit luapanT 01j4 1Ianm
plus au
plnoqm oiâ. LqM noUO.x jîj;4u;qnm XiO& la
;nsaid mia;uamg
*01.Ode.X os .ieudg 8qi uaqài
pailddnm lijulxql I 'mîq uio oi q; .2nutm ni elq; Io lîpoçutu v jo tiAoadCdiR eqi o; iuefqni aq
*Jn *UOH
puelai »Uoq L1-mogiaDl
si
iv sElli Cgos0 UOOU 0111 2IA12
-lia isJ
o.a4sJ lI 'siw ai Lqaas0q paisuLodMe
epap îum asnojl aq4 se jou zo Pa '-mise8111
El an~ s'a ueoIu ipuni ZngiLi «o .ioX<vdg eoqj,
0;,UO9 ai; 30 sp.i0o0J
-ti.oddnm aq pui SiflOH aqI o4 îuaddu niva aq
*11o11u LuU 0,11u pinoqe aq Ji '.lel-cads aq4 Lq pu ajînanot aqi ni .iaafi leu pjnoqu iqol11A
aaomuqa v Io .zo 1aopio JO ina, .ap-;muoa C<iu:
ualui uoilau Luu jo sa.toiddumjp jaqmam Suu ou* 'PzI11% uliG.'0i polunpd uio
£ui
.oo
oO
JO O;înes aq; 3o I'uÀo.ddi3 pu n seinulux plus moij peâouaOiU aq oi 581i xum pu
-upeui
JI
Io £OI11ulx 01 i poîulid
uoîuldo aqj o; lajq4iue lial i mj apm aq; Uo1 *»nîpeeooila uuinoiino bcpluoo £»M a U*1 noiop
jan oq '.wpza o JO
Imuq aq4 UT ;uM aea Io 0011ON £11 inoqi -aopia ai peamodme aq alî
-oui Sjq; JO nduau.zud
=8s oqi Ijo O11UdS 011 elq.i3nanaHi e111 jv1L
*ujIV2 ajqflo. aeSil
*jj1,n nueuUs *noH
aq4 no zaàod
jlià JiIedg aq4 jo jaud
.IaO&
JO 4;n- siq4 .1o '1xe.mod mjiq4 ýlBq aval ou
e.àuq I q2noiq;ic '1iadm& .apio, ai111 no uofloU
jo saaj;ou 2ul11nd ni noile135p amoslO1jAâ
NOLlon do SSOIION
le p.iaaxa pînoqs 0AL ;uq4 Ljusmaaen si Il
,Iulq4 1 4nq ';al ;uiq; o4 amooa4l;nb 4on Sin1
*sSnpeo~augnoi PUB saeu.jl
aM 05t1oHg 01; jo siafqwouz Ilipui, Sq pe-laut
aq jSnu»n onom JO agiqo ZnItIi auo Suu
ai3rVcja
;uq; 2ulaqnbe1 jo 'esuqu at1 4un0a0jd ol .apio 00J11L lu _118110 si; _,lool
ni 'luelpedxa aoi o;r paliosai esnoil aig ;hq;
'2nîsulq PUBi 2UISonn1J os 't40J2 os qu'a
suoilsanb l;nixodÎun pus ;nuaeoa.i jo .xoq
Iztvims RHI
OtqI *1 el.utn na aq 0.1038q l;î eiop
-Uinu
-ne asnoIE 0111 jo s.Ieqmam SL.Iîqi aÂiuiq Isnui
nog;ou jo a)on 132ulàl2 .xequz Suu ;iiq;
S4unoa 4uq4 jo 4numu.xud PUB 4ueau.aAo»

qjj

*penano Çpu alues 81qI
oqi eau aÂfliu.1Omuoz> os ;Uçl lv-o puai
o0; paal2g SEMi nollonI aqj;
£LaÂlua.udmoz>
I 'SPOQ aàlluTmI2ei u mu Maiu
'udu1 jo U0uamvI.Id BunoL agi
si iqlqtI
*pa.9auqaslp aq LiC[a4 J j.apio
*unu,î polied amus aiq; Sulanp aauîd
uI
UnP L J UOHI
1113 2ulinp am18114uq Pa-tomn
-iln JOaàa luru Il pai 'ami; ;n
.*4av ;q2i1 JO uoil;U5d
eauîd naiju; sui 0aaUamiaao J1311MIS ou PHU
'm.al, L;.xjq; .xoj asnog mjiq4 ni uaeq eàuq aq; puauI 0o; ;ay UV. (221ST) 111$ 2t1jj)i0
zapao a111
I -iaqmux[D 51111 ni uiemer4ua2 uoiq nu jo Puoaas 'pallua 2ujeq Suc[ alq JO
amj;ejil aq4 UT jtou mduqid-Sip .xeqbo aq4I

pasiaaaxa lal-lmd~ axl iqalqai muojp;unj aq4
;o aslaieza lqi joj ulu3u aslau .aÂou Luis
*amnoH- -UN1iI4IY
tiolsuaao a4 itiq vnLj~ lia.i si II

000

Z-061 '9 IVW

lov

LHOIDU

dIo

NOLI1IE1>d

390

SENATE

to call for anything of this kind up to the
present time, we have a good reason why we
should flot; depart from a rule whichbhas
prevaiied ln the parliament of Great Britain, and whlch we have pracUsed. for so
long a perlod of time. In fact, the trouble
we have had cannot be said to have oniglnated In the Senate. The Speaker of the
House of Gommons bas power ta reject a
motion when it is put upon the Order paper,
yet, notwithstanding that an offensive and
improper motion was put on the Order
paper, aimed. at an hon. member of this
Hous 'e, and it was nlot only printed ou the
Order paper, but put by the member, and
answered across the floor of the House.
The trouble dld not origluate here, where
we have a different rule, but In the House
of Gommons, wbere it is claimed that there
la power ln the Speaker to prevent anything
of that klnd. 0f course we ail know what
followed. My hon. friend from Stadacona,
having been personaily attacked ln the
fOrm Of a question put by a member of the
House of Gommons, retaliated ln thîs House.
That Is wbere I think my bon. frlend made
his mistake. His character was not affected
by that attack, no matter what the motive
Of the person making It miglit have been.
There was nothing lu it, after ail, when we
corne to examine It, beyond the smalîness
of the man wbo made the attack, and the
bon, gentleman miglit bave treated it witb
the sulent coutempt which it deserved. Unfortunately he dld not take that step. No
donbt many of us eau îay down a rule a:s
to what an hon. member should do when
struck below the belt, more readlly than
put it ln practice when It lsa gainb;t <'urselves. It depends upon whose ox la gored.
I tblnik my bon. friend wll hardly contend to-day that the motion whicb lie gave
on that occasion was altogether a riglit kind
of notice to put on the minutes of this Cbaumber. It appears from the d4scussion which
took place theat the diffteulty arose from
my bon. friend following the practice which
lie had pursued, and wbich I understand
bas been pursued by many members of this
House, of handing ln a notice without rendIng it to tbe House, and baving band ed It
ln that way, and it having appeared on the
Notice paper, His Honaur the Speaker, or the,
clerk, or botb of tliem, felt that the notice,
as we must ail feel, was not aitogether a,
Hon. Mn. FERGUSON.

proper one to put on our records, and it was
nemoved. I tbink that there la littie danger
of snything of the kInd happening again,
requig the Speaker to exercise perhaps a
Ilttle greater power than lie now passesses,
but whlch lie nevertheless, under the circumstances having the dignlty and honoun
of thîs Hanse restlng upon hlm, we must
feel that lie was to be sustained ln what
lie bad done. My hon. frIend the leader o!
the opposition Introduced a motion, which
was adopted by the House, that I thiuk will
prevent sncb trouble ln the future. Heneafter, there will be nu. handing ln of notices
wben the House is not lu session or ta the
cierk, but tbey will have to be rend iln the
House. If a motion la read which any hon.
gentleman thinks Is not a proper motion ta
make, that lie thinka reflecta on a member
lu the othen House o! parliament, or shouild
not be brouglit up ln this Hanse, It wli be
open to hlm whlle the House la lu session,
to eaU attention ta It. It wouid be the duty
o! the clerk, If the Speaker lad not beard
the motion audIbiy, te pass it to hlm ln
order that lie miglit see It, sud then, witb
the House seized of Its full scope, the
motion could be objected to, and It could
be ruled ont ln the presence of the House.
But If my hou. frlend's motion la adopted,
I may give notice of motion by reudlng It
lnx the House; every hon. memben knaws
what it containe, and after the House rises,
bebind my back samebody may go to the
Speaker or to the cierk, and tbey mas exercise the power which this motion may give
tbem, to expunge my notice from the Order
paper, wlthout my knowledge, after I have
opeuly given my notice ou the floor of the
House. When an hon, gentleman gives a
notice on the floor of the House ln the bearing of the Speaker, and al the members of
the House, If no objection la then taken,
that sbould end It.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-No one
bas any nîglit ta object then.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-ThIsl the !reest
assembly Iu the world except the House of
Lords after wbIch It Is madeiled, sud every
member bas a right ta express bis dissent
at any stage of tbe proceedi-ngs of the
House. He can nise before the Orders of
the Day are called, or at any time, and
Interpose an objection. We, ail knaw- that

MAY 6, 1902
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-Afld we slbould
that ls a very easy tbing to do ln this"
;impiy go this far-that the Speaker of the
it ie so.
House, and It le weii that
Elouse be empowered to order that aay
may consider o!
Hon.. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-We enu- notice o! motion, which he
a charecter that shouid not appear upon the
nlot discuse; notices of motion.
records M- the Senate, should be struck out
Han. Mfr. FERGUSON-I do net want to )f the minutes, and should nlot be prlnted
t1ils -simpiy that when a resolution le made,
curtaîl the freedom of members oi
House lu the slighteet respect. Our proce. * f the Speaker, after it le handed la, condure la besed on the procedure of the House aidera that is character ls such that It
of Lords, and this freedom of discussion and shouid not ibe prlnted la the records, ILe
absenoe of rules preventing discussion, la sbould have the porwer te strike It out. But
oue of the grand tentures of this paria- be question as to wbether It le lu order,
That bein-, the case, I think, that or out of order, If there le aothiag else tbat
ment.
my bon. friend wIll see that the passing of la objectionable about it, sbouid remalu unbis motion 'would have this effect, that at!ter tii It ls prlated and comes before the House.
the notice badl been given, e.!ter it bad pased Witbi regard ta the point raised by-kny bou-.
the ordeal of the House, ail the members friead 'who bas just spoken, I do not qulte
He says that wben a
baving beard It and the Speaker, by bis agree with hlm.
silence, baving practicaUly assented. to the question la rend ln the House, every mempropriety of It, the motion migbt be denit ber beurs that question, and It ls open ta
wlth inter on, after the House had rîsen, any member to abject to the wordlng or te
aiîd the mem&>er, tbe next day, miglit find, the generai tone of the resolution. We
that -bis motion badl been expunged f rom ail know that .when notices of motion are
the Notice peper, witb no way of briaging given, tbey are read lnasuch a way thet very
the matter Up except by forciag the matter few members pay much attention to theni,
before the House, wbich wouid be somewbat hon. gentlemen do not usually listen ta wbat
I thInk: it ls mucb more de- la reud.
disagreeable.
leave the matter as It stood after
sirabie ta
(B.C.)-Hear,
Hon. Mfr. MAÂCDONALD
the aniendmeat of tbe bon. leader of the
was cerried, which 1 think ren- bear.
opposition
ders it unnecessary to proceed further, as
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-Somfetimles It la
the matter le quite in the possession aI' the read lnasuch a tone that you cannot beur it
House.
un-lese the notice la read at the Tabac after
belftg handed la by the member, so that
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-With regard to ever-y member would. bear It, or If tbe
the proposed change ln the miles, I have Speaker-who I am giad ta say bas a niagnicarefuiiy read the resolution submitted by ficeat toue and can be heard aIl over tbe
the hbén. member for Victoria. I tbink it Chamber-would read it, then every menale rather sweeping la lts character, and goes ber could hear It.
When a motion la read
a littie too fer. If I understand it arigbt, by eome bon. gentleman at the other end of
the Intention In ehanging the rule at anu, the Chamber, one-third of the members
is to see that questions that are derogatory of the House do not beer It a-t ail.
It
to the dignity of this Chamber shouid not would nat be a good rule thet If no persan
appear upon the public records as questions. abjects et the time a motion le reed It
Withi regard to the question Mf their belng sbould go on the peper. I tbink we sboiiid
lu order or out of order, that sbouid re- delegete ta ±be Speaker the power to earefuliy
main until the quetion la read, and If the peruse every notice o! motion wblch la
Speaker of the Hlouse decides thet the ques- hended ln, and if Its style la unibecomlag ta
tien In itseif la ouit o! order, I thInk It ie the dlgnity oet the Chamber, he should bave
well then that it shouid. be renioved. from power ta expunge It.
But 1 would Iliit
the records and rejected, but the only ob- it to that extent.
ject of tbe House should be te protect the
iliguity o! the House ln tbe metter.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-My abject ln
secondiag the motion la to give tbe Speaker
Hou. Mfr. McCALLUM-Hear, beur.

392

SENATE

precisely the power which the bon. genHon. Mr. MeMULLEN-No, I did flot say
tleman from Wellington says the Speaker that
should have. In my opinion, the Speaker
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-At ail
la the guardian of the. dignity and honour
of the House, and as the English Houses events I would not object to hnving every
of Pariarnent have been xnentioned, my motion read by His Honour the Speaker,
recollection is that the history of the or by the cierk, so that every member might
Speakers of Englai ls a notable one, know what it Io. It is certain that any hon.
and furnishes one of the most striking gentleman an object, because it is a quesexamples of Independence and preservation tion of priviiege. If the notice ' f motion
of dignity that i. furnisbed by the history i. put la sudh a 'way a, tio affect the dignity
of any country. If any one man has of this House, any member ean arise and
charge of this House, whether It be given bring Up the matter as a question of privito hlm by resolution or otherwIse, It ls lege and It can be debated, and we can exthe Speaker, no matter how he la appointed, press our opinions. I am coavinced that
1 presurne he le a gentleman wbo wlUl rise the hon. member for British Columbia has
to the level of hie position and ought, as the best Intentions In putting this motion
soon as he ia elevated, to hoid the confi- betore the House. What he desires ls tbat
dence of this House. I cannot conceive of the digaity of the House shouid be maina Speaker, no matter how bitter a partisan tained. I arn sorry to dIffer from hlm, and
he may have been previous to his appoint- I hope my expression will not be dIsagreement being infiuenced by any pnrty feel- able to hlm, but I consider It perfectiy
ing whien he takes office I would cousider useless, because If a member gives a notice
the present Speaker unworthy of confidence of motion which the hon. Speaker thinks
If he for a moment thought of such a thinig,' should not appear on the Notice paper,
lknowing, as I do, that he was a strong what wili be the result 7 The next Speaker
politician before he occupied the chair. will have to informà the House next day
Some one should dave charge of the etiquette that he hias forbidden the Insertion of this
or the ethice of the House. Some one shouid notice and' he would have to rend it hlmhave charge so as to be able to scrutInize self. It would make It more public. And
particuiarly the motions that are put In further, this ls a motion creatlag a standthis House. If the House has flot confi- ing order.
dence In the Speaker, then appoint a spacial
Hlon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-No.
As I
Comrnittee. But I think that one bon. understaad, the
rule ls that you cannot
gentleman should. have charge of it, because make a standing
order under rule 16 unles.
If a motion came up which I thought was aIl the senators
have been notified. This
objectionable, 1 should not Ilke to off end wIll only be good
for this session.
the feelings of a gentleman who might be
a friend of mine by brInging the matter
Hon. Bir. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Â standto the attention of the Senate. There- ing order Is an order which wili stand In
fore, It being the duty of one man, I con- the Hlouse. The rule rends :
eive that man to be the Speaker. Because
No motion for maklng any order of the Senate
I have confidence In hlm and his office, I a standing order can be adopted uniess the
senators in ftttendance on the session shall have
second the motion.
been previously summon3d, to consIder the
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILL-I am same.
happy to see that this question, which apThen we cannot pas. a standing order.
pears to me to be a very Important one, la This ls an order
whiclî will stand, accordgoing to. be discussed, not from a party iag to the opinion
of the hion, gentleman
point of view, but on Its merIts. I should from Victoria,
for all sessions, and we have
like to skl the hon, gentleman from North not the right
to pass a standing order
Wellington to correct me If I inisunder- without having summoned ail
the senators.
stand hIs remnrks : I understood hlm to say Then
there i. anotber point. I thlnk it i.
.that a notice of motion should be rend admitted by ail the members of this House
elther by the Speaker or by the clerk, so
tlint our Speaker bas no more power than
that everyboqy could hear it.
any of the members of this House.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

MAY 6, 1902
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUOHERVILLE-I think
that waa settied the other day, by citation
fromn May, and I did not hear anybody object to It. Then, we are golng to give a power
to one of us which will be beyond the power
of the other senators. Are the hon. members of the House ready to give Up the privileges belonging to them-that la, of being
equal one witli tlie other-mereiy for the
sake of getting a thiug done by the Speaker
whlcli lie wouid be obliged to put before
the House the next day ? For these two
reasons, my hon. friend from Victoria wilI
see that bis motion was not la order, and it
la uselesa, because it wiii not preveut the
Order from bcing rend. It wlll not prevent
the notice If it la flot put on the Order
paper from belng, the neit day, rend by the
Speaker himself. Considering ail these
thinga, the bon, gentleman sbould wlthdraw
bis motion.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-When thie Incident arose
which gave risc to the sug-gestion made by
the lion, gentleman from Victoria. it appeared to me that there was a very universai
consensus among members of the Obamber,
that our Speaker was not clotied. w1th
the autliority that ought to belong to a
gentleman presldlng over a body ef this
kind. It was pointed out that a very
Improper notice got on the Order paper, and
there seemed to be uno one ln autliorlty to
suppress flhnt notice, and thiere appeaired to
be a necessity for a change ln reference to
these notices. But it must be apparent to
everybody that wheu these notices are rend,
comparatIvely f ew senatore hear them.
Notices are rend iii the House tlhat 1 do flot
I can aiways heur the lion, gentlebeur.
man from Studaconu, because lie speaks
audibiy and openiy.
Hon. Mr.
Frenchi.

VIDAL-But lie

does it ln

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Wlbei these notices are
placed ln the banda of the Speaker, comnparatively f ew senfttors 'bear tliem, and it
did seem to me thiat there wns quite a
universal eipression of opinion that we
ouglit to veat ln the Speaker the power of
iooking over the notices of motion. It miglit
neyer be exercised ln the next fixe or ten

years, but nt the ane time, It did tiot seem
to me that tbere should be any objection to
vesting hlm witb that authorIty ln order to
preeerve the dignlty of the House, and I
thougit when my -bon. friend made the
motion It wa going to pass. by universai
consent. I was rather surpoeised. that any
bon, gentleman should point out objections
to the motion. My own opinion la that the
motion sbould prevail. It is ln the riglit
direction. It oniy lata for thia session and
it Ia ln accordance with the feeling expressed by the House a short time ago.
Hon. Mr. McCÂLLUM-It appears cicar
to me, from n commoa-een8e point of view,
that the rides are ail right new witiliout thc
amendment propoaed by the bon. gentleman
from Victoria. As my hon. fricnd saya, we
cannot heur very well what la going on al
the time. Tbat i. true, but suppose the
Speaker does flot hear it ? I do flot want
to express a want of confidence ln the
Speaker, but I do not wiah that the Senate
should put ail their riglits la bis biands.
Supposing the notice geta on the minutes,
what la the duty of the Speaker ? He
looks over the proceedings of this House the
uext day, and If lie finda anything objectionable hie can bring It to the notice of the Senate, and the Senate wifl order Ita withdrawal
from the minutes, or if it la not agreeable
to do that, lie can brlng it up witli closed.
doors, so thiat the worid will not know that
it has been on the minutes at ail. Whie
I arn willing to austain the Speaker ln carrying on the proceedings of the Senate, 1 am
not wililng to make hlm a dictator, with
power to expunge from the minutes whatever lie likes without consuiting the House.
1 wll not give up my riglit ln that respect,
nîo matter how mucli 1 respect the Speaker.
And wliat is the use of this tempest ln a
tea-pot? I bave been a good while la parliament, and have neyer known anythiug
of the kind to take pince before. This la
the firat time, and. the difficuity did not
originate here. .It .commenced. at the other
end of this building. I hope the dignity of
thia House will aiways be maintained before the people of this country, and If a gentleman so far forgets himseif as to give
notice of a motion which lie should not make,
If It ls printed ln the orders, there is nothuiqg
to prevent the Speaker from bringlng It Up

SE"N.ATE
next day, .and having it expunged. At this Our Speaker bas acted on the power.whlcb
stage of the session, I tbink It is a waste af -would be given hlm by this resolution, but
he did not report to the House, whicb at
time ta dlscuss the matter.
that tlme I strongly sud respectfully lnHan. Mr MeDONÂLD (C.B.)-Ând It sisted be should bave done. It was brought
would on-ly last this session.
before the House ln some other 'wey, when
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-If so, I hope now the maker of the motion brought It up hlmthat the bon. gentleman, baving bad an ex- self. It was, in my- opinion, the duty of
pression of opinion -from the Hanse, wll the Speaker to, bave consulted the Senate,
This motion
witbdraw bis motion and not iudlrectly cen- in deference to the Hanse.
To that extent, 1
to a vote, restrlcts the Speaker.
sure the Speaker. If lt Is pusbed
approve of It. It gays :
I shail vote agalnst It.
Such actioan to be subject ta the appraval af
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Notwithstandlng thie
present when the
af the
great respect I have for the opinion of the a ma±ority reports.,senators
Spçaker 80
Speaker, I believe .tbe motion la dlstinctiy
one of a nature that creates a permanent The opinion' of the Senate was flot couruie. It is not becanse -members are called sulted, and the Speaker did not Inquire wbat
His deln that a motion becomes a permanent the sense of the majority iras.
order ; It Is thie nature af the motion ltself cision iras final. Therefore, the motion of
that makes It wbat it is, and this one la thie bon.. senator from British Columbia redecidediy creating one of a permanent stricts the powers whicb the Speaker bas asIf we pass It, we vent the sumed. So far as that gaes, I would favaur
character.
Speaker, for ail tîme ta came, witb certain the motion, but as It stands, it is ont of
privileges and powers, and tais faîls under order, because tbe attention of thie senators
has flot been called to, it, as is provlded for
the category of permanent orders.
. Han. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Wbat by section 16, and on tbat opinion, I appeal
to the -decision of bis Honour the Speaker.
about tbe motion passedl the other day ?
Han. Mr. POIRIER-That motion iras, ln Hon. Mr. VIDÂL-I venture to differ very
my humble opinion, decldediy ont af order. widely ln opinion from other members wbo
If my bon. friend from Moutarvlille badl nat have spoken on this question, for lu my
called attention ta the fact, I woijld bave judgment the attempt to pass the resalutian
doue so, that these resointions are brougbt moved by the bon. gentleman fram Victoria
Hanse
As ta the Is doing greater dîshonour to this
up la an Irregular manner.
merîts of the objection Itself, I would rather than cau. be done by any improper motion
take it favourably, because that motion, laid on the Table. It canflicts witb the
instead of giving additionai powers ta our constîtutioflal usages of the Senate. We
Speaker, restricts the powers that he bas are, as far as possible, modèlled after the
House af Lords. 'You wIll find, lu lookiug
assumed this session. It snys:
over the bistory of that body, no mention
That the Honourabie tbe Speaker af the Sen- 'wbatever made 0f sncb decîsions as the hou.
ate be empowered ta arder that auy notice af
motion he may cansider out oi arder, be nat gentleman fromt Kingston bas referred ta,
prlnted in the minutes of routine proceeding, made by Speakers. Tbey are entirely by
and may cause ta be rmeved from said minutes Speakers of the House af Cammons.
auy notice ai motion pinted therein which he
n*aY coiisider out of order, or ai a character
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I
which should nat appear ln. thie Journals and records af thie Senate.
Speakers in general.
This, aur hon. Speaker bas doue of bis own
accord, so that I do mot see that we need a
resalutian, or permanent order to give bis
Honour the power which be bas assumed,
except perbaps ta endorse what be bas done.
But -the hon. Speaker la told bere:

oniy mentioned

Han. Mr. VIDAL-That ceovered Speakers
ln the House of Lards tao. I conteud tbat
ln the Hanse of Lards- no sucai tblng eau
be found in ito history as any thing of that
kind being done. 1 am exceedlngly donbtfui wbetber it is pleasant to the Speaker ta
The Speaker on, making such action a he is have forced on hlm a respansiblIty wblcb
empowered hereby ta take, will report the eame, be would rather have us take on our sbouldgiving hils reasons for so acting at thie first
ers, according ta aur custom. We have been
slttlng ai taie Senate thereatter.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM.

mAY d, 1902
ln operation as a Senate for 35 years, and
no occasion bas occurred to show that the
miles by which this (Jbamber bas been
guided are defective, even ln this respect I
contend the mistake whicb bas been made
bere migbt, If the matter had been properly
deait with, have been entirely avoided. If
the objectionabie motion charged agaInat
the bon. gentleman from Stadacona had
taken Its ordinary course, and appeared
printed on the notices of motion, then every
member could have formed an opinion as ta
the propriety or Impropriety of that notice.
If that notice had been read to tbe House,
could we' have formed any-judgment upon
it then, ta prevent it from going Into print?
I say we could not. As several hon, gentlemen have stated to-day, the notices are
otten rend ln sucb a tone of voice or at
sncb a distance that we fail ta catch what
la said, and do flot. pay much attention to
ItL Even aine we have adopted this order
that a notice must be read by the inember
before handing it to the clerk ln the Hanse,
we know that sometimes It is read ln such a
way that a majority of us do not understand
ItL We had an Instance of It to-day. A
notice of motion was rend to-day. Can any
hon. member wbo does not understand
French tell us If there was anytbing improper ln it ? The time te judge a notice
is when it is ln print before us. Rad the
objectionable notice whic bhas given rise
ta this discussion appeared ln print, the
whole question wouid have been decided ln
flve minutes, and we wouid have avoided
hours of contention on this matter.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It, appeared ln print
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-lt was struck out
after it bad appeared.
Hon. Mr. VIDAL-Then I contend If It
was ln print it was as mucb before the
Hanse as If It had been read aloud. The
House had an opportunity to Judge of Its
character better than If It hadl been rend.
to the Senate. That ls the rigbt procese,
and wben It appeared there, surely any
hon. gentleman desirous of maintaining -the
honour and chamacter of the Senate, would
have pointed ont the Impropriety of allowIng It to be brought up, and ln fIve minutes
It would have been settled. The motion
would have been ordered not to be printed
In our records. Its appearing ln the minutes

I do not cansider as appearing on the journal. Had that course been pursued, no
trouble would have arisen, and seeing we
have gone on so well for many years withont ln any way InfrInging on the rigbts
of Individual senators, my Impression Is
we sbould continue In the senme way stillthat nathing bas occurred ln this Instance
ta warrant us In deperting from the usages
of the Senate. The wiser course wonld be
not to Interfere witb the rights and privileges of IndIvidual s7enators, and shaulder
upon the Speaker a responsibiiity and task
ta which be shouid not be exposed. I think
the motion should be withdrawn.
HSon. Mr. YOUNG-I think: we are agreed
upon this, that objectionable motions sbould
not appear on our records. We are aima
agreed upon this point, that every one ln
this Chamber-in fact quite a majoritycannot hear notices of motion read, and my
bon. friend who lias Juet sat down bas
brougbt out another point, that when a
motion Is read, if" la done sa rapidly, It is
impossible for han. members to grasp Its
meaning and bearing at the Instant, so as
ta judge at once whether or not Lt ls a
proper motion to appear on aur Order paper.
Having agreed upon these points, the motion
whicb my hon. friend from British Columbia
bas placed on the paper for to-day, suggests
that aur presiding offcer shall be the superta examine these. motions,'
vising medi'
and corne ta a conclusion upon them,, subject ta a direct and Immediate appeal ta
the Senate. Before any further stop Is
taken, the Speaker must apprise the House
of bis action, and give bis reasons for it;
this body can then deliberate, not only on
the motion Itmelf, but can jndge the Speaker's action, wbetber be is justified ln taking
thiat step or nat. As ta pubiicity, the Speaker can, If he thinks It necessary te take that
course, bring up the question with closed
doors. Therefore it rests witb ourselves ta
say wbether the public shall know or not
what bas transpired with regard to notices
wbich may be given ln the future. r take
It, that le a very reasonable and sensible
way of doing business, and If my hon.
fmiend's motion la adopted, It takes away no
rigbts or prIvileges of this bonourable body,
but Lt Imposes a duty upon the ban.
Speaker, a dnty wbicb other Speakers ln
other places have ta perform, whether tbey

396

SENATE

11k-e lt or not, and a duty whlch he
cau perform, wlthout fear, tavour, or affection. 1 think it is, a reasonabie course.
I cannot altogether agree wlth the hon.
gentleman from Marshfleld, when hie
looks upon It as not being lu keeplng with
the traditions of the House of Lords, because
we have wlthln our own constitution the
riglit te make our own rules and regulations,
and we provide that oniy when our rules
tal us, we can appeal to the practice of
the House of Lords. 'Iu supoprt of this, I
reter the House to raie 1U4, which provides
that ln ail unprovided cases the ruies, usages
and proceedings of the House of Lords are
to bie followed. So we have the power to
make our own rules and regulations. From
the discussion which bas taken place, you
wii ail agree with me thnt we have corne
to the time when we muet modernize our
rules ln some respects. It bas been suggested here to-day that what we dld recently
and are doing to-day wlll only last during
the lite of tis session. It la suggested that one of our fIrst duties n«eit session should be to appoint a small commlttee
to revise and amend our rules, so as to bring
them withln what the good sense of this
House wll approve of as the best practice
to follow, and have permnnent orders governing a great mauy other points In the directhon of giving our Speaker larger power,
subject always to an appeal to the Senate,
whlch is «a wise provision, not oniy ln respect' to motions, but petitions and other
things, and ln debates. I know I am out
of order, but I should just lîke to point out
We spent
what occurred hiere receutly.
nearly a whole atternoon discussing n matter whlch had no relation whiatever to the
motion betore the House. The motion was
the third reading et a certain Bill, and on
that motion ffe discussed the whoie Caniadian Pacific Rallway question of yenrs ugo,
which was clearly out of order, and wastlug
the valuable time of tris House. It la tUne
that any hon. senator might have calied
attention to the tact that the hon. gentleman was out of order, but I take it we are
ail alike, and do not care te rise and interrupt an hon, gentleman who ls speaking,
and caîl hlm to order la that way, because
what le everybody's business la nobocly's
business, and there Io a spirit of fair-play
tat If one man is nhlowed to speak on one
lion. Mr. YOUNG.

side, we ail teel that another man on the
other side should have the same opportunlty;
but If It le the Speaker's duty to cail the
attention of a member to the tact that lie Is
out of order, then lie must speak to the moYou would find,
tion before the House.
as in other deliberative bodies, we would
then confine ourselves more strlctly to the
matter betore the Senate, and, furtber, one
of the great principles wbich govern deliberative bodies would not be violatedthat is, that the House wouid neyer be taken
by surprise by sprlnglng on it a discussion
I think the
on something not before it.
motion is a step lu the rîght direction, and
whoever le spared to be here next year
should. see to It that a small commlttee ls
appointed to revise our rules and standing
orders, so that grenter power would be given
our Speaker, lu hune with the motion of the
lion, gentleman fremi British Columbia, gui>ject to appeal to the House, and thereby
keep us ln better order.
Hlon. Mr. ELLIS-If the conclusion reached by the hon. gentleman le correct, it
would be better to let the matter stand until
next session, nnd not attempt by a single
resolution, piecemeal, to effect what is, after
ail not so great a matter. The objection I
have is to maklng a rule which ls ln ltself
derogatory-I know the bon. gentleman does
not mean that-to the character of the House,
to assumini tiiat notices are continualiy
gvno
oin
hc
ol
a
o
give -fi-.- m
tionswhichr
woldeau fo
fils we know tha-n to adopt others we
know not of. What an unlimited fild for
discussion It would open, If an appeal could
be made to the Hlouse, and If the action of
If I were
the Speaker were condemned.
Speaker ot the Hlouse I should feel called
upon to resigu the position If my action
were condemned twioe. Certaly, It would
lie so unpheasant 1 should not like to occupy
the chair. The hon. gentleman who bas
made the motion anys that lu tbirty years
If
this difficuity has occurred oniy once.
so, is It worth whiLe te make a mile which
Implies on Its face the tact tliat the Senate
itself la not what it ought to lie?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman from St. John bas given expression te -an opinion I lntbeuded te offer If
We have
I spoke on the question at ail.

MAY 6, 1902,
been told, first, that a motion wblch I ma'de
the other day declaring how a notice shaîl
be given will only be applicable ta this session of parliameut. The Secretary of State
bas also infarmed the Honse that the present motion wiii only be enforced during this
We expeet to prosession of parliament
rogue ln eight or ten day.. I scarcely see
any possible good that can arise frQIT pasaIng the motion, although I bave expmessed
the opinion before that 1 think there ought;
ta be certain powers vested ln the Speaker
ta keep better order. However, lu looking
at the practice and precedeuts of the British
Houses of parliament, the memamks made by
my hon. friend from Kingston are quite applicable If they are confIned. to the Speakers
of the Hanse of Commons, but they have no
refemence whatever ta the House of Lords.
As we are lu the dying days of the session,
no particnlar good eau arise from passing
this motion. If the motion which. I hail the
honour to move ls only eufamced this session, I think'It would be better, If we live
ta meet another session, those « ho are then
here auld appoint a smali comrnittee, as
suggested by au han, gentleman, and take
the whale matter Into consideration. I confes I do nat Uke the womding of tbe motion
wblch appears ou the Notice paper. If I
weme Speaker, I should, not like to have the
respoasbility thrown npou me that that mesolution throws upon him-that is, the manuer lu which it la doue. My hou. friend.
from Shediac (H1on. Mr. Poirier) stated. a
short time ago that this motion vas regular, but that the motion which I made the
,other day was irmegular, and la only applicable ta this session of palament. I am
somewhat puzzled ta kuow how my motion
could have been frregular If this one la regular, because they are bath ln the sanie lune.
Hou. Mm. POIRIER-I thiuk they are bath
irregular.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If ane
The
ls irregular, eemtainly thxe ather la.
l6th mule diatInctly dedlares :
No motion for mskiug any ordar of the Sen-

ate a Standing Order cau be sd-opted uniess the
senators in atteirdance on the Session shali bav::
been prevlousiy snrnmoned to conslder the same.
Was the motion which I made a few days
ago a standing order, sud, If so, la this a
standing order ? If they are noît, they are

317

I
clearly o.ut of order under this rule.
hope my hon. frlend from British Columbia
wll act upon the suggestion made, and let
the matter drop for the present, and take
the fIrst opportunlty that presents Itself to
hlm, or some other member, next session and
move for the appointment of a emalî committee.of the former Speakers, -and of members of the goverument andl those who have
paid.any attention to -the question, and let
them make a final report, and after that sun>mon the House as directed ln this rule. 1
mlght also mention that I have been Informed t.hat a number of orders and ruies,
and the manual, confiict. I thiuk the hon.
gentleman from Stadacona (Mr. Laudry)
takes that view. A small com'mittee could
revlse the ruies and add to then> In the
direction indicated by the hon. gentleman
If they think proper to do so, in a soinewhat modified. form, ta the notice which
he has given.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (Prince Edward
Islnd)-Tbis motion, ns muade by the hon.
senatoe from Victoria, ls not goiug 't» carry
ont the purpose he bas In view. I believe
It would have been mach better ha)d the
suggestion made by some hon. member that
when a question ls proposedl and read hy
the member ln hlm place, as now requIred
by the mule passed the ather day, If It 1s flot
beard by every member of the Honse, t
should then be read by the clerk at the
Table, and If there le anything objectionable
In the motion, it la for the members of the
Honse to decide on thet point and have
It eéimInated fro> the Journels at once.
The -motion of the hou. gentleman from
Victoria wili neot carry'ont the object he has
In view. There Io another view I take
whic h perhaps may not commend. Itself to
hon. gentlemen. The Speaker of thls Honse
ls lu a different position respecting, motions
of this kind fron> the Speaker of the
Honse of <3omxuons who le elecesd by
the menibers of that body. The Speaker
of the Senate ls an appoiutee of the government, and la that senne I think we would
be delegating to Mim a power which It: ls not
desirable that every Speaker shonld possess.
It la all rIght, I presume, lu the bands of the
hon, gentleman who now holds the position.
I sbould be sorry to aay otherwise, but
members of the opposition must remember
that the Speaker Is appointed, by the gov-

SENATE
ernment. Those gentlemen who are now
ln power may at some future time be ln the
opposition, and may flot take the saine view
of that question which they do at present.
I sbould prefer that the hon. senaitor who
made this motion should withdraw it, and
that the whole question should next session
be taken up, as proposed by the hon. leader
of the opposition, and the wbole of our
rules be revised and made more in accordance witb wbiat Is the desire of the Senate.
The motion was lest on a division.
.THE CORONATION OATHI.
INQU1RY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired of the gevernment:
Whether the goverument lias received from

the clergy and the episcopate of the Dominion.
petitieins addressed to the Honourablo the Secrctary of State for the Colonies, ln Engiand,
on the subject of the strlking out from the
statutory deciaration the expressions offensive

ghan, Caledonia, Church Point, Tusket
Wedge, Buttes A.mirault, Eel Brook, Acadia
Mines, Bridgewater, Amherst, Truro, Spring
Hill, Weymoutb, Annapolis, Prospect, Windsor, Yarmouth,
T.bese resolutions were communicated to
the Secretary of State fer the Colonies on
There bas not been
the lGth of April last
time for any reply to be received.
A CORRECTION.
lion. Mr. LANDRY-Before the Orders ef
the Day are called, I desire te draw attention to an error ln a notice of inqulry I gave
for the eigbth o! May. The inqulry appears.
ln the Order paper as foliows :
Are the field batteries In the civil service
equipped in snch a way ns te, be of any use ln
winter ? Have they sleds for the transport of
their cannona, and baggage carts ?
I neyer gave sucli a notice as tbat ? My
motion in Frenchi reade :
Are thc fild batteries in the artiikery servic
equipped, &c.
I hope that correction will be made in the
minutes.

te the religious bellefs of the Oathcsiics of this
country ?
fias 4-t received similar requests on t.he part
of religlous institutions or ethars, from municirul sutlborities and individuals in this countHon. Mr. DANDURAND-At page 365 of
try ?
the debates, after the vote was taken on the
lVhat is the niumber thereof '
To whom have they been sent ln due course ?Pamendaient proposed by the hon. gentleman
What ls the generai tenor of the answere
frein Monck, tihe report of a committee,
recefted ?
I am made te say as follows :
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On the 15ttb of FeI.I am paired with Mr. Baker on ail questions
ruary last, the goverument received, tbrough and would have voted for the amendment if
the Lieutenant Governor o! Nova Scotia, a I bad voted.
communication from the archbishop of Hall- I said the 'contrary, that I would bave
fax, addressed to the Secretary of State for voted against the amendment.
the Colonies, covering minutes of a public
meeting of Catholics of Halifax, held on the FRUIT MARKS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
22-nd of January last; protesting against the
declaration tak-en bjy the Soverelgn on bis
FIRST .READING.
accession to the Throne. This letter and
A message was received from the House
inclosures was forwarded to the Secretary
of Ceaimons witb Bill (136) An Act to
of State for the Colonies, who acknowledged amend the -Fruit Marks Act, 1901.
the receipt thereof in a despatch dated 14th
The Bill was read the first time.
o! Marcb, 1902.
Again, on the liLli ot Aprll, 1902, the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
government received a further communica- read tbe second tine to-inorrow.
tion from the arclibishop of Halifax to the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
Secretary or State for the Colonies forwardIng resolutions on the subject of the acces- wbat respect does It change the law ?P
sion onth passed at public meetings beld ut
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-It is deflnlng wbo the
the following places in the -Province of Nova packer la and holding the packer responScotia:
Kentville, Liverpool, Sheet Har- sible. It provides for the different designaPour, Salmon Rh-er, SaulnieriIle, L'lie tiens o! tUe marks. In the maritime proSurette, Jogg.in Mines, Dartmouth, Mete- vinces and la Ontario thUe marks 1, 2, 3,
Hlon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.1.)

MAY Oc .1902

399

X, XX, and XXX do nlot agree. I thInk: it the permission of the House te withdraw
holds the grower responsibie as a general the BII.
thing for the barrel. That is my recollecThe Bill was withdrawn.
tien of the explanation ln the other House.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-When the Bill
cernes Up for second readlng, -we wiIi bave
to lôok Into It a lttle more elosely, but I
want te eall attenition'te one point-and that
la the oniy materiai point ln the BlIR-on
whieh I have a strong opinion, and that is
that ln the parts ef the country where the
numbers are adbered to, and nlot the Xs--I
refer now to the eastern part of Canada
where the shippers use No. 1. No. 2 and No.
3-there 1e no place for what Is called
'extra.' Extra la the beat, and corresponds
with triple X. No. 1 is what formns the buik
of the -crop of a good merchantable fruit,
that shouid correspond wlth XX, and se on.
However, we can go Into these points more
closely on the second reading. The effect
ef' the Bill as it stands now would be te
force shippers ln the east, Who are not prepa'red te adopt the Xs as their mode of
designation, te markla that way, but It
would throw the bulk of the crop under the
designation of No. 2. Unleas something la
done- te remedy that, It would reduce the
prîce by five or six shillings. 1 think, therefore, wve wiil have te try and remedy that
by illowing the Xs te stand, and then have
extras and No. 1 and No. 2.
The motion was agreed te.
THIRD' READING.
Bill (H) An Âct for the relief of Samuel
Nelson Chlpman.--(Hon. Mr. Klrchhoffe,.)
BANK ACT ÂMENDMENT

BILL.

BILL WITHDRAWN.
The Order ef the Day being called:
Second reading Bill (BE) 'An Act te arnend
the Bank Act.'
Hon. Mr. ELLIS said: I have been requested by persons Interestedl ln this
measure, and to some extent is originators,
ln view ef the latenesa of the session and
the uncertainty of reaching any resuit-in
tact the certainty that ne resuit wili be
reacbed-not to proceed with the mea sure.
I do not desire te maL-e nny remarks which
would open up a discussion, but simply ask

SECOND REÂDINGS.
Bfi (101) An Act te Incorporate the Nîpegon RailwaY Company.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (123) An Act te Incorpoi-ate the Canada Eastern Raiway Company.-Hou. Mr.
Theinpson.)
BISHOP

0F MOOSONUE INCORPORAÀTION BILL.
ORDER POSTPONED.

The Order of the Day being called:
Conslderuthon ef amendments made by the
Houe of ComMons te Bill CP) 'Au Act te lncorporata the Bishop of Moosonez.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED said: I desire te
make one or two observations with reterence
to this Bill. I flnd It has been placed ln my
name, and yet I was unaware of Its contents.
1 desîre not te assume any responsibillty
for the title, which I think the parliament
of Canada should net use ln Its legîsiation.
1 notice that the titie, 'The Right Reverend,'
le accorded to thie promoter of the Bull. I
know uothlng under our constitution by
which the titie 'Rlght Reverend' may be
granted te any clergyman, or should be
recognized by tihe parlament of Canada.
This la the tItie which le recognlzed under
the state church of Great Britain, but se far
as Its extension to the colonies le concerned,
It cannet for a moment I;e contended tnat
there sheuid be a recognition by that titi,
of any ciass of clergymen. Had I been
present before the Private Blas Committee
When this*-measure came up, I certainly
should have opposed the recognition of that
title. I notice aise that when It weiit te the
House of Commens it was further amended,
and a repetition made ln the Commons of
the tîtie of distinction te which I aiiuded.
The term 'Bishop of Moosonee' could be
used wltheut any objection. That denotes
an office, but the ether la a title, a distinction which ls ciaimed by one partîcular denomination, I might. say almust te the exclusion of others.
It wouid be prebably
thought a presnmptuous act on the part of
any other denomination te claim the use of
thia tille.
Under thlese -cîrcumstances, I

SENATE

100

destre to disclaîim any responslbllty for tbe
Bill, aithough it stands lu my name. My
owu vîew la that thîs Bull sbould stand untill
to-morrow, until I can Interview those wbo
placed it lu my name, and point out ta them
my objectiox. My Idea is that this Bill
should be sent back ta the PrIvate Bis
Commlttee, and that the office occupied by
the promotera of the Bill shouid be desîgnated, by the naine of Blshop, and not by that
of Reverend. I should bave pointed out that
Inadvertentiy thîs particular Bill was omitted froni the Orders of the Day, but the
orders lu my baud, and also the Order paper
before tbe clark, have been amended by
putting this Bill on as order No. 4, Instead
of the order whlch appears on the regular
Orders of tbe Day.
The Order of the Day was discharged,
and placed ou the Orders for to-mlorrow.
POST OFFICE ACT ÂMENDMENT
BILL.
ORDER POSTPONED.
The order of the day belng called:
Second reading Bill (106) 'Au Act to incorl.-orate the Post Office Act.'
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-This Bill ls not printed.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-This Bill was printed
yesterday, but nevertheless the Orders of
the Day have it marked as not printed at
ail. I thlnk sanie one la paid to do thinga
wrang. This order sund the next one are
Tbe next order, Bill (112), la
prlnted.
marked printed both. lu English and -French,
as also Na. 7, but noue of these orders are
prIuted lu English and French.
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Then we migbt advance
it a stage, and discuss the Bill to-morrow.
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-I do not abject, but
I wish ta caîl attention ta the Irregularity
of our Order paper.
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Then I will mave that
tbe Ordar of tbe Day be discharged and
placed on the Orders for to-morrow. It is a
matter of detail. The abject of the Bill la
to Increase the .status of the letter carriers.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I bave no objection ta tbe Bill belug proceedad wlth If It
la explaiued. Iu fact I should prefer tbat
lt be proceeded with.
1-1n. Mr. LOUGIIEED.

The Order 'of the Day was discharged
and placed on the Orders for to-morrow.
IMMIGRATION

ACT
BILL.

AMENDMENT

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT maved the second rendlng of Bill (112) An Act ta aniend the Immigration Act.' He said: The abject of
thi Blill la to take power to prevent; the landlug of persons affected wltb any disease.
Recently Immigrante have been ianded. at
Halifax and St. John en route to the United
States. They have got into Canada on the
assuniption that they were proceedlug lfinmediately to the United States. They have
been refused admission there, and thrown
back on Canada, and we have been put to
the trouble and expense of shipping them
from Halifax or St John to the port fram
which they came.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Are tbey
being shipped back to Europe ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-We take authority to do
that.
Han. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I think the government mlght have taken greater authority
than sought for ln this BIIL I see no reason
why the governuient of Canada sbould flot
exercise as close a supervision over the Immigration as the United States does witb
reference to Immigrants going Into that
country. It la a weli-kuown fact that there
la not oniy an educationai qualification, but
other qualifications are applled. before the
Immigrant can land upon the shores of the
United States. The liberality whlch la practlsed by our governuient on this particular
subject leads to Canada receling the reThere
fuse of European Immigration.
la no reason wby there should not come
upon aur shores ln Canada quite as Intelligent and qulte as good a ciasa of Immigrants as thase wha go Into the United
States. It seems ta me this la a step ln the
right direction, and I only regret that the
governuient bas flot taken a wider authority tban given lu thîs Bill.
Hou. .Mr. ELLIS-I quite agree witb the
hon. gentleman frani Calgary. It la a very
great grievance and ought to be remedled
If possible: I was lu Montreal the other
day and weut througb the Immigration

MAY 6, 1909
agency of the United States. There would
be sixty persans rejected during the month
of April. The month was nlot quite completed wben I was there, but the medical
officer, who le a Canadian, Dr. Barclay, of
Montreal, acted for the United States authormtes and examined ail these persons. I
saw sme wbo were reJected for a disease
of the skmn, and others who had a disease
of the eye, and 'pulmonary and other diseases. In my opinion people wbo bring
those immigrants Into Canada should be
compelled to take them back. They have
the diseases wblch are common to the
poorer classes In soutbern europe, and it Is
nlot desirable, If the United States rejects
these people onà Canadian soil by permission
of our government, that tbey should be accepted In Canada. These people take passage by Canadian steamers and land at St.
John, Halifax, or Montreal, but they are
really en route for the UnIted S'tates. They
Intend to go there, but when they are
rejected by the United States officer, they
rernain In Canada. They become charges
more or less upon charity, or upon the
public purse, or the local authorities, and
they introduce disease, wbicb of itself Is
not desirable. I saw the whole system and
1 knew somethlng of It on the border at
Vanceboro and Macadam, and I tbink the
department wbicb bas the matter la hand
ought to take hold of it, aad Insist that the
steamers bringing these people In should
take thern back again.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
le what the Act provides.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-That le the Intention,
of .course.

Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-Dces the hon. Secretary
of State thlnk that clause In the Bill compels the steamers to takre them back ?

United States authorities send them back
to Canada, and they become a charge on
the city of Halifax, anct eventually as
transient paupers on the province of Nova
Scotia, and we have bad to exchange a lot
of correspondence te find out wbere these
people lived in the oid country, and tbea
send tbem, back as best we could, and pay
their expenses. I tbink steamers that bring
such people should be compelled to take
thezn back. 1 agree wltb the'bon, gentleman who bas spoken, that the government sbould take more power In the
matter. Tbey bave bad the same trouble
In St. John. It Is becomlng a nuisance
and the public authoritles do not know
wbat to do. We do not want to see
the people cast out of the country In a cold
season of the year, and for rnontbs and
months rnany bave become chargeable, first
of ail, as I bave sald, to the city of Halifax, and after to the province, tili we bave
been able to return thern to their native
homes at our own expense.
The motion wss agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second Urne.
EXCHEQUER COURT ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rending of Bill (114) An Act to amend Ulie
Exchequer Court Act. He said: This Bill
authorizes the (3overnor In Council to appoint by an Instrument, an officer of fIve
yeare standing as registrar of the Exchequer
Court, whoee ealary should be $2,400; and
it further authorizes the court, when the
defendant lves outside the jurisdictIon, to
have the writ served outeide, In the United
States or any other country where be happens to be.

H >on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbat le the prevery doubtful.
1sent qualification ?
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-They muet take
Hon. Mfr. -SC<YFT-I bave sent for the
tbem on board, but I suppose tbey could etatute and they cannet flnd it
then dump tbern ln the water.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British ColuinHon. Mfr. CHURCH-My experlence Is bia)-Is It not possible In any Act of tUis
evea worse than the experience of the bon. kind ta lmIt the Urne witbIn whlc7h govgentleman from St. John la this matter. ernm'ents shall pay the arnount of JudgThe vessels caîl ai Halifax on their way mente rendered against themn In expropriato tbe United States with these people, and tion cases ? Cases bave been .pending for
toucb nt Halifax on their returu.
Tbe years and poor fellows bave lest their pro-

SENATE
perty and their trade, and the government
keep tboen dangling along and put them to
great expense. This Is the case flot only
with the Excbequer Court, but otber courts.
The governîment appeal the cases from
court to court, and do nlot pay the dlaims.
as adjudged. Mr. Archie Stewart has been
kept ont of bis money for years. He bas
won bis case lni ail the courts, but cannot
1
get bis money froin tbe government.
mention this matter as this is .the court ln
whicb such cases are heard.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it bas nlot.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-The principal
amendment, In tbe first section ef tbis Bill,
raises the salary from $2,000 to $2,400.
That is the only alteration ln tbe first section.The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read tbe second time.
CANADIAN PÂCIFIC RAILWAY TOLU'S
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (116) Ân Act to amend the
provision witb regard to Toilae, of cbapter 1
of tbe statutes of 1881, respecting tbe Canadian Pacific Reilway.
He said:- The
titie of tbis Bull is misleading.
The real
object of the BiB was to en-able the coinpany to Increase its capital stock from
$65,000,000 to $85,000,000. Tbe Increase of
capital involved an application to tbe Governor ln Counchi for approval, and the opportunltj was taken to place ln the statutes
the purposes for wbicb the proposed loan
was required. A provision was made tbat
the stock should not be issued below par.
Anotber provision was tbat tbe sum spent
shou.ld be laid ont'deûnite1y as stated ln
the Bill: that is, for roihing stock $9,070,000,
and for tbe eniargement of sbop facilities
at Montreai and eisewbere, reduction of
grades and im.provement of alignInent and
double tracking $8,400,000: for elevators,
terminais and otber facilities $3,00,000-in
ail $20,470,000.
Another question bad to
be distussed and disposed of, andi It was
this : Under the statute at the time the
Canadian Pacifie Railway got its cbarter ln
1881, the general la'wautborized ail railway
companies to receive a dividend of 15 per
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)

cent before tbey came under tbe jurisdiction or control of tbe Governor in Counchi
in reference to tbose tolls.
At the tliffi
the Canadian Pacific Rail-way char-ter was
granted, tbat 15 per cent was reduced to
10 per cent: ln lieu of 15 per cent provided
ln the Generai Railway Act, only 10 per cent
should be allowed before the jurisdiction
and control over tolls was estabiished. The
Act provides that tbe $20,000,000 sbai not
be cousidered as part of the capital af the
company on wbicb the juràsdictioni of the
Goiern-or lui Council would arise.
The
capital of the company bas, up to tbe present time, neyer basa defined-that is, the
cost of tbe raLlway, but se far as this $20,000,000 1s ooncerned, It was not to be counted
as part of tbe capital on wbvichi the question of tolls should arise.
Hon. Mr. McCALLUM-A question of percentage.
Tbe motion was agreed to, and tbe Bill
was read the second turne.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved* tbat tbe House
resolve itself Into Cominittee of the Whioie
on the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-Tbis is a very Important measure. It bringa up the great
advantages accruing to the country by tbe
construction of the Canadian Pacific Rail,way. It is establisbed by tbe fact that they
now require additionai capital to prosecute
their great works. It la a great advantage
to New Ontario, and tbe people in that section of the country at tbe present time must
appreciate the patriotie eff orts wbicb resulted la the construction of tbe Canadian
Pacifie Railway.' I kaow it Is not ln order
to refer to or discuss matters not before
tbe House, but as was mentioned by the
bion. gentleman near me (Mr. Young) ln
dealing witb tbe Trans-Canada Railway
Bill tbe other day, haif tbe time was
spent ln discussing a matter wbicb was
clearly ont of order. I do not want to be
considered as acting ln that way at tbe present time. I siinply want to bring before
the Hou-se forcibly tbe great. advantage
wbIcb tbe construction of tbe Canadian
Pacific Railway bas been to the country,
and lis enterprise at the present time. I
do not wisb to oppose tbe Bill ln any way,
quite the reverse. I tbink It Is a proper
Bibi, and tbe company deserve credît for

MAY 6, 1902

403

demanding this addltional money for the given te the Lient. Gevernor of the Northpurpose of lncreaslng the facilities they west Territorles eand the Lieut. Geverner
furnish to the public. Those gentlemen of Manitoba, If they set fit to make a surwho so ferociously opposed the building of vey, to take away five per cent, provided the
the road ln the past mnuet new recognIize that road ls nort more than 66 feet wlde, and
they were then wrong. I should flot 'won- If they Interfère wlth Improvernents they
der if at a turne net far distant they would muet pay for thein.
taire upon theinselves ail the credit for the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
construction of the road, and ail that was
done by the previous administration. 1 do doca that work If yen seil a section ? You
flot wlsh to deprive them of any credit that allow five per cent for roiadvwuys.
mlght accrue lie them for dolng ail they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Â11 grants which emacan no'w to support a measure of such li- nate from the go'vernment.
portance te the country generally. I merely
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE. BOWELL-They
wlsh to bring the matter Up s0 that they
may appreciate the efforts ef the Conser- pay for the full 640 acres, and then there
vative party ln the early days of the con-. Is five per cent reserved out o! that for
struction of the Canadian Pacifie RalWay. whlch'they get ne refund.
The cempany has done se well that It can
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That lu an extreme
forege the advantage It possesses, dlln- limit. It may not be more than three per
inishing freight rates, and glvlng an lmn- cent
proved service to the country generally.
Hon.. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
The generai Impression ls that thle company will do ail they can for the purpose ls flot the point I wlsh te urge. You oeil a
o! facllltatIng their eperations everywhere. section o! land, 640 acres.
Last year, as we ail know, the harvest o!
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Many of thein are homethe North-west was very great, and the steads.
company was able to carry It to the seaHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-I amn
board ln a manner that deserves credit
froin every citizen o! the country. Tbev net speaklng of homesteads. You oeil 640
performed the duty -satisfactordly to the acres and get pald se mucli per acre for It.
Then you reserve the right te the governsettlers and to the business men.
ment te take five per cent of the whele e!
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon, gentleman that land frem. the purchaser,
la that what
who bas mast itaken bis eeatyen mean ?
The SPEAKER.-The motion is ou t or
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
order If there Is any opposition.
1
Hon. Mr. LOUGEED-I observe in secHon. Mr. SCOI!r-I will let It stand untion 4 the provision le entirely limited te
till to-morrow.
the improvements on the land. Thot ls te
DOMINION LANDS ACT AMENDMENT say, the province may exprepriate- fIve per
cent of the lands ln question,. notwIthatandBILL.
Ing the fact they have been sold under conSECOND READING.
tract and pesslbly a large sum paid te the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- government, and yet indemnIty la te be only
Ing of Bul (120) ' An Act te amend the pald on account of improvements. I mlght
Dominion Lands Act-' He said: The object allude te the fact that In the North-west
ef this BiII le te authorize the Ùlnister of Territorles the Commissioner of Public
tihe Interior, when lesuling grants of lands, Works has absolutely arrogated te himmeif
te make a reservation of five per cent for wlthout appeal, the right te value land expropriated for any such purpose as. menhlgh-ways and roads.
tioned ln this Bull. Evea a reference te
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Five
arbitration le net permitted, and appeal to
per cent of the land ?
the court Io net permitted. It seema te me
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Flve per cent of the there should net be such a narrow .Ilitaland can be taken. There la aise authortty tien as mentioned ln clause 4- In
26J

404

404
SENATE

committee, it cau be discussed further, and to the judges to act as police magIstrates,
and allotting to them that duty from time
a more equitable provision embodied.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill to tiine. I also find there is a Bill before
parliament Increasing the salaries of those
was read the second Urne.
judges to $5,000 a year.
ADMINISTRATION 0F JUSTICE IN THE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think I explained,
YUKON TERRITORY BILL.
when the Bill to which the hon, gentleman
refers was before the House, that one of
SECOND READING.
the police magistrates was to be elevated
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved second rea-ding of to the bench.
Bill (137) 'An Act to amend. chapter 41 of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How imany -police
the statutes of 1901, respecting the adin- magistrates are there ?
Istration of Justice ln the Yukon Territory.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are three, I beHe said : It may be ln the recoilection et
many hon, gentlemen that when ahapter 41 Ileve-one at White Horse, and two at Dawlast year woa going through this House,' a son. It Is intended to elevate one of them,
very wide discussion arose as to the wi1sdom and the $5,000 was to apply to that case.
of a clause ln that BiIL Ae the measure camue The salary of the two judges was fIxed at
Up to this House, the police magistrates $5,000; and It wns to bring hlm up to that
were permitted to practice Ia certain courts. level.
They were, of course, not permltted to pracHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-MUy remarks were
tice anywhere within their own juriadiction, based. on an error ; I had formed the limbut ln the courts outside of their own juris- pression that there was only one police
diction they were pex!mltted top~ractice. Ini magistrate.
that Bill, the saiary was fixed at $2,400. The
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did 1
opinion seemed to be pretty general here
uiiderstand the Secretary of State to say
that It wouhd be far 'better to make theni
that when Increasing this salary by $1,600
absolutely independent, and to deprive them
a year to the police magistrates, they were
of the right to practice, so the clause was
going to withdraw the living allowance ahamended, thie Bill went back to the other
together ?
Chuamber, and the amendment was adopted,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know wbat the
but no change was mnade In the salary. We
took away from them the right to practice, living allowance will be ; it will be on a
but did flot Increase the salary, s0 the only smaller scule at ail events.
way to meet the case at ail was to inerease
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thils
their living elhowanice, givIng them an ln- matter was brought parlticularly to my notice
ordinate livdng aliowance because $2,400 when I was ln the territory hast year. Wnien
was flot considered a proper ealary whiere the Bill passed appolnting the police magisthe expenees o! living are eo great. It Io trate, and fixing the sahary, I thought the
to reduce ;the living allowance and give livdng ailowance o! $3,O00 per annum was
the= a salary of $4,000, which la assumed very large. But when I ifound that the
to be what would have been equlvaleait to sahary of a cook out there was a hundred
what they would have earned had they dollars a month, and rent $150 a month, the
been pernitted to practice when the House $3,00 was gone at once, so that It would
of Commoas fixed the salary.
be decreasing their Inceme to give them
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I observe that the $1,600 of an increa-se ln sahary and deprive
police magistrate of the Yukon Territory them of their livIng allowau-ce.
has civil as well as crIminai jurisdiction.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEED-The Governor ln
The only thin.g I fail to understand about Council regulates that.
this Bil arises from what the hon. SecreHon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is fixed on the
tary o! State mentioned the other day, that
It was Jntended to make the police magis- recommendation of the Minister of the Intrate a Judge ln the Yukon Territory, prac- terior.
tically wipiag- out the offlice of police magHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the Act o! 1901,
1
strate at Dawson, and giving jurlsdiction It is provided that the living alhowance may
Hon. Mr. LOUGHTEED.

MAY 6, 1902
bc fixed by the Governor iii Couiel. That the poor man, he died before the Act was
passed. I might mention that the law propower -a fot disturbed by this Bill?
vided for the aypoinÊnent of a comnimiissionHon. Mr. SCOTT--Oh, no. They wlJ get
er, wbo must be a Superior Court judge, to
a living aliowance, only on a reasonable
bold an Investigation as to bis capacity for
scale. As I mentioned before, the living aicontinuing the duties of bis office, and. If
iowance was fixed on an Inordinate scale,
the commissioner reports againat hirn, then
because there was no other way to give
lie can be superannuated.
atdeq uate compensation.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That refers to a differTbe motion wýas agreed to, and the Bill
eut dlams of cases. This ls general.
read the second time.
w-as
Hon.. Mr. MACDONALD (Victoria)-I wish
to cali attention to the manner lu which
.IUDGES OF PROVINCIAL COURT7S
the British Columbia judges have been
BILL.
passed over from tirne to Urne. We find our
SECOND READING.
junior judges In a young country piaced
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- ln a bigher rani. as to salaries than the
ing of Bill (188) ' An Act to arnend the Act British Columbia judges are. It is unfair
rfflpecting the judges of provincial courts.' that tbey sbouid be passed over in that way.
He sa'id : The object of this Bill is two-fold : On two or tbree occasions tbey have been
It first provades for the salaries of three- on the verge o.f baving their salaries inJudges of courts ln the Yukon Territory, creased to $5,000. Now we find those young
$5,U0O per annum. The other clause, 15, judges ln the Yukon Territory are piaced, iln
is ln reference to -the superannuation, allowv- the matter of maiary, over the beada of
ance to -the county court judges. As the judges who have worked faithfully for a
inw stands now, before -a judge could re- number of years. I have called the attentire, and receive &a fuperannuation, even tion of the government to the matter, and
thougli be were afflieted with sme lnf[rity, I hope tbey will soon bring in a measure to
be bas to serve ten years. Under the present deal justly wltb those judges.
Do the
proposition now before the House, If any judges ln the Yukon Territory get a mainjudge of a county court, becomes affiicted tenance ailowance In addition to salaries ?
with some permanent infirmity, disabLing
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yem. I appreciate the
hlm from. discharging bis duties, and he reslgns his office, lie la entitled te superannua- point that the hon, gentleman bas mentionUlon, two-tblrds. If lie bas served leas than ed. This goverament, and preceding govfli years, be oniy gets one-third as a retir- errnnents, have endeavoured to wremtle wlth
ing allorwance, and then onlyý la case of per- this question, but there seema to be always
a diliculty la the way. However, the con-'
manent disability.
ditions ln British Columbia and in the YuHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What kon are not at ahl the sme.
ls the iaw now ?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British ColumHon. Mr. SOO'IT-The time fixed la teti bia)-I do not; grudge the judges ln the
years. Therefore, If lie bad merved nine Yukon this increnae, but the others ought
years, and became Incapacitated to perform to get the same.
bis duties, be would not ha entitUed to It
Éon. Mr. S'COTT-The bon. gentleman ls
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-i>oes comparing the judges of British Columbia
not the Act Introduced by the late Sir John witb those of tbe Yukon Territory, where
Thornpson cover the case ?
the conditions are altogether ddifferent.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I tbink: not.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
re- was read tbe second Urne.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
member a case In Ontario where a judge
BILL INTRODUOED.
becarne incapacitated by sof tening of the
Bill (51) An Act to Incorporate the Dyrnent
brain, and there was no provision to meet
the case. The mInister lntroduced a Bill Banking Loan and Savingi Companyto deal witli the case, but unfortunately for (Hon: Mr. Blls.)

406
INSPECTION ACT AMENDMENT

SENATE
BILL. expensive there as It Is in the Yukon. We
are ralsing the salaries of judigoe and other
officiais that are ln high positions, but tbe
mnen who are working and recelvIng just
their d.ay's pay, do not; sceem to be having
their position improved.

FIRST READING.
A message was recelved frein the House
of Commons with Bill (142) An Act to,
amend the general Inspection Act.
The Bill was read the first rime.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moied the second readof the Bill. He sald: This le a very
smill Bill. Two words comprise It. It
le piacing among the articles In the Inspection Act, binder twine. I do flot know
whetber hon. gentlemen are aware that
aince the United States bave acquIred the
sovereignty of the Philippine Islands, they
have piaced an export duty on sisal.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
United States governmexut ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, wlth the provision
if it goes to the United States and la manufaeured there, the exporit duty le omitted.
The oonsequence le, if a Canadian buys the
sisal, the export duty bas to be paid, no
matter where be buys. It. I do flot knew
whether we can exercîsBe any control of lt
coing froin the United States or not. This
Bill adds sisal ito the articles which £nay be
Inspected in Canada.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
Inspection of It would have no effect on the
Importation except to determine what Its
character 'was.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bil
was read the second âmre.
MOUNTED POLICE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

The motion was agreed to.
THE OPENING AND PROROGATION 0F
PARLIÂMENT.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It will
be remembered that the attention of the
Senate was called to the difficulties presenting thernselves at the opening of parliament this year, and It: was suggested at
that turne that a emali commlttee sbould
be appointed for the purpose of giving
some instructions to Black Rod In order
to remove those difficulties. It le unnecessary for me to enter into the question now. I wHil give notice to-morrow
to appoint a emal committee to make isncb
a report es may be deemed necessary to
provîde that ln Uic future, gentlemen 'who
are entItIed to smre consIderation In tbe
Invitations whlch are sent @hall not be
overlooked, and te prevent ln tie future the
Ilhlng of his Chamber by a lot of people
who certainly should not have pe-ecedence
over the wlves and daughters oit menrbers
of parllarnent I urâderstand thet siready
applications bave been made to the Usher
of the Bhack Rod for eeas at the nex-t
openIng of pariarnent. In order to re&jeve
hlm of the responslbiiity, should flot the
Senate take the responsibliity upon Iteif
and give hlm proper Instructions ? I wil
give the notice to-morrow.

The Senate adjourned.
FIRST READING.
A. message w-as received froin the Hlouse
of Commons wli Bill (147) 'An Act -to
amend the Mounted Police Act, 1894.'
The Bill vas read the first trne.
THE SENATE.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
Ottawa, 'Wednesday, May 7, 1902.
read the second time to-morrow.
The SPEAKER took the Cbalr at Tbree
Mon. '-%r. SCOTT-No.
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD <P.E.I.)-Does
Prayere and routine proceedings.
this Bill make any provision for increasing
the pay of the Mounted Police ?
FIRST READING.
Hon. Mr. 'ACDONALD-I understand
Bill (CC) An Act respecting the Royal
inaiîy 0f-them are liviing In the far north, Marine Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr.
and that they flnd their living to be Just as Belque.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 7, 1902
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (51) An Act 'to Incorporate ,the Dyment
Securities, Loan and Savings Company.(Hon. Mr. Ellis.)
Bihl (142) An Act further to amend the
General Inspection Âct.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (147) An Act to arnend the Moumted
Police Act, 1894.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)

407

do these several things, and be relieved
from paylng damages.

HEon. Mr. EIRCHHOFFER-This Bill
pasaed to-day wlthout amendment I amn
pertectly aware that any hon. gentleman
who chooses to, object to the mile being
suspended han power to de so. 1 was golng
to leave for home, and I wished to have
the Bill read the third Urne bdfore leaving,
THIRD REÂDINGS.
but If the hon. gentleman Insiste, on the
from objection, 1 shall have to drop It.
The following Bills were reported
comrnlttee, and read a thfrd Urne and passed
HEon. Mr. YOUNG-There seems to be a
under a suspension of the rules :
mlaunderstandlng. I thlnk my hon. frlend
Bill (V) An Act to incorporate the Securi- bas no wlsh to kill the Bill. Instead of
ties Bank of Oanada.--( on. Mr. Landerkin.) rlsing to speak to, the motion to suspend
Bill (96) An Act tio Incorporatie the Mani- the mile, It would have been better If he
toba and Keewatin Rallway Company.- had allowed that motion to pass and brought
the matter up on the third readlng.
(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (99) An Act respecting the Montreal
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-That Is meally my
and Southern Counties Rallway Company.-7 object. 1 want to, draw the attention of
(Hon. Mr. McMullen.)
the House to the necessity of Introduclug
sections 90 and 91.
TORONTO AND NIAGARA POWER
COMPANY'S BILL
Hon. Mn. YOUNG-The motion to, suspend
the mules rnight be passed, and thls matter
THIRD READING.
discussed on the third readlng.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, from
The motion was agreed to.
the Conrnittee on. Railways, Telegrapha and
Haitbours, reported Bill (100) «An Act to
Hon. Mr. KIRCHH1EOF'FER rnoved the
Incorporate the Toronto and Niagara Power third reading of the BIil
Comnpany.'
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I move that clause
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER moved the
90 of the Bil be amended by adding after
suspension of mule 70 ln g0 far as the sme
the womds ' section 91,' the following two
relates to, this Bih.
sections, namely 91 and D2.
Hon. Mm. BEIQUE-I desire to cal attenThe SPEAKER-The end would be reachtion to, the fact that ln this Bil referenoe la ed by 9aying that sections 90 to 98 shall
made to clause 90 ot the Railway Act as ail apply.
Perhape the hon. gentleman
belng Incorpomated ln the Bill, and clause frm Brandon has no objection to that
90 states a great number of -thlngs whlch amendrnent
May be due by the company. But section
Hon. Mr. KIROHHOFFER-I arn not pre91 and the tollowing section state how these
thlngs shaîl be done and how the com- pareil to say what effect it would have. I
pensation should be pald, and these clauses certainly would not consent to any amendhave been left out. I would suggest that ment being made to It now. It may not
they be added to the BIlL t3ection 90 says be the Intention of the hon. gentleman, but
the company shaîl restore the river, stream, I thlnk It certainly would have the resuit
&c., to lts former state, and section 91 says of kllIlng the Bill, and I thlnk It le not fair
that the company ln doing its work shaill that it should be brought up now.
do as little darnage as possible, and section- Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have no desire to
92 that they shail pay any damage done. kili the BII.
These two sections shouhd form part or
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
the Bill and should be inentioned ln the
Act as belng incorporated under clause 90; question .was fully discussed ln the House
otberwise the company would take power to of Comýmons, and If this amendrnent ie made

SENATE
the Bill will have to go back te the Commons, and- It may have the effect of kiiiing
the Bill. I do flot think that Is the Intention
of the hon, gentleman, but It would probabiy be the resui't of an amendment et this
stage of the session. I do not know- that
there was any Bill before the House 'of
Commons discussed more critically than this,
because there was a great deal of objection
to It by certin munIipallties and by others.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I thougbt It was my
duty te call the attention of bon. members
to the matter. It is not et ail a company
which wiil affect the province from which
I come, and I do flot desire to insist. I
tbought 1t, was our duty te see that private
Interests were protected.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time, and passed.
NORTH SHORE POWER, RAILWAY
AND NAVIGATION COMPANY'S
BILL.
AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, froni
the Committee on Rail-ways, Telegraphs and
Harbours, reote1 Bill (73) ' An Act to
Incorporate the North Shiore Power, Railway
and Navigation Company,' with ainendments.
Tbe amendments u-ere concurred ln.

mucb as the petitioners bave only advertised ln the province of Quebec, and therefore recommend that the committee to
whom the Bill should be referred should
insert a clause confining their manufacturing opers;tIons to «the province of Quebec.
As the Bill stands to-day, It gives the conipeny'power to operate over the whole Domninion, and the House will stultity Itselt
by Ignoring a report that was adopted by
the House. At ail events, the Bill should
not be read the third time to-day. I objçct
to the third reading to-day.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This matter received
some consideration at the hands of the
Standing Orders Committee by members of
this House, and also was discussed fully
ln the Railway Committee to-day. I think
the powers are carefully safeguarded ln
the Bil. It providesthat the manufacturing operations shail be confined net merely
to the province of Quebec, but to a certain
district iln the province of Quebec. So fer
-as the company are empowered to do business outside, It ls simpiy the selling of the
manutactured products outside. 0f course,
If any one objects to the third reading ut
cannot take place to-day, but at this stage
et the session, I think it would be well to
clear off our Order paper, and If the hon.
gentleman is not particular to have the Bill
left over, I would request hlm to withdraw
bis objection.

Hou. Mr. WATSON moved the suspension
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
of rule 70 ln so far as It relates to this Bill.
objection raised by the hon. gentleman from
Tbe motion was agreed to.
Victoria Is not so much to the amendment
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the third read- as to the fact that the Standing Orders
Committee made a certain report wbich
ing of the Bill.
was adopted by the House, recommending
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Coluni- the suspension of the mIles with reference
bia)-In the Committee on Railways there to advertising, conditional on the powers
was e long discussion on this Bil with re- being confined to the province of Québec.
ference to giving Important powers beyond
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The manufacturing
those asked for by the company ln their
advertisements. They advertlsed oniy ln operations.
the province et Quebec, and ln the Bill took
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C)-Tbey are
power to operate over the whole Dominion.
not separated.
The House should not stultify Itsehf by ignoring the report adopted the other day.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
The report of the Committee on Standing Railway Committee, to whicb this Bill was
Orders adopted by this House on the 29th referred, set aside the deliberate decision
of April says, reporting- on the petition et *ot the Senate Itselt, by givtng the company
the North Shore Pewer, Raiiway and Navi- power to operate ln the whole Dominion.
gation Company, that they find -that rule That is the point my hon. friend takes. Hon.
49 bas net been tuliy"complied with, mnas- gentlemen wiIl remember that attention was
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

401

MAY 7, 1902
caiied to that fact iu the comnhittee, anld
it la an irregularity whicb ought flot to be
aflowed to stand as a precedent. OtherwiSe
any Standing Committee or Select Committee couid set at deflance and overrule a
deliberate opinion expressed by this House.
That is the only objection I have to the
whoie proceedlng. I do flot object to the
principle of the Bill. The more we eau assist lu establishing, by foreigu or other
capital, Industries la this country, thxe better, but we ought to be very jealous of the
rights of the Senate, and deny the right or
any committee to overrule its decision.

discuse the propriety or Impropmiety o! the
motion whIch bas just been mead lu French,
I ask a muling from the Speaker as to
whether the notice of motion la before the
Hlouse and can be dlscussed by any member
of the House, or by ail the members of the
House.

The SPEAKER-The position Is this : the
motion to suspend the mile was carrled, aud
the question ls new on the third readlng.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. member from Victoria was standing
for some time.

Hôbn. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Wbether
a notice of motion given by au hou. gentleman eau be discussed by the House before
lt la moved as a motion.
The SPEAKER-In one sense lt ean, and
ln another it caunot .*As a question of order,
it eau. If it strîkes any bon. gentleman that
the notice of motion ls sucb a one as sbould
not be given, the bon. member bas a lght
to eall the attention o! the House to it, and
the House wli. pronounce. as ta whether it
la such a notice of motion .as sbould be
given. But it would be Imegular to enter
lnto a general discussion o! the notice.
Hon. Mr. CEHURCH-In this case the
notice ts read ln French, and the Engiish
members of the Chamber caunot discuse lt
tili they know what It la lu Englsh. The
more 1 bear about the rules of ordier-wlthout wisbing to be out o! -order myseif-the
more I am incline to agree with the view
of the ex-Speaker from British Columbla
tbat he ôutllned yeaterday. I bellere the
ouly -way la to have some. mules that may be
recommended by a good committee, selected
by the Chamber, which we eau approve and
be prepared to follow.

The SPEAKER-I did not notice hlm, but
as the objection bas been taken, the third
reading caunot take place to-day.
The Order was postponed until Friday.
THIRD REÂDINGS.
The foliowing Bllis, reported from the
Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours, were read the third time and
passed under a suspension of the mules:
Bill i65) An Act to Incorporate the Yukon
Pacific Railway Company.--(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (101) An Act to Incorporate the Nepigon Raiiway Company.-(Elon. Mr. MeMullen.)
Bill (123) An Act to incQrporate the Eastern Railway Company.-(H1on. Mm. Thompson.)
NOTICES 0F MOTION.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I desire
to dlaim the attention of the House for a
few minutes. A notice bas just uow been
given by the hon. gentleman from Stadacona, and I wlsh to ask whetber the Houe
is prepared to discuse it. Ia it before the
House or is it not ?, I aum sorry my hon.
friend from. Mamshfleld bas ieft tbe Chamber, because he la one of the atrong affirmnera
that nlotices of motion can be discussed at
the time they are given and declared to be
proper or Improper. Before I proceed to

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I do not know that
the hou, gentleman eau ask the Speaker
îto ruie on a point that la flot againat any
order of the House.
The SPEÂKER-What ls the exact point
o! the hon. gentleman's question ?

AN ADJOURNMENT.
Hou. Mm. SCOTT-I move that0wbeu the
House adjoumu to-day It do stand adjourned
tili Frlday next at three o'clock ln the afteraccu, to-morrow beiug a statutory holiday.,
Hon. Mm. LANDRY-If I understood aright,
the hon. Secmetary of State bas given notice
of motion for two sittinga on Saturday ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yea.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-At what hour7

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-At eleven ln the morning and three ln the afternoon.

A SUPPLY BILL.

FIRST READING.
A message was received from the House
of Comnmons with Bil (157) ' An Act to
BILLS INTRODUCOED.
authorize by way of loan certain sums of
puab.hl service.'
BÉI (141) An Act to amend the Act re- money for the
The Bill was read the first time.
spectlng the Packlng and Sale of certain
Staple Commodities.-{Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Hion. Mr. SCOTT xnoved thaît the Bill be
Bill (149) An Act to amend the Land read the second time on FrIday next. lie
Tities Act, 1894.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
said: This Bill authortzes the raising of
$15,000,000.
The rnQtion was agreed to.

CHNSEIMGRTONATAMN-MENT
BILL.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is that
ail ?
FIRST REA.DING.
Hon. Mr. b,-£iT-Yes, a trifle-to pay any
A message was received from the House outstanding liablities there may be.
of Commonq with Bml (156) ' An Act to Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-We wil
am'end the Chinese Immigration Act, 1900.' have lots of steel rails now.
The Bml was read the first time.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved that the
Bill be read the second time on Friday neit.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbat
Io the character qf the Bill?
Hon. Mr. TEMMPLEMAN-It provides for
paying to the provinces fIlfty per cent lnstead of twenty-five per cent of the amount
of the capitation tax on the (3hlnese.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thlnkr
the whole principle la wrong, a.ithough It
was adopted by the goverument of which
I was a member. If the capitation tax lu
to be paid to British Columbia I see no
reason why It should not be extended to the
other provinces. There are numbers o!
Chinese ln Ontario and the North-west, and
I cannot understand why a capitation tax
should be dlvided between one province and
the Dominion, and not between ail the provinces and the Dominion.

THE HOUR 0F OPENING.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I desire to cail attention to the fact that we are
constantly vlolating one of the rules of! the
Senate. I am n ot flndlng fault with the
Speaker or any one else, because for years
we have met at fifteen minutes past three
Instead of three o'clock. The rule is distinct about meeting at three o1clock, why
should we loue that fi!teen minutes ?. I call
the attention o! the Senate to it, and I hope
the Speaker wlll adopt t.he practice of taking the Chair at three.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We had better let that
rule prevail for the rest o! the session.
Counceil sits at three o'clock and It lu rather
Incoinvenient: to rush over trom Council
meeting.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL--.ien
better change the ruies.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then for the rest o!
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The proposed
amendment applies to ail the provinces. It the session it will be three o'clock sharp.
is a very insignificant amount which would FAST LINE 0F TRANSATLANTIO V.L,Sbe paid to the other provinces.
SELS.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
I-NQUIRY.
the principle Is just at great
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired 0f the govHon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The principle la ernmentAre there actualiy negotiations ln progreas
just as the hou. leader of the opposition
on the subJeet of the establishment of a fast
wishes it.
line o! transatlantic vessels ?
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

With whoûb have these, neg-otiatione
place ?

taken

MA.Y 7, 1902
Upon. what basis ?
What 19 the Canadian port designed as a
terminuis for the oc.aan and river navigation ln
sumnmer, li connection, with the establishment
of the fast line?
What le the winter port ?
What speed muet the ships of the fast Une
have ? What draught of water ?
At what approzimate date, or at seat in
what year wlli the ffret shlp of thie fast Une

wouid resiga ln thtrty'days, and, let the Liberal
pprty go to the everlasting bow-wows.
Mr. Gauthler la biiled to speak at St. Joachim,
May 6; MeGregor, May 7 ; River Caaard, May
S ; Sandwich, May 9 ; and Chappeds, May 10.

fact transatlantlc ulne.

't.

I should like to know If Mr. Gauthier la
really authorized to bulldoze the French
Canadians ln this way.

make Its tiret voyage ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I know n'othlng about
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are no actuai the article ln the paper, but whoever made
negotiations ln progress on- the subjeet of a such a statement was ln error ln making
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Have
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilten)-That le oniy
there been any negotiations ?~
froxa the Toronto ' World.'
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Nothing In any definite
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRÂlN-Just as good aushnpe--nothing except ln an Informai way. thorîty as the Toronto 'Globe.'
VALLEYFIELD STRIKE.

FRUIT MARKS ACT AMENMENT

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired of the gov-

BILL.

SECOND READING.
eramentHon. Mr. SCOTT rneved the second readHas the town of Valleyfield reimbursed- the
the
Militia Departmeat the sums paid for the exa- ing ot Biîl (136) 'An Act tLu aqnend
ployment of the volunteer fore, cslied out ln Fruit Martks Aact, 1901.' He sald : This
aid of the civil authorities at the time ef the Bill proposes ta make some alight ýchanges
lest atrike, la. the locality above mentb:ned ?
Is It the intention of the government te demE«nd la the Âct whlch was Passed by parflament

such reinibursement?
st year. 'The ffmt materla1 change le la
Bas it ftxed a date for such reimbursement?
If net, doue& It lntead te, Ui one, and te take the fourth section, la this particular, that
judicial proceedlngs If, at the date fixed, the la designating the grade of the fruit, the
reimbursement ln qu 3etien has siot taken place? follo-wiug -marks sha,1 be made: For fruit

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In answer ta the firet
question, net yet. In answer to the second,
yes. In answer to the thIrd, Judîcial proceediings have been, taken te collot the
amount.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
Han. Mr. CASGRAIN (Windsor)-iiefore

the Orders of the Day are called, I desire te
cail attention te a despatch la the Toronto'
'World' whlch reads as fellows:
Sir Wllfrld will t1esign If Premier le Defeated.
J. L. Gauthiar, Liberal Organiser from Montreal,
makee a sensational, soeech at Tecumsehiln
order to impress the French Canadiens electors.
Windsor, May 5. -J. L. Gauthier, Liberaq orKSflizer, fremn Moeitresa, la ln Uessx connty for
the purpcse of alding in the eîvctiaû campalga.
There are manY French Canadlans here, and
his presence la considered heipful 1»' the local
organisation. At a meeting at Tecumseh this
afternooe, he made a sensational statement,
that apparently was uttered ia' order to swing
lukowarmx Prench Canadiens te the aid of
Premier Roe.met
Mr. Gauthier declared that, If the Rose geveramnent was defeateci at the coming electios
he was authorized ta state that Sir Wilfrid
Laurier would take it so much to heart that he

of the first quaity, No. 1 or ' X X X.' For
fruit of the second quality, No. 2 or ' X X,'
and for fruit o! the third quaiiity, No. 3 or
«'X.' I understand ithat the reason -for there
being two clalsficatlone le this, that la the
province o! Ontario and the .west, the firat
qualâtr of fruit le. marked No. 1, the second
.1

qu'"~
-jy

w,

.. -A

-

el

, a*
*~

*

4111-A
*ý

1i4f,
L

w

Q

l h
aiiepoics
tl
rddb
The beat
X's, rather than by numnerals.
quality ls marked ' X X X;' second quality,
1X X,' and the thîrd qualhty, 1X.1 The
other changes are verbal, and will be better understood, la com-mlttee.
Hon. Sir 31ACKE-NZIE BOWELL-There

is an Important. change la the tiret para"'raph of the fourtb clanse.
I know dîfficultiee have arisen la the province o!f Ontario, *by getting bogue people t» mark the
packages-people who have no responslbility.
Fruit Inspectors la Ontario lnform
me'o
a
eti
prin
f the west
lncrinptos
lnstead o! the grower or owner of the
pakage putting i
aeo
t
nsm
a
isnm
nit
asm
1 cases the names o! irresponsible men who

SENATE
bang around the taveras, and in others, of
people who are actually dead, are used; and
ln that way, thre party -who should be responsIble under the law escape responsibility Is nlot this clause lntended to cover
that defect lu the iaw? Does It not mean that
the packer or grower shall be responsible ?
111n. Mr. SCOTT-I think that às what Is
Intended by thre clause.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman from Marshfield, who bad
to leave, desired me to cail thre attention of
thre Secretary &f State to an amendment
The ohwhich hie intended to propose.
jeet of It is to make a provision lu Teference
te No. 1 and No. 2, apply to ' XX ' and
'X X X,' whlch are the marks In thre maritime provinces, so that thre amenided law
wlLl apply to the marking of fruits which
are thus marked ln cthe maritime provinces
as a.pplying to Nos. 1, 2 andl 3 In Ontario.
I confesa I amn not suffIcfientiy acquainted
witb tis .subWet to discuss It intelligentiy,
andl If the Sees'etary of State wLl permit
me, I wi baud blm the amendmenit, and
before tire tirird reading, hie might cousult
thre department as te the propriety of acceptlng it. There can be no objeot in having different marks or grades for the different' provinces.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe oibWet was te bave
the classifications whlch I have described
agree.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
objectý of the hon. senator from Marshfield
la this: Tint numt>ers 1, 2 and 3, as applled to the packiug of fruit In Ontarlo,
shall bave the saine effect ln cthe maritime
provinces as X, XX, and XXX.
.Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk there ls no 61fference betweeu us at ail.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bil1l
was read the second tlme.
BISHOP 0F MOOSONEE INCORPORA.TION BILL.

saime amend.men-ts wbich 1 desired to malie
in tliis 13111, if possible, before it passed its
final stages; but on inquiry, I find that the
Bill1 as amersled lu the House of Communs would neot permit of the Senate ameuding their own Bill unless I brought down a
suppiemental Bfi to make the desired
changes. The matter la flot sufficiently Important to complicate It Iu that way, and 1
therefore move that the House concur ln the
amendiment made by the House of Camnmens.
The motion wa-s agreed to.
POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Ilon. Mr. -SCOTT moved the second rending of Bil1l (106) ' An Act to, amend the
Post Office Act.' He said : The object of
tis B111 la to form new grades for the messengers, porters, packers, letter carriers,
maid transfer agents, and box colleetors attached to the Poist Office Department. They
are te bte recognized as grades A, B, C, D
and E. The dbject I believe, Is to place
thein on a better basis than. they have been
before, and after a pertoid of six montbs,
to glve ithem a hlgber compensation than
they are now receding.
Hlon. SIr MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
lesa qualficatilon.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they have, to pass
an examination.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Not
the civil service examination, as they have
to Dow.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-They are on probation,
when first appointed, for six montbs, and If
they prove to be satisfactory during that
perlod then they go Into the lorwest grade.
The details -of the Bill will be better understood lu commIttee.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
diffiulty la when we go into committee, If
the rules are lnvoked we are prevented from
discussing the principle of the Bill.

AMENDMENTS CONCURREl) IN.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-When we go Into coinThe Order of the Day being cal'led:
rnittee, we will be qulte free to discuss the
Cionsideration of the am-ndments made by the principle.
House of Cominons to Bill (F) 'An Act to iucorporate the Bishop of Moosonee.'
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
I d1irected Bill goes further than indicated by the hion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED saad:
the attention of the House yesterday to gentleman.
It removes ail this class of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MLAY 7, 1902
officers from the Civil Service Act wbich, t or at $3,000 per annum. 1 shouid like to
now why this officer is requlred, wben we
provIdes for a certain educational qualificaclause subjects tbem to an have s0 many post office inspectors at pretion, but the fiftb
officiai, wlth
examination wblcb is prescribed by the Gov- ;ent. This ls to be a new
new duties, that bave been performed la the
ernor la Council. Wbatever tnit examinathe inspectors. If It be necessary
tion may be, no one en tell until tbe order past by
.n
1 the future to bave another Inspector, the
bas been passed. It also extends tbe pninIf
It is quite aI bon. gentleman.can informi tbe House;
ciple of permanent officers.
iot, I sbould like to know wby this -adgrave question bow far tbat is adTisable,
ditional officer bas been provided for tn
in tbe interest of tbe service itself or ln
the Bill at a salary of $3,000 per annum.
the lnterest of tbe country. 1 know
Act Iatroduced by
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In reference to tbe first
the lest Civil Service
the governmeat was to remove a large point tbe persons affected by this Bill are
number of officiais of the iower grades )f a considerabiy bigher grade than a janitor
Tbey are ail persons wbo
from tbe operation of tbe Superannuatioli or caretaker.
Act. Tbe moment you put one of these are ln a position, by attention to their duties
officals-evefl If be lu only a letter in the service, to attain blgher positions.
carrier or a packer, or beiongs to any Their salaries rise year by year, according
otber of tbe iower grades of employeps to menit.
of the service, under tbe Civil Service Act,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
you place blm In a position to tak-e advan- under the present law.
tage of tbe Superannuatioi Act Tbe object
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tben, la reference to
of the bite goverament was to remove, as
that class the appolntment of a superintendent, bis
far as was considered.practicabie,
of officers from a position of permanency, special duty wili be to look after the city
s0 tbat If a man was employed, for Instance, post offices. I bave no doubt the necessity
as a janitor, to remove bim fromn the opera- for sucb an officer bas arisen. The Posttion of the Civil Service Act, and If bie does master Generai ls knowa to be economy
not; bebave blmiself, the goverament can dis- personified, and would not create an office
miss blm just as an ordlnary employer of of that kind unless tbere was a necessity
I fear tbat tbis Bill 15 for it.
labour cau do.
extending tbe princîples of the Civil Service
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWTELL-I bope
Act aad Superannuation Act, by piaclng the bon. gentleman will not object If I dissueb employees on a permanent baste. I sent from tbe economical cbaracter bie gives
bave no doutyt It will meet the approbation tbe Postmaster General.
of tbose who gre empioyed, because It pute
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe officer muet bave
tbem ln a position of permanency to a very
temporary bad ten years' service ln city post offices.
great extent, rather than belng
Hon. Mr. WOOD, (Hamiiton)-Tbe gentleclerks-to be employed and dismissed at
-wiii. 1It le too much tbe. habit of people man bas bied twenty-five years' service.
wbo once get Into tbe empioyment of tbe
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This applies to a prosgovernment no matter what their qualifipective officer, I suppose.
cations or adaptabihity for the work may
be, to regard it as a permanency, and afterHon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I tblnk any
wards dlalm to be retired. -I am a littie cbange ln tbe examination of officers more
radical ln tbat respect, and in 1869, wben ln the lune tbey bave to work in, will be a
the Superannuation Act was introduced, I great Improvement: on the old system. Tbe
remember very well raising my voice againet oid system of examinlng letter carriers, for
the general prncniple, on tbe ground that It Instance, on tbeologywould favour a Clase. However, tbe prinHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Oh, no.
ciple bas been adopted, and I am opHon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-Âltogetber
posed to tbe extension of that principle'
as far as 1 tbink this Bill goes. It creates apant from the work tbey bave.to do, was
anotber office for some person connected objectionable. Tbis new examination ls ln
witb tbe department--creates anotber inspec- reference to work tbey are requlred to per.

414

SENATE

form. To know that they are able to do
that work lnteiligently, I think la better than
examlnlng thern on things they do nlot have
to practice. With reference to the gentleman who le to be -appointed, or has been
appolnted city Inspecter, he la a man whe
was appointed some 25 years ago to the
office in Hamilton. He Is thoroughly competent-there la no more competent; man Ini
the service to-day than the gentleman who
la occupylng that position.

Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-No.

Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-What system ls to
be adopted with reference to testing the
qualifications of these ernpleyees ? The hon.
gentleman from Harnilton ays the present system la a bad one. I want to knew
If the governrnent are going to have a
separate board for the purpose of putting
these people through an exarnination te see
If they' are competent tio discharge their
duties ? There Is an Inspecter at each imHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What portant point now-Ottawa, Toronto, Hamilposition 7
ton, and other large centres. Have these
Hon. Mr. WOOD 4Hamnton)-The position men been pert orming their duties In the
past In a satlsfactory manner, or ls it nocesof Inspecter of city offices.
Hon.SirMACKNZI41 BWEL-Nosary te appoint ethors with differont qualifIcatiens ? If so, it. will be necossary te
OWLL
Sirbt MÂKEZIa
on.
one dubte
hat.have
a board sufficiently acquainted with
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I theught I the worklng ef the Post Office Department,
heard the hon. gentleman questloning the beforo they can arrive at a proer standard
organlzation ef that office, and the person of the services to be rendered by those new
who was belng appointed to 4t. I say the people who are to be appointed under these
porson who ls appeinted to that office bas different grades. They oeitftinly Cannet pass
had large oxperionce, is theroughiy com. threugh the same examination as is flow
potent, and knows about post office werk ail roquired through the provinces generally.
over the country. Ho is deputy pootinastor These men are nlot qualified specially for
of Toronto to-day, a thoreughly compotent post office work, but are quaetied ito knew
man.
whother a man can road or write. I supHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tho pose the Intention la te get botter Informahon. gentleman is altogother In error. What tion that will guide the governmont In fermI was asking an explanatlon of, is, why this ing ostîmates of the people whe are to be
now office was created ? I did net say appointed, and the enly way te do that is
anything about the gentleman's qualifica- te have a body of mon specially appointed
tiens. The Bill says, ho must have had for that purpose, because It requires experlonced mon to ascertain whether the
tenyeas'
xpeiene, et weny-fve.
ten eais' nt tieny-fve.
xpelene,
applicants would be suitablo for the service
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamiltoff)-He bas or net
boon there 25 years.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONÂLII (Prince Edward
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn Island)-From. the remarks made by the
speaklng of the clause In the Bill. In the hon, gentleman from. Hamilten, one would
province of Ontario ail sorts of officors have think an appointment had been made bof ore
been appointed, and for ne othor reason the passage of the BIil I de net see any
than te find place for pets. There are necessity for another Inspecter In this Doma number ef post office inspectera now. Are inion. Net long ago there were only two
they competont te de what this new ap- inspectera. There was ono In the province
pointoe is to do ? If they are Incompetent, of Quebec and another In the provinc of
and it la necossnry te have a new officer, let Ontario.
us knew the fact. That Is the ground 1 amn
taking. I arn net ebjecting te any mndiviHon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-Hew
mnny
dual.
offices were there then ?
Hon. Mr. OLEMOW-Wjlî It necessitate
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD <Prince Edward
the org'anization of a new board for the Island)-I am net prepared te tell the hon.
Purposo «~ examinlng these diliferent offi- gentleman how many offices there were thon,
cers ?
but an Inspecter then inspected a greator
Hoa. Mr. WOOD (Hamnilton).

MAY 7, 1902
number of offices than the inspectors now
appointed are required to do. I know tht
a gentleman was tairen from the province of
Prince Edward Island when I fIlled the
position of postinaster there myseif-taken
froni ny office. He bail oome few Yers'
experience in the post oWEM and lie was
sent out to Manitoba and the North-west
and organized the post office service of the
whole of that country, flot so very many
years ago. He is still ln the position of
post office inspector there, and does more
work over thre district whIch be lias to
supervise there than any Inspector Iu this
part of the Dominion. Thls additional office
which la being created under thi Bml, la
'going to be an addltional tax on the people
for thre puTpose of provIding an office
whIch, In my opinion, cannot lie very mach
required at the present time, considering
the great number o! post office inspectors
ln the Dominion.

ing thre rate o! postage, and I thinir when lie
asked for tliis new officiai this House and
the country wil know that there la a good
reason wliy lie maires tlie request and why
tire House sliouid give It to hlm.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-In reference te
thre number of inspectors we have now, I
may tell thre House that thle Postniaster General aboisled two districts and the Inspectors therein, one In Strat!ord, the other in
Barrie, lessened the number o! Inspectors,
and consequeutly It becomes necessary now
that lie should. appoint one inspector nierely
for the cities. He is not addiug to the number, because the nuniber was reduced In thie
province of Ontario. I do not kuow liow it
lias been elsewhere, but it la owing to
tis !act that the duties became s0 mucli
greater that it was necessary to have another Inspector, witli thre growing requiremeuts of the postal business In the varlous
districts that were le!t. The consolidation
o! the two districts Into one gave additioual
worr. to thre inspectors, and tlie cousequence
was that the Postmaster Generai, a!ter giving the maitter mature consideration, found
it necessary that lie sliould appoint an lnspector to look after the city post offices.
One wlio lias been In a City post office lias
been named, I uuderatand-it la rumoured
so-I have no officiai notice of It, one wel
qualiled, as the bon. gentleman froni Hamilton says, to discirarge tis important office.
Tlien I thinir this House wiil agree with me
that the Postmaster Generai lias been doing
a great work for thre postal service In Canada, increasiug thre number of offices, increasIng the mlleage, sud at thre sanie Uie reduc-

Hou. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-Ând
thre position In Toronto as well.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I do not thinir any
one is opposing the Bill particularly. We are
ouly loiing for Information. There is no
Information as to the ind of examination
calied for In tliis measure. Probably the
Postmaster General does not wisli to maire
It known. Thre examInation cannot be very
higli, from thre nature of the office. Then
there are several grades, A, B, C, D, E-that
la live. I suppose lie lias a reason for that.
I prestume If Information were given tlie
Bill would be ail riglit. It does not saY~
whetlier thre superintendent is to be appointed Iu addition to the inspectors, or for
special duty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is the special duty.
lie liolds

lion. Mr. SCOTT-Some hon, gentlemen
kunow more than 1 do about this matter apparentiy, I was rather startled by the statement made by thre lion. senators, that the
Postmaster General had been adding largely
to the number o! Inspectors, and I happened
to have in my liaud the civil service list for
1901. 1 fInd, commenciug witli Kin~gston,
that the Inspector is Henry Merricir, appointed In January, 1895; in the London division, Henry D. Hopirri, appointed In 1887,
and two assistants, one appoiuted In 1881,
and the other iu 1888. No new appointments
In either of tliese cases. Iu thre Manitoba
division, Mr. McLeod was appointed In 1882,
and two assistants, Kearus sud Pinhey, thre
former appointed In 1885, thre latter in 1891.
Then we come to the Montreal division.
Tlie inspector there .was James Wm. Bain,
who appears to have been appoiuted on the
7th January, 1896. David Neuligan was appointed first assistant luspector on the 7tli
December, 1877, and tlie other assistant on
the 25th June, 1881. Josephr Adolpir Medard
was appoluted In 1898. That la the flrst appolntment since this goverument came lu
power. Then In New Brunswick division,
Newton Coulter was appointed the lot Juiy,
1897, as assistant luspector. Wm. Walirer,
the lat July, 1890. Iu the Nova Scotiat

416

SENATE

division, Chas. Macdonald, inspector, was
appolnted lOth May, 1879 ; Douglas Stewart
was appointed lat January, 1890; Alfred
Cawthra was appointed ln 1891. Then ln
the Ottawa district, Frank Hawken was
appointed ln November, 1890. He was formierly assistant postmaster here. Mr. Chas.
Lesueur was appointed lst February, 1888,
and the assistant Inspector, 2lst July, 1891.'
In the Quebec division the Inspector ls A..
Bolduc, appointed Ist July, 1887; assistant
Inspector, Samuel Tanner Green, appolnted
7th February, 1890. lu the Toronto division
the inspector, James Henderson, was appointed l7th August, 1897.
Hon. 8ir MACKENZIE BOWEii,-Eitheri
I did flot make myseIf suffIciently plain or
the lbon, leader of the House misunderstood
me.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was another hon.
gentieman who stated that Mr. Mulock had
been appointing a number of extra Inspectors.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That is rather wide.
It might take in diseases such as consumaption and tuberculosis. Some may consider
theni dangerous and some may not. I think
there should be some means of determining
whether they are Infections or contagious.
If there was a list of the diseases we could
tell more about it, or If there was a proper
person appo'inted to inspect.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I fancy Dr. Montizainbert would be the person.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-He cannot *be
everywbere.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-The bon. gentleman
froni St. John drew attention to a vital point
ln this matter yesterday, and that Is the
difficulty of disposing of those people when
tbey come to our shores. We may stop them
from landing, but what la going to become
of them. ? The government agent can rend
theni back ln the ship that brought them,
but would It mot be better to see that
they did not get on board the ship ln the
first Instance ?

BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We cannot bave agents
thouglit probably the hon. gentleman understood me to say that. What 1 referred to at Hamburg, Liverpool and the other ports.
was the Ontario government Inspectors.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
lt be at ail practIcable to prevent them from
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I dld flot
landing ? If you permit them to l*and that
say that Mr. Mulock had appointed a auraclass of -people, then we meet the difficulty
ber of Inspectors. 1 said there were a nuni- that bas been presented in getting rid of
ber of inspectors, quite sufficient to perform theni again. The next clause provides that
the duties ail over the Dominion.
If, after they have landed, they are found
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill to be Infected with diseases contemplated ln
this Act, you can put theni back on the
was read the second tume.
vessel. Suppose the vessel refuses to take
them. ?
IMMIGRATION ACT A'MENDMENT
BILL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Practically the same
plan la adopted as ln New York. They are
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
landed at the Immigrant shed or put Into
The House resolved Itself Into a Commit- quarantine.
tee of the Whole on Bill (112) 'An Act to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What are the reamend the Immigration Act.'
gulations between the United States governnment and ur government with reference to
(ln the Committee.)
the Immigration Inspectors of the United
On the ist clause.
States government examining Immigrants
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The object of the Bill, upon our shores with a vlew to passing
as I expiained on the second reading, is to theni Into the Ulnited States ? Is there any
enable the Governor ln Council *by proclama- similar regulation by which representatives
tion to prohibit the landing ln Canada of of the Canadian government are at New
any Immigrant who la suiffering from a York and other United States ports for the
dangerous disease or malady, whether he purpose, of examining Immigrants des tlned
Intends to stay in Canada or pass through it. for Canada ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 7, 1902
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. In ninety-nine
cases out of- a hundred they corne through
Canadian parts. A large nuinber of ernigrants for the United States also corne
through Canadien porta, and the United
States goverument bave agents at Montreal,
Quebec, St. John and Haifax, ta examine
emigrants who are booked for the Unlted7
States.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seerna ta be
equivalent to saying that the United States
agents cau corne ln and select the better
ciass of Immigrants and leave the culla for
Canada.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, their destination la
known before they corne here.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-I. doubt that very
much. But assume that a large percentage
of Immigrants deatined for the United
States are found flot ta answer the qualifications for United States Immigrants, they are
left on the Canadian aide.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, flot with this Act
Hon. 1fr. LOUGHEED-But the responaibllity la thrown upon the Canadian government to get rid of ernigrants destined for
the United States, the resuIt being that very
heavy expense le tbrown upon the Canadian
government, with the further result of evaalan being resorted ta which wlll mucceed,
and we will have the very excrescence of
European emigration placed upon aur shores.
It seems ta me the BihI la not aufficient ta
caver the difficulty. There should be some
way of hoading the transportation tampanies responsIble.
Hon. 1Mr. SCOTT-We could compel thern
to tke"teeigrats ack.
dseasd
ta tke Te erigrnta ack
dseasd
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We do not provide for It here. We gay the emigrant shall
be compefled ta return to the country frorn
which he cames.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-Re eau be taken on
board the vessel. If a vessel commits a
breach of aur laws yan can prohibit thern
coming here at ail.'
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-But yau do not
reacb the transportation companies. TbIs
BIîl le only intended ta aperate againat the
Immigrant and not againat the transportation company.
Han. Mr. SOOTT-They are included.
27T

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ând ail the agent
can do is ta say ta the rejected Immigrant
' we compel you ta returu ta the country
from which you have came.' How can they
enfarce it ?
Han. 1fr. SCOTT-We do enforce IL
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Daes
the government pay the expense?7
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-The steamship companles are bound ta take them back.
ý
Hon. Mir. CHIURCH-The dlfficulty whIcb
the hon. gentieman fram Calgar speaka of
arises from Our geographical position. As
the hon. Secretary af State says, certain
emigrants are sh.1pped fram, Europe for the
United States, but they came via Halifax,
St John or nme Canadian part, and as the
ship 11a
not gaing to the port of their destination they are sent by rail very often.
The difficulty could only be cured, lu my
Jndgment, If we had Immigration agents
at the porta from which they are shlpped,
but I do not know that we have any power
ta arrange that. The Immigrants came ta,
Halifax en route for the western -states.
They are landed at Halifax, and snpposing
the ship goes away, what are we going ta
do about it ? This BRi says that tbey shaîl
be returned. By whorn ?
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-The steamship éompauy
that brought thern over.
Han. Mr. OHURCH-Then the Inspector
wqllI have ta go an board the vessel or be
down at the wharf.
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVÂN-Certalnly. Do the
same as lu quarantine. They are sent down
ta quarantine of course.
Hon. Mn. CHURCH-But thousands of
these Immigrants arrive at Haiffax and the
ship has a dlean bll of health. They land
and sme of them do not go ta the 'United
States. They remain drfing about Halifax.
The matter was 'brought up In the discussion yesterday. We have had people In
Halifax for one year and then sent them
back ta France at our awn expense. If we
cauld meet the difliculty by legialatian bere
It would be very satisfactory, but I do flot
knaw whether we have any power.
Elon. Mr.. CÂSGRÂIN (WIndsar)--Could
they be prevented frorn landing ?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Dees the word to United States ports but remaining ln Canada. After they are here a littie while they
Immigrant appiy te otbers-say tourists ?
take passage to the United States, and tbey
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ob, ne.
are subject then, when se discovered, to an
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The United States examination, and If they are nlot able to pass
were very severe wîth regard te this land- It tbey are returned te this country. My
Ing ef immigrants-Se much se that the idea la that a systemn ef recIprocity with the
Medical Society pretested strongly against United States should be adopted. Any man
auwhat appeared te be almost an inhuman who is rejected by the United States
United States
edict, and it was ail due te the terra 'cou- thorities as unfit te enter the
tagieus' aud 'Infectious.' Syphilis la as con- ls unfit, medically, te live ln Canada.
tagious as any other disease, and yen could
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I understand the
net take a man wbe had secondary syphilis United States was wiiling te do that.
and stop hlm simply becanse he bail the
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-We aliow the United
disease, se tbat If the diseases were defined,
It weuld be mucb better. As te the Inspec- States officer te examine an Immigrant. He
tien, I de net see any difficulty about that says : 'Yeu are unfit te go te the United
It would he done the same ais at Quebec. States.' They stop hlm at Vancebere or
The medicai efficer boards the steamer and Macadam and he Is turned back on St.
gees through and inspects the passengers, John. It is the same ln Montreal. I teld
and I suppose tbat could be done at the sea- the Heuse the ether day that there were, I
ports. The difficulty la about these in- think, fitty-flve such persons i Montreal
fections diseases. It nlay work gently or when I was there ln April, and they were
be terribly severe, mast according te the way likely te number sixty befere the end ef
the month. It dees net seem a great many,
the minister chooses te put it ln force.
but If there are slxty every menth at one
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-It dees net appear te port, they will ameunt te a large number
the
me, from. tbe knewiedge I have ef
ln a season. These persons are turned leese
matter-I bave a littie knowledge-that ûIhled, with diseases, such as favus and other
this is effective enougb, but I de net know maladies. Whether the law ls strict enough
hew it icould be made more effective. The under the circumstances, is a question. I
government should take mucb greater am afrald It la net. The people wbo are
power. Every Immigrant who la likely coming now are net like Immigrants from
te be a charge upon the country should be northern Europe.
They ceme frem the
examined. The United States system Is south ef Europe, wbere there are peculiar
that every man who lands at an Immigra,- diseases prevalent, which we do net want
tion station ln the United States la te bave ln this country.
subject te an examination. He Io examined
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I bave Ilstened te
as te bis ability te live la the country, that
Is te say, that he will net be Immediately the remarks ef the hon, gentleman from St.
a pauper, and as te bis physical abiity. The John wlth great interest, but there Io one
examination ls very perfect. There is a thlng that this Heuse has net been made
disease ef the eye-I ferget the name ef It. aware ef. I can understand hew such lmThe decter told me about it, and the doctor migrants, when tbey go te Vancebore and
turned up the eye and sald 'look at that.' Macadam, are met by the United States
Apparently there was nething tbe matter a'utheritles and prevented going further,
-witb it, but be inserted a little Instrument but ln 'the case ef steamers gelng te Boston
and a great mass ef matter displayed Itseif. and New York witx sucb emigrants, they
are turned back; what power have the
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-That la only a United States authorlties te makie the
tale-a story.
steamers take them te Canada? The United
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The examinatien bas States authorities certainly do that sendbeen strict witb a number ef persons from ing tbemn te Halifax. Uniess the gevernEurope, Greece, people from Mediterranean ment bas some power te send tbem back
countries, wbe are ln the habit ef landing te Europe, wben on examination tbey are
at Canadian ports and net professing te go. found unfit for any reasen te remain here,
Hon.

Mr.

CASGRAIN

(Windsor).

MAY 7, 1902
the government certainly shauld have the
power te send them back, or the local anthoritles of St. John and Halifax and other
points wlll have ta look after them lu the
future as ln the past. The Intention of thxe
Bill la good, but It does flot go for enaugh.
I do flot know how It ahould be renxedled
to meet the evil.

4.19

sons leave the vessel. Then a penalty
ought ta be Impomed on auy captaln who
bringa such dlseased persons to aur shores,
provided he kuows It. Of course, disease
mlght break out on board a ship. It la a
dlfficult: matter to deal wlth, aud whlle
there la uo deaire ta prevent the Bill from
paslug, the goverument should take the
power ta preveut Immigrants fram ianding
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-There
until au examînatlon shows that they are
la one way ta meet lt: none of tixese Immigrants should be permltted ta land from not dIseased.
Han. Mr. SULLIVAN-We ought ta prothe vessels lu which they corne ta thls country, until they are examined.L From the vide for an examinatlon on the vessel first.
statement made by the hon. gentleman from Falllng that causes the whoie misehief. The
St. John, It would seem that theme people goverumeut should have at each aeaport
land wlth the Intention of golng ta the médical *offleers who would go on board
United States, and are topped on the way every veasel and luapeet the pammeugera
there at Vanceboro, Macadam, or some as they do lu the United States ports.
other place betore tbey reach the United Then If any one escaped, the law could be
States. Every immigrant arrivlug at a put tn force agaluat hlm. One cannot knaw
Canadian port should be examlned before that a dîsease exista without au examinaleavlng the ship, and should not be allowed tien by a persan compétenxt ta dîscover luta land wlthout permission. There la no fectiaus or contagions dîseases.
such power lu thîs Bill.
H3on. Mr. POWER-It la thxe duty of the
health office!, at every port ta aee if aur
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.
d1seases exist on 'board a shlp.
Hou. Sir MACKIENZIE BOWELL-WIII
Han. Mr. SULLIVAN-Who appointe the
the hou, gentleman read It ? It saya that health officer ?
certain thînga may be doue; the Immigrant
Hou. Mr. POWER-The goverrlunt. It
may be compelied ta return ta the country
whence he came. How are you goîug ta la the duty of the health officer 'te ascerget hlm there ? He rnay be a pauper, aud tain If .there la au.y infectious or conluglous
I should lîke ta
you cannot compel hlm ta returu uniess yon dîsease on board sbip.
put hlm ou board a vessel and pay his pas- know where the examîxiatlon by the agent
sage. The man may be conp'elied 'ta go ou of the Uu4ttedI States takes place, la it on
board the vessel, but you do not, ln thls board ehlp, et' after the Immigrants land ?
Bill, compel the vesmel awneoe ta take him
Hon. Mx. SCOTT-I suppose sometimea lu
back. It uaya further, you can, if he o&>- one place, and sometimes another.
jects, force hlm Io go on -the vesmel. Then
Hon. Mr. POWER-The dlfficui.ty Is, there.
the vesael rnay slip hlm off agalu, or may dos not aeem ta
be any muffIdlently clear
refuse to carry him baiek uniesa thxe goveru- proviielon for entorciug
the prohibition. It
ment pay the passage. Uulesm there la a provision for euforcîng
the prohibition. If
penalty for brluglng such diseaned people ta
be ameuded by thIa BIU, you wl*ll find
ta this country, I do not sSe how It can be tha't the
Governai, General snay, by proprevented. No one objectai to the princîple cla*maion,
prahîbît the lan.ding lu Canada
of the BIIL We aIl deaire ta malte k as
of auy crliËnal or orther vicions clans of
effective as possible, and ta gîve the gov- immigrants. By thîs Bmil
we sdd diaeaaed
erument such power aun wlU enable them Immigrants ta cmdmlnai
Immigrants, a very
ta preveut an ndesirable clama 'of people proper addition, but
section 24 gos ou tc
from laudiug. It can ouiy be doue by stop- say:. Except on such
conditions, for lnplng them the moment the vessel cames In. murlng thelr re taneportatIon
ta wbeuce
Have your medical officer there to make an they
came.' Now If there waesme lauexamînation, and prevent any one who has guage of ithat kftnd, and a penalty pravlded
uot passed the examination from landlug, lu the premeat BIlH, It 'would really meet
and make the captaîn iresponsible if such per- the case. The firat clause of the Blill pro27J

SFNATE

420

vildes for the prohibition, and now we are
deaiing w¶th the second clause. It seemas
to me we need sumething more in t1dis
clause. I do not prof ess at the moment to
drait an amend.ment whieb.would cover the
ground aitogether, but I tbink something
of this kind onght to be added : 'and It
shall be the duty of the master or owner of'
snch vessel to receive such person on board
and convey hlm to the port whence he
sailed, under a penalty o! one hundred dollars for each person not so conveyed.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me
this Bill shonld recelve dloser attention If
it le going to give effeot to, the intention of
It f nrther seems to me
the government.
the government should acquaint Itself witb
ail the regulations which obtain on the part
of the Immigration Bureau of the Uni-ed
States, and practically duplicate those restrictions, and they sbould be mutusilly and
recipro!cally enforced tetween the two countries. «There -la no reason whatever t2iat
the Unîted States should enjoy the advantages xnentioned by the Secretary of State
of examining Immigrants on ur shores,
and discarddng those tbey thinlk unfit for
settiement In. their own country, to the detrIment of Canadian conditions and Institutions. This As a matter which has recelved
a great deal of attention i.n -the Unlited
It has reced-ved very 11111e attenStates.
tion at the hands of -the Canadian. government. In fact, I thlnk no attention has
been given to this subject since 1886, when
the statuts were revised. This seems to
be about the firat amend.ment to that Act
Whâle the prohdiltion in clause 2 may be
effective, so far as language can express
it, the machinery for the enforcement of
the Act la entlrely Inadequate. This la an
Important matter, as Canada la beco'ming
probably the monst attractive country on the
face of the earth for humisgrants at the present moment; and as we can easily secure
thc very crea~m of immigrants from ail parts
oft Europe aud Ameriea, there is no reason
why the goverument of Canada shonld not
norw taire the best ates to seoure the most
desiraible class of immigrants and enforce
regulations qui-te as effective as those which
obtain in the United States.

that may be desi.gnated by the Governor
Mtter stating what the Goverla Counedl.
nor ln Council may do, the Act provIdes
that If the Governor ln 0ouSil deem It
necessary to enforce the return with the
least possible delay oft the vessel, and such
lmmlgrants to the said port (that ls the port
whence they came), sixch prohibited Immigrants remining on board uniil such return of the vessel; that la the point I endeavonred to, direct the attention of the
minister to a few minutes ago. That appies dlstuetiy ta two classes. The amendlng B.ill now before us applies to dlseased
persons, while the section of the Act to
which I have juet alnded, applies to the
other clases therein menitioned. What I
would suggest to the Secretary of State before the third reading, ls, to add the power
to compel the diseased Immigrants to remain on board the vessel until it leaves theport.
Hon. Mir. LÂNDERKIN-When this question was before the House sorne years ago,.
the hon. gentlemant.rom London (Sir John
Carling) was Minister of Agriculture and
had charge oft this deps±rtmenft, I remember heving frequent discussions with hlm
ln the House, and also private couverWe discovered that the system
sations.
ln the United States was to confine ltself
to, those classes. We wanted to extend it
beyond, but the diffioulty was very great..
Lt we enforced thie Hlealth Act, and car-ried. It ont ln a broader sense, *we wero.
likeiy to di-vert esaigration. to the United.
States. The ides, was thls : The examlna-tion was made only of Immigrants and crim-.
Imal classes. As I said to the minister, infectious diseases can be spread, and other diseased persons can be Just as dangerous as
the criminel. classes. At that time the law
could not be changed ; but at present you.
can handie a ship with Infections diseases..
No board of heaith at any port will allowpassengers to land from a vessel tnat hasý
on board infections diseases. It is against
the law. TIhey are kept there ln quarantine;everybody knows that. That Is the iaw as:
I understand It.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Act applies t0 two classes of people only, did these*people whom the hon., gentleman,
that is, crnmJnals or ather vicions *classes froni St. John referred to get ln
Hon. Mr. POWVER.

MIAY 7, 1902
Hlon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-They did not
have Infections diseuses.
Hon 81r MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
why were they' stopped at Vanceboro' ?
Hon. Mx. SULLIVÂN-Why
ailowed ta get ashore ?

were they

Han. Mr. LANDERKIN-Tliey bad no lafectiaus diseases.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is intended
to refer to dangerous maladies.
Hlon. Mr. ELLIS-Whien a slip arrives,
for Instance, at the port of Ha lfax, or of
St. John, the_ government bealth officers,
usually excellent officers, board the ship, and
He reports
the captaln makes a report.
If lie bas Infections diseuses, but that means
diseases 111e srnali-pox and diseases of a
generai character comrnonly known as Infections diseases. It does not so rnuch appiy
to the particular diseases wbicb are now
being known really for the first time ln this
part of the worid.

421

what ta do with them, and It requires attention on the part of the governrnent Therefore, I respectfnlly urge oa the Secretary of
State that be will impress ln the strongest
manner possible on the Immigration départment of the governent that tbls whoie matter should be looked Into. Wbat was suitable ln 1M8 or 1890 ls not applicable now,
as the cost of passage by steamer
ias o reduced that tbose wbo could not carne
before came naw, and tbere Is a class of
people coming from the soutbern countries
of Enrgpe wbicb did not corne ta dii country ta any exteat ten years ago.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-Would It not be well
ta pass ail t he clauses of dii Bill to-day
wbichi are unobjectionabie, and aiiow this
particular clause to lie over until Friday,
and ln the meantime the clause miglit be
amended ta meet the dIfficuhty.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I was going'to snggest ta tbe bon. gentleman in chiarge of the
Bill to let the committee rise and report proHon. Mr. SCOTT-' Malady ' wouid cover gress, and let ail tbe remnarks which bave
been made by hon. members be bronght ta
It.
the notice of the Minister of the Interlor.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-It rnight.
There shonld be some penalty lmposed, and
the menus of carrying out the mensure
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls la the Bill.sbonhd lie made more effecive.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Tbe United States authorities tnrn back every immigrant, no matHon. Mr. DEVER-I wish ta say, an lieter wbether he ls an able-bodied man or not balf of the city of St John, that we bave
If he bas flot some visible mens of liveli- no cause of complaint about permitting disbood-tbat ts, If lie bas no money ln bis eased persons ta land ln the city. We have
pocket or some friend who wili be respon- a weli organized systemn. We bave an IsBible for hlm ln the country to which be la land ln the montb of anr barbour, and wben
going.
Â large number are turned back a sbip arrives with Immigrants,4 the preon our border la that way, -and they are uidlng doctor goes on board and examines
tbrown back on the city. The agent at St.. them. If there are any disensed passenJohn of the immigration department ls often gers, they are prevented from landlng.
at bis wits' end ta know what ta do witb Tberefore, we have no cause of complaInt
persons wbo are refused admission ta the on that score. Tbe only thing we have ta
United States, irbo are in this category, so compînin of Is the pauper Immigration. Such
far as menus of support are concerned. Tley people came ont, and their ostensible desare turned ladk at the border. Tbe immi- tination ls the United States.
0f course,
gration agent, If bas any rnoney in bis we cannot prevent tbem fron innig. They
pocket 0f bis own, or anybody's, will beip are not dIseased. They land, professing ta
these people. A great many of tbem are lie going on ta the United States. When tbey
Russian Jews. We have one or two Hebrew get ta the border, tbey are told they can~rganizations of a benevolent cbaracter, not enter the Uaited States nnless tbey have
whicb care for these people and help them. a certain amaunt of rnoney or provision la
Thea, there are other benevolent societies made ta support them for a certain period
which lok after them. Nevertheless, these of Urne. Tbe consequence 11s,they retnrn
people are a great nuisance; we do flot know ta the port of St John, a community of

SENATE
about 25,000 people, and we cannot constant]y see after the wants of ail those people,
who are penniless. 1 submIt under this Bill,
we would not have any authorlty to put
sucli people as I have described on board
the slip. The only way, I suppose, would
be to bring an action against the owners of
the slp, but under this Bill we would have
no suh .power. Conseqnentiy, I appeal to
the Secretary ot State to look Into thls
matter. I am n ot dispoeed to oppose any
Bill he may bring in, but It la well, be
fore this measure passes, to reconsider it,
so that friends of the goverament âill not
be compelled to say this la a slipshod measure.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There Is a good deal of
misconceptIon about this whole subject. In
the first place, referrlng to my hon. friend's
observations with reference to pauper Immigration, we have ample >power te stop
paupers- and send them bacli agai.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Want of money ta
a bad disease, but It 1a flot contagions.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-.-So far as our centrol
over vessels la concerned, it is net kInd. We
are constantly holding up vessels wlth Immigrants affllcted witli Infections dIseases.
There are Instances of first-class vessels beIng held at Grosse Ilie for a fortnîglit or
tbree weeks at a time, et very serions loss te
the owners. The saine powers exiat at ail
the ports. This Bill has been drawn by peopie who know exactly what they want to
accomplîsh by it. I shall be very glad, after
the expression of opinion here, to see the
partîcular department-I suppose it la the departinent of quarantine has charge of itand escertain whether it fuhly carrnes ont
onr Intention, that la of preventing the admission of persona who may be regarded as
objectionable, and wliether' there is power
to compel the vessels which brought such
persons to the port, to take thein away
agaîn. I thînk, myseif, thea-e la ample power.
However, I shall bring the matter betere the
minIster whe lias charge cf the departinent.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-Properly, the examinathon should take place on board the slp,
before the Immigrants get ashore.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-So It dees.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-How la It sucb Immigrants get ashore, proceed to Vanceboro,
some sixty miles frein St. John, and are
Hon. Mr. DEVER.

there found te be paupers ? We have no
provision made to compel the sh-ip to take
themnback, ibecause qsome three or four days
bave elapsed and the consequenice la, tbey
are on our bands. The offleera should be
directed te see that pauper immigrants werc
not aliowed to lanîd, not merely dlaeased
persone, but poverty-ftrlcken people. If they
would net be aliowed te land on onr shores
unless tbey had a certaIn, emount of meuey,
It -wonld not be se liard for us to, prxovide
for 'those turned back by the United States
officers.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Secretary of State
wlI save turne by movIng that the comimittee rise and report progreas. The House can
go into coxnrittee on Friday and settle
everything.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-Under
the firat clause of thus Bill, If the Gevernor
General Issues the proclamation or order
whleh Is referred to there, any medîcal officer examlnîng Immigrants at any port lu
Canada where tley mîglit be landed, can
prevent thelr landing If they have any of
the diseases referred to. In that case, the
ship la which they arrived la bonnd to take
thein back, becanse It la contrary to the law
to land thein here. They cannot be any
c'barge on the government la tInt case.
Heon. Mr. CHURCH-But that only meets
hait the dlfficulty. As my hon. frlend froin
St. John lias nid, It does not meet the case
If the government lias
ef the deÉtitute.
power, under proclamation, to prevent the
landing cf destitute people, well and good,
but let the proclamation be issued at once,
before the Immigrants come ont this year.
If the boards of health anthoritles appointed by thla government have that power
given te thein, ail the governinent have te
do, la te Issue the proclamatIon and see that
It 1-s enforced. It la net enongh te prevent
those who have diseasea froin landlng ; we
want to do wliat the United States authorities do, prevent the landlng of paupers. If
that can be dene under the Act, by proclamation of the Governer in Council, I hld lt la
the duty 0f the goverament to do it, and do
It promptiy.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 2,
Hlon. Mr. POWER-As I have polnted ont
already, thîs clause la Incomplete. It should

MAY 7, 1902
compel the master or owner of the vessel
to take the parties, and Impose a penalty for
flot taking them. I feel dlspased myseif ta
move that the committee irIse and report
progress, and ask leave toasit again, Sa that
the Minister of Agriculture can look Into the
question.
Hon. Sir 11ACKENZIE BOWFILL-If they
woubd adopt the wordlng, ta a certain extent, of the clause and sections 23 and 24
of the Act, whIch glve power to prevent the
landing of any of these classes of people,
It rnlght meet the case. That Is flot ln this
clause. If the hon. gentleman's suggestion
is accepted, there w411 be no difficulty Iii addlng those words, and passln-g the Bibi lu
a f ew minutes.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I mave that the comrnittee rIse and report pragress. I do flot
think any wards-any language could be
stronger than the language at the end a!
clause 2 :
May be apprebxended, wlthout a warrant, by
any immigration agent, or ather governm'ent
officer and mey b. compelied to return or be
taken on board the vessel, and by force, If
nlecessary.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Suppose they will
not take thern an board the vessel ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They are bound ta do
it, otherwise tbey could neyer get a clearance again.
Han. Mr. YOUNG, from the commlttee,
reported that they had made sorne progress wlth the Bibi, and asked leave toa it
again.
THIRD READINGS.
B&lI (114) An Act ta arnend the Exchequer
Court Act.-(ýHon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (137) Au Act ta arneni Chapter 41
of the Statutes o! 1901, reepectlng the
Administration of Justice ln the Yukon
Terrîtory.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY TOLLS
BILL.
THIRD RElADING.

4.

the Canaddan Pa-clfic Ralway.'
(In the Committee.)
On clause 3,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I suppose the only application o! clause 3 ls te,
enable the Governor General ta take action
as ta, the rate-la other words, this twenty
million ls not te be added ta capital. If
the government wonld onby apply that principle ta the Intercolanlal Railway I thlnk
It would be mnch better. The government
adept different priincipbea on different occasions. I wlll flot say that this la a
plece of clataip, because that wauld be
unparllamentary, but It will do no harma
and give the government an opportunity of
saylng: 'We have got tremendous concessions tram the Canadian Pacifie Railway ln connection with this.'
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Do I nnderstand that
the $9,000,000 Is the minimum amount?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Han. Mr. YOUNG-They. may spend more?
Han. Mr. SCOTT- Oh, yes.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I amn very glad ta see
that there Is such a large proportion a! this
eddltianal capital gnarantee ta the patrons
of the road, ln the direction et lncreased
rolllng stock, for ln the west, partlcnbarly
durlng the last year, we have felt the want
of It While I arn satlsfled the western
officiais of the road dld ail that It was passible for them tô do ta make the rolllng
stock as useful and serviceable as possible
for the purpose of carrylng the grain of the
North-west last year; at the eame time, there
Io no dlsguislng the fact that there w-as net
snm[clent rollIng stock at; thelu disposai,
and as a western representative, I arn pleased te see sncb a large peroentage et this
capital guaraniteed ta provlde ralllng stock
for the settiers o! the west, becanse I take It
that this rolllng stock wll find, Its way
into, the west where It: ls se badby needed.
The clause wae adopted.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG, from the commlttee,
reparted the Bibi wlthent arnendment.

The Hanse resalved Itself Into a Coxmlittee
The Bibl was then read the third time and
of the Whole on Bibl (116) 'An Act to arnend
the provision wlth regard toi Toils, of passed.

424

SENATE

DOMINION LANDS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
THIRD READING.
The Hlouse reeolved iteelf into a Committee of the Whole on Bull (120) ' An Act
to axnend the Dominion, Lande Art.'
(Ia the Committee)
On the first clause,*
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first clause authorIzes the Minister of the Interior ln Issuing any grant of Dominion lande, to have
a reserve flot exceeding 5 per cent for the
purposes of a hlghway. The - highway le
to be no greater than 66 feet.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
understand thie clause makes the provision
that ln diepoelng cef any goverument lands
5 per cent le to be reserved ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Subject to that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If a
person buys a section of land, 640 acres, 5
per cent ivould be 32 acres. Do I understand that he wonld have to pay for 640
acres, or for 32 acres lese than that ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He pays for the whole.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
yet yon reserve the rlght to take the man'e
property after he bas paid for It ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Oh, yee.
He gets the
benefit of the road..
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
seil a man a property ont of which yon
reserve 32 acres ont of every section so
'purchased for public purposes, and make
hlm psy for that reserved land.
That
may be absolutely neceseary to secure
property for public pu.rposes, but If yen o'wn
a piece of land any.where, and It le requlred
for public purposes, It is expropriated and
the valut is paid for lt. If 5 per cent Is
to be reserved aud the purchaser le not to
pay for It, then I can understand It, but
the ides of reeerving land for which a manl
hae paid, taking lt froni him-well, I suppose the ansrwer le he knows what he is
buyîng.
Hou. Mr. POWVER-He le lhable for taxes.

and then when it is becom-4ng valuable,
4
they take .11from him w4thout compensation.
Hoit. Mr. YOUNG-I suppose hon. gentiemen understand our systeni of eurvey.
It
ls som3ethlng like a checkerboard.
This
provision le to avoid maklu.- expensive roads
and for getting around bad. places by golng
through private property, subject to psynment for the lmprovements that may be
put on the land. It would flot be avalled
of, exceptlng to avodd extremely bad places
by muking a cheaper road through a man's
l3ro-perty.
HIon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Some school
lands are belng sold as higli as fifteen or
twenty dollars an acre, and possibly higher
lni my lion. friend's district. Assnming a
nman pays twenty-five dollars, Is lt equitable
that the provincial government sbould be
perrnitted to enter on that land and expropriate eiglt acres ont o.f 160 acres, and flot
conipensate him ? It seems to me a most
extraordinary power.
Hon. Mir. YOUNG-We are not sure whitt
acres wiIl be taken; ln nome places It rnay
be 3ust a corner.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But we have to
assume that the man becomes eubject to the
expropriation of the maximum quantity, 5i
per cent. Say that A purchases froni the
governmenit and B from the Canadlaxi Pacitic Railway Company, then the government
lias to psy B the velue of the la.nd that
may be taken, wheres A may have to puy
the Doinion govternment quite as mucll
as B dld tio the Canadlan Pacific Railway.
and y'et he cann ot recover anything.
I
think lt only reqtuiries to be mentioned to
show how Inequitable it Is.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This applies only to
grants which are to be made hereafter.
If a man buye land froni the goverirment
he buys lt wlth hie eyes open.
He knows
It le subJect to thie deduction ; and It has
been suggested by the hon, genitleman froni
St. John that he probarbly gives a little lese
for It ; and at any rate the public Interest
requires the road.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL--Tlîen
let the public psy for lt.

Hon. Mir. POWER-Why ehould we adopt
H1on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He that roundabont metbod. of doing it ? It le
may be paying taxes on lt for twen-ty yeare, more convenient to reserve the rigbit to
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

MAY 7, 1902
build the rands before tie land la granted,
than to corne In atterwards and exproliriate
and cotmjensate. The min la com.pesated
If bis Improvements tare lnterfered with.
Why should no~t the governanent miike a
reservatian of that kind ?
Hon, Mr. YOUNG-I ar n ot quite clear
on it, for this reamon : Taire ln the province of Manitoba, we have local laws govThe municipal
erninsg mest such cases.
councils can exproliriate a pioce of a man's
farm, and aur law is that If the council
and thie mnan cannot agree, they submit the
case tao arbitrîtion, and it la pald for. Amn 1
to understand thaît this Act w-111 step ln and
provide tht Vis part of out provincial
Iaws Is not ta be carried out ?
Tbey
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Certalnly.
can take the land without paying for It.
The priniciple la well recagnlzed la the provinice of M.anitoba and ln the North-west
Territories, that when lands are expropriated for publie purposea, either for rads
or any other purposes the government
shli pay the value of the land. But thls
permits the territorial goverunent to, evade
the responsibility whicb la now upon them,
of compensating for those lanids. Notwithstanding the fact that a man may have
Imprc>ved hls lands, they can expropriate
and pay naithing. Â railwuay cannot enter
upon and expropriate a man'a lands wlthout paying for it, nxar cmai a municipality
or e provincial governanent at lresent. The
Crown cannot do so. Then wby should
we do violence ta a we}l recogized priaciple, based upan equlty and right, and
admit of the Crown practlcal4y conÊcmtlng
5 ver cent o! a man's land? Tînt la what
It aruounts to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the patent.ba% been
lssued the clause wauld not prevail. It
waould be subje'et t» the provincial law If
tire patent bad mot Issued.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There la another
point. It permits capricious persans, who
mlght want te Injure their neIîhbour'a properity, to do so. They anight influence the
provincial glovernment aad say to them:
'We want You to open up a road through
It wiil not coot
Ale place or B's place.
We want you
the giovernanenit anythlng.
ta expropriate the 5 per cent mentionied In
the Act,' and the man la dprved of 5 per
cent o! bis land, notwithstanding the fact

425

filet he bas l.mproved it, and it may damiage
the land ta a large extent.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-In anawer to the stitement that a man la buying with bis eyes
open, I may say that le la flot He looks
at a piece o! land, and secs no reason wvby
a road shauld be run through IL Yet a
municipal council may decide ta run a road
througb the property. The municipal council might sair: 'We will get thia free and
wiil step ln and take It' and therefare my
friend. wbo bas been buying land ln the
past would find himsel! In a different position ln the future.
Hon. Mfr. DEVER-It would be very faim
If the rads were indicated before he bought
the land.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-The
government set i price upan the land and
you go and buy It. After you have purchîsed It. and pald for It, three or five dollars
an acre, one4Iftl of It can be ,taken possesaion of by any cranky munilpallty council,
and thus your property may be destroyed.
Hon: Mr. YOUNG-I believe If the government wînt a piece of a man's property they
shouid pay for It.
Han. Mr. POWER-This meisure bas gone
tbrougl the Hanse o! Gommons where the
members who are supposcd ta represent
the sentiments of the peaple mare directly
than we do, had a chance ta be leird. I f eel
that there la nathing o! greiter consequence
to a new country than ta have good rads.
Take a country.like Manitoba or the Northwest, I think ta compel them, ln arder ta
make raids, to pay land damages la a very
unwise thing. It would resuit la deiaying
the apening up of the country. The rads
are most essential, and as the Bill bas gone
througir the other Chîmber, where the peaple's representitives are, I think we are safe
ln uaying we cmn let It pîss here.
Han. Mr. DE VER-I approve o! good
rads, but honesty ls better.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then why nat
pias all legialation that cames fram the
Hanse of Commans ? I say, from twenty
years experience o! that country, thît no
more perniciaus leglalatian cauld be forced
upan the country, thîn toaîllow a provincial gavernment ta canfiscite part of a man*s
land for a rad.

426

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1±is
Honour the Speaker bas given us a stroflg
expression of opinion that legisiation which
bas passed the Communs sbould flot be lnterfered with here. The bon. gentleman sittIng beside hlm (Hon. Mr. Young) lives In
that country, and lie bas a strong opinion
on the matter. He bas Just as good a right
to express bis opinion as If be were ln the
Commons, and the suggestion tbat we should
aliow the Bill to go because It bas passed
the other Chamber, ls one wbich I think
should not come from an hon, gentleman
Who la suggesting amendments to every Bill
that comes before us. I used to think the
-bon, gentleman was somewhat pernickety,
but iately I have admired the pertinacity
witb which he insists on changes in the
grammatical and legal construction of these
measures. He deservea credit for that, and
I bave cbanged my opinion as to bis ability
on tbat score, but I am surprised that be
shouid lay down the principie that because
the representativea of the people or Manitoba in the Commons bave pqssed ameasure,
that it must override any opinion that bon.
gentlemen froni that section of the country
in this House, entertain. He forgot himself
for the moment.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We wiii let that provision stand for the present.
Hon. Mr. LOVITT, from the committee,
reported that they bad made some progress
with the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
JUDGES9 0F PROVINCIAL COURTS ACT
AMLENflMENT BILL.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (138) ' An Act to
amend the Act respecting the judges of provincial courts.'
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The object of this meacure Is to give one ef the magistrates, who
may be appoInted a Judge, a saiary equai
to the salary of the other judges. It is proposed tbat the third judge shall bave the
same saiary. We propose to promote the
police magistrate and to glve the two judges
who are there undoubted jurisdiction.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--The
Intention ia to appoint one of the magistrates. My bon. friend could not tell whicb
one.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I should be sorry to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Better
lay down any such principle as that.
take the one from Belleville.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That Is
Juat what the bon, gentleman aid say.
.Hon. Mr. POWER-I thougbt.that was-an
argument whicb bad some weight ln a case
Ulke this ; because there Ia a question as to
how thia measure ls going to affect the
voters out ln tbat region.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
votera ?

BOWiuLL-'.Âbe

Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, the votera. And
It ls one of those questions which appeal
to the public feeling, and I aay,-and 1
think it ia a fair argument-that If the
gentlemen who depend upon tbe votera, decide that mis la not an objectionable measure and is not Ilkely to be unpopular,
that la prima fadle evidence.tbat it cannot
be a very objectionable measure in the public estimation. But I should be very sorry
to say that we sbould not change it If we
thought It sbould be amended.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

On clause 2,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is entirely discretionary witb the governmeht, whetber
they allow the judge one-third or leas.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Invariable practice is to gîve thena the full a.mount when
it Is worded ln that way.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The measure
deals with judges who have become a!flicted, and Judges wbo have served twentyfixe yeara. To wbich class does this provision refer ?
Hon. Mr. POWER-It cannot be those wbo
have served for twenty-five years. I think
the Bill Is ail right ; but I may observe tbat
I have not been able to understand wby
judges have been treated differently from
other public servants. I think they should
be placed lu the sanie position as the civil
servants under the Superannuation Act, and
the retiring allowance should depend on the
lenigth o! service.

MAY 9, 1902
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Previausiy, ln order ta
receive any aiiowance, he had ta serve ten
years, and this removes that difficuity.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Â Superior Court judge can be retired, atter fiteen years, upon a two-thlrds superannuatian.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not positive.

427

SUSPENSION 0F THE RULES 0F THE
SENÂTE.

MOTION.
The SPEÂRER-Before the business of
the day la proceeded with, I think it proper
to cali attention to the tact that the Urne
for receiving reports of commlttees on private Bis expired yesterday, and If there
are such reports the only way ta secure
glon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There la no doubt their consideration la by movlng that the
about that.
52nd mile of the Hanse be suspended.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I move
a county court judge cannot retire until af- that rule 52 be snspended for the remaInder
Why the dIstinc- of the session.
ter twenty-five years.
tion ?
The motion was agreed to.
H on. Mfr. SCOT'I-That bas been the ilaw
THIRD REÂDINGS.
ail along.
Bill (51) An Act to Incorporate the DyHon. Mfr. LOUGHEED--What constitutes
ment Securities, Loan and Savlngs Camthe saiary ?
pany.-(Hfon. Mfr. EBils&)
Han. Mfr. SCOTT-Â Junior judge la apBill (CC) An Act respecting the Royal
pointed at $2,000.
Marine Insurance Company.--(Mr. Beique.)
Hon. 1fr. LOUGHEED-They receive tees
THE RÂDFORD DIVORCE BILL.
ln addition ta the saiary.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-In Ontario the tees
BILL WITRD)RAWN.
have been cornmuted. The Ontario governHon. Mfr. GOWÂN, from the Cammittee
ment allow so much ln lieu of the fees.
an Divorce, presented their 12th repart, an
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbey Bill (E) «An Act for the relief of Thomas
receive $2,400 ln Ontario.
Henry Radford,' recorniending that leave
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The Junior judge re- be given to the petitioner ta withdraw the
ceives $2,000 at first, and the senior judge Bill and that the fee of $200 paid therean
be refunded ta hlm, less the amount Ingets $2,400.
curred for the expense of taking the eviHan. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The dence ln shorthand. He said : This la a
bon. gentleman bas not answered the ques- mere matter of course. The conxittee
tion I asked a minute ago.
was unanlrnong, and I beg ta mave cancurcould not answer It rence ln the report.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I
mest now.
The motion was agreed ta.
WATSON, tram the committee,
Hon. 1fr.
GEMMILL ON DIVORCE.
reported the Bill without amendment.
MOTION.
The Bill was then read the thIrd time,
and passed.
Hon. Mfr. GOWÂN, tram the Standing
Cornmittee on Divorce, presented their 13th
The Senate adjonrned.
report, recommending that tweive copies of
GemmIll on Divorce ' be pnrchased for the
use of members of the cornrittee. He said:
THE SERATE.
Several new members have been added ta
th e committee, and we think It is desirable
Ottawa, Friday, >Ioy 9, 1902.
that they shauid each be .suppiied with a
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three copy of the work by Mr. Gemmifl. I move
o' dock.
concurrence ln the report.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

The motion was agreed ta.

SENATE
MONTREAL, OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN
BAY CANAL COMPANY'S BILL.
COMMONS AMENDMTNT CON,31DERED.
A -message was recelved !rom the Hlouse
o! Commons to retura Bill (1) ' An Act respectlng the Montreai, Ottawa and Georgian Bey Canal Company,' wlth an amendment
Hon. Mr. OLEMOW-This emendrnent to
some extent provîdes for the dlfficulty whicb
was mentioned the other day by the hon.
gentlemen from WestmoreIand,ý although In
my opinion it was not necessary. However,
the Milter o! Public Works considered
that It was a judiclous step to take, and he
has rnoved this amendment, whîch meets
w1th the concurrence o! the promoters o!
this BIIL I might say that the original Act
contaîns a condition that the governmeut
couid taire thîs work ln hand at any time by
glring a few. days' notice, and by paying
what had been actually expended iby the
constructors of the canal up to that time.
However, that la ail past and doue, and we
have simply to deal wlth this amendinent
proposed by the Mînîster of Public Works.
The other -day, when introducIng tbis
amendment, he was pieased to say:
Before I take my seat, let me thank thoze
who have done the very useful work of calling
public attention to thet zoagnificent waterway.
I oonfess that I did flot know anything ab-out
lt before 1 read ail the prospectuses, ail the
articles and pamphlets published by the Georgian Bay Canai Company. They deserve consideration et our hands, great consideration at
aur bands, and that le, the main reas>n why I
made up my mlind-epeeking for mys2f- to consent to the renewai o! their charter.
It is quite apparent that this company bas
rendered great servilce ln showing 'that the
Ottawa vaiiey possesses the best route for
the transportation of the great produ-ets of
the North-west to 'the ocean. They have
also shown that this country possesses immense water power and great forests of
tîmber, thýat it 'la rich In mInes of Iron and
oLher minerais wbich were alamost unknown
to the world up to the present time. Un! ortnnateiy, we do not ourselves fully appreclate the resources of thls country. We hed
reaiiy Information of a very meagre character of tihe resources we possess until very
recently.
Therefore it was a great advantage to this country that this canal coinpany took the matter ln haud. Had tii
course 'been adopted some fifty or. slxty
Hon. M.r. GOWAN.

years ago, It would -have saved the DominIon an immense amount of money ty preventiing thle destruction of our vat forests.
A± tihat time, we possessed ares of timber
which have since been destroyed by lire, and
reckless management. We did not know
then what we were d<olng. Had we taken
this precaution years ago, I arn bound to, gay
we would have preserved. torests of the
greatest value. Timber was cut down, and
the best of lt removed to, Quebec, where, lu
many Instances, It dld flot realize tie
amount of money expended tipon It. I have
myseif known of timber of seventy to
elghty feet average, being soid et Quebec
for twopence per foot. If we had that tlmber to-day It would co'mmand very hlgh
prices, and be of Immnense value to the country. Rad we our tiinber ereas to-day as
they would be had they been properly preserved, they would be sufficient to pay our
entire publie debit. We have 'to thank thls
cumrpeny for gaining for us tbe Information
that leads us tu reajze the advantage we
possess In tis part of Canada. They have
examined thbe whole country from Montreal
to Georgian Bey, end bave given the
Dominion the edvantage of their exploration. I amn told that 'the company are prepared to prosecute the work on this canal et
once. They do flot want delay. I question If tbey need any assistance from the
government. I arn told, on reilable authorIty, 4ùhat when this Bdl passes, 'w'th this
modification, they wtiil commence the work
and we may expeet ln the near future .to
see the canal ln operaition. Thougb I arn a
pretty old mnan, I hope to see this canal ln
OPeration, and I feel that the country wiil
derive vast advantages from Its construction. There Is no other canai system whlch
wiill meet the 'wan*ts o! the wegt s0 completely as e meenu of effording an outiet
for tihe products of the prairie country.
WLtbout this canai, we cennot hope to ecommodafte the rapid expansion ln triafic.
There wlll be business for the raiiways aiready bult, and for those tha± are being
built, because this country la mereiy la Its
infancy. B'efore many years we will require ail the routes that we can develop to
transport the products of the west to oimr
ocean ports. This canai 'will be o! inestimable value, not mereiy to Ontarlo and Quebes, but to the w'hoIe Dominion. I hope this
great undertaking Pvl be prosecurted with

MA&Y 9, 1902
and mnen engaged
vigour, and that we eh-an have the advau- a nd payîng the contractor
It shows thxe irnlie amount expended.
tage of utllziug it et the earlis date pos-t
this Information to the
sible. The company have already spent a piort.ance of giving
ppublic as soon as possible. It lias become
large amounlt of money in .prellxnlnary work,
300 miles long
and have sbowu great earnestuess lu the wnown that there Is a river
a very short Urne
matter, aud are now prepered to commence vhich was unknown, until
go0. It shows the necessity of letting the
I IL
construction withont f urither delay.
This
therefore beg 'to move 'that the rules of the ublic know the extent of the country.
-aud -the ameud-meut arge river, 300 miles 4n extent, was unHouse be suepended,
made by the House of Commons be con- znown except to a few men who uudertook
-o explore the country for private purposes.
curred lu.
We possess Immense wealtb and minerais
(de Lanaudière)-I
Hon. Mfr. CÂSGRÂIN
)f ail klnds, of whiciî we are perfectly Ignofully concur wlth the amendinent which bas
a good deal
promoters of this raut. This country bas doue
just been adopted by the
.n this quarter, and I have no doubt the
I may also add that I had the 1
project.
will reap the advantnges of thelr enadvantage, lu the speech I made on the people
terprise before very long.
Address, to indicate that I thouglit the goverument of this country should keep.posThe SPEAKER-I wlsh to direct thxe atsession of the French river, and also of that tention of the hon. gentleman lu charge of
x-ast sheet o! water calied Lake Nipisslng, the Bill to the fact that, as far as my judgfor a national way from the shores of Geor- meut goes, the ameudmeut ls not just now
glan Bay to North Bay, on the nortb shore lu the shape lu which It should be. The
of Lake Nlpisslng. If private enterprise can ameudmeut ls to add at the end of the Bill
furnisb us with a canal wlth a draught o! clause A, 1The compauy shahl not exercise
20 feet, there'15 no doubt It would be a great its powers nder this Act.' Thxis Act does
iidvantage to this country. I slncerehy wlsh, not gîve thxe company any powers at aîL
every succesa to the gentlemen wbo have This Act slmply provîdes that the time for
the phuck and enterprise to undertakie that the begluniug of the work shall terminate
vast project If It can be achleved It wll at a certain day, and rny humble opinion
be a grand tbing for Canada. In the mean- is that lusteadl of being under thtu Act it
tlme, I muet say I füliy concur ln the should be under the Act hereby amended,
ameudment made to this BiHl lu the House and for that reason I was going to suggest
of Commons by the Minister of Public -I may be wrong-that the bon. gentleman
W'Vorks lu mnking two distinct sections of should move that the ameudment be taken
this waterway. It will taire many years to into cousideration at the first sittlng of
makethe Oltaswa river route navigable for the House to-morrow, lu order that the law
large draft vessels. I, for one, think that clerk may'have au opportunity to look over
the raiiways will eventually supersede can- the amendmeut and ses that It la made rigit.
ais, and la the meanwhhe the railways,
Hou. Mr. CLEMOW-I have no objection.
both the Canadian Pacific Rallway and the
into
wlU take charge o! I move that this ameudmeut be taken
Grand Trunk Ralway,
consideration at the &ert sittlng of fihe
the Immense amount of freight which will
be distributed at North Bay, and for many House to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
years to corne, before the canal enteïprise le
cnrrled througli, the ralways wiii be able
to handle the wheat that will be brouglit VISIT OF THEIR ROYAL HIGHNESSES
TO CANADA.
to Nlpisslng. I thierefore concur wlth the
INQUIRY.
greatest pleasure lu the project, and I may
say If it had not been adopted, I. wouhd myLANDRY lnqulred of the .gov-Hon. Mr.
self. lu my own humble way, have objected erument :
river
to heure Lake Nlplssing and the French
At the trne aad en thxe occasion of the visit
lu the bauds of private enterprise.
te, Canada, lu SepteuLher last, of their Royal
the Duke and Duchees of Corn.wall
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-The original charter Hlighueewes dld His Majesty's goverumnent'offer
and, York,
gave thie goverument power to assume nny Canadians marks of the Royal favour whtch il
part of thie work by givlng a short notice, lied pleased Hie Mai esty to confer on. themn?

430

SENATE

Wbat are these honourabie distinctions ?
erament a.nd not my hon friend's knowiedge.
To whom were they off-.red ?
Who are 'the persons who refused them, saï~1The hon, gentleman should draw a distincwhat reasone wer-. the mo'tive of thoir refusais! *tion between his personal knowledge and

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-At the time of the visit the knowledge of the goverament.
to Canada of Thefr Royal Highnesses the Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is flot a question that
Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York; I arn bound to answer. I was answerlng
Hlis Majesty the. King was pleased to conter truthfully la the other Instance.
Those
certain honours on the foilowing gentle- mattera do no.t corne up Êbefore the Couacil.
They are aaters that wiil takre place bemen, that la to say :
To be Xnlghts Commandera of the Most *tween the Governor General and the Prince
Distingulshed Order of Saint Michael and o! Wales. Possibly the Premier wlU know
something about it.
'Saint George :
Sir John Alexander Boyd, Chancellor of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I quite
the Higli Court of Justice of the province of understand the position taken by the hon.
gentleman. The explanation is quite unOntario.
Louis Amable Jetté, Esquire, Lieutenant neceaaary. To my personal knowledge I
know that what he States la correct as to
Governor of the province of Quebec.
To be Companions of the said Most Dis the- latter part. But the point 1 raised was
this : The hon. gentleman askedf the questinguished Order :
tion, and the hon. Secretary of State says,
Joseph Pope, Esquire, Uader-Secretary of
'I know nothing about it' He might mlot
State of Canadia.
know, but his dusty was to Inquire o! the
The Very Reverend George Munro Grant,
government if they had an answer to It.
D.D., LL.D., M.A., Principal and ViceHoa. Mr. SCOTIT-I amn a member of the
Chancellor of Queen's Coliege and Unigovernment.
versity, Kingston, Ontario.
William Peterson, Esquire, LL.D., M.A.,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I quite
Principal and Vice-Chancellor of McGiil agree that he was not obliged to answer
Coliege and University, Montreal..
that, 'bocause they mdght net know anyth.ing
The Reverend Olivier Elzear Mathieu, o! the refusai. It la only the mode of
Principal of! Lavai University, Quebec.
answering of which I complain.
Oliver Aiken Howland, Esquire, Mayor
ARTILLERY
SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
o! Toronto.
Major Frederlck Stanley Maude, ColdIlNQUIRY.
Stream Guards, Miiitary Secretary to His
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquired o! the govExoeilency the Governor Generai.
erament:
To be Knlght Bachelor :
Are the fIled batteries In- the artiilery serThomas Shaughnessy, Esquire, President vice equipped Ina such a way as to be of any
? Have
sIeds for thie
o! the Canadian Pacifie Railway Company. use In winter cannons, they baggage carts transport of their
and
?
Is it the Intention of the governmen-t ta make
Ia auswer to the lest question, I have no
the service of theee batteries as effective ia wiaInformation on the snbject beyond the vague ter as lu summer ?
reports lu the public press.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The field. batteries are
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon. Secre- not equipped with Bleds for the transport
tary of State know If there was any refusai of their guns and wagons, but they could
be transported on ordiaary country aleda, If
at ail ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I kaow nothing occasion shouid arise, by diamantling the
guns, as was done when the troops went
about it other than what I aee In the papers.
through the gaps north of Lake Supertor
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does to the North-west Rebeilion la 1885.
the government know anythIng about it ? With regard to sieds from which guas
could be fired, there a;e two types In use la
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I do not know.
the permanent force, one invented by Colonel
Hon. Si.r MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
.Drury-, w'hich la an adoption of the ol<t
question i. as to the kaowiedge of the gov- WooiwIch
pattera sIeigh, and nu other by
Hou. Mr. LANDRY.

IMAY 9, 1902
Colonel Rutherford, which le of the bobsleigh type, and lias been capled by the
War Office authorities.
The question of ttc mout sultable type ot

sligh for service In Canada le under cons1deration, with a view to having one appro.ved ]patteru for future manufactureTRAINING 0F VOLUNTEER FORCES IN
CAMP.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqulred of the government :
At what decision has the government arrived
on the subject of the training of the volunteer
forces ln camps this year ? Will It bie as in
forL'er years, or If there la a change, In what
ivill this constut ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The subject le under
consideration by the department.

Hon. Mr.' LANDRY-I think the newspapere gave It ail ont.

MANITOBA

SCEIOOL

QUESTION.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY rose te
Draw the attention of the Senate tu tbe foilowing deolaration, made Decemaer 15, 1896, at
Toronto, by the Honourable Mr. Fitzpatrick
(then Solicitor Gencral, to-day Minister of Justice), and reparted by the newspapera of that
tume'T'ne programme of the Liberni party upon
the Manitoba sehools question) has this advantage, that If the firet attempt at a modus vivendi
(that la to say the Laurier-Greenway comprùmise) does not give uatisfactiou, It mnay *'q corrected and bettered. by new amicatile arrangements between the two governingnts. At the
nome time, the way of federai iegisiat<m ramains always open to the Manitoba minority
in cas.e conciliation shouid not suced ln cmeatFrinatly,
Ing an acceptable sittuation. . . .
will stili and always te
If a-Il that folle, ttre
tlne to have recourue- to a federal law' appropriate to the circumnstances. Il that does not
give satisfaction we wiii do more.'
And that te will Inquire:
1. Has the government takpn commniucation
or bedA It knuwledge of a pastoral letter, dated
March 9, 1902, Written by His Grac* Moneeigneur the Archbisphaç o! St. Boniface, -in which,
alter havlng cited the words of the Sovereign
Pontiff condemning the Laitrier-Greenway arrangement, or at leat the law wtich vasn the
consequence. of it, as defective, Imperfect, lusuiliclent, Hie Grace adds:
'In reading over thîs page my dear brettren,
and in considering the actual state o! tilings, andi
then that noue of aur uchool. righ-ts have becu
rendered te us by law, as, well that our situation should bie amellorated, we ask ourselves
how It cen lie, tthat Catholles, fathers of famIies, or statesuien, Journalists and' others, dare
ta say that the setool question ls fin&lly re-

4]

gulated ta the satIsfiction of the Cathoiic MinNcything can be mare contrary to the
ority.
truth. No, our sohool question la flot settled.
2. In face of the posiltive affirmaticon made by
the representatîve of thé Cathollc mlnorlty af
Maniltoba thït, rins of the school rights have
been rendered ta the latte3r by the iaw which
camne out of the Laurler-Greenway compromise;
In face of this oth-ir equally positive affirmation., that nothlug la more, contrary to the truth
than ta pretend that the sehool question han
been settled to the satisfacýtian of the Oatholic
mtnority, le It the Intention of the governmeflt
tu have recourue, ta the expedient suggested and
promlsed by one of the members *! the present
administration and ' ta cete and ameliorate
by new am.icable arrangements between the two
governments a modus vivendi whlch, evidently,
gives nu satiefaction ?
3. Doe the way of fedes'ai leginlatian remiain
alwrys open ta the Oathoiic minorlty In case
conciliation abould not succeed lu creating au
acceptable situation ?
4. Io lt the Intention of the goviirnment, If the
actuel situation lu not accepted by t.he Catholic
minority of Manitoba, and If the legisiature of
that province refuses or neg1ects tu rcmedy Jt,
to take In band Itself the cause of tbo- oppressed,
and to grant. by way of federal legio.-ation, the
rcmedy which the constitution Iteif bas created.
which a judgment without appeai of the Judici Conuittee of the Privy Council of 111a
Majesty indicates, ard wtlct wats promised
moreover liy one of the niembers of tte prasent
adinistration ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I must decline to
answer queutions based on newupaper reports published In 1896 «asto the correctness
of which I have uo knowledge. .Moreover
It ie a well settied rifle that If a question lu
hypothetical It lu objectionabit and should
not be answered. This lu ail hypotheulu,
that lu If certain thingu are so, certain otter
thînge follow.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-They are so.
Hon. Msr. SCOTT-That lu a matter of dispute and doubt-very muet doubt.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I suppose If the governmcnt do not want to give an anuwer
they won't give It.
SEATING 0F GUESTS AT OPENING
ÂND OLOSING 0F PÂRLIÂMENT.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved:
That a Select Committee bie appointed, to
consiet of His Honaur tte Speaker, Honourable
Mr. Scott, the Roeiourable Sir Alphonse Pelletier,
K.C.M.G., tte Honorable Messieurs Macdonald
(Victosria), Ellis, Lougteeô and the 'mover, to
consider and regulate the Invitations and seating of guestu in the Senate Ohamber at the
openlng ani clostng of parliament.
The motion was agreed to.

SEN_ ATE
THE CORONATION OATH.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired of the governnient:
In going to England to bo present at the ceremontes at the Coronation of the K.ing, does the
I'rinx' Minister of Canada intend te profit by
prutest, in
'tisname of occasion tocountry. and hie turn, In
particialariy
the solenm the whole
Ir. the niease of adI thoee who have eigned the
numenous petitions sent te that effect, against
the affront aiready offered to the Catholies of
the Dominion by the statutory declaration Imposed on the monarcli tending to denounoe their
rites and their religion as a superz.tition and
an IdelatryT

If It la because the motion ltself was against
the rulos of this House, why has not the
Speaker, after a delay of twenty days, made
his report te the Senate and pomnted eut the
article ln the rulea of this Houge which the
-publication of that motion would have violated?
. In an-y case, doea the Speaker of thé Sonate
Intend at beast to:accounrt te the Sonate for the
acte whlch ho takçs upon hhunseif te ezecute
without, but In othe mame of, the a-uthorty of
tbis House ?

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY *said:, Since giving
notice ef this inquiry, I bave had some
explanation shewing that the motion I
ooeered at the time bas been lest, and If the
Renne will permit that motion belng brought
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn unable te Inform forward te-morrow without being read, as
the bon. gentleman wbat the premier may the practice was, before the adoption ef the
order made by this Heuse and roferred te
say or do when ho goes to England.
ln my question, 1 will drep this question,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbere are no Instruc- witb the consent of the House.
tions?
The SPEAKER-I may say I cencur ln
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No Instructions.
the suggestion made by the hon, gentleman.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.

The notice of lnqulry by the Hon. Mr.
Landry belng called,
That he wilI draw the attention of the Senate
te the following tacts :
.1. On May 1 ot the present yoar the Senate
adopted, unanimnousi a motion which constltutes an order of this Houe, and which reads
as tolilows
«That a Senator on givtnrg notice either et a
motion or of *an inquiry which hie intends to
make, shall tiret read said notice from hie seat
in the Sonate, te the Hous, bof oro handing it
to the olerk for Insertion In the Minutes and
Proceedings.'
2. Before that date of May 1, to, wit, on Âpril
16 of the present yen-', when the aforesaid motion
hsd-.not yet becomo an ordeur ef the Sonate, one
of the mnembors of this Houýu handied te the
clerk theroof a notice ot motion for the production of the correspondence exchanged between the Departments of Militia and the commanding offcers of certain reXiments of the
volunteer force on the subject of the nomination
of certains honorary lieutenants-colonels.
3. The clerk et the Sonate refu»ed, upon the
eider et the Speaker of the Sonate, to give thit
notice of motion In order that it inight be regularly printed In the Ordýers of the Day.
4. That notice of motion did net contain any
aillegation or any e-xpr,"sion whatsoover which
c.uld have been derogatory te the honour of the
Sonate.
5. The Speaker ef the Senate has nover, from
Âpril 16 te this day, acquainted this Eoeise
~ith the act of authority whih he bel1eved- hie
ought te talcs upon himself te ex-erzise.
And that ho will Inquire :
Why did the Speaker of the Sonate tako upon
hirLmelf te prevent the regular publi.,.ation in
the Orders of. the Day of a netl3e of motion
given by a senator ?
If lt la because that notice had not been reid,
why did the Speaker, by anticiDatim, give effoot
thon te an ord-.er which only bezame obllgatory
fourteen days later ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

The motion ef
withdrawn.

inquiry was

thereupon

BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (11) An Act te provido fer the ostablishiment of the Medical Council In Canada.--<Hon. Mr. Sullivan.)
NORTH SHORE POWER, RAIL WAY
*AND NAVIGATION COMPANY'S
BILL.
THIIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the third readIng of Bill (73) 'An Act to incerporate the
iNorth Shore Power, Railway and Navigation Company,' as amended.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B. C.)-Wben
I objected te the third readlng et this.
Bill the other day, It was flot because
I -was opposed-te the Bill Itself, but be-cause I wantod te keep the Heuse witbin
lts own orders. Hon. gentlemen know thatthe report of the Standing Commlttee on
Standing Orders recommended that. theoperations of the company should be confined te tbe province of Quebec. This BIill
le dividod Into two portions, and clause 6of the Bill gives certain powers over the.wbole Dominion of Canada. Anether part
ef the Bill, subsoctien 2, confines the operatiens of. the company te the province of
Queboc, for fleur mills, cetton mills, paper-

433

.MAY 9, 1902
mille, elevators, and things like that. I
merely cali attention to the fact that one
portion of the Bill gives powers over the
whole Dominion, contrary to the recommendation of the CJommittee on Standing
Orders.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The report of the
Standing Orders Committee wili be found
on page 219 of the minutes and proceedings,
referring to this Bill. It recommends that
the manufacturing operations be conftned
to the province of Quebec. The committee
to which the Bill was afterwards referred
carried out that suggestion, and confined
the manufacturing operations to the proHowever, they take
vince of Quebec.
power to do business throughout the Dominion.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If the
bon. gentleman will take the trouble to read
clause 6 of the Bill, hie wili find that the
company have the power also to manufacture ln any part of Canada. Subsection b gives them power to carry on the
business, In ail Its branches, or manufacturing pulp wood, paper, and ail other businesses Incident thereto. So that, really, while
It confines the erection of certain buildings
to the province of Quebec, the company le
able to carry on almost every klnd of business mentioned ln this clause throughout
Canada. The powers giveù here are, as
Indicated, by the hon. gentleman fromn Victoria, ln direct contravention of the recommendation of the Standing Orders CoinMittee, which this House adopted.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third Urne and passed.
MOËNING SITTINGS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mir. SCOTT moved :
That the Senate do mieet on Saturday next,
and that there be two distinct sittings on that
day, and on each succeedIng day during the
remnainder of the Session, the firat sitting at
Il a.m., and the second sitting at 3 p.m., each
such sitting to constitute a distinct day.
The motion was agreed to.

respecting the Packing and Sale of certain
Stapie Commodities.' He said: The object
of this Bill is to Include the dealer with the
manufacturer and the Importer ln the obligation to attach a stamp to binder twine,
it being provided, ho-wever, that the dealer
le a person who bas bought direct from the
manufacturer. That ls the only change ln
the law. OtherwIse the dealer would be
really exempt whiie the manufacturer and
Importer would be obliged to attacb the
stamp.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second time.
The Bill was then 'read the third tume,
and passed, under a suspension o! the rules.
LAND TITLES ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD 11EADING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second, reading of Bill (149) ' An Act to amend the Land
Tities AÂct, 189.' He said : This amendnMent ls for the purpose o! removIng a tecbnical difficulty that prevailed lu the Northwest ln regard to powers o! attorney to
enable railway companies, loan companies,
and other corporations to facilitate their
proceedings to have a general power of attorney filed.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
It apply to private individuals as well ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. But it ls really
for those corporations who have large areas
of land. Then there is another provision
t1iat when the registrar la satisfied. that if
a man lias lost bis certIficate, hie 1s authorized to Issue anotber.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Both amendments
are very mucli needed ln the Land Tithes
Act.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second Urne.
The Bill was then read the third tie, and
passed, under a suspension of the rules.

CHINESE IMMIGRATION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
PACKING AND SALE 0F STAYLE COMMODITIES ACT AMENDMENT
SECOND AND THIRD READING.
BILL.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved the secSECOND AND TIIIRD READING.
ond reading of Bill (156) 'An Act to amend
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- the Chinese Immigration Act, 1900.'
He
Ing of Bill (141).1 An Act tO amend the Act said: This Blill simply amends the Chin2s

S EN ATE
ese Immigration Act of 1900, clause 2-1,
substituting 50 per cent for 25 per cent of
the arnount of the hiead tax, coiiected by
the Dominion, as the amouat payable to tlie
provinces. It wli be paid to ail the provinces alike, according to the amounts colrected.
Hon. M4r. SULLIVAN-Wiat
aimount of the head tax ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-One
dollars.

Is

the

hundred

nt ports iii British Columubia, stili, it is quite
apparent that a large flamber do not do so,
and some of the bead tax is coliected in the
east. Those figures bear a relative proportion to the population of Chinamen lu the
provinces.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The territeries
only received $37.50, and there mrust be fiye
liundred Chinamen la the terr1tiorles.

Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-One- and more than 40 ln Ontario.
Liait of the net proceeds ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I have the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, atter the figures givea under -bulletin No. 7 as issued
expenses of managlng is deducted.
by the Cenýsus Depnrtment The Chinecse la
Hon. Sir MJACKENZIE BOWEI~LIt is British Columbia number 14,809l out of a
total population la ail Canada of 17,296.
ail wrong, but we wiii let lt go.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-There us Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-low rnany are
an other feature of it. Haif of the moneY accredited to the territorles ?
coiieicted will go to the province into whicli
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-In Nova Scotie,
tlie Chinese corne, and as there Is only one 100; New Bruinswick, 59; Ontario, 732 ;
province, lt wiil go to that province.
Prince Edward Island, 4 ; Quebec, 1,037 ;
Aiber ta, 223; As4nlboia, 52; Sasiratelhewan,
Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
I poiated that out the other day, and the hon. 4; Yukon Terr4tory, 7. In ail the three tergentleman said that eaclh provipce wouid ritories, a total of 280. That Is the populaget its share. The Immigration from China tion as it at present exists.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEBED-We must have
Is altog-ether to British Columbia, and cousequeiitIy Britishi Columbia gets ail thie pro- haîf that number ln Calgary.
ceeds, notwitbstanding the fact that a very
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
large number of flie Chiinese corne past and census Nvas for 1891, because there are more
settie la our different proylnces. Some may tiian that now.
corne to the maritime provinces, but I fancy
Hon. Mxf. TEMPLEMAN-I arn reading
it would be very few.
frorn the census bulletin of March 12, 1892.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-According to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
the Auditor General's report of the iast
fiscal year, the foilowing surna were pali oniy census that has been taken, as I understand , was in 1901.
to the provinces:
Hon. Mr. TE.%PLEMAN-I think 1901
British Columbia .. .....
$40,512 00
Ontario.........1,550
was the census, and consequently it 15 as
00
Quebec.........1,300
00
accurate as we can have ItL I want to
Nova Seotla........100
00
quote the figures to make the point, that
Nerth-weet Territorles ..
37 50
wbile the money is pald according to the
Under the law as it at present stands, the entry at the customs-Louse, stili it bears a
money is paid to the provinces according relative proportion to the number of the
toý tue amounts recelved In the dIfferent population as they are in the country.
provinces, according to the customs entries
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If they
where the Chinamen enter, or where the
were to keep those Chinese ln British Coibead tax is collected, so that four times
these arnounts must have been coliected In umubia, It would be ail right, luit they do not
the provinces narned. There wiil be no aI- keep thexu there.
teration la the iaw in tbat regard, so that
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD) (B.C.)-I wish to
while it is a fact that very nearly. ail tue say a few words before the motion -passes.
Chinamnen coming into the country enter The hion, gentleman said the other provinces
Hon. Mlr. TEMPLEMAN.

IMAY 9, 1902
debt ? Recause we ail kçnow that temlporary boans of the character to which the hon.
gentleman refera, and whieh -tibis Bill is lutended to cover, always carry a much higber
rate of Interest than a permanent loan, so
that If they have the power to borrow three
gr four millions, or wbatever it may be,
why bas lt not been donc ? The hon, gentleman saya, It ls ta cover the floatlng lndebtednesa of Canada, whleh bas been accumulatlng for a number of years. With the
power to borrow, and that too at a much
lower rate, the hon. gentleman should be able
to tell the House wby they have flot exercised that power, and pald off that floating
debt to the extent of their powers and
authorlty to borrow. May 1 also ask what
intereat bas 'been pald on this floating debt ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The explanation I think
la, that a good deal of money la falling due
la the next two, or tIrree, or four years, and
the Finance MIiuter did not consider hast
yeur or this year a desirabie time to go
into, the Britishi market.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Will
the [hon, gentleman get us that Information
for to-morrow or Monday ?i
SUPPLY BILL.
Hon. 1%!r. SCOTT-I wIih.
SECOND READING.
SCOTT moved the second readThe motion waa agreed to, and the Bibi
(157) 'Au Act to authorlze the was read the second time.
way of loan certain sums of
Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved the Bill be rend
the public service.'
the th-ird tlme to..morrow.

should recewve a portion of the Chinese tax.
1 think British Columbia would willingly
say : 1Take the Chinamen and take thbe tax
-a weli. They are flot wanted here.' So
that, if you eau, by any means, arrange to
have the ChInamen land at any other place,
you eau keep your -tax -and keep the Chinamjen as well. I suppose It would Ibe late
now to say anylthlng about the Iniqulty of
the Chinese tax, but I 'tbink it la Most un]British and lniqultous. I oppose It and ai%vays wlli, but It le flot.bef ore us, and I wlii
say nothlng more. This Bill makes a very
:smali off ering to British Columbia, whicb
contributes so much to the revenue. I may
say, that I hope hereatter, vehen we corne
to the goverument for aid-because there
wili be large raliway works ln British
Columbia next year-that the government
wiil assist us bandsomely ln openlng up
and developing that country.
The mýotion ivas agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second lime.
The Bill was then read the third time, and
passed, under a suspension of the miles.

Hon.
iug of
raisin,
mouey

Mr.
Bill
by
for

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Might
1 ask what sum the government are now
empowered to borrow i The firat clause
says this fifteen million la to be ln addition
.to, the unborrowed and negotiable loans.
Hlou. Mr. SCOTT-I could not .tell. It la
.- pretty large amount. This fifteen millions
a
,was to pay balances to tihe banka that have
been accwnulating for a number of years.
I have flot the amount.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
wl lot the Bill go ithrough, but I shouid
Ilke the Information. It la giving power to
raise the fifteen rnillion over and above the
eaums uuborrowed under the .powers that now
exiat under the law.
The SPEAKER-lt la a-bout two and a
hiait mIllions.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIÈ BOWELL-Wlth
that power why have they not 'borrowed
money ito pay off a portion of this floating
28j

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Shouid
net the Bill be referred to a Committee of
tbe Whole House ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. we neyer' refer
these money Bis to committee. Tbere la
no object In doing so ; we have no power
to amend tbemn.
Mr. SPEAKER-I thlnk any governmeut
under our ruie, shouid. be referred
to a Commlttee of the Whole House.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It la
true we have no power ta amend a money
Bill, but -we -have a rigbt ta diacusa Its dtala. A BUIi of tii charaoter niight create
a good deai of -discussion, and I wouhd suggeat that the lbon, gentleman me! or It to a
Coimittee of the Whole House.
Hoin. Mm. SCOTT-I have been ln the
Senate si-nee 1874, and I have neyer known
til House to, go lnto Committee o! the
Whole on a Supply Bill.

~Meaaure,

SENATE
On clause 2,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
there aiiy ruie laid down governing the proHon. Mr. SCOT-In this clause we ]iav'ceedîngs of (the Senate, that dispenses with to ada after the expression 'Noe. 1,' X X X.
our goiing lnto Committee of -the Whole on
The clause was amended and adopted.
a public Bill? It may be that we have
falleu. Into that practice. I do not dispute
On clause 4,
tuait, -but I amrn ot eware of any rule whlch
Hon. Mr. SCOTT'-In the correspondeuce
warrants It.
I have recelved from the Fruit Growers* AsHon. Mr. SOOTT-Ttie obJeoit of. going ln- sociation o! Nova Scotia, It la suggested that
to committee is to give freedom of discus- there should be a penalty for removing any
sion wlth -a view to making changes ln a nmar-k that is -put en a fruit package, wlheBill. In dealng wlth Bis wbich w'e ould ther made by the Inspector or nny eue else.
riot change, there is no advantage la dis- 1 propose to aimend section 10 by striking
cussing themn ln Cornmittee of the W.hole.
out the word 'Inspector.' That wll ineet
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We sometimes go ln- the principal objection urged. The object
to commlttee on a Bill and make no changes. Is to prevent anybody removing at private
mark made by the packer or owuer.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But we could do so if
Hon. Mr-. POWER-My recoliection la, tbat
we thought proper.
the Aot of hast year proxided that the lnHon. Slr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Or we spector should remove marks made by
may want tbo get Information for the public. packers under certain clrcumstances.
Wili
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-In. coin- not this, render the Inspector hiable ?
mittee we anight discuss the different clauses
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It might Ibe amended
of a Bill without -being able to amend thexn, by addlng the 'words 'wbo unlawfully.'
but certalnly we have the rlght to dlscuss
The clause 'was amended and adopted.
them.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY, fromi the committee,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
we had botter insist on golng lnto Committee reported the Bill wlth amiendments, whîcli
on thls Bill ±o-tmorrow. It wll flot delaY were concurred ln.
the third reading.
The Bill was read the third lime *and
The SPEAKER-W-ihl the hion. Secretary passed.
of State accept the suggestion ?
POST OFFICE ACT AMEND'MENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTIT-Oh, yes.
THIRD READING.
The committee stage was flxed for the
The House resolved ltsehf Into a Committee
second sltting of the Houee to-morrow.
of the Whole on 'BihI (106) 'An Act to arnend the Post Office Act.'
FRUIT MARKS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
(In the Commlttee.)
THIRD READING.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I might say I notlced
The House resolved Itself Into a Commlttee that at a meeting o! the parties Interested,
of the Whole on Bill (136) 'An Act to amend partlcularhy the letter carriers, la Toronto,
a few days ago they approved o! the Bill.
the Fruit Marks Act, 1901.'
(In the OomrnIttee.)
On clause 15,
On the lat clause,
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I should
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-T-he new part of this hike to have some Information fromn the govclause Is that whicli provides for the de- erameat as to the amount the passage o!
this Bill la going to add to the expenditure
signation o! the grade of the fruit.
more than was expended unHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Who has the op- of the country,
der the Post Office Act which has govemned
tion of putting on the exitra mark ?
thiat service up to the present time. Thiere
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The packer.
Is no doubt a large Increase ln the expendiThe clause was adopted.
ture wilI be Incurred under this Bill. The
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

31AY 9. 1902
elerks coming la at iower salaries will get
an lacrease, and the increase goes on mucbi
more rapidly than under the former Act.
Altog-ether, it must add very inaterially to
the cost of the service, and I should like to
know what the amount is.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I arn unable to give my
lion. frlend the figure. I hope it ls considerable, because there Is no branch of the public service where men have been so unfairiy
pald as the Post Omce Departmeat, and 1
think the Postmaeter General bas heard a
good deal about it during the last tlèree or
four years. Public opinion bas forced this Bill
upon hlm. Mr. llulock hesltated about It
until hie gave It a good deal of thought. He
contempiated It last year, but took another
year to think. lt over. Hou, gentlemen will
recoliect that 1fr. îfuIock bas managed to
reduce the aanual deficit frorn about $700,000 to about $300,000, so I thlnk the questioni
of econoxny and good management cannot bie
crltlcleed. Lookingé over the salaries, noue
of them appear to be unduly hlgh, conslderIng the nature and cliaracter of the service.
Hon. Mfr. CLEM3OW-Is there not a cief
Inspector employed now ? There was, sorne
*years ago, a Mfr. Sweetnam, a capable man.
I cee the government want to appoint another.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Mfr. Sweetnam bias been
dead for corne tinie. This le an appointaient
for city post offices excluslveiy.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-A new
Iaspector.
Hon. Mr. CLEIIOW-That will be an extra
one ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, I suppose so.
Hon. Mfr. CLE1fOW-Wby le that necessary ?
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-It bas been found necessary.
Hon. 1fr. CLEMO W-le It neceseary ?
Thiey have inspectors everywhere for the
different towns. Now tbey want a chief
Inspector to lnepect the inspectors.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-No, the city post offices.
The ordinary laspector takes a large district, perbape having from 50 to 100 or 150
post offices. Hie tinie le pretty well oc,ccupled going over the whole country. Tite

city business bas largely increased, and It
bas been found necessary to have an inspector whose exclusive duty It will be to 100k,
atter the clty post offices.
Hon. Mfr. POWEll-I thlnk I can glve another reason why this officer is being appolated. As a generai rule, the lnspector bas
his office ln the same building with the city
.postrnaster ; that Is the case ln Halifax
and St. John, and I fancy rnost cities where
the lnspectors reside.
Hon. Mfr. CLEIMOW-It le.
Hon. 1fr. POWER-Eitber one of two conditions is lik-ely to arise :Eithier the City
postmaeter and inspector are on very good
terras, or they are on very bad termes, and la
either case, It le not altogether wlse or suitable that the lnspectoqr should deal with the
postmaster. I quite understand wlby it is
desirable that sorne disinterested outside
pereon should go ln and inspect the clty post
offices.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-We had a chief laspector Borne yeare ago. Is that office dispensed wih?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They were inspectors
of districts.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-But there was a chief
Inspector. Mr. Sweetnami was the chief lnspector.
Hon. 1fr. WOOD (Hamllton)-He went ail
over the country.
Hon. 1fr. CLEMOW-Have .tbey filled
lis place ? Are they going to appoint anotber one now .?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This le not that office
nt ail.
Hon. Mfr. CLEIIOW-Of course, the prepayment of letters and the carrying ef mails
by railways decrease the work very much.
The work Is very much diminished, to my
own certain knowledge. oI understand what
the post office work le. Very few mails are
Tbey are carrled by
carried by veseels.
railway, and these lnspectors ueed to bave
supervision over the cierks ou the trains.
Now you want to appoint men to do the
work done years ago by a lesser number of
men.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD (I-amilton)-You cannot
compare them ln that way. The business

438

SENATIE

lias increased tenfold in the large cities, sucli gentleman, but wiiei lie repeats tlîat old
as Montreal, Toronto, and so on, and you story, that we have heard so oftea. about
could not expect the saine staff to do the the economical tendencies and the adminisbusiness.
trative abiiity of the Postmaster Generai,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I want I tblnk It is just as weli that we sliould
It is v-ery easy
to take exception to the reason given by the know the whle facts.
for the Postmaster General to report to parSpeaker.
liaient a reduction la the annual deficit If
Hon. Mr. POWER-These are flot officiai hie charges largely the expenses of carrying
reasons.
on the business to other departients. Taire
the first boat that we had of a reduction
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I
thouglit the hon. Speaker was acting as an [n the deficit when the large expenditure of
outside member of the cabinet, and giving us nioney was made ln the carrylng of the
reasons whlch the Secretary of State could mails laâto the western section of the counnot give us, and I took It to be semi-official. try-that ls the Yukon country-tbat was
ingenlously charged to the police departHon. Mr~. POWER-Not at ail.
ment. It was uy the other day ln the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It House of Commons that the Minister of
seenis to me the reasons given are a reflec- Public Works, who la generally pretty outtion on the postniasters and Inspectors la spoken In any niatters affectlng bis own
the large cities, because the only inference departuient or any others, informed the
to bie drawn from bis statement is this :that Flouse that the ten automobiles purcbased
the Inspector, who bas an office In the saine ln the c.ity of Toronto for the use of the
building with the postmaster, may be on post office, weTe charged to the Public Work3
good or bad ternis wltb the postmaster, or Departmnit. He could go on and rpdUce
tbe postniaster may not like the Inspector. the deficit to any amoxlnît, and would have
nnd the fact of bis being on very friendly a sur-plus, If lie would only continue thint
ternis with hlm, wouid lnduce hlm not to systeni o.f crrying on the business. Wlîy
look Into a derelietion of duty that might does lie îîot charge the amount paid to the
occur on the part of the postniaster; or If messengers, or those wvbo collect the letters
the Inspector did flot like the postmaster, round the cities, to some other department ?
hie miglit give him a great deai of trouble You can go on wlth that systeni of bookand annoyance which lie shouid not give keeping anid you meed noît have a deficit. I
bum, wbichi would not be the case-If lie liad thlnk 1 couid manage It.
If Mr. Blair
bis office outaide the building. It seenis to would only adopt the sanie systeni by
nie to be a most extraolnsry reason for doublîng up, or quadrupliîîg the amounts
creatlîîg a new officiai at the rate of tiiree charged for carrying tue mails for the Post
thousand dollars a year. There are gentle- Office Departnient, anîd charge the Post
men belonging to both parties who are Office instead of bis own departnient,
inspectors, and 1 have a *much better and then double it up. lie couid sooîî
opinion of theni than to thlnk that tbey have a surplus iîîstead of a deticit.
allow their likes or dislikes to interfere And so on, you mi.glt go thirougli ail
with the carrying ont of their duty la that the departments. I admit thiat Mr. 'Milrespect. I agree wlth tbe bon. Secretary of lock lias been soinewbat iiîgeiîious lu the
State ln the remarks hie made with reference manner of keeping these accounts. Look at
to many of this ciass of officiais being under- the accounts now before us and you wll
paid la the post offlices. 1 do flot think there find thiat certain charges are made againat
is a class of officiais who work longer hours other departments that should have been
and more assiduously attend to their duties chlarged agalnst bis own. That la not the
froni compulsion than the post office cierks manner and mode of book-keeping tiîat bas
ail over the country, and the amounts paîd prevalied in the past, and when you talk
heretofore to the letter carriers and those of the expenses incurred resulting in haîf a
who perforni that duty lias scarceiy been million or over a million deficit, remember
the ainount that we pay to thie ordinary that that occurred under Sir Adolph Caron
labourer around our barns or In our yards. and the late administration, wben we were
In that respect 1 quite agree witb the lion. openlng up the vnst territories 0f 'Manitoba
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton).

MAY 9, 1901)
and the Nortb-west. Tens of tbousands, I
was going to say bundreds of thousanda, of
miles of mail routes bad to be opened Up
for the benefit of settlera, but tbe Postmaster
General neyer tbought of charging the
extra expense necessarlly entalledl lu glvlug
the postal accommodation to those outlying
portions of tbe Dominion, to the Department of the Interlor. He migbt just as
well bave done as bis successors are dolng,
and then be would flot have presented to
the country a deficit of five or six bundred
tbousand dollars. It is a false mode, If 1
eaii use that expression, of keeplng tbe
books or presentlng the Information to the
country. Let every department stand upon
Its own bottom, and be responsible for every
I
expenditure that may be necessary.
admit, iu order to carry on that department
lu the public Interest, It muet of necesslty,
and particularly Ini new countries, be an
expense to the wbole country ratber tban
a source of revenue, but let It be charged
fairiy and squarely lu the public accounts.
lu order that the people may know exactly
wbat the service costs, and not; by manipulation of the accounts make a favourable
sbowlng flot; warranted by the circumstances, as bas been doue not only ln that department but lu lotbers. Take tbe Auditor
General's Report aut look at tbe expense on
tbe Intercolontal Railway whlch bas been
cbarged. to capital that under every other
administration since lis construction was
charged to carrent eccount. If the amounts
wliich bave beau expended 'were charged
to their proper socount-that 49 the annual
account lnstead of to capital-thue deficit
on tba.t road, lus.tead of being four or five
bundred thonoe*nd doilars, would bave been
this year six bundred tbousand dollars. It
ls an easy tblng to boast of onels economical metbod, but there la au bonest way
of dolng It, snd that ls presentlug the wbole
facts to the people, lu order tbat they may
kuow the trutb.
Hon. Mr. CLEMlO'W-That would not do.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
might not do for some people, but It would
be the honest mode of dolng It. I do not
belleve there la any person lu thîs country
wbo would find fauit witb the extra expendIture that le necessary to, make the
Post Office Department effective. People
golng Into new countrles are out of tbe

world, comparatively speakiug, If tbey bave
no postal accommodation, and you muet
give tbem postal accommodation ln order
to keep tbem there. Nobody objecte to that,
but tbere Is no reason why you should
cbarge It to another departmeut, and tben
<çome down and boast of your economicai
habits, and wbat a fiue administrator yon
are. That 1s wbat I complain of. Tbe less
we bear of tbose things tbe better, unless
tbe hon. gentleman ls prepai'ed to defend
that mode of carrying oju tbe large departmente, lmproperly charglng the expeuses
which are, I admit, uecessary lu order to
further the development of tbe country. and
gîve the accommodation tbat Is necessary
to make other departmeuts effective lu their
worklng. We are a growlng country. We
must expect to bave larger puy for the different services. Wbat I object to-and I
objeet ito It strongly-ls that tbe people
should be misled ; I was golng to say humbugged. Those who do flot study this subject
only know wbat lo stated to tbem, In that
off-hand way, tbat the expenditure shows
s0 much lees thon under the other administration, wlthout glvlng tbe slightest explanation as to the cause of It. I have
beard these utterauces so often that one
gets tired of tbem, more partlcularly when
one la ln the position of belng responsible
for the past ; and, while speaklng of economy, I must congratulate the tSecretary
of State ou the economical report. we bave
badl to-day upon anotber subject. lu whlch
he took cbarge of a commlttee for the purpose of remedylng a wrong that he supposed exlsted lu the past, by the ralsing of
salariles and the expeuditure. of money.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not at ail defend
the proprlety of charglng ngainst anotber
department expenses that sbould be charged
agaluat the proper department. But wheu
you come to consider wbat a very amal
proportion of the savlug Mr. Mulock bas
effected arises In tbls way, It Io scarcely
worth noting. It ls only for a llmlted tUme.
Everybody can see that Mr. Mulock bas been
a succesaful administrator, that he bas
brought dowu the expenditure by tbree or
four bundred thousaud dollars.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
This blue-book sbows the coutrary.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And at tbe same tîme
ha bhas reduced the postage, and everybody

SEN'ýATE
gets the benefit of it ail over the countrythe two 'thinge together-so that my hon.
friand muet concede that hie bas beau a
most succeseful administrator. He might
have chargaed those automobiles to the
wrong department, but what do they
amount to ? They do flot amount te $20,000.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
le oniy one Item.
Hon. Mir. SCOTT-And the expendIture
la the Yukon le ohargad up in a special
vote to the mouuted police because It was
an unusual service. He had no mane of
taking charge of it, and they took charge
of it, but It was a small Item compared wlth
the enormous saving Mr. Muîock has been
able to affect.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (P. E. L.)1 muet say I cannot give my assent
to the reasous that were put fort-h by Hie
Honour the Speaker respectilg the necessity for an addltlonal post office Inspecter,
because the post office Inspector lu certain
provinces Ilvas la the camie building that
the postmastar occuples. That cannot be a
sufficlent reason for aur change of this
kind. because we know very well that
where there ;hava bean irregularitles lu a
clty post office, where the post office lnspector was, perhaps, lu the camie office wltil
the postnaster, that the Inspecter fromn tha
adjoinlng province, or another clty office,
le brought lu for the purposa of InvestigatIng the charges that may have beau made
agaluet the office, withln which the post
office Inspecter residas. That hue been done,
to my knowladge, lu caveraI provinces, and
therefora thare can be no wvelght lu a rason of that kiud for the appoiutmeut of an
udditioual Insecter. It le trua thut clarks
lu certain post offices may be uudarpuld, but
after they have been lu thara a certain time
they gat up to a vary good salary lndead.
Thay are eutltled to about as much pay
lu a city post office as the clerks lu auy
other departmaent are after they sarved
a certain tîme. Thera le another dlace
that I thiuk deserves to be ramambered
wheu the post office departmieut le ln sncb
a flourishiiîg position ns w-e are told It is
by the hou. Secretury of State. Thut is, the
country Postmasters. There is uo class of
officiais wlthîu the whole provinces so poprly paid as the country postmnasters. They
liou. Mr. SCOTT.

have to furnish an office at their own expense for the accommodation of the publie.
and It oertainly is a tait on themn lu place of
hein.g any benefit, to have to keep a country
post office' ln localities where the settiemente are sparse, and w-here there le fnot
a great deal of business belng done. For
the matter of five or ten dollars they are
required to keep an office open at ail hours
for the accommodation of the people about
thern, and they are realiy contrlbutlag lu
that way to the revenue of the country,
inetead of recelvlug any pay freim the goverament commeneurate wlth the work they
have to do.
We have heard somethlng
about the reduction of the postal rates, as
If nothlug ef the klnd had ever taken place
under other administrations before now.
We know that under a former administradion the weigût of letters which could he
forwarded nt the rate for haîf an ounce,
was increased to one ounce. That made a
very materlal difference ln the revenue or
the Post Office departmnent.
The postage
of the newspapers was also reduced.
H-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It was
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-It was
reduced and then abollshed entirely. Wben
hon. gentlemen are boastlng about the reduction that has been made lu postage
recentiy, we ought to remember that reductiens have occurred previous to that tîme,
jand thbat It bas always been the poicy of
the goverament to afford people as much
accommodation ln that way as the revenue
of the country would permit, and It may
be, If we live a few years longer and the
revenues of the Post Office lucrease, as we
are told they bave doue and the expenditure
reduced, we may aise expect to see the
postal rates stili further reduced.
Hon. Mr. OHURCH-I do not wlsh ýto enter
Inte a discussion of any controversial matter, but the hon. gentleman w-ho -bas mest
spoken has, mfide st&temeuts whlch mighit
gîve rise to a debate lîke rthe one we had
a few days ago. about railways. I agree
w1th one part of his remarks entireiy-tbat
is, lu regard to the country postmasters
throughout the province fromi -which I corne.
àMany of them keep Important offices ln a
sense-that le the offices are at a place ln
the country where three or four cross roads

MAY 9, 1902
meet -and the whole countrysîde corne ithere
for their letters,' night and day. It is quite
a practice for the postmaster to receive and
deliver letters late at night or early In
the morning, because people corne miles to
the nearest market town and want tbheir
letters, and they corne at ail heurs and if
the postimneter does not respond to the cal
you wlll hear abýIout It aIl over -the country.
Some ef them recelve only elgbt or ten
dollars a yeer. I think the Pos't Office Depar.tment ought to equalize matters better.
To .my knowledge somie of them do ixot get
nearty enough compensation for their services. In sorne villages the postmasters are
pald a certain sura and a certain commissl011 afterwards. Many of these offices are
distributing offices where the mails go five
or six different places witbin one week
and are then distrlbuted, and corne mails
late at night and
are not delivered ti
they have to be distributed nt night so
that they can be forwarded ta the places
te which they should go next morning.
This la a matter well worthy of consIderatlon, and I arn quite sure that If
there were a f ew cthousand dollars, or even
thlrty or forty or fifty thousand dollars
pald throughout -the whole Dominion~ for
matters Ilie that, that no person would
grudge It, because kt imuld be money well
spent la the public lnterest, and the government would receive great credit for such
an expendîture.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the comrn4ttee, reported the Bill w1thout ainendment.
The Bill was then read the thîrd time and
passed.
IMMIGRATION

ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

COMMITTiEE STAGE POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being called :
House again la Committee of the Whole on
Bill (112») 'An Act ta amend the Immnigration
Âct.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT said : When thîs Bill
was before the commitfee, there were
several gentlemen who thougbt the clauses
wvere not stringent enough, that they did
flot give the officer of the government sufficient power ta force the Immigrants back
on board the ship, and compel the master of
the ship to receive them. I submaitted the
proposition ta the minister under whose

441

direction the Bill had been drawn, and be
thought it was suficient, and gave ail the
power they wanted ; but If any bon, gentleman wishes to prepare au amendment, 1
will let It stand until to-morrow. I bad flot
tîme myseif to look at It.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should like to
accentuate tihe few observations I made
the other day with reference to the government taklng the widest possible power to
enforoe a proper Inspection of Immigrants
coming Into this country. I would just read
an Item of news ln tbe Toronto 1Mail' of
May 7th, ln connection with thé Department
of Immigration ln Canada. it la a despatch
dated Montreal, May Oth, and reads as folIowas:
SIX HUNDRED IMMIGRANTS REJECTED.
Repart of American lInspector ln CanadaConference ln Montreal. Montreal, May 6thTrhe Immigration Inspectors of the UnIted
States lreld a eonference t-o-day under the
presidency of Mr. Robt. Watchorn, Chief Inspector of the oMfce. The3e Inspectors patrol
the frontier frerm Lake Superior ta the Bay of
Fundy. and are eonstantly on the. oirtlaok ta
prevent 'the eutry larto .the United States of Immigrants of an undesirable ciass. diseaee1
paispers, deunented. or any who may be under
coartre.ct to perforxu work there. This board
was the work of Mr. Watchorn, who, after
repeated missions t. Europe. and after a residence of several months ln Canadia, became
convinced that hund*reds of Europeane who had
been rejected at the United States Atlantic
ports. returned to Europe, shipped by Canada,
and found an e-asy entrance along the frontier.
The report of the Inspectors shows tha-t fram
last Septemtber, when the Board was constituted, Up to the end of May, between ltve
huadred and six hundred immigrante have be.-n
rejected and lef t to folat themselves vwpn ÇanMr. Frank Pedley, Dominion Superinada.
tendent of Immigration, and Mr. C. Rimmer, the
legai adylser of the department, have been la
the city for the last two days, iooking Into the
question of undesirabie .Immigrants, booked for
thie United Sta t es, and rejected by the Amerîcan
tnepectors here.
It la meldom the government refuse to accepit the wiidest -posebble powv"s Off ered
'them by parîlament, for the purpose of enforcing the régulations of a department.
Therefore, one muet congratulate the Secretary o.f State on the modesty shown by the
government ln tlhis particular connection.
Mitseems to me It would be very much better If the Governor ln Council would taire
power to qpass the most strîngent regulatioins, entlrely irrespective of parliament,
.w>th reférence to this su'bjeet.
This le9a
matter wlrleh could be better and more
effectiively enforced by Order In Council

SENATE
than by any statute which they could pass.
It la humillating- te think that a propaganda by the United States officials la conducted on Canadian sheres for the purpose of
aeiectlng the better cass of Immigrants
frein Europe, and unioading the hait, the
bllnd, the mai.med and ignoranit, aind ahi
other objectionable classes, on the DominIon of Canada, and shouldering further, the
responsibliity upon this governinent, o~f seiiding those classes back again te Europe, n0
deubt at very considerable expense te Canada. Thils ia a matter weli worthy of con'I hope the governinent wll
aideration.
net limit theinselves in securing the necessary legislative power te enforce the greatest

The word ' sound ' herein used shall be tahen
to inean ln fit condition for transportation and
storage.
Subsecticn 4 of the schedule coutained IL the
said section 44 ls hereby amended by using the
word ' wheat *Instead of the word ' grain '
wherever the latter word oceurs ln the ;atd
section.

I understand this amendment ln reference
to, oats creates a new class, that is, extra
number one. The other three grades are the
same. This amendinent was to have been
proposed ln the other House, and was on
the Order paper to be moved at the proper
time, but by an oversight it was overiooked.

The CHÂIRMÂN-I would suggest to the
committee, as we have had no notice of this
amendinent, and It Is dealing with a very
possible re6trictions.
Important matter, that we report progress
The Order of the Day was diacharged nnd take this Into consideration at the
and was made an erder fer thie second aitsecond sitting of the Heuse to-morrow, beli;g of the Heuse to-merrow.
cause it la evident no one seems to knew
what the effect of It la.
GENERAL INSPECTION ACT ÂMENDHlon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Is there any
MENT BILL.
occasion for that ?
COMMITTEE STAGE POSTPONED.
Hlon. Mr. POWER-It la a very Important
The Heuse resolved Itsel! into a Celi- matter and It Is better to postpone the conmdttee of the W-hole on Bill (142) ' An Act sideration of it
further to amend the Generai Inspection
H-on. Mr. YOUNG, frein the committee,
Act.'
reported that they hiad made some progres
(In the (Jo'mmittee.)
with the Bill and asked leave te sit again
to-merrow, at the second sitting of the
Hon. Mr. TE31PLEMAN-There is an
Hlouse.
amendinent prepesed by a gentleman ln the
te MOTJNTED POLICE ACT AMENDMENT'
other House, which I now move be added
the Bill as section A:
BILL.
Section A.
THIRD READING.
SeCt -on 44 of the General Inspection Act as
aeddby Chap. 25 cf 62 and 63 Victoria, is The House resolved Iteelf Inte a Coulhereby further amended by striking out the provisions 01 the said section regarding oats', and mittee of the Whe on Bill (147) ' An Act
substituting tha fohhowing »
te amend the Meunted Police Act (1894).'
Extra No. 1 ca-ts shahl conBist entireiy of oats
grown la Manitoba or the North-weet Territories, shall be sound, weli cleaned and free froin
other grain ;shail consist to the extent of 90
per cent ef white onts, and shall weign not hess
than 38 pounds to the bushel.
No. 1 onîts shail be sound, wefl cheaned and
frce f ront other grain ;shall con5ist to the
extent of 90 per cent of white oats, and shal!
weigh not Iess than 34 Pounds to the busihel.
No. 2 eats shahl be sound, reasoaabIy de.an,
reusomably fice f romt other grain, and shall
weigh not less than 34 pounds to the bushe4.
No. ' oats shal! be sound, but net chean
enough or sufficientiy free from other grain to
be graded as No. 2, and shah! weigh not hes
than 34 pounds to the bushel.
REJected eats shah! Jnoludle such as are damp,
unsound, dirty or froir. any other causc unfit to
ho graded as No. 3,
Hoin. Mr. LOUGHEED.

(In the Committee.)
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The object of the first
clause Is te enable the Commissiener of
Mounted Police in the Yukon te preperiy
and legaiiy administer the Police Act.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.), frein
the cemmittee, reperted the Bill wltbeut
amendment.
The Bill was then read the third turne and
passed.

MAY 10, 1902
MONTREAL, OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN the administration or any emp!byee undler its
control, ta deciare that the servi -e .>fthe transBAY CANAL COMPANY BILL.
atiantia lice, called the fast line. wa8 a concluded matter, and doce It endorse thc promise
COMMONS ÂMENUMENT ÂMENDED.
solemnn4y given that the clty of Qucbec shaîl bo
Hon. Mr. CLEMO W-I move, ln corn- the summer termInus of that 11e ?
If It doe rot endocrse that primise, can the
pliance with the suggestion of His Honour goverrnment et ieast give the assurance that It
ls Its Intention to chaos. the city of Quebec as
the Speaker, that the words 'under thîs the. summor terminue of thse future fast line
Act' be ellminated frmrn the Bill. I desire between Canada and Great Britain ?
to bave the Bill go down to the Commons
Hion. Mr. SCOT-I -have eiready answeras soon as possible.
ed this question. I have aiready steted that
The motion wes agreed iY.
there bas been no recent correepondence on
the subject of the fast Uine and no negotiaThe Senate adjourned.
tdons.

THE SEXATE.
SÂ'TURDAT, May 10, 1902.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But I have uasked another question. If the bon. Mlnister wIil
look at the ftrst part of my question he wli
see that I arn asking If the government bas
authorized anybody ta make snob a declaration as the one rec!ted ln my question ?

MORNING SITTING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The government have
The Speaker took the Chair at il o'clock taken no action and therefore there is no
a.m.
authorlty at ail. No decision bas been
reached. I mentioned that there bas been
Prayers and routine proceedings.
no correspondence, and no conclusions have
VISIT 0F THEIR ROYAL HIGHNEiSSES been reached.
TO CANADA.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not ask wbether
a conclusion bas been reeched. I amn asklng
MOTION
If the government bas autborized any memHon. Mr. LANDRY rnoved:
ber af the administration, or any employee.
That an humble address bo presented to Hia ta deciare pubily 'what was -the polcy of
Excedloncy the Gover11or General praying hlm
to be graciously pyleaeed ta cause to be laid be- the government on that question.
fore this Houso a oopy of ail the correspondencé
exchanged between the Right Honourable the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot tell what meinSecrctary of State for the Colonies or any otiier bers of the government mity have said. 1
and Hie
mem-ber of Hie Majesty's Governament
ExcelIeney the Governar General, or any mem- slmpiy speak for the government.
ber of the Canqadian Government, a.s woell as a
copy of every communication between the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I amn not asicing that:Federal Government, or any one of lis mem- I amn asklng If theggovernment bas autharbers. and the Prime Minister or any other of
tl;e metubers of the. goveraments of the provin- Ized any member of the administration ta
ces, on the aubject of the marks of the royal make the declaration which I have placed
favour which it has pleused Hie Majesty ta
confer on. or to olfer to Canadians, on the occa- ln my Inqulry.
sion of the visît, made to Canada In September
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I ha ve aiready answerlest, of Their Royal Highiressto the Duke aud
Duchess of York and Coratwali, to-day Princ2- ed the hon. gentleman's question and I do
anid Prines. of Wales, as weil as a .opy of ai
correspondence on the subject of the refusai to not proposedl to be catechlsed eonstantly by
accept theue marks ef the royal favour, if .uuch Irrelevant R.nd Improper questions.
refusai existe.

The motion was agreed ta.
TRANS-ATLANTIC FAST LINE.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I thlnk the bon. meimber shouid keep cool.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I !am perfectiy cool.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose te inquire of the wlil see tfhat he bas not answered my question.
government
Has the. government, since the commencement 1Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have aireedy said that
of the presient year, authorized any member of 1 I have sia knowledge wbatever of any ac-

444

SENATE

tion bavIng been taken by the government,
and I can go further than that. I say, as a
no
nxember of the government, %tbat action
lias been taken in reference to the -fast line.

ment on the rights of the local goveriimeuts
in the matter of education. At ail events, as
there 15 some doubt ln the matter, I hav7e
the rîglit to ask that I shah bhave ail the
ineans of exarntning the question as closeis
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is flot what 1
as possible.
amn esking.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose tue hon. geiiHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have answered the theman bas no objection to the Bihl being
question.
rend the second time now, and we can diHon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn asking If the cuss It at a inter stage. The bon. gentleman
goverament has authorized anybody to de- does flot want to throw It over nuothier year.
ciare that the fast line service was a conHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLaE-I waiit to
cluded. matter.
see the Bill la French before the secondi
Hou1. Mr. SCOTT-I won't answer that reading.
question any further.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAýN-Thie Bill lias been
bèfore the Honse of Couinions frolu the
MEDICAL COUNCIL IN CANADA BILL. commencement of the session. Thiere Is
only one ameadment to it, and It is too bad
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
thiat the hion, gentleman should Insist 0o1
Hiou. Mr. SULLIVAN moved the second tlis technicality, because what hie demiands
readlug of Bill (11) 'An Act to provide for is îîot necessary, either for bis own Inîforrnathe establishmnent Of a Medical Councl ln tion or for tue Information of the Hlouse.
Canada!.'
Honourable gentlemen are f ully poesessed of
the Bill, Its principles and Its details, and
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCIERVILLE-I do not
tlheref ors I appeal to the lion. gentleman's
wvant to retard the passage of this Bill, but
generosity not to prevent It from passiiîgas It Is very Important, 1 object to the second
or, uat ail events, frorn the opinion of the
reading now, because it lias not been prlnted
Hiouse being passed on it thîls session.
in Frencli. 1 want to examine lt very closeHon. Mr. CHURCH-I think I have a speIY, believing It to be a most Important Bill,
lnfringlng on the rlghts of the local. -I lnsist cial rlbt to talk on this Bill.
on the rules belng observed, and that the
The SPEAKER-There is only one quesBill be transiated and prlnted la French.
tion betore the HoDue, and that la the quesHon. Mr. SCOTT-I fancy the Bill lias tion of order. There can be no discussion
aiready been transiated la the forrn lu whicli on the menits of the Bill untIl that question
It appenred ln the other. House, because It ls settled. If the hon, gentleman from Montbas been before parilarnent for severai ycars, arville does flot withdraw bis objection, then
and very mucli discussed. Speaking frorn the Bill, as I understnnd, cannot be rend
menmory, my recoliection 15, It cau only go the second time now, and that Is the end of
into operation at the Instance of the pro- It.
vinces.
Tbe Order of the Day was discharged, and
the second reading of the Bill wns ordered
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-That Is correct.
for the next sittlng of the House.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-So tiiot there is no luHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVIIAqi-I wili not
fringenenlt wbatever on the provincial proinslst on my objection at te next sitting, If
rogitive.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE--I have
been readlug the Enghish edition of the Bihl,
and I flnd that the members of the Couiiil
eau oniy be named by the local legisiature,
but the Council itself can be-named by the
Dominion autborities, which is an InfringeHon. Mr. SCOTT.

the local leglslatures to accept the Bihl is
trnnsiated in Frenchi. I do flot wnnt the
translation of the whoie Bill ; I wll accept
the translation of the ameadment. I wnnt
to have It s0 that I can understand it, anid
that will be sufficient.

MAY 10. 1902
Hlon. Mr. FISET-(In French.)-In the beginuing I was opposed to this Bill, because
ln my judgment It was an Interference witb
the rights of the provinces;, but on further
consideration, and particularly after the
amendments passed by the House of Commons, I have no objection whatever. I saw
the amendinent myseif, and carefuliy studled It, and have no objection to the Bill as
passed ln the House of Commons, preferring
to leave to the legislature of the province
the right to decide whether It shall coule
into operation or not
*The Senate adjourned.

Second Sittinz.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o' dock.
MIEDICÂL COUNC!L BILL.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I observe that this
Bill has been put at the foot of the Order
paper. I should prefer that It sbould be
taken up ln is proper order.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-WhIle the House was
sitting this morning this Bill, printed, ln
French, was lying In the post office. I had
given positive orders to the printing department that when the bine print was sent to
the'Bureau they must I$rint fifty copies for
the Senate, so that ln the case of any Bill
coming to this Chamber there Io no
excuse for li not being printed ln French.
It may not be on the Order paper, but It
Is certain to be prInted. Orders have been
given that officiai copies must be sent direct
to the Senate.
The SPEAKER. Under the practice, this
Order of the Day, which was called at the
first sItting of the House, goes to the foot
of the Order paper, and Inasmuch as It 1s
a question as to whether there is hIkely to
be some discussion, perhaps It would be
more convenient to let It go to the foot of
the Orders, and we can dispose now of
some of the urgent matters that are on the
Order paper.

445

of both Houses on the Printing o! Parliament. He said: In consultation this mornIng with Dr. Dawson, he feit that the report of the Committee on Printing would
be incomplete without provision being made
to make It clear In the matter of the salaries
to be paid to, the officiais ln connection with
the distribution office. I may say, ln a
word, that several gentlemen were paid
sums varying from $200 to $300, ln connecIon with the distribution office, and it was
deemed advIsable on the part of the government that they should be put under the
direct control of the Economy Committee
of the House of Commons, thus saving two
cheques and two payments, and the committee came to this conclusion which le
embodled ln this report Also Mr. Roger
and Mr. Wiltshire and Mr. Gratton who are
la the distribution office at the Printing
Bureau, and It was considered advisable by
the committee that these gentlemen should
be put under the control o! the Departrnent
o! the Secretary of State. With the permission of! hon, gentlemen present, I move
concurrence In the aniendment that the
salaries of the said officiais be continued as
at present notwIthstanding anything to the
contrary ln the aforesaid Âct. Mr. Dawson
feels that unless tbis ls done the Âudltor
General might coneider that these gentlemen
were beginning their career as officiais ln
the government service under the Civil
Service Act, and he would naturally pay
them at a rate beginning at $400 a year.
That was not the Intention of the committee, and It was not the Intention of this
House to reduce the salaries of those
efficient servants of the several. depnrt-.
ments. ln order that there may be no misunderstanding, with the concurrence of the
House, I move that the following be ndded
to the report:
That the salaries of the officiais be contlnued
as at present notwithstandinq anythlng to tho
contrary ln the afoe'essld Act
The motion wag agreed to.
THE SENÂTE DEBÂTES.

SECOND REPORT OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER moved the adoption
of the second report o! the Standing Committee on Debates and ReportIng. He said :
Hou. Mr. GIBSON moved the adoption The report of this committee contains
of the fourth report of the Joint Committee nothing new. It is simply the continuation

THE PRINTING 0F PARLIAMENT.
VOURTH REPORT 0F JOINT COMMITTEE
. DOPTED.

SENAT E
of our officiai press reporter, Mr. Holmden,
ln bis functions under the same conditions
and at the saine salary as lest year. We
have reason to belleve that unless we have
a reporter ln this Chamber to report our
proceedings, the Senate would be almost,
If flot wholiy, Ignored by the press. The
representatives of the press dlaim that ail
their Urne la given to the reportlng of the
other Chamber, and, moreover, that the
accommodations for'them here are flot what
they should be, and for that reason, If we
desire to remain ln toucbl with the public
-and I belleve It ls desirable that we should
-we should continue to have a special reporter of our own, as we have had for
several years. I have heard remarks made
thut the reports were flot sufficient ln detail,
and oftentimes were flot exactly accurate.
That is true, hon. gentlemen ; but lu justice
to our reporter, 1 muet say that it la flot
bis fault. I have compared the copy he
bas given to the press iu many cases with
tbe reports printed and have found that bis
report tbough brief, succinct and well coudensed, was boiled dowu and altered making
an Inaccurate report of wliat bas transplred
ln this House. 1 mention this so as- to
exonerate our reporter from any blame in
matters over wblcb hie bas no control. In
many cases bie proposes and the editor dis'poses.
The motion was agrçed to.

fiud on Iuqulry ln the Finance Department,

that It ls between two and three million.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I find
the information ls fully gîven by the Finance Minister on page 4258 of the Commous 1Hansard.' I lied flot read It, and my
attention was calied to It by an hon, gentleman, and I found a full expianation
given there. In order thut we may know
that there are precedents for the course
tak-eu la connection withi this Bill, I cail
the attention of the Secretary of State to
the practice wbicb prevalled ln the past ln
reference to money Bills. As I understood
hlm, lie said it was unprecedented to go
into Committe(è of the Whole on a money
Bibi ln this House. We bave generaiiy ne-

cepted a Supply Bill witbout going Into
committee, on the ground that we bave no
power or authority as a Senate to amend
the Bill. That is very true, but whibe there
ls no power to amend such a Bill, we can

reject IL. I find one or two precedents for
this course. I flnd that lu the case of the
Supply Bill, Mr. Campbell mioved, secondcd
by Mr. D. Ferguson, that the 44th rule of
the House sboubd be dispeused with so far
.as the samne related to that Bibi, ln order
that they might rend It the third time. Thiis
was the 2Otb December, 1867. and the saie

in May, 1868 :

A SUPPLY BILL.
THIItD READING.
The House resolved ltself Into Commlttce
of the Wbole on Bill (157) ' An Act to authornze the raislng by way of loan of certain
sums of money for the public service.'
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr.' SCOTT-Some hon, gentlemen
were anxious -to learn further particulars
ln regard to this boan. Perlodically, probabiy every ten or flfteeu years, parliament
authonîzes the Minister of Finance to raise
money by way of boan. There le usunlly a
very consîderable margin. The amount la
very large, but now it is down to between
two and three million. It is oniy to cover
the balance authorized by parliament, and
this is simply to be prepared ln case some
emergency arises. There ls no present intelltioxi Of utilizing tL-5 poNwer.
Hon. à1r. POIRIER.

it may be issued thbs year. The h on. leader
of the opposition was nnxious to know
what auiount was still unexhausted, nnd 1

No part of

A messag-3 was brought fromn the Ilouse of
Com'mons by their Olerk with a Bill ent'tled
«Au Act for granting to Her Majesty certain
sume of meoney required for defraying certain
expenses of the public se-rvice for the financial
years ending respectively 330th June, 1868 and
3Oth June, 1869, and for -other purposes relating
to the public service* tu which they desîred the
concurrence of this flouse. The said Bill was
rreac the firut time.
The Hon. Mr. Campbell, seconded by the

Hon. Mr. Keuny, moved :
That the 42nd rule of the House be dispensed
with so far as lt affected this Bili.

And then the Bill was read the third tîme.
I merely cabi attention to the fnct that these
precedents and many others of a later date
will be fouad for carrying out the suggestion made by His Honour the Speakerthat 19. of going Into Committee on these
Buis, or suspending the rules. I must admit, whilc sayinig this, that we bave fallen

MAY 10, 1902

44

imnmigrant
the ves3el
into the habit ln the past of acting as was back en boardshall incur a any such xîot exceedpeaalty
or paesenger,
Indicated by the hion. Secretary of Staté, Ing ten hundred dollars, and flot less than one
of passing the whole Bill without paying hnnd'red dollars ln the caae of each and every
of ef such immigrant or passengers.'

the slightest attention to the suspension
the rules or anything else. I think it Is
weli that the proceedings of the Senate
should be conducted ln accordance with the
rules. There Is flot much time bast by going into*commlttee, and I thhnk we should
pursue that course In the future, whetber
It be the Suppiy Bill or not. There may
i)e occasions wben it is necessary to discuss many Items, not because we have the
power to amend or because we Intend to
reject the Bill, but simply for the purpose
-of crbtaining and giving information which
we tbink the public should have, that they
.may flot bave received througi the other
House.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My contention was flot;
in refe*rence to the miles. That I quite recognize, but It wa going iiito committee.
That was the oniy point.
Hon. SIr MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Is the same thing.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN, from the committee; reported the Bill without amendment.
The Bihl was then read the third time, aud
p)assed.
IMMIGRATION

ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

THIRD READING.
The House resumed lu CommIttee of the
Whole cousideration of Bill (112) *'An Act
to amend the Immigration Âct.
(lu the Committee.)

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I was about to
suggest tbat this Order lu Counicil should
flot be limited to the language mentioned
ln lunes ten and eleven-that the Governor
ln Coundil shouid have power to pass orders
or proclamations for any cause whatsoever.
It wiil be seen that the language liere le
entireiy limited to physical defects or disesses lu an Immigrant There are many
other reasons. For Instance, the United
States demand an educational *qualification.
They demand physicul fitness entirely apart
frour the question of dangerous or Infections
diseuses or maladies. They require that the
Immigrant shall be possessed of a certain
amount of capital and certain moral qualifications-that Is to say the criminal classes
are prevented entering the country. 1 would
suggest that the Secretary of State should
consider the desirability of d&triking out the
foliowing words, 'wbo is suifferlng from any
dangerous diseuse or malady,' and substitute for them the words 'for any cause
whutsoever,' leaving It entirely to the discretion of the Governor ln Council to use
their judgment lu any way that may be
seen fit.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wrould it not be as weli
to add 'for any other cause whatsoever.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-By using general
language, after speclfic terms, 7011 limit the
termis to the language preceding it If that
particular phrase Is used then the widest
power Is given to tle Governor ln Council.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Does the hon.
gentleman mean as to diseased persons, or
paupers and idiots ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I wouid leave it
entirely to the Governor ln Council.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We went through this
Bill, but the opinion of the Senate was
that thiere shouid be some more strîngent
clause added to the Bill. The Minister of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I should prefer to add
the Interior was not of the opinion that it 'sand for any other cause.'
was necessary. Hlowever, I directe$I the
law clerk of the Interior Department to pre- Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I suppose the de'pare a penalty clause, and lie has added partment would send a scbiedule ln such
cases.
this
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the department
Second clause, page 1, line 24. -After ' necessary' insert 'and every owner or master of a would have to define It
the provisions of this Act ;
vessel who vi'lIates
or who aide or abets anY limigrauit or passenger
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I think the whole
In acting in.contravention of such order or pro.clams11tion ; or %whorefus~s or neglects to, take of this Immigration Act should be revised,

44,S

SENATE

and particular]y that part of lt referring to
diseases. We require better pliraseology.
The law sbould be lu a clear and distinct
language. For Instance, a section ln the
Act provides that a collector of customs
0may dispense wltb sucb bounds,' &c.-that
ls the mode- of giving securIty-wbich is
very cumbersorne. I refer to it la order
that hon, gentlemen ma# look at it. Taire
the section ln the Act referring to bonds,
Many terras
it is very cum-bersome.
used ln the Act have becoine obsolete,
as far as medical science is concerned.
Sclentlfic men, at ail events, do flot use the
Hon, gentlemen know
terma 'ilunatic '.
the origin of the word and' If you wish to
refer to any of the conditions under wblch
a lunatic would corne you would use the
Then there is the terni
word 'Insane.'
'Idiotic.' Idlocy cannot be contracted on
board shlp. It Is born wltb the lndividual.
Then the words 'deaf and dumb '. A man
mlght be 'deaf' only and he would not, be
exempt, and ' dumb ', and be would not be
exernpted.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I should like to ask
wbat tbe bon. gentleman bas been quotlng
froni.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Froni the Act. 1
only want to show the reason tbat exista
for revising tbe clauses rel-ating to the
admission or the refusai to admit immigrants. The wbole law sbould be revIsed.
I arn reading Èection seventeen of the Act
wbicb we are amending. Tben ' causes that
are not discernible.' A man migbt contract
small-pox ln the country be left and it might
be two weeks before It broke out. It mlgbt
mlot develop on tbe shlp. Tben there is
reference to the 'rise and spread of diseases. Disease does not rise, a gentleman
does, or tbe sun does, but disease originates.
To make this clause or any otber of this
nature effective you must bave tborougb
Inspection. Tbe inedical officer of the port
or tbe collector sbou<ld be enjoined, in ternis
simular to, tbose -of tbe United States Act.
I wlll read wbat I think ought to be appended to the ameudment of tbe Secretary
of State:
That upon the arrivil by water at any plan-e
within the Dominion of Canada of any British
or foreigu Immigrants it shall be thie duty of
the c.ommander and the agints of the steam
or sailing vessel by which they came to report
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

the name, age, sex, nationality, last residence
and destination of every such immigra~nt bpfore
any of theni are Ianded te the ensp2etion officer
wbo ehülU go lmmedla-3ly or send a zonp'etent
person on board such vessel and there inspeet
ail immigrants according to the Instructions of
thse Department, and the lniepector may cirftr
a temporary removal of any Immigrant for further examination at a desij.nated time and place

ard detWa them until a thorough Inspection is
made.
The Inspectors must be duiy quaiied licensed
and practising physicians of Canada or a Provine of it and they shali have pow-ýr te administer oaths and take evidence If necessary
touchlng the right of any such Immigrant to
enter thse Dominion o! Canada, ail of which
shall be recorded.

I would add to tbat to carry ont thse instructions furnisbed to hlm by thse department,
and tist would ensure an exarnination
promptly. There ls nothing ln thse Act as
far as I cau eee, to ensure a tbo-rough early
Inspection. Wben tbe passenger gets away
froni the port wbere be bas landed, there is
no Urne for examination. A bond may have
been given. If so, it Is sent to tise Receiver
General. «Hon' la a munlcIpality wblcb la

inconvenienced, and has to pay for the
maintenance of that Immigrant to get redress ? Tbey do not know ianything about
this bond, and consequently tbe ian' mlgbt
as well not exIst. Wbetber thse Secretary of
State accepta tbis suggestion or flot, I trust
It n'iil bave tbe effeet of abo'wing bum tbe anomnalous position la whicb tbe work-ing of
this Act la placed, and tbat he wIll consider
my humble effort to make it workable, whetiser it be adopted or not.
Hon. Mr. POWVER-I rîse to a question of
order. Tise question non' before tbe coinmaititee ls the amendment proposed by thse
Secretary of State to thse second clause of
thse Bill, and thse attention of the committee
shouid be directed to tisat, and tbat alone.
1 amn ln favour o! the ûmendment, but I
think there sbould be one word added at the
beginning. Tise amendment appiies only to
thse master of tise vessel. It abould apply
also to tise onwner.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have tbat ln my
memorandum.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I tblnk tbe amendments prepared by the Secretary of State,
whicb have been added to by the suggestion
of tise hon. gentleman froni 0algary, would

suit very n'el, and remove very iargely tise
objetions

which

severai

bhon,

gentlemen

took tise other day to thse Bill wisen lt n'as
up for discussion. It n'ould work very n'el

MAY 10, 1902
In tbe committee, on clause 4,
àt the port of Halifax. As regards the revision of the original Act, that ls flot
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was proposed to
before us now, as the Speaker bas stated.
ainend this clause. In reference to this
Hon. Mfr. -SCOTT-I bave accepted the question of compensation there seems to be
.suggestion which bas been off ered and amn a very strong opinion ln the House, and I
prepared to amend the Bill, te nieet the accept tbe suggestion off ered and bave prepared an ameudment wbich 1 tbink. wihi
views of the House.
meet the case.
The clause was amended and adopted.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved to strIke out of
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-Tbe suggestions of the the second Iiue frein tbe top tbe words
bon. gentleman from Kingston are very 'wbere there are Improvemeuts upon'1 and
good Indeed, and I hope wben the Act lire- of the seventb Uine 'ilmprovements or bis
vlsed, we shahl make It more perfect than interests therein,' and add the word 'lands.'
It la. Is he aware ithat ln a previou§ section
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I underof the Act the medicai superintendent ls
empowered to exercise very considerabie stand by thnt âmendinent there will be arpowers to examine the passengers arrivlng bitration.
at any port, and probibit tbe londing of ohHon. Mr. SCOTT-If tbey take a man's
jectlonable persons ?
land tbiey mnust pay for il.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That only applies
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If tbey
to the superintendent e! quarantine.
aree, wh
aea
abtain
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The medical officers at
Hon. -%Ir. SCOTT-If tbey agree It is ail
the dIfferent ports are ail quarantine officers. rlgbt ; no arbitration xvIII be necessary.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Tbe medical officer
of the -port Iu net the superintendent of
quarantIne.
This man ls given extensive
powers, and he sheuid bave them. I refer
to 'the medical examination at the point of
ianding. It would have nothing to do witb
tbe quarantine. I read that before te see If
there was any provision made for a thorougb
Inspection and could not ftnd àt.
Hon. Mfr, SCOTT-We have twe inspections. Ail vessels coming up the St. Laiwrence have to be examined at Grosse Ile,
and Quebec, and so at Halifax and St. John.
However, ail tbe suggestions wblch hbave
been effered are usefui, and may aid ln
nîaking the iaw more perfect.

Hou. >Mr. CLEMONV-Does tbis appiy to
the land tbat Is taken ? If so, It makes no
allowance for damage that may be done
to the land tbat ls not taken.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-This Bill, as amended,
provIdes for the case where the Departmeut
of the Interior Issues a patent ln Manitoba
or the North-west, reservlng five per cent
for roadways. As the Bill came up f rom the
House of Gommons, It provided tha-t -the five
per cent mny be taken, and only the lmprovements would be paid for. We now
provide tbat tbe Crewu shahl pay for 'the
land as well as tbe Improvements.
The amendmeut was agreed te, and the
clause as amended was -adopted.

Hon. Mfr. YOUNG, froni the commhttee,
Hon. Mfr. LOVITT, from the committee,
reported the'Blil wlth ameudments which
reported tbe Bill witb ameuduients, which
were concurred ln.
were concurred lu.
The Bih1 was then read the third ti-me
The Bill was then read the third time and
and passed.
passed.
GENERAL INSPECTION ACT AMENDED3EN
BILL.
BILL.MENT
THIRD READING.
THIRD READING-IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself into a ConmIttee
Tbe House resulued lu Commlttee of the
of the Whole on Bill (120) 'An Act te amend Whole consideration of B411 (142) ' An -Act
the Dominion Lands Act.
to amend tbe Generai Inspection Act!'
29
DOINONLADSBILL.

SESATE
(In the Committee.)
whole amendment apply to the product of
Manitoba and the North-west.
On clause 2,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-NL\o.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLE MAN-I think It is
proposed to change the 90 per cent to, 95 per
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The Intention
cent.
was to makze it that way.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It might facilitate
Hlon. Mr. YOUNG-The trouble whichi has
matters If we go into the whole ameadment given cause to thls amendment arose over
now, and 1 wiii suggest sorne changes and the action of the Standard Board last year
we can consider the whole subjeet. This ln endeavourlng to help the cérop movement
Is a more Important matter than appears on by adding addlonal grades kurown as comnthe surface. It was hianded la yesterday to mercial grades to the standard grade. The
the committee, and we have had no notice Standard Board le composed of farmers and
of it wbatever. The time was short to obtain business men. A.il Interests are represented
Information on so Important a question as and at'their Iast meeting last year. they
the grading of the oats of Canada, and our found that it was advlsable to add two comIncreaslug production every year makes It mercial grades to the grade of oats known
more Important. 1 sbould like to cail atten- as No. 1 white Alberta, and No. 2 white
tion to the tact that, lu my opinion, apart Alberta. They were rather unfortunate, I
fromi the first paragraph and the last para- think-, ln the choice of the ame, but the ingraph, the amendment deais with tue whole tention of the board was mereiy to make it
of Canada. Therefore, it is more Importat possible for the inspectors to grade oatS
than would appear on the surface and It Is not fit for the three standard grades fixed
worthy of the attention of ei-ery hion, gentle- by law. It made it possible for the inspecman of this committee. I have to make one tor to make grade oats ln these two addior two expianations to make It clear with tional grades having binned a large porreference to our proceeding under aur grad- tion of the oats la the rejected bin, ln
lng la the west.
the hope that by so doing the farmers
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hiou. friend Ia of the west would get a better price for
mistaken lu saying it applies to the whole of their product than tbey would If it had
Canada. If he will look at the Inspection to ho bInned under the last clause of
Act he will find it only appiies to the country the Inspection Act. 0f course, the circumstances last year made It very desirawest of Port Arthur.
hie, because hon. gentlemen are all awnre
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If my hon. friend wiil that, owing to the shortness of corn and
read the clauses reiating to, grades, he will other reasons, feed grain of ail kinds was
see that these clauses Include both the in- very higli. The result was not looked on
spection division of Manitoba and also the favournbly la some places, aud the membter
rest of Canada. These are the Inspection for Edmonton, which la a large grain growclauses of the whole of Canada, Including ing district, suggested these ameadments for
the western Inspection as well, and there- the purpose of getting the oats grown la
fore tha-t portion' of the amendmeat, apart bis district properly classified when they
from the first and iast paragraphs, relates, I came before the inspector. He lias only that
take it, to t'he whole of Canada.
la view, to secure the best resuits for the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does district he repeeseats, and to make It clear,
the hou. gentleman argue that these words I propose to, strike out of the ameadment ail
do uot restrict it to Manitoba and the North- words after the word 'amended' la tule
west-No. 1 onts shall consist entireiy of second Ilne and add a provision that It
oats grown la Manitoba and the North-west shahl only apply to, oats grown entirely
la Manitoba, la the North-west TerriTerritories.
tories, or la Ontario west of Lake Superior.
Hon. 1Mr. YOUNG-That is the first paraTiat is the wording which is used with
grapli. Rtend the next one.
reference to wheat. The Inspection of wlient
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-It says la div ided by that Inspection, and then, secthe oats shall be sound, but does not tte, ondly, the second part of the ameadment
Hon. Mr.

LOVITT.

MAY 10, 1902
refers to the sebedule ln the Act wliich gives
power to the Western Standard Board to
meet, If the chief Inapector sees that It is
neceaaary to meet, and establish a commercial grade for the better handling or the
crop. By the amendment as it la worded,
it is suggested that It will deprive the :Standard Board of the power of dealing with
any other grain except wheat when they
meet. The object of my hon. friend who la
moving this amendment la slmply to deprive
the Western Standard Board of the power
to deal with oats. Therefore I amn moving
that subsection 4 la the schedule contained
ln the said section 44 la hereby amended by
lnserting the words, ' except oats' after the
Word ' grain'1 whenever It occura ln the
said section. The effect of it wIll be to deprive the Western Standard Boards of the
power of fixing commercial grades for oats.
I also intend to move to strike ont the Word
' sound'1 because that la also one of the
th!ngs we are agreed upon ls unnecesaary
In the amendaient. I have received a message from the secretary of the Corn Exchange, Montreai, which reads as follows :
Corn Exchonge objecta to Commnons Bill 142
amending Inspection Act. Present Act satistactory. Amendment would allow ten per cenbt of
lack ln white oats and render saine unsaleabte
for export as white deflition 'seund' mrae
strongiy objected te, as nermitting froety cS
re.usty oats as graded souind.

451

o! the grain grown la Ontario, north-weat,
and south-weat of Ontario ? Take the
Ratiny river district, which la a good agricultural portion of what we now terni New
Ontario ; would the oats grown ln that
locality be subiect to the same Inspection
as those grown est o! Lake Superior ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-No, our Inspection le
at Fort William at present.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
your Bill says thia Act shall only apply to
oats grown la Manitoba and the North-west
Territories, and la Ontario north-west of
Lake Superior.
*Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The wordlng Isa exnctly the Mame as the wording used tn- thecase of wheat, whlch covers the whoie of
that country.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
do not cover it If yon say north-west. You
shonld add the words south-west as Weil.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I understood. the bon.
gentleman from
Killarney (Hon. Mr.
Young) to say that the existing iaw bas
given satisfaction. Why should we go on
tinkering with the present law If it gives
satisfaction ? As I uaderstand, this particular amendment was Iatroduced la the House
of aommons. It was before the House o!
Commons and that House did not care to
adopt It.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Better taire one
ameadment at a time. I do not think: my
hon. friend's amendînent le worded. as it
should be. It. might be better to put it in
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-The hon, gentlethis way : 'This section shall apply only man la entirely ln error la sayiag that. I
to Manitoba and the North-west Territories, am Informed. by Mfr. Oliver, the member for
nnd to the country west of Lake Superior.' Alberta, that the Minuster of Trade and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This amendment appiies Commerce- coasented' to embody ln this
Bil-that la, la the ameadmeat to the Inonly to Manitoba and the Territories.
spection Act-the amendment brought down
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It only extends by the hon. gentleman yesterday, and to
to countries west of Port Arthur-Page 166 insure that being done, I understand II: was
o! the statutes of 1899.
initiahied by the Minister of Trade and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What Commerce, or the MinIster of the Interlor,
do you do with the grain grown south-west that it was the Intention to embody It; la
the Inspection Act. The difficulty arose la
of Lake Superior ?
this way : The Grain Standard Board at
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Different grades Winnipeg undertook to provide a new
apply to that.
clabsification o! oats which very seriously
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The law stands as It lin uredý the reputation o! the oat crop o!
Alberta. I might say Alberta la about the
Was before.
oniy ont exporting district ln the weet.
Hon. Sir MACKENZ[E BOWELL-What They grow somewhere about fIve million
la the difference ln quaiity and character bushels for export, and some few montha
29j

452

SENATE

ago, when the Imperial War Office was
purchasing oats ln that particular district,
the Grain Standard Board undertook to
give a classification to ail Injured oats, flot
only grown ln Manitoba and the eastern
portion of the Territories, but In Alberta,'
and libeiled the district of Alberta te the
extent of designating ail lnjured oats, caliing them No. 1 Alberta, No. 2 Alberta and
No. 3 Alberta, and the Impression at ail
points where oats are exported was that
ail Injured oats came from Alberta. It was
not only a very .highhanded proceeding on
the part of the Standard Board, but a very
Injurions thing to the oat producers of
Alberta.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSO2N-With reference to
the Standard Board doing great Injustice
te Alberta, as a niatter of fact, I think that
the gentlemen lu the Gommons who are
suggesting the amendments admit that the
Grain Standard Board did flot do themn an
Injustice ln the North-west, because last
year there was quite a lot of oats that were
frozen there. They were good ln weight,
and flot bad feed, but the Inspector could
not grade themn first quaiity oats, and If
they hail fot made a grade they would
have had to put them. into the rejected bina.
The oats were better than that, and the lnspector went te the Grain Standard Board
and said : 'Yen have power to help me ont.
They sheuld flot go Into the rejected bin. I
cannot pass them as first quality oats,' and
they made this grade to, help hlm ont. They
made this grade because they thought these
men would be put ln bad shape otherwise,
but they lowered the price of the oats to
23 cents, and w'hen the South African war
broke out, the price was raised to 28 cents,
and these oats were graded and sold at a
good price.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The standard grades
fixed by law wvere stili open for any grain
quaifled to be inspected Into these grades;
therefore, the commercial grades whicli
were made by the Standards Board did flot
interfere with the grain being inspected, If
It was fit to he inspected In the standard
grades which hiad been ln force since 1899).
So that the fact of the Standards Board
making two commercial grades did flot
lower the qnality of the oats, nor did It
interfere with the lnspector's werk except
to endeavour to secure to the producers ef
the west a better price for grain which
would net be good enough te go into the
standard grades, and was tee, good te go
lnto the rejected grade.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It seems te me
it would be obviously an invidions thing
to ascribe to a territory an inferior quality
of oats. It snreiy was a libel on Alberta te
make a cîass ef frozen or rejected oata, or
Inferior quaiity of oata, and describe that
as 'Alberta.'
Surely tlîat was an unfair
thlng to do. I think the complaint mnade 19
a reasonabMe one. I frankiy confess I arn
not very preficient ln grain grading, and 1
arn dependent somewhat on my western
frienda to have tliese ameudments made
ln conformIty te what is just and right.
Hou. Mr. POWER-Aitbeugb they are flot
growing oats ln British .Columbia, yet they
may grow oats tbere ln the future, and
that grain,. I understand, would flot be
graded as Alberta eata.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-I beg te correct
myý hon. friend. We grow the best oata ln
Canada lu British Columbia, althongb unfertunately we are not an exporting country.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I would suggest that
95 Per -cent white oalts' ehonld be inserted
ln the flrst paragraph instead of 90 per
cent. The objeot la to get as pure milling
oats as possible. Mfr. Oliver, who brought
these Inatters up lu the House, and who
made sucb complaints about the Inspection
at year, spoke te me a moment ugo, agreeing te that.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I amn informed
by Mr. Oliver, member fromn Alberta, that
the action of the Grain Staudards Board
reduced the rate by 3 cents a bushel, and
prevented the farinera from getting fair
prices. The miling men of Manitoba, who,
1 believe, exercise ne little control over lhe
Grain Standards Board, purchased milling
The clause was amended and adopted.
oats at f eed prices, whereas oniy about 5
per cent of the oat products enters into miii
Hon. 31r. YOUNG-As bas been peinted
products, whereas the other 95 per cent are ont, these amendments have been urged by
feed oats.
the representative ef the district which
Hou. Mýr. LOUGHEED.

MAY 10, 1902.

453

raises the largest quantlty ef oats for ex- MEDICAL, COUNCIL IN CANAD)A BILL.
port. He bas only one desire, 1 arn sure,
1SECOND READING.
and that is to see that the grain ralsed la
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN rnoved the second
bis district is properly classifled.
readlng ef Bill (11) 'An Act te provide fer
The arnendment was agreed to.
the establishment of a Medical Councl ln
Canada.'
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE, from the committee,
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-This Bill
whlch
reported tbhe Bill, with ameadmnents,
deals wlth education. There is no member
were concurred ln.
of this House who disputes that tact. The
prernoter of the Bill ln the House of CernFIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
mous, lu reply te a question put hlm as te
the South
Bill (85) An Act respectlng
whether It provlded for provincial rlgbts,
Mr.
Rallway Company.--(Hon.
Shore
said:. 'It ls provlded for by the arnendment
Beique.)
whlch bas just 1)een adopted.' The arnendBill (87> An Act respectlng the Quebec ment 1s ln the 6th clause cf the Bill, and
Southern Rniiway Coenpany.-<Heu. Mr. the Srd paragraph cf clause 6 reads as foiBeique.)
Iowa :
No province shall be represented upon the
couai elther by appo4nted or eiectc-d 'nembers
MONTREAL SUBWAY COMPANY'S
unitih the legielature of thc3 province baes enacted
BILL.
ln effect that registration by the cetuncil shall
equivalent te regi3tration fer
A message was rece4ved from the House lie accepte& as under the laws of the provi,e ;
the like purpose
of Commons wltb Bill (98) An Act te, ln-, provided that when aiS the provinces cf Canada
corporate the Mentreal Subway Company. have legislated la effect as aforesaid, It shahl
lie lawful to appoint and eleet la the manner
The Bill was read the first time.
aforesaid. members of the couneil represeating
the provinces and the universities and laco-rMon. Mr. WATSON moved that rule 41 porated séhools aforesaid, and such members
conbe suspended se far as It relates te this shahl. subject to the provisions cf this Act,
stitnte the counchl.
Bill.
I have had occasion te consuit different
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Hamilton)-I object te persons and there la certainhy a doubt as
the suspension ef the rule.
te this clause. Some are cf the opinion of
the prerneter, Dr. Roddick, that -the Bill
Hon Mr. WATSON moved that tbe Bill
will corne Into, operation oaly wben ail the
be read the second time at the first sitting
local legisiatures shail have approved of It.
cf the House on Monday.
But others--and 1 arn lnclined te be of that
The motion was agreed te.
opinien-believe tbat It dees not protect
local rights. It provides, la the. first part,
YUKON TERRITORY ÂCT AMENDMENT that when the legisiatures have appreved of
BILL.
the Bill It cau corne Into operatien. When
ail the provinces have leglslated te give
A message was read from the Heuse cf
effect te it, then such members shah, subject
Commens witb Bill (119) An Act further
Ito this Act, constltute the ceuncil. There Is
te amend the Yukon Territory Act.
ne necesslty for the law. It does net proThe Bill was rend the first time.
vide that the law sbeuld net corne Into,
Bill be eperation until ail the hegisiatures bave
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the
read the second time at the first sitting of accepted it. 1 think everybedy understands
the Importance of net alewlng the federal
the House on Monday.
gevernment te lntierfere la those raubjects
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is tbis, which beiong te the local governiment ; and
the Bill previding for representatien te educatlon belengs to the local government. This ls certaInly a BUll concernYukon Territory ?
.Houl. Mr. SCOTT-No, simply giving ad- ing educatien. Belng unanimous en that
question, If we enhy differ on the Interpreditional Power te make 'ordinances.
tation of this part of the sixth clause wby
The motion wàs ngreed te.

net make it cicarer ? -Wby net say ln ian-

454

SENATE

guage that wouid be understood by everybody, that this law should oniy corne into
operation wben It la approved by the legisJature, and there would lie -no doubt about
It at ail. Thinking that It la very Important
that this matter sbould be settled before
the second reading la carried-because by
consenting to the second readIng we affirrn
the princîple of the BIi-the passing af this
Bill la giving to the federal government the
rigbt to Interfere ln provincial matters, and
1 think that shouid be decided now. If an
hon. member would move an amendment
which would remave the doubt, then everybody would knaw that provincial rlghts were
safeguarded. Iu other respects I thlnk'the
BUi would be very advantageaus to the
province af Quebec.
-Hon. 31r. LANDEIRKIN-The objection
that bas been taken by the ban. gentleman
f rom Montarvllle la a very proper one, but
nt the same time this Bill daes flot interfere
wltb education, whicb by the Act af Coufederation waa lef t ta the different provinces. This la only regulatlng the registration lu ail the provinces ao that a medical
man81
wbo bas passed the necessary examination in one of the universities of the Dominion, shall be allowed ta practice ln any province. The law at preseut la very unaeemly,
and a very- great hardsbip. A medical, man
wba bas graduated at M.%cGill university la
flot able to go and practice lu any of the
other provinces because be acquired his education ln the province of Quebec.
He ls
limited to the province of Quebec. Graduates of them'niversities ln Toronto are qualified to practice anywhere lu Canada, but
cannot practice outaide of Ontario. This
Bill does flot affect education, It onîy affects
the regIatration af medical practitioners. It
seema peculiar-and I tblnk iy bon. friend
wlll agree with me-that wheu a gentleman
is well qualified to practice lu the province
af Quebqc be, a Britisb subject, 'la probibited
frônâ practising ln Ontario, British Columbla, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, or any otber
province lu the Dominion. This Bill aima
at aomething which bas been sought after
for years. This Bill la beneficial from a
national standpoint. It bas a tendency- to
prevent medical men from going ta the
United States to practice. Many of our
Young men wbo are well equipped and well
qualllied to practice went to Manitoba ln
Hon. Nir. DeBOUCHERVILLE.

order to pursue their profession tbere but,
by tbe laws af the province were probibited.
At that time the laws were flot so strict ln
the western atates ai the Union, and tbe
consequence was tbey weut over tbere. I
arn infornied by those wbo reside In Dak-ota,
Wgshington and.Oregon tbat many medical
men engage lu practIce tbere by reason af
more llberal.laws tban those existing lu tbe
provinces of our own Dominion,. and this
Bill is ta remove thîs auomaly and inake
the medical man who la a British aubject
feel tbat be la a British subject fia matter
lu wbat province be goea to practice when
ha posseases tbe qualification. It would be
improper, It would be unwIse, and I think
it would flot be lu tbe Interasts of the
country tram a national standpolnt, frarn a
profeasional standpolnt, or from any other
standpoint, to deny this rigbt to British
suýbjects to practica their profession lu any
province where tbey .ray reaide. It does nat
interfere witb educatgion. My bon. -friend
la no more anxiaus about that than I am.
I wauld quite agree 'wlth blm If it did. Tbis
only affecta tbe registration, and tbis givas
us a -recIprocity of reglatration lu every
province of the Dominion. It la wbat Io
sought for and what thie Bill proposes ta
attain. I bave lieen palnad and grieved
when lu the west to find tbat so many af
our young men 'who had gone tbere ta practice were driven, by the -want of. Dominion
legislation, to practîce lu tbe United States,
and I do bope, lu the Interests of tbis country and o~f tbe profession, that the Senate
wlil not obstruct tbis mesure, which bas
beau so -wehl cousidered, eo well elaboratad
and sa well laid before the House of Coulmous. I hope that aur Senate will rîse to
the occasion and become a national Senata,
and will grant ta the profession of vaedicIne the pawer to regulate tbe registration,
s0 tbat thay will be enabled ta practice In
every provduce af tbe Dominion. Tbis la
flot aaking too rnuch. I d1o flot question the
wisdam of the fathers of confederation lu
flot baviug itbis pro'vision lu the Coniederation Act, but If wa had the privilege ta
carry this measure whicb affects (the registratIon of medicah men, then I think there
should be no objection raised lu tbe Senate ta
grauting this boon tip tbe profession and ta
allo.w every medical man ln Canada to teel
that lu every province or tha Dominion be

MAY 10, 19021
enjoys the right to practice that wbicl the
law of bis own -province perenits. I tbink
we should bave this, not only from a professional but, from a nationat standpoint,
to allow reeiproclty lIn regiatration toi medical men wbo are well qualified In the uniY ersities whieb we bave, universitiles where
medîcal men are as well trained, as lIn any
universities itbat exist, -and If rny hon.
friend would tbink for a moment what a
* refiection it is upon the educational standing of the province of Quebec, to deny to
the students wbo bave graduated In that
province, eitber nt McGill or Lavai, the
rigbt to practice In ûny other province of
tbe Dominion where It rnigbt be their Intercet to practice, I think he would walve
bis objection and aïlow this Bill to pass.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER. The rernarks o! the
hon. gentleman wbo bas just spoken are entirely solde from the'question. The medical
meni are no more deprIved. o! their rdghts as
British citizens than any other part of the
comrnunity. This subi ect dependa entIrely
upon tbe provinces. At one timie there were
only two provinces who bad reciprocity o!
laws In medical education. Manitoba liad
for a long tirne, and If I arn not miataken,
bas stIli a clause la the medical law wvhIch
provides for reciprocity. Why sbould flot
tbe other provinces do the saine? Thbis
quest 'on would then be settled elitireiy to
the satisfaction of the medical mexi and of
the people o! Canada. As to tItis being a
Bill respecting education, it seerns to me
there can flot be any doubt. It is orily necessary to refer to the varions clauses of
this Bll to be convinced of that. See, for
instance,, subclause a of clause 4, which
provides for the establishmnt o! a qualification lIn medicine. There are many more
clauses of the same character lu the Bill.
This Bill will very hIkely receive Its third
reading. Tbe general sense of tbe House
seems to go la that direction. I amn sorry
to be obliged to register mysel! as a dissentient. True, men baving authority to speak
on sucb rnatters bave given the!r de:!Ided
opinion tbat this Bill Io within the jur.sdiction of -this parliament Bat, If tîxere Is
notbing to stictly prevent oui, passirtig tflis
Bill, I respectfully submit that it lis not
within the spirit of the constitution tuasrnuch as it deats witb a class of subjects
reserved to provincial «jurisdiction. it Is

only necesssary to look ftt certain reqguirements 0f'the Bill to, corne to that conclusion :
(a.) the establishiment of a qualification in
m-edicine, such that the holders thereof ahail
be accoptable and empowered to, practice lIn ail
the provinces of Canada ;
<b.) the establishmxent of a register for Canada of medicai practitioners and atudents., and
the publication aand revision from time to time
of such register ;
(d.) the establishment and maintenance of a
board of examinera for the examin-ition of surit
persona and for the granting a! certlfliýates of
qualification._
These clauses refer to currIculurns, examinations, students, and so on.
Now, amny
iaw or regulations bearing upon examinations bear necessarily upon the
studies at ail their stages.
Then, this
Bill, if it becomes law, wlll create a
macbinery wbich will, lIn reality, make not
only the rnedical etudies, but ail preliminary
studies, wbetber classical or otberwise, turn
around that privileged. body. It wIll lIn fact,
and out of its naturai working, control to a
certain extent, the ecientiflc formation of the
young generations. Having In view the
princIples underiying our constitution, 1 beIleve .tbat a Bill which bas the effect to
wbicb I have just referred is at least against
the spirit of the constitution. Hon, gentlemen wiil not be surprised If I amn a littIe
sensitive on sucb a subject. Under tbe false
pretense of raising tble standard 0f educati «on,
the minority of Manitoba has been deprived
o! solid rights, crystallIzed In the constitution. And since I have. touched -on that
su'bject, I take the present opportunity of
protesting once more against that school
legisiation wbich Is still a wound lIn the
fiesh of a loyal group of His Majesty's subjects. Notwitbstanding wbat la too often
said, that question has not been settled,
the Injustice still exios and we stili dlaim
tbat the decision of His Majesty's Privy
Council should be made law, and we atill
contend. that this parliament shouid redreas
our grievances by legislation.
But coming back to the Bill before us, It Ia
proposed to overcome the constitutional difficulty by rnaking the Bill subject to provincial approval. Surely that would be an
improvement lIn the Bill. But, the very fact
that It bas been deerned necessary to lIntroduce this ameadmeut, Is a recognition« 0f
the fact that the Bill was an attempt to
legislate on matters pertaining to the pro-

SENATE
vinces. But even with that amendment, the
Bill seems to me objectionabie. This arnendment does flot cure the tendency of the
Bill, which la to supersede the local Institution. According to rny humble adrîce, we
cannot bie too watchful wlth regard to the
fuli maintenance, not only of the letter Ôf
the constitution, but of its spirit also. This Is
a cardinal principle which applies to every
province. On those grounds I am bound to
oppose the Bill.
la so far as the ameudment la concerned,
It does not meet the contention that it requires the consent of ail the provinces before
the law can corne Into force.
It la ciairned that this amendment pyovides that before the law cornes liito force
It must have the ussent of nil the provinces.
I cannot find that lu the amenument. The
urndment rends as follows:
3. No province shahl be represented upon the
council eitber by appolnted or elected membcrs
untîl the legisiature of the province lias enected
Ia effect that registration by the couneil shail
be accepted as equivaient .to registration for
the like purpose under the iaws of the province ;provided that when al] the provinces of
Canada bave Iegislated lu affect as aforesald, &c.

What do thiese words mean?

There la

niothlng la them referrlng to the coming Into
force of the iaw wlth or without the consent

the province. The mutter was brought up
lu our local legisiature during my term of
service there and lt was on a point to which
the bion, gentleman to my rlght has referred.
It was not known whether the other provinces would reciprocate or not, but the
principle of this Bill was favoured by the.
greut rnajorlty of the members of the House
of Assernbly of Nova Scotia. Why not ?
We send our young men to McGill lu the
province of Quebec to get a medical educution and equipment, and yet these. young
men of Nova Scotia cannot practIce lu Quebec. Tbe way tbe .luw now la tbey cannot
be registered as medical practitioners lu
the province lu wbich tbey have recelved
their medîcal educution, and vice versa. The
question of educution lu the abstract la lnvolved lu the Bill, but the question, so far
as it affects tbe conscience of any lion.
member, la flot affected by. tiis Bill, and I
thlnk It should flot be opposed on tbiat
ground. If a Nova ilcotian whio gets bis
education lu Lavai sees fit to go to Manitobu to practîce, what la the resuit ? Rie
cannot practice there, and sometirnes there
muy bie opposition of a not very geuîne
kind brought against hlm, tbat bie may find
It difficuit to get rld 0f. I do nlot thlnk tItis
obtains wlth regard to tbe legal fraternity.
They probably can practîce from one end
of tbe Dominion to the othier.

of the -provinces. So, at least, it appears to
me. I w-ouid suggest tbat if the Bill Is to
pass with this ameudment, it should be
Hom. Sir MACKENZIE
made ciear that It wlll require the consent
of ail the provinces before the haw goes no.
into operation.

Hon. Mr. CHURCH-I wish to say a fev
words on this Bill. I am lu favour of it, and
agree with the vlews of my bon. frlend irom
Boutb' Grey. I bave listened with very great
attention to the remarks of the hon. gentleman to rny rlght, and I respect bis views
from the standpoint from whlcb bie delivers
them. I respect them cordially, but as I
understand the Bill, I am nl favour of It.
And perbapa 1 bave some riglit to speak
on this mutter, because one-haif of the peopie I have been meeting have called me Dr.
Oburcli. If that bie the case, I have the
right to tahk on this question ; but vlewlng
it from

the

standpolnt

of

the

province

BOWELL,-Oit,

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The haw Is dIfferent lIn
the differeut -provinces, but the law relat.lng to medicine Is alîke.
Hon. Mfr. OHURCH-Well, tbey sbould be
able to practice anywbere lu Canada. 'We
bhave neyer formed a union la reallty lu this
regard. Lt la onIy a -union on paper so far
as it relates to medîcai miatters. 1 ar nl
favour of this Bih. The exarninations of
ail the medical achools are very strict, and
I bedleve lu aine cases ont of ten, no young
man gets bis degree unless hie Is fully qualified to enter upon the duties of that prof'essieu.
That belng the case, and the
standard ibelug about the saine lu ail the
provinces-I do flot tbiuk there is any dif-

from which I corne, I thlnk, as repre- ference lu
the degreeg-and as gentlemien
sentlng that province, I could fairly vote go to Eugland and
get libeir degrees t-here,
for this Bill and be lu accord with the It seerne ridiculous
that they imunot prac tice
great majority of the medical men of ln any of the
provinces. The opposition to
Hion. Mir. BERNIER.

MAY 10, 1902
the Bil 4s a matter of conscience and sentiment, but that clause of the Bill that the
legisiature of the province must give assent
to It, I think fiilly protects the provinces
in so far as the educational question cornes
in Incidentaliy. Why should there be Nova
Scotia doctors, New Brunswick doctors,
Quebec doctors, Ontario doctors and Manito;ba doctors, as such, ln the Dominion, when
ail the provinces are formed, by the British
North America Act, Int.o one couintry ?
Hlon. Mr. BERNIER-I understand the
hon. gentleman w'ho lias just spoken bad
been for many years la public life in Nova
Scotia and a member of the governmeat for
thüt province. Then why bas flot that gentleman passed a Bill of reciprocity la the
matter?

tice medicine in the province, unless he lias
obtained a license fro'm the provincial board.
It la flot souglit by this Bill to abolishi or
Interfere with that provision, and If the
Bill were to pass as it la, it would not give
any power to any persons regiýered under
this Bill to practice Ia any of tlhe.-proinces
Ail that Is sought
by virtue of the Bill.
to be doue by tlie Bill la to organ-ize a Dominion Medical Council to establish a qualficatlon 0f medical practitioners and who
saol provide for the registration o! ruerabers under this Act. But la no part o! the
Bill la there a protlaion that any person
registered under this Act shail bave the
riglit to practice la sny province. If there
were, It would -have been ultra vires, but
the bon. inembers who have prepared tbis
Blâ have not gone as far as that. In subsection 3 of section 6, they have recognized
tlie principle of the provincial legisiation :

Hon. Mr. CHURCE-Juet because the
other provinces would not reclprocate, not3. No province shall be represented upon the
ably Quebec..
council either by appointait or electe4l memb..rs
until the legislature of the province lias enacted
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I en'tlrely agree wlth inaeffect that registration by the council shai
to
the hon. gentleman frorn MontarvdlUe when bo accepted as equivalent lawsregistration. for
of the province.
the 11ke purpose under the
lie says this BIN is a very Important menshould be jealous of. the This acknowledges that until the provinces
sure, and tbat we
pofwers of the provinces la deallng wltb edu- have passed a hawý acceptlng legishation uncatIon. Section 92 of the British North der this Act, the Act will be inoperative,
Amertca Âct says «that education la lef!t ex- and the persous registered under this Act
clusively to the provinces, and were 1 wll flot have the rIght to practice la the
of opinion, on examlning this Bill, that provinces, and so far as that goes, 1 arn
It Interferes la any way with tbat pro- perfectly satlsfled witb the Bill; but where
vision, I would oppose It; but as I under- the Bihl la deficient-and I arn quite sure
stand the Bill, lits object is rnerely for It la through an overslght-it la la the last
establisbing a general portion of the sarne subsection 3. The prothe purpose .of
standing of the profession, which stand- viso rends this way ing shouid be as higli as the blgheat
Provlded that when ail the provinces of Canexisting for the time being la any of ada have legilhated ina ffect as aforesaid. it
and elect la the manle lawfuil
the provinces, and sucli belng the pria- shall aforesaid to appoint of the council repremembers
uer
cîpie, as I understand, of the BLih, It seoms senting the provincs, and the unlveraltles and
to me It would be a good iaw, provided we lncorp.orated schools aforesaid. 'and sucho! rnemthis
bers shahl, subJect to the provisions
are sure that thie objeot of the Bill is car- Act, constitute the coun-ll.
It.does not overreach tbat
rled -out and that
abject. 1 entirely agree wlth the hon. gen- Now, I draw the attention of hou. members
tlernan (rom Montarville la saylng tliat to this tact : that la clause 6 of this
clause 6 of the Bill slxould be made per- Bill, there are four classes of members o!
fectiy clear, and I think I ar nl a position the couacil, cîna A, cîass B, class C, and
to show that .&Ils subsection ls far from class D. Now, the proviso refera only to the
I appolntment of classes B and C, and leaves
belng celear and requires to be a.mended.
desire to call the -attention o! the hon. gen- out clasa A and D. The consequence will
tiemaon from Montarville and ail the other be this, that the members of the council la
members of the House, to this fact : that classes A and D could 'be appolnted, and the
taking the provincial law of Quebec, as law would be Ia operation as far as they are
Therefore, I would suggest,
an example, It la provIded by section 3976 concerned.
that no person shall be admltted to prac- when tlie Bill ls examlned la Cornmittee

458SENATE
of the Whole, that ibis proviso be amended
su as to make It clear that before any members of the council can be appoInted, It shahl
be necessary that legisIation be passed by
ail tbe provinces. There is another point ln
the Bill which troubles me. It la this : I
understand that the object of the Bill ls to
provide for tbis blgh professional standard
to which 1 have referred. I amn entirely ln
accord witb that objeet of tbe Bill. Tfris, I
understand, la to be dône, not by attemptlng to open any achools, but merely provldIng for examinations whlch the persons destring to be registered under this Bill would
have to pass. I do not tink this Interferes wlth educatlon. It la merely provldIng for the giving of a lcense to per.Sous Wbo bave attained a certain standard
of education. But wbat troubles me, from
the cursory examination of the! Bill I bave
beexi able to make to-day, la this, that the
Bill ln tbree or four different clauses refers to students, and I believe that thls
wIll have to be made clear, theqe provisions will bave to be amended M;order
tu make clear that when the Bill cornes
ln force, the medical coundil, under the provisions of the Act, will flot open any medical
schools whereby an educatiOn would be
given to the students. For Instance, reference Is made to students ln paragraph h ln
clause 10 :
The adnilssion, enroilment and registration of

Dominion Medicai
iows

Association are as fol-

(L.) the quaiication~s to be re-luired from ail
porsons deairous of being registerd, cither as
practiticuers,r students, under the authority ci
tiis Act, inoluding the e-stablshment, maintenanee ani effective conduct ot exanilnatiens

for ascertalnlng whether sueh persors possess
the qualifications requlred ;the number, nature,
limes and modes of sucli examinations ; thq
appoinfment of examiners; the terme upon which

matrlculatlon and other certificates lromn univ(!raL-tlcs, collegeýs and atiier educational institutions, or from the governing bodies a! other
professions, shaff be received as evidence of
qualification ; the dispensation of candidates
from undorgoing examlnations. eltbcr wholly or
partlahly ;and genersaly a-Il matters Incident to0
sucli exanIinations or necessary cDrexp3dient to
ellect the objects thereof:
Provld-ed, however, that(I.) the requirements of any curriculum established by the councl. shall not, at eny time,
be lower than the requirements o! th? muost
comprehensive curriculum then establlshed -for
the like purpose ln any provinceo
(11.) the standard of examination, cither pre-

lijnlnary or professional, shahl not, at any time.

be lower thon th3 hlghest stançiard for the like
purpose thon establ&hed for ascertaining the
qualification for registration. ln any province;

(l.) the pxossession of a Canidlau univcrsity
degree alone, or o! a certificate o! provincial re-

gistration foundad on such possession, obîained
rubsequent to the passlng of this Act, shall fot
entitle thi possessor thereof to be registered

wider this Act.

That is to say, the council bas a rigbt to
bave a standard of examination eitber preliminary, for admission to study, or professalonal when the studiea are over. I

tbink that is an Infringement on provincial
riglits ; but the particular point to wbich
1 wlsh to caîl the attention of the House
1 arn afraid 'that under tbls wording It ln this : the father of the Bill ln the House
would be open to this medîcal council to of Commons, Dr. Roddlck, when lie presentinter! ere son>ewbat witb the education ed bis amendment, was asked by an bon.
whicb would be given ln the schools, or gentleman to explain It, and what did1 be
rather Interfere with the riglit of admission say ?
Prsctltioncrs and students of the madical profesalon, subject tu the provisions of this Act.

of students in provincial medical schools, I
thInk we sbould scrutinlze the Bill, and
see wbether there la any danger of that kind
under the wording o! these clauses. These
will be matters for consideration when the
Bill is examined ln Committèe of the Whole.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbere Is a grelit
deal that suggests, itself in the wording of
the Bill, and especially ln tbe remarks
made by the bon, gentleman wbo lias Just
spoken on the subject. If be refera a littie
further to the same clause 10, paragrapb
i and subparagraphs i, ii and ii, lie will
see that the qualifications asked for by this
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

The original clause
five or more provinces
corne Into effect. The
aIl the provinces Ehall
cil can be forxned.

provlded that when any
had legishated, this would
amendment provides that
legisiate before the coun -

That Is -the Interpretatlon given by the
father o! the Bill la the House of Commons,
sud ut was so understood by ail tho.ic wbo
took part ln tbe discussion ln the House.
And 'what dues the Prime M.%iiister say:
But wlth the Bill as t ls flow, wlth the
amendmnents which have bcen mude dcclarlng
la su many words that this Bill shall not. corne
izitô effect until lt has been ratlfled by ail the
p~rovinces, how can the contention bhe niaintalned?

MAY 10, 190
We see by these quotations that nil those
Interested lu the Bill, who took part ln the
discussion In the House of Commons, understood that the amendnient proposed by Mr.
Roddick was to this effect, that the Bill
would go Into operation only when accepted
and approved by ail the legisiatures of t he
provinces. Where la that clause to lie found
lu the Bill as It la now before us ?
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Iu subsectIon 3,
of clause 6.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then the Bill does
flot go into effect.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why not '? There is
no provision for a quorum. Where the Bill
does flot make any distinction, we are flot ailowed to makze any ourselves, and the cou'ncil could lie composed solely of the members
named by the Governor ln Council. At ail
events, this Is the only proposition wEý have
ln the Bill. Taking It as the expression of
the Mdens of those wbo favoured the Bill ln
the House of Commons, you want to make
It clear that It shall only corne Into force
when the provinces have accepted it. A
clause could be added, that this Bill should
have no eff ect until it Is accepted by encli
province of the Dominion, or If any particular province, by the legisiature of tbat
province. 1 don't want to make a condition
that ail the provinces should join to accept
It, thougli the Idea of the promoters was,
that they should. 1 want the flea of the
promoters and those who favoured the Bill
ln the House of Commone to prevali, and
that can lie done by adding the clause 1
bave suggested.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Clause 6 deais with
the composition of the council. The council
should lie composed as set forth ln the first
subsection of the clause. The second gives
the qualifications of the members. The 3rd
subsection sets forth the condition as follows :.
3. No province shaH- be represented upon the
council either by appointed or elected rnemers
until the legisiature of the province las en'acted
ln effect tiiat regist:ration by the council ohali
for
lie accepted as equivalént to registration
the like purpose under the daws of the Drovince.
1 find iu this that It le the council only that
shahl be composed when the legishative body
Hon. Mr. 3IcMILLAN-I thlnk, from the
of each province lias accepted certain con- trend of the discussion, thaf the principle
ditions of equlvaience.
of the Bill Is admitted, and for thait reason
1
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-1 would point out I do flot wieh to prolong the debate.
to my hon. friend that he omits the ad- merely wlsb to say that wlint the hon. genditional clause whlch provides that the coun- tlenien whvo are opposed to the Bill are
cil cannot corne Into existence until the legis- ask1ng for, eau be brouglit Up when the Bill,
If the objections they
latures 0f ail the provinces have givén affect la ln commhttee.
to this Bill. There cannot be any council ralse to the Bill are well founded, ln order
until ail the legisiatures have leglslated, and to proteet the rîglits of the provinces, I arn
as the council is the crux of the 'whole Bill, sure thils House wlll not object te carrying
my hon. .frlend must appreclate the fact out their vlews. For that reason, the printhat wlthout the council, the Bill cannot cIple being admltted, 1 see no reason wliy
the Bill should not now be rend the second
go Into effect.
time.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There Is no quorum
Hon: Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The lion.
fixed in the Bill, and If a medîctil council
Is constituted-only of members under cate- gentleman -who. spoke atter me misuudergory A, thme council will be named by the etiood me when lie a.d I was opposed to
Governor ln Council, and where are the the Bill. I arn not opposed to the Bill.
rights of the provinces then ? The council
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-I, take It back.
wlll lie created.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I sny Il
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-By tlie prof es- was a matter of prinilple. Ail I wanted
was ito do wbat the promoter of the Bill,
Dr. Roddick, ln the oither House, Is reported
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Your legisiature in 'HRansard ' to bave said, that tbis law
wiil provide for that.
&allj not become effective before the differHon. Mr. LANDRY-Suppose the legis- eut provincial legishatures shahl have legislated. On that point, Dr. Roddick lins exlature does flot pnss a law at ail.
sion ?

SE'NATE
pressed himiseif decidediy. I think the Bill
is not clear In that respect, and there are
others wbo ngree with me. What I want
is to put It ibeyond a -doubt. If the Senate
tbink.s it is better to have the Bill read
the second time now, and make the amendment later on, I have no objection.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

The SPEAKER-If there is -an objection
it caunot -be put.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I take
that position because I wish to let the other
branch of the 'legisiature and the government know that we are not going to swaiiow
measures of the greateat Importance at the
close of the session, w-ithout aux opportunlty
to consider them.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The most Important
measures have not been kepi -back. There
MOTION.
are on.ly two or three goverament mensures
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved thart for the re- to corne from the other House.
mainder of the session the Standing CornHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
mittees have leave to sit during tbe sittings are to have a BdhI during -the nex3 two or
ef the Senate.
three days affecting the whoie coasting
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I have trade of the country.
had some experience of this practice, and I
The SI>EAKER-This motion does not
doubt If we w.ill have a quorum in the affect the governmenit measures.
House,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We want to close the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why session b>- Tuesday. Lt bas been Invarlabiy
not bave the cornmit'tee meet at ten ? The the custom towards the close of the session
notice I have received la for 11.30.
I do to suspend the ruies to aiiow the business
Dlot think It is a good precedent to estab- to .proceed.
I move thait for the rest of
Iish.
the session, ruies 17, 41, 60 and 70 be sus-.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The objection to the pended.
bon. gentleman's suggestion is, that the noHon. Mr. BERNIER-What is the effect
tice given bas been to members to meet at of that ?
11.30. Sorne of tiien rnay flot know of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thnt one day's notice
change.
is not necessur-.
That you can take
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-W"e suspend the ruies a Bill reported from a committee, and it ma>be read at the same sitting.
every year a.t this stage of the session.
THE STANDING COMMITTEES.

Severai hon. MEMBERS-I object.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then.
it Is tirne to stop the practice.
Bring lu
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thien I give this notice
your measurets earlier. We have bad, dur- for Monday. It has been Invarial> doue.
lng the last week, neariy ail the important I have neyer known it to be refused before.
governrnent measures.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I have
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbInk this govern- known at the hast hours of the session Imment has not beau as great a sinnner as porta~nt Bis to corne up whea there was
sorne of its predecessors in that particular. no opportunity to discuss them.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WVhere
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
have heard that story every session, wheii it Is necessar>- to proceed wlth an important
objection was taken, that this government Bill, make a speclal motion to suspend the
That is better thau to avipep the
ls flot as bad as its predecessors. If that miles.
be true, why do you not as a Reform Gov- whorle of the mules out, b>- which an>- one
can latroduce an objectionable Bill If he
ernxnent reform ?
wvishes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have mnade it on the
Hon. Mr. SCOT1T-When Monday or Tuesother side of the House very often.
day cornes, any hon. gentleman can say :
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Let it 'You must give notice of tbat,' nnd we ma>be a notice of motion.
be k-ept here unnecessaril-.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE.

MAY 12, 1902
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thefl
the bon, gentleman shouid have the goverflment business brought before the House ln
tirne, ln order that we may have an opportunity of considering It. The hon. gentleman bas referred 'to the past. I do not
propose to adopt the plan be did, talk ont a
Bill until His Excellency came te prorogue
the House.

the rernainder of the session. I can scarcely
see the necessity to put in the -words ' for
tbe rernainder of the session,' If you suspend
the rifles ln the case of the two Bis. It
will not a.pply to any other Bis that corne
down.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-That Is not my motion.
It Ia a mistake.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
Hnn. Mfr. SCOTT-That was a BihI to
calling attention to what we are asked to
tbere was strong objection.
wldch
adopt. Would the bon, gentleman tell us
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes, 'wbat Bis 60 and 70 are ?
and the bon. gentleman introduced and
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It Is not my motion.
passed a similar Bill after bis party came
.My motion seems %tobave disappeared frorn
Into power. Has the bon. gentleman forgotten that ? There are some other thlngs the Order paper altogether. I read this
miotion thinking It was mine. It is someI can remind hlm of if necessary.
body else's motion te, whicb my name Ia
The Senate adjourned.
attacbed. I do not limit the suspension to
any particular Bis. My motion was gene-ral.
It was that the ruies affectin-, the stages
of the several Buis stili to corne before the
Senate should be suspended for the rernTHE SENATE.
der of the session. I see tbey bave attacbed
to it these two Bills of wbicb I bave bad no
Ottawoa, Monday, Mayi 12, 1902.
knowledge.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Dleven
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-TIie
o'clock a.m.
House will remember that when I toolk tbe
Prayers and routine proceedings.
objection I said that I thougbt the better
way to proceed wouid be to make a special
THIRD READING.
motion for eacb Bill, and wbere there ivas
Bill (87) An Act respecting the Quebec no objection to the principle of tbe BIhI or
the Bill itself, the House bas, ns a rule,
Southern Railway Compaxiy.--(Hon. Mr.
acceded to tbe request of the ýmember who
Belque).
desires to pass It. Tbere may be Bills, however, tbat parties bave very etrong objecSUSPENSION 0F RULES.
tions to, and bavIng sucb objections, they
are entitied to' take advantage of ail the
MOTION WITHDRAWN.
rules In order to prevent their becoming law.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT rose to move
That was tbe reason why I toolc tbat course.
That Rules Nos. 17 and 41, ln so far as they I see the bon. senator from Portage la
relate to Private Bis Nos. 60 and 70, be sus- Prairie (Hon. Mfr. Watson) acted urpon that
pended for the remainder of this session.
suggestion and made a speeial motion for
Me said: There are very f ew Bills to a Bill of wbich be bas charge, although no
corne ýdown from the otber House, I under- objection w-as taken at the time «wben he
stand, I tbink only two governinent Bilas, nsked for a suspension of the rules.
and some private Bis, and It ls very deHon. Mr. SCOT-I .t appears the motion,
sirable that we shouid suspend the rifles In
regard to those BIs. It bas been the usual owing to a typograpbdcal error, the fault
practice at -the end of the session to do so. of somebody ln copying It, Is made to rend
as If it referred te two private BlIls. The
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL_-TIie words 1Private Bila' have been Inserted In
hon. gentleman wIlI see that this will not the motion by error. My Intention was to
accomplish the object whicb he bas In view. move tbe suspension of rules 17, 41, 60 and
The motion only refera to Buis 60 aud 70 for 70. 1 thought It was the desire of the House

SENATE
to suspend these rules. It is the usual
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbose ameudments
thing at this stage of the session. I have. oniy appiy to, Manitoba and the west.
no desire to do It If It Is against the wishes
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I arn
of tbe House.
caiiing the attention of western members
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-There Is to the fact.
no notice of that motion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-As 1 understand,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Il1 the House Is flot these arndments are proposed by parties
desirous of suspending the rules It may In- who represent tbe largest grain-growing
volve our remaining bere two or tbree days district In the North-west Territories, and
longer.
whiie It is very bard for this bonourabie body
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Nobody to judge on so short a notice, as to wbat
wouid objeet to suspending the rules on eacb is the very best standard, stili we must
Bill when the Bill cornes before us, taking accept tbe views and Information furnished
us by those wbo represent tbe district Interthe Bill on Its merits.
ested. It is doue, I fancy, witb the very
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman dld best Intentions to enablé tbe ont crop of
the other day.
tbe Nortb-west Territories to be graded,
Hon. Mr,. DeBOUCHERVILLE-There is and ciassified so as to make it more profitone Bill that wf11 be opposed very strongly, able to tbe producer, and If tbct is done, we
and those who are opposing it wIhl flot be ought to be satisfled.
In favour of suspending the rules la that
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It seems to me that
case, but tbey wIII allow the ruies to be the Intention of tbis House will not be carsuspended ln the case of ail other Bis. ried out If this amendment remains as it Is.
1 do flot see why we shouid pass a generai There was n very Important cbange in the
motion.
Bill as printed from wbat it was as reThe report
Tbe SPEAKER-As 1 understand it, the ported fromn the committee.
bon. Secretary of State does flot press his of tbe CormIttee of the Wbole was to this
effect: as regards Manitoba and tbe Nortbmotion.
west Territorles, and tbat part of Ontario
The motion wns witbdrawn.
west of Lake Superior, section 44 of the
GENERAL INSPECTION ACT AMEND- General Inspection Act is nmended by
striking out the provisions of tbat section
MENT BILL.
and substitutiug sometbing else.
I draw
THIRD READING.
attention to the fact that ln tbe Bihl as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--On Saturday, we bcd printed tbe provisions are ieft as they now
before ns a proposed ameadment to tbe exist under section 44, and tbe provisions
GeneraI Inspection Act ln so far as it re- as to oas are merely added by adding cerlates to Manitoba and the North-west Ter- tain words. 'You add subsections wbicb are
ritories, and that section of Ontario iying in conflct witb the sections tbat rernain ln
west of Lake Superior. After a good deni the Act.
of discussion the ameadments were agreed
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The section ln the Act
upon. but I see that, as they are printed ln applies to ail Canada.
the Bill that bas now been distributed,,tbere
are a number of patent errors.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn referring to secLt
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I wouid tion 44 of the Act as It now exIsts.
covers tbe Nortb-west- and Manitoba and
like to ccii tbe* attention of tbe hon. minister to tbis :It says tbat tbe onts shahI be western Ontario as weii as the rest of Canfree frorn any other grain. Supposing there ada.
tbere were wbeat or pense with tbern, tbct
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It was understood
wouid give more valIue to the oats, because that, innsmucb as tbe ameudment whIch
Pense and wbent aiways seil at a higber was rnoved tbe otber day covered the whoie
price than onts. Onts are tbe iowest priced Dominion of Canada, If was not wise to disgrain we bave la the market.
turb the provisions wbich relate to the
Hon. Mr. StDiTT.

MAY 12, 1902
older portions of the Dominion, but to confine these amndments to that portion of
Canada west of Lake Superior. That is
what we are aiming at. If my hon. friend
wIii look lie wili find In the General Inspection Act the very sanie policy is'pursued
with reference to the grading of wheat.
There Is an exception made of certain
grades referring only to the section west
-of Lake Superior, se we are oniy carrylng
ont ln thxe oats clause what bas aiready
been carried out ln tbe wheat clause. The
sanie Inspection and grades wouid net be
fair to the producers of thxe west, which
appiies to the grain of the east. I shouid
Ilke to suggest to the government, ini view
-of the lncreasing area of production ln the
west. î>articuiariy the far west, it ls advisabie to appoint three or four addItional
.mexubers te the Western Standards Board.
ýOats, of course, is cut out from the ionis-diction of thxe Standards Board, but there
are barley, fiax (a rapidiy increasing crop),
and other grains, ami inasmuch as the area
ef crops everv year ln the west ls increasIng, I wouid suggest that a member be ap.pointed from Prince Albert district, another
trom Edmonton district, and anether froni
the Regina district, se that these western
-districts will be repres7ented on the Stand.ards Board, and then their interests wili be
.protected and explained to the board, and
it wiil work to the advantage o0f ail cou-cerned.
The motion was agreed to, and tixe Bill
-was read the*third time and passed.
.MEDICAL COLTNCIL 0F CANADA. BILL.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved itseif Into a Committee efthfie Whole on Bill (11) 'An Act for
the establishment of a Medical Council in
-Canada-.'
(Iu the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. BE[QUE-I think It may. be as
-welI to make a remark or twe ef a general
nature at this stage of the Bill. I have given
a good deai e! attention te the Bill since the
Heuse rose on Saturiday, and have prepared
amendments, which were submlitted to Dr.
Roddick and accepted by him. I wili draw
the attention o! lien. members of this Hlousle
*te the makn amendments. There are Cthers,

but they are mereiy for the purpose of giving eff ect to the true Intention of the Bill.
It was contemplated. by the Bill that
legisiation by provinces would be necessnry
te make the Bill operative, and my first
amendments are merely te make that
perfectly clean, and aise to make It
dlean that this Bill dees net encreacli upon
the rlghts of the provinces, and that It wIli
be left te any of the provinces te withdraw
from the operatien of the Bill as far as thcy
are concerned If they shouid.desire te do se0
of course, without prejudice te the acqulred
rights of a medicai man who weuld have, ln
the meantime, obtained by virtue ef thils
Act the riglit to practIce lnx that province.
Then a very Important provision te which I
draw the attention of this honourabie
Chamber, which I propose te add te the
Bill as clause 21, rends as follows :
This Act shall net lie interpr3t3d as authorimiDg the creation of medical schoois or otherwise giving medîcal tuition.
So as te make It perfectly clear that it ls
net intended te Infringe upon the riglits of
provinces, as far as education Is concerned.
Then I propose te make an addition te
clause 13, aften subparagraph 3. Thene was
ne provision iii the Bill, as passedl by the
Heuse of Cemmons, protecting the niglits
of students who, at the tume when this Act
shahl become operative, would be studylng
medicine, and of course It le; Important that
their rights be protected, s0 that they wil
not be oblIged, te commence oven again their
whele study. I wll propose another amendment, te interpret the word 'students'1In,
the Interpretatien clause of the Bill. I would
propose, th.at the expressien, students, mens
only persona admitted te the study of medicine lu virtue of provincial iaw, s0 that the
Medlcal Council under this Act shahl net
have any power te deai with students bef ore they are neceived as students and necognized as such under provincial laws.
On clause 2,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE -I move that tue following be added te thîs clause :
(c.) The expression 'medi.cal sch.aol' Includes
an Institution whereln medicine is taught.
(d.) The expres3l= 'student' means only persona aditted te the study ef miedicice by vIrtue
of provincial laws.
The ameudment was adopted.

SENATE

On clause 4,
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I would like to
have some expianation witb regard to subsectIons 'a,' ' b,' and 'c,' of clause 4. It appears to me it la taking out of the banda of
the diff erent medical institutions or collegps
ln the Dominion the power to fix the curriculum, and the ternis and conditions upon
wbicbi doctors shan pass and become physiciaus, and piacing It under the control of
this organization. If that is the case, 1 do
flot tbink we sbould assent to that.

if ive do flot fear It, I bope our lay friends
Winl fot fear it eitber.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I hbave this view with
reference to the whole subject-perhaps It.
la useless to, express lt-that wben a man
goes tbrough an educational Institution
founded by the law, and passes the examination uecessary to become a doctor, -it
seenis very bard lndeed that he sh 'ai not
have the right to practice imedicine lu auy
part of Canada. If 1 were Introducing such
à B3ill, I would declare It to be for the
general benefit of Canada, and every maxi
Hon. Mfr. LANDERKIN-Tbere la no ob- who gets is degree from a regular college
*jection to that.
la Canada sbould be entitled ta practice
anywbere la the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-This does not atHon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, bear.
tempt to take away froni any college Its
own curriculum or course of atudy.
Hou. Mr. ELLIS-Tbis Bill la a restriction,
Hon. Mfr. MecMNULLEN-Tbie doctors may no doubt, on the existing conditions. It may
arrange a very bIgb curriculum, and exclude be the doctors want It, and kt may be that
numbers that possibly migbt be registered the Senate wauts It.
by the different medical collieges of this
Hou. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-We alave the recountry. I should like to get a full expia- strictions uow ln every province. If tbis
nation of that clause.
Bill1 were passed, and a common standard
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-This bas oxily re- fixed, upon wbich ail medical men woultl
ference to registration under thUs Act. The bave to pass, then It would be for the best
bon, gentleman must bear lu mind that tUis mea to win. Tbere could Ibe no acrimninous
does not Interfere ln auy way with or curtail contentions tbat one univeralty was better
auy college or Institution of Its riglits as tbey than auotber-all bad to come to the board
at present exist. It does not lower or tu- and pass It--aIl appeared before the peopie
crease, or luterfere lu auy way with the with the sanie standing. Acrimony and aIl
standard. It has nothing to do witb that. that kind of thlug is taken, out of it, aad 1
It la siniply au examining board, aud not do not see wby the Bill1 should not be carrIed.
a teacbiug body ; and, therefore, It only acHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-This measure bas
cepts and supervises the curriculum of every been submitted to ail tbe unîversities, and
college aud 'universlty, s0 thàt Its studeuts medical councils, and an parties wbo have a.
can be admitted to registration.
rlgbt to grant licenses or degrees lni the pr*ovince, and 'bas been npproved."
Hou. 'Mr. LANDERKIN-Tbey have ta
miake arrangements for couductiug the exHon. M1r. McMULLEN-I bave not the
-mnmation.
The members o'f the council sligbtest doubt tbat the doctors aud lustiare electefi by the profession. There la no tites of mediclne may consent to. the prodanger of theni exceeding tbeir powers, visions 0f this Bill, but after ah, I cannot
becanse they are under the control of the see it lu any Iigbt but this, that It gives the
profesion, and of the universlty, aîid the doctors certain powers by wbicb Vhbey may
consequence Is, tbere is no danger to be set up a standard.
a'pprebeuded. Tbere 18 no province ueed
Hou. GENTLEMEN-No, no.
fear tHe examination. I should be sorry to
thialk any university would be afraid of an
Hon. Mr. Me.MULLEN-Ye-s, they may.
exaxuination prepared by this bcoard of men wbicb will interfere witb a man entering
selected by the profession throughout the the particular'crcle formed by this Bill. We
country. I do not tbiuk there would be any kaow perfectly Weil that la tbe case of
danger of injustice to the medical men, and dentist-y, the dentlsts bave certain .powers
Hion. !.%r. BEIQUE.

MAY 12, 1902
by which it becomes very expensive te get
a license te practice as a dentist. If this
Bill had inerely proposed te do what the
hon. gentleman from St. John said ln bis
speech, that is te declare that any collage
or semlnary Ilenaing a doctor as a practising physician ln any province shall have the
rIght after the pasage of this Bill to Vractice
ln any. province ef this Dorninion-with the
sanction of the diff erent provinces If yen like
-there could have been ne objection to itbut this Bil makes a provision that i brings
thern first under the examinatien of the
board that is constltuted by this Bill, and If
that board does net sanction them after they
are examined they cannot practice outaide
of the province ln which they receive their
hicense The board rnay esta-bili such rules
of practice that men rnay be excluded, or
they mas charge very high fees, and these
Injustices rney be done. We should guard
the Interests of the public. The colleges
and other, Institutions, no doubt, will agree
te this Bill, and consent that the provisions
wIll be ail rlg-ht, but outside of that particular Une, it is the duty of this House te
look after the Interests of the public. We
should not sanction anyt2hin-g which constitutes a restriction oil students becoming
practitioners.

stand It, this Bill net only dees net affect
te enable gentlemen who bave been adzuitted te practice ln the different provinces,
but It dees not affect the riglit ef the provInce tô license a gentleman te practice medicine hereafter within that province. In
that se ?
Mon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-That Is right.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I cannet see any objection, then, on. the ground of provincial
riglits. I understand this measure proposes
te enable gentlemen w-ho have been 'admitted under certain conditions ln any provInce te practice ail ever the Dominion, and
that Is clearly an advantage te the medical
men of every province.
Hon. Mfr. BERNIER-This Bill goes further than that.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I de net thlnk It does.
Then It provides there shail be made, for
those gentlemen who are at liberty te practice ail over the country, a register. That
dees not Interfere with the riglits et any
one.
Hon. Mfr. BERNIER-Exarnination te.

Hon. Mfr. POWER-It does net .prescribe
that an examInation shall be held by this
board, but that examinations ef a certain
Hon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-If you raine the character shahl have been passed
before
standard, you pretect the publie by giving hicenses are granted.
That Is selely fer
thern better doctors.
the purpose ef qualifying for this Dominion
practice. It does net Interfere with the
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-No.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-The hon. gentle- provincial lcense.
man's fears are groundiess. The system proHon. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-Not at aIll
posed here Is the system. which lbas been
Hon. Mfr. POWER-It seems te me It Is
extant ln Ontario fer twenty-five years. We
a step In the riglit direction. The suggestion
are on.iy callng for the re-enactment er the
mnade by the hon, gentleman frem St. John
same systern, and we -want it ln every pro- (Hon.
Mfr. ElhIs) Is oe whlch at firat siglit
vince of the Dominion, so that ail wIll ho on
seems te lie reasenable eneugh, but I do net
the sme footing. The doctors are net better
thlnk our doctors ýare tee. well qualified
than they mheuld be, and If tbey continue te
raise the standard it wIll be ail the better as It- lu.
Hon. Mfr. McMILLÂN-Hear, hear.
for the public.
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-It Is ln the lUne
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the suggestion et
of the combines that the country las uffering the senator from St. John were adopted, yeu
from-it Is giving the docters powers to mnight have medical men frern the province
forrn a combine among themseives, and which has the lewest requirement practlsing
restrict others from coming Into that circle. ail over the country. I tbink that is undesirala. We should have the highest possible
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDERKIN-It la the sme
standard, and therefore I arn ln faveur of
law we have n ow.
this Bill. The hon. gentleman from WellingHon. Mfr. POWER-I do net know whether ton (Hon. Mfr. McMullen) made nme raferI understand thus Bill or not. As I under- ence te the question of combines. Thera are
30.

SENATE
objectionable combines lu this country, but
this is flot one of that kind. This combine,
If the lion. gentleman chooses to eall it s0,
proposes to require that a man, bef ore lie la
ailowed to practIce medicine over the country, shall le thoroughly weil qualified for the
work ; and If the other combines to whlcli
reference lias been made would move In the
same direction, I, for one, sbould be very
hiappy to see them extend their operations.
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-I do flot at al
challenge the statement my lion. friend lias
made. A medical college, say ln Manitoba,
eau license their own students, and they
become doctors for that province, but If
tliey want to become doctors for the entire
Dominion, they must come before this
board. The determInation and fixing of
the qualifications and conditions necessary
for registration are fixed by this board.
Whule tliey are Iliensed by their local college ln each province-

witli Is thia : It Is piacing power ln the
hands of a circle formed under this Bill
to establsh a curriculum that may exelude
a great many doctors. We will have two
grades of doctors, one provincial, a Iower
grade, and another looked upon as Dominion grade, doctors of a higlier clans as It
were, and they may maise the standard from
trne to time and maire It a choice circle
composed of themselves and those they lik-e
to admit.
Hon. Mfr. McMILLAN-Tlie bon. gentleman forgets that this Bill las another oh>Jeet, and tliat is, to elevate the standard of
medicai men i the Dominion of Canada, so
tliat they can lie recognized abroad.
Hon. 1fr. McMULLEN-It is the li!ghest
ln tlie empire already. There is no higlier.

Hon. Mfr. McMILLAN-But notwitlistanding that fact, tliey are not recognIzed abroad,
nor can a medIcal atudent wlio passes In a
unlveruity ln this Dominion secure a situaHon. Mfr. MeMILLAN-Tliey have no col- tion on any of the Britisli Unes running
lege In that.province at ail.
from liere to Great Britain.
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-That does flot
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-That' 1is not the
In any province fatrit of the curriculum under whIcli they
change my argument.
wliere they have a medical college they are educated ; it la the fault of the law.
rau unquestionably educate and license
Hon. Mfr. McMILLÂ.N-Tlie' fault of tha
doctors.
law as It at present stands, of himiting the.
Hion. Mfr. SULLIVÂN-Not license. They lcense tlie fiedical men get to the provinces,
,cannot license. They merely grant degrees. and that is flot recognized by the English
!rhere Is another board whicli licenses. Iu law of 1896. If we were provinces as we
,Ontario, I took My degree ln the Queen*a were before tlie confederation, we woulaI
'University.- It Is recognized by the Medlcal lie recognized abroad as provinces, but the
Board of Ontario ; but I could not give a fact that we are part and parcel of the coupill or open an abseess until I get a license federation Is s0 construed by those who lnfrom the board. This 1s simply a Bill to terpret tlie Imperial Act that we are uot
nationalize Medicine:'
Included. The fact was quite apparent la
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-Once a student the Southi AfrIcan war. MedIcal men from
passes his medicai course, and comes finally Canada, wlio are as well educated, perhaps,
for fis M. D., lie must pass a board of as medical men are ln any part of tlie world,
- doctors for the purpose of conferring upon were not quahiflea to attend a soldier liehim tlie privilege of practising as a phy- longing to the Britisli army. Tliey were, of
sician. Now, that belonga to tlie province. course, entitled to practice with their own
Whle lie lias doue that and passed that men, but beyond that they couhd not go,
examInation, and secured has liinae for while medical men from the Australian prothe purpose of practisIng as a doctor of vinces, who itre recognized by the Englisli
that province, If lie warnts to enter tlie law, could attend a soldier beionging to the
cirche formed by this Bill, lie must pass regular army. Tlisa discrimination against
another examination, under a committee ap- our medical men Is really the cause, and the
pointed under this Bill, Independent ilto- real fact that prompted the lion, gentleman
gether of tlie examinations that lie lias to ln the other Hlouse from Montreal to prepass ln the province. What I find fault sent this Bill, and try to secure for the niediHon. Mr. POWER.

-*

MAY 12, 1902

cal men of Canada the standing that they
really are entitled to from their education,
and from the curriculum of our universities.
The hon. gentleman surely la flot going to
lower the standard. That would be against
the welfare and the Interest of the people
-of Canada. The object of the Bull la to elerate the standard, and, of course, that secures the public against any quackery or
any Imposition lu the medical practice.
These qualifications are a protection to the
publie, and for these reasons I think the
arguments of the hon, gentleman tron> Wellington are flot well taken.

purposes mentloned ln clause 4, the establishment. pf a qualification and of a register,
and provisions for examInations.

Hon Mr. McMULLEN-I notice that subsection g speaks of ftees, &c. They have
power to regulate what the fees are. 'We
have been providing during this session
that rallway charges, telephone and telegraph charges, shail be subject to the approvai of the Governor General ln Council.
I do not see why we shouid not make this
clause read that way.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is provIded further on.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I do not see that we
The clause was amended.
should be much alarmed ut the passage o!
this Bill, because, If I understood correctly
On sub-clause j of clause 10,
one o! the clauses Introduced by way of
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Wyould a man who
amendment by the hon. gentleman from De
graduates ln Vienna be entitled to practice
Salaberry, the BIRl will practicaily be inoperative. It la stated ln one amendment that in Canada?7
before If can be enforced each and every proHon. Mr. BEIQUE-He wouid have to
vince must confirm this Act. If ail the pro- pasa an examination. 0f course, this does
vinces but one should confirm this Bih, and flot; shut him out.
that one refuse to do so, then the Act wiil be
The sub-clause was adopted.
inoperative. It will taire a long terme before
this Bill goes Into opet-ation, and therefore
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I move to add the
we need not be alarmed about it It la following section to clause 10 :
true one o! the clauses provides that after
And such approvsi shsil b-3 conelu3ive evidence
et has been agreed upon by ail the provinces that the Act musEu have no retroactive effeet.
and bas become a Dominion law, If auy proThere was an amendment whlch was carvince a!terwards should recedie from it, the
ried declaring that this Act would have no
law will remain ln force ln ail the provinces
retroactive tif ect, and especially as regards
except tbat one, but before It goes Into
students. It la difficuit to frame a clause
operation ail the provinces must conflrmn thls
legliation, and et will take a long time be- which would properly protect the atudents,
and I came to tht conclusion that et had
fore that la done. However, thi, launone of
better be covered by a general clause or
my funerai, and I am weil satisfied to die this
kind, and then the matter would have
through the help of the medical faculty as to be settled
with the approval of the Govit now exista.
ernor in Council. They could be heard, but
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I wish to enter when the Governor ln Couneil approves of
My 'protest agaînat this BuIl. I say it la the regulation, then it will close thh door to
objectionable, and It wili have the effeet o! any Ultigation as to whether it haie or baie
piacing In the hands of the doctors who not a retroactive eifect.
enter this particular ring power to excînde
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Good
men, when the object could have beau ae- for the lawyers.
compiished just as well by a simple Bill,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I am not protecting
giving them the powers they need.
the lawyers.
Tht clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I more to add tht
On clause 10,
following as clause 22:
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I move that subThis Act shahl have no force or effect until
clause a be amended to give power to the th. hiroclaîmtlon of the Governor Gsneral annonices that it has been approvcd-and accepted
council to provide by regulations, for the. by the provincial
legishatures.
301

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That bas ail been
provided for, and I tbink It is only open'ing a discussion now which would delay
the wbole matter, and probably would cause
sucb opposition or discussion ln tbe House
of Gommons as wIll destroy the wbole
I tbink tbe Hon. Mr. Beique will
Bill.
give rny bon. frlend tbe opinion that what
be wisbee to eecure le already provided for.
In that event, I ask the hou. gentleman
iiot to press the amendrnent.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would suggeet that
this arnendment migbt defeat tbe whole object of the Bill, for this reason, that the
provinces sbould be at liberty to Impose
sncb conditions as tbey may desire to Impose. Some of the provinces ln legielating
for the purpose of giving effect 'to thîs Bill
may Impose conditions wbicb would be Imcompatible witb the amendment as the bon.
gentleman suggests.
Hon. Mr. LA8NDRY-I do flot see wby it
sbould be defeated. If tbey bave power
to Impose a condition this arnendrnent does
not take aivay tbe power.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I draw tbe attention
of the bon. gentleman to tbe wordIng of
hie clause. whicb would render It necessary
tbat the wbole Bill sbould be accepted by
the provincial legIslature, whereae sorne of
the legisiatures may accept sorne portions
of the Bill and Impose new conditions on
tbeir acceptance of tbe Bill. Tbey may
qualify, se to speak, tbeir acceptance of thie
leglelation, and moreover tbe clause would
be unnecessary, because under eub-clause
3 of clause 6, It le perfectly plain that the
Act cannot corne into operation unlees and
until tbe whole of tbe provinces bave legislated lu effect to qualify pereons wbo are
qualfied by thîs medical council to practice ln the severai provincas.
Hon. Mm. LÂNDRY-I do not see wby, If
this amendment le the same tbing as le
provlded for In clause 6, it sbould be s0
rnucb objected to. It muet be because It 1e
not tbe same.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It wIli Imperil tbe
Bill ln the House of Gommons.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And It does away
with ail tbe arnendrnents made by my bon.
frliend to tbe effect that sucb a clause would
be good only wben tbe law cornes Into
Hon. Mr. LANRDY.

I amn providing for when it
operation.
cornes Into operation. 1 press rny arnendment
The arndment was lost on a division.
Hon. .Mr. THOMPSON, frorn the committee, reported the Bill witb certain arnendments, whIcb were concurred ln.
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN moved the third
readIng of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEIN-Before the Bill is
rend the third Urne, 1 want to say a word. 1
arn a new member of the House and I have
observed that during this session there bas
been a disposition to railrond mensures
througb the House by suspending ruies. I
de not object ln the case of governmexit
measures. I arn willing to do anythîng to
facilîtate the govemrnent to close up the
business of the session, owIng to the fact
tbat it le the Intention of the premier to
attend the Coronation, but I give this notice
that wbule I arn a member of the
Senate, 1 shall, If I corne back here again,
decidedly oppose the railroading of mensures
througb the House. It may have been the
practice ln the past, but It: Is a wrong practice. We are engaged by tbe people of the
country to do tbe business of the country
la a deliberate, quiet, prudent statesmanlike way, and It le not statesmanlike for us
to suspend the mules, and rush the Bis
thmougb the House without the consideration
tbey *sbould receive at our bands. In future I shail undoubtedly oppose it, unless
ln special cases.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wisb to eay a word
for one moment with reference to the strictures the bon, gentleman professes to apply
to the governrnent.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-No, no.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbis Is not a government Bill, and tbere bave been no government Bille bastlly rushed tbrough tliis
Ohamber.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I beg to make
an explanation. I did not lntend at ail to
refer to government mensures. If my bon.
friend received that impression, It is Incorrect. The principle bas been adopted of
rusbing tbe Bille tbrough at tbe close of
the session. I arn opposed to that being carried out ln the future. The reason why I arn

MAY 12, 1902
willing to give wa3M at present is, tbat tbere
Is a disposition to close up tbe business Of
the House ln order to allow the premier to
go to England.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbere Is a motion on
tbe Order paper to-day for a suspension of
tbe rules.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, but it was witbdrawn.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I am sorry tbe lion.
gentleman took occasion to make these remarks, because above, ahl others this is a
beneficient Bill and wihh bring a blessing
on the community.
The motion was agreed to, and tbe Bill
was read the third time and passed.

bouses and of sidings, making' some chang-es
ln the interest of the farmer. The important
point ln tbe Bill Is that it obliges the station master at every station to have an
order-book, and tbat a farmer Is entitled,
If a car Is vacant, to have bis name entered
for tbe car. -He bas forty-eigbt bours ln
wbich to fll the car.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I may
state a number of telegrams bave been received from. Winnipeg, fromi incorporated
bodies there, protesting against the character of the Bill. It may bave arisen from
tbe newspaper reports. It is a very Important Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, a very Important
Bill.
The motion was agreed to.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
CITY 0F OTTAWA ACT 0F 1899,
Bill (134) An Act respecting the representAMENDMEN.T BILL.
ation of the Yukon Territory in the House
FIRST READING.
of Commons.-(Eon. Mr. Scott.)
A message was received from, the House
Bill (151) An Âct reepecting the remission of Penalties.-Hon. Mr. Templeman.) of Commons with Bill (164) 'An Act to
Bill (155) An Act to amend the Railway amend the Act of 1899, respecting the City
of Ottawa.'
Act.--{Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--This Bill proposes to,
FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
Increase the* represen tation on this board
The foliowing Bills were Introdnced and from 4 to &. That Is the whole purpose of
rèad the firet and second times, under a the Biil I move that lt be rend the first
time.
suspension of the rules.
Bihl (55) An Âct respecting the Lake
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
Erie and Detroit River Railway Co.-(Hon. oniy objection to the Bill la, I think, they
blr. Casgrain, Windsor.)
ought to have given the city a better repBill (81) An Act to incorporate tbe Can- resentation on the board.
adian Northern Telegrapb Co.--(Hon. Mr.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Young.)
was read the first time.
Bill (89) An Act to, Incorporate the CanThe Senate adjourned.
ada Central Raihway Co.-(Hon. Mr. Landerkin.)
Second Sitting.
MANITOBA GRAIN ACT> AMENDMENT 1The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
O'clock.
BILL.
PIRST READING.
SENATE.
A message was received fromn the HEouse
REPORT 0F THE COMMITTEE ÂDOPTED.
of Commons with Bill (162) 'An Act to
amend the Manitoba Grain Act, 1900.'
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the adoption o!
the fourth report of the Standing CommitThe Bill wae rend the firet time.
tee on Internnjl Economy and Contingent
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved -that the Bill be
Accounts of the Senate.
read the second time at the next sitting o!
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIBL-I
la enlarging the
the House. He said: It
powers granted hast year by parliament ln would suggest to the chairman the advisareference to the construction of fiat ware- bi}ity of considering this report paragraýph

470
by paragrapli.

SENATE
There la a large portion of It

ta whicb 1 think, there can lie no possible
objection, and there are some paragraphs
that wll require consideration on the part
of the Senate bef are adopting tbem,-and
it may lie advlsable not ta put thema Into
force until next session.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I bave no objection
ta that.
The SPEAKER-It ds understood the re'port wlll lie taken up paragrapb by paragrapb.
On paragrapli 6,
6. Tour committec recommend that, where
the law clerk, who is also cierk of committecs, attends a n3eting of a cominittee, lie shal.I
act as» clerk ofsudh comrnlttee and inake the
minutes of the meeting.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbnt
la the meaning of the dbanging and altering
o-f 6 and 7 ?
Hon. Mfr. WÂTSON-I might say thnt
furtber on you nildli fnd that refers more
particularly Wothe recoinmen-dation made
with regard ta translating. Some reconimendations were made ta the commIttee
af changes ln regard ta the ernploy'ment of
translators.
Hon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
thnt refer ta paragraphs 6 and 7 ? Because
It says 'Bein;g, however, so amended tbat
any action of. the clerk therein may lie reversed or modified by the Senate or by the
CommIlttee on Internai Economy.' Does
tint mean that as ta -anything that is done
by the clerk, undier thia, rules 6 and «7shall
nat apply, -but that it znay be reversed by
the Contingent Accounts Committee next
year at Its meeting and approved by the
House.
The SPEAKER-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
can be no objeation ta thnt.
Han. Mr. DANDURAND-What is the
variation ?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I miglit say on lnquiry of the sub-comrnlttee, we found that
until about three years ago tbe lnw clerk,
wbere le attended the committee, took the
minutes o-f tbe meeting. For tbe hast two
years in the Rnllwny Commlttee, and I presumne the other commîttees were tic ame,
the haw clerk lad a clerk ta take the minutes for hlm, and It la slmply ta provIde that
Hom Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Nwliere the iawv clerk attends the comm itteelie will take the minutes bimiself.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does that impiy that he mnust attend ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Oh, no.
The. paragrapli was ado.pted.
On paragrapb 7,
7. Your cornmittee reco mmend that ln case
af the absenice of any member of thie clerîcal
staff or of any vacancy in sucli staff, the duties
attached to the vacant position shall, for the
time being, lie discharged by qorne member of
the staff ta lie selected by the cierk. Provided
that If texnporary hlp is required ta sc*cure
the proper transactlon of the bus-ness of the
Senate the saine may be obtained by the clerk.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-I tbink
an &-mendment mJigbt lie made to l'bat
,clause, defining the duty of the cierk sa that
lie may not order a superlor cierk to do
the work of an Inferlor one, or lu other

words, a first-class Clerk to do the work
of a second -or thIrd-olass clerk.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This refers ta theCierk of the House.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
aware of that. Ilt Is the Clerk of the House
whom you are empowering to do a certain
act. You are giving hlm power ta order a
first-class, or chief clerk If you like, ta dothe work which had been performed by a
second-claas clerk. I do net thlnk that la the
Intention of the. committee, nor do -I anti[elpate the Olerk of 'the Senate would do
such a thlng, but it seems ta me you had
better make It read somewhat ln this way .
'dsdbarged by some member of the staff
to be selected by the clerk of a sîmilar
rank, If any are available, and If not, tIen
by sorne other competent persan.' You miglit
nlot have a second-class clerk competent orý
available ta do the work. TIen you want
to glive hlm power ta select some ojie wbo
la competent. 1 think that la the intention
of t7he committee.
Mon. Mr. WATSON-The Intention is ta
empower the clerk, ta allot the work. A
second-class clerk miglit net be here, or lie
might lie disabled, or slck. There w'ould lie
notblng wrong ln the clerk asking a firstciass clerk ta do bis work, bec-ause I think
this is wide en-Qugh. It mlight only lie for a
day or two, and the clerk then would ask a
first-class clerk. ta dd the work.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
might create a littie friction, tbat Is ahl.

MAY 12, 1902

471

l'le clerk lese8 situated and c :upied that he
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-We must allow a littie
cannot exercise efficient supervision over the
latitude.
cloor-keepers, ruessongers and pag2s.
During the time when the paragraphe In quesHou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat tion were In force, that le, from Jiy 9, 1894,
la what my suggestion does. I say If no to June 17, 1897, tire %vasne ground for coinplaint as te their working, nov any crnoua fricperson la avallable for that purpose, gîve tion.
Paragraph 16 simply places the Serjeant-atpower to select some one who la.
hlm
Ârins in the Laine position which, he occupies la
(B.C.)-Tlhe England and under mile 107 of thle Canadian
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
Boure of Commons.
wbole thing la a temporary arrangement,
1 do flot see 'wby a first-class c]erk
and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
should flot be asked to do any work tempor- la a part of the report to which I must taire
arily'to tide over a dlfficulty.
exception. You reaffirm what was stated
The SPEAKER-This is perhaps intended ln 1894, 'with the view of improvlng the
to provîde for a case of this kind: one of the discipline In that branch of the Senate
officers who was examlned by the sub-com- service.' I do net know wbat was the Inmittee, sald that lie and one of his celleilgies efficiency of the staff at the time referred
would be prepared, whiie there was a pres- to boere, but I do know this, atter I had the
sure of work, tu do the work of an officer honeur of being appointed to a seat in this
Who was golng away. 1 think it 15 to pro- Chamber, and until these mIles were set
vide for a case of that sort. The bon. gentle- as4de, there was ne discipline at ail. It wvas
man will see, under the previous paragraph, utter chaos, so far as the different mesthat If the clerk la flot doing wbat Is cou- sengers were concerned, and In order tu
sidered riglit, the commlttee ean reverse bis avoid that difficulty, that may have arisen
from causes which It: la unnecessary for me
action.
te refer to, now, the supervision of the mesHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That sengers was placed under the centrel of the
la after it la done.
Clerk of the Senate, who directed the chief
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-We came to tIre con- messenger tu sée that the dîfferent mesclusion there would be no objection te glvIng: seugers did their duty. I have neyer hieard
the clerk this power, because the offiers yet that there bas been any complaint made
apparentiy ln aIl cases were wllling to do as to the performance of duty by the niest.emporary work o~f that description for the sengers &Ince this change was made. If you
purpose of facilitatlng the business of the look at the proposition, you wlll find that you
Senate.
place the whele staff of the Senate under the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WouId charge and control of the Clerk of thîe
the hon, gentleman have any objection to House. That I think, la quite preper. Then
the next thiag Son. do is to place certain
striking out the word 'temporary '?
other officiais under the charge and coatrol
would give the
The SPEÂKER-That
of the Serjeant-at-Arms. If you go a little
clerk the power of maklnk a permanent further dewn, you wll find certain duties
appointment.
are assIg»ied te the head messenger, se that
The paragraph was adopted.
yen create confusion, regular red-tape operatione. Firet the Clerk of the Senate, must
On the 8th paragraph,
give instruction to the Serjeant-at-Arma ;
that paraS. Your coesmittee recommand
graphe 16 and 17 et the said report of Juqy 9, then the Serjeant-at-Arms glves Instructions
1894, be reviscd, the pAragraphs being as foi- te the bea-d meseenger. In fact It: la placing
love:the measengera almoat ln the same position
16. With a view ta improviag the discipline
in that branch of the Senate service, your coin- they were prior -te the adoption of the
rnlttee recernmetid tiret the door-keepers, mes- present system-that la In an irrespensible
sengers ancl pages be pîac 3d under the super- position, te a very great extent. Then yon
vision of the Serjeant-at-Arms, who shall have
power te suspend any m*em-ber of that portion go on iurther te say that the head mesof the taif for a fortnight, any longer suspen- senger ahal supervise the work of bis subsion to be by the clerk.
17. Tire housekeeper or chief messenger to ordinates from the messengere' roomn and
continue to direct the staff of messengers, sub- keep a record of ail messengers sent outside
ject te the supervision and control of the Ser- of the parliament buildings, during the sesjeant-at-Arms.

SENATE

4n2

aian. I shonld like ta be iniarmed how the
committee came to the conclusion thnt the
chie! messenger can contrai and direct and
manage bis messengers In the lobby o! the
Hlouse, and keep themin a rder and In their
proper places If lie is ta bie. canfiued ta tbe
messengers' rooam ta make a note and keep
u record ai the orders af the different
senators wha want a messenger ta be sent
any place. Wauld you have the Serjeant-atArmns leaving bis seat In the Cliamber ta go
Jnto the lobby and see If tbe messengers are
doing their duty tbere or not--doing wbat
tbey used ta do, obstructing the lobby, aud
interferiug witb people coming into the
building ? Under the old systein, strangers
used ta came In, and go ta senators'
rooms, wltbout ask-ing permission from
any one. Under tbe present systeni, adapted
by the clerk, and cnrried out by the
chie! messenger, fia one ls ailowed ta go ta
a aenatar's ron unless lie sends ln bis eard,
or Is accompanied by a- senatar. The resuit
this aession, ta myseif at ail events, bas been
that we have not been pestered by baving
our roama inNq af strangers wben we want
ta attend ta business.
I frankiy confess that 1 do flot consider
this an impravement, and wliy It abauid lie
made 1 canuat understand. I do nat tbluk
the Serjeant-at-Arnis ls particularly aniaus
ta take charge af ail the messengers.
It
may be sald lie gives is instructions ta the
bead messenger, ta do certain things. Tien
the cammittee say tint head messenger muet
be downstairs keeping a record af wbat le
gaing on. It would be utterly useleas, sa
far as the advantages ta senatars andta tbe
praper warking ai the service and keeping
arder In the outalde lobliles, If this were
carrled out. Speak-lng for myseif, 1 do not
think It wauld be an advantage ta tbe Senate or ta the discipline ai tbe Senate, or
tbat It would add etber ta the conîfort af
senators or increase the efficlency ai the
staff, and I certainly wauld auggest the
drapping ai that portion of the report. 1 rio
nlot see nny otber portion tbnt [ would abject ta, and I bope tbe committee, whatcver
the feeling af the Senate la, wil delay tne
adoption af these propositions. I feel pretty
strongiy In the natter, and 1 think- It would
bce well, If the commlttee see no objection ta
It, ta delay it, more partlcularly as it la a
radical change we are making In the discipline af the Senate staff.
Hon. Sir MACT<ENZIE

BOWELL.

Hon. -Mr. WA-TSON-WýIlh regard ta the
criticism of the report, I miglit say that
these conclusions were arrived at atter a
great many meetings, of the sub-committee,
and they taok moat of those matters whiCh
have been referred to lie considération,
examined the Serjeant-at-Arms, the Clerk
of the House, and the chief messenger, and
after conferrlng with ail those gentlemen
and getting their opinions, we came ta thý
conclusion there was noa particular reason
why the Serjeant-at-Arms should not have
tbe contrai of the messengers, as well as
the clerk. It does nlot take away the power
of the chief messenger. Ai the messengers
are under hlm ; lie, hi turn, le under contrai
of the Serjeant-at-Arms. And I tbink liou.
gentlemen wili agree with me, tbat lu ail
législative bodies, *at any rate ln ail cases
where I have had any experience, the messengers are directly under the contrai af
the Serjeant-at-Arms. In the Hause of Coinnmons ail the messengers are under the contrai af the Serjeant-at-Arms. In the legislative bodies tbey are under the cantrel af
the Serjeant-at-Arms. Tbey are so Iu England, and we cauld not see any reasan why
thiey sbould nlot bie manage4 lu the anme way
here. It appears ta me the Serjeant-at-Arins
ls a mucli better persan ta have contrai and
direction af the chief messenger and messengers durlng the sittings af the House
than the Clerk of the House. W'e can mucli
better spare the Serjeant-at-A-ýruis fromn the
Ohamber for a few minutes ta walk around
the corridors ta see everything is riglit than
the Clerk af the Hause. It would be limpossible for the Clerk ai the House ta leave.
I was nlot here at the time, and cannot
speak ot bow it worked before, but tiiose
gentlemen stated tbat tbere was no friction
thien. For that renson we embodied'the
recommendation lu aur report.
Haon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLI-I know
personally that friction did exist.
Hlon. Mr. WATSO-N-My Information came
from. the cie! messenger and the Serjeantat-Ârms. Those gentlemen were questJoned,
and said there was no friction.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
chief messenger of that tinie is dead.
Hon. Mr. WATSO.N-Witli regard ta the
next paragrapli, so far as locating the mes-

MAY 12, 190&
sengers le conceraed, tbe cornmittcc recommend that the chief meseenger be locatcd
la the meesengers' raom. He informcd us
that he bclieved he could supervise the staff
rnucb better If he couid direct tliem from
the mesngers' roorn. A complaint has been
made that belle wcrc flot answered promptiy. He etated that If he couid be iocated
there, and flot around the corridors eo much,
lic could have a better control of hie staff,
and stated to us that If be was given ta
understand that he wae not required bere,
be couid supervise the staff mucb better
downstairs. I thInk it le a good provision,
and for that reason, putting the reconirendations together, the Serjeant-at-Arms
wouid be la a position to occasionaliy take h
walk arouad the corridors here during the
session o! the House or other hours, and see
that tbe staff were doing their duties
throughout the building, and a!ter a good
deal o! consultation, the commlttec unanimousiy carne ta the conclusion that tbey
sbouid make those recommendatIons.
Hou. Mr. CLEMOW-I arn one o! those
who believe that the« less power you caua
give to officiais the better. One head le
quite sufficient. I do not believe la having
ta go fram A ta B ta find out wbethcr tbe
work le bcing performed. I want to 1ook
to one man and make hlm responsible.
Let the one man be the Clerk o! the House
and give hlm bis Instructions, and wc will
hold hlm responsible to sec that thcy are
carried ont. How wili It be ln this House ?
He may give Instructions o! one nature,
and the Serjeant-at-Arms may give contrary Instructions, and there will be friction Irnmediately. Place thc rcspansibility
upon the shouiders o! anc man and sec that
be carnies It out propcriy. Ia ail public
works wc fiad anc man spcclally set apart
for that purpose. It la flot lcft ta threc or
four men or five men. Place the powcr !a
the right hand and sec that lt la properiy
exerclscd. That le my idea. We had experlence o! this sorne ycars ago. It did nat
wark satlsfactoriiy, and a change was
made. Has there beca aay difficuity since
that change wae made ? Has not cverything gone on srnoothly and satisfactoriiy ?
I do ,ot believe there le a man ln this
Senate wha wlll not admit that the business a! thie Senate bas been coaducted lu
an admirable manner by the chie! messen-

ger and bis staff. If any difficulty shoulil
arise, the chie! messenger will say perhaps,
'I1 ar n ot responsible for that ; the Serjeant-at-Arlns gave the Instructions. I do
flot know whetber they werc riglit or
wrong,' and the employee will say, Oh,
1 received Instructions from the Serjeantat-Arma,' ignoring the positi<;n of the chie!
clerk and the position o! the chie! messeiger. I think the chie! messenger, If he
la lit for the position, should bave ail
authorlty.
I do flot belleve In dlvided
authority. If you have proper subdivision
of the labour, you muet have that labour
la such a way that you an contrai It at.
any time. You do flot see the beads o!
great works gaing to cmpiayees and fandingfanit wlth thîs man and that man. He
looks to one man wbo ls placed ln a position o! rcsponsibility, and If tbat man does
flot fuifil the orders he receives, lie is lmnrnediateiy dispensed witb. I waat to, see
some one man have the autbority. If 1
have a grievance, I want to go to, one man.
I do flot want hlm to say, 1Yoi; must go ta
another man.' We are going to have trouble
la the future, aid wll flot have a compiete management o! the affaira o! the
subordinates as wc have had ln the past.
Do flot let us destroy what we have had
ln the past. It bas been a good systcm,
and I question very much If there le one
man ln the Senate who will find fauit with
IL These gentlemen performed their duties
la a manner wblch will meet the approbation of the whole Senate. These people are
flot vcry apt to give evidence that wouid
operate againat thernseivcs, and therefore
If the
came out as quietly as possible.
commlttec wisb to make that change they
are the judges, and the responsibility must
be upan their shouiders. Tbcy corne forward and want thîs House to ratlfy what
thcy bave donc. I do flot find fanît with
Â great many o! them are
tbe Senate.
new at the business. Aftcr thcy are here
sorne time they wIi fiad they are wrong la
making this recommendlltion. I arn satisficd of that, because they will see that that
systcm wiil flot be carried out ln a way
satisfactory to thcrn, or to the crnployècs, or
I do
to anybody connectcd witb thern.
hope they wlll expunge that section o! the
report, and aliow the matter to go on as at
present. If anybody had fouad fauit wlth

474

SENATE

the way matters had been managed ln the
past it would be different, but I have flot
beard any one complain. Then why make
that change ? We do flot want a change
unless it le neceesary.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN (de Lanaudière>-I
would like to concur ln the report. I know
that sub-committee of the Contingent Âçcounts Commlttee took a great Geai -of
trouble ln preparlng tlils report now submitted for the approval of this House, and
I for one, would be la favour of adopting
it, and If it ehould not be found Io be
to the advantage of the Senate aniother session, It could be amended. I think It deserves a very falr trial. As to puttiag the
messengers under the special and Immediate coutrol of the Serjeant-at-Arms, I arn lnformed that that obtains in ail legislative
bodies. Even la oùr House of Commons, I
understand the messengers have always been
ner the Immediate control of the Berjeant-at-Arms. 1 tbink it is a matter for
congratulation to the Senate to know that
we have a bnost efficient Serjeant-at-Ârms
now, and I should lîke to give him a trial
and see liow hie could administer and control our staff of messeugers here. Witb
reference to ihis divided autbority, 1 thik
the Clerk of the Senate has quite enough
to do to fulfil ail his many dutles la this
House, and there L, no division of authorIty. In ail large concerna there are presidents and vice-presidents. The hon, gentleman froin Ottawa seems to Ignore the fact
that a manager ls generally the one wbo
has the execution of the work la hand, wbo
bas to see that the detaile are carrled. ont.
I tblnk the commanding of not a very
numerous staff of messeagers could be qulte
safely left la the bauds of the present Serjeant-at-Arms, aad I think the Clerk of the
Senate has quite enough to do to attend to
bis very many duties. Therefore, I have
very great pleasure la concurrlng with tbe
report.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I
Hlod
w-onder If the hon. gentleman who bas mest
spoken knows -that the Serjeant-at-Arms
we have at present is the camne Serjeant-atArma we have had ever since I have been in
the Senate. He empbasized the, fact that
we have 'now' a very efficient Serjeantat-Arins. No one denies that, but hie Is the
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW.

sane Serjeant-at-Arnis who was bore long
before the bon. gentleman ever thought
of securing a seat la the Senate, and 1
hope lie wlll remaîn a long tîme. I
bave juet as high respect as the hon.
gentleman for the' manner in îwhich lit
performs his duty. I bave known hlmn
a long wblle, and those wbo preceded
hlm. Perhape hie Ie coafoundlng the BerThe
jeant-at-Arms. with tbe Black Rod.
The
Black Rod le a new appolntmeat.
chairman of the commlttee, and my bon.
frlend who bas mest spoken, have referred
to tbe assiduity wltb which the sub-committee prepared the report. The wbole argument of the bon, gentleman from Marquette
was applled to. the perlod durlng the session
of parliameut where the clerk couid not
leave bis seat. Who le bo supervise afterwvards ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The samne applies tO
the Serjeant-at-Arnis. The hon. gentleman
said the Serjeant-at-Arms could flot leave
hie seat and go into thbe corridor.
Hon. Sir M'ÂCKEN ZIE BOWELL-I beg
the hon. .gentleman's pardon, I dld not
.say that I sald: Who was bo supervise the
messengers -wben" parli&ment was not ia
session ? We know tlhat tbe Serjeant-atArme 4s not here balf the bîme durlng that
period. The duty of the chief meseenger
le to supervise thom ail over the building
when the Serjeant-at-Arms Is not bere. If
you look at thie report you wlll see that you
place the whole power over the officiais
nGer the direction and management of tbe
Clerk of the Senate, and then you coolly say
at the bottom of It, that bis duties are
such tbat hie cannot attend 10 It. Ie It
consistent or logical ?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-We consider tbe
clerk bas these powers now, and we are
trying to relieve hlm of some of them.
Hon. Sir MACKÇENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
whole report, so far as this point Is concerned, le coatradictory In its character.
You give full jîowers.to the clerk. Theni
you tell hlm that le flot la a position 10
perform those duttes.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In the
tourth paragraph you say that tbe clerk

MAY 12, 1902
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-AÂs a member of the
Is so occnpied that lie cannat exercise that
power and anthorlty which the commIttee cominittee I want to bear testimony ta the
care which iras taken -by the com.mittee In
have vested In hl.m.
preparing this report The men *were ail
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
taken ln and exam-ined before the committee, one tly one. We had had a good deal
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe of evIdence, and whule 1 agree that no
paragrapl says ea ln so mauy irords. Yau evidence iras furnlshed to the coenmittee
do not conflne it ta the session. Yan de- that any dlsturbance or friction had taken
clare, atter giviug -powrer ta the Olerli o! place under tbe present arrangement, it
tbe Hanse, that: be is not In a position ta seeme ta me, with a view of having disperform his duty, and cousequently you cipline miantaIned ln the Senate, the praper
relegate it ta another officiai o! tbe House, course would be to have the word 'messenaud irben that officiai le awny, wbo lis ta be ger' erased from tixat pnragraph.
Tbhat
respousIble ?
wauld place the door-keepers and pages
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-The Clerk a! the under the direct supervision of the Serjeant-at-Arms, leaving the chie! messenger
Honse.
to be responsIble to the Olerk o! tbe Senate.
Han. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-Aud Just as the bon, gentleman opposite points
irben they are bath away, I suppose they out, ln the absence of the Serjeant-at-ArmS
wlil leave Instructions ta the chie! mes- there is no one ta control or direct the duties
seager that lie le ta vacate bis place below, o! the chie! messenger, because the powrer
and corne np and attend ta those duties. la taken away from the clerk, wbom ire ail
The bon, -gentleman saya this ls an improve- acknowledge by the first paragraphl i tbe
ment on conditions In the past. Neither governing officer of this body. But In the
tbe chairman nor the gentleman irbo bas absence o! the Serjeant-at-Arms, wha cornes
snpported in, bas Siven a single argument dlrectly ln contact and Ir, directly ln touch
or prodnced auy evidence te show 'that there with tbe Gierk of the Honse more than
lias been auy misconduct on the part a! any any one else, dnrlng bis absence, the clerk
o! the officiais, nor bas lie elium tbat there sa ta speak, bas no control over the chie!
bas been any Inconvenlence except this--end messenger, because lie la controlled by the
the hon. gentleman dld not mention it- Serjeant-at-Arms. In tbe absence of the
that the removing o! -the messeugers !rom Serjeaut-at-Ârms-and he is hiable ta be
the corridor, did not put them 4n a position absent during the receas-there ls a great
the
ta answer the bles as promptly as tbey deal ta be done. I tbin*, therefore, 1i«f
sbauld do. The expianatlon ta tbat le, that word 1 messenger 1 la taken out a! par«graph
one or two mesuengers bave been al-lotted 8 wlth a view ta improving the discipline
ta ather wark than that o! answerlng the In that brançh a! the Senate, the doorbels, aud conseqnently the staff of the chie! keeper and pages would be piaced under
messenger iras reudered les. efficient than the direction o! the Serjeaut-at-Arms, and
lt iras be!oee. Now, If I underatand the the house-keeper and chie! messenger would
There yan would
case, the chie!. measeuger, wlth the direct the messengers.
direction of! the Clerk o! have bath tbese officeýs directly respausIble
consent or
the Senate piaced these messengers In ta the Sena-te, and directly respansible, ln-.
the raom belair, for the purpose o! re- a meaure, ta the chie! officer a! the Hanse.
mavlug them tram the lobby of the If that meets witb the apprbval a! this
Hanse, irbere they used ta be loiter- bady, I would mare that that portion of
Ing about waltiug for tbe belse ta ring, and, tbe repart be amended by striking out the
the chie! méssenger mays, placed hlin lu a word. *'messenger.'
position ta have better contrai avez' tlem. .Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I thiuk
I do not ibelleve the suggestion ts an Imthat ameudment will remove the friction 1
provemeut. On -the contrary, I thifik It anticipated, ta a certain extent.
places us back ta where ire çwere smre ten
or tirelve yeurs ago when we miade this
Han. Mr. WÂTSON-I bave no objection
change, wihl I knaw !rom, experieuce lias ta make tbese changes, If It ie thanglit deproved effective.
sirable by tbe Senate.

476

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Are there writtefl
rules and instructions ? I think when there
is so much division of authority there ehould
be some written rules for the officers to go
by. The danger would be of a conflict. I
think the ajnendment, to a great extent
meets the difficulty.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-I arn sure it is not the
Intention of the House to refiect on the subcomniittee. WVe can ail realize that they
gave a great deal of care and attention to
the subject, but unfortunately many of the
gentlemen who compose this committee are
comparatively new members. They were
not ln the House at the time when the messengers were under the charge of the Serjeant-at.Arms. Tiiey are not aware of the
friction which existed at that time, and it
was ln consequence of that friction the
change was made, and the chief messenger, who had supervision of the messengers,
was placed under the supervision of the
Clerk of the House. Since that time there
has been no friction. Everything lias gone
on smoothly. Hence we fail to see why this
change should be suggeeted. There has been
no neceseity for It. Not one gentleman who
has spoken la favour of the change has
showa any necesslty for It. Ail wili admit
that the chief messenger is flot only a competent man, but is moat attentive to his duties, and certainly, ln so far as the messengers are concerned, I consider they should
be under the direct charge of the chief
messenger, who- would be under the supervision ef the Clerk of the House. Âny hon.
gentleman who bas taken the trouble to
read the report of the Clerk of the House,
which was submitted to the committee at
the opeaing of this sessison, muet say-that
that report was a most elaborate one. It
shows that the Clerk of the House has gone
carefully Into the subiect, and given to it
the att:entioný it deserved, and I do not think
we would now be taking a step ln the
wrong direction to make the change proposed In this report. I 'quite agree wlth the
bon. senator opposite (Hon. Mr. Gibson), who
has suggested striking out the word ' messengers' froni clause 16, and then ln the
following clause to provide that the chief
messenger shall have the direction of the
meesengere, under the supervision of the
Clerk of tbe Senate. I amn sure that wil
Hon. Mr. -WATSON.

meet the approval of ail, and we can proceed to business.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-What will become of
those two messengere who are placed nominaliy under the care of the Serjeant-atArme, when the session ls over?7 WiIl there
be any work for themn ? What will be their
position ln the service ? They will not be
under the control of the chief messenger.
They will be under the control of the Serjeant-at-Arms.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-They will be under the
control of the chief messenger, subi ect to
the supervision of the Cierk of the Senate,
as ail the messengers will be.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-There is another complication which strikes me as 'useless. It
is the power of suspension on the part of the
Serjeant-at-Arms, and the same power is
given to the cierk. In the other House, and
lu England, the Serjeant-at-Arms has control of the messengere, and can suspend
them at wiil for a certain time ; for a
longer suspension he muet appeai to the
Speaker ; but the Interference of the clerk,
ln my opinion, complicates matters uselessly. I do not propose to go ln opposition to
the report of this committee, b>ut It strikes
me that these complications are unnecessary.
I should have preferred to let weli enougli
alone. We have no fault to find with the
management of the messenger service. I
have been here for many years, and I muet
candidiy say that the messenger service
under Mr. Carleton le very uiuch better than
it was before hie time. Not that faults perhape could not be found ln his administration, but on the whoie the management of
his branch here le very satisfactory to us
and creditable to hlm. I would hIke to ask
the hon. chairman of the committee If he
could flot see his way to doing away witil
the hast words of clause 6, by whIch the
clerk is given power to Interfere ln this
matter* Ia my estimation, either the Clerk
of the House shouhd have the management
altogether of that department, or lt ehould
be left to the Serjeant-at-Arms-either one
or the other.
Hon. Mr. DEVElt-I have been bere some
thirty-four yenre, and have had experlence
under more than one chief messenger. Whea

MAY 19, 1905)
the former housekeeper dled, bis brother
was spoken a! as bis successar. He Is the
present doorkeeper. Many members o! the
Senate had promlsed bim that lie shouid be
bis brotlier's successor as bousekeeper a!
the Senate. I carrled out rny promise ta
hlm, as dld many others, but lie was defeated an a vote In this Hause, and was succeeded by the present bausekeepr, Mr-. Carleton. Since then I bave had an opportunity
of seeing liow Mr. Carleton lias discbarged
the diùties ar bis office, and presided over
tbase wlio are employed ta keep the House
lu order, and 1 arn prepared to say that lie
bas acqultted bîmuself ta rny entire satisfaction. 1 came ta tlils Hanse pretty early
lu the mornlngs, and I finit tbat aur preseut
housekeeper la always attending to bis duties. It would be a very unklnd act ta deprive liim o! the position he holds at pi-esent. I see no reasan wby It: should be dane,
because I believe lie bas been a mast efficient afficer, and If any gentleman o! this
Senate requIres hli services, lie always finds
Mr. Carleton la lis place ta respond ta hlm.
At the sarne Urne, I.must say I look witb
a great deal a! respect on aur present clerk
aud aur Serjeant-at-Arms. No doubt these
gentlemen are competent ta presîde inver the
messengers, and Ignare thxe housekeeper s0
fan as givlng orders, but meddllng witb the
management or the hausekeeper wauld, ln
rny opinion, confuse matters. Under the
clrcumastances, thougli 1 vated agalnst Mr.
Carleton's nppolntment, If It came to a vote
now, It wauld 'be rny pleasure ta sustafu
hlm ln the present position, because I do
not think the wark couid passlbly be done
as well If you remove fi-r bîm the authority he now possesses.
The paragrapli was amended as suggested
by the Han. Mr. Gibsan, and adopted.

477

Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER-Yes,
permanent, but flot occupied -during the recess.
On the 1Oth paragrapb,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I walit
ta compliment the Secretary of State on the
economical1 reports presented by the committee lie selected foer the express purpose
of effecting eaonorny. That was the principal renson given by the Secretary of State
for the governrnent having contrai of the
commFttees, that there haît been grent extravagance In the past ln the way of raising
the salaries of clerks and inesseugers, io
from, their positions should net bave tiîer
Increased, yet encli report tliat we have lad
this session recommenda some Increase of
salary. I arn not findlng any tault wltb that;
I simply 'want to compliment tbe Secretnry
et State on the efficieucy of the econuinicai
cominittee lie wus Instrumentai lu appointlng. If they go on Ili this way, lie wli have
grenter cause ta complain ln a year or two
than lie liad wltli the oid commlttee.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I wlll say lu reply
ta that, that thie Seniite ngreed unan.irousiy
to relieve the chie! Frencli translator, M~r.
Bouclier, sorne time aga. He was gettiug
$2,800 a yenr. Tbey have made Mr. Garneau chie! transiator, and recommend that
bis saiary be lncreased to $2,400 a year.
There ls an Increase of .$200 tuere. There la
$1.000 Increase toi- Mr. Chapman, a matter
tliat was under the cantrol of 'the hion. geutienian's friend. They added th-at trauslator ta the staff at $1,000 a year.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE -BOWELL-He
was pald temporarliy before, so It daes net
make any difference.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The cammittee sliouid
not be charged with tbat 'increase.

Han. Mr. POIRIER-I sbauld lîke ta knaw
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
ivlîat wlll be the nature a! the services o!
the daorkeeper after the Hanse is adjourned. cammittee have given po-wer to make uew
appointments, and bave not superannuated
He ls not under the chief messenger.
Mr. Bouclier. They continue bis salary, and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-HEe ls they have Increased the expenditure of the
under the direction a! the cierk.
Senate ta, that extent.
The SPEAKER-The doorkeeper is not an
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-This 'is a'matter that
afficer a! the Hanse, and bis duties termînate
need flot be very 'muncl dlscussed, because It
with the session.
wns dane entIrely wlt.h.the view ta lrnprovHou. Mr. POIRIER-Is lie not a permna- lng the translation o! the Senate. We were
very muc l n the same -position wltli regard
nent rnessenger ?

SENATE

478

to the translation as we were wi'th regard
to the work done by the housekeeper, and
the Serjeant-at-Arms, and lt was f elt that
as Mr. Boucher lhad served the coun'try so
long-, It would be hardly fair for the few
years he bas to live to reduce bis salary.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
wns neyer proposed.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It would not have
been flair to deprive hlm of his salary as
chief transiator after thirty-five years
service. The cornndttee feit they were wlthont a head la that departminet though we
had a chief Frenchi transiator, a second
F"rench transistor, ani so on. The coinrnlttee felt that lt would be fuir better that
the .whol'e translation staff should be put
uuder a chief and -la order to make Mr.
Garneau chief transiaftor, we had to make
hlm a chief clerk, and with bis promotion
the salary laid t> be lncreased to correspond,
to $2,400 a year. In that way now, the
whole traniation of the Senate la entlrely
under -the control and direction of Mur. Garneau, aud he wfll apportlon lt, flot to the
tlrst or second or third transiator necessarily, but have the translation of the Senate
doue to the best advantage under his supervision. I therefore think, when everything
Is taken into considera-tion, notwdthstandlng
the retirement of Mr. Boucher, the coinmittee are justified la asklag thîs uinal
lucrease of $200 for Mr. Garneau.

On the 12th paragraph,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-I arn
very glad to see that the Board of Wqrks
bas put the barber shop and Its rooms lu
such a posi-tion' that any gentleman cal go
there and be comfortably served. The Intention la, ns I understand, to change the
bath rooma, which are not very enticlng, and
fit up the rooms adjacent to 'the barNber
sliop as bath rooms. If that be done, we
will have to put a messenger in charge of
thoee bntbrooms, la order that they may be
readyý when requlref by senators, and to
have tbem p'roperly cleaned and attended to
afterwards. We cannot get such a messe>'ger dur!ng the session under $2 a day.
That, I thlnh-, la whbat ris pa'ld to the present
attendant By what you are recommendlug
y'u will turn out of the barber shiop the
barber, wboever Pie may be, and I cannot
economy,
see that It ls golng to 'be eny' the bathbecause the barber attended to
moins wlthout any additional charge to the
Senate, other than that -which ls given t0
a messeager. If you carry this paragrapli,
you close up the 'barber shop, which lis a
very grent convenience to, many, anmi yon
wlll have to employ -a messenger to take his
place td look after the bath rooni. There is
really no economy ln the transaction. On
the contrary, I question whether you wil
get: a messenger who wlll do the business
better than the man who la there now and
from the statement which bas been put la
rny bande, whether correct or not I cannot
say, the work performed by the barber does
not cuver the actual expense of wages la
connection wlth that establishmnent, so that
unless he le kept there and paid as a messenger during the session of parîlament, you
wlll have td employ another and the barber
shop wlll be closed.

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Mr. Garneau dis certalaly entitled -to this lincrese. He bas been
la the translator's offce for forty-one years.
I arn told ln ail that time he *basproved hlmuself most efficient, and certalnly wlth that
long serv4ce there should (be no heeltatlon,
wbeu lie wae raised to the -poelfllon of chlef
translator, .to give hlm this Increaee. Officers
Hon. Mr. CLEMO9W-I do not see why the
lu another branch of parlement who have Senate should be deprlved of the prirleges
served a very mucli legs tilme, reelve a of a barber shop the saine as lu the Coinsalary qulte as large.
mons. I arn told-whether It la true or flot
I do not know-that the governrnent waut
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The that room whlch le occupled by the barber
on Mr.
remnrks I made were no refiectlon
shop, for the purpose of establlshing a
Garneau, nor did I even lnsinua'te that bis
carpenter shop.
I rather
salary shoiild not be lncreased.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-No, no.
com.mended the committee for whiat they
hnd done, I was politng out what an
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
economîcal lot tbey are.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I hope it is not truc.
The clause was adopted.
I hope they will not thlnk of establshing
Hon.

Mr. GIBSON.

MAY 12, 1902
a caripenter shop ln that place. This man
bas 'been a long tiàme 4n the employ of the
Commons. He 'was displaced throngbi poiltical motive some years ego. 1 thlnk there
ts no doubt about that
Hon. MIr. GIBSON-Ând yon got hlm bere
for the same reason.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I do flot know about
that I think the Senate are mast as much
entitled te a barber sbep as the Commons,
and I think this recommendation Io a sxnal
business. If we cen give this accommodation to the senators who ive a long distance
away and at the Mame time keep the bathroorn ln proper order, It is certaiinly an advantage to them, and tbey should flot be
deprived of that advantage. The comnlIttee
are also trylng to do away wlth the amount
given to -the keeper of the restaurant.
The Commons are oeganiziug a new restaurant themmelves next year, and this restauranut wIfl tbe deprived of the patronage of
that body, and yen wiil not be able to maintain a restaurant If you are entirely dependant on 'wbat you wouid get frornt senators.
Therefore I do flot ttblnk It la advisable on
that gronnd to dispense with the pa3rnent
to that person at the present tîme. Thomas
J. Perlce la the man to be entruatedl w.ith
the Commoes restaurant and he wrltes te
the members of the Commons that be àutended te have the pince lu first-ckiass order
and he Invites their patronage. If they are
going to have this Improved restaurant lu
the Commons, I think we wonld net very
foolishly du deprivlug the senators of titis
amaîl patronage, but allew tuhe present man
to maIntain the position he bas occupied
for sorne years past wlth every satisfaction
to the members of titis House. I hope the
chairman of the comrnlttee will net lusist
on this amendment for the ebolition ef the
barber shoqp and the patronage of the restaurant

479

that the gentlemen wbo corne bere shouid
be furnished witb good -food. Dld the cornmittee take Into cosideration tthe orgaus of
masticaution or the organs of digestion, or
the.capacities and tastes of honourable gentlemen, before they uudertook se smaîl a
piece of ecouorny as to strike ont this
allowance ? I have only to say that I
would ask t*he hon. gentlemen to postpone this paragraph w.itb reference 'to the
caterer untIl tbe gentlemen who take their
meals there will be present, and elso the
Restaurant Cornmlttee tou report on IL Tbe
caterer told me that bis expenditure was
very large. He pays Uity dollars a month
for a eooki, aud he pays for waiters and
ether expenses as uch as $310 or $315 a
montb. The meale are served tbere lu firatclass style, botter tran any botel In this
city. I bave beea la tbern ail and know ItL
The food la of the best quality, fit for any
gentleman whe bas been accustorned to
inxnry e11 bis life, and thorefore there can
be no objection on tbat score. The waiters
are very attentive and vory polite, and it
would be a serions matter te Interfere with
this man and bave hlm romoved fromn bis
position by any cbanoe until yen can replace hlm witb anethor eqnally goed. Yen
sheuld bo carefnl bow yen treat the stemacbs of hon. senaters. Yen should be carefnl te guard agaiust auy revulsion froma
tbe good, wbolesorno food whlcb tbey are
enjoying at tbe present tîme, to change te
sernething that would be Inferlor and badly
cooeod. Ia view~ of the very groat necessity
thero is for loeking carefully lute this question, I ask the chairman te refrain from
pressing this rec,,mmendation ntil the
Restaurant (Jommlttee, wbo know ef the
expendituro lu the mattor and above ail
ntil the gentlemen wbo are la the habit
of taking their -meals here have time te
considor It I arn sure that anytlirng tubat
la taken off thîs man will only be put on
the Sonate, se that you are really lmpoelng
a tax on the men wbo take thoir moals bore.
In any case, I tblnk the chaîrman, wbo la
gouerons, and warm-bearted will pestpono
it. There are ether gentlemen here who can
speak of the great advantages ef the restaurant sud the first-class mauner lu wbicb
everythlug ls couducted.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I certainly thluk we
ougbt to feel grateful to this cornmittee for
cousIdering se closely the external cleanlineas and the internai comfort of members of
the Senate. I can only tell them that it must
have excited a good deal ef care when tbey
atternpted te look into the barber's affairs,
but It was a moat serions thing wben tbey
came te consîder the matter of feedlng. If I
rnay use encb an expression--or catering to 1Hou. Mr. WÂTSON-I would jnst say
the Senete. It is of 'the hlgbest Importance that I arn ouly reflectIng tbe opinions ex-

SENAT E
pressed by tbe committee on this report. It
is not my report It ls the report of the
committee. I think tbds particular clause
was carried unanlmously-not a dissenting
voice. 'If -the Senate wlsh to eliminate that
portion of the report It la ln their hands
to do so. There la no feellng In the matter,
about any person. A few moments ego It
was suggeeted we were a littIe extravagant
and we tried to economize and no-w tbe3'
want us to be still further extravagant. I
objected two years ago wçhen the report
was adopted nlowing the barber $2.50 a
day as a measenger. If we wanted to pay
hilm that suin, puy It to hlm, but do nlot call
hlm qa messenger, and If you want to provide a restaurant-keeper, pay him as a
restaurant-keeper, but I do flot thlnk it
ls rIght to pay these mnen as messengers
when they are nlot messengers at ail.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It
namne.

is a diplomatie

31ONTREAL SUBWAY COMPANY BILL.
ORDER 0F TEE DAY POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr.WATSON moved the second readlng of Bill (98) 'An Act to incorporate
the Montreal Subway Company.'
The Speaker declared the motion carrled.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-It has not been printed la Frenchi, and I object to tbe second
rending.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The bon, gentleman
la too late. Tlie motion lias been carried.
The SPEAaÇER-Tlie bon. gentleman eau
object to tlie reference to the couimittee.
Hon. Mr. FORU1ET-I obJected te the second readlng.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If an
bon. gentleman rIses to miake an objection,
or to address the Senate, and the Speaker
happens not to see hlm, as ln this case.
lie la flot deprlved of his riglit because the
Speaker did nlot see Min. The question is
did lie rîse before the motion was declared
carried.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I presume there ls no
desire to prevent the lion, gentleman from
addressing the House.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Thie couutry pays
for ail the linen and everything about the
Senate restaurant, I understand, excepting
the food and part of the lielp, furnish the
bulding, heat, liglit, and It appears to me
that It would be no trouble, If a gentleman
keeps a good restaurant, to come liere and
ýHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
keep It wlthout being bonused to do so. 1 lion. gentleman did not rise to address the
think the samne of the barber shop.
lieuse, but to take objection to the secondl
readIng, on the ground that the Bill was not
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Tlie rea- printed la Frenchi. The Speaker dîd not see
son the Contingent Accounta' Commlttee hlm, and declared the motion carrleu.
sonie years ago made this allowance to the
The SPEAKER-The objection of the lion.
restaurant keeper was that lie was sustalaleader of the opposition la sound, and the Bill
Ing a lois, and there was a smail allowance
made to recoup him. There were very few nmust be considered as on the Orders for
members dinlng there, and lie had to keep second reading. We shall consider the mothe restaurant open for the Speaker of the tion now for the second reading, and the
House, and lie could flot possibly make lion, gentleman can, object.
money. There were neot more than 12 or 13
Hon. Mr. FORGET-I object to It because
members dlnlng there every day, and the it ts not printed In Frenchi.
commlttee recommended tliat he should get
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Let It stand for tuie
this smali allowance as some recompense Present. The Frenchi copy may bie here liefor his loss. I think the House will not xIow fore long.
insist on passing that part of the report. I
The SPEAKER-Stands for the present.
mnove, secoaded by Mr. Sullivan, that paragrapli 12 be struck out.

YUKON TERRITORY ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
The aniendment was adopted.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
The balance of the report was adopted
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading
without discussion.
of Bill (119) 'An Act to further amend
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

MAY 12, 1902
at aIl to the men who hold the concession.
I think the House will be glad to hear that,
after the !aurth and last amendmeat of
that concession, there has been a rush of
minera to the places formerly made over
to the concesalonaira, the Bonanza Oreek
and other localities, whlch were vIrtnally
givea over. The trîbutarles to those different rivera have been ellmainated, and they
do not corne under their control by the new
The only question that will
arrangement.
arise is whether the Interpretation placed
upon the instructions would be borne out
by the contract given. The contract says
one thlng, and givea certain powers abid
certain matters, but the regulatians overrule
that, and I do flot know which would bold
goid ln a court of iaw. But ýroba:bIy the
gentlemen who obtained the concession
have agreed to the InterpretatIon placed on
the regulations. My chie! abject la rlslng
la to say that I arn very glad to congratulate
the Minister o! the Interior on takIag this
(In the Oommittee.)
atep forward. It la a thing whlch he and'
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.<.)-When this country. will neyer regret.
the Bill waa read the second time, I had flot
Hon. Mr. WATSON- I amn glad that the
the opportnity of saying a I'!ew words
hon. gentleman !rom British Columbia la
which I now deslre to do. As one of those
gentlemen who have frequently attacked pleased ta see that the gaverament la goin.g
the schemes of the Minister of the Interlor ta extend further local self government to
as being ImprovIdent and flot exactly wise, the Yukon, but 1 hardly think It la fair to
corruption and ail
I have now great pleasure in congratnlating makre use o! the word
hlm ln his advanced Ideas ln leaving the these slang phrases whlch have been used
affaire of the Yukon to be managed by the la cannection wlth the Ynkon.
local anthorities Instead of front Ottawa.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-ThatWe aIl know that the management from la not a slang phrase.
Ottawa has been unsucceaul, ful11 of corHon. Mr. WATSON-The Minister o! the
ruption and mîstakes.
Interlor has been accused of corrupt dealHon. MEMBERS-No, no.
lng la the -Yukon. He was accused by a
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.O.)-And I gentleman who waa probably la a better
hope now, when local men will deal withi position to make charges than any otherý
the affaire of that country that they wIUl person la Canada-Sir Charles Tupper. Re
be managed ln a better-I will not say wlth made those charges. He was threatened
more honesty-bnt lni a better way. If this ln the courts with a lîbel suit, and over his
had been done before we would not have own signature lie apologized to the M'inissuch schemes before us as the Treadgold ter of the Interior for aay statement he
2
concession,. wb.Ich ls one of the most iii- had made.' He made that statement -,pub
1ever heard of, givlng a hicly. We have listened la this Honse*'tol
advised tig
monopoly of thir±y years and no advantage the hon, leader a! the opposition who, lan
to the country, whatever. 1 have ta again a very complirnentary way, referred to the
congratulate the - minister on being wise present administration ln the Yukon, and.
enough to, give ip tq publice opinion and to said that If the wlshes of- Mr. Rosa were
have that concesalon-amended four di! fer- carried out the affaira o! the Yukon would
ent times, and. now 'It stands emasculated, be praperly. adrnnstered. I thInk, taklng
and 1 believe it..lo, ardly worth anything those two matters, the compliment paid to-.He said :
the Yukon TerrItory Act'
The object of the Bill is, ln the first
place, to give to the territorial cncil an lncreased representation on the
part of the -people. At present the people
only elect two, and this Bill proposes to give
five representatives on the territorial cofincil. Then clause 2 enlarges their powers,
and at the same time it provIdes tbat the
Commissioner ln Council may, as aforead,
notwlthstanding anythlngilathe Âct of Parliament, have control. of the grnntlng of Ilcenses. It Io proposed under thls Bill, Instead of the Ucenses and the sale of Intoxlcatlng liquors being managed or adininistered from Ottawa, that the territorial council la to have charge.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
The House reaolved ltself Into Oommittee
of the Whole on the Bill.

SENATE
Mr. Rose, and the fact that Sir Charle~s
Tupper apologized for any charges lie bad
made, it le a pretty clear record.
Hon. Mr. MA.CDONALD (B.C.)-I did flot
accuse the Minister of the Interior or Mr.
Ross of any corruption, but I believe there
are junior officiais Up there who have flot
been honeit, and the bon. gentieman knows
as well as I do how difficuit it le to prove
ln a parliamentary committee, with the
strong tide and force of the governinent
against you, charges. of this kind, and how
difficuit it le to ellcit the evidence that
ought to be given. But, as 1 say, I do nlot
make any charge agaînst the Minister of
the Interlor, but thàt these things are done
UP ln tbe Yukon nobody denies.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-T-.oo
wlde a construction bas been piaced upoii
the complimentary remarks whlch I made.
I naid nothing compiimentary about the adminiutratlon of Yukon affaire by the department ln Ottawa.
non. Mr. WÂTSON-By Mr. Rose.

no question the permit systen lias been very
mucli abused ln that country. The Iiquor
trade lias been a grose monopoly ln that
country. Only a few people have had the
opportunity of making a great deai of
money out of ItL Piaclng It under the control *of the local authorities there wli distribute the business among a larger number
of people, and I believe will add ln a great
measure to what my hion. friend opposite
(Mr. Scott) -woud iike to cee enforced-temperance.
The clause wae adopted.
On clause 3,

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has
the Governor ln CounclI considered the question of Inposing a tax upon the export of
gold ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. It is intended to
colIect the royalty practlcaiiy lu that way,
to put a general tax on ail the gold takien
out. It is nlot properly au expert, because
it cornes froin one part of Canada to another, but. instead of coiiecting it as a royalHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
ty, we caiîedi it on its being sent out. It ls
I stated was that they had appointed a man
îîot te exceed Èive per cent, but it witi be
whose practical. knôwledge of gaverning
two and a haif and tbree.
was an advantage, and 1
such a country
was convinced If they would oniy carry out
On subsection g, of clause 3.
bis recommendations it would be to the beneHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-In
lit of the country. That there has been corthe eliglit- adopting this principle of coilectiug revenue,
ruption and racallty, 1 have -not
est doubt. Everybody knows It. And those 1miglit suggest-I dare say the government
are not slang terms. They are plain Anglo- have aiready consldered It-the propriety of
Saxon terme, wbicb everybody can under- making very strîngent ruies. Âny oîie who
bas had experience of what we Cali smugstand.
gling, and the difficuities whieu wiii preHon. Mr. DANDURÂND-Human nature sent theiseives ln coilecting the royalty ou
does flot evoive speciaily In the Yukon. It wbat may be termed an expert from tbe counremains about the sarne.
try, wili see that- stringent miles are requirOn clause 2,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did
we not pass a law a short time ago preventing the sale of Ilquor ln that section of tbe
eountry, except by permission of the authorities bere ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Tbat
te repealed by thie ?
Hon, Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
teetotaiere wili approve of thnt. There le
HOn. lMr. WATSON.

ed. This question was discussed with me
by tbose interested, and I camne to the conclusion tbat thîs was tbe better way to do
ItL I think it wili be more profitable to the
governinent, but I foresee, and I speak frein
experience ln the Custome Depnrtient, tuere
will be great dlfficuity in enforcing a ruie
of this klnd, because there are so many
waye of evading the iaw. At the snme turne,
the same means of evading the iaw exist
when you Impose a royalty on the outp)ut. because minera can smuggie portions of the
gold away, inake false returns, and evade
the royalty by varions means. Lt ls one dit-

MAY 12, 1902
ficulty which presents itseif in the Imnposition of any tariff restrictions. Speaking
from my own long experlence, very rlgid
to the officers In
powers should be .given
order to collect this royalty.
The subsection was adopted.
O n subsection, 2, of clause 3,
(B.C.)-liow
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
m2any niembers wili be elective In this council ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Five elective.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Under the
first subsection,. Âsiatics can vote. xlhere
are a numaber of Chinamen born In Hong
Kong who are British subjects, and who
couid vote under tila Bill.

4

House of Gommons.' Re said: In consequence of the gro)wing Importance of the
Yukon Terrltory and the population that is
there now, and withi a vlew of Ïhaving the
opinions of Its people repreaented by soîne
authorized individual, It la proposed Iby this
Biii to give represenEition ln the House of
Comumona çto the Territory. This Bill la
framed upon the Bll giving representation
to the Noriih-'west Territorles. The qualifications of a voter wiill be twenty-one years
of age, British subject, or naturalized, andi
a resident of tweive montha in the terrltory.
The plan adopted lu the Nort3b-west Territories, is, after the wrlt of election la lssued,
the liat of votera la made up by what are
called enumerators. They form a iist alnd
the time between the Issuing of the proclamation and the tak*ing of the vote la verY
muih longer thian lu other parts of the DoTwenty-eight dtays are allowed
minion.
under this Act.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thlsislaoniy for the territorial counell.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Provision Is made for the publication of ordinHon. Mr. McMILLÂN-How many repreance lu the Officiai Gazette. That wiii not
sentatives ?
be seen by any eonsiderable number of peoHon. Mr.. SCOTT-One. The election bas
ple In the Yukon. It would be advlsable
to publish it la some newspaper ln the ter- to be before the lst of January next, go
that he wlll have a seat lu the House of
ritory.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They wiii be sent ont Gommons at the next session of pariament
forthwlth to Dawson.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BONV ELL-But
that would not gIve It publlclty. However,
1 do not wlsh to prevent the passage of the
Bill by having It sent back to the -Comnmons.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wilI cali the attention
ofthVe Minister et the Interlor to it, so .tbat
he wii give lnstrStlions to have ail ordinances, when they are passed, published ln
Dawson.
The clause was adopted..

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I thnk it
is a very great mistake to allow Asiatica to
vote lu Dominion eleol3lons. The represeutation of one member 'le reaily very Insignificant. It la lke the voice 0f"one lerylng
lu -the wilderness of his parliament 1
think three ahouid. have been the amalicat
number. What ean one mnember do ? However, It muet go tii year, I suppose, but
three la the smaileat number of represenitatives that should be given to that country.
lt la very Important

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-What la the population
Hon. Mr. BAKER, from the commlttee. of the Yukon ?
reported the Bll without amendment.
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-Âbout twentyThe 'B.il vras then read the third timê five thousand. I want to congratulate the
and paased.
hou. gentleman on bis expreauion that
Chineae should not vote lu the Yukon. 1
YUKON TERLUTORY .REPRESENTAami glad to se that the hon. gentleman
la coming round to the view held by
TION BILL.
the people of British Columbia on this
SECOND READING.
subject. 1 had tie Im!pression 'that lny hion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- friend was pro-ChfInese, but im pleasefi ta*
lng of Bill <134) 1An Act reapecting the. re- know that he approves ot the view of tihat
presentatiÔn of the Yukon Territory in the dlams ot people who belleve that the votlng
31j

SENATE

484

of the Chinese where they exist wouid be
iniical to Vie Interests of white people.
I an assure bujm, with respect to'the Yukon
country, according to the census reports,
as there were oniy seven Obinese ln the
entire territory, the danger of Chînese supremacy at an election ls not Imminent
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And they may flot be
Britishi subjeets.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Tliere are very
f ew naturaiized Chinese ln ail Canada. So,
even the ChInese In the Yukon Tertory
mey notébe, and ln -ail probabil.ity are not
Britishi. subjects. 1 was pieased to bear
the hon. gentleman a moment ago compliment the Mînister of Vie Interlor on Vie
great reforme be blas made la ie Yukon
country, and I agaln congratula-te bum on
the view lie bas expressed that the Chinese
should not vote. Presently we sbail have
the lion. gentleman on thîs aide o! the
House supporting the goverument.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I ami not
opposed to Vie (Ibinese. 1 beileve -ln giiving
equai righlts to ail races. I believie ln fairplay and justice to every'body, but I have
badl some experience o! ChInese voting.
Sanie years ago I was a candidate la a
municipal election ln Vdetorda, when we
were 1lberal enougli to allow the Chînese
wbo paid taxes to vote. I -went round to the
diff erent Chinese ebops and lef t my cards,
and next day my opponent went around and
tore Up my cerds and le! t -bis own. Then
on poiling dey, be' drove round to the
Chinese shops at eeven ln the .morning, befte I was around, and took theni to vote.
I do not know lio.w tliey voted-they coula
not speak Engllsb; but that la my expeTience of Chînese voting, and one reason wtiy
1 wouid not Ilie to see themigiven the rlght
to vote, because it la badl for the Chinaman as 'well as for the wb.ite man. Tlien,
on the other poInt, If any ininister of the
Crown lins done wliat ls wrong lan my eyes,
and sees the er-ror of bis ways. and cornes
round to do the rlghbt thlng, I shall always
I sall neyer fail
give hlm credit for lt
to give the govemament or any o! lit menibers credit for anything tliey do that ls
right.
Hon. Sir, MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Tbe
bon, gentleman wiIll not be troubled to do
muel ln that way -wi.V the present goveraHon. Mr. TEMPLENIAN.

ment. The Secretary of State eaid a Chinaman could not vote. Wouid a Mongolian
born at Hong Kong, a British colony, a
Britisb subjeet, be entiled to vote, unless
lie was restricted by the Act?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume he would.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is the class of people to wliom my bon.
friend referred.
The motion was agreed to, and the BIhI
was read the second time.
The Hlouse resolved Itseif loto Committee
of the Wliole on the Bull.
ln the Committee.
On clause 9,
Hlon. Sir MMJCKENZIE BOWELL-It was
one of the prInciples laid down by the party
to whiclh the bon. gentleman belongs wlien
they were ln opposition, wlienever this question of appoInting -the returnlng officers
arose, that it iumild Ibe an official wbo coula
be beid responsible in case of maladmlnisBtration ln bis office, unless there were none
of theni to be appuinted, ln sucli cases as
where there were two or three ridings ln
one couuty. then 7011 couad %appointthe
registrar thereof. But ln tlis case you do
not Impose such Testrictions and you eau
appoint an Irresponsibie partisan.
Hon. Mr. SCOI'T-We will endeavour to
appodnt an officiai.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wliy
not make provision for a proper appointment ?
The clause was adopted.
On clause 22,
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE *BOWELL-We
have liad cases where candidates, atter
liaving been nominated, and a deposit made,
havewitbdrawn and no provision was made
for the punialiment of the party so wlthdrawing, leaving the other candidate to be
returned .b' accliamatlon. Is there any provision ln the BIU providing for the nomination of some other candidate under sucli
circunistances?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I- do flot think 6o.
forfeits bis $200, that Is ail.

He

MAY 12, 1902
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
'have had cases of this kind during the lait
election, two candidates were legally andproperly proposed. After the nomination
was over, the next day, one of the candidates sent In hal reuigna-tion and withdrew
from the contest That teft the other party
elected *by acclamation. and there was no
provision in the law to enable the eleotors
to substitute a candidate ln the place of the
one who had withdrawn. Should that continue to be the 1-aw ?
Hou. Mr. TEMPLEMN --Certainiy.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The question mlght
be a proper question for. this House to conaider on the general law, but flot on this
Yukon Representation BiI.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
.does not affect the principle at ait. I am
surprised .to 'hear the non-portfolio member
of the Cabinet say It la ail rIght. If enables
a wealtby man to pàichase a poor mnan and
cheat the electors out of their just representation lu parliament. The Intention certniniy
caninot be that,.and I do flot thinik my hon.
lfriend, on reflection, wlll say that la right
There may be a conspiracy to cheat the conatituency out of the representative who
would represent #the majority of the people,
by .making a bargain to have two men nominated regularly, the deposit pa4d, and then,
as soon as the time for nomination expires,
-for one to retire-I amn putting a hiypothetical case--for a conuideration -much greater
than $200 he deposited. A&nd that leaves
the door open to a fraud by which the constituents coutl be cheated ouf of proper
representaton. My hon. friend 'would neyer
.advocate a poliey of that l-id or that -the,
Iaw shouIid be left ln that state. I amrn ot
going to enforce rny view by movlng an
arendment to this, but I 'hope when the,
-question does arise In dealing wtth the
General Election Law the suggéstion miade*by my-hon. frdeud oppoeite -wiil be carried
-out and provision made for IL.

-4K

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I object to that clause
being amended.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Th-e Bill was sent to
commiftee f0 be amended if necessary, and
now my hon. friend objects to the emendment.
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-I do not tlrink it la
necessary.
Hon: Sir MACKENZIE BIOWELL-Looking a-t the conteit -and the other clauses,
the 'point thaf sug'gested 4teelf to me ts
thls: whether the clause was confined
exclusively to the election of one candidate,
or whether It was not put in there designedly, for the purpose of providing for the
electim onf two or three. I would. suggest
to the Secretary of State to ailow this
clause tbo stand until he has an opportunitY
of consulting -the gentleman 'who drafted
the BIB, and see whether It la as nonsensical
as the Speaker thinks it is.
Hon. Mtr. POWER-I think the hon. gentleman abould te anious f0 show the Senate
was able to do more work, lnstead. of endeavouring ta, block amendments.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-When 'we gîTe another
member te the Yukon we 'wMl not have ta
bring ln'a long Bill lke ithis. I wil ascertain the object of this before to-morrow.
Hon. 1fr. POWER-I won-Id suggest that
the third reading be postponed f111 to-morrow, and the law clerk instrncted ta go
over -the Bill carefully and see If there
are any other parts of kt whick require
amendment.
Clauses 22 and 23 were allorwed to stand.
On dlanse 28,
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-I propose to strike ont
some woeda lu tdi clause.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
objected to amendments before, aud now he
la proposIng ameeidments himmeif.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Iit i. rather àmportant,
If the Ohief Justice ha.Wens f0 be away,
that the neit ln office shai be appointed,
and that ls the effeet of -the amendment.

Hon. Mr. POWF>R-'flhere are some words
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I thought tihe Bill
Ieft ln this clause which should bave been
could not suifer any amendinent.
*struck ont, and the way it appears now
.if la nonaensloel.
It refers to two candiHon. Mfr. SCOTT-I asked -to have the
dates.
other clause stand ta see If àt was prepared

486

SENATE

of long scheduies, a!nd the right tihing to do
now Is to have this BihI oarefully examined
by the law eierk, and the hon. Secretary
of State wlli be able to tell us at the third
rending If It needs other amendments, and
On clause 36,
he wll be prepared aise to explaIn just
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is whet the provisions are whieh are referred
there any provision In thàs clause to prevent to In clause 55. I think that la the coinmonsnob frauda and rascalities-those are not sense and buaineml-ke way to do lt.
slang words but they aie very expressiveHon. Mr. DANDURAND-ThIs Bill went
as those wiceh occurred ln the west where
who had no locus throught the ottier Chamber. It appertains
they brought ln strangers
te <Ihat Chamber more than to this House.
standi ln the riding.
deslgnedly with a view to bavIng two members.
The clause was amended and adopted.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-What consti- 1Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That' la no good
tuency la -the hon. gentleman referring to ? 1reason.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I wJ1U not have the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
not named the constituency, but I could Bill read a ithrd tixne tihi to-morrow.
do so. I eau give an hour's dissertation on
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
that klnd ef work If -the bon, gentleman Speaker wishes the Bill referred to the
desires it, but I atm opeaking of the princi- Law Clerk of the Senate, and that shows a
pie, of makIng provision to prevent 'what lack of coiftdence ln the MinJeter of Justice.
I think the House of I congratulate the hon, gentleman. He Is
took place tlhere.
Commons during the present session, or the on the rIght track.
iast session, did introduce some amendments
The clause was ndoRlted.
to the Election Law to prevent occurrences
of that kind lu the future. The hon, nonHon. Mr. YOUNG, from the committee,
portfolio gentleman may 'think kt la fun, reported the BQll with certain amendments
but If he were running frlmselt, and found and a£sked leave te ait again .to-morrow.
such thInga practised agaiinst him kt 'wuld
It being six o'clock the Speaker left the
not ha s0 funny.
Chair.
Hou. Mr. SOOTT-There is provision ln
reférence to It further on.
After Recess.
The clause was adopted.
SECOND READING.
On clause 47,
Bill (98) An Act to Incorporate the MontHon. Mr. LANDRY-When would that real Subway Oompany.-(Mr. Watson.)
notIce be forwarded, three, four or six
montha after the election, or when ?
REMISSION 0F PENALTIES BILL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Under the l-aw it has
SECOND READING.
to be done within a certain number of days.
returnable withIn a fixed
A writ Ia atways
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN meved the sectlme after the election.
ond readIng of Bill (151) 'An Act respectlng
He saIdý:
the Remiauion of Penalties.'
The clause wes adopted.
This Bill is for the purpose of remittIng penOn clause 55,
alties Incurred speclfically by some railway
companies ln British Columbia, street railHon. Mr. LANDRY-What are 14 to 7' ?
small private railways
hon. gentle- way companies, and
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The
owned by coal mineS, and lunes In the lnman could find thaft out hi.mself If he took
terior-railways used for the purpose of
the trouble te look.
transporting their coal and their ore some
Hon. Mr. POWER-I was going to re- few miles ln each case. These short trampeat the suggestion I made a while ago. wa y lines, numbering 12 or 13, havé Incurred
This is a pretty long Bill. There are a penalties under clauses 298 te 305 of the
number of elaborate clauses and a number Railway Act, whldhî require ra'Iway coflmHion. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 12, 1902

487

to postpone
*panles to make returns to the government. that, without waiving our rigbt
These small railway companies failed to the second reading, we might have a discuspassed
make the returns. The companies are sued sion on the point. A similar Bill was
lni another parliament, which was condemnfor non-compliance with the law ; the
Dominion. C~ertain genpenalties ranging from $10 to, ln some ed tbroughout the
tlemen who badl a right, which every citizen
In the Instance
cases, $100 per day.
the court, have justice
of 'the Tramway Company o! Victoria bas, to go before
tak-en away from them. If we pass this Bill,
and Vancouver and New Westminster, one
would we do ? We would déclare
company which failed to make returns, what
that certain persons, having gone before a
action bas been taken against them for
gained their point, having a
a -sum of money aggregating $1,000,000, court, having
.rlght to a certain sum of money, that ls to
and ln every other Instance of the 12 or 13
would be prevented
companies, the amount is very large, aggre- sny bal! the penalty,
from having their rights.
gatIng altogether .about twenty to twentyfive millions. These actions have been taken
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-It is flot ln that;
by blackmailers--men who are unknown ln posItion yet.
the community, men who are too lazy to
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The *fIrst
work, and probably too cowardly to steal,
they would make a large sum clause of the Bill reada as follows :
who thought
Vie Governe in Coueil may at any time
of money by prosecuting companleis of this
penin
character, whIch have been'operating ln ail remit, flne, whole or ln. part, any p.ecuniary
or forfelture impoed by any Ac.t et
alty,
good faith, and did not consIder that they the P&rlament of Canada, whether suzh penalty,
Msjesty or
to
were bound to make these returna. In some fine, or forfaiture i. payablepart Ells His Majesty
to,
to some other person, or la
cases they were entirely Ignorant that the and ini part to nmre other persan, and wheth.e
Rallway Act applied to them as private it la receverabie on indlctmsnt, Information i>r
convicUon, or by action or- oth'erwiae.
In the case of a tramway!~ surnmary
companies.
and whether or flot proceedinge have been Inthey were ln corres- stituted for the recovery thereof.
company, .1 know that
pondence with the Bailway Department, His Majesty may remit the penalty due
with a view of learning what was the exact to hlm, but we have neyer had a Bill before
character of the returns .they should make, us to remit. money which was coming to
as ln their opinion the Railway Act did not sorne other person. The hon. Minister bas
speclfy the Information whicui a tramway given us an exposé of the case whlch cercompany or street railway company might tainly ls very strong. He says that a little
make under -the provialop of the law. This tramway company had been muleted to the
Bill is for the purpose of givlng the govern- amount of one million.
ment powei to remit these fines, If they
are
TEMPLEMÂN-There
Hon. Mfr.
should. be lmposed-the entîre fine, the moland about thIrteen railways, comprising nearly
ety which would go to the Informer,
the moiety which would go 'to Hia Majesty. ail the smail -rai}ways owned by mining
companies.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I ralse the objection
.that the Bill ls not printed In French.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Not the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-I trust my hon. sme company.
friend will not be quite s0 captious as to
Hon. 1fr. TEMPLEMAN-No. The Vantube that course, as he will delay the pro- couver Coal Company bas a Une of four
ceedings of the House. The hon, gentleman or five miles which transporta thelr coal
can read the Bill lu English.
from the mine to the wharf. The most ImHon. 1fr. MACDONALD -(B.C.)-It Is a portant company is the Victoria & Vanvery Important Bill, to stop blackmallng couver Tramway Company, a street railway. That is the largest concern. The
and robbery.
through the
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The bon. others are amail ones scattered
that ln respect of one
gentleman bas raised a question which la province. I -said
If they had been
very Important. The Bill bas not been company the total fines,
be over one million dollars
prlnteil or distributed ln French. It seema imposed, would
position: that the wrItu
to nie the Bill is so extraordinary a measure The suits are -In this

SENATE
have only been lssued, and as yet no pen- take the full responslbllty before the electors of this country, unless they have made
alties have been imposed.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I have Up their mmnd that the Bil ltsel! was rlght.
I think there shonld be a short preamble to
not put the sum large enough. One cointhe Bill settlng, forth clearly the reasons
pany would have to pay one million, five
hundred thousand dollars. I bave not read why this legisiation was sought. I take
It for granted these people have been.
the Bill. 1 asked the lion. gentleman, but
ln defauit, and ln default so long that even
hie dld not give me a complete answer. He
ten dollars a day amounts to a very considsaid the penalties ln some cases were ten
erable sum of money. I suppose tbe sharedollars a day, and la others a hundred
holders ln the amall. rallways are hardly
dollars.
able to respond. It might fairly be asked
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Per day.
whether the government has nlot been lax
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I have ln Its duties ln allowlng this default to go
not the-Iaw before me. If they pay a hiua- on so long. As far as I understand the
dred dollars a day, haîf of that would be a question, I arn prepared to give the governgreat deat. A hundred dollars a day would ment the benefit of the doubt and vote for
be a hundred thousand dollars ln a thousand the Bill.
days. It w.ould require three years to make
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I mnust say my ImUp that amount..
pression at first was very much the saine
Hon. Mr. TEMPLE3IAN-In the case of as that of the bon. gentleman from Montarodie company It is ruaning about thirty ville, but on referring to the Revised Statutes, chap 29, section 78, 1 find the very
years.
saine principie that Is embodied ln this
Hon. Mr. DeBOIJCHERVILLE-I have
Bill:
known of laws lmposlng a penalty, but I
Tbe Governor ln Couneil whenevzr he deems
thlnk a penalty cannot be imposed atter one
it right
to the
year. Therefore, I cannot understaad that remit anyand conducive payable publie good msy
duty or toit
to 'Her Malesty.
thîs Bill should extend thirty years back. Imposed and autborized to be iposed by any
Act of the parliamarit of Canatde, or by aJiy
I think It Is contrary to ail our laws. The Act or ordinance of the legielature
ef the late
penalties are generally for one year.
If province of Canada, or of any ofthei provinces
of Nova Icotta, New Brunswirk, B3ritish Columnyou do not sue during the year, the matter
bia
Edward Ieland, ln force ln Canada,
la concluded. I do not wish to be unparlla- aLd or Prince to any inatter wlthin the scope of
relating
mentary, but it seems to me monstrous to the powers of the uparliament thereot, or any
pecuniary
imposed or
pass a law by whlch the money due ta a forfeiture or b. Inspos.d penalty such Act or
authorized to
by any.
person should be remitted by the govern- Ordinance for any contraventi *on ot the laws
i elating to the collection of the revenue, or to
ment.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-It ls a governmeat
Bill, and on the face of It, oniy for the discussion whlch has takea place, I would not
have kaown what the real purport of It
was. I do not know what the practice Ia
the Senate le, but this Bill orlginated la the
other House.
Generally when there ls
special legIslation It Is customary to Insert
a preamble setting forth why the legisla-,
tien Is sought for. If this Bill passes la Its
bald form, It might meau anything withi
regard to penalties and fines, but as I
understand it now, It appears to me the
real question Is, whiether It is right te do
It, and If It be rlght It 18 our bounden duty
ta support It. I cannot conceive that the
goverament would seek to have legisIatiôn
of this kind enacted for which they must
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN.

the menagem3cnt of an? publie work producing
toiS or revenue, althouah any part ef such forfeiture or penalty 15 given by law to the Informer
or prosecutor, or te any oth-ar person:; an4l such
rt-mission may b. total or partial, conditional or
unconditional, and may b. granted either before
or after, or pendinig any suit or proceeiding for
the reeevery of any duty, tui4, penalty or forfeiture.

It says here that the portion comIng to the
private prosecutor may be remitted. It
seems to me that it ls the very saine priaciple, whether it be la connection with the
reveines, or ln coanection with somethlag
else.
Under section 804 of the Rallway,
Act, railway companies are bound to make
reports of any accident to 11f e or property,
and falling to make such report they are
hiable to a penalty of $100 per day. If
there are such cases as have been meatioaed
by the hion. minister, that suits are taken

MAY 12, 1902
tended te la the firat place from the boa.
gentleman who la meving this ameadmeat,
as te the causes which led te -the non-maklng
Hon. Mr. DeËÔÙdiltiRVILLE-Ls there o! tbe returas. Wais it through ignorance
e! tbe Iaw, or because these smail railways
flot prescription ?
te whlch he re!erred did net think that the
Hon. -Mr. BEIQUE-I know there. would law applied te them ? Was that the case ?
be prescription ln Quebec, but I arn net That la my Information.
aware that there la prescription in British
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEIIAN-My Information
Columbia. 1 do flot know about that. Lt
la, that these private raiiways à-Id not thiakc
la under sections 302 and 304 of the Rail- that- tbe Railway Act, with .respect te
Act that the penalty la imposed. I was making retura e! the number of passeagers
rlsing merely te cite this section of the carrled, number e! miles travelled, and other
Revenue Law whicb seema to nme to embody
statiaticu required from~ rallway companies
the principle of the Bill, -but I confesa at gpplled te them, and thiey do net tbink It
me.
fi.rst sight it rather surprised
does yet. But at ail events, we de net knew
biackmnliers are. Tbey are
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The ,whe these
nobodies put up by smre people te persecute
hon. gentleman miglit bave gone further.
private cornpanles.
While this Bill appears upon the face of It these
te be an extraordinary measure, the Audit
Hon. Sir g1ÂCKENZIE BOWELL-Tbey
Act, to whlch the hon. gentleman has re- have taken advantage ef a law on tbe
terred,. gives the meat unlimited power te statute-books ln erder te maire meney.
the Governor ln Council, uipon the report of Whether you caii theni blackîallers or
the Treasury Board, to remit any penalties Informera, they have a rlght te do under
under any circumatances, ne matter la tbe law -wbat tbey have dene,-and ît is fer
what state the case may be, but that the courts te decide whetber -the clauses ln
clause confines the power exciusively te the Railway Act apply te these particular
violations of «the customs axid Iniand re-, raiiways te whioh the hon, -gentleman refers.
venue laws, or penalties affecting the re- 1 have a telegram to-day from Victoria,
venue o! the country. The object I take it, signed by A. B. McPhillips. Ia ho a lawyer ?
of this Bill, ls te extend the pewer which
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes.
the Gevernor ln Council has under the
Audit Act te which I have Juat referred, te
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I came
deal wlth ail other cases o! penalties. It la te the conclusion tbat botb these parrties tio
net a new princ1ple, altheugh it may seem wbom I propose te refer are Ïqawyers. He
very strange te. ail e! us. I find that there la Bays :
an Imperlal Act, 22 Vltorie, chap. 32, which
Remission penalties Bill In lins with Imperial
gives the same poweir exactly te the lm- aLd -Ontarie legiglation. Action brought here
tramway
perli governient that la sought te ho ob- rppreoiveiy againet stre4it railWi
for
tained by this Act for the Governer lii cea>panies,and non-cempliance making finacial
returne. Raiiway Act
acciddunt
nafloage
*Council. A similar Act occurs ln the ordin- &aede&,. 1900, not thought rater te such cernof the North-west Territeries. 1 panies, no objection te exept frem Bill section
ances
Coasider BUl ln public lnthink there la a similar Act also on the 290 Railway Act.
terest.
statute-book of -the province qof Ontario,
and, If I arn correctly In!ormed, ln the pro- Tben on the other aide I have a itelegrai
vince of British Columbia, givlng te the signed 'Dumbletoâ & Boyd,l that was sent
. Lieutenant Governor In Council the same te Messrs. Chryaler & Bethune of Ottawa.
powers that thia Act gives te this Governor Lt ay:
lu Council ln the Dominion, se that the pria.
Oppose retroactive clause. F'itzpatrick. Bill,
ciple la net new. I have before me smre tele- -çigeroumly. Cliente have bona fldp, with coaJustice, Raiiways. Atgrams which have been sent, soie e! whlch oent advise ministers.
tempted enforce comnpiaae provisions Railway
I received myseif, and soie of which have Act. Actions approach'ag trial. Clients tucurbeen placed ln my handa frem British Co-ý red heavy expense. Advised trom Ottawa -Bill
aimed specially at these actions, arely, interlumbla, on this subject. However, before re- alla Neil and Berkeley vs. Nelson Tramway, AtI ln- kinaon and Bsrkeley vs. Britisb Coluiâbia Enetferring te them, I may ski the question
for the amount of
sureiy-

millions

of

dollars,

490

SENATE

trie Rablway. Gtt oppoettion ;ventilate grievance. Reported McKenzie, Mann acquirir-g
latter company. Report progress Bill through
stages. Million* tlalmed, but iargaiy dligeretion
court.
I have these telegrams in tbeir abbreviated.
state, as transmltted. It ls quite evIdent
that these people have acted under the law,
as Dumbleton & Barnumi say. They are
lawyers also, I suppose ?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This,
says simpiy, that actions have lieen itaken
bons fide, and tbey -want -the parties. who
oppose it ito eo advise the Minister of Justice
and Minister of Raiiways and stop thre Bill.
I was informed to-day by Mr. Berbune, Just
as the House rose, that wbat iris clients
desire before the Bill pesses, Is to be beard.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Dld the' telegrame mention wbo their clients are ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I tbmuk.
no-t. The bon, gentleman can bave etie
telegram and read -it for birnself. What
tbey say is is, and I thmnk it la reesonable,
If parliament approve thre principie, tbey
only approve a principle tha-t bas been
recognIzed by thre Britishr parliament, by
Ontario, by British Columbia and -the Northwest Territories, and they ask, befos'e any
remission o-f penalties take place, 'that thre
parties iiiterested ahould be beard. I do not
see any objection to that. You will notice
In thre 2nd clause etf the Bill, It [is provided
tbait wbere proceedings have tbeen Instituted
by prIvate persons, tire costs already lncurred riraU not be remitted. I took very
mucir the sanie vlew that my -hon. frlend
from Montarville (Hon. Mr. DeBoucherville)
look, when I first read it. Every one ls
opposed to wha't Is called retroactive legislation, and tis Bdl bas tint effect. Wbetber
parliament sbould eidopt tbe principle that
bas been adopted ln the case to wicb 1
have referred Is a question. We have bad
on thre statute-book ever since confederation
a law giving po-wer to tbe government to,
remit penalties under certain circumatances;
w-hetirer we should extend It further, and
Include ail cases, or whetber this law shilýd
be restricted to- tire pariticular cases mentioned, is a point which sbould be considered
well by thre Senate ibefore taking action.

MontarNillle wbich needa au answer. Tbe
hon. gentleman seems aurprlsed and sbocked
at tbe Idea that private righte sbo-uld be
invaded and confiscated. Weil, If thre bon.
gentleman wll look at tbe rlghts of tbe
claimants under tis Act he will see that tbey
have Individually no personal or private
rigit. Tlaey have a rdght wbich eny citizeni
iras to apply to tie courts to obtain fromn a
iparty a penalty for having viokûted the law.
Tbe private Individual ln each case substitutes bimself to thre Attorney General or
to, the Crown ln punisbing 4nother fellowcitizen. There Is no private rigit invaded,
and we ail k'now that sudi classes of actions
itaken by Individuals are mo-st unpopular
tbrougbout -the land. Once ln a wbile an.
idividual wlll sue a party because be bas.
failed to 'register bis firin, or to register
witin a regular time. Thre courts, within
my experience, give ail possible sco-pe for
tire defendant to escape frc>m tire mneshes of
the law, and froin the greedy Individual wbio
wants to get from iris feilow-citizen thre
pound of flesr. 'Ia tis Instance, but one
private right could be invaded, and that
is the right to remit the costa incurredI understand tire party wbo uses the
1mw to Institute proceedinga *for the recovery of thre penalty, employa an attorney
and le entitled to the paymen't for that
attorney's services before bis brief ia
taken out o-f bis bands -by parliament This
present law pro-vides for the payment of
coets. No individual excites lesm syaipatby
thain thre party who will use the law to
punisir a person by aubstituting himself for
the Crown, and I tbmnk: ithere la no monstrosity ln, thls aw ; on thre contrary, it la
based on equity and justice.
Hou. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILL-Wbere
does the hon. gentleman find In the B)ll that
the costa will ire remitted ?
Hon. Mr. DANDUItÂND-In clause 2.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-LookIng at the third clause, I find Il le conifined
exclusively to offences under the Railway
Act.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I do not
consider clause 2 meets the case.
Hon. Mr. MÂCI)ONALD (B.C.)-Tbe hon.
gentleman said tirose people have ,earned
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-There Is one tireir money and sirould get It. Thre case bas
point raised by thre -bon, gentleman from not gone on triai, and therefore no money
Hou. Sir MAOKENIE BOWiELL.

491

MJAY 12, 1902
la due them. They have undertaken, In
this mischievous way, to make money. I
amrn ot surprlsed some persons support it,
because a million and a balf of dollars
makes pretty good picking. Those railways
have falled to make proper returne under
the Railwny Act. Are they to bie punisbed
for that ? The prosecutors are trying ta
get what they bave no right to take. The
law may gire it to tbem, but It la blackmailing, notbing. more or leas. I hope this
House will take the proper and only legitimate vlew of this matter, and give the relief askeà for.

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-An objettion was raised by the hon. gentleman f ram
Stadacona (Mr. Landry) tbat the Bill was
not printed ln French ; and theref are it
sbould flot be proceeded witb. That objection bas bpen before tbe Hanse, and we
have passed the second reading againat therules of the Hanse. We have no rigbt togo on with the Bill when one member objecta.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-He di&:
not press bis objection.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It la only
necessary for a member ta raise the objection, and thbe objection baving been raised,
the Speaker ougbt ta have decided that, one
member objecting, tbe Bill should not be
proceeded witb.

Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I tbink tiis Bill la
most extraordinary, In the first place, it
la retroactive. As a principle, retroactive
legisiation la flot admissible. There la another point. It seema ta me that opportunity
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Does the bon.
la taken of a special case ta maire a general gentleman perast ln bis objection that belaw.
cause the Bill ls flot printed In French we
Hoiu. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-How la It cannot go on ? I understood the bon, gen-tleman frorn Stadncana waived the objec-retroactive ?
tion.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-From the expianaHon. Mfr. LANDRY-How could the lion.
tion given, Its object la to cure certain Vent minister understand that ?
off ences.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Does the bon..
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (1.C.)-There gentleman Inest upon it now ?
bas been no decisian In any of the cases
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-1 do.
yet.
Hou. Mr. BERNIEIR-It la to apply ta ail
cases. If there la good reason for denling
with these cases It would bie better -to iegIslnte speclally for thern, and -not mùake a
general law. Informers are flot very much
liked, and I know generaiiy those People are
not ta bie found ln the higbest classes of
the community. At tbe sarne time, It appears ta me that we should bie consistent
witb aur own law. If we paso legialation
by which power ia given to any lndividual
ta lay an Information againet anybody, it
le flot consistent.with aur own Act ta afterwards say thesb people are simply blackmailers ; we want ta deprive them of thue
privilege we gave them by aur own legislation. I admit there may bie good reason
ln these cases, but again. 1 say it wouid bie
better ta legisiate specially for the particular cases mentioned, and not ln a general way.

nove
Han. Mfr. TEMPLEMÂN-Tben I z
that the Bill be referred ta a Comrnittee of'
the Wboie House to-rnorrow.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The objection was taken ta the second reading.
The SPEAKER-The Hanse cannat goback ta undo wbat bas aiready been done.
I understood, as the hou. gentleman from,
British Columbia did, that the hon. gentleman from Stadacona did not pressbis objection. He did flot press it, and the BmU
wil have ta wait until to-rnorrow for thecommittee stage.
The comrnittee stage of the Bll was fixed.
for to-morrow.
RAILWÂY ACT ÂMENDMENT B[LL.
SECOND READING.
nULS.

rt.

OtJ.L

ejV 0-oct.

t-

Tbe motion was agreed ta, and the BIBI Iing of Bill (155) - An Act ta arnend the Railway Act. He said:*The abject of this Big!
was rend the second time.

SENATE

le to replace section 114 with a section soâu(*what similar, only f uller ln language. A
technical objection bas been raised to the
right of a railway company to run a certain
*distance witbin six miles for either water,
rock, gravel or eartb, ln the construction of
fts railway lune. The case arose where a
lake Intervened between the railway and
the gravel bed, and It was held that, as the
water intervened, the clause did flot apply';
thi clause la sImply widening the Act. -It
appiies only where the railway company requires sand, gravel, earth or water at a dliatance from the Une of railway for the construction and maintenance of the Rue. It
la to remove a doubt as to the right of tuie
company to take It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There ls no distance
apecified.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN (de Lanaudière)-It
la apecified ln the Act, six miles away.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-This does not
change the distance.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-lt is ln the third Une,
the material change is. It ls limiting their
power to tbese particular purposes. It muet
be for the maintenance and construction of
the raUlway.

Hlon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I bave
the French version here, and It says : 'Ail
those rights '-that is to say the rights of
expropriation, the right to pass tbrougb the
land and to take possession of a certain
part of the land. I suppose nobody could
object to those powers that are given for
the construction of a railway. But wben
the road la completed It seems to me that
the expropriation ought to cease. Tbe company can, without any plan or notice, exproprIate land and build a road to these
places where they get the ballast. I think
his legislation la new. I do not think you
wUI find ln any of our laws that, after the
road le constructed and ln operation, there
still remains the right to expropriate.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the hon. gentleman
will note what I read, he wlll find It ln the
law, but It la only constructively stated. It
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How does this Bill cornes ln at the end of the paragrapb I read
differ from the law as It stands ?
from the RailwayF Act of 1888. It reads as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wilI read the firat follows
Part of section 114 as it appears ln the Act : Anid the powere ln this and the next preceding
setion» contained, mnay at ail times, be used
Whenever any stone, gravel, earth, sand or ln all respects after the railway le congtructed
water, no required, ta situate at a distanoe from for the purpose of constructing aind maintainthe line of the raiiway, the company may lay Ing the raiiway.
.down the .iecessary tracks, apura or branueh
Uines, water pipes or conduits, over or through
It seems pretty certain, but the courts
any lands Intervenlng between the rablway and beld the authority was flot given. The
the tand on whioh such mtaterhui or water is
fOtud, Or a&nY other Place to which the suil words introduced ln the third ue of the
stoue, gravel, earth or sand mity be brought, BIR are really a repetition of the words ln
whatever la the distance.
the hast line of the clause as It: stands.
The words In the third Rune 'for the purHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It says
pose of the construction and maintenance
they can build a railway six miles long.
'of the rallway'1 are added.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, that le the limitaHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-By thile BI you bave
tion.
the power of expropriation, not only for
the construction but for the maintenance.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUOHERVILLE-Why did
you not put it ln this Bll ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, so far as sand,
earth, gravel and water are concerned.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They must file a plan
for every six miles.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (de Lanaudière)-In
Hon. Sir MÂOKEN2ýE BOWELL-I have
practice It bas been done ail the time. It
ls only to legalize what bas been done and la lstened with a great deal of attention, tryIng to understand tbe explanation, but I
being done every day.
muet confess frankly that I do not underHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The.great stand the reasons for the Introduction of
obJeation Ja ln the very last words of this tais Bull. If It gives no further power than
BIL
the present law gives, certainly the RailHon. Mr. SCOTT.

VAY 19- 1902
way Departrnent wouid flot Introduce a
measure to restriet thelr rights and prIileges. That I think we may take for
granted. Borne diffiulty muet have arisen;
in connection wlth the securing of this
gravel and stone, or the Bill wouid nlot have
been Introduced. Does it arise from this
tact, that they found, as the Secretary of
State bas mentioned, that they could flot
reach these deposits of gravel and stone
required for repalring vithin the six miles,
and that a lake Intervening between the
two, that it was necessary to build around
this pond, or laite, or watercourse ln order
to reach the gravel pit or quarry. Is that
really the object of the Bill ?

cla:m that they should be aliowed vider
privileges In regard to the fiat warehoules.
I Ill point ont the material changes as I
am proceedlng. In the tIrot section the material change Is that the person operating
tbe elevator shall have the standard grades
of! vheat described and kept ln viev. In
reference to the flat varehouse there vas
a limitation that It should be erected only
ln those cases Wbere it bad a capacity of
3,000 bushels. The question of capacity la
removed from the law by this Bill, the
capacity not being ln any degree lirnited.
There ate sorne new clauses.
RM ODWa safa
r
Hn
aafo
Mr7RMODWa
arhouse

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That is the explanation
the Minîster of Raihways gave me vhen I
asked him for it. He drew a littie plan and
said:. ' The lune corne up to within two or
three miles, and the gravel ls on the other
aide o! the hake. It i. six miles If 'yen go
round, snd not six miles If you go across
the water.'
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
vas read. the second Urne..
The Bill vas then read the third tîrne snd
passed, under suspension of the rules.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In contradistinction to
anu elevator, the oid fashioned warehouse.
The railway companies are bound, under
this amendment If It: passes, to erect what
are called hoading plattorms for the farmers,
ai the railvay stations. The commissioner
bas, t o me extent, a discretionary power
la judging of the necessity for the plattorms and the varehouses. At'preseut, If
I arn properly instructed, officials are paid
salaries. They no longer get tees.

MANITOBA GRAIN ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

Hon. Mr. SC3OTT-The penalties fer the lnfractions of the Act have been considerabiy
Increased. In the Act passed ln 1900 a
penalty might be as lov as $10. Under this
s
Act the îleat penalty -muet be no lew than
$50 or -more than $1,000. Then there la
another ne-w clause to vwhich I cal! the attention o! the Heuse, and that ls a new
departure requirlng the station agent et
each ralvay station to keep an order-book,
and If there are cars at the station, the
fermer comlng: to the station has a right
to have bis neme entered for one or more
cars. It Io the duty o! thie company to hold
those cars for bïm 48 hours.
Hou. Sir MA&CKENZIE BOWEILL-That
is an increase of 24 hours.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk It ls a novelty
altogether.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, It
vas 24 heurs under the Rsilway A-et.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I vent to aay a Word
or tvo. I arn not going to discuse the pro-

SECOND AND THIRD REÂDING6.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readlng of Bil (162) An Act to amend the ManIt»ba Grain Act 1900. *He sald: This Bihl
la to amend an Act that vas a good des!
discussedl ln thls Chamber tvo years âge.
Iu the session of 1900. It may be remem-,
bered, we had a very long discussion occupying several days In conuection with the
Manitoba Grain Act The question of platforrna for farmers to load on cars, and the
erection of flat warehouses, vas discussed.
It le alleged, I arn advised, that the farmers
have rather suffered ln the North-west durIng the last year by cornbinatlbns that have
exlsted, or eiheged comblnations so reported
o! the elevator men. Whether it ls true
or not, at ail events that is the statement
* made, àud this Bill Is to rernove a grievance
ot the tarmers vho allege that they.have
been .deprived, of the fair. competltive rates
that mlght be received for their grain and

Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-The Inspectera are pald
salaries nov.

494

SEINATE

visions of the Bill, because 1 fancy we can
iliscuss those provisions mucli better ln
VCommittee of the Whoie House, but I wlsh
to say a word or two ln reference to one
or two remarks wblch have fallen froin
-the lps of my hon. frlend.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Very qualified remarks.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Very quaiffied, I ad-mit He suggested that owlng to an alleged
.,combine amongst the grain buyers ln the
west, farmers dld flot get that price for their
.grain which they were entled to. Now, I
4mrn ot golng to discuss this matter ln any
other spirit than ln the saine spirit my hou.
friend the Secretary of State suggested,
-and that la tbat we should legisiate, so far
as we are capable of doing so on such short
notice, ln the direction of securing to the
farinera of the Noîlth-west and Manitoba
-fair prices for their produce, whether It be
,wheat or anything else. But I wish to caîl
the attention of thls honourable body to one
or .two thInga whilh would seem to mue
to make It very dIfficuit to have a very
close eombination existlng lu Manitoba and
the North-west, Just as an example, we
had ln the North-west 123 private elevators,
tbirty-one fürmers' elev¶ators owned by
-farinera joining together. We have elevator
eompanies owning 265 elevators. I think
My figures are correct. It la the lateat luformaUton I couild get, and we had the two
big milting companies, Ogilvies aad the
'Lake of the Wooda Milllng Company, operating 113 elevators. and we have 88 of those
warehouses which were mentloned a mo-ment ago, maklng altogether over (00 buildings OPeratlng ln coanection wlth the handlng of grain ln the west. I think every hon.
gentleman wIli agree with me that Lt would
b)e very difficuit to have a combînation caverlng the whole of that territory when we
know the Intereste that are represented
here In the elevatora 1 -have spoken of.
'The mllIling compa-nles get the wheat Inde-pendent of anybody else ln regard to price
.and quality. I faacY everY hon. gentleman
who knows these companles wIll rea<Iily
understand that. The farinera' elevators
again are opes-ated -by farinera, where dIfferont buyers are buylng, If they choose,
through those elevatora, and sureiy they do
flot .belong to anY Combine which would
-bave the effect of depreasing the prices over
-the wh'ole of the North-west. Then take the
Hon. Mr. 'YOUNG.'

other large companies representiiig large
Interests la buying grain. Besides that,
since 1900, when this Grain Act wus pasaed,
we have allo-wed farmers the privilege of
loadlng on cars, of building fiat warehouses,
and having these luadlng platforme, or loadmng where there were no pla-tfornis. So
that uader ordlnary circumatances one
wouid thlnk it would 'be very difficult to
bave a combine whlch wouid brlng about the
effets auggegted by the remarks which
have been made. Whea this question, that
there was a combine, was agitated by certain parties, ladepeadent buyers were writtea to and asked a series of questions, and
I have here a list of their naines, and I have
aIso lu My possession their replies wlth their
sinatures attnched, ifroi between -fitty
and sixity of those country buyers, mndlvidual -buyers throiighout the country, Indep)endent of any combination, of eleva-tors or
anything else, relying on their own ca.pital.
Belng ladependent lu that wuay, tihey have
'wrltteu denylng moist ernphaticaily that
they are elther controlled. or under any obligation to pay aýny price for grain except
to buy at what they consldered the value
0f the grain on the market where they are
buying. But notwithstaadlng that, by legislation passed lu -the province of Manitoba,
the Northern Pacifie RoaHway, and the Lake
Dauphin, as it was kanowa at the trne,
now the Canadiau Nort2hern, by their local
charter wlxich they obtained froiu the provincial legisiature of Manlto ba, had to, allow
a free shipmnt of grain la any way, shape
or form. along their aine, so that these coin,binaioas would have ito Include such an
Immense number of people that you cau
readly see that that stâte of affairs cannott
.generally prevail. Now, during last year,
there le no question a:bout it, owlag to the
shortage of cars, there was a congestion lu
lour wheat market ln the west, grain was
worth more on a car than la a heap lu the
elevator w-hen you dld not know whlea you
were going -to sbip It out, the ëleva-tor belng
frequently fled to the nçeck- I bave known
elevatiora thast dld not turu a wheel for
.weeks et a time. The raAlway cosnpaales
have not sufficlent rolllng stock to carry out
the grain, und when a fariner would see
a man getting a preminin on bis w'heat once
he got It lato his car, and he hlmself, standing alongaide the car, lot able to ge~t nearly
so much for bis wibeat, he naturalIy account-

MIAY 12, 1902

495

'arRons clauses. It is a large question lu-ý
ed for Rt by the fact that there was crooked- v~
v'olving the rnoving of millions of bushels
ness somewhere. Re could flot see otherwise
f grain, and we have te consider It very
why lie could flot get as mucli for is wbent o
-the car cnrefnily. I wenld have preferred te sec
Rn the elevator as when Rt was In
hie Bill breugît dewn a menth age, and
Teady to sli.p. We must rernesber that t
thie 1 roceeded with very slowiy se, that we
Ibis was particularly s0 shortly before
have get ail the Information, the exdcose of navigation last year. Every>ody .ould
have 1>ert evidence, as my hon. friend euggests, eo
wRIl bear me ont Rn saying that If yon
we could feel certain of our grennd.
-to buy a thousand oarloads of wheOât ln t hat
navigatJion We have net got the tirne now, and If we
November and carry Rt until
eut the BRi, as has been enggested,
-opens, or pay all-rail rates, Rt Rs flot nearlyR Lnocked
et leat carryiin t ;hat would net do, because some of these
wortli
se valuabie. It *Rs
necessary,
~charges less than If you have Rt ready to 3rovIaIns are very wise and
te
take advantage of -the faRI and It la; not the feeling of tbis Heuse
slp down and
de anything which will Rn any way hamper
navigation, and as a natural consequence
I arn eure bon.
-there was consRderable IrritatRon. I wast ,le faruiere of the North-weet
gentl1emen are, like myself, only tee anxIeus
pleased the other day wben 1 saw provision
fair te say
was made by whRdh the possRbRlitRes are, te help them. I thought It only
Ver- these few werds, but I want te point eut
tînt thnt stnte of affairs wilI flot exigt
the Bill will
boaps thua next year Rn consequence of the lu- that the very first clause of
te the need amending. It is an Indication that we
creased capital that bas been given
very closely.
-Canadian Pacifie RaIway, a large percent- muet watch the ether clauses
to rolllng It le enly a technicai matter that requires
.age et which has to le devoted
stock. I do flot want to go Into the pro- amendment Rn thie fIret clause, but It shows
2, the
.,phesYRing business, -but If we continue to de- how careful we muet be. In section
velop Rn the west as we have been develop- twe Inet lines':
lng ln the past year, the Ganadian Pacifie« TRie six et-indard grades oi wheat established
Rn the- General Inspection Act as
Rallway wIlR be knocking at the door of and describadchap. 25 of the Statutes et 1898.
arioded by
a verY short trne for the pur-parlinsment In
I aind that that section .bas been repealed
pose of repeatlng tbeir requeeit of this and that Chap. 24 of the Âct ef 1901 bas
,Year-for more capital for rolling stock.
been substitnted'fer Rt. We have te start
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-That is'ail rigît.
from the very beginning and correct that,
te
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It is ail riglit and we becanse the six grades that are referred
wno bas hie ln that proposed amendment are net ail
are proud of It but the man
tirne
-grain at home and cannot shlp It, has reason eontaIned Rn the Âct of 1901. As te the
It will1 be for loading cars, I said a moment ago that,
to grumble, a'nd Rn this legislatien
well te keep this vlew of the questRon be- whUle dealing fairly with thie farrner-and
fore us nil the time : legistate se that the lie le the one we should censider first-we
pro-rolling stock of the country -will not be n- ehenld be careful net te make sncb
so thai we can get visions, as wlll destrey te a great extent'
reasojxably hampered,
or pre-Our grain ont, reasonably fast. If we legis- the usefuIness of the rolling stock
roUing stock wil vent the cempany from bauilng eut as mucb
lIate e that this increased
be limited Rn lits usefuinesa, then te that grain wltb their roiling stock as they reaBill I
extent we will be nearer the danger Une of sonably eau. In one clause oef the
nnderstand that 48 heurs le allowed. The
congestion again Rn another year or the
year follewing. Se that we have te be provisions contained Rn the Bill are sugvarions
niln dealing with these matters to see gestions wbich have been made by
carefu
do net, while trying to help one members ln another place, but I amn told that
that we
end of the question, Injure the f armer as the 48 heurs mentiened there was Intended
Into commuch at the other end. That Is one tbing te Rie 24 heurs, and wben we go
mittee, I shall draw attention te that. There
we have te look eut fer. This legisiatien
bas been breught down very recently. . I are one or two ether amendments wbidh
' have .been watcbing for It for a good rnany have been suggested te me, and when we
menthe, and Rt: is Impossible for me off- corne te read the Act ail tîrongli and comwRll be
' band te, s.tate the exact effect of ail these pare It witb the Act of 1900, we

496

SENATE

better able to see it, but I hope when we are
tbrough witb the Bill that we will bave
sucb an Act on our statute-book as will
neot leave any shadow of suspicion that we
have nlot given to the farmers every possible facility and opportunity to bandle
tbeir grain.

A similar telegram bas been received from
G. R. C.rowe. I do net know what position
lie hoIda.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-He Ia a grain man.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It la
exactiy of the same character and was
recelved by a member of -the House o! CoalHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ml ght mens aud practically ln the same ternis, and
1 ask the Hon. Secretary of State whether winds up wltb the following :
the parties who are lnterested ID titis Bill
1 refer vou te the Hon. Senator MicKay, Hou.
have bad sucit notice of Its provisions as to W. J. Stairs, John F. Stairs. Halifax, also, S. E.
enabIe thein to protest or to approve. Gcuriay.
Judging from the telegrams which I have re- Tiien there -la another one recelved Iby Sentceived. I sbould say tbey have not. I do ator Cox, Io this effect
not propose to discuss the question as the Elevator owners proteat stronjfly ngalnst unprovisions
hou. gentleman bas doue, but simply to fair amendments,repot-cid belng put Into "Irain
Act
on, car distribution, and conpoint titis out : have the railway companies sider ail stippers, whether farincr or dealer,
shouid hive equal rlght te cars, according to
made any objections to the clause which
he bas to, ship
consiqclr
as ui.compels tbem, If It be possible, to leave a quantlty oblige elevators ,also re.-3lve zlxIt gradles.
fiiir te
to
car standing forty-eight hours ? Common Mhie warehouse owners m-ay -I ,ts 'bey pieuse.
la ground for pr.>test, and would
sense would teacit us there Is n great deal I thlnk there action
suggest that
be deferred until the Imporof force ln the remarks of the hon, gentle- tant intersts bers have au, opporiiîiy of
man from Killarney (Mr. Young) who bas sts.ting their case.
spoken on titis point. If the railway com- This Is signed by John Aird.
panies are obiiged to leave a car for 48
Hou. MT. YOUNG-He la a -manager of tho
houri, It compels them to leave It 24 hours Bank of Commerce.
longer than tbey are required 'te do now.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-A
That tIme would enable the company to similar telegram was received by
Mr. E. B.
baul a train of cars from a considerable Osier, M.P., who had -to go to Montreal
and
distance west of Wl%'nnlpeg, or even to gave It to Senator Cox, wbo
banded It to
Fort Wý%iliam and get back to reload. That me. It reads as follows3
Is a question to be considered. Judging
Ameadments to Grain Act pubmllTihd ln press
from the telegram piaced ln my banda, I to-day most unjuat to eqlevttr property. Resohould be lnclined ta think the parties In- trictions placed. on the elrvator shipplng power
by provisions for car distribution
terested have nlot received the notice of titis mlght leave elevators blocked for a are such as
long period,
legisiation ta wbich"tbey are entitled. For a!so requirements for- storage six grad>s unju»t
anil arbitrary ln the extreme, because .sorte
Instance, bere Is a telegram from Winnipeg,
grades may have littie or no existence, and
dated the lOtb
ast. It i. directed te my- %,arehouseshave ne sueh rest.riction5., Also no
provision to protect edevator In, event of acci.self, and Ia as follows :
the propo-3ed amendments of the Grain Act
as pubiished ln the press to-day, are simply
outrageous. They arm found id on false sîtatements o! unfair treatment of farmers, and on
abnormal conditions that existed last winter,
which conditions are unlkefiy ever to bc rePt4uted. The allegationis of certain western
members that elevator owners combine to
sYstematically rob farmers, was eicarly disproved before the royal commnission three years
ago, and would be disproved again at any Jusdicial lnvoetigition. It Is astonishing that parliament should accept witbout question the
wholesale charges that have been made against
elevator owiers, and pasos.d'hasty, injudicious
and un! air legisiation wlcbout glving :%,me
opportunity to the interests affect~d being beard.

di-nt to, nachinery or partial distribution o!
building. Resuit If amendnvmts become law will
be great damage to Invertanents ln elevators. See
Cox, Bowell, or any senator that will argue
the matter. and see fair-play to lnvested
capital.

Thtis la signed by the Winnipeg Elevntor
Company. From. these 'telegra I should
.indge that titis claes o! people W-ho deal ln
grain bave nut had un opportunIty of givIng«
their opinions. I know there is grent complaint of -the elevator 'men and aise of grain
buyers In the west What they ffly is, by
refusin.g te have etorage for the dIfierent
PMease use Your Influe~nce Io beecure stay v', grades o! wheat dn their elevators they are
proceedings until our delegation can be heardl. very otten compelled to put No. 1 -ybeat ln
witb No. 2 and 3, and thereby the fermners
(Slgned> THE NORTHEItN ELEVATOR CO.,
(Llmltted).
lose four or five cents a bushel on the grain.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

MAY 12, 1902
If there is any coniplaint of that kind, thal tlast year's, the railways wIli be In a
stiIE
affects the farmers to that extent, parlia. more congested condition than they
arement ought to etep ln and protect them~- I to-day, and that la one reason why
I thinIk
think thet la our duty-that they sbould Ievary man who knows any thing on the
allow no combine. If they can possibly avoid subjec; will favour the pollcy o! the goy'it, to exist, by which the Itarmers of the ernment ln giving to
the Canadian Pacifie
North-west: and -the utput of grain we bave Rallway Company the right to
borrow
from that country may be deprdved of thref, twenty million dollars
lni order to meet those
o-r even two cents per bushel. When one requirements. Before we
finally passa this
calculates the loss uf three or four cents a Bill, we shonld nnderatand exactly
what
bushel on grain where there are slxty to a *we are doing so as flot to Injure
either the
hundred million ibushels to be handled, it farmers, the elevator
men or the grain
is a very Important matter to those who are *buyera.
engaged ln the farmirrg Industry. I amrn ot
The motion waa agreed to, and the Bill
sufficiently <amfliar with the provisions of
the Bill or the working of the law to speak was read the second time.
as Intelligently as I ahould lUke. I arn mat
speaking on generai principles.
I have CITY 0F OTTAWA ACT ÂMENDMENT
read these telegrame for the Information of
BILL.
the Senate and for their consideration. before
SECOND READING.
we legislate tue bastily upon a subject of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readsnob vast Importance to the western conutry, -which ls deve]oping at the presenit ing o! Bil1 (164) 'An Act to amend the Act
moment ln auch a rapid degree as to moka of 1899, respacting the city of Ottawa.' lie
It almost Impossible for the rallway com- said : The object o! this Bill la to Increasa
panles to meet -the requirements of the the number forming the Ottawa Improv,far'mers to .lwlng ont their produce and put ment Commission, adding four members to
it on the market ln reasonable time. My' It,.wit!h the view of placing on the commisown opinion, from what I- bave read aud sion gentlemen who are outalde of, Ottawa,
seen, and the fauhffnding that has taken who might be Inducad to takre an Interest
place, considering the eioDt time the rail- In the Improvements. contamplated, under
ways have been In existence, la that tbey the Ottawa Improvement; Act.
have accomplished wondera. It d8 said they
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI--Makhave flot fadhlitiea enough to accommodate ing this the 'Washington
of the North.'
the traffic. That may be, but who anticiHon. Mr. CLEMOW-I approve of this Bi11,
pated ëtwo or three years ago, when thert'
was hardiy any output from that country, and 1 have great pleasure ln saying that the
that we would have from sixty to a hun- commissi on appoInted In the past have done
They have performed
dred million bushels of grain for ezport to remarkably weill
their work ln a vary%satisfactory manner,
the est.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRÂIN (De Lanaudière)- and If they continue ln the future as they
have done lI the past lni a very few years we
Sir Charles Tupper anticipated It.
shaR have a city worthy o! beiug known
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-The as the Washington o! the North. I would
hon, gentleman wants to go back to go further If I hadt my way, and would place
ancient hiatory instead of discussing mat- the entire work o! the lanproivement of this
tara as we have them to-day. I might ask city under the control o! this commission
that hon, gentleman what position would appointed by the Governor ln Council. It
those farmers be ln to-day, If they had to la more satisfactory ln avery way. It la true
depend on the water atretches ? I prefer that last year there was some hIttie difficuity
to drop ancient history, and to take thue caused by the daath of a gentleman they lufacts as we have them to-day. Ten 'or fif. tended to appoint, which gave the chairman
teen yeara ago, we could scarcely conteni- two votes. Thut caused some comment ln
plate the resuits which have fiowed fro20 the press, but it did not amount to anything.
the settiement of that country, and If this I bear testimony to the manner ln which
season should be as favourable a season as this commission have performed their.work.
32

SENATE

498

They bave done it well, and have been economical ln every way. I do flot believe that
they have spent one dollar in excess of the
amount requlred. for their purposes. Prlvate individuals were willlng to give themn
ail the land they required to make the
driveways. The commission had no cause
of compiaint ln that respect. Every man
who had land in the vicinity of the driveways gave thern freely what they required.
1 gave thern considerabie land myseif, knowlng that I would be benelited ln the end by
the improvement, but If they had to bny
this land and pay for It, It would have
arnounted to considerabie. The city have
flot saved anything by the expendIturerather the reverse-because ont of the $60,(00, the commission get $15,000 that the
government formerly paid the city for water
supply. However, that lB passed, and I hope
the goverfiment wi Increase the amount of
the appropriation for Improvements, and
make this city what it ought to be. I heartiiy approve of the increase ln the number
of commissioners.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I arn
haPPY to hear -the hon. senator from, Rideau
(Hon. Mr. Clemow) infornxiig us that the
commissioners have done their dnty with
gres.t aidvantage to the city of Ottawa. I
arn far firoin wishing to say anythlng
against his mensure. I approve of the
sippx-oprla±ion « f $60,000 for the city
pf Otta-wa. We of the other provinces
ougwt to have as our capital a city
whlch beiongs to ail the provInces. Lt
has been said that Ottawa Ought to be the
Washington of the North. I entirely agree
with that Idea, but It cau only be- done by
PuttIng it ln the same position as the Washington o.f the South-the more 8o as it was
the wish of Our great leader, Sir John Macdonald, who told me that he had forgotten
that one thing at confederation. He rnight
be pardoned for that, since he gave ns the
perfect constitution we have. I hope the
increase In the number of commissioners
will flot interfere with the improvements ln
Ottawa, and that the government, being
Liberal, wili be liberal enough to name persons not rnerely for their political opinions
but persons able and Interested Ia prornoting the Improvement of the city. I think
we ought to have a district of Ottawa like
the District of olumrbia. Otta-wa ought to
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW.

be Independent of aIl the provinces. This district shonld belong to the Dominion, and
when we corne here we shonld f eel at home.
1 hope it will be feit we should make Ottawa one of the fineat cities ln the world.
The motion was agreeid to, anid the Bill
was read the second Urne.
The Bill was then passed throughi Its final
stages, under a suspension of the rules.
GASPE & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY INCORPORATION BILL.
FIRST READING.

A message was received from the House
of Coenmons w4th Bil (102) ' An Act to
lneoxiporate -the Gasfpé and Western Railway
Company.'
The Bill was read the flrst tirne.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN moved the suspension of the OOth ruie so far as It reqates to
this Bill.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I object to the
suspension.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman cau'
give notice of that motion.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Thea I give notice
that I will to-rnorrow move the snspension
of ail miles affecting this Bill.
The Senate adjourned.

TME SENÂTE.
Ottawa, Tueaday, May 13, 1902.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eieveii
o'ciock, a.m.
Prayers and routine proceeding.
THIRD READINGS.

Bill (85) An Act respecting the South
Shore Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Belque.)
Bill (55) Ân Act respecting the Lake Erie
and Detroit River Raiiway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.)

BÏE (81) An Act to lncorporate the Canadian Northern Teiegraph Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Young.)
Bill (89) An Act.to Inicorporate the Canada Central Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Watson.)

Bill (98) An Act to incorporate the Mentreai Subway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)

MY 1902
13,

499

THEi STANDR[NG OeDERS COMMITTEE. operate ln more than one province, that
publication should. le had lni all the proREPORT ADOPTED).
vinces. -It seema to me the t1ie lias corne
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.L.), from the when we should continue te act on
the lines
Standing CommIttee on Standing Orders, that we adopted In the new Cotmpa.nies
Act
presented their 26th report He sald : It lias and meduce the iprocedure to a minimum.
been found that there has been a dlfferenCd Trhe safeguard that the pu~blication ln the
belaween the orders, of the House of Coin- Canada 1Gazette' gIves,ý la, te my mlmd,
mono and the orders of the Standing Com- ample. The newapapers no'w publilih the
mlttee of the Senate respeictlng BIl, and a Important notices that the Canada ' Gazette
'
sub-commlt;tee was appotnted by the Staud- contaîns, a.nd It seenis to me that If we
lng Ordera CoemIttee of the Sexiste to con- reduce the notification to thxe pubisbing
o!
suit wlth the monibers of the Standing the notice at the 'head office ce the com'pany
Orders Commttee of the Heuse of Gom- a.nd ln the Canada 'Gazette,'
that would be
mons respecting this difference ln the ruies suffient to ensure com.plete publJcity
as te notices required, and after consulta- throug-hout Canada.
We have now our
tion thls report was adopted. I move that dailles lu large centres ciziulating throughiit ibe received and read.
out the wboie Dominion publlshlng a sumThe report -was read at the Table.
mary of wbat afppeans ln the Canada
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The Comittee on * Gazette,' and It la a moet obnoxlous mule
Standing Orders had a conferezice with a te maintain, that wben an attorney bas te
sub-commlttee of the Standing Orders Cern- advertlse an application to tubs parlusmittee of the liouse of Couimons and; as a ment hO sbould Cet into communication
resuit of the conference, tbey bave agreed to witb people tbrougbout the whole Dominmodi!y tibeir ruies ln the (omimons se as to Ion. We wlil soon have three other proagree wlth the rules; heretofore exlatlng ln vinces In the weat, anci te ensure the pubithe t5enate. The change made to paragraph cation ln due tkue of thîs notice, one
a of ruie 49 la merely a change of wording, wou<d have te start a couple of montha lu
but It la exactiy to the purport of the rule as advanie to get ln communication wlth newsnow ln force. We have made changea In papers througliout tlie 'whole country. It
worda only. Fragraph, b, -was the sarne In seems to me that publication in *the Canada
botb lieuses, and therefore It remains the ' Gazette' la sufficient as our newspapers
saine. Paragraph c waa flot at ail the publili f.rom It It wMi be !ound aRt tiines
rule o! the (Jommons-that ln, the mile when we have only a few weeks at Dur disapplyIng to a cempany that ls to operate posai that te publiali the notice tbroughout
in more than oe province, district or tlie Dominion wll lie a hamdablp and
territory-and they have agreed to recoin- soimetImea an Irnposibllty. The Canada
mend the adoption of thia paragrapl o la 'Gazette' sliould be the oniy and proper
the Joammona so as to anake the mules medium tbrougb whlch we ehouid advertlse.
unifori nt both Houses, and the StandHon. Mr. YOUNG-I cannot endorse ail
Ing Oraera <Jemmittee recommendedl that that rny lion. frlend lias
just said wltli mefthe perlod of the publication ef the notices erence te notices for private
Bills. ,The
lie red-uced te one month. Hon, gentlemen tendency of corporations
comlng bore for
are aïware that It bas been. the ruie to have charters la net te
ask tor decreaaed powers ;
publication for two months. That mule lia. our experlence la
that they ask for pretty
exlsted for tblrty or forty yeas or more, but
nearly everything under the sun.
In the province of Quebec, and I amn qulte
sure in Ontazlo and the ether provinces, the Hon. Mr. CLElMOW-Especlally tbose
tinie lias been redeced to one rnonth, andGfreni the North-west.
leas, and your commlttee la of opinion
Hon. Mr. YOUNGý-Not: only ln the Norththat publication for one inontb woeuld answer west but ail over, and wben my hion. frlend
the purpose. If the report la to be adopted, suggesa that the Canada 'Gazette' would
It would require the suspensilon oit raie 16.
givo ample notice te districts affected by
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I must enter my private Bills, I sliould lîke te point ont that
protest aganut that part of the report whlcb posaily net one man ln ton tbousand sees
maintains the rule, wbenL a Bill la to tbe Canada 'Gazette.' We have bad called
32j

500

SENATE

to our attention tlils session already the fact
that through want of notice injustice niight
'have been done to certain interests In grantlng charters in the ame terltory. I am~
piesseid that this recoimendation bas been
raade, because we have the Standing Orders
Comittee to bear w1tness to thile etatenent
which has been frequently made. We bave
advemtlsed. a'ccording to the rulea o! the
Hlouse «ft Comnions, but when we corne to
the Senate, we find their rules are more
exacting. We ha-ve subseotlon C, wbich
exacts that notice shail be given iu every
province where the company loperates, and
they have not had that lu the House of!
Commons, and there han been a difference
between the two, and It bas been a case of
either auspendlng the mile, or throwing the
petItion ont. Wbat I want to point ont ls
that this recommendation has practicaliy
no effect. According to mule 16, no motion
shail be made for changing a mile, unles
the senators have been prevlously au-mmoned for considerlng the sanie. It lenda
up to this : we should have a amail conimittee nppolnted to revîse and modernize
our rules at the earliest possible date. We
cannot do it this session, it la too late ; but
we could do It lu the firat dnys o! next
session, and ail those matters could be
Whlle, as my
taken Into consideration.
hon. frlend points'out, It would not affect
the notice wblcb would have to be given
next year for private Bills, It would taire
effect the year after. That la the very beat
we can do. The recommendations, I bave
no doubt, are lu the mlght direction. Advertislng la the appropriate districts, one
month la aufficient, but so far from, flnding
the Information lu the Canada 'Gazette' la
concerned, very few people ever aee ItL
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The bon. gentleman
who opposes the report has the advantnge
o! living lu the clty of Montreal. But If he
were living lu an outslde province he wouid
not oppose this report. If the notices are
not publlshed lu the different provinces,
many Bills wlll pass unnotlced.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD) (P.E.I.)-There
Is this to be taken Into consideration also :
the bhon. senator from De Lorimier (Hon. Mr.
Dandurand), who objected to the publication
lu the vamious paipera lu the other provinces,
considered that the publication In the CanHon. Mr. YOUNG.

ada 'Gazette' * as sufficieut. 1 do flot agree
with that. There is no difficulty in pubIlshing In every province of the Dominion
by sending a notice to some promînent
paper for piibligeation. That leading paper
wilI have It published In every province
in the Dominion, and carry out the Intent
of the Act There Is thîs to be consldered
fabont Mha report : it la necessary that It
shonld be adopted, no far as It an be
adopted by the Senate at present, ln order that the practice may be uniforma durlng the coxnlng year. It does flot make
any material change In the present standing orders of the Senate, because, although
the language la sLitered, the purport is a)most
Mentioely the suime. The language bas to be
altered also In the House of Gommons mile
to coincide llterally witb the language
adopted here, which la much briefer and, I
tiink, more easily un3deratood, and neo subject to misinterpretation as the other standing miles were lhable to be. The only opechfic change made la In one mule, changing
the time for which the notices are to be
publiahed. fmom two mionths to one moiath.
I think, as It la necessary that notice should
be publiahed at once In the Canada Gazette,
that It would be mucb better to adopt that
rule so far as we can do It at present.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-We are not suggesting that the mules of the Senate be amended
othemwise thon by reduclng the time of
notice from two months to one month. The
other miles are the ame, so far as the
Senate rulea are concerned. 'We have Induced the committee o! the House of Gommons to adopt the ame mules as we have
had bere. The hon. gentleman from. De
Lorimier maya that the» mules should be
modern-ized and dispese wlt notices as
we are diapensing with notices for companies Incorporated under the Joint Stock
Companies Act. There la a great difference
between the two cases. Under the Joint
Stock Camrpanies Act, companies are Incorporated with no privilege except the privilege of doing business. as an Individuai
can do business. No exclusive prIviiege
ls given, and no power of expropriation or
any other exceptIonal advantage gmanted.
This ruie affects companies incorporated by
special charters. As has been pointed out
by the hon, gentleman from Killamney (Hon.
Mr. Young), the tendency la for those com-

MAY 13, 1902
panies te ask for excessive powers, and I
have ceme te the conclusion that it Is a
safe rule te follow that the notice be publshed ln the 'Gazette' and ln the leading
newspapers of the provinces ln which the
company proposes te do business.
Now, it has been suggested that we should
have walted until next year. We have beon
bearing that ln mmnd. It bas been suggested
that we.should revise all the rules of this
House next year, but that would put us over
two yoars. We have taken hold of this matter
now with a view of providing for the notices which wIll have te be given previeus
to next session, and that lu the only reason
why the Committee on Standing Orders have
deemed it advisable te bring this matter hofore the attention ef the House this session.
And, moreover, the rules remain as they
are as far as the Senate Is concerned, with
that exception, shortenlng the publication
of two months te eue month.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERV'ILLE - (In
French)-I would calI attention te rulo 16
whlch says :
No motton for m'aking any erder ef the Senate a standinsg order can ha adopt2d unlesa the
senaters ln attendance on the session sUal
bave heen prevleuuiy summoned te coualder
the sasse.
Se that this motion cannot be adepted.

501

The SPEAKER-Does the hon. gentleman
meve that this report be concurred in as
far as we can concur ln it ?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P.E.I.)-I move
that this report be concurred ln.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Dees
flot that Include the very point we have
been discussing, If we adopt the report ?
The SPEAKER-No, I do flot think so.
The motion would be that the report be
recelved.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If we
adopt the report we affirm the very suggestion that has been discussed. I weuid
suggest that the report be received and
laid on the Table.
Hlon. Mr. ELLIS-If the report la received
and laid on the Table, it dees flot cosse
Into force without a resolution.
The report was received and laid on the
Table.
ÂPPOINTMENT 0F HONORÂRY
COLONELS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY moved:
That an humble addrese be presented te RI-s
Excellency the Governor General; praylng that
Hia Exeslency wtU he graclousiy pleased to,
cause to ha laid before thls Rous. a statemient
showlng:1. The names of ail the persona 'who have
bien appolnted, or whe have benu recommended
for the position of hoeerary coïooa or houary liuitenant-colonela ln the volunteer force,
designating the reglanents to, whlch they are
or are to ho attached, and mentioning the date
of each nomilnation.
2. A atement ef the service of each ef the
persona no appointed or recominen<Ied.
3. The names of, aIl persona 'who have recemmended such nominations, together wlth ail
the correspondance exchanged on this suhject.
4. The namcs of the persona recommnended
who have not hean appointed, distinguishlng
persons whoss appolntnient han bien retuaid
from persoa whoee appeintinent han net yet
hein. dicideti upon, and givlng for each ef these
persons the cause ef the refusaI of or the deIay'lu hie appoin-tmon$.
The motion was agreed te.

The SPEAKER-The hon, gentleman le
perfectly right. .This report esses under
the provisions ef mile 17. However, there
la ne probability that we shall have prorogation bofore to-ssorrow atternoon, and If
any hon. member gives notice now for metien at the first session of the House tomorrow, rul 50 ean be altered. That lu
the only change that la really needed. Thse
report recommends that the rules wlth respect te notice continue to be the same «a
those of the Senate, but that the notices
provlded for ln the, Bill speclfied under mile
W0 reduced from two months te. one, and
ho
If some hon, gentleman gives iàotice of a
motion te amend that rule to-morrow It can
be done.
GÂSPE AND WESTERN RÂILWÂY COMHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I give notice that at
PÂNY BILL.
the first sitting of the Senate to-morrow I
RULE SUSPIINDED.
wiil move that mule 50 ef the Sonate be
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN moved:
amended by striking eut the words 'two
menths, and substituting -thorefor the
To suspend -the GOth and 7Oth rules, ln no far
words 'one month'1 and adopting the word- s they relate to Bill (102) entitled ' An Act
reepecting the Gaspé and Western Rallwiy
Ing ef the report.
Company.'

SENATE
SEN~TE

502

502

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wll call attention
to rule 13 which necessitates one intermediate day's notice ln wrlting of ail motions
>deemed special.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot regard this
as a speclal motion.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Ând a motion le deemed special when it luitiates a subject of discussion.

It seema to be the opinion of hou. gentlemen
here, however, that a change ought to be
made to conform to the clrcumstances of
the Bill limling the representation to one
member. I sm therefore ready to accept
the proposed change, and willi move that the
Bill be amended accordingiy.

The clause was so amended and adopted.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG, from the commlttee,
reported the Bill with amendments, which
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This ls a routine mo- weme concurmed In.
tion. Rule 17 le the one.
The Bill was then read the third time and
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The samce principle passsed.
la involved ln mile 17.
RFIMISSION 0F PENALTIES BILL.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The notice was
given.
IN COMMITTEE.
The SPEAKER-Rule 13 does flot apply
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN moved that the
to the motion. It le a routine motion. The House resolve lteelf into a Commlttee of the
unlform practice bas been to require oniy Whole on Bill (151) An Act respecting the
one day's notice, and the hon, gentleman Remission of Penalties.
from, Kingston bas given one day's notice
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-It seexns to -me that it
under rule 17.
le a very sweeping po>wer that bas been
gave the notice taken under ithis Bil, and although the hon.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-He
at thre last sittlng.
leader of the opposition submitted what
The SPEÂKER-Thie 1s a separate day. mlght lie a precedent wlth regard to the cusThe motion providlng for distinct sittinge toms laws, lt appears to me that the
reclted, that each sittlng should be held to persons affected by customs operaitions are
be a separate day, so, that the motion la ln a somewhat different position from the
quite In order.
generai public. There la a sort of trading
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It le a separate sit- arrangement, and the govemnment are aware
of the facts and circumstances, and the
ting, but there Is flot an Intermediate day.
measons why there should be forgIvenees ln
The motion was agreed to.
such a case, and 'while it le weli to allow
the govern-ment to have that power, It may
REPRESENTATION 0F YUKON TERRIbe a very grave question indeed, whether
TORY IN HOUSE 0F GOMMONS'
the whole power with regard to ail of the
BILL.
country should be given to the government
THIRD READING.
to remit penalties. In the firat place, why
The House again resolved Iteseif Into Com- do so *many laws provîde that a private
mlttee of the Whole on Bill (134) An Act person may sue for these penalties, and
mespecting thxe Representation of the Yukon thus compel parties to observe the law. I beTerrltory lni the House of Gommons.
long to a society, and no doubt many gentlemen belong to societles of difterent kinds,
(In the Commlttee.)
organlzed for the purpose of having particuHon. Mr. SCOTT-When the House rose lar iaws enforced; because no Individual cames
yesterday, It wlll be remembered clauses 22 to take upon hlmself the responsibility, and
and 23 were heid for the purpose of getting the individual has the power concurrently
some explanation as to why they were with the Attorney General to compel perdraiwn on the assumption that two persons sons who violate laws to answer ln court
.iight be elected -for the Yukon district. why they have done so. Under this Bill
,I asked the hon, gentleman who had charge the government will have the sweepinrg
of the Bill In the other House, and he sald, power to remit' every penaity-that ls, It wiiI
aithough attention had been drawn to It flot be worth the wh1le oi anylbody ln the
lie did not consider a change need be made. *Interest of morality, or ln bis own intereets,
Hon.

Mr. SULLIVAN.

MAY 13,1902

6

5103

503
*
MAY 13, 1902
ta go into court and compel a cornpany to
Hon. Mfr. CLEMOW-People will abject
say In court why they have violated the ta interifere in any way ta see the laws Of
law, or ompel observation of the law, the country enforced. I think it would be
because the government may remit the very dîsastrous ta the future welfare of
penality and the party praaecuting may be any country ta say that, after a man does
put ta the trouble for nothlng, and there perfarm the duty which he la antborized by
wiIl be no reason wha-tever why private Act of parl4ament ta do, the governiment maY
persans w-111 attempt ta enforce the law. say ta hlm : ' We will meet your case; you
The junior member of the gofvernmoelt bas may have lncurred a conalderable amount af
stated why the law should apply ta cases expenqiture ln prosecuting .the case, but still
ln British Columbia, and It miglit be welI you must lase it.' They have given power
ta pass the Bill so far as It apipiles ta ta IidMvduale ta enMorce the law, byut the
British Columbia, 'but I suggest ta the Hanse goverament can set it solde, and the proseIt la a very sweeping Bill ta pass wlth re- cutor may t>e *milcted the amouat of
gard ta the whole system of laws which costa lncurred ln dolng what he was
now exista as regards prIvate prosecutors.
entltled ta do under the law. Therefore
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The han. gentleman yau may as well abolish.- ail penalties, and
ls under the Impression that thîs power ta let everything go as It may, If you give this
remit penalties la Iimited ta breaches of the extraordlnary power to the goverament. It
customs law. He ls ln error there. Our la a very gaod political move. It ls na doubt
law which has been an the statute-baak Intended la that direction. They can tell one
far very .maay years, ls absalute ln ail man, 1Yon are a supporter of ours, and it
cases, and caiglt be supposed ta cover this la ail right,' but anotiier man, on the other
particular case, but It was thaught better side of politlcs, will be told, 1't'au must pay
ta have special legisiation. Clause 29 oif the yanr penalty ; this action bas been taken,
Audit Act was read yesterday by my hon. and you must -lose this money, and there
la an end of It' If It was necessary ta refriend from DeSalaberry..
mit any penalties, as far as the government
Han. Mr. CLEMOW-I entirely agree with la concerned, tbey may remit their portion,
the remarks .made by the- hon. gentleman but I do flot think It ls right ta Interfere
from St. John. If this Bill is passed, It
with the rlghlE of prîvate parties, who are
wlll be perfectly Impassible, or nnnecessary perfectiy justifted, under the law, ln proseany
In the future ta Impose penalties under
cuting a company. Therefore I do not think
Because the gaverameat
circumatances.
the Bill sbauld be passed. The prasecutor
the autharity ta remit any pennow have
In British Columbia should be protected.
a.lty. I have seen, myseli, la a omali way He bas enforced be law, and I' do flot
action af the governinent ln rýefuslng
the
behieve ln the gaverument lnterfering wlth
ta enfarce penalties. They pass a law and
law cases ln this manner. They aught ta
la any way for
say, we are nat responsible
enfare the law themaelrvee. It la their duty
enfarcing It My Idea ia the marnent the
do sa ; and I tbink they have been deregaverament pass an Âct with a penalty, It ta
lict la their duty ln nat daing It ln very
ls their bouaden duty ta see that penalty encases. Cases of hardshlp may arise,
farced; but according ta thls BIR the goy- .many
but that la nat thé fauît of the gavernment.
ernment can refuse to carry ont any prola passlng
vision made by Act of parhlament with It is the fauit of the legialature
:
the *Acta If It la wrong ta collect the
respect to the collection af penalties. In
not bave passed the
that correct ? What wIll be the eff ect lu penalties tbey should
law. Therefore, I thlInk the arguament af
the future ? No party will take upon himself the lnpleasant duty of suing for a the han. gentleman from St. John lo Justified,
and bis position sbauld be sustainedl by the
penalty.
Hanuse.
Hon. Mfr. TEMPLEMAN-This is a special
das.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Does the hon. gentle.
.Han. Mfr. OLEMOW-It applies ta every man thlak It would bu rlght, or moral, or
clasa.
proper, that ten million dollars should be
collectedl from tbe mlning railways and
Hon. Mfr. TEM-PLF>MAN-No.

504

SENATE

*tram ralways for the benefit of the speculators who entered the suits ?
Hon. Mr. CLEMO W-I have no opinion
about It. Why dld parliament pass the law
under whlch the suits are brought ? Hlad
the prosecutors the riglit under the law ot
the country to institute those ations ?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-It Io a question
whether they had.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL--I amn
told at once by three hon. gentlemen that
I am wrong. Let us rend the Bill. The
clause is ns follows
The preoeding sections of this Act iphail apply
to any penalty, flue or forfeiture under the
provisions of the Raflway Act for the reacovery
of whIch judgment bas heretofore been: obtainoed
or proceedings have beretofore been instituted.
but absil net be otherwise retro.spctive.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-The hon. genitleman is readIng from the Bill presented
ln the House of Commons, and not from the
Bill as passed by the House. The Bill says :
' Under the provisions of section 298 to 305>
.
of, the Act.'

Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-The government may
have been wrong ln passing the Act, but
after It Is on the ststute-ibook they have no
more control over it than I have. The Secretary of State knows of a case. which oc.
curred here, when the government gave In.
structions to carry out a law, but by some
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
underhand mensures the actions were stopped, though the mnan prosecuted had been makes my position much stronger. If it were
general ln character, I should certainly, as
violating the law for very many years.
far as my view of the matter is concerned,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The sawdust case ha.i bave been fully ln accord with the gentleno0 rellation at ail to this.
men who have spoken. Speaking ns a layHon. Mr. CLEMOW-The hon. gentleman man, I do not think the power Is gîven to, the
may laugh it to scorn. It may have been government by the Audit 'Act to go to the
the law ln the past, but it has neyer been extent stated by the Secretary of State.
carried out. I have neyer heard tîxat point
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It goes beyond the
mooted before, but the principal thing Is
Customs Act
this: is that man la British Columbia jusHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I extifled under the laws of the country ln doing what he bas done ? Thot Is the whole plalned the other day, when I referred to
question. If he is acting iegally, thcu he this Act, the Interpretation put upon It during the time that I had the honour of dealhas a right to do it.
-H1on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I must Ing with that section. WVe had to deal with
Confess that on the genera;l principle I am it very often In customa and Inland revenue
<tuliy ln accord wi>b the utterancoe of the matters, and being a member of the Treahon, gentleman from St. John. The shme sury Board for some thirteen or fourteen
thoughts ran through my mind when I first years, those cases airways came before us.
1 know the Minister of Justice ln the govread the Bifll. If you place a law upon the
erument of which I was a member gave It
statute4)ook, Lmposing penaît4les for the Infraction of certsin provisions of the law, tlhe Interpretatlon which I gave It yeaterand then If the government Is to step ln and* day, and while It snay be subject te a difrelieve ail the offenders of the penalties, ferent Interpretation-and 'I may also state
there Is very littie use ln -having n law upon that I took the same view as my hon. friend
did upon one occasion when the Minister of
'the statute-book. It would have just thxe
effect that the hon, gentleman pointed out. Justice corrected me-If you rend It closeIy
Then we must bear la mind ln this particu- you will find It confines the power of relar case, lt bas been presented as one rather mission to tells and duties which are to be
paid to the governrnent andi not to the
of an extraordinary character, and as the
Bill confines the power to remit only to, general penalties under ail Âcts, unless you
can Interpret the words 'for the public
these cases.
good' to Include everything. It rends as
Hon. Mr. POWER-No.
fohlows The Governor ln. Council, whenever lie deerns
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-No, It is a generai
It riglit and conducive to the publie good, may
law.
remIt any duty or toli payable to Her Majesty,
Hon. MT. SCOTT.

IMAY 13, 1902
lmposed and authorlzed. to be im.poeed by any
Act of the parliament of Cantada, or by any
ordinance of th.e legistature of the province of
Ontario, or of the provInce of Nova Scotia,
New Brunswicek, British Columbia or Prince
Edward Island, In force In Canada aud relatlng
to any matter withln the scope of the power
of parliament thereof, or airthorized to be lmposed by any such A.ct or ordinance for any
contravention of the laws relatiug ta the collection of the revenue or to the management of
public works.
A close Interpretation of that clause, or
perhaps a more exact Interpretation of It,
has been given applying It excluslvely to toila
which are payable to the government or to
duties whIch may have been collected, and
there la only one restriction In the whole
Act, and that la that If dutles have been
pald upon goods and these goods have been
burned or destroyed in any wlEy by wreck
or anytbing euse, you cannot under this law
remît the duties. That is the only restriction so far as dutles are concerned.
The- section proceeds :
Provlded always, that no dutias, customis, or
excise--1
Hon. gentlemen will see In almost every
sentence the law applies ta duties and excise and what are termed toila, whatever
that may include. The clause goes on:-- ald ta Rer Majesty on an>' goods shall be
p
renxitted, or refunded on account of much goode
having, after the paynsent of such duties, been
loot or deetroyed by lire or other unavoldable
accidern.
There are many reasons for that, and It
1s flot necessary to discusa It, and then the
procedure la that It must go bef are the
Treasur>' Board and they report It ta the
Council, setting forth the facts*whlch led
them to recommend the remîssion of the
duty or toli, which bas been paid, and It
must be sanctioned by the Governor lu
Council. W-hen 'l fIrat saw this Bill I outl
' The Audit Act covers it,' and I saw no
necessity ta Introduce IL If the Interpretation which the Secretar>' of State has
put upon that clause la correct, there la
-no necessity ta pass this Bill. That point
must rest with my hon. friend opposite
and the lawyers. HowevEl, I mereiy give
the Interpretation put upon the Act In the.
past, and I taire It for granted that this
B'Ii, having been lntroduced by the goyernment, emanating I suppose from the
Mlnister of justice, the Mame Interpretatlon
has been put upon that clause whIch I say
has been given In the past. I referred

505

the other day to the law of England. I do
flot desire to prolong the discussion, but
I ave the- Imperial Act before me, and I
will read the clause. This is an amendment to an Act 22 Vie., chap. 32. In that
case there was an «Act passed by the lInperlai parliament concerning the remission
of penalties. Âfter the preamble it reads as
foliowsIt shall be lawful for Her Maiesty. or In Ireland for the Lord Lieutenant or other chief off1cers or governors of Ireland, to remit In whole
or la part any suma of money which under any
Âct now In force, or hereafter to be passed,
mnay be lmposed as a penalty or forfeiture ora convicted offend-r, although such mouey may
be ln whole-or ln part payable to same party
other than the Crown, and to exteud the Royal
mercy to any person who may be in prison
for nonpayment of any uum of money so linposed. although the saule may In whole or In
part be payable to some party other than tbe
Crown.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-That ls greater
power than we are taking.

MACKENZIE
JHon. Siran Imperial Act, BOWELL-Ât a
38 and 39 Vic.,
later date
chap. 80, amended that law. I will read
the clause amending It :
Whereas doubte are entertained as to thle
power of the Crown ta remit penalties and forfeitures uner the said Act of the 2sit year of
the raton of Klng George HI1, chapter 49, by
rosa of its being contended that the power
of the Crown te remit such penalties and forfeitures dore not exfend ta -penalties and forfeitures recovered lu penal action, and it ls
expedient ta remove such doubte : be it therefore resolved. that it sahI te lawful for Her
Majesty to remit lu whole or Iu part any penalty', fine or forfeiture lmpoeed or recovered
for any offence under the raid A'ct, whetlier on
Indictment. information or .ummary conviction, or by action or any other process.
That Io ta make the Act of Geo. III. plain
and explicit, glving the (Jrown what we
would consider extraordinary powers under
the circumstanoes ; and Just such unhimited
power la given to the Governor lu Council,
lu connection wlth toles, excise and duties lu
our own Act. I bail also a copy of the
Act of the province of Ontario before me,
and an ordlnanoe of the North-west Territories, taklng the sarne powers. 1 merely
give. that Information and give thîs as a
reason why I support the Bill. It la not belng
conflned to the remnission of penalties Iu
these particular cases for Infraction of the
Railway Act which Imposes penalties upon
littie mlning railways, and littie tramways,
that are run for the purpose of carrying on
industries where the people, I suppose,

.

506

SEINATE

vision of the law to the special law of the
Rallway Act. So we are asked to-day to
pass a general law giving power to the
Governor Generai to remit in any case any
fine or foTfelture, and then, when the Governor Generai has that general power by
this Act, he may 4pply lt to a special case.
I t!hlnk we shouhi flot go as far as that. We
mlght remit those penalties by a speclal
Hon. Mir. ELLIS-I thlnk that ls clear.
clause, andl fot give by this Act the general
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That power to the Goveriior In Couneil.
la the interpretation I put upon It but I
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon, leader of
wlsh to be clear. At the same time, I may the opposition has given valuable Informabe permltted to say to the government that tion to the hon. members of this House ln
I thlnk It wouid be only just and fair to, ac- drawing attention to the Imperial Act as
cede to, the request made ln one of the It exisa and which makes It perfectly clear
telegrams that I read yesterday, that before that ln England the power, sought to be
any fines or penalties are remltted, the par- obtained under this Bill in virtue of the
ties lnterested should have an opportunity of first section, obtains. But the Bill as it la
belng beard and giving their reasons why Is contradlctory, so to speak.
The Bill
they made the complaints agalnst the rail- should elther be lett as a general measure
way companles. They may have had good with clauses one and two, leaving out the
reasons for It. Deaths may have occurred third clause, or be llmited to clause three.
and Injuries may have been Inflicted on But that wlll be a matter to be considered
parties whlch mlght not bave occurred If ln CummIttee of the Whdle. The suggestion
the companies had made their reports, and made by the hon, leader of the opposition
the government had called their attention shouM aliso be cons1dered, as to whether
to the lncomplete state o! their roads. If provisions should not be lnserted In the
the members of the government here would Bill, whether it le to be made general or
state lni the House that tbat request on speclal, whereby parties who have entered
behaîf of those who made the complaint suit should be allowed to be heard before
would be compled with, that they should the fine la remltted. I have only one word
have a full hearing, It might remove some to, add, to draw tbe attention of the bon.
of the objections to the Bil.members to the law I referred to yesterday,
section 78 of chap. 29 of the Revised Statutes
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I think there ls a
î-title more in the Bill 'than the hon, leader of Canadla. That section. of the Act la
Ilmlteld to ifines under the revenue kaw.
of the opposition bas Presented to us.
It ts flot a generai Act. The first portion of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Very the section ls general, but It applles only to,
likely.
dues and tolîs.
neyer took the trouble to read tbe Raiiway
Act whlch subjects them to penalties and
fines which are ruinous. As I understand
the reading of it-perhaps the Secretary of
State will correct me If I am wrong-lf a
party complalnlng under the law has lncurred. any expenses they sbould be refunded to hlm.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE -BOWELL-Ând
Hon. Mir. LÂNDRY-What là the Bill? It
le a general law enacting that the Governord excise.
General may at any time remit, ln whole or
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It does not deai wlth
ln part, any pecunlary penalty, fine or forpenalties. The portion deallng wlth penalfelture, &c. This first clause amends our
ties Is llmlted to the revenue law. Thereexistlng laws, and gives to the Governor ln
(Jouncil the extraordinary power of remit- fore, I take lt, tbat we have no general
law on our statute-book, suich as ls attlng any fines, whatsoever they may be.
Wben the law ln general has been amended tempted to be introduced by section one of
by thîs first clause, the third one states that the Bill.
this general law wIUl apply to one particular
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Âdverting to -tbe recase :'the precedlng sections of this Act, marks made by the hon, leader of the oppo*sys the third clause, shahl apply to any sition ln reference to the. course whIch la
penalty under section 298 to 305 o! the Rail- usually taken and would be taken ln tbls
way Act.' That ls applying the general pro- particular case, be bas himself had some
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAY 13, 1902
experience of the practice on the Treasury
Board, and I think lie muet concede that
the Treasury Board is a body thut proceeds wlth care and caution. Matters are
held over for months and montlis, In order
to' get the fullest vlews of ail parties
affectaed by them, andl I con give every assurance that before any action would lie
taken, the parties would have ample opportunIty of stating any reasons they mlghit
have why thls action sbould. or sliouid
not 'be invoked, and In any case, under the
second section of the Act, It Is quite clear
the côsts the parties have been put to have
to be pald 'hefore the penalties can lie remitted. I should like to cali the attention .of
hon, gentlemen to the class of offences that
the companies have comxnItted. Here la
one of tbem:

accept that, or we would be willing to make
It apply ta British Columbia only.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I think
this aindment wIll maire It more severe.
I intend ta discuss the Bill at the third
reading more f ully, but the point now is,
shail we leave ta the Governor ln Council
the right ta dispose of the moneys belongIng ta, a thîrd party.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
not beiong ta anybody.

(B.C.)-It does

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It lias
been decided by some court that It. does belong ta them.

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-In order ta remove any doubt as ta tlie application of
this Act, we miglit accept this arndment
Every cornpany shall weekly prepare a re- suggested by the Speaker, which makes it
turn of Its traftte for the next preoeIng ueveji apply only ta penalties or forfeitures hitherdays according ta Its sehedule, &e.
te inourred and nothing hereafter.
We -know that tramways daing business
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-In the third Une of
over the country do not inake these returns.
the first clause, strike out the words 'irnHon. Mr. DeBOUCHER VILLE - Then, posed by any Act of the parliarnent of
Canada,' and substitute 1therefore impoeed.'
they could net recenrnend.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The first clause of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, they could be Condemned. This BM~1Is la rnlted to breaohes the Bill as drawn lu general, and Is intended
of certain sections of the Rallway Act ta apply ta the future as well as itor the
The proceiding seotioas of this Act dhe.h¶ past. It lias been suggested by the hon.
apply to any penaLty, fine or forfe1ture Speaker that It sliould be Uimited ta the
unider sections 298 ta 305 of the RaIway past. For my Part, I have no objection,
Act. That Is the intention. The gentle- thougli I arn of the opinion that the law as
man who drew tlie clause liad that ln view. It existe ln England lu a good law, and I
would be disposedl ta support a Iaw whIch
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCH3ERVILL-If the would obtan, flot only for the past, but
hon. gentleman reads section 305 of the also for the future. Hawever, I arn ready,
Railway Act lie will see that the Company ta acquiesce in the suggestion of the hon.
cannot be conrd«mosed, because those things Speaker, but lt will be necessary ta leave
cannot be brought into court.
out clause 3.
The House resolved itself Into a Commitn on. Mr. CLEMOW-How would the law
tee of the Wliole on the BIil
1be afterwards ?
(In the Committee.)
On the first clause,

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It would have no
effect, except for the penalties which had
been Incurred befare this date.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I wisli ta make a sugHon. Mr. SCOTT-The Intention of the
gestion, ta Insert In Une five, aifter the word
'Canada,' the worde 'and heretofore In- Act, was ta give the governsnent general
curred.' That -will apply ta ali pai5t cases, powers and the proposaI snihmItted ta the
and may prevent this clause from having House of Commons was altered here.
any general future operatlons.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVI LLE-I wish ta
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-There Is no ob- move an amendment I want ta Ilmit it ta
jection ta that. We are quite wIlling ta fines payable ta His Majesty.

508

SENATE

Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-The House
miglit as well defeat the measure at once.
This Bill bas been Introduced specifically
ta apply to certain cases, and If yon only
remit the fines payable ta His Majesty and
do net remit that moety payable to the
Informer, every one of those small rallways
ln British Columbia would lie bankrupt. I
hold ln my hand a statement of dlaim for
'$365,000 lu respect of a tramway company.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I understood the hon. gentleman to say the companies woutd lie ruined If thls aîmeadment
carrled?
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-Yes.

retroactive. It applies only to the future,
whule this Bil which ls before us Is to lie
retroactive. Nobody can say it ls flot retroactive. The British larw la nlot retroactive. It says It Is for the future. It does
nlot enact anything for the past. Therefore, I arn sorry to differ from *my hon.
leader.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN-This BUi is rettoactive. It would be no use otherwlse.

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-In lits
opinion It would be better for the companies
lie Intends to favour, but I do flot think
this Senate ls ln faveur of retroactive legislation. In certain states of the neighbouring
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-What country they have laws prohibiting retropenalties can the Informers get trom the active legisiation.
company ? Not more than fIve dollars a
Hon. Mr. POWER-In thfler constitution.
day, because there are other penalties where
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCJHIERVILLE-You have
the Informer lias nothing for himself and
the whole penalty belongs to the goverfi- no such law ln England. And why ? Bement, but hie can get haîf of ten dollars a cause they thought It was so unjust to have
day. Supposing this Informer should wait a retroactive law -that they 'would not pass
many days before brlnglng bis action, lie 1s it. But that Io wbat we are asked to do In
limited te two years. Ahl those penalties this case. I amn very sorry that these railways did nlot act according to law, and tbat
must be collected Inaide of two years.
Hon. Mr. TEMNPLIDMAN-I will read a they have Incurred a certain penalty. But
statement of dlaim I have ln rny baud. The I do nlot think the Informer can get more
hon, gentleman seems to think the dlaim than ten dollars a day. It is true the govwould be a smaîl one. This is a document erriment can get fifty. I have no objection
prepared by a solicitor. The dlaim lias been te give the government the right to remit
tbose penalties, but belng opposed to retroamplified, and It reads as follows :
active legislation. I ask that my amendment
Under section 299 of the said Rallway Act,
be adopted.
$20.510.
IUndel. section 300, $500,000.
Hon. Sir .MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
Under sections 303 az;d 304, $544,000.
la no difference of opinion between my bon.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-Show me friend and myself. I dld nlot say -the Enuthe clause provldlng that lie shahl get is 11mb laws were retroactive. I merely quoted
share of ItL
the English laws and the Ontario Act aud
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-He can get one- the North-west Territories Act to show that
the principle of giving the government power
haîf of the fine.
to remit penalties and toelas was ln existence
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-In tliat
and had been recognized, and I said at the
case lie does not get one-half. I think there
time that the reason I supported the Bill
Is only one case In whidh lie can get hait
was that I lhought It was a great bardship
of ten dollars a day.
on these parties who had been complained
Hon. Mfr. CLEMOW--That is ail.
of.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLEý-The hon.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The object of the
senator from St. John put before this Sen- government Is nlot to have a general iaw,
ate very good reasons which, however, ýmigbt but to cover special
cases to which a proper
have been a little shaken by the imperial remedy should be applied,
and as a necessity
law cited by the bon. leader of the opposi- that remedy ahould be retroactive.
The law
tion. But the law hie cited is accordlng mhould be retroactive, but it Is
quite proto British fair-play and bonesty. ilt ls not per to confine it te those special cases.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE.

MAY 18, 1902
and It mlght meet wlth general approval If
we substituted ln the third line of the first
section the followlng :
«Lnder the provisions of sections 298 to 305 of
the Rsiway Act
HEon. Mr. POWER-I -wlthdraw my amendment ln favour o! that one.
The CHAIRMAN-There la an amend-'
ment before the commIttee proposed by the
hon. gentleman from Montarville. He does
not -want this clause to npply to fines that
I
could be collected by private parties.
should suggest that we *first vote on bis
amendment
Hon. Mr. POWER-I firat movefi an
amendment on the eubject whlch ta dealt
with by the hon, gentleman behind me, and
bis amendrnent belng an amendment to
mine, should be dealt wlth firat. The amendment o! .the hon, gentleman from Montarville la on a diff erent point.

law the Inspector haa a right, un-der certain
conditions, to erase marks where they have
been falsely placed on a package, and our
aniedment was thought to confi.ict wlth
that. The object la, whule every one else
may be punIshed for removlng a mark, the
inspeertor la juisttffed ln removlng a mark
If lie finds It bas been falasely placed on a
package. I niove that the coneequential
amnendment of the House of Commons to
this Bill be accepted.
The motion wap agreed to.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (152) An Act further te amend the
provisions of cbap. 183 of the Révised
Statutes wlth respect to the Halifax lndustrial Sehool and St. Patrick's Home at
Hallfax.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
The Senate adjourned.

.Second Sitting.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I hope the hon, gentleman from Montarville will wlthdraw bis
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
amendment. He la labouring under the Impression that only ten dollars could lie col- o'clock.
lected. There are penalties 'which mlght
RUSSO-GREEK CATROLIO CHURCH
amount to $100 a day.
INCORPORATION BILL.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Cite one
REPORTED FR01! COMMITTEE.
of them.
Hon. *Mr. BEIQUE--SectIon 304 of the
Hon. Mr. M ACDONÂLD (P.E.I.), from the
Railway Act
Commlttee ýon Sta.nding Orders and Private
their 24th report, reportlng
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Where Billh, presented
favourabyly on the petition. o! the Rev.
does the Informer get any part of that ?
Tlkhon, of the clty o! Saii Francisco, Blshop
Horn Mr. DANDURÂND, from the com- of the. Orthodox Russo-Greek Catholle
mlttee, reported that they hail made smre Churchl for North merica and the Aleutian
progresa with the BuI and asked leave to Islands, piraylng to lie 'Incorporated as a
ait again at the next session of the House. Blsbop of the Orthodox Ruso-Qreek Catholie Church as a corporation sole. He moved
FRUIT MARKS ACT AMENDMENT
the adoption et the report.
BILL.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I do lot rIse to say
COMMONS ÂMENDMENT CONCURRED IN. anythlng against this report In so far as It
goes, but there la a point of order whlch. 1
A message was rece.lved froan the House should like to raise. The petition whlch liq
«'An Act to reported here by this report la from a
o! Commons wlth Bill (13
amend the Fruit Marks Act 1901,' stating gentleman who le9 allen and 'who does flot
an
that tbey hail agreed to the arndment o! reside wlthln the limite, of the British posthe Senate, wlth a -consequential amend- sessions. I contend that this petition should
ment.
neot have been recelved, because It cornes
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We made a penalty from an allen. and non-resident, and I have
attachlng to any person -who removed. some precedenta to support this contention.
marks. That applled to everybody, lncluding Ia. 1877, Mr. Speaker AnglIn declded most
the Inspector. It appears that under the posltlvely that aucli petitions could flot be

510

SENATE

reiceived. on the ground that allens flot resident ln this country had no right te petition
this parliament, and this House could flot
receive any petition from such person.
There la another decision, w.hlch was
rendered ln 1880. Mr. Blanchet was then
Speaker ef the Houme of Comnrons. Hia
decision was on exactly the same ground,
that the petItIon then presented could flot
be received on the groiind that aliens flot
resident ln this country had no rlght toi
petitioxi this parliament, 4nd thxe House
couid not receive any petition from sucd
persons. The points 1 want to raise are
these; whether this House should. have received, this petItion, and whether the Comrnittee on Standing Orders ehould. net have
taken cognizance of the fact that the petitioner la not a British subjeet nor a resident
ln this country and reported against it. I
fimply cail the attention of the House, and of
Mr. Speaker on this point of erder. There la
no mention of this point ln the report from
the committee, although It was raised durlug
the sitting of the com>mittee. I su.bmit the
point of order and ask for the ruling or His
Hlonour the Speaker.

rate Interest, when it was under the purview
et thre leuse. The lieuse, ln the motter of
private Bills, cleariy act ln a judicial as weIl as
legisiative capacity, and ail persons lnterested
should be a'lqewed te appear there as in any
court and seek a remedy.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I arn surprised to
hear that There oeems te be a mistake, because the Journals of the House show that
the decision o! Speaker AnglIn la contrary
"to what Bourinot says. I would suggest, as
this la a very Important matter, whlch may
establish a precedent, that It might perhaps
be well net te press the report at present,
so as te give the Speaker an opportunlty
o! considering the point I raised.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If I caught my hon.
trlend cerrectiy, he iras referring te sornethlng which occurred In 1877. 1 arn referring hlm te Beurinet, and te irbat iras
agreed te ln 1878 at the suggestion of
Speaker Anglin.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Speaker
time iras after 1878.

Blanchet's

Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I- have quoted aIse
a decîsion o! Speaker Blanchet, which la
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If I understand my subsequent te that cited by Bourinot. The
hion. friends point of order, it la that an decision 1 refer te iras given ln 1880 ;
alleu who is a non-resident cannot petition and It coîncides wlth Mr. Speaker Angiin's
parliament. I wlll read from Bour.lnot's decision.
Parliamentary Procedure, page 320 :
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Was It a public or a
AlJens not reaident in this country have
etriatly no right to petition parliament. In the private Bill ?
case of applications for private Bisl, however,
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Â prIvate Bill.
this rule le net enforced.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There la a distinction
This.le a private BIIL
mnade betireen the tire. It strikes me thîs
It wus agreed in 1878, at the suggestion of
Mr. Speaker Anglin, te receive a petition from petItion iras recelved some tîme age.
thte Hartford directors of the Connecticut
Mutual Insurance Oompany, on the ground that
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-That la qulte true.
it vras a mutual company, Partly comvpoeed of There la
a question here whlch I submlt te
Canadians, and that àt was 'the subject of parliam'entary legisiation, the company being re- His Honour the Speaker. Hon, gentlemen
quired te make a certain depouit before doing know how it lo done. Petitions are most of
business hn the ceuntry. In 1883, a petition
from certain persons ln- the city of Portiand, in' the time read simply by a reference te the
the state et Maine, asking for an Act of jin- titie. Nobody*pays attention te that formalcorporation, was received on the ground that
the subject-matter came within the juriedictton ty. It may be wrong, but It lo se. In tact,
of the Rouge.
we de net nnderstand what they are, and
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Is there they are recelved ln that way without memany cast-iron rule to prevent an allen froin bers iooklng at them as clesely as they
uhouid. I submit the question as te whether
petitioning ?
the Committee on Standing Orders should
v,.
.
flr
o-'.n. Mri. ÂJu.L-ij-.Lïo. In a feet-note on net have taken cegnizance of the objection I
page 321, Bourinot says :
noir raise and reported upon It.
Mr. Speaker Kirkpatrick privabely expressed
the opinion that &liens had a right te approach
'Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It strikes me that
Parliament on a question touching their pri- hon. friend's objection wouid have corne my
ln
Hon. Mr. BERNIER.

MAY 13, 1902

511

very properly at the time the petîtion was to me that the Committee on Standing Orders ougbt li this report to inforrn the
presented.
House that exception ought to, be made Iu
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-No doubt It would
this case for certain reasons. That has flot
but I submit that I
have been better then,
been done li the report.
have stili the right of raislng that point.
Hon. Mr. MACDONAÂLD (B.C.)-Itwas not
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I thlnk we have got
1our function to do so.
past that stage.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I arn arBon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The Comngung that it is the functlon of that commitmlttee on Standing Orders could flot; have
are the ruies, and what ls
taken cognizance of the legal aspect of ItL tee té know what
the law, but at the same tîme to tell the
They could sirnply say If the petition was
Heuse thaît there ought to be an exceptionl,
lu accordance with the rules.
and -that the exception can be made, beBon. Mr. YOUNG-The Bouse received it, cause nue'h exceptions have been mnade lu
or It could not have corne before the Stand- other cases. But we have had nothing from
ing Orders Committee.
the committee sbowiug how we ought to get
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (PEB.I.)-The out of the law.
point was neyer brought.up lu the Bouse
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It ls flot; the strict
wbetber the petitioner was an allen or not.
law.
Bon. Mr. BEIQUE-Was It wlthln the proBon. Mr. DeBOUCBERVILLE-Tbere are
vince of the Standing Orders Commlttee to
but the commlttee do not say
Inqume Into that question ? As the hon. exceptions,
why there should be an exception In this
member from Manitoba bas stated, it la flot
generally noticed, when a petitien la present- Case
ed, what Its objeet la, and It la difficuit then
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The hon. gentleman la
to raise the objection, and he bas requested speaking uow of the reception of the petithe hon. Speaker to take the matter under tlon.
advlsement I would draw the attention of
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-No, of the
Bis Honour the Speaker to the Naturaliza- report of the commlttee.
tdon Âet. I have flot the Act bef ore me, but
Bon. Mr. YOUNG-That petition was meI know that It prohits allens freux holding
any franchises under our parlarnent. Then ceived by the Bouse. It only emphasizes
the question will come up as to whether this the fact that hadl ouri Speaker the power,
Bill would be the grauting of a franchise to and If It was his duty to cail the attention
au allen, or whether it la memely Incompomt- of the Bouse to these things the moment thle
lng parishes and missionswhich are on unr- petItion was presented, the argument which
tlsh terrltory, for the pumpose of holding bas occurred *to-day would have been, lu
property and carrylng ou business. I more- rny humble opinion, unflecessary.
]y want to draw attention te that point
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-But every member
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Do I understand my> bas that power.
hon. friend to say that an allen cannot hold
Bon. Mm. YOUNG-Yes, but nobody did It.
property lu this country ?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Nobody knew what
Bon. Mr. BEIQUE-Bo cannot hold a
petition was.
franchise. This is a franchise. Beiug or- the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-What ls everybody's
ganlzed as a compauy la holding a franbusiness is nobody'a business.
chise.
Bon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Tho mule
la, that no allen can by himselt petition, but
In cases of pnivate Bills5, it bas been allowod,
an'd Milons bave been permitted te do so.
These are exceptions, and I understand there
are cases, in wblch It would not be faim not
te allow foreigners te petItion; but It seems

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe point can
be raised at any stage ef the Bill, because
we rnay not be aware, at the time the petition is presented, that the party la un allen,
and that may appîar later. I have not hadl
time, or occasion, to study the question,
except té ascertain that the practîce bas

SENATE
been regular ln Great Britain to refuse t o Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There was
a disaliens the rlght to petition. I would drav rpute ln ±be House of Gommons about ItL
the attention of the Speaker to a case wher e Hon.
Mr. WATSON-Yes, and the name
a petition was presented from the people o
was cbanged. The Bill was obstructed at
Boulogne-sur-Mer. There was a long debati
lu the House, and the petition was refused every move.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Wbat was the change ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Our practice bere hau
been to recelve those petitions under similai r Hon. Mr. WATSON-One change was
made In the tltle of the Bill. It was known
circumstances.
as the Greek Catholic Churcb, as IntroThe SPEAKER-I have flot had any notiet duced firet, and there was some change
that this question was coming up for cons!- made ln the title.
deration, and I ar n ot fortified. with the
Hon. Sir MA&CKENZIE BOWELL-The
authorities on the eubject. It appears there
principal objection was to the use of tbe
are authorities on both sides of the question,
word 1Catholic.'
and I should like to have tIme to considler
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, tbe objection
the point raised.
was to the use of the Word ' Catbolic.'
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Thi-s Bill bas not reHon. Mr. SCOTT--Could they not obtaln
ceived a reading yet
a charter to bold property froni the legislaHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It ls an ture of the North-west Territories ?
Important question to be decided.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Of course, but maltHon. Mr. WATSON-The object of the lng It a provincial matter, It would be necBill Is to Incorporate a bishop who repre- essary to get legîslation lu every province.
sents the Greek Catholic Cburch. He la I understand that one provision was lnthe bead of tbe Greek Churcb, and while serted, ln tbe Bill ln the House of Cernthe bishop le an allen, he la travelling ail mions on account of the bishop belng an
over North America, wberever bis people al-leu, tbsut the Russian Consul, situated ln
are settied, and ls trylng to get the religions Montreal, would ha"ve to endorse any transbody In shsape tirougbourt tbe country. They fer of property be mlght see fit to maire.
wish to bold property ln the Saskatcbewan That was looked upon as protection for the
country, about Edmonton, I belleve, it ls Galicians with re!erenice to transfers of
wanted, and they want to bold It legally property.
under an A&ct of Incorporation. Hon, genThe report was allowed te stand.
tlemen quite understand that If tbey estab115h churches tbe property wll bave to be
REMISSION 0F PENALTIES BILL.
vested In two or three trustees. These trusIN COMMITTEE.
tees bave no legal authorlty to bold property for the church, and It wIll be their
The HEouse resumed ln Comrnîttee o! theowna property, and tbey can do with it as Whoffe, conslderation of DMf (151) «An Act
tbey please. Whiat tbeY wlsh la to bave the respecting the remîndlon of penalties.'
same powers as otber denominations ln
(In the Oommlttee.)
Canada. I think tbe* authority quoted by
the bon, gentleman froni Klllarney froni
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--Wben'the comrnlttee
Bourinot shows clearly tbat a forelguer lias rose, the bon. meurber from Montarvihle
been alloweid to petition before ln the case (Hon. Mr. DeBouchervîlle) asked ln vîrtue
of what Act a prîvate prosecutor would be
of prIvate Buis.
entltled to recelve any part ef the penalty
Hon. Mir. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Has the under sections 298 to 305 of Vhe Rallway
Bill come Up froni the House of Gommons ? Act ? I would refer hlm to chap. 180 of the
Revised Statutes, whîch says ln the first
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
section that In the absence of any special
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD* (B.C.)-There is provision one rnoîety of the penalty, shahl
belong to the Cro-wn and the other to thenothlng to prevent the Bill being read.
private prosecutor. That proves that the,
lion. Mr. DÂNDURAND.

MAY 13, 1902

5VI.

Hlon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That is no reason at
penalty under the Railway Actwul
ail. The first clause gives the government
belong, one-half of It, to the private Proseof the day a generai po-wer ta remit ail
cutor.
penalties, ln whole or lnx part, lm-posed under
The amendment ol Senator DeBoucher- any Act The hion. minister said that they
were coming here simply ta get power ta
ville was declared lost on a division.
remit penalties incurred under the sections
On the lst clause,
o! the Railway Act mentloned. I suppose
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I move an amend- we are ready ta comply with that demand,
ment to confine tht. provision ta penalties and tixat the Intention of the governmentInvurred hereafter under the Raiiway Âct and clause 3 says it la the Intention of the
The eff ect of this will be tixat those penalties government-is ta remedy a special grlevincurred by people under the provisions of ance. I ask that the Bill be framed to
the Rallway Act wiil be remltted, but I do remedy that'special grievance, and I thereflot want the governimnxt to bave a general fore move that the words ' imposed by any
power ta remit penalties Incurred under any Act of the parliament af Canada ' be struck
ont, and the werlds 'theretofore Imposed by
A&ct of pariament.
the Rallway Act' be substituted. That will
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That would destroy the meet the speclal case.
Bill altogether.
Hon. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland)-I cerHon. Mr.WOOD (Westmoreland)-I under- talnly, for one, would not object ta a Bill
stood, when the House adjourned. that the being passed to meet the special cases ta
minister ln charge of the Bill was tryla: whieh the hon. minister refers, but I was
ta limit Its application ta the clase of cases very much lmpressedl by the argument of
hie had in view.
the hon. gentleman from St. John this
the feeling of the
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Yes, 1 thlnk I mornlng, and I understood
ta be that a
convey that Impression. In conversa- Hanse before we adjaurned
dld
general Act of this ktnd should not be
tion wlth the Mînister of Justice since, hie
my feéling, sand
explalned ta me that hie wanted the first passed. That i. certalnly
I would hIke ta Impress upon the minister
two clauses made af a general character.
be allowed ta stand
My partIcular personal Interest ln the mat- that a general Act might
over untîl next session. It appears ta me
ter had more reference ta the British Calumbia cases, which the third clause would the prînciple involved ls an Important ane.
last of the session.
cover more apecifically. The Minister of It ha. come up at the
ut. 1
Justice has explained ta me that hie wauts We have hadl no time ta consider
have given It but a few moments' cansiderthe clause ta pass as It stands, so I was
ation, and It'daes appear ta me that where
premature un making the statement.
we pas. legiuiatian Imposing penalties upon
Hon. 3fr. LÂNDRY-Dld hie explaîn. for campantes or upon IndIvIduaIs for certain
«what reasan ? We want a reason. If acts, and then give the gavernment a genhie bas a good reasan we wili yield.
eral power ta remit these penalties, we are
really placlng ln the hands of the gaverxHon. Mr. SCOTT-The reasans bave been
ment the administration of the criminai
again. The Orawn
given over and over
law, at least 50 far as the collection of
ln England. lnx Ontralo, ln the SNorth-west
penalties ls concerned. We know that govTerritorles, and the Crawn as a rule, before
ernments desire, or we are willlng ta admit
any actions are cammenced, can remit but
gavernments desire ta do right, but we
tbis was lu order ta remove any doubt about that
know tixat great many different Influences
It. The case ls unique. Over $20,000,000
brought to, bear upon government whîch.
are belng sued for by Infarmers, and it was are
are not braught ta bear an those who,
thought wlse ta maIre the law so eff ective
generally admister justice in thbe country,
that there woufbd be no question it wauld delIx
feat the abject the speculatars had un vlew. and it does appear ta me leglslatlng
What the MinIster of Justice feared was the wrong direction ta place upon our
that ta makze any change un a Bill so care- statute-Joaks legislation Imposlng fines for
certain acte, and then giving tixe goveruf ully framed would defeat Its abject.
33

SENATE
ment a general power to remit those
fines in their discretion. I certainly, for
one, do flot feel'like giving my support to
an A&ct embodylng a principle of that klnd
at the present, nor do I tbink nythlng bas
been showu to the House so far lu tbe
course of this debate wby legisiation of
this klnd is necessary.
The only cases
wblcb have been referred to, ani the only
cases whicb the mînister bas in bis mlnd
ln passing this legislation, are certain exceptional cases ln the province of British
Columbia . Tbose cases are,. as 1 understand them, exceptional ln their nature,
and I for one, would have no objection to
glvlng the government power to deal wltb
those cases and to remit tbe fine if tbey
feel so disposed, but 1 certaiuly do flot feel
like glving iny support to a general Bill
of this charucter at this stage of the sessfon.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-The bion.
gentleman knows tbat the goverumeut bave
ample power given by parliameut to remit
penalties of different kluds, and they have
not abused these powers. We must trust the
governmnent ln reference to many thiugsmlulng regulations and other matters-aud
'why flot lu tUs ? This is to rectlfy a gross
lnjury that wlll be doue to certain small
railways. In fact, tbey will be bunkrupt if
this Bill is carried.
Hon. '.%r. WOOD (Westmoreland)-I do
flot abject to that.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I do flot
see the -use or the harm of the gencral
powers lu thîs measure. The goverument
sbould bave ample power to remit these
penalties.
This power bas neyer been
abused, and I hope this House wlll flot
reject this Bill, because It is a very Important thing to those compaules ln British
Columbia.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
In bopes tbat the lion. gentleman wbo bas
this Bill lu charge would bave acted upon
bis own suggestion. I do not know that It
was a-positive promise, but it certainly left
an Impression ou the rninds of those wbo
listened to -hlm that bie would confine the
Blill for the present to the cases lu Brltisbi
Columbia. Wben I spoke before, I gave
evidence of the fact that this principle of
glving governuients large power waà recogalzed by the imperial parliament, by
Hou. Mr. WOOD (Westmoreland).

Ontario, and by the Nortb-west Territoires.
but I said then thut I tbought If the Bill
was to give as f ull power as was contalned
In the Acts wblcb I have quoted, I did flot
know that I sbould support ItL But I would
support it upon the ground that It applled,
as I supposed then, exclusively to these
cases lu Britisb Columbia. 1 ar n ot s0
strong as my bon. friend bere upon tbe
point of glving goveruments that power,
but if the govcrnmcnt 'would just accept
the suggestion of the bion. senator from
Westmoreland (Hon. Mr. Wood), I do flot
tbink, after mature consideration, thut next
session we would bave auy difficulty ln
acceptlng the principhe laid down lu this
Bill of giving tbe Dominion government
the samne powers that are exerclsed by
tbe iperial government, by the~ Ontario
goverument, and by the government of the
Nortb-west Territories. At. this late period
of the session they sbould be satlsfied to ac-'
compllsh the object tbey had lu view wbicb
led to the Introduction of thîs measure,
to relleve these unfortunate people lu BritIsb Columbia wbo are to be mulcted If the
law stands as It Is. That would be the best
tbing that the bion, gentleman could possibly do. I am atraid otberwise bie wll
lose the whole Bill.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If we leave out the
hast two lhues of the first clause of the
Blill, 'and wbetber or flot proceedings bave
been lnstItuted for the recovery thereof,'
It will be au exact copy of the Imperial Act
and of tbe Ontario Act, and bave no retroactive effect. I would suggest that tbe
clause be ameuded lu that way so that it
wIll be a copy of the Imperial Act. Then
wben we come to section 3, wbicb Is for the
purpose of deallng witb a special case, we
can dlscuss the question to wbat extent it
sbould be restricted. I move that tbe flrst
clause be amended, by striking out tbose
words whicb I have mentioned.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I bave* moved an
ameudment to, strike out the words 'by any
Act of the parliament of Canada'1 and substitute thc words 'by the RaiJlway Act.'
Tbe ameudment to the ameudment was
lost.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-I move that the hast
two Ulnes ef tbis clause be stricken out. That
wlU make this clause flot retroactive.

MIAY 13, 1902
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think that this
amendment la a desirabie one. In the first
place, it makes our legisiation harmonize
with the legisiation passed by the Imperiai
parliament and by the legisiature of Ontario,
and ln the next place it takes away the
retroactive character from the generai provision. These are two Important points. When
we corneto the thtli'd dkuse, the hon. gentiemxan for= De salaberry (Hon. Mr. Beique)
has an axnendment which will make that
clause operative as te the cases which have
arisen in British Columbia, and those are
.the only cases with which the comrnittee has
te deal. I may myseif personally exipres
the feeling that I shouid prefer the suggestion of the hon, leader of the opposition,
but I thInk this amendment is ciearly ln
the right direction.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Wiil the clause
as arnended meet the case ln point ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I prefer the clause as
*it stood. I have great objection to aitering
clauses prepared lni the Justice Department
wlth a vlew of relierving certain penalties.
We trust the 'goverument with a good deul
more power than that.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
effect of passing this clause as arnended
gives the am2e power to the governent to
Ideal with fines and penalties as ls given
to the Imperial parliament, te the government of Ontario, and te the North-west Terrîteries, and it aise goes further : It provides that the penalties, whatever they are,
may be rerltt;ed, notwithstanding the fact
that proceedlngs may have cemrnenced prier
te the Intervention of the government. What
the hon. gentleman movIng the resolutien lntends la te, give the ful power for ai future
op@rations of this klnd, but to prevent It
fruïm being considered a rertroactive iaw.
The enly cases in which they desire te make
it retroactive are the cases te, which the hon.
gentleman refers. They wiii have the power
under this law If the ameudment la carrled,
that the ôther parliaments have, and al
that they shouid have, without rnaking It
retroactive. I understand. the hon, gentleman who made the motion dees net object
te make the BIUl retroactive se far as British Columbia ls coneerned.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-No, and I may say
that I have prepared a clause, which la ae1331

ceptable te the Minister of Justice, te be
substituted fer the third clause. I mnove
that clause one be arnended by striking out
the tenth and eleventh Unes thereof.
The amendmrent was agreed te, and thc
clause as amended was adepted.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-I understood the gevernment would net accept any
amendment ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes, I ashed the hon.
gentleman from De Salaberry te meet the
Minleter of Justice te see If they could agree
on an amendment. which they did.
On clause 2,
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHE¶tVILLE-I thinl, It
la strange we shouid vote on a question of
whieh we have ne k.nowledge. He has toid
us that there were raiiways in British Celumbia which weuld be ruined If tbey hiad
te, pay these surna. We ought te know what
sort ef demands were made and what was
the judgment.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-There has
been ne JudgmentL.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The Minister without portfolio teld us that eue railway was indebted $1,500,000. Really I eaunet see how It can be. I have ieoked over
the law and 1 find ne case where an Informer can get such a sum, even If he had
had a judgment fer it It ls iimited te twe
years. Ten dellars a day for twe, years
would be about $7,000. Let us have something showing us that ln reality these railways are in danger et belng cendemned te
pay. We have ne Information and I'arn
net satisfied.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Supposlng It ls only one thousand dollars, why
sheuld that informer or blackrnailer get
five cents ?
1Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Because the law says
se.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There la an important
point «whlch tÈe Ho.uae has net considered.
Under the General Raiiway Act the tramr
meade were net obliged to make a return,
but an arnendirent was made te the law ln
1900 ln which we extended it te those railways that practicaily -were not passenger
railways. It was quite natural that those
cempanles pald no attention whatever te

SENATE
the railway leg-isiation here. They were ugt
acting as common carriers, and the tram
roads and the street railways neyer dreamed
that tbey would be brought under tbe
general la'w. Many years ha ve transplred
eince the RaiiLway Act was consollidatod, and
ln the Interim, recognizing that they were
not bound to make the return, when an Act
was .passed ln 1900 their attention was not
called to it, and they were first apprized of
it by the proeeedings that were taken by
parties wbo discovered that they had flot
made returns. The way these things arose
-was ln a petition sent forward to the Governor ln Council cafling attention to this
condition of things ln British Columbia and
asking for legisiation in order that they
mlght be relieved froui the past penalties
accruing from the failure to make those
returns.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there any judgment given ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot know.

are taking the opinion of the Secretary of
State, anl opinion 'which hie bas received
from other parties, but we have nothing of
a tangible nature before us to enable us to,
say that we have acted as prudent men. We
have nothing but the bald statement these
lion. gentlemen have been pleased to make.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMAN-Is the lion. gentleman referring to the British Columbia
cases ?

Hon. Mr. OLEM-%OW-No, I am not referring to anything particular.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMA.N-I thought not.
Hon. Mr. CLIDMOW-This Act is general.
If it referred sinply to British Columbia
we could take the opinion of the British
Columbia m2emlbers, but the Act is just as
applicable to the other provinces as to
British Columnbin. If Lt were merely confined to British Columbia we wonld know
what we were doing, but we know notbing
about it. Actions may be brought and penalties xnay be recovered in every province
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-No.
of the Dominion, and we know notbing
about it. I cannot tell whether the goverulHon. Mr. TEMPLRMÀAN-No.
ment wlll act fairly or ln a straiglitforwarl
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No penalty incurred ? inanner. Some hion, gentlemen believe tbey
Hon. Mr. SCOTTI-Suits ba*~e been com- wili, an-c other bon. gentlemen think thcey
wLll not. I arn one of those -who have no
menced.
confidence ln the present govern'ment nu(
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-If that Act was not
do not know what they will do.
In operation at the time the tramway coinThe clause was adopted.
panies were incorporated, they could not be
lia ble.
On clause 3,
Hon. Mr. BAKER-No.
Hon. Mr. BRIQUE-I anove that the folHon. Mr. SCOTT-They wDuld be liable lowlng be sdlbstituted for clause 38:
after the Act was passed.
The preceding aections of this Act shali also
Hon. Mr. CLDM3kOW-This Is legisiation of apply ta any penalty, fine or forfeiture heretofore Incurred undier the provisions of sections
the worst kind. I suppose the government 298 to 305 of the Rai'way Act, and wfreth-er or
*want some power to settie these matters. not proceedinge have hieretofo-re been Instituted
I understood the feeling was that It would or judgment obtalned for recovery thereof, but
tzhall not otherwise be retroactive.
be merely confined to matters under the
The amendment was agreed to, and the
Railway Act. Why net leave It under those
conditions, and then If you do that, there clause as amended was adopted.
ought to be a provision tbat the goverfiment
Hon.. Mr. DANDURAND, from, the coinshould be obliged to send te parliament mittee, reported the Bill with amendinents,
each year a statement showing the penalties which were concurred ln.
remitted, so that the country might know
Hon. Mr. 'TEMPLEMAN moved that rule
what was belng done. Really we are going 41 be suspended.
It blind. We have ne information with reHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-To-mnorspect to the condition of affairs.
The
amounts involved Inay be large, and It may row.
be snail1. The remission may be fair or
The SPEAKER-Objection is taken to
unfair. We kniow nothing about It. We that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 13, 1902
The third reading was ordered for to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I give notice that on
the third readlng of the Bill, I wiil move
that it be not read the third tirne, but that
it be referred back to a Committee of the
Whole, with Instructions to arnend the sarne
by striking ont the words, ' Irposed by any
Act of the ParlËment of Canada,' ln the first
clanse, and substituting the following:
'Heretofore lrnposed by the Railway Act';
and also, to arnend tbe third clause by substituting the word ' oniy' for the word 'also*'
MANITOBA GRAIN ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

corning up at this time, I would have askeld
that the governmenti sbouid have the grain
commîssioner bere to furnish information.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-The difficulty is
a per!ecthy plain and practIcal one. You
might as weil say that a man with an ehevator capable o! holding six thousand bushels
o! grain should take ail tbat le oifered to
hlm up te ten thonsand bushels. You sbouhd
insert Borne clause there, saying he should
be required to keep six grades o! grain so
far as he can practicaily do it. I would lusert the words, ' So far as practicable, keep
six bins.'

Hon. Mr. POWER-I appeal to the government ln this way. This is a measure which
deals with rnost Important Interests. It 15
THIRD READING.
in Cornmittee of the intended Iargeiy to get rid o! certain InconThe House resumed
last year.
Wboie consideration of Bill (162) 'An Act veniences which were experienced
Those Inconveniences may or rnay not be
Act 1900.'
fo amend the Manitoba Grain
experienced again. 'The Canadian Pacific
(In tbe Committee.)
Railway Comnpany have takea power to spend
a large'sum o! rneney lu Irnproving their
On clause 2, subsection 2,
carrying facliies. The crop next year rnay
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Whiie I have no objec- not be as heavy as the crop o! last season.
or country
tion to compel a country elevator
The difficulties wbich occurred last year
warehonse receiving ail the grades that are may not occur again. That le one point.
be seen that there
oifered, yet It can readily
Then, thisf measure bas been .prepared on Inmay arise a great deal o! difficuity lu en- formation corning from one aide only. The
there are si,
forcing this Act. Supposing
bon. gentleman frorn Klarney (Mr. Young)
standard grades, and be bas six bine, and bas told us tliat the rallway peophe and the
full, holding three
tbree of these bins are
ehevator people have flot been heard. frorndifferent grades, and he bas only room in
williugness to corne
going to receive that tbey expressed their
tbree otber bins, bow is he
here and be heard, but they were not beard.
the six grades ? He can receive tbem whexi- This le a measure which bair been prepared
ever he bas room. I arn not going to offer
burriediy during the present session by cerany -amendaient, but I sirnply point ont to
the House o!
it will be, nder tain gentlemen, members o!
the Honse how difficuit
Gommons, who tbought that tbey representcertain clrcnmstances, to enforce this law
ed the Intereste of the farmer. They bave
to the letter. *What farmers complain o! fa
doue the best they could. with the knowledge
this, and what this amendment is endeabut the Impression upon
ie, that elevators and grain at their disposai:;
vouring to remedy
rny mmnd ls that tbe condition of the farmer
buyers reeive frorn the farmer wheat, we
under tb.is Bill wllh be worse than It is under
wiil say, o! one grade, but tbere is an excuse
the present law; and the condition of the
that they have no room, and therefore they
-peo~ple wihi be undoubtedly worse ;
take It as one chais, and the farm- elevator
could only
and I thlnk we had better bear the evils
er, therefore, le wronged becanse there was we bave this year than fly to evîls we do
not roorn. But I muet confesa I cannot se not know sabout
The country wlill not
how this ls going to work ont practicaily,
suifer If iLis measure la allowed to stand
any tirne when
when occasion may arise at
over for another year ; and then the govan elevator man wihl flot have room for ail erament and parliament will be ln a posimake them pay any.
the grain. It will not
tiou to know mast what Is needed.
better price to tbe former. At the samE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume there are
to offer any objection tc
time I arn not going
i
the clause. Had I known that this Bill waE some clauses of the Bill which may net

SENATE
eývoke any opposition, and therefore I think
we had better proceed witb the measure, and
find out wbat the objections are to tbe
clauses as we approach them. It Is very
easy to accept the proposition miade by the
bon. senator from Montreal (Mr. Drummond), that as far as practicable tbey shail
be obligeil to keep these standards. , 0f
course If they bave only a limîteil capaclty,
they cannot be expected to do It.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It was agreed a mnoment ago that clause 2 was to stand.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, why shoulil we let
It stand ?
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-Because 1 fear
the words ' as far as practicable'1 will annul
tbe efficiency of the inw aitog-ether.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-No, I do not see
that. The clause as It stands mlght work
out entirely to the dIsailvantage of the
farmer. There migbt be bins capable of
holding some thousands of bushels of grain
of dIfferent kinds. There might be a preponderance of one particular class of grain
coming in at that particular season, andl
the bins whicb ought to hold a large portion
of the grain, *mlght be filled, andl It would
be Impossible when the elevator was full,
to go any further, andl it mi*ght operate to
exclude a large proportion of its capacity.
But If you put In the words ' as far as practicable,' of course It 1s not very definite,
but It seems to me It la the only reasonable
way of meeting the dIifficulty.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I entlrely agree with
the remarks of the bon. gentleman from
Montreal, that If the words ' as fur as practicable' are inserted, it wIll serve ail parties,
because the workIng out of this Act le left
almost entirely ln the bauds of the commisloner. He directs the wboie operation
of the A'ct. He le a very co-mpetent men.
Some yeare It wiii simply tie Up about four
bina ln an elevator or flat warebouse If this
Bill la passed without the amendmeut euggested. Very of ten our crop will oniy have
two grades 0f wbeat aitogether. This wili
provide for the retaining of six separate
bins for six separate grades, and l n vie.w
of the limlted capacity at the disposai of
the trade, It wouid be too bail to tie up
the capacity of the elevator, when it la required for other purposes. If the Bill le
Hou. Mr. SCOTT.

passed as suggested here, it will work well.
It bas been cIlmed 'by some people ln the
west that at points, in the Territories particularly, the elevators clalmed they had
no capacity for No. 1 wheat and took ln the
wheat as No. 1 Northern. I do flot thinir
that condition of thIngs prevails to any extent It was simply In the Imagination of
people who wanted to fInd fanit with the
operation of the elevators. The expianation
miade bere yes'terday by the bon. gentleman
from Klllarney (Hon. Mr. Young), I tbink
will go a great way to show why many
people ln the west were dissatisfied with the
discrepancy between the price pald by the
elevator men for wheat wben stored and
wheat on the track. In fact, the matter was
referred to ln the North-west legisiature, lu
the address. 1 might refer to what was
said. ln the Speech from the Throne, deiivered March 20, this year, on the block-ade.
It went on to say :
Tfre unprecedented crop of last season, brought
the transportation q~uestion Into, prom-inence
and demonstrated the neces"ity for improved'
and enlarg.*d accommodation for shipping and
carrying grain to eastern points a!ter the close
of lake navigation. Owlng to tihe repree-ntatione made to the Cenadian Pacific authorities
by =ny goverument, through the Depart-ioent of
Agriculture, thse evtIlE of the grain blookade exIrting a few weeks ago have been, cansiderably
nitigated by shipmaents to Duluth via North
Portai. As a resuit the farmers are now ln
receipt o! an Increase in- price amounting to at
least ten per cent over pri.,s formerly obtained.
Now, that'goes to show It was flot the
grain combine-lt was a tact that as soon
as they were relieved 'by shipping grain out
of the congested districts, they got the adlvancedl prIces. The great trouble last year
was the exceptlonally heavy crop, and liack
of facilities to carry the grain to market.
As explaineil by the bon, gentleman from
Klllarney yesterday, grain on track was
worth from 6 to 8 cents a bushel more than
It was ln the elevator, and If the farmer
came along and wanted to sel bis wheat,
and the elevator man bail to taire It Into hie
elevator he would offer 6 or 8 cents less than
the prIce of wheat on the track, because the
wheat on the track would probably be loaied In a vessel at Fort William or Duluth, ns
the case might be, last fail. The buyer bail
to speculate on the price of wheat, for
holding It six months andl storing It. 1 bave
suggested to the Canailian Pacifie Railway
and other rallway corporations a solution

MAY 13, 1902
of the difficulty iu banding our immense
crops lu the west ; the grain will have to be
bandled In some diff erent way. To my mind,
instead of the rallway companies building
large receiving places at Fort William and
Port Arthur, they will require to have large
warehouses lu the interior wbere they can
deal directly wlth the farmer, because the
furmer wishes *to dispose of bis grain as
sooTI as it is thresbed. and it is slmpiy
Impossible to, expect that railway corporations are going to be able to transfer grain
from the prairie sections of Manitoba and
the North-west Territories to the lake ports
,wltlin two or tbree months, as the desire
of the farmers would be, and furnlsb rolllng
stock to take fifty millions of bushels of
whent from that country in the course of
two of tbree montbs. 1 -have no doubt Inside
of tbree or four years ut the outside, there
will be 100,000,000 b-ushels every year for
transport. The solution of the difficulty will
be for the railway corporations to erect
large receiving warehouses In the Interlor,
wbere their rolling stock .will be capa:ble o!
handling three or four tîmes as minch lu a
given space o! time, as If they had to transfer ahl the grain to Fort William. There la
to be some relief given to the Iblockade by a
recent change whieb bas been made In the
law of the United States. Hon. gentlemen
bave probably observed that recently the
United States have agreed to allow our Canadiail wbeat to be ground la bond at Minneapolis. The Minneapolis mills grInd about
90,000,000 bushels of wbeut a year. The
hard wbeat of Minnesota and the Dakotas
bas been deteriorating o.! late years, and the
'nited States millers are anxious to grind
the Manitoba and North-west.bard w>ieat,
and bave prevailed on the government of
the United States to allow them to grind the
wheat ln bond. 1 understand the total crop
ib! bard wheat In Minnesota and the two
Dakotas Is about 200,000,000 bushels, so you
can see the capacity fori grinding wbeat la
nlmost bai! the total product lu the states
of Minnesota and tbe two Dakotas. The
quality of! wheat la deteriorating, and the
result Is the United States miller bas found
the Canadian tour Is coming Into competition -witb bis lu the foreign .market. By the
change now secured !oy the United States
mililers, of aUlowing them to grind lu bond.
tbey are going to. 'be able to take a large
portion o! Manitoba and tbe Nortb-west

519

wheat to grind ln Minneapolis foý export.
Tbere will be a disadvantage there to the
Canadian miller, because the Minneapolis
millers wili rbe lu a position to get much
better fre.lght rates to the seaboard'than the
Canadian millers during the winter mouths;
but it wili be an advantage to the Manitoba
and North-west farmers. 1 understand that
already the Minneapois mIllers bave asked
for permission to erect some sixty elevators
during the colng season In the -province o!
Manitoba and the Nortb-west Territories for
the purpose o! receivIng grain. That, of
course, will be stored and only taken down
gradually to Minneapolis milîs, as they -wlsb
to grlnd ItL I a=n strongly of opinion that
tbe Canadlan Pacific Railway and tbe Canadian Nortbern will have to erect large
recelving elevators ut different points lu the
Interior, for the reason they wlll be able
wltb their rolling stockto take It out of the
bauds of the farmer, and store it in a rnuch
shorter Urne than If tihey bave to take lt to,
Fort William or Port Arthiur. The wheat la
just as -well, stored ln Manitoba and the
North-west Teritories, as at Fort William
or Port Arthur, and the railways will bave
ail the *winter months for transporting the
grain from the Interior warehouses to
the lake ports. In May, June and July, the
grain -wiil be loaded .from the Interior warebouses immediately Into, the cars, and froîn
tlie cars into the vessels. I think It would
be well not to go too far witb this Bill,
because as bas (been stated by some gentlemen, you miay overreach and do sometbing wblcb will Injure the transportation. I
have no sympathy witb the idea that the eleyator men and the railway corporations- are
deliberately planning to bleed the farmers.
If tbe farmer expecta to have bis grain transported from bis farm In Manltota or tbe
Territorles In tbree months, and that the
railway corporations are golng to furnisb
rolllug stock to do it lu that Urne, be must
necessarily expect it will cost hlm more
than If the corporations bave longer time to
transfer the grain. If that grain could be
transferred lu tbree months, I venture to
say that teu or flfteen per cent of it would
bave to be stored In cars durlng that time.
A car Is a pretty expensive storebouse for
storing grain Iu. There must be some reason
lu our attempts to regniate the grain trade.
All tbe legisiation which bas been passed was
based on the report of a commisosion app~oint-

SENATE
ed by the goverament to Inquire into this
very difficulty in the west. The .Act passed
two years ago was based on the report of
that commission, a commission composed of
farmers wha went through the province of
Manitoba and the Territories lnq.uiring Into
the farmers' grievances and suggested sonle
change which might be imade to relieve the
situation. The Act is working fairiy wellmuch better, I think, tban the men who
rframed It expected It would work.
The
fariner is expected, through that legisiation,
to get ail the freedoin possible, but In givIng
the fariner ail the freedom possible, we
must nlot Impose such laws on the transportation company as -wlll practically Injure
the fariner ln getting rld of his crop. I
respectfuUly subinit that it would be weIl to
adopt the sug-gestion mnade by the hon, gentlemian froin Montreal (H1on. Mr. Druinmond), that after the word 'shall' add 'as
far as practicable.' Because the commissioner wlll have the jnrisdiction the saine
at any particular point. The elevator mexi
are required to keep bins and must have
accommodation to keep any grade of wheat
tenderedHon. «-%r. McýMtLLE N-I think the point
could be met by commencing at the word
'recei"ve' In the third lune, and adding 'to
the extent which storage space wlll admit.'
Hlon. 31r. SCOTT-The other Is practically
the saineand It le more specific and definite.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It is t>etter.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-The clause refers
to an amendaient of the section la the
original Act which deale altogether with
elevators working for bire, for receivlng
grain for storage. The commissioner Is
empowered to exercice very wide authority
over the wbole A.ct, und can see that it is
carried out properly.
Hon. Mr. MCMULLEN-Wbo le to gîve
the decision as to whether it le practicable
or nlot ?

On clause 3,
Hon. Mvr. SCOTT-There are a number
of changes la this clause. As the law stood
it required the written application of teux
persons living wlthin a certain distance - to
erect a warehouse. The principal change
le allowing one person to apply for a fiat
warehouse.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I fancy the change Is
froni one flat wareliouse to three. Under
thls as many fiat warehouses as mnay be
decired can be bult, and a capacity of
3,000 bushels le ctruck out, and no special
size le meatloned in this clause.
*Hon. Mr. WATSON-The old Act ls done
away with and the railway have to furnisli
accommodation for the warehouse and put
In sidinge.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They were bound to
put in sidings before.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-But they have to
pny rentai.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The report made by
the Royal Commission, composed of farniers, submitted to this House la 1900, recommended that fiat warehouses should be
preserved' for the purpose of storlng and
handling grain, and not be permitted to be
nsed for the purpose of buylng grain.
Their Idea was that these warehouses could
be made more usefuli to the fariner by, keeplag them for that one purpose, because It
was feit by the commission that thîs would
open the door and give the farmers the privilege of storlag their ewn grain and seiling It when and- where they pleased, while
If a buyer was allowed to operate la the
warehiouses, he might put some grain iii
each one of the bine, and If a ftriner came
along he couid say that the bine were occupied and he could not store hie grain there.
By this amendaient the warehouses wlil be
used for the storing of grain by the load by
the fariner, and It changes the whole nature
of the Act la that respect. It Ie thought it
wili accrue to the benefit of the producer
by giving hilm more profit. I do flot cee aur
objection to ItL
The clause was adopted.
On clause 5,

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The commissioner.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN--Suppose the man
says ' it is nlot practicable for me te reeive
the grain,' who le to decide ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The commissioner is
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Itileproposed to repeal
the judge and must decide It.
section 42, and to Insert this clause la the
Thé amendinent was agreed to.
Bill.
Hon. lir, WATSON.

MAY 13, 1902
Hon. Mr~. McMULLEN-I have an amendment to propose to subsection No. 2. It Is
well known that the Canadian Pacifie Railway have certain sidings along their main
track that they reserve simpiy and solely
for the purpose of express trains passlng
eacb other, and they are flot used for any
other purpose. They are reserved for that
exclusive purpose. An express train cosses
along to the point where it expects to meet
the express train from the opposite direction, and takes the siding and remains
there until the other express passes and
goes on Its journey. They have a number
of those. If you were to use those silngs
for platforms for cars, you woflld completely
destroy the use of those sldings, and 1
would suggest that atter the word 'prescribe,' we shouid add 'except at crossing
sidings reserved for crossing purposes only.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are references
made ln the other sections also to sldings,
and It might cosse ln better there. That
would be a general clause that would affect
ail the clauses of the BIil
Hon. Mr. WATSO.N-I do flot thlnk It 1s
niecessary to put that amendment ln. Howevér, I do flot think It cau do any harss.
That klnd of a slding would flot be found
nt a shlpping point.
Hou. Sir MACICENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
I think -so le some cases.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It would flot be a
shipping point. At a shipping point they
should put up a warehouse even If It Is a
crossing place.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
can be no possible objection to this amendment. On the contrary, It mlght prevent a
dlfficulty arising hereafter by sosse people
inslsting on building a warehouse near by,
so as te utilize these crossings, which would
destroy the whole benelit of the through
trade.
The amendment was adopted.
On clause 7,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The printed Bih would
practIcaliy give applicants an option on the
cars for forty-elght hours, but that would
be rather unusual, and It was not tntended
by those who passed the Bill la the other
us.I have drawn up an ameadment

which I propose to submit to the committee, reduclng the time to 24 hours. It has
also :been suggested that when the applicant
places bis order in the order book, hie should
also place the destination of his Intended
shipment so that the rallway company
would have 'notice where tbey are sending
the car. It would be no great hardshlp upon
the applicant to state the destination.
1Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I thlnk the clause is
better as It Is.
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-What the effect of the
clause wouid be I cannot at the moment
say. We atart out wlth the principle of
givlng the utssost freedom to the fnrmers\
la the handllng of their grain and we are
agreed on that, but whether or not ln this
distribution of cars we will be doing justice
to the farmers who live at a distance from
the railway, ln ail cases, wlll be for the
future to determine. You wlll notice that
farmers who reside wlthin a reasonable distance of the station are Ilkely to be those
who will be able to taire advantage of loadIng the cars direct from the farmer's load.
The farmer who lives at a distance f rom the
station, say eight or ten or twelve miles
or more, as frequentiy happens, wlll not
have the sasse opportunlty of !oading cars
as the ones near the station. Therefore,
hie Is dependent upon the elevator and
warehouses whlch are taklng the grain day
by day by the load, and It ssay so happen,
If some one gets'bis order ln ahead on the
order-book, that these other buildings whIch
are receling fross the farmer by the ioad
are unable to taie the grain the man near
the station -would have bis car, and the
farmer at a distance would have to pile up
bis bags. That may bappen, and I do not
know wbether we wIll be asked at the next
session of the House to amend this clause
tn many particulars. Whlle It may be popular to legisiate against the elevator man,
remember this, that the elevator man accommodates the ssany, while the man who
loads the car wlill be the fortunate Individual
who resides wlthin a very short distance
from the shlpp.Ing point; and If we by
legisiation reduce'the elevator man, who
handies the grain, to the level even of n
warehouseman we .certalnly reduce the
handling capaclty of that class of buildings
ln thre west te the detriment and disadvantage of the owners. It Is proposed to give

SENATE
twenty-four hours to a fariner to load a
car-to ail applicants in tact If I baad my
way I would flot give more than twentyfour minutes to an elevator to ioad a car,
because they can ioad a car ln iess turne
than that. They can ioad a car in pretty
near hait that Urne, and white every one
ts put on the sanie footing, I would bie more
ln favour of making warehouses and elevators load cars ln very short order, so thiat
the rolling stock of the company wiII lie
used to Its utmost capacity, and instead of
standing at the siding twenty-four hours
they wili bie ioaded in twenty-four minutes.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-They wiii do that.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-They wIll ]lave twentyfour hours grace under this clause, and
I would not give thein that, because the
elevator man ls in a different position troin
the fariner. It is fair to gi-ve a fariner
a sufficient time to load, but the elevator men
are supposed to have the grain ready when
the (éar cornes, and the fariner lias to, brIng
it ln froni the country and requires more
tIme.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We miglit have It to,
apply to fanmers only.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The great trouble la
that If, on the spur of the moment, we try
to . amend these important provisions, we
may flot accomplish the object we have Ili
view. The only object I have ln view is to
do everything possible to .help thie fariner
out, and place hum Independent of ail the
dealers, and at thé saine turne not to haiper the transportation of grain hi any way,
so, that we can get out as mudli of our grain
as possible ln a very short time. There ls
another matter I wisli to cail attention to.
In this amendinent we proceed to say by
what method cars can be obtained. That
ls through an order-book, and the delay
which may occur to, a fanmer ls pretty liard
'ta mensure. He has to take lis turn. Possibly It wIli work out ail nighit. Tbis Act
ls supposed to lie as neariy perfect as It can
lie made by those who have been making a
special study of those grievances which
existed, this is the resuit of their handiwork,
and I do not lîke to suggest any changes.
I merely draw attention to these matters.

Hon. Mr. DRU*MMOND-I consider It en
outrage on the raiiway company to k-eep
a car standing torty-eight hours.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It ls not -unreasonable
that a warehouse should have twenty-four
hour's.
Hon. Mr. D)RUMMOND-I can see no
end of loopholes ln this Bill. There are
penalties enough provided for the railway
men and the elevator men, but there are nu
penalties for the farmers when they do îiot
fuifil their part of the bangain.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG--Ol,

yes.

Hon. Mr. DRU[MMOND-A fariner applies
for a car and takes twenty-foun louns and
hait fuls the car with grain of a particulan
grade, and has no more to put into it, or
cannot get it over on accounit of the ronds.
What ls the company going to do ?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-They caxi charge hlmi
demurrage after twenty-four hours.
Hon. MnI.DRUMMOND-There la n-o sucli
provision ln this Bill. What will tliey -do
when the twenty-four hours elapse ?
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-He lias put ti
hait a ioad of particular wheat They cannot put another man's wheat on top of It.
The tact ls that you wiii be able to drive
a cart and horse through the whole Act
atten it is finished, la my opinion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-He wiii lose his nIgît,
so far as concerns the cars not so loaded.
He is not fonced to take what lie cannot
use.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-If hie hait flis
the car lie retains bis riglits. Tliat iast
clause speaka of lis riglits wliere lie cannot
ioad a car. I think tliere slould lie something ln the nature of dernurrage wliere n
man does not MIl lis car.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This 'would not debar
thern froin charging demrnurage.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-What about an appicant ordering a car for twenty-four hours
and flot putting anything ln It ? Then there
ls twenty-four hours bast and they cannot
dlaim anything for that, and at the end of
that. twenty-four hours lie tells the coinHon. Mr. SOOTT-It neyer was intended pany lie does not want It. But lie lias an
that the elevator company should lie ai- option on It for twenty-four hours.
lowed torty-eight hours to load a car.
The clause was adopted.
Hcn. Mr. YOUN<,,.

MAY 13, 1902
On the lest clause,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Subsection 2 is put ln
to endeavour, If possible, to meet the abnormal conditions such as we had last year.
This applies to the congestedl condition, and
requires the company to give each applicant, according to the order ln the order
book, one car, and then rateably according
to the requirements of each applicant. There
Is a fairness about the clause, which I think
wili work very well. Rateably accordlng fo
requirements will mean this, that If one
buyer tak-es ln 5,000 bushels a day and another buyer alongside of b1m, takes lu 1,000,
it la only reasonable that the man who takes
lu the 5,000 should get more cars thon the
one who takes ln the 1,000, and while thls
apples when there is a scarcity of cars, yet
tliat very same princlple should prevai at
ail times, that a man ln proportion to the
business he does he should get the cars.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In proportion to hle
wants.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If you do not do that,
you reduce the big business down to the
level of the small business, and ln that way
you hamper wlthout doing good to any one
that I can aee, except the amail competItor,
who will have his business placed on the
same level as the larger buyer. The elevator Is the place where the grain la handled
the easiest, and will handie the greatest
quality of grain. The elevator, therefore,
would have greater requirenients by far
thon the flat warehouses, which couid be
emptled ln a short time. This latter clause
is a reasonabie one, and may prevent difficulties during times of congestion, and 1
think we hadl better pass it as lt la.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. MÂCKAY (Alma), from the eommlttee, reported the Bill with amendment%
which were concurred lu.
The Bill was then read the third tIme, and
passed.
SECOND READING.
Bill (102) An Act to incorporate the Gaspé
and Western RaIlway Company.--(Hon. Mr.
Sullivan.)

HALIFAX INDUSTRIAL SOHOOL AND
ST. PATRICK'S HOME BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second
reading of Bill (152) *An Act further to
amend the provisions of chapter 183 of
the Revised Statutes, with respect to the
Halifax Industrial School, and St. Patrlck's
Home at Halifax.' He said: These are
two Institutions, reformatories,. lu the city
of Halifax.' Under the CrIminal Code, magistrates and judges are authorized to send
Protestants to the Industrial achool, and
Catholica to St. PatrIck's home. As the law
stands new, the lowest term atated would be
two years. At the Instance of the Attorney
General and government of Nova Scotia, it
la proposed to reduce the two years to one
year, lnasmnuch as sometimes young boys
are sent there, and it la feit that two years
would be too long a term. This gives the
judge a dlscretionary power. It also makes
a change lu the age limit.
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-la that ail the
change ?

Hon * Mr. SCOTT-That la ah. This ls lntreduced at the Instance of the government
of Nova Setia, who desire to make a more
free use of the reformatory and Institution.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tîme. The Bill then
paased through ita final stages, under a suspension of the rules.
COASTING TRADE 0F CANADA BILL.
F'IRST REiADING.
A message was received from. the House of
Cemmons with Bill (165) ' An Act respecting
the Coasting Trade of Canada.'
The Bill was read the fIrst Urne.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
read the second time at the next sittlng of
the House. He said : The object of thîs Bill
la te defeat the possible efforts of forelgubuilt shipa te secure registration lu other
Recently
ports than lu Canada proper.
attempts have been made to evade our customs la-w, which Imposes a duty of ten per
cent on the huil and 25 per cent on the
machinery of forelgu vessels which corne
[ln and are regiatered lu Canada. Under
the law, which la governed by the Imperial

524

SENATE

Merchants' Shipping Act, It Is beld that a
reglatration secured lu Great Britain, or Ini
a British colony, wouid secure an entry into
Canada. We could flot tax British ships,
or ehipa .beionging to the colonlesi of Great
Britain. Attempts have recently been made
to evade the law proper, whlch under our
Customs Act enables us to make a foreigubult ship pay duty before being reglstered
here. Take, for instance, Newfoundland,
which le very convenient to Canada : by
obtaining registration there, a sblp becomes
a British bottom, and would be entitled to
corne Into Canada without paying duty.
The object of this Bill le to defeat that purpose. If vesseis are built lni Great Britain,
or lu British colonies wltb British registers,
we would receive tbem, and aliow tbem the
fuil benefit of our laws,, but what we obJect to is, foreign vessels, ln an Indirect
way, securlng British register lu the way I
have lndicated by going to an outside colony
aucb as Newfoundland, and obtalnling registratIon there and comlng iu and evading the
duty. The Act, as It Interferes somewhat
witb the Imperial Merchants' Shipping Act,
cannot be assented to witbout a conference
w.ith the imperial authorities, and therefore, aitbough this parliament wuhl pase the
Bill, It Is uot proposed iu the ordinary way
to obtain the approval of the Governor General. Its approval eau only be had after the
Imperial authorities agree that it shall be
passed. The reason why action ls taken
at the present moment la that there le a
disposition to Introduce foreigu slips Into
Canada aud evade the duty. A case came
receutly under the notice of the Customs
Departrnent, where the British consul at
Chicago allowed.a Uuited States vessel to
corne lu as under the British regîster. The
case weut to the courts, and the Inferior
courts held the consul had the autbority
to grant British register. However, the
decision was overruled lu the higher court,
aud very properly aud correctly so. But
If the vessel, instead of obtaining register
tbrougb thbe British consul at Chicago.
had gone to Newfoundiand and obtaiued
a British register in that colony, and had
been acknowledged. ln a British colony
as a British bot-tom, we could flot have
preveuted it, and It ls to defeat the objeet
of brInging lu forelgu vessels ln that way
thls leglslatlou is being enacted.
flou. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Do I understand the Supreme Court bas reversed the
decision of tbe lower court lu that case ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURÂND-The tax on
foreigu sbips was eaeUly evaded, because a
ship could be bought at New York and
brought to Newfouudland and be registered
there as a British ship free of duty, and
then sal up the St. Lawrence and corne into
our waters as a British bottom, and no duty
could be collected on the vessel. I tbink
the legislation Is very proper.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-So do
I, ln one respect more particularly. What
commends It to my mmnd Is that it le ln the
hune of protection lu every sense of the
word. It ls flot only tbe abstract principle
of protecting the Industries of this country,
but it lucreases the duty upon foreigu slips.
I have looked through this Bll with a great
deal of care, and having had some experience ln the administration o! this branch
of the public service, 1 looked at it probably with more Interest than I would
under other circumstances. The dlffiulty
that arose bas been very weli explained.
The old syetem of obtainlng-I will flot say
surreptitiously, because I thluk tbey bad a
right to do lt-a certificate lu contravention o! the provisions of the Tariff Act was
by purcbasing a foreign vessel, tal.ing it
to a British port outside o! Canada, and ohtalning leglalation. For Instance, a vessel
might be purcbased by a British subject ln
the United States, taken to Euglaud or to,
New!oundland and registration obtained.
In tbe past, large barges and scows were
taken to New!oundland and British register
obtained,aud were then brougbt Into Canada
as Britisb bottoma under the Merchants'
Shipping Act, wbIcb Io an Imperial Act and
controls our own shipping as well a theirs,
and stands relatively to Canada lu a commercial sense lu the same position as
copyright dos w1th regard to books. Tbey
are mucb of the Mame character, bence difficulty arises lu its administration. Under
the old system, we did not attempt to colleet
duties on vesseis under sucb circuinstauces,
but Mr. Clergue took otber meaus of securing a United States vessel than that wbich
I bave descrIbed. He went to Chicago, purcbased a vessel and obtained a certificate

MAY 13, 1902
from the British consul at Chicago ta navlgate British waters for six months. Âfter
he dld that, he dcclarcd It ta be a British
ship, and demandcd a Canadian register.
The custorus officiais at Sauît Ste Marie
rcfused to give ItL He took the case Inta
the courts, and the lower court decidcd he
had a rlght ta obtain It ln that manner.
Then It went ta thc higher courts, and they
declared against hlm. Now, I suppose, unlcss this Bill ls passed, and receives the
sanction of the British government, Mr.
Clergue w!Il take thc case, ln ail prababllty,
ta thie Privy Council and sec It -ta an end.
The pjlnt is whether Canada bas the power
ta legisiate on a question of this klnd,
independent af the Merdhants' ShlppIng
Act, which govcrns aur shlpping trade
as well as that of England. If my
recollection serves me rlght, wc dld nlot,
whefl the Act affecting the coastlng tade
was placed an the statute-book, reserve It
for the approval o! the Imperial goernmcnt.
I understand the Sccretary of State ta say
the prababilities are that this belng an luiterference, ta a certain extent, with the Imperlai Merchants' Shipping Act, It would be
rcserved by tbe Governor Gencral for the
Âs It
approval of the home governmcnt
Is only a rc-enactment of thc Act as it stands
an the statute-book to-day, wlth this dl!ference anly, that It makes It apply ta alI
cases of foreignbullt shi.ps, whlch -probably
the British government might; consider
un InfrIngement of what la termed the Merchants' Shlpping Act and for that reason 1
presume the Bill wIll have ta go ta Englaud.
There liq this difference, so far as the duties
are eoncerned, aind that dîfference I approve
of, and I1 hope the governmcnt will reform
and go on lu that way by Increaslng tbe
dutles on ail articles of a foreigu character
wlîich can be manufactured lu Canada. The
law as it stands on the statute-book, with
wbich I had somettbing to do ln framing, has
this provision, that ali forelgn ships seeking
a certificte 0f -reglstratlon lu this country,
whlch will enable them ta do a coastlug
trade, 'would have first ta pay a duty
of ten per cent upon the valuie of the
bull, and -95 per cent upon the machinery
and englues. Tbe reason for that was this
that whIle there was ne tax upon .ships
farmerly, we ta encourage the Introduction of as many shlps as possible of

525

British manufacture, imposed a duty of ten
per cent on the huli, but as the englues came
into competition with engines made ln this
country, we drew a distinction between the
two, and made the duty on the engine 25 per
cent The present government have gone
one better. They make the duty on the whole
ship 25 per cent, bul and machlnery. 1
commend them for dolng It, and 1 hope they
wlll keep on dolng It ln the Interest of thec
manufacturlng Industries of this country.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think we bave
made nny change.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh,
yes. Look at the Bill. 1 knew ve-ry well
wh*at the law was, and what ls proposed
here.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When this law cornes
ln force. 1 thought the hon, gentleman
was speaking of the law as it i& uoiv.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
law now upon the statute-book imposes a
duty 0f ten per cent on thbe bull, and 25 per
cent on the machinery. This Bill imposes
a duty upon the total value of the vessel.
Formerly shlp-bixilding was carried on extensively ln the maritime provinces and Quebec. We have of late been building very
large vessels for trade on the inIand lakes,
at the city of Toronto, vessels that are a
credit.to thc country, and I think tbat the
Imposition of this extra du-ty will give an
impetus to that trade. I amn sure my bon.
friend from St. George, who la an ardent free
trader, will highly approve of thîs proposition, and if It bas no other effeet than that, it
wiUl be a good anc. 1 should Ilke to ask the
Secreteary of State to look at clause 6 of tbe
Bill, andI te ask hlm whether he thlnks thak
carriei out the proivision ln chap. 83 of the
Rcvised Statutes, whlch is repealed by tbls
Bill. The provision of the ltaw ls that we
may, by Order lu Councl, grant the rlght
af coasting to any vessels of a country that
gives the same concessions and rights ta
the Canadian bulit vessels. I notice that
that la ail repealed, but the flth clause reads
as follaws
The Governor in Caunhil may fram time te
Uime declare that the foregolng provisions of
this Act abal1 nlot apply te the eilps or ve-sel
ef any toreign country luwhtch British irhipsare
admitted te the caastlng tracle of such counîtrY
and to carry goode and passongers tram one
part or place to another iu such cauntry.

SENATE
That certainly carrnes ont the same Idea of
thxe old law providlng the word 'British' ls
applied In this sense, and under the Merchants' Act to Canadian-bulIt vessels having
a Canadian register and flot an English.
I do flot knorw -whether that point bas
suggested ltself to the hon. Secretary of
State, but It Is an Important point In that
respect. If the word ' British ' Includes a
Canadian-bult vessel or a vessel carrying
a Canadian register, then the saine power
wIll be investigated under this Bill that
tbey bad under the old Act. I know that
ilu rany cases during the late administration, wben certain couatries would grant ta
Enghand the coasting trade o! this country,
It wvas laid before the governinent of Canada for approval or disapproval. We could
reject it under the present systein that prevails, or we could approve It. Ia every
Instance ln my recoihection, when a proposition o! that kind came froin any foreign
country, we always accepted It and passedl
an Order In Council grantlng the saine
rights la coastlng that they granted to us,
upon this principle, that thougli a sinaller
country than many o! thein, we thought we
were quite prepared to compete In that
respect wlth any of thein. In the United
States, rny hon. frlend knows, and s0 does
the Hause, they always refused. ta even
mitigate their coasting lawa and, strange ta
say, they thought that by giving us the right
ta coast ln the United States would be openlng the lnland waters ta the whole sbipping
of Great Britain. When we explalned that ta
the Secretary of the United States telling
hum we were quite prepared, though a very
small country o! five millions, compared to
their sixty-flve or seventy millions, to comnpete witlh thiem on the lakes, Mr. BMaine positively refused to do so, as will be seen b:, the
carrespondence laid before parhiarnent sorne
years ago. We were quite prepared even ta
iight thein, thougli they are very mucb
larger ln population and wealth than gCanada ls. I caîl attention to, that clause, In
order that If they bave flot thought of the
question, that they will ascertain whether
the word British under the circurnstances
wilh caver a Canadian-built ship or a shlp
sallng under a certificate of Canadian
registration. I rnay add that, so far as
our tariff Is concerned, outside of British
shipping, England and the British colonies
are just as mucli a foreiga country as the
lion. Sir MACKENZIE nowELL.

United States or France or Beilumn; hence
there must be sornething ln the Merchants'
Shipping Act which will cover the point to
which 1 have called the attention of thxe
Senate, or a Canadian vessel, as I have lndicated, would flot have tbe rlghts, that the
Governor ln Councal bas ln the past granted
ln connection wlth the coasting trade.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentlemani
knows ln past years it was always tixe
practice to consuit Canada la maklng aniy
favoured nation treaty wlth any of the
couatries of Europe or the world, and ln
sorne instances Canada's consent bas been
given, and ln receat years the present governent have practltally declined. We preferred not being affected by the favourednations clause with Great Britain.
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
might say, for the information of the Senate, that was the co urse we often took,
because we thought It haxnpered us ln
neg-otiations with any other country.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Years ago, before Canada assumed the Important position she
occupies to-day, the Canadian governmenlt
usnally gave its assent. The lmperial governrnent said that they were about entering
into a treaty such as they made witil Belglurn and Germany and other countries, and
tbe general imnport of the despatch was that
unless a dissent was given wlthln a year, It
wouid be taken as an acquiescence. As far
as the coastlng trade of outside countries
Is concerned, there is only one country-Norway-ln whicb we are a party to the coasting trade. A Norweglan vessel would have
a right to the coasting trade of Canada, and
we would have, as part of the British empire, a right to thxe coasting trade in Norway. If I amn correctiy advised, that is
the only country wbere the prlvilege of the
coasting trade reaily exlsts to-day, and it
may be desirable ln the future. It ls just
as well to have latitude lin decld!ng the
course ta take ln reference to those treatles with outside countries. We have lnvarlabiy àdopted the pollcy, since this government came lnto power, of declining
to be a party to any of those treaties,
believing the turne wiii corne when we shaIl
be able to make our own treaties. There
is another point to which lt is my duty
to caîl the attention of the House : as

MAY 14, 1902
the Bill cannot receive the Royal assent
when the 'other Bills a're assented to, and
it May take seule littie time to have an
explanation with the Imperial government,
we have fixed the date th-at it shall camne into
force lot Sep'tember next, so that np to that
perlod foreign vessels coming under British
registry ln British colonies wlll be entitled
to coule into Canada. A gentleman ln the
Cbiamber-I will nlot mention his namesaid to me : 'Your Bill la going to defeat
the purpose I had ln bnylng a yacht ln New
York;' and 1 said : 'No. You have tîi
September lot to complete your purchase.'

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would not be fair te
parties who are avaiiing themselves of tliis
flot to flx a date, and thierefore we fixed
a date.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
That opens Up the broad principle of the
riglit to reform the tariff. A man may have
ordered souiething from Germany, or some
other place. If it does flot coule in before
the tariff goes Into force, there is an end of
ItL
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
would only affect hlm to the extent of the
diff erence between ten an 25 per cent on the
hull of the vessel. .
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. Hle will register lit
Newfouiidland, and come Up the St. Lawrence. However, lie lias tili the let September.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMONU-The Act may nlot
obtaîn the approval of the British author!ties by the lot September, go that date ls
subject to revision.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. It ta presurned
that before the lst September the Bill will
bie assented to.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Is It not a mistake to fix a dellnite date ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was necessary te fix
some date, and we did. That was the outaide limit, because it sometImes takes three
or four months.
Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND-Snpposing the
consent was nlot obtalned within that time,
wbat then ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume, as there are
several muiniters golng to England soon,
thiat they will have an opportunity of liastening the conclusion. There is no reason
why they should withhold the assent.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As I
understand the question, the la'w If passed
wlll have no effect until It la sanctioaed by
the Imperial authorities, so that it makes no
difference whetber It ls made the lot September or not. If it le not sanctioned by that
time, then it wili not corne into force uÛtil
it receives the assent.

THE SENATE.
Ottawca, Wednesday, MUay 14, 1902.
The SPEAKER took tbe Chair ait Eleven
01ciock.
l'rayers ani routine proceedingo.
LOI>UX RUSSU4GREEK
:
01iUUIL~ PETITION.
TIIE SPEAKER'S ItULING.
The SPEAKER-Before the motions are
calieci, 1 may as weli rend the decisiou to
wili
1 have corne on the point of order
reserved yesterciay. 1 regret that the question silould 'bave been referred to me, and
1 regret furtbier that 1 biave not hâd. time
to give the question the couîsideratIon it deserves. Hiowever, 1 banve corne to a conclusion. and arn piietty clear on the point.
As 1 underatand tbe position, the Senate
lias deiegated to -me the duty of declding
wliether or not a petition presented to the
lieuse on -the lU)th of March iastpurporting
to bie the petition of the Rigbt Reverend
Tikhon, of te City of sali l"ranclsco, Ili
the State of Cailfornia, bisbiop o! the Orthodox Russo-Greek Catholic Churcli for
North Amerîca and the Aleutian Islands, is
one whIch, undier the ruies governing the
proceedinga of the Senate, should be received.
If this case arose la Engiand, the petition
would not be received. May, lOth edition, p.
5M. Un the 7th o! April, 1876, a petition
from inhafoitants
of Boulogne-sur-M.ter,
severai or whiorn appeared to bie British subTUE
kri

SEATEP

jects, was preseuteci to the House of CotuMr. Dieraell, ithen ieading -the gos'Mons.
eramnent, moved for lts receptiou. Speaker
Brand lntimated an opinion adverse to the
reception of thxe petition, and i.t WUs suggested tiiat It -be referred to a select comTh1e suggestion was accepted by
Mlttee.
the kLouse ani tixe question was referred to
a oommittee camposed of experienced parliaThe committee reported ofl
meiTtarians.
the lOth of May ; and their report, which
was concuî-red In by the 11ouse, reads as
f oliow5
Your comrnIttee having taken evidence, and
having searched for precedents. do flot advise
the reception of the petition by the Bouse.
inasînucli as the ruie of the Exîglisil Coinmous, as settled by this leading case, would
be aiso tlîat of tbe Bouse of Lords, Nvhuse
practice governs the :Senate ini cases unprovidect for by our own ruies, 1 wouid 11e justifled, without going further, la deciding that
ttîe petition under consideration le îlot one
which should be received by the Senate. As
tuera is, liowever, some authori.ty to show
tiliat a more lenient view of the position of
alleu petîtioners lins -been Utkeil in tise CanaUlan Cousions, and as it mny not unreasonabiy be contended that circumstances whicb
have lutluenced -the otiier flouse înight be
expected to have sonie weigixt with the
Senate, it mnay bc %vell -to devote a littie
more time to the inatter.
1. theretore take the liberty of ciirecting
the atitention or tue flouse to certain passages la the discussion of the Boulogne-surMer petition la the Engii fouse of Coin111e discussion wii be found la
MUSn.
volume 238 of the third. series of the EnLyetweeii page 1411 and
glisli 'Liansard'
page 1420.
Th1e petition bac! been introdueed on the
:Speaker Brand made the foltli of ApriI.
lowing reference to it on the foilowlng day:
It will 11e la the recoilection of the Bouse
that yesterday th-_ bon. barornet, the memnier
for South Warwickshire (Sir Earclley-Wilmot)
off Ered a petition to this Bouse from Inhabitants
of the town af Boulogne-sur-Mer. In France, and
upon the hon. baronet pres-inting the petition I
deusurred to the acceptance of tt because I
doubted whether there was any precedent for
the reception af a petition f rom aay foreign
town ;and I asked for tinie to con sider that
question. I have now to state ta the House
that 1 have searched for precedents in th;s
matter. and have found one, and one only,
%hich I will now proceed ta read to the Bouse.
'17th February, 1831.-Lord John Russell presented a petition froni the Inhabitants of Crete,
The SPEAKER.

conipiaining O! tijeir suffering under the Turkislb
government in that Island.
Mr. Speaker said tbat a very Important qluestion was suggested to the consideration of the
Bouse by the hon. usemb.-r foor Middaesenurmeiy, whether petitions froni persons wh',
owed neither allegiance to, nos' couid claim thE.
protection of this country could. 1e reoeived.
The abject of the petitioners was, ta abtain the
Interference :)f the Crown of Great Britain ta
protect thema froni the usiseries under whicil
they were at the present moment !abouring,
Was ibis a petition at ail ? And if so, was at
not a petition te the Crawu of Great Britain
solely ? The petition did flot appear ta contain aLy matter wàicb brought it within tie
jurisdiction of the House of Couinons. It cornmeaced ' Bon. Sirs,' and stated that 'on the
renowned Englsh peopvle. the loyers of liberty,
the patrons and protectors of the injured, the.
Cretans placed their la,.t hope of salvation.
lnoking up ta theus for the. advocacy o! t "
cause o! Crete.' It was clear that the petition
could not be received by the Bouse of ConiMsons.
Tuxen lie proceeds
I thlnk it right ta observe ta the Bouse that
it appears that this petition was flot recelved,
mainly upon the ground that the petition re-lated to a mqtter liot within the jurisdiction o!
the Bouse of Cornions. I have further ta observe that the petition from Boulogne offered
to tAie House yestt-rday by the hon. baronet,
refers to a irnstter quite wlthini the jurisdiction
of the Bouse. The petitioners pray that the
consulate in that town should remaîn a consulate aad should not becorne, as propased, a
I subusit ta the House that
vice-coasulate.
if the House thinks fit ta receive as an act of
grace a petition from inhabitants of the towa of
Bouiogne-usany of whorn sppear to be British
subjects-upoa such a matter, it may ha received upon the ground that the subject-matter
o! thie petition refers ta a question within thec
jurlsdiction of thîs Bouse. 1 rnay observe that
as a generai mile the Bouse raceives petitions
frai al! British subjects la ail parts of the
world, and it re3eives also petitians f rom forceigners resident wlthin thie dominionso! the
but I arn not aiware af any petitian 11eQueen
Ing received front the Inhabitants o! a foreign
town, such as the petîtion affereu to this House
yesterday. It relatas, as I have already said, ta
a matter wjthin the juriscllction of this House;
but, la the ajbsence o! any precedent, It wiii ha
for the Bouse ta deterosine whetber it may fitly be received.
Thea Mr. Disraeli, who was Prime Minister, msade a lititia opeech, part of which
Ra sald:
1 shahi rend.
Sir, the Bouse la always jealo.is of restrictians on the Xight of petitioning,. snd I trust
that thîs le a feeling and a principie which will
aiways guide the Bause. Yau, air, have reminded us accurately that ail Ber Majasty's subjects
ln f oreiga countries have the right ta petition,
and ail foreIgners la Ber Majesty's dominions
have also such a right. The precedent wLic!h
you have quoted is one which has n-o affinity
ta the petîtian a! the inhabîtants of Boulagne.
We shauid recailect that at this tîme, when the
relations betwaen the peaple of this country and
foreign countries are 2;o intimate, the refusai

MAY 14, 1902,
of this act of grace to toreigners when the mat-

ter is wlthin the jurisdiction ef the lieuse,
niight be disadvantageous to the publie Interests. I amn Inellned to thInk the course we
ought tc> take is to receive thsq petition. I telieve that certainly as an act of courtesy and
grace and aise as a precedent it wili be advantageous, I therefore move that the petition be
received.
Motion made and question proposed.
That the petitian of the inhabitants of Boulogne-sur-Mer, relative to the British Consulate lu that town. do lie upon the table.
Then Mr. Gladstone spoke on the otber side
and sald :
Si~r, lt secins to me thnt this la a gquesation on
vhIch, at any rat-i, it seem, desirable that ve
sbouqd nlot procced with haste. I do net knov,
Sir, whether I have coliected vlth perfect accura--y the effect of vhat has fallen tram yenu;
but I und-erstand the Came te be tbis-that on
the surface et the matter there appears te ho
a precedent against the reception of a petition,
f rom foreigners resident ln fer3-Ign countries ;
but thiat upon the examination which yeu have
been gaod enough te make it seeme there are
circumstauces of difference ln the case vhicb
yeu have made knowu te us, sufficient te show
thst vo are net bound by that preeedent I
Imagine the effcct et that -e be-giving f uM
force to the Judgment Yeu have pronouncsd-that white there is ni precedent ta require us to
dceliue te roecve n petitien, there la certainiy
no precedent which woeild bind us to reccive
It ; that the question ta ene entirsly uew
and really amounts te this-whether we shaHl
nov make a precedent lu faveur of recelvint
Petitions framn the subjsctii et a toreign poer,
net resident within the British dominions.
Theý-re seemn te be three classes of perseus frein
wbom we receive pstitions. In the first place
ail subjects of Her Majesty residing withln the
imite of the British Empire, -which is the
aimplest of aIl the threc cases. 0f their rlght
to petition there cau be ne question. The
second 15 thc Cave of British subjects residing
beYoud the limita of thc British Empire. That
aise aPPears te follow naturally out ot their
relations te the Hauses of Parliameut, bec4use
the"e Persons, though tcmporarily nan-resident,
Or «ien If Permaneutiy non-resident, are ln ne
respect dismnissed front their nileglance. Ali
env rights over them exist suit remiain intact ;
and censequently al their rights in relation
to us, as they are daing nathing illegitimate
te us, vould bc hold ta remain intact aiso.
Then, thirdlY, there la the case mentioned by
the right hmu. gentleman opposite, of foreigners
resideut vithin the limite of the ffitish EmPire. 1 understand vs are ln the habit et receiving petitions frein such torelgnnrs.
That
lkevisc appears t0 meSte bie a perfectly olear
case ln point of principie ; fer such foreigners
living under the pretectioir ef our Iaws apart
altegether frein what they continue te owe te
their ovu country, ove for the turne tsmporary
aliegiance te this country. 1 agree that there
la force, as an appeal te feeling l. the consider*ation, rnntioned hy the right hion. gentlemani
that it ia degirable te perforin any act of grace
or ceurtesy towards tic Inhahitants of fnreign
ceuntries, previded we eau psrform it without
apprehension of probable future difficulties lu
consequcuce Of our act.

34

Tiien he proceeds :
At the saine turne I would observe, it sees
to me that If a petitian of thîse kind is te lie
received, we have not, lu the first place, those
mns ef examining or iuquilg tto thc circumestances under whlch the petitien vas prepareil or of dealing vith it upon lta nuerits, vhtck
vo vouid have In-respect eff aIl petitians proceediug frein onv own- fellev-subjecta, because
ve have no righta over Uic parties who present
thEin.
Mr. Gladstone
follows

concludes

is

remarks

as

1 cannot escape ftrom the Idea that there are
possiblities ef serious inconveniences involved
lu the reception ot petitinns tram the subjects
of a forelgu power. We have no rights aver
them ; they have ne relations ta us. Courtesy
aud graee are excellent things; but Uic right
of petitioning has uething ta do with ceurtesy
or grace. It la a eecurity for the discharge of
mutual rights and mutuai obligations. I think
that If vs heard thut the inhabitants ef Dover
were petitioning Uic French legisintive Chamnbers, as Engîiabinen ve should net much approve of it, nd should net like te sec the
exampvle foliloveil. I do net nov vish te give
a finai opinion an the subject, and if vs were
calleil upon te give a funal opinion nov, I should
give fi relVctarMiy. 'M~o should kcep on sats
gvound. I do net se any principle lcading us
te pxim'unce an affimative decision on the
matter, and If the question vers te be decid-ed nov, uxy disposition vould be te declue
te receive the petitian.
Sir Eardley Wllme.t who liad presented the
petitlon, stated the facts of the case:
For a long.turne there liait been a Biritishi consulats, but At vas reduced, te a vicaconsulate,
and the object ef the petitieners wvas ta restere
the ofies ta lts fermer rank. A grat many
EDngýllsh people reeided ln Boulogne, vhich vas
a tovu increasing raply lu Importance. Onebafoft ethe
Importe, amounting altogether te
£M0,000OO sterling, frein France te tbis country,
and one-third ofthUi exporta frein Uic Unitad
Klngdom ta France, passed through Bouiogne,
and a nov quay-the Quai Napleon-had been
epened, affording very euperlor accomnmodatian
te every clame ot hilpa;, aud the petitianers leit
that the dignity of this country vas net adequately represeuted by a vice-consulats ln such au
Important tevu.

Then the 8peaker sld:
When theclhou. haronet preseutcd thia peti-

tien yeuterday I particularly asked hlm .vhether
it vas tram British resîdents ln Boulogne. Had
h.e siswoeff nte c affirmative, I voulil have
made ne objection te the recePtien of the petitien ; but the hon. baronet rsad the headiugSThe humble petitien of Inhabitauts of Bonlogne-sur-Mer, lu Ilrauoe ;' and upon that I
denmurred te It heing read upon the ground that
It vas froin the lnhabitauta of a forcigir tevu.
The heu. baronet sta*t'd that it vas slgned largely-aud on Uic faceoef the petitien It appeared
te ha so-hy British residents ; but I could not
duoetise-vise than regard a petîtien vlth that
formel heading as a petition frein inhabitants,
of Boulogne-sur-Mer.

SENATE

Several gentlemen spoke, Mr. Dodson, Mr.
Lowe, Lord Robert Montagu, Sir William
F~raser, and sa on, andi the general trend of
opinion of tuie memnibers wha spoke was
agnlnst the reception of the petitîon. Then,
at the close of the discussion, Mr. Gathorne
Hardy, who was a member of the government at the tîme, spoke as follows :
The discussion whlch lias taken place upon
the subject show that there 15 a great deal of
doulit ln the minds of many hon. members as
to the proper course to bie pursued upon this
occasion, and I arn sure that my right hon.
frlend will agree wlth those who have upoken,
at aIl events ln thinking -that lu regard to an
act of grace ta a forelgu towu the House should
be unianirous. and that we sliould have no dlvisicil. It saems to me that a very grave qucstion may arise as to whether It is right, ln consideratîon of our .Iipiomatic relations with other
countries, that we should receive a petitiofi from
a foreigu towuz or country without knowing
wbetlier their ambass-tdor in tâte cotintry ls
acquainted with what they have done or lias
sanctioned It. As riglit hon. gentlemen opposite
who have been lu office will rernember, ln dealIng wlth a foreiga subject we always take care
theat ha approaclies us through hie ambassader.
and 1 think that it la a subject well worthy ot
coneideratlon. I woeld, therefore. suggest that
my rlght hon. friend sliould withdraw the motion
hie lias made, sa that we may move for a committeo to Inquire into, the question and report
upon It.
Tflen Mr. Disraeli speaks:
As there seems to exist in- the Houe some
doubt and great anxiety flot to have any divisen of opinion, I will wîthdraw the motion I
have made, and avail myseîf af the suggestion
of my riglit lion. frlend.
The committee, whlcb was, as I say, composed of experieuced pariamentarians, presented theïr report on the 16th of May, 1876,
whlch report I have read.
There bas beeu as far as I am aware, no
decîsion by a Speaker of the Senate ou the
The first
question Iuvolved lu this case.
declelon lu the (janadian Commons was by
8peaker Angiln on the lUth of Februiiry,
1877, on a petitlon. from the Boards of Trade
of D)etroit, CJhicago and some other United
States cities, complaining of the loss and luconvenleuce arislug frum the ctoslug of the
(Janadlian canuIe from Saturday evening unThe decisian was :
tii Manday morning.
That the petitian could flot be received, on
the ground that allens, flot residant ln tbis
country, had no right ta petitian. tbis paritamient, and that this House couid not receive
anry petitions fromn such persons.-Com. J. 1877,
p. 41.
The case which Is supposed ta h4ve overrulled that last eljted is that of the petîtion
of certain American citizens interested in
thle Connecticut Mutual lnsurne Companly.
The SPEAKER.

praying for amendments to the insur-ance
iaw.
I could flot find that in the Journals of
thle House, but It will be found ln the Coinmous 'llansard' of 1878, page 950, as follows :
Mfr. Speaker called attention to a petition
from A.merican citizens interested ln the Connect.icut Mutual Insurance Company, praying
for amendineuts ta the insurance law. Under
tte rules of the House titis petitiau could flot
lia recaived, aind lie would like ta have an exI;ression of opinion on the matter.
Speaker ÂuglIn dld flot decide that the ruie
was not that way, but lie Invlted an expresslon of opinion as ta whether that rule
shouid lie anforced or flot.
Mfr. Mackenzie said if had been the invariable practice in sucli cases ta allow representatives of companies in a foreigu country ta lay
their case before a comniittae of the House
for the purpase of presenting their views;
and It did seem ta hlm, therefore, rather unreasonable that by adopting a tit-for-tat policy the Bouse should prohibit parties f rom
He could
coming dlrectly before parliament.
flot couceive of any possible Injury whîch would
be caused by the reception of sucli a petition,
and lie would strongly advlse fliat It be recelved by the House.

Sir J. A. Macdonald did tint see any abjection
ta the reception of the petîtion. If must lie
reinembered, of course, fliat lu England the
rule was insisted upon which excluded foreign
0f
corporations from doing business -there.
course, lu Englaxd any deviation from that
mile miglit lie exceedingly Incan veulent as regardad anytbing into wbicli palitics mîglit enter. and passibly that was ope o! tihe reasons
Canada. in
why the prohibition was enforced.
this respect, was flot hiable ta be inconvenienced Iu the same way. and lie would suggest
that petitions should lie raceived by the Houqe
subject ta special legielatlon.
Mr. Speaker said lie thouglit It wauld ba wall
these petita have an undamstanding lling
tiaus 'ta parties, companies or corporations directly aud exprassly affected by the legislatian of tbis parliament aud its mode of doing
business.
Then In the session of 1880, this question
came up again
On thse petition of O. N. Brown and others,
vassal owners of Oswogo. dealing with the question n! harbours on the lakes, and on this petition being read, Mr. Speaker Blanchet ruiedHe used just thse saine words used by
Speaker Anglin ln 1878, that this peftion
could not be received on the ground that
aliens, non-residents lu this country, had
no right ta petifion parllament- Since that
time thiere have been saine other cases, which
I have not had time to go jnto carefully,
but they are refemred ta lu the note ta page
320 o! Baurinot, relating ta n petition froin

AY 14, 1902
certain persons ln the city of Portland, lu
the state of Maine, aaking for an Act of
Incorporation.
It waa received on the
ground that the aubject-matter came wltliin the jurisdiction of the House :
The necessity of offering every inducement
ta capital waa referred ta In the debate by Sir
John Macdonald as a reason for allowitg izhe
receptIon of sucli petitlon.
I may aay, hon. gentlemen, Iu reference ta
the matter before us, If there was no other
wny of getting the relief desired by the
inembers of the Russo-Greek Church ln the
North-west Terrîtorles, than that of petitloning through an allen, there rnight be sorne
ground for relaxing or flot enforcing the z:ule,
but the power of petitlonlng lu this matter
la flot confined ta the allen who resides ln
one forelgn country and la under the jurladiction or rule of another foreign country.
The people wlio suifer Inconvenience lîve
lu the Canadian Nortli-west, and there
doea flot aeem ta me to be any obstacle lu the way of thelr presentlng a
petition to parliament whlch would be perfectly regular and about which there could
be no question. I sliould hold, therefore,
that this petition, even If It were beyond
crltlcism lu every other respect belng from
an alleu resldlug lu a forelgn country and
flot coming under the decialona of Speaker
Anglin and other Speakers, Is flot sucli as
this House abould recelve.
But wlieu the lion, gentlemen corne to
examine. the petîtion carefully, I thiuk
other reasons suggeat themaelvea why It
la questionable whetber It sliould be recelved, I rneani even supposing there were
flot any objection on the ground of the
This petitlon Is lu
general practîce.
typewrlting and It la signed, or purporta to be sigued, by one petîtioner.
Tlklion, as far as one con maire out, and
looi-a lîke Rlcliop. There la juat the one
signature, and lu sorne other baud, a totally
dlfferent haud, la wrltten, 1thie Blshop of
the Orthodox Russo-Greek Catholle (Jlurch
of Northi Amerîca.' This signature la flot
verified lu any way ; aud It Ia a uuiforrn
rule, I thinki, lu legal matters at auy rate,
that where a document cornes from a foreigu
country It bas to be verlfied lu sorne way,
or consul by the certificate of a notary public or somethiug of that kmnd. There la
nothlug to satisfy parliant, that this gentleman la wliat lie la supposed to be, or that

the gentleman wlio la supposed to have
algned this petitioi, ever did aigu It ; and 1
thinir that la aomethlng which ought lu ltself
to cause us to liesitate about recelvlng the
petîtion. There la another circumatauce w'hich
Ia of sorne cousequeuce:. If this corporation
la a corporation lu the United States, tlieu
the petîtign should. be sealed wlth tlie seal
of the corporation. If lie la a corporation,
aud his a title there, then I thînir that the
title under whlch lie appîlea ta us, should be
the same tîtie by whlch lie la knowu lu the
United States ; aud, as a matter of tact, it
waa atated lu the discussion in anotlier
place, and was flot contradicted, that the
titie by wlicli thîs dlgnltary la kuowu ln
the State of Calîfornia aud lu the State of
Washington la flot the tîtie by whlci lie apples to us. I thînir, therefore, there la a
certain arnount of doubt tlirown ou the character of the petitlon.
I feel that I amn the more free to
express the vlew that I have, because,
as I uuderstand, prorogation lias been
announced. for to-morrow. Tlie Bili, which
has juat corne Up from. the other House,
could liardiy get tliroughi this session,
as there are gentlemen wlio oppose tlie Bill
aud would enforce tlie rulea againat itL My
deelsion, therefore, does not affect the fate
of the Bml.
Hou. Mr. WATSON-We have heard tlie
Speaker ou thia matter. He lia quoted very
iargely from. autliorlty, and appareutly laya
greater stress ou the latter part of bis argu.ment, that la the signature of the petîtioner.
The SPEAKER-No.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-He sald It would be
fatal. I do flot kuow that we ever bave
requlred a signature of that klnd to be witnessed by a uotary public. Lt la a little late
lu the day to question the rlght of petitionlng parîlament. Wlien thîs petition was
regubarly preseuted to the Senate and received, It; liad before that been preaented to
the House of Commons. The Speaker of that
House liad a rlght to reject the petîtion If
tliere waa anythiug of an objectionable nature lu It yet It; was received and the Bill
founded thereon introduced, and passed ail
Ita stages lu the House of Commons. Lt Is a
lîttie fate ln the day to speair about the lrregularlty of preaenting the petition, and for
tat, and for other reasous, I thiuk we should

SENATE
flot concur is tbe decîsion of tbe Speaker. Lt
lias been the practice to incorporate foneiguens lu Canada, and I should flot like It to go
on record tbat tbe Speaker rules that forelguers have no rIglit to petition the parliement of Canada. 1 would prefer to eee this
Bill defeated by objection to tbe suspension
of the miles lu the Senate, than eee It be
defeated by the nuling of the Speaker, whlch
would probably lie quoted lu the future as a
neason why foreigners should not bave the
riglit to petition. Foreignere have liad the
niglit to petition lu the paet. 0f course it
may be said that euch cases are exceptional,
but on dîfferent occasions, foreigners have
petitloned, and recelved Incorporation at
thie biauds of the parliament of Canada.
There -le the case of a number of Amenlcane who got Incorporation for what is.
known as a flehing club. This very session, the Senate passed a Bill-Bill Kfor the relief of Mr. Depew, a citizen (If tlie
United States. The petition was recelved,
and the Bill paseed by this House, and no
objection was raised. The Bill was defeated
on its menite la the House 0f Commons, but
so fer as the Senate le concerned, it received
the petition of Mr. Depew and tbe Bill was
paseed by this House and wns sent down
to the House of Commons, which show
cleariy that, on the menlte of the petition,
tlis petitlonen lias a perfect riglit to petition. Then we have the reaeoning quoted
to-day of Hon. Alexander Mackenzie and
Sir John A. Macdonald, when Speaker
Anglin asked to be edvised by the House
as to wliether lie sliould ellow the petition of an allen to be pneeented, end botli
tliose lion. gentlemen thouglit tliey sliould
not bar tbe right of forelguers to petition
perîlament. Thet was the opinion of Hon.
Alexander Mackenzie and Sir John A. Macdonald, and Speaker Anglin acted on that
opinion at that tîme. So far as the necessity of thîs Incorporation le concerned, from
reeding the débates-of couree the matter
le new to me practlcally-in the House of
Gommons, I came to the conclusion thet It
le a veny neceesary thlug that this Bill
should pees.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I thiuk tbe hon, gentleman le entirely out of order. He first discuesed the decision of the Speaker, wliich
eliould not be doue, end now lie is discussing the Bill itself.
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

Hou. Mr. WATSON-I bave a perfect riglit
to discusse the Speaker's decision.
The SPEAKER-Thie hou. gentleman bas
no riglit to discuss the menits of the Bil1l.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Ris Honour the Speaker eaid one reason why we should refuse
this petition wae because these people bad
the right to go eisewhere and secure relief,
and If that le part of the argument advanced
by the SpeakerThe SPEAKER-Thie bon. gentleman is
mistaken. I did flot say that at all.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I understood the lion.
gentleman to say that If no relief could be
secured otherwise by these people who are
petitioning, there would be some excuse for
recelilng the petition, but lu bis opinion,
tbey could go elsewhere.
Tbe SPEAKER-No.
Hou. Mr. WATSON-Tliat is what 1 understood, that the. hon, gentleman sald they
could go elsew'here-that the people luterested in this religidus body could get incorporation through pensons resident lu this
country. We Incorporate individuals hene.
We have this session incorporated the Bishiop of Moosonee for the purpose of holding
property, and If this Bill le not passed, -)f
course thils religious body must depend ou
other means. I beg to move that the Speaker's decision be not coucurred lu, and that
the petition be received.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I lis,tened witli a great deal of attention and
interest to the lucid reasons given by the
Speaker for the decision at whlcb hie aniived, and 1 thiak the Senate is unden great
obligations to hlm for the cne andassiduity
with wbich lie lias deait witli this question.
Whatever we may do by way of courtesy le a
matter for thie consideration of this House.
Tbe decision given by the Speaker, and the
reasons for that declion, I thlnk are ample
to justify the Senate lu sustainiug the position that hie lias taken. I do flot know that
1 even beard, lu aIl my long experlence, so
lucid a reason furnislied. for coming to a
decision as that gîven by the Speaker ln
tbis case. While I say tbat, I would have
been mucli better pleased-and I say It wlth
ail due deference to the Speaker-liad lie
left out tlie last portion of tbe reasons lie
advanced ln reference to the position ltself.

MAY 14, 1909
The question confines itself, to my niind,
to the rIgbt of foreigners to petition this
House for the privilege of holding property
in Canada, the petitioner being one over
wbom we have no control %vhatever. If
the people who beleng te this Churcb, whlh
ls cailed the Ortbodox Russo-Greek Church,
desire an Incorporation, those living la the
territories, or lu the Yukon district, bave
the rigbt as residents of this country, to
petition parliament, asking for It. If a
petition of that kind were presented, then
a rulng from the Speaker would net have
been necessary. I take it, tbey are British
subjects now, and bave ail the rights
and priviieges of British subjects, and
If they require an Act of Incorporation let
them petition for It, and I bave no
doubt it wlill be given.- The hon, gentleman
bias called attention to certain petitions
which have been preseated and whicb have
not been objected to. Th*at, I believe,
to be quite correct, but the Speaker was
nlot called upon to intervene and prevent the presçnting, or reading, of tbe petitien. 'and bis attent:oa not baviing been
cailed to tbem, bie was not placed ln the positi 'on of havlng te give an opinion. I hope
thiat the hon. senator froni Marquette (Mfr.
Watscn) wiil net press bis motion te a
vote; I repeat that I tbank thue Speaker for
the Information wbIch lie bas given us. Lt Io
a valuable decision, and wili be something to
guide us in tbe future. Personally, I arn
entirely opposed te the reception of petilions from people wbo are really and exclusively foreigners. Tbey bave no rIghts
ln this country, unless they become residents here and have an interest ln the
-country, eitber tbrough receiving our protection, or becoming.citizens of the DominIon. Ia the rernark-j made by Disraell,
quoted by Hie Heneur the Speaker, you
will notice tbat hie based bis opinions and
made his statements upon the fact that a
number of the petitioners were Britisb eubjecte living ln a forelgn country. If they
wmre British subjects living in a foreign
country and not receiving justice la that
country, they would bave a rigbt to petitien for protection, but ln tbis case there ls
nothiag of that kind. The petitioner is a
foreigner, living la a foreign country, petitioningi this parliament for certain rigbts
and privileges, wbich, to my mind, should
not be granted te bin, and I for one cor-

Idialiy approve

of the ruling of the Speaker
on this question, and hope the Senate wll
nlot be dlvided on the ruiing.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I entireiy concur ln tbe
observations made by the leader of the op.
position. I have listened on very many occasions to the decisions of Speakers ln this
House and other Chambers, and have never
beard the decision of a Speaker more forclbly and substantlaliy maintained by authorities, than the one we have beard today. It is a very tinusuai thing to appeal
from the decision of a Speaker after be bas
taken sucb care to look into the autiioritles, and having bis judgment governed by
those wbo were called upon, under similar
circumstances, to -Ive decisions. The invariable practice bas been to maintain the
decision of the Speaker, wben we have once
referred a matter to bis ruling. I therefore
hope the hon. gentleman from M~'arquette,
who bas passed sone, strictures ou the
Speaker's décision, ,ill not persevere lia
appealing to tbe House.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (British Columbia)-1 arn sure tbe House appreclates the
very careful aud elaborate opinion given
by the Speaker ln this matter. I do net
rime to question that opinion, but 1 want to
set the Hous-ý right. The question wvas,
could a petitioni froin an allen, living iii
a foreiga couatry, be recelved by this
Heuse ? How does the House stand now ?
We recelved the petition, we-read the petitien, wpe referred 'the petition. Wbere does
It stand now ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nebody called attention to It
H on. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Tbe committee has reported on it, and the proper
course for the House now ls to refer
the report back to the commIttee witb Instructions. That is a question whlch perbaps the 9peaker wIll decide. If this decision bad been given before the petition
was read, it would have been a different
matter, but having gone through ail these.
stages with the consent of the House, It
muet be referred back to the committee.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tbe question practically le this : Shall any other than British
subjects.-be allowed to petition the Senate
of Canada ? The objection taken ls on the
ground that the petitioner Is an allen ani

534

p

SENATE

therefore bis petition cannot be received.
This is a very important matter. A written
ruiing, and a very elaborate one, on the part
of the Speaker, wiii be piaced on the Journais of our House, and ta a great extent,
until we have a standing order to the contrary, this wiii be referred to, and the
practice of the House ln future wiii be governed by this decision, so that lt la flot a
matter to be passed over lightiy. We have
to consider how far we are gaing t0 lock
our doors ln the way of lnitiating legisiation for private Bis. This affects particuiarly property rIgbts which may be necessary to 'be protected by legisiation from pariiament. Let us get the history of the case,
as if la, up to date. If I have the date correctiy, the petition was presented to this
House on tbe l9tb of March, read and received -on the 21st of March, and to-day, on
the 14tb day of May, we are trying that
petition. I must confess that if seems to
me f0 be a pretty late triai.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Better
late than neyer.

Every petitlon should have the signature of at
1-east thnee petitioners on the sbeýt containing
the prayer. But this mule la ne7er inte.rpreted
as preciuding a aligle petitioner frem approachsimply refera to petitions
ing the flouse ;it
signed by a number of individuals. Petitions
troa' one person are conatantly received in accordance with the English mules which are
more deanite on this point.

Therefore there eau be nothing ln that Objection. But I wJii cali attention f0 a decision which was given lu the House of
Commons ln 1883, at page 138 of the ' Hansard ' of that year. Petitiaus for private
Bis la tbe beading :
Mr. Hall moved that the petitiaa af Chas. P.
Mattocks and others of the city of Porland,
presented yesterday, praying for an Act of Incorporation under the laws of the Dominion,
under the name of the WVinslow Packlng Com.
pany, be now. read and recelved.

Mr. Blake took objection to that, and ln a
portion of bis remarks said .
There was a mule laid down by ane of your
predeceesors, Mr. Speaker, as to petitions frrnt
toreignera, or aliens.
Tbe Speaker muied. He said:

I remembcr that Mr. Speaker *Anglin, ln rulig ont a petition tram Amnerican cîtizens, re ferred to, the tact that it bad been. decided ln
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Is if going to 'be laid England that a petition which came t rom smre
down ln this House that, as a mile of prac- residents of France, at Boulonge-sur-Mer, could
It has been
be recelved; but
fiee, at any fime we can go back and try not practice here--end subsequently suggested it
Mr. Anglin
the
any particular action ? If that la so, It la as advisable--that petitions from foreigners, reaffected by the legislation
unheard of ln deliberafive bodies. We have lating to mattera. which the petition is preof parliament te
a ruie, clear and distinct, that you' cannot sen.ted, may be meceived. Mr. Speaker Brand
refer, during the session, to any previons bas decided that such petîtions may be me-

action of the Senate. We cannot introduce
a BiII on the same subject, te reverse the
judgment of the Senate, without a iuspension of the ruies. Now we are asked f0 reverse our Judgment with reference to this
pefition. Furfher, ln a secondary degree,
my hon. friend the Speaker bas laid stress
on the fact that tbere Is on]y one signature
to thepeftIton.

ceived, on the ground thst their eubject-matter

cornes within the jurisdiction of the flouse.
This being a -petition appamentl-y applyin-g for

incorp>oration under the laws of the Dominion,
It would appear f0 coame within that rifle, ýand

may, therefore, be received.
That wae the ruiing of the Speaker of the
House of (rmmons on Mareb 8, 18M3.
The SPEiAKER-Whe was tbe Sipeaker ?

lion. Mr. YOUNG-Mr. Kirlrpftrick. MNr.
Blake goes on, aftem tbe Speaker bad given
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I undemstood my bon. his ruling and deelded that tbe petition
friend pointed that out-that the signature could be received :
was not authentieated. I would ask If we
But apart frora that question, can It be mehave ever had any signature to a petifion ceived without the consent of the flouse.
Mr. SPEAKER-No ; unless wlth the consent
autbenficated ?
of the flouse, that 'the mule shall be walved'.
The SPEAKER-No.

It muet lie on the Table two days before It can

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Whaf the Speaker said be meceivedwas, If It was' a corporation, the petition
That la the ordinary routine with reference
wouid require the comporafe seai.
This petition whicb we are
f0 pefitions.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG--According to Bourinot, eonsiderlng to-day was received a montb
Therefore, we bave gone past that
page 219:
ago.
Hom. Mr. YOUNG.

?MA.Y 14, 1909,
stage of the praceedings, the petition baving
been passed on by tbe Speaker of the House
of Commons. wbose duty it is to serutinize
and supervise every petition. Our Speaker
lias lot thiat duty devolvingupon hlm, apparently, but in the House of Coxnmous,
If any petition le out of order, the Speaker
calls the attention of the House to It, and
rules that it Is out of order. This petition
bas gone througb the House of Connnons.
The SPEAKER-Does the bon. gentleman
ailege tbat tbe attention of Speaker Brodeur
was specially dlrected to this petition ?
Hon. Mr. YOUIN4-It did ixot need to be
By tbe standing ruies
speclly directed.
0f the lbuse of Commons lt is the Speaker's
auty to cail tbe attention of the House to
any irregularity, whether lu a petition or
anything else, and lie serutinizes petîtions
ciosely, because If 1you look at the proceedings of the other liouse, you will see where
te rules petitions out of order.
lion. Sir MACKE2YZIE BOWELL-That
i. after recelving the report of the Cierli,
whose duty It la to cali his attention to It.
lion. Mfr. YOUNG;-That makes my position etronger, for after examination by a
competent oflicer, thirs petition was reelved
ln the otber bouse.
lion. Mfr. (GIBSON-Tlhere -was double care
in the other bouse "!
Hon. Mfr. IOUNG;-Xes. Here, under the
marne flag, the sme constitution, and wlth
no ruie preventing It, wlth p.ractice ln our
favour ln the past, we corne to a decision
to-day whicb, for the future, will iock the
door against ail sucli petîtions.
lion. Mr. LANI>HY-If 1 underistand the
bon, gentleman, his contention ls thîs : the
petition having been received, horw can we
go back
lion. Mr. YOUUNU-T-rhat la one point.
Hon. Mfr. LA.NJIY-A Bill la more than a
petition ln that respect. If he wili look at
Bourinot, page =2, lie will Iind:
If a Bill has been presented, and read a firat
tIme. before the Conittee on Standing orders bave reported on the petition, the order
for the second reading must lie forthwith discliarged, and the Bill withdrawn until it can
lie introduced reguiariy.
non. Mr. YOUNG-T-rhat is a cage of irregtHfarlty in procedure. ln case of irregular-

ity, the proeeedingz must lie cornrence<i de
novo ; but this la regular.
Hon. Mr. LAINDHY-I tbougbt the hon.
gentleman sald It was irregular to strilze
ItL out now, because It had been rÈcelvéed
once T
Hon. Mr. YOUUKG-Yes.
Hon. Mr. NVXTISO)N-The petition, not the
BIJIi
lion. Mfr. BERINIljll-It Is not regular to
receive a petition wbicb should not bie recelved.

friend
hon.
lion. Mr. YOUYGL-MNýy
Then on the
mtrengthenm my argument.
21st of Mardi, lie should bave stood Up i
blm place ln the bouse and moved that the
petiltion bie not received. Tbat la the point.
bernember the petition was presented by
an bon. member of this bouse. He hein.an old member, no doulit supervised the
petition-an bon. member who would ixol
preeent a petitlon If lie had not been satislied It wam strictiy ln conformity with the
mules and practice of the bouse.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (P. E. I.)-MiNlght
I amk: the bon .gentleman If he called the attention of the House to the fact of It being
a petitlon from a foreigner ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I take it my bon.
friend wio, premented -the petition would
read It, as we ail do--a petition from mo-andmo--givlng the name and addrems. I take lt
lie thought of the mile of the House. 1 fancy
that lie did do that. But If we turn to our
minutes of proceedinga, we wll mee whether
or flot the Houme liad faim wamning. That
may be an 'Important point whicb I have
over1ooked. I refer to page 60 of our minutes of proceedinga of tbim year. TJnder the
headting 'The followlIng petitionfl were meverally brouglit np and laid on the Table:
By the lIon. Mr. LOUGHEED- Of the RIght
Rev. Tlkhon, of thxe city of San Francisco, in
the state of Clifornia, one of the United Sta.tes
of America, Bishop of the Orthodox RussoGreek Catholie Church o! North Âmerica and
the Aleutian Islands.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The report was propared by the clerk, but as a matter o! fact,
we ail know these endorsenients are not
ail read.
1Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I take my hon. friend
1on that point. We sbould, diseuse this came-

SENATE
fully. I have read the extract of the 19tli
of Maliredi, from the minutes of proceedings
placed in the bands of every bon. gcnUteman for perusal, and I would îîot fonr one
moment suggest that any bon. gentleman
cloes flot make It bis 'tfrst duty, wben this
document is placed iii bis bands, to look
over It to see tbat everything is propeir'y
done. I would flot suggest for a moment
tbat tbe bon, gentleman from St. Bonif'ace
would fail to do so. This was placed in the
bion. gentleman's bands on the 21st of
M4arcb. We have another record of our own
to, wbich 1 sbouid ie to cail attention, and
It reads as follows:
Pursuant to the Orders of the Day, the followlng petitions were severally read.
And amongst the number is the petit 'ion
of tbe Rlgbt Reverend Tikbon, of tbe City
of San Francisco, u! the state of California one of tbe United States of Anierica,
&C. Therefore thIe point that the bon. mentbers bad no notice and no opportunity of
knowlng wbere tbe petitioner reslded, or
Wbat the petition was, I thiuk; fails to the
ground, lu view o! our record. WVe bave
two points to consider. The peition was
rend lu the House as far back as the
21st Marcb, and the flrst time tbe point
of order was raised witb regard to that
petition was yesterday.
I submit for
the consideration o! the House tbat It
is now too lute to raise the point o! order.
Secondly, the practice in the past bias been
to receive petitions from foreigners. Tbe
lion, gentleman froin Portage la Prairie (.%r.
,Watson) bas also, sbown the House tbat we
bave doue the very saine tbing this session,
andi sthal we now go back on our record of
the 21st Mnrch, and say that in future to
allen shaîl be permitted to petition tbe
Senate of Canada-because that is the effect
of this decision. 1 fancy my hon. frlend wili
admit tbat It Is too important a matter to
leave ln that position. The decision of tbe
Speaker should not be regarded as a precedent: we should lenve our bands free, lu
vlew o! the fact tbat we bave received tbe
petition. I do not wish to reflect upon tbe
judgmeut of the Speaker, but I tbiuk It:
would be well to avoid establlsbing sncb a
pecedent.
The SPEAKER-I wish to make one or
bwo observations lu order to remove a misapprehiension, I did not seek tbe right 10
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

make tbis decisiou. I did flot wisb ý'or IL.
The House iinsisted tbat I sbouid do it. I
Intimated that I did not wisb to mak-e tlis
decision.

Tbe hon, gentleman bas just ralsed

a question Which bie could have raised
wheu it was proposed to ask my decigion.
Hou Mr. YOUNG-I did.
The SPEAKER-Wby was not the senîse
of the House taken tben ? As I understaind
it, the iouse decided to waive any irregularitr and to ask for the decision o! the
Speak-er, and It ls too late now to say : Oh
wveIl, dt was irregular. This matter should
not have beeu re!erred to tbe Speaker.'
That Is a retlectiou on the action of the
bouse yesterday.
Hoa. Mr. YOUNG-M-%y bon. friends wihl
bear me out lu this, that when the point %vas
raised, I called the attention of tbe Speaker
to tbe ver y fact that we bad passed on tbe
petition and that It bad been received. I
dld not give dates, but I said it was about a
month ago purposely, s0 that my hon. friend
could take that luto, consideration lu giving
bis decision. He could have very well ruled
then. Iuasmuchi as the time had elapsed for
raislng objection to tbe petition, and on that
point alone, wvlthout going into the merits
o! the case. I submit bie could bave ruled
that the point of order was flot well takeu.
Tbe SPEAKER-lt is flot for me to rule.
It Is for the House to rule.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-bear, hear.
The SPEAKER-Wheu the bouse decided
to ask My opinion on the question, I was
reluctant tor rule : aud it seems a littie liard
that hion, gentlemen sbould take the line
they have taken under tbe clrcumstauces.
But even admitting tbat this point is flot
taken too late, as I couteud, then I wlsh to
direct the attention of the House to May,
page 502, tenth edition, wbere I read as foilows :
In both Hlouses. It Is the duty of mnembers
to read petitions which are sent to them, before they are presented, lest any violation of
the miles of the Flouse should be apparent on
the face of them; lu which case it Is their duty

îlot to offer them to the House. If the Speaker
observes, or any member takes notice of any
irregularlty. the mý-mber bavlng charge o! the
petition does flot brlug lt up, but retumus lt to
the petitioners.
If auy irregularity escaps
detection at this time, but [s dlscovered when
the petition is further exa.mlned, no eutry of
its presentation appears lu the Votes. Iu other

MAKY 14, 1902

537

cases, more formai notice is taken of the rules
of the House. and the patitions are not received. or are ord.3red to be wlthdrawn, or are
A member who bas reason ta berejected.
Ileve that the signatures ta, a petition are genuiac. is justlrt*d ia presenting it, although
doubts may have beeu raised as ta their authenticity; but ln such cases the attention of
the House should be directed to the circumnstances.
The hon. gentleman thaught I should have
deait with this question. I refralned from
doing so, beeause I thought that the House
had settled that particular question. I listen
with a fair degree of attention to the reading of petitions, but I neyer knew that that
petition had been received. I do not thlnk
one hon. gentleman Iu tire was aware that
the petition had been received.

right to obtain a patent also give hlm the
rlght, under the law and under practice, to
ask for an extension of It. That ls ail Mr.
Depe-w did, and that ls ail parliament deait
wlth.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wlth
reference ta the precedent ta whIch the hon.
gentleman froni Marquette bas called attention, with reference to Mr. Depew, I
think It Is not pertinent to this question ;
but before referring to that, I take this
ground-and I thlnk It is sustained by the
rule read from May-that the righit of a
senator neyer ceases, whlle the parliament
is ln session, or any question Is under discussion, ta take objection and ta maise a
point of order upon any question. He 'te
neyer deprived of that The refemence ta the
case of 3fr. Depew ls scarcely fair, and
is not pertinent ta this matter at ail. Mr.
Depew obtained a patent under the laws of.
the Dominion, and the iaw of the Dominion
regulating the grant of patents extends ta
any persan over the whole world. Mr. Depew hnvlng obtalned that autharlty under
the law of Canada, only asked for an extension of It, and that was granted. Lt Is
dane ail the tIme, s0 that it lias nothlng ta
do with this question of foreigners petitionIng. Lt does not affect this point. The
laws of Canada giving ta a foreigner the.

golng to make his motion I muet have it
lu writlng.
lion. Mr. TEiMPEIiAN-He bus signilied his Intention ta withdraw.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do not wlsh ta
withclraw the motion. It may be declared
10sf on a division.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It does
what the petitioner siz.

flot

matter

Hon. MEMBERS-Question, question.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The question Is that
the Speaker's rulng be flot sustained.
The SPEAKER-The
ini writlng.

motion should

be

Hon. Mr. WATSON-It has been suggested
to me by some hon. members that I should
wlthdraw the motion. I do not wlsh to
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-What does waste much time over it. 0f course the suspension,«f the rules wlill be objected ta, and
the. hon, gentleman recomniend.. now that
the Bill wlll be defeated. I have no wlsh to
the petitioci las been received and rend ?
force a vote when the B'ill Is sure to 'be deThe SPEAKER-Under the authorlty of feated.
May, the House caci deal at any trne wlth
H3on. Mr. TEMPLE.MAN-I thlnk, In ail
ii petition irregularly received.
falrness to the hon. gentleman;, who has no
Hon. Mr. OWENS-There Is no motion be- desire to dlvd-e the Hanse on the question
and who says he ls wllling to wlthdraw the
fore the Hanse.
motion, we should not force hlm into that
The SPEAKER-Yes, there is a motion position.
appealing from my decîsion.
The SPEAKER-If the hon. gentleman ls

The SPEÂKER-We will take a division.
Will the hon, gentleman be good enough
ta put his motion In wrlting, and we will
have a division on ItL
The motion was hast, on division.
BILL INTIWODUCEi ).
A message was receivedi from the Hnose
of Commons with Bill (140) 'An Act ta
Incorporate the Bishap of the Orthodox
Russo-C3 reek Catholic (jhurch for Nortc
AmerlS and the Aleutian Islands.'
*The Bil1 was rend the tiret time.
lion. Mr. LÂNL>IY-I abject. ta, the readlng of the Bill, because there is no report
of the $tan-ding Urders (Jommhitee.

SEXATE
lion. Mr. BERINIEIt-1 take objection to of d.i-culty on tils one question in thie
Stan.ding Orders Committee, and If this matt1ils Bill.
The SPEAKER-The Bill la read a first ter la setteci now, with thie acquiescence of
tlme as a matter of course, but It cannot the (Jommons, we wili get over ail the dIfficuity. 1 do bope, If it can be done, that
pruceed any furtlier.
tie lion, gentleman will withdraw his objection.
THE EUJLEýS OF THE SENATTE.
]Lon. Mr. DÂNJJURÂND-Notice was
MOTION POSTPONED.
given yesterdlay.
lon. Mr. BEIQUE moved.:
'ihat raie 50 of the Senate be amended by Hon. Mr. BEIiQ 0E-i understood thie hon.
strlking out the words ' two months ' and sub- Speaker ruled yesterday, when the quesutituting therefor the words ' one month.'
tion was raised, that the notice given then
lion. Mr. LAINDRY-1 rise to a point of would be taken as a aummons.
order. Rtule 50 la a staning order and we
Thie SPEAKIEI-l think so.
cannot amend it without compiying witb ai
the requirements of ruie 16.
lion. Mr. IOUNGi-1 sliould like to ask
The S1'EAKERll-Tlie menîbers sliouid the lion. Speaker to glve bis ruling, or to
give us the procedume under Standing Order
bave been -sunmoned.
No. 16.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-1 tliougbt il. was the
lion. Mr. LAINDIY-lt was done .before.
uuiderstandlIng yesterday that the senators
be summoned to-day for the purpose of
Hlon. Mr. YOUNG-The words ' previously
consldering it.
1 presume ail those wvlo summoned' weme used.
Wliat stepa lias
are In the clt-y are la attendance.
my lion. friend froim Montreal to take to
'£he SiEÂKER-Tlie members cau be suminon tis Ilouse witli meference to tliat
If flot by notice of motion ?~ If tliere 15
sunimioned for to-morrow morning.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I asl. for a ruling. any other procedume let us determine that
now, so that xny lion. friend can arrange
Is this motion la order ?
It for the next sItting of thie House.
'The :SFEA.KE-i rule that it la flot la
The SPEAKER-If hon. gentlemen will
order.
excuse me, I made a mIstake just now
lion. Mr. BEIQ U0L,-la the bon. gentleman wvItb respect to maie 16. Tlie practice under
fronm Stad-acona opposed to this suggested that rule lias been tliat a si3eial notice Is
change fmom two montlMs to one month *1 sent to every member of tlie Senate tefling
If hie is, lie la welcome to ralse the question liim that at such a time a special motion
of order.
wili be made to adopt the Standing Order,
lion. Mr. LANL)iY-1 raise the question but the hon, gentleman gave lits notice unof order as a matter of princîple., I do not dem rule 17, which reads as foliowa :
want to change the ruies witliout compiyNo motion ta suspend, modify or amend any
mule or part thereof shall be la order except
ing witli ail the fommalities.
on one day's notice la writing, specifying.preHion. Mr. MACDONALD) (B.C.)-It was cisely the rule proposed to be suspendefi, modi.agreed by the Hous that If a notice of lied or s.mended, anS the purpose of such susmotion was glven it siiould stand as a pension.
This motion la perfectiy ln order. It la
summons.
a motion to amend rule 50 by substltuting
Hou. Mr. LANDIfl-l did flot agree to
one montli for two months.
't.
lion. Mr. MACDONALD

(B.C.)-It was

Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-Wliere

tliere la

a

speciai order stating that when we corne
motion stood as a summons to the House to amend a standing. order, tlie Senate

understood

yestemday tiiat

the

notice

of

to appear.
Hon. Mr. CLEM-NOW-It was given yesterday to overcome a ditUeulty. It la an Im-

must be summoned; we cannot get outaide
of tliat.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I submit raie 17 proportant matter. We bave lîad n great deai vides for the suspension and modification
Hon. Mr. LANUZDY.

MAY 14, 1902
of ruies ln our routine business during olir
sittings. When we corne to, malte a permanent change we must be bound by rule
16.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is riglit.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-That la the view I
take of It, subject to the decision of the
Speaker; I asked the hou. Speaker a moment ago as to what stepa were necessary
for a speciai summons.
Hon. Mr: VIDAL-Â written notice sent
to every member.
The SPEAKER-If the House decide that
my decision Is incorrect, that bas to be
done. But my decision la that the hon.
gentleman's motion la- in order.
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
think the ruling of the Speaker would be
quite correct If he were confining bis motion to this session, to affect any Bill or
petition during this session. Then Itmright
be strictly In order, but if you can nuhlify
tbe provisions of No. 16 by giving this notice, there Is no use lu baving it there. It
Ia contradictoty and absurd.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The sinpier way wouid
be to give a notice for to-rnorrow.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tben
you wouid corne within the meaning of tbe
rule. My Interpretation of the rule is that
the Speaker's ruiing la quite right, providing the bon. gentleman's motion Is conlined
to the present session, but If the Intention
Is to repeal absoiutely rule 16, then 1 take
It the notice must be given as suggested
by the hon. Secretary of State.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I understood yesterday tbat rny notice was given under rule
16, and i understood that tbe very question
was raised by the bon, gentleman frorn
Stadacona (Hon. Mr. Landry) and that the
expression of opinion was to tbe effect tbat
mile 17 did refer to matters of ordin*ary routine, or matters lirited to the session as the
bon. leader of the opposition says, but that
under mile 16, I had to give notice, and that
givIng the notice yesterday, the hou. members wouid be surnroned to take thernatter
into consideration, whicb I did. I 'do not
understand why the motion la out of order,
unless It la beid that an intermediate day
must elapse.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I dxd iiot object yesterday ; II: was the bon, gentleman from1
Montarville who objected ln Frencli. Me
was speaking ln Frenchi and calied attention to it, and the Speaker, thinking probably It was given under rule 17, said we
wouid want a day's notice but the objection I take to-day la that the House Is aitering by that motion a standing order, and
therefore ail the senators must be summoned.
DeBOUCHERVILLE-The
Mr.
Hon.
Speaker decided this motion was ln order.
I think tbat la perfectly right-that is, it
ought to be on the Order paper, but -Il does
not foiiow that the motion mnust be adopted.
When It cornes to asking for the adoptio n of
the motion, then cornes In rule 16, but that
rule does not operate to prevent the motion
being piaced on the Order paper, and being
put by the Speaker. But wben the motion
Is put by the Speaker, then rule 16 appiies,
and that rule says that the ruies cannot be
changed unless the senators have been summoned. The Speaker bas said-and I think
he la correct-tbat It wouid be sufficient to,
put the motion for to-morrow, and the
Speaker wouid give orders that notice be
sent to every senator, and then the matter
It seems to me that
wouid be settied.
would be the proper course.
The SPEAKER-I have ruled that the
motion is ln order; I do not know what the
bon, gentleman from De Salaberry decides
to do.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The question of order
la raised and It la for the Speaker to decide.
The SPEAKER-I have decided.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.O.)-Take a
vote.Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Migbt
I. ask the Speaker If the passing of this motion will abrogate and repeal mile 16 ? I
might say that I arn ln favour of the motion
myseif.
Hon. M r. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If it
does not, It means nothing. That la wbat
I abouid Ilke to understand frorn the
Speaker. I repeat I arn ln favour of lessening the Urne, but wiii the passage of this
resolution nuiiify anid repeai rule 16 ?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, no.
It was before. The third clause rends as
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did foliows
The -preceding sections of this Act shaîl apply
flot ash- the hon. gentleman from Stadacona.
to any penalty, fine or'forfeiture under the proHon. Mr. BEIQUE-To be on the safe aide, visions of sections 298 to 305 of the Railway
1 ask that the motion be allowed to stand Act, for the recovery of which judgment bas
4eretofore been obtained.
and that the members be summoned for toIt ls restrlcted entirely to these cases. Hou.
morrow.
The SPEAKER-With the consent of the members have clted as precedents an lImHouse, this motion is deferred until the ait- peril Act, and another Act passed by this
parliament concerning the customis duties.
ting to-morrow morning-, and the clerk wll
Neither of tbem has any retroactive eoeect.
summon the miembers to attend at that meet[t bas been admltted that the law of the
ing.
Imperial parîlament only applied to the f uHon. '.%r. CLEMOW-Wili there be a no- ture. The BIill passed by our parliament entice sent
abling the Governor ln Council to remît penThe SPEAKER-The notice of motion la alties Incurred under the Customs *House
carried over, and the members wil be sum- Act, bas no reference *to the past. It appiied
simply to the future, wben it was passed. It
moned.
was only a repetitlon of an Act that existed
The motion ivas aliowed'to stand.
before. Therefore, there ls notbing retroREM1ISSION 0F PENALTIES BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. TEMPLEMÂN moved the thIrd
reading of B4fll (151) 'An Act respectlng the
remission of Penalties.'
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I cannot
agree to the third reading of this Bill and
I am going to give my reasons, whicb I expèct wili be convincing to hou. members of
this House. I must first pay my compliments to the hon, gentleman from De Salaberry (Hon. Mfr. Beique) wbo bas taken the
place of the goverumentHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
hear.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUOHERVILLE-And who
bas demonatrated bis great ability. However, as he bas not had time to study the
question, I thlnk I may be allowed to ehow
hlm that ln some points hie did flot entlrely
understand the matter. The hon. mInister
%vlthout portfolio lu this VIouse (Hlon. Mr.
Texnpleman) should have time to study the
measures whIch corne before us, and I tbink
we shouid get more Information than we
have received from the government.
It
wouid have been fairer If the governmeut
had printed this Bill as amended, because at
present we have oniy the report of the committee, which ls flot very clear.
At ahl
events If I 'understand the amendments as
I rend tlhen, the Bill is more restricted than
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

active ln either of the precedents cited. I
'direct the attention of members to this fact.
I arn sorry that my bon. friend from British
Columbia made au appeni the other day,
saying to me, 'You are flot ln favour of lnformers.' I do flot favour them, but I behIeve lu treatlng themn with justice, and 1
arn prepared to go further than that. I
thlnk our iaw is defective. We should not
put ln our laws.anything encournglng informlng, but as it Is, we bave iaws that
favour Informers. As long as the iaw exists,
we should enforce it. When Uhe hon. g-entieman spoke of favourlng foreigners. I daresay
he did flot say it for the purpose of influencing the Senate, but it might have lnfiuenced
sme of us. I arn going to show that there
1s nothiug favouring informera lu this case.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-My hou.
friend used that phrase before I did. I
quoted bis words.
lon. Mfr. VeBOUUliER-VILLE-1 tbought
my hion. friend said to me 'you do flot favour Informera.' At ail events, It bas been
said that the Bill ls retroactive only against
these 'informera.'
Those Informers have
nothlng to do wlthl this. %Vemustflot forget
that this Bill is confined exclusively to sections 289 to 305 0f the Ralwny Act. Take
tiiose sections 289 to 805, and wbat do we
finci Y~ They ail appiy to the annual returna
of companles to the government. Foilow on
ana see what it says : They -may be condlemneci to pay a very large penalty, but no-

MAY 14,1902

fi41
5

MAY 14, 1902
541
stated that nothing ln this Bill is retroactive.
where (Io we find that tbe Informer can
corne lu. Thie penalty wili hie pald te the Look~ at the last part of the third clause,
governrnent If the geverumeut exact it, and whlch reads as folio ws:*
wii hie paid entlrely te the goverumeit and
Or proceedings which have heretotore been
it stands te reason thiat the Informer cannot instituted, but sball nit be otherwise retrogive any Information te the government on active.
this point.
In our laws, we are going to do a thing you
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-Would the hion. gen- *111 fot find ln any Engiish law. The iaws
tleman'allow me to correct alui? I bchI<eve tbey pass are flot retroactive, but for the
lie la laboring under a misapprehension. I future.- As I said the ether day, there are
yesterday dlrected the lion. gentieman's at- some states ln the nelghbouring country In
tention to chapter 180 of the Revised Sta- which the constitution prohibits retroactive
tutes, where It la stated that ln ail cases, as legisistion.. In England they have no such
regards penalties and fines, if there la no pro- law, because the character of the Britishi
vision made te the contrary, one-haîf of the people la such that they do not think anyfine ls payable te the gove-ei ment and the body would attempt to lagisiate lu that way.
other hli to the party who takes the suit It seenis to nme that sînce confederation, exand as there are no special provisions to the oept lni one case, (and I amn happy to say It
contrary iu any et the sections froni 298 -te was flot ln Ithis House) justice bas neyer
305 ef the Railwsy Act, It seexus to me per- been refused te those who were persecutesl,
fectly plain that this section of chapter 180 but ln this case we are going to do Injustice by law. I'erhaps it is flot 80 bad to reof the Revised Statutes applies.
fuse justice as to do Injustice.
Hon. Mfr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-In anlion. Mr. DANJJUItND-Injustce te
swer te the hon, gentleman, I cali bis :îttenhtou te section 305. 1 do flot see wny It whom ?
bas been put there, but stili it ls tlierc. It
lion. Mr. DeBOUCIRERVILLE-Xou are
reads as foilows:
taking away money wvhlch, under the law,
'ÂU returna made ln pursuance of any pro- beiongs to certain people.
visions of the severai sections et this Act
next preceding, shall be priviledged communiHon. Mfr. DANDURÂND-Hard-earned
cations sud shall not be evidence ln any court
money !
whatever.
Therefore, how can *an infor'mer *run the
risk of ail the expenses and not be able to
bring any proof ? These are privlleged cernmunications te the geverfiment and ahail
flot be evidence lu any court whatseever.
Thierefere it ls only the governacat that
can ask those companies who have not made
the returus, lu psy thie penalty. 1 think that
ls a perfect answer to the lion. gentleman.
The Bill wiHI only apply to the raiiways.
Then why dees not the government corne
falrly and frankly before us and say : ' We
have forgotten te do ItV They msy say :
1We thouglit they were not bound te pay
snd we ask permission te remit that sentence.' There would be ne retroactive effect,
therefore, If that clanse. were struck eut,
and &Ince the majority et the members of
the House are ln favour of glvlug that
power te the gove=ument, I would net ebject
to that. But why should we put on Our
statutes a provision like this ? It bas been

lien. Mfr. DeBUUUliEItVILLE-Why does
flot the lion, gentleman, w.ith lits lberal,
advanced Ideas3, bring ln a BIR showlng
thiat we are entirely wrong In offeriug a
reward to Informera?. Do flot give any
reward te those people, but If you do offer
a reward, but just. Is faltb not; te lie kept
wlth those 'who are not of your op)inion ? 1
move:
That this Bill le not now read the third time,
but that lt be read a third time this day three
rnenths.
The Senate dIvideci on the amendment,
which was rejected on the following vote:

Baker,
Bern1er,
Bouchervihll,
Olemiow,
D5obeon,
Landry,

Contents:
Hon. Messieurs
Macdoniald (P.E.I.),
Montplatsir,
Owene,
de
Wood
<Weetmoreiand).--O.

542

SENATE

Non-Cont.3nts
Hoei. Messieurs
B4ique,
Mackay (Alma),
Bowel
McLaren,
(Sir Mackenzie),*
Mcl&ullen,
Pelletier
CarlIng (Sir John),
Cagrain
(Sir .Adphon93),

(de Lanaudière),
Chuaich,
Cox,
Dandurand,
Dever,
Drummond,
FuWford,
cibsOn4
Macdonald (B.C.).

Scott,
Sullivan,
Templeman,
Thibaudeau
(Rigaud),
Thibaudeau
(de la Vallière),
Watson,
Young.-23.

lion. bir. 1,ANI>ILtY-T-.he first clause of
the Bill remis as foiiows :
1. The Governor in Council may at any time
remit. in whole or ln part, any pecuniary penalty, fine or forfelture Irnposed by any Act of
the parliament of Canada, whether su.Ch penalty, fine or forfeiture ls payable to Hia Majesty or ta some ether persan, or ln part to
His Majesty and ia part to some other persou,
and whetber it la recoverable on Indictiment,

Information or summary conviction, or by ction or otherwise. and whether or not proceedings have

been

instituted for the

recovery

The amendment was declared iost on a
division.
The Bill was then read the thîrd tiine,
and passed on a division.
COASTING TRADE 0F CANADA

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (165) 'An Act respecting the
Coasting Trade of Canada.'
Hou. Mfr. LANDRY-Is a Canadian ship
supposed to, be a British ship ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes. A Canadian ship
la a British shlp, and a British ship is entItled. to register under our laws without
payment of duty. The iaw is against foreign'-built ships.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-In the
6th clause, you take power to the Governor
in Council to give the sme rights and privileges Ia reference to coasting to any country
that admits British ships to the coasting
tiade. Does tbe interpretation given to the
words 'Britishi ship,' apply to Canadlan
ships, lIn the Canadian register ? My own
opinion la, lt wouid.

thereof.
By thîs clause It ls enacted that any Act of
pariament whilh Imirposes a penalty la
amended ln this way, that the Governor ln
Council may at any tkme remit the fine or
penalty irnposed upon It. When the hon. minHon. Mr-. SCO0T-I wlil give an answer
Ister without portfoiio brought ln this Bill,
at the next sitting of -the House. The pi-ewhat did he say? He said It was to meet a
sumption 1 formed ln reference to that
particular Case which arose ln British Colclause ls this, that it was mnade to apply
umbla. For that partîcular case le wanted
to these cases where treaties had been enthe generai iaw to be clanged, and le came
ln with a public BiHl of a general -chai-acter. tered Into which bound Canada-that Canada gave ships which had the privilege of
What happen-ed.*! Aftier asking this House
to mia-e a generai law, he cornes lnx wlth a the coamtlng trade of Great Britain the rigbt
third clause, and saya thls general law wll to the coasting trade.
appiy to this particular case lIn British ColHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
umbia.
What 1 ask to-day Lý, ince the is no law bindlng Canada to anything of
lion. gentleman -wants a remedy for this the kind.
partîcular case ln Mrtish Columb4a, let hlm
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Only one country bas
have his remedy 'but let us uot pias a gen- that privilege, Norway.
eral law.
1 therefore move:
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-EngThat this Bi be not read a third time, but
that It be referred back to a Committee of the land gives the rlght to coasting to ail CouinWhole with Instructions to amend the eame :
tries. There la no restriction. This pro1. In striking out the words ' Imposed by any vides that If any country which. retains the
Act of the parliament of Canada ' ln the fi-st
clause, and substituting the following words coastlng -trade for the benefit of lts own
therefor : 'heretofore irnpoeed by the Rail- people, permaits Britishi ships to coast, Il

way Act.'
2. In striklng out the word ' also ' in the includes Canadian ships.
thix-d clause and substituting the word ' only'
Hlon. 1fr. SCOTT-I think not. The Coasttherefor.
ing law of Engiand, allowîng foreign vesThe Bill thus amended will meet the case sels to coast, would flot apply to Canada.
the hon, gentleman refers to.
We do not allow the ships of any foreign
Hou. Mr-. DeBOUCHERVILLE.

MLAY 14, 1902
country, except those of that cotutry that
bail a treaty with Englaud, lu which Cauada was included, the privilege of our
coastiug trade.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
hon. friend. does'uot understaud me yet.
We understaud that, nder the laws of
England,,the rIght ta coast ln England ls
grauted to ail countries. Canada reserves
to Itself the right of saying who shail have
the privilege of coasting outside of Great
Britalu. The Merchauts' Shlppin- Act provides that a Britia.l1 ship shall have the
right ta coast In aU the colonies. We will
take, by way of Illustration, Gerrny. If
Germauy passed a law, giving the right ta
Englsh vessels ta coast, would that compel
us to give the sarne right ln Canada ta German ships, w'ithout Canadian ships being
lncluded ln the treaty with Gerrny ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
Ut says that the Goveruor In Coundil shall
have power-that impies that the right does
not exist-to grant to these foreign vessels
the riglits *that they grant ta British ships.
Do the words 'British ship'1include a Canadian ship ? My own impression Is the
Merchants' ShIpplng Act would give It that
wide Interpretation. My hon. friend thinkis
not. If ut does not, then the power ta give
that right should flot exiat.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know who lnserted that clause. I will make some lnquiries as to the Intention. It was slmply
a broad permissive clause, sometimes lntroduced ln statutes, -whicb does nat amaunt
ta auything.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read the second tirne.
The Senate adjourned.
SecQnd Sittinig.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'ciock.
The SP'EAKER read a commrufflcatlofl
fro.m the eecretary of the Governor Generni
annouucing that parîlarnent would be prorogued to-morrow a-t tbree o'clock.
lion. Sii MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
caunot question the Governar Generai's
rlglit to mnake this announcement. but szup-

543

posing the eeupply Bill fi$ fot passed by
three to-morrow
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then we canuot prorogue.
DUWELL-Th-fle
lion. Sir MÂUXENZIE
probabilLties ame we May have a littie to
say on the t5upply Bill, and it may delay us
a ttle beyond three o'ciock.
kLon. Mr. SCXYLI![-Lt bas been the usuai
practice to give the Senate the Information
that bas been conveyed lu this way every
year. 1 think the business ls very mueb
more advanced this session than it ever bas
been within my recoliectiofi.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Kifly
dlo flot Introduce any debatabie subjects.
lion. Mr. 54.X)T-Th£ere is nothlng but
the :Supply Bill to corne down.
CUMPAÂ.NX'S BILL.
PREAMBLE NOT PRO YEN.
Hon. Sir ALPHONSE PELLETIER, from
the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs aud
Harbours, to whom was referred Bill (102)
An Act to Iucorporate the Gaspé and Western itaIlway CJompany,' reported tbat the
preani,ble of the Bill bad not been proven
to the satisfaction of the committee.
Hion. Mr. UWENtS moved the reception of
the report
The Motion was agreed to.
UÂA$1E AND WVJi>STI1tN RAILAYA

DEliAïlU1> RETIJHNS.
lion. Mr. LANVEXY-Before the Orders
of ithe Day are called, 1 should lîke to luquire If tiiere is a-ny anewer.to be given
ta the order of this lHouse for the production
of papers concernlng the nomination of
members on tire commission to codif y the
iaws ?
lion. Mr. ISCUoT-T.here were no papers
In that case. 1 said at the time there were
There may have been smre
fia papers.
private correspondence, but there are uo
.ofttcial papers.
lion. Mr. LANI)IY-Is there an answer
to be given ta the otiier order rela.ting ta
the appaintment of honorary lieutenantcolonels In the militia
lion. Mr. SUOOT-Trhat bas been sent ta
I
the department ln the regular way.

SENATE
have flot biad an opportunity of inquiring, manufacturefi ln Canada, up ta required standbut 1 will try andi get it.
ard
he tools may lie manufacturecl li Canada,
RIEADING.
but flot uîp to wliat Sir Cliarles Ross and
Tlitl).t
Bll (165) An Act respectlng the Coast- those Interested miglit declare to lie the
standard. liowever, tbat*la a question we
Ing TraCe of Canadla.-(Hon. Mr. 'Scatt).,
mnust leave, 1 suppose, ta the Minlater of
The Senate adjourneci during pleasure.
Customs and athers. The Bill further gays*
-necessary for any factory te be establisbed
CLS'rUMS TAEiWJ?11 ACT ÂMEND)M11NT ln Canada for the manufactur1ng of rifles for
the government of Canada.
BILL.
That wlll leave at the discretlon of those
FIRST. SECOND AND TFIIRD READINGS.
interested ln that machlnery, the bringlng
A message was received fra'm the Hanse ln of ail tools and macblnery. It gaysa: 'Not
of Gommons with Bill (169) 'An Act ta rnanufactured ln Canada.,
If it stopped
amenci the Custams Tariff Act 1897.'
there I should like it better, but lt gays : 'up
The BUIIwas reaci the first tîme.
to the standard.' Who la ta lie the judge of
lion. Mr. SCOTT inoveci the second reati- what constltutes Up ta the standard of any
ing of the Bill. Hie said : It la witliin the tool that may be required ia the, manuknawledge of most lion. gentlemen that the facture of a rifle ? It must lie Sir Charles
government have entereci inta a contract Ross himself.
with Sir CJharles Rosa, 'who la saici tu be
Hon. M~r. SCOTT-Oh, no. They would
the lnventor of a very great Improvemeut have an expert la the department wbo would
an the ordinary rifle, ta manufacture yearly lie able ta give an opinion upon It.
for the militia of Canada from ten ta tweive
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I iniglit say tbey have
thousanti rifles, l-ie lias beeu. manufactura special officer for the purpose, wbo bas
lng rifles ln the state of Massachuaetts, and
on tias encouragement lie proposes to trans- been appolnted for about a year, ta examine
fer fils oplant ta Canada and manufacture Into ail kinds of maclilnery.
rifles lu Canada.
1 believe the city a!
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Quebec la the point whlch wlll probably be la wbat I amn polntilg ont. They will be the
seiected. One of the conditions lie lmsistet judge. I do flot abject ta that. Then It
on was that, as lie would have ta inove auy ays
macfilnery for the manufacture of those
Ail materlals or parts la the rough, unfinisbrifles, It ivouli lie only fair tbat; that mach- efi, and screw nuts, bands and sprîngs ta be
used ia rifles ta lie manufactured at any sncb
Inery shoulci came lu free -of duty, andi ln factory for the goverament of Cana-da.
addition ta that, there are certain parts
that up ta the present cannaot be -made la Are the articles mentloned ln clause A flot
Canada, the character ao!the steel he would manufactured in Canada up ta the standard
require, nat being here, and as far as thase a! clause B ? People may thinr, I arn hyperparts are concerned, that they alsa shail crîtîcal la discusslng this question, but those
corne ln free o! duty, the rifles ta, be put who have bad any experlence la adminiatertogether la Canada, andi ultimately aU. the lng cuatoma laws know how every little tecliparts whlcb go to -malte up -the rifle, wlll, nicallty la takea advantage of in order ta
get articles Into the country free af duty.
1 hope, lie rnanufactured la Canada.
Then clause C reads : 'Charcoal making
lion. Sir M-4CKENZIE4 BOWELL--Tlie macblaery.' Can the hon, gentleman tell us
proposition cantaîneci In thîs Bill la, I thlnk, what machinery la requlred for making
a very commendatble one, because lt is tbe charcoal ? We know we want waod, and we
prîncîpie upon whicli the tarIff bis been 'want fire, and we want coal ln order ta
based for a great many years, ta encourage manufacture the charcoal. However, I am
the industries of! the country.
The only flot going ta abject ta ItL
question la wlietlir lIt goea too far.
The
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There ls a very good
Bill gaysa
watchdog la charge o! that department,
The followlng articles and materials, under
regulation ta lie made by the Minister o! Cus- pretty well lmpressed witb the vlews the
toms. namely, ail tools sud macblnery not hon. gentleman bas expressed.
Hon. Mr. nJOTT.

MIAY 14, 1902
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I maY
be terined a watchdog, but if the hon, gentleman had been behlnd the customs counter
for 13 years, he would have learned how
many littie advantages are attempted to be
takren and what strange constructions are
put upon a few words. As an illustration,
there was an article lu the free llst, only one
Uine and a haif, and I tell the hou. gentleman
that the Minister of Justice and every member of the cabinet, except Sir Leonard Tilley any myself, gave one Interpretation of It,
and we took the other view. I frankly confess I did cheer a Ilttie when It was decided
in our favour, and I said 'Here are two
laymen who neyer stmidied law, who give
an opinion on two lines o! the tariff whlch
ail oui, colleagues, lawyers and ail, sald was
not correct, but wblch finally was sustalned.'
1 do flot takie any credit to mysel! for that.
I knew, and so dld Sir Leonard, that he and
myseif, havlng framed It, knew wliat we
Intended. We*thought we had covered the
point, and It was declded afterwards we
were rlght I merely give you that as an
Illustration of the difflculties of admInisterlng that law. 1 should not have mentioned
It had flot my hon. frlend apoken about the
watehdog.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bil
was read the second time.
The Bill then passed through its final
stages, under a suspension of the rules.
The Senate adjomirned.

two ?~

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I really could not sny.
1 would be glad if I could.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It 'is
true the notice was placed on the Order
paper late ln the session, and I arn qulte
sure the hon. gentleman from Stadacona
(Hon. Mr. Landry) neyer expected to get the
return this session, but It must be -borne ln
mmnd that it was nlot his fault. TMiat motion
ivas the one wbich be handed to the clerk
some munths ago, ouit of ich tii. difficulty
aroBe about the readlng of the motion before
handlng It to the clerk.
Hon. Mr!. SCOTT-I understood it was the
motion made only twvo or three days ago.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Yes, but the first motion had been ômltted from the Orders.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I dld flot take any cognizance of that ; I dld nlot give any thought
to It; I dld flot k.now It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose If the hon.
minister had known that, I would have the
return now.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, If I had been aware
of It.

THE SEXATE.
Ottawoa, Thur8daye, May 15, 1902.
The SPEAKER took. the Chair at Eleven
odock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
DELÂYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the
the Day are caied, I 2houild iLie
of the hon. Secretary of State If
position to give me the names
lieutenant-colonels and colonels I
the other day ?

0f course they are flot under Mny control,
and It must be admltted the deniand was
Made late Iu the session, and there was a
good deal of work to be*done. However, 1
have asked particularly to get the information.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon. Secretary of State expect to get It at half-past

Orders of
to Inquire
he la ln a
of those
asked for

Hon. Mr. SCOW!-After I left the Chamber
the other day, I asked the Deputy Minister
to communicate 'wlth the Department o! MiIltia and see if they could hmirry them up.
35

THE RULES 0F THE SENATÉ.
MOTION DROPPED.
The motion belng called,
By the H1onourable Mr. Bélque
That he will mnove, That Rule 50 of the Senate be amended by striklng out the woirds *'two
-months ' and substituting therefor the words
one month.'
The SPEAKER-Mr. Bêlque bas gone to
Montreal, and before lenvlng lie lnformed
me that the Chairman of the Standing Orders Commlttee ln. the House o! Commons
hied been minable to get his commlttee together, and conseéquently the Commons' rule
would not: le altered, and therefore there
was no object ln the Senate alterlng lts
rules.

546

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
under the Impression that the proposition of
our committee was to change is ruie s0 as
conform with that of the House of Com..
Mons.
-Hon.
Mr. CL'EMOW-No, they were ta contommu theirs to our mule. This motion wai
memely changing the time of the advertisement fmom two months to one month.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The understandiug
was for the House of Gommons to adopt
our mules s0 far as the advertisement was
concerned, that they had to advertise lu endli
province where they were to do business,.
and we were to slh rten up* the time train
2
sixty days to thirty days. That Is the proposition we had to make, and the Commons
have no. dhanged their mule, so there is no
use ln changing our mule.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.G.)-Why cannot this House adopt the motion to shorten
the time ?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-They have to advertise for two months In the House of Gommons, and It would not make any diff emence.
The change that was supposed to be made
was that the House of Gommons should
adopt our mule, and the notice should be
published In every province where the company is dolng business. That is the change
the House of Gommons was to make. Then
the House of Gommons and Senate botli
were to shorten the time f rom two montha to
one month. The House of Gommons have
made no change, and theme was no use An
a change being made here.
The. motion was dropped.
THE SUPPLY BILL.
Hon. Mm. SGOTT-It is a vemy unusuai
thing that on the day of prorogation the
Senate lias nothing before IL. My recollection Is, we have vemy often had haif a dozen
Bis on the hast day of the session, but today our paper is absolutely clear of orders.
The only measume to came dowu now is the
Suppiy Bill. There Is no abject ln our waiting heme, and I move that we adjourn during pheasure.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD <B.G.)-Ame there
any other Bis to come up ?
Hon. Mr. SGOTT-None, except those
which have originated la the Senate. In
fact, I think there is only one mealIy, that
Th~e SPE:AKER.

relàting- to the formation of joint stock
companies. Whether they are goin.- to pass
that or flot, I do flot know.
Hom. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I see
that a number of Buis were dropped in the
House of Commons.
Was that one of
tliemn?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk so.
The SPEAKER-There is a natural desire to dlscuss the Supply Bill. If we do not
meet until 12 o'clock, that does flot gir-e
very large scope. Hon. gentlemen know
about what the Supply Bill is, and I do flot
see why we could flot dlscuss it now.
Hon. Sir MA.CKENZIE BOWELL-That
is altogether too radical a change.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It seems to me extraordinary that we are called to meet here
this mornlng. It looks like a solemn farce
to put our signatures to a Supply Bill for
an expenditure greater than bas ever been
sanctioned before In -the history of this
country, wlthout an opportunity to dlscuss
It. Whether the expenditure is right or
wrong, I cannoe say, but the Idea of brînging a number of gentlemen here In the dylng hours of the session, Is disturblng to
their serenlty. Why not )et them die lu
peace, and flot bring In this fiscal document just as the session is ending ?i I cannot see what use It is. We may discuss it,
but what good is the discussion ; we must
pass It.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-We can reject it.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-That wouid neyer
do. I would not lîke ta have anything to
do with depriving the Secretary of State
of his salary.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Or the hon. senator
from Klngiston of hls allowance.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-There are a good
many legai fictions In our system of gaveraiment. For Instance, whenever a grant of
land is made by a local government, the
soverelgn by lis mere motion is supposed
to grant somethlng. It is a legal fiction,
yet if the proper officer of the government
siguns the document it Is ail rlglit. I understand the Snpply Bill ias to came Up here
and we have, pro' forma, to sanction it, or
tihe bon. member from Kingston and myself

MAY 14, 1902
wouid have to go home without our allowance.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Most of us have
had our allowance aiready.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-We have, and I do
flot see how they could get at us, unless
they called on us next session to refund.
I do flot know If this Chamber exercises
the rlght to dlseuss the estimates; If 80,
certainly there Is ground for complaint, be-,
cause It Is Impossible to dlscuss this enormous expenditure ln threquarters of an
hour. There are matters affectlng the part
of Nova Scotia whlch I represent, or arn
supposed to represent-that la another legal
~fcton-whieh I should like to say bomethlng
about. I do flot believe that Lunenburg
county has had fair-play, but I wlll flot attempt to, discuas that matter here this mornIng, hecause I would have to make a speech
of at least haîf an hour, and that would
never do. I think we wlll have to take the
,cordial that has been prepared for us after
a great deal of deliberation, and 1 have no
doubt af ter a great deal o! contention.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It la
too bitter.
Hon. Mr. CHURCH-It has been prepared
In the executive chamber, and referred to
caucus and gone through ail the other
stages, and I thlnk some of the members o!
the other Chamber require a reat, and wll
need a tonle, and to have the services o!
the hon. gentleman from Kingston to get
their physicâi constitutions ln shape. If
we have to pas. the Bill, we can pass it la
fifteen minutes, 'and then stand up and sing
God save the King.
FRENCH MINISTER IN THE SENÂTE.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Wiil the hon. Secretary o! State take the House Into his conifidence and tell us If It is the Intention of
the government, as I asked the first day o!
the session, to appoint a mIister In this
House representink the French element,
who would aid the hon. minister and his
colleague and relleve them from the paluful
duty lmposed on them during this session ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Would the bon. gentleman accept the position ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There are hou. gentlemen en the government aide of the
House who are quite fit to fill the position35j

the hon, gentleman from - De Salaberry
(Hon. Mr. Béique), the hon, gentleman from
De Lorimiér (Hon. Mr. Dandurand), and
others.
Hon. Mir. SCOTT-The matter is under
consideration.
The House adjourned during pleasure.
THE SUPPLY BILL.
FIRST. SECOND AND TRIRD READINGS.
A message was received !rom the House o!
Commons with Bill (168) 1An Act for grantIng to Hia Majesty certain sums of money
for the public service for the financini years
endlng respectlvely 30th June, 1902, and
the 30th June, 1903.
The Bill was read the tirst time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readlng of the Bill. He sald : ln the enriier
years o! my presenoe ln this Chamber It
was not usuai. to have the Supply Bill discussed. It always came down at s0 late a
period that It was practically Impossible to
discusa it, and there is this Inconvenlence
about it, that It Is made Up of a multitude of
items, aome ismall and some Iaresome .
very large-affecting partlcidlar departments,
and only the minîster Who has charge
of the, department lu question, la sufficiently acqualnted with the mode of expenditure o! the particular Items affecting his
department to give a satisfactory expianation. I think It was when my hon. frlend
opposite came Into the government that it
became the custom to make a hasty summary, and explaîn to the Senate the nature
of the Su.pply Bull not that thls House Is
ijot amply justified ln dîscussing the Supply Bill, although not able to make any amnendment to it, but It lu their privilege to
throw It: out If they please. No changes
can be made, and I presume on that account
there ha. been no disposition to discuss the
detalîs. The Supply Bill itsel! Is for a sum
of fixe million dollars odd, chargeable to
the expenditure of the current year, knowa
as supplementary estimates for the year
ending 30th June next and a sum o! thirtyeight million odd, being the amount nsked
for expenditure for the coming year. That
thirty-eight million does not represent the
actual authorlty that the governiment,0f the
what
country has for expendîture, because %
are known as fixed charges do flot dhter

S ENATE
into the annual vote tahken ln the House of
Commons. The fixed charges amounit, in
round numbers, to about twenty millions.
Therefore, If you add to that thirty-eighit
million the twenty million, you get about
the amount the government of tbis country
is authorized to expend ln the coming year.
The actual figures are $59,100,O00. Hon.
gentlemen are under the Impression, from
observations that bave been made, that this
is largely In excess of the Supply Blle of
former years. I have the satisfaction of
eaying that, as far as the precedlng year le
concerned, It Is rather a reduction. The
authority of parliament ln 1901-1902 was
given for the expenditure of $59,9à:3,000.
For the coming year the authority of parliament was given for the expenditure of
fS00,000 less than tne
$Z59,100,000-about
Supply Bill of the preceding year. It may
be, of course, interestlng to hon. senators
to know ln a general way where the chief
Items of the expenditure o! the current year
are. I shall brlefiy give them. The five million
odd Is made Up chiefiy o! iron bounties, one
million and a haîf. The expenditure of the
.Royal visît, $358,000; Yukon, hiaif a million ; Militia, $350,000 Agriculture Department, chiefly chargeable to census, haif a
million, and the Intercolonial Raiiway, one
million dollars.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-Was that the full
amount of the census expenditure ?
Parliament auHon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
thorized the expenditure before the census
was taken at ail This was an excess.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-How does that coinpare with the cost -of the last census ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is very considerably
lu excess.
Hon. M.r. CLEMOW-I thought so. That
is the reason I aslied.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The rate allowed for
each namne was five cents for the last census, and under the former census only three
cents w-as allowed. There are a number of
individual charges which help to make up
the amount. The information ohtained w-as
considerably ln advance of the information
afforded by the former census.
Hon. Sir JOHN CARLING-I i.xnderstood
the amount voted this year for the census is
ove?' a million.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It may be. I gave only
the census for the current year. I have not
taken the census for the whole time. The
census for the year ending the 30th June.
was a hIttle less than *five hundred thousand.
The five hundred thousand embraced al
the expenditure of the Agriculture Department. The chie! expenditure, four hundred
thousand odd, w-as the vote for the census.
I cannot say now from memory, without examining the figures, but I do not think the
amount taken w-as very much ln excess of
that for the coming year, because perhiaps
the work w-i be nearly ail completed, aithough there w-i be some additional sunis.
There should be no surprise, hon. geiitiemen, at the figures I have given the Senste. It la very weh kuown that the trade
and business of this country is expanding,
and the government must keep pace w-ith
the demands, If the prosperhty o! Canada la
to continue. The demand al over this
country for aide la support, particulariy of
transportation Improvements, such as the
Improvements ou the St. Law-rence, are very
large. All our ports w-here It is expected
the grain of the North-west w-i feed the
rallw-ays, la Ontario partlculariy, are demanding expenditure for the Improvement
of harbours. The expeuditure is general
throughout the w-hole country. In the debates that have occurred. elsewhere, w-hile
general attacks have been made upon the
extent of the expenditure, stili the mndlvidual Items that have been attacked have
been very few Indeed. No one la prepnred
to say that a particular Item Is extravagant.
There le one Item la the expenditure to
which w-e can ail cordially give our assent.
At the lait moment a proposition w-as suhmitted to the Hlouse of Commons, and cordiaiiy endorsed on both sides, to grant $50,000 tow-ards the unfortunate sufferers In
the Islands of Martinique and St. Vinicent.
The appalling circumstances connected wlth
that terrible calamity, w-here 30,000 people
were, la the short space of three minutes,
launched Into eternlty, seem to have touched the sympathy of the w-hole world. Large
donations are being given by other countri*'s.
The United States bas passed a vote of
$5i00,000, and suhscrlptions are pouring ln
from other directions. The unfortunate sufferers, strange to say, on the Islands o!
St. Vincent and Martinique, are French and

MAY 15, 19091
Anglo-Saxon, and 1 think it is peculiariy
approprinte that the parliarnent of Canada,
made up as It le of the two great races,
French and Engliel, shouid feel a gratification at being afforded the opportunity of
aiding the unfortunates who beiong to the
two great nations to which I have referred.
That rote 1 amn quite sure wiil be acquiesced
lu by aIl classes, and we are ail prepared to
extend the sincerest sympathy to the unfortunate people who have suffered.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-IIi the Supply Bill
whici lias been broughit before us, there le
an Item of $328,000 respecting tbe contract
o! Mackenzie & Mann. Is that Inciuded 7

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The account was flrst
subrnitted to experts; it was then. aiso submitted to Mr. Coliingwood Schreiber, ln order to check off the damages clairned, and
subsequentiy It was referred to the judge
of the Exchequer Court.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That la flot a repiy
to the question I arn askIng. 1 want to
know If there was a Judgment of the court
Imposing on the government the obligation
to pay that amount ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is It intended tliat
the minister who lncurred that expense without a rote of parliarnent, shouid recoup it ?
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-Did not the court
render a judgrnent ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was referred to the
Judge of the Exehequer Court to say If It
was a fair and proper amount.
Hn Mr. CLEMOW-That le a Judginent,
le It not ?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That Is not a legi
cdaim.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la one of the expenditures that governmexts are obliged to
recognize. When .they once refer a dlaim
to the judge of the Exchequer Court, It
le with the Intention of paying It If the.
judge finds the arnount is fairly due.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-We know that the
Intention of the governrnent le to pay It;
but I amn asking If it la a legal payrnent.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le inciuded.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Ie It put down as
capital ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not very sure.
Hon. Mr. LANDEI Y-Is it chargeable to
capital or revenue ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn not very sure
whether it le chargeable to capital or Incorne. That account was subrnitted to a
very close analysis, and it Included nothing
but actual diebursements. I could not really, at the moment, say whether It wns cbarged to capital account, but I arn inclined to
thIink it was. I arn not speaking now with
f ull knowledge of the facts. I do miot know
whether it was or not.
Hon. Mr. DEVER-I thInk it should be
chu rged to the Senate account.
Hon. Mr- LÂNDRY-What bas been reHon. Mr. CHURtCH-If this Houses passes
turned frorn that capital accunt ?
it, It is legaL*
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-Notbing.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRtY-We are asked to pay
owe. I always
have the ex- rnoney whlch we do not
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂS-We
understood there was a clause lu the conperience.
tract with Mackenzie & Mann which proHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Does that arnount vided that the contract could only corne ln
Include the $10,000 for the North Pole Ex- force when sanctioned by parliament, and
pedition and the Mackenzie & Mann dlaim ? since it bas not been uanctioned by parilaHon. Mr. SCOTT-The actual expenditure ment, we are not obliged to pay this dlaim.
of Mackenzie & Mann ln connection wlth I thlnk the only ones responsible are those
the Yukon Railway, without Intereet or pro- who ordered the work to go on. Perbaps
the rninsters who gave the order might be
fit.
personaliy obliged topay the rnoney. We
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Âs the Senate took liad 'better pase a Bill to relieve those minconsiderable intereet ln that matter, I should Isters frorn the responsibility.
like to know If there le a judgment of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The practice bas'precourt irnposIng on the governelt a legnal
vailed lu the past, not invariably but on
obligation to pay that amount.

~5O

SENATE

special occasions when It was thouglt to lieve--at that tîme approve'! entirely of Macbe In the Interests of the public that a large kenzie & Mann golng on wlth that work.
expenditure shoul'! be made, and it was beHon. Mr. LANDRY-I neyer saw that lie
leved by the government It would be reapproved of If. I saw It denle'!. Whaf I
cognized and approve'! ef by parliament, f0
always uuderstoo'! was, Sir Charles Tupper
anticipate the vote and authorize the exwas ln favour of consfructing a rallway on
penditure. 1 quite admit It Is wrong; I do
Canadian soi, but I neyer saw that lie apflot approve of if, but it has been the pracprove'! of the contract wlth Mackenzie &
tice ln exceptional cases. If la only excepMann. On the contrary, he vote'! againet
fionai clrcurnstances that can justIfy ItL At
the contract. The contract containe'! a
the time that action was taken, the Yukon
clause, that if wouid comne ln force onlY
seeme'! very mucli further away than It !s
when approve'! by parllament.
to-day. It took three months f0 get a mesHon. Mfr. S<JOTT-Yes.
sage there and! back agaîn. It was almost a
terra Incognita. The circumstances were
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Bringing ln the name
abnormal, and the goverfiment thôught they of Sir Charles Tupper, an'! the welghft of
were doing a wise thing to reach that coun- bis influence by saying that he had aptry by raiiway from the Stikine. The con- prove'! of the contract, is something whicb
tractors were autborized to go on, and they 1 fluakI s not sustaine'! by hlstory.
did go on wlth the work. They ha'! to do
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-He approve'! of the
It that partIcular -season. The leader of the
work of0f ackenzie & Mann, and lie approvopposition, Sir Charles Tupper, approved of
It at the beginnlng, gave If ls sanction, an'! e'! of the construction of' the railway from
It was flot assume'! that parliament would Stikîne river. Subsequently, when the
disapprove of the action of the government. matter was dîscusse'! lu parîlament, Sir
Parliament dld dîsapprove, however, and! Charles Tupper, for reasons I nee'! not menthe work was stoppe'!. The contractors said tion, dIsapprove'! of. it; but at the InceptIon
'we have gone on ln good faith, under the of fhe work lie approve'! of It being perbelief your action would be approve'!, and! forme'! at the earliesf possible tîme, from
we thlnk we ouglit f0 be paid.' It was the point I have Indicate!, Stikine river to
pointed out that there was no authority- TeslIn lake.
that they took a certain amount of rlsk ln
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The proof that lie dl'!
beglnnlng the work. The answer was, 'very not approve 0f If, Is fhe fact that lie vote'!
well, but so far as the actual money outlay againet the contract.
ls concerned, the country ought to that exHon. Mfr. BERNIER-On what groun'! was
tent approve'of it, because the people wbo
represente'! the country approved of our this referre'! fo the Exchequer Court ? Was
action.' If wae, therefore, recommended If to ascertain the fairness of the amount
-that they be pal'! their actual disburse- charge'!, or f0 ascertain the legal lability of
ments, without allowlng Interest, or ex- the govcrnmenf ?
penses, or profits, or anything of that km'!,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not for one moan'! the amount was allowed by the jud.-e ment stand here f0, argue that if was a legal
of the Exchequer Court
liability that they coul'! have recovere'! lu
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I beg leave to take a court, because the contract, as ahl these
Issue wifh the hon, gentleman on this point. coutracfs do, provides ln positive terms, that
He spoke of Sir Charles Tupper having ap- until parhiament has approved of the couprove'! of the contract with Mackenzie& tract, an'! the money lias been vote'!, fhe
contractor fakes the responsibility and runs
Mann.
the risk. In this parfîcular case, there was
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hle approve'! of the urgency for
'!espatch. There was the beivork going on. Sir Charles Tupper, and! lef that
parliament woul'! approve of lf.
some other gentlemen associate'! with himn, There were ail the
facts f0 which I have a'!were then intereste'! largely ln a stage con- verte!, and If was thouglit only fair
an'!
tract. They were putfing on a hune of stages equitable that the governinent shoul'! ref0 connect wlth the rallway, an'! Sir Char- coup the contractors for their actual exles Tupper-it Is an undoubte'! fact, I be- penditure.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MIAY 15, 1902

5

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hou. Mr. BERNIER-So the government
disclalrns any legal responsibililty?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn fot going to dis- qulte evident the Secretary of State is nlot
cuss the legal question, because I have flot fufly acqualnted with the facto la connection
the papers here. 1 amn givlng a frank, off- with the payxnent of tbls money, or hie would
handed opinion as to the conclusions I not have made the statements wbich bie
would form, without reading the papers. bas made. The lion. gentleman bas stated
It was certainiy an equltabie claim, If mot over and over agala, durlng bis remarks,
a legai claIm.
that only the actual bona fide expenses Incurred. by Mackenzie & Mann under their
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY--Could the hon, genprovisional contract; are to be pald. If bie
tleman tell wbhy fliat particular amount,
will refer to the speech made by bis col$W38,000, was brought la last year also, and
league, the Minister of Ralways and Canais,
was witbdrawn ?
lie wilî finit that the goverament are paying
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Because we waited to interest upon tbe money alleged to bave been
get further evidenee to justlfy us ln recorn- expended, and we are also paying a coumending It to parîlamrent.
sideraible amount for services rendered, or
LÂNDRY-That shows that the time expended by tbe contractors. So much
Hon. Mr.
goverament wanted to pay the dlaim, wlb- for that. There was no judgment, as the
Secretary of! State admits. The fact is, the
out any evidence at ail.
dlaim was mnade for four or five 'bundred
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It bas gone 'the last thousand dollars, accordlng to the figures
tlaree years througb a great many stages. given by the Minîster of Ballways and
The dlaim first sent la was for a very mucli Canais. Tbat account was not accepted until
larger surn. It was referred to experts to after Mr. Shannon, one e! the accountauts
ascertain whether vouchers could be pro- of tbe Department of Rallways and CanaIs,
duced for the surn orlglnally demanded. had made an Investigation. He reported,
Vouchers could flot be furnlshed for the as I underutand from the speeches whîch
whole arnount, and it was declded te pay were made ln the Lower House, that tbey
only the actual expendîture of the cou- had expended a certain sum of muney. That
tractors as ohown by vouchers. It was re- report was referred, not to the Erchequer
ferred to the judge of the Excbequer Court Court, but to the judge of the Exchequer
to report upon it as to whetber It was a Court, who award'ed the sum tbat had been
just and proper account.
reported, wîth a very silgbt deduction, by
Hou. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I do not rise to Mr. Shannon, the accountant of the Departcriticise the arnount ln any way. Every- ment of Rallways 'and Canais. That lu
body understands It mnust be paid. But 1 realîy the position In which we find It. It
wlsh to kaow if the work whlch Mackenzie lu true, and ail admit It, that there was no
& Mann have perforrned will lie of any legal lability on the part of the Dominion
use lu the present or la the future to assist to Mackenzie & Mann. They cntered
any other undertaking, or le lt a total losa ? Into a contract for the construction o! a
ritilway
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wltb the tuiler Infor- certain work, a narrow gauge
from the Stîkine River to Tesla Lake,
mation we bave of tbat country, we have
mile,
ascertalned thant probably lietter routes into for a certain quantity of land per
Informawhich, If totted up-if the
the country can be utllzed. Everythlng
tion we have lu correct amounted to nearly
was new nt tliat time.
four million acres of land, whîcb, at the
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-But whatever work price placed on the land by tbe Minister of
the contractors dld, falih to the governament I. the Interlor, of ten dollars pur acre, would
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbey amount to about $40,00O,000, or a litdid no work on construction.
tie over. That contract, It must be borne
SCOTT-It lu not an asset to ln mind, was entereËd Into a very f ew days
Hon. -Mr.
before the meeting of parliament-something
whieh I attach any value.
When parliament lo about to
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Is there an amount unusual.
for the polar expedition of Captain Bernier ? meet, no governuient In the past, to mv

.559-

SENATE

SENATE
k-nowledg-e. has entered into a coutract of ledge gees, speaking lndividually, without
sucli a character. Contracts are entered lu- one particie of truth; I state this new pubto subjeet to the approval of parliament, licly :I neyer had auy conversation with Sir
when it is considered a work of necessity, Charles Tupper upon thîs subjeet until atter
long before parliameut Is summoned, but the action of the Senate had been taken.
In this case, and la the case of the Drum- Whether Sir Charles Tupper liad any convermond Ceunty Raléway, these con.tracta sation witb otlier senators ln reference te, the
were entered lnto only a few days before subject I know not, but I do say this, that
tbe meeting of parliament-egbt. days be- when the majerlty lu tbe Senate are acfore so far as these contractors are cou- cused of havlug been urged or lnfluQnced
cerned. That there Is an equitable dlaim by Sir Charles Tupper or the Conservative
on the part of the contractors, urged, as party ln the Lower House to take the course
they were, to proceed rapIdly wltb the work, they did. It is net correct. and I challenge
1 do flot think any one doubts. My own Im- .%r. Sitton, or any other mian, to prove
pression Is, and I think an Investigation of that, el-tber directly or Indirectly, lie
the tact wilI show, tbat the staternents made Interfered witb or attempted to influence
by the hon. Secretary of State ln regard to sny member of tbis Chamber. 1 make
the position taken by Sîr CJharles Tupper, that statement lu my own defence. I do
are flot strictly correct. I understood the not know that I sliould occupy the tume
hon, gentleman to say that Sir Chiarles Tup- ef tbe Senate, were It not for the statement
per npproved ot the contract into which which lias been made la retereuce to tie
Mackenzie & Mann had entered witb the action which the great majerity ef this
gov-ernment. I arn net aware of any evi- House took upon this question.
dence to establlsh tbat fact. This bas been
If you read the premier's utterances, lie
stated, that ln an Interview witb the 'Mail'
presents to the country a very deleful tale
reporter, Sir Charles Tupper urged thie conas to the evil effects whlch bave fellowecl
struction ot the road by this route. At that
the rejection by the Senate of the Mackenzie
tinie little was known of the vagaries of the
Stikine river, and mucli less et the difficul- Mann contract. He points out tbat we defeated the construction et a direct hune luto
ties et navigating the Hootalinqua ; but I
neyer saw yet that, atter the ternis of the the Yukon terrltory, wbere these large gold
contract were made known, lhe appreved ot deposits bave been discovered. He tells 'the
people that lie preposed a direct line threugh
the contract.
Canadian terrltory ; that it would be a CanHon. Mr. SCOTT-I did not mean to say adian hune by whIch we could obtaîn admisthat lie did. -What I meant to say was, ln sion into' that «country witbout passing
threugh toreigu territory, and that the fact
a general way lie approved of the work.
that we bave not that liue now, Is owing to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If 1 the action 0f the Senate, and that it Is maunderstand the nature of the Interview terially lnterfering with aud destroying the
which the 'Mail'1 reported, and quoted by trade of the couutry. If bon. gentlemen
Mr. Sitton the other day ln the House of refer still furtber to bis speech they wIll
Commons, and also the statement et tbe In- flnd that lie admits, atter baving made
terview between Sir Charles Tupper and hlm- tiiese stateinents, that It is Impossible Io
self, ot which we had ne knowledge ln the rea ch the Yukon country uuless you pass
past, it was an approval of the route and not through United -States waters. Pirst. he
of the ceutract, and as soon as the terms of declares that If bis scheme had flot been dethe coutract were made public, Sir Charles feated ln tbe Senate you could bave reacbed
Tupper opposed IL. That is not only my re- the Klondike without passing through Unitcollection, but I think on refereuce to thie re- ed States terrltory sud submitting te tbe
cords, the hon, gentleman will find that it is bondiug'systeni of the United States ; aftercorrect. I wish, Iu this connectien, to say wards lie tells us that we cquld net reacli
that the statement made by responsible min- this point withou-t going through United
Isters, that Sir Charles Tupper and the Con- States waters.
We bave heard mucli of
servatIve party induced the Sens te tn take this route, and the emphatic and repeated
tlie course they dld, Is, so far as my kuow- utterances ever and over again of the preHoa. Sir MACKENZIEl BO%VELL.
552

MAY 15, 1902
mier himself, that this was the best and the
only feasible route ta reach the gold fields
of the Yukon territory. Âny anc who has
studied the question muet know tliat the
Hootaltaqua and Teslin Lake route la nlot
ipra>cticable. If you laok' at thc report
made for the Minister of the Interior during the Mackenzie administration, as early
as 1874-75, by Col. Dennis, then SurveyorGeneral, you wlll find a map ln which he
points ont that portions of the' Stikine
river, during 10w water, have only two ta
three feet of water ta beglu wlth. The ma-

553

a practicable route. As I propose to prove
by the reports and statements of correspondente of Liberal papers and government officiais. If any one has taken the trouble to
post himaelf on this question, he will find
that ln the *Globe' of the 22nd of June,
1898, their own correspondent gîves this description of the Stikine river to Glenora :
.Every boat en route Is tled up somewhere
along the banks, and passengers and crew are
making thc best of the situation-a awollen
river, with a current agalnst which It ls Impassible ta make headway, and the tic-up may
last a week.

chinery that was lug-ged over tram the This ls the 'Globe' correspondent's attracStikine river ta Teslin lake stilI lies on the tive picture of a commei navigable river;

bank of the Hootalinqua, the river neyer
bcing mate ta navIgate. There ls no authorlty ta show that the river ls navigabl
ln the proper sense of the word. Henc
the expenditure on the railway tram Stikine river ta Tesla lake would be utterly thrown away, and the road wauld be
of no tiuse to-day. After asceuding the
Stikîne river, and golng 150 miles by land
ta reach Tealin lake, you are then further
away tram Dawson, taking that as thc objective point, than you would be at the head
of the Lynn canal, at Skagway, wherc you
take the railway. The anly way you eau
get ta that country thraugb Canadian terrltory ls overland through British Columbia. We had the Secretary of State the
other day, la the Railway Cornmittee, oppasIng a charter for another rond whicbi
would came down cither te Dyea or PyraMid Harbour, on the ground that it shauld
nlot approach wlthin five miles of the
boundary lina of British Columbia, for fear
they would reach navigable water In United
States terrItory, cither at Dyca or Pyrarnid
Harbour. My own Impression Io, and experience has led me ta this conclusion, that we
made a great mistake ln nlot granting al
thc charters that ha've been aked for. You
can only reae2i thc Âtfantic sea'boanrd froan
Ontario and Québec ln winter, excePt by the
Intercolonlal Railway, through United States
tcrritary, and the eme bonding system and
rules apply ta the commerce of the Yukon
distriçt as ta the commerce of Canada pasoing tbraugh Portland or any other Atlantic
port ln the United States. What I want ta
show 1s that the route which they adopted
-natithtanlngthe fact that Sir Charlea
Tupper may have approved of it-is not

then on the 27th of May, the sme correspondent writes as fallows *
The capiains of these Stiltine river boats.
who are chosen frram men of long experieace ln
navigatin'g mauntain rivers, are ready to assert
that the Stikine out-Herods them aIl ln triekiness and uncertainty. Most mauntain rivers.
they assert. have their seasons of rising and
talling. of awif t current and slow, but the
Stikine waters go Up and down without regard
ta seaean or clrcumstance -,a heavy rain
swelling the river occasionally as much as six
teet ln ane night ;a «cool spel' causing it ta
drop with almost equal rapidity.
This ia, It must be borne lu mina, tram
the 'Globe's' own correspondent. sent out
ta that country for the purpose of examiniflg
Into and lnvestlgtilng that particular route.
Tben the correspondent goes on ta point ant
the dlfficulty ln passing sme of the canyons,
whlch are vcry narrow. and then adds :
Atter a heavy raim or during snew-melting
seasan, the current la no switt that vessels
with strang propelling power tic up for several
days rather than attempt ta ascend. Only anc
boat-the C. P. R. Str. ' Oglvie '-la able ta
keep any appraach ta echedule time, and occasianally she ls compelled ta dumpher frcight
at the faot of the canyon and return ta Wrangel ln order ta keep taith with her time table
thora. I have seen live steamers lying Idle for
days at the canyan mauth waitlng for the water
ta talI.
Now let me give you an. extract or two
from a report of anc of the gold commissioners employcd and paid by the gavernment. After hie return ta this country, hc
made a speech at Niagara. Mr. F'awcett,
who had the reputation of being one of the
mast honcmt officiais ln that country, says :
There ls no marc talk abaut the Stikine
route. Few will now say tljat the Canadian
Senate. ln disallawinig that contract ta build
a railway fram Telegraph creek ta the head of

554
Teslin lake, did flot do
service.

SENATE
the country a great

was over-enamoured o! the scbeme bimseif
at the time it was before the House.

Tt ls difficuit to conceive how ciever men, and
Hon. Mr. LÂNDERKIN-I have not time
capable men, couild commit themselves to such
a blunder unless there was something under- to dlscuss the question to-day.
neath lt ail, which neyer appeared on the surface. Were there others besides Mackenzie & Hon. Su- MACKE NZIE BOWELL-Nor desire. I have some recoliection o! what took
Mann in the deal.?
Within the Yukon district opinion onl t1e

subject was flot less adverse to the deal than
II; was In other parts of Canada. We can
easily understand that from the fact that
people there had travelled over the route.
I have had conversation with some who
came out that way, and also by the White
Horse route, who have verified that statement. Mr. Fawcett, ex-gold commissioner
of the Yukon, bas put on record the deliberately expressed opinion of a government
officiai as to the character of the Stikine
river, and he gives the Senate credit for
havlng done the country a great service.
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-The government
did not do a great service !
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If tlîe
Senate did a great service to the country by
rejecting the proposition of the government,
ergo the government would have done a
great wrong.

place at the time, and It might be Interestlng to know whnt some hon, gentlemen In
the Lower House said of this transactiou.

Tbey did not wish to vote against their
party, but had tbey been left to their owu
will, the probabilitles are they would have
joined with those who rejected the projeet.
1 do not know any gentleman who was more
particular In critlcising the actions o! bis
opponents than the hon, gentleman who bas
been interrruptIng me.
Now let us turn to another government
officiai, Mr. W. H. Lynch, who was appointed by the present government to proceed to
that country to make a special report, and

see what.he said. In a speech dellvered in
the city o! Montreai, he says, In spenking of
the affaira ln that country :
The-e existcd a mo)st disgracefui state of
affaira In the Yukon district.
Then, speaklng of himseîf, he decinres
that we was a true Liberal, and above ail,
an independent Liberal, and adds:
Hon. Mr. LANDERKIN-Whnt la Mr.
He
Fawcett doing now ? He ls edlting a Con- tUrnes. had asked permission to spezik many
and n-eyer couid get a chance from his
servative newspaper.
-own party.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He ls
Permission fromn whom ? Permission, you
just the sort of man I would expect to flnd wili find, from the Minister o! the Interior,
on tbe Conservative press. He had the who employed hlm and sent hlm there to
honesty to express freely his opinion o! the make the report. Then he continues:
proposition made by the government, and
Now, the Conservatives, from whom he diffor that reason I suppose he was placed on fered In the main, had given hlm that opportunity, and he wie'hed to o.pen, the eyes of the
the Conservative press, which generaliy, people of Canada
to another great scandai that
tells the truth. I cannot say as much o! the had been placed upon them
press supportlng the government.
The Speaker dlaims that he spoke officiHon. Mr. LANDERKIN-He was put ini ally when the Yukon question was lnvolved.
Then Mr. Lynch quotes from a speech
by the old government.
made by the premier, at Windsor Hall,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
that make a difference ? Does the hon. gen- Montreai, shor'ty before, ln whiech the Pretlemnan mean to say that Mr. Fawcett lied mier ts reported as havIng sald :
Que of the wlsest acts ever undertaken by
when he made the statement I have quoted ?
the Canadian government was the possible
Hon. Mr. LANDERRIN-He gave bis oplii- construction of the rallway Into the Yukon. If
the contract had not been rejected by the SenIon.
ate, a rallway wouid have been constructed
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I 'amn
reading his opinion, the result of personal
knowledge and Investigation. I do not think
the bon. gentleman, If the truth were known,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

upon Canadian territory which would not have
cost a single dollar to the country, and we
wouid have had the trade of that country, a
trade which, by the criminal action of the Senate. had been thrown into the hands of the
United States at Seattle.

MAY 15, 1902
sion, a report was laid on the Table that xvas
made by Mr. Coste, of a very innocuous
If lt had flot been for the action of the Sen- churacter.* There was very littIe ln it. I
ate ln rejecting the -Klondike arrangement, a tell the hon, gentleman that Mr. Coste did
rallway would have beeu built there, 18,000 men malte a report, and had read that report te
would have been there, and the country would a member of
this House in British Columhave been $30,000,000 richer.
bis, and when lie was teld that it was flot
Commenting on these statements by the very enceuraging, and that lie would net
Then he quotes as follows from a speech
by Mr. Tarte :

Premier and Mr. Tarte, Mr. Lynch saya :
malte auch a report, bis reply was ln eff ect :
I say that these atatements are epen te conI waa sent there te tell the truth and I arn
tradiction.
It ls of this question we muet
complain. Such a statement sbould be made te1ling It.
with cars and have proof, and I say that Sir
If we are te take Mr. Lynch's statemient
Wil-frid is flot conversant enough wlth the aubject to know whether it ls a fact or flot. I con- as correct, that the Minister of the Ixîterior
aider that It 1s a pitiful atate ef affaire, for If suppreased bis report, which was in condemthe premier followe this Une of cenduct on this
nation of their selectien of that route for
qurestion, he will also follow it on others.
The plan was to- build 150 miles o! railway the railway te enter the Yukon country, I
froin Teslln lake te the hýma¶ waters of the think we
have a right te presume that, as
Stikine river. Now, It la flot pesaibe te use
this rai)way ln the winter, and it Io impossible an honest officiai, Mr. Coste dId malte that
te nsvigate the Stikine river ln the wlnter, report, and that it was treated ln the same
Even ln the summer fi was fcjund that boats o!
heavy draught could flot have been brought Up manner as was Mr. Lynch's-suppressed,
the river. and acows had te ha used. The road as it neyer came before the peeple. Had
was te have been completed ln September. and Mr. Ceste flot shown bis report te a senator,
then the season woulfl have been cloaed. In
1898. the trade ehanged character, and we found ns I have already Indicated, we sheuld have
that befere the railway couid have been com- never knewn what his conclusions were.
pleted, the particular tratle (of traflsportlflg
eutffts for the minera had ceaaed. We also But as an officiai, ail he culd do was te
f ound that the Stiklue river waa flot navigable give it to them and have It: suppreased. Al
lu an ecoflomical sense.
the evidence before the publie tends te tis
one conclusion, every particle of eviMr. Lynch continues:
I made a report and attempted to lay It dence that was preduceri by their own
before the gevernmefit. 1 waa an officiai of officiais would show that the route which
the goverfimeut, and sent Into the ceuntry for they hadl adopted was flot practicable, that
the purpo3e cf Investigation. We endeavoured
te brlng the matter befere the gevernment, the givIng away ef the land whIlb thcy
but we were turned aide, and the data was propesed te give away for a tramway, 150
neyer brought before council. It was suppres- miles frem Stikine river te. Tesîlu lake,
oeil, and left in rny banids, and 1 aay that until
this r-eport la given te the people, the-y have would have been utterly tbrewn away and
flot the data on the matter. Sir Wilfrid Laurier uselesa ; and you must take this Into cou~
clalmed confidence In his men, and said he was
tee .busy te deal peraenally with- the subjeot. sideratien, that by the White Helrse Pass
We were referred te the Department o! Interior. you go by steamer from Vancouver and VicMr. Si! ton chose te, leave out. this report, and toria stralght te Skagway, you then take a
in thia he shews he was inadequate and lncomrailway of about 90 miles through the mounpeteirt to deai wlth It.
The blame should be placed ln the right tains, and reach the head ef navigation beplace, flot en the Seriate, but en Mr. Sif ton and
hie department who ge blindly into the matter. 10w Lake Bennett on the Yukon river. 1
The gevernment re!used te felilow the course say the Yukon river, because It la a conof Independent Liberala, and they muet in con- tinueus river, aitheugh II; bears dIfferenît
eequeuce suifer the penalty.
names, given to different sections as they
I malte a further atatement on information were dlscovered. You.then take a steamer
which I have on undoubted authority. It at White Herse, after leaving the raiiway,
will be remembered that wher6 a! ter the and there la ne dllfficulty nt ail ln navigareturn of Mr. Coste from his Investigation of ting the river with good large steamboats
the Stikine river and Hootalinqua river, down te Dawson, nor from Dawson down te
and that projected route te reach the gela St. Michael's. These are the facts ln condepeaits of that country,, I moved for a nection with this whole transaction, and
returfi. The Secretary of State told tbe Sen- the more one Investigates, and the more the
ate there was no report made by Mr. Coste. facts are known, the greater wIll be the
A year afterwnrds, however, the next ses- evidence that. the action ef the Senate was

r.vb
5

556

SENATE

net only wise, but, la the language et a
Liberal newspaper prînted iii the west, it
saved to tbe country hait a continent. We
are constantly teid by tbe premier that tbe
Senate ruined tbe country by net aliewing
them te go on wltb a scherne that bas been
preved te tbe world wouid bave been utterly useless. It ls nonsense, te my mlnd-pardon me for using tbe expression-to taik
about ruining tbe trade ot the country.
There is only eue way ot getting into that
ceuntry tbreugb British territery, and tbat
1s by starting your raiiway ln British Coluxnbla, eltber frem Âsbcrott and over tbe
nstounta:ins, or frum tbe Kitîrnat harcbour on
the Striîts of Georgia, and tben on tbreugb ;
but look at the tremendous expense tbnt
weuid be incurred ! And even If tbe premier's declaration be correct-etf wbicb tbere
ls net a scintilla ef evidence upon recordthat tbey intended te continue tbe route
frem Teiegrapb creek down te a port la
British Columbia, you weuld tben bave al
tbe dîfficulties et tbe navigatien ot tbe Heetalinqua river until yeu reach the Lewes and
the Selkirk, and entered Into tfie Yukon. It
would sot bave beiped tbe trade of the
country la that respect unless you continued tbe raiiway .from tbe bead et Tesls lake
de'wn Into tbe Yukon district. Tbe topegrapby and geography et the country must
iead every one wbo bas read the reports snd
studied the matter, te the conclusion tbat
tbe cbeapest and shorteat route te go Into
tihat country la by Skagway. Untortunately,
Skagway Is clairned te be In tbe United
States. But bew mucb better was tbe etber
route? Tbe oniy place wbere you couid
bave yeur baggage exarnined weuld be at
Wrangel or on tbe Stikine river ; there was
neyer any dispute on that point, se tbat If
you adopted tbat route you wouid neyer
be able te get Inte that country except by
stepping at tbat port and being everbauled
by a Unltéd States customs officia!. If,
iiowever, our contention as te the preper
beundary were rigbt, Skagway, Dyea and
Pyrsmid Harbeur weuld be la Canada, and
censequently tbat would give us an entrance into tbat country : wbetber we shall
ever get it or net is a deubtful question.
The United States bave possession ot II:
new. They are fortlfying lt, sud bave their
seidiers tbere, and tbey quietiy said te our
commissieners la Washington': 'Yes, we
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

wilI arbitrate with you on condition that you
wiil aiiow us to keep what we bave, and
we will get as much more as possible.' 1
arn happy to say that our Premier rejected
tbat proposa!, but our commissioners ln
Wasbington off ered a fair and equitabie
mode ot settling the question. Tbey were
quite prepared te leave our dlaims te the
arbltratien et emisent men wbe wouid be
selected for that purpose, and tbey were
williug to go furtber : tbey Intirnated that
they were quite prepared to arbitrate, If
iny recollectien serves me rigbt, upen the
basis of the Venezuela arbitratien, as cousented te by Great BrItain, wbere I think
Great Britain went aitogether tee far. However, be that as It may, I bave taken tis
my first opportunity fer puttlsg tbe evidence
of tbese gentlemen upon record, and there
1 propose to leave ItL I may say, as far as
the Senate ls concerned, If *my opinion be
worth anytbing-and I believe I arn givlng
the cairn and deliberate opinion et tbe vast
majerity ef the people ot this Dominionthat If tbe Senatê neyer did anether act thau
rejectisg that raiiway Bil, they bave justified the existence et this body. New, I wish
te refer to ose or twe things that took place
ln the etber House, wltb reference te subsidies te raiiways, and that is the ouiy
means we bave just new of ascertaining
wbat bas been doue. I tbink the premier
ststed-ratber an unusuai course, I must
coufess-iast nigbt .just befeore the House
rose, that ne raiiway subsidies would be
presented te the Commons this session4 but
they weuld give tbem next year, and be
Indicated osly ose route : tbat was frei tbe
Daupbin country to Edmonton. He Intimated tbey weuid cerne dowu witb a subsidy
te assist tbe road. Wby tbat Information
was given must be lef t te conjecture. It
is weli known that certain bankers bave
been heverIng areund, net only the Senate,
but about Ottawa of late. It Io generaliy
Intinated, cruel rumeur says at ieast, that
these banks are iargely Isterested lu the
construction ef tbese rends, and la order
prebably to give buoyancy to the credit et
the ralIway builders, tbe geverument hidicated wbat they intended te de lu tbe premises, and that mlgbt be a salve probably
te beal the wound et a banker wbe might
look forward la the future te probable ioss
et iuvestrnent. I do net knew whetber the

MAY 15, 1902
Secretary of State can confirm the reports
that have been current, that some $14,M0)
per mile are to be granted to this northern
route up as far as Edmonton, and that the
saine amount la to bie grantedl to assist ln
cwnstructing- 'the road fromi Edmônton
tbrough to the Pacifie, either by the Pine or
Yellow Head Pass. This indication of the
premier would lead us to suppose there was
some trnth In it, and If the Sedretary of
State can give us that Information It would
relieve probably the anxiety that existe ln
tbe country. 1 do flot object to a fair subsidy, particuiarly to that section of! the road
trzn the Northern Saskatchewan to Edmonton. It la a magnificent portion of the Northweat Territories. It is capable of containing
bundreds of thousands, yes millions of peopie, and 1 can say this for it.also, that it la
as fine a part of the country and I believe
t will turn out to bie as good an agricultural portion of the .North-west Territories
as even that further to the eastward. I
speak from my 6wn observation, baviug
driven over some 600 or 700 miles of IL To
a grant In aid of that Une I should not object neither do I tbink the country would
object, In order to induce settlers to go
there, but whether the subsidies to which
1 have referred are to bie given I must leave
with the hon. gentleman, and I suppose lie
will not tell us until the time cornes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Exactly ; I don't know.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
I really believe. Sometlmes I arn placed
ln the unfortunate position o! contradlcting my hon. frIend. Prom the ]gollcy pursuekl, and the mode of governing this country by the present administration, I can
readily accept as absolutely true that the
hon, gentleman knows nothing at ail about
it. The doctrine has been laid down ln this
Chamber-although the hon, gentleman
amiles and pooh-pooha the Idea-by the Minister of Justice and himself, that they try
to carry on the government ais nearly as
practicable ln the manner in which the ditferent departments are managed in England,where the heads of the depgatmients confr01, s0 that we have had the evidemce here of
the Minister of Justice when bie introduced
Bis, and we have had evidence this session
over and over again and the Secretary of
State has admitted himsel! when hie intro-

557

duced government Bills, that hie could not
explain them for the reason tbat bie -dîd
not know anything about tbem. Tbey came
froim other departients, and were simply
put ln bis hands. I say they treated hini
very unfairly, and they treated hilm ln such
a way that If hie had that pluck which generally characteuises an Irishman, hie would
have strongly objected. When I occupled the
seat opposite, 1 peremptorily refused to introduce Bis from other depariinenis until
1 bad a precis of them, and not oniy a precis o! them, but an explanation wlhy any
changes were made. I find no fault witia
the hon. Secretary of State, because lie bas
not ln his mind's eye, or In his Intellect
a knowledge of the details o! ail the departments, but I say the mode of conducting
the public business places the t.afferent menibers, and particulariy the meînbers of the
Cabinet ln this Senate, ln a position that
they should not occupy. I was going to ask
another question, but I will take it for granted the hon, gentleman does not know anytbing about it. I bave one word to say about
the Post Office Department to which hie called
my attention tbe other day, when hie found
fauit with the utterances which I made ln
reference to the magnificent management of
the Pont Office Department by the present
minIster. I find ln looking at the records,
that the lirat deficIt ln 189S, as snown by
the records, was $47,602. 0f course we
heard, a great deal of that. I amn not going
to enter into an explanation just now, but
It wae found that ln 1899 it ran up to $398,000, and In 1900 it was $461,000, and last
year there i. an apparent reduction, because
It Io given as $416,183. You will mid If you
examine thils record closeiy, that the table
does not Include the «Yukon postal service,
which o! course does not pny Its way. That
account Is given by itself, as If the Yukon
were flot a part o! Canada. -It shows that
the revenue was $21,074, and the expenulture $116,000, making a deficit oa. $97,841.
Adding this to the ack-nowledged deficit as
It appears on .the face of the post office return, gives a total deficit o! $514,024. That
is without deducting the amounts received
froni newspaper postage, which the Senate
will remember was formerly free. The hon.
Secretary of State told us that the postage
had been reduced to two cents, and that that
was a march lu the direction o! the benefit

558

SENATE

of the people, but when they did that, at the
samne time they added newspaper postage,
which brings Up the sum to a certain extent,
lost by the two cent postage. The mode of
keeping the two accounts this year, by
charging the deficit of about $100,000 for
the Yukon ln another account altogether,
shows an apparent reduction, but, If properly charged wouid, as 1 say, increase tbe
actual delicit over balf a million.
One
method was to charge ail the expenses attending the opening of the Yukon territory
to the Mounted Police, and s0 on. I might
go on for hours. No one was louder la denunciation of the expenditure o! the governient wben it rose to thirty-eigbt million
than the hou. gentleman. He said then that
we were bleeding the farmers white. I tbink
that was the expression of the present MinIster of Trade and Commerce. Now you
bave got, flot whiat the hon. gentleman said
a moment ago, fifty-six or fifty-seven million, but you bave got sixty tive million.
That is the amount we are eaked to vote.
The trade of the country is increasing rapidly, but not bai! as rapidly as the expenditure.
The people begin to realize the fact that the
present goverument are gentlemen o! professions, but flot gentlemen of actions ; or,
ln other words, that they have flot carried
out the principies which they advocated.
The late Minister of Justice told the people
in London: 'Give us power anu we will
reduce the expenditure from thirty-elght to
thirty-four million.' Pour million was to be
saved. The brilliant premier, who bak a marvellous power of utterance and comimand of
the Engllsh. language, witb a very agreeable
Frenchi Iiom that makes hlm exceedingiy
pleasant to listen to, re-ecboed this over and
over aga'ln. But now we have an expenditure of sixty or seveaty million, and *Wbere
It is going to stop I do not know. If It le
going on in -the same ratio as It bas of late,
doubling the expenditure, and If the government remain ln pow'er another term, !l Is
hard to say wbere It will end.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wait tili you see us
uext year.
Hon. Sir MAC1,ENZIE BOWELL-yes,
that ie what Mr. Tarte said. We are iearning and eeeing it rapidiy. One remark was
made by the bon. Secretary of btate ; ns i
look-ed at bis face attentiveiy, I was marlion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

veliously surprised that he dld flot blush.
He told us tbe amount to be paiu in bounties
on Iron this year wae one million and a bal!.
Does any one remember the utterances o!
the Secretary of State when be sat on this
side of the House, about bounties ? If
hon, gentlemen do not remèmber, I wouid
suggest a perusal of the Debates, and hon.
gentlemen wiil findt that lie said that this
principle of bounties was robbery. That ia
the mild term that lie applied to It. Now he
belongs to a cabinet wbicb bas swoiien the
bounties from one or two bundred tbousand
dollars to a million and a hal!, and the
probabilities are that next year it may be
If the output of the furnaces
donbled.
which have been put ln bînet'shouid be as
great as tbey were during the past year, 1
suppose we wiil have to pay two or three
million ln bounties. I do not object to that.
The bon, gentleman knows tbat the party to
wbicb I belong, and wltb wbich I have bad
sometblng to do ln the administration or
affairs, introduced this pninciple of bounties,
and the effect ls what we predicted It would
be. If the bon. Secretary o! State can, wlthont a blueh or witbout a qualm o! conscience,
go on ln the lune and polcy of the oid government, expending double as mucli as the
former goverament spent ln that direction,
and a benefit flowed from It as bas been
shown to flow from the construction of these
works, we wUll not complain. I have simply
to say that the utterances about the trade
of the Yukon country being taken from the
Canadian people Is as great a fallacy as was
ever i!ttered by any public man. Tbat the
great United States transport companies
should ha%,e taken advantage o! what took
place, is very natural. They bave had the'
control o! that trade for the last bal! century.
My bon. tniend from Victoria knows that
well, and unfortnnately the British Columbia
capitaliste on that coast had not Invested
money to any great extent to enable them
to compete for that trade. Wbhetber von
had an nil-rail route or not, even starting througb British Columbia, the grain
output the food output of Oregon and
Washington, Territory, being s0 mucli nearer
the part of the country where it is consumed, would give 'tbem an advantage over
us, and the only meane o! eecuning that
trade and retailing it exciusively for the
Canadians, le to provIde transportation and

MAY 15, 1902

559

enact a high protective tariff against âaU indicated, and then If you build a railway
United States products. If you adopt that through Canadian territory into that counpýrinciple, then you wlll secure it; out It la try there is a heavy expeuse ln the freight
Impossible If you allow the food output of upon the rail. If you have to pass througli
Washington and Oregon territories to go into portions of the United States terrltory and
that country upon equal or coniparatlvely submit to the United States customa offiequal terms with the food products sent ciais, you have to put on such a duty as
from the North-west and Manitoba. They will wiil counteract the expense attending the
always have an adi-antage that it la Impossi- taking of the food products from the proble to overcome except by protective legisia- ducing portions of our North-west. I belleve
tion.L 1 lose ail patience when I hear men, and Rritish Columbia la capable of an output
particularly men who should know better, that wouM surprise the whole of us If It
but who know nothing about it, talk about were once utiiized, but the people of that
the country belng robbed of millions lu trade country have given their attention to lumbecause they do not have that impracticable bering and mining to a very great extent,
water and tramway route established by the and flot to agriculturai pursuits, aud until
country, which you could not reach, as 1 they develop their agriculture they wili have
have told you before, any more than you to seek their supplies from other portions cf
could reach Portland In the wlnter season Canada. The mining and iumberlng beki.
wlthout going through United States wat- more profitable, tbey devote their tîme and
ers and being subject to the annoyances of attention to it, and I ouly hope the present
the United States customs tariff. I should government, having adopted a protective
like to hear the honest opinions of those wbo policy-we had evideuce of that yesterdayhave llved ln that country who know what that they wili go on with the pollcy, aud I
the trade la, what the British capitaliste have no doubt If they continue ht and apply
have to do-and when I say British I mean It to the trade of the Yukon Terrltory -from
Canadian capitallsts--to compete with these the United States, they wiii nlot oniy secure
great corporations that exist. It would be the trade for Canada, but they will attract
sstonlshlng to SOU to go through .the ware- population, Increase our wealtb, and add
bouses ln St. Michaeds, qAm also the Dawson still greater benefIts to the whoie country.
warehouses owned by the Seattle and Cai- I am not, as hou, gentlemen know, overfernia, Tradig companies, and sec their enamoured wlth, nor have I very great conscores of ships carrying Immense .frelght fidence ln tUs government, but I do say
f rom United States ports to that country, to that upon that particular question of prose the extent oit these warehouses. We tectlng our Industries and of continuin.ail know that to qoaAi a vessel that wfil them, I care flot lu what shape or what
carry an Immense aimount of frelght of form It la done, they will have my humble
food products (fromn the coast-that la support, whntever that may be worth. Thc
f rom Washingtonx or from California-even great progreas that bas taken place lu the
If tbey go round by St. MIýchaeIs, they last few years, aud the fact that the procould carry t *much cheaper than they phecles that were uttered by thc Conservacould by railway tbrough British Columbia. tii-e party If these people came lnto power,
When you get to St. Michaeîs you have a have not been literally and absolutely reaiwater-way Up to the gold-producing regions ized, is because they adopted our pollcy and
of the Yukon Territory, and that has been did ziot carry out their owu promises to the
constantly utillzed ln a way that wouid people.
stagger au Ontario man, and I think even
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-I want to show the
a maritme province man, unleas they have
seen them, seen the aise and carrylng ca- people of this country that, uotwlthstandpacity and power of their steamers that lng what the Secretary of State bas said,
tow up three or four of these barges from the expenditure bas lncreased to an euormSt. Mlchaels to the consuming portions of ous citent during the time the present govthe country. There is nothing to my mlnd ernment h-ave been In power. If 1 understood hlm arlgbt, he said that the expenditlit wlll secure the whole trade of that countitre, unider this present Bu,- le flot greater
try to Canada except tînt whicb I have 'than fi was last year.
Am I rlgbt lu that ?.

560

SENATE

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hou. Mr. CLEMOW-That the fifty-nlne
million last year included some six or sevea
million flot lncluded ln this Bill, for subsidies to rallways.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nothing is given to railways tbls year.
Hou. Mr. CLEMOW-But there was last
year ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.Hou. Mfr. CLEMOW-Wle certainly have
been going on ln an extravagant way for a
great rnany years. and where is this going
to end ? The people of this country know
very Ilttie about it, and it Is unfortunate
that '«e have not time to go Into this matter more fuliy so that the public would understand exactly how this matter stood. It
le our duty to let the people know that the
expenses have lncreased to thîs enormous
extent. Where le it golng to end ? Nobody
can tell. If the government continue la the
wvay they have been going since they'carne
lnto power, there Is no knowlng what the
expenditure '«lU be a few years hence. The
sooner a stop le put te this extravagance the
better. As we ail know, our revenue has lucreased greatly. We ail admît that, but at
the sme time our expenditure bas Increased
more than our revenue. Is that rlght ? As
far ns the national debt le concerned, how
do '«e stand ? I belleve we owe six or ten
million more than '«e dld a year ago. NotwlthstandIug the Increase lu our revenue,
the debt of the counutry lias increased to thls
enormous extent. The people ouglit to knew
this, and ought to apply a remedy lu tîme.
Hlow le that remedy gelng to be enforced 7
There are a great many men la this country, sensible non-partisan rnen, and I arn surprised t.hey do flot take this matter ln baud,
and apply sorne rernedy that wUll benefit them and the country lu the future, but
as long as we take for granted that everythlng le riglit there '«iii be no change. We
'«ere told when '«e dld find some fauît with
the lncreased expenditure, 1Oh, w«att tilt
next year and see what '«e '«111 do.' We
have '«aited from year to year, and we find
they have been truthful lu that respect.
They have carrled ont that pledge, most reIligiously, by Increasing the expendîture of
the couutry te an enormous extent. We !lave
Hon. Mr. CHURCH.

haît to-day a great deai of valuable Information, and I amn glad that rnany matters
have corne out which certainiy reflect the
greatest credit upon the Senate lu preventIng the carrylng out of that Mackenzie &
Mann scheme. But we have to pay soe
$340,000 for IL It lo true that rnatter was
subrnitted te the judge of the Exchequer
Court, but I arn toid It was flot submaittedl
to him as a Judge, but as an Individual.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CLEMOW-DId he examine any
witnesses ? How dId he arrive at the conwas a just suma te be
clusion that $M000O
pald to thern? I do net know '«hether thbey
are entitied to It or not. I know they took
the contract subject to certain conditions.
You know, as business rnen, '«lien you put
a condition ln a contract you expect It to
be carrled out. The governrnent said they
did It lu good falth. The government were
not under any necesslty to make a contract
at that time. The House was about to meet.
They could have waited a few dnys to obtain the appreval of the House before they
allowed these rnen to enter upon an undertaking '«hicli would be perfectly useles
ln the future. I can understaud that under
sorne extraordinary conditions the gevermment would be justified ln making this kind
of a contract, but under the clrcumstances
at that tirne, they
prevailed
which
bad no rIght to do it, and therefore 1
did flot believe that Mackenzie & Mann
were entitled to one dollar compensation.
They took the contract with their eyes open.
They knew what they were doing. They
were men of knowiedge ; capable rnen, and
were not Ignorant. They knew what they
were agreeing to, and took the responsibility
on their own shoulders, and unless sornetiilng more conclusive than what lias been
shown ln the past can be proved, I do not
thinli they are entItled to compensation to
the extent of one dollar. I wlsh '«e had
time to go Juté aht large Items ln the Supply
Bill; but '«e cannot do lt-lt le Impossible.
Then, taire the expenditure on the census.
That is cesting double the amount It cost
some years ago. Was there any necesslty
for that ? Was not that gross mismanagement on the part of sornebody? I do not
know who lt was. There were rnany communications la the papers finding fauit wi,'

MAY 15, 1902
the governxnent because this man and that
man did flot get paid, but there Is the naked
tact, that although the population did flot
increase to any extent, still the cost of the
census was double. They appointed a new
man, and they thought they were going to
do wonders by his superior knowledge, but
it turned out the duty was far better performed In the old days at one-halt the expense than ln the last census. To-day we
hear complaints about the manner ln which
the census was taken. I consider it a perfect
disgrace that we cannat get at the fact
whether that census is right or not. I beIleve If it were possible ta supervise that
census we would findt discrepancies that
would not redound to the credit of the gavernment. But the government keep ail these
things quiet and secret. They make contracts for locomotives and Ihon for different
sections of the country, for what purpose I
do not know. It may be for political purposes, or It; may be ail. right, but we know
nothing of thase circumstauces ; but stiil
we are supposed to assume responsibllity
for the payment'of these Immense sumo.
And this Bill 1s only placed befare us wltbiu
an hour or twa 0f prorogation. Is that fair,
right or 3ust ? In my opinion, fi ls treating
the Senate la a cantemptuous manner. If
I had my way, I wauld Bay that we should
remain here a week to Inquire Into everything, and get ail the Information possible,
ln order that the people may be advised by
us who are responaible as to whether the goverament have béen doing. right or wrang.
Those are my opinions expressed here, 50
that the country may know that as far as
the party I am connected with are concerned
we have always been desirous and most willing ta give this Information ta the public. I
think we should masint upon that Information
belng given, and I hope before long there will
be some method adopted by which the people
of this country will knaw wbere they stand,
and make provision to proteet themselves,
because If matters go on In this way there
la no knawing what the ultimate resuit will
be. Bankruptcy may be the end. This
country la a curions one. It Is capable of
doing a great deal, I admit, and we are doIng wonders ; but stili this thing can be
averdone. The time WIil carne when there
wili be some reaction. We should look this
matter stralght; la the face, and mnaire same
36

provision to protect the people of this country tram being caerced Into paying money
for whlch they are flot; lable. That la my
opinion. I may be wrang, or I may be rîglit,,
but atiil, under ail the circumstances, with
the meagre Information we have received,
we can came ta the conclusion that we have
flot been fairly treated la having the Bill
braught 'down at this stage of the session,
and flot given an apportunity ta discusa It.
The sooner the people realize titis and apply
some remedy, the better for them, and the
better for the Dominion.
The motion was agreed ta on a division,
and the Bill was read a second and third
time, and passed.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
THE PROROGATION.
At Three o'clock p.m. His Excellency the
Governor General proceeded ln state to the
Senate Chamber, ln the parliament buildings,
and taok his seat upon the Throne. The
members of the Senate being assembled,
Ris Excellency was pleased ta command the
attendance af the Hanse of Commons, and
that Hause being present, the tolawIng Billa
were assentedl ta, ln Hia Majesty's name, by
His Excellency the Governor General, viz *
An Act relating to the Regina Law Library.
An Act respecting the Orford Mountain Railway Company.

An Act respecting the Canada Southern Railway Comany.
An Act respecting the Canada and Michigan
Bridge and Tunnel Company.
An Act respecting the River St. Clair Railway, Bridge and Tunnel Company.
An Act respectlng the Edmonton, and Slave
Lake Raiiway Company.
An Act reapecting the Quebec and Lake
Huron Raiiway Company..
An Act respecing the Port Dover, Brantford.
Berlin andi Goderich Railway Com.pany, and to
change its name ta 1The Grand Valley Railway
Company.'
..
An Act respecting the Baffale Railway ComPanY andi the International Railway Company.
An Act ta Incorporate the Velvet (Rosland)
Mine Railway Company.
An Act ta Incorporate the Battleford and
Lake Lenore Railway Company.
Au A-ct reapecting the St. Clair and Brie Ship
Canal Company.
An Act resPecting the TIIsoniburg, Lake Brie
and Pacifie Ral.lway Company.

SENATE
An Act respecting the Windsor and Detroit
Union Bridge Company.
An Act ta lncorporate the Indian River Railway Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Board of the Presbyterian Coliege, Halifax.
An Act ta Incorporate the Sprague's Falls
Manaifacturing Company (Limited).
An Act ta incorporate the Sovereigp Lite Assurance Company of Canada.
An Act ta incorporate the St. Lawrence and
Northern Raiiway Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Nipissing and
Ottawva Raiiway Company.
An Act ta confer on the Commissioner of
Patents certain powers for the relief of John
Westren.
An Act ta incorporate the Strait of Canso
Bridge Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Crown Bank of
Canada.
An Act respecting the Ontario Power Company of Niagara Falls.
Ani Act respecting the Centrai Counties Railway Comnpany.
An Act respecting the Medicine Hat Railway
and Coal Company.
An Act respecting the Vancouver, Victoria
and Eastern E.ailway and Navigation Compa.fY
An Act ta incorporate the Medicine Hat and
Northerni Alberta Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Manitoba and Northwestern Railway Company of Canada.
An Act ta Incorporate the Knapp Tubular
Steamship Company.
An Act respecting the James', Bay Railway
Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Cosmos Cotton
Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Canadian Manufacturera' Association.
An Act respecting Pensions ta Officers of the
North-west Mounted Police.
An Act respecting the Klondike Mines Raiway Company.
An Act ta incarporate the Pacific Northern
and Omineca Railway Company.
An Act. ta Incorporats the Ross Rifle Company,
Limited.
An Act ta Incorporate the Canadiau Narthern
Express Company.
An Act respecting the Dominion Cotton Mille
Company, Limited.
An Act respecting the Timagami Rail way
Company.
An Act respecting the Niagara, St. Catharines and Toronto Raiiway Company.
An Act respecting the Canadian Pacifie Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Ottawa, Brockville and
Et. Lawrence Railway Company.
ZRen. Mr. CLEMOW.

An Act respecting the Trans-Canada ltailway
Company.
An Act respecting the Bay of Quint4 Railway
Company.
An Act ta incorporate the Essex Terminal
Raiiway Company.
An Act respecting the Lake Champlain and
St. Lawrence Ship Canal Company.
An Act ta amend the Bills of Exchange Act,
1890.
An Act further ta amend the Canada Evidence
Act, 1893.
An Act further ta amend the Unorganized
Territories Game Preservation Act, 1894.
An Act furttiar ta amend the Acts respecting
the North-weat Territories.
An Act toanmend the Ciil1 Service R-3tirement
Act, 1898.
An Act ta, amend the Rozky Mountains Park
Act.
An Act respecting the Hudson's Bay and
Noi th-west Railways Company.
An Act furth3,r ta amend the Yiîkon Territory
Act and th.3 Acts in amendment I hereot.
An Act for the relief of James Brown.
An Act respecting the Canadian Northern Railv ay Company.
An Act Incorporatitig The Moloans Bank Pension Fund.
An Act ta aniend the Act respecting the lucurjpration of Boards ot Trade.
An As;t further to amcnd the Pilotage Act.
An Act respecting the Moutreal andI Southern
Counties Railway Company.
An Act ta Incorporate the Toronto and Niagnrti
Foirer Company.
An Act ta> Intoporate the Bishap of MoK>oanee.
An Act ta amend the Erchequer Court Act.
An Act to amend the provieian with re~gard
ta Tolle of chapter 1 of* the Statutes of 1881,
rtspecting the Canadian Pacific Raillway.
An Act to amsnd Chapter 41 of the Statutes
of 1901, respectinc the Administration ot Justice
In thse Yukon Territary.
An Act ta ainend the Act re-specttng the Judges
of rovinoisii Courts.
An Act to incorparate the Dymient Securities,
Looz and Savings Company.
An Act ta amend the Act respecting the Pack,ing and Sale of certain Stnple Cammoditias.
An Act ta, amend thse Land Titles Act, 1894.
An Act ta amend thse Chinese Immigration
Act, 1900.
An Act ta amand tise Poet Office Act.
An Act ta anîend the Mjounted Police Act,
1894.
An Act ta authorize the raising, by way of
len, of certain auras of !noney for the Public
Service.
An Act ta amend the Naturalization Act.

MAY 15, 1902

563

An Act to nmcund the Acta relating ta the OtAm Act respecting the reprisentazion of the
tawa, Northern and Western Rallway Company. Yukon Territory in the House of Commons.
An Act te Incorperate the Tukon Paciflc RailAn Act further te amind the General Inspecway Company.
tion Act.
An Act respecting the United Goid Fields of
An Act te amend the Manitoba Grain Act,
British Coilumbia.
An Act respeating la Compagnie du chemin de
An Act respectlng the Coasting Trade of
fer de Colonisation du Nord.
Canada.
An Act te Incorporate the Manitoba and KeeAn Act te ansend the Customs Tariff, 1897.
watin Railway Company.
Au Act respectlng the Remission of Penalties.
An Act te Incorporate the Nepi 6 'en Railway
An Act te incorporate the Canadian Nerthern
Company.
Telegraph Company.
An Act te Incorporate the Canada Eastern
An Act respecting 'the incorporation of Joint
Rallway Company.
Stock Companles by Letters Patent.
An' Act respectlng the Montreal. Ottawa and
Georgian Bay Cançil Company.
To these Blls the Royal Âssent was proAn Act respecting the Bell Telephone Com- noned by the Clerk of the Senate ln the
pany of Canada.
following words :
An Act respecting the Algoma Centrai and
Hudson Bay Rniiway Company.
In Hia Majesty's name, His Exeellency the
An Act respacting the Manitoulin and, North Governor General doth assent ta these Bil.
Shore Raiiway Company.
Then the Honourable the Speaker of the
An Act te Inco.-porata the Maritime Stock
House of Commons addressed His ExcelEreeders' Association.
An Act respecting the Quebec Southern Railway Comnpany.
An Act turther te amend the TYukon Territory

lency the Governqr General, as followa
MAT IT PLEASE

TOUE

EXCELLENCYr:

The Commons of Canada have voted the Sup-

plies required te enable the governent ta deAu Act to amend the Ralway Act.
fray the expenses of the public service.
An Act to amend the Act of 1899, reupectlng
In the name of the Commons, I present to
the City of Ottawa.
Your Excellency the following Bill
An Aot to Incorporate the Dominion Institute
An Act for grantlng ta Hia Majesty certain
of Cý,artred Accountants.
sumo of money for the public service of the
An Act respccting the South Shore Railway financial years ending raspectively June 30,
Comipany.
1902. and June 20, 1903.
An Act respecting the Lake Eris and Detroit ta which Bill I humbly request Tour ExcelRiver Railway Comp any.
iency's assent.
An Act to 'ncerporate the Canada Central

Raiiway Company.

An Act to incorperate the Montreal Subway
Company.
An Act to Incorperate the North Shore Power
Rallway and Navigation Company.
An Act te prendse for the establishment of a
Me-dical Council in Canada.
An Act te amend the Immigration Act.
An Act te amend the Fruit Marks Act, 1901.
An Act zo incorporate the Senzuritics Bank of
Cavada.
An Act te lncorporate the 2Metropoltan Bank.
Au Act te JnagfPDrate the Union Lt! e Assurance Company.

To thils Bil the Clerk of the Senate, by
His Excellency's command, did thereupon
Bay

In Ha Majesty's name, Hi. Eizceliency the
Governor General thanks Hm Loyal Subjects,
accepta their'benevolence, and assents ta this

Bill.

Â!ter which ie Excellency the Governor
General was pleased to close the second -session of the ninth parliament of the Dominion with the following

SPEECH.
An Act resPicting the Royal Marine Insurance- HMoourable GenUerncn of the Senate:

Company.
An Act fer the reilief of Samuel Nelson Chipmen.

tenUemen Of te Homse of Coimmon:

In relieving you from further attendance lu
Parliament, I deaire ta thank you for the care
An Act further te ameni the provisions of
Chapter 1S3 o! the Revised Statutes with respect andýr attention given to your Important duties.
to the Halifax Induetrial Schooi and Saint
The unusual number of Acta that have been
PatnIck's Home at Halilax.
passed lncorporatlng Industriel and railway
361

564

SENATE

The growing population ln the Yukon territory and the rapid development ln the trade of
that section of Canada amply justify the Act
grantlng to Its residents a representative ln
Parliament who will be authorlzed to speak
for his constituency ln ail matters affecting the
It han heen gratifying te note the nprece- more Important interests of that remote part
dented flow of Immigrants fromn Europe and of the Dominion.
from the United Statea that are now seekIng Gentlemen of the~ Bouse of Comrnom :
homes lu Manitoba and in the North-west Territories. The rapidly increasing population Ini 1 thank you in Hie Majesty's naine for the
for the pubthat fertile section of the Dominion must liberal supplies you have granted
lic service.
yearly add te the trad2- of the country.
Honourable Genîlemèen of the &r"iatc:
The agreement entered Into with the CanaGentlemen of the Bouse of Coimmons:
dian Pacific Itailway Conmpany, when authoiu biddlng you fareweil, I desire to express
rizing an increase of lts capital, to expend over
nine million dollars in providing addltional the hope that wben we meet next year we shall
rolling stock, will, It la hoped, materia.llY dl- be able to again rejoice ln the continued prosminish lu the future the serious losses that perlty which now prevails over this wide
have arisen frein the insufficient supply of cars Dominion.
te carry the products of the west to eastern
The SPEAKER of the Senate then said:
ports.
Hono<urable Gentlemen of the Senate:
The amendinents made te the Manitoba Grain
Gentlemen of the Bouse of Comnusu
Act authorizlng the fariner. lu Manitoba and lu
It ls HIS EXaSLLENCY THE GOVERNOR
the North-west Territories to erect flat ware- GuNER-AL' will and pleasure, that this Parllahouses for stering their grain at railway ment be prorogued until Tuesday, i he tweutystations will. it ts believed, be found te serve fourth day of June next, to be hiera holden, and
a useful purpose. and defeat any attemPt to tbis Parliament is accc>rdingly prorogued untIl
the twenty-fourth day of June next.
depress prices by combinatiens.
companies may be taken as an evidence of the
rapid progress that Canada is making ln weal'.h
and prosperity. Furth6r proof of that satisfactory condition la afforded by the increase
lu the trade and revenue of the country.

INDEX
PART 1-SENATOIRS
The following abbreviations are used: let FL, 2nd R., 3rd R., Tht, 2nd and Srd Readings; *withoul
renark or debate; Accis., Accounts; Adjn., Âdjourn; Adjd., Âdjourned; Ami., Amendment; Amis.,
Aniendmenis; B., Büh; B.C., British Columbia; Can., Canada or Canadien ; Corn., Commitiee; Co.,
Company; Gonsdn., Consideration; Cor., Gorrespondence; Depi., Department; Govi., Government; i
Ex., Hie Exoellency the Governor General ; IL of C., Bouse of Gommons ; Incorp., Incorporation; Inq.,
Inquiry; Man., Manitoba; Mess., Méessage; M., Motion; m, moved; N.B., New Brunswick; N.W.T.,
1
North-west Territories-; N.S., Nova Scotia; Ont., Ontario; Par -t., Parliament; P.E.L, Prince Edward
Island: P.O., Post Office; Ques., Question; Hem., Hemarks; Hep., Reported; Bei., Heturned; Ry.,
Raiiway; SeL, Select; 6 m. h., Six Monthe' Hoi>gt; Withdn., Withdrawn.
BEIQUE, Hon. F. L.
Adamson, The Case of Capi.: on M. to
adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on Contingent Accs..
and M. (Mr. McCallum) to amd. rep., rem.,
320.
Address In Repiy to Speech from the
Throne : rem. : visit of Duke and Duchesa
of Cornwall and York, 3 ;assasaination of
Pres. McKinley, 3 ; Census of 1901. 3 ; deveiopment of the N.-W., 4 ; wireiess telegraphy, 4 ; Canada and Paria Exposition.
4 ; expansion of trade of the country. 4-5;
commercial agencies, 6 Coronation ceremontes and intercolonial conference, 5 ; M.
ta adopt Address, 5.
Applications for Ry. Charters B.: on M. (Mr.
Casgrain, de Lanaudière) for 2nd R., rem.,
153-164.
Can. Evidence Act Ami. B. : In Com., rem.,
354.
General Inspection Act Amt. B.: rep. from
Committee, 453 ; on M. (Mr. Scott) for 3rd
R., rem., 462.
Introduced. 1.
JToint Stock Companies Incorporation B.: on
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 221 ; In
Com., rem., on 3rd ei., 234, 235 ; on 4th el.,
236, 236. 237 ; in Com. on Sth ci., rem., 263,
267, 268 ; on l2th el., 269 ; on 2lst el., 274
on 2Sth and 26th cia.. 276 ; on 29th ci., 278
on 32nd ci., 280 ; on 34th ci., 288, 290 ; on
35th cl., 291 , on 38th ci., 292 ; on 39th ci.,
293 ; on 4lat cl., 293 .- M. to amend ci., 295;
on 42nd ci., 295 ; on 44th ei., 295 ;on 46th
ci., 296 ; 'on 48th ei.. 296, 297.
La Cie du chemin de fer de Colonisation du
Nord B.: Introduced, 240.
Medicai Council In Can. B.: on M. (Mr. Sullivan) for 2nd R., rem., 457-458 ; In Com..
rem.,* 463 ; on 2nd ci., M. to amend agreed
to, 463 ; on lOth ci., M. to amd., 467, rem.,
468 ;amt. iost on division, 468.

BEIQUE, Hon. F. L.-Oon.
Notices of M.: on M. (Sir M. Bowel> to amend
rule, and M. (Mr. Watson) in amt., rem.,
365.
Orthodox Russo-Greek Catholic Church B.: on
M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) te adopt 24th reP.
of Com on S. O. & P. B., rem., 511.
Ottawa Northern and Western Ry. Co. B.:
M. for 3rd R. called, rem., 232.
Quebec Southern Ry. Co. B. : lst and 2nd R..,
453 ; 3rd R.*, 461.
Question of Priviiege, A: on Inquiry (Mr.
Landry) rem., 225, 226.
Remission of Penalties B. :on M. (Mr. Templeman) for 2nd R.. rem., 488 .In Com..
rem., 506 ; on lst cl., 507, 508, 609, 512 ;M.
to aznd. ci., 614 ; on 3rd cl., M. to amd.,
516 ; on M. (Mr. Tempieman) for Srd R.,
rem., 541.
Royal Marine Insurance Co. B. : i., 406 ; 3rd
R.*, 427.
Rulea of the Senate. The:. M. to amd. 50th
rule, 538 ;rein., 539,' 540 ; M. called, and
dropped, 545.
Standing Orders Committee, The : On M. (Mr.
Macdonald, P.E.I.) to adopt 26th rep. ol
Com., rem., 499, 500, 501.
St. Lawrence and Âdirondack Ry. Co. B. : mIn.,
200 ; 2nd R.., 232 ; 3rd R.0, 314.
South Shore Ry. Co. B. : let and 2nd R.,* 453;
Srd IL*, 98S.
Toronto and Niagara Power 00.'. B.: on M,
(Mr. Kirnthoffifer) to suspend ruies, rem.
407 ; on M. (Mr. Kirchhoffer) -for 3rd R.
rem., 407, 408.«
Yukon Territory Representation B. : In Com.:
on 22nd el., rem., 485.
BERNIER, Hon. T. A.
Âdamson, The Case of Capt.: on M. (Mr.
Watson) to adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on Con.
tingent Accounts and M. (Mr. McCalium) tc
amd. rep., rem., 319.

566

IN~DEX

BERNIER, Hon. T. À.-Con.
Canadien Pacifie Ry. Co. B. :on M. (Mr.
Jones) for 3rd R., and M. (Mr. Wood, Hamilton) ln amt., rem., 369.
Delayed Returus : Inq., 135.
Emigration from the 71. S. ta Canada : Inq.
called and postponed, 186.
Lake Champlain and St. Lawrence Ship Canal
Ca. B. :Srd R.*, 368.
Medical Cauncil in Can. B. : on M. (Mr. Sullivan) for 2nd R., rem., 455, 456, 457.
Mantreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Ca.
B. : on M. (Mr. Clemow) far 2nd R., rem.,
125.
Notices of M. : on M. (Sir M. Bowell) ta
change rule, and M. (Mr. Watson) ln amt.,
rem., 365.
Remission af Penalties B. : on M. (Mr. Templeman) for 2nd R., rem., 491.
Russo-Greek Catholic Church B. : an M. (Mr.
Macdonald, P.E.I.) ta adapt 24th rep. of
Coin. ou S. 0. & P. B., abjects that petitianer ls a nan-resident allen, 509 rem.,
509, 510, 511 aue decision of Speaker and M.
(Mr. Watson) ta set aside decision, rem.,
532, 535.
Standing Orders Coin., The : an M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) ta adopt 26th rep. of Coin.,
rem., 500.
Supply Bill, The : on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
RL, rem., 550.
Transfer of Manitoba Lands * M. and rem., 66.
Translation.c f the Debates : on M. (Mr.
Poirier) ta adapt let rep. of Debates Coin.,
rem., 189, 192.
Question of Privilege, A : on Inq. (Mr. Landry) rem., 228.
BAKER, Hon. G. B.
Standing Cammittees, The : an M. (Mr. Scott)
ta appoint Coin. on R. T. & Hs., rem., 97.
Yukon Territ6ry Amt. B. : rep. front Com.,
483.
BOWELL, Han. Sir MACKENZIE.
Âddress lu Reply ta Speech from Throne :on
M. (Mr. B8ique) for adoption of Address,
congratulates mover and secOhder, 8 ; the
late Senators Allan, Villeneuve and Prowse,
8-9 ;appointmeut of Hon. Mr. Mille ta
Suprerne Court, 9 ; minieterial changes, 9;
appointments of members ta public offices,
10; the Fast Line, il ;the Pacifie cable, il;
Intercolonial Ry. extension, il
the postal
service, il ; South African contingent, 12;
praeperity of the country, 12 ;visit of the
Duke and Duchese of Cornwall, 12 ; assaseInation of Pres. McKinley, 13 ; the census of
1901, 13; exadus from Canada, 14; the C.P.R.,
15 ; wirelees telegraphy, 15 ;the tariff and
the differential duty, 15, 16 ;increased ex-

BOWELL, Hon. Sir M.-Con.
penditure, 17 ; differences lu the Cabinet,
18-19.
Adjmente : on notice of M. (Mr. Scott) remn.,
75 ; on M. (Mr. Scott) remn., 77-78, 79.
Admin. of Justice lu the Yukon Territory B.
on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R._ rem., 404.
Applications for Ry. Charters B. : on M. (Mr.
Ellis) for 2nd R., rem., 113, 114.
Appointinent of Committees : inq., 25 ; remn.,
26.
Bay of Quinté Ry. Ca. B.: lnt., 309 ; 2nd R.*,
312 ; Srd R.*, 367.
Boards of Trade Incorporation B : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for let R., rem., 181.
Chinese Immigration Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr.
Templeman) for 2nd R., remn., 410, 434.
City of Ottawa Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for lot R., remn., 469.
Civil Service Retirement Act Aint. B. : on M.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., remn., 373.
Contingent accounts of the Senate : on M.
(Mr. Watson) rem., 210 ; on M. (Mr. Watson)
te adopt 4th rep. of Coin. an I. E. & C. A.,
remn., 469 ; on 6th par., 470 ;on 7th par.. 470;
on Sth par., 471-472, 474, 475 ;on lOth par.,
477, 478 ; on l2th par., 478.
Coasting Trade of Can. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2ad R., remn., 524-526, 527 ; 542, 543.
C. P. R. Tolls Act Aint. B. : lu Com., remn. on
3rd. cl., 423.
Custome Tariff Act Amt. B.: an M. (Mr.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 544-545.
Debates, Translation of The : ou M. (Mr. Poirier) rem., 187, 188, 191, 192, 193.
Dechene, the late Senator : remn., 367.
Delayed Returns : on inq. (Mr. Landry) re appointment of honorary col's, and rep. (Mr.
Scott) rem., 545.
Dom. Lands Act Aint. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., rein., 403 . lu Coin., rem. ou let
cl., 424, 425, 426.
Explanatian, 81 ; rem., 81-82.
Pisheries Award, The : rem., 199.
Fruit Marks Act Aint. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., remn., 411.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Co. B. : on M. (Mr.
Sullivan) ta suspend rules, rein., 249..
General Inspection Act Aint. B. . ln Coin. on
2nd cl., rein., 450, 451.
Grounding of the SS. «Lake Superiar' : remn.,
135.
Hour of Opening, The : celle attenti 'n ta
latenese of opening, 410.
Immigration Act Aint. B. -. ui Coin., rein. ou
lot cl., 416, 419, 420 ;ou 2nd cl., 423.
Inspection Act Aint. B.: on, M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., rein., 406.
Institute of Chartered .i
nt;tnts Bl. u
M. (Mr. Landry) ta adopt ro;'. of Coin. on
Miscellaneaus Private Blsl, remn., 354.

INDEX

567

BOWELL, Hon. Sir M.-Con.
BOWELL, Hon. Sir M.-Con.
Ry. Act Âmt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
Introduction of Goyt. Measures ln the Senate:
R., rem.. 492.
75.
Inq.,
-inq., 111 ; rem.,
Ry. Committ ee Room, The:
Joint Committees, The :rem., 200.
112, 134.
Joint Stock Co.'s Incorp. B. ; on m. ,Mr. Scott)
Regina Law Library B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
for lst R., rem., 169-170 ,on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., rem., 100.
for 2nd R., rem., 221; ln Com., on el. 1, rem.,
Remission of Penalties B. : on M. (Mr. Tem233-234 ; ou el. 4, rem., 237, 239 ; on M. (Mr.
pieman) for 2nd R., rem., 489-490 ; ln Com.,
Scott) to postpone Comxittee stage,, rem.,
504, 506, 508 ; on ci. 1, 614, 615.
265-266. 268; on
241; in Com., on Sth el., rem.,
River St. Clair Ry. Bridge and Tunnel Co.'s
12th cl., 271 ; on. 16th el., 273 ; on 20th el.,
B. . tnt., 101 ; 2nd R., 120 ; 3rd R., 157.
274 ;on 23rd cl., 275 ;on 25th el., 276, 277;
Rules, a proposed amt. to the: Notice of M.
ei., 278 ;on 32nd ei., 279 ; on 33rd
on 29th
136 ; ou M., rem., 156.
ci.. 280, 281 . on 34th el., 288, 289, 290 ; on
Ruies of the Senate, The : on M. (Mr. Mac37th ci., 292 ; on 4lst ci., 294 , on 42nd ci.,
donald, B.C.) rem., 396 ; ou M. (Mfr. Béique)
296 ; on 39th ci., 307 ,on 41st ci., 308, 309.
to, amd. Rule 50, rem., 539, 546.
Provincial Courts Act Amt. B.: on
Judges of
Signing of Senators' Writs : Inq., 26 ; rem.,
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 405 l n
Com., rem., 426 ; on 2nd ci., 427.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mfr. Scott)
Loaning of Locomotives to the C. P. R., 81.
to appoint Committee of Selection, rem., 68,
B. : on M. (Mfr.
Manitoba Grain Act Amt.
'70 ; ou M. (Mfr. Scott) to appoint Joint ComScott) for 2nd R., rem., 469 ; in Com., on 6th.
mittee on Library, rem., 82-86, 89 ; ou rep.
ci., 521 ; on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem.,
of Committee of Selection (3fr. Scott) rem.,
496-497.
77 ; on M. (Mfr. Scott) to apoint Joint ComMinerais of Nova Scotia, The : on inq. (Mr.
mittee on Printing, rem., 91 ; on M. (Mr.
Church) rem., 196.
Scott) to appoint Committee ou Railways,
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal
Montreal,
Telegraphs and Harbours, rem., 94, 98 ; on
Clemow) for 3rd- R.,
Co.ls B. : on M. (Mr.
M. (Mr. Laudry). for minutes of the Strikiug
rem., 178-180.
Committee, rem., 103, 110 ; on M. (3fr.
Moutreal Subway Co.'s B.: on M. (Mr. WatScott) to permit Standing Committees to Bit
son) for 2nd R., rem., 480.
during sittings o! the Ilouse, rem., 460, 461.
North Shore Power Ry. and Navigation Co.'s
Strike at Valleyfield, The : ou iuq. (Mfr. LauB. : on M.-(Mfr. Watson) for 3rd R., rem.,
dry) rem., 112; on Inq. (Mr. Laudry) rem.,
408, 433.
115, 116, 143.
of M. : on postponement of M. (Mr.
Notices
Su-pply Bis: on M. ( 3fr. Scott) for 2nd R.,
Scott) rem., 257, 306 ; M. to amend rule, 313;
rem., 410, 436, 436 , lu Com., 446 , on M. (3fr.
rem., 314, 350, 356, 357, 360, 366.
Scott) to adjouru during pleasure, 546 ; ou
N.-W. Mouuted Police Pensions B. : in Com.,
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., 551-559.
on Srd ci., 329 ; on 4th and 9th cle., 830,
rem.
Suspension of Rules, The : ou M. (3fr. Scott)
331 ; on l7th ci., 331.
to suspend rules'for remainder o! session,
N. -W. Territories Âcts Amt. B. * on M. (3fr.
rem., 461.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 372.
Toronto and Niagara Power Ca.'. B. : on M.
and Prorogation of Parliament ; noOpeningl
(3fr. Kirchhoffer) for 3rd R., rem., 407.
tice of M. to give instructions to Black Rod,
Traus-Can. Ry. Ca. B. : on M. (Mfr. Watson)
406 ; M. to appoint Committee, 4#i.
for 3rd RL, rem., 336-339.
Orthodox Russo-Greek Church Peâïtion : on
Treadgold Concession, The : on M. (3fr. MacSpeaker's ruling and M. (Mr. Watson) that
donald, B.C.) rem., 138-141.
the decision be flot concurred ln, rem., 532,
Visit o!. the Duke and Duchess of York to
535, 537.
Canada : ou Inq. (3fr. Landry) and rep. (Mr.
Ottawa, Brockville and St. Lawrence Ry. Co.
Scott) rem., 430.
B. : 3rd R.*, 367.
Yukon Territory Âct Âmt. B. : lu Com., rem.,
Pacific Ry. Co.'s B. : on M. (Mr. Jones) for
482 ; on 2ud and 3rd cîs., 482, 483.
3rd R., and amt. (3fr. Wood, Hamilton) rem.,
Yukon Territory Representation B. : on M.
370.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 484 ; lu Com.,
Pilotage.Act Âmt. B. : iu Com., rem. on 5th
rem., 484 ; on 22nd ci., 484, 485 ; on 36th ci.,
ci., 332.
486.
P.O. Act Âmt. B. ; on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
R., rem., 412, 413, 414, 416 ; ln Com. on 16th
CARLING, Hon. J.
ci., 438-439.
Suppiy B. : on M. (Mfr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem.,
Privilege, a question of : on complaint of
548.
Mr. Landry, rem., 207, 209, 226, 230.

INDEX
CASGRAIN, Hon. J. P. B. (de Lanaudière.)
CHURCH, Han, C. E.-Con.
Address ln reply to Speech from Throne :on
Notices of Motion : On M. (Sir M. Bowell) ta
M. (Mr. Béique) for adoption of Address,
àmend rules, rem., 363 ;on question raised
rem. :appointment of Senator Mills to
hy Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) rem., 409.
Supreme Court, 51 ;Increased expenditure,
P.O. Act Amt. B. : ln Cota., rem. on 1Sth ci.,
fil1 loaning locomotives ta the C.P.U.,
440.
51-52 ; expenditure on I.C.R., 52 ;differences
Question of Privilege, A : an lnq. (Mr. Landry)
In the Cabinet, 52 ;the Cotton industry, 53;
rem., 227.
the preferential tariff, 63 ;prosperity of the
Remission. of Penalties B. : on M. (Mr. Tetacountry, 54 ; development of Industries at
man) for 2nd R., rema., 488.
Sault St. Marie, 64 ; the coal Industry, 54;
Suppiy Bill, The: an M. (Mr Scott) to adjin..
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal, 54 ; cheap
during pleasure, rem., 546.
transportation, 55 the Premier's visit ta
Trans-Canada Ry. Ca. B.: on M. (Mir. WatLondon, 55 ;the late Sen. Alian, 55-56.
son) for 3rd R., rema., 346-347.
Application for Ry. Charters B. : int., 100
2nd R. postponed, 120 ; M. for 2nd R. and CLEMOW, Hon. F.
rem., 148, 162-166.
Adatasan, The case of Capt. . an M. (Mr. WatContingent Accounts of the Senate : on M.
son) ta adopt 3rd rep. of Cam. on I. E. &
(Mr. Watson) ta adopt 4th rep. of Com. on
C. A., and M. (Mr. McCallum) ta amead rep.,
1. E. & C. A., rem., on Sth par., 474.
rema., 327.
Knapp Tubular SS& Ca. B. : 3rd R1.*, 310.
Address ln Reply ta Speech frota the Throne:
Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal
on M. (Mr. Béique) for adoption of Address,
Co.'s B. :on M. (Mr. Scott) ta cancur ln
rema. :the public record of Sec. of State,
Commons amt., rem., 429.
60-61 ;contrai of Canadian transportation
Ry. Act Amt. B. :on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
lunes by United States capitaliste, 61-62;
R., rem., 492.
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal, 62 ; the
Trans-Canada Ry. Ca. B.: an M. (Mr. Watgeological museum, 62 ; prosperity af the
son) for 3rd R., rem., 336.
country, 62.
Brown Divorce B. :on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for
CASGRAIN, Hon. C. E. (Windsor).
3rd R., rema., 213 ;M. for 6 ta. h., 217 ; rema.,
218.
Essex Terminal Ry. Co. B. : Int., 309 ;2nd
Canadian Pacifie Ry. Toiles Act Atat. B. : on
R.*, 312 ; 3rd R.*, 367.
M. (Mr. Scott) ta ref. B. ta Cota, of the
Lake Erie and Detroit R. R;. Ca. B.: lst and
Whale, rem., 402.
2nd R.*, 469.
City 0f Ottawa Act Amt. B. : an M. (Mr.
Question af Privilege, A :Calîs attention ta
Scott) for 2ad R., rem., 597.
despatch la Toronto 'World,' 411.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate : on M.
(Mr. Watson) ta adopt rep. of Cata. on I. E.
CHURCH, Han. C. E.
& C. A., 473 ; on 12th par., 478-479.
Adamson; The case of Capt. : on M. (Mr. WatDom. Lands Act Amt. B. :in Cota., on 4th
san) ta adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on 1. E. &
eI., rema., 449.
C. A., and M. (Mr. MeCallum) ta amd. rep.,
First National Bank of Canada B. : on M.
rem., 321.
(Mr. Landerkin) for 2nd R., rema., 241.
Brown Divorce B. : on M. (Mr. Landerktn) for
Joint Stcwçk Co.'s Incarp. B. : in Cata. on 37th
3rd R., rem., 217.
ci., rem"., 292.
Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canai B.:
Historie Sites of Canada: an Inq. (Mr. PoiInt., 117 ; M. for 2nd R., 120 , rem., 120-122;
rier) rem., 25-256.
M. for 3rd R., 175 ; rem., 176 ; M. ta concur
Immigration Act Amt. B. :on M. (Mr. Scott)
in Commons amt. and rem., 428-429 ; M.
for 2nd R., rem., 411, 417, 418, 421, 422, 448.
agreed ta, 443.
Intraduced, 1.
P.O. Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
Joint Stock Co.'s Incorp. B. :in Com., on 48th
R., rem., 414 -;ln Com., rem. on lSth cl., 437.
CI., rem., 300.
Remission of Penalties B. : in Com., reta.,
Mahone Bay, Dredging of: lnq., 197 ; rem.,
50,504, 516.
198.
Rules of the Senate, The : on M. (Mr. Béique)
Medical Cauncil ln Canada B. : an M. (Mr.
ta amd. 5Oth rule and abjection (Mr. LanSullivan) for 2nd R., rem., 456-457.
dry) rem., 538, 546.
MineraIs of Nova Scatia, The :inq., 194 ; rem.,
SuPPlY Bis : on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2ad R.,
194-196, 197.1
rem., 559-561.

INDEX
COCHRANE, Hon. M. H.
DANDURAND, Hon. R.-Con.
Standing Cammittees, The: on M. (Mr. Scott)
Yukon Territory Representation B. : in Com.
to appoint Joint Comxnittee on Library,
on 55th cl., rem., 486.
rem., 85 ;on M. (Mr. Scott) ta appoint Cop-m
mittee on Railways, Telegraphs and Har- DEBOUCHERVILLE, Han. C. E. (C.M.G.)
bours, rem., 97.
Canada Evi dence Act Amt. B. : ln Com., rem.,
354.
COX, Hon. Geo. A.
Canadian Pacific Ry. Toll Act Amt. B.: on M.
Adamson, The Case of Capt.: on M. (Mr. Wat(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., and objection (Mr.
son) ta adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on I. B. &
Landry) that B. was nat printed ln French,
C. A., and M. (Mr. McCallum) to amd. Tep.,
rem., 387.
rem., 319, 328.
City of Ottawa Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 498.
DANDURAND, Han. R.
Dom. Lands Act. Amt. B. : ln Com. on 4th cl.,
Address ln Repiy ta Speech tram Throne : on
rem., 449.
M. (Mr. Béique) for adoption of Address,
General Inspection Act Amt. B. * on M. (Mr.
rem. : appointment of Senator .Mille ta
Scott) for 3rd R.. rem., 462.
Supreme Court, 41 ;the late Senator Allan,
James Bay Ry. Co. B. : tnt., 240.
41 ; preferential tariff, 42 ;abrogation of
Joint Stock Co.'s Incarp. B. : in Com., remn.,
German and Belgian treaties, 42-43 ;expansion of trade with Great Britain, 43-44 :the
Medical Council in Canada B. : on M. (Mr.
South African contingent, 44-45 ; Inter-ImSullivan) for 2nd R., requests postponement,
periai trade, 45 ,Ottawa and Georgian Bay
444 ; on M. èMr. Sullivan) for 2nd R.. rem.,
Canal, 46.
453, 459.
Canadian Pacific Ry. Ca. B.: lnt., 263 ;2nd
North-west Territories Aýcts Amt. B. : on M.
R.*, 287.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 372, 373.
Coasting Trade of Can. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott)
Orthodox Russo-Greek Cathoic Church B.:
for 2nd R., rem., 524.
on M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) ta adopt 24th
Correction, A, 398.
rep. of Com. on S. 0. & P. B., rem.. 511.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Co. B. : on M. (Mr.
Question of Privilege, A : on inq. (Mr. Landry)
Sullivan) ta suspend rules, rem., 248.
rem., 203, 225, 226, 230.
Joint Stock Co.'s Xncorp. B. : ln Com. on 12th
Ry. Act Amt. B. :on M. (Mr. Scott) for Znd
cl.. rem., 270 ;on lGth cl., 273 ; on 29th cl.,
R., rem., 492.
278 ;on 32nd cl., 280 ;on 39th cl., 292 ;on
Remission of Penalties B. : on M. (Mfr. Tem41st cl., 294 ;on 48th cl., 297, 298, 299, 300,
pleman) for 2nd R., rem., 487, 488. 490, 491
301.
ln Com., rem., 507, 508, 509 ; on 2nd cl., 515
Knapp Tubular SS. B. : int., 221 ; 2nd R., 232.
on M. for 3rd R., rem., 540-541.
La Compagnie de fer de Colonisation du Nord
Rules of the Senate, The :on M. (Mfr. MacB. : 2nd R.., 297.
donald, B.C.) rem., 392 on M. (Mfr. Scott)
Man. Grain Act. Amt. B. : ln Com. on 2nd
to suspend rules. for remainder of session,
cl., rem., 518.
rem., 462 ; on M. (Mr. BOique) to amd. 5Oth
Priviiege, A Question of : on inq. (Mr. Landry)
mile, and objection (Mr. Landry) rem., 639.
rem., 209.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
Remission of Penalties B. : on M. (Mr. Temto, allow Standing Committees to ait during
pleman) for 2nd R., rem., 490,; rep. tram
sittings.of Senate., remm., 460 ;on M. (Mfr.
corn., 509, 516.
Macdonald, P.E.L) to, adopt 2Oth Tep. of
Russo-Greek Cathollc Church B. : on M. (Mr.
Com. on S. 0. & P. B., rem., 501.
Macdonald, P.E.I.) ta adopt 24th rep. of
Supply Bill : on M. (Mfr. Scott) for 2nd R.,
Com. on S. 0. & P. B. and objection (Mr.
rem., 436.
Bernier) rem., 511.
Treadgold Mining Syndicate, The * on Inq.
(Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rem., 230.
Sonate Debates, The : rem., 76.
Standing Cammittees, The:* on M. (Mr. Scott)
to appoint Committee of Selection, rem., DEVER, Hon. J.
71, 74-75 ;on M. (Mr. Scott) to appoint Com.
Bis of Exchange Act Amt. B. : in Com, rem.,
on R. T. & Ha., x'em., 96 ;on M. (Mr. Mac352, 353.
donald, P.E.I.) to adopt 26th rep. of Com.,
Contingent Accounts of the Sonate : on M.
499.
(Mr. Watson) ta adopt 4th Tep. of Com. on
Translation of Debates, The : on M. (Mr. PoiI. E. & C. A., rem. on Sth par., 476.
rier) to concur ln 2nd rep. of Debiates Com.,
Immigration Act Amt. B. : ln Com., rema. on
rem., 187.
lst cl., 416, 421, 422.

INIJEX
DEVER, Honi. J.-Coit.
Institute of Chartered Accountants B. : on M.

(Mr. Landry) for 3rd R., rem., 378.
DRUMMOND,

Hon. G. A.

Bills of Exchange Act Amt. B. : In Com.,
rem., 352, 353.
Coronation Oath, The . an notice of M. (Mr.
Landry) rem., 350.
Joint Stock Co.'s Incarp. B. : in Com., on lZth
cl., rem., 2e9, 271 , on 2lst cl., 274 ; on 32nd
el., 279, 280 ; on 33rd cl., 281 ; on 35th ci.,
290, 291 ; on 39th el., 293 ; on 4lst cl., 293,
294 ;on 44th el., 295 ;on 46th ci., 296.
Man. Grain Act. Amt. B. : ln Com., rem. on
2nd ci., 517, 518, 519 ;on 7th cl., 522.
ELLIS, Hon. J. V.
Adamsan, The Case of Capt.: on M. (Mr. Watson) to adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on 1. E.-&
C. A., and M. (Mr. McCallum) ta amd. rep.,
rem., 328.
Applications for Ry. Charters B.: M. for 2nd
R., 113 ; rem., 114-; order postponed, 115.
Bank Act Amt. B. : lut., 309 ; M. ta fix B. on
Orders, 380 ; B. withdn., 399.
CanadianPaciflc Ry. Tolls Act Amt. B. : on
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 387.
Debates, Translation of the : an M. (Mr. Poirier) ta adapt lut rep. of Debates Committee, rem., 192, 194.
Dyment Banking Loan and Savings Co. B.:
int., 405 ; 2nd R.*, 407 , Srd R.*, 427.
First National Bank of Canada B. : 2nd R.,
241.

Grounding of the SS. 'Lake Superior' : on
Inq. (Mr. Ferguson) rem., 136.
Immigration Act. Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., rem., 400 ; In Com., rem., on lst
ci., 418, 421.
Incorporation of Boards of Trade B. : rep.
from Com., 221.
Joint Stock Co.»s B. : rep. from Com., 281.
Medical Council of Canada B. : Iu Com., on
ci.'4, rem., 464.
Naturalizatian Act Amt. B.: rep. fram Com.,
329.
Nipissing and Ottawa Ry. Co. B. : Srd R., 241.
Notices of M. : on M. (Sir M. Bawell) rem.,
351.
Ottawa Northern and Western Ry. Co. B.:
on M. (Mr. Lougheed) ta amend B., rem.,
232.

Pilotage Act Amt. B. : rep. from Com., 332.
P.O. Act Amt. B. : rep. from Com., 441.
Question of Privilege, A : on Inq. (Mr. Laudry) rem., 206.'
Remission of Penalties B. : on M. (Mr. Templeman) ta refer B. ta Coin. of the Whole,
rem., 502.

ELLIS, Hon. J. V.-Con.
Rules of the Senate, The:. on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rem., 396.
Sen. Debates, The : rem., 76.
Standing Orders Committee, The .on M. (Mr.
Macdonald, P.E.I.) ta adopt 26th rep. of
Com., and objection (Mr. DeBouciierville)
rem.. 601.
Strlkng Committee, Minutes of The : an M.
(Mr. Landry) rem., 104, 110.
Vancouver, Victoria and Easternl Ry. and Nav.
Ca. B. : 2nd R.*, 287.
FERGUSON, Honi. D.
Adamsan, The case of Capt.: On M. (Mr. Watson) ta adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on I. E. &
C. A., and M. (Mr. McCallum) ta amd. rep.,
rem., 318.
Address in Reply ta Speech from Throne : on
M. (Mr. Béique) for adoption of Address,
remf. . the trade of the country, 34-35;
abrogation of the German and Belgian
treaties. 36 ;preferential tariff, 36-38 ; the
census of 1901, 39 ; eteamship service with
South Africa, 39 ;cold starage, 40 ;appointment of Senator Milis ta Supreme
Court. 41 ; the late Senators Allan and
Prowse, 41.
Adjournments :on M. (Mr. Scott) rem., 78.
Applications for Ry. Charters B. :on M. (Mr.
Elis) for 2nd R., rem., 113, 151-153.
Bank Act Amt. B. : rem., 381.
Bell Telephone Co.'s B. : on M. (Mr. Kirchboffer) to refer B. ta Com. on Banking and
Commerce, rem., 133.
Brown Divorce B. : an M. (Mr. Landerkin) for
2nd R., rem., 215.
Can. Manufacturer's Association B. : 3rd R.*,
351.
Canadian Pacific Ry. Tolls Act Âmt. B.:. on
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 386, 387.
Cold Starage for Canadian Products : M., 281
rem., 281-286.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate :on M.
(Mr. Watson) rem., 211.
Earnings of Steamers ' Minta ' and 1Stanley:
lnq., 186.
Exchequer Court Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 402.
Fisheries Award, The : lnq. and rem., 199.
Fruit Marks Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott)
to fix 2nd R.. rem., 399.
rem.,
Grounding of the SS. 'Lake Superiar'
135.
Institute of Chartered Accountants B. :on M.
(Mr. Sullivan) ta reprint B., rem., 355 ; on
M. (Mr. Landry) for 3rd R-, rem., 375, 377.
Joint Stock Ca.'s Incorp. B. : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 221 ; In Com., on el.
5, rem.,0 238 o n l2th el., rem., 2,70, 272 ; on
33rd el., 280 ;on schedule, 309.

INEDEX
FERGUSON,

Hon. D.-Con.
FORGET, Hon. L. J.-Con.
N. W. M. Police Pensions B. : in Com., rem.
North Shore P'ower, Ry. and Nav. Co. B.: on
on 9th CI., 330.
M. (Mr. Watson) to suspend rules, rem.,
Notices of M. : on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to amd.
313.
the rule, rem., 351.
Montreal and Southern Counties Ry. Co. B.:
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal B.: on M.
on M. (Mr. MeMullen) to ref. B. to Com. on
(Mr. Clemow) for 2nd R., rem., 126.
R. T. & H., rem., 371.
Ottawa, Northern and Western'Ry. Co.'s B.:
Montreal Subway Co. s B.: on M. (Mr. Waton M. (Mr. Lougheed> to amend B., rem.,
son) for 2nd RL, objecte, 480.
232.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
Presbyterlan College of Halifax B.: tnt., 157;
to appoint Committee on Railways, Tele2nd R., 180 ; 3rd R., 231.
graphs and Harbours, rem., 95, 97.
P.E.I. Ry., The : inqs., 166, 174, 199, 366 ; M.
FULFORD, Hon. G. T.
for return, 382 , rem., 382-384.
P.E.I. Subsldy : inq., 119.
Rocky Mountains Park Act Âmt. B. : Rep.
Postmaster at Vernon River, The : inq., 156
from Com., 380.
rem., 157 ; tnq., 173 ; M., 355 ; rem., 355.
P.O. Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd GIBSON, Hon. W.
R., rem., 400.
Adamson, The case of Capt. : on M. (Mr. WatRegina Law Llbrary B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for
son) to adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on I. E. and
2nd R., rem., 100, 101 ; on M. (Mr. Scott) for
C. A., and M. (Mr. McCallum) to amd. rep.,
3rd R.. rem., 102.
rem., 823.
Rules of the Senate, The :on M. (Mr. MacApplications for Railway Charters B. : on M.
donald, B.C.) 389-391.
(Mr. Casgratn, de Lanaudière) for 2nd R.,
Standing Committees, The :on M. (Mr. Scott)
rem., 154.
to appoint Com. of Selection, rem., 73-74.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate : on M.
Station House at Ptctou, N.S.: on Inq. (Mr.
(Mr. Watson) to adopt 4th rep. of Com. on
Primrose) rem., 185.
I. E. and C. A., rem., 477-478.
SS. Une between Charlottetown and LiverCustoms Tariff Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr.
pool . Inq., 384.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem.. 544.
Strlklng Committee, Minutes of the : on M.
Debates, Translation of the : on M. (Mr. Poi(Mr. Landry) rem., 106.
rier) to adopt'lst rep. of Dobates Comte.,
Trans-Canada Ry., Co. B. : on M. (Mr. Watrem., 192, 198, 194.
son) for 3rd R., rem., 347-349.
International Ry. Co. B. : tnt., 120 ; M. for
Translation of Debates, The : on M. (Mr. PoiZnd R. and rem., 134.
rier) rem., 188.
Introduced, 1.
Treadgoid Concession, The : on M. (Mr. MacNepigon Ry. Co. B.: lnt., 379; 2nd R., 899.
donald, B.C.) rem.,- 142-148.
Ont. Power Co. B.: tnt.. 240.
Valleyfield Strike, The : on Inq. (Mr. Landry)
Ont. Power Co. of Niagara Falls B. : 2nd R.,
rem., 116.
263 ; 3rd R.*, 809.
Winter Communication wlth P.E.L.: on tnq.
Ottawa, Brockville & St. Lawrence Ry. Co.,
(Mr. Robertson) and roply (Mr. Scott) rem.,
B. : tnt., 263 ; 2nd R.*., 806.
262.
Prtnting of Parît., The : M. to adopt 4th rep.
Yukon Territory Act Amt. B.: In Com., rem.,
of Com.. and rem., 445.
385.
Rose Rifle Co. B. : tnt., 240 ; 2nd R.0, 263; Srd
R.*, 867.
FISET, Hon. J. B. R.
Sovereign Lif e Ins. Co. B.: tnt., 157 ; 2nd R.*,
194.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Co. B.: on M. (Mr.
Temagami Ry. Co. B. : int., 263 ; 2nd R.*, 297;
Sullivan) to suspend rules, rem., 244.
3rdý R.*, 367.
Medical Councti in Canada B.: on M. (Mr.
Sullivan) for 2nd R., rem., 445.
GILLMOR, Hon. A. H.
Sprague's Falls Mfg. Co. B.: 3rd R.*, 231.
FORGET, Hon. L. J.
Striking Comte, Minutes of the: on M. (Mr.
Dominion Cotton Mills Co. B.: lnt., 262 ; 2nd
Landry) rem., 108.
R.*, 287 ; 3rd R.*, 367.
Joint Stock Co.'s Incorp. B.: In Com., on 34th GODBOUT, Hon. J.
cl., rem., 289, 290 ; bn 35th el., 290 ;on 39th
Indian Rir r Ry. C'o. B. : tnt., 120 ; 2nd R.,
cl.. 292, 293 ; on 4lst el., 293 ; on 46th and
133* ; 3rd R., 180.*
48th Cls., 296 ; on 48th ci., 298, 299, 300, 301
St. Lawrence & Northern Ry. Co. B. : tnt.,
on 15th cl., 302.
166 ; 2nd R., 184.*

INDEX
LANDERKIN, Hon. G.
GOWAN, Hon. J. R.
Algoma Central and Hudson Bay Ry Co. B.:
Âdamson, The case of Capt. : on M. (Mr.
tnt., 166 ; 2nd R.*, 180 ; 3rd R.0, 231.
Watson) to adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on I. E.
Brown Divorce B.: lnt., 101 ; 2nd R.*, 148 ; M.
& C. A., and M. (Mr. McCallum) to, amd.
for 3rd R., 213 ; rem., 216.
rep., rem., 318.
Can. Central Ry. Co. B.: lot and 2nd R., 469.
Ewart Divorce B. : M. to adopt llth rep. of
Debates, Translation of the : on M. (Mr. PoiDivorce Com., 385.
rier) to adopt the lot rep. of Debates ComGemmill on Divorce : M. to adopt l3th rep.
mlttee, rem., 194.
of Comte. on Divorce, 427.
Flrst National Bank of Canada B.: tnt., 200..
Radford Divorce B. :M. to adopt l2th rep.
Immigration Act Amt. B.: ln Com., rem. on
of Divorce Comte.. 427.
lot el., 420.
Trans-Canada Ry. 0o. B. : on M. (Mr. WatManitoulin and North Shore R)'. 0o. B.: int.,
son) for 3rd R., rem., 342.
166 ;2nd R.*, 180 ;3rd R.*, 231.
JON ES, Hon. L. M.
Medical CounciliIn Canada B.: on M. (Mr. SulCan..Mf'rs. Assn. B.: int., 157 ; 2nd R., 180.*
livan) for 2nd R.. rem., 454-455 ; in Com. on
Canadian Pacifice Rallway Co's B. :M. for
4th cl., rem., 464, 465.
.rd R.. 36S ; rem., 369-70.
P. 0. Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
R., rem., 415.
KERR, Hon. W.
Securities Bank of Canada B.: 3rd R.*, 407.
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landarkin> for
St. Joseph and Lake Huron Canal Co.'s B.:
2nd R., rem., 216.
tnt., 181 ;M. for 2nd R. and rem., 242 ; M.
Hudson Bay and North-west Ry. 0o. B.: tnt.,
to wlthdraw B., 305.
287 ; 2nd R.*, 306.
Supply Bill, The : on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
Institute o! Chartered Accountàants B.: 2nd
R., rem., 554.
R., 133 ;on M. (Mr. Landry) for 3rd R.,
Union Life Association Co. B.: tnt., 221 ; 2nd
rem., 378.
R.0, 241.
John Westren Relief B. : int., 175 ; 2nd R.*,
194 ,3rd R.*. 231.
LANDRY, Hom. A. C. P.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mr. Scott)
Annual Training of the Canadian Militia:
to appoint Llbrary Com., ram., 91.
lnq., 200.
KIRCHHOFFER, Hon. J. N.
Appolntment of Honorary Colonels . M. for
return, 501.
Adamson, The Case of Capt.: on M. (Mr.
WatArtlllery Service Equipment : lnq., 430.
son) to adopt rap. o! Com. on Contingent
Canada Evidenec Act Amt. B.: ln Com., rem.,
Accounts, and M. (Mr. McCallum) to amd.
371.
rep., rem., 320.
Canadian Pacific Ry. Co.'s B.: on M. (Mr.
Bell Telephone 0o. B.: tnt., 116 ;M. for 2nd
Jones) for Srd R., and amt. %.er. Wood,
R., 127; rem., 127-129, M. te, ref. B. te, 0Cm
Hamilton) rem., 370.
on Banktng and Commerce, 133 , 3rd R., 305.
Canadian Pacific Ry. Tolla Act Amt. B.: on
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkln) for
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., objects that B. la
Srd R., rem., 214 ; on M. for 6 m. h. (Mr.
not prlnted ln French, 386 , rem., 387, 388.
Clemow) rem., 219-220.
Civil Service Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott)
Canadian Northern Ry. Co. B.: tnt., 240 ;2nd
for 2nd R., rem., 373.
R.*, 263.
5
.Coasting Trade o! Canada B.: on M. (Mr.
168
Chlpman Divorce B.: tnt., 117 ; 2nd R. ,
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 542.
'2nd R., 263 ; 3rd R.*, 399.
Coronation Oath, The : notice of M. and rem.,
Depew Relief B.: tnt., 120 ; 2nd R.*, 133.
350 ; inqs., 374, 381, 398, 432.
James Bay Ry. Co. B.: 2nd R.*, 263 ;3rd R.*,
Correction, A, 398.
310.
Delayed Returns : tnq. re Committee to codlfy
Klondike Mines Ry. 0o. B.: tnt., 240 ;2nd R..
laws, 543 ; Inq. re appointments of honor263*; 3rd R.*, 310.
ary colonels, 545 ;lnq. re French mintster
Man. and North-western Ry. 0o. of Can. B.:
5
in the Senate, 547.
lnt., 240 ; 2nd R.*, 263 ;3rd R. , 310.
Dom. Lands Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott)
Toronto and Niagara Power 00.5s B.: M. to
for 2nd R., rem., 388..
suspend rule, and rem., 407 ; M. for 3rd R.,
Fast Line of Transatlantlc Vessels : nq., 410
and rem., 407.
lnq. and rem., 441, 444.
Vancouver, Victoria and Eastern Ry. and
French Senator ln the Cabinet, A :lnq., 111.
Nav. Co. B.: tnt. 262.

INDEX

-

LAN DRY, Hon. A. C. P.-Con.
Gaspé & Western Ry. Co's B.:- on M. (Mr.
Sullivan) rem., 239 ;on M. (Mr. Sullivan) ta
suspend miles, rem., 245, 246, 247 ; on M.
(Mr. Sullivan) to suspend rulos, objects, 602.
Institute of Chartered Accountants B. :M., to
concur ln amts., 354 ; M. for 3rd R., 375
rem., 377.
Lake Champlain & St. Law. Ship Canal Co.
B. : lut., 287 ; 2ud R.., 306.
Man. School Question : inq., 431.
Medicai Council in Can. B. . on M. (Mr. Sullvan) for 2nd R., rem., 458-459 ;in Com. on
cl. 10, M. ta add cl., 467 ; rem., 468 ;amt.
iost on division, 468.
Metropolitan Bank Incorporation B. : on M.
.(Mr. MeMullon) for 2nd R., objecta, 181.
Militia itegulations land Orders :lnq., 174.
Minutes of the Stmiking Comte. :M. for return,. 103 ; rem., 107, 109.
Montresi & Southern Counties Ry. Co. B. : on
M. (Mr. mcMuilen) ta ref. B. to Com. on R.
T. & H., rem., 371.
Notices of Motion : on M. (Sir M. Bowell) ta
amd. rule, rêm., 314, 351 ; rem., 375.
On M. (Sir M. Bowell) rem., 356, 358-359, 369,
364.
N. W. Mounted Police Pension B. : on M. (Mr.
Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 311 ;lu Com., rem.
on 9th cl., 330.
Pilotage Act Amt. B. : lu Com., rem. on 6th
CI., 332.
Post Office Act Amt. B.: on M. for 2nd R.,
rem., 400.
Privilege, A Question of : iuq., 200; rem., 201;
202, 204-205, 206, 208, 222, 224, 229 ; N. of
inq. withdrawn, 432.
Que. & Lake Huron Ry. Ca. B. : int., 120; 2nd
R.*. 133 ; grd R.', *180.
Ry. Act Amt. B. : on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
R., rem., 492.
Remission of Penalties B. : on M. (Mr. Tompleman) for 2nd R., objecte that B. tg not
printed lu Fr., 487 ;lu Com., rem., 506, 507
on let cl., 513, 514 gives N. of am2t.. 517.
Rules of the Sonate, The : on M. (Mr. BOlque)
ta amd. 5Oth mule, objecta, 538, 539.
Russo-Greek Catholic Church B.: on lot R.,
rem., 537ý.
Standing Comtes., The : on M. (Mr. Scott) to
appoint Comte. of Selection ; rem., 71, 72,
75 ; on M. (Mr. Scott) ta appoint Comte, on
Library, rem., 87-89 ; ou M. (Mr. Scott) ta
appoint Pintlng Comte., rem., 92 ; inq., 117,
118; on M. (Mr. Scott) to appoint Comte, ou
Rys., Tolga. and Harbe., rem., 94, 95, 99 ; on
M. (Mr. Scott) to appoint Debat.es Comte.,
rem., 99.
Strike at Valleyfield, The : inq., 112, 115, 143,
411.

LANDRY, Hon. A. C. P,-0m.
Superior Court Judges in Que. : M. for retura, 174.
Supply Bill, The : oit M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd
R., rem., 549, 550, 551.
Tmaining of Volunteer Forces lu Camp : inq.,
431.
Translation of the Debatea : on M. (Mr. Poirier) rem., 189, 191, 193.
Treadgold Mlniug Syndicate, The'. on inq.
(Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rem., 231.
Visit of the Duke and Duchess of York ta
Can., inq., 429 . rem., 430 ; M. for address,
443.
Yukon Territory Representation B. : lu Com.,
on 47th cl., rem., 486.
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.
Administration of Justice ln the Yukon Territory B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R.,
rom., 404.
Application for Ry. Charters B.: on M. (Mr.
Blls) for 2ud R., rem., 113.
Appointment of Committees : on inq. (Sir M.
Bowell) rom., 26.
Appointment of Judges lu North-west Territories :on inq. (Mr. Ponley) rom., 66, 67.
Bis of Exchange Act Amt. B.: rop. from
Com., 353.
Bishop of Moosonee Iucorp. B.: lnt., 115 ; 2nd
R., 120 ; 3rd R., 231;. on M. ta consider
amdts., rem., 399 ; order postponod, 400;
M. to concur lu Commons amdtÉ. and rom.,
412.
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for
3rd R., rem., 214, 218.
Canada Evîdence Act Amt. B.: lu Com., rem.,
371.
Can. Northeru Ry. Co. B.: 3rd R.', 368.
Chinese Immigration Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr.
Tempieman) for 2nd R., rom., 434.
Civil Service Retirement Act Amt. B.: on M.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rom., 373.
Depew Relief B.: 3rd R.', 231.
Dom. Lands Act Amt. B.:* on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., rom., 403 ; lu Com., rom. on lot
cl., 424, 425.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Co.'o B.: on M. (Mr.
Sullivan) ta suspend rules, rem., 239.
General Inspection Act Amt. B.: lu Com. on
2nd cl., rom., 450, 451, 452..
Immigration Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott)
for 2nd R., rom., 400, 401 ; lu Com., rom.
on lst cl.. 416, 417, 420 ; oà 2nd cl., 423, 441,
447.
Joint Stock Co.'s -B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for
let R., rom., 171, 172 ; ln Com., rom. on 3rd
cl., 235 ; on 4th cl., 236, 237, 238 ; ln Com. on
8th cl.. rom,, 268 ; on l2th cl., 269, 2711; on
l7th ci,, 273 ; on 23rd cl., 275 on 26th ci.,
276 ; on 32nd cl., 279, 280 ; on 33rd cl., 280

INDEX
MACDONALD, Hon. A. A.(P.I)Cn
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.-Con.
Joint Stock Ca.'s incorporation B. : ln Com.,
on 34th cl., 288, 289 ;on 46th el., 296 ; on
rom. an l2th cl., 270 ; on 37th el., 291.
48th el., 297, 298, 299, 300 ;on 55th el., 301;
Lake Erie & Detrait Ry. Ca. B. : Srd R.. 498.
on 56th el., 302 ; on 69th CI., 304 ;on 89th
Mounted Police Act Aint. B. : on M. (3fr.
cl., 305 ;M. ta amd. 34th el., 307 on 38th
Scott) for Znd R., rem., 406 ; rep. fnam Com.,
cl., 307 ;on 4lst el.. 308.
442.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Amt. B.: ln
N. W. Mounted Police Pensions B. : ln Com.,
Com., rem. on 2nd el., 426, 427.
rem. on 9th cl., 331.
Maritime Stock Breeders' Association B.: rep.
Notices of M. : on M. (Sir M. Bowell) ta amd.
from Com., 374.
rules, and M. (Mfr. Watson) ln amt.. rem.,
Medical Council ln Canada B.: on M. (Mr.
864.
Sullivan)'for 2nd R., rem., 459.
Orthodax Russo-Greek Cathalic Church B.:
Montreal, Ottawa & Georgian Bay Canal Co.
M. ta adapt 24th rep. of Cam. on S. O. &
B.: on M. (Mr. Clemow) for Brd R., rem., 176.
P. B., 509 ; rom., 511 ; on Speakor's decisian
North-west Mounted Police Pensions B.: rep.
and M. (3fr. Watson) ta set as1de decision,
from Com., 331.
rem., 585.
Notices of M.: on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to amend
Post Office Act Amt. B.: ln Com., rem. on
rule, and amt. (Mr. Watson) rem., 364.
lSth cl., 436, 440 ; on M. (Mn. Scott) for 2nd
Ottawa Northern and Western Ry. Co. B.: int.,
R., rom., 414, 416.
101 ; Znd R., 120 ; order for Srd R. called,
Question of Privilege, A : on inq. (Mr. Lanrem. and M. to amend, 231 ; M. postponed,
dry) rom., 228.
232 ; M. and rem., 240.
Provincial Autanomy for N.-W. Territorieis
Rules of the Sonate, Thoe on M. (Mfr. Macdonald, B.C.) rom., 397.
on inq. (Mfr. Ponley) rem., 101.
Standing Cammittoos, The: on M. (Mr. Scott)
Question of Pnivilego, A : on Inq. (Mr. Landry> rem., 207, 224, 229.
to permit Committees ta sit durlng sittings
of the Hs., rom., 460.
Regina Law Library B.: ln Com., nom., 102.
Rocky Mountains Park Act Amt. B.: on M.
Standing Orders Commlttee, The : M. to adapt
26th rep. of Cam., 499 , rem., 500.
(Mfr. Tompleman) for 2nd IL, rem., 373, 374.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mfr. Scott)
Wintor Communication with F.B.I.: on Inq.
(Mr. Robertson) and reply (Mfr. Scott) rem.,
to appoint Committoe of Soloction, rem., 70,
260.
71.
Union Lif e Association Co. B.: Srd R.*. 367.
MACDONALD, Hon. W. J. (B.C.)
Western Alberta Ry. Co. B.: let R., 200 ; 2iid
Adamson, The Case of Capt.: on M. (Mn.
R.*, 220 ;3rd R.S, 297.
Watson) ta adapt Srd rep. of Com. on I. E.
Yuikon Ternitory Act Amt. B.: in Com., rem.,
& C. A., and M. (Mfr. McCallum) ta amond
385.
rep., rom., 326.
LOVITT, Hon. J.
Bell Telephane Ca. B.» an M. (Mr. Klrchhafier) for 2nd R., rem., 133.
Cosmos Cotton Ca. B.: Int., 262 ; 2nd R.*. 287
Chinese Immigration Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mr.
3rd R.*, 351.
Tomploman) for 2nd R.L, rem., 435. ý
Dom. Lands Act Amt. B.:- rep. fram Com.,
Civil Service Retirement Act Âmt. B.: in
426, 449.
Cam., rem., 379.
>AACDONALD, Hon. A. A. (F.B.I.)
Contingent Accaunts of the Senate : on M.
Address in reply ta Speech from Mironse: on
(3fr. Watson) ta adapt Znd rep. of Com.,
rom., 209 ; M. ta amend nep., 212 ,on M.
M. (Mfr. Beique) for adoption of Address,
rem. ; the late Son. Prowse, 65.
(Mfr. Watson) ta adopt 4th rop. of Camn. on
Adjournment, An.: on M. (Mfr. Scott) ta adI. E. & C. A., rom., on 7th par., 471;. on
journ fnom Mar. 25th to Ap. 2nd, rom., 117.
1Oth par., 480 ; M. ta strike out l2th par.,
>
Applications for Ry. Charters B. : an M. (Mfr.
480.
Casgrain, de Lanaudière) for 2nd R., rem.,
Exchequer Court Act Amt. B.: on M. (Mn..
161-162.
Scatt) for 2nd R., rom., 401.
Bills of Exchange Act Amt. B. - ln Com.,
Gaspé and Western Ry. Co.ls B.: on M. ta
rem., 352.
suspend rules (Mfr. Sulliva)n) rem., 239, 243.
Gaspé & Western Ry. Ca. B. : on M. (Mn. SulJudges of Provincial Courts Act Âmt. B.: on
lvan> ta suspend rules, rom., 245.
M. (Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rom., 405.
Historic Sites of Canada : an inq. (Mr. Poirier)
Mail Service in B. C.: lnq. and rom., 194 ;inca..
rem., 256.
250.
Immigration Act Amt. B. : in Com., rem. on
MaIsons Bank Pension Fund B.: Int., 120; 2nd
lst cl., 422.
R., 148 ; 3rd R., 200.

INDEX
MACDONALD, Hon. W. J. (B;C.)-Con.
Naturalization Act Amt. B.. ln Com. on lot
el.,* rem., 329.
North Shore Power Ry. and Navigation Co'.
*B. . on M. (Mr. Watson) for 3rd R., rem.,
408, 432.
Notices of M. : on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to amd.
the rule, rem., 313, 314, 351, 365 ; raises
question whether N. of M. can be discussed,
409.
Orthodox Russo-Creek Church B. : on Speaker's decision and M. (Mr. Watson) to set
slde decision, rem., 533.
Ottawa & Georgian Bay Canal Co. B.: on
M.- (Mr. Clemow) for Srd R., rem., 177.
Pacifie Northern & Omineca Ry. Co. B. : Int.,
240 , 2nd R.*, 263 ; 8rd R!ý, 810.
.
Question of Privilege, A: on rem. (Mr. Landry) rem., 225.
Remissien of Penalties B. :on M. (Mr. Templeman) for 2nd R., rem., 487, 490; in Com.,
on lot cl., rem., 514.
Rocky Mountains Park Act Amt. B.: In Com.,
rem., 880.
Rules of the Sonate, The : M. and rom., 889
on M. (Mr. Beique> to amd. SOth rule, and
objection (Mr. Landry) rem., 538.
Standing Comtes., The : on M. (Mr. Landry)
rem., 106.
Suspension of the Rules : M. to suspend Rule
52, agreed to, 427.
Treadgold Concession, The : Inq., 118, rem.,
119 ; M. and rem., 186-137, 230.
Velvet (Rossland) Mine Ry. Co. B. : Int., 101;
2nd R.*, 120 ; Srd R.0, 157.
Yukon Torritory Act Âmt. B. : In Com., rem.,
481, 482 ,on Brd ci., 488.
Yukon Territory Representation B.:- on M.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rom., 483, 484,
MacKEEN, Hon. *D.
Glace Bay, Harbour of: on M. (Mr. MeDonaid, C.B.) rom., 145-146, 147.
McCALLUM, Hon. L.
Adammon, The Case of Capt.: on M. (Mr. Watson) to adopt Srd rop. of Com. on Contingent
Âccts., rem.. 315 ,M. to amend rep., 316, 328.
Address In Reply to Speech from Throne : on
M. (Mr. Béique) for adoption of Âddress, M.
to adin. debate, 47 ; appointment of Son.
1(1115 to Supreme Court, 47 ; the C.P.R., 47;prosperity of the country, 48 ; the Welland
Canal, 48 ; the South African contingents,
49 ; reciprocity with the. U. S., 49 ; corruption In elections, 50.
Applications for Ry. Charters B.: on lui! R.
.M. to adjn. deb., 155 ; rem., 157-161.
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for
3rd It., rom., 216.

MoCALLUM, Hon. L.-Con.
Can. Southern Ry. Co.'s B.: Int., 101 ; 2nd R.',
120 ; Brd R.', 157.
Crown Bank of Can. B.: 3rd R.', 309.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Co. B.: on M. (Mr.
Sullivan) to suspend rules, rom., 247, 248.
Grand Valley Ry. Co. B.: Int., 120 ; 2nd R.',
133 ; Srd R.0, 180.
International Ry. Co. B.: onM. (Mr. Gibson)
for 2nd R., rom., 134 ; M. for 3rd I. and
rom., 180.
Michigan Bridge and Tunnel Co. B.: int., 101;
luit RL*, 120 ; 8rd R.', 157.
Niagara, St. Catharines and Toronto Ry. Co.
B.: Int., 287 ; 2nd R.', 297 ; 3rd R.', 367.
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Co. B.: on
M. (Mr. Ciemow) for 2nd R., rom., 122.
P.E.I. Ry., The:. on inq. (Mfr. Ferguson) and
reply (Mr. Scott) rem., 384.
Question of PrIilege, AÀ: on Inq. (Mr. Landry) rem., 209.
Rules of the Sonate, The : on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rem., 393.
Sovereign iAfo Ass. Co. of Can. B.: 3rd R.',
231.
St. Clair and Brie Ship Canal Co. B.: Int., 166;
2nd R.', -180 ; 3rd R.', 200.
St. Joseph and Lake Huron Ship Canal Co.
B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for 2nd R., rom.,
248.
Tiisonburg, Lake Brie and Pacifie Ry. Co. B.:
lut, 166 ; 2nd R.', 180 ; Srd R.', 200.
Trans-Can. Ry. Co. B.: on M. (Mfr. Watson)
for 3rd R., rom., 840-342.
*Translation of Debates, The : on M. (Mr. Poirier> rom., 188.
Valleyfield Strike, The : on inq. (Mr. Landry)
rom., 116.
Windsor and Detroit Union Bridge Co. B.:
lnt., 120 ; 2nd IL*, 130 ; 3rd R.*, 180.
McDONALD, Hon. Wm. (C.B.)
Address In Reply to Speech from Throne : on
M. (Mr. Blique) for adoption of Âddress,
rem.: I.C.R., 64 ; control of transportation
linos by U. S. capitaists, 64-65.
Centrai Couinties Ry. Co. B.: Int., 262; 2nd
Rý4' 287.
Glace Bay, Harbour of:. M., 143 ; rom., 143-145,
146.
Hudson'. Bay and North-west Ry. Co. B.: Zrd
R.', 385.
Joint Stock Co.'s B.: ln Com. on llth cl., rom.,
273.
Leasing of I.C.R. Siding at Sydney : inq., 77.
Minerais of Nova Scotia, Tie : on inq. (Mfr.
Church) rom., 197.
Strait of Canso Bridge Co. B.: 2nd R., 220;
3rd R.', 297.

576

INDEX

McSWEENEY, Hon. P.
Montreal Bridge Bo. B.: lnt., 200 ;2nd R.*,
B.: lnt. 175; 2dn
Spragues's Falls Mfg. Co.
241 ; rd R.*. 310.
R.*, 194.
Institute of Chartered Accauntants B.: int. 120.
MILLER, Hon. W.
Strait of Canso Bridge Ca. B : int. 175.
Adjinent, An:. on M. (Mr. Scott) ta adin. from
McKAY, Hon. T. (Truro).
March 25th ta Api. 2nd., remn., 117.
Gaspé & Western Ry. Ca. B.: on M. (Mr. SulBell Tel. Ca.'s B.: on M. (Mr. Kirchhoffer) for
livan) to suspend rule, remn., 243.
2nd R.,* rein., 129-133 ; explanatian, 309.
N. Shore Power R. & Nav. Ca. B: rep. froin
Brown Divarce Case : on M. (Mr. Landerkin)
Coin, an S. 0. & P. B., 312.
for ard R., rein.. 219.
Private BUil, Petitions for : rein. 118.
Gaspé & Western Ry. Ca. B. : on M. (Mr.
Question of privilege, A : on inq. (Mr. LanSullivan) ta suspend rules, rein., 246.
dry) rein.. 230.
Question of Privilege, A : on inq. (Mr. LauRules af the Sen, The : an M. (Mr. Macdodry) rein., 202, 203, 207, 226, 230.
nald, B.C.) rein., 292.
Rules of the Sen., The: an M. (Mr. Scott) ta
amd. rules, rein., 306 ;on M. (Mr.. Bawell)
McMILLAN, Hon. D.
ta aind. rules, rein., 356, 360.
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for
Standing Coiniittees of the Senate : on M.
3rd R., rein., 215.
(Mr. Scott) to appoint Coin, on Library, rein.,
Crown Bank af Can. B: tnt., 221.
85, 86.
Medical Cauncil. of Can. B.: in Coin., on 4th
Trans-Can. Ry. Ca. B.: on M. (Mr. Watson) for
el., rein., 466.
Zrd R., rein., 333-334.
McHUGH, Hon. G.

McMULLEN, Hon. J.
O'DONOHOE, Hon. J.
Adainson, The case af Capt.: on M. (Mr. WatIntroduction of Gavt. Measures in the Senate:
son) to adopt 3rd rep. of Coin. on I. E. &
en Inq. (Sir A. Bawell) rein., 76.
C. A., and M. '(Mr. McCailuin) ta aind. rep.,
remn., 824.
OWENS, Hon. W.
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for
Atlantic and Lake Superior Ry. Ca. B.: tnt.,
3rd R., rein., 215.
136 ; 2nd R., 168 ; Srd R., 231.
Can. Northern Express Ca. Bý tnt., 263 ; 2nd
Contingent Accounts of the Senate : on M.
R.', 287 ; 3rd R.*, 367.
(Mr. Watson) ta adopt 4th rep. af Coin. an
Crown Bank af Can. B.: 2nd R., 232.
I. E. & C. A., rem., on 7th par., 476.
Introduced, 1.
Edinonton and Slave Lake Ca. B.: tnt., 12.
Joint Stock Co's Incorporation B.: in com.,
Gaspé and Western Ry. Ca. B.: on M. (Mr.
on 8th ci., rein., 265, 267 ,on 12th cl., 270.
Sullivan) ta suspend ruIez, rein., 244, 245;
Man. Grain Act, Aint. B.: In Coin.. remn., on
M.'ta rec. rep. af Coin, on R. T. & H., 643.~
2nd cl., 520 ; on 5th el., 521.
Great Eastern Xty. Co. B.: int., 136 ; 3rd R.,
Medical Council of Can. B.: in coin., on 4th
231.
ci., rein., 464, 465, 466, 467 ; on lOth cl., 467,
Montreal. Ottawa and Georgiau Bay Canal Co.
468..
B.: on M. (Mr. Clemow) for 3rd R., rein.,
Metrapolitan Bank B.: tnt. 166 2nd R. past125-126.
paned, 180 ; 2nd R.*, 194 ; Srd R.', 309.
Orford Mauntain Ry. Ca. B.: lut.. 80; 2nd R.',
Mantreal & Southern Caunties Ry. Co. B.:
102 ;3rd R.', 120.
tnt. 350 ; 2nd R., 371 ;M. ta ref. B. to Coin.,
on R. T. & I. and rein., 371 ; 3rd R., 407.
PELLETIER (Sir Alphonse) K.C.M.G.
Nepigon Ry. Ca. B.: 3rd R.*, 409.
Bell Telephane Ca. B.: rep. frain Coin. on R.
Nipissing & Ottawa Ry. Ca. B.: tnt., 187
T. & H.. 305.
2nd R., 213.
Central Counties Ry. Ca. B.: 3rd R.', 310.
N. W. M. Police Pension B.: on M. (Mr. Scott)
Contingents Accounts of the Senate : on M.
for 2nd R., remn., 811 ;in Coin., rein., on l3th
(Mr. Watson) ta adopt 2nd rep. af Coin.,
Ci., 331.
rein., 211-212.
Ottawa Northern & Western Ry. Ca. B.: order
Dechene, The late Senator : rein., 367.
for Zrd R. called, rein., 232.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Ca. B.: rep. frain
Question af Privilege, A : on lnq. (Mr. Landry)
Coin. on R. T. & H., 543.
rein., 224.
La Cie du cheinin de fer de Colonisation du
Rules of the Sen., The : on M. (Mr. Macodanld,
Nord B.: 3rd R.', 367.
B.C.) rein., 391.
North Share Power Ry. and Navigation Ca.'s
Trans-Canada Ry. Ca. B.: on M. (Mr. Watson)
B.: rep. froin Coin. on R. T. & H., 408.
.for 3rd R., remn., 342-344.

INDEX
PELLETIER (Sir Alphonse) K.C.M.G.-Con.
St. Joseph and Lake Huron Ship Canal Co.'s
B.: rep. fromn Con'. on R. T. & H., 305.
St. Lawrence and Northern Ry. Co. B.: 3rd
R.*, 231.
Toronto and Niagara Power Co.'s B.: rep.
from. Com~on R. T. & H., 407.
Trans-Can. Ry. Co., B.: rep. from Con'. on
R. T. & H., 333.
PERLEV, Hon. W. D.
Adamson, The Case of Capt.: on M. (Mr. Watson) to adopt 3rd rep. of Con'. on I. E. &
C. A.. and M. (Mr. McCaiium) to amd. rep.,
rem'., 319.
Addross in Repiy to Speech from. Throne : on
M. (Mr. B4ique) for adoption of Addross,
rem.: wheat blockade in N.W.T., 56-57;, increased transportation. facilities, 57-58.; the
C.P.R., 58 ; prosperity of the country, 58;
the cotton lndustry, 59 ;the national poiicy,
59 ;the wheat crop in the North-west,
59460.
Appointment of Judges In N.W. Te.: Inq., 66.
Battieford sud Lake Lenore Ry. Co. : tnt.
101 ;2ud R.*, 120 ; 3rd R.*, 157.
Elevator at St. John, N.B.: Inq., 80.
Fishing Lake P.O.: 'inq., 127.
Fruit Marks Act Amt. B.: rep. fron' Con'.,
436.
Price of Wheat In North-west. The : inq. and
rem., 167.
Primitive Mothodist Land Grant in the N.W.
Ta.: inq., 127, 183 ; *Inq. -callod and postponed, 213 ;iuq., 221 ; rem., 222.
Provincial Âutonomy for N.W.T.: Inq., 101;
rem'., 102.
Subsides to N.W. Ta.: inq. and rem'., 111.
POIRIER, Hon. P.
Adjournment, An : on M. (Mr. Scott) rem'.,
78-79.
Contingent Accounts of the Sonate : on M.
(Mr. Watson) to adopt Znd rep. of Com.,
rem., 211, 212 ; on M. (Mr. Watson) to adopt
4th rep. of Com. on I. B. & C. A., rem., 476,
477.
Debates, The Senate : M. to adopt 2nd rep. of
Con'., on Debates andi Reporting, 445.
Debates, Translation of the * M. to adopt lait
rep. of Debates Com., 187 ; rem., 189-190,
191, 192.
Edmonton & Slave Laike Ry. Co. B.: lut. 120;
3rd R.*. 168.
Gaspé & Western Ry. Co. B.: on M. (Mr. Sullivan) ta suspend rules, rem., 245. 249.
Geologicai Museum', The: i nq., 181; rem., 181183.
Historie Sites of Can.:, inq., 250 ; rem., 250-254.
Medical Councîl of Can. B.: lu Con'., on 4th
el., rem'., 467.
37

577

POIRIER, Hon. P.-Con.
Montreal, Ottawa & Georgian Bay Canal Co.
B.: on M. (Mr. Ciemow) for 2nd R., rem.,
126.
Question of Privilege, A: on inq. (Mr. Landry)
rom., 206.
Rules of the Sonate, The : on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rem., 394.
POWER, Hon. L. G. (Speaker).
Applications for Ry. Charters B.: on M. (Mr.
Ells) for 2nd R., ruies order must be postponed, 114.
C. P. R. Touls Act Amt. B: on objection (Mr.
Landry) to Znd R., rom., 386, 387.
Contingent Accounts of the Sonate, The : on
M. (Mr. Watson) to adopt 4th rep. of Con'.
on 1. E. & C. A., rom., 471.
Don'. Lands Act Amt. B.: in Con'., rom. ou lst
ci., 424, 425, 426.
Gaspé & Western Ry. Co's B.: ou M. (Mr.,Sullivan) to suspend mIles, and objection (Mr.
Landry) overmules objection, 502.
General Inspection Act Amnt. B.: in Con'. on
M. (Mr. Tempieman) to amd. B.. rom.. 442:
in Con'., on 2ud cl., 451.
Immigration Act Amt. B.: in Con'., rom., on 18t
cl., 419, 421 ; on lind el., 422, 448.
Joint Stock Co'. Incorporation B.: Iu Con'.,
rom., on 5th ci., 238, 239 ;on 8th cl., rom.,
268 ; on l2th ci., 269, 271 ;on 2Oth el., 273;
on 23rd el., 275 ; ou 26th cl., 277 ;on 29th
el, 277 ;on 32nd el., 278, 279, 280 ;on 33rd
ci., 281 ;on' 34tb el., 288 , on 35th eI., 290,
291 ;on 37th cl., 291 ;ou 39th ei., 292 ;on
4lst el., 295 ; on 44th cl., 295 ; ou 48th el.,
298 ou 56th ci., 302 ;ou 6lst cl., 302 ; ou
69th cl., 303, 304 , on 89th cl., 304 on 37th
cl., 307 ; en penalty ci., 308.
Judges of Provincial; Courts Act Amt. 'B.: Iu
Con'., rom., on 2nd cl., 426.
Man. Grain Act Amt. B.: lu Con'., on 2nd el.,
rom., 517.
Medicai Council lu Can. B.: on M. (Mm. Sullivan) for Zuti R. and objection (Mr. DeBoucherville) rom., 444 ; on requesi (Mr. Sullivan) to put B. first on the orders, rom., 445;
In Con'.,.on 2ud el., rom., 465.
Montreai, Ottawa & Goorgian Bay Canai Co.'s
B.: on M. (Mr. Clemow) to concur lu Con'mous amt., rom., 429.
Montreal Subway Co.'s B.: on M. (Mr. Watson)
for 2nd R. and objection (Mr. Forgot) that
B. la not printed lu Pr., sustains objection,
480.
Naturalization Act Amt. B.: lu Con'., on 7th
el., rom., 329.
N. W. M. Police Pension B.: lu Con'., on let
el., rom., 329 ; on 9th el., 330.
Notices cf M.: on M. (Sir M. Boweiî) to amond
rulos, rem., 364.

INiDEX
SCOTT, Hon. R. W. (Secretary'of State).
POWER, Honi. L. G. (Speaker)-Con.
Address in Reply to Speech from Throne :on
Orthodox Russo-Greek Cathollc Church B.: on
M. (Mr. Béique) to adopt Address, congraM. (Mfr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) to adopt 24tb
tulates mover and seconder, 19 ; the late
Tep. of Com. on S. 0. & P. B. and objecSenator Allan, 20 ;appointment of Senator
tion (Mfr. Bernier) rem., 512 ; decision, 527Mills to Supreme Court, 20 ;the late Lord
531 ; on M. (Mfr. Watson) to set aside ruDufferin, 20-21 ;his (Mfr. Scott's) record in
ling, rem., 536, 537.
the fast line, 22-23 ; the
public lite, 21
Petitions for Prîvate Bills : rem., 80.
Pacific cable, 23 expenditure on the I.C.R.,
P. 0. Act Amt. B.: ln Com., rem., on 15th el.,
23 ;the postal service. 24 ; the South Afri437.
can contingent, 24-25 ;M. to, adjn. debate,
Question of Prlvilege, A :on inq. (1fr. Lau25 , C.P.R. legisiation, 27-28 ;. the preferdry) re notice of M. omitted from order
ential, tariff, 28-31 ;prosperity of the counpaper, rem., 201, 203, 227, 230 ; rules notice
try, 31-33 ; differences in the Cabinet, 33-34;
of M. (Mfr. Landry) out of order, 202 ; on
the cotton industry, 34 ; replies to Senator
withdrawal of M. (Mfr. Landry) rem., 432.
Clemow, 63.
Remission of Penalties B.: on M. (Mfr. TemAdjments.: Notice of M., 75 ;M. to adin. from
pleman) to ref. B. to Com. of the Whole and
Feb. 20 to March 11, 77 ,M. to adin. from
objection (Mfr. DeBoucherville) rules M. In
March 25 to, April 2, 117 M. to adjn. from
order, 491 ; In com., rem., on lst el., 507,
lSth to 22nd April. 242.
509, 515.
Rules of the Senate, Suspension of : Suggests
Administration of Justice in Yukon Territory
suspension of 52nd rule, 4.27.
Act Amt. B.: Int., 379 ; M. for 2nd R. and
Rules of the Senate, The : on M. (Mfr. Bdique)
rem., 404 ; 3rd R.O, 423.
to amend SOth rule and objection (1fr. LauApplications for Ry. Charters B.: on M. for
dry) rem., 538, 539, 540. 545.
2nd R., requests portponement, 120 ; rem.,
Standing Orders Com., The : on M. (1fr. Mac148-151.
donald, P.E.I.) to, adopt 26th rep. of Com.
Appointment of Committees * on Inq. (Sir M.
and objection (Mr. DeBouchervillé) rem.,
Bowell) rem., 25.
501.
Appointment of Honorary Colonels : Tep. to
Supply Bill, The : on M. (Mr. Scott) to adjn.
inq. (1fr. Landry) 543."
during pleasure, rem., 546.
Appointment of Judges in N.W. Ts.: on lnq.
Yukon Territory Representation B.: In Com.
(Mfr. Periey) rem., 66, 67.
on 22nd ci., rem., 485 ; on 55th cl., 486.
Artillery Service Equipment : rep. to Inq.
(Mr. Landry) 430.
PRIMROSE, Hon. C.
Bell Telephone Co.'s B.: on M. (Mfr. KirchAdamson, The case of Capt.; on M. (Mfr. Wathoffer) for 2nd R., rem., 131.
son) to adopt 3rd Tep. of Com. on ContinBills of Exchange Act Amt. B.: lut., 309
gent Âccts., sud M. (Mfr. McCallum) to amcl.
2nd R., 332 luI Com., rem.. 352 . 3rd R.*,
rep., rem., 317, 313, 327.
368.
Address in Reply ta Speech .from Throne : on
Boards of Trade Incorp. B.: int., 181 ; 2nd R.,
M. (Mr. Bdlque) for adoption of Address,
200 ; la Com., 220 ; rd R., 231.
rem.; the I.C.R., 65, 66.
Bounty on Pig Iron :reply ta inq. (Mfr. Wark)
157.
Ewart Divorce B.: lut., 101 ; 2nd R., 148.
Can. Evidence Act Amt. B.: lut. and rem.,
Station House at Pictou, N.S.: inq. and rem.,
312 ; 2nd R.. 332 ; ln Com., 354, 371 ; 3rd R..,
184.
379.
Winter Communication with P.E.L: on lnq.
Canaditan Militia, Annual Training of : reply
(Mfr. Robertson) and reply (Mfr. Scott) rem.,
to inq. (Mfr. Landry) 200.
261.
C.P.R. ToIls Act Amt. B.: lut., 379 ; 2nd R.
m., 386 ;rem., 386, 387, 38S ; 2nd R. postROBERTSON, Hon. J. E.
poned, 388 ; M. for 2nd R. and rem., 402
Address ln Reply to Speech from Throne . on
ln Com., 423.
M. (Mr. Béique) for adoption of Address,
City of Ottawa Act Amt. B.: int., 469 ; M. for
rem.; the late Senator Prowse, 65.
2nd R., 497.
Introduced, 1.
Civil Service Retirement Act Amt. B.: lut.,
Station House .at Pictou, N.S.: on lnq. (1fr.
351 ; 2nd R., 373 ; 3rd R., 379.
Primrose) rem., 185.
Coasting Trade of Can. B.: Int. and M. for
Winter Communication with P.E.I.: inq.,
2nd R., 523 ;, rem., 523, 525, 526, 527, 542,
258 ; rem., 258-260.
542 ; Srd R.*, 544.

INDEX

579

SCOTT, Hon. R. .W. (Secretary of State)-Con. 1 SCOTT, Hon. R. W. (Secretary of State)-Con.
Cold Storagg for Can.- Products ; on M. (Mr.
Immigration Act Amt. B.: int. 385 ; 2nd R. m.,
Ferguson) rem., 286;, reply to Inq. ('Mr.
M0 l n Com., rem., on lst cl., 416, 417, 422
Ferguson) 385.
on 2nd ci., 423, 441, 447, 449.
Contingent Accounts of the Senate ,on M.
Inspection Act Aint. B.: int. 406 ; M. for 2nd R.
(Mr. Watson) ta adopt 4th report 0f.Com.
and rem., 406 ; 2nd R., 497 ; In Com., on 2nd
un I. E. & C. A., rem., 478.
cl.. 451 ; M. for 3rd R. and rem., 462 ; 3rd
Coronation Oath, The : on N. of M. (Mr.
R., 463..
Landry) rem., 350 ; reply ta. inq. (Mr. LanIntroduction 0f government measures In Sendry) 374, 381, 398, 432.
ate : on Inq. (Sir M. Boweii) rem., 76.
Customs Tarliff Act Amt. B.: Int. and M. for
Joint Stock Co.'s Incorpo:ation by Jettera
2nd R., 544 ; rem., 544.
patent B.: lut. 168, rem., 168, 169. 170, 171.
DechOne, The late Senator : rem., 366.
173 ; 2nd R., 221 ; In Com. 232, rem., 233;
Delayed Returns : on Inq. (Mr. Landry) re
on lat ci., .234 ; on 3rd cl., 235 ; on 4th cl.,
codification of laws, rem., 543 ; rep. to inq.
235, 236 ; on 5th ci., 238 ; order te resume
<Mr. Landry) thie appointment of honorary
cousideration of BUI in Com. of the Whole,
colonels, 543.
caiied and postponed, rem., 241 ;In Com., on
Dismissai of Postmaster Macdonald (see Poat8th ei., rem., 264, 265, 267, 268 ;on l2th cl.,
master at Vernon Rlv., P.E.I.)
269, 272 ;on l6th and 17th cis., 273 ; on 21st
Dom. Lands Act Amt. B.: Int., 379 ; 2nd R. m.,
ci., 274 ;on 23rd ci., 274, 275 ;on 26th el.,
and postponed, 388 ; M. for 2nd
R. and rem.,
276, 277 ;on 29th ci., 277, 278 ;ou 32nd el.,
403 ; in Com., rem., on lst el., 424, 425 1.i
279; on 34th ei., 287, 288, 289, 290, on 35th el.,
Com. on 4th el., rem., 449.
290, 291 ;on 37th ci., 291 ;on 38th ci., 292;
Dredging of Mahone Bay : repiy to Inq. (Mr.
on 39th ci., 293 , on 4lst ci., 293 ; on 48th
Church) 198.
ci., 301 ;on 15tlý ci., 302 ;on 69th el., 802,
Earnings of Steamers ' Minto and ' tanley
303, 304 ;on 89th ci., 304 ;M. ta ameud 5th
reply ta Inq. (Mr. Ferguson) 186.
cl., 306 ;M. to stike out 26th cl., 306 ;on
ElevaLor at St. John : reply to inq. (Mr. Per37th ci., 307 ; on 38th ci., 307 ; on 3lst ci.,
ley) 80.
308, 309 ; rd R., 351.
Emigration from U. S. ta Canada : on M. (Mr.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Âmt. B,:
Bernier) rem., 187.
Int., 379 ; M. for 2nd I. and rem., 406 ;In
Exchoýquer Court Act Amt. B.: jgt., 385 ; 2nd
*Com., rem., 426 ;on 2nd ci., 426, 427.
R., 401 ; 3rd R.*, 423.
Land Tities Act Âmt. B.: int., 410 ;'2nd and
Fast Uine of Transatiantic Vesseis, The : rep.
3rd R., 433.
to Inq. (Mr. Landry) 411, 443.
Leasing of I.C.R. Siding at Sydney : on inca.
Fisheries Âward, The : Repiy to inq. (Mr. Fer(Mr. McDonald, C.B.) rem., 77.
guson) 199.
Mail Service In British Columbia : repiy ta
Fishlng Lake P. 0., The : reply to inq. -(Mr.
inq. (Mr. Macdonald, B.0.) 194, 250.
'Perley) 127.
Man. Grain Act. Amt. B.: lut., 469:. M. for
French Senator In the Cabinet A : roply to
2ad R. and rem.. 493 ; in Com. on 2nd ci.,
Inq. (Mr. Landry), 111, 547.
rem., 517, 520 ; on 3rd ci., 520 ; on 5th ei.,
Fruit Marks Act Âmt. B.: Int. 398 ; M. for 2nd
4620, 621 ; on 7th ci.. 622.
R., 411.; in Com., rem., on let, 2nd and 4th
Man. Scbaol Question : rep. ta Inq. (Mr. Lancîs., 436 ; 3rd R., 436 ; M. to concur in. Çomdry) 431.
Mons a.mt.. 509.
Maritime Stock Breeders' Association B.:
Gaspé & Western Ry. Co. B.: on M. (Mr. Sulint., 309 ; 2nd R.*, 354.
livan) to suspend Tuies, rem., 249.
Medicai Council In Can. B.: on M. for 2nd R.
Geological Museum, The : reply ta lnq. (Mr.
(Mr. Sullivan) rem., 444, 445.
Poirier) 183.
Militia Regulations and Orders :.reply ta Inq.
Grounding of the SB. 'Lake Superiar' -reply
(Mr. Landry) 174.
to Inq. (Mr. Ferguson) 135.
Minerais of Nova Scott&, The : repiy ta inq.
Halifax Industrial Schéol and St. Patrick's
(Mr. Church) 196.
Home at Halifax Act Amt. B.: int. 509;
Minutes of the Strikiug Com.: on M. (Mr.
IL for 2nd R., rem., 523.
Landry) rem.,*103.
Harbour of Glace Bay, The : on M.1 (Mr. McMounted Police Act Amt. B.: Int., 406 ;M. for
Donald, C.B.) rem., 145.
2nd R., 406 ; 2nd R., 407 ; 3rd R., 442.
Historic Sites of Can.: reply to inq. (Mr. PoiNaturalization Act Amt. B.: Int. and rem.,
rier) 266.
263 ; 2nd R. and rem., 310 ; in Com. on let
Hour of Opening, The : 410.
cl., rem., 329 ,3rd R., 351.
37j

INDEX
SCOTT, Hon. R. W. (Secretary of State)-Con.
SCOTT, Hon. R. W. (Secretary of State)-Con.
Representation of Yukon Ty. in H. of C. B.:
North-west Torritaries Acta Amt. B.: fut.,
int., 469, M. for 2nd R. and rem., 483 ; In
351 ; M. for 2nd R. and remi., 372 ; 2rd R.*,
Comn., on 22nd cl., rem., 485 ;on 28th el.,
485; on 47th ei., 486; M. ta amend cIa. 22 and
rules poatNotices o! Motion : M. ta amend
23 agreed ta, 502.
poned, 257 ; withdn.. 305 ; an M. (Sir M.
Rules of the Sonate:- on M. (Mr. Macdonald,
Bowell) rom., 350, 359.
B.C.) rem., 893.
B.: on
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Co.'io
Russo-Greek Cathollc Church, Petition:- on
M. (Mr. Clemow) for 2nd R., rom., 123 ; on
M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) ta adopt rep. of
M. (Mn. Clemow) for 3rd R., rom., 177.
Comn. on S. O. & P. B., rem., 512.
Packing and Sale a! Staple Commodities Act,
Signing o! Senatars' Writs :on inq. (Sir .
Amt. B.: lut., 410 ; 2nd and 3rd R., 433.
Bowell) rem., 26, 27.
Pensions to Officers of North-west Mounted
M. ta appoint
Standing Committees, The
rom.,
Police B.: int., 309 ; 2nd R. m. and
Comn, a! Selectian, 67 jrem., 67-68 ;rep. of
311 ; In Comn., rom. an lat cl., 329 ; on 3rd
Coin. on Selection presented. 77; M. ta apcl., 330 ; on 9tdh cl., 330, 331 ; an l7th cl.,
point Joint Cam. an Library and rem., 82, 86;
331.
M. ta appoint Joint Coin. on Printing. 91, 117,
Petitions for Private Bills : M. ta extend time
118 ; M. ta appoint Standing Orders Coin.,
for neceiving petitions, 80.
Banking and Commerce Coin. and Coin. on
Pilotage Act Amt. B.: lut., 309 ; 2nd R. m.,
Rys. Tels. & Harbours. 92 ;rem., 92-95 ; M.
311 ;rom., 312 ; in Com., rom. on Sth eI.,
ta appoint Committees on Private Bills,
332 ;3rd R., 351.
Contingent Accounts, Debates, and Divorce.
Pastmaster at Vernon River, P.E.I.. The : re99 ;M. ta appoint Restaurant Corn., 100 , M.
ply ta lnq. (Mr. Fergusan) 157, 173, 174, 356.
ta empawer Committees toa it during aittings of Ha., 460 ; rem., 460, 461.
Post Office Act Aint. B.: lut., 385 ; Znd R. m.
and pastponed, 400 ; M. for 2nd R., 412
StatioDi Houa. at Pictou, N.S.: reply ta inq.
rem., 412, 413, 415, 416 ; M. agreed ta, 416
(Mr. Primrase) 184 ;rem., 185.
In Com., rom,, 436 ; on lSth cl,, 437, 439
Strike at Valleyfield, The :reply ta inq. (Mr.
3rd R., 441.
Landry) 112, 115, 116, 143, 411.
Subsidies to the N.W.T'a.: reply ta inq. (Mr.
Pries o! Wheat lu the North-west, The : rePonley) 111.
ply ta inq. (Mr. Ponley) 168.
Superiar Court Judgos of Queboc :on M. (Mr.
Primitive Methodist Land Grant in NarthLandry) rem., 174.
weat Ternitonies : on inq.* (Mr. Ponley) 127,
Suppiy Bills : int., 410 ;M. for 2nd R., 435
184, 213 ; roply ta Inq. (Mr. Ponley) 221.
rem., 435, 436 ; in Carn., 446 ; 3rd R., 447
P.E.I Ry., The : neply to Inq. (Mr. Fergusan)
on M. ta adj. during plesure, rem., 546
167, 174, 199.
lat R., and M. for 2nd R., 547 ; rem.. 547-549,
Repîy to inq. (Mr. Fergusan) 366 ; on M. (Mr.
550, 551 ;M. agreed ta and 3rd R., 561.
rom., 384.
Ferguson)
Suspension o! Rules :M. ta suspend rules reP. E. I. Subsidy . reply to inq. (Mr. Ferlating ta Private Bis for remainder of sesguson) 119.
sian, 461 ; rem., 461 ; M. wibhdrawn, 462.
A Question -of: on lnq. (Mr. LanPrivilego,
Training of Valunteer Forces ln Camp : rep.
dry) rom,, 202, 223, 228.
ta inq. (Mr. Landry) 431.
Praposed Amt. ta the Rules. A : on M. (Sir
Treaclgold Canceaoiofl, The : on M. (Mr. MacBawell) requests postponement, 136
M.
donald. B.C.) rem., 137-138.
rem., 156.
Translation o! the Debates. The : on M. (Mr.
Prorogation. The : au annouincomont (Mr.
1Poirier) rem., 187, 189.
Speaker) rom., 543.
Provincial Autonamy for Narth-west Ta.: neUnorganized Ter's. Game Preservation Act
ply ta lnq. (Mr. Perîey) 101 ; rom., 102.
lnt., 351 ; Znd R., 372 ; rd R., 379.
Question af Priviiege, A : an nom. (Mr. CasValleyfield Strike :rep. to, iq. (Mr. Landry)
grain, Windsor) 411.
112, 115. 116, 143, 411.
Ry. Act Amt. B.: Int., 469 ; M. for 2nd R..
Visit o! the Duke aid Duchess of York ta, Can.:
491 ; rem., 492, 493.
rep. ta Inq. (Mn. I.andry) 430.
Ry. Committee Room, The : reply to Inq. (Sir
Winter Communication wlth P. E. I.:- reply to
M. Boweli) 112 ; rom,, 135.
inq. (Mr. Robertson) 258, 262.
Regina Law Librany B.: int.. 80 ; M. for Znd
Yukon Fac. Ry. Ca. B.: on M. (Mr. Watsonl)
R. and rom,, 100, 101 ; lu Comn. and Srd R.,
for 2nd R., rem., 380.
102.
Yukon Territory Acts Amt. B.: Int,, 366 ; 2nd
Remission of Penalties B.: lu Comn., rom., 503,
R., 379 ; in Coin., rem., 385 ; 3rd R., 386.
506, 507 : on lst ci., 513, 515 ; on 2nd cl., 515.

INDEX
SCOTT, Hon. R. W. (Secretary of State)-Con.
Yukon Territory Act Further Aint. B.: lot R.,
453 ; 2nd R., 480 , in Coin., on 3rd ci.,'rein.,
482, 483.

TEMPLEMAN, Hon. W.-Con.
Chinese Immigration Act Aint. B.:, int., 410;
M. for 2nd IL, 433 ; rem., 434 ; agreed to
and 3rd R., 435.
Debates, Tranlation of the : on M. (Mr. Poirier) to adopt lot rep. of Debates Coin.,
rein., 191.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Co.'s B.: on M. (Mr.
Sullivan) to suspend ruies, rein., 239.
General Inspection Act Amt. B.: ln Coin., M.
to add sez. A. 442 ; on 2nd el., rein.. 450, 452.
North-West Mounted Police Pensions B.: 3rd
R.,. 351.
Notices of M.: on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to amend
rule, rem.. 313.
Petition of Right Act Aint. B.: tnt., 379 ; B.
withdn., 389.
Remission of Penalties B.: tnt., 469 ;M. for
2nd R., 486 ;rem., 486-487, 489. 491 ;M. ta
refer B. ta Coin. of the Wboie. 502 ; remu.
504 ; ln Com., rein., 507, 508, 513 ; M. to
suspend rules, 516 ; M. for 3rd R., 540.
Rocky Mountains Park Act Amt. B.: tnt., 351;
M. for 2nd R., 373 ; remn.. 374 ; ln Com.,
rei 380 ; rcl R., 380.
Russo-Greek Catholic Church B.: on decision
of Speaker and M. (Mr. Watson) tn set
aside decision, remn., 537.
Standing Committees, The : on M. (Mfr. Scott)
tn appoint Coin. of. Selection, rein., 70.
Striking Coin., Minutes of the :on M. (Mr.
Landry) rein., 109.
Treadgold Concession, The : on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rem., 141.
United Gold Fields of B. C. B.: lnt. 309;, 2nd
R.*, 354.
Vancouver, Victoria & Eastern Ry. & Nav. Co.
B.: Srd R.0, 310.
Yukon Territory Repreaentation Act : on M.
(Mr. Scott) for 2nd R., rem., 483.

SULLIVAN, Hon. M.
Adainson, The case of Capi.; on M. (Mr. Watson) to adopt 3rd report of Coin, on Contingent Accts., and"M. (Mfr. McCallum) ln
amt., rem., ù'16.
Adiment. An : on M. (Mr. Scott) to adjn. from
March 25 ta April 2. remn., 117.
Algoma Central and Hudson Bay Ry Co. B.:
on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for 2nd R., rem., 180.
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkin) for
3rd R., rein., 217, 218.
Can. Evidence Act Aint. B.: rep. froin Coin.,
354.
Contingents Accts. of the Senate, The : on M.
(3fr. Watson) to adopt rep. * and amendt.
(Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rein., 212 ; on lOth ci.,
rein., 479.
Fruit Marks Act Aint. B.: ln Com., rein., on
lat ci., 436.
Gaine Preservation Act Aint. B.: rep. froin
Coin., 379.
Gaspé and Western Ry. Cq.'s B.: M. ta suspend rules postponed, 239 ; M. to suspend
ruies, 243 ; rein., 244, 246-247, 248 ; tnt. and
M. to suspend rules, 498, 501 ; 2nd R.*, 523.
Immigration Act Aint. B.: ln Coin., rein, on
lot el., 416, 417, 418, 419, 447, 448, 449.
Institute of Chartered Accountants B.: on
M. (Mr. Landry) to concur ln aints., M. to
reprint B. aud rem_,.354 -- ou M. (Mr. Landry) for 3rd R., rein., 375-377, 378.
Medical Council in Can. B.: tnt., 432 ; M. for
2nd R.- and rein., 444, 445 ; M. for 2nd R.,
463 ; ln Coin, on 4th ci., rein., 464, 466, 469.
Minutes of the Striking Committee : on M.
(Mr. Landry) for return, rein., 104.
Orthodox Russo-Greek Catholic Church B.: THOMPSON, Hon. F. P.
on M. (Mfr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) to adopt 24th
Addreu la repiy ta Speech frain Throne : on
*rep. of Coin, on S. O. & P. B., rein., 512.
M. (Mfr. BEique) ta adopt aidresi, seconds
Post Office Act Ait B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for
M., O ; prosperity of the country, 6 ; vîsit
2nd R., rein., 415.
of Duke and Duchess af Corn.wall, 7 ; asRuies of the Senate, The :on M. (Mfr. Macsassination of Pres. McKinley, 7 ; census of
donald, B.C.) rein., 391.
19C-1 ' 7 ; C.P.R., 7 , wlreles* teiegrapby, 7;
Standing Committees, The: on M. (Mfr. Scott)
Canada at Glasgow Exhibition, 8 ; coronata appoint Coin, on Library, remn., 89-91.
tion ceremenies .and Intercolonial conferSupply Bill : rep. froin Cern., 447 ; on M. (Mfr.
ence, 8.
Scott) ta adjn. durtng pleasure, rein., 546,
Can. Eastern Ry. Ca. B.: Int. 885 ; 2nd t.*,
551.
399.
TEMPLEMAN, Hom. W.
Introduced, 1.
Medical Council of Can. B.: rep. froin Coin.,
Adainson, The case of Capt.: on M. (Mfr. Wat468.
son) ta adopt 3rd rep. of Coin, on Contingent Âccts., sud M. (3fr. McCalluin) to amd.
VIDAL, Hon. A.
rep., rem., 317.
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (Mfr. Landerkin) for
Brown Divorce B.: on M. (3fr. Landerkin) for
Cr4 R., rein., 219.
3rd R., rein., 218.

INDEX
VIDAL, Honi. A.-Con.
Ruies of the Sen., The :on M. (Sir M. Bowell)
to, arnend rules, rein., 360 ;on M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) rein., 394.
Yukon Territory Act Aint. B.: rep. from Coin.,
386.
WARK, Hon. D.
Bounty on Pig Iran : Inq., 157.

WATSON,

Hon. R.-Con.

Radford Div. B.: Int., 101 ; 2nd R., 241.
Strlking Coin., Minutes of the : on M. (Mr.
Landry) rein., 105.
Toronto & Niagara Power Co. B.: lot., 351; 2nd
R.-, 372.
Trans-Ca4. Ry. Co. B.: Iot. 287 ; 2nd R.*, 306
M. to fix 3rd R., 333 ; rein., 334-336 ; 3rd R.*,
367.
Yukon Fac. Ry. Co. B.: lot., 309 ; 2nd R., 380
Srd R.*, 409.
Yukon Territory Act Aint. B.: ln Coin., rein.,
481.

WATSON, Hon. R.
Adainson, The case of Capt.: M. to adopt Srd
rep. of Coin., on 1. E. & C. A., 314 ;on M.
(Mr. MeCailum) to amend rep., rein., 325WOOD, Hon. A. T. (Hamnilton).
326.
Adjourninants : on M. (Mr. Scott) rein., 79
Can. Central Ry. Co.* 3rd R.*, 498.
Civil Service Act Aint. B.: rep. frain Cern., 379.
on M. (Mr. Scott) to ajaurn frozo March 25
to Aprl 2, rein., 117.
Contingent Accounts o! the Sen. :M. to« adopt
Applications for Ry, Charters B.: on M. (Mr.
2nd rep. of Coin., 209 ; rein., 209, 210, 212;
Ellis) for 2nd R., rein., 114.
M. ta adopt 3rd rep. of Coin., 314. 325 ; M. te
Bank Act Ai. B.: rein., 380.
adopt 4th rep. o! Coin, on I. E. & C. A., 469;
BUis o! Exchange Act Amt. B.: ln Cern., rein.,
remn., 470 ;on 7th par., 470. 471 ;on Sth par.,
352, 353.
472, 474 ;on lOtb par., 477, 479.
flebates, Translation of the : on M. (Mr. FoiCan. Fac. Ry. Co.'s B.: on M. (Mr. Jones) for
rier) to adopt Ist rep. o! Debates Coin., 188,
3rd R., mn. ant. and rein., 368 ; aint. withln
193.
drawn, 371.
General Inspection Act Aint. B.: ln Coin., on
Introduction ot Governinent Mleasures In the
2nd el., rein., 452.
Senate : on inq. (Sir M. Bowell) rein., 75.
Judges of Provincial Courts Act Aint. B.: rep.
Joint Stock Co.'s B.: on M. (Mr. Scott) for
frein Coin., 427.
lst R., rei., 170, 171 ; in Coin. on Sth cl.,
Man. Grain Act Aint. B.: ln coin., on 2nd cl.,
rein., 263-264 ; on 12th el., 270 ; on 23rd ci.,
rem., 518-520 ;on 3rd cl., 520 ; on 5th el.,
275 ; on 29th ci., 278 ;on 32nd cl., 280 ;on
521.
341h cl., 288, 289, 290 ;on 44th cl., 295 ;on
Man. & Keewatin Ry. Co. B.: lot. 350 ; 2nd
4151 ci., 308.
R.., 372 ; Srd R.*, 407.
Mont.raal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canai Co.
Medicine Hat & Northern Aiberta Ry. Co. B.:
B.: on M. (Mr. Cieinow) for 2nd R., rein.,
int., 262 ; 2nd R.*, 287; 3rd R.*, 310.
124 ; on. M. (Mr. Cîemow) for 3rd R., rein.,
Montreal Subway Com.'s B.: Int., 453 ; M. for
178, 179.
2nd R., postponed, 480 ;2nd R.', 486 ;Brd
North Shore Power, Ry. and Nav. Co. B.: on
R.', 498.
M. (Mr. McKay, Truro) to, suspend rulas.
N. Shore Power, Ry. & Nav. Co. B.: int. 287
rein., 313.
M. to suspend rula 40 and rem., 313 ,2nd
Notices of Motion : on M. (Sir M. Bowell) te
'R.', 372 ; M. to suspend mile 70, agreed to,
aniend rule, remn., 314.
408 ; M. for 3rd R. and rem., 408 , M. rena'wPost Office Act Aint. B.: on M. (Mr. Scott)« for
ed, 432 -, rein. 433.
2nd R., rein., 413 ; ln Coin., rein, on 151h
Notices of M.: on M. (Sir M. Bowell) to aniend
cl., 437.
ruies, rein., and M. ln aint.. 364 ; M. withQuestion o! Privilege, A : on Inq. (Mr. Landrawn, 366.
dry) rein., 202, 205.
Orthodox Russo-Graek Catholic Church B.: on
Trans-Cao. Ry. Co. B.: on M. (Mr. Watson)
M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) to adopt 24th rep.
for 3rd R., rein., 339-340.
of Coin., on S. 0. & P. B.. rein., 512 ; on
WOOD, Hon. J. (WVestmoreIand).
Speaker's decision, remn., 531-532 ;M. to set
asida decision, 532 ; rein., 537 ; M. lost on
Adaison, The .:aje of Ca.pt.: on M. (Mr. Watdivision, 537.
son) to adopt 3rd rap. o! Coin, on I. E. &
Ottawa Northern & Western Ry. Co. B.: on M.
C. A., and M. (Mr. MeCalium) to axnd. rep.,
(Mr. Lougheed) to ainend B., rem., 240.
rem., 322-323.
Question of Privilege, A : on Inq. (Mr. Landry)
Applications for Ry. Charters B.: on M. (Mr.
remn., 224, 230.
Ellis) for 2nd R.., rein., 115.
Rules o! the Sen.: on M. (Mr. Bélque) to
Joint Stock Co.'s Incorp. B.: rap. froin Coin.,
change rule 50, rein., 546.
309.

INDEX
WOOD, Hon. A. T. (Hamilton)-Con.

YOUNG, Han. F. M.-Con.
Mantreal Subway Co.'s B.: on M. (Mr. Watson) for 2nd R., remn., 480.
Natices of M.: an M. Sir M. BaweIl) ta amend
rule, rem., 314, 361-363.
Orthodox Russa-Greek Cathollc Church B.:
on M. (Mr. Macdanald, F.B.I.) ta adopt 24th
rep. af Cain. on S. 0. & P. B., remn., 510,
511, 512 ; an decisbon of Speaker and M. (Mr.
Watson) ta, set aside decisian, rein., 533-536.
YOUNG, Hon. F. M.
Question of Privilege, A : an inq. (Mr. Landry> remn., 204.
Can. Northern Tel. Co.'s B.: Int. and 2nd R.*.
Radfard Divorce B.: 2nd R., 241.
469 ; Brd R.', 498.
Representation of Yukon Territories B.: rep.
Canadian Pacifie Ry. Tolls Act Amt. B.: in
frain Coin., 502.
Coin. on 3rd ci, remn., 423 ;rep. froin Coin.,
Rules of the Senate : on M. (Mr. Macdonald,
423.
B.C.) rein., 395 ; on M. (Mr. Bélque) to amd.
Dom. Lands Act Aint. B.: lu Coin., rem. an
5Oth rule and abjection (Mr. Landry) remn.,
lst ei., 424, 425 a n 4tb cl., M. ta amd., 449.
538.
General Inspection Act Aint. B.: rem. and
Strlking Commlttee, Minutes of the :on M.
rep. from Com., 442 ;in Coin., an 2nd el.,
(Mr. Landry) rein., 108.
remn., 450, 451, 452 ; an M. (Mr. Scatt) for
Standing Orders Committee : on M. (Mr. Mac3rd R., rem., 462.
donald, P.E.I.) ta adapt 26th rep. of Coin.,
Immigration Act Aint. B.: rep. troin Cam.,
rein., 499.
423.
Toranto and Niagara Power Co.'s B.: en M.
'Man. Grain Act Aint. B.: an M. (Mr. Scatt)
(Mr. Kirchhaffer) ta suspend rule, rein.,
for 2nd R., rem., 493-496 ; in Com. on Znd
407.
el., rem., 517 ; an 3rd el., 520 ; Ôn 7tb cl.,
United Gold Fields of British Columbia B.:
521-522 , an last el., 523.
3rd R.'. 385.
Medicine Hat Ry. and Coal Co. B.: tnt., 262;
Yukon Territary Representation B.: rep.
2nd R.*, 287 ; 3rd R.*, 310.
froin Coin., 486.
-Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Co.
B.: an M. (Mr. Clemow) for 2nd R., rem.,
123 ;on M. (Mr. Clemow) for Srd R., rem.,
175-176, 177.
Remission of Penalties B.: in Com. on lst
el., rem., 513.
Trans-Can. Ry. Co. B.: on M. (Mr. Watson)
for 3rd R., rem., 344-346.

PARIT 11-SUBJECTS
ÂDAMSON, The case of Capt.: M. (Mr. Watson) ADDRESS-Subjects ref. to fn-Con.
The Coronation and Intercoloni ai Conferto adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on I. E. & C. A.,
ence:- Mr. Béique, 5 ; Mr. Thompeon, 8
314 ; rem., Mr. McCallum, 315; M. to amd.
Mr. Casgrain (de Lanaudière) 53, 55.
rep., 316 ; rem., Mr. Sullivan, 316 ;Mr. PimDeceased Senators :Si r M. Bowell, 8 ; Mr.
rose, Mr. Templeman, 317 ; Mr. Primrose, Mr.
Mr. DanScott, 20 ; Mr. Ferguson, 41
Gowan, Mr. Ferguson, 318 ; Mr. Perley, Mr.
Cox, Mr. Bernier, 319 ; Mr. Béique. Mr. Kirchdurand. 41 ; Mr. McCalium, 47 ;Mr. Cashoffer, 320-221 ; Mr. Church, 321 ; Mr. Wood
grain (de Lanaudière) 55 ;Mr. Robertson,
(Westmoreland) 322-323 ; Mr. Gibson, 323 ;Mr.
65 ;Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 65.
MeMullen, 324-325 ; Mr. Watson, 325-326 ;Mr.
Ministerfai Changes :2Sr M. Bowell, 9 ;Mr.
Macdonald (B.C.) 326 ; Mr. Primrose, Mr. SulScott, 20 ; Mr. Ferguson, 41 ;Mr. McCallivan, Mr. Clemow, 327: Mr. Ellis, Mr. Meium, 47 ; Mr. Casgrain (de Lanaudière) 51.
Callum, Mr. Cor. 328 ; amt. rejected, c. 18,
Fast LUne 4 Sfir M. Bowell, 11 ; Mr. Scott,
n.c. 32 ; rep. adopted, 329.
32.
M. Bowell, 11l Mr.
Pacifie Cable :Sir
ADDRESS fn Reply to Speech from Throne,
Scott, 23.
The : Speech reported fn extenso, 1-2 ;M.
Intercoloflial Ry.: Sfr M. Bowell, 11, 51
(Mr. Béique) for adoption of Address, 5 deMr. Scott, 23 ; Mr. Casgraf n (de LanauMr. Béique, 3-5 ; Mr. Thompson, 6-S
bate,
dière) 61 Mr. Perley, 57 ;Mr. McDonald
Sir M. Bowell, 8-19 ; Mr. Scott, 19-25 ; deb.
(C.B.) 64 ;Mr. Primrose, 65.
adjd., 25 ;-deb. resumed (Mr Scott) 27-34 ;Mr.
Postal Servfice :Sir M. Bowell, 11 - Mr.
Ferguson, 34-41 ; Mr. Dandurand, 41-47; Mr.
Scott, 23.
Wood (Hamilton) 43 ; deb. adjd., 47 ; deb. reWar fu South Africa: Si r M. Bowell, 12;
sumed (Mr. MeCallum) 47-50 ; Mr. Casgrain
Mr. Scott, 24 ; Mr. Dandurand, 44 ; Mr.
(de Lanaudière) 51-56 ; Mr. Perley, 640;
McCallum, 49, 50; Mr. Casgrain (de
Mr. Clemow, 60-63 ; Mr. Scott, 63 ; Mr. CleLanaudi ère) 53.
63-64 ; Mr. McDonald (C.B.), 64-65;
mow,
Public Expenditure :9fr M. Bowell, 16 ; Mr.
Mr. Prfmrose, 65 ; Mr. Robertson, 65 ; Mr.
McCallum, 48 ; Mr. Casgrain ide LanauMacdonafd (P.E.I.) 6à ; Mr. Primrose, 66 ; M.
df ère) 51.
to adopt Âddress agreed to, 66.
Tariff Polfcy of the Govt.: Sir M. Bowell,
SUBJECTS ref. to fa Address :
17 ; Mr. Scott, 28, 33 ; Mr. Ferguson, 35
Visit of the Duke and Duchess of York : Mr.
Mr. Dandurand, 42; Mr. McCalium, 47, 49;
Béique, 3 ; Mr. Thompson, 7 ; Sir M.
Mr. Perley. 58.
Bowell, 12.
Disagreernents In the Cabinet: Sir M.
Can. Pacifie Ry.:ý Mr. Béique, 3, 4; Mr.
Bowell, 18 ; Mr. Scott, 32, 34 ;Mr. CasThompson, 7 ; Sir M. Bowell, 15 ;Mr.
grafn (de Lanaudière) 52.
Scott ' 27 , Mr. McCallum, 47 ; Mr. CasLord Dufferin's Death : Mr. Scott, 20.
;
grain (de Lanaudi ère) &#1 Mr. Perley, 57.
Political Record of the Secretary of State
Assassination of President McKinley : Mr.
Mr. Scott, 21 ; Mr. Clemow, 60 ; Mr.. Scott,
Béique, 3; Mr. Thompson. 7 ; Sir M.
63 ; Mr. Cfemow, 64.
Bowell, 13
Census of 1901 : Mr. Béique, 3 ; Mr. ThompTrade with South Africa : Mr. Ferguson, 39.
son, 7 ; Sfr M. Bowell, 13 ; Mr. Ferguson,
Cold Storage : Mr. Ferguson, 40 ;Mr. Dan39.
durand, 44.
Wireless Telegraphy : Mr. Béique, 4 ; Mr.
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal: Mr. DanThompeon, i ; Sfr M. Bowell, 15.
durand, 46 ; Mr. Casgrain (de LýanaÙdière)
Paris and Glasgow Expositions : Mr. Bèf que,
54 ; Mr. Clemow, 62.
4 ; Mr. Thompeon, 8.
Welland Canal: Mr. McCallum, 48.
Prosperity of Can.: Mr. Béique, 4 ; Sir M.
Senate Reform: Mr. McCallum, 50.
Bowell, 12, 15 ; Mr. Scott, 28 ;Mr. FerLack 0f Transportation Facilities In the
Mr.
guson, 34 ; Mr. McCallum, 47 ;50 ;
North-west : Mr. Perley, 56, 60.
Casgraf n (de Lanaudière) 52,54 ;Mr. MeForeign Control of Can. Rys.: Mr. Clemow,
Millan. 53 ;Mr. Perley, 57, 58.
61.
Commercial Agencfes : Mr. Béique, 5.

INDEX
ADJOURNMENTS :Notice of M. (Mr. Scott) 75
rem, (Sir M. Bowell) 75.
-M.
to adin. from Feb. 21st to March 1lth
(Mr. Scott) 77
rem., Sir M. Bowell, 77-78
Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Poirier, 78
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Wood (Hamilton), Mr.
Scott, 79 ; M. agreed to, 80.
M. (Mr. Scott) ta adjn. from March 26th
to April 2nd, 117 ;rem., Mr. Miller, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Wood (Hamilton), Mr. Scott, Mr.
Watson, Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 117 ; M.
amended, to adin. ta April 3rd, and agreed
ta, 117.
-M.
(Mr. Scott) ta adjn. fram April 18th
ta April 22nd, agreed ta, 242.
-M.
(Mr. Scott) ta, adjn. Tram May 7th to
9th, agreed ta, 409.
AMENDMENT ta the Rules, A Propased: Notice af M. (Sir M. Bowell) called and postponed, 136 ; M. agreed ta, 156 ;rem., Mr.
Scott, Sir M. Bowell, 156 ;M. (Sir M. Bowell)
agreed ta, 156.
APPOINTMENT of Hanarary Colonels (ses Honarary Colonels, Appointment af):
ARTILLERY Service Equipment : inq. (Mr. Lanidry) ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 430.
BILLS assented ta. 561-563.
BILLS-S&riatitm:
(A) An Act respecting Applications for Ry.
Charters (Mr. Casgraln, de Lanaudière),
Int., 101 ;rem., Sir M. Bawell and Mr. Casgrain, 101 ;M. for 2nd R. (Mr. Ellis) 113;
rem., Mr. Ellis, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Ferguson and Mr. Laugheed, 113 a bjection that
B. is flot printedl (Sir M. Bowell) 113; rem.,
Mr. Lougheed, 113 ; Mr. Wood (Hamilton)
114 Sir M. Bawell, 114 ; Speaker rules order must stand, 114 ; rem., Mr. Ellis, 114;
Mr. Wood (Westmoreland) and Mr. Ellis,
115 ;order called, 120 ;rem., Mr. Casgrain
(de Lanaudière) 120 ; B. allowed ta stand,
120 ;M. for 2nd R., 148 ; rem., Mr. Casgrain
(de Lanaudière) 148; Mr. Scott, 148-151; Mr.
Ferguson, 151-153; Mr.. Béique, 153-164; Mr.
Gibson, 154-155 ; M. (Mr. McCallum) ta adj.
deb., 155 ; Deb. resumed, 157 ; rem., Mr.
McCallum, 157-161 ; Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.)
161-162 ; Mr. Casgraln (de Lanaudière) 162166 ; B. withdrawn, 166.
(B) An Act ta amend the Acts relating tao the
Ottawa, Narthern and Western Ry. Ca.
(Mr. Laugheed). Int., 101 ; 2nd R., 120*;
order for 3rd R. called, 231 ; rem., Mr.
Lougheed, 231 ;Mr. Béique, Mr. McMullen,
Mr. Ellis and Mr. Ferguson, 232 ;order
postponed, 232 ;M. (Mr. Laugheed) ta amd.

* 6th cl., 240; rem., Mr. Lougheed and Mr.
Watson, 240 ;M. agreed ta, c. 19, n. C. il
3rd R., 241 ; R. A., 563 (c. 76).

BILLS-8critiim-Con.
(C) An Act for the relief af John Hamilton
Ewart (Mr. Primrose). lnt., 101 ; 2nd R.*,
148 ; withdrawn, 385.
(D) An Act for the relief af James Brown (Mr.
Landerkin).
Int., 101 ; Znd R.*, 148 ; M.
for 3rd R., 213 ; rem-., Mr. Clemow, 213;
Mr. Klrchhoffer, Mr. Clemaw, Mr. Lougheed, 214 ; Mr. McMillan, Mr. Ferguson and
Mr. McMullen, 215 ; Mr. McCallum, Mr.
Landerkin and Mr. Kerr, 216 ; Mr. Church,
217 ;M. (Mr. Clemow) 6 m. h., 217 ;rem.,
Mr. Sullivan, 217 ; Mr. Templeman, Mr.
Sullivan, Mr. Lougheed and Mr. Clemow,
218 ; Mr. Miller, Mr. Vidai and Mr. Kirchhotter, 219 ; Mr. Kirchhoffer, 220 ;amt.
lost ;M. for 3rd R. adopted, c. 26, n. c. 14,
,220 ;R. A., 562 (c. 56).
(E) An Act for the relief of Thomas Henry
Radford (Mr. Watson).
Int., 101 ;2nd
R.*, 241, withdrawn, 427.
(F) An Act ta incorporate the Bishop of Moasonee (Mr. Lougheed). Int., 115 ; 2nd R.*,
120 ; 3rd R.*, 231 ; consideration of Coni-

mons amts. called ; rem., Mr. Lougheed,
399- order pastponed, 400 ; amts. cancurred
in, 412 ; R. A., 562 (c. 63).
(G) An Act respecting the Bell Telephane Coinpany of Canada (Mr. Kirchhoffer).
Int.,
116 ; M. for 2nd R., 127 ; rem., Mr. Kirchbotter, 127-129 ; Mr. Miler, 1.29-133 ; Mr.
Macdonald (B.C.) 133 ; M. agreed to, 133;
M. (Mr. Kirchhaffer) to refer B. ta Com.
an R. T. & H., 133 -, remi., Mr. Miller, Mr.
Xlrchheffer and Ferguson, 133 ; rep. fram
Cam. an R. T. & H. (Sir A. Pelletier) 305
rem., Mr. Kirchhoffer, 305 ; 3rd R., 305 ; an
explanation (Mr. Miller) 309 ; R.A., 563 (c.
84).
(HI) An Act for the relief of Samuel Nelson
Chlpman (Mr. Kirchhoffer). Int., 117 ; 2nd
R., 262 ; 3rd R.*, 399 ; R. A., 563 (c. 105).
(I) An Act respectlng the Mantreal, Ottawa
and Georgian Bay Canal Ca. (Mr. Clemow).
lut., 117 , 2nd R. m., 120 ; rem., Mr. Ciemaw, 120-122 ; Mr. McGallum, and Mr. CIemaw, 122 ; Mr. Wood (Westmoreland) and
Mr. Scott, 123 ; Mr. Wood (Hamilton) 124 Mr: Bernier and Mr. Owens, 125 ; Mr. Fergusan and Mr. Poirier, 126 ; M. agreed
ta, 126 ; M. for 3rd R., 175 ; remi., Mr. Wood
(Westmareland) 175-176 . Mr. Ciemaw and
Mr. Lougheed, 176 ; Mr. Macdonald (B.C)
Mr. Wood (Westmoreland) and Mr. Scott,
177 ; Mr . Wood (Hamilton) 178 ; Sir M.
Bowell, 178-180 ; M. agreed ta, 180 ; M. ta
concur in Commons amts., 428 ; rem., Mr.
Clemow, 428 ; Mr. Casgrain (de Lanandière), Mr. Clemow and Mr. Speaker, 429
arder *pastpaned, 429 ; M. agreed ta, 443
R. A. 563 (c. 83).

INDEX
BILLS-Seriq tini-Con.
BIILS-Steriatirm-Con.
Cam. (Mr. Elis) 239 ; order for Cam of
(J) An Act ta incorparate the Instituts of
the Whole caiied, rem., Mr. Scott and Sir
Chartered Accountants (Mr. Kerr). Int.,
M. Baweii, 241 ; arder postponed, 241;
120 ; 2nd R.*, 133 ; M. (Mr. Landry) ta
Hs. again ln Com., 263 ; rem. an Sth ci.,
concur ln amts., 354 ;rem., Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Béique and Mr. Wood (Hamilton) 263
and Sir M. Boweli, 354'; Mr. Fergusan,
1fr. Scott, 264 ; Mfr. M cMuiien and Sir M.
355 ; M. agreed ta, 355 ; Srd R. m., 375;
Baveil, 265 ; 1fr. Béique, Mr. Mc1fulien
rem., Mr. Sullivan, 375-377 ; Mr. Landry
and 1fr. Scott, 267 ; Sir M. Baveil, 1fr.
and Mr. Ferguson, 377 ; Mr. Sullivan, Mr.
Béique, Mr. Scott, 1fr. Pawer and
Kerr and Mr. Dever, 378 ;M. agreed ta,
Mr. Lougheed, 268 ; on 12th ci., Mr.
379 ,R. A., 563 (c. 92).
McMuiien, 268 ; 1fr. Power,. Mfr. Lough(K) An Act to confer on the Cammissioner of
eed and Mr. Béique, 269 ; Mr. Young.
Patents certain pawers for the relief af
Mr. Ferguson, 1fr. Wood (Hamilton), 1fr.
George M. Depew (Mr. Kirchhoffer). Int.,
Dandurand, Mr. McMuiieu and Mr. Mac120 ; 2nd R.*, 133 ;3rd R.*, 231.
donald (P.E.1.), 270 ; Mfr. Laugheed, Mr.
Bank
(L) An Act incorporating the Maisons
Paver, Mr. Drummnond and Sir M. Boveli.
Pension Fund (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.).
271 ; Mr. Scott and Mr. Ferguson. 272;
Int., 120 ; 2nd R.., 148 ; 3rd R.*, 200 ; ..
on l6th ci., Mr. Dandurand, Mr. Scott and
562 (c. 58).
Sir M. Boveli, 273 ; on 17th ci., Mr. Loug(M) An Act respecting the Atlantic and Lake
heed and 1fr. McDonaid (C.B.), 273 ; on
Superior Railway Co. (Mr. Owens). Tnt.,
2Oth el., Mr. Paver, 273 ; Sir M. Boweil,
136 ; 2nd R.*, 168 ; 3rd R.*, 231.
274 ; on 2let ci., Mr. Béique, Mr. Scott aud
Mr. Drummond, 274 ; on 23rd ci., Mr. Scott,
(N) An Act respecting the Great Eastern Ry.
Ca. (Mr. Owens). Tnt., 136 ; 2nd R.*, 168
274 ; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Paver, Mr. Wood
Zrd R.*, 231.
(Hamilton) and Sir M. Boweil, 275 ; on
25th ci., Mr. Béique and Sir M. Baweii,
(0) An Act respecting the Aigoma Central
276 ; on 26th cl., Mr. Scott, Mfr. Béique and
and Hudson Bay Ry. Ca. (Mr. Landerkin).
'Mr. Lougheed, 276 ; Sir M. Boveil, Mfr.
lnt., 166 ; 2nd R., 180 ;rem., Mr. Sullivan,
Scott and Mfr. Paver, 277 ; on 29th ci.,
180 ; 3rd R.*, 231 ;R. A., 563 (c. 85).
Mr. Paver and 1fr. Scott, 277 ; Sir M.
(P) An Act respecting the Manitoulin and
Baveil, Mfr. Scott, Mr. Woad (Hamilton),
North Shore RY. Ca. (Mr. Landerkin). lnt.,
Mfr. Danduraud and 1fr. BOique, 278 ; on
166 ; 2nd R.*, 180 -,3rd R.*, 23 1 ; R. A., 563
32nd ci., Mr. Power, 278 ; Mr. Scatt, Mr.
(c. 86).
Drummond, Sir M. Baveli and Mr. Pawer.
(Q) An Act ta incarporate the Metropolitan
279 ; Mr. Pawer, Sir M. Boveli, Mr. Waad
Bank (Mr. McMuiien). lnt., 166 ; 2nd R.
(Hamilton), Mr. Dandurand, Mr. Bêique
caiied' and postpaned, 180 ; 2nd R.*, 194
and 1fr. Drummoud, 280 ; an 33rd ci.. Mr.
3rd R.*, 309 ; R. A., 563 (c. 102).
Fergusan, Mr. Lougheed aud Sir M.
Boweii, 280 ; 1fr. Paver and Mr. Drum(R) An Act respecting the Incorporation of
mond, 281 ; pragresa rep. (Mr. Eiiis) 281;
Joint Stock Companies by Letters Patent
again in Com., 287 ; on 34th ci., Mfr. Scott.
(Mr. Scott). lnt., 168 ;rem., Mr. Scott,
287 ; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Power, Sir M.
168 ; Sir M. Boweil, 169 ;Mr. Wood (HamBaveli, 1fr. Wood (Hamilton), Mr. Béique
ilton), Sir M. Baveli, Mfr. Scatt and Mfr.
and 1fr. Scott, 288 ; Mr. Wood (Hamilton),
Lougheed, 170 ; Mfr. Scott, Mfr. Lougheed
Mr. Lougheed, Sir M. Boweii, Mr. Scott
and Mfr. Wood (Hamilton), 171 ; Mr.
and 1fr. Forget, 289 ; Sir M. Boweii, 1fr.
Lougheed, 172 ; Mr. Scott, 173 ; 2nd R. m.,
Scott, Mr. Farget, Mr. Béique and Mfr.
221 ; rem., 1fr. Fergusan, Sir Yi. Boweil,
Wood (Hamilton), 290 ; ou 35th el., Mfr.
Mfr. Scott an.d Mr. B6ique. 221;àM. agreed
Pawer, Mr. Forget, 1fr. Wood (Hamilton).
ta, 221 ; ln Com., 232 ; rem., 1fr. Scott,
Mfr. Scott and 1fr. Drummond, 290 ; Mr.
232 ; Mfr. Defloucherville and Mr. Scott,
Scott, Mr. Drumaond, Mr. Power and Mr.
233; on first ci., Sir M. Bowell, 233-234; Mr.
Béique, 291 ; on 37th ci., 1fr. Scott, Mr.
Scott, 234 ;- on 3rd ci., 1fr. Bdique, 234;
Power and Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.), 291
1fr. Scatt, Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Béique and
Mr.. Ciemow, 1fr. B6ique and Sir M.
Sir M. Baveil, 235 ; Mr. Béique and Mfr.
Baveli, 292; an 39th ei.. Mir. Forget, 1fr.
Lougheed, 236 ; Mr. Béique, Mr. Lougheed
Scott and Mr. Drummand, 293 ; an 4lst
and Sir M. BaveT1, 237 ; 1fr. Scott, Mr.
ci., Mr. Forget, 1fr. B6ique and Mr. DrumLougheed and Sir M. Bowell, 238 ; on.6th
moud, 293 ; Sir M. Baveil, Mfr. Forget, 1fr.
el., Sir M. Boweil, Mr. Pawer, Mr. FerguDrummand, 1fr. Scott and Mr. Daudurand,
son, M r. Scott and Mr. Jones, 238 ; Sir M4
Boweli and Mr. Pawer. 239 ; rep. from
294 ; Mr. Pawer and Mr. Béique, 295 ; el.

INDEX
TILLS-Scriatim-Con.
BILLS-Seriaflièn-Con.
amd. and adopted, 295 ;on 42nd ci., Mr.
(W) An Act reepecti ng the St. Lawrence and
Bélque and Mr. Scott, 295 , on 44th el.,
Adirondack Ry. Co. (Mfr. Béique). Tnt.,
Mr. Drumrnond, Mr. Wood (Hamilton),
200 ;2nd R.', 232 ;3rd R.', 314.
Mr. Bélque, Mr. Power and Mr. Loug(X) An Act respecti ng the Montreai Bridge
heed, 295 , Sir M. Bowell, 296 .on 46th el.,
Co. (Mr. MeSwee ney). Int., 200 ; 2nd R.',
Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Drummond, Mr. B4ique
241; 3rd R.'. 310.
and Mr. Forget, 296 ; on 48th el., Mr.
(Y) An Act to Incorp ~rate the Union Life AsB6ique and Mfr. Forget, 296 ; Mr. Béique,
surance Co. (Mr Landerkin). Tnt. 221;
297 ; rep. from Com. (Mr. Ellis) 297 ; en
2nd R.', 241 ; 3r IR.', 367 ; R. A., 563 (c.
48th el., Mr. Dandurand and Mr. Loug103).
heed, 297 ; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Power, Mr.
(Z) An Act to arnenÈ Ithe Naturalization Act,
Forget and Mr. Dandurand, 298; Mr. LongChapter 113 of ti ie Revised Statutes (Mfr.
heed, Mr. Forget and Mr. Dandurand, 299;
Scott). Tnt., 263 ;2nd R., 310 ; ln Com.,
Mr. Dandurand, Mr. Lougheed, Mr. F'oron lot el., rem., ér. Macdonald (B.C.) and
get and Mr. Church, 300 ; Mr. Scott, Mr.
.
Mr. Scott, 329 ; oî n 7th ci., Mr. Power, 329
Dandurand and Mr. Forget, 301 ; cl. amd.
rep. from Coin. (1fr. Buis) 329 ; 3rd R.',
and adopted, 301 ; on 55th ci., Mr. Long351 ;R. A., 562 (c .75).
heed, 301 ; on 56th cl., Mr. Power, 302.;
(AÂ) An Act to incorî porate the Maritime Stock
el. amd. and adopted, 302 ; on el. 15, Mr.
Int.,
Forget, Mr. Lougheed and Mr. Scott, 302 ;
Breeders' Associl ation (Mr. Scott).
309 ; 2nd R.', 354 ; rd R.', 374 ; R. A., 663
on 61st el., Mr. Power, 302 ; on 69th cl.,
(C. 87).
Mr. Scott, 302 ; Mr. Scott and Mr. Power,
303 ; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott and Mfr.
(BB) An Act to arn end the Bank Act <(Mr.
Power, 304 ; on 89th el., Mfr. Power, Mfr.
Bulis). Int., 309 2nd R. postponed, 380;
Scott and Mr. Ferguson, 304 ; Mr. Lougwithdrawn, 399.
heed and Mfr. Scott, 305 ; progress re>.
(CC) An Act respecti ng the Royal Marine ln(Mfr. Bulis) 305 , M. to amd. el. 5 (Mfr.
surance Co. (Mfr. B6ique). Int. and 2nd
Scott) 306 . on 26th ci.. Mfr. Scott, 306 ;R.,
406 ; 3rd R.*, 427 ; R. A., 563 (c. 104).
M. to amd. 26th el. (Mr. Lougheed) 307
()A
c epci
A
Ry. c. (r.ec ig the Canada Southeru
to amd. 37th el. (Mr. Scott) 307 ; remn.,
M..
Cailuin). Int., 101;, 2nd
o M.M
y
Mr. Scott, Mr. Lougheed and Mr. Power,
R.', 120 ; 3rd R.0, 157 ; R. A., 561 (c. 3).
307 ; on 38th el., Mfr. Lougheed, Mfr. Scott
(9) An Act respectin the United Gold Fields
and Sir M. Boweli, 307 ; on 4lst el., Sir M.
Boweil, Mfr. Lougheed and Mr. Wood
of British Coluli Lbia, Ltd. (Mr. Temple(Hamilton) 308 ; on penalty ei., Mr. Power,
man). Int., 309; 2nd R.', 354 ;3rd R.',
385 ; R. A., 563 (c 78).
Mr. Scott, Sir M. Boweii and Mr. Wood
(Hamilton), 308 ; on scedule, Sir M. Boweii,
(10) An Act respecti ng the Orford Mountain
Mfr. Scott and 1fr. Ferguson, 309 , rex>.
Ry. Co. (1fr. Owens). Int., 80 ;2nd R.',
from Coin. (Mr. Wood, Westmoreland)
102 ; 3rd R.', 120 ;R. A., 561 (c. 2).
309 ; 3rd R., 351 ;R. A., 563 (c. 114).
(11) An Act to provi de for the establishment
(S) An Act to amend the Act respecting the
of a Medical Coi ncil lu Canada (1fr. SulIncorporation of Boards of Trade (Mfr.
livan). Tnt., 432 ; M. for 2nd R., 444 ; rein.,
Scott). Tnt. and remn., 181 ;2nd R., 200 ;
Mr. DeBouchervil le, Mr. Scott, Mfr. Suiiiln Coin., 220 ; 3rd R.', 231 ;R. A., 562 (c.
van, Mr. Speaker, 1fr. DeBouchervilie, 444;
59).
Mr. Fiset, Mr. S uillvan, Mr. Scott, The
<T) An Act to incorporate the St. Joseph and
Speaker, 445 ;o ýder postponed, 445 ; M.
Lake Huron Ship Canai Co. (Mr. Landerfor 2nd R., 453 ; r 'em., Mr. DeBouchertille,
kmn). Tnt., 181 ; M. for 2nd R. 242 ; remn.,
453 ; Mr. Landerk in, 454-455 M Bernier,
1r.
Mfr. Landerkin and Mfr. McCalium, 242 ;
455-456; «.fr. Chut ,eh, 456-457 ;Mr. Bernier
M. agreed to, 242 ; rex>. froin Coin, on R.
and Mr. B4ique, 457 ; Mfr. Landry, 458-459;
T. & Hl. (Sir A. Pelletier) 305 ; B. withMr. Lougheed, Mr McMiilan and Mr. Dedrawn, 305.
Bouchervilie, 459 M. agreed to, 460 , ln
(1U) An Act respecting the Western Alberta
Cým., rem., - Mr. B6ique, 463 ;on Znd cl.,
Ry. Co. (1fr. Lougheed). Tnt., 200 ; 2nd
M. (1fr. Bdique) t o amd., 463 ;aint. adoptR.', 220 ; Srd R.', 230.
ed, 463 ; on 4th el., Mr. Mc1fuilen, - Mr.
(V) An Act to incorporate the First National
Sullivan, Mfr. Lauderkin and 1fr. EBuis,
Bank of Canada (Mr. Landerkin).
lnt.
464 ; Mr* Landerki nu,Mr. McMulien and Mr.
.200 ; M. for 2nd R., 241 ; rein., 1fr. CiePower, 465 ; Mr. McMuiien, Mfr. Sulivan
mow, 241 ; M. agreed to, 241 ; Srd R.', 407 ;and
Mr. McMiiiai n, 466 ; Mr. Poirier; Mr.
R. A., 563 (c. 101).
McMuiien, 467 ; oin lOth ci., M. to amd.

INDEX

51S9

BILLS-S&riaiart-C-on.
BILLS-Seriatfit-COn.
(26) An Act respecting the Quebec and Lake
(Mr. Béique), rem., Mr. McMuilen: amt.
Iut., 120;
Huron Ry. Co. (Mr. Lândry).
adopted, 467 ; M. ta add to ci. (Mfr. Bdique)
2nd R.'. 133 ;Zrd R.*, 180 ;R.A., 561 (c. 7).
(Mr. Landry) to add ci. 22, 467;
467'; M.
rein., Mfr. Sullivan, Mr. Bdique aud Mfr.
(29) An Act ta lncorparate thie Sovereigu Lii e
Assurance Ca. af Canada (Mr. Gibson).
Laudry, anit. rejected, 468 ; rep. frain Com.
Int., 157 ;2nd R.*, 194 ; Srd R.', 231 ; L.A.,
(Mr. Thonipson) 468 ; M. for &rd R., 468
562 (c. 18).
remi., Mfr. MeMulien aud Mfr. Scott, 468;
Mfr. Laudry aud Mr. Sullivan, 469 ; 3rd R.,
(31) An Act respecting the Buffala Ry. Co. and
469 ; R. A., 563 (c. 98).
the International Ry. Ca. (Mr. Gibson).
(12) An Act respectiug the Edmonton sud
lut., 120 ; 2nd R.', 134 ; M. ta ref. B. ta
Int.,
Slave Lake Ry. Ca. (Mr. Poirier).
Cam. an R. T. & H., 134 ; rem., Mr. Me80 ; 2nd R.', 120 ; 3rd R.', 168 ; R. A., 561
Calium and Mr. Gibson, 134 ; M. agreed ta,
(c. 6).
134 ; M. (Mr. McCallum) for 3rd R. and
(13) An Act respecting the Canada and Michirem., 180 ; M. agreed ta, 180 ; R. A. 561
gan Bridge and Tunnel Ca. (Mfr. McCalc. 9).
lu=n). Iut., 101 ; 2ud R.', 120 ; 3rd R.',
(35) Au Act ta incorparate the Nipissing and
157 ; R. A., 561 <c. 4).
lut.,
Ottawa Ry. Ca. (Mr. MeMulien).
(14) Au Act ta lncorporate the Indian River
.,
187 ; 2nd R.*, 213 ; 3rd R.', 241 ;
lut., 120;
Raiiway Co. (Mr. Gadbout).
562 (c. 20).
2ud R.'. 133 ; 3rd R.', 180 ; R. A.,,561 (c.
(37) Au Act ta incorporate the Sprague's F'alls
15).
Mfg. Ca., Ltd. (Mr. McHugh). lut., 175;
(15) An Act respecting the River St. Clair
2nd R.', 194 ;3rd R.', 231 ; R.A., 562 (c.
Tunnel Ca. (Sir M.
Raiiway, Bridge and
17).
Baweii). lut., 101 ;2nd R.', 120 , 3rd R.'.
(39) An Act ta incarporate the St, Lawrence
157 , R.A., 561 (c. 5).
& Northern Ry. Ca. (Mr. Godbaut). lut.,
(16) Au Act respectiug the Manitoba and
166 ;2nd R.', 184 ; 3rd R.', 231 ;R.A., 562
Narth-western Ry. Ca. of Canada (Mfr.
(c. 19).

lut., 240 ; 2ud R.', 263,
Kirchhaffer).
3rd R.'. 310 ; R.A., 562 (c. 29),
(18) An Act ta incorpora.te the Veivet (Ras$land) Mine Raiiway Ca. (Mr. Macdonald,
B.C.). lut., 101 ; 2ud R.', 120 ; 3rd R.',
157 ; R.A., 561 (c. 10).
(19) Au Act relating ta the Regina Law
Library (Mr. Scott). lut., 80 ; M. for 2nd
R., 100 ; remi., Sir M. Boweli, Mr. Ferguson sud Mr. Scott, 100 ; Mr. Fergusran d
Mr. Scott, 101 ; M. agreed ta, 101 ; in Com.
102 ; remi., Mfr. Scott, Mfr. Fergusan aud
Mfr. Lougheed, 102 ; 3rd R., 102 ; R.A., 561
(c. 1).
(20) An Act ta lncorparate Uhc Battieferd sud
Lake Lenore Ry. Ca. (Mr. Periey). lut.,
101 ; 2nd R.', 1,20 ;3rd R.', 157 ; .,
561 (c. 11).
(21) Au Act respecting the Part Dover, Brantfard, Berlin sud Gaderich Ry. Ca., sud ta
change lts name ta 'The Grand Valley
Ry. Ca. (Mr. McCallum). lut., 120 ; Znd
R.', 133 ; 3rd R.', 180 ; R. A. 561 (c. 8).
(22) An Act ta incarparate the Board of the
Preshyterian Coilege, Halifax (Mr. Ferguson). lut., 157 ; 2ud R.', 180 ;3rd, R.',
231 ;R.A., 562 (c. 16).
(24) An Act resqecting the Windsor sud Detrait Union Bridge Ca. (Mr. McCallum).
lut., 120 ; 2ud R.', 134 ; 3rd R.', 180 ; .,
562 (c. 14).

(40) An Act respecting Pensions ta Officers of
the Nartb-west «Mounted Palice (Mr. Temlut., 309 , 2nd R. m. ; rem.,
pleman).

Mr. Scott, Mr. Laudry and Mfr. McMulen ;
M. agreed ta, 311 , iu Coin., on lst ci.,
rem., Mr. Scott and Mr. Pawer, 329 ; an 3rd
cl., Sir M. Bowell, 329 ; Mr. Scott, 330 ; ou
4th ci., Sir M. Boweil, 330 ; ou 9th cl., Sir
M. Baweii, Mfr. Power, Mfr. Landry aud Mr.
Fergusan, 330 ; Mfr. Macdonald (P.E.I.).
Sir M.' Boweii, Mr. Scotte331 ; au l3th cl.,
Sir M.' BoweiI, Mfr. Scott, 331 ; rep frani
Coin. (Mr. Lougheed) 331 ;3rd R., 351
R. A., 562 (c. 84).
(43) An Act respecting the Vancauver, Victoria & Eastern Ry. & Nav. Ca. (1fr. Temlut,, 262 ; 2nd R.', 287 ; 3rd
pieman).
R.', 310 ; R.A., 562 (c. 27).
(44) An Act respecting the Tilsouburg, Lake
Brie & Pacific Ry. Ca. (Mfr. McCallum).
lut., 166 ; 2nd R.', 180 ; Srd R.0, 200 ; .,
561 (c. 13).
(4 6) An Act ta incorporate the Strait of Cassa Bridge Ca. (Mi. MeDouald, C.B.). Int.,
175 ; 2nd R.0, 220 ; 3rd R.', 297 ; .,
562 (c. 22).
(47) An Act ta Incorporate the Canadiau Manufacturera' Assu. (Mfr. Ferguson). lut., 157;
2ud R.'. 180 ; 3rd R.', 351 ;R.A., 562
(c. 33).

IN7DEY
BILLS-Serial:mpi--Coil.
t49) An Act to confer on the Commissioner
of Patents certain powers for the relief
of John Westren (Mr. Kerr). Int., 175;
2nd R.', 194 ; 3rd R.', 231 ;R.A., 562 (c.21).
(50) An Act respecting the Niagara, St. Catharinles and Toronto Ry. Co. (Mr. McCallum).
Int., 287 ;2nd Xi.', 297 ;3rd R.'. 367 ,R.
A., 562 (c. 41).
(51) An Act to Incorporate the Dyment Securfiies, Loan and Savings Co. (Mr. Ellis).
tnt., 405 ;2nd R.', 407 ;Srd R.', 427 ;R.
A., 562 (c. 68).
(52) An Act respecting the St. Clair and Erie
Ship Canal Co. (Mr. McCallum). ltt, 166;
A., 561
2nd R.'. 180 ;3rd R.', 200 ;R.
(o. 12).
(53) An Act respecting the Canadian Northern
I nt., 240 ;2nd~
Ry. Co. (Mr. Kirchýhoffer).
R.', 263 ;3rd R.', 368 ;R. A., 562 (c. 57).
(54) An Act ta incorpcrate the Esaex Terminai Ry. 0o. (Mr. Casgrain, Windsor).
.lnt., 309 ; nd R.', 312 ;Zrd R.0, 367 ;R. A..,
562 (c. 46).
(55) An Act respecting the Lake Erie & Detrait Riv. Ry. Co. (Mr. Casgrain, Windsor).
tnt. and 2nd R.', 469 ; Srd R.', 498 ;R. A.,
563 (c. 94).
(57) An Act respecting the Ontario Power
Co. a! Niagara Falls (Mr. Gibson). Int.,
240 ;2nd R.0, 263 ; rd R.', 309 ;R. A., 562
(c. 24).
(59) An Act respecting the James Bay Ry. 0o.
(Mr. Kirchhaffer). Int., 240 ;2nd R.', 263
3rd R.0, 310 ; R. A., 562 (c. 31).
(62) An Act respecting the Klondike Mines Ry.
Co. (Mr. Kirchhoffer). tnt., 240 ;2nd R.',
263 ; Brd R.0, 310 ; R. A., 562 (c. 85).
(63) An Act tg? Incorporate the Medicine Hat
and Northern Alberta Ry. Ca. (Mr.' Watson). Int., 262 ;2nd R.', 287 ;3rd R.', 310;
R. A., 562 (c. 28).
(64) An Act to Incorporate the Cosmos Cotton
Co. (Mr. Lovitt). tnt., 262 ; 2nd R.*, 287
3rd R.0, 351 ; R. A., 562 (c. 32).
(65) An Act to Incorporate the Yukon Pac. Ry.
Co. (Mr. Watson). tnt., 309 ;2nd R., 380
Srd &.', 409 ;R. A., 563 (c. 77).

(66) An Act respecting 'La Compagnie du
chemin de teri de Colonisation du Nord~
(Mr. Dandurand). Int., 240 ; 2nd R.', 297
3rd R.', 367 ; R. A. 563 (c. 79).,
(68) An Act. respecting the Central Counties
Ry. Co. (Mr. McDonald, C.B.). lnt., 262;
2nd R.', 287 3rd R.', 310 ;R. A., 562 (c.
25).
(69) An Act respecting the .Canadian, Pacifie
RY. Co. (Mr. Dandurand). Int., 263 ;2nd

BILLS-Sera1jn--Con.
R.*, 287 ;3rd R. m., 368 ;M. in amt. (Mr.
Wood (Hamilton) 368 ;rem., Mr. Wood
(Hamilton) 368 ;Mr. Jones, 369-370 ;M.
Landry and Sir M. Bowell, 370 ;ami. withdrawn and B. read 3rd time, 371 ;R. A.,
562 (c. 42).
(70) An Act ta incorporate the Rosa Rifle 0o.,
Ltd. (Mr. Gibson).
tnt., 240 ;2nd R.*,
263 ; 3rd R.', 367 ;R.
A., 562 (c. 37).
(71> An Act respeciing the Dominion Cotton
Mills Ca. Ltd. (Mr. Forget).
tnt., 262;
2nd R.', 287 ;3rd R.'. 367 ; R. A., 562 (c.
39).
(72) An Act to incorporate the Pacifie Northern

and Omineca Ry. Ca. (Mr. Macdonald,
B.C.). Int., 240 ; 2nd R.', 263 ; 3rd R.',
310 ;R. A., 562 (c. 36).
(73) An Act ta, incorporate the North Shore
Power, Ry. and Nav. Co. (Mr. Watson).
tnt., 287 ; rep. from Con, on S. 0. & P.
B', (Mr. McKay, Truro) 312 ;M. (Mr. Watson) to suspend rules. 313 ;M. objected
ta (Mr. Forget) 313 ;rem., Mr. Watson,
Mr. Wood (Hamilton) and The Speaker,
813 ; 2nd R.', 372 ;rep. tram Com. on R.
T. & H. (Sir A Pelletier) 408 ; M. (Mr.
Watson) for 3rd R. ;rem., Mr. Macdonald
(B.C.), Mr. Watson and Sir M. Bowell,
408
M. pastponed, 409 ;M. for 3rd R..
432 ;rem., Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) 432 ;Mr.
Watson and Sir M. Bowell, 433 ,3rd R.,
433 ;R.A., 563 (c. 97).
(74) An Act respecting the Ottawa, Brockville
and St. Lawrence Ry Ca. (Mr. Gibson).
tnt., 26 3 ; 2nd n.', 306
3rd R.', 367 ;R.
A., 562 (c. 43).
(75) An Act ta Incorporate th; Knapp Tubular
S.S., Ca. (Mr. Dandurand). tnt., 221 ; 2nd
R.', 232 ; Srd R.', 310 ; R. A., 562 (c. 30).
(76) An Act turther ta amnend the Pilotage Act
(Mr. Scott).
tnt., 309 ; 2nd R. m., 311;

rem., Mr. Scott and Mr. Ferguson ;M.
agreed ta. 312 ; In Com., on Sth ci., rem.,
Sir M. Bawell, Mr. Scott and Mr. Landry,
332 ; rep. tram Com. (Mr. Ellis) 332 ;3rd
R.'. 351 ; R. A., 562 (c. 60).
(78) An Act respecting the Trans-Canada Ry.
Co. (Mr. Watson). tnt., 287 ;Znd R.', 306;
rep. tram Com. on R. T. & H. (Sir A. Pelletier) 333 ;Ml. (Mr. Watson) for Zrd R..
333 ; rem., (Mr. Miller) 333-334 ;Mr. Watson, 334-336 ;Sir M. Bawell, 336-339 ;Mr.
Wood (Hamilton) 339-340 Mr. McCallum,
340-342 ;Mr. Gowan, 343 Mr. MeMuiien,
342-344 ;Mr. Wood (Westmoreland) 344346 ;Mr. ChurCh, 346-347 ;Mr. Ferguson,
347-349 ;3rd R.', 367 ;R.A., 562 (c. 44).

INDEX

591

BILLS-S'riatirn-Can.
BI LLS-Ser-iatit---Con.
for 3rd R., 407 ; rem., (Mr. B éique, Mr.
(79) An Act to incorparate the Crawn Bank of
Speaker, Mr. Kirchhaffer and Sir M. BuCanada (Mr. McCallum). Int., 221 ; 2nd
wel, 407 ; Mr. l3êique. 408 ; M. agreed ta,
R.', 232 ; 3rd R.', 309 ; R. A., 562 (c. 23).
407 ; R.A., 563 (c. 62).
(81) An Act ta incorporate the Can. Northern
Telg. Co. (Mr. Young). tnt. and 2nd R.',
(101) An Act ta ineorporate the Nepigan Ry.
469 ; 3rd.R.*, 498 ; R. A., 563 (c. 113).
Co. (Mr. Gibsan). tnt., 379 ; 2nd R.', 399;
3rd R.0. 409 ; R.A.. 563 (c. 81).
(83) An Act ta incorporate the Canadian
Northern Express Ca. 4Mr. MeMullen).
(102) An Act ta ineorpa:-ate the Gaspé and
tnt., 263 ;2nd R.*, 287 ;3rd R', S67 ; R.
Western Ry. Ca. (Mr. Sullivan). M. ta
A. 56W(c. 38).
suspend rules, 239 ; rein., Mr. Macdanald
(84) An 'Act respecting the Bay of Quinté
(B.C.), Mr. Templeman, Mr. Landry, Mr.
Ry. Co. (Sir Ma-k.3nzie Bowell). Int.,
Dandurand and Mr. Lougheed, 239 ; M.
309 ; 2nd R.', 312 ;3rd R.', 367 ; R.A., 562
postponed, 240 ; M. renewed, 243; rem., Mr.
(c. 45).
Macdonald (B.C.) and Mr. Mc3Cay (Trura),
243 ; Mr. Fiset, Mr. Owens and Mr.
(85) An Act respecting the S. Shore Ry. Co.
Sullivan, 244 ; Mr. Landry, Mr. Mac(Mr. Bélque). tnt. and 2nd R.*, 453 ;3rd
donald (P.E.I.) and Mr. Poirier, 245 ; Mr.
R.*, 498 ; R.A., 563 (c. 93).
Miller and Mr., Sullivan, 246 ; Mr. McCal(87) An Act respecting the Que. Southern Fty*
luin, 247 ; Mr. Dandurand and Mfr. Landry,
Ca. (Mr. Béique). tnt. and 2nd R.', 45 3
248 ;Mr. Poirier, Mr. Scott and Sir M.
3rd R.', 461 ; R.A., 563 (c. 88).
BowelI. 249 ;M. ngreed ta, c. 28, n.c. 27,
(88) An Act respecting the Medicine Hat« Ry.
250 ; 2nd R., 498 ; M. ta suspend rule
and Coal Ca. (Mr. 'Young). tnt., 263 ; 2nd
60 and objection (Mr. Casgrain) 498;
R.', 287 ; Srd R.', 310 ; R.A., 562 (c. 26>.
M. allowed ta stand, 498 ; M. (Mr. Sulil(79) An Act ta incorparate the Can. Central
van) ta suspend rules 60 and 70, 501 ; abRy. Ca. (Mr. Landerk4in). tnt. and 2nd R.,
jection (Mr. Landry) overruled and M.
469 ; 3rd R., 498 ; R.A., 563 (c. 95).
agreeci ta, 502 ; 2nd R.', 523 ; rep. trom
(91) An Act respecting the Timagami Ry. Ca.
Coin, an R. T. & H. (Sir A. Pelletier)
(.Mr. Gibson). Int., 263 ; 2nd R.', 297 ;' .rd
543 ; M. (Mr. Owens) ta adapt rep., 543.
'EL*', 367 ;R. A., 562 (c. 40).
(103) An Act respeCting the Lake Chamjblain.
(93) An Act respectiug the Hudson's Bay and
& St. Lawrence Ship Canal Co. (Mr. LanNarth-west Rys. Ca. (Mr. Kerr). tnt.,
dry). tnt., 287 ; 2nd R.P, 306 ; 3rd R.',
287 ; 2ad R.', 306 ; Zrd R.', 385 ; .,
368 ; R.A., 562 (c. 47).
562 (c. 54).
(105) An Act to amend the Bills of Exchange
(96) An Act ta incarparate the Man. & Keewatin Ry. Ca. (Mr. WatsaIn). tnt., 350 ; 2nd
R.', 372 ; Srd R.', 407 ; R.A., 563 (c;* 80).
(98) An Act ta incarparate the MontreaI Subway Ca. (Mr. Watson). tnt., 453 ; M. for'
2nd R., 480 ; objection (Mr. Forget) that
B. lis not printed in French ; remn., Mr.
Watson, Sir M. Bowell, Mfr. Young, Mr.
Speaker; M. allowed ta stand, 480 ; 2nd
R.', 486 ;3rd R., 498 ; .A., 563 (c. 96).
(99) An Act respecting the Mantreal & Soui.hern Cauntiji Ry. Ca. (Mr. McMullen).
tnt.. 350 ,2nd R., 371 ; M. ta ref. B. ta
Com. on R., T. & H., 371 ;. rem., Mr. Farget, Mr. McMullen and Mr. Landry, 371 ;
2nd R., 372 ; 3rd R.', 407 ; R. A., 562 (c. 61).
(100) An Act ta Incorparate the Taranto &
Niagara Power C. (!Mr. Watson). tnt., 351 ;
2nd R.'. 372 ; rep. tram. Coin, an R. T. &
H. (Sir A. Pelletier) 407 ; M. (Mr. ICirchbotter) ta suspend rules, 407U rem., Mr.
Beique, Mr. Kirchhoffer and Mr. Young,
M. agreed ta, 407 , M. (Mr. lirchhaffer)

Act 1890 (Mfr. Scott). tnt., 309 ; 2nd R.',
332 ;In Coin., rein., 1fr. Scott, Mr. MacMr.
donald (P.E.t.), Mr. Drummond,
Wood (Hamiltan) and Mr. Dever, 352 ; Mr,
Drummond, Mr. Wood (Hamilton), and Mr.
Dever, 353 -, rep. train Coin. (Mfr. Lougheed)
353 ; 3rd R.', 368 ; R.A., 562 (c. 48).
(106) An Act ta arnend the Post Oilice Act
(Mr. Scott). tnt., 38à5- 2nd R. postpaned,
400 ; 2nd R.Lm., 412 ; rem., Mfr. Scott, Sir
M. Bowell, 412 ; Mfr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell,
Mr. Wood (Hamilton), 413 ; Sir M. Bowell,
Mfr. Clemow, Mfr. Macdonald (P.E.L.), 414 ;
1fr. Landerkin, Mfr. Sullivan, Mr. Scott,
415; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.)
416 ;M. agreed ta, 416 ; In coin., rein., Mr.
Scott, 436 on lSth el, Mr. Macdonald (P.
E.I.), 436 ;Mr. Scott, Mfr. Cleinaw, Mr.
Power, Mr. Wood (Hamilton), 437 ; Sir M.
Bowell, 438-439 ; Mr. Scott, 439 ; Mfr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) and Mr. Church, 440 ; rep.
tram. Coin. (Mr. Bills) and 3rd R., 441
R.A., 562 (c. 72).

INDEX
BILLS-Seriat(iim--Con.
BILLS-Serii ffin -Con.
(119) An Act further ta ameud the Yukon
(112) An Act ta amend the Immigration Act
Territory Act and the Acts iu amt.
(Mr. Scott). lut., 385* 2nd R. m., and
thereof (Mr. Scott). lut., 453 ;2nd R.,
rem., Mr. Scott, Mfr. Laugheed, Mr. Elis,
481 ; lu Com., rem., Mr. Macdonald (B.C.)
400 ; Sir M. Baweli, Mfr. Lougheed, Mfr.
and Mr. Watson, 481 ; Mr. Macdonald
Church, 401 ; M. agreed ta, 401 Inl Com.
(B.C.>, Sir M. Boweil and Mr. Dandurand,
rem., on lst cl., 5fr. Scott, 5fr. Sullivan,
482 ; ou 2nd ci., Sir M. Boweli, 482 ; on
Mr. Dever, Sir M. Bawell, Mr. Logheed,
3rd cl., Sir M. Boweli and M. Scott, 482;
416 ;Mr. Scott, Mr. Laugheed, 5fr. Church,
Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), Sir M. Boweii and
Mr. Sullivan, 417 ; 5fr. Elis, Mr. Church,
Mr. Scott, 483 ;rep- from Com. (Mr. Baker)
418 ;Sir M. Baweli, Mfr. Sullivan, 5fr.
and 3rd R., 483 ; R. A., 562 (c. 55).
Power, 419 ; Mr. Lougheed, Sir M. Baweii
and Mr. Lauderkin, 420 ; 5fr. Ellis, Mr.
(120) An Act to amend the Dominion Lands
Church, Mr. Power and Mr. Dever, 421,
Act (Mr. Scott). lut., 379 ; 2nd R. m. and
Mfr. Scott, Mr. Dever, Mfr. Power, Mr.
postponed (see Fr. ed's of B's. Printing and
and Mr. Church,
Macdonald (P.E.I.)
Dist'bu. of) 388 ; 2nd R. m., 403 ;rem., Mr.
o n 2nd cl., Mr. Power, 422 ; Sir
422
Scott Sir M. Boweii and Mr. Lougheed, 403;
M. agreed ta, 404 ; lu Com., rem. on lst
M. Baweil, 5fr. Lougheed, Mr. Scatt,
reparted. (5fr. Young)
cl., Mr. Scatt, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Young,
423 ;pragress
423. Order Called, 441 ; rem., Mr. Scatt,
Mr. Lougheed and Mr. Power, 424 ; Mr.
Young, Mr. Lougheed, Sir M. Boweil and
Mr. Laugheed, 441 ; rder pastponed, 442;
agalu iu Cam., 447 ;rem., Mr. Sat, Mr.
Mr. Power, 425 ;Sir M. Boweii and Mfr.
Power, 426 ; progress reparted (Mfr. LaLaugheed, Mfr. Sullivan, 447 '; 5fr. Power,
vitt), 426 ; agaiu lu Com., 449 ; rem. ou
5fr. Church; 448 ; Mr. Scott, Mr. Sulliva n,
449 ; rep. tram Com. (Mr. Young) and
4th cl., Mr. Scott, Mr. Young, Mr. DeBou3rd R., 449 ; R.A., 563 (c. 99).
cherville and Mr. Clemow, 449 ; rep. from
Com. (Mr. Lovitt) aud 3rd R., 449.
(113) Au Act iurther ta ameud the Yukan Ry.
Act and the Acta iu amt. thereat (Mfr.
(121) An Act tuirther to amend the Acts reScott). Iut., 366 ; Zud R., 379 ; lu Com.,
spectiug the N.-W. T's. (Mfr. Scatt). Iut.,
385, rep. fram, Cam. (Mr. Vidai) and 3rd
351 ; 2ud R. m., rem., Mr. t3cott and Sir
R., 386 ;, R.A., 563 (c. 89).
M. Baweli, 372 ; Mr. DeBauCherville, 373;
.,
M. agreed ta, 373 ; 3rI R.*, 379 ;
(114) Au Act ta ameud the Exchequer Caurt
562 (c. 61).
Act (Mr. tScott). lut., 385 ; 2nd R. m.,
401 ; rem., Mr. Scott and Mr. Macdanald
(123) Au Act ta Incarparate the Canada East(B.C.),' 401 ; Mr. Fergusan ;, M. agreed ta,
ern Ry. Ca. (Mfr. Thampson). lut., 385;
402 ; 3rd R. ' 423 ; R.A., 562 (c. 64).
2nd R.', 399 ; 3rd R.*, 409 ; R.A., 563 (c.
82).
(115) Au Act further to amend the Canada
Evidence Act, 1893 (Mr. Scatt). lut., 312;
(124) Au Act to ameud the Civil Service ReCam., 364 ; rep, fram Cam.
2ud R., 332 luIn
tIremeut Act, 1898 (Mr. Scott). lut., 351
(Mr. Suliîvan), 354 ; lu Cam., rem., Mr.
2nd R. m.,.rem., Mr. Scott, Sir M. Baweil,
Scatt and Mr. Laudry, 371 ; rep. tram Com.
Mfr. Landry aud Mr. Lougheed, 373 ; M.
(Mr. Eilis), 371 ; 3rd R.', 379 ; R.A., 562
agreed ta, 373 ; 3rd R., 379 ;R.A., 562
(c. 49).
(c. 52).
(133) An Act ta amend the Racky Mits. Park(116) An Act ta ameud the pravisian with
lut., 351;
regard to Tolls ai Chapter 1 of the Statutes
Act, 1897 (Mr. Templeman).
af 1881, respectiug the Can. Pac. Ry.
2nd R. an., 373 ; rem., Mr. Tempiemau
(Mr. Scatt). lut., 379 ; 2nd R. in. aud
and Mfr. Laugheed, 374 ; lu Cam., rem.,
pastpaued (see Fr. ed's. of B's. Prlntlng
Mr. Templeman, Mr. Macdonald (B.C.)
aud Mfr. Fergusan, 380 ; rep. fram Coni.
and Dist'bu. af) 386; 2nd R. m.; rem., Mr.
M.
(Mr. Fulfard) and 3rd R., 380 ; R.A., 562
Scott, 402 ; M. agreed ta, 402 ý% far
Cam. stage, 402 ;rem., Mr. Ciemow, 402;
(c. 53).
Inl Cam.. rem. an 3rd
pastponed, 403
(134) An Act respecting the rep'u. of the
cl., Sir M. Bawell and Mr. Yaung, 423;
'Yukon Tly. lu the H. af. C. (Mr. Scott).
rep, tram Cam. (5fr. Yaung) and 3rd R.,
lut., 469 ; M. far 2nd R., 483 ; rem., Mfr.
423 ; R.A., 562 (c. 65).
Scott, Mr. Macdanald (B.C.) and Mr. Templeman, 483 ;Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) and Sir
(117) An Act further ta ameud the UnorganM. Baweii M. agreed ta. 484 ; lu Com.,
lzed Ter's. Game Preservatian Act (Mr.
an 9th ci., rem., Sir M. Baweii, 484 ; an
Scatt). lut., 351 ; 2nd R., 372 ; Srd R., 379
22nd cl., Sir M. Baweii, 484 ; Mr. Bdlque,
R.A., 562 (c. 50).

INDEX
BILLS-erziatini-Con.
BILLS-Scriatint-Con.
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Power and Mr. Scott,
and Mr. Young, 536 ; Sir M. Baweii, Mr.
485 on 28th el., Mr. Power and Mr. Scott,
Watson, Mr. Templeman, The Speaker,
485 ;on 36th el., Sir M. Bowell, 486 ; on
M. rejected on div., 537 ; lot R., 537 ; ab47th and 55th cl's., Mr. Landry and Mr.
jection (Mr. Landry) 537.
Scott, 486 ; progressa reported (Mr. Young)
(141) An Act te aimend the Âct respecting the
486 ; el. 22 and 23 amd ; B. rep. from Com.
Packing and Sale of certain Staple Coin(Mr. .Young) and 3rd R., 502 ; R.Â., 66
modities (Mr. Scott). Int., 410 ; .2nd and
(c. 107).
3rd R., 433 ; R. A. 562 (c. 69).
(135) An Act to amend the Petition of Right
(142) An Act further ta arnend the Generai
Act (Mr. Templeman). lnt., 379 ; withInspection Act (Mr. Scott). Int., 406 ; M.
drawn, 389.
ta fix 2nd R., rein., Mr. Scott and Sir M.
(136) An Act to amend the Fruit Marks Âct,
BowelI; M. agreed ta, 406; 2nd R.', 407; in
1901 (Mr. Scott). Int., 398 ; rem., Mr. FerCoin., on amt., rein., Mr. Templeman, Mr.
guson, 399 , M. for 2nd R., 411; rem., Mr.
Young and Mr. Power, 442;, progres re».
Scott and Sir M. BowelI, 411; M. agreed
(Mr. Young) 442 ; In Coin., rein., on 2ad cl.,
to, 412 ; in Com., rem., on Ist cl., Mr.
Mr. «Young, Mr. Lougheed and Sir M.
Scott and Mr. Sullivan, 436 ; 2nd cl. amd.;
Bawell, 450 ; Mr. Power, Mr. Scott, Sir M.
on 4th cl., Mr. Scott and Mr. Power, 436;
Boweli, Mr. Lougheed and Mr. Young, 451 ;
rep. from Coin. (Mr. Perley) and 3rd R.,
Mr. Watson, Mr."Lougheed, Mr. Temple436 ; M. (Mr. Scott) ta concur in Commans
mnan, Mr. Young and Mr. Power, 452 ; rep.
amts., 509 ; R. A., 563 (c. 100).
fram Coin. (Mr. BOique) 453 ; M. for 3rd R.,
462 ; rem., Mr. Scott, Mr. DeBoucherville,
(137) An Act ta amend chapter 41 of the St-aMr. Young and Mr. BOique, 462 ; 3rd R.,
tutes of 1901, respecting the Administration
463 ».R. Â., 563 (c. 108).
of Justice In the Yukon Territory (Mr.
(147) An Act ta arnend the Mounted Police Act,
Scott). Int., 379 ; 2nd R. in., 404 ; rein.,
1894 (Mr. Scott). Int., 406 ; M. ta fix 2nd
Mr. Scott, Mr. Lougheed and Sir M. Baweil,
R., rem., Mr. Macdonald (P.B.I.) ; M.
404 ; Mr. Scatt, 405 ; M. agreed ta, 405
agreed ta, 406-; 2nd R.', 407 ; in Com..
Srd R.0, 423 ; R. A., 562 (c. 66).
rem., Mr. Scott. 442 ; rep. from Cain. (Mr.
(138) An Act to amend the Act respecting the
Macdonald, P.E.I.) and Brd R., 442 ; R. A.,
Judges of Provincial Courts (Mr. Scott).
562 (c. 73).
Int., 379 ; 2nd R. mi., 405 ; rein., Mr. Scott,
(149) An Act ta amend the Land Titlee Act,
Sir M. Bowell and Mr. Macdonald (B.C);
189e# (Mr. Scott). Int., 410 ; 2nd and Srd
M. agreed to, 405 ; In, Coin., remn., Mr. Scott
R., 433 ; R. A., 562 (c. 70).
and Sir M. Bawell, 426 ; on 2nd el., Mr.
(151) An Act respecting the Remission of PenLougheed and Mr. Power, 426 ; Mr. Scatt,
alties (Mr. Templeman). Iut., 469 ; M. for
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Lougheed, 427 ; rep.
2nd R., 486 ; remn., Mr. Templeman, 486;
fram Coin. (Mr. Watson) and 3rd R., 427
objection (Mr. Landry) that B. hs not
R. A., 662 (c. 67).
Printed In French ; rein., Mr. Templernan,
(140) An Act ta Incarparate the Bishop of the
Mr. Macdanald (B.C.) and Mr. DeBoucherOrthodox Russo-Greek Cathalc Church for
ville, 487 ; Mr. DeBoucherville, Mr. Church
N. Âmerica and the Aleutian Islands (Mr.
an&~ Mr. Béique, 48 Sir M. Boweii and
Watson) ; M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) tu
Mfr. Templeman, 489; Mr. Dandurand, Mr.
adapt 24th rep. of Coin. an S. 0. & P. B.,
DeBoucherville and Mr. Macdonald (B.C.),
509 ; abjection (Mr. Bernier) 509 ; rein.,
490 ; Mr. Bernier, M. agreed to, 491 ; rein.,
Mr. Bernier, 509 ; Mr. Young and Mr. BerMr. DeBoucherville, Mfr. Templeman nnd
nier, 510 ; Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), Mr.
The Speaker, 491 ; M. ta ref. B. ta Cern. o!
Young, Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.), M. BOlthe Whale, 502 ; rein., 3fr. Ellis, 602 ; Mr.
que, Mr. DeBoucherville and Mr. DanduScott and Mr. Clemow, 503 ; 3fr. Clemaw,
rand, 511 ; Mr. Yaung, The Speaker, Mr.
Mr. Tempieman and Sir M. Boweil, 604 ;
Watson, Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) and Mr.
Mr. Landry, Mr. Bélque and Mr. Scott,
Sullivan, 512 ; M. allawed ta stand, 512;
506
3r.
M DeBoucherville, M. agreed ta,
Speaker's ruling, 527-531 ;ýrein., Mr. 'Wat507 ;in Coin., rem., on lit el., Mr. Power,
son, 531-532 ; M. (Mr. Watson) that deciMr. Tezupieman, Mfr. DeBaucherville, 3fr.
slen be net concurred lu, rein., Sir M.
Landry, Mr. Bélque and Mr. Scott, 607 ;
Bowell, 532 ; Mr. Scott, Mr. Macdanald
M. (3f r. DeBoucherville). te amd. lot el.,
(B.C.) and Mr. Young, 533 ; Sir M. Baweil,
rein., Mr. Tempieman, 3fr. DeBouchervilie,
Mr. Young, Mr. Landry, Mr. Macdonald
Sir M. Bowell and Mr. Béique, 508 ; Mr.
(P.E.I.) and Mr. Bernier, 535 ; The Speaker
Dandurand, Mr. Power, Mr. BOlque, Mr.

as

INDEX
BILLS-Serwatini --Con.
progress reported (Mr.
DeBoucherville,
Dandurand) 509; again in Coin., rem., Mr.
Bdique, 512 ; aint. rejected on div., 513;
M. (Mr. Landry) to amd. Ist cl., 513 ; remn.,
Mr. Wood (Westinoreland), Mr. Temple-man, Mr. Scott and Mr. Landry, 513 ; Mr.
Macdonald (B.C.), Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Béique and Mr. Landry, 514 ;aint. reJected, 514 ; M. (Mr. Béique)) ta amd. last
cl., 514 ; remn.. Mr. Power, -Mr. Scott and
Sir M. Bowell, aint. agreed ta. 515 ;on
2nd cl., Mr. DeBoucherville, Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) and Mr. Scott, 515 ; Mr. CIemow, Mr. Templeinan, 516 ; on 3rd cl., M.
(Mr. Béique) ta aind. agreed ta, 516;
rep. fron Cain. (Mr. Dandurand) 516 ; M.
(Mr. Templeinan) ta suspend 4lst rule, objection, Mr. DeBaucherville, 516 ;N. of M.
(Mr. Landry) ta aind B. at 3rd R., 517 ;
M. for 3rd R., 540 ; rein., Mr. Defloucherville, 540-541 ; Mr. Béique, Mr. Dandurand
and, Mr. DeBoucherville ; M. for 3 in. h.

(Mr. DeBaucherville) rejected, c. 10, n. c.
23, 541 ; M. (Mr. Landry) ta, amd. rejected,
542 ;3rd R., on div., 542 ; R. A., 563 (c.
112).
(155) An Act ta ainend the Ry. Act (Mr.
Scott). Int., 469 ; M. for 2nd R., 491;
rein., Mr. Casgrain (de Lanaudière), Mr.
Dandurand, Mr. Landry, Mr. Scott, Mr.
DeBoucherville and Sir M. Bowell, 492;
Mr. Scott, 493 ; M. agreed ta and 3rd R.,
493 ; R.A., 563 (c. 90).
(156) An Act ta ainend the Chinese IminigraInt.,
tion Act, 1900 (Mr. Teinpleinan).
410 ; rein., Sir M. Boweil and Mr. Templeman, 410 ; 2nd R. mn., 433 ; rein., Mr., DeBoucherville, Mr. Teinpleman, Sir M.
Bawell, Mr. Lougheed and Mr. Macdonald
(B.C.), 434 ;2nd and Srd R., 435 ; R. A.,
562 (c. 71).
(152) An Act further ta aind. the prav's. of
c. 183 of the Revised Statutes, with respect
ta the Halifax IndustrIal Schaal and St.
Patrick's Haine at Halifax (Mr. Scott).
Int., 509 ;2nd and 3rd R., 523 ; R.A., 563
(c. 106).
(157) An Act ta autharize by way of loan of
certain suins of inoney for the public
Int., 410 ; 2nd R.
service (Mr. Scott).
in., 435 ; rein., Sir M. Bowell and Mr.
Scatt, 435 ; Sir M. Boweil, Mr. Scott, Mr.
Landry and Mr. DeBoucherville, 436 ; M.
agreed to, 436 ; In Coin., rein., Mr. Scott
and Sir M. Bowell, 446 ; rep. froin Coin.
(Mr. Sullivan) and Srd R., 447 ; R.A., 562
(c. 74).
(162) An Act ta ainend the Man. Grain Act,
1900 (Mr. Scott). Int., 469 ; M. for 2nd R.,

-CUn.
493 ;rein., Mr. Scott and Mr. Young, 493496
Sir M. Bowell, 496-497 ;2nd R.,
497 ; in Coin., remn., on 2nd cl., Mr.
'Young, Mr. Druiniond, Mr. Power and
Mr. Scott, 517 ; Mr. Druininnd, Mr. Dandurand and Mr. Watson, 518 ; Mr. McMullen, Mr. Scott and Mr. Drumminnd, cl.
aniended and adapted, 520 ; on 3rd cl.,
rein., Mr. Scott, Mr. Young and Mr. Watson, 520 ; on 5th cl., Mr. Scott, 520 ;Mr.
McMullen. Mr. Scott_. Mr. Watson and Sir
M. Bowell, cl. aniended and adopted, 521;
on 7th cl., Mr. Young, 522 ; Mr. Scott,
Mr. Drumminnd and Mr. Young, 522 ; on
last cl., remn., Mr. Young, rep. froin Coin.,
Mr. Mackay (Aima) and 3rd R., 523 ; .,
563 (c. 109).
(164) An ACt ta ainend the Act of 1899 respecting the City of Ottawa (Mr. Scott).
R. m., 497 rein., Mr.
Int.. 469 ,2nd

BILLS -Seruia i

Clemaw, 497 ; Mr. DeBoucherville, 498
2nd and Srd R., 498 ; R.A., 663 (c. 91).
(165) An Act respecting the Caasting Trade
of Canada (Mr. Scott). Int., and M. for
lat R., 523 ; rein., Mr. Scott, 523 ;Mr.
Dandurand and Sir M. Bowell. 524; Mr.
Scott and Sir M. Bowell, 526 ;, Sir M.
Bawell, Mr. Scott and Mr. Drummand,
527 ; M. far 2nd R., remn., Mr. Landry, Mr.
Scott and Sir M. Boweil, 542 ; Sir M.
Bowell and Mr. Scott ; M. agreed ta, 543
Srd R.*, 544 ; R. A., 563 (c. 110).
(168) An Act for granting ta His Mai esty certain suxns of maney for the publie service for the financial years ending respectively 3Oth June, 1902, and 30th June, 1903.
Int. and M. for 2nd R., 547 ; rein., Mr.
Scott, 547-549 ; Mr. Landry and Mr. Scott,
549, 550 ; Mr. Bernier, 550 ; Mr. Scott, Mr.
Landry and Mr. Sullivan, 551 ; Sir M.
BoweIl, 551-559 ; Mr. Cleinow, 559-561 ; M.
agreed ta, and 3rd R., 561 ;R.A., 563 (c.
115).
(169) An Act ta ainend the Customns Tariff Act,
1897 (Mr..-Scott) ; lst R. and M. for 2nd
R., 544 ; rein., Mr. Scott, Sir Mr. Bowell
and Mr. Gibson, 544-545 ; M. agreed ta, and
3rd R., 545 ; R.A., 563 (c. 111).
BLACK ROD, Usher of the: Speaker annaunces appointinent, of Malyneaux St. John,

1.
BOUNTY on Pig Iran (see Pig Iran, Baunty on)
157.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RY., Loaning of Locoinotives ta the (see Loaning of Locomotives ta,
the C.P.R.) 81.
CAPT. ADAMSON. The Case of (see Adainson,
The Case af Capt.).

INDEX
CEREMONIES at the Opening and Prorogation
of Parliament (see. Opening and Prorogation
of Pariament).

DEBATES, The; inq. (Mr. Ellis) ;rem. (Mr.
Dandurand) 76 ;M. (Mr. Poirier) to adopt 2nd
rep. of Com., and rem., 445.

CHARLOTTETOWN an*d Murray Harbour Ry. DEBATES, Translation of the : M. (Mr. Poirier)
(see P.E.I. Ry., The) 166, 199.
to adopt rep. of Deb. Com., 187 , rem., Mr.
Poirier, Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell and Mr.
COMMITTEES, The Standing (see Standing
Dandurand, 187 ; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Watson
Committees of the Senate).
and Mr. McCallum, 188 ; Mr. Bernier, Mr. PoiCOLD Storage for Can. Produets ;M. (Mr. Ferrier, Mr. Landry and Mr. Scott, 189 ; Mr. Poiguson) 281 ;rem., Mr. Ferguson, 281-286 ; Mr.
rier, 189-191 ; Sjr M. Bowell and Mr. TempleSullivan and Mr. Scott, 286 ; M. agreed to, 287;
man, 191 :Mr. EIlis, Mr. Poirier and Mr. Glbinq. (Mr. Ferguson) 384 ; repiy (Mr. Scott)
son, 192 ;Mr. Landry, Mr. Gibson and Sir M.
385.
Bowell, 193 ; Mr. Landerkin, 194 ;M. amended
and adopied, 194.
CONTINGENT Accounts of the Sen., The ; M.
(Mr. Watson) to adopt the 2nd rep. of Com., DECHENE, The laie Senator ; rem., Mr. Scott,
209 ;rem., Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) and Mr. Wat366 ; Sir M. Boweli and Sir A. Pelletier, 367.
son, 210 ;Mr. Poirier, Mr. Ferguson and Sir A.
DELAYED Reiurns : appoiniment of honorary
Pelletier, 211 ;M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to
colonels, 545 , codification of the iaws, 543
amd. 4th cl., 212 ; rem., Mr. Sullivan, 212,
school lands ln Man., 135.
amt. declared losi. 212 ; rem., Sir M. Bowell,
The Speaker, Mr. Poirier and Mr. Watson, 212; DISCUSSION of Notices of Motion :on question
rep. amd. and adopted, 213 ; M. (Mr. Watson)
of order (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.), rem., Mr. Lanto adopt 3rd rep. of Com., 314 ; M. to amd.
dry, Mr. Macdonald <B.C.), The Speaker and
rep. (Mr. McCailum) 316 ; rem., Mr. McCalMr. Church, 409.
lum, 315 ; Mr. Sullivan, 316 ; Mr. Prlmrose,
DIVISIONSMr. Templeman, 317 ; Mr. Prlmrose, Mr.
ADAMBON, The Case af Capt.: on M. (Mr.
Gowan and Mr. Ferguson, 318 ; Mr. Perley,
Watson) to adopt 3rd rep. of Com. on I. E.
Mr. Cox and Mr. Bernier, 319 ; Mr. Bélque and
& C. A., and M. (Mr. McCallum) ta amd. rep.,
Mr. Klrcbhoffer, 320-321 ;Mr. Church, 321;
amt. rejected, c. 18, n. c. 32, 328.
Mr. Wood (Westmoreland) 322-323 , Mr. GibBROWN Divorce B.: on M. (Mr. Landerkln) for
son, 323 ; Mr. MeMullen, 324-325 ; Mr. Watson,
325-326 ; Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) 326 ; Mr. Prim3rd R., M. agreed to c. 26, n. c. 14, 220.
rose, Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Clemow, 327 ; Mr.
GASPE & Western Ry Co. B.: on M. (Mr. SulEllis, Mr. McCallum and Mr. Cox, 328 ; ami.
livan) to suspend rulea, M. agreed to, c. 28,
rejected, c. 18, n. c. 32 ; rep. adopted, 329 ; M.
n. c. 27, 250.
(Mr. Watson) to adopt 4th rep. of Com. on
OTTAWA, Narthern & Western Ry Co. B.: on
I. E. & C. A., 469 ; rem., Sir M. Bowell, 469;
3rd R., M. (Mr. Lougheed) to amd, 6th el.
on par. 6, rem., Sir M. Bowell and Mr. Watson,
agreed to, c. 19, n. c. 11, 241.
470 ; on par. 7, Sir M. Boweli and Mr. WatREMISSION OF PENALTIES B.: on M. iMr.
son, 470 ; Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), The Speaker,
Templenian) for 3rd R., M. (Mr. DeBouMr. Watson and Sir M. Bowell, 471 ;Mr. Watcherville) for 3 m. h., rejected, c. 10, n. c. 23,
son, 472-473 ; Mr. Clemow, 473-474 ;Mr. Cas542.
grain (de Lanaudière), Sir M. Boweil and Mr.
STRIKING Com., Minutes of the : on M. (Mr.
Watson, 474 ,Sir M. *Bowell, 475 ; Mr. SulliLandry) to lay minutes on table, M. agreed
van, Mr. Owens, Mr. Poirier and Mr. Dever,
to, c. 24, n. c. 20, 111.
476 ; on par 10, Sir M. Boweli, Mr. Watson and
Mr. Gibson, 477 ; Mr. Scott and Sir M. Bowell,
DREDGING of Mahone Bay (see Mahone Bay,
478 ; on par. 12, Sir M. Bowell and Mr. CleDredglng of) 197.
mow, 478 ; Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Watson, 479
M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to strike out par. EARNINGS of Steamers ' Minto ' and «Stanley'
(see Winter Communication wlth P.E.I.) 186.
agreed to, 480 ; rep. adopted, 480.
CORONÂTION Oath, The: N. of M. (Mr. Landry); rem., Mr. Drummond, Mr. Landry and
Mr. Scott, 350 ; lnq. (Mr. Landry); reply (Mr.
Scott) 374 ; lnq. (Mr. Landry); reply (Mr. Scott)
381 ; lnq. (Mr. Landry); reply (Mr. Scott) 398
lnq. (Mr. Landry); reply (Mr. Scott) 432.
CORRECTION, A; Mr. Landry and Mr. Dandurand caîl attention to errors on order paper,
398.

ELEVATOR at St. John, The : lnq. (Mr. Perley);
repiy (Mr. Scott) 80.
EMIGRATION tram U.S.
Bernier) 186.

ta Can.:

M.

(Mr.

FAST Line of Transatlanic vessels: lnq. (Mr.
Landry) 410 ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 411 ;lnq., (Mr.
Landry) rep., (Mr. SCoti) ; rem., Mr. Landry
and Mr. Scott, 443.

596

INDEX

GOVERNMENT Measures lu the Senate, Introduction of lnq. (Sir M. Bowell) 75 ; rep. (Mr.
Scott) 76 ;remn., Sir M. BowelI, 75-76 ; Mr.
Scott, Mr. Wood (Hamilton) and Mr. O'Donohoe, 76.

INQUIRIES-Con.
French Senator ln the Cabinet, 111, 547.
Geological Museum, The, 181.
Governuient Mesures ln the Senate, Introduction of, 75.
Historie Sites of Canada, 250.
I.C.R., 'Sidlng at Sydney, 77.
Judges in N.-W. T'a., Appointment of, 66.
Mahone 'Bay, Dredging of, 199.
Mail Service in B.C., 194, 250.
Manitoba School Question, 431.
Militia, The, 174, 200.
Minerais of N.S., The, 194.
Pig Iron, Bouuty en, 157.
P.E.I. Ry., The, 366.
P.E.I. Subsidy, The, 119.
Pictou, N.S., 'Station House, 184.
Price of wheat ln the North-weat, 167.
Primitive Methodist Land Grant ln N.W.T's.,
127, 183, 213, 221.
Provincial Autonomy iu N.W.T's., 101.
Signiug of Senators' Wrlts, 26.
Standing Committees, The, 25.
SS. Line between Charlottetown and Liverpool, 384.
Strike at Valleyfield, 112, 115, 143, 411.
Subsidies to N.W.T's., 111.
Training of Volunteer Forces ln Camp, 431.
Treadkold Concession, The, 230.
Vernon River, P.B.I., The Postmaster at, 156,
173.
Visit of the Duke and Duchess of York, 429.

GROUNDING of the s., 'Lake Superior'1, The:
rem., Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Scott and Sir M.
Bowell, 135 ;Mr. Ellis, 136.

JUDGES in N.-West Territorlea, Appointment of:
reply (Mr. Scott) ; rem.,
inq. (Mr. Perley)
MIr. Lougheed, 66 Mr. Scott, 67.

FISHERIES Award, The : iuq. (Mr. Ferguson)
rep. (Mr. Scott) ;rem., Sir M. Bowell, 199.
FISHING Lake Post Office : Inq. (Mr. Perley)
rep. (Mr. Scott) 127.
FRENCH Editions of Bills, Printlng and Distribution of : on M. (Mr. Scott) for 2ud R.;
C.P.R. Tolîs Act Amt. B., Mr. Landry objecta
that B. la îlot prluted ln French ; rem., Mr.
Landry, Mr. Scott, The Speaker and Mr. Ferguson, 386 ; The Speaker, Mr. LandrY, Mr.
Ellis. Mr. Ferguson. Mr. Scott and Mr. DeBoucherville, 387 ; Mr. Landry and Mr. Scott,
388.
FRENCH Min, lu the Senate : lnq. (Mr. Landry ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 111 ; nq. (Mr. Laudry)
rep. (Mi. Scott) 547,
GEMMILL on Divorce : M. (Mr. Gowan) to adopt
l3th rep. of Com. ou Divorce, 427.
GEOLOGICAL Museum, The : iuq. (Mr. Poirier)
181 ; remn., Mr. Poirier, 181-183 ;Mr. Scott, 183.
GLACE Bay, The Harbour of: M. (Mr. McDonald. C.B.) 143 ; rem., Mr. Mcflonald (C.B.)
Mr. MCKeen, 145-146 ; Mir. Mc143-145
Donald (C.B.) 146-147 ; Mr. McKeeu, 147.

HARBOUR of Glace Bay, The (see Glace Bay, LEASING of I. C. R. Sidlng at .Sydney (see 1.
The Harbour of) 143.
C. R. Sldlng at Sydney, Leasing of) 77.
HISTORIC Sites o! Canada : lnq. (Mr. Poirier)
LOANING of Locomotives to the C. P. R.: ex250 ; rem., Mr. Poirier, 250-254 ;Mr. Church,
planation (Sir M. Eowell) 81.
25>4-256 ; Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) and Mr. Scott,
256.
MAHONE Bay, Dredglng of : lnq. (Mr. Church)
197 ; rem., Mr. Church, 198 ; rep., Mr. Scott,
HOUR of Opeuing, The : remn., Sir M. Bowell
198.
and Mr. Scott, 410.
INTERCOLONIAL RY. Sidlng at Sydney, Leas- MAIL Service lu B. C.: lnq. (Mr. Macdonald, B.
C.); rep. (Mr. Scott) 194, 250.
ing of!: lnq. (Mr. Macdonald, C.B.) ; rep. (Mr.
Scott) 77.
MANITOBA Lands, Transfer of: M. (Mr. Bernier) for returu, 66.
INQUIRIES:
MANITOBA, School Question : lnq. (Mr. LauArtillery Service Equlpinent, 430.
dry) ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 431.
Charlottetown and Murray Harbour Ry., 166,
174, 199.
MILITIA, Auuùal Training of the Can.: Inq.
Coronation Oath, 374, 381, 398, 432.
(Mr. Laudry) ; reply (Mr. Scott) 200.
Debates, The Senate, 76.
MILITIA Regulations and Orders : luq. (Mr.
Earnlngs, of as. 'Minto' and 'Stanley', 186,
Landry) ;reply (Mr. Scott) 174.
258.
Elevator at St. John, The, 80.
MINERÂLS o! N. S., The : lnq. (Mr. Church)
Fast Line o! Transatiantic vessels, 410, 443.
194 ; remn., Mr. Church, 194-196 ; Mr. Scott, Sir
Fiahlng Lake F.O., 127.
M. Bowell, 196 ; Mr. McDonald (C.B.) and Mr.
Fisherles Award, The, 199.
Church, 1917.

INDEX
MINUTES ai the Striking Com. (see Striking
Coin, Minutes ai the) 103.

PRINTING of Parliament, The : M. (Mr. Gibson) to adopt fourth report of com., and
rem., 445.

MORNING Sittings : M. (Mr. Scott) ta hald twa
sittings each day, 433.
PRIVATE PBis, Petitions for :remn., Mr. MeKay (Truro) 118.
NEW Senators (see Senators, New) 1.
NORTH-WEST
Territaries,
Provincial
Au- PRIVILEGE, A Question of : Mr. Landry calls
attention to omission of notice af M.. irorn
tonomy for: Inq. (Mr. Perley) 101 ; repiy (Mr.
orders, 200 ; rem., The Speaker and Mr. LauScatt) 101 ; rem., Mr. Lougheed, 101 ; Mr.
dry, 201 ; The Speaker, Mr. Wood (Hamilton)
Scott, Mr. Periey, 102.
Mr. Landry, Mr. Scott and Mr. Miller, 202;
NORTH-WEST Territaries, Subsidies ta the
Mr. DeBoucherville, The Speaker and. Mr. Milinq. (Mr. Perley) ; rep. (Mr. Scott) ;rem.,
ler, 203 ; Mr. Landry, 204-205 ; Mr. Wood
Mr. Periey, 111.
(Hamilton) 205 ;Mr. Poirier and Mr. Ellis,
NOTICES ai Motion (ses Rules of the Senate).
206 ; Mr. Lougbeed and Sir M. Boweil. 207:
Mr. Dandurand, Mr. McCallum and Sir M.
OPENING and Prorogation af Parliament : N.
Powell, 209,; Notice of M. withdrawn, 209 ;
ai M., and remn. (Sir M. Bowell) 406 ;m. <S ir
Mr. Landry calls attention ta omission ai noM. Bawell) ta appt. com., 431.
tice of motion from orders, 222 ;remn., Mr.
PETITIONS for Private Bis (see Private Bis,
Landry, 222 ; Mr. Scott, 223 ; Mr. Watson, Mr.
Petitions for) 118.
Landry, Mr. McMullen, Mr. Lougheed, 224;
Mr. Macdonald ýB.C.) andi Mr. Béique, 225
PETITIONS for Private Bis, Presentatian
Mr. Béique, Sir M. Boweli, Mr. Miller and
af : The Speaker Calsa attention ta necessity
Mr. DeBaucherville, 226 ; The Speaker, Mr.
of extending turne, 80 ; M. (Mr. Scott) to exDeBoucllerville and Mr. Church, 227 ; Mr. Mactend turne for 21 days. agreed ta, 80.
donald (P.E.I.), Mr. Bernier and Mr. Scott,
PICTOU, N.S., Station Hause at - Inq. <Mr.
228 ; Mr. Landry and Mr. Laugheed, 229 ;Mr.
Primrose) ;remn., Mr. Primrose, 184 ;Mr. FerDeBoucherville, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Speaker
guson andi Mr. Robertson, 185.
and Mr. McKay (Trura) 230 ; Mr. Casgrain
(Windsor) cals attention to despatch in ToPIG Iran, Pounty on : inq. (Mr. Wark) ; rep.
ronto ' World,' 411 ; notice of inq. (Mr. Landry
(Mr. Scott) 157.
called and withdrawn, 432..
POSTMASTER at Vernon River, The: inq. (Mr.
Ferguson) 156 ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 157, ;Inq. (Mr. PROPOSED Amendment ta the Rules (see Aint.
ta the Rules, A proposed) 136.
Ferguson ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 173 ; remn., Sir M.
Powell, Mr. Scott, Mr. Ferguson, 174 ; M. (Mr. PROROGATION, The : notification read by
Ferguson) 355 ; remn., Mr. Ferguson, 355-356
The Speaker ; rem.. Sir M. Baweli andi Mr.
Mr. Scatt, 356.
Scott, 543, 561.
PRICE af Wheat ln the North-west (ses Wbeat PROVINCIAL Autonomy for N.W.T's. (see
ln the Nôrth-west, The prIce of) 167.
1N.W.T's, Provincial Autanomy for) 101.
PRIMITIVE Methadist Land Grant in N.W.Ts.: RAILWAY Com. Roorn, The: inq. (Sir M.
inq. (Mr. Perley ;rep. (Mr. Scott) 127, 183
Powell) 111 ; cep. (Mr. Scott) 112 Pýrem., Sir
Inq. (Mr. Perley) calied and postponed, 213
M. Powell, 134 ;Mr. Scott, 135.
inq. (Mr. Periey) ;rep. (Mr. Scott) 221 , remn.,
REPRESENTATIVE of B.C. ln the Cabinet:
Mr. Perley and Mr. Scott, 222.
Mr. Macdanald (B.C.) congratulates Mr. TeinPRINCE Edward Island Ry., The : inq. (Mr.
pleman on his appt., 119.
Ferguson) 166 ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 167 ; inq. (Mr.
RULES 0F TEE SENATE:
Ferguson) ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 174 ;remn., Mr.
M. ta amd. cules called, 257 ;remn., Sir M.
Ferguson, Mr. Scott and Sir M. Powell, 174,
Powell and Mc. Scott, 257; M. ailowed ta
inq. (Mr. F'ecguson) ; ep. (Mr. Scatt) ;199;
stand, 258.
inq. (Mr. Fergusan) ; ep. (M. Scott) ;remn.,
Ns. of M. (Mr. Scott and Sir M. Powell) to
Mc. Ferguson and Mc. Scott, 366; M. (Mr.
arnend cules called, 305; cern., Sic M. Powell,
Ferguson) 382 ; cern., Mc. Ferguson, 382-384;
Mr. Miller and Mr. Scott, 306 ; Ms. dcopped,
Mr. Scott and Mr. McCallum, 384 ;M. agreed
ta, 384.
306.
M. (Sir M. Baweil) ta amend ruies, 313 ; remn.,
PRINCE Edward Island Subsidy: inq. (Mr.
Sic M. Powell, Mc. Macdonald (B.C.) and
Ferguson) c ep. (Mr. Scott) 119.
Mr. Tempieman, 818 ; Mr. Macdonald (B.C.),
PRINTINO *Natices of Motion: rern. (Mr. LanMr. Landcy, Sic M. Powell,' Mr. 'Young and
dry) 375.
Mr. Wood (Harnilton) 314 ; M. aliowed ta

INDEX
SPEAKER'S RULINGS-OCon.
RULES- 0F THE SENATE-Càn.
Notices of M.: on inq. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.)
stand, 314 ;M. renewed, 350 ;rem., Sir M.
re notice of M. (Mr. Landry), The Speaker
Bowell and Mr. Scott, 350 ;Mr. Macdonald
rules that any Senator may raise question
(B.C.), Mr. Ferguson and Mr. Eills, 351 ;on
of order when N. of M. is given, 409.
objection (Mr. Landry) M. allowed to stand,
351.
Orthodox Russo-Greek Catholic Church Petition ;on M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.I.) to
M. (Sir M. Bawell) to, change rule, 356 ;rem.,
adopt 24th rep. of Cam. on S. 0. & P. B. and
Mr. Landry and Mr. Miller, 356 ;Sir M.
objection (Mr. Bernier) tbat petition cannot
Bowell, 357-358 ; Mr. Landry, 358-359 ; Mr.
be received from a nan-resident allen ;The
Scott, 359-360 ; Mr. Miller, Sir M. Bowell,
Speaker maintains abjection, 527-531.
Mr. Landry and Mr. Vidai, 360 ;Mr. Young,
361-363 ;Mr. Church, 363-3164 ;M. (Mr. Wat- SPEECH from the Throne, The : 1-2, 563-564.
son) ta amend M., 364 ;rem., Mr. Landry,
Mr. Watson, Mr. Macdonald <P.E.I.) and Mr. STANDING COMMITTEES, THE:
Inq. (Sir M. Bawell) ;rep. (Mr. Scott) 25
Lougheed, 394 ,Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), Mr.
rem., Mr. Scott, 25 ;Mr. Lougheed, Mr. DanBernier and Mr. Béique, 365 ; amt. withdurand and Sir M. Boweli, 26.
drawn and M. agreed to, 866.
M. (Mr. Scott) to appoint Com. of Selection.
M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to increase powers
67 ; renj., 67-68 Sir M. Bowell, 68-70 Mr.
of Speaker, 389 ; rem., Mr. Macdonald (B.C.)
Templeman, 70 Mr. Lougheed, 70-71 Mr.
and Mr. Ferguson, 389 ;Mr. MCMullen and
Mr. .Ferguson, 73-74 Mr.
Landry, 71-73
Mr. Sullivan, 391 ;Mr. DeBouchervilie, 392Dandurand, 74-75 ;M. agreed ta, 75 rep.
393 ; Mr. Scott and Mr. McCallim, 393 ;Mr.
on Cam. of Selection presented (Mr. Scott)
Poirier and Mr. Vidai, 394 ; Mr. Young, 395;
77 ; rem., Sir M. Bowell and Mr. Scott, 77.
Mr. Ellis and Sir M. Boweil, 396 ;Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) 397 ;M. Iast on a division,
M. (Mr. Scott) ta adopt rep. of Com. on Se398.
lection, 82.
The Speaker suggests suspension of Rule 52
M. (Mr. Scott) to appt. Joint Com. on Library,
M. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.) to suspend rule for
82 ;rem., Sir M. Bowell, 82-85 ;Mr. Miller,
reinainder of session, 427.
85-86 ; Mr. Scott, 86 ,Mr. Landry, 87-89 ; Sir
M. Bowell, 89 ; Mr. Sullivan, 89-91 ; Mr.
M. (Mr. Scott) to suspend rules for remainder
Kerr, 91 , M. agreed ta, 91.
of session, 461 ;rem., Sir M. Bowell and Mr.
Scott, 461 Mr. Scott and Mr. DeBoucherM. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. .Printing Com., 91
ville, 462 M. withýdrawn, 462.
rem., Sir M. Bowell, 91 -1Mr. Landry, 92
M. agreed to, 92. Rtem., Sir M. Bowell, 200.
M. (Mr. B6ique) to amend Rule 50 ;objection
(Mr. Landry) ; rem., Mr. Scott, Mr. Béique,
M. (Mr. Scott) to appt. Standing Orderq Com.,
Mr. Landry, Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), Mr. Cie92 ;M. agreed ta, 92.
maw, Mr. Young, Mr. Dandurand and The
M. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. Banking and Comm.
Speaker, 538 ;Mr. Young, The Speaker, Str
Com., 92 ;M. agreed ta, 92.
M. Bowell, Mr. Béique, Mr. Landry and Mr.
M. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. Com. on R. T. & H.,
539 ; Mr. Béique, The
DeBoicherville,
92 ; rem., Mr. Scott, 92-95 ;Sir M. Bowell,
Speaker ;M. allowed to stand, 540.
94-95 ; Mr. Landry and Mr. Forget, 95 ; Mr.
M. (Mr. Bélque) to amend SOth Rule called
Dandurand, 96-97 ; Mr. Forget, Mr. Baker
rem., The Speaker, 545 ; Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
and Mr. Cochrane, 97 ; Sir M. Bowell, 98
Clemow and Mr. Watson ;M. dropped, 546.
Mr. Landry 99 ; M. agreed ta, 99.
SENATORS, New:
M. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. Com. on Private Bils
Jas. E. Robertson, 1.
agreed ta, 99.
Charles E. Church, 1.
M. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. Contingent Accts.
Frederlck P. Thompson, 1.
Com., agreed ta, 99.
Frederick L. Béique, 1.
M. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. Debates Ca., 99 ; rem.,
Wma. Gibson, 1.
Mr. Landry, Mr. Scott and Mr. Poirier, 99
James McMullen, 1.
M. agreed ta, 99.
SENATORS' Writs, The Signing of (see Writs,
M. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. Divorce Com., agreed
The Signing of Senators') 26.
ta, 99.
SPEAKER'S RULINGS :
M. (Mr. Scott) ta appt. Restaurant Com.,
agreed ta, 100.
Applications for ?ailway charters B; on M.
(Mr. Ellis) for 2nd R., Sir M. Bowell objects
Mr. Landry catis attention ta error ln printed
that B. is not printed, 113 ;objection mainlists of cammittees, 117 ;rem., Mr. Scott,
tained, 114.
Mr. Gibson and Mr. Landry, 118.

INDEX
STANDING COMMITTEES, THE-Copi.
TRANSFER of Manitoba Lands( sec Manitoba
Lands, Transfer of) 66.
M. (Mr. Scott) to permit Commlttees to ait
during sittings of the House ;rem., Mr. TRANSLATION of the Debates
(sec Debates,
DeBoucherville, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Landry,
Translation of the) 187.
Mr. Scott and Mr. Macdonald <P.E.I.), 460
TREÂDGOLD Concession, The : M. (Mr. MacSir M. Boweli, 461 ; M. dropped, 461.
donald, B.C.) called, 118 ; rem., Mr. MacSTANDING Orders Com., The :
donald (B.C.) 119 ; M. potponed, 119 ; M..,
M. (Mr. Macdonald, P.E.1.) ta adopt 26th rep.
134 ; rem., Mr. Macdonald (B.C.) 136-137 ;Mr.
rem., Mr. B4ique and Mr. Young, 499 ; Mr.
Scott, 137-138 ; Sir M. Bowcll, 138-141 ;Mr.
Bernier, Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.) and Mr.
Tempieman, 141-142 ; Mr. Ferguson, 142-143;
Béique, 500 ; objection, Mr. DeBouchervilic M. agreed to, 143 ;inq. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C)
objection maintained, 501 ;N. of M. (Mr.
230 ; rcm., Mr. DeBoucherville and The
Bélque) 501 ; rem., Sir M. Bowell, The
Speaker, 230 ;Mr. Scott and Mr. Landry, 231.
Speaker and Mr. Ellia ; rep. laid on table,
USHER of the. Black Rod (sec Opening and
501.
Prorogation of Pariament).
STEAMSHIP 'Lake Superior', The Grounding VALLEYFIELD,
The Strike at : Inq. (Mr. Lanof the <Bee Grounding et the as. ' Lake Supedry) ;rep. (Mr. Scott) ;rem., Sir M. BoweIi,
rior," 135.
112 ; Inq. (Mr. Landry) ;rep. (Mr. Scott) 115;
rem., Sir M. Bowell, 115 ; Mr. Ferguson, Mr.
STRIKE at Valleyfild, The (sce Valleyfield,
Scott, Mr. McCalIum and Mr. Landry, 116 ; M.
The Strike at) 112.
(Mr. Landry) ; rep. (Mr. Scott) ;rem., Si5r M.
STRIKING Commiittee, Minutes of the : M.
Bowell, 143 ; Inq. (Mr. Landry) ; rcp. (Mr.
(Mr. Landry) 103 ; rem., Mr. Scott and Sir
Scott) 411.
1.. BoweiI, 103 ; Mr. Ellis, Sir M. Boweii and
VERNON River, P.E.I., Postinaster at (sec PostMr. Sullivan, 104 ; Mr. Wataon, 105 ; Mr. Macmaster at Vernon River) .156.
donald (B.C.) and Mr. Ferguson, 106 ; Mr.
Landry, 107-108 ; Mr. Gillmor and Mr. Young. VISIT of Their Royal H ighncsses to Can.:
108 ; Mr. Landry anxd Mr. Templeman, 109 ; Sir
inq. (Mr. Landry) 429 ; rep. (Mr. Scott) 430
M. Bowell anid Mr. Bulis, 110. M. agreed to,
rem., Mr. Landry, Sir M. Boweii and Mr.
c. 24, n. c. 20, 111.
Scott, 430 ; M.' (Mr. Landry) for return, 443.
SUBSIDIES to the N.W.T's. (sec North-west VOLUNTEER Forces ln Camp, Training of:
T'a., Subsidies to, the) 111.
1Inq. (Mr. Landry) rep. (Mr. Scott) 431.
SUPERIOR Court Judges of Quebec: M. (Mr. WREAT ln the N.W., The. Price of : Inq. and
Landry) 174 ;rem., Mr. Scott, 174 ; M. agrecd
rem. (Mr. Pcrley) 167 ; rep. and rem. (Mr.
ta, 175.
Scott) 168.
SUPPLY Bill, Thc : on M. (Mr. Scott) to ad- WINTER Communication with P.E.I.: inq. (Mr.
journ during pleasure, rem., Mr. Scott, Sir M.
Ferguson) ;rep. (Mr. Scott) 186 ;inq. (Mr.
Boweli, The Speaker, Mr. Sullivan and Mr.
Robertson) ;rep. (Mr. Scott) 258 ;rem., Mr.
Robertson, 258-260 ; Mr. Macdonald (P.E.I.)
Church, 546.
260 ; Mr. Primrose, 261 ; Mr. Scott and Mr.
TRAINING o! the Can. Militia, (see Militia,
Ferguson, 262.
Annuai Training of the) 200.
WRITS, The Signing of Senators' : Inq. (Sir M.
TRAINING of Volunteer Forces ln Camp <sec
Bowell) ;rep. (Mr. Scott) ; rem., Mr. Scott,
Volunteer Forces In Camp, Training of) 431.
26-27 ; Sir M. Boweli, 27.

